*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

TARVARD CLASS
OF 1928 |
wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

 

CAMBRIDGE
Printed for the Class

1953

= HARVARD CLASS OF 1928
ur shadows will lengthen across the wall,
er will echo the songs we sing,
—— while they linger may we recall,

ring in the Yard, when we were young,

Harvard Class of 1928
Records of the Class

CARROLL MARDEN ABBOTT

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Rollinson Rd., Worcester 6, Mass. ~

OFFICE ADDRESS: High School of Commerce, Worcester, Mass.

BORN: July 13, 1905, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Edgar Abbott,
Elizabeth Jane Marden.

PREPARED AT: South High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928, am. (Clark
Univ.), 1952. °

marrigeD: Helen May Robinson, June 27, 1938, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Martha Elizabeth, Nov. 20, 1940; Charles Robinson, Jan. 20, 1943.

OccUPATION: Assistant principal, High School of Commerce; principal, Wor-
cester Evening High School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Worcester Teachers Association, 1949-51; director,
Massachusetts Teachers Federation, since 1950; warden, 1949-51, Vestry-
man, since 1951, St. Michael’s Episcopal Church.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; Worcester Chapter, Foreign Poli-
cy Association, New England Association of Social Studies Teachers;
National Council for the Social Studies; National Education Associa-
tion; Massachusetts Teachers Federation, Washington Lodge, No. 61,
F, and A. M., Manchester, N. H.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to The New England Social Studies
Bulletin.

SINCE that day when I first faced a class of boys and girls in a
small rural high school in a South Shore community in 1928, I
have spent approximately ten months of every year in secondary
school teaching. I have found the last twenty-one years at the
school where I prepared for Harvard especially enjoyable. Since
1949 I have not only taught social studies classes in the day-time,
but have been principal of the Evening High School. For eleven
summers, 1937 and 1942 to 1951, I left the history and economics
books for the journals and ledgers of a Y. M. C. A. camp for boys

[1]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

inthe Lake Sunapee region; but during the summer of 1952,

shortly after receiv ing my Master of Arts degree, I served as an
instructor in history at the Clark Univ ersity summer school. On
December 5, 1952, I was elected an assistant principal of the High
School of Commerce.

Our family keeps us busy these days with its various school
and extra-curricular activities. Martha Elizabeth is an honor
student who enjoys athletic activities. She is a fine swimmer.
She is an active member of the Camp Fire Girls. Her brother
Charles is an energetic Cub Scout.

CHARLES CORTEZ ABBOTT

HOME apprEss: § Clement Circle, Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 319 Morgan Hall, Soldiers Field, Boston 63, Mass.

Bors: Oct. 30, 1906, Lawrence, Kans. parents: Wilbur Cortez Abbott,
Margaret Ellen Smith.

prepanep At: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928, A.M.,
1930; PH.D., 1933.

marriep: Louise Slocum, Aug. 31, 1934, Jamaica Plain, Mass. CHILDREN:
Margaret Ellen, July 3, 1936; Louise Austin, Jan. 6, 1939; Charles Cortez,

Jr, June 28, 1941; William Slocum, July 8, 1945; Preston Holliday,
Dee. 13, 1947.

occupation: Edmund Cogswell Converse professor of banking and finance,
Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Director, Division of Cargo Requirements,
War Shipping Administration, 1942-43; member faculty of Naval Mid-
shipmen Officers School in Harvard Business School, 1943-4$.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Harvard Advocate, 1933-39; chairman, Committee
on the Financing and Ownership of New England Business Enterprise,
New England Council, 1944, Advisory Board, American Enterprise
Association, New York, since 1944; director, Keystone Custodian Funds,
Inc., 1946-52, Cambridge Trust Company, since 1952; economic adviser
to Board, Keystone Custodian Funds, Inc. 1953; member of faculty,
Naval War College, 1948-50, Pacific Coast Banking School, 1952; con-
sultant, Office of Secretary of Defense, since 1949, vice-president,
American Finance Association, 1951.

MsMbER oF: American Economic Association, American Finance Associa-
non, Badminton and Tennis Club, Boston; Cosmos Club, Washington;
Benton Economic Club, Fox Club, Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of
New York, Putnam Lodge, A. F. & A. M.

rum anioss: The Rise of the Business Corporation, 1936, The New York
Bund Market, 1y20-1930, 1937, Financing Business During the Transi-

[2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion — a Research Study for the Committee for Economic Development,
1946, Management of the Federal Debt, 1946; The Federal Debt, Struc-
ture and Impact, 1953; articles in professional journals.

THE general confusion created by four years of undergraduate
life led to my return to the university in the fall of 1928 as a
graduate student. As I look back I think my expectation was
that another year or two of study might answer some of the
questions left unanswered during the preceding four years — an
unreasonable expectation, as 1 now recognize. Before I quite
realized it I was enrolled as a candidate for a Ph.D. in Economics.
Some five years— including a year in a New York bank and
six months in a London bank — were required to fulfill the com-
mitment, which had been entered into only too lightly. By the
time the degree was granted three things had happened: I had
moved from a part- to a full-time instructor in the Economics
Department, the Depression had made teaching jobs, like other
types, hard to come by; and I had gotten engaged. Hence I fol-
lowed the path of least resistance; I got married and stayed in
the Economics Department.

In 1937 the Business School placed a higher value on my serv-
ices than did the college, so I crossed the river. There I have
remained, barring time out in Washington during the war, in-
structing the young idea in a variety of topics that have ranged
from elementary corporation finance to the logistics of mer-
chant shipping. With the passage of time the area of operations
has been pretty much confined to the field of banking — a broad
enough one, I may say.

The Lord has béen kind to my wife and myself, and the
family has grown. As professors must, I have from time to time
published a book (usually small) and more frequently articles.
Since some first-hand knowledge of business and administration
is of value in teaching these subjects I try to keep in touch with
so-called practical affairs, but riding two horses, however chal-
lenging, is not without its hazards. Of recent years my chief
avocation has been building up a run-down dairy farm in Con-
necticut, acquired in the thirties. In 1950 we made the “yoo
Club” (no, Social Registrites, that means the cows averaged 400
pounds of butterfat). Whether we shall some time do as well

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

again T wouldn't guess. I am hopeful the next twenty-five years
will treat the world somewhat better than have the last twenty-
five and me, perhaps, as well.

HAROLD TODD ABBOTT

HOME Appress: E. 322 High Drive, Spokane, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Park Board, City of Spokane, 504 City Hall, Spokane, Wash.

porn: Oct. 29, 1906, Medford, Mass. parents: Prentice Wheelock Abbott,
Melanie Alberta Whitehouse.

prepareD AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.L.A., 1931.

saxziep: Adelaide Gilbert, June 24, 1939, Spokane, Wash. cuitp: Mary
Edna, Mav 30, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Percival Abbott, ’27 (deceased).

OccuPATION: Park executive, superintendent of parks, City of Spokane.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted U. S. Navy September, 1942; commis-
sioned licutenant (j.g.), U. S. Naval Reserve, Oct. 22, 1942; assigned
to indoctrination school, U. S. Naval Training Station, Tucson, Ariz.,
Dec. 15, 1942; Communication School, Naval Training Center, Los
Angeles, Feb. 15, 1943; ordered to duty at Comsopac, Noumea, New
Caledonia, as a communication officer, April 18, 1943, ordered back to
U.S. Jan. 2, 1945, and to U. S. Naval Air Station, Whidbey Island,
Wash.; released to inactive duty Oct. 2, 1945; post-war reserve: elec-
tronics warfare and volunteer composite units, promoted to lieutenant
commander, January, 1946.

orrices HELD: Member, City Plan Commission; director, Friends of the Pub-
lic Library, Spokane Lilac Festival Association, dean, Spokane chapter,
American Guild of Organists, senior fellow, American Institute of Park
Executives; member Armed Services Committee, Publicity-Tourist
Committee, Spokane Chamber of Commerce. .

MEMBER OF; Spokane Chamber of Commerce; Washington State Historical
Society; Merrymakers Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles pertaining to landscape design and horticul-
ture for periodicals such as Plants and Gardens (Brooklyn Botanic Gar-
den), Arboretum Bulletin (University of Washington Arboretum),
Northwest Science; Washington State Nurserymen’s Association.

IN RETROSPECT twenty-five years of “normal” times could
be a monotonous story, but several world figures decided that the
Class of 1928 should not experience anything except change, tur-
moil, and deals. For a graduate of this Class to enter the School
of Landscape Architecture, we were told, was nothing except
wishful thinking. An independent income or a gambling instinct

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was necessary for success. I had neither, and like many of my
associates, I soon discovered that the days of the landed gentry
were numbered.

Upon graduation from Robinson Hall, just in time for the de-
pression, I was fortunate to be counted among the choice few to
have a share in the administration of the Mount Vernon estate,
General Washington’s home. For four years I absorbed so much
of the inspiration of this great man that I still take pride in en-
lightening others about Washington, the private citizen.

An offer to enter the architectural firm of Whitehouse and
Price in Spokane as landscape architect, brought me to the Pacific
Northwest. I soon found that this region was the most promising
for a man of my profession, but the trend towards municipal
planning drew me away from any further interest in the design
and construction of private properties. This was the right time
also to accept an opening with the Spokane Park Board as assist-
ant superintendent in 1938. Upon the retirement of J. W. Dun-
can, a great pioneer in the western park movement, I assumed the
duties of superintendent.

The best thing that happened to me was on a rare day in June
when Adelaide Gilbert said “yes.” Many years had passed for
both Addie and myself, and although we were both in Cambridge
at the same time during the twenties, our paths did not meet until
we were both in Spokane. Adelaide was at the New England
Conservatory and often sat with other restricted members of the
fair sex during the Christmas Eve readings in President and Alrs.
Lowell’s home. Our common interest in music may have been
at the heart of our ultimate marriage in 1939. Even now we are
both active in music organizations, and our desire to do things
together has prevented Addie’s becoming either a hunting or a
fishing “widow.”

As for many others, the world turmoil brought about a separa-
tion for us. I managed to take full advantage of the opportunity
to profit from the unexpected tour of the. South Pacific. Only
the lack of funds and time prevents Adelaide and me from re-
examining those places now. After many months we finally had
duty at Whidbey Island in Puget Sound. To a comfortable cot-
tage nearby, we brought our new little daughter to commence
what have proved to be many happy years together.

[5]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Returning to civilian life again in Spokane, we became en-
grossed in planning a new house and in endeavoring to make the
most out of the modest salary the public chooses for its servants.
We know that if we are to be well-to-do financially, it will not
be through working for the taxpayer. We have learned early in
the game that the public demands trained efficient men in public
office, but not at salaries paid by private business and industry
for similar services. Addie and I find ourselves constantly in-
volved in civic affairs of all types. A city such as Spokane, in
the most rapidly developing part of the country, requires much
from its citizens, and there is little time to take things easy. Some
day we hope to see how it feels to spend a leisurely winter in

Florida.

Like a good Virginian, I am an Episcopalian-Republican, in
that I am not so hide-bound that I won’t vote for a good Demo-
crat when I see one. I am glad to discover that 7zost of my Demo-
crat friends finally convinced themselves that they can vote
occasionally for a Republican in order to keep the Ship of State
from being scuttled. In spite of Korea, the atom bomb, and the
recent loss of respect for men in high places, the outlook for the

future is the best in twenty years.

KENNETH MORGAN ABBOTT

HOME ADDRESS: 159 W. Jeffrey Pl., Columbus 14, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.

BORN: May 3, 1906, Lincoln, Nebr. parents: Raymond Jay Abbott, Mary
Adele Hunt.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; PH.D. (Univ. of Illinois),
1934.

MarrieD: Helen Oldfather, Aug. 12, 1934, Urbana, Ill. cumpren: William
Raymond, April 30, 1936, Ann Margaret, Sept. 27, 1938, Douglas Old-
father, Nov. 30, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Professor of classical languages.

OFFICES HELD: President, Ohio State University Chapter, Phi Beta Kappa;
president, Columbus Latin Club, vice-president, council member, Ohio
Classical Association.

MEMBER oF: Phi Beta Kappa; Columbus Latin Club; Eta Sigma Phi, Ohio
Classical Association; Classical Association of Mid-west and South,

[6]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Classical League; American Philological Association; Faculty Club,
Ohio Stace University.

puBLications: Index Apuleiznus with W. A. Oldfather, H. V. Canter,
B. E. Perry; Index Verborum Ciceronis Epistularum with W. A. Old-
father and H. V. Canter; article “Philologos,” Pauly Wéissowas Real-
encyclopadie der classischen Altertumswissenschaft; in press, Index
Verborum in Ciceronis Rhetorica, with W. A. Oldfather, H. V. Canter;
articles and reviews on Latin linguistics, text criticism, metrics, etc.

ALTHOUGH the subject of my autobiography is one which
I approach with distaste, being accustomed to rather more re-
warding subjects, and with almost no data at hand which I can
recall, the more solidly established facts in the case would be some-
what as follows: I left college, somewhat battered from the masses
of examinations set in the way of graduation in those days, and
convinced that a career of college teaching, on which I had in m
early days set my heart, would be insufferable. Called home by
family difficulties, I experimented with various occupations and
businesses to find one which provided some satisfaction. News-
paper reporting, contrary to the advertising, seemed, the more
I cried it, to involve accumulating facts not worth knowing to be
treated in such a way as to trick the subscriber into cluttering his
mind with things not worth reading. Eventually I found a place
in the General Freight Office of the Union Pacific Railroad.
Railroad freight rates, their construction, division, and economic
consequences, again contrary to the advertising, I found interest-
ing; and I shall always retain a warm feeling for the Union
Pacific, which treated me very well, and which was run at that
time by men with a deep devotion to running a good railroad,
and not by salesmen.

Yet, interested though I was in this particular job, it was borne
on me more and more that my real interest was in the intellectual
history of western man, particularly in the critical stretches of
Greek and Latin cultures and more recently in the French tradi-
tion. After 1929, for reasons which some members of the Class
will remember, was a poor time to come to this realization, but I
got a scholarship to the University of Nebraska first of all, and
then, as the most brilliant of my teachers there was leaving, I
moved on to the University of Illinois to study under Professor W.
A. Oldfather, one of the most distinguished of American classicists
(Harvard ’o1). There I finished my work for the doctorate, and

[7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

in 1934 married and came to Ohio State University. With time
out for travel on research projects, visiting positions and a re-
search professorship elsewhere, I have been at Ohio State ever
since, climbing the academic Mountain of Purgatory from in-
structorship to professorship, which is to say to obvious freedom
from sin and superior wisdom. As I look back, hastily and of
course tardily, on the joys and sorrows of a university life, it still
seems to me to have a strong balance on the satisfactory side.
There are disadvantages, to be sure. It does not pay particularly
well, a fact which is a little distressing when children get ready
to go to college, and there are the students on the one hand and
the administration on the other. But students can respond to
treatment, and the care and cure of students, although perhaps
not accomplishing any permanent effect, is an engrossing job.
Students are interesting, they are all different, and the hope of
making them better than their elders is so low an ambition that
the hope of achieving it is by no means faint. As to administra-
tions, they are, of course, an unsolved problem in all universities,
and the solutions generally proposed are strictly forbidden by law.
Yet beyond these disadvantages a university life is stimulating,
and (excluding the gobbledygook area given over to the tribal
cult of defining democracy and educating for life) one spent
among men with honest intellectual interests and honest intel-
lectual problems. Fields and attitudes are in a constant state of
flow, and there is not in any genuine field of knowledge (not all
those practised are in fact genuine) an achieved body of con-
clusion to persuade to stagnation.

As to religious, political, and social convictions, about which
the questionnaire inquires, space and the occasion scarcely permit
an adequate answer. I suppose I might say that, coming from a
long line of atheists, I have come to believe that Christianity is
a natural development of the Greek view of the principle of
reason and at present the major hope of man. So I have joined
the Congregational Church and am active in its affairs. And that,
coming from an even longer line of Democrats, I have become
convinced that the party has taken as its prophets the kind of
university liberal whom many of us regard as Grade C minus on
his home grounds. The reason, I think, is the dismal state of the
nation’s culture, which seems especially designed to demonstrate

[8]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Stevenson's maxim “Man does not live by bread alone, but mostly
by catchwords.” The history of recent man, which might well
bear the tle, From Man to Monkey, springs from the situation
in the schools, which the universities labor hard, but not ade-
quately, to remedy. There is a remedy, but it is heroic. Take
control of the nation’s schools out of the hands of the experts
who have taken courses in how to become experts but have not
come up from the ranks, and put the schools back in the hands
of the teachers.

FRANCIS WESTON WOOLLARD ADAMS

womE apoarss: 145 Sargent Rd, Brookline 46, Mass.

orrice apoaess: 55 Kilby St, Boston, Mass.

pous: Aug. 9, 1904, Springfield, Mass. parents: Charles Francis Adams,
Lillias Mae Woollard.

preparneo at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: AB., 1928.

Maarieo: Mildred Culver Boyd, Jan. 28, 1933, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1936); Nancy Evelyn Atkins, Sept. 26, 1936, cHmpren: Abigail Mae,
Jan. 31, 1934, John Weston, April 2, 1936, Wendy Ann, April 14, 1938;
Francis Weston Woollard, Jr.. Oct. 18, 1944.

occupation: Investment broker, Weston W. Adams & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: January, 1942-May, 1946, commander, U. S.
Naval Reserve; served in Adantic, Gulf Sea Frontier, Pacific, Aleutian,
and Japanese Home Islands areas; principally convoy and escort duty.

orrwzs HELD: President, Boston Professional Hockey Association, Inc., 1936
gt; member Board of Governors, Boston Stock Exchange, 1939-42;
director, Boston Garden-Arena Corporation; vice-president, governor,
Boston Madison Square Garden Club.

MEMBER OF: Efarvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Eastern Yacht
Club; Carerpillar Club; Boston Madison Square Garden Club; Vermont
Historical Society; Skating Club of Boston, New York Stock Exchange;
Boston Stock Exchange.

MYRON JOHN ADAMS

HOME ADDRESS: 1500 Fairidge Drive, Kingsport, Tenn.

OFFICE aporess: 103 W. Center St., Kingsport, Tenn.

BorN: Oct. 23, 1905, Athol, Mfass. PpArents: John Myron Adams, Grace
Mabel Terry.

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: Athol High School, Athol, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1933-

MarrieD: Lillias Wood Duncan, June 8 1935, Petersham, Mass. cxito: My-
ton John, Jr., Nov. 17, 1939.

occuPATION: Pediatrician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: U. $, Army, 1943-46, first lieutenant to captain,

. Medical Corps, communicable disease officer; pediatrician; LaGarde
General Hospital, New Orleans, La; Station Hospital, Camp Croft,
S. C. Oliver General Hospital, Augusta, Ga.

OFFICES HELD: Medical director, Tennessee-Virginia Cerebral Palsy Center;
president, Medical Staff, Community Hospital; chairman, Pediatric De-
partment, Community Hospital; assistant scoutmaster, Troop 54, Kings-
port; member Advisory Board, Girl Scout Council, Salvation Army,
Kingsport.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; National Board of Medical Ex-
aminers (diplomate); American Board of Pediatrics (diplomate); Amer-
ican Academy of Pediatrics (fellow); Tennessee Pediatric Society;
Tennessee Ornithological Society; Wilson Ornithological Club; Yale
Medical Library Associates; Harvard Varsity Club; St. Paul’s Episco-
pal Church of Kingsport; Kingsport Chamber of Commerce; Ever
Ready Chowder and Marching Society; Ridgefields Country Club.

THE inspiring precepts and remarkable kindliness of Dr. Grover
Powers, professor of pediatrics at the Yale Medical School, led
me to the study of the diseases of infants and children. This
interest was encouraged by Dr. Oscar Schloss and Dr. Sam.
Levine of New York, under whom I was privileged to work in
the New York Hospital from 1932 to 1935. Ever since, with the
exception of three years in the Army, the care of children has
been my principal consideration. :

In 1935 I came to Kingsport as the first resident physician of
the newly opened Community Hospital. This hospital was one
of several sponsored by the Commonwealth Fund of New York,
which retained controlling interest in its operation for several
years, or until the hospital became able to manage its own affairs.
After serving one year in this hospital, I went into private prac-
tice and have remained so up to the present time. My interest
and association with the hospital has continued to be close, and
it has been gratifying to see the original 125-bed hospital expand
to 165 beds in 1947 and to 315 beds in 1952. The excellence of
its facilities and wide area of its service have drawn many “well
trained physicians in many branches of medicine and surgery to
Kingsport in recent years.

[10]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1950 because of the lack of care offered to the cerebral
palsied child in the area, the Tennessee-Virginia Cerebral Palsy
Center was opened with the support of the National Crippled
Children’s Foundation. In 1952 we interested the National Foun-
dation of Infantile Paralysis in this project, and with their sup-
port added to the Center the after-care of polio paralysis. Before
the spring of 1953 it is our intent to provide for the acute care
of poliomyelitis in the hospital and to make the facilities of the
Cerebral Palsy Center and the Community Hospital inter-related.
_ My family, hobbies, and social life are all tied in together. My
wife and I knew each other well in high school days in the early
1920's. We then went to Wheaton and Harvard, to the Nursing
and Medical Schools of Yale, and to the Nursing and Medical
Staffs of the New York Hospital. After we finished in New
York in 1935 we were married and moved to Tennessee.

The Great Smoky Mountains and the many lakes and rivers
here afford us a natural and excellent means of relaxation. The
Appalachian Trail runs along the crest of the mountains about
thirty miles from where we live, and so early in our Tennessee
experiences we began to hike and camp in the surrounding coun-
try. After our son was born (1939) we had an additional prod
to get off the well-beaten paths. We began to see the birds and
the flowers and even found out that an Ornithological Society
was a bird club and not a bone setters gathering.

With this background Mike became quickly interested in
Scouting, and he has now risen to the rank of Eagle. In 1949 we
added a seventeen-foot aluminum canoe to our camping gear and
added new areas to our expeditions. One of our favorite trips is
the French Broad between Asheville and Knoxville. It is remark-
able how this river goes right through the mountain barrier.
Let me say this, if it’s exhilaration and solitude you like, there’s
nothing like coming down through the white water where the
French Broad is dropping one hundred feet a mile between Hot
Springs, North Carolina, and Del Rio, Tennessee.

Mike went off to Lawrenceville this fall where I hope he will
absorb enough to be able some day to knock on the august portals
of Harvard College. In the meantime the canoe and its duffel are
not receiving their usual attention. However, we still occasion-
ally unlimber the kinks just to keep our hand in.

[ir]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

THOMAS HOBAN ALCOCK

HOME AbDpRESS: 43 E. Bellevue Pl. Chicago, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Il.
BORN: May 1, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: John Henry Alcock, Teresa K,
Hoban.
PREPARED AT: Austin High School, Chicago, Il.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B, 1928(29); LLB. (Univ. of
Chicago).
MarrigD: Gudrun Holmquist, May 18, 1935, Rockford, Ill.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, Air Corps, May,
1942; stationed principally at Goodfellow Field, San Angelo, Texas;
separated as major, October, 1945.

OBVIOUSLY, the review of twenty-five years presents prob-
lems, particularly when its sole object is to record events which
might be of interest to friends of that era.

I followed the law throughout this time and, unlike most of
1s, was not faced with a decision upon leaving Cambridge. I
lid not have the usual freedom of choice which Alfred Adler
lecrees as essential to an orderly life. My father, having immi-
rated from the Emerald Isle, had determined early, by reason
f sordid experiences in the police and political world, that the
1ost valuable heritage he could vest on us was a comprehensive
Jucation with a legal background. Accordingly, I followed
is path and matriculated at the University of Chicago Law
shool in the early thirties. As we all know, the balance of that
-cade was devoted principally to earning a living under try-
o circumstances.

Somehow or other, I made it through until the war and em-
tked upon a military career, which was enjoyable but not sen-
ional. Up to that time, whenever the phone jingled with out-
town visitors, it ordinarily would be classmates from the East;
sequent to 1945 they have disappeared entirely and it is now
: military, and they seem more demanding because of their
ith and enthusiasm for Chicago night life. At any rate, I
nt my whole military term in the continental United States,
inly in West Texas instructing in firearms, ground school,
such other allied subjects with which I was unacquainted and
chooled, My most pregnant of memories of the service are

[12]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

flying jyunkets to New York, New Orleans, San Francisco, and
hunting trips into Denver, Cheyenne, Bismarck (South Dakota),
and Walden (Colorado). I believe the military life injected a sense
of independence into our souls, however, because upon return-
ing to the law practice in 1946, I was unable to accept the re-
straints and rules of employment and shortly opened a law office
of my own.

I am now in the general practice with no partners, no respon-
sibilities except that of bird-dogging business, and few worries,
because I reached the early conclusion that the client should do
all the worrying if I hoped to duck the ulcer parade.

I have successfully run the cycle of believing I can acquire a
fortune by investing in beef cattle; I have also gone through the
country club cycle without too many wounds, the American
Legion, and the political cycles. I should say that my present
endeavors are directed toward the most fascinating game of all,
daily success in my profession regardless of the financial re-
muneration.

Throughout these years, I can recall few instances where my
Harvard background resolved itself for or against me. In Chi-
cago we have a loose-knit organization (to which I do not be-
long) which is dignified on street corners from time to time by
a “hi”-to old classmates. My business contacts very seldom sur-
round Harvard men. I haven’t had to take the diploma off the
wall yet when some of my more impoverished clients walk in
the office, but there have been instances where I have paused to
regroup when the question of background was at issue. Again,
I have been unable to accumulate the usually pheedees or direc-
torships which ordinarily follow in the wake of a Harvard de-
gree, but the latter may stem in part from my own lack of en-
thusiasm.

I certainly should like to be present in June if for no other
reason than to walk into the Merle for an orange juice and rice
muffin with Bill Jones or revisit Haymarket Square with Bill
Lord to supplement my tattoo of twenty-eight years ago. How-
ever, I think they will have to have a special act passed to get
Jones up from Yazoo City.

After holding off for twenty-five years on any contribution,
I think I shall break down and divert a substantial part of a per-

[13]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

sonal injury fee toward that well-deserving institution which
launched us all twenty-five years ago.

BAILEY ALDRICH

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Brattle St, Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Choate, Hall & Stewart, 30 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

‘porN: April 23, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Talbot Aldrich, ’92, Eleanor L.
Little.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1928; LL.B. cum laude,
1932.

MARREED: Elizabeth Perkins, Aug. 13, 1932, Cohasset, Mass. CHILDREN: + Jona-
than, Jan. 22, 1936; David, Feb. 13, 1939.

occupation: General practice of law.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, trustee, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, since
1938; trustee, Provident Institution for Savings, since 1942.

MEMBER OF: Union Club of Boston.

FOLLOWING graduation, with a friend who agreed that it
was now or never, I spent a year going ‘round the world. After
that came law school, which I was fortunate enough to like. It
did not, however, make me want to move to Washington with
a seeming majority of the law school Class of 1932, but I did say
no more Cambridge — seven years was enough. With such re-
solve I married and crossed the river to Boston, to become em-
ployed by the firm of which I am now a member. This firm is
composed mostly of specialists of one kind or another, but in due
course I became half a specialist in trial work and half a general
practitioner. Although this at times leaves very few free mo-
ments, there are relatively few dull ones.

With the war, much of the office went into the service and
the rest of us apportioned among us who would take govern-
ment jobs and who would stay put. I lost out and stayed home.
Home, by that time, in spite of my 1932 vows, was Cambridge
to which, as our family grew, we moved with some misgivings.
We should have had none. It is a thoroughly agreeable place
to live. Summers we move further out, and at all possible times
engage in our favorite occupation — cruising. | have had some
kind of a liveable sailboat since 1924, and if I die with my boots
on, hope that they will be sneakers.

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES ALBERT ALLEN, II

HOME ADDRESS: to Brookshire Rd., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 198 Mechanic St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 18, 1905, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Chase Allen, Flor-
ence Akers Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

MARRIED: Natalie Warren Johnson, Feb. 19, 1938, Worcester, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: Charles Albert, 3d, April 19, 1940; Daniel Herbert, Feb. 10, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Taylor Allen, ’26.

OCCUPATION: Steel and industrial supply distributor, sales manager, George
F. Blake, Inc., since 1940.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Organized reserves, June, 1928; called to active

_ duty as first lieutenant, Field Artillery, April 25, 1941; at Fort Bragg,

N. C., with q7th Field Artillery to January, 1942; January, 1942, to
‘September, 1945, served with Production Division, Headquarters Army
Service Forces, Washington, D. C.; chief of Steel Section in last year,
separated as major Sept. 25, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, University Club of Worcester.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club Worcester; University Club, Tatnuck Country
Club; Worcester Country Club; Worcester Club, Military Order of
World Wars; American Society for Metals, Welding Society.

MY LIFE since graduation has been wrapped up by my family,
my business, and my hobbies. My family didn’t start until ten
years out of college when I was rewarded for a long distance
courtship of 300 yards. Nat has always lived in Worcester and so
have I. In fact being strictly local Worcester seems to be one of
my traits. Except for my four years in the Army I have lived
in only two houses, the one I was born in and the one I moved
my wife into, About a year after I married, economics indicated
an addition would be welcome and Chip arrived — he has been
welcome ever since. I was stationed in Washington most of the
war and Danny came while we were there to complete the family.
Our family life has been one of great mutual enjoyment and our
pleasure increases as Chip grows up to where he joins Nat and
me on little vacation trips and other activities we formerly did
_alone.

When I graduated I went to work for the Bethlehem Steel
Company, and it is thanks to the education I received from them
that I am in my present position of sales manager of a steel ware-
house. I believe the steel industry is the most fascinating that I

[15]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

could have picked. Incidentally I got the job with Bethlehem
through the Harvard employment office — it might have been
in textiles for all the definite intentions I had in any direction.
The depression hit the steel industry but fortunately not my
father's contracting business so I went with him for three or
four years until that dried up too. I joined Jones & Laughlin
Steel in 1935 and sold steel until 1940 when I went into the ware-
house business — it is still fun.

My hobbies are mostly golf which does not strain the family
ties since Nat likes to play as much as I do, and Chip is starting
to hack around with us on occasion. I have spent most of my
vacation time for years trying to copy the Sneads, Hogans, and
Joneses. As a result of this hobby I have spent a lot of time run-
ning golf activities at the club. My other hobby is helping Chip
with his electric train. We spend many hours together adding
to his train “Empire” every year.

In politics, concerning which I am not active, I am one of the
Straight Line Republicans, so I am enjoying myself politically
for the first time in twenty years.

JAMES BENJAMIN ALLEN

HOME apprEss: 352 W. 12th St, New York 14, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: 53 E. 77th St. New York 21, N. Y.

BoRN: July 7, 1905, Provincetown, Mass, PARENTS: James Warren Allen,
Alice Augusta Robinson.

PREPARED AT: Provincetown High School, Provincetown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

MARRIED: Jane Karin Johnson, Aug. 20, 1938, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Associate editor, encyclopedist, Unicorn Press, Publishers.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, first class, Army, May 21, 1943—Oct. 12,
1945; European Theatre; two battle stars.

MEMBER OF: National Association for Advancement of Colored People;
American Civil Liberties Union; Consumers Codperative Services.

WITH one exception every important or significant move I
made in the decade following my departure from college was —
conditioned by forces engendered by the 1929 economic crisis.
I applied (1928) for cadet training with the Army Air Force,
an examining physician found my (still) good right eye somewhat

[16]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

myopic, however, blocking that road to the future. The pub-
lishable highlights of the depression phase of my career may be
briefly summarized. An interest in writing having been encour-
aged during Harvard years by good Professor Hurlbut, about
1931, after some unrewarding starts in other fields, I began to
free-lance. The effort brought enough acceptances to satisfy the
ego and nothing else. Partly because of “nothing else” problems,
chiefly in response to natural inclinations, I thereupon (1933) de-
cided to go to sea. The life was fascinating in many respects, but
quite bereft of the romantic ingredients of my grand-banker-
father’s sailing-vessel era. In addition I soon found myself in
rebellion against the appalling working and living conditions
which were then the lot of American seamen. Finally I composed
a leaflet urging my ship-mates to organize. My enthusiasm was
premature and non-contagious; forty-five minutes after we
docked I was perforce on my way off the ship — “bag and bag-
gage” as the saying goes.

During the next several years my talents and energy (such as
they were) went largely into the fight against shipping-industry
evils, including the shipboard and shoreside varieties; some was
devoted to the (also unpopular) fight to prevent approaching
World War II.. Meanwhile and subsequently various jobs, no-
tably one on the Federal Writers Project, furnished the necessary
shelter and “pork-chops.” On the Project I wrote a substantial
part of Panorama and helped to write and edit the New York
City Guidebook. For a period following our entry into the war
I worked in the machine shop of a defense plant.

Though my Army service wasn’t overly long, it could be
characterized as wearing. I was assigned to a combat unit com-
posed to an immoderate degree of teen-age youngsters. Among
training gimmichs were twenty-mile hikes, “forced” night
marches, and thirty-minute runs across sand dunes in semi-tropi-
cal weather. “Normal” routine was marked by countless tours
of KP duty. Somehow I survived, even won the “Good Con-
duct” medal! In passing I’d like to observe that war is Hell, and
Heaven doesn’t include the private’s army.

Since the War [ve been involved in the revision of an ency-
clopedia. I have written more than a million words in the proc-

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ess — all anonymous. My head is bloody as a result, but de-
cidedly unbowed. Facts are stubborn things, and I like to dea
with them.
Sailing is my principal hobby. Happily it’s also my wife’s, fo
maintenance of our small sloop cuts disastrously into spare time,
energy, and cash. With the exception of vacation periods, when
we cruise to Provincetown, we sail in Long Island Sound, week-
ending often at Port Jefferson, Eton’s Point, and the sand hole
at Lloyd’s Neck.

LLOYD LOGAN ALLEN

HOME ADDRESS: 555 Post St., San Francisco 2, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Calaveras Cement Co., 315 Montgomery St., San Francisco,
Calif.

BorN: April 3, 1906, Fulton, N. Y. parents: Charles Milton Allen, Mary
Hamilton. | “

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, M.B.A., 1930.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ronald Hamilton Allen, ’rq (deceased). a

occupation: Analyst, policy planning, Calaveras Cement Company, Bishop
Oil Company; director, Canadian Bishop Oil Ltd., Charles M. Allen,
Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commander, United States Naval Reserve; as-
signments in South Pacific and United States with Patrol Squadron 91,
Fleet Air Wing 1, Fleet Air Wing 14, U. S. Naval Air Station, Vero
Beach, Florida, and Western Sea Frontier.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and director, Oswego County Council, Boy Scouts
of America; treasurer, Fulton Chapter, American Red Cross, Civic
Music Association, Fulton, N. Y.; vice-chairman, Economic Round
Table of San Francisco, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Press and Union League Club of San Francisco; Harvard Club
of San Francisco; Harvard Club of New York; Sierra Club; Adiron-
dack Mountain Club; San Francisco Museum of Art; Economic Round
Table of San Francisco; Commonwealth Club of California; Marines
Memorial Club, Harvard Business School Club of Northern California.

THE war proved an important turning point in my life. A short
tour of duty in San Francisco induced me to stay on here perma-
nently. I always head back east for my vacations, however. I
am happy that my doctor says I do not have to let up. I enjoy
hiking and spend considerable time at it. Spare time is spent try-
ing to educate myself and in naval reserve and civil defense work.

[18]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT THOMAS ALLEN

HOME ApprEss: 84 Charlton Rd., Rochester 17, N. Y.

OFFICE ApprEss: Kodak Park Bldg. 6, Rochester, N. Y.

BoRN: March 20, 1906, Saugus, Mass. parents: Robert Thomas Allen, Aggie
Aldine Carter.

PREPARED AT: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Helen Kerr Rife, Aug. 8, 1931, Rochester, N. Y. cHILDREN: Robert
Thomas, 3d, March 10, 1935; Gail Ruth, April 13, 1937; Donald Bruce,
Aug. 23, 1941; Paul Carter, Sept. 8, 1946.

occuPATION: Member of Administrative Staff, Film Processing Departments

‘ _ (photographic processing), Eastman Kodak Company.

MEMBER OF: John A. Robertson Lodge No. 1032, F. & A. M., Rochester;
Harvard Club of Rochester; Rochester Section of the Photographic
Society of America; Rochester Professional Chapter, Alpha Chi Sigma;
Rochester Association for the United Nations.

TWENTY-FIVE years seem like a long time, yet how well I
remember that day late in June of 1928 when I arrived in Roch-
ester to work for the Eastman Kodak Company, With little
thought for how long I might stay, and no idea that twenty-
five years later I’d still be around, I started in the Industrial
Laboratory. A year later I transferred to the Research Labora-
tory working on the Kodachrome (color) process. I have been
at it ever since, going from the lab to production in 1936; then
to administrative work for the past several years.

I braved the depths of the Depression and got married in
August of 1931. Young Bob arrived in March, 1935, and our
only daughter, Gail, in April two years later. He’s now a senior
and she a sophomore in high school. Donald, in the sixth grade,
and Paul, in the first, complete the family circles. They’ve kept
me very busy over the years, but we’ve had our share of good
times together. We've usually vacationed in New England or
in New York State. For several years we'd been promising our-
selves a vacation trip to the West Coast, and we finally made it
a year ago last summer.

I’ve always liked to sing, and Rochester is a great musical town.
Consequently I’ve spent a lot of time and had a lot of fun work-
ing with several of the many choral groups around town. [ used
to play some tennis, then a little golf, and always made it a point

[19]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

to get to the gym at least once a week. For nearly fifteen years
I tried to put on weight, but couldn’t do it; since then have tried
to keep from gaining, but it’s a losing (?) battle. While it seems
odd to mention photography as a hobby, I'm hike the postman on
his vacation. I have taken thousands of pictures from coast to
coast, usually color slides. The family still enjoys projecting
them and re-living the good times.

I’ve been busy with so many activities, it’s difficult to account
for all the time —never anything “big-shot,” just the many in-
terests of everyday life: several years of activity in both Cubs
and Scouts, in the Parent Teachers Association, in the Congrega-
tional Church as Sunday School teacher and choir member, and
in fraternal and various social groups.

Politically I have always considered myself a Republican,
though I often vote a split ticket on the basis of what I believe
to be merit.

All in all, the past twenty-five years have treated me reason-
ably well. If I fare no worse the next twenty-five, Pll not com-
plain. Here’s to the Fiftieth!

++CARL COLMAN ALPERN

BoRN: March 23, 1907, Pitsburgh, Pa. parents: Myer Alpern, Sadie Alpern.
PREPARED AT: Fifth Avenue High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1928; LL.B. cum laude,

1932.
piED: Jan. 2, 1939, Washington, D. C.
AFTER graduation Carl Colman Alpern went on to attend Har-
vard Law School where he received an LL.B. degree with honors
in 1932. He then presumably took up the practice of law and
in 1934 gave Syracuse, New York, as his permanent address. The
year previous to his death he was associated with the United
States Department of Agriculture in Washington, and later with
the Office of General Counsel in the Wages and Hours Division
of the Department of Labor. While in college he was a member
of the freshman Lacrosse Squad, the Debating Team, the Liberal
Club, and the Menorah Society of which he was president from
1927 to 1928.

[ 20 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HYMAN ALPERS

HOME ADDRESS: 214 Lafayette St., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Foster St., Peabody, Mass.

BORN: July 17, 1908, Salem, Mass. parents: Isadore Alpers, Sarah M.
Sushelsky.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928(30).

marrieD: Celia T. Kaplan, June 24, 1934, Boston, Mass, cHiLp: Barbara
Ann, Oct. 20, 1937.

occupation: Vice-president, Alpers Corporation, retail men’s clothing.

OFFICES HELD: President, Brandeis Zionist District, 1937-1939; chairman, the
Hebrew School Board, 1949-50; member board of directors, 1947-49,
1952-53, member board of education, Temple Shalom.

MEMBER OF: Kernwood Country Club; Lynn Zionist Club; B’nai B'rith;
Brotherhood, Temple Shalom; Peabody Chamber of Commerce; Har-
vard Club of the North Shore.

SINCE graduation I have been engaged in the business my father
founded. . Being the eldest of seven children, I felt it my duty to
lend my father a hand in putting my four brothers and two sisters
through college. This job has now been completed. In the
process, of course, I made a comfortable niche for myself in the
retail clothing business. We go under the name of “Alpers” and
operate the best men’s clothing store in Peabody. Next year will
be our fiftieth year in business.

I might mention here that my pet business aversion is over-
prevalence of economic soothsayers at the present time. Every-
body reads the columns, the confidential letters, listens to all the
commentators and then sets himself up as an expert. In fact, I
would say we have too many experts, and not enough just plain
Joe Doakses to have a normal economic structure. I wouldn’t mind
all this forecasting, if it made any sense, but I can’t stand all the
hedging and fancy double-talk that goes with it. As far as I'm
concerned, it should have gone out with Gallup.

My main hobby is golf which I play from early spring till late
November. I learned long ago to forego the possibility of ever
excelling at the game. A good round, I think, is a freak of nature,
not a portent of better rounds to come. I found, too, being out
in the air and good fellowship are more important to me than
any sharp golf I can whip up. However, I love the game and
play it three or four times a week when the weather is good.

[20]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

My other hobbies are gardening and puttering, at both of which
I am strictly an amateur.

I serve the Jewish Community as a member of the Hebrew
School Board and as a director of the Temple. I also have served
on the Peabody Chamber of Commerce for twenty-five years
and on the United Jewish Appeal Committee since its inception.

The best part of my story is my family life. Celia and I have
had a wonderful life together. We spent our honeymoon on a
Mediterranean cruise, and we hope to take a similar long trip
in our twenty-fifth anniversary year. We go to the theatre
about a dozen times a year, which is sufficient in view of the
deplorable condition of the stage; and to symphony concerts
about six times—which is more than enough under present
conditions.

My daughter Barbara is fifteen and presents the usual difficulties
of that marvelous age. She is a sophomore at Salem High and has
her sights set on Radcliffe. She loves tennis; she writes rather
well; occasionally knocks out a poem of merit; and plays the
piano. However, I don’t see why she insists so much that I count
when we play duets together. Aesthetically, she considers me a
failure, because I don’t lead the full life, of which she thinks I am
capable.

WALTER ALSEN

HOME ADpRESS:; 36 Academy St., Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Carter & Co., 597 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 26, 1905, Arlington, Mass. parents: Carl William Alsen, Anna
Anderson.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

marized: Helen Danskin, Sept. 26, 1931, Arlington, Mass. cHILDREN: Carl
William, 3d, June 29, 1932; Janet, March 16, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Paper merchant.

AMYAS AMES

HOME Appress: Box 126, Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 17 Wall St, New York 5, N. Y.
BORN: June 15, 1906, Sharon, Mass, parents: Oakes Ames, ‘98, Blanche Ames.

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

MARRIED: Evelyn Ingeborg Perkins, June 14, 1930, Hartford, Conn. cui-
DREN: Oakes, Oct. 9, 1931; Edward Amyas, Oct. 28, 19335 Olivia, March
14, 1937; Joan Evelyn, Jan. 8, 1952.

HARVARD SONS: Oakes Ames, ’53; Edward Amyas Ames, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: Oliver Ames, ’26.

OCCUPATION: Partner, investment banking firm of Kidder, Peabody & Com-

any.

WARTIME 6 GOVERNMENT POST: Administrative officer, War Shipping Adminis-
tration, Washington, D. C.

OFFICES HELD: Governor, New York Stock Exchange, since 1949, Investment
Bankers Association, since 1952; chairman, Joint Committee on Edu-
cation, since 1947, Division of Greater New York Fund (formerly),
School Board, Lloyd Harbor Public School (formerly); president,
Long Island Biological Association, since 1952; Republican committee-
man, District No. 1 of Huntington, Long Island (formerly); treasurer,
Long Island Sound Junior Yacht Racing Association,

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Boston; Lunch Club.

IN THE spring of my second year at the Harvard Business School
(1930) I made three decisions as to the course my life was to
take. First, I decided not to go into the securities business; second,
I decided not to work in New York City; and third, after attend-
ing such a party as Long Island produced in rg29, I decided that
was one place I would never live. Now, it has come about that
(1) I am in the securities business, (2) I work in New York City,
and (3) I live on Long Island.

For twenty years I have worked in what might be called a
depression industry — to some extent Wall Street has been the
country’s whipping boy during this period. In spite of this, it
has been a rewarding experience, perhaps because it has been a
period of change and I as much as anyone in “the Street” have
been associated with that change. To list a few of these changes,
I have worked, in my position as management partner of Kidder,
Peabody & Company, on the development of new procedures to
train young men for the securities industry; I have worked on
new methods of distribution of Mutual Funds —a sensible solu-
tion to your investment problems (advt.); I developed the “Spe-
cial Offering” techniques now used by the New York Stock Ex-
change, and have led movements to introduce “Permissive In-
corporation,” standardized industry accounting, and rate reform.

[23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I must admit that such a listing sounds dry, but there is much
rewarding association with human beings wrapped up with it.
Perhaps because I have been constantly associated with change,
I have come to take pride in being of the minority and to admire
most those who have the courage to endorse new ideas.

During the war I was in Washington as administrative officer
of the War Shipping Administration. Administrative work in
Washington is the “dirty work,” but I was doing it for men like
Lewis Douglas and Admiral Land, so that my lot was an unusually
fortunate one. If nothing else, 1 learned how a bureaucracy
works,

One of my hobbies in business has been to try to do something
about the misunderstanding and propagandized prejudice against
Wall Street. As chairman and vice-chairman of the Joint Com- —
mittee on Education, I have over the last five years brought fifty-
two economics teachers from as many universities and colleges
around the country to Wall Street on fellowships. The purpose
has been to Jet these teachers find the facts and judge the men
for themselves — our obligation being to open any doors they
wanted opened.

My hobbies include my wife and children, photography, sail-
ing, non-competitive tennis, cutting hay with a power sickle bar,
wood with an axe, and playing the piano. This last came about
three years ago as a result of my taking a lesson in jazz-piano-
playing-by-ear from my daughter’s teacher.

Speaking of hobbies and change, I also introduced a new
method of competition for children’s sailing in Long Island
Sound, Formerly the child whose parent or club has the most
money was likely to become the champion simply because he
had the fastest boat. We introduced the “change of boat” system
of racing in all Junior Yacht Racing Association races so that
sailing skill rather than a fast boat wins the race.

Now, having reached the milestone of my Twenty-fifth Re-
union year, I am being forced to fill a new role. My wife has
written and published a novel — Only the Loving, Dodd Mead
& Company, three dollars, well reviewed and controversial (advt.),
and I am learning how to be Mrs. Ames’s husband. I didn’t see
the future very clearly when I left the Business School and |

[24]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

don’t now. The difference is that in twenty-five years I have
learned that the future has to take care of itself.

FREDERICK LOTHROP AMES, JR.

BORN: May 1, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frederick Lothrop Ames, ’98,
Edith Cryder.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

marRieD: Maurice Lee Willard, Jan. 25, 1928, Tucson, Ariz. cump: Sally
Blair, 1930.

piep: Nov. 6, 1932, Randolph, Mass.

ACTIVE in aviation even while at Harvard, as vice-president of
the Harvard Flying Club, Ames went on to make a career of
flying. He possessed the first privately-owned, steel-frame plane
in Boston and financed the construction of the Boston Airport
Corporation hangar. He was president of Skyways, Inc., located
in the Boston Airport, at the time of his death. In 1929 he had
opened the Travel Air sales agency at East Boston Airport. He
was prominent as a yachtsman and had received the Blue Water
medal for cruises to England and Labrador. He died in the air-
plane accident in which another member of our Class, Frank
Penrose Sproul, was also killed.

JOHN LONZO ANDERSON

HOME AND OFFICE AppREss: Box 762, Grand Central Annex, New York 17,
N. Y. /

BORN: March 1, 1905, Ellijay, Ga. parents: John Lonzo Anderson, Adella
May Brown.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925, 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

-MarRiED: Adrienne Broaddus Adams, Aug. 17, 1934, Evanston, Ill.

OCCUPATION: Free-lance writer.

LOOKING back over the twenty-five years to which you so
insistently direct my attention, I find that I have to choose be-
tween writing you a book on the subject and being very brief.
I shall be mercifully brief.

I have accomplished nothing that would be of interest to the
Class. I belong to no organizations and hold no offices, titles, or

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

honorary degrees. I have remained, as nearly as I could manage
it, a complete free-lance, and I have had a wonderful time.

My wife is, in all the above respects, my twin, She is an artist.
In periods when we are unable to maintain our status as complete
free-lances, we cheerfully embrace whatever form of comparative
enslavement seems indicated for the time being.

It is all fascinating, every instant and aspect of life, the good
and the bad, the mistakes as well as the rare, brief flashes of being
right for a change.

EDUARDO ANDRADE

HOME ApprEss: 215 E. 72d St. New York 21, N. Y.

oFFicE appress: 40 Wall St, New York 5, N. Y.

BorN: May 17, 1906, Jacksonville, Fla. parents: Eduardo Andrade, Mary
Stockton McLaughlin.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1928; LL.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Felicia Chedsey Thomas, May 29, 1936, New York, N. Y. cuit-
pREN: Maria Felicia, April 9, 1937 (died Sept. 12, 1951); José Eduardo,
July 5, 1942; Lydia Elisa, Dec. 30, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederick Pope, Jr., 42, LL.B. 49 (half-brother); Richard
Stockton Pope, ’44 (half-brother).

occupation: Lawyer, associated with Winthrop, Sumson, Putnam & Roberts.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 101st Cavalry, New York National Guard, 1932-
35.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York, American
Bar Association; New York State Bar Association, Harvard Club of
New York; Down Town Association, Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht
Club; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club; Lloyd Neck Bath Club; Asso-
ciation of Ex-Members of Squadron A.

IF I had to name the greatest deficiency that time had, only now,
revealed in the scope of my college education, I should have to
say that it was the lack of a course in the writing of twenty-five
year biographies. We were sent forth into life unprepared.

Is a history of a lawyer's professional and business career —
unless he has concerned himself with spectacular cases of public
note — likely to engage the interest of others, even of friends
and fellow classmates? It is enough to report that, after gradu-
ating from the Law School and performing the minor miracle of
finding a job in those dark depression days, I have been actively

[26]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

practising law in New York City and have greatly enjoyed it,
and that from time to time I have served as a director of various
business corporations.

_ Apart from these matters of direct professional or business
interest, these years have found me active in bar association work
and in work for various charities and other non-business organi-
zations, with frequent service on committees.

It was not my fate to be able to join, in however modest a
capacity, the distinguished members of the Class who served in
the Armed Forces during the War. The Army and the Navy
took an early first step towards unification by concurring in de-
clining my offers of service, and in the end the Army even went
so far as to find me not up to the somewhat modest physical
standards of the draft. I found myself eagerly accepted, however,
for service in war bond drives and in the Air Warden Service.
To the latter I devoted much time in organizing protection
against calamities that never came.

I should like to be able to report here, for the astonishment of
my classmates, impressive feats in sports and athletics. | find,
however, that such activities as I can report are unspectacular
and are confined to golf, sailing, and watching baseball games.

My wife and I began to play a little golf a few years ago and
we have now worked our scores, on good days, down to 120.
That figure has not earned us any golfing trophies, but it prob-
ably does give us the distinction of being able to play golf more
cheaply than anyone else if you figure out the cost of playing
on a per-stroke basis.

We bought a small, nineteen-foot center-board sailboat some
years ago and learned to sail it in the protected waters of Cold
Spring Harbor. We have never quite gotten over the fear, how-
ever, that the boat would tip over while we were out in a heavy
breeze, and I have taken a larger part of my pleasure in sailing
than I like to admit in the happy feeling of returning safely to
my mooring without having been overtaken by disaster.

I even built a boat myself —an achievement of which I am
prouder than if I had conquered Troy. It is a giant eight-footer,
which was tightly put together with more than four hundred
brass screws. So confident was I of its staunchness that I was
even willing to run the risk of giving it the same name as Colum-

[27]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

bus’s ill-fated flagship and called it the Santa Maria. The only
trouble with it was that it was built on my own untutored de-
signs, and while it was sleek and fast and worked beautifully when
used by my elder daughter for whom it was built (who was then
seven years old), it was hopelessly unstable when used by grown-
ups. The boat was so tightly built that no water ever came in
through the seams, but that was no protection at al] against water
coming in over the gunwales.

Is it a hobby to take what time I have been able to find and
reaches the dignity of a hobby, but if it does, I am free to report
read in a wide variety of books? I am not at all sure that this
it here and to record that I have in this way traced the course of
empires, have fought on many an ancient battlefield and wit-
nessed the prodigies of heroes and the last sunsets of dying kings,
have conquered the terrors of uncharted seas and have accom-
panied the boldest explorers to the farthest reaches of the earth.

My other travels, however — that is, those that really happened
— have been confined to thoroughly civilized parts of the world.
I like to recall the pleasure I have had in them, but it is probably
enough to say here that I have made five trips to Europe since
graduation, in addition to vacation trips in this country, Canada,
and the West Indies and a small amount of business travel in this
country,

If I may do so without impiety, I look upon these twenty-five
years —so quickly passed —as merely a beginning, and I await
with good hope the remaining time, whether short or long.

JAMES MADISON ANDREWS, IV

HOME AppREss: 4150 Linnean Ave. N.W., Washington 8, D. C,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2430 E St., N.W., Washington 25, D. C.

BorN: Oct. 21, 1905, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: James Madison Andrews,
Nellie Horton Beecher.

PREPARED AT: Allen-Chalmers School, West Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; A.M., 19333 PH-D., 1939-

MARRIED: Louise Joan Hahn, Jan. 2, 1932, New York, N. Y. cxito: Stephen
Andrews Wise, Sept. 27, 1925 (stepson),’

HARVARD Son: Stephen Andrews Wise, 46.

OccuPATION: Research, U. S. Government.

[28 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U. S. Naval Re-
serve, April, 1941; stationed at Office of Naval Intelligence, Washing-
ton, D. C., as (1) Officer-in-Charge, Statistical Section; and (2) Naval
Secretary, Joint Army-Navy Assessment Committee, separated as com-
mander, December, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Expedition leader, Second Economic Survey of Siam, 1934-35;
research associate in anthropology, Peabody Museum, 1934-39; assistant
curator of somatology, Peabody Museum, 1939-47.

MEMBER OF: Cosmos Club of Washington, D. C.; Society of the Cincinnati;
American Ornithologists Union; Audubon Society; Nantucket Yacht
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Siam, 2nd Rural Economic Survey, Bangkok, 1936; occasional
contributions to journals.

A MISTAKEN notion on the part of my parents, a notion that
I was contemplating matrimony before the time was ripe for such
a venture, caused me to lose contact with the Class of 1928 at the
end of the sophomore year. For the tactful decision made by my
parental authorities was to say not one word about matrimony
but, instead, to offer me a year’s passage on the old Ryndam of
“Floating University” fame. I was charmed and delighted by this
opportunity, and did not learn till years later just why it had
come to me. So I lost contact with the rest of you in the fall of
1926, though the passage ’round the world led curiously and tenu-
ously to many other Harvard contacts which I greatly cherish.
Romance languages, and history and literature, looked strangely
unrewarding after the year at sea, and I fell gradually under the
spell of anthropology and the Peabody Museum, also Earnest A.
Hooton, These various factors in my personal equation gave me
a chance to go back to Siam, which had been the high spot of
the Ryndanrs passage, and | had the great good luck to spend a
year and a half out there making an economic and anthropo-
logical survey of the country under the joint auspices of the
Siamese government and Harvard. I was back in Hooton’s
laboratory, working over the Siamese data, when the war broke
in Europe, and the Office of Naval Intelligence called me to
Washington. They gave me the choice of being a specialist on
Siam, or of adapting Hooton’s research techniques with I.B.M.
machines to the problems of naval intelligence. I chose the latter,
as the war had not yet spread to the Far East and I myself had
no particular expectation that it would do so. So I forgot about

[29]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Siam and commenced adding up figures on naval warfare in the
Atlantic. Then came Pearl Harbor, and I was joined by two
other sons of the Peabody Museum, Bill Howells, ’30, and Gene
Worman, ’37. Together the three of us sat out the war in naval
uniform a long way from the smell of salt water. Unglamorous,
to be sure, but intensely rewarding in many other respects, for
we saw many of the inner workings of that “dim religious world
in which Neptune was God, Mahan His prophet, and the United
States Navy the only true church.” |

After the war I had another year with Hooton in the Peabody
Museum, and was looking forward to many more when the gov-
ernment asked me to come back to Washington and tackle
another job somewhat like that I had done for naval intelligence.
Again it is unglamorous, though very much to my taste.

EVERT WENDELL ANDROS

HOME ADDRESS: 82 Irving Pl., New York 3, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 W. 42nd St., New York 36, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 22, 1904, Oaxaca, Mexico, PARENTS: Charles Henry Andros,
Esther Crafts Morse. |

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Advertising, direct mail promotion manager, Scholastic Mag-

azines.
MEMBER OF: New York Athletic Club (Uptown); University Club, Bos-

ton.

I FAILED to realize my earliest ambition — to be a locomotive
engineer. I didn’t become an Indian fighter either. You will un-
derstand how far short I came of attaining either of these two
goals when I tell you that I became an advertising man.

In the fall of 1929, after attending the Graduate School of
Architecture the previous year, I went to work for a one-man
advertising agency in Boston. “I'll pay you ten dollars a week,”
my employer said. “You won't be worth it, but I need someone
to answer the phone when I’m out. [ll teach you something about
writing advertising,” he added as an after thought. +

Other jobs followed —in mail-order advertising, publishing.
A year or two later, as a result of honesty, energy, ambition,

[30]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hard work, and native ability, I was making twenty dollars a week.

In 1937 1 became advertising manager of an industrial concern,
B. F. Sturtevant Company, Hyde Park, Boston, Massachusetts
(now a division of Westinghouse Electric Corporation). I re-
mained in this job for ten years.

My present job is: direct mail promotion manager, Scholastic
Magazines, New York City. This job includes being circulation
manager of five weekly class-room magazines used in high
schools, and of Practical Home Economics, a magazine for pro-
fessional home economists. I also do promotional work for “The
Teen Age Book Club” —a subsidiary of Scholastic Magazines
which sells paper-bound pocket books to high school students.

Hobbies? well, I guess sketching and painting take the lead.
My family has been crawling with artists — amateur, semi-pro-
fessional, and professional for at least four generations. So ap-
parently I inherited my inclination. For many years I attended
classes in landscape and portrait painting during summer business
vacations. I have studied watercolor with Eliot O’Hara, oils with
Aldro Hibbard, George Elmer Browne, Wayman Adams, Jerry
Farnsworth. For a number of years I also attended evening
classes in drawing, Saturday classes in portrait painting. I still
paint during vacations, but have given up attending classes. I find
that I accomplish more by going off on my own. I have an etch-
ing press in my New York apartment and occasionally make an
etching.

Other hobbies include dabbling in wood and metal working,
electro-plating, re-finishing antique furniture, creative cookery.
When I lived in Boston I took an interest in figure skating, and
was for several years a member of the Skridsko Club in East Wal-
pole. For a time I was a member of a recorder-playing group
in Boston. It was a pleasure to renew my friendship with class-
mate Bob Outerbridge who was also a member of the group.

The most significant experience of recent years was a return
to my homeland. In 1948, between jobs, I went on a six-month’s
sketching trip to Mexico. I went by car, consequently was able
to see much of the best of Mexico and to meet some of the finest
people — in little out-of-the-way mountain villages. My Spanish,
though far from perfect, was adequate for conversation. Mexi-
cans are all fiercely proud of the native cities and towns, None is

C31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

more proud than the people of Oaxaca. In bar-rooms all over
Mexico T would mention that Oaxaca was the city of my birth.
“You're an Oaxaqueno? Well! There’s another Oaxaqueno sit-
ting over there. You must meet him. Come, I shall introduce
you.” We would be like brothers.

I spent sev eral weeks studying painting at the Escuela de Bellas
Artes in San Miguel de Allende, several more in the little south-
em city of Oaxaca. At first I was disappointed in Oaxaca. It was
so much smaller than I remembered it, and run down since the
days when it was a world mining center. Oaxaca has been badly
shaken by two severe earthquakes i in the last thirty years. Some
day they may get around to repairing the damage; then again
perhaps not. In: any event, things take time in Mexico. “Zamora
wasn't built in a day,” you know.

My disappointment in Oaxaca was short-lived. Soon I came
to love Oaxaca for what it is today —a beautiful old colonial
town of sleepy charm, cradled in a bowl among the mountains
and set about with cyprus trees — where nothing ever happens,
yet the days are infinitely varied and every hour brings a new
enriching experience. I haven't yet got over my trip. Like the
Bengal tiger, after his first taste of human blood, I am eager to
drink again the rich warm blood of Mexico.

JOHN TATE APPLEBY

HOME ApprEss: 324 College Ave., Fayetteville, Ark.

BorN: June 10, 1907, Fayetteville, Ark. parents: George Appleby, Gertrude
Baylor.

PrePareD AT: University High School, Fayetteville, Ark.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army Air Force, June, 1942 — November,
1945; served with Eighth Air Force in England.

MEMBER OF: Pipe Roll Society; Monumental Brass Society.

pcBiications: Suffolk Summer, 1948; short stories and book reviews in New
Statesman @ Nation, Partisan Review, Washington Post.

RELIGION — Catholic. Politics — Democrat.

[32]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY ESS ASKEW

HOME apprEss: Rogers Road, Eden, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 361 Delaware, Buffalo, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1906, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Ralph Kirk Askew, Mar-
ion Ess,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 77agna cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Foster, May 31, 1934, Boston, Mass. cuttp: Anthony
Foster, March 16, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: R(alph) Kirk Askew, Jr., ’25

OCCUPATION: Sales administrator, Wickwire Spencer Steel, wire products.

MEMBER OF: Oneill Club; Clarksburg Country Club.

PUBLICATION: Article in American Journal of Archaeology.

+

AFTER graduation I held several fellowships in archaeology
and classical art: Charles Eliot Norton, American School of Clas-
sical Studies in Athens, American Academy in Rome. I returned
to Harvard in 1933 for work on a Ph.D. which I never finished;
reason — lack of funds. | |

I married in 1934 and spent a few months working for Tim
Brown on a ranch in Arizona. I started working for Wickwire
Spencer Steel in San Francisco, as shipping clerk in warehouse
— later I was transferred to sales in the Seattle office. Then in
1938 I was transferred here to the Buffalo office — I am still here.

We live about twenty miles outside of Buffalo on fifty acres
of wooded land. I have tried raising almost every kind of live-
stock but now just let the trees grow. In politics I am a Demo-
crat, and last year ran for councilman in the Republican town
of Eden, but lost.

+ JOHN NICHOLAS ATHENEOS

BORN: Jan. 11, 1905, Athens, Greece. PARENTS: Nicholas Atheneos, Anna
Vasilaki.

PREPARED aT: Central High School, Newark, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

piep; May 7, 1934, New York, N. Y.

HAVING attended the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Co-
lumbia University, Atheneos was serving a two-year “period of
residency at Seton Hospital in New York at the time of his death.

[33]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

mine) if the hitherto non-stop Pine Tree Express from Boston
to Portland was stopped at Exeter. Fortunately for me, they
thought the idea a good one, so the return trip at night is comfort-
ably made in the best new aluminum streamlined coaches in fifty
minutes. My friends of undergraduate days who scoffed at my
fanatic interest in Boston & Maine will now see that it has paid
off. A good “connection” in the management of the road makes
it possible for me frequently to ride in the engine, but despite
the cleanliness and comfort of a diesel cab, I much prefer the
rides I have had in the cab of many steam locomotives on both
the Boston & Maine and the Seaboard.

The above mentioned relapse into nostalgic memories of rail-
roads indicates that my career should have been railroading in-
stead of the brokerage business. To be truthful, I wish it had.
However, I have made up for it somewhat by having as my prin-
cipal hobby research into the corporate structure of the Boston
& Maine and its many antecedent lines, and have put together
what is reported in the Boston & Maine magazine to be the most
extensive collection of locomotive pictures, old lanterns, and
other items of B & M interest in existence.

My wife does not wholly share my enthusiasm for chasing
railroad items in antique shops and other out of the way places,
but together we have put together a moderate collection of old
Sandwich glass. —

Travel in the last few years has consisted of one mid-winter’s
cruise on the Mauretania to the Virgin Islands, Martinique, Trini-
dad, Venezuela, and Havana which we enjoyed so much that the
following winter we took a Canadian National five-weeks cruise
to the Leeward and Windward Islands of the West Indies, in-
cluding St. Kitts, Antigua, Grenada, Bermuda, Nassau, British
Guiana, Montserrat, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Barbados. As a
philatelist, concentrating on stamps from the British Colonies, I
found these two trips doubly enjoyable. Our recent vacations
have been spent deep in the Maine woods on fishing trips after
the squaretail trout, and at Jast I have found a really remote mag-
nificent spot after many trips to Maine, where three- and four-
pound trout can be caught on the fly. It is a good remote spot,
the whereabouts of which I shall not divulge as yet. The biggest
thrill in my recent travelling experiences has been the airplane

[ 36]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

flight fom Georgetown, British Guiana, over 200 miles of ju
to land on the river above Kaieteur Falls.

My wife and I, as well as my daughter (Radcliffe ’54) and
stepson (matriculating at Brewster Academy and hoping

Harvard in the future), are looking forward eagerly to
Twenty-fifth next June. It’s later than you think!!!

WILLIAM CLARKE ATWATER

nome Aporess: River Street, Norwell, Mass. |
ovrice aporess: Cohasset Lumber Co. Cohasset, Mass

poan: Jan. 25, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Henry Day Atwater, Jes
Rhoades Clarke.

parpaneD at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928

manaien: Mary Warren Hedstrom, Feb. 12, 1944, Boston, Mass, sTEPCHI
pain: Sonja Hedstrom (m. Carlton P, Cooke, Jr.); Eric L, Hedstror

Jr. (m. Eloise Herrick). step-cRANDCHILDREN: Carlton P, Cooke, 3c
Bradley Warren Cooke; Mitchell Warren Hedstrom

occuPATION: President, Cohasset Lumber Company, building materials.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, First Motor Squadron, Massachusett
State Guard,

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: President, director, Norwell Civil Defense
Agency.

orFices HELD: Director, Children's Aid Association, Boston, Cohasset Rotary
Club,

AFTER various excursions into teaching, aviation, and other
businesses, I sweated out the war years in the treasurer's office
of a large mining concern, devoting a large part of my time to
the only military service available to me, the State Guard, ending
up as captain of the Headquarters Troop, First Motor Squadron
in Boston.

In 1944 I was married — acquiring in one fell swoop two grown
stepchildren, and within a few years three step-grandchildren.
After the war years, we moved permanently to Norwell. After
some experience in the building materials game, another fellow
and I started the Cohasset Lumber Company in Cohasset, Massa-
chusetts. Owning your own business is certainly interesting and
instructive, but also the shortest path to long hours and hard
labor — mental and physical. The balance of my time is absorbed

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

in having fun with my family, the care and feeding of a country
place, striving to be a good citizen, and keeping up a lifelong
habit of doing as much singing as possible.

CHARLES ROBERTSON ATWELL

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Carver Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Psychopathic Hospital, 74 Fenwood Rd., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: June 13, 1907, Bellevue, Pa. PARENTS: Jason Robertson Atwell, Bertha
Nivin.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; A.M., 1931.

marrieD: Helen Nichols, Dec. 24, 1934, Providence, R. I. cHitpREN: Eliot
Morton Sterling, March 22, 1932 (stepson); Francis Nivin, Nov. 25,
1940; Charles Robertson, Jr., Jan. 24, 1943; Robert Nicholas, Nov. 1, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Eliot Morton Sterling, 53.

occuPATION: Psychologist.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association, Massachusetts Psycho-
logical Association, American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

OFFICES HELD: Head psychologist, Boston Psychopathic Hospital; instructor
in psychology, Harvard Medical School; clinical associate, Boston
University.

SINCE leaving college, I spent one year in Law School, then one
year at General Electric giving vocational tests to prospective
employees. Since by 1930 there were no jobs for any prospects I
could test, mine disappeared too. I went back to Graduate School
where I received an A.M., in Psychology. I then started working
at the Boston Psychopathic Hospital where I have been ever since.

My only hobby is mountain climbing and that of the very
non-adventurous type. I suppose reading, particularly of detec-
tive stories, might also be considered a hobby. Travel has been
strictly limited to trips to the White Mountains in the summers,
one drive to the West Coast and back, and a few winter vacations
in Florida.

My social, political and religious convictions are very weak,
the exception is I have a strong desire for tolerance and apprecia-
tion for others’ feelings on these subjects.

Probably the greatest change in me is that I used to have a
sense of duty about filling out questionnaires and did so promptly

[ 38]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and thoroughly, whereas now I blithely put at least ninety per
cent of them in the wastebasket.

P. H. WILLIAM BACHMANN

HOME AbpREsS: 33 Garden PI., Brooklyn 1, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 Park Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

BORN: July 25, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: Rudolph F. Bachmann, Jo-
hanna Schmitt.

PREPARED AT: Boys High School, Brooklyn, N, Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: S.B. 1771 laude, 19285 AM. (Columbia
Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Janette Stout, Sept. 21, 1941, Brooklyn, N. Y. (divorced 1945).

OccuPATION: Engineering, senior electrical draftsman, Celanese Corporation
of America.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Staten Island Herpetological Society.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa (professional education fraternity); .Adiron-
dack Mountain Club; American Forestry Association; Audubon So-
ciety; Presbyterian Church group.

PuBLIcATIONS: Tbe Salamanders of the Adirondacks; poems and verse in
magazines, occasional fiction.

REMEMBER the days of thy youth! They were very ; good —
Harvard is a cherished memory — but the present ones are even
better, in a different way. I have had to learn to look forward
rather than back, but the past is stocked with memories. I have
worked at many things, though I know now I should have taken
a Ph.D. in the humanities in the early years. I have gone to sea
as a Sailor, worked in factories, on farms, and in shipyards. I
have taught in prep schools and in colleges and once edited a
small newspaper in the South. In New England I picked cran-
berries; in California, pears. I do not regret any of this miscellany.
There were good times never to be forgotten — fourteen months
of skylarking (and study) in Paris from 1928 to 1930, mountain
climbing in the Swiss Alps, a summer of boating i in an old-
fashioned lugger off the Brittany coast.

I have been fortunate in having visited every state in the Union
— riding the freights, riding the “blinds,” hitch-hiking, and just
plain walking. On occasions, I paid for the transportation. I
have been in Canada, Uruguay, Argentina, and Brazil. I remem-
ber a tolerable number of nice gals here and there, 4 la Heming-
way and otherwise.
~ Sorry I don’t have any medals or decorations, no accolades from

[ 39 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

the Baroda of Swat, no ribbons. I give a doff of the hat for those
who got them, but for me neither envy nor regret. It has been a
lot of fun not getting them. I don’t have ulcers either.

Up to quite recently — and I think I shall resume the jaunts
before long —I have lugged the fifty-pound pack up Katahdin,
and in the “Adirondacks, and along the Appalachian Trail in the
Smoky Mountains. I’ve lived out of the pack for weeks on end
in the woods and that was good too.

Now comes the time to look up to the approaching ridge of life
before we start down the farther slope. I find serenity, or the
promise of it, where before there was turmoil and frustration and
too much neurotic drinking. For this new development, I thank
God. It takes a little help in such matters. There are books, and
friends, and hobbies to be enjoyed. I used to do a lot of field
work in herpetology — salamanders were my specialty. I have
given away and sold a good deal of poetry and verse. Writing
is still a hobby and perhaps now I can concentrate on fiction. I
should like to dabble a bit in painting, too.

This year is rich in promise. There is a good possibility that
I may be able to remarry my former wife, Janette, who is now
teaching English and speech in a southern college. There is the
promise of happiness there. New-found serenity should make our
lives pleasant and companionable.

Old Harvard friends and classmates are scattered far and wide.
The friend I made the rounds with in Paris is in California with
a law practice and several children. But was that Ev Andros of
1928 I saw not so long ago on Park Avenue near Thirty-third
Street? He was gone before I could say “Hello!” Perhaps we
shall meet at the Reunion.

As for statistics, I am in good health the doctors tell me. Go
easy on the mountain climbing, you’re middle-aged now! — but
sull, good health. I am a Protestant, a Democrat, and a believer
in the Golden Rule. I go to church now more than I ever did
and find it consoling. My favorite authors are Shakespeare,
Thoreau, the contributors to the Greek Anthology and the Bible,
and Lao-Tze, the philosopher of ‘Taoism. May all the others I
like forgive the omission of their names! In music, I like the
three B’s — especially Beethoven, but the moderns are welcome
too. All the arts are a source of pleasure and growing wisdom.

[40]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I don’t like New York subways and a few hundred other name-
less things which I shall try to forget. I am, by now, after many
experiences in various forms of politics, a cynic on this subject.
Let us then merely hope that Eisenhower can do better than his
predecessor. It really doesn’t matter much who is in power as
long as men, including myself, can be happy.

This is about all except to say “Hello” to Al Parrott, Ev Andros,
Joe Rochette, Alexander Clementson, Herb Howard, and all the
other boys in the Class of 1928 whom I had the pleasure of know-
ing. Auf Wiedersehent

*r RUDOLF FRIEDHOLD BACHMANN

BORN: Oct. 1, 1907, “Waltham, Mass. PARENTS: : Emil Friedheld Bachmann,
Annie Moran.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.D. (Cornell Univ.), 1932.

MarRiED: Laura Aileen Tolbert, July 8, 1937. CHILDREN: Three.

pieD: Nov. 12, 1951, Evanston, Wyo.

MEDICAL examiner and staff member at ‘the Burbank Hospital
in Fitchburg, Massachusetts, Dr. Rudolf Friedhold Bachmann was
killed when two passenger trains collided in a blizzard at the
Wyoming State border. He and his wife, also killed, were re-
turning from a convention of the College of Surgeons in San
Francisco. At Harvard Bachmann was vice-president of the
Deutscher Verein in 1927 to 1928 and a member of the Boylston
Chemical Club. He had been practising medicine in Fitchburg
for almost twenty years. Another Fitchburg doctor, Robert
Strachan Thomson (A.B., 1934; M.D., 1938), was also a victim
of the wreck.

WILLIAM JOHN CONYERS BAKER

HOME ApprEss: 111 Main St., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Navy 3923, Box 2, FPO, San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: July 6, 1906, Weatogue, Conn. parents: Charles George Baker, Edith
De Coursey.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.; Cambridge Latin
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

[4r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MARRIED: Emilie H. Parsons, June 24, 1932, Plainfield, N. J. cuupren: Stan-
ley Conyers, Sept. 5, 1934; Cecily Maxwell, Oct. 1, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Lieutenant commander, U. S. Navy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned in Navy July, 1941; commanded
UMS 57, LCI 1, and LST 390; personnel officer, Military Government
Unit Truk; harbor defense officer, Norfolk; now base security officer,
Yokosuka, Japan; purple heart, navy unit commendation, naval reserve,
American Defense, American Theatre, Pacific Theatre, Victory, Korean
Service, UN Service, Expert Pistol, and Expert Rifle. |

AS I sit here in Yokosuka, Japan, leading a different life in a

different world, my life even two years ago seems very far away,

let alone twenty-five years ago. But I'll take off my bifocals and
gaze backward over the distant horizon.

After graduation I shipped aboard MacMillan’s old arctic ship,
the Albatross, for a cruise to northern Europe. This made Boston
headlines in that, through supreme mismanagement, the venture
went bankrupt and the ship was sold from under us in Hamburg.

For the next four years I helped the American Pulley Company
in Philadelphia make big pulleys and little pulleys. I wonder if
Bill Saltonstall still remembers rowing on the Schuylkill with me
in a double scull.

Then I met a very lovely gal from Plainfield, New Jersey, and
we very soon found ourselves going to the Rockies in Colorado
on our honeymoon. There I decided to give up making big and
little pulleys and go into raising rainbow trout commercially on
a ranch on the north slope of Pikes Peak. For three years this
was quite successful, but then the main highway which brought
most of my customers, was abandoned for a new location, and
we traded the ranch for a square mile of wheat land in the dust
bowl. But the dust had not yet stopped and I watched my young
wheat blow away for one summer. So we came back East bring-
ing with us a lasting souvenir of this period, a son who expects to
enter Harvard next fall.

Then followed a period of teaching school, during which we
produced a very pretty daughter due for Wellesley this fall.
This ended in the spring of 1948 when I received a commission

in the Navy. Ever since then I have been on duty here in Japan,
with occasional missions in Korea, but am due back in time for
our Twenty-fifth.

My life here in Japan has been a very stimulating one. I have

[42]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spent all my off duty time living with the Japanese people, eating
their foods, wearing their clothes, speaking their language, and
doing all the things that occupy their daily lives. I have made
friends with people of all classes, from the lowest laborer up to
and including Marquis Ikeda and his wife, Princess Yori, the
Emperor’s youngest daughter. Some of them have become real
life-long friends. I have looked deeply into the Oriental mind
and soul and have found that, contrary to western belief, they
are by no means unfathomable, Although the Japanese people
react on the surface quite differently from the peoples of the
western world, deep down they are exactly the same as ourselves
with the same fundamental loves, hates, fears, ambitions, loyalties,
and even religions, and they place as much if not more emphasis
on the decencies of life.

JOHN WOOD BALDWIN

HOME apprEss: Plain Road, Meadowbrook Park, Westbury, Long Island,
N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nassau County Engineering Dept., Mineola, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1904, East Williston, N. Y. PARENTS: James Edward Baldwin,
Agnes Warner.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. .

marrieD: Agnes R. Gilhooly, 1938. ;

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Warner Baldwin, '23.

occuPATIon: Civi] engineering — surveying field work.

AFTER having read some of the biographies written by my
brother's Class of 1926 I decided to make mine as brief as pos-
sible.

The depression years were pretty tough, and although I kept
working fairly regularly, my jobs were varied and unimportant.
When war was declared, I was working for the Buffalo Gasoline
Motor Company, in Buffalo; I was already working on war con-
tracts. The nature of this work plus the fact that I was slightly
over-age kept me out of the service. In 1944, due to my wife’s
chronic homesickness, we came back to Long Island where I
went to work for the Nassau County (good old Republican
stronghold) in the engineering department and have been there

[ 43 ]

Se

_ HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ever since. My health is pretty good barring some low back
trouble this past year.

My wife, who was Agnes Gilhooly and whom [ married in
1938, and I bought an acre of land and built our own house on
it. Our family consists of two Boxers and one Fox Terrier, al-
though we tried hard to do better.

My athletic endeavors have dwindled to golf (I can break a
hundred but not ninety) and bowling (150 average). My drink-
ing is purely social and quite light. My political leanings are
Republican, and my pet hate is parlor pinks, reds, Communists,
subversives, or disloyal persons. (And this goes for any Harvard
professors who may fall into this category.)

JOHN NEWTON BARBEE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1016 Sheridan Rd., Highland Park, IIL.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 208 S. LaSalle St., Chicago go, Ill.

BoRN: Aug. 7, 1906, St. Louis, Mo, parents: John Newton Barbee, Pearl
Gunn Morse. .

PREPARED AT: Carl Schurz High School, Chicago, IIL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. 1928(29).

MARRIED: Elisabeth Heaton Vose, May 26, 1933, Evanston, Ill. cep; Cyn-
thia Vose, Sept. 2, 1940.

OccuPATION: Trust investment counsellor, assistant trust officer, City Na-
tional Bank and Trust Company of Chicago.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U. S. Naval Reserve as enlisted trainee,
January, 1944; commissioned ensign, March, 1944, indoctrination school,
Princeton Univ., March-May, 1944; communication, school, Harvard
Univ., June-September, 1944; duty on staff, Commander in Chief,
Pacific Ocean Areas at Pearl Harbor, T. H., and Guam, November,
1944-October, 1945, tour of duty in Japan prior to separation as
heutenant (j.g.), February, 1946, American Theatre Ribbon, Asiatic-
Pacific Theatre Ribbon, Victory Ribbon,

MEMBER OF: Sunset Valley Golf Club, Highland Park.

AFTER repeated prompting by the committee, and with the
knowledge that time is running out, this Sunday afternoon late
in January seems appropriate for the task of attempting to reduce
a span of a quarter century to a few paragraphs. Many false
Starts attest to the difficulty this reporter is encountering — the
narrative does not come easily. Yet they have been good years,
with the few rough spots hazy and readily forgotten, They have

[44]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been marked by a long and pleasant association with a single em-
ployer, and the affectionate closely-knit relationship of a small
family. We find that our social and communal life is largely
centered in this suburban town some twenty-five miles north of
Chicago, where we chose to build fifteen years ago. There is
presently nothing to indicate that we shall not be here for the
next fifteen, or longer. All of which emphasizes the sad fact that
contacts have been lost with many friends of college days, a loss
of which I am deeply conscious.

Thanks to the Navy’s invitation to join its forces, in the sum-
mer of 1944 I was privileged, with my wife and daughter, to
return to Harvard for four months. It was a gratifying experience
for all of us. It enabled me to refresh latent memories, to admire
the changes sixteen years had wrought; the distaff, to be charmed
by the environment they had heard the old man mention so often.

My primary spare time activity at this stage in life is golf;
strictly a week-end proposition, but a satisfactory conditioner.
A bit of fishing and hunting in season, the latter with an important
member of the family — a Labrador retriever, also helps to keep
the arteries functioning properly. Refresher training sessions in
the field with the dog during the off-season are fun, and educa-
tional for both participants.

If, in the next twenty-five years, we are favored with the same
measure of health and happiness we have enjoyed to date, we
shall have been fortunate indeed.

ALFRED WILLIAM BARBER

HOME ADDRESS: 35-33 172nd St., Flushing 58, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32~44 Francis Lewis Blvd., Flushing 58, N. Y.

Bor: July 24, 1906, Portsmouth, N. H. parents: Henry Alfred Barber, Kath-
erine Af. Bucknam.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: $.B. IN E. COM, ENG., 1928.

mMarrieD: Evelyn Marion Allen, June 15, 1929, Portland, Maine. CHILDREN:
Richard Earl and Frank Henry (twins), July 25, 1930; Jean Louise,
March 17, 1943-

OccUPATION: Owner, manager, engineer, Alfred W. Barber Laboratories,
manufacturing communication and laboratory equipment; practising
patent attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Clerk, First Congregational Church of Flushing, 1941-51.

[45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

of the student council. Jean is thirteen years younger than her
brothers but at ten shows talent in several directions, art and
music for example.

I find being in business for myself in my chosen field little dif-
ferent from serious engagement in a hobby. A few years ago
I took up golf which I enjoy in spite of my poor scores, Photog-
raphy has always interested me, my latest enthusiasm being for
color stereo. Challenged by my daughter, I have been having
real fun with oil paints for the last few months. I became a
patent attorney almost as a hobby but it has become a more
serious endeavor since.

Four members of the family belong to the First Congregational
Church of Flushing where we keep rather active. Five years as
secretary of the Men’s Club, ten years as church clerk, and now
being chairman of the Evangelism Committee attest to the im-
portance I place upon church work. Two of the high points
were being representative of the church at the National meet-
ing two years ago and preaching the sermon on Layman’s Sun-
day last fall.

Politically I am a Republican by tradition and choice. I have
great hopes that the present administration will reverse many
undesirable trends set in motion over the past few years. As a
small business man I can say with conviction that integration
in government as well as in business is an important principle.
No real provisions were ever made to enable small business to
deal equitably with the gigantic federal government. I believe
the small business man is integral to our country’s progress, and
I hope a Republican administration will do something about put-
ting its dealings and control on a practical basis. Since my space
is limited I had better drop this subject.

ROBERT McKINLEY BARCLAY

HOME appress: 26 Vine St., Reading, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Harvard Ave., West Medford, Mass.

BORN: March 23, 1906, Nashua, N. H. parents: Harry John Barclay, Flor-
ence McKinley.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

[48]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRieD: Anne K. Driver, June 17, 1933, Reading, Mass.; Miriam Ardell
Nichols, Ed.M., ’32, Jan. 3, 1945, Reading, Mass.

occupation: Co-operative banking, treasurer, director, clerk of the corpora-
tion and Board of Directors, executive officer, West Medford Co-
operative Bank,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Dispersing Storekeeper first class, U. S. Naval
Reserve, November, 1942—February, 1946; USS New Jersey, May,
1943—~November, 1944, in Pacific theatre.

THERE is no inspiration in staring at a blank sheet of paper
headed “autobiographical sketch of the past twenty-five years.”
What else is there on this desk? First, I see the latest printed
statement of the West Medford Co-operative Bank. As its treas-
urer and executive officer it is my responsibility to persuade some
people to put their savings in this bank and other people to bor-
row these same dollars to build, buy, or improve their homes.
There is a whole lot of satisfaction in this occupation.

Then there is our own cash book. This tells us that our way
of life seems to cost just a little less than I earn, a fact which helps
to keep us in a state of contentment.

_ The address-book which gets a thorough inspection at Christ-
mas time suggests the many friends, both near and far, who share
their interests with us by periodic mail or vacation calls. They
include an entomologist in Georgia who will appear elsewhere
in this Class Report, a former teaching associate of my wife who
retired from “kids” to married life in the country herding a
dozen goats, a tire developer in Akron who graciously conceded
that his competitor's tires on which I ride are good (although
perhaps not quite as good). It is people who make life really
interesting.

In December, 1946, we invited a group of friends to hear a
program of selections from our library of recorded classical music.
No club was formed, no officer elected, no dues collected —
but some said let’s get together again. Four couples of the orig-
inal group are still on the list— which now includes twelve
couples — who are called each time someone is inspired to put on
a program at his home. The host, by starting the first record, is
the conductor raising his baton — the silence of a Sanders Theatre
audience ensues, such is the interest in whatever musical fare is
offered. In the seven years there has been amazingly little repeti-
tion even of the best known symphonies and concertos. One eve-

[49]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ning’s program included works by Grieg, Haydn, Bloch, and
Shostakov itch. Other programs have been suggested by the sea-
sons, Christmas, Easter, Pops, etc. A list of selections — some-
times a more decorative or annotated program — is usually given
to each one present. There are now more than thirty programs
in my file.

John Harvard bookends on the top of the Governor Winthrop
desk are separated by half a dozen books of heterogeneous char-
acter. Peterson’s Field Guide to the Birds has not yet been there
for ten years, so I do not hesitate to say that warblers in fall
dress are still confusing to this amateur bird-watcher. Historical
Address and Poem Delivered at the Bi-Centennial Celebration of
the Incorporation of the Old Town of Reading, May 29, av 1844,
calls attention to the fact that long titles were not originated by
the New Deal of 1933, and that people of the past help to make
life interesting today. The clock keeping correct time on our
mantel was purchased by my great-grandfather. It had been
assembled and consigned for sale by my wife’s great-great-grand-
father, who was secretary of this bi-centennial celebration com-
mittee. That clock, ticking today as it did in other homes in
another century, seems to repeat the closing thought of that 1844
address — which should be the prayer of each of us, and particu-
larly of each official elected on November 4, 1952 — “so live, so
think and act, that, . . . it may be said of you by your descendents,
as we this day say of our ancestors, we bless their memory for
the inheritance they have transmitted to us, of freedom, honesty,
industry, temperance, good laws, good order, good learning, the
Christian faith, and the hope full of immortality.”

JOHN EGGER BARNETT

HOME ADDRESS: 503 S. Second St., Clinton, Mo.

OFFICE apprEss: §100 Rockhill Rd., Kansas City, Mo,

BORN: Oct. 28, 1906, Clinton, Mo. parents: Clinton Andrew Barnett, Anna
Marr Egger.

PREPARED AT: Clinton High School, Clinton, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; A.M. 19323 PH.D.,
1938.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Registrar and assistant dean, University of Kansas City.

[50]

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U. S. Naval Reserve, March, 1942; South
Pacific area with Solomons Combat Air Transport, 1943-44; inactive
reserve as lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve, December, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; University Club, Kansas City.

_LOUIS EDWARD BARRON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 101 N, Common St., Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Abraham Barron, Dorothy
Keats.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.D. (Univ. of Chicago),

1933.
MARRIED: Jean Alice Feibel, June 28, 1935, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN:

Michael Stephan, Nov. 24, 1937; Toby Ann, April 7, 1943; Peter Mau-
rice, April 3, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: European Theatre, World War II, chief of
neuro-surgical team No. 72, Fourth Auxiliary Surgical Group, Gen-
eral Patton’s Third Army.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles s published in several scientific and medical

journals.

AFTER leaving “the Yard” I went to the University of Chicago
in quest of a medical education. In 1932 the authorities thought
I knew enough to give me an M.D. degree. Then following the
usual training in surgery, I had the good fortune to work with
Professor Carlson in the field of physiology, a person whom I
shall long remember. My training in surgery took me from
Chicago to Columbus, Ohio, where I met my wife and where
we spent many happy hours. I completed my training at Yale
where I profited greatly in knowledge (please don’t consider this
treason). At the completion of this last appointment, I left the
ivy towers to face a world of reality by going into private prac-
tice. Michael, my elder son, came along to give me the added
drive. Since that time, Toby and Peter have been added to the
family.

Just as my practice started to roll, the impact of World War
II made itself felt and I contributed my little share towards the
preservation of Democracy. I was with the Fourth Auxiliary
Surgical Group in General Patton’s Third Army. This was quite

[51]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

an experience. In 1946 I discarded my O.D.’s for civvies, and re-
turned to private practice. Time seems to have passed by very
breathlessly and it hardly seems that twenty-five years have
elapsed since my first lecture in History I with Merriman. My
elder boy is now getting ready for Harvard, 1 hope. My hobbies
have been limited to photography and some writing. Looking
into the future twenty-five years seems a lifetime; looking back-
ward, but a day. I hope that I shall have the opportunity to fill
out a similar form when our Fiftieth Reunion rolls around.

ALLEN GIFFORD BARRY

HOME ADDRESS: 3264 N. Summit Ave., Milwaukee, Wis.

OFFICE appRESS: Wisconsin Telephone Co., 722 N. Broadway, Milwaukee,
Wis.

BorN: Aug. 22, 1907, North Troy, N. Y. Parents: Henry Willis Barry,
Sarah Theresa Horan.

PREPARED AT: Lansingburgh High School, North Troy, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: AB. cum laude, 1928.

marrieD: Margaret E. Sachs, Aug. 29, 1930, Binghamton, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Allen Gifford, Jr, June 1, 1931; Richard Sachs, June 16, 1935; John
Henry, Nov. 18, 1941.

HARVARD SON: Allen Gifford Barry, Jr. ’53.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leland Clifford Barry, ’21.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of operations, and director, Wisconsin
Telephone Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, Organization Planning Division, Civil
Defense Planning Office.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Milwaukee; Milwaukee Athletic Club; Uni-
versity Club; Milwaukee Association of Commerce; Better Business
Bureau; Telephone Pioneers of America, Wisconsin State Chamber of
Commerce; American Management Association, Armed Forces Com-
munications Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to Civil Defense for National Security, report
to the Secretary of Defense by Office of Civil Defense Planning, 1945.

I STARTED out in the fall of 1928 with the New York Tele-
phone Company in New York City. Little did I have in mind
that there would follow a twenty-five-year span of very enjoy-
able and satisfying experience in the public utility field. During
its course, we saw much of New York State, moving from the
big city to principal stops along the New York Central to Buffalo,

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

plus Binghamton, Elmira, and Kingston, doubling back to New
York and Albany for second appearances. About the time that
the Twentieth Reunion was in full swing, I had an opportunity
to “go west.” The acceptance accounts both for my absence from
Cambridge in 1948 and for where you now find me. Milwaukee
is an excellent place in which to live and work. Besides the beer,
it has unusual business diversification and iS promising for the
future.

While in Binghamton in the early thirties, I met and married
Margaret Sachs, Smith ’28. The first of our three boys appeared
in 1931. At the same time we have our reunion this year, Gifford
graduates from Harvard. He has exceeded the parental extra-
curricular record, as president of the Crimson Key and manager
of the Lacrosse team. Our second son arrived in 1935 and com-
pletes high school this year. What with two reunions and two
graduations in one week, 1953 will really make history. The
third boy, now eleven, is being ably aided, educated, and abetted
by his brothers. The two older boys spent the 1952 summer in
Europe, returning convinced that the U. S. A. is really all right
and greatly impressed with the horrors of war that we have
escaped, and which must have much more serious attention on
our part than the political leadership has given them in the past.

I had a short stay in 1948 with the Office of Civil Defense
Planning in Washington. Much of the time was devoted to ana-
lyzing the damage effects of World War II on the civilian and to
devising a simple non-political, yet effective, organization to cope
with all of the problems of modern warfare if it should strike
home. It was a marvelous experience and educational, particularly
in getting the feel of where my tax x money goes and no doubt
most of yours.

While the Mid-west is a grand nlace to be, yet old ties of New
York and New England still remain strong enough to find us
vacationing at Isle la Motte, Vermont, with near clock-like regu-
larity. |

I wouldn’t trade my Harvard education and associations for
the world. The grand thing about it is that as the years go on, the
University has moved forward, in my estimation, in meeting the
challenges of the times in a most commendable manner, and it
continues to show the way in thinking for the future.

[53]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

HENRY CHARLES BARTLETT

HOME ADDRESS: 130 East End Ave. New York, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: R. H. Macy & Co. 151 W. 34th St. New York 1, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 10, 1905, Snohomish, Wash. parents: Harry Royal Bartlett, Belle
Bircher Bolcom.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

marrieD: Lynn Rountree, July 2, 1933, Yuma, Ariz. cHILDREN: Belle Bol-
com, March 4, 1934; Henry Charles, Jr., June 22, 1935.

occupation: Vice-president, in charge of sales promotion and public rela-
tion, R. H. Macy & Company.

JAMES HOLLEY BARTLETT

HOME apprEss: Magnolia, Ohio.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Dept. of Physics, University of Illinois, Urbana, III.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. paRENTS: James Holly Bartlett, Martha
Maude Walker.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREES: A.M., 1926; PH.D., 1930} B.C.E. (North-
eastern Univ.), 1924.

marrieD: Vera May Brothers, Dec. 26, 1932, Canton, Ohio. CHILDREN: Anne
Holly, Dec. 1, 1933; Jane Louise, April 15, 1939; Susan Catherine,
Nov. 10, 1941.

occupation: Professor of physics, University of Illinois.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Army Air Forces scientific adviser, June, 1945~
March, 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Electrochemical Society; American
Association of University Professors, Sigma XI, Marine Biological
Laboratory (Woods Hole, Mass.).

PusLicaTions: Articles: “Orbital Valency,” “Nuclear Shell Structure,” “Nu-
Clear Exchange Forces,” “Scattering of Fast Electrons,” “Atomic
Wave Functions,” “Behavior of Anodes in Solution.”

I STUDIED in Europe (1928 to 1930 and also the summers of
1931, 1932, and 1934) with Professors Heisenberg, Panli, Dirac,
and Bohr. I speak German fluently and have finally learned to
read Russian rapidly. In Copenhagen, the wrong Danish vowel
created an awkward situation at the dinner table. In the course
of my travels I climbed the Matterhorn in 1930, mainly because
the guide wanted to earn some money and persuaded me that it
was something to tell my grandchildren, On the way up I learned
at first hand that hard-boiled eggs and salami are not the best

C54]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

diet for the occasion. Back down, I encountered a fellow about
the same age who said “Nur starke Touristen halten es aus,” and
took another look through the telescope to see what progress
another party had made. What an active individual! In 1935 I
went to Colorado, climbed Crestone Peak, and learned that just
one Life-Saver can infuse a lot of pep.

In 1939 my interests broadened to include biophysics. The
problems of the nature of living processes are most fascinating,
and should provide me with much to do for some time.

In 1945 I returned to Europe to help find out what the Ger-
mans had done during the war in aviation. It was shocking to
find that both they and the British had made great strides, but
that the Americans were almost completely ignorant about high
speed flight. Our bomb damage to German cities was very great.

As to political convictions, I have few. However, in 1952 I
wanted to make some money. Figuring that they would not
shoot Santa Claus, that the South was solid, and that there were
plenty of hogs at the trough, I bet on Stevenson. As a result, I
ate a lemon publicly, rind and all, in record time.

My religion is to advance knowledge. At times I wonder
whether or not it is futile to try to aid humanity, but no other
course would seem to bring satisfaction. The people of the world
are pretty much the same and ought to be able to live together
in peace. All we need is the will.

Last summer I spent partly at Brooklyn National Laboratory,
Long Island, and played softball during leisure hours. The rest
of the summer, as well as several previous summers, was spent
combining work with pleasure at the Marine Biological Labora-
tory, Woods Hole, Massachusetts. When I recounted to a friend
that the physical examination at Brookhaven was very thorough,
and that they had found nothing \ wrong with me, he said “But
that was only the physical!”

LAURENCE BATCHELDER

HOME AppRESS: 22 Chauncy St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 148 California St. Newton 58, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1906, Cambridge, Mass, parents: Charles Foster Batchelder,
*78, Laura Poor Stone.

[55]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: AB, 1928; 8.M., 1929.

MARRIED: Nancy Thayer, Nov. 22, 1929, Brookline, Mass. cup: David
Thayer, Dec. 10, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Philip Batchelder, ’19 (deceased); Charles Foster Batch-
elder, Jr., ’20, S.B., ’22.

occupation: Engineer, developing naval sonar equipment, Raytheon Man-
ufacturing Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Civilian, U. §. Naval Technical Mission in Eu-
rope, June-November, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Councillor, Engineering Societies of New England, 1942-44;
vice-chairman, American Standards Association Sectional Committee
on Acoustical Measurements and Terminology, 1951-53; member Ex-
ecutive Council, Acoustical Society of America, 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: Acoustical Society of America (fellow); Institute of Radio
Engineers (senior member).

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous technical papers; fifteen U. S. patents.

IN THIS inevitable year every Harvard man must summarize a
quarter-century of activity in a literary effort far surpassing
anything he attained in English A. He is expected to describe
his life and habits with a glowing account of his career and a
witty comment about his waistline or his hair. I don’t know why
tradition imposes such a task. Surely there is better reading to
be found. Perhaps the value lies in forcing one to reconsider his
own life at this milestone of middle age. °

Probably I have as little to report as any member of the Class.
After one graduate year in the Engineering School, I have held
one job, lived in one home with one wife, and raised one son.
I don’t deny that variety adds spice to life, but I do contend that
specialization is equally satisfactory.

My work has been wholly in the development of devices for
underwater sound. This obscure subject, originally called sub-
marine signalling, is now better known as sonar. I started work-
ing for the Submarine Signal Company which has since become
a division of Raytheon. The merger merely moved my desk
from Boston to Newton, while I lived mid-way in Cambridge.
The job has not changed except to grow more complicated
with the electronic age. Twenty years ago I probably knew most
of what there was to know about the subject. Today I doubt if
I know a tenth of it.

The growing importance of sonar to the Navy made it obvious

[56]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that I should stay where I was in World War II. However, in
1945 I had the privilege of serving with the U. S. Naval Techni-
cal Mission in Europe to make a survey for the United States
of German developments in underwater sound.

I have found great enjoyment in the activities of the Acousti-
cal Society of America. I contribute regularly to its Journal by
writing abstracts of patents on ultrasonics and underwater sound.
I have also had a share in writing definitions for the American
Standard Acoustical ‘Terminology. My spare time, when I can
find it, is spent sunning and swimming. In winter I substitute
my basement workshop, where bookbinding is my favorite
hobby.

ROBERT ELNATHAN BATES

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Merritt Ct., Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Greenwich Country Day School, Greenwich, Conn.

BorN: July 27, 1907, Weymouth, Mass. PARENTS: Rufus Bates, Edna Albertina
Allen.

PREPARED AT: Weymouth High School, Weymouth, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Wilhelmina Johanna Van Deene, Dec. 12, 1930, New York, N. Y.

"CHILDREN: Linda, Sept. 10, 1937; Robert Van Deene, Sept. 26, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Humphrey Bates, ’33.

occuPATION: School music teacher; organist and choir director, Memorial
Methodist Church, White Plains, N. Y.

SINCE that seemingly long ago June of 1928, music, at once my
profession and my hobby, has led me and mine through devious
paths which have at all times been varied and interesting.

Teaching has been my main endeavor, since I have come back
to it a number of times after side excursions into more profes-
sional channels. I first carried the lessons learned from “Doc”
and others to the Bronxville, New York, schools, where I taught
for six years. Then followed a period of some eight years in
which I really sampled all kinds of musical activity. These in-
cluded concert accompanying, highlighted by Town Hall ap-
pearances, summer theatre in Connecticut and on the Cape,
church work (I don’t believe I have ever been without a church
organ and choir position), radio choral arranging and directing,
to name but a few.

Again I came back to teaching in 1942, this tine at the Avon

[57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

School in Connecticut. Two most pleasant years there were ter-
minated when the school closed and I found myself with my fam-
ily, acquired back in Bronxville days, at Cranbrook School in
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, as head of the music department. It
seemed for a time, several years to be exact, that we were to be-
come permanent mid-westerners, But two years ago the lure of
the East became too great, so I said good-bye to some wonderful
associations at Cranbrook and in Detroit, where I was connected
with the Orpheus Club and Bushnell Congregational Church, and
accepted an invitation to direct the choral music at the Green-
wich Country Day School, and incidentally to once again cast an
occasional eye toward musical opportunity in New York.

I still continue a lively interest in most forms of athletics, and
have tried my hand at coaching, mainly football, in the schools
where I have taught. I have spent two summers in California,
doing concert and theatre work, and for one season toured the
country with a New York light opera company.

We have acquired a place of sorts in the wonderful little town
of Center Sandwich, New Hampshire, where for summers at
least I can see a bit more of my family, of whom I can excusablv
be proud. Linda, now a sophomore at local Rosemary Hall where
she is an honor student, is looking forward to vocal study in New
York, while Bobby, a popular and athletic member of the Sev-
enth Grade at Country Day, has to put up with his dad as a
teacher,

Were I to single out any particular highlight of a career such
as mine, it might very well be the wonderful opportunity for, and
the great pleasure to be derived from, association with so many
fine people. I count this as one of life’s rare privileges, and look
forward with eagerness to countless similar associations through-
out the coming years in the field of music.

WILLIAM NICKERSON BATES, JR.

HOME appress: 33 Court St. Exeter, N. H.

oFFice appress: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1907, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: William Nickerson Bates,
’90, Edith Newell Richardson.

[58]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; Penn Charter School,
Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1930, DEGREE! A.B. 1928(30).

marrigpD: Elizabeth Lloyd Tucker, June 28, 1944, Helena, Mont. cHILpREN:
Edith Richardson, Aug. 29, 1946; Elizabeth Tucker, Feb. 12, 1949;
William Nickerson, 3d, March 7, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Hicks Bates, 733, A.M. °35.

OCCUPATION: Education, instructor in English.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
reported for indoctrination at Quonset Point, R. L, in June, 1942; train-
ing officer, Naval Flight Preparatory School, Seattle, Wash. August,
1942~March, 1943; resident naval officer in charge Naval Flight Train-
ing School, Helena, Mont., March, 1943-August, 1944; air combat in-
telligence officer, Fleet Air Wing 3, August, 1944-December, 1945,
separated as lieutenant commander, December, 1945.

MEMBER OF: American Alpine Club.

PUBLICATION: * ‘Poetical Intoxication,” Cambridge, 1930.

I SEEM to have been later than most of my classmates on various
important occasions: I was later getting my degree, later getting
married, now a card in this morning’s mail informs me I’m later
about submitting my biography. To quote Dante, however,
_ “Though somewhat tardy, I perchance arrive.’

: The birth of our second daughter in 1949 is the most important
event in my family since the last Class Report. (A similar im-
portant event is scheduled for March, 1953.) Next in importance
is the purchase of a house in 1950, after five years of searching for
one in our price range. It is an attractive old house with uneven
floors and low ceilings, but luckily in good condition and near
the Academy. We all thankfully left our small, upstairs apart-
ment for a house with a yard; furniture and wedding presents
came out of storage.

Before the war I was able to enjoy four summers of European
travel as well as doing some mountain climbing in the Canadian
and American Rockies and in Mexico. Then my first two years
in the Navy were spent at flight training schools in Seattle, Wash-
ington, and in Helena, Montana, where being unable to obtain a
leave to go to Boston, I was married in 1944 (a Leap Year) to a
girl from Newton Center, Massachusetts. I was subsequently
ordered to sea duty, in the course of which I visited many far
places I should not otherwise have seen. My naval experiences
ranged from briefing pilots to an individual combat with an

[59]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ostrich. At present, however, I rarely get very far from Exeter,
and I don’t mind at all. |

I know of no other work as thoroughly satisfying as my pres-
ent work in the classroom: teaching boys (many of whom later
go to Harvard) to think clearly and to read and write correctly.
I also serve as faculty adviser to the school literary magazine and
as coach of skiing. Next summer will be the eighth consecutive
one in which I have taught in the summer session at Exeter.

Outdoor life has always appealed to me strongly. In the fall
I try to get in an hour or two every day in the woods in avid
pursuit of grouse, woodcock, or ducks. In winter when I’m not
correcting themes or in class, skiing keeps me busy seven days a
week, though I’m far from being an expert. In summer I play
lots of tennis and make frequent visits to Ogunquit, Maine, where
my brother and I own a cottage overlooking the ocean. My chief
interest. in all seasons, however, is my family. My wife is the
perfect counterpart for me; our daughters are quite different from
each other but are equally charming and lively. .

It has been my great good fortune to enjoy a genial home life,
good health, good friends, and a job which prdvides great and
continual satisfaction and freedom. If I had it all to do again, Id
take the same path, but I'd take it sooner.

LEON BAYARD

HOME ADDRESS: 94 Ridge Ave., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Bayard of Boston, Inc., 109 Kingston St., Boston, Mass.
BorN: May 14, 1907, Waltham, Mass. parents: Harris Bayard, Bertha Yern-
sulimsky.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ. »
1934.
MARRIED: Miriam Quint, Sept. 20, 1936, Boston, Mass. cuitpren: Herbert
Quint, Nov. 5, 1937; Edward Quint, April 3, 1941; Nancy May, April
26, 1942,
occupation: Manufacturer of men’s clothing and sportswear.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Manufactured Navy unifotms for the govern-
ment,
MemBeR OF: New England Clothiers Association; Massachusetts Bay Lodge;
Temple Israel.

[60 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THERE comes a time in the life of every Harvard graduate
when he must “take stock” or suffer the consequences. I’m
choosing the former course because of the ingenious Hamilton,
or haven’t you “Heard”?

After graduation, I spent a year at Harvard Law School and
fell in love. This changed my plans. I made up my mind to get
a job and continue my law training at night. I was admitted to
. the merchandise training course at Filene’s in Boston and attended
Northeastern University Law School. After receiving my LL.B.
and finding myself engulfed in the depression, I decided to con-
tinue in the field of business rather than law. I started my own
company in 1934 and am still so engaged. My firm, Bayard of
Boston, Inc., manufactures ski and sport clothes. As a “jack of
all trades,” I have to create the designs, buy the fabrics, sell the
inspirations, and keep out of the red. Perhaps some of you have
worn my “Hannes Schneider — designed by Bayard of Boston”
at Sun Valley or Rico Peak. If you see the name in California
or Kalamazoo, know that you’re wearing ’28.

I finally married Miriam Quint, Radcliffe ’30, in September,
1936, and to make up for lost time, became the father of three
children in quick succession. Mim and I settled down to watch
them grow and have been enjoying that adventure ever since.
We operated on quarter-dozen needs from nursery stage on. Our
elder son Herb is now fifteen and a sophomore at Newton High
School. He is a gratifying student. Our second son Edward is
a sixth-grader with both creative and inventive interests. Our
daughter Nancy is a girl with the necessary attributes.

Suburbia, of thee I sing. I lead a typically suburban life in
Newton Center, involved in the many activities of school and
community. Due to my frequent business trips I serve organiza-
tions in lesser capacities. In the summer my family migrates to
our home in Bass Rocks, Gloucester, and I take the air-conditioned
express for the North Shore. I have kept reasonably active with
tennis and skiing and I derive a great deal of pleasure from these
sports. |

Politically I have been unlucky at times in my choice for
President. In ’52 I struck a winner. Heaven help us if we run
into difficulty and this administration of business men fails.

The next twenty-five years need be no more pleasant for me

[61]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

than the past twenty-five, but I hope that the physical demands
of my business lessen and leave time for more relaxation and
travel.

EMERY PERHAM BAYLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 13504 Eighth Ave., N.W., Seattle 77, Wash.

OFFicE apprEss: Tally Register Corp., 5300 rqth Ave., N.W., Seattle 7, Wash.

porn: May 1, 1905, Seattle, Wash. parents: Frank Sawyer Bayley, ’ 97; Mary
Eulalia Bass.

PREPARED AT: Queen Anne High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

mMarrieD: Dorothy Anne Dunn, July 29, 1936, Seattle, Wash. cHILDREN:
Christopher Tappan, May 25, 1938; Emery Perham, Jr., Oct. 2 $1 19405
E(dward) Jonathan, June 23, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank Sawyer Bayley, Jr., ’32.

occupaTION: President and director, North Pacific Frozen Products Com-
pany, owners of fillet freezing plant, Bellingham, Washington, vice-
president and director, Tally Register Corporation, designers and build-
ers of special purpose business machines, electronic devices, and instru-
ments.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant junior grade, U. S.
Naval Reserve, Supply Corps, October, 1938; transferred to line and
reported for active duty, April, 1941; commanding officer, U. S. Naval
Section Base, Neah Bay, Washington, June, 1942—January, 1943; four
months aboard USS Goshawk, then to SCTC, Miami, and Naval Train-
ing Station, Norfolk; patient in Naval hospitals at Norfolk and Seattle,
September-December, 1943; reported aboard USS Lovering at Tara-
wa January, 1944, as executive officer, assumed command of ship Au-
gust, 1944, served in that capacity until separation, October, 1945; rou-
tine promotions culminating in commander July 10, 1945.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Seattle; Seattle Golf Club.

AFTER spending the first two years after graduation in New
York I returned to Seattle and have happily made that my home
since, My business occupations have varied from Lee, Higginson
& Company in New York to the wood preserving business, the
fish freezing business, and finally to the world of electronics,
business machines, and high-speed digital data reduction systems.
The combination of a king-size depression, a world war, and no
change in the national political administration for twenty years
have undeniably had their effect, but I can still go around the
golf course where the 1952 National Amateur was played in the

[ 62 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

low and once in a great while in the high seventies. Three boys
under fourteen add considerably to the challenge embodied in an
attempt to defy the passing of the years. As, for example, when
the oldest boy and I left home at five in the morning the other
day, boated an eight-pound salmon, and were back home at seven-
thirty for breakfast. We are all happy here in the Pacific North-
west and hope that we shall enjoy living here as long as my
parents have enjoyed and are still enjoying it.

GEORGES WASHINGTON BEAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 70 Salisbury Ave., Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1909, Newburyport, Mass. parents: Louis Bean, Agnes
Adnoff.

PREPARED AT: Manning High School, Ipswich, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, M.p. (Univ. of Geneva,
Switzerland), 1933.

MARRIED: Tessa Vinton, June 16, 1939, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Louis Bean, ’24, LL.B., ’27 (deceased); Jules Bean, 727.

OCCUPATION: Physician, anesthesiologist. .

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, Medical Reserve, U. S. Army,
1939-42; discharged for physical disability, May, 1942.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Medical adviser, Selective Service System.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; New York State and Nassau
County Medical Societies, American Society of Anesthesiologists, New
York Society of Anesthesiologists; Association of Military Surgeons;
Stewart Manor Assembly; Harvard Club of Long Island.

PUBLICATION: “Continuous Procaine Sympathetic Blockade—A_ Clinical
Study,” Journal of the American Medical Association.

ALTHOUGH “Law” was the career mentioned in our Senior
Album, medicine was my first love and the first eight years of
my postgraduate life were spent in preparation for the search
for “knowledge” in the care of the human being. Five of these
were delightful years spent in Geneva, Switzerland, which I left
with my Doctorate in Medicine. After a year of internship at
the Hospital Cantonal (at that time I played a good game of ping-
pong and the boys at the hospital who enjoyed playing with me
insisted that I stay on). The first three months following my re-
turn home to this great and wonderful country were spent chas-
ing between Boston and New York for hospital residencies until,
through a chance meeting with and through the good graces of

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

our friend and classmate, Eddie Benton, a place for me was found
on the resident staff at the Jewish Hospital of Brooklyn. That
was home and work for the next year and a half — followed by
one and a half years of general residency at another hospital. That
year, 1936, I drove up to Cambridge for the Yale game. It snowed
and we lost. In January, 1937, my office for the practice of gen-
eral medicine was established in Garden City, and there I re-
mained for the next eleven years— ministering to the physical
and mental needs of a bunch of nice people (including occasion-
ally another classmate, Dave Burke).

Two and a half years later on a beautiful day Tessa Vinton
and I were married by the late Stephen Wise in his study at the
Free Synagogue in New York City —an exalted lifetime within
a lifetime. The following years were full of little events in relation
to the outside world. Because of an injury to my hands I was
discharged in May, 1942, from the Medical Reserve of the Army
and active participation therein. The “powers that be” decided
that my capacities were being exercised to the best advantage in
Garden City (things weren’t “fouled up” only in the military!!).

At the end of the war we decided that the general practice of
medicine was too strenuous for my hands and not sufficiently
so for my brain and after several years of searching decided on
anesthesiology. In December, 1948, began the period of travail.
We “accouched” as full-fledged anesthesiologists after two years
of full-time residency training —and about time somebody in
the Class really learned how to anesthetize and resuscitate with
proper agents instead of j just “hot air.”

At present my work consists of surgical anesthesia at’ several
hospitals on Long Island as well as in New York City and medical
anesthesiology (“nerve blocking”) at the hospitals and at my
offices in Garden City. (Advt.).

I must say that 1 was considerably influenced in my selection
of the specialty by its comparative newness and potential from
the scientific standpoint — and in this respect it has not failed
me. It does, however, occupy a major portion of my waking
hours — leaving very little time for the other spiritual offerings
of life! (This has been a rather strenuous five years.) It has al-
lowed me the luxury of a short winter vacation week last winter
to Bermuda, and I have been able to get to many reunion meet-

[ 64]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ings that might otherwise have been impossible for me to attend.
And so to June and our Twenty-fifth!

. JOHN LEE BEAUCHAMP, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 228 Mamaroneck Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 W. soth St., New York 20, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 27, 1907, Fayetteville, Ark. parents: John Lee Beauchamp, Julia
Fisher. ©

PREPARED AT: Tulsa High School, Tulsa, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: AB., 1928; LL.B. (Univ. of Oklahoma),
1934.

MARRIED: Margaret Black Forsyth, Feb. 27, 1937, Evanston, Ill. campren:
John Lee, 3d, Feb. 17, 1938; Henry Forsyth, Dec. 10, 1940; Margaret

~ Forsyth, April 7, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law: member of Legal Staff, Shell Oil Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; The Town Club, Scarsdale;
Scarsdale Volunteer Fire Department; New York, Illinois, Missouri,
and Oklahoma State Bars,

PUBLICATIONS: Private publications, legal forms for Shell Oil Company.

AFTER graduating from college, I went to work in the oil busi-
ness in Oklahoma, where I spent three years in pipe line, produc-
tion, and oil lease and royalty operations.

Appreciating the importance of legal training, I returned to
Harvard to study law, and after the first year of basic training
in the Harvard Law School (1931 to 1932), I entered the law
school of the University of Oklahoma, where it was possible to
study oil and gas mining law and related subjects together arn
other fundamental law courses.

Immediately after graduating from law school in 1934, I re-
sumed work in the oil industry, first as an attorney for the Texas
Company in New York City (1934) and Chicago (1936), and
thereafter with Shell in St. Louis (1939). Since 1940 I have been
an attorney on the New York legal staff of Shell Oil Company
in its head office in New York City, and, presumably, I shall con-
tinue working in that capacity.

ABRAHAM BECKER

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Vine St., Gardiner, Maine,
BORN: Sept, 24, 1906, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Louis Becker, Ethel Shapiro.
PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

[65 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Eva Fire, March 31, 1940, Lawrence, Mass. cHitp: Leonard Harry,
Nov. 15, 1943.

occuPATION: Owner, industrial cafeteria.

MY PLACE in the vast economic average I have held by the

sweat of the brow and the skin of the teeth. But after a decade

my wife still finds me tolerable, my son sometimes addresses me

with tenderness and affection, and for a quarter of a century I

have lived a future bright with the promise of fulfillment.

* FREDERICK SPENCER BEDARD, JR.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1906, St. Albans, Vt. paRENTS: Frederick Spencer Bedard, Flor-
ella Twitchell.

prepared AT: St. Albans High School, St. Albans, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Ac-
ademy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

marrieD: Margaret Ennis, Oct. 3, 1932, Schenectady, N. Y. cuitp: Marilyn.

pep: May 7, 1947, St. Albans, Vt.

wipow: Mrs. Frederick S. Bedard, Jr. 12 Upper Newton St., St. Albans, Vt.

SOON after graduation, Frederick Spencer Bedard, Jr., settled in
his native town of St. Albans, Vermont. He became engaged in
work at the Bellevue Theatre and in the study of law. By 1938
he held the positions of City Prosecuting Officer, trustee of the
Congregational Church, director of the St. Albans Ski Club, and
clerk and treasurer of the Franklin County Bar Association. He
contributed his services to the Democratic party by being on its
city and county committees and by running for attorney general
in 1946; he had been at some time city grand juror, state’s attor-
ney, and state senator, Bedard’s wife, daughter, and father sur-
vived him.

HARVEY OGDEN BEEK

HOME ADDRESS: goo Goodrich Ave., St. Paul 5, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1352 Lowry Medical Arts Bldg., St. Paul 2, Minn.

BORN: May 2q, 1905, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Joseph Henry Beek, Geneva
May Brown.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: 8.B., 1928, Mb. (Univ. of Minnesota),
1933.

[ 66 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRIED: Grace Irene Evans, June 16, 1939, St. Paul, Minn,

HARVARD BROTHER: Julian Palmer Beek, ’21, LL.B., ’24.

occuPATION: Physician (internal medicine).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered service Feb. 15, 1942; major, U.S. Army,
assistant chief of Medicine, 26th General Hospital; discharged Feb.
1, 1946, lieutenant colonel; chief of medicine, 45th General Hospital,
E. T. O. ribbon with three campaign stars (North African, Foggia-
Naples, Rome-Arno).

OFFICES HELD: Member Medical Board, Charles T, Miller Hospital; medical
director, Amherst H. Wilder Dispensary, Educational Therapy; medical
consultant, Hudson Memorial Hospital (Wisconsin), Children’s Home
Society, Gillette State Hospital for Crippled Children.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Minnesota State Medical So-
ciety; Ramsey County Medical Society, St. Paul Society of Internal
Medicine; Minnesota Academy of Medicine; Constantinian Society;
American Group Therapy Association; Minnesota Society for the Study
of the Heart and Circulation; Town and Country Club; Lost Spur.

DUDLEY BELL

HOME ADDRESS: 10 State St., Skaneateles, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 215 Southwest St., Syracuse, N. Y.

BORN: July 23, 1906, Waltham, Mass. parents: Conrad Bell, ’oo, M.D., ’o9,
Elizabeth Prentiss Dudley.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928; 1929-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(30).

MARRIED: Delphine Dubois Vhay, Oct. 25, 1932, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
CHILDREN: Mary Anne, Sept. 8, 1933; Emilie Dubois, Aug. 12, 19353
James Dudley, Nov. 28, 1936; Thomas Stoughton, Feb. 16, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Conrad Bell, Jr., ’30; Stoughton Bell, 2d, 746.

occuPATION: District manager, Toledo Scale Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member various committees, Cub and Boy Scouts; member
committees, Skaneateles School Board.

MEMBER OF: Skaneateles Country Club; Harvard Club of Syracuse; Anti-
Sour-Puss Club.

IT SEEMS queer not to have a change in location to report. I
am still at the same post reported in the Vicennial. However,
with all four children now teen-agers, you can well appreciate
that we have been and will be busy for some time to come.

[ $7 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ALAN COGSWELL BEMIS

HOME apprEss: Nashawtuc Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Department of Meteorology, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

porN: Nov. 4, 1906, Newton, Afass. parents: Albert Farwell Bemis, Faith
Gregg.

prepared aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass., Santa Barbara School, Carpin-
teria, Calif. ,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928; 8.M. (Massachusetts Inst.
of Technology), 1930.

marrieD: Mary Chapin, July 18, 1928, Santa Barbara, Calif. cHmLpREN: Ann,
July 1, 1929 (mm. Frank A. Day, 3d, June 24, 1950); Margaret Osgood,
Oct. 8, 1930 (7, John C. Macone, Jr, Dec. 22, 1951); Alice, March 8,
1935; Faith, Jan. 20, 1939; Rebecca, March 17, 1947. GRANDCHILD: Deborah
Day, Aug. 14, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Farwell Gregg Bemis, ’22, M.B.4., "25; Judson Bemis, °36;
John Richardson Bemis, 739.

occupation: Research associate, member of the faculty, Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology (scientific research and teaching).

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Chairman, Section D-4 of National Defense
Research Committee, later member of Section 16.4 and 5.5 of the Office
of Scientific Research and Development; director of M. I. T. Heat
Research Laboratory; awarded president’s “Certificate of Merit.”

OFFICES HELD: President, Bemis Industries, Inc. and The Housing Company,
1936-40; chairman of the Board, Modular Service Association, since
1937; director, Ship Shops, Inc., since 1932, Boott Mills, Inc., since 1938;
member Committee to Visit Blue Hill Observatory, Harvard University,
since 1938; trustee, Ait. Washington Observatory, since 1951, Hampton
Institute, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: American Meteorological Society; American Association for the
Advancement of Science; Society of the Sigma Xi, M. I. T. Chapter;
American Physical Society; American Geophysical Union; The Cruis-
ing Club of America; Center Harbor Yacht Club, Naskeag Yacht Club;
Harbor Island Club; St. Botolph Club, Inc.; Harvard Club in Concord;
Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association; Ancient and Secret Order of
Quiet Birdmen, Boston Hangar; Altosaurus Club; Soaring Society of

America, Inc.; Veteran Motor Car Club of America; Rolls-Royce
Owners’ Club; Motormaulers Club; White Mt. Skirunners; Federal
Union, Inc.; United Nations Association; Boston Museum of Science.
PUBLICATIONS: Few papers in field of physical meteorology.

COMMENCEMENT in 1928 is a dim memory for me as wedding
plans were brewing in California for July, and I was as dreamy
as my teen-age daughters are now when the moon is full. Of
course Johnny Chase beat us by a month, and Class baby Barbara

[ 68°]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

beat Ann Bemis by a few weeks more, but even so it seems im-
portant to point out right at the beginning of this history how
hard we tried and how seriously we took this assignment. We
now have five daughters, two sons-in-law, and one granddaughter.
Old Aunt Becky (our youngest) is only six, but she could have
three nieces by Reunion time if the married daughters will get
busy. This might be some kind of a Class record. (I don’t sug-
gest a nephew, as that is obviously out of order in our family.)

My list of “offices held” disclosed an attempt to spread myself
too thin, making me feel like a chunk of warm, ineffectual oleo-
margarine, but the housing interests and some of the philanthro-
pies were inherited from my father. All these activities dilute my
weak efforts in the field of science to a thin, unsalted porridge.
- However, even a weak porridge brewing at M. I. T. cannot avoid
frequent inspirational spice. The teaching part of the job is also
interesting, for, contrary to popular belief, most M. I. T. students
are human. For example, eighty per cent of my oceanography
class last year read and enjoyed Rachel L. Carson’s The Sea
Around Us. . |
_ I made the list of clubs and societies ¢ disgustingly long, because
it seemed to serve as a quick review of my extracurricular fun.
The Motormaulers Club is the most exclusive. There are only
five of us—all Harvard men, of course. We used to meet for
a weekend once a year, each member with a ten-dollar auto-
mobile, and spend two days smashing into each other, complete
with costumes, movie cameras, and stark drama. The member
achieving the most spectacular crash was automatically president
for the next year. But now that junk is too expensive and our
bones too brittle, we have degenerated to more quiet events such
as sports-car racing. My only remaining motormania is the re-
building of antique automobiles.

Hiding behind those tiny yacht club memberships (Center
Harbor, Naskeag, Harbor Island) and behind the flying activities,
is a strong love of the Maine Coast, a love which is shared by all
the family. Our interest in flying is to get us there quickly and
often — and to permit being stuck there on Mondays by cool,
fragrant Maine fog. Our place on Eggemoggin Reach is in the
heart of the cruising country, where those who have sailed it can
best appreciate our enthusiasm. We hope to live there the year

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

‘round some time soon, for it’s in winter that you make warm
friends in Maine. (You have to.) And it’s in winter that those
dry Maine yarns are spun around the cracker barrel. When the
Reunion has blown its steam, come and relax with us on the Reach,
but be sure to travel by sea.

RICHARD MARSH BENNETT

HOME ADDRESS: 5550 S. Dorchester Ave, Chicago 37, Ill.

orFice appress: Loebl, Schlossman and Bennett, 430 N. Michigan Blvd.,
Chicago, IL

BORN: Feb. 4, 1907, Braddock, Pa. parents: Herbert George Rayment Ben-
nett, Florence Armitage Hunter.

PREPARED AT: Rayen High School Youngstown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.ARCH., 1931; A.M. hon, -
(Yale Univ.), 1946.

marrieD: Alice Klauss, June 16, 1932, Akron, Ohio (divorced, 1948); Lois
Braham, 1948. CHILDREN: Judy, April 19, 1941; Mark, Dec. 9, 1946.

occupation: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Loebl, Schlossman and Bennett, since 1947, Horn-
bostel and Bennett, 1940-45; professor of design, Yale, 1945-47; head of
style and design, Montgomery Ward, 1943-45; director, first vice-prest-
dent, Chicago Chapter, American Institute of Architects, since 1951;
member Nauonal Architectural Accrediting Board, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Cliff Dwellers; Columbia Yacht Club, Chicago; Society of
Architectural Historians.

PUBLICATIONS: The First to Awaken (novel), with Granville Hicks, 1939;
Churches and Synagogues, with others, 1952; “The Architecture of
Relativity,” Architectural Record, July, 1952; Architecture, American
Thought, 1947.

AFTER college I went to the School of Architecture; won the
Appleton Travelling Fellowship for eighteen months in foreign
travel; worked for people like Walter Dorwin Teague, Donald
Deskey, and Edward Stone; taught in a number of schools of
architecture — even Vassar; and with Caleb Hornbostel won a
national competition for an Art Center at Wheaton College. I
married a lovely Radcliffe girl and had two nice kids. In 1939
I was helping Granville Hicks, ’23, on a Utopian novel, ten years
later 1 was in the middle of planning and building a town for
35,000 people rising from an Illinois prairie. In 1945 I went from
head of the Bureau of Style and Design at Montgomery Ward
to being Professor of Design and Chairman of the Department

[70]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Architecture at Yale. A succession of such swings from theory
to practice, fantasy to reality, culminated six years ago when I
joined my present firm.

It has been fascinating to come to grips with almost every
classification of architecture — college buildings to kindergartens,
penthouses and low-rent public housing projects, supermarkets
and synagogues, hospitals and a one-cell jail, night clubs and
chapels — each with different needs, specific problems, and, if
the job is well done, a unique solution.

My profession can be a joyful one, especially when blessed with
fine partners and able associates like mine. Unfortunately, reason
and experience testify that the gap between that which is possible
and that which society allows to happen will always be tragically
wide, but so far there has been no unreasonable lack of enthu-
slasm in attacking each new problem..

For recreation I pursue the ideal sport for an architect, escape
from buildings, machinery, and land —in a sailboat. Family and
friends have given love and tolerated many shortcomings. The
Harvard years mange us well, I think. Now, slowly, comes some
understanding. .

EDWARD MORTIMER BENTON

HOME ADDRESS: 731 E, 26th St., Brooklyn ro, N. Y..

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Broadway, New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTs: John Lawrence Bernstein,
Celene Jeanette Richter,

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. Cu? laude, 1928; LL.B 1931.

« MARRIED: Esther L. Koppelman, April 15, 1934, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Alice Ann, Feb. 6, 1942; Jeremy John, Feb. 4, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Appeal agent, Local Draft Board.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director, Hias Immigrant Bank, since 1952;
chairman, Law Committee, member Executive Committee, member Fi-
nance Committee, member Overseas Committee, since 1952, director,
since 1933, Hebrew Sheltering Immigrant Aid Society; vice-president,

- secretary, assistant treasurer, director, New York Majestic Corporation,
since 1948; vice-president, local district, Zionist Organization of Amer-
ica, 1944-47; director, Flatbush Nursery School, 1947-50.

MEMBER OF: New York County Lawyers Association; Auxiliary Council to

Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis; Society for the

C71]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Institute for Research in Psychotherapy; Hebrew Sheltering Immigrant

Aid Society; American Jewish Committee; Zionist Organization of

America; Romener Benevolent Association; Jewish Publication Society.
FROM Harvard College I went to Harvard Law School, to the
depression ridden streets of New York in 1931, looking for a job
in a law office. It was a nightmare. There were some jobs to be
had but what jobs! ten dollars a week, seven dollars and fifty
cents per week, and nothing per anything. After numberless
interviews I hit pay dirt — fifteen dollars per week with a small
firm. The high pay became important not only to me but to more
than one of my classmates who needed some of it for groceries.

The Bar exam — every law school graduate’s first major head-
ache — was scheduled ten days after my final law school exam.
Those ten days were pregnant with a significance I only dimly
conceived at the time. I teamed up with another candidate for
the Bar to study for the exam together. We burned the midnight
oil so assiduously that we both passed the Bar and she married
me. My job—the fifteen-dollar one — gave me my first pro-
fessional jolt. After all, 1 was Harvard Law School and there
wasn’t anything I didn’t know about being a lawyer. “That was
my estimate, but it couldn’t have been further from the facts.
It now seems to me that the Law School in those days prepared
its students to become judges or at best research men; there was
almost no preparation for all the other elements of a law practice
—trials, drawing instruments, negotiation, and a host of other
fields which a lawyer is expected to know. (Incidentally, the
curriculum of Harvard Law School has improved immeasurably
in this respect in the last years. I have the impression that the
more recent graduates are far more realistically trained than the
graduates of our day.)

I survived the shock, however, and as time went on acquired
most of the skills my clients had been expecting of me all along
and finally built a modest law practice which provides an ade-
quate supply of fish and chips. A surplus of chips has provided
a pleasant one-family house in Flatbush, complete with tree, the
usual quota of gadgets which make living easier, and the chance
to engage in a variety of activities. At this stage of the game I
find myself working much too hard (but apparently without ill

[72]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

effect), proud of an intelligent, artistic, and competent wife, sur-
prised at being father to a handsome, sociable eleven-year-old
daughter and a charming, disobedient seven-year-old son, and
puzzled that there are so many younger people around than there
used to be. I still play some tennis (when I have the time), folk
dance (whether I have the time or not), and bicycle, ride, and
ice-skate (when the children corner me).

Middle-age, it seems to me, is the most enjoyable time of life,
with its diminished struggle for glory, its self-confidence based
upon experience, and its harvest of the efforts made in younger
years. Itisa particularly appropriate time of life for the Twenty-
fifth Reunion. :

RICHARD ARTHUR BERENSON

HOME ADDRESS: 112 Revere St., Boston 14, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Berenson Liquor Mart, 70 Summer St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: May 12, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Mashie Berenson, Frances Ricen.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A. 1930.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: President, Berenson Liquor Mart; treasurer, Revere Airways,
Inc., and Revere and Avon Drive-In Theatres.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcorD: First lieutenant (retired), First Observation
Squadron, Massachusetts State Militia.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Aviation Committee, Boston Chamber of Com-
merce; Beverage Division, 1952 Jimmy Fund; secretary, Aeronautic
Association of Boston; director, Aero Club of New England, Adver-

-tising Club of Boston; trustee, Associated Jewish Philanthropies, Dean
Academy; chairman, Consumer Division, 1948-49, general vice-chair-
man, 1950-52, general chairman, 1953, Red Cross Fund.

MEMBER OF: Boston Harvard Club; Bostonian Society; Variety Club; Boston
Executive Association; Boston Chamber of Commerce; Shrine; Aero
Club of New England; Retail Trade Board; New England Opera
Guild; Boston Rotary Club; Advertising Club of Boston; International
Geneva Association; State Club; Wine & Spirits Club; National Aero-
nautic Association; Aircraft Owners & Pilots Association.

IT IS strange, though hardly a coincidence, that I should have
ended my Twentieth Reunion report, and started the Twenty-
fifth Report, with the Red Cross. As I wrote the last summary,
I was just undertaking a job as chairman of a division of the
1948 Red Cross Fund Drive, little realizing how big a part that

[73]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

was to play in my life for the next five years. The following year

I repeated the job, and then in 1950 became general vice-chairman

for the whole drive. In 1951 and 1952 I participated again in

various Capacities, and then, to my sincere surprise, I was asked
to head the Greater Boston Campaign for 1953. |
The two major campaigns, Community Fund and Red Cross,
are virtually full-time jobs for the general chairman for from
four to six months prior to and during the actual campaigns. It
is a challenging task to recruit first some 200 division and section
chairmen or leaders, and direct their enlisting of some 30,000
solicitors. The tension and pressure grow and grow as the open-
ing date nears and various groups fall behind in their enrollment.
Then tension really heightens during the drive itself, as you try
to weld thousands of indifferent solicitors into a cohesive mob of
fanatics whose only thought is to plead for money and “go over
the top.” On the other hand, it is very rewarding work. You
meet great numbers of people in every walk of life. Furthermore,
you meet them at their best: they have neither the obsequiousness
of a vendor nor the rudeness of a buyer. They are just themselves.

The many listings under my name suggest that I am almost a
professional “joiner.” I’m often asked how I find time for all of
these things, and I say, “It’s easy. I just neglect my business!” —
which I do. Fortunately, in the various lines I’ve gone into, I have
able managers or associates who stay on the job and run things.
My wine and liquor business has grown steadily, and we now
even have a wine buyer in Paris, one George Sumner of the
Class of 1913. Gregariousness, of course, is a big asset to anyone
in the food, wine, or liquor business.

The Revere Airport, in which I am a partner, has had mixed
results; private aviation has not lived up to its early promise after
the war. The most interesting outgrowth of the Airport has been
my activity on the Aviation Committee of the Greater Boston
Chamber of Commerce. I just finished a term as chairman, after
stepping into the shoes of one Donald J. Hurley (and darned
big shoes they were, too). Between us, we have seen Boston’s
Logan International Airport grow to the largest and finest in the
world! (advertisement). As a matter of fact, it does have the
longest runway of any civilian airport in the world.

Offsetting the bearish outlook for private aviation has been the

[74]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

development of a Drive-In Theatre and a Golf Range or
airport property that have worked out fairly well. I am
interested in a second Drive-In Theatre near Brockton, Masse
setts, also in the Hotel Lenox, in a restaurant, and have .
interests in real estate developments in New York, New Je
Ohio, and Texas (very small). Less successful, but more inte
ing “investments” were an oil well flyer in Utah, and a piec

the musical comedy Paint Your Wagon. Regrettably I am
in high enough brackets so that I enjoy taking tax losses.
Although I occasionally look with envy upon the fine fam
of classmates around here, this wide diversity of activities ke
life quite absorbing, and I just don’t have time to settle do

In fact, I don’t even have time to enjoy a small motor cru:
that 1 own, and that’s serious!

ERNEST THEODORE BERKELEY

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Prospect St., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFicE ADDRESS: The Employers’ Liability Assurance Corp. . Ltd, rro Mi
 $t, Boston, Mass.

BoRN: July 12, 1906, North Prescott, Mass. parents: William George Berke
. ley, Harriet Banyard.

PREPARED AT: Appleton Academy, New Ipswich, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(27).
’ margiep: Grace Deborah Thayer, Aug. 2, 1927, New Ipswich, N. H. cam-
‘ DREN: Patricia Anne, Sept. 7, 1928 (m. William A. Wescott, Sept. 19,
1947); Ernest Theodore, Jr., Aug. 1, 1931; Stephen Thayer, Feb. 14,
1946. GRANDCHILDREN: William A. Wescott, Jr
Chandler Wescott, Dec. 5, 1949
HARVARD SON: Ernest Theodore Berkeley, Jr., "53-
HARVARD BROTHER: Rowland. William Berkeley, ’22 (deceased)
occupation: Casualty and fire insurance, actuary.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Examination Committee, 1948-49, Educational Com-

mittee, since 1950, member Council, 1949-52, Casualty Actuarial Society.
MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Casualty Actuarial Society; Insurance Insti-

. Aug. 4, 1948; Brian

tute of America, Wellesley Club.

THERE was one thought uppermost in my mind when I went to
college and that was to complete the four-year course in three
years so I wouldn’t have to wait so long to marry the girl of my
dreams. It worked out exactly as planned and we were married

C75]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

always keep an eve open for good candidates, regardless of party;
we are both Congregationalist and belong currently toa thriving
church in W ellesley. Hills. My inheritance i in this field is some-
what stronger than my wife's, as my father is a minister. He is
now eighty-six years old and, although he does not preach any
more, he is still able to conduct weddings and funeral services.

In community life, we seem to have concentrated on assisting
in fund-raising ventures such as Greater Boston Community
Fund, Salvation Army, Red Cross, Massachusetts Republican
Committee, War Bond drives, etc. During the war I was also
an air raid warden and served in the Massachusetts State Guard
(the Army didn’t think I was rugged enough for it). All in all,
our life has been varied and happy, but we still find it strange
to be called grandma and grandpa.

MILTON RICHARD BERLINER

HOME apprEss: 602 Forest Glen Rd., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE appress: Washington Daily News, 1013 13th St. N.W,, Washington,
D. C.

BorN: Aug. 18, 1907, Boston, Mass. pareNTS: Louis Berliner, Sara Richard.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-28. DEGREES: AB., 1928; 8.8. (Columbia Univ.), 1933.

marriep: Anna Ayer Smyth, May 18, 1940, Norfolk, Conn. cHitpren: Mary
Smyth, June 26, 1942; Richard Ayer, March 24, 1944; Peter Louis,
Aug. 23, 1947; Kathy, July 5, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Berliner, ’29.

occupation: Capitol Hill reporter and music critic for Washington Daily
News.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Office of War Information, New York and
Istanbul, May, 1944-October, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Washington Fencers Club; Ambassador Health Club; Wash-
ington News Curling and Tennis Club; Washington News Credit
Union.

I SUPPOSE the main idea is to tell classmates — the few who
may still wonder what ever became of that guy, what’s-his-name,
Burlinder, Berlinger, or something — just how I made a million
dollars or when I wrote a book. Fact is, I haven’t made a million
—not that I can recall —nor have I written a book. The story
should start, I suppose, with the day I left Harvard. Or rather,
the day I should have left. [ have an uneasy feeling that I spent

[78]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a year in Law School after graduation. The Jaw faculty, as I
recall, had the same uneasy feeling at the time.

But once I left Cambridge, my career zoomed like a rocket.

I got a twenty-five-dollars-a~-week job in a Providence, Rhode
Island, department ‘store and quit it a year later to take a similar
job at fifteen dollars a week in Newark, New Jersey. Please don’t
ask me why I took a forty per cent cut. My wife might ask
questions even though it was all water over the dam nine years
before we were married. Success in the department store didn’t
turn my head. I kept my perspective and clearly saw that mere
wealth would never compensate for my distaste for buying and
selling or buying and not selling. I renounced everything and
studied journalism at Columbia University for a year.
~ Now I would report history in the making. And I did, too —
fires, robberies, murders, and meetings of numismatic societies
and gold fish breeders. First for the Boston Traveler where I start-
ed at $0.00 a week (even this was more than the paper could
afford in the depths of the depression) and quickly shot up to
$10.50 and then $15 a week before striking the jackpot at the
Springfield (Massachusetts) Republican at 22 dollars a week. I
just couldn’t lose that Midas touch.
~ It wasn’t long — seven years, I think — before I had doubled
my income (equivalent of goo dollars a week in today’s currency).
There was satisfaction in the work, too, as well as wealth. I still
remember the thrill of covering for the Traveler the story of a
freighter stranded on a sand bar off Winthrop. Equipped with a
photographer, a pair of low-cut rubbers, pencil and paper, I
arrived near the beach to find three feet of snow and a howling
blizzard. The photographer and I rang the nearest door bell and
spent the day watching the ship through a window that over-
looked the reef while a kindly housewife made us a warm break-
fast, and lunch too. The photographer took some nice pictures
of her kids, and everybody was happy, except perhaps my city
editor who read a dramatic account of rescue attempts in the
Opposition newspapers.

But I’ve had my share of the triumphs. Twice a Springfield
alderman threatened to throw me out of a meeting — bodily.
And once the publisher of the Republican accused me of siding
with the opposition against his own pet candidate for mayor.

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928 |

Then there was the time the brother of a singer, who was making
her debut, cornered me after the concert and threatened mayhem
if I wrote the kind of review he knew I was going to write.

And I even got my name in Newsweek (under National Affairs,
too), for having broken the story of the nasty letter Truman
sent a music critic. Time Magazine stufily omitted mentioning
me, and I take this opportunity of getting even by pointing out
there was at least one error in its account. Pll admit I kind of
soured on Mr. Truman because he didn’t write me a letter, since
my review of Margaret's recital was equally blunt. Then I, too,
could have paid off the mortgage and bought a new car.

Somewhere in the continuity(?) I have omitted the fact that I
left the Republican in 1944 to work for the War Information
Office. I got an assignment in Istanbul where I quickly discovered
that the harems had been closed for many years. But that
shouldn’t discourage anyone. The Bosporus is still one of the
most beautiful spots in the world, and there are a couple of res-
taurants where you can get ham and eggs.

From Turkey to Washington seemed a logical jump, and in
December, 1945, 1 was fortunate in getting a job on the Wash-
ington News, a lively paper which believes there is such a thing
as the public interest. I’ve had the Capitol Hill beat for the past
several years and do music reviews too. Whatever faith in human
nature is lost during the daytime watching, and more particularly
listening to, the demagogues (they’re not all like that) is restored
at night by listening to some Bach or dropping into the National
Gallery to look at a Rembrandt or a Renoir.

I guess I’m supposed to say something about my hobbies. What
with music and politics there isn’t much time for them. I get in
an evening of fencing whenever I can, and just the other day
played two and a half hours of tennis. (This last is for the bene-
fit of plutocrats with ulcers and the gout.)

I suppose after twenty-five years I should have some thoughts.
Well, I do. I’ve come to the conclusion, after watching govern-
ment at town, city, state, and federal levels, that not many people
believe in democracy enough to give it more than lip service.
But thank goodness for those who do try to translate it into
action. A single man in Congress, a committee chairman, often
prevents important public issues from going to the floor for a vote.

[ 80 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

More and more senators and representatives are trying to run
the executive branch through the threat of withholding funds.
The lobbies are a constant threat to the public interest. Some are
able to capture a senator so completely that he sometimes puts
the welfare of a foreign country ahead of his own. Take the
case of Spain, for example. The “clubby” atmosphere on Capitol
Hill is an unhealthy one. Nothing happens to members who are
caught putting pressure on the agencies — Justice Department,
for instance — to get special favors for their constituents, while
agency officials get the axe on the basis of inference and innuendo.
The voters, alone, can house-clean Congress, but they are far too
ready to have the wool —red wool — pulled over their eyes.
There is great danger to democracy in the withdrawal of the
educated and enlightened (a not inseparable pair) from American
political life. Scared away, perhaps, by the totalitarian technique
of the big lie and senatorial smear * shouted from behind the skirts
of senatorial immunity. :

In winding up, I want to say I am grateful to my parents for
having the illusions they did about a college education and for
sending me to Harvard. Having taken a large look at twenty-
five years of life I feel like the warrior in the ancient ballad:

I am a little hurt, but I am not slain
I will lay me down for to bleed a while
Then PII rise and fight with you again.

ARNOLD BERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 675 Clinton Springs Ave., Cincinnati 29, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Crown Overall Mfg. Co., Third & Plum Sts., Cincinnati 2,
- Ohio.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1907, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTS: Oscar Berman, Cora Frank.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; M.B.A. cum
laude, 1930.

 occUPATION: President, Crown Overall Manufacturing Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECoRD: Entered U. S. Army June, 1942; lieutenant,
Quartermaster Corps; Philadelphia Quartermaster Depot as assistant to
executive officer and commanding general; captain, Air Corps, as con-
tracting officer, Air Material Command, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio,
until April, 1945; then assigned by Air Corps as civilian in Washington,

.C

| [81]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Marketing specialist, Aircraft Division, Recon-
struction Finance Corporation, Washington, D. C., 1945.

OFFICES HELD: President, Union Made Garment Manufacturers Association
of America, since 1952, Jewish National Fund Council of Cincinnati,
1949-51, Cincinnati district, Zionist Organization of America, 1947-48;
member board, Jewish Welfare Fund of Cincinnati, since 1946; former
member board, Better Housing League, Child Guidance Home, Jewish
Vocational Service.

MEMBER OF: Quartermaster Association; Air Force Association; American
Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Jewish Congress; B'nai B’rith,
Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Queen City Association; Phi Beta Kappa;
Jewish War Veterans; Modern Art Society; Cincinnati Sales Executive
Council; Cincinnati Zionist Council.

AFTER leaving Harvard College, I went to the Harvard Business

School for two years. I started to work in 1930 with the Crown

Overall Manufacturing Company, which had been founded by

my father in 1903. My first job was in Mississippi for a short

while in a cotton mill at that time operated by the company.

I returned to Cincinnati where I have been ever since, except for

three and a half years of war service.

Starting in the garment factory as an apprentice, | served i in
the office at various jobs, such as sales correspondent, advertising
manager, and sales manager. We manufacture the Crown and
Headlight brands of overalls, dungarees, work trousers, work
shirts, jackets, industrial uniforms; also blue jeans for youngsters.
Crown and Headlight garments have always been top quality.
From 1930 until 1940, many working men and farmers experi-
enced hard times and we had to do a real selling job to move our
product. The lessons of that decade were impressive. The de-
fense program brought a big change in our industry. Work
clothes became a symbol of status, almost like a military uniform.
Today there is another trend as work clothes take on the casual
look of sport and leisure wear.

My years in the army and the government were served under
able and first class leaders whom I admired and respected. On
my return to Cincinnati and my regular job, I became active again
in various community affairs, and of these, the activity that I
value most is serving as a member of the board of the Jewish
Welfare Fund of Cincinnati.

The Harvard faculty of our time was impressive, but when 1
got to working with my father, I found him a more modern man

[82]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

than any of the professors I had met. Starting in a village in the
old country where the oxcart was the only mode of transport,
he lived through many changes into the air age, and always with
kindliness, dignity, good humor, and modesty. I am fortunate to
be associated with my brother Ben in business.

Recently, I was elected President of the Union Made Garment
Manufacturers’ Association of America. The officials of this outfit
negotiate labor agreements with the United Garment Workers,
American Federation of Labor.. The original agreement between
the manufacturers association and the union is dated 1908, so it
is one of the oldest labor agreements still in effect, although of
course with many amendments.

There never seems to be enough time for anything, but now
and then a moment opens up for a new hobby, painting in oils
or watercolors. ,

RICHARD CASE BERRESFORD

HOME ADDRESS: 133 E.. 64th St.. New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 160 Front St., New York 38, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1907, New Rochelle, N. Y. parents: Harold George Berres-
ford, Mary Burling Case.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cu laude, 1928; LL.B., 1933.

MARRIED: Katherine Vail Marsters, Aug. 19, 1939, Morristown, N. J. cuit-
DREN: Nancy Conant, April 9, 1941; Susan Vail, Jan. 8, 1943; Geoffrey
Case, May 25, 1944; John Wickham, June 20, 1950.

occupation: Zinc mining and smelting; manager of employee relations, The
New Jersey Zinc Company.

OFFICES HELD; Trustee, vice-president, former treasurer, Kips Bay Boys’ Club,
New York, 1935-52; member or chairman, Lawyers Legislative Com-
mittee, New York County Grand Jury Association, 1934-37.

MEMBER OF: American Zinc Institute; Bar Association of the City of New
New York; Down Town Association, New York; Harvard Club of
New York; Keene Valley Country Club, N. Y.

AT GRADUATION time I was headed for the law, because
amateur aptitude experts had been telling me for years that I
bore a sort of justiciable imprint. I was to follow in the foot-
steps of a country-lawyer grandfather who also raised apples and
chickens. I had insufficient qualifications for other rarer voca-

[ 83 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

geologists, chemists, electrical engineers, accountants, and the
rest). I have found myself in a similar pattern as a Harvard man
—the Harvard man is often giv ena ribbing, but there must be
with this a subconscious recognition of Harvard's high standing.

My wife and four small children have lived on with me right
in the big city so far, since I ike to work where I live, or live
where I work. They escape to our camp in the Adirondacks in
summer, where I have again picked up the joys of trout-fishing
which I first tasted in Allen Fordyce's country in Wyoming. I
cannot claim an outstanding hobby. I read, I occasionally pick
through a German Lied, and I am an enophilist. The continuing
problem is — how to find time for all you want to do, You work
hard at a job, you work outside the standard hours because you
have to or in order to get ahead, you want to see your wife, you
want to see your children, you want to see your friends, you
want to pursue other interests, and you just want to take it easy:
not enough hours in the day.

I shall be happy if my sons go to Harvard. I don’t think Har-
vard College taught us the originality, independence, and _ per-
spicacity of mind that the Law School gave us, but the fault may
be divided, and college is a broader and more diverting experience,
intended for younger men, than professional school. Harvard
College gave many of us an interest in learning, knowledge of
how to learn, and some taste and judgment; and that, as I recall
it, was what President Lowell in freshman year told us was the
purpose of our being there.

ALFRED WILLARD BETTIGOLE

HOME Appress: 489 Trafton Rd, Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE Aporess: 1570 Main St. Springfield, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 19, 1907, Chicopee, Mass. pasents: Louis Bettigole, Lillian
Kleiman.

prepare at: Chicopee High School, Chicopee, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. Decares: A.B. curt laude, 1928(27);, LL.B., 1930.

Maraiep: Muriel Shelasky, June 29, 1930, Springfield, Mass. c#toren: Joel
Benjamin, July 20, 1934, Bruce Jay, April 2, 1940.

HaRvaaD 80N: Joel Benjamin Bettigole, ’56.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Chairman, War Transportation Board, Spring-
field, Mass.

[ 85 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1935-39, president, 1939, Common Council, Spring-
field, Mass.; member Board of Aldermen, 1939-41; first assistant Dis-
trict Attorney, Hampden and Berkshire Counties, 1942-46; president,
Probus Club of Springfield, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa (Junior Eight).

INFLATION has been good to me. The Phi Beta Kappa key
which I received in 1925 doubled in value when we went off the
gold standard. The home which I was lucky enough to have
bought in rgqo has trebled in value. Even my two sons have
caught the spirit of the times and are becoming more priceless
year by year. As I look back over the years, I am a little startled
to find I have so little to complain about. In my family life, my
business, and in my associations, I find a rare measure of content-
ment. . .

| The high spot of my professional career, I suppose, was the
Noxon Case, now famous in the annals of Massachusetts law.
While I was Assistant District Attorney, a leading member of the
Pittsfield Bar reported that his infant Mongoloid son had been ac-
cidentally electrocuted. Noxon assured the medical examiner that
while repairing his radio, he left a defective trouble light on the
_ living room floor near his infant son whom he had placed on a
metal tray on the floor so that his wet diaper would not soil the
rug. He stated that somehow the infant coiled the cord around
his arm, that the worn wire, the wet diaper, and the metal tray
did the rest. Former Governor Joseph B. Ely defended him, and
virtually every leading expert in the state testified on matters
germane to the case. The first trial lasted two weeks, when one
of the jurors, extremely devout and conscientious, realizing that
he would have to vote for first degree murder, quit, and it was
impossible to get him to resume his place in the jury box. After
an all-night session, Judge Pinanski decided he could not continue
with eleven jurors, and declared a mistrial. As a result, a new
law was passed providing for two alternate jurors in a capital case.
The second trial lasted six weeks, and resulted in a conviction of
murder in the first degree. I spent about a year working on the
brief for the appeal. The Supreme Court sustained the verdict.

The fact that Noxon was later pardoned did not detract from the

satisfaction that necessarily comes from a difficult job well done.

As for my hobby, I suppose I'll have to say golf, although it’s

[ 87 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

difficult to conceive how any game so fiendishly exasperating can
be termed a hobby, I hold the rare, if unenviable, distinction of
having been runner-up in our club championship tournament for
three successive years.

++ROLAND PERCIVAL BEVERLEY

BorN: Feb. 9, 1906, Lawrence, Mass. parents: John Beverley, Edith Louise
Pratley.

PREPARED AT: Methuen High School, Methuen, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: S.B. 1928(29).

MARRIED: Felicia Stegmeier, Aug. 22, 1934, Valley Forge, Pa.

pieD: Oct. 29, 1945, Wilmington, Del.

FOLLOWING his graduation Roland Percival Beverley became a

chemist with the Atlas Powder Company at its research labora-

tory in Tamaqua, Pennsylvania. There, in his own words, he was

active in the “development of an electrolytic reduction process

for the manufacture of the organic chemicals, mannitol and

sorbitol” until in 1934 he was made responsible for a plant built

in Stamford, Connecticut, for the semi-commercial production of

those chemicals. Then, in August of 1937, he became the tech-

nical superintendent of a new plant in Wilmington, Delaware; at

the time of his death he was assistant manager of this Atlas Point

plant.

NICHOLAS BIDDLE

HOME ApprEss: E. Main St., Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 390 Park Ave. New York 22, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 3, 1906, New Rochelle, N. Y. parents: Nicholas Biddle, ’oo,
Elizabeth Le Roy Emmet.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

magrieD: Virginia Morris, Sept. 15, 1928, Cold Spring Harbor, N. Y. cniL-
pREN: Virginia, July 4, 1929; Katherine Grinnell, Dec. 9, 1931; Elizabeth
Emmet, May 19, 1936; Nicholas, Jr., Nov. 15, 1940.

OccuPATION: Assistant buyer, raw materials for manufacture of soap and
shortening, Lever Brothers Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RecoRD: U, S$, Naval Reserve, active duty, 1941-46; en-
sign to lieutenant commander; Commendation ribbon; inshore patrol,
New England waters; commanding officer, submarine chaser boat in

[ 88 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

convoys to Cuba; executive officer and commanding officer, destroyer
escort in convoys to Europe and Africa; commanding officer, high-
speed transport (destroyer transport) with Underwater Demolition
Team to occupation of Japan.

IN THE autumn of 1928 Virginia and I were married and I
started work as a trainee in Lee, Higginson & Company in Boston,
where I continued for four years, until the Krenger and Toll
collapse put an end to my job there, In 1932 I was hired by Lever
Brothers Company, soap manufacturers in Cambridge, Massachu-
setts, and have worked for them ever since. I am one of the raw
material buyers, with particular responsibility for coconut oil,
one of the ingredients of soap, imported from the Philippine
Islands.

We lived for twenty-two years in Milton, Massachusetts, We
were both New Yorkers and did not know the Boston community
very well when we started married life there. We found it a very
hospitable one and became greatly attached to our surroundings,
so that when we had to move to New York in 1950, on account of
business, we found the adjustment a more difficult one than our
original move to Milton. Now we live in Oyster Bay on the
North Shore of Long Island, have a long distance to commute,
but find it a pleasant place, particularly in summer.

Our oldest girl, Ginny, graduated from Briarcliff-Junior Col-
lege and is now a student in the pathology department of a
hospital; the second one, Kitty, will graduate from Vassar in
1953; Liz is at Milton Academy; and Nick has another year at
East Woods School in Oyster Bay before he enters boarding
school.

The annual three-week vacation is usually spent on the coast of
Maine, but sometimes I have stolen some of it to go on an ocean
race, and rarely, we save part of it for a family ski-trip. We have
not travelled as a family, though one of the compensations of the
war was that Virginia and I visited places in this country that we
would not ordinarily have seen. The war was a long interruption
to family life and business, but luckily, most of my duty was in
the Atlantic and I was often home; I thoroughly enjoyed my job
as skipper of a destroyer escort.

In presidential elections, I have voted Republican except in
1940.

[ 89 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I am looking forward to reading the Class lives and to seeing
the Class members at the Reunion.

JAMES BENJAMIN BILLINGS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Tower Road, Lincoln, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1905, Driggs, Ark. parents: Osgood Stuart Billings, Rachel
Watkins,

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

marriep: Marion Bridgman, May 28, 1932, Shirley Center, Mass. CHILDREN:
Christopher, Feb. 27, 1938; Rachel, Nov. 8, 1930; Benton James, Dec. 14,
1943; Robert Bryant, Jan. 20, 1947. .

OccUPATION: Owner, contracting business.

MEMBER OF: American Civil Liberties Union.

THIS chore reminds me that since college days my efforts at
composition have been confined to a few indignant letters to
bored editors and senators. |
After graduation I flirted with United Fruit Company and
S. S. Kresge for a time, then all of a sudden found myself working
for Lever Brothers Company in Cambridge, Massachusetts. At
Lever I worked with enthusiasm and a small degree of success
until 1946 when a change in management tossed me and many
others out into a chilly unresponsive world. It was startling to
find when I looked for another job that among prospective em-
ployers I was a grey-beard (forty-one) tottering on the edge of
senility. In fact I was so annoyed that I decided to avoid employ-
ment and to “live by me wits.” ce |
Between running a small contracting business in Lincoln and
dabbling in real estate I'm kept reasonably busy. It’s a far pleas-
anter existence and somewhat more rewarding financially than
being a little cog in a big machine, though always somewhat
precarious, However, security is a fickle wench and it is good to
have done with her services. My children are all at the “‘interest-
ing stage,” as children always are. Chris at fifteen is a Benny
Goodman devotee; Rachel (twelve) is just crazy about horses;
Ben (nine) is fascinated and repelled all at once by his piano
lessons; and Bobby is vastly excited by everything.
Our vacations have usually been spent somewhere in New
England — Lake Schago, Lake Winnepesaukee, or Cape Cod, with

[90 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one in Quebec and one in New York City when the World’s Fair
was in progress. These have been happy times. Heart chilling
times have been mighty few (I pause for a knock on wood), but
have occurred when sudden illness struck the children. Chris had
a ruptured appendix in 1951 and was hit by polio in 1952. Here I
make a deep bow in the direction of my wife who has been a
good companion and a pretty swell gal through the years.

_ Most of my enthusiasms are physical. I enjoy fishing, garden-
ing, woodworking, skating, skiing, swimming, and tennis. I still
find pleasure in watching football, baseball, and other team sports.
Currently I’m trying to learn the art of ‘silversmithing and find it
a very pleasant diversion, © |.

. In political matters I am a shifty devil. F jendishly concealing my
true feelings under a Republican registration, I frequently cross
party lines. In my innocence I voted for Hoover in 1928, reacted
to Norman Thomas in 1932 when That Man Roosevelt kept mum
in his campaign. In 1936, 1940, and 1944 I voted enthusiastically
for F.D.R. because his program was based on human ‘needs, as
contrasted with defense of property rights. In 1948 my choice
was Henry Wallace and in 1952 I voted for and campaigned for
Stevenson, an able and intellectually honest man who gained
stature in defeat. I believe that it will soon become apparent that
Eisenhower will be unable to satisfy the many contradictory ex-
pectations aroused by his campaign, and predict that the current
honeymoon, sweet though it may be, will be short.

Hateful to me is the present power of the McCarthys, Mc-
Carrans, Nixons, Jenners, Brickers, Talmadges, and their sort to
impose strait jackets on the minds and freedoms of the American
people, The unrelenting drive toward a chauvinistic conformism
spearheaded by this precious group is infuriating and an insult to
the intelligence. It cannot strengthen and will only weaken us as
a nation. Men of ability, imagination, and decency are being
hounded from government service, from schools and colleges at
an increasing rate at a time when such qualities are sorely needed.
The only acceptable replacements obviously will be political and
intellectual geldings unless this insistence on a dismal conformity
is halted,

Tt is tremendously satisfying to me that Harv ard has stood firm

[or]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

for academic freedom. May she always continue to do so. So
much for politics!

The process of integrating myself and my family in the life of
a small town is a rather satisfying one. Even though my activities
are unspectacular, many are the compensations to be found in
fishing for calicos on the Sudbury River or watching the court-
ship of pheasants out under the. apple tree (recommended for
curing the blues), or picking the first mess of Laxtons Progress
peas about the middle of June.

* SAMUEL BING

BorN: March 2, 1907, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTS: Sidney Harry Bing, Belle
Freiberg.

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hill School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

prep: March 27, 1935, Cincinnati, Ohio.

AFTER leaving Harvard Bing worked for the Frank Tea & Spice
Company in Cincinnati. At the time of the First Report he was
a member of the sales force.

GEORGE BARRY BINGHAM

HOME appress: Glenview, Ky.
OFFIcE Appress: Courier-Journal and Times, Louisville 2, Ky.
BorN: Feb. 10, 1906, Louisville, Ky. parents: Robert Worth Bingham,
Eleanor E. Miller.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; LL.D.
(Univ. of Kentucky), 1946; urt.p. (Univ. of Louisville), 1951.
MaRRIED: Mary Clifford Caperton, June 9, 1931, Richmond, Va. CHILDREN:
(Robert) Worth, May 7, 1932; George Barry, Jr, Sept. 23, 1933; Sallie,
Jan. 22, 1937; Jonathan, June 1, 1942; Eleanor, July 7, 1946.
HARVARD 50NS: (Robert) Worth Bingham, ’54; George Barry Bingham, Jr.,
56.
occupation: Editor, Louisville Courier-Journal; president, Courier-Journal
and Louisville Times Company; president, WHS, Inc., and WHAS-
TV.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, U. S. Naval Reserve, May, 194!-
December, 1945; held rank of commander, Public Relations Officer,
U. S. Naval Forces, Europe; Press Officer, C. in C. Pacific Fleet, Ad-
vance Headquarters, Guam, Bronze Star.

[92]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT ‘

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief, E. C. A. Mission to France, 1949-50.
OFFICES HELD: Harvard Overseer, 1942-48; trustee, Berea College, University
of Louisville, Louisville Country Day School, Pine Mountain Settlement
School; president, Kentucky Association for Mental Health, Norton
Psychiatric Council, Kentucky Branch of English-Speaking Union.
MEMBER OF: Century Club, New York; National Press Club, Washington;
Harvard Club, Boston; American Club, Paris; Pendennis Club, Louis-
ville; Sigma Delta Chi; Omicron Delta Kappa; Société de Legion
d’ Honneur. :
PuBLications: Articles in The Atlantic, The Reporter, etc.

THE quarter-century since we left college has passed very
rapidly for me in newspaper work. I started out as a cub reporter,
chasing fires and riding the paddy wagon. My duties are now
largely administrative, but I write one or more editorials every
day. I operate a newspaper monopoly in our town, which entails
a special responsibility for giving readers full and unbiased cov-
erage in the news columns. I think it also carries a responsibility
for presenting vigorous opinion on the editorial page. This
brings us a lot of letters from readers, some of them very heated
indeed. We always print the hottest critical ones.

My outside interests have centered around the subjects of
education, mental health, and foreign affairs. My interest in the
first topic may stem from the necessity of educating five chil-
dren of my own (two of them now in Harvard). I served an in-
teresting term on the Harvard Board of Overseers, and I am
still watching the problems of the independent schools and col-
leges from the inside of several boards of trustees. Serving as a
director of the Ford Foundation’s Committee for the Advance-
ment of Education has given me a wonderful chance to study the
American educational system’s unprecedented, arduous, and
sometimes haphazard experiment in educating everybody in a
democracy.

The field of mental health is the most encouraging one in
which I have worked. Science, partly spurred by the hard ne-
cessities of World War II, has developed with amazing rapidity
a system of effective treatment and often of cure for some of
the worst forms of mental illness. Illnesses of the mind are losing
their aura of fear and shame. Mental cases still occupy half of
America’s hospital beds, but we know the way to begin clearing
them out. From here on, I believe it is largely a problem of con-

[93]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

vincing the public that it is cheaper to pay for intensive treat-
ment and cures than to support hopeless victims for years in
public institutions.

I have tried to get as much first-hand experience as possible
in order to write about foreign affairs. Three and a half years of
it came unbidden in the form of overseas duty with the Navy, in
England, France, and later in the Pacific, culminating with a
place on the deck of the Missouri at the signing of the Japanese
surrender in September, 1945. I had worked in Logistical Plans
during the build-up for the Normandy invasion, and was for a
time on the staff of SHAEF. | .

I spent several months in Germany and Austria in 1946 and
1947, studying our occupation policies. Heading the Marshall
Plan Mission to France meant a year in Paris, French schools
for my children, and a liberal education for me. I came out of it
with some strong new convictions, such as: that the French peo-
ple have certain solid virtues I had never appreciated as a casual
tourist; that the Marshall Plan was a revolutionary and largely
successful experiment in enlightened self-interest for America; and
that the American business man would benefit in understanding
and humility by spending a year working in government instead
of a lifetime complaining about its operation.

I sometimes take my family to Cape Cod in August (Chatham),
play tennis on weekends (only doubles for me these days), play
bridge that has never given in to Canasta, read a lot for my job
and as much more as possible for pleasure, take long walks (an
obvious eccentricity), and enjoy the peculiar pleasures of a large
family, whose younger members range in age from six to twenty.
On my last vacation, I went to the theatre fourteen nights hand-
running.

HORACE BINNEY

HOME AppRESS: 818 Strawbridge Ave., Melbourne, Fla.

BoRN: April 6, 1905, Paris, France. parents: Horace Binney, '83, Marie Anna
Sorchan. .

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

[94]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MargieD: Constance Sturtevant, April 15, 1931, Middletown, R. I. (divorced
1949); Margaret D. Arheit. cuttpren: Constance, March 23, 1934;
Caroline Thorn, Sept. 4, 1937; David Horace, Sept. 28, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Retired. |

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcorD: Entered as first lieutenant, field artillery reserve,
February, 1941; reception center, Fort Devens, Massachusetts, 1941-42,
assigned to duty with the Adjutant General’s Department, Military
Intelligence Center, Camp Ritchie, Maryland, 1943; classification officer,
Camp Rucker, Alabama, 1944; Personnel Section, Replacement Depot,
Fort Jackson, South Carolina, 1945~46; separated as captain, July, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Melbourne Yacht Club.

AFTER our graduation I settled in Rhode Island and worked
first for a brokerage company, then as cashier for a life insurance
company, and finally as statistician for the Narragansett Electric
Company till the war came along and changed my way of life
for the next five years.

I was retired from the Army i in 1948 due to a disability which
made it necessary for me to resign from the Narragansett Electric
Company and move to Florida. My hobby, sailing, has now be-
come one of my chief interests. In 1949 I sailed in the Honolulu
Race. In 1950 and 1951 my cutter Avie] IV was entered in the
Southern Circuit Races, and in 1951 I crewed on the Malabar
XIII in the race from Havana to Spain.

These experiences, as well as the wonderful weather down here,
have helped improve my health and I am now a Florida booster
although not quite a native. Ill leave that honor to my young son.

ABRAHAM GUSTAVE BIRNBAUM

HOME AppREss: 57 Craftsland Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 218 W. First St., Boston 27, Mass.

BoRN: April 17, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Birnbaum, Dora Osgood.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Brookline High School,
Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Esther Goverman, June 26, 1938, Boston, Mass. cH1Lpren: Martha
Joy, April 11, 1941; Ellen Caroline, March 24, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, vice-president, treasurer, Package Chemical
Company, Inc.

THE years immediately following graduation s seem at this point
very far away, and mercifully indistinct. The summers of 1928

[95]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

and 1929 found me in Europe with a dance orchestra (American
bands were all the rage then—remember?). Here at home,
things were slowly but surely coming to a stop and seemed to
wait only my return in 1930 to roll over and give up the ghost.
However, majoring in philosophy had prepared me probably
better than anything else to roll with the punches. The next few
years, while not too productive, were certainly happy ones and
artistically satisfying. I was a musician, in a profession which is
interesting in itself and in all its associations. I did a little teach-
ing and had the pleasure during these years and until 1944 of
singing with the choir at Emmanuel Church in Boston for such
men as Albert Snow and Thompson Stone, fine musicians and
wonderful people both.

In 1936 I became associated with the company of which I am
now an officer. From that time my efforts in the musical field
were of necessity curtailed, and in 1944 the separation of the
arts from business became definite. The only time I’ve played
since was at the band reunion of several years back. From 1948
to 1951 I was associated with the New England School of Dry-
cleaning as an instructor of drycleaning chemistry and director
of registrations. This is a field in which my company has been
increasingly interested over the past few years.

Marriage in 1938 and the births of my two children are of
course the highlights of this epic, its justification and reward.
There has not been too much time for hobbies. I have done some
oil painting, some carpentering, and in the last two years a lot
of gardening. (I am a local authority, on how not to transplant
rose bushes).

Politically I have completed a cycle, from being a Hoover
Republican, a Roosevelt Democrat (twice), an Independent, back
to what I hope will be an enlightened G. O. P. However, my .
allegiance will always be to that candidate or party which sup-
ports and promotes constitutional democracy in the best tradition.

JOHN BISHOP

HOME appress: 379 Atlantic Avenue, Cohasset, Mass.

Bon: Aug, 31, 1906, Chappaqua, N. Y. parents: Heber Reginald Bishop, 9!
Mabel Wolverton Sard.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

[96]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.
MARRIED: Virginia Ayres, Sept. 14, 1929, Cohasset, Mass. CHILDREN: John,
Jr., Sept. 27, 1930, Samuel Sard, July 27, 1938.

HARVARD SON: John Bishop, Jr "52.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECorD: Accredited war correspondent with the Navy,

Atlantic and Pacific, 1943~45.

MEMBER OF: St. Botolph Club; Cohasset Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various magazines.

FOR an opening, allow me to shed a last tear over those glorious

days when Prosperity was here to stay — remember? and every

other one of us planned to be a milionnaire within three years,
starting as an office boy in a stock brokerage at $10 a week. Well,
the day I returned to the brokerage from my honeymoon hap-

ened to be the day when the market took its final nose dive in
the fall of 1929. Then it was investment counsel for a while, on
the theory that it’s safer to conserve other people's money than
lose your own in the market. Thence I went into writing, which
is to say, into a game where I can’t earn enough to lose it!

But they have been twenty-five years just about as pleasant —
barring the war years —as the times and normal human frailty
will allow. Besides the great staple pleasures — wife and children
— there have been interesting hobbies: auto-racing, golf, skiing,
sailing. There have been months in England, in 1931 and 1932,
and again in 1936; and a winter in Switzerland in 1937 whose
snowy climax was two broken legs, one mine, the other my
wife’s. (Skiing remains a hobby.) There have been —and still
are — good books to read, good music to enjoy, good friends for
company. And always there has been membership in a peculiar
breed, the Devotees of Cohasset, who can be, in their way, even
more wild-eyed than Chamber of Commerce Californians.

_ For the serious rewards: two sons are growing up in a manner
to gratify. John, Jr., the elder, graduated last June, with an A.B.
and an ensign’s commission in the Naval Reserve. At this writing,
he is just returning on his destroyer from six months in Korean
waters. Sam, the younger, is at Middlesex in the Fourth Class,
well started —I trust —on his way to graduate with the Class
of 60. And writing is not all rejection slips!

As I try to compress the experiences of twenty-five years into
this synopsis, two realizations overcome me. The memories

[97]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

crowd in, both pleasant and grim, and suddenly I know why my
wife looks so incredulous when she’s reminded that her husband
is a Senior Warden of Cohasset’s St. Stephen’s Episcopal Church.
Then, also, there is the obvious euphoria which pervades the
whole synopsis. Whence comes it? Ah! This is 1953, and for a
man who has voted Republican — sometimes dubiously but still
always Republican — since 1928, why not euphoria? Why not
a sense of well-being, of buoyancy?

JOHN FREDERICK BITZER

HOME ADDRESS: 100 Juniper Rd., Bloomfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 151 Farmington Ave., Hartford, Conn.

BoRN: Jan. 6, 1907, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: John Frederick Bitzer, Caro-
line Elizabeth Winterhalder.

prepareD AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marriep: Kathleen Barrington Gannon, Sept. 12, 1935, San Francisco, Calif.
CHILDREN: John Frederick, Jr., July 5, 1936; Katrina Barrington, June 17,
1939; Elizabeth Bassing, June 30, 1942.

occuPATION: Assistant actuary, specializing in employee retirement plans,
fEtna Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD; Chairman, Prize Book Committee, Associated Harvard Clubs,
1947; member Town Council, Bloomfield, 1951-$23 representative,
Connecticut State Legislature, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries, Hartford Actuaries Club; Harvard Club
of Connecticut; Harvard Club of New York; Hartford Golf Club;
Mile Creek Beach Club; Lions Club of Bloomfield, Conn.

TWO weeks after Commencement I started with the A*tna Life
Insurance Company in Hartford. After a few years I was trans-
ferred to the San Francisco office, where I spent three years.
These were important years in many ways especially because I
met and married Kay in San Francisco. We moved back to Hart-
ford in 1936.

We now have one son and two daughters but none yet of
college age. Our home is in the rural section of Bloomfield,
Connecticut. We have a pleasant view of the Connecticut Val-
ley and adjoin some miles of woodland where I walk week-ends
with any of the neighbors who can be pried away from the
chores. . .

I still play at tennis and squash and have a fine time.

[ 98 ]

RE ee eis

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My work for many years has been concerned with the sale
and administration of insured retirement plans. This form of
insurance has developed during my own working career. I have
found it a challenge and a stimulus to participate in the develop-
ment of a new business.

A few years ago I was asked to become chairman of the Prize
Book Committee of the Associated Harvard Clubs. This prize is
awarded annually at commencement in over 500 secondary
schools throughout the country and is generally considered to
contribute to more friendly relations between the university and
secondary schools and to call the attention of likely boys to Har-
vard. I now enjoy most friendly and favorable relations with the
Dean’s Office, a relationship which was rather late in flowering.

In recent years I find a growing interest in politics. The ex-
perience of explaining some of the items of the town budget at
the Annual Town Meeting as a member of the Town Council
is one that I would not readily trade and I thoroughly enjoy the
job of setting up the party organization in order to get out the
maximum vote in town — with a weather eye to the most favor-
able plurality for the Republican party. I look forward to rep-
resenting my town at the next session of the lower house of the
Connecticut Assembly.

I have a deep conviction that a citizen has a definite duty to
devote enough of his time and of himself to government to assure,
insofar as it rests within his power, that the blessings of liberty
which have been handed over to him will be handed on to the
next generation.

ALEXANDER MAXWELL BLACKBURN, JR.

HOME AppREsS: 301 Adams St. Galax, Va.

OFFICE apprEss: Galax Gazette, P. O. Box 68, Galax, Va.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1906, Norfolk, Conn. parents: Alexander Maxwell Black-
burn, Jean Gertrude Jouett.

PREPARED aT: Friends’ Academy, Locust Valley, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

MARRIED: Virginia Eloise White, July z, 1934, Greenville, S. C. cup: Al-
exander Maxwell, 3d, Feb. 22, 1938.

Occupation: Business manager, Galax Gazette,

[99]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928
oFFices HELD: Vice-president, Dartmouth-Lake Sunapee Region, member
Newport School Board, three terms; past president, Newport Rotary
Club; director, Newport Chapter, Red Cross, comptroller, Newport
District Warning Center; member Newport Rationing Board.
MEMBER OF: Newport Golf Club; Newport Chamber of Commerce.

I HAVE completed fifteen years of successful newspaper promo-
tion and management, indicated in my newspaper experience
below. With this record I am a candidate for responsible news-
paper positions such as promotion manager, business manager,
advertising manager, circulation manager. I should also be con-
sidered as a candidate to relieve a publisher desiring semi-retire-
ment without giving up ownership. I am also seeking opportu-
nities for newspaper ownership including leases with an option to
buy. Funds are available for this purpose.

My business experience has been: September, 1938, to Sep-
tember, 1931, City Bank Farmers Trust Company, 22 William
Street, New York City; income tax and investment management
experience. From September, 1931, to September, 1933, I was
with Andover Press, Inc. Andover, Massachusetts, in printing
sales, assisting private publications.

My newspaper experience has been: from September, 1933,
to April, 1936, I was with Township Press, Inc., now merged
with Griscom Publications, Inc., at Glen Cove, Iong Island, New
York, as production manager and assistant publisher. I partici-
pated in the expansion of a chain of weeklies from three to nine
papers including the establishment and promotion of five new
papers. From April, 1936, to October, 1938, I was with Inde-
pendent Press, Inc., as circulation and classified manager. There
was a forty per cent increase in circulation and a one hundred per
cent classified increase. I helped establish and promote a new
paper for Glen Ridge, New Jersey. With the advice of pub-
lisher Charles E. Moreau, I decided to go into business for my-
self. From October, 1938, to October, 1939, I leased and pub-
lished a weekly, The Argus-Champion. 1 obtained a seventy per
cent gain in net revenue with a twenty per cent gain in gross
revenue.

From October, 1939, to December, 1948, I was associated with
the Union-Leader Corporation, publishers of the New Hamp-
shire Morning Union and the Manchester Evening Leader. 1

[ 100 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

operated the Western Bureau, an independent, exclusive agency
representing all departments of the Morning Union in over fifty
towns in Cheshire, Sullivan, Merrimac, and Grafton counties in
western New Hampshire. I supervised four full-time assistants,
twenty-five to forty correspondents, sixty carriers, and one hun-
dred dealers. In a territory with only twenty-two per cent of
the state population, a circulation gain of 104 per cent was ob-
tained compared with a gain of twenty-four per cent for the
paper in the entire state. In the period from 1942 to 1946 this
bureau produced fifty-three per cent of the total circulation
gain of the Morning Union, despite handicaps caused by the war.
At the same time the bureau provided complete news coverage
and sold many new advertising accounts for total cost to the
publisher which ranged from twenty per cent to twenty-six
per cent of net revenue from the area.

From June 1 to December 15, 19475 I was in state-wide classi-
fied and display advertising promotion for the Union-Leader
Corporation.

From December 15, 1947, to October 1, 1948, I was sales man-
ager for the New Hampshire Sunday News, an independent Sun-
day newspaper started in October, 1946. When sold to the Un-
ion-Leader Corporation, this paper had the largest circulation of
any one paper in New Hampshire. As sales manager I enjoyed
more than twenty-five per cent increases in circulation and ad-
vertising revenue, On July 1, 1948, I was assigned the duties of
business manager. On September 1, 1948, the Union-Leader Cor-
poration retained my services temporarily to act as liaison man
during the absorption of the New ? Hamrpshire Sunday News into
its own organization. |

ROBERT McPHAIL BLAIR-SMITH

HOME apprEss: Rittenhouse Plaza, Philadelphia 3, Pa.; “Escargot, Dennis,
Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Schnader, Harrison, Segal & Lewis, 1719 Packard Bldg,
Philadelphia 2, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 6, 1906, Nashville, Tenn. PARENts: Hugh Blair-Smith, Trevania
Dallas. . .

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1024-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1931.

[ ror ]

?

insta ONO ORELRETI CRN

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MARRIED: Jean Lithgow Foss, Sept. 22, 1934, Marshfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
Hugh, Sept. 18, 1935; Ralph Stanwood, June 14, 1944 (died June 17,
1944); Pamela Simons, Sept. 4, 1927 (stepdaughter, m. Kenneth J.
Northcott, Sept. 2, 1950). GRANDCHILD: Victoria Stanwood Northcott,
July 3, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Dallas Blair-Smith, ’24.

occupation: Lawyer, member of firm of Schnader, Harrison, Segal & Lewis.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Attorney, head of Opinion Writing Office,
executive assistant to the commission, Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, Washington, D. C,, and Philadelphia, 1938-45; member, Inter-
Departmental Committee on Administrative Procedure, 1940-41, and
Legal Examining Committee for appointment of government attorneys,
1942-44.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Committee on Uniform State Securities Act, Sec-
tion of Banking, Mercantile and Business Law, American Bar Associa-
tion; director, Eagle Brewing Company of Catasauqua, Pa., Delaware
River Terminal and Warehouse Company; secretary, ABC Vending
Corporation, and others; member Board of Trustees and Finance
Committee, Fund for Astrophysical Research, Inc.,

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and American Bar Associations,
Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Harvard Club of
Philadelphia; Merion Cricket Club; Midday Club.

pusLicaTions: Author or co-author of legal articles including: “The S.E.C.
and the ‘Expeditious Settlement of Disputes,” J/linois Law Review,
1940; “Administrative Interpretation Under the Securities Laws,” lowa
Law Review, 1941; “A Death Sentence or a New Lease on Life?,”
Pennsylvania Law Review, 1946.

ALTHOUGH I chose the legal profession for myself at the age
of three, I have never for a moment regretted the choice. The
decision was made with all the logic one might expect — my
bachelor Uncle Bob used to read comic strips to me, before I
could read them for myself. I knew he was a lawyer, whatever
that was, so naturally I resolved to be a lawyer too and follow in
the footsteps of such an exemplary member of the family. In all
honesty 1 must admit that the resolve failed of its original pur-
pose, as I have not read comic strips to my own or anybody else’s
children except under the most irresistible pressure.

Nevertheless, there was no wavering from the ultimate goal
except for one brief period, about midway through the first
year of Law School, when the results of the optional examina-
tions came in. A good many of us were shocked to find that we
had not received a passing grade in any of them. Fortunately,
these grades did not count on the official record, for me, as for

[ 102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

others, the experience was a valuable one, as it was then for the
first time that we learned what our better-advised classmates al-
ready knew — that it was not enough to read the printed pages of
a prescribed casebook. Some reasoning and analytical power
seemed to be expected. We were suddenly awakened to a realiza-
tion of what we were supposed to have been doing those first
four months in Law School, and what a lawyer was supposed to
be able to do. After an education absorbed wholly by osmosis
during the happy-go-lucky ’20’s, this rude shock opened up the
placid assumptions of a lifetime for reconsideration. I am grate-
ful that my advisers stood firmly for perseverance.

By the time the coveted LL.B. came along, I had been lucky
enough to find an opening in one of the largest of New York’s
law firms, popularly known as “law factories.” Factory or not, it
was a pleasant and humane place to work ten or sometimes twenty
hours a day and certainly offered the best of opportunities to
continue that education which I soon found was not in any sense
completed, but only begun, in Law School. As in other profes-
sions, the need for education in Jaw never ends, and the only prob-
lem of any consequence lies in finding the opportunity to learn. So
after seven years of reasonably varied practice in New York, I
felt that luck had again come my way when a former associate
of mine became general counsel to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and invited me to join his staff in Washington.

The fact that I had long been an active member of the New
York Young Republican Club and considered myself generally
an anti-New Dealer apparently made no difference to anybody
there. I was in sympathy with what the Commission was trying
to accomplish, and was not alone in believing that its purposes
could be advanced by conservative thought and procedure. Being
still a relatively new agency, the Commission was pioneering with
a young and growing staff whose morale was of the highest order.
When I joined it at the end of 1938, I was immediately impressed
with the enthusiasm and sincerity of commissioners and staff alike,
as well as their propensity for long hours and hard work. As the
latter had long since become a habit with me, the atmosphere was
congenial and the new line of work exceedingly stimulating.

I had intended to stay for only two or three years, but en-
thusiasm was still riding high when Pearl Harbor came. None

[ 103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

of the armed forces would have anything to do with me, due to a
mild but permanent internal ailment which I admit would have
made service in the field impracticable, but which I thought
would not prevent my wearing a uniform behind an Army or
Navy desk. Regulations being what they were, however, it was
necessary to convince myself that some one had to carry on
with the government’s civilian activities and I had better con-
tinue the work I had started.

As a result of wartime congestion in Washington the Commis-
sion moved to Philadelphia in 1942 — a circumstance that many
of the staff regarded with a jaundiced eye. But from my own
point of view all objections turned out to have been based on
ignorance. The move to Philadelphia was the start of an exceed-
ingly pleasant period in spite of wartime conditions. My wife
and I were fortunate in being able to find an attractive home in
the suburbs for our growing family, and the hospitality of neigh-
bors and members of the Philadelphia Bar made it clear that this
was the place to settle. Finally, a short time after V-J Day, the
war manpower restrictions were lifted, and I re-entered private
practice with the moderate-sized firm of which I am now a mem-
ber.

By marriage, back in 1934, I acquired not only a wonderful wife
whose gallant sportsmanship has aided and abetted me in all things
(except accumulations of bills, which she sometimes finds oppres-
sive), but also a ready-made daughter whose zest and determi-
nation have long held our wondering admiration. Pam, never
an avid student, interrupted her college life here to study in Eu-
rope, where she married a scholar with an unusually fine sense
of humor, a teaching fellow of King’s College, University of
London. After having made us grandparents last July, they have
taken up faculty life at the University of Glasgow.

Our son, Hugh, emulates his late Grandfather Foss (Harvard
03) in making conversational entertainment a mission in life. He
is at Middlesex and is heading for college this fall of 1953 with a
bent towards engineering, or so his proud parents hope.

The high point in our domestic life occurred in the summer of
1951 when the whole family, including the English contingent,
christened our new home on Cape Cod. Jean had had the good
sense to spend her summers at Dennis during her childhood, and

[104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

introduced me to its fascinations soon after our marriage. After
that we made a good many pilgrimages to the Cape in all seasons,
and it soon became our ambition to build a year-round home there
for our tennis-playing old age. This having been accomplished,
we called it “Escargot” because, as Jean says, it is on Scargo Hill,
we were slow getting around to it and a long time building it, and
we'll have it on our backs for a long time to come.

- ALBERT HARRY BLANCHARD

HOME ADDRESS: 481 Columbia Rd., Dorchester 25, Mass.

~ porn: April 3, 1906, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Frank Wilbur Blanchard,
Hattie Twigg.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

UNMARRIED,

Due to tragic accident a year or more ago to a member of the fam-
ily, Blanchard has been unable to participate in Class affairs.

EUGENE LEWIS BLEIWEISS

HOME ADDRESS: 3881 Washington Blvd., University Heights 18, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Payer, Corrigan & Bleiweiss, 2025 N.B.C. Bldg., Cleveland,
Ohio.

BORN: Dec. 10, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Maurice Bleiweiss, Fay Ben-
_ jamin.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1928(27);
LL.B.y 1930.

occupation: Lawyer.

EDWARD FREDERICK BLETTNER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 338 Fairview Ave., Winnetka, III,

OFFICE AppRESS: First National Bank of Chicago, 38 S. Dearborn St., Chicago
go, Ill,

BORN: Dec. 9, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Edward Frederick Blettner, Mary
Klaner.

PREPARED AT: Nicholas Senn High School, Chicago, Ill.

[ 105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.B.A.. 1930; LL.B. (John
Marshall Law School), 1935.

acaRRiED: Margaret L, Maw, March 19, 1943, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Margaret Jean, Sept. 21, 1944; Elizabeth Mary, June 26, 1946.

occuPATION: Vice-president, First National Bank, handling intermediate and
serial term loans.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Attached to Headquarters, Army Service Forces,
Office of Fiscal Director, April, 1942-October, 1945; chief, Advance
Payment Section, June, 1943-October, 1945; captain, April-December,

¢ 1942; major, January, 1943-March, 1945, lieutenant colonel, April-
October, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Director, U. S. Cold Storage Corporation, since 1946; presi-
dent, Harvard Business School Club of Chicago, 1934-35; member, Win-

netka Caucus Committee, 1954.
MEMBER OF: University Club; Union League Club; Economic Club; Harvard

Club of Chicago; Harvard Business School Club of Chicago.

AFTER two additional years in Cambridge at the Business
School, I returned to Chicago and went to work in the Trust
Department of the First National Bank of Chicago. My whole
business career has been spent at the bank. I was fortunate in
that my work in the Trust Department related to our invest-
ments in closely held corporations. As a result, I was able to
take part in the inner workings of many small and medium-sized
businesses. Dealing with many legal problems in this work, I
took law at night school and was admitted to the Illinois Bar
in February, 1936. After a leave of absence for military serv-
ice, I returned to the Trust Department in December, 1945. In
January, 1950, I was elected a vice-president of the bank and
transferred to our loaning division which handles term credits
(those having maturities longer than one year). It is one of the
most interesting phases of banking so I consider that my good
fortune has held in providing me with work over the years
which I enjoy.

My Harvard associations in Chicago have revolved more
around the Business School Club group than the College. With
the exception of the annual dinners and Christmas luncheons, The
Harvard Club has offered little in the way of activity, The
Business School Club group, however, has grown rapidly and
has been active in arranging dinners of interest and regional
meetings in which the Harvard Club has been invited to pat-
ticipate.

[ 106 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

There is not much to report in the way of travel. I have
taken no outstanding vacations to points outside of the country.
In connection with my business I spent quite a bit of time on the
West Coast in 1948 and 1949. The thing that always amazes
me, however, is how often one happens to meet a classmate on
such trips. It has happened time and again all over the country —
Washington, the South, the Fast and the West Coast. In 1948,
for instance, I walked into a meeting and saw George Russell for
the first time in eighteen years. Such chance meetings are indic-
ative of the extent of the bonds which the Class has, and one
feels good to be a part of it.

After the war, Margaret and I found a house in Winnetka
where we enjoy living very much. We have a fine school system
and the Township High School, New Trier, is outstanding. So
we shall probably stay in Winnetka for many years while our
girls, who are now in first and third grades, grow up. Perhaps
the fact that we were for Eisenhower both before and after
the convention is indicative of our political leanings. Betsy, our
six year old, however, was a non-conformist; she was for Taft be-
fore the convention and Stevenson before the election. We are
about to join the Winnetka Congregational Church as we have
become great admirers of Dr. Samuel Harness,

REGINALD THEODORE BLISS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Trinity Rectory, go E. Main St., Granville, N. Y.
BorN: April 18, 1905, Brookline, Mass. parents: Donald McQueen Bliss,
Margaret Janet Estabrook.
PREPARED AT: Battle Creek High School, Battle Creek, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; B.D. (Virginia Theological
Seminary), 1931.
MARRIED: Edith Frances Bayley, June 11, 1934, Old Orchard, Maine (died
Feb. 17, 1943); Mary Oleta (Hughes) Gates, Sept. 23, 1946, Pitts-
~ burgh, Pa. cnmpren: Beverly Anne, Feb, 18, 1935; Jacqueline Frances,
~ Oct. 14, 1936; Theodore Courtenaye, Oct. 27, 1939; Donald Franklin
Gates (stepson), Jan. 18, 1938; Jeanne Margaret, Aug. 6, 1947.
occupation; Clergyman.
MEMBER OF: Granville Rotary Club.

AFTER graduation I worked in a summer camp in Vermont for
under-nourished children from Boston and in the fall entered

[ 107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

the Virginia Theological Seminary in Alexandria, Vi irginia, to
spend three years studying for my B.D. degree and, in the proc-
ess, tO grow up with the human race spiritually. In June, 1931;
after being ordained Deacon in the Episcopal Church at Christ
Church in Hudson, New York, I became assistant minister at
St. George’s Church, Schenectady, New York. The next year,
on June 11th, I was ordained Priest at St. George’s Church. Dur-
ing this ume I learned something about work in a downtown
church, but I was chiefly occupied in building up an uptown
chapel, later to become St. Stephen’s Church. In June, 1934, I
married Edith Frances Bayley, who was in charge of girl’s club
work at the local Y. W. C. A.

In the fall of 1935 I was made Rector of Christ Church,
Greenville, New York, and Trinity Church, Rensselaerville, New
York, and Priest-in-charge of St. Paul’s Church, Oak Hill. Here I
revived the parish in Greenville and laid the foundation for mak-
ing it the center of work in that area, which it now is. Here my
second daughter was born in 1936 and my son three years later.
In September, 1940, I became Rector of St. Matthew’s Church,
Homestead, Pennsylvania. During my seven years there, I liter-
ally cleaned the layers of coal tar from the church, rebuilt the
organ, and paid off a $7,000 mortgage. Never have I seen such
difficult conditions to live under as in this steel producing town,
and I am glad to hear that efforts are being made to improve
them.

While in Homestead, my first wife died of a brain tumor, and
for three years my widowed sister, Mrs. W. G. Studwell, kept
house for me and began the training of my children, On Septem-
ber 23, 1946, I married Oleta Gates, née Mary Oleta Hughes, and
we spent our honeymoon in New York and on Nantucket. When
we returned, my step-son, Donald, joined the family. On August
6, 1947, my last child was born, completing our family of five chil-
dren. In 1948 through one of those happy chances, I became Rec-
tor of Trinity Church, Granville, New York, and St. Paul’s

Church, Salem, New York, in my home diocese of Albany. It has
seemed like starting all over again, a new deal both in my family
life and in my professional life. And in spite of increasing costs
and expenses and the uncertainties of these years of the cold war,
the new deal is successful and fruitful. I was not long in Gran-

[ 108 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ville when a group of people from North Granville asked me
to serve them. So now I am also Vicar of All Saints Chapel,
North Granville, and have started a Sunday School there.

. Thanks to good roads and moderate priced cars, my vaca-
tions have been spent in Old Orchard, Maine, Nantucket Island,
and Ash, North Carolina. I am a member of the Granville Rotary
Club and last year I began to produce their club news sheet,
Granville Rotary Glimpses. Picnics, swimming, walking, and
touring have made up my spare time activities in the summer. In
the cold months, I am an omniverous reader and enjoy both
movies and radio.

It is my hope that the next twenty-five years will see the
fall of totalitarianism in the world, and will see the principles of the
sanctity of the individual and the oneness of the human race,
which are a part of the Christian Gospel, expressed in a stable
world situation. I hope, also, that along with my classmates I
shall have a chance to contribute in some way toward this out-
come.

NATHANIEL JOSEPH BLOCK

HOME ADpDRESS: 101 Chatham Ave., Buffalo 16, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bowman & Block, Inc., Rand Bldg., Buffalo, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1907, at Buffalo, N. Y. PARENTS: Joseph Bernard Block, Lydia
Meyer.

PREPARED AT: Lafayette High School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

MaRRIED: Henrietta Block, June 15, 1931, Buffalo, N. Y. cumpren: Amie
Margaret, Jan. 29, 1934; Natalie Jo, Dec. 27, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Partner, advertising agency.

MEMBER oF: Westwood Country Club of Buffalo; Harvard Club of Buffalo.

TO THE scattered few in 28 who remember me, I’m still the
same old Block. I still prefer a bridge game to any type of work
or study, and a good meal at Lock Ober’s (or similar spot) to civic
meetings and political conventions.

Being an advertising agent, I serve on publicity committees of
practically everything from the Young Women’s Christian As-
sociation to the Jewish Old Folks Home. My copy cannot be
very compelling, because all of the organizations are harder up
today than the day I started working for them. Be that as it may,

[ 109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I just Ned the spot on Don Hurley's postcard and agreed to
serve on his Twenty-fifth Reunion Publicity Committee at the
usual rates.

My achievements are few though I do point with pride to the
fact that I am the sole support of a charming wife, a daughter
at Wellesley, and a daughter at school in Buffalo. If you think
that’s easy, wait ull your kids achieve college age.

In matters that count — the health and happiness of my entire
family — the good Lord has been especially kind to me these past
twenty-five years. My mother played golf for thirty days
straight this summer, and my dad still takes all comers in his fa-
vorite game — poker. Perhaps you'll see me at the Fiftieth Re-
union.

GEORGE ALBERT BLOWERS

HOME appress: Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Cathedral Arch Estates, Lady Lake,
Fla.

OFFICE abpRESS: Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.

BORN: March 5, 1906, Pineville, Ky. parents: Albert Cortelyou Blowers, Ade-
laide Henriette Gardner.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Military Academy, Columbia, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; PH.D. (Liberia Coll.), 1941.

marRiED: Nina V. Bogdanoff, Dec. 19, 1934, Shanghai, China.

occuPATION: Free-lance banker; governor, Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: O.SS.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, general manager, Bank of Monrovia, 1938-43;
governor, State Bank of Ethiopia, 1943-48, International Bank for Re-
construction & Development, 1945-48, International Monetary Fund,
1945-48, Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency (Jeddah, Saudi Arabia), since
1952; deputy director, Trade & Finance, OSR/ECA, Paris, 1948-50;
special adviser, International Monetary Fund, 1950-52; special consultant,
United Nations Commissioner for Libya on financial organization and
currency unification in Libya.

MemBeR or: Harvard Club of New York; Cathedral Arch Estates Club,
Lady Lake.

PuBLicaTion: “Currency Unification in Libya,” IMF Staff papers.

SINCE 1 left Cambridge twenty-five years ago, 1 have been
continuously on the move. After spending ten years with the
National City Bank of New York, in New York, London, Singa-
pore, Tientsin, Peking, Shanghai, and Hankow, I became a free-
lance banker. There followed five years in Liberia, five years in

[110 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Ethiopia, two years in Paris, two years in Was
now a year in Saudi Arabia. My work has taken m
earth twice, seven times across the Pacific and twen:
across the Atlantic by every route possible from Asce
in the South Atlantic to Reykjavik, Iceland, in the Ne
not got far with the crowned heads of Furope, but -
ered the rest of the field pretty well. I have been adv.
peror Haile Selassie of Ethiopia, to King Idriss of L
Abdul Aziz (more commonly called Ibn Sa’ud). I

the top (in the case of Liberia, the only) banker in tl
tries, and have planned and circulated new currencie
During these years I also attended the Food and Agricul
ference at Hot Springs, the Bretton Woods meeting, ar

four years on the Boards of Governors of the Inte

Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Inte.

Monetary Fund. Having spent most of my time since coll
side the United States, 1 am particularly proud of being i
in Who's Who.

Yes, I get tired of being eternally on the move, and 1

returned to the States for good (or so I thought), Tr
all right, but 1 often think the price one pays in shattere

sions is too great. Unless you have the irresistible urge :
what is on the other side of the horizon, I advise you to
your travel fun vicariously in a comfortable chair at home .
ing those highly dramatized accounts of the rest of the w
that professionals like Halliburton put out, If it is the “ex

smells” of the Orient you hanker for, take a whiff of the 1
dump; if it is beautiful south-sea maidens you are thinking
study the paintings of Paul Gauguin and lose your yearn.

Now for the most important part: during my stay in Tie
tsin, | met the girl, We continue to feel that it was preordain.
and inevitable that the paths of Nina of Tashkent, Turkestan, ar
George of Pineville, Kentucky, should cross. We were married i.
Shanghai in 193q and are still on our honeymoon.

My hobbies are collecting full sets of specimen currency notes,
and movie photography. Impatience makes me a poor phorog-
rapher, but the urge to see rernote corners of the earth has pro-
vided interesting subjects: Tai Shan the Confucian sacred moun-
tain in China, the Coptic sacred mountain in Ethiopia, the

[riz]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Sahara from Tripoli to Gat. Best of all, I have a wonderful shot
of Nina running over the veldt of Kenya with a rhinoceros hot
on her crail. Last Chriscmas we made our Hadj to Jerusalem
and photographed the Holy Land.

As for politics, I think we should all be thankful for the peace-
ful revolution our country has experienced during the last twenty
years. I've seen governmental resistance to social change bring
bloody revolution to China and a dictator to Egypt. Neverthe-
less, Pm pleased with the change of pace decreed by the electorate
in November.

We have found enough time to do a little spade work for our
retirement in Florida. Within a couple of years, you will find
me growing oranges at Cathedral Arch Estates, Lady Lake,
Florida. Members of the Class of 1928 will be welcomed with
a mint julep at any time, provided I’m not expected to put on
shoes.

SIDNEY WILE BOCK

HOME appress: 67 Chatham Ave., Buffalo, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: 77 Goodell St. Buffalo, N. Y.

BorN: Feb, 28, 1907, Buffalo, N. ¥Y. parents: Sigmond Bock, Flora Wile.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, DECREE: A.B. 1928,

marriep: Rena D. Freedman, Jan. 19, 1931, Buffalo, N. Y. CHILDREN: Fred-
erick Benjamin, Dec. 30, 1935; Sydney Frances, Nov. 7, 1943.

occupation: Mfen’s clothing manufacturing, president, M. Wile & Company,
Inc.

OFFices HELD: Member Board of Trustees, treasurer, Temple Beth Zion,
1947-49; member Board of Jewish Community Service Society, 1950-52.

MeMBeR oF: Harvard Club of Buffalo, Westwood Country Club.

SINCE my boyhood expenses had been met from the proceeds of
a seventy-five-year-old family business, it was a foregone con-
clusion that my life would be spent in men’s clothing manufac-
turing and that is just what has happened to me.

Twenty-five years in a volatile, cyclical business have not been
entirely carefree. However, I thoroughly enjoy my work and it
has not given me as many gray hairs as you might imagine.

Business has kept me supplied with fish and chips but the rais-
ing of a lively family has been the egg in my beer. I seem to have

{112}

1 Len dabei lalalaliii tea eneeaetacied nt ia teatn i aietaciaindat athe hienaeaait nena scoaiiietnaiiannadinaanetaaa le

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduated from “Daddy” to “The Old Man” but whatever the
kids call me I love it.

When the snow is on the ground my hobbies are bridge and
chess. In spring as soon as the weather permits I turn to our
summer home farm for my recreation. When we first acquired
the farm in 1939, in the first flush of enthusiasm at being a farm
owner, I had the illusion that I could combine healthful exercise
with an income-producing farm operation. However, the com-
bination of my enthusiasm and the labor of my wife and chil-
dren resulted in neither exercise for me nor profit for them. I
am now content to sit on the front porch, watch the weeds
grow, not hope for a profit, and to hell with my figure!

This life that I lead may sound very routine but in spite of its
seeming lack of excitement I have known few dull moments. I
expect to be able to make the same report for the years ahead.

GARDNER THURSTON BOLSTER

HOME AppRESS: 44 Audubon Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 68 Devonshire St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: June 20, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Wilfred Bolster, ’88, Jeanie
Tolman Pond.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; Lu.B. (Boston Univ.), 1932.

MARRIED: Susanne Hoagland Ricker, Aug. 5, 1933, Brookline, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Philip Wilfred Bolster, ’20 (deceased); Robert Pond
Bolster, ’22. .

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Norfolk County Bar Association, 1952; chair-
man, Wellesley Planning Board, 1951-52; treasurer, Committee on Con-
tinuing Legal Education of the Bar, 1951-52; director, secretary, Henry
O. Peabody School for Girls, since 19445 director, Merchants Codp-
erative Bank, since 1944.

MEMBER oF: Massachusetts Bar Association; Boston Bar Association; Nor-
folk County Bar Association, Massachusetts Conveyancer’s Association;
Wellesley Country Club; Quissett Yacht Club.

IF I were asked to suggest a new course for undergraduates, I
think it would be entitled “Appreciation of the Speed of Time
tb” or something of the sort. It should be for the entering class,
so that they could learn at that tender age that the hour from ten
o’clock to eleven o’clock. which dragged so in History I would

[ 113 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

become, twenty-five years later, a fleeting instant of time in
which to perform a host of tasks or enjoy a few moments of
leasure.

Probably my personal history of the past twenty-five years
would sound dull, monotonous, and rather typical of a Boston-
born Harvard Alumnus—but to me these years have been
neither dull nor monotonous, just short. In 1933 I married a
graduate of Radcliffe, Class of ’28. At that time she was much
smarter than I and a comparison of our respective salaries would
have proved it. The salary ratio has changed somewhat, but
she is still smarter than I. In 1936 we decided to be rash and
build our own home in Wellesley, but when it was half done the
firm employing me dissolved. Although the end result was about
the same as being fired, it seemed the logical time to join the
ranks of the self-employed, a status I have retained ever since.
While I should never recommend the practice of law as the
best way to become wealthy, it has its compensations: inde-
pendence and a fairly decent living, excitement, and most im-
portant of all, the satisfactions that come from serving one’s
fellow men.

It hasn’t all been hard work. We both like to sail, and we man-
age to keep sufficient salt water moving under our small sailboat
to keep it free of barnacles. We take an occasional skiing jaunt,
but will never win medals at that. For the rest, the care of a
house and garden, an occasional fishing trip, and cruising take up
the remainder of our so-called spare time. And we live in a
friendly and sociable communi

Whether public service should be called a hobby is doubtful,
but moved by a feeling of social responsibility I have taken a
small part in local politics, chiefly by serving on various town
committees. I am glad I did it and have learned more about
democracy in this way than I could in any other. I am astonished
at how few people know what makes even their own home city
or town tick, or have any conception of their own obligations
as citizens. If the free world, democracy, or “our way of life,”
whatever you want to call it, is lost, it will be lost not by outside
force but by default on the part of those who should be but are
not our leaders,

Well, lots of things that used to bother me as an undergrad-

[114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

uate don’t bother me now, and lots of things I should not have
cared to do then are fun now. By the time we have our Fiftieth
Reunion I expect to have mastered the art of graceful living —
may even have learned how to write a decent report to the Class.
In the meantime, I take an optimistic view of the future.

RICHARD DANIELL BOLSTER

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Jefferson Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1432 Statler Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 16, 1906, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Stanley Marshall Bolster, ’97,
LLB., 00, Lucy Catherine Daniell.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.; Phillips Academy, An-
dover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Warren, June 3, 1933, West Newton, Mass. cHILDREN:
Barbara, March 5, 1937; Helen Warren and Elizabeth, Feb. 29, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Marshall Grant Bolster, ’24, LL.B., ’27.

occupation: Manufacturing: assistant treasurer, Production control, Atlas
Plywood Corporation.

HAVING decided while an undergraduate that manufacturing
would be interesting, useful, and sustaining, and having in-
creased this conviction while absorbing at least a fair share of
the amazing amount of training offered by the Business School,
I joined the company with which I am now.

My experience has included sales, plant operation, product re-
search both from the operational and the administrative levels.
Except for a few years in Providence, Rhode Island, my head-
quarters have been in Boston in the main office.

The first three years of married life were spent in Providence.
These were pre-family years which left us free to discover we
both liked people, sailing, skiing, and fishing but could live
without serious cards or any kind of golf. At an early date a
choice had to be made between golf and a boat. The last obstacle
to decision was removed with the conclusion my sales would bene-
fit more from the right price at the right time than from gauging
my golf game just below that of any purchasing agent opponent-
of-the-moment. We went sailing! The Little Woman is the
steadier hand at the tiller and usually catches the biggest fish,

I like to “work around the place” in the fond belief it is im-

[11s]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

proved thereby. It is a home worthy of all the attention I can
give it although we did not build it. It seems to me it’s easier
and equally satisfying to find the house with your ideas in it al-
ready built and broken in by some more energetic soul. Mary and
Warren Jenney, *26, did this for us. The only house I ever built
was a joint effort in 1925 with my cousin, Gardner, using logs.
Ic still is sound and provides an excellent all-weather retreat —
strictly camp style and frequently used.

My civic activities have been limited by business demands and
travel, but I have managed to contribute somewhat by service
on the town finance committee and other committee work.
Politically I never fail to vote, always Republican although some-
times unenthusiastically. The only times I have really pitched in
were during the campaigns of Willkie and Eisenhower.

FRASER CLARENCE BONNELL

HOME appress: Post Road, Rye, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 25, 1908, New York, N. Y, parents: Clarence Hornbeck Bon-
nell, Edith Frances Fraser.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Florence Rhodes Winn, May 12, 1934, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Fraser Anthony, July 28, 1935; Claudia Winn, 1940.

occuPATION: Industrial engineer for Alcoa, California.

PHILIP BOONE

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Fenwick Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 53 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1901, Winchester, Mass. parents: Allan Edward Boone,
Florence Evelyn Reon.

prepare at: Monson Academy, Monson, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924, 192§-1928. DEGREE: 8.B., 1928.

Margiep: Ellen Kimball, June 18, 1939, Grafton, Mass. cup: Robert Harvey,
March 7, 1940.

occupation; Consulting engineer, Anderson-Nichols & Company.

MEMBER OF: Optical Society of America.

PUBLICATIONS; Various publications for the Armed Services.

[116]

1 41... ,s..fe {hdl delegate iain hpitnaata aa ceaepetiainaanannatinapena tines iaR ae iaataial iis Rt INT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I HAVE been involved with varying degrees of satisfaction and
futility, in other people’s businesses for the past twenty-five years
advertising, merchandising, teaching, school administration,
travel, patents, technical writing. I am now devoting all of the
time available to some original projects; to the research, develop-
ment, patent work, and complicated financial steps necessary to
launch them commercially.

As a throwback to Gold Coast orchestra influence, I occasion-
ally appear at jazz concerts with a clarinet and bleat sounds which
are intended to approximate Dixieland music. Other than the
above, I find time to pursue a violent athletic life studying the
baseball box scores and weekly statistics, to read anything avail-
able on the ante-bellum and Civil War periods, and to enjoy my
small family.

+ ARNOLD KINNEAR BORDEN

BORN: May 30, 1906, Everett, Mass. parents: Clifford Borden, Bessie
Anckrson.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Mabel Lee Maier, Sept. 12, 1946, New York, N. Y.

DIED: June 22, 1950, Washington, D. C.

wipow: Mrs. Arnold K. Borden, 1 Scott Circle, Washington, D. C.

FOR four years after he left Harvard, Arnold Kinnear Borden
was reference librarian at Dartmouth College. He left to accept
work as a research librarian under grant of the Carnegie
Corporation of New York, at the University of Pennsylvania.
His three-year tenure finished in 1935, he returned for a short
time to Dartmouth College and then became associated with the
United States Navy Department. There he remained until his
death, first as a specialist in naval and foreign affairs in the Office
of the Chief of Naval Operations and later as civilian analyst in
the Office of Naval Intelligence.

+ HENRY SHERMAN BOUTELL, II

BoRN: Aug. 11, 1905, Berne, Switzerland. parents: Roger Sherman Gates
Boutell, Avis Burley.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

[117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1925.
piep: March 22, 1931, London, England.
IN THE First Report of our Class Boutell reported that he was
“writing and travelling abroad,” and he gave his permanent ad-
dress as Santa Barbara, California.

SAMUEL INGERSOLL BOWDITCH

HOME ADDRESS: 1547 Harrison Ave., Salt Lake City 5, Utah.

OFFICE ADpREss: American Smelting & Refining Co., 600 Pacific National
Life Bldg., Salt Lake City 1, Utah.

BorN: March 4, 1906, Cambridge Mass. parents: Ingersoll Bowditch, '97,
Sylvia Church Scudder.

PREPARED AT: Mesa Ranch School, Mesa, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 77agna cum laude, 1928; A.M.

1929; S.D., 1935.

MaRRIED: Marian P. Rogers, June 25, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
James Rogers, Aug. 27, 1933; Faith Emily, Aug. 2, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Pickering Bowditch, ’35.

occupaTION: Mining geologist.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Commodity Specialist, Foreign Economic Ad-
ministration, 1944-45.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Rowland Hall School for Girls, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining Engineers, Society of Economic
Geologists; Geological Society of America, American Association for
Advancement of Science; Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; Toastmasters.

THE life of a mining geologist is apt to take him into many in-
teresting places and over various parts of the world. Mine has
been no exception. After graduating from college I took one
year of graduate work, at Harvard of course, and then accepted
a position as junior geologist with the Cerro de Pasco Copper
Corporation in the high Andes of Peru. My first work was in
connection with foundations for a dam, but in a short time I was
transferred to the mines at Morococha. There the altitude was
nearly 15,000 feet above sea level, and the mine was surrounded
by high, jagged peaks, from which glaciers hung like Chinese
tapestry. In spite of the altitude I played some tennis, and learned
that exasperating game, golf. How exasperating the game could
be I did not Jearn until I played at sea level, for the thin air of
the mountains allowed long drives and inhibited the tendency of

[118 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the ball to hook or slice. Never again will I make such long,
straight drives!

After six months at Morococha, and just as I was beginning to
get a faint understanding of the complicated geology, I was moved
to the company’s Cerro de Pasco mine, where | became senior
geologist and spent most of the next four years. Six months
after I arrived at Cerro revolution broke out in the country,
which started a series of labor disturbances in the various camps.
One night I had the dubious pleasure of being chased out of camp
by a mob of natives who were shouting “Kill the gringoes.” For-
tunately we all got out safely, but I would not want to go through
it again. Eventually the country quicted down, and in the spring
of 1931 I took a two months leave of absence and returned to
Boston, where I married Marian (Polly) Rogers. She returned
to Peru with me, and was broken in to mining camp life. In 1933,
my contract being over, we returned to Cambridge, where our
son Jim was born. I entered the Harvard Engineering School and
eventually obtained my doctoral degree. In the fall of 1936,
just after our daughter Faith was born, I was offered a position
in the Philippines with the Benguet Consolidated Mining Com-
pany, their gold mine being near Baguio. It was there that we
spent over four of the pleasantest years of our lives. The work
was interesting, life was gay, moncy sufficient, the country fasci-
nating and the people colorful. The threat of war, coupled with a
desire to see the States again and raise our children there, indi-
cated that we leave in the spring of 1941, and although we left the
islands with real regret, the Golden Gate was nevertheless a wel-
come sight. Many of our friends in the Islands were not so for-
tunate, and either spent the war in prison camps, or were killed.

The last part of 1941 I worked in Arkansas for the Reynolds
Mining Company, looking for bauxite. Ironically, we found so
much that I worked myself out of a job by Christmas time, but
soon found another in Mexico with the Compania Real del Monte
y Pachuca (United States Smelting, Mining and Refining Com-
pany), looking for lead, zinc and copper for the war effort. This
took us all to Pachuca, but I spent most of my time in the hills of
various parts of the country. I found the Mexicans outwardly
very friendly, but I detected an underlying feeling of distrust and
dislike of the “norte-americanos.’

[119 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In the early summer of 1944 I left Mexico, and on my wa
back to Boston stopped in Washington to see friends. I had had
no idea of becoming a “bureaucrat,” but before I left was per-
suaded to work as purchaser of lead and lead ores and concen-
trates from outside the United States for the Foreign Eco-
nomic Administration, an experience that was both instructive
and revealing. During that year we lived in Silver Spring, Mary-
land.

Just as the war closed I was offered my present position as ex-
ploration geologist with the American Smelting and Refining
Company, with headquarters in Salt Lake City. My work takes me
all over the west, though chiefly in Colorado. The last few
years I have spent much of my time codperating with my legal
friends in negotiating and drawing up contracts of various kinds
in connection with mining properties the company wishes to ex-
plore and, if they prove to be worthwhile, acquire. The complica-
tions which can arise in connection with mining real estate are
appalling to the uninitiated.

After all our years abroad it feels pretty good to be living
and working in the United States. For the first time in our married

life we have all our wedding presents under one roof, and have
bought a house, which we enjoy greatly, in spite of the things
which always seem to need to be done. In the winters the whole
family takes advantage of the superb skiing at Alta, and Brighton,
only an hour’s drive from town. Several summers we have tak-
en the long drive back to Cambridge and New Hampshire. Our
son, after spending three years at Exeter, has turned down Har-
vard and the East, and is now a freshman at Stanford. Say it not in
Cambridge, but I approve his choice. After all, the Stanford col-
ors are also Crimson. Our daughter attends Rowland Hall, a small
private school here, where she is a junior. My wife is very ac-
tive in community and church (Episcopal) affairs, and I am a
neighborhood commissioner for the Boy Scouts, and a member
of the board of trustees of Rowland Hall. As for politics, it was 4
long twenty years. Nuff said.

Searching for deposits of metals, which are so fundamental to
our form of civilization, even our very security, is a fascinating,
if at times discouraging, business, and if I had my life to live over
I should not change.

[ 120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM BENTON BOWERS

HOME apoRESS: 1550 N. Wieland Sc. Chicago 10, Ill.

Boas: Aug. 13, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Henry Smith Bowers, ’oo,
Margaret Thomas.

prepareD at: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: 8.8. cums laude, 1928(29); A.M., 1931.

maraisp: Rosamond Forbes, April 12, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced
1937); Katherine Harbison, Feb. 22, 1947, Winnetka, III.

MARVARD BROTHER: Paul Sachs Bowers, "37.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Physicist, U. S. Navy, Bureau of Ordnance,

IQgI-gs.
memem of: American Anthropological Society; Society for Applied An-
thropology, American Sociological Society.

I WORKED in anthropology and American archaeology for a
few years after graduation, but became somewhat disillusioned
after experience with big-time archaeology as it was at that time.
I then sought for a few years, chiefly in the Harvard Graduate
School, for something I could not define or find, which I know
now hardly existed then, and which I found many years later
in the new field of social anthropology.

In the later thirties I did some naval architecture at M. I. T,,
and this led me into a most modest and fascinating employment at
George Lawley and Sons in 1940. Besides the interest in tech-
nical matters of mold loft, steel fabrication, and so on, there was
an insight-giving, unstable situation of new Jabor force and new
management.

An opportunity to become more immediately involved in the
defense effort took me in early 1941 to work in the Navy Bureau
of Ordnance at Degaussing. Elere circumstances and knowledge
derived from Physics C, operating in a peculiar backwater of ap-
plied science, were adequate to make some contribution to the
technique of the magnetic treatment of ships. I spent the time
from May, 1941, to the end of the war in the Pacific Northwest
where I was eventually the “Senior Physicist,” first at the Deperm-
ing Station at the Bremerton Navy Yard and then at Portland.
Here again, besides the great interest of technical matters, there
was also a matter of sociological interest in the anomalous and
contrary-to-doctrine locus of authority in the mixed civilian and
military organization.

[ 121]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

After the war I came to Chicago to help develop a prefab
house with the architectural firm of H. T. Fisher and Associates.
It was a good house, but it went the way of most such efforts.
Then I worked at research and development of shopping centers.
In 1948 I went back to anthropology as a student at the University
of Chicago, where I found the levels of achievement and intellec-
tual maturity rather disconcertingly above those I recalled from
earlier university days. (I imagine there have been general and
widespread advances in these matters since 1928.)

In 1951 I went to do a temporary teaching job as lecturer in
social anthropology at Rhodes University in the Union of South
Africa and of course saw something of the tragic racial and ethnic
situation there, which probably cannot be solved by the people
who have the power for the solution, and which may be resolved
ultimately only by violence.

In a few months I expect to be looking for an academic job.

Socially and politically I am somewhat left of center, but gen-
erally charitable toward those in a similar position to the right.
In religious matters I am an anthropologist: interested, sympathet-
ic, concerned, perhaps involved, but not committed.

FLOYD EUGENE BOYS

HOME AppRESS: 704 W. Pennsylvania Ave., Urbana, Ill.

oFFice appress: University of Illinois, Urbana, IIl.

BoRN: Aug. 30, 1905, Kalamazoo, Mich. parents: Charles Edward Boys,
Myrtle Helen Ford. .

PREPARED AT: Public School, Kalamazoo, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.D. (Northwestern Univ.),
1932; s.M. (Michigan Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Juanita Matlock, Aug. 5, 1933, Indianapolis, Ind. cHiLDREN: Rachel
Matlock, May 29, 1935; Anne Montgomery, April 9, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Charles Boys, ’35.

occuPATION: Physician, associate professor of hygiene, University of Illinois,
mostly medical research.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army Medical Corps, 1935-40, as lieutenant;
transferred 1940 to Naval Medical Reserve Corps, lieutenant (senior
grade); discharged, 1943.

OFFICES HELD: President, Champaign County Torch Club, Urbana, 1952-53;
vestryman, St. Luke’s Church, Kalamazoo, 1938-39, Christ Church,
Indianapolis, 1944-48; assistant professor of surgery, University of Vir-

[122 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ginia Medical School, 1939-42; assistant professor of sociology, college
physician and medical consultant, Canterbury College.

MEMBER OF: Chapel of St. John the Divine, Masonic Lodge, Exchange
Club, 1950-52; University Hiker’s Club, since 1950; University Club,
since 1950.

PUBLICATIONS: Twenty-four articles in medical scientific literature; three non-
professional publications: Ford’s Tales of the Civil War, privately
printed, 1931; “O. B.,” short story, Virginia Spectator, May, 1939;
Leaves From a Student’s Journal, privately printed, Pilot Press, Plym-
outh, Ind., 1930.

WITHIN a few months of completing five years of hospital
training (university hospitals at Northwestern and Michigan),
I joined the faculty of the University of Virginia Medical School
(Charlottesville, Virginia) as assistant professor of surgery to do
surgical-medical research. This was continued until, after sever-
al interrupted periods of active military duty, I went on perma-
nent active duty in 1942.

After military discharge in 1943 (for lung infection never
diagnosed), I entered private practice of medicine in Indianapolis,
Indiana. While there I was college physician and medical con-
sultant, as well as assistant professor of sociology at Canterbury
College (Episcopal), Danville, Indiana. Unfortunately the col-
lege folded up in 1949-1950.

In 1949, largely on the basis of past interest and experience in
the field of chronic diseases, chronic fatigue, etc., I was offered
and accepted the position of associate professor of hygiene (health
education) at the University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois. My time
is divided between doing personal research in health-medical
areas, and in providing selected medical services to university de-
partments engaging in research work wherein the assistance of
a clinician is either required or desired. One of my plans or hopes
for the future is to be able to set up here at Illinois a clinical lab-
oratory for the study of chronic non-specific fatigue states —
one of the most common, important, and stimulating problems
encountered in everyday medical practice.

My hobbies are: (a) I greatly enjoy being out-of-doors and
follow this urge wherever possible. I do considerable of my own
gardening, go on regular University Hiker’s Club jaunts every
Saturday I am in town, continue with weekly exercise and sport
programs. Also, when possible, I try to spend seven to ten days

[123]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

each summer on the Gaspé Peninsula in French Canada, mostly
at the fishing village of Perce. (b) I dabble with a little home
piano playing, for family and a few close friends. (c) For the
past several years I have been trying to write some short stories.
Actually, I am interested in learning something about the old-
fashioned “vignette,” and my little literary attempts fall into this
category. The vignette lends itself well to a medical man as a
hobby, for vignettes usually concern themselves with short epi-
sodes of life. And that is the way a doctor sees life; he sees it in
the lives of his patients, friends, and family in similar short epi-
sodes. At the present time I have completed some nine to
twelve vignettes, have published one of them, and hope some-
day more of them will see the light of day (print, that is).

WILBUR EDWARD BOYSE

HOME ADDRESS: 210 N. rith St. Saginaw, Mich.

BORN: May 14, 1907, Saginaw, Mich. parents: Edward Ernest Boyse, | Bes-
sie Belle Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Saginaw High School, Saginaw, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-10926.

HENRY WILKINSON BRAGDON

HOME AppRESS: 171 High St., Exeter, N. H.

OFFice appress: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1906, Rochester, N. Y. parents: Claude Bragdon, Charlotte
May Wilkinson.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: a.B. cum laude, 1928; B.A. (Univ. of
Cambridge), 1930.

MARRIED: Katherine Dillaye Fowler, June 20, 1931, Syracuse, N. Y. cHIL-
DREN; David May, Sept. 12, 1932; Peter Wilkinson, Jan. 3, 1936.

occuPpaTioNn: Instructor in history.

OFFICES HELD: Examiner in American history, 1938-41; examiner and chief
examiner in social studies, 1943-51, College Entrance Examination Board;
president, New England Association of Social Studies Teachers, 1944-
45, Southern Section, New Hampshire Social Studies Teachers Associ-
ation, 1952-53; editor, New England Social Studies Bulletin, 1945-46;
member Central Committee, School and College Study of General
Education, Ford Foundation, 1952-53.

[124]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; New England Association
of Social Studies Teachers; National Council for the Social Studies;
American Academy of Political and Social Science; Newcomen Society,
American Civil Liberties Union; St. Botolph Club; Harvard Club of
New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles on teaching, history, educational testing,
in professional magazines; nearly completed history of United States,
United We Stand, to be published by Macmillan, 1953.

I SUPPOSE that writing one’s Twenty-fifth Reunion report
represents a sort of climacteric in one’s life, and I am surprised at
how little I have to tell. Save for two years abroad immediately
after leaving Harvard, my working years have been spent in
teaching, my vacations mostly in the open. Even two sabbatical
years, 1938 to 1939 and 1951 to 1952, were spent not in travelling,
as I had hoped, but in studying and writing history. I have re-
sisted opportunities to go into school administration or into
higher education principally because I greatly enjoy “the homely,
slighted shepherd’s trade” of classroom teaching. Perhaps if a
psychiatrist stretched me out on a couch to discover why I am a
passionate pedagogue he might find an inferiority complex com-
pensated for by the opportunity to dominate the young, or a
don’t-want-to-meet-a-payroll complex, or simple escapism. I don’t
know. I do know that Exeter is a fine place to teach — excellent
human material, effective tradition of hard work and self-reli-
ance, admirable leadership under Principal Bill Saltonstall.

My wife Katherine and I are beginning to feel we are getting
on, what with one son in Korea with the Signal Corps, another
taller than his father although still in school. My hobbies include
skiing, trout-fishing, and gardening (vegetables). In politics I am
an independent and not ashamed of it. It is us Mugwumps who
decide elections. As for religious belief, I believe in the Christian
ethic, even though uncertain as to whether Jesus was uniquely
divine. My strongest belief is a perhaps too optimistic faith in
man’s essential reasonableness and altruism, given any kind of
decent environment or any worthwhile cause to defend.

[125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MARSHALL HURD BRAGDON

HOME ADDRESS: 921 William Howard Taft Rd, Cincinnati 6, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 105 City Hall, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1906, Minneapolis, Minn. PARENTS: George Hurd Bragdon,
Alice Lucas Paterson.

PREPARED AT: Mechanic Arts High School, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREE: AB. (Wesleyan Univ.), 1930.

MarriED: Elspeth MacDuffie, May 18, 1935, Springfield, Mass. CHILD: John
Francis Reynolds (step-son), Nov. 30, 1926 (a. Jean Oberg, June 16,
1949). GRANDCHILD: Christine Beth Reynolds, Feb. 6, 1953.

occupation: Executive director, Mayor's Friendly Relations Committee
of Cincinnati (a city government agency created to deal with inter-
group problems and improve interracial and interfaith relations among
citizens).

orFices HELD: Co-founder and Board member (1947-51) of National Asso-
ciation of Intergroup Relations Officials; board member of the fol-
lowing Cincinnati organizations: Adult Education Council, 1946-52;
Urban League, 1947-; Fellowship House, 1948-; Conference of Chris-
tians and Jews, 1946-; Samuel Ach Fund for Citizenship, 1947-.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Chi; Sigma Delta Chi. —

PUBLICATIONS: Annual reports of the Mayor’s Friendly Relations Com-
mittee.

SINCE 1924 [ve had two colleges and two jobs, and enjoyed
all four. After freshman year at Harvard came time out; an
orthopedist tinkered on my polio ankle for two years. I then
transferred to Wesleyan, my parents’ college. There I made Phi
Beta Kappa on the second ballot (one Crimson-baiter put a black-
ball in the first, in rumored revulsion at my Harvard connec-
tion, but was talked out of it), In 1930 I graduated. In 1943
the alumni elected me to the Board of Trustees.

From October, 1930, to July, 1945, I was on the staff of the
Springfield (Mass.) Republican, as copyreader, then copydesk
editor, and during the war as editorial writer and book review
editor. In 1935 I married Elspeth MacDuffie (who as “Els-
peth” wrote much verse and prose for the New Yorker in its
early years). We lived in a lakeside cottage, and I paddled down
the lake to catch a bus to the office.

During the war I began studying and writing on racial and
other intergroup problems, and assisted the local schools to de-
velop the “Springfield Plan” of educating kids with positive
rather than prejudiced ideas of other groups. This interest

{ 126]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

produced Job #2. After the Detroit race riots of 1943, Cincin-
nati was one of the cities that set up agencies to avert or ease
such tensions.

Becoming executive director of the Mayor’s Friendly Rela-
tions Committee in August, 1945, I was one of eight or ten per-
sons in the country who started out cold to make the improve-
ment of race relations a workable function of local government
in their respective cities. In seven and a half years I’ve made lots
of mistakes in my share of that pioneering, but on balance have
had a richly rewarding role in the development of the new, spe-
cialized skills of this work. With my early colleagues in other
cities and those who started later, a national network of expe-
rience-swapping has been developed which gives every city the
benefit of any successful technique aimed at increasing under-
standing among groups, reducing discrimination and mobilizing
the good intentions of many citizens and groups toward such
ends.

This work has brought me into close contact with many
shapes of suspicions, fears, irrationality and ignorance that canker
human relations in an American city. The job is nervously ex-
hausting and often frustrating — but I would not swap with any-
one! It has shown me again and again the deep need which
people have to find the ways of teamwork and friendship with
all others whose lives they touch. To help them do that is a
great privilege.

In off time I’m apt to relax at my weekend cabin on the Ohio
River (in season), and harden and brown my muscles in my flat-
boat. Deepest refreshment comes in August from our annual
Maine vacation in our house on an island (Islesford) near Bar
Harbor. The rest of the year, a taste for who-dunits serves to
punctuate the heavy professional reading, speaking dates, and
meetings which project past 5 p. m.

Come to think of it, those twenty-five years have been ‘rather
fun.

[127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

LAWTON SLADE BRAYTON

HOME ADDRESS: 687 High St, Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sagamore Manufacturing Co, Fall River, Mass.

BORN: June 20, 1904, Fall River, Mass. parents: William Lawton Slade
Brayton, ’96, Mary Easton Ashley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

marrigD: Constance T. Learned, April 11, 1931, Norwich, Conn. CHILDREN:
William Lawton Slade, Nov. 2, 1933; Cornelia Learned, June 12, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lincoln Davol Brayton, °28, L1.B., ’31; Perry Ashley
Brayton, ’33; Richard Anthony Brayton, 37; Sherman Brayton, °38 (de-

ceased).
OCCUPATION: Textiles; assistant treasurer, Sagamore Manufacturing Company

and Foster Spinning Company.

oFFices HELD: Director, Sagamore Manufacturing Company, Foster Spinning
Company, B. M. C. Durfee Trust Company, American Mutual Liability
Insurance Company, Fall River Savings Bank, Fall River Co-operative
Bank, Fall River Gas Works Company, local charitable organizations;
second vice-president, National Association of Cotton Manufacturers;
vice-president, Community Fund of Greater Fall River (at present).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Fall River, Boston, and New York; Queque-
chan Club of Fall River; Acoaxet Golf Club; Newcomen Society.

I HAVE nothing spectacular to report about my activities for
the past twenty-five years. I am still in the textile business and
in spite of the ups and downs of the business enjoy it very much.

During the war years I did no military service. I did serve on
various home front organizations, however, and was an Air Raid
Warden. I also served on several Office of Price Administration
and War Production committees as a representative of the textile
industry. I found this work interesting, and I like to think we
did some good for the country in keeping prices on an even keel
and production schedules moving in the proper channels.

I believe that everyone should take a share in charitable work
in the community, so in recent years I have taken an interest in
the work of the Community Fund in Fall River and also the Chil-
dren’s Home. I have served on the Board of Directors of both
these organizations for several years. For the past few years I
have served as chairman of the Budget and Admissions Com-
mittee of the Community Fund. It is interesting work, and I feel
well repaid for the effort.

1 am also of the opinion that we all owe something to our school

{128 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and college, so I have taken an interest in Phillips Academy, An-
dover, and Harvard alumni affairs. I am presently vice-president
of the New England Andover Alumni Association and a vice-
president of the New England Division of the Associated Har-
vard Clubs.

My family consists of ason and daughter. Bill is is now at St. Law-
rence University and Cornelia at Mary C. Wheeler School in
Providence, Rhode Island.

- LINCOLN DAVOL BRAYTON

HOME ADDRESS: 1388 Robeson St., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 38 Rock St., F all River, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1905, Fall River, Mass. parents: William Lawton Slade
Brayton, '96, Mary Easton Ashley.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; LL.B., 1931-

MARRIED: Josephine G. Knowles, March 23, 1946, New Bedford, Mass.
CHILDREN: Stephen K., Jan. 12, 1947; Nathanael R., Jan. 21, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lawton Slade Brayton, ’28; Perry Ashley Brayton, °33;
Richard Anthony Brayton, 737; Sherman Brayton, ’38 (deceased).

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, Navy; entered active
service, Aug. 17, 1942; released to inactive duty, Feb. 14, 1946; duty in
American and Central Pacific theatres.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, clerk, Union Savings Bank; director, Foster Spinning
Company; Community Fund of Greater Fall River; treasurer, Children’s
Home of Fall River; First Congregational Society; Eisenhower-Nixon
Citizens Committee of Fall River; secretary, Fall River Bar Association;
president, Harvard Club of Fall River.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Fall River, Bristol County, and American Bar
Associations.

THE fall after I graduated from Law School I went to work for
the firm of Hurlburt, Jones and Hall in Boston. I left that firm
and Boston in 1936 and opened my own law office in Fall River.
A few months after Pearl Harbor I prevailed upon the Navy to
waive my newly discovered color blindness and to grant me a
commission as lieutenant. I was sent to indoctrination and intel-
ligence schools at Naval Air Station Quonset Point, Rhode Island,
and then to duty with Fleet Air Wing 14 at Naval Air Station
San Diego, California. After a year at San Diego I was ordered

[129 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

to Patrol Bombing Squadron 23 as air combat intelligence officer
and was with that squadron at Eniwetok, the Marianas, and Iwo
Jima on patrol and air sea rescue duty. I was released to inactive
duty in February, 1946.

Active duty in another field turned up in March, 1946, when I
married Josephine G. Knowles. For a year at this time I was
trust officer of a bank in Fall River, but I went back to the prac-
tice of law, re-opening my own office in March, 1947. I have
participated in the activities of a number of local charitable or-
ganizations and political committees, usually in connection with
fund raising or fund dispensing and was general chairman of the
first Community Fund Drive in Fall River.

MYER BRODY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 26 Glendson Rd., Needham 92, Mass.

porn: Aug. 27, 1907, Dedham, Mass. PARENTS: Louis Jacob Brody, Elizabeth
Falkof.

PREPARED AT: Dedham High School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; M.p. (Boston
Univ.), 1932.

marrieD: Ethel B. Silverman, March 15, 1936, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Hilda Razel, Jan. 19, 1937; Michael, Nov. 2, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Physician; general practice.

OFFices HELD: President, staff of Glover Memorial Hospital, Needham,

1949-50.
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society.

MY PRACTICE takes up all my time, but I do manage to get
a lot of pleasure and relaxation from my hobbies which are music
and watercolor painting. I have had some paintings on exhibit
and many requests for more —I can’t say the same for my singing.

GORDON KENNETH BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 303 Court St., Keene, N. H.

oFrice appress; Homestead Woolen Mills, Inc., West Swanzey, N. H.

Boas: May 15, 1905, Newport, R. I. parents: Henry Wheeler Brown, Emily
Richards Coffin.

PREPAKED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEAKS IN COLLECE: 1924-1928,

[ 130]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Persis C. Goodnow, July 27, 1928, Paris, France. cHILpREN: Emily
Jane, June 6, 1929 (a. Mr. Reynolds, June 7, 1952); Ann B., Sept. 24,
1930 (m. Mr. Dinkel, May 28, 1952); Digby G., June 15, 1935; Douglas
C., May 30, 1937; Duncan W., Sept. 14, 1938; Derek B., April 13,
1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sumner Eugene Brown, ’30.

OCCUPATION: President, Homestead Woolen Mills, Inc., and Dartmouth
Woolen Mills, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Pioneer Club leader, 1928-31; director, since 1936, trustee,
since 1934, president, 1936-38, Keene Y. M. C. A.; director, since 1929,
trustee, since 1935, vice-president, since 1946, Cheshire County Y. M.
C. A.; member Executive Committee, National Association Woolen
Manufacturers, 1943; trustee, Elliot Community Hospital, 1947-49, Con-
gregational Church, 1933-36; Boy Scout Cub master, 1944-47; treas-
urer, trustee of Trust Funds, Town of Swanzey, N. H., since 1934;
New Hampshire chairman, Andover Alumni Fund, 1948; member An-
dover Alumni Council, 1950-53; county chairman, New Hampshire
Children’s Aid Society, since 1947; president, Twin State Woolen Man-
ufacturers Outing, 1947.

MEMBER OF: Keene Country Club; St. Bernard Fish & Game Club; New
Hampshire Harvard Club. ©

AS NOTED above, I have a wife, six children, and a share in
two woolen mills, In my spare time I play tennis and fish.

HUBERT RUTHERFORD BROWN

HOME AppRESS: 131 Church St., Boonton, N. J.

OFFICE appRESS: 15 Broad St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Hubert Rutherford Brown,
Charlotte Rachel Whiteside.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MARRIED: Hope Curtis Foote (divorced); Florence L. Bacon, Sept. 30, 1939.
CHILDREN: Sheila Rutherford, June 19, 1935; Sterling Coatsworth, Aug.
19, 1936.

occupaTION: Fiduciary and tax accountant with Davis, Polk, Wardwell,
Sunderland & Kiendl.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Squadron A, ro1st Cavalry Reserve, sergeant
until 1936; U. S. Navy, storekeeper, first class, European Theatre,
1943-45.

MEMien oe: Mountain Lakes Club; Men’s Club; Boonton Township.

[131 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ROBERT IVES BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 70 Summit St., East Providence, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Providence National Bank, Providence, R. I.

BoRN: Dec. 4, 1904, Newtonville, Mass. parents: Arthur Ives Brown, Har-
riett M. Marcy.

PREPARED AT: Newton Classical High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MarRiED: Adeline Leonore DiNuccio, Aug. 1, 1931, Edgewood, R. I. cni-
DREN: Harriet Leonore Marcy, Jan. 23, 1933; Joyce Marie Bartholomew,
Dec. 28, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Finance,

TRUESDELL SPARHAWK BROWN

HOME apprEss: 18718 W. Topango Beach Drive, Malibu, Calif.

OFFice appress: University of California, Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: March 21, 1906, Philadelphia, Pa. paRENts: Carleton Brown, Emily
Truesdell.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, A.M., 1929.

OCCUPATION: Education.

JUNIUS HENRI BROWNE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 882 Southampton Drive, Palo Alto, Calif.

OFFice apprEess: Anglo California National Bank, San Jose, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1904, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Junius Henri Browne,
’o3, Helen Lee Krag.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass; Phillips Exeter _ Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: AB., 1928.

MaraieD: Veirs Choate Allnutt, Sept. 6, 1930, Stanford, Calif, CHILDREN:
Junius Henri, 3d, Feb. 14, 1936; Susan Choate, Dec. 20, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Manager, Contract Department, Anglo California National
Bank.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, S. Marine Corps, December, 1943-December,
1946; South Pacific, May, 1944-February, 1946; Honolulu, T. H., March-
October, 1946; inactive reserve to date; rank of major.

[132]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BANKING in New York, living in Connecticut to World War
II, with the exception of two years in Texas, mainly in Houston
(1938 to 1939). Remained in California on return to inactive
duty after World War II. Children now thorough Californians
and resentful of the over-crowding by foreigners from the Middle
West. Expect to remain here indefinitely.

~GERALD EMMET BRUEN

HOME ADDRESS: 21 J St., Hull, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 53 State St., Boston g, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTs: John Albert Bruen, Ella Jennie
Donnelly.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1932.

MARRIED: Jean F, Strout, Oct. 14, 1939, Milton, Mass. cHILDREN: Jean F.,
May 12, 1941; Susan M., Oct. 4, 1942; Barbara A., Nov. 20, 1943; Gerald
Emmet, Jr., April 23, 1947; Mary H., May 18, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Harry Francis Bruen, ’22; Allan Frederick Bruen, ’27.

OFFICES HELD: Master in Chancery, 1938-43; town counsel of Hull, since 1939;
town moderator, 1944-47; member School Committee, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF; Boston Bar; Norfolk County Bar; Plymouth County Bar; South
Shore Country Club; Hull Yacht Club,

RICHARD TREAT BRUERE

HOME aAppRESS: 6055 Drexel Ave., Chicago 37, Ill.

OFFICE apprEss: Classics 25A, University of Chicago, Chicago 37, Til.

BORN: Dec. 28, 1907, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Henry Bruére, Jane Munroe.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; PH.D.,
1936.

MARRIED: Carol Whitcomb, Dec. 27, 1937, Amsterdam, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Latinist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant and lieutenant commander, U. S.
Naval Reserve; service in and adjacent to Africa, Italy, and France; as-
sistant naval attaché, U. S. Military Mission, Moscow, U.S.S.R.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, assistant professor, associate professor, Division of
Humanities, Latin, University of Chicago; dean of students, Division
of Humanities, 1941-42, 1946-50, chairman, Latin Department, since

[ 133 ]

fen Me ATIC

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

1950, University of Chicago; managing editor, Classical Philology, since
1951.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in philological journals, in the main concerned with
Latin epic verse.

FROM 1928 to 1933 I stayed in France, engaged in various pur-
suits. From 1933 to 1936 I was once more at Harvard, obtaining a
Ph.D. in classics in June, 1936. From 1936 to 1937 I was in
Greece and from 1937 to 1942 at the University of Chicago, as a
teacher of Latin. I spent 1942 to 1946 in Africa, Europe, and the
Soviet Union as a lieutenant and a lieutenant commander, United
States Naval Reserve. Since 1946 I have been again teaching
Latin at the University of Chicago. At present I am associate
professor of Latin and chairman of the Latin Department. I am
managing editor of Classical Philology. 1 have no hobbies, or so-
cial or religious convictions. My political views are reactionary.

JOSEPH ANTHONY BRUGGEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 4204 N. Washington Rd., Fort Wayne, Ind.

OFFICE ADoREss: Barrett, Barrett & McNagny, Third Floor, Utility Bldg.,
Fort Wayne 2, Ind.

BorN: Dec. 28, 1906, Fort Wayne, Ind. parents: Henry Otto Bruggeman,
Helen Mary Trentman.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; Bella Vista School,
Tryon, N. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1928(27); LL.B. 1931.

MarrieD: Marie L. Bruggeman. cuiupreN: Marcia Lee; Henry A.; Anthony:
P.; Patrick J.; Joseph A.; Jack A.

occuPATION; Lawyer; member of firm of Barrett, Barrett & McNagny.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served with U.S. Army, 1942-46, American and
European theatres; private to captain, quartermaster Corps.

oFFices HELD: Secretary, Holsum Bakery Company, Fort Wayne.

KIRKE BRYAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 534 Swede St., Norristown, Pa.

BoRN: July 17, 1906, Carthage, Mo. parents: Millard Bryan, Pauline Kirke.
purpanep at: Carthage High School, Carthage, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1928-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(29); LL.B., 1932.
Mapzizp: Marie Shead, Dec. 27, 1941, Northeast, Pa.

Maxvarp saoTHER: Alden Bryan, ’35.

[134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT POST: Legal adviser, Norristown Draft Board.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1943—50, trustee, since 1943, Historical Society of
Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, vestryman, St. John’s Episcopal
Church, Norristown, since 1941; president, Norristown Art League,
1943-48; director, Norristown Public Library, since 1942, Norristown
Y.M.C.A., 1936-51; assistant editor, 1939-1941, editor, 1942-1943, Mont-
gomery County Law Reporter; solicitor, Montgomery County Prison
Board, since 1945. :

MEMBER OF: Pennsylvania Bar Association; Montgomery Bar Association;
The Philobiblon Club, Philadelphia; several historical societies.

AFTER my graduation from the law school i in 1932, I began to
practise in Norristown with Wallace M. Keely, and I have been
associated with him ever since, as a country lawyer, although only
seventeen miles from Philadelphia. In these Class records we de-
vote a good deal of space to the high spots, but how about the
twenty-five years of just plugging along?

As for my “social, political, or religious convictions,” the offices

and organizations listed above are as illustrative as a long exposi-
tion. As for “family” I can list only Marie, but she enters, or
should enter, into every line of this record.
“Travels, hobbies.” We have a winter vacation in Vermont,
and a summer vacation (during hay fever season) in Vermont
and on Rocky Neck in East Gloucester, Massachusetts, where my
brother Alden, an artist, has a studio. My tennis is better than it
was in college (how many can say the same?), and we ride
horses a good deal. As Marie teaches riding during part of the
summer in a girls’ camp near Norristown, I am frequently in
camp, too. I have even judged some horse shows, minor ones.

Most of my loafing hours are devoted to collecting and to some
writing: on these subjects I hope I show a decent restraint in the
matter of enthusiasm. I am a book collector, and we are antique
collectors. The books concern various fields of American litera-
ture and Americana, such as American first editions, Montgomery
County, American children’s books, Abraham Lincoln, and the
Pennsylvania~-Germans. We have the most extensive collection
of A. Edward Newton ever assembled (a name not well enough
known in American literature). As for antiques, some of our
fields of collecting are old quilts, Gaudy Dutch pottery, Ameri-
can pewter, glass, and homespun linens,

[135]

HARVARD GLASS OF 1928

My writing has ranged from poetry to local history, some of
which has been published in local history periodicals, and some I
have had printed privately. Each year at Christmas time I issue
a booklet or broadside. This last Christmas, it was a poem,
“Bloom Now, Ye Hawthorn.”

DAVID BUBLICK

HOME ADDRESS: 1109 E. 18th St. Brooklyn 30, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Law Book Co., 272 Flatbush Ave. Ext., Brooklyn I,
N.Y.

BORN: June 6, 1906, Hoboken, N. J. parents: Gedaliah Bublick, Ella Kossoff.

PREPARED AT: Talmudical Academy, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925, 1926-1927.

MARRIED: Judith Sookne, Feb. 27, 1930, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: Linda,

Feb. 21, 1937; Aaron, July 7, 1942.
HARVARD BROTHER: Emanuel Bublick, Lu.B., 34.
occupation: Writer for radio and television and for legal publications.
PUBLICATIONS: Some forty or fifty articles in Corpus Juris Secundum.

HAVING come to the conclusion that the man is not yet born
who could forever resist the relentless pressure of the Class
secretary, I yield and reluctantly set down the highs and lows of
the “life I late have led.”

I was able to wangle only two years at Harvard; but even 1 that
relatively short exposure left its clear imprint on me. To this
day, I take a morbid interest in the struggles of Harvard football
teams, and a measure of pride in Harvard’s outspoken defense of
academic freedom.

For several years after I left Cambridge I was pleasantly and
gainfully engaged in social service, directing the affairs of a large
settlement house on the East Side of New York. At the same
time, I was making an oblique approach to the practice of law
by a combination of law school and office study (reading Coke
and Blackstone).

Came the crash — knocking the props from under my institu-
tion; and, while Wall Street tycoons were tossing themselves
from windows like so much ticker tape, I got married. My “blue
period” lasted through 1936. I practised a little law, wrote a
couple of plays that were try-out successes but never got to
Broadway, travelled with my wife through Europe and the Near

[ 136]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

East, working our way from city to city, returned home, and
begot a daughter.

In 1937 I became a law writer, first for Commerce Clearing
House, and later as associate editor of American Law Book Com-
pany, publishers of the great law encyclopedia, Corpus Juris. In
1942 our second child, a boy, was born.

In 1944 I wrote my first radio script (Famous Jury Trials), and
have since written several hundred in collaboration with my wife.
Our credits are varied, ranging from comedy (Fred Allen) and
situation comedy (The Aldrich Family) through who-dun-its
(Hercule Poirot, Counterspy), documentaries (Exploring the Un-
known, Heritage), and a flock of miscellaneous and unclassifiable.
We are currently turning out, among other items, that great
classic The Shadow (he clouds men’s minds so they cannot see
him —a trick he doubtless picked up in Washington), a spy-
opera on I'V Foreign Intrigue, and the second act of the great
American play.

In politics I classify as a liberal. I voted for F.D.R. as often as
the law allowed — and my total political outlook is pretty well
represented by Adlai Stevenson. I am violently and unalterably
opposed to communism and communists; but I am dismayed at
the witch-hunting, suppression of freedom and thought control
perpetrated in the guise of anti-communism.

In religion and philosophy —I am, I suppose, an atheist and
materialist. My gods are reason and logic; my ethics — the great-
est good to the greatest number.

I am a sucker for sports — spectating, that is; my participation is
limited to an occasional round of golf. I’m keen on bridge and
charades, and a worshipper of the quip and bon mot. I’m fairly
responsive to music and poetry; but ballet leaves me cold and I
hate opera. I believe a year of psychoanalysis should be a pre-
requisite to a college degree — like swimming across the pool four
times.

WARREN JAMES BUCK

HOME ApprEss: Bayne Street, Norwalk, Conn.
OFFIcE appREss: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1 Madison Ave., New York
10, N.Y.

[137]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Born: Aug. 30, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Louis Ira Buck, Florence Hux-
table.

PREPARED AT: Middletown High School, Middletown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: $B. 1928.

MARRIED: Jean Hillhouse, July 28, 1939, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Jonathan
J. Oct. 8 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard David Buck, ’26, a.s1., °34.

occuPATION: Insurance, tax analyst.

MY LIFE since graduation has been of the inconspicuous type

which the average white-collar worker leads.

In 1941 we gave up apartment life in New York City and moved
to Norwalk, Connecticut, where our nearest neighbor is hidden
from view by trees. While we gained our objective by this
move, I also gained some three hours a day of commuting.

Commuting is a necessary evil, however, if a person wants to
live in the country where he can mow the lawn once a week, rake —
leaves, paint the house, fix the pump at intervals, dig in the garden,
water the lawn, and occasionally (you should pardon the ex-
pression) fertilize it. In your spare time you can sit back and
relax in the sun on your mowed, raked, watered, and well-fed
lawn and look up at the roof which reminds you that it will
need replacing in another year.

It didn’t take me long to learn that I was not a gardener and
that flowers wouldn’t grow for me even if there had been enough
sun on the garden. In order to forestall any possible future urge
I might have to renew my attempts at gardening I acquired a
twenty-by-twenty-foot workshop which I placed in the exact
center of the garden. This happily solved my horticultural prob-
lems and also provided a wonderful place to putter about in,
especially at the hour dinner dishes are to be washed.

So I should like to say to my urban-dwelling classmates that
life in the country can be beautiful—if you don’t take it too
seriously,

HUMPHREY WARREN BUCKLER, JR.

HOME Appress: 1002 Bellemore Rd. Baltimore, Md.

OFFice appress: 800 Baltimore Life Bldg., Charles & Saratoga Sts., Baltimore,
Md.

Bors: May 27, 1906, Baltimore, Md. parents: Humphrey Warren Buckler,
Mary Coleman Herbert.

[138]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Park School, Baltimore, Md.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; LL.B. 1931.
marRIED: Helen Rutherford McCormick, Sept. 8, 1934, Bar Harbor, Maine.
CHILDREN: Humphrey Warren, 3d, Aug. 16, 1935; Joan Rutherford,
June 12, 1937; Lewis Morris, April 21, 1940.
occuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Niles, Barton, Morrow, Yost & Dankmeyer.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Assistant counsel, Office of the General Counsel,
Navy Department, 1943-46.
OFFIcEs HELD: Member, Balumore City Council, 1947-51; board member,
Baltimore Family and Children’s Society, 1935-43, American Association
for the United Nations; trustee, The Park School, Baltimore; chairman,
Maryland Volunteers for Stevenson 1952; lecturer in jurisprudence,
' University of Baltimore.
MEMBER OF: Baltimore Urban League; Baltimore ADA; Baltimore Sym-
phony Orchestra; Maryland Mental Hygiene Society; Baltimore Citi-
- zens Planning and Housing Association; Baltimore Junior Association
Commerce; Hamilton St. Club; Bachelors Cotillon; L’Hirondelle Club;
_ Baltimore Assembly; Guana Island Club, Virgin Islands.

I' SUPPOSE the best summary of the past quarter-century of my
life is that, although I have found the theory and practice of
law fascinating and full-time, I have at the same time developed
into an ardent Liberal, unlike most of the members of my pro-
fession. Happily, during my immature college and law school
years, the fleshpots of Boston were so attractive that I passed over
whatever groups there were about, subversive or otherwise, which
might have started me thinking sooner about social, economic
and international problems. But I started work in the depths of
the depression, the fleshpots dried up, and I could no longer
escape my conscience and my surroundings. I soon found I could
work on corporate reorganization all day and on public welfare
half the night, and did. This activity led me into the fight for
slum clearance, especially public housing, and from there the
transition was easy to advocacy of broad municipal planning and
reform. In those days people indulged, even applauded, these
minor deviations.

I didn’t burn all my bridges, however. Somehow my family
continued to summer in Bar Harbor and, after I took off lots of
weight, Patty McCormick finally agreed to marry me there in
1934. The wedding was a great success — almost like old times.
Patty is a crusader, too, with all the indignation of the Irish added.

[ 139]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

We go back to Bar Harbor occasionally for refreshing interludes
of disapproval and lobster. We have three children — boy, girl,
boy — and the oldest will, I hope, enter Harvard next fall. He is
very conservative now but I detect possibilities of growth in
him too.

Just before the war, we joined the Guana Island Club, in the
Virgin Islands, formed by Dick Sanger, Tom Elliott and others.
This is a glorious spot that should be endowed as a haven for
aging Classmates. We managed to get there only once, but some
hard winter soon I expect the doctor to order me there for a
prolonged convalescence. It is a wonderful antidote for a do-
gooder because everyone there is so content with his lush squalor.
In the war years and since, with the children still young, our
vacations have been short and spent mostly in camping — every-
where from the Great Smokies to the Adirondacks — but now I
fear we have reached the stage where it appears that summers are
made for boys to be attractive in, and that I shall have to take off
weight again so as not to embarrass my sensitive daughter when
I appear in trunks at some resort.

When the war broke, everyone expected me to help keep the
home fires burning, but fortunately, I was urged to join the Office
of the General Counsel of the Navy, which turned out to be the
realization of all my dreams of how a first class law office should
be run. For three years | worked with hard enthusiasm in the
vital field of military procurement and in my few free moments
became obsessed with the idea that one should seek public office
if he had any real faith in his political convictions.

Returning to Baltimore in 1947, I made my feeble try and, to
the surprise of all, was elected to the lowly city council. After
four years of exciting turmoil and building an independent or-
ganization, I tried for the next higher local office and just missed
by a hair, upsetting all the local bosses. My appetite whetted, I
wanted to run for Congress in 1952 but the illness of one of m
partners kept me out. Instead, I got the job of heading the Vol-
unteers for Stevenson in Maryland and stumped the State for
Adlai. The results were heartbreaking but I am ready to start
again whenever he is, and [ am not alone.

“Nowadays, I find increasing concern with the assaults on civil
libertics and on the United Nations, and such free time as I have

[140]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

available is devoted to rear guard actions against these assaults.
The years have rolled by, however, and days for the clients plus
nights for the cause aren’t so easy any more. This irks me.
Sooner than I know, perhaps, I shall have to content myself with
cultivating my garden. Incidentally, I am a strong advocate of
‘composting.

JULIAN GERARD BUCKLEY

HOME AppREss: Goose Hill Road, Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fiduciary Trust Co. 1 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1905, Geneseo, N. Y. parents: Julian Gerard Buckley, °87,
Josephine Louis Gilbert.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A. (New York Univ.),
1937; PH.D. (ibid.), 1952.

MARRIED: Christina Whitehouse Boardman, April 26, 1938, New York, N.
Y. cHiLpren: Christina Whitehouse, April 6, 1940; Sarah Gilbert, Jan.
27, 1943; James Lawrence, June 6, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Crowell Taylor Buckley, ’32, a.m., 37,

OCCUPATION: Economist and teacher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Member, New York State (Home) Guard; served
as supply sergeant for three years; s1st Regiment (Squadron “A”)
stationed in New York City.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Special Assistant at Federal Reserve Bank of
New York, 1942-43.

MEMBER OF: Down Town Association; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club;
Lloyds Neck Bath Club; Municipal Forum, Municipal Analysts; New
York Society of Security Analysts,

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in Commercial Financial Chronicle; “The
Role of the Commercial Banks in Financing Wars,” 1812-1945 (may be
published).

AFTER graduation I took an extended trip to Europe with Fred-
die Roberts, ’28, visiting a number of countries. On my return I
was employed by the Bank of America, N. A., at 44 Wall Street.
My short but promising career was terminated, however, by the
panic of 1929 and subsequent depression, which swept the Bank
of America into the arms of the National City Bank and me into
the streets. For the next eight years I was employed as a security
analyst at a firm called Young & Ottley, Inc. These years were
uninteresting and tedious. They were broken, however, by one
trip to Europe in 1936.

In 1938, I married Christina Whitehouse Boardman and short-

[ 141]

|
a tM RS

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ly thereafter moved to Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, where
we were fortunate enough to build a delightful home. This house
is now filled to the top with three noisy children who add a
tremendous amount to our life and keep us young.

In 1939 I entered the brokerage firm of Delafield and Dela-
field again as an analyst. After three years of this, World War
II broke out and unable to obtain a commission, I went to the
Federal Reserve Bank. Here I was a special assistant and investi-
gator of the transfers of funds by unfriendly people. Towards
the end of the war I sought and found a job at the Fiduciary
Trust Company. At present I am the manager of the portfolio of
the Fiduciary Trust Company and in charge of their large bond
department of one man (me).

Also I have been engaged in intensive research and study at
New York University. Taking time off from the bank as well as
evenings, I have at last (October, 1952) obtained the much-
sought-for Ph.D. degree. Also, I have a position on the faculty of
New York University. I find teaching more interesting than bank-
ing and may shift more to that line. Thus my career since college
has not been distinguished by great honors or wealth, but if the
next twenty-five years are as happy as the last twelve, I shall
have no complaint, in fact, be very, very pleased indeed.

CHARLES CLARK BUCKNAM

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Fairfield St., Montclair, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 393 Seventh Ave. Room 2118, New York 1, N. Y.

BoRN: Jan. 21, 1906, Newton, Mass. parents: Charles Calvin Bucknam, Maud
Lou Clark.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.; "Valley Ranch School,
Valley, Wyo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1927-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A. cum laude,
19313 A.B. (Stanford Univ.), 1928.

MARRIED: Margaret Thayer Hatch, May 2, 1936, Chestnut Hill, Mass. crit-
DREN: Calvin Hatch, Feb. 19, 1941; Sandra Clark, March 29 1943.

HARVARD BroTHER: Gordon Bucknam, M.B.A, 28.

OCCUPATION: Investment analyst, specializing in railroad securities for Equi-
table Life Assurance Society.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RecorD: Flight training as aviation cadet at Pensacola,
Florida, 1929-30; ensign and licutenant (jg) Organized Naval Reserve
at Squanrum, Mass., and Anacostia, D. C., 1930-40, active duty January,

[142]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

-1941-March, 1946; flight instructor, Anacostia; Aviation Cadet Selection
Board, Washington, D. C.; personnel officer at Naval Air Operational
Training Command, Jacksonville, Fla., executive officer, NAS, Mel-
bourne, Fla.; commanding officer, NAAS, North Bend, Ore.; command-
ing officer, ACORN 39, Port Hueneme (Calif.), Point Iroquois (Hono-
lulu), Tinian (Mariana Islands); planning officer, staff of Commander
Naval Air Bases, Okinawa, 1947-49; commanding officer FASRon 64
(Organized Reserve Squadron), Floyd Bennett Field, N. ¥., since 1949;

- Volunteer Aviation Unit (VAU 3-6), New York (located Montclair,
N. J.); present rank: commander, USNR, since Jan. 1, 1944.

oFFices HELD: Historian, Aviation Commandery of the Naval Order of the
United States.

MEMBER OF: New York Society of Security Analysts; Alpha Sigma Phi
Fraternity; Reserve Officers Association; Sons of the Revolution; Har-
vard Club of New Jersey; Harvard Alumni Association; Stanford
Alumni Association.

HOW bravely we all ventured forth into the rosy world of 1928!
For one like myself, who majored in economics, the booming
stock market offered tantalizing riches galore. I remember one
of our classmates who told me a year after graduation that if he
could only have had control of his twenty-first birthday inheri-
tance of 15,000 dollars he would already have run it up to a
hundred thousand and been on his way to a million. Certainly
that was what a good many of us dreamed of doing and expected
to have achieved by the time of this present old-age date of
twenty-five-years afterward.

For myself, I certainly cannot attest to that achievement of a
million. What I have acquired seems to rattle loudly but lonely
in the inflation cupboard of “Old Mother Truman.” I shall not
starve, but neither have I acquired that private plane or yacht or
summer estate of one’s early expectations. At least the usual mod-
icum of worldly goals has come my way —a home, a new car
and an old car, a solid job of average variety but reasonable com-
panionships and prospects, and a family of a swell wife and two
youngsters (boy twelve, girl ten), a-a-and mother-in-law.

Probably there are few of my classmates who remember that
I took my junior year at Stanford University, California (where
I picked up an extra A.B, degree), returning to join the Class for
senior year. It was a valuable experience that I shall suggest to
my son — seeing other parts of the country and making good
friends that have lasted over the years.

[ 143]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Perhaps a short review of the years since 1928 will complete my
SUOIY:
1928 — A summer behind the counter selling tickets to Bermuda,
that island paradise that I have not yet been to, but may make it
for a silver honeymoon.
1928-1929 — First year at Harvard Graduate School of Business
Administration (I couldn’t keep away from the books).
1929-1930 — A year out to take aviation training at Pensacola,
Florida, in the United States Naval Reserve; ended up an ensign
and naval aviator.
1930— A summer as ranger, Yellowstone National Park, Wyo-
ming; a grand experience that really crystallized my admiration for
western scenery and people.
1930-1931 — Returned for second year at Harvard Business
School; managed to wangle an M.B.A. with distinction in trans-
portation.
1932-1934 — Then the effect of the depression hit, so I added a
short stretch of courses in a practical business school and several
temporary jobs doing research, statistically speaking, for the
Joint Committee of Railroads and Highway Users, then the
Pennsylvania Railroad, followed by the Massachusetts Census of
Unemployment.
1934-1938 — Research assistant for the New York, New Haven &
Hartford Railroad in New Haven. It was great having a railroad
pass — the year before I was married I put in 17,000 miles on it
between New Haven and Boston or New York, and didn’t spend
a single weekend in the enemy’s camp (Yale). Managed to help
the railroad get into bankruptcy but couldn’t seem to manage to
get them out!!
1938-1939 — Cost analyst on trucking with the New England
Motor Rate Bureau in Boston; all my wife will say of this was
that it was lucky we lived near the families because I never got
home for dinner.
1939-1941 — Analyst, Civil Aeronautics Board, Washington,
D.C.

1941-1946 — Five years on active duty with the Navy. The
Navy certainly keeps one jumping: Washington, D. C.; Jackson-
ville and Melbourne, Florida; North Bend, Oregon; then a year
and a half in the Pacific on Tinian and Okinawa. Looking back

[ 144]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at it, I can’t complain. There were lots of good times sandwiched
into the work and uncertainty. I sure hope someday my young-
ster will choose the Navy for his branch of the service, if such
must be. I started as a lieutenant, junior grade, and ended a com-
mander, United States Naval Reserve. The stripes are nice, but
the hours were long.

1946-to date — After two months back with the Civil Aeronau-
tics Board, I decided to leave the government payroll to the New
Dealers, et al., and became an investment analyst with Equitable
Life Assurance Society of the United States. We live in Mont-
clair, New Jersey, where the taxes are high but the schools are
good. I can’t say I like commuting, but working in New York
leaves little choice. I guess we'll be here ten or twenty years
more.

All in all, it’s been a varied life but a good one. I am certainly
glad not to have spent the twenty-five years in one beaten path
looking at the same old people and scenery. Nearly seventeen
years of marriage with ups and downs in happenings and disposi-
tions have jelled into a pretty satisfying achievement in com-
panionship; and two youngsters provide the question marks for
the future.

DONALD STANTON BULLOCK

HOME aAppRESS: Hatchville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 152 Palmer Ave., Falmouth, Mass.

BoRN: April 12, 1905, Glen Ridge, N. J. PARENTS: Stanton David Bullock,
Edna Franklin Stevens.

PREPARED AT: Newton Classical High School, Newtonville, Mass.; Manter
Hall School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927, 1930-1931. DEGREE: M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1937.

MARRIED: Frances Stanley Kimball, June 28, 1930, Dedham, Mass. CHILDREN:
David Brewster, June 12, 1932; Donald Paige, Sept. 11, 1935; Christopher
Knight, 1940.

~ OCCUPATION: Medicine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Thirty-nine months in Air Force, 1942-45: CBI
Theatre two years; U. S. fifteen months.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Massachusetts Medical Society, Falmouth Yacht Club;
Theta Kappa Psi Medical Fraternity.

THERE has been no change since the last Report. After thirty-
nine months in the Air Force during the last war, I resumed my

[145]

csi <oovicate 2 MARA REL TEN ANA DN e ANN ids,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

medical practice in Falmouth. Last spring I sold my home on the
Village Green in Falmouth and purchased a forty-acre farm in
Hatchville, a section of Falmouth. The farm is not used to pro-
duce, but is a wonderful place for the boys to ride and for me to
train bird-dogs. ,

WILLIAM NELSON BUMP

HOME ADpREsS: 10 Coolidge Hill Rd. Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

Born: April 21, 1906, Syracuse, N. Y. PARENTs: Fred Roswell ‘Bump, Caro-
line Haughwout.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MarRRIED: Catharine Richardson, Oct. 14, 1939, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Lucile, Sept. 11, 1941; William Richardson, Feb. 7, 1944; Frederick
Haughwout, Aug. 28, 19465 Catharine, March 29, 1948.

occuPATION: Air transportation; regional vice-president, American Airlines,
Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Naval Reserve, 1927.

» MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Rotary Club of Boston.

TO TRY to present a correct picture of Bump and his family I
might start by saying that freshman year was my first contact with
Massachusetts, and it convinced me that I wanted to live there.
After twenty-four years most people think 1 am a Yankee. I
don’t know whether I should be boasting about that or not, but it
represents something of an accomplishment.

I was fairly well established in the air transportation business,
American Airlines of course, when I made the smartest decision
of my life which was to marry Catharine Richardson. Since 1938
we have struggled with the economic problem together, managed
to forge ahead little by little and had a grand time doing it.
There’s a legend attached to our marriage, that my wife married
me because I had a private airplane and she wanted to learn to
fly; my side of the story is that I had to sell the airplane to pay for
the wife. We have been most fortunate in having four children,
Lucile and Billy, both of whom will be with us at the Reunion,
and Fred and Catharine, who are seven and five respectively. We
have a farm in Brattleboro, Vermont, and hope to build up a reg-
istered Holstein herd — we have a start. Meanwhile we carpenter

[146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

house and barn (originally built to be a hangar and now ho
a farm family of four, the cows, horse, chickens, machinery,

and spend our leisure(?) working on machinery opportunitie
friends and social activities.

Weare fairly regular church-goers and belong to the Episc
Church. We are Republicans, a little on the independent (?)

having voted occasionally for local Democrats, but now we
full out for Ike and the Republican state ticket.

Both Catharine and I enjoy antique automobiles and have tl
with an envious eye on many more. The children had pis
rings instead of teething rings. Catharine has had artistic train:
and in addition to feeding and clothing all six of us, sculptures
occasional head of one of the children with great success. AL
all we think the good old days are not better than today, and
are enjoying life.

4

ROBERT LORING BUNTING

HOME apprEss: “Hillside,” Embreeville, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lukens Steel Co., Coatesville, Pa.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1905, Flushing, N. Y. parents: James Ernest Bunting, ’¢
- Agnes Mary Gillies.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.; Dean Academy, Franklis
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. .
MaRRIED: Evelyn Erdman Bachman, Jan. 22, 1932, Emmaus, Pa, CHILDREN
Robert Loring, Jr., July 23, 1933; Evelyn Allein, July 13, 1937; Charles

Bachman, Feb. 28, 1940; William Farnum, 2d, Aug. 1, 1943.
HARVARD BROTHER: James Ernest Bunting, ’25.

occuPATION: Superintendent, Miscellaneous Finishing Department, Lukens
Steel Company. .

OFFICES HELD: President, Foreman’s Club of Coatesville and Vicinity, Eastern
Pennsylvania Foreman’s Clubs Association; Jonathan Bible Class of the
Presbyterian Church of Coatesville; chairman, District, and Camping

Activities, Chester County Council, Boy Scouts of America; secretary,
Newlin Township School.

[ 147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

BOULDIN GAYLORD BURBANK

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Wolcott Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raymond Holdsworth & Co., 15 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1906, Wilmington, N. C. parents: Stephen Frontis Burbank,
Elizabeth Gaylord.

PREPARED AT: Punahou School, Honolulu, T. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1928; c.p.A. (Massa-
chusetts), 1946.

MarrigeD: Janet Goddard, Oct. 8, 1929, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN: Barbara
Louise, Jan. 31, 1931; Bouldin Gaylord, Jr., Oct. 27, 1933.

occupation: Certified public accountant.

OFFices HELD: Treasurer, Winchester Unitarian Society, 1940-44, trustee,
Punahou School United States Endowment Fund, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Winchester Unitarian Society; Massachusetts Society of Certi-
fied Public Accountants, Inc.,; Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex.

DURING the first eleven years out of college I worked succes-
sively as a production manager in a textile mill, as an insurance
agent, and in a stock brokerage office. Finally, in 1939, I settled in
the field of public accounting, mostly because I thought my fond-
ness for mathematics would be helpful. It was and has continued
to be. After six years of intensive and varied practice with the
same firm with which I am still associated, coupled with three
years of summer school, I passed the eighteen hours of examination
that have permitted me to practise as a certified public ac-
countant in Massachusetts.

Being an accountant has its compensations. Although I fuss,
cuss, and fume, for three months each year, I can relax for nine.
From January through March not only am I hampered by snow-
storms that cause the evidentally inevitable break-down of the
Boston and Maine commuter service, but I am inundated by an
avalanche of tax returns, audits, book closings, reports, and other
harassments that overwhelm an accountant as he tries to compress
most of a year’s work into three months. From April through
December, however, there is time to live at a less hectic pace —
to work a little, to play a little, and judging by my waist-line, to
eat a little too much.

There are four of us Burbanks, so numerically anyway I imag-
ine we are a nearly typical Harvard family. Janet, my heart-
throb during my four years in college and my heart-throb and
wife ever since, still tolerates and abides me. Barbara Louise

[ 148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(“Buttons”), our daughter, graduated from Bouvé-Boston School
of Physical Education and from Tufts College in June, 1952. She
is at present teaching at the Shipley School in Bryn Mawr, Penn-
sylvania. Besides being a teacher she is a demon (modern and
“boogie-woogie”) pianist and a fervent ice skater. Bouldin, Jr.
(“Sandy”), our son, was big, quick, and strong enough to play
guard for three years on some good Winchester High School
football teams. I have had the thrill of watching him make a good
_ play and of saying to myself, audibly of course to surrounding
spectators, “That’s my boy!” But his football days are behind
him, I think, because in his senior year in high school he suffered a
“clipping” injury, and now has a “trick” knee. At present he is
finishing his second year at Trinity College in Hartford, Con-
necticut, having avoided, according to his reasoning, “the im-
personal bigness of a place like Harvard.”

I have no unusual hobbies. The family shuttles between our
Winchester home and our summer cottage at Manomet, about
eight miles south of Plymouth, Massachusetts. Except for seeing
our friends and participating in the affairs of our church and in
one or two clubs, we keep pretty close to the family hearths. Much
of my spare time is used up in refurbishing rooms, repairing fur-
nishings, painting, pruning hedges, trying to build sailing boats (I
have a “corker,” nearly finished, that I started in 1944), cutting
grass, etc. I take delight in foisting the results of my culinary
prowess on my family and friends, not always, I am happy to
say, to their chagrin. Athletic hobbies in which I used to indulge
extensively have had to be curtailed or eliminated entirely, be-
cause of a back injury I suffered in 1951.

Even if I have to sleep on a board and have been slowed down
to a walk, life is still full for me and I look forward to the future
unafraid — if the Republicans stay in power, of course.

DAVID EDMUND BURKE

HOME apprEss: 158 Hampton Rd., Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 16 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

Born: April 8, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: David Arthur Burke, Claire
Bateman.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D. C.

[ 149 ]

$$ $n sis ante niin lft RNAI atic tet |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: AB. 1928.

Marriep: Harriet M. Thayer, Sept. 12, 1930, Garden City, Long Island,
N. Y. curcpren: Carolyn Howard, July 28, 1934; David Thayer, June
25, 1936; Maybel Ellen, Nov. 11, 1943.

occuPaATION: Trust administration, Bankers Trust Company.

MEMBER OF: Amateur Astronomers Association of New York; Royal As-
tronomical Association of Canada; Sons of the Revolution; Cathedral
Club of Garden City.

TO SIT down to account for one’s stewardship of twenty-five

years is a startling experience to me. I have not been accustomed

to looking backwards and in doing so now I am impressed with

a sense of what I haven’t done. In reviewing my activities I

should like to be able to point with pride to unusual achievements,

a war record of accomplishment, outstanding leadership. Alas,

I have none of these.

A year after graduation I met the girl I thought, and as time
has proved, was the answer to my dreams. Meeting and catch-
ing were, however, two different things, the latter entailing a
considerable amount of stalking with the saucer of salt.

My life now seems to be largely one of domestic activities,
referred to in smart circles as drab, unimaginative, stuffy, insular,
etc.; I commute to and from work every morning and evening,
read some, play bridge, attend Parent-Teachers Association meet-
ings — in short, follow the regular suburban routine.

Notwithstanding the above, we have had a lot of fun. Our
three children have provided an endless source of pleasure and
things would be pretty empty without them. Our oldest, Carolyn,
is a freshman at Sweet Briar and, I hope, learning something in
addition to how to win friends and influence boys. By the time
this appears in print I shall have found out. Our second, Dave,
hopes to be in the Class of ’58. Thank the Lord that our littlest,
Ellen, is still a member of the pigtail set.

It is a little hard to describe my work because, like Topsy, it
“jest growed.” For want of a better generic title I have called
it Trust Administration, but actually it has more to do with spe-
cial corporate problems involving broad fiduciary experience.
In addition I am charged with the administrative care of our two
Common Trust Funds, a job which has snow-balled from modest

beginnings. To me my work is interesting and thought pro-
voking.

[150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Although my own personal hobby has always been star-gazing,
our corporate family avocation has been rock-collecting. We
have had many pleasant hours and vacations on the rockpile.
To the children, carrying a sweater from one room to another
can be a terrible task. But if I pick up a twenty-pound rock and
comment on a fossil or a crystal embedded in it, they will be
glad to lug it back to headquarters, regardless of distance.

Another corporate family enterprise has been the erection of
a small summer camp or cottage in Connecticut. Mr. Blandings
had nothing on me; in fact, at this stage I could probably tell
him a thing or two. When you start something like this from
scratch, with no power, no water, no helpful neighbors — just
the ground and a bunch of trees — you have a tiger by the tail.
Or so it seemed at first. However, progress has been made each
spring and summer until now the tiger has’ become almost a
pussycat.

A few days ago I had a periodic eye- -examination. The doctor,
obviously a man of Sagacity and circumspection, asked me my
age and advised me that although I was still a young man I had»
nevertheless qualified as a member of the bifocal club. Well,
that isn’t all that twenty-five years have done to me, but I like
to think that in spite of bifocals and other infirmities it could
have been a lot worse. I am looking forward to my Fiftieth An-
hiversary sans teeth, sans hair, sans eyes, sans everything. -For-
give the probably incorrect t quotation. |

HOWARD WALTER BURNS

HOME ADDRESS: 245 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: 55 Kilby St., Boston, Mass. : :

BORN: June 6, 1904, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: James Burns, Minnie Miriah
Forbush.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; Huntington School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

MarRiED: Barbara Ann Buttimer, July, 1940, York Beach, Maine. CHILDREN:
Nancy Mae, May 1, 1941; Howard Walter, Jr, March 13, 1950.

occuPATION: Stock broker; partner, Weston W. Adams & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Adams Erickson, Inc., since 1945; director, Boston
Professional Hockey Association, Inc. since 1940; director, member

[1st]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Executive Committee, Boston Garden Arena Corporation, Inc.; mem-
ber Odd Lots Committee, Boston Stock Exchange.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Connthian Yacht Club; Boston Madison
Square Garden Club.

FOR the past twenty-five years my business interests and associa-
tions have remained practically unchanged. Our brokerage busi-
ness is now a three-fold activity — catering to customers’ stock
brokerage, dealing in “odd lots,” and analyzing the market’s tech-
nical position. We have added a New York Stock Exchange
membership to our Boston Stock Exchange membership.

Active participation in competitive sports was doomed some
years ago when the old reflexes slowed up. Resigned to a specta-
tor’s role, I joined the Harvard faithfuls who die a thousand deaths
each Saturday afternoon in the fall trying, without much success,
to root our football teams to victory. Where Harvard teams have
given me little cause to rejoice, the Boston Bruins, our professional
hockey team, have more than filled the void—the more so as
they are the darlings of my partner and classmate “Wes” Adams.

Sailing and skiing have taken much of my spare time in recent
years. Both of these sports I find very enjoyable, especially since
the entire family can join me in them.

Since our Twentieth Report my family has doubled in size.
A much desired son arrived in 1950 to join Nancy Mae in making
our family complete. Of all the good things that have happened
to me in the last twenty-five years, a happy home life is the
blessing for which I am most grateful.

JOHN WESLEY BURROWES

HOME Appress: 135 Maplewood St., Watertown, Mass.

BORN: July 15, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Walter Edward Burrowes, Mary
Francis Cook.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

MaARRiED: Nina Forti, March, 1934, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1941). CHILD:
Mary Cook, Oct. 24, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Seaman.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Merchant Marine, eleven years.

IN 1941, being once more single, | started going to sea, and
having eaten of the Jotus .. . Like the vast majority of seamen,

[152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I prefer to ship out of a union hiring hall, rather than work steadily
for any one shipping outfit. This policy not only avoids the
opprobium attached to being a company stiff, but also gives me
as much time on the beach (ashore without pay) as I want and
can afford. It also offers an almost unlimited choice of ships, jobs,
and runs. Consequently I have sailed as fireman and oiler up to
second engineer, and on ships ranging from harbor tugs to the
Uruguay, Argentina, and America.

Nobody ever got rich sailing those scows, but the life offers
a lot of what we used to know as “compensating differences” in
Economics A; and to use a bromide popular among seamen, “Tt’s
better than working for a living.”

MARVIN FISKE BURT

HOME ADDRESS: 1115 S. Benson Blvd., Freeport, Iil.

OFFICE ADpREss: Burt & Schirmer, 307 Second National Bldg., Freeport, Ill.

BORN: Nov. 20, 1905, at Freeport, Ill. PARENTs: Ralph Malcom Burt, Isabel
Marvin.

PREPARED AT: Freeport High School, Freeport, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B. (Chicago Kent Coll.
of Law), 1931.

MarRiED: Helen Woodruff, June 17, 1930, at F reeport, Ill, cumpren; Wood-
ruff, Oct. 29, 1933; Elizabeth, April 17, 1937.

occuPATION: Lawyer; secretary, Bankers Mutual Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: City attorney, 1939-41; master in Chancery, 1942-44; state
representative, 1945-51, State senator, since 1951, Illinois; member since
1942, president, 1952-53, Freeport Park Board; member Board, Y.M.C.A,,
King’s Daughters Children’s Home, Youth Recreational Center; mem-
ber Vestry, Grace Episcopal Church; director, Rock City Bank, Lena
State Bank (at present); president, Stephenson County Bar Association,
1949.

MEMBER OF: Freeport Country Club; Rotary Club; Phi Delta Phi (law);
Illinois State Bar Association.

SINCE our last Report in 1948 there have been no important
changes in the family situation, except that I now have to treat
my son with respect, as he is a head taller than I and a 200-pounder
(which I am not). I wanted him to go to Harvard, he wanted
to go to Wyoming; so we compromised, and he is at Illinois, his
mother’s Alma Mater. Daughter Betty is now improving my

: [153]

Se ae ae claacalel bie

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

dancing with some new Cugat numbers (or anything else fresh
from the record-making machines! ).

I have been just a small-town lawyer in general practice and am
enjoying the variety of it. We don’t get very rich, but we love
to stick the city boys once in a while. In 1938 I mentioned a
flier in politics, ‘unsuccessful. Since then I have descended pretty
far. In 1944 1 was elected to the House, in the Illinois legislature,
and the sinful life was so fascinating I ran and was elected three
more times, until last fall I moved over to the Senate.

For exercise I still play golf and it’s a good year when I break
eighty before my favorite opponent; and (this is bragging) I
can still “shoot the duck” on ice skates.

I have belonged to the Harvard Club of Chicago for years,
and never quite get there; but I do enjoy meeting “the Harvard
men in the vicinity, and hope to do more reminiscing at the
June Reunion.

JOHN BAGLEY BUTTRICK

HOME appress: Ripley Hill Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1905, Concord, Mass. parents: Stedman Buttrick, Olive
Bagley.

PREPARED AT; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. ,
Marriep: Helen Merriam, June 16, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan,
March 17, 1929; John Bagley, Jr. April 28, 1931; Anne, Jan. 2, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stedman Buttrick, ’22.

occupaTION: Investment broker, Hemphill, Noyes & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Sheraton Plaza Company; trustee, Copley
Square Trust; treasurer, Fairhaven Estates, Inc.

AFTER my marriage, and an extended trip to Europe, I entered
the investment business with Edward B, Smith & Company. My
apprenticeship served during the stormy years of 1929 to 1933,
I joined the firm of Southgate & Company in 1934. Here I stayed
until January, 1942, when the Army and Navy took all my
partners and the firm merged with Graham, Parsons & Com-
pany. This firm later joined with Hemphill, Noyes & Company,
where I am presently located,

My activities during the war consisted of War Funds, Red

[154] .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Cross and Community Chests, and some very dull airplane spot-
ting for Civil Defense. The Armed Forces refused my services:
because of a disability.

Golf, gunning, and bird dogs have remained my principal
activities in the field of sports. Trying to keep the Democrats
in first place and to boot the Detroit Tigers into first place ab-
sorbs the balance of f my time.

HUGH CABOT

HOME ADDRESS: 95 Mt. Vernon St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 Little Hall, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 20, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Hugh Cabor, ” 94, p Mary Ander-
son Boit.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926. DEGREE: M.B.A., 1947.

MARRIED: Louise I. Melanson, Dec. 21, 1928, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1949);
Natalie Harris (Mann), June 14, 1950, Boston, Mass. cuitpreN: Hugh,
3d, March 22, 1930 (7. Geraldine Luczak, Aug. 22, 1952); Richard
Dewey Mann, Jr., May 10, 1933 (stepson); Judith M., May 29, 1934;
Richard A., Feb. 17, 1939. GRANDCHILD: Jeffrey Cabot, | March 28, 1953.

HARVARD SON: Richard Dewey Mann, Jr., ’54.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Tracy Cabot, ’38.

OCCUPATION: Lecturer on 1 general education and on social relations, Harvard
University.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Management consultant to War Department,
attached U. S. Army Office of Chief of Ordnance as civilian, 1942-45.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director, Fidelity Fund, Inc., 1936-40; execu-
tive vice-president, director, Cromwell & Cabot, Inc., 1937-44; manage-
ment consultant, War Department, 1942-44; assistant to president, Food
Machinery Corporation, San Jose, Calif., 1944-45; research fellow,
Harvard University, 1946-48; lecturer on general education and social
relations, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles; Human Relations: Concepts and Cases
in Concrete Social Science (with Joseph A. Kahl), Harvard University
Press, Cambridge, 1953. _

LITTLE did I suspect, a quarter of a century ago, that I should
ever find undergraduates thinking of me as I once thought of our
then professors, with a singular mixture of ridicule, admiration,
and respect. In fact, the very idea would have horrified me and
occasionally .it still does. Nevertheless, here I am running the

[155]

crest ttt

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

course Social Sciences 112 — Human Relations, and find it so
stimulating as to constitute directly and indirectly both my occu-
pation and my hobby. I am particularly interested in the so-called
case discussion method of teaching in an academic setting the hows
and whys of what people do to whom. I have just published (with
Joseph A. Kahl) my first book, a two-volume affair entitled
Human Relations: Concepts and Cases in Concrete Social Science.
Through the use of both theory and case material, ours is the first
attempt to relate in this way an interconnected body of theory
to the students’ life experience. Obviously, a field that deals with
an understanding of people has at this time a universal appeal.
I find myself spending many of my spare hours (when I’m not
looking at television) talking about it— with parent-teachers’
groups, young and old people’s groups, religious groups of every
variety, to say nothing of small groups in the corner at most
cocktail or dinner parties.

None of this is very different from what I’ve been doing since
I left college except for the drastic change in organizational set-
ting. I came back to Harvard by easy stages. Via a job as cadet
engineer with the Koppers Gas and Coke in New York and one
as statistician with Scudder, Stevens and Clark, I joined a Boston
investment counsel firm in 1932, the year the world hit economic
rock-bottom. The only way the firm and I could go was up and
we did. In 1937, the firm became Cromwell and Cabot, with me
as vice-president and director, offices I held until 1944. During
this same period I was vice-president and director of the Fidelity
Fund, Inc. (1936 to 1940), an investment trust. My interests were
largely in the managerial and administrative aspects of organiza-
tion and I consulted frequently with many groups on such matters.
My experience here confirmed my belief and sharpened my in-
terest in the lack of knowledge which young men had about life
immediately around them when they entered the business world.
This seemed to me an important educational challenge and I
started whittling away at it during the middle thirties.

Early in 1942 I joined the War Department as a management
consultant in a civilian capacity and was attached to the U. S.
Army, Office of Chief of Ordnance in Washington, Baltimore,
and Detroit until the summer of 1944. I was then assigned to
straighten out bottleneck problems in industrial production, end-

[155]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing up as assistant to the vice-president of Food Machinery, Inc.,
San Jose, California. Shortly after the war, I joined the Harvard
faculty to work with Dean Emeritus Donham and others in the
development of the undergraduate course in human relations.
My present title is lecturer on general education and social rela-
tions.

Unlike many men whose professional and personal lives have
to be compartmentalized and rarely get together, I am able (not
always successfully ) to practise at home what I preach. My im-
mediate family is a source of great pride and pleasure and pro-
ductive for us all. My wife Natalie, with a career of her own in
writing and public relations, is constantly stimulating and en-
couraging us while she maintains the household with a deft hand.
My oldest son Hugh is distinguishing himself as a combat artist
with the U. S. Navy in Tokyo and Korea; his delightful new
wife “Jerry” is out there with him in the security branch of the
U.S. Army. My stepson, Richard D. Mann, Jr., is a junior at
Harvard and coxed his winning freshman crew against Yale. He
is majoring in social relations and my colleagues assure me that
his work shows unusual ability — no surprise to me. My daughter
Judith is working as a technician in the Electroncephalograph
Laboratory at the Massachusetts General Hospital under Dr.
Robert S. Schwab; she is apparently skillful and well thought of
there as she is in her social activities. Even my youngest, Richard,
who is living with his mother in Tuscon, Arizona, seems to be
combining high grades in school with successful interest in extra-
curricular activities, We haven’t picked any special summer ac-
tivity but divide our summers between Boston and New Hamp-
shire or the Cape.

ARTHUR FRANCIS CALLAHAN

ADDRESS: 37-38 86th St., Jackson Heights, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 20, 1903, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Timothy Nicholas Callahan,
Mary Ellen Wagstaff.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

[157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

DONALD FRANCIS CAMPBELL, JR.

HOME aporEss: 1518 Judson Ave., Evanston, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 188 W., Randolph St., Chicago, Ill.

sorN: Dec. 23, 1906, Evanston, Ill. parents: Donald Francis Campbell, ’94,
Lou Rena Bates.

PREPARED AT: Evanston High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1928. DEGREES: $.B., 1928; s.M. (State Univ. of Iowa),
1930; uL.B, (Chicago Kent Law School), 1952.

MARRIED: Sarah Frances Patterson, Nov. 5, 1943, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN:

Donald Patterson, Nov. 14, 19465 Dav id Bates, May 27, 1948; Nancy
Ellen, March 26, 1951.

occupation: Consulting actuary.
MILITARY OB NAVAL RECORD: Corporal, instructor at Ordnance Army Train-

ing School, anti-aircraft fire control, Aberdeen, Md. August, 1943-
September, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and director, Conference of Actuaries in Public
Practice, 1949 to 1952.
MEMBER OF: Conference of Actuaries in Public Practice; Certified Public

Accountant (Illinois); American Instirute of Accountants; Illinois Bar;
Sigma Xi Associate.

SINCE graduation, my work has been in the actuarial field with
the exception of one year spent at the State University of lowa
and three years in the Army. I was associated with my father in
consulting actuarial work until the time he retired in 1947, and
have continued the business since then; during this period I found
it necessary to qualify for degrees in law and accounting.

As most of my work has been with actuarial problems affec-
ting pension funds, my answer to the question concerning my
social and political convictions is with this background. Typi-
cally, as with all other human activities in the past twenty-five
years, there have been many and far-reaching changes in the
pension field.

The conflicting opinions as to how much security the govern-
ment should provide in the form of social security benefits and
how much the individual himself should provide for himself or
through group action with others, as in employer- employee
groups, must be constantly resolved.

My own opinions agree with those who believe that the proper
approach to the understanding and solution of these social and
economic problems is through local group responsibility and ac-

[158]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion, such as employer-employee groups. In this way, full knowl-
edge as to the costs and operations will be understood by the
prospective beneficiaries who.can then see for themselves that
security must be earned and that there is a limit beyond which
the government cannot possibly provide full security for all
without destroying the incentives upon which the economic sys-
tem depends.

Reading is my main ‘hobby. Formerly, I “spent some time
mountain-climbing in the Canadian Rockies and skiing nearby
Chicago, both of which activities I have discontinued.

My family is still young and we are members of the Congre-
gational Church. The elder of my two boys is six. As the time
approaches for them to go to college, they will probably con-
sider the good recommendation for Harvard they will receive
from one who has been there and who has had a continuing feel-
ing of satisfaction and benefit for having done so.

FRED LINOR CAMPOPIANO

HOME AppRESs: 338 N. Eighth St., Indiana, Pa,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Montgomery Ward Co., Indiana, Pa.

BORN: July 10, 1905, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Domenico Campopiano,
Lucia Di Fusco.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928. .

MARRIED: Winifred Deming Farley, April 2'8, 1934, Brooklyn, N N. Y.

occupation: Manager, Indiana branch of Montgomery Ward Company.

OFFICES HELD: Store manager, W. T. Grant Company, 1931-33; store man-
ager, Montgomery Ward Company, since 1933; director, Community
Chest, Indiana, Pa., 1952, 1953; president, Kiwanis Club, Indiana, Pa.

1953.
MEMBER OF: Kiwanis; Indiana (Pa.) Country Club.

THE most difficult part of completing this return begins here-
with. I fear that were it not for the persistency conveyed by
Hamilton Heard, this Class Life, brief as it is, would not be re-
ported. I have spent my complete business life, since leaving
Harvard, in the sprawling, individualistic jungle of the chain
store field. My feeling for doing for the underprivileged has
found expression in Kiwanis work.

When I feel the need for relaxation I play golf, atrociously,

[159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

with the result that I need relaxing from the relaxation. The one
bright fact of my life since Harvard has been my marriage to a
wonderful girl; that leads me to conclude, “Not bad, not bad.”

* MAYNARD MARSHALL CANFIELD

BorN: Oct. 7, 1905. Peekskill, N. Y. parents: George Folger Canfield, ’75,
Frances Maynard Marshall.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

pip: Sept. 3, 19:9, near Grants, N. Mex.

proTHER: Franklin O. Canfield, 36 Queen Anne's Gate, Westminster, Lon-
don, S. W. I, England.

IN OCTOBER of 1928 Canfield became for four months a sec-
retary of the International Aeronautical Conference at Washing-
ton; he afterwards received high praise for his work there. Short-
lv before his death he accepted a position as courier on the East-
ern Division of the Transcontinental Air Transport Company.
Later he was transferred to the Western Division, extending from
Clovis, New Mexico, to Glendale, California; he was killed in
the air disaster of the “City of San Francisco.” Because of his
role in the dedication of the Columbus Airport and the establish-
ment of the Transcontinental Air Transport service there, he
had been awarded a certificate of merit by the Governor of
Ohio and the Mayor of Columbus. Canfield was the brother of
Robert W. Canfield, ’30 (deceased), and Franklin O. Canfield, ’32.

ARNOLD HAROLD CANNER

HoMe appress: 46 Bishopsgate Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 755 Beacon St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1907, East Boston, Mass. parents: Carl Canner, Esther
Kaner.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

MaraigD: Elizabeth Jacobs, June 16, 1935, Newton, Mass. cuitpren: Carol,
May 11, 1937; Carl David, Nov. 27, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Trustee, manager, owner, real property, partner in real estate
and insurance business.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Member Selective Service Advisory Board No.
44; deputy commander, Aircraft Warning Service, 1941-42.

[ 160 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, treasurer, 560 Centre Street, Inc., since 1931, Arnold
Canner Insurance, 1931-46, Canner-Daniels Insurance Agency, since
1946; trustee, Thirty Newbury Street Trust, since 1946, Canner Realty
Trust, since 1946, Adiantic Buildings Trust, since 1941, Atlantic Realty
Trust, since 1941, Associated Jewish Philanthropies, since 1946, Guid-
ance Camps Trust; president, 1948-51, vice-president, 1946-48, member
Executive Committee and Board, since 1951, Jewish Community Cen-

. ter of Brookline, Brighton, Newton; treasurer, Jewish Centers Asso-
ciation of Greater Boston, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Boston Real Estate Board; National Institute of Real Estate
Brokers; Harvard Business School Alumni Association; Zionist Organ-
ization of America; Temple and Brotherhood of Temple Israel;
Jewish Community Center; Tau Delta Phi Fraternity; Newton Squash
and Tennis Club; Harvard Business School Association; Boston Latin
School Association; Massachusetts and Newton Taxpayers Association.

I DECIDED in June of 1929 that I should not return to the Busi-
ness School for the fall term. I lay on the grass by the river in
the depressing company of a great pile of dull books and came
to the conclusion that I was impatient to discover my future. A
year’s work in a New York department store ended, in July of
1930, with my father’s passing, and I returned to Boston to sal-
vage what I could of his estate. I succeeded only in that through
this effort I met a bank president who proposed that I go into
the business of operating distressed property for his institution.
It was 1930, and the proffered job seemed to me to be in one of
these rare occupations that would move against the general busi-
ness curve, and so it did. The tenants of the properties I man-
aged were, almost invariably, of a class unable to make income
and obligation meet and this fact, in those meanest of times, made
me often feel very close to the Depression’s innermost cruelties.
In 1940 I guessed war, and therefore inflation, was coming, and
I bought all the real estate I could with what cash I had or could
muster. My activities thus shifted into those concerned with
the operation of my own property. This remains my principal
activity. At rare moments, when the acquisitive part of me is
dormant, I consider Rent Control socially beneficial (I voted for
it not long ago), but more often I regard it as unfair, discrimina-
tory, and a political evil that stays because of legislators’ fear of
tenants’ voting power. As it is being administered at this mo-
ment, it constitutes a menace to democracy, a rule by whim. A

[ 161 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

good case could be presented to the effect that even tenants do not
profit by it in the long run.

As I read the paragraph above it seemed to me that it must
be apparent from it that I consider mysclf politically an inde-
pendent voter, presently with Republican leanings, and so I am.
] worked, this past fall, on the State Republican Finance Com-
mittee and also for several Democratic candidates for state of-
fice.

About five years ago, to take up the slack left by my gradually
diminishing work in my own property, I formed a partnership
in real estate and insurance brokerage in Newton.

In 1935 I married half an M.D. (two years at medical school).
She has spent, perhaps wasted, a part of her life thus far trying
futilely to rid me of certain idiosyncrasies, like unchanging hats
and dance styles, or like a devotion in all manner of situations to
“Veritas” even though, as I shall grudgingly grant afterwards,
some situations do not invariably call for “Veritas.” Her efforts
have in recent years been joined by those of our two children —
Carol, sixteen, and Carl, thirteen. I am sure that the chapter on
teen-agers in anybody’s book on the subject must have been
written about them, so typical do they seem to me to be. Carol's
after-school week-day time, for instance, is a constant, excited
mixture of study, food, and telephone conversations usually
about and with “dates.” Carl is a fellow whose not extraordinary
interests are athletics, scouting, fish, and animals. His room is a
gathering place for dogs, fish, boy scouts, worms (he raised
them for his fish), and a variety of odd bits. A large, faded 1928
Harvard banner covers part of his wall serving as a sort of board
to which is affixed a variety of souvenirs like photographs, clip-
pings, ribbons, medals, certificates, athletic letters, etc.

In 1943, lonely as the single male still holding the home front
of about a dozen collateral members of our families, I offered my-
self to the Navy. I spent a lot of time, in Boston and in Washing-
ton, trying vainly to break a regulation of the Bureau of Medi-
cine and Surgery which the most authoritative medical research
had proved obsolete. The bureau had just not “caught up.” I
am still awaiting their promised review of this regulation.

Of my “after-hour interests” the ones that continue are in
tennis, squash, clay-modelling, fiddling, and community effort.

{ 162 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A good deal of my time in the last seven years has been spent
asa vice-president, as president, and now as Building Fund chair-
man of an organization called the Jewish Community Center of
Brookline, Brighton, Newton, which aspires to build a million-
dollar recreational building to replace its present inadequate
housing. The materialization of this dream is, at this moment,
problematical, but I believe the resources this center has in its
more than 2,000 members will ultimately achieve it. This wish
is now fostered by the Associated Jewish Philanthropies, Metro-
politan Boston’s great. Jewish communal planning and service
organization, of which I am a trustee, and the center an agency,
and by the Jewish Centers Association of Greater Boston, of
whichI amtreasurer.

I have enjoyed sculpture and violin, sporadically, over the last
twenty or twenty-five years, but cannot say that I have impressed
any. but the most prejudiced or least discriminating of my friends
and ray (of which my own brood may certainly not be
counted).

_ At tennis I have discovered an interesting compensatory kind-
ness of nature. At forty-five I seem to have gained in efficiency
and in accuracy more than I have lost in speed and in stamina.
I am sometimes beaten by players of my own age bracket, but
rarely by younger ones. It is a source of very great satisfaction
to me that one great day last September another player and I,
a pick-up substitute for a fourth who had failed to appear, beat
a team of former (but recent) State Doubles Champs. It was, of
course, an unofficial and completely unimportant match to all
but myself. I am quite content, now, to lay away if I must my
racquet, considering my tennis days not to have been wasted.

CARL ADOLPH CARLSON

HOME ADDRESS: 159 Jefferson St., Carney’s Point, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chambers Works, Deepwater, N. J.

BORN: June 17, 1907, Greenwich, Conn. PARENTs: ‘Frans Albin Carlson, Ebba

Sophia Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Lenox High School, Lenox, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

MARRIED: Charlotte Terrill Duncan, Oct. 5s 1929, New York, N. Y. cutt-
’ prEN: Bruce Duncan, April 23, 1937; Roger Willard, June 20, 1941

[ 163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

(died Nov. 2, 1941); William Theodore, May 8, 1943; John Albin, Sept, -

21, 1943; Charlotte Ann, Aug. 3, 1947.

occupation: Chemist; chief supervisor, Chambers Works.

oFFices HELD: Member Board of Directors, Y. M. C. A.; vestryman, Epis-
copal church; member Penns Grove— Upper Penns Neck Board of
Education.

MEMBER OF: duPont Penns Grove Country Club; Harvard Club of Delaware.

DAME Fortune may not have blessed me with an abundance of
worldly goods during the past twenty-five years, but life has been
full, exciting, and wonderful. I wouldn’t have it different. Since
graduation I have been with E. I. duPont de Nemours & Com-
pany at the Chambers Works Plant in Deepwater, New Jersey, as
a chemical supervisor. The trials and tribulations in connection
with autoclaves, stills, columns, pump lines, yield, quality, costs,
production schedules, forecasts, reports, personne] relations, and
so forth, have often made the “grass seem greener on the other side
of the fence.” Actually, I repeat, I wouldn’t have it different.

In 1929 I married the most wonderful girl in the world. The
years have confirmed that youthful impression. Bruce arrived
in 1937. Now a high school sophomore, six-feet-one-inch and
165 pounds, he quarterbacks on a fine football team, plays forward
on a championship basketball team, pitches on the baseball team,
plays a saxophone in a dance orchestra, and is an honor student.
Roger arrived in 1941 to gladden our home for a short four and
one-half months. This unfortunate loss brought about a com-
plete change in our lives and in that of another still unknown to us.
Consultation with members of the medical profession assured us
that no more heirs could be expected. Bruce was to be the one
and only. Charlotte and I will never censor but always be grate-
ful for this error by members of a most honorable profession. It
led to the adoption of one-day-old Ted on May 9, 1943. No
greater joy or blessing was ever bestowed on any family. Then in
September, 1943, John arrived. I trust this adequately explains
the family statistics which have puzzled so many. The family
was completed in 1947 with the arrival of Charlotte Ann. This
mixed quartet I can guarantee is all anyone needs to add confu-
sion, excitement, joy, and long life to any household.

Active participation in church, school, and Y. M. C. A. work
are my contribution to community affairs. An acre of lawn and

[ 164 ]

wet

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gardens gives me plenty of physical exercise. I still find time to
play an occasional round of respectable golf. My Chesapeake and
Labrador retrievers do their best to make duck shooting a success-
ful and pleasant occasion regardless of the elements. The usual
evenings for bridge just about complete the picture.

OSCAR RUDOLF CARLSON

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Hayes Ave., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 185 Franklin St., Boston 7, Mass.

porn: March 27, 1907, Beverly, Mass. PARENTS: John August Carlson, Emma
Christina Nikolausson.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

MarRiED: Gertrude E. Phelps, Aug. 30, 1940, Cambridge, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, New England Telephone and Telegraph
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, since 1943, member Public-Personnel Re-
lations Advisory Committee, since 1946, New England Telephone and
Telegraph Company; treasurer, Westerly Automatic Telephone Com-
pany, Westerly, R. I, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa, Harvard Graduate School of Education;
Men’s Club, First Parish Church, Lexington.

MY CAREER since college is summarized briefly: 1928 to 1930,
secondary school teaching, and attendance at Harvard Graduate
School of Education, studying administration; 1930 to date, help-
ing to run the telephone business in New England, starting in the
accounting department and moving later to the financial depart-
ment, where I look after the nickels and dimes which the public
pays us for “the best telephone service in the world.” My work,
which is mostly administrative with some staff responsibilities,
is challenging, stimulating, and satisfying.

My hobby is my house. We moved from Cambridge to the
country in the spring of 1951 after the house we had planned
was completed. The idea of a house, I guess, was mine, but the
design and appearance, both inside and out, are due chiefly to my
wife’s wonderful imagination. In the winter months I toy with
the primitive pleasures of hammer and saw (no fancy power tools,
yet) while during the rest of the year I am slave to a lawn which
defies all attempts to have it look like those nice pictures in the
seed catalogues.

[ 165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Belonging as we do to a generation which has lived through
two of the most crucial periods of modern times, I survived the
Great Depression and in World War II continued without in-
terruption in my civilian duties. It is obvious, however, that no
one could be a mere bystander when such turbulent forces were
and still are at work all around us, forcing us to face problems of
living in a world which is quite different from the one we knew
twenty-five years ago. Great adjustments in our outlook on life
have been necessary during this period of time. As preparation
for these adjustments, the four years we spent in college seem to
me to loom larger in importance with each passing year.

JESSE MEREDITH CARMACK

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1422 San Vicente Blvd., Santa Monica, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1899, Winchester, Tenn. PARENTS: William Henry Carmack,
Elizabeth Embrey.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1948.

MarrieD: Margaret Vance Colville, Sept. 27, 1930, McMinnville, Tenn.
CHILDREN: Margaret Colville, Dec. 26, 1932; John Meredith, Sept. 6,

1937-
occupaTion: Book publishing, West Coast representative.

CHARLES DARRAH CARR

HOME appress: 422 Merrick Rd., Rockville Center, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFicE apprEss: C. F. Childs Co., 1 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BorN: Feb, 20, 1905, Newport, R, I. parents: Alexander Barker Carr, Anna
Rebecca Foster.

PREPARED AT: Rogers High School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

occuPATION: Finance, assistant treasurer, C. F, Childs Company.

[ 166 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANCIS CARR

HOME aporeEss: 71 Larch Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass.

orFice appress: Allen, Smith & Bonner, 31 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

porn: March 8, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: John Francis Carr, Mary
Theresa Anglin.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1932.

marriep: Helen J. Griffin, Nov. 25, 1934, West Roxbury, Mass, CHILDREN:
John F,, 3d, Nov. 3, 1935; M. Joyce, Feb. 2, 1939.

occuPATION: Attorney-at-law.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
June 12, 1942; indoctrination, U. S. Naval Academy, June-July, 1942;
Naval Aviation Cadet Selection Board, Boston, July-August, 1942;
U. S. Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Fla. Aug. 18, 1942-Feb. 14, 1945,
served as judge advocate of General Courts Martial convened by sec-
retary of the Navy and by C. N. A. I. T. and as assistant staff legal
officer, Commander, N. A. T. B.; U. S. Navy Pre-Flight School, St.
Mary’s College, Calif, March 1, 1945-Oct. 10, 1945, as officer of the
day; released to inactive duty, commander, Jan. 1, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Member, City of Cambridge School Committee, 1940-41;
Varsity Soccer coach, Harvard, 1928-40; president, Cambridge Bar
Association, 1948; past director, Cambridge Council, Boy Scouts of
America, Cambridge Civic Association, Scituate Harbor Yacht Club.

MEMBER OF: Boston, Cambridge, and Massachusetts Bar Associations; Varsity
Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Knights of Columbus; B. P. O. E.;
American Legion; Charitable Irish Society; Les Voyageurs; Scituate
Harbor Yacht Club.

THE paramount interests in my life after 1928 have been my
family, my career at the bar, and civic and fraternal organiza-
tions in my community.

Since 1932 I have appeared in practically all of the courts of
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and in the various Federal
Courts in this jurisdiction. My practice has been primarily in
the field of torts, banking, legislation, probate, and corporation
law with particular emphasis on trial work in connection there-
with. I am associated with the firm of Allen, Smith & Bonner
and am quite pleased and happy in this association. The litiga-
tion in which I have worked has been varied and most interest-
ing and has run the gamut from defending Life magazine in 1938
from the charge of being an obscene publication because of the
printing of pictures of the birth of a baby to my most recent
experience in trying to prevent the usurpation of state’s rights

[ 167 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

in the establishment of branches by federal savings and loan
associations in complete disregard of our state law.

It may seem anomalous for a life-long Democrat to be in the
ranks against the Washington encroachment, but I have been
and still am a strong supporter of State’s Rights. No immediate
relief appears to be in sight despite a change of administration.
No political party has a corner on the market in the wild scramble
for power and patronage. The clash of economic necessities,
national emergencies, conflicting economic interests, sectional-
ism, the greed for power, and other factors all contribute to the
centralization of power in the national government. After twenty-
five years there is no doubt that in our thinking most of us have
become conservative. We have the right, however, to hope that
posterity will say of us what once was said of a distinguished
English judge: “We have occasionally differed from the opin-
ions laid down by Sir Thomas Denman since he came into office,
but when we thought him in error we have regretted it rather
as an instance of the fallibility of human judgment than as any
proof of a conscious deviation from admitted principle.”

My part-time coaching duties at the college from 1928 to 1940
brought me very close to the athletic situation at Cambridge and
my interest in the same has not diminished. Activities in various
civic and fraternal organizations have taken a good deal of my
leisure time but I find that I am now gradually devoting less time
to these and more to my family.

Son John is an upper middler at Andover and daughter Joyce
is in Class TV at The Winsor School. Both are gregarious young-
sters and have balanced their studies with extra-curricular ac-
tivities in a manner that brings great joy and satisfaction to my
wife and tome...

LLOYD HAROLD CARRO

HOME appress: 27 Conant Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

orrice apogess: Peerless Hardware & Supply Co., 5196 Washington St.,
West Roxbury 32, Mass.

Bown: Aug. 19, 1907, Somerville, Mass. parents: Charles Carro, Rose Eliza-
beth Scheffoen.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

{ 168 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Ina Cheses, Aug. 2, 1936, Brookline, Mass. cutcpren: Geraldine,
May 15, 1940; Dorothy, Aug. 31, 1942.
occupation: Mercantile Business.

+ GEORGE THOMPSON CARROLL

BORN: June 14, 1907, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Maurice Leo Carroll, Cath-
erine Josephine Gibbons.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1928(32); A.M. (Boston Teachers
Coll.), 1937.

marRiED: Margaret May Warren. cHILD: George Thompson, Jr.

prep: Feb. 7, 1945, Whitinsville, Mass.

wow: Mrs. George T. Carroll, 155 N St., South Boston, Mass.

GEORGE THOMPSON CARROLL was a teacher of French
at Northbridge High School at the time of his death. In college
he was a member of the Freshman Fencing Team, Freshman Glee
Club, University Glee Club, and Harvard Italian Club. His wife
and son survived him.

+ JAMES ROSSELLE CARROLL

BORN: Oct. 26, 1905, Uniontown, Pa. paRENTs: Joseph Grant Carroll, Anna
Evalena Rosselle.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1928(29); LL.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Henrietta Green Gainer, Aug. 27, 1936, Uniontown, Pa.

piep: March 14, 1952, Pittsburgh, Pa. .

LITTLE is known of James Rosselle Carroll beyond the infor-
mation above. Apparently he took up the practice of law soon
after his graduation from the Harvard Law School and continued
until his death to make his home in his native city of Uniontown.
He died in Pittsburgh.

WILLIAM AUGUSTUS CARTWRIGHT

HOME aApprEss: 9 Grandin Lane, Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 313 Vine St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: April 30, 1906, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: William Young Cart-
wright, Katherine Dannemiller.

[ 169 ]

men He,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

prepareD AT: Carlton Academy, Summit, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: $.B. IN MECH. ENG., 1929.

MARRIED: Rosemary Hoppe, Oct. 12, 1935, Cincinnati, Ohio (died May 15,
1937); Frances Simpson Upson, April 11, 1947, Cincinnati, Ohio. cro:
Rosemary, Alay 5, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Robert Cartwright, °31.

occuPATion: Broker, investment counsel, Benjamin D. Bartlett & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
Jan. 27, 1942, Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi, Texas, to June, 1943;
U. S. S. Chenango (CVE 28) in Pacific Theatre from Florida Island
(July, 1943) through Leyte Gulf (October, 1944); Bureau of Aero-
nautics, Washington, February, 1945-April, 1946; Navy Unit Citation,
Pacific Ribbon with seven stars, Philippine Ribbon one star, and other
area ribbons; promoted to lieutenant commander, 1944, and commander,
1946. .

MEMBER OF: Racquet Club of Cincinnati; Cincinnati Country Club.

ROBERT PRICE CAVILEER

HOME apprEss: 24 Chatham St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts
Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1906, Springfield, Ohio. parents: Alfred Cavileer, Jessie Price.
PREPARED AT: Wittenberg Academy, Springfield, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1928-1929.

UNMARRIED.

OccuPATION: Staff member, Research Laboratory of Electronics, M. I. T.

I HAVE made Cambridge my home since 1928. I was in school
till 1930. From then until 1939 I worked for the Cambridge
Y.M.C.A. From that time on I have been associated with the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Until 1945 I worked on
the development of defense equipment. From then on I have
been with the M. I. T. Research Laboratory of Electronics in
ultra-low temperature research — towards the absolute zero.

Starting in 1930 I have served as official chartographer for
Harvard football coaches. In 1945 I assumed responsibility for
Harvard football statistics (individual player statistics) to be sent
to the National Collegiate Athletic Bureau (a sort of clearing
house for all college athletic statistics). In 1949 I took over all
football press statistics in the Press Box at the Stadium.

[170]

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In the summers I have played considerable tennis and for a
number of years have helped conduct summer tournaments on
the Old Jarvis Courts. It’s too bad they could not find another
place for the Graduate Center buildings. During the war years
I got enticed into softball umpiring and have kept somewhat of
an active interest in it ever since. I have found cycling a good
way to keep in shape. And I have discovered that it is a most
efficient means of transportation in the hectic traffic snarls of the
city. | a
“All during my life in Cambridge I have attended the University
Church. My mother, brother, and I have found worshipping here
to be very stimulating. It has been interesting to find many of
the top professors we had in college attending here and learning
strength and courage from their spiritual worship. In an upside-
down world if you have not tried letting good religious experi-
ences and influence help you, give them a try . . . enough said.

JOHN BURTON CECILL, JR.

HOME AppRESS: Ballardvale Road, Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Broad St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: April 27, 1907, Berea, Ohio. Parents: John Burton Cecill, > Mary
- Augusta Dyke.

PREPARED AT: Artesia High School, Artesia, N. Mex.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

Marrigep: Alice Gertrude Hooker, Nov. 15, 1929, Hartford, Conn. cuit:

Robert V. D. Cecill, Sept. 3, 1942.

occupation: Marine and inland marine insurance: manager, Marine De-
_ partment, Brewer & Lord, general agents.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: War plant inspection; various civilian defense

osts.

MEMBER oF: North Andover Country Club; Bay State Club; Mariners Club;

_ Flycasters Club.

TO ME, the most incredible facts of this occasion are that I have
lived more years since graduation than before, and that most of
those years have been in New England. The Harvard scene did
little to break the old home ties or to influence my preference
for the western part of our country. Not that I failed to make
friends and enjoy my college years. It might be said I made too
many convivial friends, and it was said by a dean on one occasion

[171]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

that I was enjoying myself perhaps too much. But those things
and people had little bearing on my present situation, with one
important exception — my “wife, whom I met during Senior
year, a rugged New Englander.

After graduation i it was a couple of years back in New Mexico
and Colorado wild-catting with an oil company. F ollowing this,
there was marriage and a fresh start— this time in insurance.
My chosen field, “the marine and inland marine departments of
the business, I found to be very interesting and it has been my
occupation ever since, though the going was very bumpy dur-
ing the early thirties. The nature of my trade can best be con-
veyed to a hapless audience by comparing it in a general way
to ‘Lloy ds of London (not the movie version). Besides the in-
suring of hulls and cargo, our field includes all the risks of inland
and air transportation and unusual propositions of whatever na-
ture not provided for in the regular channels of the business.
Are the eagles over the Catskills giving your racing pigeons a
bad time? Or, perhaps you have a boat load of kangaroos com-
ing in from Tasmania? Give us a ring. Not a day passes, but
some highly interesting and/or thoroughly unreasonable Propo-
sition is presented to us.

The war did not disrupt my life to the extent it did many mem-
bers of our Class. After Pearl Harbor I asked my employers for
leave to join the Navy, but because of the large number of young-
er men they had lost, I was persuaded to await call. My number
did not come up until early in 1945; so the war years were spent
in civilian life, a fact I shall always regret.

Having become a New Englander by chance, I now remain
one by choice. What is lacking in magnitude is made up for in
variety. My interests are, and always have been, out-of-doors.
Long ago someone said, “Give a man a gun, a dog, and a violin,
and he won’t amount to a damn.” By that definition, I’m a shift-
less tramp, and you've got the fiddle left over. I can’t play a note.
In so far as I can manage within a limited free time, my activities
follow my interests: fishing, gardening, hunting with the sea-
sons, occasionally, a cruise when our good friends invite us,

and always a bird-hunting trip in the fall, in recent years to
Prince Edward Island. In much of this my wife participates,
some she enjoys and the rest she endures more or less silently.

[172]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Her real interests are bridge, golf, and gardening in about that
order. At all of these she excels. At bridge, she is a bald-faced
ringer, and the greatest threat to our marriage is my incapacity
to put up serious competition in any card game more complicated
than Hearts.

In 1944 we moved to the country on a year-round schedule.
About three miles out of Andover, we are ideally situated with
no neighbors to annoy and plenty of room to train promising
young bird-dogs. We are blessed with a healthy son, aged ten,
who seems disposed to enjoy all these things and worse still, shows
an aptitude on the violin.

FRANCIS JOSEPH CENEDELLA —

HOME ADDRESS: 3725 14th St. Moline, IL.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1630 Fifth Ave., Moline, Ill.

BORN: July 23, 1907, Bradford, Pa. parents: Joseph Cenedella, Artemisia
Eunice Perkins.

PREPARED AT: Limestone High School, Limestone, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.D. (Univ. of Vienna),
1933. oo S 7

MarRIED: Alyce Hedwig Benning, Nov. 25, 1933, Vienna, Austria. CHILDREN:
Audrey Alyce, June 21, 1938; Suzanna Marie, July 9, 1944.

occuPATION: Physician specializing in internal medicine, private practice,
medical consultant, International Harvester Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U. S. Army as first lieutenant, Dec. 1,
1941; commanding officer (major), Clearing Company — Mountain
Medical Battalion in Northern Combat Command, Burma; attached to
Chinese divisions.

I AM a successful practitioner of medicine whose main function
has been to help back to health those who have been made ill by
the stresses and strains of life, (so-called psychosomatic problems).
This function I never anticipated, nor was I ever taught to diag-
nose or treat such problems. It just developed. The ‘‘new” crop
of doctors seems just as remote from these problems as I was
years ago. Despite its many deficiencies I still believe our system
of private practice of physicians is far superior to any other sys-
tems now available. Out in “Main Street — America” the aver-
age doctor is neither a credit to medicine as a profession, nor a
tribute to American education as a cultural force. Physicians

[173]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

should be far-sighted and fair-minded. I don’t believe the Amer-
ican Medical Association has been far-sighted. Yet the practice
of medicine in America is steadily improving. Any sort of state
control yet devised would definitely hale this tendency.

I have travelled extensively since college: in Europe as a stu-
dent; in Asia, Africa, and Australia during World War IT; and
last, and best of all, in the U. S. A. since 1945. My favorite spot
is Colorado Springs, Colorado, where we own a home, and where
we go to enjoy leisure, scenery and the year-around climate. (We
plan to retire there.)

In politics an independent, I was once glad to vote for Roose-
velt and recently extremely happy to support Eisenhower.

Sometimes I wish religion were a factor in my life, but after a

riod of fervid faith in my youth, I have never been able to re-
gain the faith I’ve long since lost.

My chief hobbies are reading and travelling and the drinking
of a good vintage with the evening meal.

TORSTEN IVAN CENTERVALL

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Highland Ave., Newtonville 60, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 13, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Ivan Alexis Teofil Centervall,
Adélaide Torborg Jonsson .

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, 1931-1932. DEGREE: S$.B., 1928(32).

marrieD; Doris Ann Bovill Hayden, June 23, 1937, Cohasset, Mass. (di-
vorced 1948). CHILDREN: Joan Adélaide Ashdown, Nov. 9, 1939; Camilla
Ann Howland, July 15, 1944.

OccUPATION: Engineer on glass and glass processing, radio and television
tube manufacturing.

AT THE time of our Vicennial Report I had just left the employ
of the Raytheon Manufacturing Company and such is now again,
oddly, the situation. However, in the years since 1928 I have
engaged also in a variety of more or less interesting businesses
unrelated to the manufacture of tubes. Experiences of longest
duration in other fields were those in book publishing (D. Apple-
ton and Company) and land development — lines of work be-
longing to a tale of two cities, Boston and New York, between
which my journeys, since graduation, have mostly been confined.

[174]

25TH .ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Such very limited travel —I box my compass by Mount Wash-
ington, Cape Cod, Trenton, and Binghamton — has nevertheless
not brought about any great yearning for a grand tour. I expect
some day to see Rio and the West Indies and to visit, amongst
a few other places, the Hawaiian Islands.

For hobbies there are local and family history and genealogy,
and comparative philology. I am interested in arts and letters,
sociology and psychology, and think that I have seen a deal of
living. My sports have been skiing and hiking, including — if
_ you please — bird walks; sailing, rowing, and swimming. Once
upon a time I was a fair shot. I like any kind of fishing, and
indoors I enjoy billiards or pool, when Possible. And indoors or
out I consider myself a gourmet.

I have a fairly low opinion of society in our day, yet am no
misanthrope, and I recognize the slow improvement thereof.
Politically I am all for this Republic, its honorable ideals and
idealistic institutions. And in religion I have thought that I could
perceive the truth in all faiths.

WILLIAM FRANK PERCIVAL CHADWICK

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Barking Vicarage, Essex, England.

- BORN: Feb, 27, 1905, Pudsey, England. parents: William Chadwick, Edith
Rider.

PREPARED AT: Liverpool College and Wadham College, Oxford, England.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

OCCUPATION: Vicar of Barking.

AFTER leaving Harvard I spent some time in Palestine and in
the summer of 1929 took part, as a special constable, in protecting
the Jews from the Arabs in the first riots. I was then ordained
as a clergyman in the Church of England and for four years
served as a curate in the large industrial parish of St. Helen’s in
Lancashire. I then had five years as Vicar at Widnes, a center
of chemical industry and also in Lancashire. Just before the out-
break of the war I came south to succeed Canon Bryan Green,
whose name is well-known in America, as Vicar of Christ Church,
Crouch End, in London. While there I was elected a Proctor in
Convocation, which is the Church’s equivalent to a member of

[175]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Parliament, for the Diocese of London; since coming into the
Diocese of Chelmsford I have continued as a Proctor for that
Diocese.

In 1947 I came to my present job as Vicar of Barking, which
is one of the largest parishes in our country. The wise advice
that was given to me by various associates of my Harvard days
has resulted in the fact that I am also the rural dean of Barking,
honorary chaplain to the Bishop of Barking, and examining chap-
lain to the Bishop of Chelmsford. Whether all this is due to the
fact that I learned to pull strings as a cox in the Harvard navy or
to more reputable causes I must leave my old associates to decide.
My club is The Royal Empire Society, Northumberland Avenue,
London, and I have a secret ambition to come and see you al)
again. Afassachusetts Hall remains a very much cherished mem-
ory. An etching of it hangs on my study wall. If any of you
ever comes near the old country I should treat it as a very great
kindness if you should ring Rippleway 2932 and enable me to
arrange a meeting. Barking is only ten miles from London.

HAMMOND EDWARD CHAFFETZ

HOME ADDRESS: 1900 Que St., N.W., Washington, D. C.; 180 E. Delaware
PL, Chicago 10, Tl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 800 World Center Bldg., Washington, D. C.; 33 N. LaSalle
St. Chicago, TL.

BORN: July 9, 1907, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Carroll Joseph Chaffetz, Celia
Kessler.

PREPARED aT: Gardner High School, Gardner, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1927(28); LL.B. cum
laude, 1930.

MargieD: Sara Smeerin, April 4, 1951, Chicago, Ill. cup: Peter Richard,
May 4, 1952.

OccUPATION: Member of the law firm, Kirkland, Fleming, Green, Martin &
Ellis, specialist in Federal Anti-Trust Laws.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Indoctrination at Quonset Pt, R. 1, became
aviation supply officer in the Navy, with rank of lieutenant; eighteen
months in air operations at Quantanamo, Cuba, in connection with
antisubmarine warfare; fifteen months aboard carrier Essex with rank
of heutenant commander, first as air plot officer, and later as assistant
air officer.

OFFICES HELD: Special Assistant to the attorney general in the Department of
Justice, Washington, D. C., 1931-38; chairman of the Committee on the

[ 176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Clayton Act, Anti-Trust Sections, American Bar Association, since

1952.
MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; National Press Club, Washington,

D. C.; Mid-Day Club, Chicago.
PUBLICATIONS: Engaged in much ghost writing.

MY CAREER took root when I made the Law Review at the end
of my second year in the Law School. Professor Frankfurter sub-
sequently recommended me (as his second choice, after Alger
Hiss), for a position in the Anti-Trust Division of the Depart-
ment of Justice under Mr. John Lord O'Brian. Mr. O'Brian not
only hired me, but pushed me along about as fast as a young law-
yer could go. After working less than a year on Supreme Court
briefs in important motion picture cases and in a long trial in-
volving the meat packers, I tried my first case on my own before
a special three-judge Federal Court convened in Minneapolis. I
succeeded in convincing one of the three judges to vote my way,
and he and I both thought that his dissenting opinion was the
better of the two opinions that were written. I defended the first
suit brought to enjoin the National Industrial Recovery Act and
over a period of time sought to ward off injunctions against a
wide range of National Recovery Act codes in suits that were
brought all over the United States. I encountered one judge
that was undoubtedly corrupt (and who later resigned under fire),
another judge in a cigar code case who had just that morning —
so he said — when his cigar maker had advised that the cigar code
had increased cigar prices, told the cigar maker: “To H--- with
the NRA”. Another judge whose brother was a prominent Re-
publican Congressman, was reluctant to decide against me for
fear of embarrassing his brother, so, despite the judge’s ill-con-
cealed conviction to the contrary, the particular code was sus-
tained.

Having ‘discovered from experience that all law suits are not
decided out of the law books, I considered myself a finished trial
lawyer, and in 1936 planned to see whether I could get any clients
of my own. To ease my way into private practice, the attorney
general very kindly appointed me to a vacant trusteeship under
an old antitrust decree, which paid 6,500 dollars a year, plus ex-
penses. In 1936, it may be recalled, 6,500 dollars was money. But
there was a string attached. I was to stay on for thirty to sixty

[177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

davs longer to review an oil case that was then under investiga-
tion. Two and a half years later, after a jury had brought in a
verdict of guilty in the Madison oil case, my resignation became
effective. Just before leaving on my trip to Europe (a year be-
fore the invasion of Poland), Mr. Kirkland, the head of the firm
of which I am now a member, and then one of the defense law-
yers in the oil case, offered me a partnership in his firm with the
choice of being located in Chicago or in the branch office in
Washington. I joined the Washington office of the firm on my -
return from abroad. Practice was lucrative but uneventful. I
visited Honolulu in August and September, 1941 (just before
Pearl Harbor); and in January, 1942, I applied for a Commission
in the Navy. I should not trade my fifteen months aboard the
carrier Essex for any similar period of law practice — but should
not care to repeat them. After the war, I returned to my firm,
resided again in Washington, D. C., but spent much time in Chi-
cago. Gradually I have spent increasingly more time in the lat-
ter city, but still call Washington my home. Now that I am mar-
ried (most happily, may I add) and am a proud father, I shall
soon have to give up commuting and settle down. I should pre-
fer Washington, but Chicago is where the law business seems
to be. Since the issue will probably not be decided before press
deadline, either of the two addresses above still indicates where

I may be found.

DUNCAN MACFARLANE CHALMERS

HOME ADDRESS: Mount Edgecumbe, Alaska.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Native Service Hospital, Mount Edgecumbe, Alaska.

BoRN: Aug. 4, 1907, Sutton, N. H. parents: Thomas Chalmers, ’91, Maude
Virginia Smith.

PREPARED AT: Allen-Chalmers School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928; mM.v. (Boston
Univ.), 1934.

Magritp: Marian Haynes Ripley, Aug. 17, 1933, Adams, N. Y. cuitp: Rufus
Ripley, Sept. 8, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Physician, hospital administrator.

MILITARY OR NAVAL pecoRD: Medical Corps, U.S. Army.

Offices weLo: President, program Veterans Administration, Batavia, N. Y.;
medical director, Cooperative Hospital, Hale County, Texas; assistant

[178]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

commissioner of health, in charge T. B. control, Alaska, physician in
charge Alaska Native Service Hospital, on Bering Sea, acting area
medical director, Alaska Native Service.

PRESENTLY I am chief medical officer of the goo-bed Native
Service Hospital, Mount Edgecumbe, Alaska, and the controversial
target of territorial and federal officials with different points of
view as to what constitutes the public interest. The fight is a bit
rough.

JEAN-MARIE Y.-E. CHALUFOUR

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Grand St., Croton-on-Hudson, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4 E. 98th St., New York 29, N. Y.

BorN: May 15, 1907, Boulogne sur Seine, France. parents: Achille Chalu-
four, Aline Mausire.

PREPARED AT: Lycée Janson de Sailly, Paris, France.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: B.A. (Univ. of Paris), 1925; s.B. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1928; a.m. (ibid.), 1938.

MarRiED: Carolyn Hollis, April 7, 1936, Boston, Mass. cutLpren: Two boys,
13% andi.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of French, St. Bernard’s School.

SINCE I graduated from Harvard College I have taught French
(when I was not in the French Army, July 30th to November
31st; or in the American Army, February, 1944, to October,
1945); I now teach French to boys in the sixth, seventh, and
eighth grades. I taught for a total of twelve years at Harvard
(1928—1940), then had various jobs teaching French in schools.

I got married in 1936. I have two boys (thirteen and a half
and eleven and a half). I am now a United States citizen. My
army experiences have convinced me that I don’t care for its life.
My wife is Carolyn Hollis Chalufour, youngest daughter of ex-
professor Ira N. Hollis, who was at the Harvard Engineering
School under President Eliot. I was a great admirer of Roosevelt
and I am now interested in what Eisenhower can do, although
I have some doubts about several Republican statesmen. I believe
the world expects and ought to get from the United States more
Point Four help and far more trade than aid. That remains to be

seen,

[179 ]

pans 221 SA iS

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

1 doubt that I shall attend the Reunion. I would care to hear
about those who roomed in Weld Hall on my floor during my
senior year. I started with 1929 and know many in there also.

MAURICE PLACIDE CHARTRAND

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Dawson Rd., Worcester 2, Mfass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 New Bond St., Worcester 6, Mass.

BORN: July 5, 1902, Montreal, Canada. parents: Michel Adélard Chartrand,
Marie Louis Raby.

PREPARED AT: Berkeley Preparatory School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

marRiED: Afarie Angeline Eberhardt, April 27, 1931, Montreal, Canada.
cuitprEN: Yolande Marie, May 17, 1932; Robert Maurice, July 2, 1939;
Peter Frederic, March 11, 1947; Paul Michel, May 15, 1949; Marc Leo,
July 30, 1951.

occupation: Manager of cafeterias, Norton Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: As staff member of Griffenhagen and Associ-
ates, Management consultants, assignments with office, Chief of Ord-
nance, and office, Chief of Transportation, War Department, U. S. A.,
involving problems of organization, management, personnel, and pro-
cedures.

OFFICES HELD: President, Province of Quebec Hotel Association; vice-presi-
dent, Hotel Association of Canada; director, Montreal Tourist and
Convention Bureau; member Cost and Management Institute, Canada.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; Tatnuck Club; National Restau-
rant Association; Massachusetts Restaurant Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Canadian Hotel and Restaurant Review, Canada; L’Hotellerie,
Canada, Institutions magazine, Chicago; Hotel and Restaurant News,
Boston.

BREAD and butter:

December, 1930, to May, 1936 — successively statistician, ac-
countant, and assistant comptroller, Mount Royal Hotel,
Montreal.

May, 1936, to May, 1937 — superintendent of the beverage de-
partment, Eppley Hotels Company, Omaha, Nebraska.

May, 1937, to May, 1940 — manager, the Berkeley Hotel, Mont-
real.

May, 1940, to May, 1944 — self-employed, management con-
sultant serving hotels, clubs, and restaurants.

[ 180]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

May, 1944, to May, 1946 — staff member with Griffenhagen &
Associates, management consultants, Chicago.

. May, 1946, to date — cafeteria manager, Norton Company,
Worcester.

Brickbats & Bouquets:

1936 — First Mention, Needham & Grohman Hotel Essay Com--
petition, “What’s Wrong With the Hotel Business.”

1940 — operated sidewalk cafe which received sanction of
Duncan Hines.

1942 — designed bar and restaurant which were included in
1942 yearbook of Decorative Art, Studio Publications.

1949 — designed industrial cafeteria awarded Honorable Men-
tion in Institutions magazine, third Food Service Contest.

Betterment:

McGill University: certificate in advanced cost accounting,
labor legislation, and industrial management.

Various extension courses in time and motion study, tax legis-
lation, and public administration.

U nfinished Business:

Wine, women, and wood-carving (sculpture).

JOHN PEIRCE CHASE

HOME ApprEss: Wilsondale Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John P. Chase, Inc., 75 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: June 12, 1906, Milton, Mass. parents: Philip Putnam Chase, ’oo, Anna
Cornelia Wigglesworth.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Barbara Stone, June 27, 1928, Brookline, Mass. (divorced); Gisele
Parenty, Hudson, N. H. cuitpren: Barbara Stone, March 24, 1929 (7m.
Charles C. Harwood, June 24, 1950); George Wigglesworth, Sept. 29,
1931; Anna Gregg, May 3, 1933; John Peirce, Jr. July 2, 1934; Sarah
Baldwin, June 21, 1936; Laura Dennison, Oct. 18, 1938; Louise Eliza-
beth, July 5, 1949. GRANDCHILD: Caroline Stone Harwood, April 28, 1951.

HARVARD SON: George Wigglesworth Chase, ’53.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Philip Wigglesworth Chase, ’25; Epes Dixwell Chase,
"39, A.M ‘47.

[181 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

occupation: President, treasurer, and director, John P. Chase, Inc., Invest-
ment Counsel (incorporated June, 1932).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Associate Administrative Director, American
Defense Research Committee, Office of Scientific Research and Develop-
ment, serving overseas with the assimilated rank of colonel, 1944-45;
awarded Purple Heart and Certificate of Merit by President of United
States.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chairman, Canton (Mass.) Public Safety Com-
mittee, 1942-44.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Canton Public Library, 1930-51, Shareholders’. Trust
of Boston, since 1948; member, 1936-51, chairman, 1937-45, Canton
School Committee; chairman, Budget Committee, Youth Agencies
Group, Greater Boston Community Fund, 1942~50; trustee, member of
Council, member of Finance Committee, Radcliffe College, 1935-50;
treasurer, trustee, Wellesley College, 1942-50; treasurer, 1945-50, director
and member Finance Committee, 1943-50, Perkins Institution and Massa-
chusetts School for the Blind; trustee, member Finance Committee,
Milton Academy, 1947-50; trustee, member Investment Committee,
1938-50, Incorporator, Suffolk Savings Bank for Seamen, and others;
clerk, since 1930, assistant treasurer, 1940-48, treasurer, since 1948, Robert
B. Brigham Hospital; treasurer, director, The Little House, Inc., since
1932, Home for Aged Men, since 1946; member of the corporation, New
England Hospital for Women and Children, since 1934, Massachusetts
General Hospital, since 1947, director, member of the corporation,
Josiah Willard Hayden Recreation Center, since 1937; member, Execu-
tive Committee, Phillips Exeter Alumni Association; director, Canton
Taxpayers Association, 1941-44, Atlantic, Gulf & West Indies 5. S.,
1938-51, Carey, Baxter & Kennedy, 1942-51, Lone Star Cement Corpora-
tion, 1942-51, Mathieson Chemical Corporation, 1942-51, Second Na-
tional Bank of Boston, 1942-51, Waltham Watch Company, 1933-49,
Allied Research and Service Corporation, 1952, Insuranshares Certificates,
Inc., since 1941; trustee, member Executive Committee, Consolidated
Investment Trust, since 1947; director, member Executive Committee,
since 1942; voting trustee, director, Texas Consolidated Oils; president,
treasurer, director, Buffalo Creek Land Company, since 1951; captain,
U. S. Olympic Hockey Team, 1932; head coach, Harvard Hockey
Team, 1943-51; treasurer, Harvard Varsity Club, since 1939; director,
secretary, Boston Madison Square Garden Club, since 1929.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; The
Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Dedham Country and Polo Club; Owl
Club,

THE statistical presentation of facts, figures, and dates given
above gives a pretty clear picture of my life during the past
twenty-five years, Until 1944, when I left for overseas service
as associate director for administration of this country’s radar

[ 182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

counter measure program in the FE. T. O., my life had been one of
expanding family, business, and civic interests with particular
emphasis on education. During my government service overseas,
including the early post-war years, I became convinced that our
way of life and even our national existence was faced with the
gravest threat in our history; and that if American people were
not told the truth as to what Communism’s aims and methods
really were, our American Democracy, as we have known it, was
doomed. Thus, for the greater part of six years I have been at-
tempting to get the true facts and present them first to our gov-
ernment and then to as many people as are willing to listen to
me. Those of you who attended our Twentieth Reunion may
recall my efforts to bring certain of this information to your
attention. This has been a most frustrating experience as the ad-
ministration in Washington has not wanted the truth to be made
known even after it was forced to admit to itself that the cold,
hard facts did not lie.

Political expediency has dominated our foreign policy to our
dire peril. I had the opportunity of observing at first hand the
molding of our catastrophic foreign policy immediately after the
war, when we precipitantly disarmed in the face of the most con-
clusive evidence that we should remain strong. I saw Senator
Vandenberg and Mr. Byrnes try to stem the tide before it was
too late, without success, and I have had access to information
which, if it had been told to the American people with utter
frankness, would unquestionably have altered our entire for-
eign policy. Apathy on the part of the American people has
been the cause of at least one world war and is again encourag-
ing Russia to a point where a third world war may become in-
evitable. Every time we have shown our policy to be one of
mere containment the Communists have become aggressive. On
the contrary, every time the West has manifested strength the
Communists have not only been frustrated but have retreated. We
have only to look at North Persia, Trieste, Berlin, and Korea. The
policy of containment and the cold war theory is just as fatal a
philosophy as the impregnability of the Maginot Line proved
to be. Fortunately there are a few people in high places who
are beginning to show sufficient courage to present the true facts
to the public ignoring the political consequences to themselves.

[ 183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

My preoccupation with foreign affairs during recent years
has necessarily been at the expense of the very things to which I
devoted my energies during the ’20’s and ’30’s. The American
heritage we took for granted twenty-five years ago took on an
even greater significance to me as I saw it becoming seriously
threatened. Thus, unless I were willing to let this heritage go by
default, I felt compelled to direct my energies against the primary
force which seemed to threaten that heritage. The alternative was
to allow the apathy which has infected the American people to
lull my conscience to a point where I could continue to live in
an ivory castle in comfortable complacency, hoping the deluge
would come only after my lifetime. It is certainly questionable
whether any of my efforts expended in obtaining information for
the U. S. government and transmitting as much as possible of that
information to my fellow-Americans, will ever have any effect
on the course of events. Nonetheless, I continue to believe it
worth while to try despite the fact that history shows it has taken
a near disaster to awaken the American people from that perni-
cious disease, “apathy to world affairs.”

My second wife and I, with our little daughter, are now living
in Dover, Massachusetts. I have acquired cattle and dude ranch-
ing interests in Wyoming which allow me to follow my bent of
twenty-five years ago and take my vacations in a country that
holds tremendous appeal for me and at the same time obtain relief
from the business and international pressures of the other eleven
months of the year.

HENRY CHAUNCEY

HOME ADDRESS: 55 Battle Rd., Princeton, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Nassau St., Princeton, N. J.

Born: Feb, 9, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Egisto Fabbri Chauncey, ’99,
Edith Lockwood Taft.

prePARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: AB., 1928, 8.0. (Tufts Coll.), 1952.

MargigD: Elizabeth Phalen, June 4, 1932, West Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Egisto, April 23, 1933; Henry, Jr., May 5, 1935; Ann, June 19,
1942; Donald Robertson, Feb. 17, 1945.

HARVARD 60N; William Fgisto Chauncey, ‘55.

OccuPATION: Education — president, Educational Testing Service.

[ 184 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Consultant, Bureau of Naval Personnel, Navy
Dept.

orFices HELD: Teacher of History, William Penn Charter School, 1927-29;
assistant dean of Freshmen, 1929-42, assistant dean of Faculty and chair-
man of Committee on Scholarships, 1942-45, Harvard; associate “director,
Army-Navy College Qualifying Tests, College Entrance Examination
Board, 1943-45; associate secretary, executive secretary, director, College
Entrance Examination Board, 1945-47; president, Educational Testing
Service, since 1948, member Advisory Committee on Foreign Service
Examinations, Department of State, since 1945; member Committee to
Visit Harvard College, Committee to Visit Psychology Department,
Board of Overseers, since 1948, member, Groton School Alumni Stand-
ing Committee, since 1952; member, Princeton Township Board of Edu-
cation, since 1949; consultant, Department of Army and Office of
Education.

MEMBER OF: American Association of School Administrators, American
Psychological Association, Psychometric Society; American Association
for the Advancement of Science; American Statistical Association; Har-
vard Club of New York; Nassau Club of Princeton; Cosmos Club,
Washington, Century Association, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on testing and education.

DURING my last year at Harvard I was undecided as to whether
I should go into teaching or business. Some general counsel by
Henry Pennypacker and the offer of a job at the William Penn
Charter School by Richard Gummere started me on the educa-
tional trail. And that trail has taken me through the standard
type of educational institutions —— Penn Charter, Browne and
Nichols, and Harvard — but also into the work of the College
Entrance Examination Board and the Educational Testing Serv-
ice. ,
At Harvard for a period of fifteen years I was an Assistant
Dean, with the good fortune to work under Dean Hanford, Dean
Leighton, and Dean Buck. With Dean Bender, I had the oppor-
tunity of trying to put President Conant’s ideas on scholarships
into a working program — the National Scholarships. And for its
first eight years J had the fun of administering this program which
brought so many able and deserving students to Harvard.

It was work on methods of selection that got me into testing
and statistics and led to my association with the College Entrance
Examination Board and the Educational Testing Service when it
was founded five years ago. Interestingly, it was President Co-
nant who was perhaps most influential in the formation of the

[185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ETS through the merger of the testing activities of the American
Council on Education, the Carnegie Foundation, and the College
Board. Testing is still an infant science, but already has made it-
self useful in guidance, selection, and measurement of achieve-
ment in education, business, and the military. The fun of it is
in ics youthfulness. There are large areas to be explored. Pres-
ent-day tests measure certain important qualities, but many traits,
particularly in the personality sphere, cannot as yet be reliably
measured but will be — long before our Fiftieth Reunion, I hope.

By good fortune my jobs have been in pleasant localities —
Cambridge and Princeton (a far nicer place than I imagined as
an undergraduate). So our family as it has grown up has been
able to enjoy small-town life — Lincoln, Lexington, Princeton —
and we have spent our summers in Maine.

Our oldest son Bill is a sophomore at Harvard. Henry, Jr.,
generally known as Sam, starts college next year — but at pres-
ent writing is looking in the direction of New Haven! Our
daughter Ann, and youngest son Don, are in the Princeton Town-
ship Elementary School, an excellent public school for which
L have to get in a plug, since I am on the Board of Education.

I have always felt apologetically deficient in formal hobbies —
there never seems to be enough time and always too many inter-
esting things going on. I have dabbled now and again in photog-
raphy, but I can claim no scientific or artistic proficiency. The
pleasure for me comes more in the memories of people and places
thar photographs keep fresh.

Last year I had the good fortune to make a visit to New Zea-
land and Australia on a Carnegie grant, returning by way of Sing-
apore, Bangkok, Delhi, Beirut, Istanbul, and London. These
colorful places offered ample opportunities for the camera. More
recently, “The Club,” an ancient and informal group of history
teachers of our vintage (Henry Bragdon, Bill Saltonstall, Tom
Eliot, Bob Hunneman are the other 28ers), had to submit to the
violence of the candid camera. But I'll leave photography at the
Reunion to others more proficient in the art, and just enjoy see-

ing classmates once again and taking part in the round of activi-
ties that are in store for us.

[ 186 J}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS WARNER CHESTERTON

HOME ADDRESS: 9 High Gate Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: A. W. Chesterton Co., Everett, Mass.

BORN: June 13, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Arthur Wellington Ches-
terton, Lucretia Mary Devereaux.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

marRiED: Florence Baker Chew, June 27, 1929, Xenia, Ohio. cHILpREN:
James D., March 11, 1932; Thomas Warner, Jr., April 3, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, A. W. Chesterton Company, mechanical packing.

MEMBER OF: Duxbury Yacht Club; Weston Golf Club; Wellesley Country
Club; Farmington Country Club; Longwood Indoor Courts, Masons;
Mechanical Packing Association.

WHAT happened in the last twenty-five years includes that
kaleidoscopic panorama about which I am instructed to com-
ment. As far as I am concerned, I can find no basis upon which
to register or substantiate a complaint. The beginning was cer-
tainly pleasant, but there can be no question that I never had
it as good as now.

The Harvard Business School taught me how to maintain the
sheriff at arm’s-length while simultaneously developing a sub-
stantial overhead. Even 1932 had its compensations: It might be
termed a corrective moral cathartic. At least I learned I had to
scramble, and I haven’t ceased scrambling since. Business has
been fun in spite of the headaches of self-employment. My broth-
er and I have worked together harmoniously. We rescued the
family business, founded and folded another, and consolidated a
third. In short I have managed to maintain my health and my
hair, to pay my taxes, and to keep out of the scandalous sections
of the newspapers. This is an accomplishment which some of my
classmates cannot lay claim to.

Militarily, my record consisted of a couple of pastoral ROTC
summers in Vermont, the acquisition and subsequent expiration
of my commission, and the dubious distinction of having signed
my own deferment. Thereafter, I could only be located well-
buried under a pile of mechanical packings.

Floss and I have two nice boys. Jim is at Babson’s (a business
training makes sense to both of us, as much as we admire Har-
vard), and Tom is under Bill Saltonstall’s tutelage at Exeter. They

[ 187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

were fortunate enough to inherit their mother’s looks, talents,
and characteristics, which are considerable. We have travelled
together all over the country and have also had a lot of fun cruis-
ing coastwise in a cutter mg.

As far as hobbies are concerned, I guess I’m just a frustrated
athlete. No one has worked harder with fewer natural endow-
ments than I have at tennis, bowling, skiing, and golf. I think I
have taken more lessons than there are instructors. At least, some-
one has profited by my endeavors. Oh well, as I said before, |
can’t really complain. We get to eat a pork chop now and then.

LUIS JOSE CHIBAS REAL

HOME ADDRESS: 573 G St., Vedado, Havana, Cuba.
OFFICE aDpREss: P. OQ. Box 1067, Havana, Cuba.

BORN: June 30, 1905, Santiago de Cuba, Cuba. parents: Luis Floro Chibas,
Mercedes Real.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: $.B., 1928.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Pharmaceutical manufacturing chemist, control chemist, E. R.
Squibb & Sons Inter-American Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Colegio de Ingenieros Quimicos; Quimicos Azucareros e In-
dustriales de Cuba.

AS SOON as I graduated I went to work for the American
Smelting and Refining Company in Amarillo, Texas, and with
the same company at Rosita, Coahuila, Mexico, for three years.
Later I came to Cuba, where I was engaged in a sugar mill job
and afterwards became engaged with the “Lex” Pharmaceutical
Laboratory, in Havana, for eight years, and since then I have
been working for E. R. Squibb & Sons Inter-American Corpora-

tion as control chemist. My social life is very quiet. I am a
Catholic.

ASAPH CHURCHILL, JR.

HOME appress: Parroquia, 622, Zone 12, Mexico City, D. F., Mexico.
orice aporess: The Sydney Ross Co., §. A., Administracion de Correos, §1,
Mexico City, D. F., Mexico.

Born: Feb. 25, 1907, Milton, Mass. parents: Asaph Churchill, °88, Helen
Ohivia French.

[ 188 ]

>»

a samentieameess ‘

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1929.

marrieD: Dorothy M. Moorehead, Oct. 28, 1933, Chicago, Il]. cHILpREN:
Carol Marguerite, Sept. 22, 1934; Asaph Barrett, Sept. 6, 1937; Eton
Frederick, Feb. 4, 1944; Helen French, Oct. 14, 1947 (died July 27,
1950).

occuPATION: President, The Sydney Ross Company, S. A., subsidiary of
Sterling Drug, Inc., in Mexico.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Rockefeller Committee, Mexico, 1942~43.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Brown’s Hungarian Corporation, 1932-33;
president, Techanny Milling Corporation, 1933-34, im Mexico, 1940-43,
1946-52.

MEMBER OF: Mexico City Country Club, Club de Golf Mexico, University
Club, Mexico City; American Club, Mexico City; treasurer, Harvard
Club of Mexico City; Harvard Club of New York; Megunticook Golf
Club, Camden, Maine; Camden Yacht Club.

SINCE I wrote for the Tenth Annual Report, a lot of water has
gone over and under the Churchill dam. I notice that I am one
of twenty-one ’28-ers who live abroad. I hope that all of the
twenty-one will come to our Twenty-fifth. It will be the first
reunion for me since graduation, and whether the balding and
greying will recognize the balding and greying Churchill and
vice versa next June, I cannot forecast. In the interim, the ’28
club of Buenos Aires did “reune” in 1945, when Baldy Robinson,
George Greenslet, and I had lunch together.

I could put on paper lots of stories of four years in the Far
East, which terminated in a transfer to Mexico ten days after my
family ran the gauntlet on a blacked out ship in early 1940, and
arrived in India to join me. An abrupt change of scene to Latin
America mirrored many interesting comparisons, forced a new
language, not easy to learn when one is racing toward the Twen-
ty-fifth Reunion and is not-a polyglot. Yet Mexico City has
witnessed a great expansion. Our closest neighbor has industrial-
ized, shared the Texas boom in many ways; and we even have a
Harvard Club, of which I am presently treasurer.

We can save the Class money if we restrict ourselves to what
is not even a résumé. Classmates who would like to hear more
will have to identify me in Cambridge in June, 1953. A young
lady graduates from Saint Mary’s, San Antonio, and a young man
admires our First Marshal’s leadership at Exeter. Another young
man is our only roommate in Mexico now.

[ 189 ]

»—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

A is for Asaph, head of the clan.

B is for Barrett, first young man.

C is for Carol, who's not quite chubby,
D is for Dorothy, married to Tubby.

E is for Eton; they shouted “Enough.”
This is a bunch of ridiculous stuff,

LEONARD FISCH CINER |

HOME ADoRESS: 27 WW. 96th St, New York 25, N. Y. '

OFFICE ADDRESS: 68 E. oth St. New York 21, N. Y. :

Born: Nov. 18, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Emanuel Ciner, Dora
Fisch.

prepared aT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928, DEGREES: $B. 1928; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1932.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commander, U. S. Naval Reserve, March, 1942-
August, 1946; Asiatic and Pacific Theatres.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; American Academy of
Obstetrics and Gynecology; American Society for the Study of Steril-
ity; Harvard Club of New York; Quaker Ridge Golf Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several in various medical journals.

AFTER having completed a long period of training in gynecol-
ogy and obstetrics, I entered private practice in New York City
in 1938. Aly work has been concentrated in the various hospitals.
In 1946, after my release from active duty by the Navy, I re-
sumed private practice in New York City. My major interest in
medicine has been in the field of fertility. When possible I play
an enthusiastic, if erratic, game of golf.

NATHANIEL DUDLEY CLAPP

HOME Appress: 34 Thissell Sc, Prides Crossing, Mass.

orrice apvress: Wakefield Bearing Corp, Wakefield, Mass.

Bown: Feb, 12, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Frank Nathaniel Clapp, ’95,
Edith Gardiner Reed.

preparen at: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGRER: AB. 1928(29).

Maneizp: Mary Bowditch Loring, April 19, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN;
Mary Loring, Dec. 29, 1934 (died Aug. 27, 1936); Katharine Peabody,
May 8, 1937; David D, May §, 1939, Nathaniel B., July 22, 1945.

[ 199 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Gilbert Tufts Clapp, 734.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army, 1942-46, captain, Coast Artillery
Corps.

LIFE apparently begins at forty-eight, as the past twenty-five
years, in retrospect, seem to be a preparation for the next twenty-
five. Values and objectives now seem to appear.

Raising a family certainly has been full of surprises. A lot of
things can happen where there are no nicely prepared answers.
However, it has been an all-absorbing and delightful job.

To provide the means for schools and other familiar charges,
business activity has involved appearing daily at duties mainly
with small business organizations, where a jack-of-all trades meth-
od of operation seems to be in order.

With entire family participation, we have gone into the var-
ious phases of small boats, which includes racing, cruising, and
not least of all, boatbuilding. The variety of opportunities in
this field keeps it in a year around occupation, confining, no
doubt, but highly satisfactory.

CHARLES MARTIN CLARK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 136 E. 7oth St.. New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 366 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1905, Summit, N. J. Parents: Charles Martin Clark, Eliza
Rolston Milligan.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Valerie Graham, Aug. 1, 1939, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: Anna
Valer, June 17, 1940; Cecily Martin, May 21, 1942; John Sheldon, Jan.
20, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Trustee.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: United States Maritime Service.

MY CAREER in chronological order follows: Bradstreet’s, bank-
er, broker, baker, and bust.

[191]

_ ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

EDWARD FRANK CLARK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 520 E. 86th St. New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

porn: April 24, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Edward Frank Clark, Grace
Evans McEvoy.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; LL.B. 1931.

marriep: Mary de Peyster Charles, Dec. 21, 1931, New York, N. Y. (di-
vorced 1947); Rosemary Reddick, Sept. 17, 1947, New York, N. Y.
cHipREN: Christopher, March 26, 1936; Michael, June 10, 1939; Ray-
mond Evans, June 12, 1948; Celia R., Aug. 16, r9§r.

occupation: Partner in firm, Carter, Ledyard & Milburn, specializing in
corporate and financial law.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: April 4, 1944-Feb. 11, 1946; Infantry; Military
Intelligence Service, Office of the Chief of Staff; first lieutenant, U. S.
Theatre.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Stahl-Meyer, Inc.; president, director, York Import
Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Broad Street Club; Harvard Club
of New York; several rifle clubs.

PUBLICATIONS: Magazine articles on rifle marksmanship.

I WITHDRAW every word of my eleven-word seasonal Report
in the Tenth Reunion bulletin of 1938. It turned out to be a late
solstice, that’s all. There is really nothing to add to the Twenti-
eth Reunion Report, no change. I am still practising law as a part-
ner in Carter, Ledyard & Milburn, etc., etc. For details, see the
Manhattan Farmers Directory. But whoa! It occurs to me that
I now have twice as many children and half as much hair as I
did five years ago, And there are other things. Sherman was
right (Dick Sherman, that is) about the preparation of these
reports.

One of the happiest happenstances of the past year has been
the opportunity to introduce Rosemary and renew old friend-
ships at the many pre-reunion gatherings, large and small, which
have dotted the calendar.

With the enthusiastic consent of all concerned, many years
ago I gave up the trade of being the world’s worst banjo player.
My leading hobby for nineteen years has been military rifle
marksmanship and instruction. I also have an almost complete
collection of Louis Armstrong records on the Okeh label (do
you remember when General Ollie Picher, ’28, used to stack

[192]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

them up by the dozen?), a collection of etchings and engravings
that has long since got out of hand, and an affection for Dela-
ware surf, Civil War history, Sherlock Holmes, dry martinis,
photography, and it seems to me, a lot of other things.

FRANCIS BROWN CLARK

HOME ADoRESS: 2 Estes St. Amesbury, Mass.

orice aporess: Amesbury Finishing Co. New England Fibre Co., Floktex,
Inc. Amesbury, Mass.

porn: April 29, 1906, Amesbury, Mass. PARENTS: James William Clark,
Maud Ethel Brown.

prepared AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: 8.B., 1928; LL.B., 1933.

margigD: Elizabeth Hazzard, July 16, 1932, Pine Point, Maine. cHitpren:
James Hlazzard, Aug. i9, 1933 (died Aug. 25, 1933); Jane, Sept. 23,
1935, Susan, May 25, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: James William Clark, Jr., ’23 (deceased).

oocuPATION: Manufacturer: treasurer and owner, Amesbury Finishing Com-
pany (metal products); president and partial proprietor, New England
Fibre Company (fibre products); partial proprietor, Floktex, Inc.
(suedine).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted U. S. Army, Air Corps, June, 1942;
commissioned, most of service spent as intelligence and operations
officer to September, 1945, in European Theatre, heavy bombardment,

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association, American Electroplaters So-

ciety.

I WAS graduated from law school into the depths of you know
what. I took the only way out and tried peddling shoes to the
moneyed men of those days-— the apple vendors. I later prac-
tised law in Massachusetts and, after too many years in the Air
Corps, came to the proprietorship of several enterprises manu-
facturing metal products, artificial suede, and gas masks for the
current effort.

HENRY LELAND CLARKE

HOME ADDRESS: 10425 Tennessee Ave. Los Angeles 64, Calif.

OFFice appress: Department of Music, University of California, Los Angeles
24, Calif.

Born: March 9, 1907, Dover, N. H. parents: Ward Robinson Clarke, Annie
Leland Barber.

[ 193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: Thornton Academy, Saco, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. 1928; A.M. 1929; PH.D., 1947.

aarrieD: Julia Newbold Keasbey, June 24, 1937, Morristown, N. J. cHILb:
Anne Newbold, Oct. 25, 1939 (died Dec. 18, 1939).

OCCUPATION; Assistant professor of music, University of California.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, Army Signal Corps, April, 1944-Decem-
ber, 1944, U. S. Theatre.

OFFICES HELD: Mfember Board of Trustees, 1951-53, chairman, Music Com-
mittee, since 1951, First Unitarian Church of Los Angeles; chairman,
Southern California Chapter, American Musicological Society, 1952-
53-

MEMBER OF: American Composers Alliance; American Society for Aes-
thetics,; Music Library Association, Harvard Club of New York;
Bohemians of Los Angeles.

pusLications: No Man Is an Island, Leeds Music Corporation; compositions
in American Composers Alliance’s Composers Facsimile Edition, prin-
cipal arucles: “John Blow: A Tercentenary Survey,” Music Quarterly,

July, 1939; “The Basis of Musical Communication,” Journal of <Aes-
thetics, March, 1952.

HAVING completed my A.M. requirements at Harvard and a
western trip that included a glimpse of the buildings on the new
campus of the University of California at Los Angeles, I em-
barked for Paris to study with Nadia Boulanger. This was in
October, 1929. While I was at sea a crash occurred which —I
learned on coming home two years later — made it difficult for
people to get jobs.

Back in Cambridge as a free-lance (1931 to 1932) I had the
good fortune to study composition with Gustav Holst, then at
Harvard. During my four years as assistant in the Music Divi-
sion of the New York Public Library (1932 to 1936) I was a
charter member of Paul Lang’s Columbia musicology seminar,
studied composition with Hans Weisse, and most important of all
made the acquaintance of Julia Keasbey, a young Bryn Mawr
graduate teaching at Bank Street.

Between my two years as teaching fellow at Bennington College
under the guidance of Otto Luening (1936 to 1938) came our
honeymoon trip to the British Museum and other parts of Eu-
rope. Four years as chairman of the graduate faculty at Westmin-
ster Choir College in Princeton (1938 to 1942) kept me so busy
that I decided there must be an easier way to earn a Ph.D.

So in the fall of 1942 we took up residence in Cambridge and,

[194]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the aid of the G. I. Bill, I was able to finish my dissertation
on Dr. John Blow and receive my degree from Harvard in 1947.
I taught one year at U. C. L. A., the next one at Vassar, and
then came back to U. C. L. A. From this experience developed
my permanent hobby: crossing the continent.

Among my recent compositions is a setting of John Donne’s
No Man Is an Island for men’s chorus and band, which has been
presented at U. C. L. A., Syracuse University, and Harvard. My
one-act chamber opera, The Loafer and the Loaf, words by Eve-
lyn Sharp, has been privately recorded by the pupils of Ruth
Streeter in Boston, and I hope will soon make its appearance on
the stage.
~ Outside of the University my chief interest here is the First
Unitarian Church. As it was seventy-five years ago, this church
is the most progressive and creative cultural force in Los An-
geles. Its minister, Stephen H. Fritchman, 1s undoubtedly the
Theodore Parker of this generation. We western Unitarians be-
lieve that one world of peace and brotherhood can be achieved,
and I am hitching the music I write to that star.

WILLIAM ALEXANDER CLEMENTSON, JR.

HOME appress: P. O. Box 1, Marchand, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: c/o Auditor General, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
Harrisburg, Pa.

BORN: Dec. 29, 1907, Braddock, Pa. parents: William Alexander Clement-
son, Vida Ruth Kinsell.

PREPARED aT: Western High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-192§, 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A,, 1933.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Abigail Ransley, June 27, 1931, Bryn Mawr, Pa. cuiL-
DREN: Abigail Abbott, July 29, 1932; Hallie Heritage, June 12, 1934;
Elizabeth Ransley, 2d, June 27, 1935; William Alexander, 3d, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Supervising auditor.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, New York State Guard, two years.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Internal revenue agent, New York City, two
years.

I HAD several positions after leaving college, and returned to
the Harvard Business School to fortify myself with the newer
ideas of business management. I was in the practice of account-
ancy in Philadelphia from 1931 to 1939. I examined building and

[ 195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

loan associations in Philadelphia for three years and passed the
examinations for Certified Public Accountant in Pennsylvania in
IOgt.

I secured a wartime appointment in the Federal Bureau of In-
ternal Revenue and had several other positions in New York City
uncil 1948. In view of the subsequent developments (showing
doubtful practices in the Treasury Department), I am glad that I
was there only a short time. I returned to my small farm in In-
diana County in 1948, did some gardening, accounting work, and
church work.

I was appointed to the office of the Auditor General in March,
1952, and have been very busy trying to master the intricacies of
the financial operations of the Commonwealth. I have been a
life-long Republican and am much pleased by the election of
General Eisenhower.

LINDSAY CLEVELAND

HOME aporess: 80 High Haith Rd, Arlington Heights 74, Mass.

OFFICE ADoRESS: Publications Dept. Raytheon Manufacturing Co., Waltham
54, Mass.

BORN: July 21, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Frederick Albert Cleve-
land, Jessica England Lindsay.

PREPARED aT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.; Norwood High
School, Norwood, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926. DEGREES: B.B.A. (Boston Univ.), 1935; ED.M.
(ibid.), 1937.

Marien: Letha J. Voorhees, June 30, 1925, Stamford, N. Y. (divorced
1929); Bernice Cecelia Phillip, Oct. 9, 1937, Melrose, Mass. CHILD:
Jessica Lindsay, Feb. 19, 1928 (mn. Gerald Sparks, July 5, 1952).

OCCUPATION: Electronic engineer, technical writing and editing.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Electronic work on OSRD projects.

member oF: Phi Mu Delta; American Association of University Professors
(associate member); A. R. R. L.

pusLications: Syllabus on Sociology (Boston Univ.); collaborated on writ-
ing of Organized Scientific Knowledge (Ronald Press).

THIE mere filling in of this space in the questionnaire probably
indicates an overdeveloped ego, for I did not complete the full
sentence at Harvard and received no degree there.

Ie might be mentioned, however, that I was one of those who
survived the Depression without resort to larceny or relief. The

[ 196 ]

»

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

whole thing was a trial but filled with memories and varied ex-
periences. Since this time I have been employed for various pe-
riods — mostly short, by request — as a hotel manager, college in-
structor, newspaper man of sorts, theatre employee, watchman,
and finally an engineer (not as useful as the railroad variety).
By pure luck, I now find myself firmly entrenched with home
and a good wife, in Boston, and in the midst of the electronic lab-
oratory and research boom that has centered about the city.

With interests and hobbies other than the racetrack and the beer
parlor, a lukewarm interest in baseball and joining things, I find
that I make enduring friends not too easily. Thus, hearing from
some of the now full-grown boys at Harvard would be an unex-
pected pleasure. Aside from home with better-half, my hobbies
are puttering with gadgets, electronics, and listening to symphony
music. -

EVERETT MITCHELL CLORAN

HOME ADDRESS: 2101 Woodlyn Rd., Pasadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3136 E. 11th St., Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: March 12, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Michael James Cloran,
Minnie Anna Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B. IN MECH. ENG. cum laude, 1928.

MarRieD: Alice Honora Comés, Aug. 7, 1933, Pittsburgh, Pa. cHILDREN:
Alice Ann, Aug. 31, 1934; Michael J. C., Sept. 10, 1937.

occuPATION: Technical adviser, Rockwell Manufacturing Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in Navy from 1942 to 1945, as lieutenant,
Naval Reserve, Ordnance, as resident inspector on Radio-Proximity
(VT) Fuse contracts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Los Angeles; Los Angeles Athletic Club;

’ American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Pacific Gas Association;

American Gas Association; Southern California Meter Association.

NOW a resident of Pasadena, California, many miles and some
years removed from Harvard Square, I am looking forward to the
Twenty-fifth Reunion and plan to be there with my family.

My career has been in the engineering and industrial life. After
graduation, my first connection was with Stone & Webster in
Boston from 1928 to 1930. Then followed a year of work with
the Atmospheric Nitrogen Corporation in Hopewell, Virginia.

[197]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In 1931 I joined the engineering staff of the Picesburgh Equitable
Meter Company in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, as a mechanical en-
gineer, under Allen D, MacLean, Class of 1918.

In 1933 I married Alice Honora Comés in Pittsburgh and re-
turned to Boston for two years on leave of absence from this
company. In 1935 I rejoined the company in Pittsburgh until
1939, when I was transferred to Los Angeles as district engineer
for the West Coast Sales Department.

In 1942 I volunteered for military service and was commissioned
as a lieutenant in the Naval Reserve in Ordnance. After training
at Newport, Rhode Island, the Naval Gun Factory, Washington,
and Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory, I was assigned
to the Radio Proximity Fuse program. After release from the
service, I returned to California and my previous work, but due
to changed conditions, 1 went into other fields. From: 1946 to
1948 I was an instructor and research associate at the University
of Southern California, Engineering School, on hydraulics and
problems concerning water pollution. From 1948 to 1949 I was
lecturer in mechanical engineering at California Institute of Tech-
nology. Concurrently, from 1948 to 1952, I was associated with
two other engineers, Charles Meriam and Gerhard Cooke, con-
sulting engineers and agents for the sale of power and process
equipment; and also from 1946 to 1952, I was consulting engineer
to the Naval Ordnance Test Station on the construction of
facilities and design of special equipment. Also, since 1952 I
have been consultant and technical adviser to the Rockwell Manu-
facturing Company, formerly the Pittsburgh Equitable Meter
Company.

My daughter, who was born in 1934 in Boston, is now a fresh-
man at Rosemont College, Pennsylvania. My son, born in Pitts-
burgh in 1937, is a sophomore in high school. In 1947 I built my
home here in Pasadena after many trials and tribulations from
building restrictions; since then 1 have enjoyed living here very
much, although frequently we feel the remoteness from friends,
relatives, and familiar haunts of the eastern cities.

Our life has been the conventional one. We have several groups
of friends. My wife, long active in church and school affairs, has
contributed many of them, while my contacts come from the
business and engineering world, especially from the scientific

[ 198 ]

8 ee Sa iAP ne tntnwse ag, gee “Leena pe gett ogi pnt met ae NEE Qt re a ee

ARON PN HNN EAR

onpyrreerp tome sy

2 RY pein Sy FRY RE SLOT hp RINE AN RENE ROIE AN TS eNO TT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

circles in Pasadena. For recreation I go hunting and fishing with
business friends and for hobbies, I like gardening and brick laying.
I have travelled extensively in this country, Mexico, and Canada,
but have not had an opportunity to go abroad —I do hope to do
so one day and particularly my wife would like to renew her
acquaintances in Italy, France, and England, where she received
her education before returning to this country.

I can report no public honors. However, the work I have done
has included some accomplishments and satisfactions in pioneer-
ing new designs and ideas. My financial reward has been average
(I am thinking of an income survey for Yale twenty-five-year
men) and is represented by house, cars, children, clubs, etc.; I
yearn not greatly for any more or less, except some vague
Utopian economic independence. I feel that I have been blessed
with a wonderful wife, a happy family, good health for all, and
an opportunity to earn a living for them. In religion we are
Catholics, and conservative in politics, with a point of view on the
menacing state of world affairs consistent with our persuasion that
the rampant materialism and secularism of our times must be re-
placed with spiritual values and cultural development in our
country before we can effectively crusade against peoples who
now covet the materialism we exemplify.

“WILLIAM BRANFORD SHUBRICK CLYMER

HOME ADDRESS: 25 River Rd., Wethersfield 9, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 400 Main St., East Hartford 8, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: George Clymer, ’os5, Susan
Welles Sturgis.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(29); M.B.A., 1930(31).

marrieD: Anita Blackwell, June 8, 1929, Englewood, N. J. cuitpren: George,
2d, May 17, 1930; Mary Willing, April 24, 1932; Lynn, Aug. 24, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Russell Sturgis Clymer, ’36.

occupation: Director of Training, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, manufacturing
aircraft engines.

FROM college I went directly into the Graduate School of Busi-
ness Administration where I spent two years, graduating in 1930
with an M.B.A. degree. Having been married in 1929, I already
had a son when I finished the Business School. The depression

[ 199]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I never would have dreamed possible when my heart and soul were
dying a dozen Years ago.

My son is in the Army now, waiting for an overseas “assign.
ment. My eldest daughter, Mary, is a junior at Connecticut Col-
lege for Women in New London. And my third-born, Lynn, is a
senior at the Wethersfield High School, planning to enter a
nurse’s training school in Boston next fall. My wife and I are more
or less typical Connecticut suburbanites with a large white house,
two cars, four dogs, many good friends, and an enthusiasm for
Ike. We work hard, play hard, beef about taxes, and do very
little about them.

GEORGE STURGIS COFFIN

HOME Appress: Phineas Lawrence House, 257 Trapelo Rd., Waltham 54,
Mass. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: P, O. Box 7, Waverly 79, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1903, Ipswich, Mass. Parents: Sturgis Coffin, © 97, Elizabeth
Hood Wood.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MarRiED: Elizabeth White Dewey, June 29, 1935, Boston, Mass. cHILp:
Harriette Dewey, July 10, 1936.

occuPATION: Contract bridge book publisher and writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Joined CCC Dec. 4, 1940, as subaltern of 1188th
Co., in New Hampshire. Entered Air Corps June 30, 1941; six months
at Grenier Field; assigned to 11th Replacement Control Depot,
landed at Melbourne, Australia, April 27, 1942; two and a half years
overseas, then eighteen months in Stateside camps and separation cen-
ters, finished course in School for Government of Occupied Areas,
July 6, 1946; stationed six months in Okinawa as mess officer, taught
English; discharged, then enlisted as Master Sergeant in Air Force on
April 25, 1947, at Bedford Air Field.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Boston Mycological Club, 1949-53; president, East
Waltham Civic Association, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Boston Mycological Club; East Waltham Civic Association.

puBLicaTIons: Endplays at Bridge, ath edition, 1950, Gerald Duckworth,
London; Fortune Poker, 1949, David McKay Co., New York; The
Poker Game Complete, 1950, Faber & Faber, London; Sure Tricks, 1952,
Faber & Faber, London, Learn Bridge the Easy Way, 1950, Branford,
Boston; articles on bridge in magazines, The Bridge World, New York;
Bridge Magazine and Contract Bridge Journal, both British, and Euro-
pean Bridge Review, Sweden.

[ 202 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THANKS, Maties, for dubbing me “Man of Distinction” at the
Twentieth at Poland Springs. Your “Lord Calvert” scroll adorns
my den. One of the six fifths of prize whisky went to my furnace
man (oh, yes, we had steam-by-coal heat then) and the other five
to Honorable Pater for medicinal purposes (don’t you believe
it! ).

But to take up where I left off in the Twentieth Report, which
see, I had to sell the Australiana, except for a few choice pieces,
and the Great Barrier Reef sea shells to boil the pot after quitting
the Air Force on April 25, 1950, ending nine years’ service. Moth-
er died on Flag Day in 1950, aged nearly seventy-seven, a few
weeks after Father sold “Steeplechase” in Fitzwilliam, New
Hampshire. He, Sturgis Coffin ’97, lives with us and enjoys his
Harvard classmate pals often. Daughter Harriette, sixteen, is
smarter than her old man with “A” averages at Winsor where
she will graduate in 1953, and then go on to college.

On November 15, 1949, we bought the Phineas Lawrence
House at 257 Trapelo Road, Waltham, opposite the 200-children
school named after it; and we moved in December 7, 1949. This
beautiful early American brick-ender features the number seven:
seven fireplaces, seven rooms downstairs, and was built in 1807
by Phineas Lawrence for his son Jacob. Here bachelor grand-
son Phineas was born in 1926 and lived ninety-eight years (multi-
ple of seven). And in the winter of 1952 when I applied for a
post office box, the only numbers available were seven and sev-
enty-seven! We also have a two-car garage and a four-horse
barn (but no horse) on “Coffin’s Little Acre” of 39,000 square
feet with plenty of room for raising vegetables, though we did
not start until 1952. The corn was planted along the back fence
with squash on the edge of the patch and trained to run parallel
towards the house. The vines make an interesting sight, racing
across the lawn at the incredible speed in some cases of six inches
a day. Come up some time, look ’em over, and place your bets!

The big thirteen-room house was quite a load, so in May, 1952,
we added a fourth bathroom and second kitchen; and wife Betsy
got a nice young couple with a baby as tenants to cover taxes
and a little oil, In May she wanted to put off the job again
for the thirteenth time, so I called the plumber and said, “Start
work Monday morning.”

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In 1951 I sold houses and bridge books, switched to the latter
exclusively in September and carried fifty titles in English, and
recently added one in French! The plan was to take advantage of
the sterling-pound-dollar ratio on twelve British imports and to
promote my own little efforts.

David McKay published my Fortune Poker in 1949 and Faber
& Faber in London in 1950 brought out the British edition, entitled
The Poker Game Complete. In 1950 McKay bought 2,300 sheets
of Ivar Andersson’s Sure Tricks from me, just in time to ship them
off the barn floor in Fitzwilliam before the place was sold. In 1952
Faber did a British edition of my own seventy-three “sure trick”
problems plus my eighty new ones, but dropped the two hun-
dred double dummy problems of the original American work.
In 1950 I did Learn Bridge the Easy Way in fifteen simple lessons
at two dollars, but you can have a copy for a buck postpaid any-
where in the world! (If you don’t play bridge, here’s your chance

to learn simply by “passing the buck!”)

My job as secretary of the Boston Mycological (mushroom)
Club entails issuing ten letters a year to all members plus wide
newspaper publicity. The latter has whetted an eager public ap-
petite for the tasty fungus victuals around Boston, so they are
being hunted to death. Increasing realty developments cut into
nearby collecting areas and draughts make fungi hide for long
periods, so collecting has become an acute problem. Despite all
this, in five years, from April of 1947, the club grew from
twenty-nine to 165 members and now has over ‘a thousand dollars
in the treas

A Boston publisher coaxed me to try a mushroom book, so I
started Twenty Common Mushrooms and How to Cook Them,
with recipes by club president Mrs. Ervin H. Lewis of Quincy
and drawings by Mrs. Franklin T. Hammond of Cambridge. We
hope it will be available when this Report comes out.

I still have quite a shell collection and recently joined the
Boston Malocological Club to study my specimens from Aus-
tralia. I have a predilection for the bizarre, the exotic, the fan-
tastic, the phenomenal, the rare and the unusual. This accounts
for my odd hobbies: collecting strange things, composing tough
and weird bridge problems, and studying mushrooms and toad-
stools of which I eat more than one hundred species. I got mea

[ 204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

celeste, a beautiful piano-like instrument with standard keyboard
from middle “C” up. The hammers strike tinkling rare nickel alloy
bars. The celeste weighs ninety-three pounds, fits in the back of
a car, and never gets out of tune. There are only about six oth-
ers around Boston. The Boston Symphony Orchestra has one,
as do piano seller Guy Norris, ’29, and a few radio stations. The
investment would buy a couple of pretty good pianos. Daughter
Harriette and I play duets, she on the piano.

In my flying saucer theory, intelligent electronic creatures,
perhaps from Saturn's rings or the sun, are forms of life requiring
atomic temperatures and hence not understandable by us earth-
lings. Perhaps atomic explosions aroused their curiosity and at-
tracted them to this planet. When something goes wrong with
one, the being explodes and leaves nothing behind except traces
of copper. I also believe that the planet Venus contains intelli-
gent beings who are trying to contact us.

Let me leave you now to chomp on one of my “sure trick”
bridge problems, No. 216 (No. 14 in the British edition):

North, dummy South
Spades K 8 5 Spades 642
Hearts Q J Hearts AK 64
Diamonds A765 4 Diamonds QJ10 9 32
Clubs J 73 Clubs —-

You are South playing a contract of Five Diamonds. West leads
the king of clubs and Fast plays the six of clubs, which you
trump. To Trick Two you lead the queen of diamonds and
West plays the eightspot of diamonds. Do you finesse or go up
with the ace in dummy? How do you win eleven tricks against
any defence and distribution of the East and West hands? I’ll give
you the answer at the Twenty-fifth, if you ask for it. See you
then.

ARCHIBALD CLINTON COHEN

HOME appress: Apt. 8, King David Court, 554 N. Main St., Butler, Pa.

OFFICE ApprEss: Veterans Administration Hospital, Butler, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1909, Clark’s Harbour, N. S., Canada. parents: Abraham
Isaac Cohen, Rachel Smofsky.

PREPARED aT: Yarmouth Academy, Yarmouth, N. S., Canada.

[ 205 ]

peepee haa aS
net

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928°

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; M.D.
I °

MARRIEDY Shulamith Rabb, Aug. 30, 1942, Indianapolis, Ind.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Jacob Cohen, *30.

occupation: Physician; assistant chief, tuberculosis service, Veterans | Ad-
ministradon Hospital.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Medical Corps, Army of U. S., March
1, 1934; promoted major Dec, 20, 1944; discharged May 15, 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Trudeau Society;
American College of Physicians, American College of Chest Physicians;
American Medical Writers Association, American Topical Associa-
tion; Zionist Organization of America; Mizrachi Organization of Amer-
ica; Hapoel Hamuizrachi; Reserve Officers Association of U. S.; Butler
County Philatelic Society; Jewish War Veterans of U. S.

puBLicaTions: “Hypersensitivity to Streptomycin,” Journal of Allergy,
January, 1951; “Air Embolism,” Annals of Internal Medicine, October,
1951; twenty-six papers in medical journals.

SHORTLY after graduation I began to look for a job. Jobs

were still plentiful in 1928, but, strange to say, no company want-

ed to hire me as president. I did get and give up a series of un-

interesting jobs before going to work as a laboratory technician

at the Massachusetts General Hospital. This was different. ‘This

was interesting. I stayed almost a year and went on to study

medicine at Harvard Medical School. My basic medical training

was continued by an internship at Johnstown, Pennsylvania, and

then by a year's specialized training in tuberculosis. Then I was

ready to go into practice.

Having always enjoyed travel, and still having a little money
(a very little), I took a year off at that time (1935) and traveled.
By freighter, train, bus, bicycle, camel-back, donkey-back, and
foot, I was able to see much of western Europe and Palestine and
a little of Egypt in the days before that part of the world was
ravaged by war. It was a memorable experience.

After a year in general practice, I returned to my specialty of
tuberculosis and took three years of further residency training.
In 1940 I entered the Veterans Administration and I have practised
in the field of tuberculosis in veterans’ hospitals ever since. In 1946
I was fortunate enough to represent a hospital in which, along
with twenty other hospitals, a study on the drug treatment of

tuberculosis was begun. That study is still going on. Several
good drugs have been investigated, their value established, their

[ 206 ]

L

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dangers outlined, and their proper dosage and modes of admin-
istration worked out. Other drugs, of course, have been developed
and dropped, as ineffective or too dangerous. It has been a fasci-
nating study and a useful one. The mortality in our tuberculosis
hospitals has been cut in half in the past five years, and the in-
formation developed in this study has been helpful to tuberculosis
patients and their physicians all over the world.

During my service in the Veterans Administration I have been
transferred from city to city a number of times. While stationed
in Indianapolis I met the lady who became my wife. Life has
been much more satisfactory since then. I agree heartily with
Sam Goldwyn who said that “a bachelor’s life is no kind of a
life for a single man.”

My interests, aside from the practice of medicine, are medical
history, photography, stamp collecting (my specialties are Unit-
ed States, Israel, and medical stamps), Army Reserve activities,
and travel. ‘hese interests keep me exceedingly busy. Ata rough
guess, it will take me until the year two thousand to finish the
projects already started.

+ LOCKETT COLEMAN

BORN: May 30, 1907, at Belleville, Ont., Canada. parents: Lockett Gwin
- Coleman, ’99, Kathleen Davidson.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Elena Pavlona Melnikova, Nov. 10, 1933, New York, N. Y.

prep: April 29, 1952, in the Brazilian jungle.

wwow: Mrs. Lockett Coleman, 1440 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

IMMEDIATELY after he graduated Lockett Coleman became
associated with the General Foods Corporation. It was while he
was returning from a buying trip in Africa and Brazil for this
company that his plane crashed in the Brazilian jungle; there
were no survivors among the fifty passengers. In 1939 Coleman
had been made director of purchases in the Walter Baker Choco-
late and Cocoa Division of General Foods Corporation, at Dor-
chester, Massachusetts. A grandson of the late Chief Justice
Charles P, Davidson of Montreal, Coleman was survived by his
wife and parents.

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

THURLOW FIELD COLLIER

HOME appress: Ledgewood, Montserrat, Beverly, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 28, 1905, Beverly, Mass. parents: Arthur Luke Collier, Marian
Muller Field.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

UNMARRIED.

I HAVE been in real estate, hotel work, and retail trade.

DUDLEY TEEPELL COLTON

HOME apprEss: Washington Valley Road, Martinsville, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johns-Manville International Corp. 22 E. goth St., New
York 16, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 8, 1907, Galesburg, Ill. parents: Edward Albert Colton, Mary
Emma Teepell.

PREPARED AT: Nicholas Senn High School, Chicago, Nl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B. IN CE. cum laude, 1928.

MarrieD: Margaret Mary Lill, March 14, 1928, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Dudley Teepell, Jr. Dec. 2, 1928; Donne Lyon, Feb. 18, 1934.

HARVARD SON: Dudley Teepell Colton, Jr., ’so.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, general manager, Johns-Manville International
Corporation.

oFFices HELD: Managing director, Johns-Manville Company, Ltd., London,
director, Marinite Ltd, Glasgow, Johns-Manville S. A. Mol-Donk,
Belgium, Société Anonyme pour la Fabrication de Matériaux de Con-
struction, Schoonaarde, Belgium, Roclaine S. A. Paris; director and
vice-president, Johns-Manville Boley, Ltda. Buenos Aires; president
and director, Johns-Manville de Mexico, Mexico D. F.; chairman, Com-
mittee on Construction Methods, Producers’ Council.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Testing Materials, Building Officials Con-
ference of America; National Fire Protection Association, Harvard
Engineering Society, Tau Beta Pi; Harvard Club of New York; Union
League Club; National Republican Club; American Club of London,
International House, New Orleans, Harvard Club of New Jersey; Rari-
tan Valley Country Club.

PuBLicaTions: Various technical articles in Encyclopedia of Chemical Tech-

nology.
HAVING the objective of keeping this narrative to a minimum
(with the gratitude of the Finance Committee, I’m sure), I shall
not dwell upon the first twenty years “out.” practically all of
them were spent in research and development work, sixteen at

[ 208 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one location, the Johns-Manville Research Center in Manville,
New Jersey. Having finally achieved an administrative post in
the research field, I was given the opportunity, in 1948, to utilize
my “abilities” more broadly by joining the staff of the chairman
of the Board of the Corporation in New York. In 19501 assumed
the direction for all foreign activities of Johns-Manville and am
enjoying the busiest and most varied period of my life. Our oper-
ations cover most countries of the world except those behind the
iron curtain, combining the problems of factory operation abroad
with those of sales from United States plants.

The widespread use of English throughout the world is for-
tunate for one with my limited talents in languages. But, de-
spite the slightly raucous laughter of my classmates who sat with
me through Rivera’s Spanish lectures, I have found that this
language can be recaptured, and today I can handle it well
enough. French, however, is another matter!

One of the many advantages of my work is the opportunity
which is afforded for travel, and during the past few years I have
covered tens of thousands of miles. Strangely enough, it has re-
stricted my travels in my own country to a few hundred miles,
since there is an ardent desire to stay home whenever possible.

_ For me it is not difficult to realize that the Twenty-fifth is just
around the corner, as I became a grandfather in May of 1952 by
the advent of Dudley, 3d (commonly referred to as “The DC-3”).
His father, Dudley, Jr., now serving on a carrier off Korea, was
commissioned when he graduated from Harvard in 1950. As
only two years of service were originally specified, he states that
“this year is for Harry.” If he means the “Harry” I think he does,
it’s Just one more example of the need for a change.

My younger son, Donne, is a freshman at Washington and Lee,
since Harvard is a bit old-fashioned when it comes to College
Board exam grades. To my mind the Alma Mater may have
missed some athletic talent in their zeal to make students of us all.
Be that as it may, Donne and I, and I suppose Harvard, are happy
with the arrangement.

We all recall the chap who said that when he felt like exercise,
he lay down until the feeling passed. I am certain that he must
have been an ancestor of mine. Seriously, my hobbies are mild

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ones: reading, puttering about my country home, and —I use
the term loosely — golf,

Having extended my story to the point of bankrupting the
Finance Committee for printing costs, I shall close with the fer-
vent wish that the next twenty-five years will be as interesting
and full as the past ones. |

CHARLES HENRY CONNORS

HOME aporEss: 60 Manchester Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 178 Atlantic Ave. Boston 10, Mass.

Born: May 8, 1906, Plymouth, Mass. parexts: David Henry Connors, Mary
Conway.

PREPARED AT: Mechanic Arts High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928. :

MarrigeD: Esther Helena Sherman, Feb. 11, 1934, Newton, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Manager, Pump Department, Boston Branch, Fairbanks, Morse
& Company, equipment manufacturers, sales and service. .

AFTER graduation I returned to Harvard and then in 1933, 1934,
and 1935 I was on active duty as a first lieutenant in the Army.
While in the Army I married the girl I had known from college
days. a
Out of the Army, I worked for the state as an engineer then
later opened my own office as successor to Hyde & Sherry, engi-
neers. In 1944 I decided that I would get more out of life by
getting into sales engineering, and entered the employ of Fair-
banks, Morse & Company, manufacturers of, among other things,
Jarge pumping equipment and diesel engines. For the past two
years I have been manager of the Pump Department of the Boston
Branch, This work I really enjoy. It means working with con-
sulting engineers in the design of sewage treatment plants and
waterworks, selling the equipment, and working with contractors
on the installations. You are never bored. ,

Outside of working hours my big interest was in designing and
building a home. After ten years I found that I couldn’t do any
more to this home without tearing it apart, so I am starting again
on another, but this time, a little older, [ am starting where the
other fellow left off and my projects will not be as ambitious as
they used to be.

[210]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I like New England — most of the year. I like her people all
of the time, but her politicians amaze me still, I could be un-

happier.

THOMAS AUGUSTUS CONROY

HOME abpREsS: 3 Upland Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 318 Harvard St., Suite 30, Brookline 46, Mass.

BorN: April 10, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Thomas Aloysius Conroy,
Alice Catherine Regan.

PREPARED AT: Chauncy Hall School, Boston, Mass.; Stone School, Boston,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926. DEGREE: PH.B. (Boston Coll.), 1929.

OCCUPATION: Research; commercial photography.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 211th Machine Gun Battalion; A.A.A. Mass.
National Guard, 1921-22. .

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Harvard Engineering Society.

WHEN the time comes to write a squib for the Twenty-
fifth, “retrospect” takes on a tall meaning. We think how luckily
our own personal affairs are going and feel sorry for the mis-
fortunes of others — yet I nearly died of peritonitis within the
month as I write this! - ,

I transferred from the Engineering School to Boston College
at the end of my sophomore year. I had prepared at Chauncy
Hall and Stone Schools, both in Boston. My degree was a Ph.B.
in 1929, claiming two majors, science and philosophy.

I opened a studio of solely commercial photography in 1930
following a line of work and research in that field, which my father
had started in 1884. The business prospered and all was clear
sailing. The years rolled on and while some were better than
others, none were bad.

I had developed some ideas in automotive propulsion, optics,
photographic chemistry, and many other subjects of interest to
me, I had also become awfully impressed with the relative in-
significance of any one of us and the fact that we are hardly now
standing at the dawn of civilization.

I allowed myself to become somewhat diverted to certain
physiochemical problems which a few industrial organizations
had encountered, and for some reason felt that I could help. One
thing led to another, and before long I was retained by a research

[air ]

pi Fe IESE? a rE ASN CR eA tat

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

group which was slanted to the manufacture of trick types of
paper — “technical,” so called. Coupled with this endeavor was
the formulation of saturants, humectants, rubber compounds,
cork and what-all and their related variable plottings and other
headaches of the business.

When the War came, I wanted the Navy in research, but the
physical requirements were for stevedores, I guess, and that I did
not have. The draft board wanted me to stick to the research, so
I withdrew my application for commission in the Army and lost
sleep in a chemistry lab. I also taught a class in photography at
Fort Devens.

It had all been very interesting, but with the intention of being
somewhat more kind to my self, I resigned all that last fall to
pursue my own work at a more leisurely pace.

I write a bit on various subjects, lecture some, and betimes
count my blessings with the thought that I am satisfied with the
last twenty-five years. I do not feel that I have missed any op-
portunity I wished to take, nor do I have any regret for any
matters of judgment —I think I would do it all over again and
in the same way.

JAMES VASELEOS CONSTANTINE

HOME ADDRESS: 7039 Wilson Lane, Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Labor Relations Board, Washington, D. C.

Bors: Aug. 13, 1906, Smyrna, Turkey. parents: Vaseleos D. Constantine,
Irene E. Tsamt.

PREPARED AT: High School of Commerce, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928, LL.B.,
1931.

MARRIED: Antoinette Kouroyen, June 29, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
James Vaseleos, Jr. Aug. 8 1946; Paulina, April 4, 1949, Philip S., Aug.
7, 1950; George T., June 23, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Bar Association.

{212 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ THORNTON COOLIDGE

BoRN: Oct. 11, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Algernon Coolidge, *81, Amy
Peabody Lothrop. .

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

pep: April 8, 1936, Boston, Mass. |

IN THE year of his graduation Coolidge won the national pair
skating championship with Maribel Vinson in New Haven; he
won the same event in New York the following year. He took
up the study of dramatics in Europe, and upon his return to this
country became connected with the Punch and Judy Theatre of
Chicago and the Carmel] Summer and Henry Street Theatres of
New York. His parents and a sister survived him.

JOHN CLARK COONLEY

HOME apprEss: Charing Cross Road, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1501 E. Ferry Ave., Detroit 11, Mich.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1904, Riverside, Ill. pARENts: Howard Coonley, ’99, Leslie
Walker May. —

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.,; Milton Academy, Milton,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

MARRIED: ‘Sarah Branch Jackson, May 30, 1930, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1932); Caroline Cavender Johnson, July 5, 1940, Cleveland, Ohio. cHt-
DREN: Helen B. and Hannah J. Johnson, Jan. 5, 1938 (stepchildren);
Holly May, Sept. 4, 1942; Leslie Cavender, April 27, 1947.

occuPATION: Manager, Valve Division, American Car and Foundry Com-
pany; supervising sales and production of lubricated plug valves.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Princeton, Mass., School Board, 1945-50; commis-
sioner, Municipal Light Department, Princeton, 1944-50.

MEMBER OF: Engineering Society of Detroit; American Society for Testing
Materials; American Society for Metals; American Foundrymen’s Soci-
ety; American Society of Tool Engineers.

AFTER resigning from Engineering School at the completion of
junior year, I spent eleven months travelling around the world,
visiting Japan, Korea, China, Hongkong, Java, Bali, Malay Srates,
Burma, India, French Indo-China, Frénch Somaliland, touching
at Port Said; then to Europe, touring France, Belgium, Holland,
Austria, Switzerland, and Italy. The principal part of the expense

[213 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

of this crip I earned by performing sales promotional and service
work for various manufacturers.

Starting in October, 1929, I spent a year in a textile machinery
plant in various positions as clerk, assembly hand, and inspector.
In October, 1930, I shifted employment to a manufacturer of
valves and was transferred from plant to plant in Illinois, Massa-
chusetts, and Pennsylvania. I did various kinds of work with this
company, such as time-study, chief inspector, foreman, engineer-
ing and sales; and when I severed connections with this employer,
my title was tool superintendent, specifying and purchasing nearly
a million dollars in standard and special machinery annually, also
supervising small tool design.

In January of 1939, I became assistant to the president of a a
Cleveland machine tool plant, and remained with this firm for a
year and one-half. My principal duty was as shop superintendent.
In August of 1940 I became assistant works manager of a
Worcester, Massachusetts, machine tool company and during the
last war had charge of all sub-contract work which doubled the
productive capacity of the company. In June, 1950, my present
employer offered me a challenge that I could not refuse, and I
became manager of the Valve Division, located in Detroit.

EMILIO MENDEZ CORDON >

HOME aporess: Villa Christina, Guatemala City, Guatemala.

Boas: May 31, 1903, Guatemala City, Guatemala. parents: Francisco Cordon,
Christina Mendezhamfiesta.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

ALEXANDER COREY, III

HOME aporess: 1108 Ellen Ave. Falls Church, Va.

orrice Appress: Office of Army Chief of Transportation, Washington, D. C.

Bors: Sept. 3, 1904, Middletown, N. Y. parents: Horace W. Corey, Minnie
Augusta Shafer.

PREPARED AT: Manual Training High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLELE: 1926-1928, DEGREE: A.B. 1928(52).

[214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrigD: Marilyn Ann Phifer, March, 1941, Washington, D. C. cHILDREN:
Benjamin, 3d, July 3, 1946 (died July 17, 1946); Lynn Alexis, Sept. 26,
1949.

occupaTION: Chief, Labor Relations and Civilian Personnel, Transportation
Corps, Department of the Army.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Colonel, Army Transportation Corps, World
. War II, awarded Legion of Merit.

MEMBER OF: Episcopal Church; Phi Alpha Delta.

WELL, what did I do in those twenty-five years? Gosh, it isn’t
that long, is it? Or is it, as Dean Bender put it in a letter last
year, “nearly a quarter of a century.” He didn’t enclose any
additional gray hairs with that one. They came with the read-
ing. But I forgive him. The gray hairs are few and not too close
between and all at the temples. An extra high hair-cut still prac-
tically — practically, I mean -— removes them all. Besides, that
life begins at forty, I’ve found i is true. But that’s ahead of what
story there is.

I am a naturalized citizen of Harvard College, or a convert if
you wish. I spent junior and senior year there, after having been
out of college for two years with family financial trouble, if
anybody knows what I mean. When it partly cleared and I
came back, some deep and moving force from family, rooted
through years from New England’s founding, brought me home
again as it seemed. Perhaps that too, is what kept 1 me climbing
and skiing the mountains and hills of New England through
those years. Even the cost in disallowed credits could not stop
the tide when it began to run. Yet, like a convert, I think my
affection runs deeper than it otherwise might. They were hap-
pier years than for many afterward. |

Boston and the real estate business was the plan. A short visit
home to New York and back again brought me the same night
a small hours telegram that my mother was in serious condition
in a New York hospital, but no details except the screaming head-
lines on Boston streets of mangled bodies in New York subways.
That they were not the cause did not change the years of invalid-
ism that followed which put me in the real estate business in New
York.

The company I joined was an associate of the Fred F. French
Companies, though not one of them. We were members of the

[215]

|
iq wenn ten anit vt
tc!
5 -Oh sa Naimnnsslaineminsinaieaensetnemennelnn ane neneinntatennninan lis,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Operation — success. The patient dies, aged two weeks, in the
Year of the Lord, 1946, the same year the litigation ends by
stipulated settlement. Benjamin Corey the third, like his alter-
nate generation predecessor, the second, is not destined for man-
hood. But he sleeps with the great at Arlington.

Will you stay on in the regular service? No, one travels too
much. And there are other reasons. Will you stay on for a while
with us in your present job as a civilian? Well, at least until my
wife recovers from what seems to have caused our trouble. Ope-
ration — real success.

And now a little girl —say, did you ever have floating eye-
balls!

Korea. Is our duty here, or back where we came from? We
don’t know. We try to build the property back up and we work
on a law degree evenings, to supplant the title permitted by the
Vice-Chancellor. We buy a house and decide to sweat it out,
with our little girl and our hope for more like her, with our tools
and our books, the ones I should or would have liked to read
at Cambridge.

CARL CUTTING CORSON

Born: Dec. 5, 1905, Everett, Mass. pareNTs: Walter Danville Corson, Lou
Eva Bennett.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D., 1932.

marriep: Esther G. Alden, June 11, 1929, Stowe, Mass. CHILDREN: John Al-
den, Nov. 25, 1936; another child.

bIED: Oct. 3, 1939, Portland, Maine.

wow: Mrs. Carl C. Corson, 31 Deering St., Portland, Maine.

CARL CUTTING CORSON was graduated from the Harvard
Medical School in 1932. For the next two years he did surgical
work at the Boston City Hospital and was an orthopedic intern
in 1934 and 1935 at the Massachusetts General Hospital and in
1935 at the Boston Children’s Hospital. For a year he was a
resident surgeon at Massachusetts General, leaving to practise
medicine in Portland, Maine. There he became a member of
the orthopedic staffs at the Maine General Hospital and the Chil-
dren’s Hospital.

[218 }

. 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

While at Harvard Corson was awarded the New England In-
tercollegiate 145-pound wrestling championship, the University
158-pound wrestling championship, and the University wrestling
championship. He had also been a member of the Freshman
Wrestling Team and for three years a member of the University
Wrestling Team; he belonged to Delta Upsilon Fraternity. Sur-
viving him were his wife, two children, his father, and a brother.

WILLIAM KING COVELL ~

HOME ADDRESS: 72 Washington St., Newport, R. I.

BorN: March 9, 1904, Newport, R. I. PARENTS: William Walton Covell, ’92,
Elizabeth Bentley Greene.

PREPARED AT: Rogers High School, Newport, R. I. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(29); A.M., 1930.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Remington Covell, ’35.

OCCUPATION: Education, teacher of ancient and mediaeval history, Rogers
High School, Newport.

OFFICES HELD: President, Steamship Historical Society of America, secretary,
Board of Trustees, Channing Memorial Church (Unitarian), seventeen
years; treasurer, Rhode Island Society Sons of the Revolution.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Rhode Island; The
Newcomen Society of England (North American Branch); Harvard
Musical Association; Steamship Historical Society of America; The
Organ Club (London); The Society for the Preservation of New Eng-
land Antiquities.

PUBLICATIONS: A Short History of the Fall River Line; articles on architec-
tural history, organ building, and steam navigation in various publica-
tions,

THE year 1931 to 1932 I spent in Europe, travelling in England,
Ireland, France, Italy, Germany, and Holland and Belgium, visit-
ing art galleries. and buildings of architectural importance. In
Italy things had not yet been too much spoiled by Mussolini, and
in Germany Hitler was still only a threat, albeit a noisy one. It
was possible, then perhaps for the last time, to see something of
the old world of Central Europe before i it was ruined by dictator-
ship and war.

After returning I spent one more year in the Graduate School
at Harvard, and then looked for opportunities to teach. Such

[219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

were dithcult to find in the mid-1930's. While living at home I
was engaged in various projects of local historical research and
watching for a teaching position when a vacancy occurred in the
History Department of the Newport High School. I accepted it
not knowing whether or how long I should want to hold it. I
am still holding it and, after fifteen years, am less inclined to look
elsewhere.

A project worked upon desultorily for years and still unfinished
is a book on Long Island Sound steamboats. There is no oppor-
tunity for research during the ten months of the school year, and
the summer months are needed for boating and other activities
not possible at other times! Some time soon I may take a year off
and concentrate on this work. I have unpublished source mate-
rial which, if incorporated into a book, would, I think, be helpful
to those interested in the history of transportation in the last
century.

Contacts with Harvard and with friends in Cambridge and
Boston are maintained through correspondence and through occa-
sional attendance at meetings and concerts. With certain friends
of the Harvard faculty in the departments of Fine Arts and Music
I keep in fairly close touch. One such professor at Harvard has
been the guest of mother and me in our home on the harbor of
Newport for two consecutive summers. He wished, as he said,
to find a retreat from “students and telephones” so as to work on
a book; and we were glad to provide him with the desired arrange-
ments. They were two most delightful summers for us, and the
experience of watching a book of major proportions grow and
develop from day to day was unique and fascinating.

Harvard contacts at present center on the organ in the chapel,
now twelve years old, in the designing of which I had a share.
The instrument is due for a major overhaul. In addition to clean-
ing and mechanical checking, | wish a few changes in tonal qual-
ity to be made through the removal of certain sets of pipes and
the substitution therefore of new pipes. A survey of the organ
with recommendations for such additional work is being pre
pared, and I hope that the university authorities will take tavor-
able action on it when it is submitted: this despite the greatly
increased costs of organ building as well as of everything else.

[220]

mre

, 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

This remark might be an excuse for an impromptu essay in the
fields of politics and economics, but a wiser policy surely is to
bring an end to what is already too long a commentary.

WALLACE HAPGOOD COWDEN

HOME aAppREss: 19 Fourth Ave., Warren, Pa.

OFFICE ADpDREss: First National Bank, Warren, Pa.

BORN: June 17, 1906, Titusville, Pa. parents: Mark Finley Cowden, Caro-
line Elizabeth Muir.

PREPARED AT: Haverford Preparatory School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrigp: Astrid Margaret Sundelof, June 4, 1930, Roxbury, Mass. cHILDREN:
Carolyn Ann, Dec. 9, 1932; Robert Hapgood, Nov. 18, 1934.

occupation: President, First National Bank, Warren; oil producer.

OFFICES HELD: Past secretary, now treasurer, Warren Board of Education;
president, Warren Library Association; | treasurer, Warren Visiting
Nursing Association.

MEMBER OF: Conewango Club.

CALAMITY JANE must have been breathing down my neck
that June day in 1928 as I looked at the Yard for the last time.
Things did seem propitious in the beginning. In fact by 1930 I
felt affluent enough to get married and in 1932 our daughter ar-
rived. Then the financial débacle struck. I often wonder how we
paid for the boy who followed. Hardly had I brushed off the
debris from that collapse than another son of Harvard hatched a
blue eagle. I don’t know what that bird did to you, but he cer-
tainly didn’t miss me. Still I had enough punch left to start again,
and by 1942 I was sure the millennium was at hand. Then on
July fourth, in true Cecil deMille fashion, the heavens opened and
the hillsides burst and the plant that was to be my patrimony went
dancing gaily down the Allegheny River, and I was left with tons
of silt —a quite unsalable product I discovered.

That time I decided to become an oil producer because “smart”
operators never use their own money. (That’s good advice to
you city dwellers who have a penchant for biting on our back-
wood’s “get rich quick” schemes.) Perhaps this using other
people’s money is why I gravitated to banking. There’s nothing
more exhilarating, especially if you can start at the top. But,
levity aside, banking fascinates me. I know of nothing more chal-

[ 221 ]

. te a fe Othe MII ct i .
“ ‘Wi aieasiiahncaieeneasiagninenAbatnanNNatnndadtetias L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928 .

lenging than the daily problems involving loans and investments.
In a small bank the othicers are jacks of all trades, and the variety
adds just the right seasoning.

I regret that I have no war record. The draft board took one
look at me and decided the country wasn’t that hard pressed. So
I stayed home ringing doorbells to sell bonds, dashed about dur-
ing the blackouts. Ww “ith a stirrup pump extinguishing glowing
cigarettes, and learned in first aid classes how to maim the injured
permanently. I also acquired a dozen or so of those Rube Gold-
berg devices to roll cigarettes. Is anyone interested in buying one?

I have become more involved in civic affairs than is politic (no
pun intended). I've been secretary of the School Board and am
at present the treasurer. If I’ve learned anything from the experi-
ence, it is that parents’ habit patterns and school efficiency are
immiscible. Right now I wouldn’t even show on a popularity
poll. I am also treasurer of a private charity that furnished nurs-
ing services, and of course the Red Cross drives always seem to
catch me in a weak moment. But I think my real love is the public
library of which I am president. When I think of all those lovely,
lovely books, apologies to George Macy, I almost drool. I caught
that incurable disease, bibliomania, at Harvard and in my own
home are hundreds of books balanced precariously on every flat
surface, including the floor. Sometimes I question the wisdom of
the expenditure. So does my wife — often.

My political views can be summed up quickly: I’m a crusty old
Republican and my duelling pistols are always loaded and primed.
I suppose I would vote for Judas Iscariot were he a Republican.
Fortunately he always seems to be on the other side. —

I came into this world a staunch Presbyterian but, having mar-
ried the daughter of an Episcopal minister, I now find myself a
member of that church. But 1 am afraid my religious views are
too liberal to be entirely satisfactory to any ministerial body.

ADDISON COWLES

Home avpress: R. F, D. 2, Trapelo Rd., South Lincoln, Mass.

orFice avppress: Day Junior High School, Newtonville 60, Mass.

Born: Oct. 28 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: Luzerne Simeon Cowles, Amy
Estelle Olmsted.

{ 222]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; A.M. 1931.

marrieD: Alexandra T. Centervall, June 27, 1931, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Olmsted, April 7, 1934; Andra Olmsted, May 7, 1938.

occupation: Head of Social Studies Department, Day Junior High School.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, various professional committees, local and regional,
member Executive Committee, Newton Teachers’ Federation.

MEMBER OF: New England Association of Social Studies Teachers, Newton
Teachers’ Federation; National Education Association; Newton Men’s
Educational Association.

SINCE graduation, I have been teaching. I worked from 1928
to 1930 for my Master’s degree and simultaneously taught part-
time at Brookline High School. In 1931 I did private tutoring.
The next three years were spent teaching in Bristol, Connecticut.
For the past nineteen years I have been in the Newton public
schools. Before settling down to family life and routine, I man-
aged to travel through Canada, Mexico, and thirty-six of our
forty-eight states, living 1 in Arizona for one year and in Florida
for six months. . 7

- We have had our summer - place i in the wooded dune part of
Provincetown on the Cape near the Truro line for twenty-one
years. During the winter we have lived for over fifteen years a
semi-rural life in the now far too ‘Tapidly growing Boston suburb
of Lincoln. |

Last year our son was accepted by Harvard College, but his
academic success, especially his strong mathematical and scientific
bents, caused him to make his own decision to go to the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology where he is a freshman, class of
1956. Our daughter, now fourteen, attends Weston High School
and likes sports and horses. My wife is interested in civic affairs
and local activities.

My own hobbies lie primarily in the soil, in conservation. I
have had a part-time farm of varying degrees of size and effort for
the past twelve years. The number of hens in my flock and cats
on the premises fluctuates, but there are always some of each.
I also enjoy golf and fishing.

It would be unnatural to be out of college for twenty-five years
without having a number of varied convictions concerning the
patterns of life as they appear. However, in view of the events of
all kinds that have taken place during this last decade in particu-

[ 223 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

lar, one finds that convictions waver or strengthen, are born anew
or die out. Few of us can say that we have had a quarter-century
of utter bliss and happiness since our departures from Cambridge,
but we have lived, heaven knows, we have lived.

EDWARD LESLIE COX

HOME ADDRESS: 4732 S. Anthony Blvd., Fort Wayne, Ind.

oFFice aporess: S. S. Kresge Co., Baer Field, Fort Wayne, Ind.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1905, Lawrence, Mass. pareNts: Edward Patrick Cox, Agnes
Gertrude Purcell.

PREPARED AT: Searles School, Methuen, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

marrieD: Margaret Wolfenden, April 21, 1930, Methuen, Mass. CHILDREN:
Margaret Chesley, Dec. 26, 1932 (died Dec. 30, 1932); Edward Leslie,
Aug. 29, 1935-

occupation: Buying merchandise for redistribution in U. S. A., chain va-
riety store warehouse.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned full lieutenant, U. S. Naval Re-
serve, Oct. 31, 1942, naval aviation; indoctrinated Hollywood Beach,
Fla.; assigned to naval air station, North Island, San Diego, Calif.,
March, 1943, as ships service officer; appointed lieutenant commander,
October, 1945: Admiral Olendorf’s staff as district ships service officer,
Eleventh Naval District; separated August, 1946.

OFFIcES HELD: Director, Gloucester, Massachusetts, Chamber of Commerce,
1938-39, Gloucester Rotary Club, 1939-40; chairman, Chain Store Di-
vision, Red Cross, Y. M. C. A. Community Chest Drives, 1939-40,
Gloucester.

MEMBER OF: National Reserve Officers Association, Boston and Washington,
D. C., Naval Officers Clubs, Coronado, Camp Elliott, Camp Kearney,
Baboa Park (Calif.); Navy Officers Club, Bethesda Naval Hospital,
Md. Naval Gun Factory, Washington, D. C.; Walter Reed Hospital
Officers Club; American Legion, Methuen, Mass., Washington, D. C,,
Fort Wayne, Ind.

AFTER our Commencement in June, 1928, I was ready to accept
some responsible position with a well-established firm, at above
average salary and with opportunity for rapid advancement. By
August, 1928, much to my amazement and chagrin, no such firm
had measured up to my ideal. Executive positions were unob-
tainable. By September I decided I really wanted to go to work.

With a little luck and the assistance of a friend, I was employed
by the S. S. Kresge Company, five-and-ten-cent store merchants.

[224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Plenty of work was promised by the Kresge Company and now
after twenty-five years with this company I have concluded that
they really meant “there was plenty of work.” I haven’t relaxed
yet — except for a forty-four-month “breather” with the Navy.

My preparation for store management with the Kresge Com-
pany took me on a tour of duty covering seven years in the cities
of Lawrence, Massachusetts, Scranton, Pennsylvania, back to Bos-
ton, Massachusetts, Utica and Brooklyn, New York. After be-
coming assistant manager in 1930, I decided it was financially
possible to support a wife. Margaret and I were married just
prior to my transfer to Scranton, Pennsylvania.

In 1935 I was entrusted with the management of the Kresge
store in Providence, Rhode Island, where Edward Leslie, Jr., was
born. In February, 1936, I was made manager of the Gloucester,
Masachusetts, store where we enjoyed the five happiest years
of our young lives, Our own home, swimming at Good Harbor
Beach, sailing on the Annisquam River, dancing at Magnolia:
these made a wonderful five years.

My promotion to the management of the Kresge store at Up-
ham’s Corner, Dorchester, Massachusetts, in 1941 was financially
pleasant but socially disappointing. In October, 1942, the Navy
stepped in and changed our routine. My family, fortunately,
accompanied me on my many changes of duty station. We finally
settled on the beach at Del Mar, California, and stayed there till
I was separated from the Navy in August, 1946.

In 1947 I again went back to Dorchester as manager of the
Codman Square Kresge store for two years. During this time
I became a full-fledged commuter between our home in Methuen
and Boston. During the summer of 1949 the company decided I
needed a little southern exposure, so off we went to Washington,
D. C., for a year. About this time, the summer of 1950, we all
decided that we could enjoy life more in a less humid climate
and in a more permanent location. Fortunately for us the Kresge
Company was constructing a new warehouse, an eight-and-a-half-
acre structure, in the geographical center of its territory — at
Fort Wayne, Indiana. I applied for a transfer to this permanent
duty and was gratified when the change came through.

At the moment my son and I are involved in planning his col-
lege future. He will be graduated from Fort Wayne South

[ 225]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Side High School in June (an A’ student), and since the Army
will be calling in August he hopes to enter the Navy Reserve
Orficers Training Corps at Harvard, Yale, or Purdue; those are
his three choices. He has passed all requirements.

Unless fate intervenes we expect to be here at Fort Wayne
from now on. We get a four-week annual vacation; guess where
we shall visit—right-o, New England. We do miss our rela-
tives, our many fine friends, and the shore. Till the Reunion —
Adios.

GARDNER COX

HOME ADDRESS: 88 Garden St., Cambridge, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 Ipswich St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 22, 1906, Holyoke, Mass. parents: Allen Howard Cox, Katherine
Gilbert Abbot.

prePaRED AT: Cambridge High and Laun School, Cambridge, Mass.; Coun-
try Day School, Newton, Mass. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

MARRIED: Phyllis Mfoira Byrne, Dec. 3, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Benjamin, April 17, 1939, Katherine Gilbert Abbot, May 25, 1941;
James Byrne, July 2, 1943; Phyllis Byrne, July 6, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Artist, painter.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, Air Corps, May,
1942; was transferred to Engineer Corps; duties, general engineer train-
ing and camouflage officer; separated as captain, September, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club; St. Botolph Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Cen-
tury Association, Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER leaving college I studied painting and architecture at
the Boston Museum School and Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology respectively, and for part of the time, simultaneously —
painting in the morning, architecture in the afternoon and eve-
ning. Full days these were, stimulating and companionable, a: as
such student days always are.

I practised architecture from 1931 to 1936, with my father’s
firm of Putnam & Cox, where Nat Saltonstall and I began as
associates, eventually becoming partners. Things were slow in
architecture in the early thirties and, with the firm’s generous
acquiescence, I spent about half of my time painting, mostly por-
trait commissions. By 1936 our architectural practice had in-
creased to the point where it was no longer reasonable or fair to

[ 226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

so divide my time. | thereupon resigned from the firm and have
devoted all my working time since (with the exception of the
army and writing this report) to painting. During this period,
in 1935 and later in 1937, I made trips to Europe which were brief
but comprehensive and valuable.

In December, 1937, I married and my wife and I enjoyed an
extended wedding trip which included Bermuda, Cuba, Yucatan,
and Colorado. After this we settled down in Cambridge where
we have remained since (except for summers in Maine) with
recurring children, up to the number of four, complicating, en-
livening, and immeasurably enriching our lives. What do we
do? Well, we do lots of things, with high among the highlights
school-vacation vacations which my wife, a logistical genius,
engineers as often as possible. By now we have gone as a whole
family to a number of places in the South and to Bermuda, and
we all look back on these interludes, and forward to more, with
undiluted pleasure. It is a lively household —a good life.

As to the war I had an easy one. Joining up with the Air Corps
I was transferred almost immediately to the Engineer Corps and
was assigned to training Air Corps personnel in camouflage and
other engineer specialties. I was stationed at one time or another
in most of the major sections of this country, and while I cer-
tainly saw America steadily, I also had a chance to almost see it
whole. It was a most nourishing experience.

» As to my profession—TI have painted quite a lot of portraits
by now — men, women, and children — all kinds of people, both
famous and obscure. I have also done a considerable amount of
work in other fields of painting ranging from realism to abstrac-
tion, and have experimented more or less continuously with
techniques both ancient and modern—and some of my own.
The results have been some success in the big national exhibi-
tions (a couple of prizes), representation in a few museums (three
to be exact), and sufficient recognition to presently insure an out-
let for all the work I can do. The greatest satisfaction, of course,
comes from the few things which, through a happy conjunction
of feeling and performance, one feels to have intrinsic virtue.
Incidentally, and this is a naked advertisement, I am being
given a retrospective exhibition at the Institute of Contemporary
Art, Boston, in connection with the Boston Art Festival. It opens

[ 227]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

on June roth (runs to July), and any classmate who drops in
there at 138 Newbury Street on his way to the train, can see
what I have been doing for the past twenty-five years better
than I can tell it.

I look forward to the coming years with zest and the hope that
I shall grow in understanding and performance.

JOHN WILLIAM COX

HOME ADDRESS: 4545 Boston Post Rd. Pelham Manor 65, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The News League of Ohio, Dayton News, Dayton, Ohio.

Bors: Dec. 9, 1907, Dayton, Ohio. parents: James Middleton Cox, Mary
Louise Harding.

PREPARED AT: Pelham Memorial High School, Pelham, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

UNMARRIED.

ooctuPATION: Free-lance writer and journalist.

MEMBER OF: Delta Upsilon Fraternity; Men’s Club of Pelham (past mem-
ber).

PUBLICATIONS: Editorials, feature articles, news stories in the Asheville, North
Carolina, Citizen and Dayton, Ohio, Daily News, book reviews in news-
papers.

I WAS unable to complete my work for the A.B. degree in 1928,

as my health broke down a few weeks before graduation. But

arrangements were made in September, 1931, to return to Har-
vard for a half-year to make up these missing credits. However,
and very inconsiderately I thought at the time, the Bible and

Shakespeare exams were moved from the spring to fall term,

and there wasn’t time to cram for them. I dropped the project

of completing the studies for my degree at that time, but have
never completely given up the idea. Some day perhaps I'll try
again for that elusive A.B. I came so near getting.

The fall of 1928 I worked on a farm and wrote newspaper
features at night for the Dayton Daily News, Dayton, Ohio.
Early in 1929 I returned to Cambridge and was with a European
travel agency in Boston until that outfic “folded,” when I re-
turned to New York. The summer of 1929 saw me with Uncle
Sam's Forest Service in the Unaka Forest Reserve, with head-
quarters in Bristol, Virginia-Tennessee. Most of the work we
did was on the roads, with a pick and shovel. We made some

{ 228 }

PR RY RHR DRT ENT Ser TSN ME ERAN SAE vv

 

\

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

timber surveys, and were given fire fighting training, but the
“romance” of the forest service escaped us!

In the fall of 1929 I worked for The Southern Pole and Tim-
ber Company in Asheville, North Carolina. Having grown fond
of Asheville, its people and the surrounding country, I became a
reporter and editorial writer on the Asheville Citizen, the local
morning paper, and remained there during the early 1930’s.
Newspaper work was usually very interesting, but exacting and
often exhausting. The depression had taken its toll of the news-
paper business, and many others, and Asheville was hard hit.
When the Asheville Citizen combined with the afternoon paper,
the Asheville Times, and both crowded into one small building,
I resigned and went back to Pelham Manor.

In 1936 I took a course in Gregg shorthand, typing, bookkeep-
ing, commercial law, and business practice at the Westchester
Commercial School in New Rochelle, New York. An idea of
using this knowledge, at least the shorthand, in newspaper work
was buzzing around my head. After completing this commercial
course, however, I landed a job as a secretary and real estate sales-
man with a firm in Larchmont, New York. This was new and
sometimes engrossing, but routine office work has never appealed
to me. I stuck it out for two years, which took determination,
as the real estate market in Westchester County was not too ac-
tive at that time.

In February, 1941, I joined the firm of Sawyer, Ferguson &
Walker, Inc., newspaper representatives in New York. When
World War II broke out, I was classified “IV-F,” much to my
chagrin. My two brothers were in the Navy from 1941 to 1945,
the younger going in as an ensign and coming out a lieutenant,
senior grade; the elder enlisting as a lieutenant, senior grade,
and being discharged as a lieutenant commander. Both saw con-
siderable action. Contributing nothing to the war effort bothered
my conscience, so late in 1942 I went into war work with The
Bodnar Radio Laboratory, Tuckahoe, New York. I stayed in
war work until the necessity for an operation forced me to quit.

After the war my younger brother and I opened a law office
in White Plains, New York. Although I am not a lawyer, my
stenographic study and experience were useful in running our
office.

[ 229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

When my brother moved his family to Florida not so long
ago to enter newspaper and radio work on the Miami Daily
News, I saw the chance to realize a long-cherished dream. An
advertisement in The Atlantic Monthly by the Magazine Insti-
tute, which guarantees to make the student an acceptable writer
in eight months, intrigued me so much I am now taking the
course. With the past experience I’ve had in newspaper work,
and this expert instruction, | hope to be contributing articles to
magazines before too long. With a few months at my disposal,
without obligation to anyone, for the first time in many years,
now is my opportunity to give serious, creative writing a real

In company with many other Americans, I was pleased when
General “Ike” Eisenhower was elected president on November
4, 1952. A feeling of new hope for this troubled, old world
springs from this change to the “Grand Old Party.” I feel slightly
traitorous in this conviction of future benefit, as I was long a
Democrat, though never a “New Dealer.”

I haven't been back to Cambridge since 1931, but I saw one
Harvard-Yale football game in 1949. Harvard’s band was super-
lative, but the team that year, I’m afraid, was not! But Harvard
and its precious memories are still “tops” with me, as so say we
all of the Class of 1928!

WILLIAM COBURN COX

HoMe aporess: The Oaks, Cohasset, Mass.

OFFice aporess: 79 Milk St, Boston 9, Mass.

Born: Oct. 19, 1905, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: Thomas George Cor,
Josephine Coburn Butler.

PREPARED AT; Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MaraiED: Jessie Bancroft, Sept. 8, 1928, Cohasset, Mass. CHILDREN: Jane, July
31, 1929 (mm. Louis G. Hill, ’44, July 11, 1951); William Coburn, Jr., Nov.
8, 1930. GaanpcHito: Crawford Hill, 3d, April 3, 1952.

HARVARD BroTHERS: Thomas George Cox, '18; Butler Cox, ’27.

occupation: Director, The Wall Street Journal.

orriczs Hein: President, Boston News Bureau, 1938-46, director, The Wall
Street Journal, since 1948.

MeMbeR ov: Tennis & Racquet Club, Boston; Cohasset Golf Club; Cohasset
Yache Club.

[ 230]

ORR MRE TE

|
|
|
:
|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EXCEPT for two years in investment banking in the late twen-
ties my entire career has been in the field of business and finan-
cial journalism, The past twenty years, beginning with the Bank
Holiday, and following a devious route through the depression
with its SEC’s, NRA’s, and other three-letter-word controls,
then the war, and since the war adjustment and defense, have
presented a challenge and an interpretation unique in newspaper
history. The result has been expansion of business news interest
nationally, and (with the Wall Street Journal in particular, now
publishing in San Francisco, Dallas, and Chicago as well as New
York) I have managed to get in a good bit of travelling the length
and breadth of the country.

I have lived in Cohasset for twenty-five years, and play a fair
amount of tennis, sail or cruise when I can, and play golf oc-
casionally. My wife and I have always liked horses and we did
quite a lot of breeding and showing — particularly hackney horses
and ponies. This latter hobby is my wife’s primarily — mine by
adoption, but she taught me well enough so that I judge a horse
show now and then to keep my hand in. Judging horse shows can
be fun, particularly if you go to London or Dublin to do it, My
main hobby, interest, and diversion at the moment is my year-old
grandson, Crawford Hill, 3d.

To be a grandpa is a fine thing. However, a grandpa on the
tennis court is something else. He thinks he can make the same old
shots, but he doesn’t seem quite able to get to the right spot in
time to make them.

GEORGE FREEMAN COZZENS

HOME aApprEss: 18675 Parkland Drive, Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

OFFICE appREss: Battan, Barton, Durstine and Osborn, Inc., 1050 Terminal
Tower, Cleveland 13, Ohio.

BORN: Jan, 15, 1906, Sound Beach, Conn, parenrs: George Freeman Coz-
zens, ’98, Almyra Reynolds.

PREPARED AT: St, George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1924-1927.

MARRIED: Grace Guttinger, Nov. 25, 1931, New York, N. Y.

occuPATION: Advertising account executive.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Staff sergeant, Tank Corps, U. S. Army, Nov. 29,
1943-Sept. 12, 1945, U. S, Theatre,

[ 231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

orrices HELD: Director, Cleveland Advertising Golf Association.
MEMBER OF: Shaker Heights Country Club; Harvard Club of Cleveland,
Cleveland Advertising Golf Association.

UPON my leaving college in 1927, it came forcibly to my at-
tention that if I wanted to eat, I should have to work. I dimly
realized that I had spent three years at college preparing my-
self for such an eventuality — and I knew that in the great city
of New York there would be many concerns vying for a lad of
my talents.

Just which concerns and what talents, however, were some-
what hazy in my mind, but after | had checked into a modest
hotel in New York it came to my attention that there were
quite a few business concerns listed in the New York classified
telephone directory. So I decided I would go through the di-
rectory from A to Z and pick myself a nice business where |
could make myself a lot of quick money, and then retire at
thirty to enjoy my old age. For various reasons which I won't
go into, I felt that 1 was not cut out for Abattoir Equipment (see
Butcher’s Supplies), nor did I feel I should be comfortable in
Abdominal Supports. In fact, not until I had gone through Ad-
hesive Tape and Adjustable Posts did I find my life’s work mod-
estly listed under ADV. |

I made my decision to enter advertising without further ado
(although I found out later that there are many other fascinating
businesses listed further on in the directory) and set about select-
ing the organization that I should assist in doing their advertising
work! I decided that the systematic approach would also be de-
sirable in selecting the right agency. So I started contacting agen-
cies whose names began with the letter A. Curiously enough,
agencies whose names began with A showed marked disinterest
in my services. Nothing daunted, I plunged into the B’s. In fact,
I kept plunging right through C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M,
N, O, P, Q, and practically through R before Ruthrauff and Ryan,
God bless them, lent me a helping hand. We had a small argu-
ment as to how much I should be worth to them, but the ques-
tion was settled to their complete satisfaction at fourteen dollars
per weck, and 1 was on my way.

My way has turned slightly circuitous—in fact, I’m right
back where I started, in the agency business — although I have

[232]

‘mage a

Heatran niet

PRAY ALAS SAO I PE OR A OE In AFH ELIF REEMA PES OTM AR DADO HYNES PII Det HARTER ETO NE OEHEUTE IME IER ELE AURA MRRP BEN REE,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

received a few cost of living increases since that time. I worked
at Ruthrauff and Ryan for five years, where I picked up a little
common sense and a very lovely wife. I left Ruthrauff and Ryan
at that time, taking both with me, to join a smaller agency in
New York. Ten months later we lost our biggest account and
for a few months things were really tough — remember back
in the early thirties? This time, the good old yellow pages did
me no good, but still it took me quite a while to realize that
anyone could make a living west of the Hudson. "

When I learned that salaries were being paid to people outside
of New York I took a job with B. F. Goodrich in Washington,
and eventually wound up in Akron as tire advertising manager.
Shortly thereafter, Uncle Sam beckoned and I spent a couple of
years at Fort Knox doing research, which eventually proved that
advertising men are lousy tank drivers. When, to the relief of
my superiors, I was returned to civilian life, I joined the Satur-
day Evening Post as a space salesman in the Cleveland office. At
the end of two years I completed the circle and went with Bat-
ten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn in Cleveland as account execu-
tive of the General Electric Lamp account, where I have been
very happy for the past five years.

Both my wife and I thoroughly enjoy Cleveland and the peo-
ple we have met here. We enjoy together, among other things,
golf, bridge, winter vacations in Florida, and watching the Cleve-
land Indians Baseball team and the Cleveland Browns Football
team. .

Unfortunately, I seem to have grown farther and farther
away from Harvard and its associations which I so greatly val-
ued. Cleveland does not seem to be a Harvard stronghold, and
I hate to admit it, but in the past fifteen years I don’t suppose I
have seen more than a couple of classmates.

GEORGE CRAWFORD

HOME Appress: Willis Lane, Syosset, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: 7 E. 42nd St. New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: July 24, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: William Crawford, Adele
Grant McMillain.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

[233]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: $.B., 1928(32).

manned: Beatrice Iselin, Jan. 9, 1937, Westbury, Long Island, N. Y. cm.
prex: George, Jr, Dec. 13, 1937; Adele, Dec. 20, 1939; Allston Iselin,
Jan. 19 1934; Oliver Iselin, Jan. 2, 1951.

oocupaTion: Construction, president and director, William Crawford, Inc,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, 1942; promoted
captain, 1943, U. S. Air Corps.

orricts HELD: Trustee, Harlem Savings Bank; member board of managers, St,

Barnabas Hospital for Chronic Diseases, president, Society for the Relief
of the Destitute Blind, New York City.

MEMBER OF: Union Club; Piping Rock Club; National Golf Links ot
America.

JOSEPH PATRICK CROSBY
HOME AppRESS: 38 Highland Ave. Lexington 73, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 34 Tower St., Hudson, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1903, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Joseph Patrick Crosby, Nellie
Josephine Cotter.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

marie: Mary L. Prindiville, Sept. 10, 1932, Framingham, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joseph P., Jr. Nov. 16, 1933; Mary Anne, April 21, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Edward Crosby, ’24, M.B.A., °26.

occupation: Vice-president in charge of sales, Lapointe Machine Tool

Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1951-52, director, 1950-52, American Society
of Tool Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club, American Society of Tool Engineers, Lexing-
ton Club.

puBLications: Technical articles in Tool Engineer, Automotive Industries,
Western Machinery © Steel World.

AFTER reviewing some of my earlier reports of previous Class
reunions, I felt that I hadn’t accomplished very much, This
would be a terrible impression to leave with my classmates, so
shall try to make this a little more voluminous.

In the summer of 1928 I couldn’t get down to Congress
Street fast enough to start making my fortune in the sale of stocks
and bonds. This experience selling securities was very short, and
not altogether sweet. It ended in 1930.

Then came the formative years of my career. My experience

[234]

nen pi OE IIE EMS I PIT E EE EOE EE ETE RES AS

1 ITPRRHR PI eRMNeRTa IE Ree aL ES

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

working for Kendall Mills in Walpole and New York was ex-
citing, helpful, and rewarding. I had only been in the textile field
two years when the depression and bank holiday overcame us.

It was during this period that I married, and my wife and I
had our family. The trials, tribulations, and the joys that we
went through during this period are now all wonderful mem-
ories.

In 1937 I entered the machine tool field with The Lapointe
Machine Tool Company in Hudson, Massachusetts. I had to
start school all over, taking night courses at M. I. T. and Boston
University, and by the time the war came along, I did qualify
as some sort of an engineer. As superintendent of our factory
during the war my working hours were limitless, and I was more
than glad to get into sales in 1947.

In 1948 1 became a registered professional engineer, and at
last I felt that I could talk on equal grounds with other engineers.

Just as some fellows devote their extra time to golf, I have
spent most of my time in tool engineering activities, and last
year I was elected vice-president of the American Society of
Tool Engineers. This office takes up a good deal of time, but
also keeps me out of mischief.

In the course of my business, I have flown to Argentina and
Brazil, and all over the United States, including the West Coast
and Canada. I sailed to England, France, and Germany only
Jast year. I have always enjoyed looking up old classmates on
my trips.

My family is as perfect as possible —a boy at the University
of Pennsylvania, and my daughter at the Convent of the Sacred
Heart in Noroton, Connecticut. We are all looking forward to
attending our Twenty-fifth Reunion.

KENNETH GALEN CROWL

HOME Appress: 801-A Park Drive Manor, Germantown, Philadelphia 44, Pa.

OFFICE appRESS: Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 215 Pennsylvania Station, 3oth
St., Philadelphia 4, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1907, Oneida, Carroll Co., Ohio. PARENTS: Willard Galen
Crowl, Jessie Edna Clark.

PREPARED AT: Minerva High School, Minerva, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928(29).

[ 235]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

manip: Helen Marie Bond, Nov. 13, 1935. chip: Lynda Galen, March 30,
1943.

occuPaATION: Assistant general freight agent, Pennsylvania Railroad.

MILITARY O® NAVAL RECORD: Captain, U.S. A, 1941-42.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical articles in the transportation field.

HAVING just cast my second successful presidential vote since
graduation, I feel very young in the scheme of things in that
this record is very juvenile. I have been a Republican for so
many years and still so subscribe, that the turn of events still
makes me feel that I am still beginning in the race of things as
they are.
I, like the nations, have no history and am, therefore, happy.
I do not have any theories to advance and can only contribute
the theory that we alone make our story. Mine is quite uninter-
esting to those other than myself and only advance the thought
that each of us must do those things that we enjoy. Q. E. D.

THOMAS HENRY CULHANE, JR.

HOME Appress: Montague Road, Rockford, Ill.

OFFicE appress: Culhane Clinic, Rockford, IIL

Born: Oct. 25, 1904, Rockford, Ill. parents: Thomas Henry Culhane, Cath-
erine Teresa Fitzpatrick.

PREPARED AT: St. Thomas School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1930. DEGREE: M.D. (Chicago Medical School), 1935.

manzigD: Clara R. Holomany, June 29, 1935, Detroit, Mich. cur~pren: Rik,
Oct. 14, 1936; Sheila, Aug. 6, 1937; Sharon and Shaun (twins), Jan.
1, 1939; Sari, Sept. 7, 1940; Tomas, Jan. 23, 1944, Thomas Henry,
3d (deceased); Catherine Mathild (deceased).

occupation: Medicine.

BERNARD JAMES CUMMINGS
HOME ADDRESS; 6v0 Johnson PI., Alexandria, Va.
orice avovess: U. S. Civil Service Commission, Washington 25, D.C.
born: April 27, 1906, Somerville, Mass. parents: Bernard Patrick Cum-
mings, Josephine Frances Lambrecht.
putvaseD at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1924, 1925-1930, DEGREE: A.B, 1928(31),

[ 236]

ei gn ARRIETA IR HOE RN YT Mtn EE ETA

|
t
i
}
|

 

ape spire y temp

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Anne Mary Barker, April 27, 1932, Milton, Mass. cHiLpReN: Wil-
liam Bernard James, Feb. 28, 1935; Bernice Anne, Nov. 29, 1939.
occuPaTIon: Federal chief, Inspection and Training Investigations Division,
VU. S. Civil Service Commission.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Civil Service Commission investigations, super-
visory (security, loyalty).
I WAS graduated in the midst of the great depression — mid-
years, 1930. Fortunately, I had been employed in the post office
in Boston since February, 1929, employment which had helped
to keep me somewhat in the clear with the Bursar’s Office. In
spite of the comments of less fortunate classmates, I remained
with that department until 1940. At that time, being first in line
for selection for the position of post-office inspector, I was in-
vited to join the investigative staff of the United States Civil
Service Commission. I did. After that, having spent a modicum
of time in the field on actual investigations, I progressed in the
regional office in Boston until I was called to Washington in 1944.

Having held varied positions in the Central Investigation divi-
sions, about two years ago, I was called to take over the direc-
tion of the training of some 2,000 new investigators. These men
are to handle investigations of people being considered for access
to top secret information. At this writing the job is about half
done. Despite its importance, I have enjoyed it and am looking
forward with pleasure to its continuance in future months. It is
satisfying to play an important part in safeguarding our nation’s
security in these parlous times.

I married the sweetest girl in the world in 1932, and my son Bill,
aged seventeen, will be entering college next February. He
hopes for the University of Maryland, and I hope after a year
or so he will be at Harvard via the transfer route. My daughter
Bernice, aged twelve, will finish St. Mary’s convent school, here
in Alexandria, Virginia (you-all), next June. After her pre-
paratory work at St. Mary’s Academy we hope (unknown to
her) that she, too, will choose to be doomed to four years in
Cambridge.

[ 237]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ROSS McDUFFEE CUNNINGHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Jefferson Rd. Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39,
Mass.

BorN: April 26, 1907, Scranton, Pa. parents: William James Cunningham,
A.M. 21, Emily McDuffee.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A. cum laude, 1930,
D.CS., 1934-

marrigep: Mary E. Hormell, June 13, 1931, Brunswick, Maine. cytipren:
Scott MacDuffee, April 12, 1934; Marcia Elizabeth, June 7, 1936.

OccUPATION: Associate professor of marketing, School of Industrial Manage-
ment, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; marketing consultant.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Chapter, 1941, secretary, 1943-45,
president, 1947, American Marketing Association; president, Boston
Chapter (Technical Advertisers Association), 1942, director, 1943-45,
vice-president, 1945-47; member Executive Committee, 1940-43, first
vice-president, 1948-49, Boston Sales Managers Club.

MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association; National Industrial Adver-
tisers Association; National Sales Executives.

PUBLICATIONS: “Some Problems in Measuring Performance of Industrial
Salesmen,” Harvard Business Review, autumn, 1935; “The Basing-Point
System of Pricing,” Railway Purchases and Stores, January, 1937;
“Product-Planning in the Glazed and Fancy Paper Industry” (with
G. B. Tallman), Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry,

1940; “Marketing Wood Products,” Bulletin Number 1, Bureau of

Business Research, Norwich University, 1940; “What Salesmen Think
of Sales Managers” (with Dr. H. R. Tosdal), Boston Sales Managers
Club, 1942; “Locating and Appraising Product Ideas,” July, 1942, “Eval-
uation of Census Tracts,” January, 1951, Journal of Marketing; “Re-
cent Developments in Marketing Statistics,” International Statistical
Conferences, Washington, September, 1947; “What Can Industrial
Marketing Research Learn from Consumer Research Experience” (with
G. B. Tallman), presented before Chemical Market Research Associa-

tion, April 8, 1948.
AN INTEREST in economics kindled by Ec. A (not all my
classmates shared this experience) led me to enter the Harvard
Business School in the fall of 1928. While there, the first year
marketing course plus A. S. Dewing’s prognostication of great-
er opportunities in marketing than production, led me to con-
centrate in this area, and ] have worked in it ever since.

Upon graduation from the Business School I had the good
fortune to work under Professor H. R. Tosdal, first for a year

[ 238]

An MIS NOMINATE

po ppoweey ae ae te ate
Lom AE PP TE Rpt TT?

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

or so in collecting teaching cases from business firms and then
as an instructor in sales management from 1931 to 1934. At the
beginning of this latter period I married Mary Hormell and de-
cided to enter teaching as a profession (no necessary connection,
though her father was a professor at Bowdoin College). The
doctoral degree thus became essential and the program was be-
gun. There were times during the following period when it
seemed that the end would never come, and I can well remem-
ber, as can also my wife, the weary evenings in the writing and
rewriting of the thesis. In the spring of 1934 it was nip and
tuck which would come first—the oral examination or our
first child, Scott. The exam won, but only by two days.

In September, 1934, I moved to the University of Tennessee,
partly because there was an opportunity for part-time work
with the Tennessee Valley Authority. The three years spent
in Knoxville, Tennessee, proved of great interest, both in the
university activities and in the association with the Economic
Research section of T. V. A. Despite the fact that I do not
basically believe that government in business is desirable, I must
admit that the association with this government organization dur-
ing its beginning period was a useful antidote to a conservative
family background and the conservatism of the Business School.

In the summer of 1936 I conducted a study for the Tennessee
State Planning Board which gave an interesting insight into
state government control of marketing so far as weights and
measures and feed and seed were concerned. In early June of
this year, Marcia our second child was born and the impending
event provided an acceptable and welcome excuse for not at-
tending the graduation exercises. The university really meant
it when it said the faculty was to be present! Despite this fact, I
arrived too Jate, after receiving the good news en route between
Bridgeport and New Haven.

In the fall of 1937, I joined the staff of Massachusetts Institute
of Technology in the Department of Business and Engineering
Administration, and have been at M. I. T. since that time. We
lived for three years in Cambridge and then moved to Winches-
ter. The children have gone to Winchester schools, and they, as
well as Mary, have been active in the First Congregational Church.

My interests have continued in the field of marketing, with

[ 239 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

special emphasis upon marketing research, industrial marketing
and new product development. In 1940 I helped to reactivate
the New England Chapter of the American Marketing Associa.
tion, and since then have been quite active in the latter profes-
sional group of over 4,000 businessmen and teachers. I was na.
tional president in 1947 and national secretary from 1943 to

1945. This work proved to be an extremely absorbing and re-

warding experience although there were periods in which it re-

quired vast quantities of time and energy.

In addition to teaching and other activities at M. I. T., I have
engaged over the past fifteen years in a variety of marketing
consulting assignments with business concerns. In number of
instances these relationships have extended over a considerable
period of years with particular companies, while in others they
have been essentially study and report assignments. The products
involved have ranged from potash, cement, textile resins, mechani-
cal devices, and plastics in the industrial field to air transporta-
tion, malt beverages, wall and floor coverings, silverware, spark-
ling water, and men’s clothing in the consumer field.

With the formation of the School of Industrial Management
at M. I. T. under grant of funds from Alfred P. Sloan, Jr. a
period of growth is underway which is proving extremely inter-
esting. My present research interests in marketing lie in the
field of brand loyalty for consumer products and, more specifi-
cally, an investigation of the forces which may underlie the var-
ious patterns of brand loyalty.

My hobbies have been in the fields of high fidelity sound re-
cording and reproduction, a basement shop for wood and metal
working, and more recently automobiles. Two years ago I was
able to pick up a 1940 Lincoln Continental hard-top in reason-
ably good condition. This has turned out to be a lot of fun and
is quite capable of absorbing the discouragingly small amounts
of hobby time which can be freed.

My son Scott is a freshman at Ohio-Wesleyan University.
This fact is no evidence of disloyalry to my own Alma Mater or
the institution by which | am employed, but rather reflects a
strong conviction that a college should not be located near the
family home. Marcia, a junior in the Winchester High School,
plays the flute and piccolo in the band, is on the rifle team, and

[ 240 ]

i

bo

pr qari me ene HED ST ~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is active in Girl Scouts. Scott is on the R. O. T. C. rifle team at
college and plays alto and baritone sax in the. college band and
orchestra and in the R. O. T. C. band.

GREELY STEVENSON CURTIS

HOME ADDRESS: 77 Sparks St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Mfg. Co., Waltham 54, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Greely Stevenson Curtis, ’92,
Fanny Hooper.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925, 1929-1930.

marrigeD: Elizabeth Ann Brewster, March 19, 1932, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Greely Stevenson, Jr., 56, Feb. 22, 1934; Ann, Aug. 4, 1936; Sheila, Feb.
12, 1944 (died Dec. 30, 1944).

HARVARD SON: Greely Stevenson Curtis, Jr., ’56.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Pelham Curtis, ’36.

occuPATION: Electronics manufacturing; purchasing; follow-up coérdinator,
Raytheon Manufacturing Company. |

MEMBER OF: Cambridge Dramatic Club; Duxbury Yacht Club.

MY FEELING on reviewing the twenty-eight years since I left
the Class by flunking out at the end of our freshman year is one
of serious disappointment, coupled with the fear that having
clearly missed the boat thus far I am now in manifest danger of
missing it for the remainder of the journey. Throughout this
whole period I have tried, for stretches of six months or more in
the prescribed bare room containing table, chair, and typewriter,
to write fiction; it has been my one continuing hope, and in fact
the prospect of it has been my only inner justification for an
outer discontinuousness. Yet I have been wholly unable to bring
it off. It is true that meanwhile I have had three extremely in-
teresting years in New York as an actor, have enjoyed a bit of
travel, had a second year at Harvard (1929-30) after the Class
had graduated, got a great kick out of a period of semi-professional
photography, have taken a great interest in building or moderniz-
ing three houses, am proud to have had a small part in helping my
wife start a career as an artist, and most of all have stayed happily
married for twenty-one years and raised a family which I look
upon with deep approval; and that furthermore, between longer
(and duller) periods as an automobile salesman and at routine

[ 241 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

office work I have engaged in a varicty of shorter but more
intriguing employments. Yet in sum, though I gladly admit that
these years since college have not been dull, they have been ina
career sense totally unproductive; and I feel that the emotional
immaturity which has prevented me from settling successfully
into a satisfving line of work has robbed me not merely of the
normal satisfaction one should derive from daily life, but more
important, of the main element in a mature education as distinct
from one which otherwise is in danger of remaining simply
academic.

GEORGE MARSTON CUSHING, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 269 Highland St. Dedham, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 17 Stanhope St., Boston 16, Mass.

Born: April 15, 1905, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: George Marston Cushing, ’94,
Grace Littleton.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(30); LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
1933.

marrieD: Mary Margaret Loring, June 17, 1939, Dedham, Mass. CHILDREN:
Margaret Channing, Aug. 12, 1941; George Littleton, March 24, 1943;
Edward Baldwin, April 30, 1945; John Davis, May 5, 1948.

occuPATION: Photography (still work, advertising and promotional), own-
er and manager, George M. Cushing, Jr., Photography.

OFFices HELD: President, Westwood Community Chest and Council, 1946-47;
member, Vestry, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Dedham.

MEMBER OF: St. Botolph Club; Massachusetts Agricultural Club; Republican
Institution in the Town of Boston; Somerset Club; Society of Colonial

Wars; Architectural Photographers Association, Boston Art Directors
Club.

AFTER graduating from college, I taught in a boys’ school for
several years. That is a great occupation, dealing with young-
sters and their problems. However, I felt drawn to a business
career so I resigned and studied Jaw for three years at Boston
University where I received a degree in 1933. Several years
passed working in a law office. All that I learned was most in-
teresting and some of the knowledge gained in this period has
been most useful.

All this time I was taking pictures and generally dabbling in
photography. This hobby was combined with a certain amount

[ 242]

£
3
i.
h
:
£
i
i
b
e
p
F
a
t
5
¥

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of travelling in this country. I enjoyed doing some cruising in
the summers and of course being on the water created many
opportunities for good pictorial material. Other interests were
town affairs in Milton, Massachusetts, where I was living. I
worked hard for the Republican Party, and also was occupied
in doing something for the Community Fund. The latter occupa-
tion has kept me very busy for at least ten years.

By 1938-1 had reached the point where photography seemed
to have a future so I decided to go into it professionally. I took
on several partners and together we operated a studio in Copley
Square, Boston, concentrating on commercial work. We also
handled architectural and portrait photography. The war in
1941 broke up the partnership, and I have continued the busi-
ness ever since without a partner. I find it a business with end-
less possibilities, but one has to work long hours to keep up with
everything. I find it a useful and creative occupation and I’m
glad I’m init.

My wife and I were married in 1939 and lived in Boston until
1941 when we moved to Westwood, Massachusetts. There,
along with other things, we acquired four children, a girl and
three boys. Four years ago we moved to Dedham, Massachu-
setts, where we are now living. I try to spend as much time as
I can with the family, when not otherwise occupied. My hobby
of backyard farming is still going strong, but I don’t get nearly
as much done as I should like.

All in all twenty-five years have passed awfully fast, but they
have been good ones and I hope there will be a lot more like
them in the future.

HOWARD GARDINER CUSHING

HOME ApprEss: Ocean Avenue, Newport, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 515 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: July 13, 1906, Newport, R. I. parents: Howard Gardiner Cushing,
’gt, Ethel Cochrane.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MarrigeD: Mary C. Ames, Jan. 18, 1930, New York, N. Y. cumpren: Howard
Gardiner, Sept. 4, 1931; Frederick Ames, April 8, 1934; Thomas Graf-
ton, July 5, 1940; Mary Olivia Cochrane, Jan. 23, 1943.

[ 243 ]

iit 7 eciaeimeniealtiibinacaeiladennhdenttannatitebaimitiiie, ww”

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

HakvarD sons: Howard Gardiner Cushing, ’55; Frederick Ames Cushing, ’50,

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Cochrane Cushing, ’36, LL.B., 739. :

occuPATION: Retired investment banker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: On active duty, Bureau of Aeronautics, Navy — |
Department, June, 1941-November, 1945; commissioned lieutenant
(j.g.), detached as commander.

MEMBER OF: Brook, Links, River, Racquet & Tennis Club, New York; Read-
ing Room, Clambake, Country Club, Sporting Rock Beach Association,
Newport; Chevy Chase, Washington; Buctis, Whiter and Portland
Club, London.

AFTER graduation I spent the summer abroad and entered the
Guaranty Bond School (run by the Guaranty Trust Company
of New York) in the fall of 1928. There I acquired my first
knowledge of matters financial and in due course was attempt-
ing to sell bonds for the Guaranty Company. I considered this
a loathesome occupation and got a reprieve by getting married
to Mary Ames in January of 1930. We spent a delightful two
months in Honolulu on our honeymoon and on our return I was
set to selling bonds again. Whether it was due to this or other
causes, I shortly developed a series of obscure ailments result-
ing in three very fancy bits of abdominal carving by Dr. J. Law-
rence Pool, father of Pool ’28, which rendered me hors de com-
bat for a whole year, and incidentally led to another winter in
Honolulu where I became a master of the art of surf-riding.

Through Charles F. Mitchell 1 got a job in the buying de-
partment of the National City Company. After a thorough
grounding in the statistical department, 1 embarked on what
I consider the fascinating part of the investment banking busi-
ness — the close association with important companies and their
managements in dealing with their financial problems. At first,
of course, there were nothing but reorganizations, but after the
City Company was obliged to dissolve under the terms of the
Securities Act, and the greater portion of the staff joined with
Brown Brothers to become Brown Harriman & Company, Inc,
we had the interesting and frustrating work of bringing out
some of the earliest issues under the Securities Act.

I continued in this work until I received orders from the Navy
Department to report for active duty in the Bureau of Aeronau-
tics, Washington, D.C, in June, 1941. I was assigned to the Pro-
duction Division, which at that time consisted of five officers,

|
|
i

 

[ 244]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and during the ensuing four and a half years found myself en-
tangled at one time or another in practically every activity of the
Bureau from priorities to terminations and all phases of aircraft
production. I helped establish close liaison with the Air Forces
and became involved in organizational and procedural matters,
which resulted in my becoming adept at writing directions with
first class ambiguities, and shanghaiing many a good man out of
Quonset who thought he was going to sea. All of this involved
travelling all over the country, and I had the great opportunity
of witnessing and assisting in the astounding growth of the air-
craft industry.

After a somewhat extended terminal leave, I returned to what
is now Harriman Ripley & Company, Inc., and worked on a
couple of pieces of financing. However, life in New York and
the investment banking business no longer had the same appeal,
and when a company asked me to go abroad and investigate the
possibilities of manufacturing certain items of equipment over
there, I took a leave of absence from Harriman Ripley and made
a most interesting tour of almost every country in Europe. I
made several other trips to follow up on the original trips, but
unfortunately due to circumstances beyond our control no deal
was ever consumated.

The roving life had gotten me by now, so I severed all con-
nections with Harriman Ripley and moved to Newport, Rhode
Island, determined to do a lot of things I had never had time to
do before. The result was terrific and we were able to make all
kinds of extended cruises, such as from Trinidad to Palm Beach
stopping at all the interesting islands, and numerous fishing and
hunting expeditions. However, I have a feeling that the time
is coming when I shall embark on some more serious endeavor
again.

In regard to family and hobbies, I can only say that I have
been most fortunate in having such a lovely and devoted wife
and a most interesting family of children, consisting of three
boys and a girl. The two oldest are boys and are both at Har-
vard, and there comes a gap of about six years and then another
boy and our only daughter. It is in effect two families, but for
some strange reason they all seem to get on very well together.
I find myself interested in the widest varieties of subjects. My

[ 245 ]

An peice mae DRrccs Zilli Nash, L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

principal interests at the moment appear to be boats, fishing
shooting, golf, tennis, horticulture, farming, ornithology, pho-
tography; and I am an avid reader of books.

ROBERT MURRAY CUSHING

HOME aporess: 3 E. 75th St, New York 21, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 502 Park Ave. New York 22, N. Y.

Born: July 15, 1905, Lynn, Mass. parents: Joseph Cushing, Rachel Kain.

prepareD AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1932.

marriepD: Robin Fersten, April 25, 1948, New York, N. Y. cup: Robert
Hunter, Feb. 9, 1951.

occuPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty May 18, 1942, as lieutenant in U. S.
Navy Medical Corps; graduated from Naval Air Station School of Med-
icine; flight surgeon in various Naval Air Stations in U. S.; overseas
with Marine Aviation in Pacific, two promotions, released as com-
mander in April, 1936.

orFices HELD: Member staff, University Hospital, City Hospital, Women's

Detention, Women’s Hospital, Wyckoff Heights Hospital, Booth
Memorial Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Lodge; New York County and State Medical Soci-
ety; American Medical Association (fellow); American Board of
Obstetrics & Gynecology; American College of Surgeons (fellow);
American Academy of Obstetrics & Gynecology.

TWENTY-FIVE years out of college and still a “schoolboy.” It
sounds like an advertising slogan (although what it could sell
would be any man’s guess), but it just happens to sum up my
last quarter century to perfection — with just a few short re-
cesses to keep things from getting too dull.

The four years following graduation I spent at Yale Medical
School, receiving my M.D. in 1932. There followed five more
years of internships and residencies during which period I served
time in such institutions as the University of Minnesota, Rhode
Island, Bellevue, Lenox Hill, and Jersey Medical Center Hospi-
tals to mention, as the after dinner speaker is prone to say, “just
a few.”

I went into the private practice of medicine on April Fool's
day of 1937 — but it was no joke; especially in Manhattan. J shall
spare you the painful details of this period, Suffice it to say that

[ 246 ]

v

 

\

Sei ene

:
i
i
‘
i
i
i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

finally things got better. It soon began to look as if the bachelor
doctor in New York might reap a few rewards after his long
travail— new car, charming apartment furnished to taste, etc.,
etc. And then came the same old story — active duty in the
U.S. Navy Medical Corps, May 18, 1942. .

Since my civilian specialty was “women,” i.e. the diseases of
women, I decided (in the youthful flush of patriotic fervor) that
I should get closer to activity if I applied for aviation medicine —
besides, after my years of cloistered existence, a flight surgeon
sounded so glamorous. Washington seemed more than pleased
to comply with my wishes and I was ordered to the Naval Avi-
ation School of Medicine (school again!) where I graduated in
Class number 17.

Although I “joined the Navy” I hardly saw “the world” — but
I did get to view parts of our own U. S. I never would have seen
otherwise, and for a while it began to look as if I'd see every
pebble in the Pacific. Also I learned to fly, a most useful acquisi-
tion — especially since after my first solo, I swore never to tempt
fate again. My assignment to Marine Aviation in the Pacific soon
knocked all the glamour out of my job, and I was as glad as the
next fellow to get back into civilian clothes in 1946 and start all
over again in the tattered remnants of my pre-war practice.

And once again was “off to school” for me. Despite my years
of training, I was working towards my formal recognition as a
specialist, and I took five post-graduate courses in this direction.
After passing written and oral exams I was certified by the
American Board of Obstetrics & Gynecology. At the same time
that I was studying for these exams I was trying to reéstablish
myself and court a girl, a tormenting assignment for one of my
years, but successfully consummated. Very happily married since
April 25, 1948, to an attractive Barnard-ite (and ideally attuned
to a physician’s life), perhaps I can lay claim to the booby prize
of the Class since our handsome little “Hunt” was born on Feb-
ruary 9, 1951.

Medicine is a full time job, if you want to grow with it, and
keeping abreast of it means attending conferences, meetings, lec-
tures constantly and reading journals, papers, books, and the like.
This leaves litrle time or desire for hobbies as such, but Robin and
I do manage to enjoy much that New York has to offer in the

[ 247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

way of entertainment and intellectual stimulation. Time and
health allowing, we have many exciting plans for the future
along these lines.

Reading, concentrating, and lecturing to classes as I do, I feel
no less a schoolboy than I did so many years ago. Perhaps it’s
this which gives me my youthful look (or so they kid me). But
certainly it must account for my youthful attitude. At this rate

I'll sall be a schoolboy at the next Anniversary Class Report
twenty-five years hence,

ADELBERT CUSHING CUTLER

HOME ADpRESS: 94 Colby Rd., Braintree 84, Mass.
oFFice appress: Alfred Hale Rubber Co., 26 Spruce St., North Quincy, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 16, 1905, Passaic, N. J. parents: David Adelbert Curler, Char-
lotte Mae Terhune.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928.
MARRIED: Eleanor S. Leslie, June 22, 1929, Hudson, N. H. cuiwpren: Anne

Leslie, Aug. 30, 1931 (died Feb. 16, 1933); Jean Leslie, June 17, 1936;
Deborah Terhune, Nov. 25, 1940.

occupation: Treasurer, Alfred Hale Rubber Company, manufacturers of
rubber soles and heels, and molded rubber specialties.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Quincy Chamber of Commerce, since 1948; cor-
porator, Quincy Savings Bank, since 1950, Braintree Savings Bank, since
1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Quincy (president, 1946-48); Men’s Club of
All Souls’ Church (president, 1948-50); Neighborhood Club of Quincy
(president, 1947-49); Sunapee Yacht Club.

WHAT had been a vacation job in a family business before gradu-
ation became full-time in 1928, and has consumed most of my
effort ever since. During the early thirties, life in general and
business in particular was quite a struggle, with the outcome not
always too clear. But we survived and learned a few lessons
that I hope won’t be forgotten.

I early sensed the great value of bringing Harvard and Rad-
cliffe closer together and long before the official joining’ of the
two institutions, I married a Radcliffe ’28er. This unification
can, I foresee, cause complications in our family at reunion time,
but we expect to have resolved conflicting dates by June.

Both of our daughters keep us normally agitated. One is be-

[ 248 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ginning and the other in the midst of those teen-age activities
which seem always cramped by adult regulations.

For many years our summers were spent on the near coast of
Maine, but the water became much colder as I became older, with
the result that for some few years we have all enjoyed the swim-
ming and the boating on one of New Hampshire’s more beauti-
ful lakes.

As a family we haven't as yet done any travelling, but I have
heard promises made with great conviction that, “We are going
to take the girls to the West Coast and see something of the
wonderful country between here and there.”

I have had considerable satisfaction from my activity in the
local Harvard Club which has been able, in spite of its nearness
to the Boston Club, to keep alive sufficient interest among our
South Shore alumni to provide scholarship funds each year.

FRANK BRYANT CUTTS

HOME ADDRESS: 315 Olney St., Providence 6, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 154 Waterman St., Providence, R., I.

BorN: Aug. 15, 1907, Cranston, R. I. parents: William Bryant Cutts, Flor-
ence Melissa Budlong.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D., 1932.

MARRIED: Ann Matteson, Aug. 31, 1935, Saunderstown, R, I. cHmtpren: Wil-
liam Bryant, Oct. 31, 1937; George M., Nov. 28, 1946; Barbara C., Nov.
19, 1947.

occupation: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned major, Medical Corps, August,
1942; in January, 1943, went to northeastern India with evacuation hos-
pital (via California, Australia, Bombay); promoted lieutenant colonel
January, 1944; served in various parts of India and North Burma until
July, 1945; chief, medical service, Woodrow Wilson General Hospital,
Staunton, Va., September-December, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Heart Station, Rhode Island Hospital, since 1948;
visiting physician, medical service, Rhode Island Hospital, since 1948;
president, Rhode Island Heart Association, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Providence, Rhode Island, and American Medical Associations;
Agawam Hunt Club.

PUBLICATIONS: About twelve articles in medical journals.

FOUR years of medical school followed by two years of in-
ternship and a one-year residency left me seven years older, pre-

[ 249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

sumably somewhat wiser, but with no financial return on a con-
siderable educational investment. As the years go by I am in-
creasingly impressed by my father’s faith and endurance in pro-
viding most of the necessary wherewithal for said investment.

The next several years were occupied in building up a prac-
tice, Things were progressing nicely when along came the war
disrupting all schedules and plans. Then followed forty months
in the Army, thirty months in India and Burma — delightful
country in the winter and thoroughly miserable in the summer.
We saw days when a thermometer had to be shaken down im-
mediately before popping it in the patient’s mouth or it regis-
tered 105° from the air temperature. Fortunately we were busy
taking care of American, British, Chinese, and Indian soldiers.
We learned a great deal about many diseases we'd seen little of
before or have since. I suspect I’m farther removed from my
appendix than most classmates. Mine is, or was, in Bihar Prov-
ince, India, some 12,000 miles away as the C-47 flies.

After the war life was resumed as it was previously. A larg-
er house was needed for two more small fry whose wide-eyed
wonder at and interest in the world and its contents are a con-
stant source of pleasure and a test of our explanatory abilities.
The elder boy now qualifies, on occasion, as a built-in baby
sitter,

If I contemplate my present status I find little about which to
complain. I’m fully reconciled to the fact that neither the world
nor the practice of medicine will be materially altered through
my efforts. However, I like my work and know that, so long as
reasonably good health continues, I shall be able to make a com-
fortable living and to be of some use and help to others.

What’s wrong with the world? Many things, no doubt, but I’'d
like to see a weakening of national barriers and prejudices, a un-
ion of some substantial sort among all peoples with some expe-
rience in freedom and self-government. Finally, say I, birth con-
trol is sorely needed in vast areas of the world—wherever the

population outgrows the food supply —to prevent the balance
being preserved, as now, by starvation, disease, and war.

[250]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE ABBE DALIN

HOME ADDRESS: 467 Central Park W.. New York 25, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 49 Edison P!., Newark, N. J.

. Bown: Oct. 7, 1907, Worcester, Mass. parents: Arthur David Dalin, Eva
Waldstein.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: $.B., 1928; PH.D. (Columbia), 1934.

marzieD: Barbara Roose, Nov. 4, 1939, New York, N. Y. cuivpren: Richard
Alan, Dec. 3, 1941; James Robert, May 29, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Mark Steward Dalin, ’29.

occupation: Chief chemist, research on semi-conductors and organic dielec-
trics, Balco Research Laboratories.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Chairman, Public Education Section, Connecti-
cut Committee on Defense Against Gas Warfare.

orrices HeLp: Chairman, Chemist Round Table; Democratic County com-
mitteeman.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; Sigma Xi; American Institute of
Chemists (fellow); Chemist Round Table; Tau Epsilon Phi.

PUBLICATIONS: Number of articles on hydrogen isotopes, sulfur, analytical
chemistry, and control devices; patents on synthesis of organe-silicon
compounds and distilling columns.

AS MOST of the Class of 1928 will remember, things got pretty
tough within a short time after graduation. I had a job, but the
future it offered matched the general economic conditions. I de-
sided I'd be better off at school, and went back to Columbia for
a doctorate in physical chemistry. I was fortunate in being able
to work in Dr. Harold Urey’s group on problems concerned with
the newly discovered hydrogen isotope.

After graduation I went to work with Plax Corporation where
we developed methods of forming plastics which resulted in the
production of the now popular squeeze bottle. From Plax, I went
to the Stauffer Chemical Company, manufacturers of heavy chem-
icals and insecticides, where I was in charge of the laboratories. I
am now with the Balco Research Laboratories, where I head the
chemical division.

My wife, an attorney, has never practised (she does preach
occasionally, however). I took her straight from an interesting,
if non-lucrative, job as research associate at Columbia Law School,
demonstrated the controls on the stove, and indicated the ob-
jectives. She eventually broke the shackles, after delivering two
sons, and is now with the New York City Housing Authority.

[251]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I still play the piano somewhat, but I devote more time to pho-
tography and tournament bridge. The boys, however, are now
at ages where we can share a variety of activities including the
construction of a scale-model railroad and baseball (my aching
back!). Fortunately, they are also beginning to be interested ”
in checkers and chess at which I, temporarily, have an advantage.

The boys, my wife, and my work make up what could be
a very pleasant life, if only we could be free of the tensions of
the present world situation. Perhaps the administration just com-
ing to power will be more effective in eliminating our difficulties,
but considering some of the most vocal of its members, it seems

doubtful.

NOOBAR RETHEOS DANIELIAN

HOME appress: 7 W. Thornapple St., Chevy Chase 15, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Association, Cafritz Bldg., Wash-
ington, D. C.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1906, Constantinople, Turkey. PARENTS: Retheos Danielian,
Anne Papazian.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; A.M., 1929;
PH.D., 1932. ;

maraigp: Grace Apelian, Aug. 28, 1936, New York, N. Y. cHtLpreN: Sandra
Elizabeth, Oct. 10, 1937; Ronald Lawrence, Aug. 17, 1943-

occupation: Executive vice-president, Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Associa-
tion; chief executive of the association, which represents the economic
interests of the Great Lakes area. .

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Director, program staff of Foreign Economic
Administration.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Arts & Sciences, Harvard Foundation for Advanced
Study, Washington, 1950-51; instructor and tutor in economics, Har-
vard College, 1929-35; financial and utility expert, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, 1935-38, director, St. Lawrence Survey, Office of
Secretary of Commerce, 1940-43; vice-president, National St. Lawrence
Association, 1946-49.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Clubs of New York and Washington; National Press
Club, Washington, D. C.

PusLications: Articles in Atlantic Monthly: “From Insult to Injury,” April,
1933; “Gas, A Study in Expansion,” July, 1933; “Stock Markets,”
October, 1933; “Can We Aid Europe,” July, 1947; “The Future of
Britain,” November, 1947; other articles in Harper’s, Twentieth Cen-
tury Fund’s Stock Market Control and Security Markets; author of

[252]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A. T. & T.,, and The St. Lawrence Survey, 7 volumes, U. S. Dept. of
Commerce; editor of Tbe Heartland, numerous other speeches, book
reviews, articles, government reports and testimony before Congres-
sional committees published in different media.

AFTER graduating in 1928, I had the rare privilege of spending
seven more years at Harvard, completing my work for the Ph.D,
in economics and teaching in the Department of Economics until
1932. Eleven years in all at Cambridge, 1924-1935, is an experi-
ence to be cherished. Although much of the economics teach-
ing at Elarvard during that period did not anticipate the unor-
thodox happenings of the New Deal-Fair Deal era, the nimble-
witted economic dialectics of Frank Taussig, Allyn Young, Wil-
liam Z. Ripley, John H. Williams, Edward S, Mason, and a host
of other brilliant teachers of that day, helped me to understand
what was happening in the world of economic policy, or more
accurately, of political expedience.

Teaching salaries being what they are, even at Harvard, it
was inevitable that I should end up in Washington. Fortunately,
always occupied with special assignments and a good deal of the
time with Congress, I have continued my practical education in
that borderline field so seldom touched upon in college — the
interplay of economic and political forces.

Of the assignments I had in government, the one that had the _
most lasting effect upon my career was the economic survey I
undertook of the St. Lawrence Seaway and Power Project. It
was early in 1940 that I was invited to undertake a study of this
much-debated subject. Except for three years during the war,
when I was interested in problems of enemy blockade, the St.
Lawrence project has engaged a good deal of my time. I have
had the satisfaction of helping its public acceptance from a com-
paratively obscure “public works boondoggle” to a respectable
proposition which is now supported not only by the governments
of both Canada and the United States, but by most of the major
industries of both countries, and the most orthodox political
leaders of both parties.

The controversy concerning the construction of the Panama
Canal fifty years ago was nothing in comparison with the violent
arguments that have raged over the St. Lawrence project. To
understand this, one must keep in mind that whereas the Panama

[ 253 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Canal was opposed mainly by the transcontinental railroads, the
St. Lawrence project has been opposed by the combined economic
and political power of all the railroads, coal producers, power
companies, coastal ports, and the organized labor unions in those
industries. Although we came within two votes of putting the
proposition over in the United States Senate in June, 1952, the
Canadian people have decided to do it alone, which is a measure
of their economic perspicacity and maturity as a nation.

One of the rewarding experiences in this work has been to have
come to know the leading political, business, labor and agricul-
tural leaders of the United States and Canada. The quality of
ability and devotion to public interest that goes with leadership
is indeed impressive. Regardless of political differences, there is
little differentiation in the quality of heart and mind that they put
into public service, as between Barkley and Vandenberg, or be-
tween Douglas and Taft, or Aiken and Kefauver. What is more,
despite public exhibitions of rancor, they sincerely admire each
other. Of course, there are others who flash like meteors upon
the political firmament, and leave nothing but darkness behind;
but take heart, this is a big and strong country, and will survive
such slight shocks and tremors that their fall will inflict.

My interest in the St. Lawrence project has expanded into the
developmental possibilities of the whole Great Lakes-St. Law-
rence Valley of Canada and the United States. This Heartland
of America is the next frontier. Our organization, the Great
Lakes-St. Lawrence Association, representing states, municipal-
ities, and industries of the area, is dedicated to the development
of this vast area. I expect to live to see the construction of the
St. Lawrence Seaway, and the growth of Canada to a nation of
25 million people, from its present 14 million. I expect to see the
Canadian coast of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Valley develop
as extensively as the U.S. side. Prophets are soon forgotten but
no one can take away the satisfaction of having had a small part
in such a historic event. If our friends in Boston will put a
little faith and some investment into the future of this great un-
tapped reservoir of wealth, instead of casting dubious glances
upon everything that happens beyond the Berkshires, they will
be much happier, and wealthier, too.

Having lived in Washington, D. C., and Chevy Chase, Mary-
L254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

land, since 1938, we have had a front row seat from which to
observe the cavalcade of national and international history dur-
ing these turbulent times. General impressions to the contrary,
Washington is the most intellectually stimulating place in the
country. There is, of course, an earthy realism to the intellectual
ferment here, but it is the more exciting because it is so close to
action. Although much of my work is on Capitol Hill, my beat
covers a wide area, from Omaha and Minneapolis to Toronto,
Montreal, and Labrador, which satisfics my occasional urge to go
“back to nature.”

By the standards of the Class of 1928, I suppose I was late in
starting a family, but if Mr. Eisenhower can prevent atomic
bombs from falling over the national capitol, I should have a
daughter in the Class of 1959, and a son in the Class of 1965.

SIDNEY DARLINGTON

HOME Appress: Long Hill Road, Chatham, R. D. 1, N. J.

OFFicE apprEss: Bell Telephone Laborarories, Inc., Murray Hill, N. J.

BorN: July 18, 1906, Pitcsburgh, Pa. parents: Philip Jackson Darlington,
Rebecca Taylor Matson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: 8.8. magna cum laude, 1928; 8.8. IN
gz. (Massachusetts Inst. of Technology), 1929; Pu.o. (Columbia), 1940,

MaRRIED: Freda Dixon Daly, Aug. 19, 1942, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Jackson Darlington, Jr. '26 $.M., 27, PH.D., '31.

occupation: Research relating to communication and electronics, member
Technical Staff of Bell Telephone Laboratories.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Office of Field Service (subdivision of Office
of Scientific Research and Development), acting as technical observer .
in Southwest Pacific area.

MEMBER OF: Telephone Pioneers of America; Appalachian Mountain Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Four technical monographs relating to network theory (a
theory of applied mathematics).

AFTER graduating from Harvard I spent one year at M. I. T.
receiving an S.B. in Electrical Engineering. Immediately there-
after I became a member of the technical staff of the Bell Tele-
phone Laboratories in New York City assigned to theoretical
investigations in the research department. I am still with the Bell
Laboratories, and expect to be until I retire in 1971.

During the 1930’s I took advantage of a part-time graduate

[255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

study plan, offered by my employer, to study physics at Co-
lumbia University, and I received the Ph.D. degree in 1940.

The Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., is not concerned ex-
clusively with the telephone, but is also an acknowledged lead-
er in various branches of so-called electronics. It has been most
interesting to have even a small part in the phenomenal growth
of electronics during the past twenty-five-odd years. As early
as 1940 I was assigned to military electronics projects, and con-
centrated on military work until 1946. For seven months in
1944 and 1945 I was on leave from the Bell Laboratories, em-
ployed by the Office of Field Service in Washington, but oper-
ating as a technical observer in the Southwest Pacific area. I was
supposed to be doing statistical work, but actually I spent as much
time collecting the necessary data— taking moving pictures of
fire control dials while AA artillery was firing on occasional
enemy planes. (Mostly, I waited for the enemy planes.)

I was married in 1942 to Freda Dixon Daly of London, On-
tario. We lived in Greenwich Village (in New York City) for
several years and were happily contemplating many more there.
Then the Bell Laboratories built a new plant near Summit, New
Jersey. We moved to Summit and then built a house in the
country (which turned out to be a three-year project). We
now live on a ridge-top, with fine views; we have a small wood
lot and rent two acres of open ground under adjacent power
line — all within twelve minutes’ drive of the office. Our recrea-
tions include walking and square and English country dancing.
We have succeeded in abandoning our former city life more
completely than we had thought possible.

AARON DASHOFF

HOME aporess: 1444 Highland Ave., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 332 Granite Block, Fall River, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 20, 1907, Newark, N. J. parents: Nathan Dashoff, Ida Goralnik.

PREPARED AT: B, M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(31); LE.B., 1935
(36).

MarRigD: Rose Young, Sept. 4, 1932, Providence, R. I. cHILpREN: Joan S.,
June 21, 1938, Stephen L., March 23, 1943.

[ 256 ]

rr oe TH Peper ne eta aaaae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Lawyer; secretary and director, First Federal Savings and Loan
Association of Fall River.

orFices HELD: Secretary, Fall River Taxpayers Association; president, Fall
River Lodge B'nai B'rith, Fall River District Zionist Organization of
America, P.T.A., Temple Beth El, director, Temple Beth El.

mMeMBER OF: Fall River Bar Association; Bristol County Bar Association,
Massachusetts Bar Association; American Bar Association; Mount Hope
Lodge, F. & A. M.; Massachusetts Consistorv 32°; Azab Grotto, Har-
vard Club of Fall River; Concord Lodge, Knights of Pythias; United
American War Veterans, Wanumotonomy Golf Club, Fall River
Country Club; Massasoit Council, Boy Scouts; Advance Gifts Commit-
tee, American Red Cross, Advance Gifts Committee, Community Fund
Campaign, 1951, 1952.

STARING me in the face is the second notice from the Class
Secretary urging me to send in the high spots of the past twenty-
five years. Here goes: I said good-bye to my sweetheart, ar-
ranged passage to Germany, and was all set to take up the study
of medicine at the University of Berlin. The ship was due to sail
in a few weeks, I got lonesome, I told my girl 1 couldn’t be with-
out her, cancelled the whole deal, and worked like the dickens to
get into the Law School. And so I took up the study of law and
married the girl. I am lucky it worked out this way, for 1 might
still be drinking beer in Berlin. My elder child, Joan, is a young
lady who always reminds us how old-fashioned we are. My son,
Steve, wants to know how long it takes to make a million dol-
lars, and my wife is Sreve’s den mother in Cub Scouts.

Hobbies: I've been too busy most of the time. But after read-
ing a few pamphlets on “Hlow to Relax,” I’ve started to play golf
and now have acquired every known publication on the sport.
I find that every time I read a new book the score is worse, but
on paper it looks like it’s a cinch to break ninety.

My love for Harvard suffered slightly last summer, and here’s
the story. I drove through Cambridge with my son, who was
eight years old at the time, to give him a glimpse of the school
and perhaps see if it would give him some incentive to follow
in his old man’s footsteps. I rushed him through the Agassiz
Museum, through the Yard, pointed out University Hall, the
new Law School buildings, and finally climbed up the stairs of
Widener Library, turned to him, and said, “What do you think,
Steve. Would you like to come here when you grow up?” He

[257]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

said, “Gee, Dad, I think there’s too much Harvard here and
there’s too many steps to climb.” Frankly, I think he enjoyed
seeing it as much as I enjoyed taking him around. But, for a day
or two, I kept out of sight for fear he’d tell me he might go to

Yale.
As I look back, I’m thankful I switched to law and I’m still
hoping that we all meet for the Fiftieth.

EVERETT DASHOFF

HOME ADDRESS: 1166 N. Main St., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 130 S. Main St., Fall River, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1907, Fall River, Mass. PARENTS: Abraham Dashoff, Bessie
Ostroff.

PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cua laude, 1928; LL.B., 1931.

UNMARRIED,

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Combat intelligence with 6th Armored Division
(212, Armored Field Artillery Battalion); campaigns in Normandy,
Northern France, Rhineland, Ardennes, Central Europe; bronze star,
purple heart.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary to Mayor, Fall River, 1946-52.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Fall River; Fall River Bar Association; Elks;
American Legion.

JOHN CLEMENT DAVIS

HOME apprEss: 16 Covewood Rd., Rowayton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11-05 44th Drive, Long Island City 1, N. Y.

Born: April 16, 1906, Pittsfield, Mass. parents: Earl Clement Davis, s.7.B.,
‘04, Annie Foster Dodge.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MaRRigD: Priscilla Hazelton, Dec. 30, 1933, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: John
Clement, 3d, April 5, 1935; Joel Brewster, July 19, 1935 (died Jan. 30,
1952); Jennifer, Sept. 5, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Foster Stone Davis, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director, sales and advertising, American
Seal-Kap Corporation and Constellation Cup Corporation, manufac-
turers of protective milk bottle caps, other protective closures, and

paper cups.
[258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, Company K, Seventh Regiment, New
York National Guard, 1930-31; C. Q. (T), U. S. Coast Guard Reserve,
1942-45, discharged as ensign, 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Local committees.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-commodore, Norwalk Yacht Club; fleet captain, gover-
nor, Cruising Club of America; governor, Storm Trysail Club.

MEMBER OF: Off Soundings Club.

THE urge to write a Class life for the Twenty-fifth Anniver-
sary Report has been lying dormant and has only been brought
to light because of recent Class luncheons in New York and
especially the luncheon before the Harvard-Yale game a few
days ago in Cambridge. In spite of the unfortunate aftermath
in which the Messrs. Woodsum, Malloy, and Yeager partici-
pated, the luncheon was a most happy affair and augurs well
for the Reunion next June.

For several years after the severance of my connection with
Harvard College in 1926 I engaged in various enterprises in
New Hampshire and New York, finally landing rather haphaz-
ardly with American Seal-Kap Corporation in 1929. I have
been there ever since except for a brief intermission in 1931
and 1932.

‘Our business is primarily the manufacture of protective milk
bottle caps and it has increased tremendously during this period.
We also make closures for other containers used in packaging
foods and have recently commenced the manufacture of paper
hot-drink cups through a subsidiary, Constellation Cup Corpora-
tion. Further diversification, probably in the paper converting
and food packaging field, is planned so that in all probability
my work will continue along similar lines in the future.

As a family we live in nearby Connecticut, vote the straight
Republican ticket, contribute more or less regularly to our Eli
friends each fall when their football team is strong and get back
the same five-dollar bills in the following spring after the crew
races.

The life of a commuter is necessarily dominated by train
schedules and each day is shortened in my case by three hours
of travel. Apparently our wives lead much the same sort of ex-
istence during their working days inasmuch as they are con-

[259 ]

ie a + Relat tnnmmnemettihs,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

stantly operating taxi services for their children who are busi-
ly engaged in their many enterprises.

Our principal joint family enterprise has been sailing a series
of cruising boats between Long Island Sound and Maine where
we have a summer cottage at Isle-au-Haut. I have made a num-
ber of races to Bermuda as crew on other boats. In 1952 my
son and I both acted as crew members on the yawl, Mutiny II,
and we were joined in Bermuda by my wife who sailed back
with us. For us, sailing is a year-round activity as the cost of
maintaining a forty-two foot schooner, such as our Malabar III,
is prohibitive unless we do a great deal of our own work. In ad-
dition to this we do a little shooting in the fall and watch the
children ride, play football, wrestle, and engage in their various
other activities.

It has been a most happy life with the exception of a two-
year period during which our elder daughter, Joel, developed
an incurable disease which resulted in death. The recovery from
such a blow is always questionable and we have attempted to do
it by keeping busy. I hope we are succeeding.

As a family travelling has been confined almost entirely to the
sailing, and that is outlined above. My business has kept me on
the jump and I have visited all parts of this country, Canada, and
Mexico with a considerable degree of regularity over the past
fifteen years. We look forward to more sailing in more places
as well as visits to some of the places I have found in history.
This is all a bit vague but will probably happen some day. In the
meantime, the daily duties and pleasures of ordinary life and the
hope of a world that can live in peace are paramount.

4

LUCIUS PULSIPHER DAVIS

HOME appress: 476 Main St., Hingham, Mass.

orFicz appress: Globe Manufacturing Co., Pittsfield, N. H.

Boen: Oct. 16, 1902, Norwich, Conn. parents: George Warren Davis, Jennie

PREPARED AT: Norwich Free Academy, Norwich, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

MarrigD: Katharine Brewster Hempstead, Oct. 8, 1932, Norwich, Conn.
CHILDREN: Brewster Dallas, Aug. 3, 1938; Christopher Hempstead, Aug.
2, 1942.

[ 260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occUPATION: Sales consultant to Globe Manufacturing Company, develop-
ing sales outlets and personnel for sportswear and snow-suit division.

IF I were to write fully of my sales experiences since I left college
the tale would quickly turn to, and throughout continue with,
hundreds of friends and acquaintances all over New England
and northern New York Stare. But rather than write of my two
sons and my wife and my in-laws — all of whom are most won-
derful to me — I should like to enter a plea here, hoping that some-
how it may come to the notice of the Overseers of Harvard,
hoping too that they may give it some thought for the sake of all
Harvard-sons-to-be.

The plea is this: that each Twenty-fifth Reunion Class be given
the opportunity to bring to some point at the University the
names of men who are outstanding in particular fields of endeavor.
These men should be sought as lecturers, etc. I think of one
man who is outstanding as a logician and teacher in sales think-
ing. I’m sure the company he is with would gladly give him up
to the Harvard Business School for six months. I think the com-
pany would consider it a privilege and an honor to pay the man’s
salary as usual while he was at the Business School, lecturing.

We hear continually about the increasing cost of educating
our youngsters. I believe it is increasing. But I also believe that
each Twenty-fifth Reunion Class can come up with twenty-five
to thirty outstanding men in our business world — men who can
give our sons the best picture of business as it is now. And I'll
wager there would be no “Commies” in the group either.

PERCY BOYD DAVIS, JR.

HOME appress: 1320 N. Astor St., Chicago 1o, Ill.

OFFICE appREss: First National Bank, 38 S. Dearborn St., Chicago go, IIl.

BORN: Feb. 25, 1907, Winnetka, Ill. parents: Percy Boyd Davis, LL.B. ‘oo,
Elizabeth Ida Paine.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: PH.B, (Univ. of Chicago), 1929.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Moore Davis, ’30; DeForest Paine Davis, 734.

OccupaATION: Banking.

[ 261 ]

ice“ Wedeia ens 2iphenaeesae AERNRaRl

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served with Army, 1942-45, two years in Eng-

land, France, and Belgium; Medical, Finance, and Adjutant General
Departments.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago; American Legion.

I'VE spent my working years quietly in a bank. I’m still con-
servative, as always, in thought and politics. I have travelled ex-
tensively, both in and out of service.

THEODORE WHITFIELD DAY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Sweetwood Farm, East Pepperell, Mass.

BorN: May 12, 1907, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Edward Hawley Day, Eliza-
beth Jane Knowlton.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B, cu72 laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Mildred Billings, Aug. 30, 1930, Shrewsbury, Mass. CHILDREN:
Frank Billings, Jan. 28, 1936; Cynthia, Jan. 18, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Poultry farmer.

AFTER spending about seven months teaching English in Cha-
teau-Thierry, I took on the job of French Master at the Browne
& Nichols School in Cambridge. Thirteen years later when I
caught myself repeating my previous year’s jokes, I turned to
poultry farming. I should say “we” because it is strictly a fam-
ily affair. After ten years of enlarging our enterprise we find
ourselves with over 4,000 hens. It is much too confining, but

the way of life it engenders makes all the headaches seem worth
while.

ALFRED HAROLD DEAN

HOME AppRESS: 85 Oak St., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BoRN: May 23, 1906, Cochituate, Mass. parents: Alfred Thomas Dean, Hat-
tie Ella Fairbanks.

PreparEeD AT; Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, M.B.A,, 1931.

MaggieD: Evelyn Lord, Jan. 20, 1932, Natick, Mass. cup: Alfred Harold,
Jr., Aug. 7, 1935-

HARVARD BrotHeR: George Waldo Dean, ’28, M.B.A., 31.

OcCUPATION: Investments, partner, Charles W. Dean & Company, trustee.

[ 262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted March 18, 1944; served year, eight
months, four days at Camp Croft (S. C.), Camp Lee (Va.), Fort Ben-
jamin Harrison (Ind.), and Boston Quartermaster Depot.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Wellesley Country Club.

AFTER graduation in June, 1928, I took a year’s vacation to
travel around the United States. During this period my brother
and I covered the Atlantic Coast from Boston to Miami, then
the Gulf Coast and parts of Mexico to San Diego, the Hawaiian
Islands, Vancouver, and home by way of the Old Oregon Trail.

Two years of study at the Business School were followed by
my marriage to Evelyn Lord of Natick. We lived in Wellesley
Hills until 1934 when we moved to Weston, Massachusetts. It
was there that our son, Alfred, Jr., was born in 1935.

As it did for most of the Class, World War II upset the usual
routines. For twenty months | served in the army; first in the
infantry for basic training, next Quartermaster officer training
school, then a few months in a hospital, a brief spell as a chap-
lain’s assistant, and finally contract termination work which
ended for me November 21, 1945.

Two years were then spent in Phoenix, Arizona, after which
my family and I returned to Weston where we are now living.
'My main hobby has been reading, mostly non-fiction. This
habit, although useful, has been of doubtful pleasure since the
most helpful book has been Spengler’s Decline of the West. Here’s
hoping that Orwell’s 1984 does not describe the next twenty-five
years.

EDGAR PACKARD DEAN

HOME ADDRESS: 162 Nilsson St., Brockton 41, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1906, Brockton, Mass, parents: Arthur Packard Dean, Emma
Caroline Hilstrum.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: 8.B. Summa cum laude, 1928(29); A.M.,
19303 PH.D., 1939.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATIoN: Consultant.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Duty with U. S. Army, 1942-47; captain to
colonel; awarded Legion of Merit 1945; aide-de-camp to Lieutenant
General Hugh A. Drum of Eastern Defense Command and First Army,
- 1942-43; graduated from Command and General Staff School, Leaven-

[ 263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

worth, 1944; Spent three years in European Theatre; commanded
American part of Anglo-American Headquarters concerned with high
priority technical intelligence in Germany, ie., German developments
in V-weapons, jet engine planes, synthetic rubber, etc., 1944-45; in
charge atomic energy intelligence throughout Europe, 1945-47.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Council on Foreign Relations;
Veterans of the Seventh Regiment; Military Intelligence Reserve.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in Harpers, Foreign Affairs, the New York
Times, Canadian Historical Review.

TWENTY-FIVE years? impossible you say, and I say so too.
The bard who first likened time to a tortoise could never have
been writing for a Twenty-fifth Report.

The first few years out of Harvard found me back at Harvard
—at the Graduate School studying European history. If I had
known how much history we were going to see in our Own time,
I might have had less enthusiasm for the past. Three of the four
graduate years were spent in part-time teaching. I still regard
History 1 — European from the fall of the Roman Empire to the
present — as one of the great courses of twentieth century Har-
vard, I am aware, however, that local salesmen for general edu-
cation have long since regarded both the course and my evalua-
tion as somewhat old-fashioned. Teaching is good experience
whatever one’s subsequent career: it gives an insight into human
nature, and it is a stimulus to clear thinking. One’s own ideas
have to be clear and orderly if he is ever to explain a thing suc-
cessfully to others.

Twice I have been fortunate enough to live abroad and to
form my own ideas about other countries and peoples instead of
taking them ready-made. The first time was France in 1933 and
1934, and later England from 1944 to 1947. The French years
are a vivid reminder of how much water has gone over the dam.
The New Deal had just devalued the dollar, thereby making
the franc worth 6.6 cents (today it is one-fourth of a cent) and

giving it the reputation — hold your hats — of being one of the
world’s hard currencies. The great value of living abroad, it
seems to me, is that by learning about other countries you come
to know more about your own. Both times I returned to the
United States not, I hope, a jingo, but with a greater apprecia-
tion of America.
From 1934 to 1942 1 was in New York City on the staff of the

[ 264 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Council on Foreign Relations. Although the world-wide inter-
ests of the United States were our bailiwick, my own attention
gradually centered more and more on North America, particu-
larly on the northern portion of the continent, Canada. I spent
the summer of 1939 travelling in easy stages from Montreal to
Vancouver. I didn’t know it then, but I was seeing the end of
an era. For 1939 was the last year of the small Canada. During
the war, Canada expanded mightily and since 1945 its economic
growth has been even greater.

My wartime activities are summarized above so there is no
point in repeating them. Blessed with good luck and superior
assignments, Army years were far from being a period of time-
out; they were an enriching experience. Actually, it was late
1947 before I gave up the regulation khaki necktie for Tripler’s
silk reps. :

It was New York again after a long vacation and getting re-
acquainted with Canada. Just as in the 1930’s New York had
harbored many émigrés from Germany and Italy who had fled
fascism, so in the late 1940's it had émigrés from the Iron Curtain
countries of Europe. A group of prominent Americans wanted
to assist these expatriates, or at least the most outstanding among
them. But how to do it in a way self-respecting to all concerned?
My job was to find the answer, particularly in respect to the
scholars and intellectuals. In the end, we created the Mid-Euro-
pean Studies Center of which I served as the first director. The
Center functioned both as a small foundation and a body engaged
in direct research. At the end of the first year, we had allocated
over one hundred full-time research grants; while to younger
émigrés attending American colleges we had extended twenty
scholarships. Meanwhile, the urge to make a vocation out of an
avocation became increasingly strong. I finally resigned from
the Center to set myself up as a consultant to individuals and
companies expanding into the Canadian field. The beginning
was somewhat better than good. But the serious illness of my
father last summer and the necessity of taking over his business
interests meant coming home and helping in a family emergency.
Now that the worst of the emergency is over, I find it enjoy-
able living in New England again for the first time in twenty
years.

[265 ]

ain. Set Gah maaan

a ,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Time, as Richard de Rochemont’s newsreels used to remind
us, marches on. But time does other things. It plays tricks; and
it has plaved one of its sly but amusing tricks on those of us of
the vintage year 19:8. Remember how at pre-War reunions we
used to call ourselves the Hard Luck Class? The easy jobs and
easy money which seemed part of our birthright as undergrad-
uates in the era of Coolidge prosperity had vanished with the
Depression. Remember our self-pity? — though we wore it jaunt-
ily. Yes, the hex was on us. We knew it, we revelled in it, and
we believed it — up to a point. All that was in the 1930's; mean-
while the years have moved on. And so has the hex. It isn’t ours
any longer, other classes have a better claim. Ite. One day in
London in 1946, as demobilization was proceeding apace, I re-
member talking with some officers who had graduated in the
1939 to 1941 period. They were anxious to be demobilized yet
apprehensive. What would they do in the business world? What
were they fitted to do? It was then I realized how lucky our
generation had been. The world gave us time to find ourselves,
establish ourselves, start a home. We had a mode of life to go
back to whereas the graduates of 1939 to 1941 had none, Item.
A year later I saw something of the GI influx at Harvard. With
abnormally large classes, a faculty, however conscientious, just
couldn’t give the fine and individual instruction we had received.
It was no one’s fault that the end-product, i.e., education, was
sometimes shoddy. We, however, had received the de luxe model,
gift-wrapped at no extra charge, in the world’s best and cost-
liest educational system: the tutorial. Item. Speaking of cost,
don’t forget that we bought our education in the large economy
size package. Tuition our freshman year was 250 dollars. Next
year’s freshmen will 800 dollars. All in all, not a bad vintage
year, 1928.

GEORGE WALDO DEAN

HOME aporess: 184 Cliff Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

orrice apperrss: 80 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 25, 1904, Wayland, Mass, parents: Alfred Thomas Dean, Hat-
tie Ella Fairbanks.

preparep at; Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGKEES: A.B., 1928, M.B.A. 1931.

[ 266 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Mary Lord, Sept. 11, 1930, Natick, Mass. cHitpren: Evelyn, Dec.
21, 1933; Marilyn, Oct. 5, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Harold Dean, 728, M.B.a., 731.

occuPATION: Investment analyst, partner, Charles W. Dean & Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

AFTER receiving my degree in June, 1928, I spent a year travel-
ling throughout the United States by automobile accompanied
by one of my brothers. It was quite an experience as well as quite
an adventure on the roads of that era. We went from Massachu-
setts to Florida, then to California with side trips to Mexico and
the Hawaiian Islands, north to Vancouver, and back to Massa-
chusetts.

I entered Harvard Graduate School of Business Administra-
tion in September, 1929, and received my M.B.A. degree in June,
1931.

I married in September, 1930, and lived on Garden Street,
Cambridge, until 1932. We moved to Wellesley Hills in June
of that year and have lived there ever since.

I have two daughters, ages nineteen and sixteen. Evelyn is at
Bradford Junior College, Bradford, Massachusetts, and Marilyn
is attending Dana Hall School, Wellesley, Massachusetts.

Summer vacations have been spent on Cape Cod or in New
Hampshire with various short vacation trips throughout the
eastern states and to the West Indies.

I am still anticipating the time when taxes and educational ex-
penses for two daughters leave sufficient funds at the end of a
year to enable us all to take an extended tour of this country
and Europe. I hope to realize this ambition before I am asked
to fill out a similar questionnaire for our Fiftieth Reunion, twen-
ty-five years hence.

LANGDON DEARBORN

HOME ADDRESS: 3220 Huntingdon Pl, Houston ig, Texas.

OFFICE apprEss: Progress Petroleum Inc., Commerce Bldg., Houston, Texas.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1906, Mexico City, Mexico. parents: William Langdon
Dearborn, Ellen Eustis.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

[ 267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

siarriep: Elizabeth Goodridge, Oct. 8, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. cuttpren:
Susan Eustis, July 26, 1933; John Langdon, Dec. 15, 1934; Frederick
Langdon, Feb. 23, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eustis Dearborn, "32, M-ARCH., 36.

occupation; Oil and Gas production and exploration: vice-president, treas-
urer, and director; Progress Petroleum, Inc.; general management.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Houston, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Houston Country Club; Houston Club; Harvard Club of Hous-
ton; Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; Kittansett Club.

THE last twenty-five years in my case form just another saga
of a New England background transplanted to the Southwest,
without any evident effect on either section of the country, but
with considerable enjoyment to the principals. The first nine
years after college were devoted to commercial banking in Bos-
ton, the acquisition of a wife who can still put up with me after
twenty years, and the addition of two sprouts who have devel-
oped into reasonably normal teen-agers. During this period, a
four months stay in London in 1936, with wife and without chil-
dren at my employer’s expense, established a connection which
subsequently moved us from Boston to New York where I ap-
peared to become the financial expert for a high powered and
very independent oil operator. After eighteen months of cliff
dwelling and an advanced management course in oil production
and promotion from my employer rather than the Business
School, we made the move to Texas and to the fastest grow-
ing city in the Southwest. Since then I have been continuously
occupied with my present business, initially in a purely financial
capacity but since 1943 in general management as the top hired
hand. This involves considerable running around from the
Rocky Mountains to Florida and from Oklahoma to the Rio
Grande River which has been particularly stimulating in the
last few years with the increasing tempo of oil exploration gener-
ally.

Since coming to Houston we have taken the precaution of
adding a native born Texan to the family just in case we should
have to claim some kinfolk in the Southwest. However, the orig-
inal New England tes are still maintained with a house on Cape
Cod for a welcome change of summer climate, and two of the
children exposed to college and boarding school in Wellesley
and Dedham. Our recreation includes golf, hunting, cards, music,

[ 268 }

be: ab “he. east umes tnapmmanianntapasacsineili, ———s,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sourmash whiskey, and branch water, and just plain visiting with
people. Despite occasional reports to the contrary, life in Hous-
ton is not too different from most other parts of the country, but
it does manage to achieve a happy combination of work and
play which is stimulating and enjoyable.

JOHN KINGSTON DEEKS

HOME aAppREss: 77 Chamberlain Rd., Wethersfield 9, Conn.

OFFICE ApprEss: Aetna Life Insurance Co., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: June 3, 1906, Whitinsville, Mass. parents: Arthur Deeks, Sarah
Kingston.

PREPARED AT: Northbridge High School, Whitinsville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrieD: Muriel Z. Fuller, Oct. 21, 1933, Whitinsville, Mass. cHiLpren:
Joslin Stewart, Jan. 29, 1938; Peter Kingston, Nov. 21, 1941; John
Fuller, Oct. 18, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Joslin Deeks, a.M., "32.

occuPATION: Automobile insurance, superintendent of underwriting, Aetna
Casualty & Surety Company.

TEACHING was to be my life’s work but after failing to con-
vince a few school superintendents in the fall of 1928, I inter-
viewed a representative from Aetna — and will shortly round out
twenty-five years of affiliation with that company. Possibly there
should have been better planning, but it has proved to be an in-
teresting and pleasant occupation. The world lost a good teacher,
and my vacations are limited to two or three weeks a year.

But, though I may have been lacking in planning an occupa-
tion, I feel I managed to do a better job in so far as my family is
concerned, of course with the help of my good wife, Penny.
Following three boys through their varied activities has meant
a very busy life for us. | |

You all know about automobile insurance, so instead let me talk
about my family. At an early age my oldest son became inter-
ested in the study of birds. With the passing of time this has
imbued the whole family, and I can recommend it as a hobby, con-
stituting as it does an absorbing year round family project. Our
good Ford has taken us over many back-country roads (and often
where there were no roads) in pursuit of birds. It’s pleasant to

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

look for and see the various species — and to know what we are
looking at. (Bibhography on request.)

Joslin supplements this with photography — which is well
adapted to his birding — and has no mean touch with the piano,
or a rifle. Peter spends every waking non-school moment on a
farm two miles down in the country, except when busy with
Scouts or tootling on his clarinet. Little Johnny is an engrossed
lepidopterist. (He can just about pronounce it, especially with
a few teeth missing.) He is anxiously awaiting spring, when no
butterfly will be safe within a half mile.

I too look forward to spring when I am torn between garden-
ing and fishing. I have proved for myself Bliss Perry’s statement
that a fourteen-inch trout can be taken from a small meadow
brook. Watching a trout make a split-second snatch of a dry
fly is the thrilling climax of many happy days along a stream with
a friend, or son. (I've got pictures to prove it.)

My life hasn’t been on any “grand scale,” but though on a modest
scale it has been grand, oft pursuing the status of frons nitens.
It's too bad I have to work for a living.

JOHN ALEXANDER DeMETZ

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Sherman Drive, Pass Christian, Miss.

Born: Dec. 1, 1904, Pass Christian, Miss. parents: Adolph Isidor DeMetz,
Mary Catherine MacDonald.

PREPARED AT: Pond School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Ouida Cragin, Jan. 18, 1937, Everglades, Fla. cHimpren: John
Alexander, Jr., Feb. 18, 1938; Frederick Cragin, May 4, 1939; Ouida
Kaye, Nov. 25, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Naval aviator, commercial pilot, tug boat operator.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Seventeen years active Naval Reserve; thirteen
years inactive Naval Reserve; active throughout war.

MEMBER OF: Pass Christian Yacht Club, Reserve Officers Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Textbook (advanced) for naval aviators.

AFTER graduation I stayed on in Cambridge for another year
teaching preparatory students at the tutoring school at which I
had myself prepared for Harvard. The headmaster offered me
the opportunity to open a branch in New York City, but I de-
clined in order to take a year’s active duty with the United States

[270 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Fleet. I had learned to fly and had been commissioned in the
Naval Reserve during my summer vacations. This was a most
important decision in my life and marked a turning point.

While having this interesting year of naval flying, which was
then rather glamorous, the depression of 1929 struck. For the
next four or five years I did a little of everything: I taught flying,
I started up two small businesses, I] taught school. Then the
Navy’s expansion program opened up, and I went back to active
duty in the Navy.

After five years of duty in various places, ending up as executive
officer of the Naval Air Station, Miami, I decided that my future
in the Navy wasn’t of the brightest. I had married a Texas girl
in 1937 and we had two boys. I became a pilot with Delta Air
Lines and found it pleasant and easy, except for unforgettable
occasional exceptions in tough weather or with malfunctioning
equipment in airplanes loaded to capacity with men, women, and
babies. |

But after eight months came the declaration of a national emer-
gency, and I was called back into service. Because of my experi-
ence I was kept in the United States for the first several years
and sent around to help start various new bases. Then I did a hitch
with the Naval Air Transport Service (NATS) and was finally
sent overseas as commanding officer of an advanced air base in
the Philippines. I took over the island (island commander) of
Mactan, where Magellan was killed, and where there are monu- .
ments side by side to both him and his slayer. At the surrender I
went to Marcus Island to take over the one-half square mile island,
700 or more nautical miles from the nearest island. There were
such thrills as when a Jap moored mine pounded ashore one
stormy night on the rough coral in front of my tent and failed
to explode.

Returning to the States, I was assigned as executive officer at
the Naval Air Station, New Orleans, for two years. Then I went
to Washington to write an advanced textbook on naval aviation.

In 1949 a number of considerations made me decide to go on
inactive duty. I wanted to get my family in our own permanent
home where the children (now we had three, the last a girl)
wouldn’t have to be changing from school to school. During the
war we had moved ten times, furniture and all, and I finally had

[271]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

to leave them in a tourist camp due to urgent orders overseas. I
also wanted to get out of the big metropolitan areas which I
believed would be bombed in the war I felt sure was coming.
There also remained the necessity of getting into my own private
business where I might make some real money, such as cannot be
done on a Navy salary.

My plan was for settling down in the South, which I believe
is abounding i in opportunity for the future, particularly i in the use
of water transportation in the water world which is the Gulf
Coast section of the southern states. I have briefly made test
forays into the fishing industry, also, and the knowledge gained
indicates great possibilities which I hope to look into sooner or
later. Right now I am in the towing business with a brother. The
petroleum industry in this area uses many boats of all kinds and
there is every indication that this usage will increase.

In my private life at present, I still fly, but I tend to stay clear
of very active participation in clubs and similar organizations.
Some, like the local yacht club, are a necessity; likewise is partici-
pation in the Boy Scouts as scoutmaster. But I have had enough
experience on boards, courts martial, and investigations of such
things as murders, other crimes, and fatal air crashes to last me
for a long time.

I think my attendance at Harvard was of incalculable value to
me as well as a wonderful experience. I want my boys to go to
Harvard too.

+ JOHN HOLLAND DEMOSS

BORN: June 27, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Earl Cannon Demoss, ’o4, Es-
ther Clure Holland.

PREPARED AT: Broadway High School, Seattle, Wash.

MARRIED,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

piep: Oct. 18, 1940, La Jolla, Calif.

wipow: Mrs. Barbara H. Demoss, 3801 E. Marginal Way, Seattle, Wash.

FOR two years after receiving his degree, John Holland Demoss
was associated with the American Mail Line as a member of the
purser’s department, in this capacity he made journeys to the
Orient. In 1931 he took up residence with his parents and became

[272 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

engaged in manufacturing. By 1938 Demoss’s occupation was
fruit distribution and he expressed an interest in subsistence

farming.

JOHN ARCHIBALD DENHOLM, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 154 Euston Rd., Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 320 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1906, Worcester, Mass. parents: John Archibald Denholm,
’99, Edith Lydia Warren.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Deerfield Academy, Deer-
field, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG., 1928.

marrieD: Elizabeth Wiltbank, June 27, 1936, Garden City, Long Island,
N. Y. CHILDREN: Elaine Barbara, Jan. 20, 1942; Deborah, May 31, 1945.

occuPATION: Sales and engineering of power transmission machinery, Wil-
liam J. Browne (manufacturing representatives), Dykman Manufactur-
ing Corporation (flexible coupling manufacturers).

MEMBER OF: Power Transmission Council, New York Chapter.

AFTER graduation I took a quick trip to Europe to see a bit
of foreign soil and people. Then I came back home to start to
work. For twelve years I was associated with the Carrier Cor-
poration, pioneers in the air conditioning field. I was in engi-
neering, research, construction, and purchasing located in New-
ark, New Jersey, New York City, Los Angeles, and Syracuse,
New York.

Next I was associated with The Dayton Rubber Manufactur-
ing Company selling in New York City and up-state New York.
Then for a brief spell, I sold refrigeration equipment and air
compressors in the metropolitan area.

Now I am associated with William J. Browne, manufacturers’
representatives, handling power transmission equipment. This
includes speed reducing gears, motors, gearmotors, and allied
lines. We also operate the Dykman Manufacturing Corporation,
manufacturers of “Sphere-Gear” flexible couplings. The Dyk-
man company also manufactures precision gears for the aircraft
industry and special gear couplings for the marine field and for
machinery manufacturers.

I married Elizabeth Wiltbank in Garden City in 1936. We

[273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

have two adopted daughters, ages seven and eleven. I have en-
joyed good health and have managed to keep one jump ahead of
the sheriff.

JOSEPH HAROLD DENIKE

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Hillcrest Ave., Albany 3, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York State Dept. of Commerce, 112 State St., Albany,
N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1906, Albany, N. Y. parENTs: Joseph Henry DeNike, Lottie
Avery Wemple.

PREPARED AT: Albany Academy, Albany, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cur laude, 1928; A.M., 19323 PHD.,
1936.

marrieD: Alice Virginia Hoiles, June 17, 1931, Greenville, II]. cHipren:
Barent Hoiles, Jan. 26, 1936, Lyman Douglas, Sept. 22, 1937; Joanne,
June 22, 1941.

occuPaTion: Director of the Division of Commerce and Industry, New York
State Department of Commerce.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: During World War II, assistant to head of
Price Division of Philadelphia OPA Office.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Association of Eastern New York; Mendelssohn Club
of Albany; Men’s Club of St. Peter’s Church.

PUBLICATIONS: Several Harvard Business School casebooks in “Public Ad-
ministration” and the “Public Aspects of Business”; “The Business-
man’s Stake in Judicial Review,” Harvard Business Review, fall issue,
1938; “Notes of a Neophyte Bureaucrat,” Harvard Business Review,
summer issue, 1944; “Working Together on Airports,” National Munic-
ipal Review, September, 1947; “Your Home Town’s Future,” New
York State Department of Commerce.

THE long-awaited and somewhat dreaded hour has come when
my classmates request a “Class Life.” I have often wondered
what it would be like and even whether it would or could be
written. The “could” has been met by the mere fact of surviv-
al—no mean feat in a post-graduation period spotted with the
Great Depression, the New Deal, World War II, and the Fair
Deal. Albany Dutchmen don’t have what the Hyde Park col-
ony had to rise to further fame and fortune in such parlous times.

Nor have I emerged poor enough to make these annals short
and simple. So, to the task. Our Senior Album shows a smooth-
faced man whose career (it says there) was to be Law. The com-
bination of an acute pulmonary infection followed by a chronic

[274 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one (since — praise God — healed) stopped my law school ca-
reer and launched me on a new one at the old stand. In brief,
I went back to Harvard in the fall of 1930 to stay one year for
an A.M. and stayed nine years, collecting in the process a Ph.D.
in political science. Instead of practising law I have taught it
(constitutional and administrative) and have even lived to draft
a few and see them through the New York State Legislature.

Between these two facts lies some unique academic history.
After four years as assistant in government at Harvard College
while working on further degrees, I was transferred to the
Harvard Business School to teach business students what they
should know about government. This period (1934 to 1939)
was the heyday of the New Deal. It was still unclear to most
people that increasing government intervention in business was
not merely a passing fancy of “That Man,” and that education
for business administration would require liberal doses of the
social sciences. As both the creature and the victim of that
evolution, at the time I felt more like Rumpelstiltskin than Dan-
iel Boone.

When the new Littauer School of Public Administration
“stole” my function at the Business School, I went to the Uni-
versity of Cincinnati as codrdinator of the graduate course in
Public Service Training. After Pearl Harbor the OPA called
(the armed services wouldn’t bet on my health record), and
after these devious twists of fate I wound up in 1944 in my home
town as a state official with the new State Department of Com-
merce. Successive promotions followed this opportunity to com-
bine an interest and training in both government and business,
culminating in my being appointed director of the Division of
Commerce and Industry in 1948.

I leave the last the most important fact in this career picture,
its sine qua non: my marriage in 1931 to Alice Virginia Hoiles
of Greenville, Illinois, and our joint product of two fine sons
(they think they want to go to Harvard) and one lovely daugh-
ter. My wife and I have been active in local G. O. P. politics
and in St. Peter’s Protestant Episcopal Church, where I was hon-
ored several years ago by election to the Vestry (a fellow ves-
tryman is my “big boss,” Governor Thomas E. Dewey).

While I served for a period as area chairman of the fund-

[275]

ten

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

raising drive for the Harvard Foundation for Advanced Study
and Research, I feel that I owe Harvard more than I can ever
repay in money or service. As student and instructor I learned
much that helped my career and nothing that hurt it. With more
hair on my upper lip and less on my head, I still look East for
inspiration, where the sun also rises.

EDMUND GERARD DENNIS

HOME ADDRESS: 105-24 Farmers Blvd. Hollis, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bureau of Internal Revenue, 253 Broadway, New York 7,
N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 16, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: William Francis Dennis, Mary
Elizabeth Doherty.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, M.B.A., 1930.

marriep: Marie Anne Moretti, Dec. 25, 1931, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Wil-
liam Francis, Feb. 13, 1933; Carol Marie, Dec. 31, 1936, Gerard William,
Feb. 9, 1939; Richard Michael, Sept. 17, 1940.

HAgvarD SON: William Francis Dennis, ’54. -

occupation: Special Agent, Intelligence Division, Bureau Internal Revenue.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Investigator, U. S. Civil Service Commission.

DURING the ’30’s I was employed in the Boston Post Office
where I had been working since my sophomore year. Although
I had not intended to be a permanent governmental employee,
the continuance of the depression and the birth of each of my
children caused me to adhere to the public payroll. When I
finally realized that I had become a civil service career employee
I decided to try the Washington atmosphere — as an investi-
gator for the U. S. Civil Service Commission. I was soon trans-
ferred to New York City, where I have lived since 1940. .

The war years were spent in civilian life —in a not too suc-
cessful attempt to prevent Communists and other undesirables
from joining agencies of the Government. The Civil Service
Commission thought, for a while, that my job was essential; when
it decided otherwise, the Navy informed me that it had reduced
its maximum age limit and that I was too old, over thirty-five, for
a commission. My Selective Service Board apparently did not
want me to leave my four children.

After the war, I went with the Intelligence Division of the

[276]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Treasury Department where I have been investigating probable
(and actual) income tax evaders. Based on my experience, Har-
vard men either report their correct income or are too clever to
be suspected of tax evasion. ..! The work is interesting but
not conducive to enlarging one’s circle of friends, and newspaper
stories to the contrary, scarcely remunerative.

Our eldest son, Bill, is playing basketball for Harvard — prob-
ably this should be deleted, but wait until next year — and doing
well scholastically. This September Richard will join Carol and
Jerry in high school.

We usually spend a few weeks each year in Massachusetts or
New Hampshire so as to savor the New England climate. I have
no particular hobbies; I enjoy watching sports, swim a lot in the
summer, do some reading, and too much sitting in front of a
television set.

My political thinking tends to be conservative. While I reg-
ister as a Democrat, I frequently vote Republican. I attend
church regularly, but am not overly religious. However, I think
a religious re-awakening and a lessening of materialism and cyni-
cism would destroy the Communistic disease and make for a
contented world.

RICHARD GUERTIS pEROCHEMONT

HOME AppREss: 235 E. 46th St., New York 17, N. Y.; Mile-long Farm, Flem-
ington, N. J.; 57 Blvd. de Beauséjour, Paris, France.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 698 Lexington Ave., New York, N. Y.; Vavin, Inc., 134 E.
s7th St., New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 13, 1903, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Louis Leonard Guertis de-
Rochemont, Sarah Wilson Miller.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.; Stone
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1922, 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Helen Bentley Bogart, April 11, 1924, Nashua, N. H.

occupation: Motion picture and television producer; president, Vavin, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Civilian war correspondent for Time, Inc., with
French Army, 1939-40, then with U.S. Forces in European Mediter-
ranean Theatre, 1944-45.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT POST: Consultant to Codérdinator of Information,
organized Pictorial Records Branch, 1941-42,

OFFICES HELD: Member board of governors, 1942-43, trustee, Correspondents’
Fund, at present, Overseas Press Club; national president, “France

[277]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Forever,” 1943-46; officer, Legion of Honor (France); chevalier, Merite

Agricole (France); commander, Confrérie des Chevaliers DuTastevin,
MEMBER OF: Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences; Harvard Club

of New York; Williams Club of New York; Cloud Club; Overseas

Press Club; Copper Hill Golf Club, New Jersey; American Club, Paris,
PUBLICATIONS: Articles in newspapers and magazines.

NEWSPAPER reporting (which I began when still in college on
the staff of the Boston Advertiser) led eventually (after jobs on
the now defunct New York American, and The Sun, also out of
business) to a newsreel editorship at Fox Movietone News, first
in New York, then (1931) in Paris. In 1934 I switched to Time,
Inc., which was then starting The March of Time, and was until
1940 its European manager. The war chased me out of France
and into the managing editor’s job at March of Time in New
York. In 1943 my brother Louis, who was producer of the film
series, left for Hollywood, and I inherited his job. |

Time, Inc., interred The March of Time as a motion picture
venture in late 1951, and I became an independent producer of
films and television, with a small company of my own. We

recently did a Lincoln series for the Ford Foundation’s “Omni-
bus” program, and a film on Robert Frost for N.B.C. television.
Future projects are numerous.

My family remains as it was when I was a freshman — one wife,
still the same. We have a farm in New Jersey, a place in the
country in France, and a couple of flats, one in New York and
one in Paris. None of these places is important in size or value;
as we moved we Just forgot to get rid of the French establish-
ments, and the New Jersey place is the probable final refuge.

My travels have been mostly in Europe, where I spent the
years 1931 to 1940 uninterruptedly. I have never been in the
Orient or in Asia, and know far too little about my own country,
to my regret. I have made many films about places I have never
been and people I have never met, and hope some day to get
"round to seeing them all.

My social convictions (if 1 understand the question) are the
same as they were in 1928, a little left of center, still hopeful that
we may have one world and some form of United Nations before
we are all blown up. I think the profit motive still is a constructive

force in the world, but that people in the operative end of it

[ 278 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

will bear watching a good part of the time. I have never aspired to
elective office, but vote the Democratic ticket, with monotonous
regularity. Having been confirmed an Episcopalian by the late
Bishop Lawrence, I have never thought that anything further was
required, but perhaps one day I shall know.

I seem to have kept in continuous motion for twenty-five years,
changing my jobs or my residences more than my convictions.
Perhaps Harvard is a little to blame for this personal conservatism,
but I have not yet had occasion to regret it.

GERARD EVANGELISTE DERY

ADDRESS: 5655 des Epinettes, Montreal, P. Q., Canada.

porn: Aug. 4, 1902, Manchester, N. H. parents: Joseph Michael Dery, Al-
bertine Turcotte.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

OCCUPATION: Journalism.

HENRY PATRICK DEVLIN

HOME Appress: P. O. Box 342, Brentwood, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Pilgrim Hospital, Brentwood, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: June 28, 1906, Albany, N. Y. parents: Henry A. Devlin, Margaret
E. McKeon.

PREPARED AT: Albany High School, Albany, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: $.B., 1928.

MarrieD: Helen A. Fox, April 19, 1937, Albany, N. Y.

occupation: Hospital administration.

FRANKLIN DEXTER

HOME appress: 54 Fairmount St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 17, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Franklin Dexter, Jane Dwight.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1931.

MarRiIED: Mianne Palfrey Hill, Aug. 5, 1939, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Pamela O. Hill (stepdaughter), March 10, 1936; Franklin, April 30,

[279 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928
1g9yo; Jan Dwight, Aug. 24, 1942; Mary Ann, Oct. 30, 1947; Gordon,
March 2, 1948.

occuPATION: Lawyer, trustee; partner, Choate, Hall & Stewart.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted Nov. 3, 1942; stationed in Boston; as-
signed to Military Intelligence Dec. 31, 1942, transferred to Washing-
ton, D. C, April 30, 1944; commissioned 2nd lieutenant, August, 1944;
discharged Nov. 3, 1945; assigned to Office of Director of Military
Intelligence while in Washington.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee and assistant treasurer, 1940-1942, 1946-1949, trustee
and treasurer, since 1949, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Country Club; Essex County Club; Eastern
Yacht Club.

IT HAS not been my habit to write anything in Class Reports,
but the Twenty-fifth might require a short word.

Except for three years during the last war, since departing from
college and law school I have spent most of my office hours in
trying to help straighten out personal problems of those who have
turned up to see what little I might do. In addition there have
been some who have had faith enough to put their affairs in
my hands. It is my hope that they will not regret it.

My family is the element of life that makes it worth living. (I
do not mean to imply that I dislike my job, because I do like
it.) I am accused, and probably justly, of being anti-social, be-
cause my family is all absorbing and my job takes up the rest
of the time.

My political convictions are not worth repeating. My so-
cial and religious convictions may be stated thusly: we are here
for a purpose, which 1s to help others, and that I try to do to
the best of my ability. I try greatly and succeed poorly. Above
all it is my belief that love, in accordance with the teachings of
Christ, is what this world needs most.

PAUL BERNARD DIEDERICH

HOME aporess: 213 Snowden Lane, Princeton, N. J.

orricy appress: Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N. J.

Born: Sept. 29, 1906, Muskogee, Okla. parents: Paul Andrew Diederich,
Marie Augusta Poehler.

preparep at: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, ED.M., 1930; PH.D. (Colum-
bia Univ.) 1939.

[ 280 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Gertrude Cushman Wylie, Aug. 14, 1937, New York, N. Y. cnm-
pren: Anne Marie, Oct. 31, 1938; Paul Eugene, June 13, 1940.

occuPATION: Director of Evaluation and Advisory Service, Educational
Testing Service (research and promotion in field of educational test-
ing).

WARTIME GOVERNMENT post: Examiner in English, United States Armed
Forces Institute.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor of English, examiner in English, Univers-
ity of Chicago, 1941-49.

MEMBER OF: National Council of Teachers of English.

PUBLICATIONS: Professional Education for Experienced Teachers, Thirty
Schools Tell Their Story, editor; The Frequency of | Latin Words and
Their Endings; numerous journal articles.

I STARTED out innocently enough as a teacher of Latin in the
Ohio State University School but got to doing some education-
al experiments and was scooped in by a neighboring educator
named Ralph Tyler and turned into a test-maker —I made tests
for the Eight Year Study of the Progressive Education Asso-
ciation, a study that proved that the traditional college prepara-
tory program is not necessary in order to do well in college. This
involved travelling among thirty schools and school systems scat-
tered from Boston to Los Angeles.

When Ralph Tyler left Ohio State to become University
examiner at the University of Chicago, I went with him and be-
came examiner in English there, later associate professor of Eng-
lish, During the war we made up hundreds of tests for the Unit-
ed States Armed Forces Institute. I had charge of the English
tests, and I am told that more than 2,000,000 G. I.’s took them. If
I had been in private practice and charged the usual royalty, I
should never have to do a stroke of work again, but I never got
a penny —only a double job.

In 1949 Henry Chauncey found me and lured me away to Edu-
cational Testing Service in Princeton (no connection with the
university). He thought he was bringing new blood into the or-
ganization by getting a Middle-Westerner and was disconcerted
to find I was a classmate of his at Harvard. This is the largest
non-governmental, non-profit testing outfit in the world. We
have about 300 full-time employees and up to 150 part-time dur-
ing peak loads of scoring. We have a network of over a 1,000
testing centers all over the country and abroad where you can
take tests for admission to everything except heaven.

[ 281 ]

Specie si in BRL TT a PREM
eee HN

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

The College Boards we took to get into Harvard are now one
division of this organization, and I am glad to report that they
are now more humane. No one has to take more than a single
day of testing. Most colleges require only the three-hour Scho-
lastic Aptitude Test (for which no preparation is necessary or,
in fact, possible); the rest require that plus up to three one-
hour achievement tests in the subjects most commonly taught in
high school. To keep teachers from wasting time coaching for
the tests, we no longer release copies of old tests, but give students
an idea of the types of items they may expect in a Bulletin of
Information. No special preparation is necessary; any student
with moderately good courses in these subjects can take these
tests in stride. I say all this because so many people have written
me for copies of the tests. I'd be shot if I sent them.

Queer as it may be, my chief interest in life really hes in edu-
cation. I think it is the most important thing the American

ople have ever done. Incidentally, the Harvard Graduate
School of Education did a first-rate job of preparing me for this
line of work — something that isn’t ordinarily done.

My chief hobby interest is playing string quartets. I haven't
taken any exercise since I left college. I usually vote Democrat.
My boy thinks now that he wants to go to Princeton, but he is
only in seventh grade; there is still time to reclaim him.

WALTER ELIAS DISNEY

HOME apprEss: 355 Carolwood Drive, Holmby Hills, Los Angeles, Calif.

OFFICE aDpREss: 2400 W. Alameda St., Burbank, Calif,

Born: Dec. 5, 1901, Chicago, Ill. parents: Elias Disney, Flora Call,

DEGREES: A.M, hon., 1938; a.m. hon. (Yale Univ.), 1938; s.m. hon. (Univ. of
Southern California), 1939; s.m. hon, (Purdue Univ.), 1949.

Marziep: Lillian Marie Bounds, July 13, 1925, Lewiston, Idaho, CHILDREN:
Diane Marie, Dec. 18, 1933; Sharon Mae, Dec. 31, 1936.

occupation: Production executive, chairman Board of Directors, Walt
Disney Productions.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Red Cross ambulance driver (aged seventeen)
in World War I in France.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT POST: Devoted ninety-four per cent of all studio time
and energies to making films for armed services and State Department,
World War II.

orricts HELD: Member, French Legion of Honor; holder, Brazilian Order

{ 282 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Southern Cross, Mexican Aztec Eagle, Chilean Order of Merit;
member executive council, National Cartoonists Society, Museum of
Modern Art, New York, New York Zoological Society, DeMolay
Youth Organization, Rancheros Visitadores, California.

MEMBER OF: Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.

SINCE Walt Disney is an honorary member of the Harvard Class
of 1928, without Class history, he feels that information requested
for this form would appear to be inappropriate.

WILLIAM PEYTON DOBBINS

HOME ApprEss: 118 Wildrose Ave., San Antonio, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1707 Transit Tower, San Antonio 5, Texas.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1906, Corinth, Miss. parents: William Peyton Dobbins, Lu-
cile Duncan.

PREPARED AT: Fort Smith High School, Fort Smith, Ark.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1931.

marrieD: Zaleme Williamson, June 20, 1933, Houston, Texas. CHILDREN:
William Peyton, Jr., April 18, 1942; Mary Dudley, March 28, 1946.

occuPATion: Attorney-at-law.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: District enforcement attorney, Office of Price
Administration.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Uvalde Rock Asphalt Company, since 1945, Centex
Paving Company, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Oak Hills Country Club.

AS ANY fool can plainly see, I haven’t amounted to very much.
Harvard must accept its share of the responsibility for this. One
has to blame somebody. I blame Harvard. I find that, because
of having gone there, I am:

A. Vacillating. I can’t even decide who’s right. I can see two
sides to everything. I don’t even know whether Stevenson or
Eisenhower would make the better president.

B. Non-aggressive. Of course, to be honest, I wasn’t very
aggressive even in Gore. But I blame Harvard, the family at
Nineteen Craigie Street, and an assortment of professors for
letting me out into this world not caring very much about what
others think of my social and economic status and my personal
behavior. This has not only led to an unnecessary lack of atten-
tion to these aspects of life, but has consistently kept me from
trying out for president of the Chamber of Commerce, the
Rotary Club, and the United States. I have been president of the

[ 283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

San Antonio Badminton Club three times. To understand this
fact you would have to know a great deal more about the San
Antonio Badminton Club than the publishers would care to print.

C. Un-rich. I can’t exactly claim insolvency. Even in these
trying times, my assets exceed my liabilities, and I can pay my
obligations as they mature. Somewhere, I can’t remember
whether it was in the New Lecture Hall or in those interminable
Bull Sessions with Bill Medders, Bill Morse, Sid Edmonds, and
Paul Moffett in Gore, Thayer, and Hollis, I formed the convic-
tion that the important thing about working for a living is the
working — not the living. You can imagine the sad state of af-
fairs this has brought on. However, most lawyers are un-rich
anyhow.

My chief assets are my two children, a boy aged ten (an in-
trovert like his daddy, who probably won’t amount to much
either, since if things work out all right he will go to Harvard)
and a girl aged six (an extrovert like nobody’s business).

On the historical side, I can only say that I practise law. |
started practising in San Antonio and will probably die practis-
ing here. We have a small firm. (It couldn’t be any smaller and
sull qualify under that name.) We practise corporate and civil
law. The thing I like best is to try cases — but most people con-
sider me an “office lawyer.”

I am married to the same wife and will probably die married
to her.

I have lots of recreation:

(a) Badminton —the oldest and fattest (forty-seven — 187
pounds stripped) badminton player in Texas, and probably the
known world.

(b) Hunting — the worst duck and dove shot in Texas.

(c) Golf —seldom drop a put.

(d) Dieting —never drop an ounce.

(e) Elbow bending — (pretty good here, still).

I have delayed sending this report in until the last minute
in the hope I should have something published besides a brief or
be elected to some important office—but no such luck.

[ 284 ]

wr?

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY THOMAS DOLAN

HOME AppRESS: Goshen and Boot Roads, Newtown Sq., Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 607, 1422 Chestnut St., Philadelphia 2, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1905, Buffalo, N. Y. Parenrs: Thomas Francis Dolan, Ella
Cecilia Jordan.

PREPARED AT: Scranton Central High School, Scranton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928(29); LL.B., 1931.

marrigD: Alice Hoole Robertson, June 27, 1935, East Aurora, N. Y.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member of vestry, St. Gile’s Episcopal Church, Upper Darby,
Pa., 1936-40, Church of the Good Samaritan, Paoli, Pa. 1945-51; direc-
tor, Upper Darby Family Association, 1937-41; president, Upper Darby
Recreation Association, 1939-41; member Budget Committee, Commu-
nity Fund of Philadelphia, 1939; president, 1949-52, vice-president,
1952-53, Pennsylvania Diocesan Assembly, Brotherhood of St. Andrew;
member National Council, since 1948, member National Executive
Committee, 1948-50, Brotherhood of St. Andrew, member Executive
Council, Department of Missions, various committees, Episcopal Dio-

_ cese of Pennsylvania (currently); minority inspector, Board of Elec-
tion, South District, Willistown Township, 1951-53.

PuBLIcATIONS: Articles: “—So Help You God; Anachronism or Anomaly?”
June, 1951, “If the Law Supposes That, the Law is an Ass,” November,
1951, “Late Laurel to a Law Lord,” January, 1952, Tbe Shingle (Phila-
delphia Bar Association), “Rope Enough to Hang Yourself,” January,
1952, Labor Law Journal (Commerce Clearing House).

THE law is a jealous mistress, and will brook no rivals,” said
Lord Coke. On the strength of Coke’s maxim, twenty-five years
might seem sufficiently accounted for in the study, practice, writ-
ing, and teaching of the law. Since law school graduation, I have
been an active individual practising lawyer in general and rath-
er widely diversified practice: trial and appellate courts, some
of the government bureaus, at the collective bargaining table
(on the side across from the union), at arbitration, and — of a
rare occasion-— even skirmishing through the picket line, It
yields me a modest, albeit extremely pleasant, living. It may
never lead to fortune, but it is still the work I picked it out for
in college, exercising a certain taste for practical affairs, a
slight literary bent, and such scholarship, if I dare call it that, as I
have to offer. For good measure there is something that then
never dawned on my rosiest dreams, the satisfaction, ofttimes, of
having personal counsel and help to offer someone in his simple

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

human needs and perplexities, apart from his legal and material
Jithculties.

So this jade has led me a merry chase these twenty-five years,
man and boy, teasing me with all her allurements. But Coke not-
withstanding, the late years have made it plain to this charmer
that there is a rival or so she is simply going to have to put up
with. She now seems reconciled to the fact the guy is never
going to marry her, for he has come by a far deeper and more
nearly ultimate commitment. She seems content with knowing
she holds the power to excite me, any time she beckons, if never
totally to enthrall. We are still in love, and once in a great while
her lips, in the stone effigy afront the courthouse, appear to
move, murmuring, “Nice work.” More often, the lips curl
scornfully.

My wife and I still occupy and delight in the four-story, two-
rooms-to-a-floor, stone farmhouse set into the Chester County
hillside that drops in five terraces to the brook. Built the year
of the Louisiana Purchase, this house this year has been stand-
ing exactly a century and a half. We garden the place intensive-
ly, my wife the flowers, I the vegetables, and all the exercise
anyone in his senses could possibly want can be found in our
hand-to-hand fight with the wilderness for possession of this
rugged little hillside. Bushwhacking like this weekends keeps my
weight within a couple of pounds what it was in college, and on
the station platform mornings I join a select circle of those whose
odd point of pride is being able to wear the same evening clothes
as in college. On summer Sunday afternoons, the life of strenuous
endeavor palls, and the sun drops down the sky with hammock-
swinging and the good talk of friends under the huge old trees
that tower above the brook.

Vacations still are largely consumed with searching out of
the New England byways folklore, historic and literary shrines.
Add a continental motor crossing, California and return, via the
Grand Tetons and a half-dozen of the national parks, in 1949,
and landing in the teeth of a hurricane on Prince Edward Isle,
there promptly to be marooned by the Canadian National strike,
in 1950. If you must submit to being marooned, you can’t im-

prove on Prince Edward for a locale, hurricane notwithstanding.

{ 286 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We have about six hundred Kodachrome shots of the scenery
on these vacations. |

But for the single, great, immeasurable, and lasting significance
of my quarter century, I cannot improve on what I have already
written: long pondering since 1939 has brought me to the rock-
rooted conviction there is but one solid hope for mankind — the
Christian Gospel, properly understood. For reasons I cannot
attempt to assign here, it seems to me not properly understood by
the great majority of the human race, even its nominal adherents.
My small contribution toward correcting this these ten years
past has taken many forms in the work of the Episcopal Church,
making frequent addresses, sometimes at services of the Church,
sometimes at other meetings, and helping to organize almost
every known form of adult study and discussion. I appear to
have some facility for putting the Christian apologetic in lay
terms, and almost every minute of three years of leisure time went
into one sustained effort of book-length in this direction. There
was a vainglorious dream that this report might include reference
to its publication. The book has gone the rounds of the top
New York publishers, and each time I am left knee-deep in
bouquets but also in undisputed possession of a rejection letter
and the returned manuscript. One of these critiques contained
a phrase that might serve as epitome or epitaph: “Never con-
ventional, but never unorthodox.” a

There is no earthly doubt what happiness consists in: it con-
sists in giving oneself utterly to something supremely worthwhile.
Men give themselves utterly to many things less than supremely
worthwhile. Or they give themselves to something supremely
worthwhile, but Jess than utterly. Or they give themselves to
what is supremely worthwhile for the while, but not for all the
centuries of centuries. In my case there is no question what the
thing is. Nor, once he were given to see it as he might be given
it, do I think there would be for anyone. The ways and means
of trying to help it be given him promise to continue to chal-
lenge the imagination.

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

DONALD PRICE DONALDSON

Hone aporess: Weston Road, Lincoln, Mass.
orrice anoress: 1 Federal St, Boston 10, Mass.
sors: Aug. tq 1906, Lincoln, Mass. parents: Robert Douglas Donaldson,
Charlotte Henrietta Alcock.
preparep at: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1938. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; LL.B., 1931.
acarriep: Astrid Linnea Lorentzson, June 30, 1934, at Holliston, Mass. CHIL-
parw: David Marbury, April 27, 1938; Ann, Sept. 6, 1940; Daniel Lud-
vig, Mav rt, 192.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Douglas Donaldson, Jr., ’25; Malcolm Lincoln
Donaldson, °26, M.B.a., ‘28; Gordon Alcock Donaldson, ’31, M.D., °35.
occupaTion: Lawyer, member of firm, Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley &
Ketchum.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Regional price attorney (New England), Office
of Price Administration.
orFices HELD: Moderator, Town of Lincoln, since 1940; treasurer, The First
Parish in Lincoln, about 1938-50.

I AM told that come the Fiftieth Reunion I shall wish I had not
written this; but I like to read what others write on these oc-
casions, and I suppose it is only fair to provide something in re-
turn. A working lawyer’s life is so taken up with client affairs,
however, that I find it difficult to make much of interest to
others out of my personal history.

Luckily, I did my travelling early: a week in Bermuda, a sum-
mer in Europe (for which I got paid), and a trip to the Canadian
Rockies, down the west coast to Mexico, and back to Lincoln
(for which my parents paid). Most of my travelling since has
been at the expense of the clients.

Although I eventually went to work, the working career has
been sort of a restless one until lately: a few years in a medium-
sized Boston law office, a few years in Washington with the Home
Owners’ Loan Corporation (although a registered Republican),
back ro the Boston law office, a year or so in my own office in
a Boston suburb, some strenuous years with OPA in Boston (al-
though still a registered Republican), and finally to the present
big (for Boston) law firm where, having become a partner, I
suspect [ have stopped rolling. I have not gathered much moss.

I believe our family career has been a good one and it becomes

{ 288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

more and more interesting as the children grow older. For my

art it has been subordinated too often to the working career,
but I hope to keep them in better balance in the future. Hobbies
are few: a vegetable garden, professional baseball and college
hockey games (watching), and tennis (playing — doubles only).

That about covers it except for the “social, political, or re-
ligious convictions.” These might best be summarized as a
strong belief in emphasis on simplicity and on the development
of the individual as such. Now I can read what the rest of you
write with a reasonably clear conscience.

FRANCIS AMBROSE DONOVAN, JR.

HOME AppREss: 30 Langdon St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Insurance Dept., 100 Nashua St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: May 25, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Francis Ambrose Donovan,
Elizabeth Melley.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: I1924~1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MarRRieD: Agnes M. McVey, Oct. 21, 1934, Boston, Mass.

OCCUPATION: State Government Service.

RICHARD PHELPS DOW

HOME AppREss: Route 2, Thomasville, Ga.

OFFICE ADDREsS: U. S. Public Health Service, Thomasville Field Station, Box
270, Thomasville, Ga.

Born: May 14, 1907, Reading, Mass. parents: George Farwell Dow, ’92,
M.D., ‘96, Gertrude May Thresher.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1923; s.M., 19293 | PH.D.,
1935.

MARRIED: Mary Marble Johnson, April 21, 1945, Salem, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jane, June 5, 1948; Robert, May 9, 1949.

OccuPATION: Entomologist, scientist in Regular Corps, United States Public
Health Service; recently chief, Conjunctivitis Studies Unit in charge
investigations on eye gnats.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, Sanitary Corps,
U.S. Army, May 12, 19425 commanding officer, 11th Malaria Survey
Unit, Algeria, Italy; resigned as major from inactive status, July, 1947.

[ 289 ]

~ ence, , y

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Special research associate, National Defense
Research Committee.

puBLIcATIONS: Miscellaneous articles on insects; editor, New England Na-
turalist, 1939-41.

FOUND my vocation in medical entomology as a result of inter-
esting war experience. Have studied insects in relation to malaria,
encephalitis, poliomyelitis, and conjunctivitis, and would like to
add trachoma in the near future. Married a Mount Holyoke
graduate of like mind who shares my enjoyment of people and
travel. Now living in Georgia and raising two crackers.

CARROLL OWEN DRAKE

ADDRESS: 2895-6 Kalakaua Ave, Honolulu, Hawaii.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1907, Reading, Pa. parents: Owen Drake, Harriet Gaskins.
PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

JOHN CASPAR DREIER

HOME Appress: 3511 Lowell St. N.W., Washington 16, D. C.

OFFice appress: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D. C.

BoRN: Dec. 27, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Henry Edward Dreier, Ethel
Eyre Valentine.

prepared aT: Brooklyn Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School,
Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MazrieD; Louisa Cabot Richardson, July 26, 1942, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Storrs, Oct. 15, 1943; Susan, Oct. 18, 1947; Alexander Richard-
son, May 26, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Dreier, ’23, 5.B., ’25.

occupation: U. S. representative on the Council of the Organization of
American States; appointed by the President in December, 1950.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Dept. of State, Washington, D. C.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Council of the Organization of American States,
1952; U. §. Delegate, Ninth International Conference of American
States, Bogota, Colombia, 1948, adviser to U. S. Delegation, United Na-
tions General Assembly, 1949-52; director, Office of Regional Amer-
ican Affairs, Dept. of State, 1949-51.

MEMbta Ov: Harvard Clubs of New York and Washington.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on agriculture, housing, and foreign affairs

[ 290]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SALLYING forth from the Yard in June of 1928, I found my-
self adrift in a sea wherein my A.B. diploma — field of concen-
tration, history — seemed of little use as a chart. It was probably
the course of least resistance which took me the following Sep-
tember to the New York Telephone Company where I “got a
job” in half an hour. This occupation lasted less than a year. The
next autumn found me teaching history at Cranbrook School,
near Detroit, Michigan. But, considering that the education of
boys involved, at least in some measure, preparing them for Life,
I decided that a callow youth had better enlarge his own experi-
ence before aspiring to show the path to those even less mature.
In 1931 I left Cranbrook for Europe, where I spent more than a
year, visiting various countries, notably the U. 5. 5S. R., Germany,
England, and Scandinavia. .

Returning to the U. S. A. in the fall of 1932 — too late to
register and vote in that historic election—TI spent a year in
miscellaneous activities in New York. Travel by auto through
the farmlands of the Middle West during the following summer,
talking to the then poor and sometimes rebellious farmers, gave
me a strong interest in the land and agriculture. Inevitably I
was drawn to Washington where for eight years I had a small
but interesting part in the work of soil conservation and land
use, largely through writing and educational activities. Duties
took me to every state in the Union.

Phase Three came into being shortly before World War Il,
when public attention was turned upon Latin America. Read-
ing and private study of the area, including some travel through
the Andean country and Central America, led to my joining the
Latin American Division of the State Department, where I worked
during the war years. Inter-American relations continue, as of
this writing, to be my field of work. During twelve years or
more, I have visited almost all of the Latin American countries,
acquired a working knowledge of Spanish and a number of ac-
quaintances in those lands. I have attended most of the impor-
tant Inter-American Conferences, such as that at Rio de Janeiro
where the Treaty of Continental Defense was drafted, and at
Bogota, Colombia. The latter brings to mind the unforgettable
holocaust of April 9, 1948, as viewed throughout that night from
the fifth floor of a darkened building, mobs raging in the streets

[291 ]

ae peer ot iannarcnnitictalltlhtcen
“Rinaecietaaaatdieaiaibadaniatlatadiiin., ; | Iw”

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

with guns and machetes, sacking, burning, and killing, and sur-
rounding our insecure haven with fires that destroyed block
after block of downtown buildings

For the past two years I have been the U. S. Representative in
the Organization of American States — the regional organization
of the United States and the Latin American countries. With
headquarters in the Pan-American Union, I am fortunate in be-
ing able to fill a diplomatic post without losing the advantages of
living at home.

Aside from its almost unbearable summers (or so one finds
them for the first few years), Washington is a delightful place
to live. The variety of its social life is excelled only by a few of

the largest cities, yet Washington is still small by comparison. Its
surrounding countryside is beautiful and easily accessible. In
addition to housing the greatest political show on earth, the city
also ranks high as a musical and artistic center. Our family of
five lives in one of the ugliest houses in the world, but one which
has plenty of room and whose pre-World War I dreariness has
been successfully converted into a fairly pleasant interior. Week-
ends are spent—the season permitting —at a small cabin in
rural Virginia where among other rustic pleasures I indulge an
amateur interest in growing trees. Vacations, however, find us
on the Massachusetts coast, very close to the sea.

On top of the daily grind, and social activities of both the re-
quired and desired sort, there is all too little time for my inter-
ests in music, theatre, reading, and hobbies. Dancing is a favored
recreation — both “square and round.” We meet frequently with
a group of friends to sing four-part songs. Most absorbing of
all home work is the rearing of two sons and a daughter, the old-
est just under ten.

The past twenty-five years have provided variety and a modi-
cum of excitement, along with more stable satisfactions of home
and family, I have managed to see a good part of the world. My
work in the Government has been on the whole as rewarding —
except financially — as any other that I have contemplated. Were

I to do it over again, I might do it differently, but I doube whether
the net results would in any case be much better.

[292]

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LAURENCE LaTOURETTE DRIGGS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Easton, Md.

porN: Dec. 2, 1906, Yonkers, N. Y. PARENTS: Laurence LaTourette Driggs,
Mary Ogden.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrieD: Ethel Howell Sewell, June 22, 1934, Chestnut Hill, Pa. cum:
Laurence LaTourette, 3d, Dec. 31, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ogden Driggs, ’28.

OccUPATION: Historian for Talbot County.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Volunteer worker in OPA office, Easton, Md.;
spotting post at Tunis Mills, Md.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Hospital Board; Scout master, Troop 160.

MEMBER OF: Rotary (one year); Chesapeake Bay Yacht Club, Easton; Tred
Avon Yacht Club, Oxford, Md. (formerly) ; Harvard Club of New
York (formerly).

PUBLICATIONS: Baseball write-ups and column in local paper.

ANYONE attempting to be the historian for Talbot County
would do well to be a philosopher; that I claim to be also. It
doesn’t bring in much money, but it makes life more fun. To all
the world, except the handwriting expert on the boardwalk at
Atlantic City, I am a dismal business failure. The handwriting
expert saw business genius in my handwriting. But she could be
wrong. Being a historian for Talbot came about after an un-
successful attempt at real estate. I think I loved the county so
much I hated to sell any part of it.

My travels, foreign type, have been confined to one trip to the
British Isles. There I fell in love with Scotland, both the coun-
try and the people. In this country we have taken two trips to
Florida and several to Maine. The best of all have been the
yearly trips down to Alderson, West Virginia, where our son iS
in camp. If anyone has a son, send him to Camp Greenbrier so
that the parents can go to the Adult Camp which follows the
regular camping season for the young. If ought ails you when
you go down there you will leave it there and return in good
shape.

With my family all is wonderful. I continue to wonder how
any woman can live with the same husband all these years with-
out shooting him. Our son is in that state which Mark Twain
described so well when he said he had never known a man to

[ 293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

learn so much as his father had between the time when Mark
Twain was fourteen until Twain was twenty-one. Our son is
going on fifteen, so I have just six and a half years to go.
Many years ago I told young Laurie that if he went to Prince-
ton, I would shoot him. He is now attending the same prep
school I attended, so perhaps I shall not have to shoot him. I know
I am going to do all in my power to direct him towards a pro-
fession, not business, which has left me cold for all these years.
Religion has been for me a somewhat fragile thing. Now I
don’t want a lecture from anyone on this subject, but I think the
fault has been with the man in the pulpit, and the people whom
I have asked to answer my questions. Mother, while she was
alive, took refuge behind the word “symbolic” which she ap-
plied to anything she could not answer. Recently I have found
a different escape mechanism used. That is to say the question is
not important. Neither is of course the least use to me.
Politics I can answer very briefly. I voted against F. D. R.
twice when he ran for governor of New York and four times
as president. I am saving my kiss of death vote for the Demo-
cratic aspirant for the office of president in the 1952 campaign.
Hobbies are where I find them... history in most any form,
watching people en masse or individually. Associating with the
young is my ruling passion. This year, as chairman of water safe-
ty for the Red Cross in Talbot County, I have had five weeks of
watching them learn to swim or improve their swimming. That
1 found most rewarding. TV watching would be my most ardent
hobby, if we had TV. The boss, as I call my helpmate, takes a
dim view of this medium, so I am saving my pennies like any-
thing. About the turn of the century I expect to have my own
set. Then you must all come to see it.

OGDEN DRIGGS

HoME apoaess: Oxford, Md.

orrice. avoress: First Church of Christ, Scientist, Easton, Md.

Boas: Sept. 5, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Laurence LaTourette Driggs,
Mary Odgen.

runvanen at; Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DPGRFE: 8.8. 1928(29).

[ 294]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marRIED: Jane Hendricks Coates, Oct. 12, 1935, Lattingtown, Long Island,
N. Y. CHILDREN: Mary Jane, Oct. 15, 1936; Kate, May 25, 1938, Ogden,
Jr., Oct 27, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Laurence LaTourette Driggs, Jr., ’28.

occuPATION: First reader, First Church of Christ, Christian Science practice.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Lions Club; chairman, Boy Scout Troop Commit-
tee, Cub Pack Committee, Finance Committee, Peninsula Girl Scout
Council, Inc., Republican Finance Drive.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Pilgrims of the. United States;
Tred Avon Yacht Club; Oxford Lions Club, Peoples: Section of the
United Nations.

WE ARE grateful, indeed, for a wonderful family, a lovely home,
good friends, good health, and good humor. In this, Maryland’s
first port of entry, on the eastern shore of Chesapeake Bay, in
this land of food and antiquity, of gentle folk and kindly ways,
we have spent seven years.

After. college, I started out with Harris, Forbes & Company
in New York in the bond business. This very happy associa-
tion was terminated by the depression in 1933. Later I started
my own firm where I continued until 1940, when my college
roommate, Johnny Buttrick, asked me to become a partner in a
Stock Exchange firm. About this time I also became interested
in a small boat business which proved instructive and expensive.
F, D. R. having taken the position that transactions in securities
were no longer in the public interest — and there being a war
on —I joined a friend of mine in the Electric Boat Company in
Groton, Connecticut. We moved from Bayville, Long Island —
and the penance of commuting on the Oyster Bay branch of
the Long Island Railroad —to nearby Waterford where we all
spent the war years. There we learned about victory gardens
and red coupons. As to the submarine, it is probably the most
intricate mechanism produced in this amazing country of ours.

My parents passed on after the war, so we moved here to their
home one hundred miles south of the Mason-Dixon Line. Our
Connecticut-Yankee son is now manifesting signs of a southern
accent. Our daughters are very much taken with the sailing on
these mild waters. Here we have discovered the great delicacy
of crabmeat. Here I first tasted wild goose done to a turn. Our
daughters are now attending Chatham Hall in Virginia. And I
have the usual paternal ambition that our son will follow in my

[ 295 ]

—™, r

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

scholastic footprints, only making bigger ones, and bogging
down less often! Having a Yale wife, however, I find our son
occasionally suggesting heresy. My brother—and my class-
mate — brought his bride to these shores in 1935. He and I have
had the pleasure of attending a Harvard reunion in Washington
and hope that more will ensue from now on. Incidentally, I
understand that there are by actual count seventy-five Prince-
tonians, fifreen Elis, and eight Harvard grads in our fair county
of Talbot. While you may say this is a fair ratio, we submit that
a rallying to the ranks would not be out of order.

We have played tennis here every month of the year, and it
would be a rare month when it would be impossible to sail. A
Concord friend was a bit surprised at a reference to September
sailing here as “frost-bites.” Winter sports have resolved into a
happy memory. Life here presents a constant challenge for right
activity — to those who do not want to give in to languid ways.
Those willing to participate in local affairs find they have few
free evenings left. Scouting is receiving quite an impetus, but it
requires constant pushing. A humane society has become active
here of late. The new Bay Bridge is alerting the community to the
need for zoning. Deterioration of government has made being a
Democrat no longer fashionably correct or good for business.
The Republican party has a golden opportunity to even its
ranks with the Democrats. I hope that Ike can take some of the
Old out of the GOP.

In our travels these last twenty-five years each of us has prob-
ably found some pearl to him of great price, and probably val-
uable to us all. If the purpose of this biography were to offer
to you that which has meant the most to me since last we met, I
should have to say that it was in the field of religion. Iam grateful

for the background of the Bible I received in my Protestant
bringing-up, in my school, and from Professor Lake. In dealing
with the many problems current at one time or another in my
experience, however, I did not find in religion that “very pres-
ent help in trouble” which is promised us. Like many another,
I fell away from my church. In 1939, when I was suffering from
a physical complaint, a very successful business associate intro-
duced me to Christian Science. While I am far from ungrateful
for the physical healing, it is for a new confidence in living that

[ 296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am most grateful. Religion is no longer a matter of Sundays or
possibly Easters, but has become a constant companion and an
ever-present solution for problems of every kind. To those of
us who have prospered thus far along the trail without incident,
such a possession may not seem of the greatest value. But when
human planning, the best schemes of mice and men, suddenly
goes awry, it is no small comfort to know that there is a prin-
ciple to living, that love is the substance of that principle, and
that harmony and success are our birthright; that “God requireth
that which is past.” I know of no greater gift to give a friend. I
hope to see you in Cambridge. If not, so long until ’78!

re.

FREDERIC MARSHALL DuBOIS

HOME ADDRESS: 205 Walden St., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 90 John St., New York 38, N. Y.

BORN: June 8, 1906, Englewood, N, J. PARENTS: Floyd Reading DuBois, ’or,
Rosilla Marshall.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE!. 1924-1926,

MARRIED: Katherine Wiener, June 17, 1935, Philadelphia, Pa.

HARVARD BROTHER: Cornelius DuBois, ’26.

occuPATION: Fire insurance, secretary, Northstar Reinsurance Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Army, 1942, private, Infantry; commis-
sioned second lieutenant, Infantry, August, 1943; first lieutenant, 1944;
captain, 1946; served in U. S. training troops and in Europe instruct-
ing officer candidates, in staff work, and in rail security; returned to
civilian life and sanity, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Pittsfield Chamber of Commerce, 1950-52, Pittsfield
Girls Club, 1947-52; chairman, Camp Witawentin (red feather), r950-
52; member committees, Kiwanis Club, Pittsfield, 1949-52, Hartford,
1953, Many insurance committees,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Hartford Tennis Club.

AFTER leaving college in 1926, I travelled around the world
on the then notorious University Afloat, but did as little work
as the rest of the so-called students. This trip lasted until May,
1927, at which time I went to work in Philadelphia as an em-
bryo insurance man. This profession has taken me (by way of
several changes in company connections) to almost as many
places to live as a sailor gets to see through the porthole. In
chronological order, I worked in Philadelphia, Chicago, Minne-

[297]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

apolis, New York, London, Manchester and York, England, New
York, Philadelphia, Hartford, Army, Pittsficld, Hartford, and
back to New York once more. This last move to New York took
place the zznd of January, 1953, so I am still living in West Hart-
ford, but shall move as soon as we find the right spot. All these
moves included frequent and sometimes perpetual travel with
the towns listed merely as bases.

My political feelings can be summed up by saying that no one
has been told more often than I that I look like Ike —a fact that
I like as I like Ike. Outside of playing terrible golf, and tennis,
both Kitry and I like camping and fishing — the wilder the coun-
try the better. Many years ago we heard of the ideal spot and
have been spending as many vacations as possible at Lake ‘Timagi-
mi, Ontario. If you like bass and walleyes galore, loons all around
you, bears in the trees above your tent, and wolves howling in
the mainland woods, Timagimi is the place for you, too.

FRANCIS FLANDERS DUNBAR

HoMe aporess: Manchester, Vt.
OFFICE appress: 1 E. 66th Sc, New York 21, N. Y.

Boan: March 8, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Francis William Dunbar, Edith
Vaughan Flanders.

prepareD AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. CU laude, 1928; A.M. (Stanford
Univ.), 1929.

occuPATION: Research associate, physiological psychology. :

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army Air Force, I Fighter Command.

MEMBER OF: Society of Sigma Xi; American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science; Gerontological Society; World Federation for Mental
Health; American Academy of Political and Social Science; New York
Academy of Sciences (active member); Vermont Historical Society
(institutional member), Harvard Club of Vermont.

I FIND that it is easier co live as one grows older, but it is more
difficult to explain of what living consists. To live is to be neither
a totalitarian guinea pig nor a part of the communal super-ego.
Free enterprise and a generous amount of frustration are basic
requirements of the life-process. No man can succeed who is
afraid to sacrifice his personal security for a more general security,
and no government can succeed that attempts to force a stereo-
typed security down the throats of its citizens.

[ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS WILLIAM DUNCAN

HOME AND OFFICE ApprEss: P. O. Box 856, Apple Valley, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1905, Casey, Iowa. PARENTS: William Thomas Duncan, Irene
Alderman Valentine.

PREPARED AT: Casey High School, Casey, Iowa. :

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1928-1929. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1928(29),

mararieD: Actea Carolyn Young, July 11, 1942, Des Moines, Iowa.

occuPATION: Novelist.

MEMBER OF: F. & A. M., Victorville, Calif.; Hollywood Authors.

PUBLICATIONS: Books of verse: Hours From a Life, From a Harvard Note-
book, Elephants at War; novels: O, Chautauqua, We Pluck This Flow-
er, Ring Horse, Gus The Great; contributions to wide variety of maga-
zines,

I WAS graduated i in 1929, as of the Class of 1928. After gradua-
tion, I returned to Des Moines, Iowa, where I was a reporter for
the Des Moines Tribune, 1 quit that to take an A.M. at Drake
University, thinking I would teach and write. Depression was
hitting bottom, no teaching jobs, so I wrote. By and by I was
attached to the staff of the Des Moines Register as book re-
viewer; I also taught English part-time at Des Moines College of
Pharmacy. Then I devoted full time to writing. From 1942 to
1944 I taught journalism at Grinnell College and also taught in
the Army Specialized Training Program there. I moved to
Boulder, Colorado, in 1944, where I worked on my big novel,
Gus The Great. In the fall of 1945 my wife and I bought a
trailer and for the next couple of years toured the Southwest,
while I worked on Gus The Great. We were living near Las
Vegas, Nevada, when it was accepted. It sold to Universal-In-
ternational for more money than I thought existed, and it was a
Book-of-the-Month Club choice. |

In 1948 we moved to Apple Valley, California, a model, new
western town on the Mojave Desert. We live quietly here —
with many trips to Los Angeles, New Orleans, New York, etc.,
to keep us civilized. We have a house now, but I still write in a
trailer . . . not quite house-broken, I guess. One of my earlier
novels, Ring Horse (re-issued by Lippincott in 1952) also sold
to the films. Neither it nor Gus The Great has yet been pro-
duced. My wife is also a writer — of whodunits. Her first was
Prominent Among the Mourners (Lippincott) and her next, Nar-

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

rou-Gauge to Murder (Lippincott), comes out in January, 1953.

Hobbies: amateur magic, Dixieland jazz, harmonica playing,
the Civil War. I've never been back to Harvard except often in
memory. Harvard was a tremendous experience: it taught me
to work. My only regret about Harvard is that I didn’t have
Bernard DeV oto for tutor; he is, I believe, our best literary critic
and historian. Politically, I’m an internationalist and a_liberal-
conservative, a middle-of-the-roader. . This statement means I
usually vote Democratic; indeed, I call myself a Democrat. I be-
lieve history will call Truman an average man who did two mag-
nificent things: resisting Communism in Korea, and firing Mac-
Arthur. (In a democracy, the military simply must remain
subservient to the elected representatives of the people.) I have
no church affiliations and want none. After a lifetime of agnos-
ticism, I gradually and grudgingly came to have a belief in the
existence of a Supreme Being. For years I have carried on a love
affair with America, and it grows constantly more passionate:
that makes me a patriot, although not a tub-thumper. I believe in
the magnificence of America — her history, her destiny; for me,
the American Dream is ever a lodestar.

+ JOHN WILLIAM DUNLOP, JR.

BorN: Jan. 22, 1907, Malden, Mass. parENtTs: John William Dunlop, ’97,
Alice Lillian Hall.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

mManueD: Doris Lent, June 6, 1933, Milford, N. H. cHiwpren: Jean, April 7,
1934; John William, 3d, May 4, 1935.

piep: Jan. 14, 1946, New York, N,. Y.

DURING his four years at Harvard John William Dunlop, Jr.
was a member of the Freshman Crew, the Combination Crew in
1927, and the Iroquois Club. Having attended the Harvard
Business School for one year, he spent the following summer in
Paris, working for the Banker’s Trust Company. Upon his re-
turn to Boston he entered the employ of E. B. Smith & Company,
investment bankers and in 1931 became associated with O’Brion,
Russell & Company. He remained with that insurance company
for at least seven years before his sudden death in New York.

[ 300 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

* RICHARD THOMAS DUNN

poRN: Dec. 14, 1906, Pittsfield, Mass. parents: Thomas Edwin Dunn, Lena
Stapleton.

PREPARED AT: Bridgeport High School, Bridgeport, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1928, LL.B., 1931.

marRieD: Isobel Ann Keller, Sept. 24, 1934, Bridgeport, Conn. CHILDREN:
Isobel Mary, Oct. 18, 1937; Carolyn Keller, Aug. 30, 1941.

pep: Jan. 13, 1949, New York, N. Y.

wwow: Mrs. Richard T. Dunn, 324 E. gist St. (603), New York 17, N. Y.

SOON after leaving Harvard Law School, Richard Thomas
Dunn joined the law firm of Nicholson, Buckley & Dunn in
Bridgeport, Connecticut. In 1938 he reported that he had been
active in the Community Chest of Bridgeport, had been a mem-
ber of the board of directors of a mental hygiene organization,
and had been selected by the Republican party to run for senator.
He was at that time a member of the University Club of Bridge-
port, the Harvard Club of Connecticut, and the Harvard Club
of New York. - -

Dunn served in World War II as a second lieutenant in the
Army Air Forces, from May of 1942 to December of 1944. Later
he settled in New York City, becoming a member of the firm of
Delafield, Marsh & Hope; at the time of his death he was a mem-
ber of the American Bar Association. While in college Dunn
participated in track during all four years and was a member of
the Freshman Relay Team, the Freshman Finance Committee,
Phillips Brooks House, the Senior Album Committee, and the
Pi Eta Club; he was a cheer leader in 1928. He died at the Kings-
bridge Veterans Hospital, leaving his wife, two children, his
parents, and two brothers. |

SAMUEL MILTON DUPERTUIS

HOME AppREss: 130 Richland Lane, Pittsburgh 8, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3700 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

BoRN: Jan. 31, 1906, Tacoma, Wash. Parents: Samuel Dupertuis, Myra El-
len Kinney.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1928; M.Dw 19323
p.m.s. (Columbia Univ.), 1940.

[ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Marrirp: Margaret Joan Marvin, Sept. 15, 1934, Boston, Mass. cHitp: Flaine
Nov. 7. 1939

HARVARD BROTHER: Clarence Wesley Dupertuis, '29, A-M., "31, PH.D., ’40.

occupatios: Physician (plastic surgery).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant commander, U. 5.
Naval Reserve Medical Corps, August, 1944; stationed U. S. Naval Hos.
pital, Oakland, Calif, August, 1944-~December, 1944; transferred to U.S,
Naval Hospical in Philadelphia, January, 1945-September, 1946; in
charge Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery; promoted commander, No.
vember, 1045.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in Surgery, 1941-48, assistant professor of Surgery,
1948-52, associate professor of Surgery, since 1952, University of Pitts-
burgh Medical School; lecturer in Oral Surgery, University of Pitts-
burgh Dental School, since 1943; member American Board of Plastic
Surgery, 1951-57.

MEMBER OF: Allegheny County Medical Society; Pennsylvania State Med-
ical Society; American Medical Association; Pittsburgh Surgical So-
ciety; American College of Surgeons; Central Surgical Association;
American Association of Plastic Surgeons; American Society of Plastic
and Reconstructive Surgery; American Society for Surgery of the
Hand; American Association for Cleft Palate Rehabilitation; Harvard
Club of Pittsburgh; University Club; Longue Vue Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Fifteen medical articles dealing primarily with Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery. |

THE decision, in our second undergraduate year, to plunge into
the field of medicine was quite sudden but conclusive, largely
influenced by friendly contact and frank advice from a retired
professor of neurology from Yale — of course! On the Cape one
summer I was fascinated by the skill and persistence with which
this physician guided Franklin D. Roosevelt, then a hopeless
cripple, back to a considerable degree of physical independence.
Despite the impact of this association, 1 remained a Republican
and became absolutely certain that surgery would be my field.

My transition to the ultra-special field of plastic surgery was
more gradual after completing five years of residency training
in general surgery. The popular conception of plastic surgery
has been colored by a few of our “border-line gentry” who con-
fine their efforts to tucking up the sagging facial tissues of our
age, and restoring those super-droopers by the operative maneu-
ver of mammaplasty. The great majority of the serious mem-
bers of our group, however, find lasting satisfaction in the cor-
rection of accidental and congenital deformities — thus on our

[ 302 ]

' 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

teaching service one sees few cosmetic procedures but many
functional reconstructive problems. We seldom encounter the
drama of saving a life, but restore a happier existence to the
physically and psychically handicapped. It’s a curious world,
but I wouldn’t swap my job for any other!

Perhaps I was spared the shock of jumping from the cloistered
existence of the undergraduate into a world facing depression.
Or was I? — for four years of medical school followed by eight
years of internship and residency training was a prolonged finan-
cial depression. Nevertheless these twelve years were enjoyable,
highlighted by one year’s travelling fellowship, which provided
the ideal opportunity for a. wedding trip to Europe with the
gitl who has been the inspiration for the years ahead and is still
my wife. ,

Pittsburgh, a city with amazing industrial and « civic vigor, was
highly recommended as the place of opportunity for my par-
ticular talents. Time may have cast some doubt on the validity
of this advice, but a modest office for practice was managed and
the university, although young by eastern standards, physically
is indeed a skyscraper. Why did I not return to Boston, my home,
for practice? A friend of ancient Boston lineage and of the Class
of ’29 finished his training in our particular field at the same time,
so we decided that the simultaneous arrival of two new plastic
surgeons was a bit more than the old town could take.

About the time when private patients began to outnumber
the charity cases on my operative schedule, I convinced the Navy,
without too much difficulty, that they could use me. Having
closed my practice and made certain that my will was in order,
we waited impatiently in a hotel from day to day for the arrival
of my commission. After three long months we started the trek
to Oakland, California.

There followed the usual tong search for a furnished home,
then another four months and as we moved in, the inevitable
orders transferring us to Philadelphia. My experiences in the
service were a satisfying challenge with always more reconstruc-
tive surgery and unusual problems than could be handled. There
were busy full years with many advances and some startling re-
sults in this new surgical specialty!

- Since returning to new university teaching appointments, my

[ 303 ]

a Loy

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

practice has kept pace with the times; and the first three men who
were trained have elected to practise here, thus providing keen
competition to keep the old man on his toes. We have a fine
congenial teaching service, however, and train two new residents
each year — preferably for practice elsewhere, we hope! Train-
ing candidates from Iraq, Lebanon, and even Los Angeles proves
to be a stimulating experience!

Those gay Saturday night parties at the Officers’ Club kept us
young in spirit, but how does one find time for them in the busy
post-war routine? The increasing number of medical meetings
to attend, the papers to publish, the talks and lectures to pre-
pare all seem to interfere with one of my favorite hobbies — the
rapidly expanding field of high fidelity audio. Vacations for the
most part are those extra few days after attending a meeting in
some section of the country — always enjoyable but never long
enough. I have graduated down through the years from squash
and tennis to the more sociable game of golf, and now am just
able to hold my own with my thirteen-year-old daughter across
the ping-pong table. If she finds my old squash racquet in the
next year or two I shall be in serious trouble.

Withal, it has been a grand quarter century, and here’s to the

next twenty-five!

‘

STEPHEN JOHN DUSEVITCH

HOME ADDRESS: §2 Columbus Ave., Stoughton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept, Public Health, State House, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1905, Stoughton, Mass, parents: John George Dusevitch,
Barbara Ursula Kontwine.

PREPARED AT: Stoughton High School, Stoughton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B., 1928. .

marrieD: Mona A. Kasetta, Oct, 3, 1933, St. Anne de Beaupré, P.Q., Canada.

occupation: Chemist, Food and Drug Division, Department of Public
Health, Commonwealth of Massachusetts (milk, liquor, drugs, mis-
cellaneous foods analyzed).

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society.

COMMENCEMENT, 1928, meant from the classroom to the
workroom, beginning adult life and education in a land of plenty,
flowing with milk if not with honey — in the laboratory of the
Milk Inspector of the City of Boston. A year of service and I

[ 304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

went on to the State House as an analytical chemist. The milk
now changes to illicit liquor, a steady stream of home brew,
moonshine, and sometimes the real McCoy — a torrent of liquor
—and a world in which life was free, free living, free spending.
There was an inexhaustible supply of dollars unul the run on the
banks, and then collapse and danger from the sky of falling bodies
— the millionaires of the day before!

In due course administrations changed and a Brain Trust un-
confused the confusion; values were restored by recreating scar-
city. Following the reasoning of the day that “two could live as
cheaply as one,” I eloped in 1933 to St. Anne de Beaupre and was
married. Hlaving thus been launched on the sea of matrimony
and observing that our country’s destiny was being guided by an
Under Secretary of the Navy, I acquired a thirty-four foot cabin
cruiser and became amphibious.

As a team my wife and I lived a quiet life in a home rebuilt
from the stone, brick, and timber of a wrecked mansion of an

ex-governor of Massachusetts and former shovel king of America.
Of course, these were still days of poverty — some few years in
advance of Truman prosperity.

Things began to happen in the international arena — a quicken.
ing tempo of industrial activity — and once more came registra-
tion day, this time before a draft board. I got a continued defer-
ment and then came a cessation of hostilities with a most climactic
ending! Life seemed pretty serious business in those days, friend
from foe clearly distinguished, but how was a novice to under-
stand that hindsight was better than foresight?

In the years that followed, my wife and I travelled extensively,
usually to generous and congenial Canada, always eager to pay a
premium on the soundest dollar in the world.

Finally came Westward Ho! in 1949, and some 9,600 miles by
automobile through friendly Ontario, Montana, lofty Logan Pass
in Glacier National Park, Los Angeles, the fairy land in neon
lights which is Las Vegas, Mexico, the heart of Texas, Tennessee,
and home. We travelled at a snail’s pace as men now measure
time and distance.

Soon thereafter followed the roaring fifties — guns, planes, and
all the other paraphernalia of war. We entered a period of living
dangerously, as dangerously as scientific knowledge may enrich

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

us, predetermined by a calculated risk, in a world bereft of proph-
ets, but gaily marching through and beyond the curtain of “When
o'er the world a mist began to fall” —a mist of atomic radiation,
Oh well, at least life will not be dull!

JOHN EDMUND DWYER
HOME ADDRESS: 3722 Taylor Ave., Drexel Hill, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1500 Chestnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

sorN: April 28, 1907, at Roxbury, Mass. PARENTS: John Mansfield Dwyer,
Elizabeth G. Merry.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrieD: Marion A. Goodrich, 1939, Roslindale, Mass. CHILDREN: Jane Eliz-
abeth, June 15, 1940; John Burbank, June 14, 1941; Sara Ann, Feb. 11,
1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Melvin Francis Dwyer, °32. |

occupation: Employee benefit plan consultant (design, development, ad-
ministration all types employee benefit plans), Ostheimer and Company.

THE first few years after graduation I spent in the oil business.
In 1932 I went into the insurance business and finally became
connected with the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany in June, 1937, as a member of the Group Annuity Division
of the Group Department. In 1945 I became assistant manager
of the Group Annuity Sales Division of the John Hancock. This
work involved the design and sale of Group Annuity (Pension)
Plans. I remained in this position until 1947. At that time John
Hancock decided to establish a Group Insurance office in Hono-
lulu, Territory of Hawaii, and I was appointed manager of that
office. My wife, three children, and I thereupon packed up and
moved to Honolulu. As the title of my job implies, I was re-
sponsible for all of the Group Insurance and Group Pension
operations of the John Hancock in the Territory of Hawaii. I
remained in Hawaii until November, 1948, at which time I was
brought back to Boston by the John Hancock and became as-
sistant director, Sales and Service, of the Group Department.
After one year on this job I was transferred to New York as
Eastern Retirement Plans Manager.

In March, 1950, I left John Hancock and became associated
with Ostheimer and Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvaina. With

[ 306 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Ostheimer I am an Employee Benefit Plan consultant, devoting
my time to the development and administration of all types of
Employee Benefit Plans.

I am a registered Republican and a member of the Roman
Catholic Church. Social activities are more or less limited to
neighborhood activities. I enjoy playing golf when I can find
time, and have retained a spectator’s interest in football, base-
ball, etc. In the summer, whenever possible, we manage to get
to Cape Cod for a few weeks’ vacation.

As far as travel is concerned, my work over the past fifteen
years has brought me to all sections of the United States. How-
ever, as a family, our long-distance travel has been limited to
our trip to Honolulu and back with various side-trips to the
other islands in that territory.

HERBERT ROWE EARLE, JR.

LAST KNOWN ADpDRESS: 735 Thresher Ave., Benton Harbor, Mich.

BORN: June 19, 1904, Detroit, Mich. PAReNTs: Herbert Rowe Earle, Flor-
ence Cadwell.

PREPARED AT: Hudson Day School, Hudson, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, 1929-1930. DEGREE: S.B. 1928(30).

MARRIED: Martha V. Edwards, March 14, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILD: Martha
Louise, June 29, 1931.

HERBERT ROWE EARLE, JR., has been carried as a “lost”
man on our records since 19§2.

*k GEORGE EATON

BORN: June 5, 1906, Urbana, Ohio. parents: Russell Eaton, Harriet Lynch
James.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B., r928(29)5 Lu.B. (Ohio State
Univ.), 1934.

MarRieD: Margaret McConnell, Sept. 4, 1930. CHILD: Harriet James, Oct. 7,
1931 (7. Thomas W. Feick).

piED: Oct. 23, 1952, Urbana, Ohio.

wipow: Mrs. George Eaton, 225 College St., Urbana, Ohio.

HAVING received a law degree from Ohio State University in
1934, Eaton was afterwards associated with the firm of Marechal
and Noe in Dayton, Ohio, as a patent attorney. In 1940 he re-

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

turned to his native town of Urbana, Ohio, where he became
patent attorney and assistant general manager of the Desmond-
Stephan Manufacturing Company; he held this position for
eleven years. He was a trustee of Urbana Junior College, a mem-
ber of the Dayton Branch of the United States Power Squadron,
and a member of three yachting clubs. His wife, daughter,
grandson, three sisters, and a brother survived him.

THOMAS COGGESHALL EAYRS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Hyde St.. Newton Highlands 61, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 49 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1908, Chicago, Ill, parents: Thomas Coggeshall Eayrs, ’os,
Alice Eleanor Hobson.

PREPARED AT: Washington High School, Massillon, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

marRiED: Lucy Boutelle Dobyns, July 11, 1931, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Lucy Coggeshall, May 6, 1938; Sara Lowell, June 30, 1940.

occupaTION: Assistant vice-president, sales manager, Stone & Webster Secu-
rites Corporation, a major underwriter and distributor of investment
securities.

OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Committee, New England Group Invest-
ment Bankers Association, 1949-52.

MEMBER OF: Bond Club of Boston.

JUST prior to graduation, after concentrating in the economics
of railroading and carefully avoiding “Money and Banking,” I
accepted a job in the investment banking business, to begin in
the fall. The logic of this move now escapes me and there were
times during the early ensuing years when the decision seemed
incredible. The glamorous notion that the business could make
a millionaire out of a dunce in a few years proved a gross exag-
geration.

However, before applying our respective noses to the grind-
stones, Jack Wilson and I took a three months’ sojourn in Europe
which I suspect we enjoyed more than the Europeans did. A
notable accomplishment of this trip was appearing as witnesses
of record and official timers when Jack Frost broke the beer
drinking record at Harry’s New York Bar in Paris.

Finally launched into the world of finance, 1 became overnight
an expert. Paper profits looked good until they had to be paid

[ 308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for months and years later. Within a year, the bottom fell our.
It became a major objective just to stay employed, salary no ob-
ject. (If an organization to which I pledged roo dollars, payable
five years after graduation, hadn’t obligingly folded, I probably
would have.) By the grace of God and perhaps the fact that I
was not a very expensive luxury to the firm, I managed to stay.
Technically I received my notice too, and it has never been

officially revoked, but here I am with the same outfit with which
1 started, scarcely believing that twenty-five years could have
gone past.

Despite the long reign of the Great White Father and his
waspish successor; the world messes stirred up by Hitler and
Stalin; the restrictions of government agencies, rulings, commis-
sions, investigators, interference; the growth of competitive bid-
ding, diminishing profit margins, and direct private placements,
the business has continued but the pickings have not been gener-
ous. However, let there be no complaint. Thanks partially to the
genius who invented credit, we’ve managed to eat, keep a roof
over our heads, drive a car, keep reasonably covered — no mink,
support the federal spendthrift, bend the elbow adequately, and
give two growing girls some advantages and a good education.

Your questionnaire has many places for recording war activi-
ties. I spent most of War II high on the horns of the dilemma.
With no background sufficient to qualify for a commission high
enough to support my young family even in reduced circum-
stances, insufficient longevity to be beyond the reach of the draft,
and a job which was considered about as important as making
artificial flowers, it was a trying time. The decision of whether
to enlist or take a chance on the draft was finally taken out of
my hands when our forces crossed the Rhine and Selective Serv-
ices policies relaxed. I did, however, serve with the Auxiliary
Police in Newton. _

As for religion, I am afraid I am one of those to whom the
minister would say “Merry Christmas” after the Easter service if
I showed up at the Easter service. As a family we are closely
associated with the local Episcopal Church, but my personal con-
tacts with church are limited principally to working on the books
of another parish of which a friend is treasurer.

Politically I am probably to be classed as a reactionary and

[ 309 ]

pase eh eH

et EN

San: sateen cananch cna NN ANE aii. CLR

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

somewhat of an isolationist, and not ashamed of it either. Taft
was my basic preference but I was an early Ike supporter in the
belief that he could better carry the election and the ticket. As
this is being written, just before inauguration, there seems to be
more hope that a way of life will be maintained than there has
been since 1932. Obviously, neither F. D. R. or H. S. T. ever got
my vote — not that they ever seemed to need it!

‘You ask about hobbies. Anyone who owns a house the core of
which is over 200 years old has one paramount hobby with labor
costs what they are. I have developed unsuspected talents in
painting, carpentry, plumbing, masonry, electrical work, and so
on. I also get considerable pleasure from my garden and have
grown tomatoes nine feet tall.

I have felt, perhaps boastfully, that the years — and where they
have gone — have dealt with me lightly, but I compared Sargent
Studio’s recent likeness, after retouching, with the Class Album
and hereby withdraw any such claim. I look forward to the
Reunion for a glorious week and, perhaps in part, to compare
the ravages of time.

EARL ERNEST ECKERT

HOME appress: 1201 N. Fifth St., Austin, Minn.

oFFice aporess: George A. Hormel & Co., Austin, Minn. -

Born: Dec. 5, 1902, Winona, Minn. parents: George R. Eckert, Helena
Young.

PREPARED AT: Winona High School, Winona, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B. In C.E. cum laude, 1928.

magaiep: Eleanor M. Connors, Feb. 2, 1936, Winona, Minn. cHILDREN: Don-
ald James, July 6, 1944; Beverly Jean, July 29, 1946.

occupation: Meat packing superintendent of construction and engineering
(design and supervision of construction of buildings and supervision of
maintenance).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Navy, Radio, 1918, 1920.

MeMBrR or: Tau Bera Pi; Minnesota Society of Professional Engineers;
Austin Country Club, Elks; Isaac Walton; American Legion; National
Society of Professional Engineers.

PuBLicaTion: Article, Journal of American Concrete Institute.

LIKE many another eager beaver leaving school in 1928, I had
time only to get a promising start in my chosen profession of
engineering when the great depression slapped me down. After

[310 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the shock had worn off, I finally got started again on the bottom
rung by getting a job as a truck driver. A truck driver’s life is
interesting, but I finally worked my way back into management.

I never left the construction business, and after twelve years
of living out of a suitcase, I went to work for George A. Hormel
& Company, meat packers, at Austin, Minnesota. I am now su-
perintendent of construction and engineering for this company.
I think the most significant thing which I can write about m
life is our children. Until 1944 we were not blessed with children
of our own, and decided on adoption. In that year we adopted
a ten-week-old boy, and found out what life was really all about.
In 1949 we were able to get a little three-year-old girl after three
years of haunting the state placement agency.

These children have given us more interest in life than any
other event in our existence. We love them as much as we could
natural children, and they give us love and affection which
makes our lives complete. It is a pleasure to watch them grow
and mature.

ALBERT SIDNEY EDMONDS, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Route 2, 1325 Lake Drive, Encinitas, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Corp., San Diego 12, Calif.

BoRN: Dec. 26, 1906, Atlanta, Ga. parents: Albert Sidney Edmonds, Laura

_ Boardman Caldwell.

PREPARED AT: Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Calif.; Lincoln High
‘ School, Portland, Ore.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG. magna cum laude,
1928.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Louise Brown, Sept. 20, 1933, Portland, Ore.; Margaret
M. Hammett, Feb, 27, 1942, Portland, Ore. cuixp: Spencer, Aug. 9,
1947.

occupation: Aircraft manufacturing, material control analyst, control of
buying, scheduling, and inventory of operating supplies, maintenance
material, and tools.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Mohr Tool Company, 1950-52; trustee, Solano
Beach Community Church, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Diego; Professional Engineers of Oregon;
Registered Professional Engineers of California; Engineers and Archi-
tects Association; Cardiff Civic Club.

[311]

VD App ng erent lene

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

AFTER a year at the Business School following graduation |
entered the air conditioning business with the Carrier Corpora-
tion. My first field experience was the installation of the system
in the United States Senate, where prophetically one of the men
dropped a heavy tool through the glass “Horn of Plenty” panel
in the ceiling, breaking it to bits. Only two months later came
the stock market crash of 1929 followed by the depression and
a temporary end of my connection with air conditioning indus-
try. After a brief sojourn in commercial banking I returned to
the air conditioning field and covered quite a bit of the country
with Carrier and several of its dealers.

In 1937 I returned to the Pacific Northwest and took a memo-
rable trip to the Orient with brief stops at Yokohama, Kobe,
Tokyo, Kyoto, Shanghai (ah! the night clubs), Hong Kong,
Canton, and Manila.

During the war I was engaged in the design and installation of
ventilation systems on aircraft carriers, minelayers, minesweepers,
transports, and miscellaneous craft for the Willamette Iron and
Steel Corporation at Portland, Oregon, under supervision of the
Navy.

In 1948 Peg (my wife, who was a Sargent girl whom I met
while in college) and I decided that California’s sunshine might
be a great advantage in raising a boy, so the three of us piled in
the modern covered wagon and headed south. We wound up
here in Encinitas twenty-five miles north of San Diego. Our two
acres lie on the west slope of a hill two miles from the ocean and
have a commanding view of the water from Oceanside to La
Jolla.

Other members of the family not covered by preceding statis-
tics are a dog, kitten, two ducks, and twenty-five chickens, and
I fear that there may be future additions as Spencer persistently
outlines the advantages there would be in having a pony and a
horse.

The two hobbies I’ve enjoyed most are golf and trout fishing.
There is nothing to beat the thrill of landing a seven to ten-pound
Steclhead on a fly rod in fast water. Alas, of Jate years there has
been little indulgence except on those occasional vacations, that
last of which gave us a few grand days at Lake Tahoe,

[312]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Politically I’ve been on the losing side practically every time
except this last.

I run across very few Harvard men and it has been years since
I’ve seen a classmate. If you are driving north or south on High-
way 1o1 in these parts, why don’t you drop in? :

ARCHIBALD CASON EDWARDS

HOME ADDRESS: 5631 N. Kelley Ave., R. F. D. 1, Box 29, Oklahoma City,
Okla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % R. J. Edwards, Inc., 611 Terminal Bldg., Oklahoma City,
Okla.

sorn: April 15, 1906, Oklahoma City, Okla. PARENTS: Robert James Ed-
wards; Sarah Cason Handy Edwards.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Sarah Stanley Gordon, May 20, 1931, Huntly, Va. CHILDREN:
Sarah Handy, May 22, 1932; Elizabeth Southall, Dec. 1, 1933; Hilary
Gordon, Jan. 21, 1936; Mary Douglas, Aug. 6, 1939; Archibald Cason,

Jr., Jan. 24, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert James Edwards, ’26.

OCCUPATION: Secretary-treasurer, R. J. Edwards, Inc.; property manage-
ment as trustee and as manager.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Air raid warden.

MEMBER OF: Oklahoma Golf & Country Club; Beacon Club.

PUBLICATIONS: In magazines very occasionally.

AFTER Commencement in 1928, I went to England and France
until September. Back in Oklahoma, I took a job in my father’s
office, and tutored French and Latin that first winter, to keep
the academic feeling.

During the depression I worked as a junior bond buyer, travel-
ling around among small towns and country school districts of
Oklahoma. I learned things like the difference between a pasture
and a meadow, too.

In the full depression, I married. My work about then became
largely the management of real property, weeding out unprofit-
able farm and city holdings in an estate and improving a few
profitable ones. I still manage one farm of eight hundred acres.
It is a welcome bond with the earth for one in an essentially
urban culture. Also, I have had the good fortune, working with
a young architect, of developing for the owner one or two small

[ 313 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

commercial sites with what I hope are first-class buildings in
pure contemporary design. I am still secretary-treasurer of a
small corporation that deals in investment securities.

Through boredom at having to read aloud, I invented stories
for our children, when they were small. One of these was pub-
lished in Jack and Jill magazine, to the satisfaction of the chil-
dren, and several have been published in the Prairie Schooner.
One in 1945 was quoted by the Reader's Digest. At the time I
was quite thrilled. Excepr for an article on Governor William H.
Murray in 1932 in the Fortam magazine, that is my literary career.

I do read a few hours a week and tend to read in the languages
I studied in college. I have collected a half-dozen nice water-
color drawings of no importance, and on trips I have managed
to drop into any gallery that was available. I have grown to find
more and more pleasure in seeing whatever I could find.

We generally have a canoe or a rowboat around the place, and
when we find energy to haul it off to a pond that is somewhat
larger than our craft, we enjoy it. Always we have managed to
keep a pony or two. With those of our children who like to
ride, it has been a very happy part of my life to ride with them
every Sunday morning or Saturday afternoon, either with a bea-
gle or a bird dog. Not since the war, when our milk boy went
off to the Army, have we had a cow or pigs to give us the real
feel of the land. After making out a while with septuagenarians,
we just abandoned the servant problem. Now horses and chick-
ens are about all we can handle by ourselves. The care they get
is not fancy.

Right after college, and for some ten years, I was secretary to
the vestry of St. Paul’s Protestant Episcopal Cathedral, off and
on, and taught Sunday School. During the war I was even a
stand-in Sunday School superintendent. After a lapse, I am again
teaching very small boys in Sunday School. For three or four
years I helped lead a group that met once a month at the Unitarian
Church to read first Greck tragedies in translation, and later
Chaucer and Elizabethan drama. I enjoyed it no end, and would
probably be at ic still had I not become a Great Books Leader.
I also have been an officer for several years of the Friends of the
Library. The women in this group have done good work in these

parts.

[314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Two of our children are in college now, a junior and a soph-
omore at Bryn Mawr. The sophomore was a freshman at Rad-
cliffe. Our elder boy is at Exeter. Our youngest daughter is in
the local country day, the Casady, school. And our younger boy
is a second grader in public school. Along with the problem of
making a living, the children in themselves are enough for a very
full life.

Except for hopes, my travels so far have been limited. I gener-
ally get only one day of dove shooting a year now. Three or
four times all of us have been back to Baltimore or Virginia to
visit my wife’s family. In 1938 my wife and I got as far south as
Acapulco. And a number of times we have been out to Colorado
or the Taos area. Sometimes we stayed at a dude ranch, and two
or three times I have camped with our elder boy. The best thing
about the camping was that our boy liked it. But I do like to cast
what I diffidently hope is a dry fly. For the next few years, as
now, most of my travelling will be done by the children. A
Guide Michelin or a 1909 Baedecker gives me a wild evening now
and then when the desire to travel becomes irresistible.

I still miss Widener, the theatre, and Cambridge. But I am
continually encountering new pleasures and new friends...
among them, the wife and children I have acquired.

ROBERT BURKE EGAN

HOME ADDRESS: 3 536 Walnut St, Newtonville 60, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Bay State Boat Co., 29 Main St., Cambridge 42, Mass.

sorN: May 9, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Burke Egan, ’04, Grace
Geniveve Robinson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRigep: Margaret M. Willey, Oct. 12, 1929, Wellesley, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard B., July 21, 1931; Marcia, Sept. 21, 1932; Bruce A., Nov. 10,
1939.

occupation: Manufacturer and distributor: owner Bay State Boat Com-
pany; president and treasurer, Bay State Power Equipment, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Steelcraft Boats, Inc.; president, Bay State Appliance
Distributors, Inc.; treasurer, Welles Publishing Company.

MEMBER OF: Cambridge Chamber of Commerce; Scituate Yacht Club;
Housewares Club; Newton Parent-Teachers Association; Watertown
Yacht Club. .

[315]

si”

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

SOME would call it introspection —I mean this attempt to look
back twenty-five years. To me it is a soul-searching ordeal and
one which I don’t want to do again for another twenty-five
years. Because, the more I search, the more I see that I could
have done so much better and so differently. Oh well, others
MUST feel somewhat this way — but the terrible waste of time
appals me.

It has been an exciting life for me—my wife might use an-
other adjective — but travelling when young can be interesting.
For the first fifteen years after graduation I travelled and how!
In various capacities, but mostly as a publisher’s representative,
I travelled consistently throughout the eastern half of this large
country of ours. Then suddenly I wearied of it and settled down
in the fascinating business of selling boats to people. Having had
boats of my own since early knee-pants days, this came naturally
to me and I have enjoyed every minute of it. Now we do princi-
pally a wholesale marine equipment business and there’s prac-
tically no time for what I thought would be a combination hobby
and profession.

One thing leads to another and now I find myself in the manu-
facturing business as well. We make chain saws— have you
ever heard of them? What's this got to do with boats? Well,
they are both powered by engines, aren’t they? — large and small
ones, too.

My two older children will both be seniors in college next
year. Bruce, the youngest, is even now talking about going to
Harvard, and so it won't be long before my wife and I will be
back where we started from.

+ FRANCIS HUYCK ELDRIDGE

Born: March 9. 1905, Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Lewis An-
gerin Eldridge, Elizabeth Moore Huyck.

preparen at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927,

Manairp: Isabelle Sansford, Dec. 22, 19:8, Great Neck, Long Island, N. Y.
caitparn: Francis Huyck, Jr. Dec. 2, 1929; Edmund Huyck, Nov. 10,
1931, Thomas S. April 4. 1934; Emily N., April 20, 1940.

binp: Aug. 3, 1949, Albany, N. Y.

wipuw: Mrs. Francis H. Eldridge, 277 S. Manning Blvd., Albany 3, WN. Y.

[ 316]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE year after graduation Francis Huyck Eldridge spent with
the Grenfell Mission in Labrador and in 1934 was treasurer of
the Albany Grenfell Association. At that time he was also gov-
ernor of the Albany Hospital, trustee and member of the ex-
ecutive committee of the Albany Medical College, and treasurer
of the Eastern New York Association of Credit Men. Eldridge
came to Albany in 1928 to become his uncle’s secretary and two
years later was made credit manager and assistant treasurer of the
family firm of F. C. Huyck & Sons in Renssalaer, New York. In
1937 he became assistant treasurer of this felt and blanket manu-
facturing business and in the same year was appointed treasurer
of the Albany Medical College.

For the years 1938 to 1946 Eldridge served as vice-president
and general manager of F. C. Huyck & Sons; in 1946 he became
its president and president of its Canadian subsidiary, Kenwood
Mills, Ltd., which positions he held at the time of his death.
During World War II his company manufactured blankets for
the armed forces. He was a trustee and member of the execu-
tive committee of the Albany Savings Bank, governor of the
Albany Hospital, trustee of Bennington College, and vice-presi-
dent of the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve, Inc., which controlled
recreational grounds and a station for biological research. EI-
dridge was survived by his wife and three sons.

THOMAS HOPKINSON ELIOT

HOME ADDRESS: 7129 Washington Ave., University City, Mo.

OFFICE ADpRESs: Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: June 14, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTs: Samuel Atkins Eliot, ’84,
Frances Stone Hopkinson.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; LLB.
1932.

MarRRIED; Lois A. Jameson, Oct. 10, 1936, Alexandria, Va. cHILDREN: Samuel
Atkins, March 27, 1945; Nancy Freeman, Feb. 10, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel Atkins Eliot, ’13; Charles William Eliot, ’20,
M.L.A. ’23; Theodore Lyman Eliot, ’25.

OCCUPATION: Professor, chairman of Department of Political Science, Wash-
ington University.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Chief, London office, Office of Wartime In-
formation, and special assistant to U. S. ambassador; appeals chairman,

[317]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

National War Labor Board; Office of Secret Service; chief counsel,
Divisions of Power, Department of Interior.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant solicitor, Department of Labor, 1933-35; general
counsel, Social Security Board, 1935-38; regional director, Wage and
Hour Division, 1939-40; representative in Congress, 1941-43; execu-
tive director, Special Commission on the Structure of the State Gov-
ernment (Massachusetts), 1950-52; lecrurer on government, Harvard,
1937-38, 1948-51, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1951-52; di-
rector, president, Cambridge Community Center, 1947-52; director,
Cambridge Red Cross, 1947-50; New England chairman, United Ne-
gro College Fund, 1946-49; trustee, St. Louis Council on World Affairs,
since 1952; vice-chairman, Cambridge Civic Unity Committee, 1946-
2; director, treasurer, Children to Palestine, Inc., 1950-52.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Arbitra-
tion Association; National Committee, American Civil Liberties Union;
American Political Science Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Basic Rules of Order, Harcourt, Brace & Co., 1952; various
magazine articles.

GIVING due weight to the importance of enjoying one’s work,

I have recently changed my career and my place of residence.

After four post-war years of law practice in Boston I became, in

early 1950, executive director of a special commission to reorgan-

ize the State Government of Massachusetts. I held this position
for two and a half years, during which the commission’s legisla-
tive program gained moderate success. Meanwhile I was teaching
part-time at Harvard and M. I. T. I came to the conclusion that

I preferred both government service and teaching government

to the private practice of the law.

One usually admires the kind of man that one would like to be.

I am inclined to admire most the compassionate statesman, the

serviceable citizen, and the inspiring teacher. And so I am natur-

ally enthusiastic about my new work of teaching, with opportu-
nities for useful public service always at hand. In some ways it

was hard to leave my native city, but we have been received
warmly in St. Louis and we like it here. |

My interest in “political science,” of course, has never been
wholly impersonal and scientific! It is a good thing that the 1952
election campaign showed — as both candidates believed — that
a new political era is beginning, with new issues or at least new
approaches required to solve old problems. (To the freshmen
whom I teach, the Depression is as far-off a bit of history as the

[ 318 ] °

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Spanish War was to us in our college days.) It is a good thing,
too, that the country accepted, and has kept, the major measures
of the New Deal such as social security, the labor laws, and the
Tennessee Valley Authority. But today all such matters are sub-
ordinate to two great issues: human survival and human liberty.
How to prevent atomic war, without any yielding to Soviet ag-
ression, and how to reconcile our national security with our
individual freedom — these are the vital challenges today.

Most of us cannot do a very great deal about them. But as free
citizens we can sometimes do something; and we can and do try to
keep alive, in our own communities, the abiding values which
give meaning to life. To make this effort seems to me worth-
while, and affords me a fair measure of contentment. And when
the day’s work is done, and the professor homeward plods to a
boisterous welcome and a glowing hearth, I know that truly,
right at home, can be found the “durable satisfactions of life.”

HERVEY BERTRAND ELKINS

HOME ADDRESS: 303 Mill St., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 286 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 13, 1905, Bath, N. H. parents: Wendell Phillips Elkins, '88,
Ruth Dexter Conro.

PREPARED AT: Proctor Academy, Andover, N. H.

YEARS IN. COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; AM.
1930}; PH.D., 1933.

MARRIED: Frances M. Torrey, Sept. 19, 1931, East Northfield, Mass. cHILD:
Bradford Torrey, Jan. 3, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kimball Conro Elkins, ’27, a.M., °33.

OCCUPATION: Chemist, Massachusetts Department of Labor and Industries.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, captain, Chemical Warfare Serv-
ice, October, 1942, to October, 1945; served at Edgewood Arsenal,
Md., and CWS Laboratory at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

PusLications: Chemistry of Industrial Toxicology, Wiley; various papers
on chemistry and industrial hygiene.

CARL JOHAN PLATOU ELLIGERS

HOME Appress: 1 74th St., Brooklyn 9, N. Y.
OFFICE appRrEss: 101 Willoughby St. Brooklyn, N. Y.

[319]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Bors: July 22, 1906, Baltimore, Md. parents: Johan Elligers, Elizabeth
Platou.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: $.B. IN C.E. 1928.

marriep: Mary Haviland Bennett, June 8, 1935, Brooklyn, N. Y. cum:
Carl David, July 28, 1940.

occupation: Supervising accountant, New York Telephone Company.

ALLAN VELOISE ELLIS

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Orkney Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

oFFIceE ADpRESS: Lewis-Shepard Co., Watertown, Mass.

por: July 12, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Sidney Allan Ellis, Irene
Harwood.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

marriep: Dorothy Wigglesworth Porter, Oct. 1, 1932, Boston, Mass. (di-
vorced 1946); Martha G. Knapp, Aug. 2, 1947, Worcester, Mass. cHIL-
preN: Peter Wigglesworth, Aug. 11, 1933; Patricia H., July 19, 1936;
Wendy P., March 17, 1939; Charles R., Dec. 10, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harwood Elis, ’31.

occupation: Materials handling (primarily hydraulic lifting and stacking
devices), work in Production Department, Lewis-Shepard Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army Air Forces, May 18, 1942—March 24,
1943.

AFTER one year in the Harvard Business School (1929 to 1930)
I went to work for The Forbes Lithograph Company in Chelsea,
Massachusetts. Following a sales training course, I was assigned
successively to the Boston, Detroit, and Cleveland Sales branches.
I married a Boston girl in the fall, 1932; son Peter arrived in Cleve-
land in the summer, 1933. (He is now in the U. S. Navy, attached
to the destroyer, U.S. 5. Agerbolm in Korean waters. )

Returning to Boston as a result of the rather severe aftermath
of F.D.R.’s Bank Holiday in the Cleveland area, 1 became vice-
president and director of N. P. Dana & Company, a small concern
which became quite successful, providing a commodity advisory
service chiefly to cotton mills.

Mr. Dana moved the business to New York City in 1939, and
I decided to remain in Boston.

For the next three years I was actively engaged in raising ven-

[ 320]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ture capital for several small enterprises, together with taking part
in their management. Pearl Harbor abruptly terminated further
pursuit along these lines.

After receiving a medical discharge from the air force, I spent
the duration of World War II in a war plant producing muni-
tions. Primarily as a result of the stresses and strains of the war,
my first wife took off, and went to California with the three
children.

Turning over a new leaf in the book, I have “begun again at
my beginnings” — married again to a fine wife, have a small son
who is a great joy to us, and although not making much money,
we have a lot of fun.

Strictly non-conformist by nature, my life has been that of a
“Jone wolf” rather than that of a team man — quite likely ac-
counting for a varied and indecisive business career. Independent
thought and action, however, have many rewards, not necessarily
monetary — of that I can assure you from a wealth of personal
experience.

MOSES ELLIS, III

ADDRESS: 545 Pearl St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: April 27, 1905, Wellesley Hills, Mass. parents: Moses Ellis, Bertha
Lee Newell.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

MARRIED: Louise A. Dorsey, 1931, New York, N. Y. cHILDREN: Mary Ann,
August, 1934; Barbara Louise, May, 1937.

OccUPATION: Publishing.

HERBERT LOMBARD ELLISON

HOME ApprEss: 5 Leewood Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Oliver St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept, 20, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Albert Rutherford Ellison,
Carrie Eva Lombard.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. 1928,

MarRiED: Vivian Alice Bean, Nov. 26, 1931, Jaffrey, N. H. cuttpren: David
Lombard, May 4, 1933; James Craft, July 27, 1936; Susan, May 26, 1942.

[321]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

occupation: Public Relations Department, New England Telephone &
Telegraph Company,

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Communications codrdinator with defense
industries.
OFFICES HELD: Administrative vice-chairman, Districts Division, Community
Fund, 1947, 1948; member Speakers Bureau, Community Fund.
MEMBER OF: Wellesley Players Club; Harvard Varsity Club; Telephone

Pioneers, Wellesley College Barn Swallows.

FOR “Mother Bell” I have been talking myself hoarse. I have
given more than 800 talks to over 100,000 people in the past two
years, and the activity shows no sign of decreasing. I can talk to
everybody except my wife. She stops me cold.

My avocation is the stage. I’m a full-fledged member of Actor’s
Equity and of recent years have spent my summer vacations tread-
ing the boards. | have done much radio work and was on one
televi ision program. I spent three summers with the The Wellesley
Summer Theatre and last summer (1952) I was a member of the
resident cast of the Peterborough professional summer theater in
Peterborough, New Hampshire. I have had the distinct pleasure
of playing with some of the theatre’s “greats” — including:
Peggy Wood, Sylvia Sydney, Eva Le Gallienne, John Carradine,
Guy Kibbie, Thornton Wilder, and Olive Blakeney — oh boy!
Could I write a book about artistic temperaments!

My eldest boy turned his back on Harvard and went to Bow-
doin. My youngest son hasn’t made up his mind yet, but [’m
rooting for Harvard. My daughter seems inclined to Wellesley.

A word of praise for the finest “in-laws” a person could have
—D. D. Beans of Jaffrey, New Hampshire. They own and
operate D. D. Bean & Sons Company, the largest independent
book-match manufacturing company in the United States. J
married their daughter on Thanksgiving day in 1931, and I’ve
given thanks daily since then.

DAVID ATKINSON ELMS

HOME ApoRress: 634 Sixth Sc., Lakewood, N, J.
ormice apvress: Admiral Farragut Academy, Pine Beach, N. J.

purs: April 10, 1905, Boston, Mass, parents: Joseph Damon Elms, Jr.,

Annie Byron Atkinson.
ves panep at; Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

[ 322]

wr

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; A.M., 1929.

marriepD: Edna May Schnitzler, June 22, 1940, Lakewood, N. J. cHILpren:
Edward Richard, Aug. 21, 1941; Nancy Barbara, Nov. 7, 1944.

occuPATION: Head of Foreign Language Department, Admiral Farragut
_ Academy. .

PUBLICATIONS: Several book reviews for Commonweal and Social Studies
magazines, articles: “Approach to Medieval Research,” Commonweal,
April 8, 1938; “Thirteen Years After,” Ave Maria, July 9, 1938, “Mod-
ern Language Dilemma,” November, 1946, “Latin for the Atomic
Age,” January, 1948, Independent School Bulletin.

IF YOU can’t do, teach” is, I believe, a maxim of the late George
Bernard Shaw. But I decided on a teaching career ’way back in
the sophomore year of high school, and I can never remember
having deviated from that purpose in life. In spite of the fact
that I do not feel that teachers are adequately appreciated or pro-
perly paid for their important services, I still would not have it
essentially otherwise, were I to do it all over again. There have
been the mental stimulation of subject matter, the contact with
young minds, the fiduciary element, and finally the delightfully
long vacations — enjoyed by positively no other profession!

As an undergraduate I majored in history, government, and
economics. In 1929 I received my A.M. in history. But over half
of my teaching career has been concerned mostly with foreign
languages. So it is a lucky thing that I happened to get a good
foundation in French, Latin, Greek, and German during my
undergraduate years. Subsequently I took more courses to round
out my knowledge. After adding Spanish, I have acquired a read-
ing knowledge of Italian and Portuguese. Of late I have dipped
into Russian, but like St. Thomas Aquinas’ Svea (at least in one
respect! ), this should be mastered when one is fairly young! By
the way, I recommend to any of you who may have to get a
language quickly the use of phonograph records: notably, the
Linguaphone and ASTP courses. Aside from travel or contacts
with natives, there is no surer way to the indispensable ear-train-
ing. Likewise foreign movies are excellent. For prompt reading
knowledge, employ a well-known text like the Christian Gospels
or a novel (like one of R. L. Stevenson) translated into the de-
sired tongue. I have fortunately had opportunities to test my
fluency in France, Germany, Switzerland, Canada, Mexico, and
Cuba.

[ 323]

| 75-4 ppg tapsgaen pecans cert a em

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Of course I have missed teaching history which was my pre-
mice amour among studies. Six of my happiest years were as head
of that department at the Newman School in Lakewood, New
Jersey (now the Maryknoll Junior College). But today I en-
deavor to bring into my linguistic pedagogy a deal of so-called
civilization or cultural background. In this manner, plus my own
reading and the writing of some articles and book reviews and
several public addresses, I have managed to keep alive my memo-
rics of the lectures and seminars of Professors Abbort, McIlwain,
Haskins, Schlesinger, Sr., Mercier, and others.

My previous professional career has been summarized in the
two earlier Class Reports. Since 1943 I have been head of the
Foreign Language Department at the Admiral Farragut Academy,
“America’s first naval preparatory school” in Pine Beach, New
Jersey. Here I have found a pleasing atmosphere, both as to col-
leagues and type of educational institution. I consider that this
kind of school has a definite contribution to make to our country,
especially in these parlous times.

In June, 1940, I was married to Edna May Schnitzler (A.B,
New Jersey College for Women, 1932) in St. Cyril’s Chapel of
the Newman School. We have two children: Edward Richard,
born in 1941, and Nancy Barbara, born in 1944.

The family’s favorite recreation is motoring. We have to date
toured most of the high spots among the centers east of the Missis-
sippi River and also including French Canada and Havana, Cuba.
We are fond of our house and our garden. Tropical fish (still on
a modest scale) remain my chief indoor hobby.

I retain the religious and political preferences of my under-
graduate days. In religion I am Roman Catholic; in politics, an
Eisenhower Republican. Both persuasions I find conducive these
days to a perpetuation of “our American way of life.”

ROBERT ELZHOLZ

apoarss: 3 Melton Rd, Brighton, Mass.

sean: April 14, 1995, Cambridge, Mass. parents; Nathan Elzholz, Rose
Pond.

[ 324}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928(29); LLB., 1932 (33).
occuPATION: Lawyer. |

ERIC EMERSON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 2725 Glenwood Ave., Toledo 10, Ohio.

BoRN: May 17, 1905, Toledo, Ohio. PpaRENTS: Allen Hollister Emerson, Lulu
Leota Bower.

PREPARED AT: Scott High School, Toledo, Ohio, West Palm Beach High
School, West Palm Beach, Fla.; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Rachael Wiedeman Swisher, June 25, 1937, Toledo, Ohio.

occuPATION: Owner and sole employee, Emerson Delivery Service, pack-
age delivery.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Accepted for limited service, March 1943; served
over six months at Camp Perry, Ohio, Camp Maxey, Texas and Camp
Livingston, La.; honorably discharged Oct. 9, 1943, as technician sth
grade.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Toledo, Ohio.

PUBLICATIONS: Letters to the Editor, Toledo Blade.

THE year 1928 still pointed definitely towards the “West.”
My roommate and classmate of four years, B. B. Murphy, ac-
companied me. The apple harvest in Washington (exemplified
by Barclay Brauns, Bus. Ad. 1928), showered down a rich re-
ward of fifty cents an hour or five cents a box. The fabulous
ports of Vancouver, Portland, Seattle, and San Francisco were
not receptive to our desires for further adventures in the exotic
East. I spent two months in San Francisco selling vacuum clean-
ers (without a sale), then back to the near “West” in Port
Arthur, Texas. There followed two years with the Texas Com-
pany and good-bye to my dearly beloved. Then (between the
lines: ’twere better to die than to submit to F. D. R. and the
Democrats) I transferred to the Bayonne, New Jersey, terminal,
there were three years and good-bye to my dearly beloved. I
went back to mother in Toledo, Ohio. I haven’t been in a church
since marriage (between the lines: two years teaching Sunday
School, First Congregational Church).

Libbey-Owens-Ford and my dearly beloved (number three)
finally got me. Seven years with Libbey-Owens-Ford and then
came the war. There was a year with Willys-Overland and then

[ 325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

a short tour of army duty. I came back to civilian life, directing
operations for Central Bag & Paper — my lone triumph — making
considerable money for two friends and a very fair return for
myself. ‘Then came the war’s end and loose ends. I finally took
a partnership in a delivery business, then sole ownership in a
one-man show. Seven years in the business passed, but still very
smal] potatoes. I was just existing. I had no affluence, no family
(my mother, father, and two brothers moved to Florida, the
third brother to Illinois), and no incentive. I had a comfortable
home (in my wife’s name), a very pleasant summer cottage (in my
wife’s name), and a certain amount of security (in my wife’s
name), as an established teacher in the Toledo School system.
Father died in 1940, mother in 1947, leaving the remnants of a
once modest fortune to be divided among four sons. One brother
was a suicide in 1949 (but not financial), thus enhancing the mon-
etary outlook of the three survivors. Behold! Eric Emerson,
“boy” financier. The next few months should tell the story ...
apples for sale? :

GARDNER EMMONS

HOME ADDRESS: Knowlton Avenue, Mount Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Univ., University Heights, New York 53, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Wales Emmons, 24,
’95, Helen Brooks.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; A.M., 1931.

marRiED: Caroline Schroeder Johnson, Aug. 6, 1938, Jamestown, R. I.
CHILDREN: Caroline Seaton, Sept. 7, 1940; Nathaniel Franklin, July 7,
1942, Gardner, Jr., Nov. 25, 1944, Winston Schroeder, May 1, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Wales Emmons, ’20.

OCCUPATION: Scientist, research associate, weather studies, Research Divi-
sion, College of Engineering, New York University.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Civilian consultant, Weather Wing, U.S. Army
Air Forces, 1944-45.

OFFICES HELD: Associate meteorologist, U. S. Weather Bureau, 1936-38;
assistant professor of meteorology, 1938-42, associate professor of
meteorology, 1942-44, New York University; research associate, Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution, 1944-46, New York University, since
1946.

MEMBER oF: American Meteorological Society; Royal Meteorological So-
ciety; American Geophysical Union; American Geographical Society;

[ 326 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New York Academy of Sciences; Sigma Xi; Cruising Club of Amer-
ica; Royal Ocean Racing Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various technical papers and popular articles on subjects
coming under the general head of “weather.”

LAMBERT HIGH ENNIS

HOME ADDRESS: 200 Dempster St., Evanston, Ill.

orrice appress: Dept. of English, Northwestern University, Evanston, III.

BorN: June 7, 1906, Decatur, Ill. parents: William Stapp Ennis, 86, Marga-
ret High.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1928; A.M. 1930; PHLD.,
1936.

MarriED: Ellen Newby, Sept. 17, 1940, Los Angeles, Calif. crtttpren: Nancy
Putnam, Sept. 16, 1941; Margery Harrison, July 3, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Harrison Ennis, '27 (deceased).

occupaTION: Associate professor of English, Northwestern University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted Signal Corps Enlisted Reserve, June,
1942; called to active duty February, 1943; transferred as radar in-
structor to Oran, Algeria, September, 1943; and to Naples, Italy,
March, 1944; rank, staff sergeant; separated, October, 1945.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago, University Club of Evanston;
Caxton Club (Chicago); Signet Society (Harvard); American Asso-
ciation of University Professors, College English Association; Modern
Language Association of America.

pusications: Thackeray: The Sentimental Cynic, Northwestern University
Press, 1950; miscellaneous professional articles.

NOWADAYS a college teacher has to spend most of his class
time talking about himself to hold the wandering and fickle atten-
tion of youth corrupted by radio and comic books. Hence,
though self-revelation has become easy to me, to indulge in it
here would be a busman’s holiday. So I’ll try to make the rest
of this as impersonal as a bill of lading.

After the annus mirabilis, 1928, 1 decided to spend a few more
years under the elms of Harvard Yard. Study for the doctorate
in English was the best passport to this delightful occupation, but
finally the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences found it hard
to distinguish me from some of the younger elms. So they pushed
the degree into my hands and shoved me out into the “realm of
Chaos and Dark Night.”

[ 327 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Settled in my home town of Chicago, I embarked on the teach-
ing of English at Northwestern, an institution that — despite Rose
Bowl football teams and a reputation for whoop la — is surpris-
ingly becoming a major power in higher education. Four placid
years followed for me, spent in marking myriads of misspellings
and comma blunders in thousands of freshman themes. Between
these debauches with a red pencil there was time to scribble a
few articles on minutiae of Elizabethan bibliography and to travel
in the summer, usually to California, once as far as Hawaii.

Marriage in 1940 and the birth of a baby daughter in 1941
effected a most agreeable revolution in my mode of life, but this
new regime ended abruptly in 1942 with the advent of military
service. Signal Corps training as an enlisted man made me feel
at times as if freshman themes weren’t really too bad. But some
of the rigors were softened by a training period in Florida and
w eck-ends with my family how augmented by a second daughter.

Then came nearly two years in North Africa and Italy which
afforded such interesting experiences as teaching the theory of
radar to French officers with no English and no vocabulary of
their own to describe the equipment. Then came a period of
instilling the same subject — in English — into G.I.’s, and finally
and less pleasantly, supervising a crew of Italians as they packed
boxes full of telephones and radio sets.

V-E Day found me glad enough to quit the Italians and return,
with my family, to the house in Evanston that we’d built but
never inhabited before the war. Before long I was back at the red
pencil and comma blunders. In time, however, this chore shrank
to almost nothing, and I began to feel like an academic elder
statesman, teaching such subjects as the Renaissance Drama and
the Victorian Novel. Between times I wrote a little biography
of Thackeray.

My hobbies are reduced to three: looking at atlases and time
tables, watching my daughters grow, and sitting on the porch of
our summer cottage on Cape Cod, hypnotized by the Atlantic

surf into not worrying about such unfinished chores as writing
class biographies.

[ 328]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JACOB LUMER EPHROSS

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Park St., Kennebunk, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kent Cleaners, 7 Main St., Kennebunk, Maine.

BORN: June 30, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Israel W. Ephross, Bessie
Lumer.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

marriED: Gussie Cohen, Dec. 9, 1928, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Miriam Diane,
Nov. 9, 1929 (7. Melvin Edelstein, April 20, 1952); Leon Ezra, July 13,
1936; Leya Evelyn, May 14, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Operator, dry cleaning plant.

OFFICES HELD: President, Kennebunk-Kennebunkport Chamber of Commerce,
1949-51; secretary, Kennebunk Rotary Club, 1948-53; director, Kenne-
bunk Industrial Promotion Corporation, 1949-50, Kennebunk Free Li-

_ brary, 1950-53.

- JOSEPH EPSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 134 Pleasant St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shawmut Woolen Mills, Stoughton, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Louis Herman Epstein, Mar-

tha Bertha Basch.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928(29).

MARRIED: Doris Endlar, July 1933, Boston, Mass. cuiLp: Pauline Martha,
- April 4, 1939.

occupation: Manufacturing.

EMLEN POPE ETTING

HOME ADDRESS: 1922 Panama St., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

BORN: Aug. 24, 1905, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Emlen Pope Etting, Flor-
ence Lucas.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MarkigD: Gloria Braggiotti, June 20, 1938, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Artist.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT post: With the Voice of America in New York,
London, and Paris for the O. W. I.

OFFICES HELD: Philadelphia chairman, Artist Equity Association.

[ 329 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

rrauications: Articles and illustrations in Fortune, Town and Country,
This Week, Art News, and the Arlantic Monthly; translation, Paul
Valérv’s Graveyard by the Sea (and illustrations); Drawing the Ballet
(with own text); illustrations for Amerika by Kafka and Ecclesiastes:

one-man exhibits in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Boston, New York, and
Pans.

++ MORTON CORCORAN EUSTIS

porn: Sept. 18, 1905, New York, N. Y, parents: William Corcoran Eustis
Edith Livingston Morton.

prepareD at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

prep: Aug. 13, 1944, in France.

KILLED in action somewhere in France, First Lieutenant Mor-
ton Corcoran Eustis had been presented with the Silver Star for
his bravery in the Sicilian campaign. In college he was a mem-
ber of the Freshman Football Team, the Freshman Crew, Fresh-
man Smoker Committee, Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770, the
Stylus Club, and the A. D. Club. He followed his intended vo-
cation of journalism by joining the editorial staff of the Theatre
Arts Monthly and by contributing to periodicals. He published
two books: B’way, Inc.! and Players at Work, and before en-
listing in 1940 he had become associate editor of The Theatre
Arts Magazine in New York and a member of the New York
Herald Tribune’s staff. Eustis was the grandson of the late Levi

P. Morton, at one time United States vice-president, and was
survived by his mother and two sisters.

STANLEY WALTER FADDEN
HOME apogeEss: 846 Palmer Rd., Bronxville, N. Y.

orricz avoness: Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 26 Broadway, New York 4, N. Y.

Boan: Feb. 4, 1903, Glencoe, Minn. parents: Walter Bert Fadden, Edith
May Osgood.

Paeparen AT; Central High School, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1924-1927, DEGREE: 8.B, 1928.

mansiep: Helene Dirickx, Jan. 10, 1934, Makassar, Celebes, Indonesia. cuitp:
Edith Haines, Nov. 14, 1936. "

occupation: Assistant adviser, Retail Marketing and Foreign Trade Depart-
ment, Socony-Vacuum Oil Company. P

[330]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduation, I obtained a job with the Standard Oil
Company of New York in foreign service. They sent me to the
Netherland East Indies as a marketing assistant (salesman). After
five years, I became a branch manager in various areas such as
Sourabaya, Makassar, Batavia (now Djakarta), Palembong; and
subsequently in 1941, became general sales manager for the ter-
ritory.

Late in February, 1942, I escaped just ahead of the Japanese
invasion to Australia and thence to America. I served in the
Overseas Engineering Department, at the head office in New
York, in connection with the construction of African aviation
gasoline installation for the Air Force. I left the U.S.A. in late
1943 for Calcutta, India, and served until March, 1945, as Socony-
Vacuum operations manager, handling petroleum products for
the armed forces. From 1945 until the present, I have been |o-
cated with the Foreign Trade Department with headquarters in
New York.

MURRY NELSON FAIRBANK

HOME ADpRESS: 112 Clifton St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Polaroid Corp., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1906, Prescott, Ariz. PARENTS: Wallace Fairbank, °95, Jose-
phine Nelson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

marrieD: Nora Gladwin, April 13, 1939, Santa Barbara, Calif. cHILpREN:
Catherine, May 15, 1941; Owen Nelson, Nov. 25, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Nathaniel Kellogg Fairbank, ’24, s.B.. ’26, Beeckman
Livingston Fairbank, 734.

occuPATIoN: Engineering manager, Polaroid Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Belmont Red Cross.

MEMBER OF: St. Botolph Club, Boston; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Forty-five patents, mostly in fields of photography, instru-
ments, and optics.

THE sensation that has recurred most often in the past twenty-
five years is that of feeling relentlessly pursued by good luck.
My transition from college boy to a smooth- domed family type
got off to a relatively slow start, but at each stage along the way
I had the chance to do the things I wanted to do without being
beset by conflicts. When the opportunity came along to cruise

[331]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

in the South Seas, take a turn at independent business, or a few
months in New Guinea, or have an airplane to fly, things always
seemed to fit themselves nicely into the scheme. In getting mar.
ricd my luck has been even more profound.

The jobs I have had have been ones I liked, and involved mostly
the sort of things I would do anyway, if I had the chance—
fooling around airplanes and boats, experimenting with new ideas
and cooking up some of them into things that are in everyday
use, both military and civilian. The line between business and

pleasure is happily a very hazy one, mostly a matter of time or
pressure.

JOHN FAIRFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: 141 Revere Sc. Boston 14, Mass.
OFFice appress: Fairfield & Ellis, 60 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

porn: Aug. 9, 1905, Medford, Mass. parents: Herbert George Fairfield,
Katherine Kilman.

prepareD aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: 8.B. 1928.

Magniep: Esther K. Earle, June 1, 1936, Grand Rapids, Mich, CHILDREN:
John, Jr. April 4, 1938; Edward Earle, March 8, 1941; Lendol Nicker-
son, July 16, 1942.

occuPaTIoN: Parmer, Fairfield & Ellis, general insurance agency; president,
Old Colony Crushed Stone Company, Old Colony Construction Com-
pany of Quincy.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Massachusetts Institute of Technology Labora-
tory.

meneea or: Harvard Club; Algonquin Club; Tennis & Racquet Club;
Myopia Club, Eastern Yacht Club.

FIRST after college there was architectural school (Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology) as a special student, through four
years. Then I went abroad for a spell and back to an office and
the depression.

I ordinarily attribute my leaving the field to the fact that the
best men in it were selling apples on New York street corners (a
true statement). So a family insurance business seemed the only
solution and has filled the gap. With that has gone the running
of a stone-crushing plant, quarry, and construction business in

Quincy.
[ 332]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I spent some time at M. I. T. with Alan Bemis during the war,
but no service was involved, which I regret tremendously. The
next thing I can remember clearly is a doctor suggesting that I
sit down while he told me that I was walking about with a fairly
well-advanced case of tuberculosis.

Then, Saranac for most of a year. But, T.B. is stupid and no
fun, and the docs and I didn’t see always eye to eye and I am
sure they were delighted —if somewhat confounded — to sign
my discharge last November. As one doctor said, “Of course,
some day T.B. may be cured on an ambulatory basis, but that is
still some way off,” — meaning, I think, that they had had more
satisfactory patients. I still fail to appreciate his attitude, having
received what I felt was the full treatment.

_ And although at times it seems a long row, we do consider
ourselves most fortunate and, perhaps before too long, will be
able to attempt something at least mildly constructive.

HERBERT FARNSWORTH

HOME ADDREsS: Porter Road, Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 178 Atlantic Ave., Boston 10, Mass.

BoRN: March 9, 1906, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Jerome Carruth
Smith, ’95, Ethel Simonds.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

MARRIED: Nathalie Bartlett, Dec. 31, 1936, Andover, Mass. cHILDREN: Jerome,
Nov. 15, 1937; Noel Anne, Dec. 25, 1938: Martha Carruth, March 3,
1944:

occuPaTioNn: President and director, Quincy Market Cold Storage & Ware-
house Company, public refrigerated warehousing.

OFFICES HELD: President, Troy Warehouse Corporation (now), Fitz Ware-
house Corporation (now), North East Cold Storage Corporation
(now), The Refrigeration Research Foundation, 1951-53.

MEMBER oF: Union Club of Boston; Eastern Yacht Club; North Andover
Country Club.

MY BUSINESS address has never changed since I left the Busi-
ness School, not even during the war, as my direct government
services were of a part-time nature. My family and my work

keep me pleasantly and fully occupied. Bird dogs, hunting, fish-
ing, and badminton fill in the odd moments.

[ 333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

JAMES HAROLD FASSETT

HOME ADoRESS: 12 E, 7rst St, New York 21, N. Y.

orFice appress: Columbia Broadcasting System, 485 Madison Ave. New
York 22, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 27, 1904, Leominster, Mass. PARENTS: Lorenzo Joseph Fassett,
Helen Stearns Carter.

PREPARED AT: Leominster High School, Leominster, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREES: A.B. (Dartmouth Coll.), 19295 AM.
(Harvard Univ.), 1930.

occupation: Radio.

CHARLES FRANCIS FAWSETT, JR.

HOME aporEss: P. O. Box 186, Orlando, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 419 W. Robinson, Orlando, Fla.

BorN: Aug. 6, 1905, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Charles Francis Fawsett,
Florence Barnard.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. 1928(29).

MARRIED: Elizabeth Robinson, Dec. 8, 1934, Orlando, Fla. cuitpren: Charles

Robinson (Robin), Dec. 17, 1939; Jeffery Curtis, Oct. 23, 194I-
OCCUPATION: Citrus grower.

GEORGE RYDER FAXON

HOME appress: 480 Centre St., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1909, Utica, N. Y. parents: Archer Linwood Faxon, Katha-
rine Hall.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; s.m. (Univ. of
New Hampshire), 1932.

MaRRieD: Janet Dunlop, April 14, 1934, Spring Valley, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Sandra H., April 21, 1938; Sally V., April 14, 1940; Jean M., Jan. 19,
1943.

occuparion: Education.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Special Services Division, Army, 1943-463 lec-
turer and executive, Paris Information and Ed. School; executive, Guid-
ance Dept., Biarritz American University.

[ 334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOYCE NATHANIEL FELDMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 415 Central Park W., New York 25, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 125 Broad St., New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1907, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Lewis Feldman, Sarah Klein.

PREPARED AT: Newark High School, Newark, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1928; Jp. (New York
Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Levin, April 7, 1931, New York, N. Y. cyitp: Carol
Ann, April 9, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Exporter-importer, president, Forbex Corporation.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Government appeal agent.

I WAS admitted to the Bar in 1937. After practising for a few
years, I turned to business. Now I have my own export-import
business, which requires occasional trips to various foreign mar-
kets.

My chief hobbies are music, particularly chamber music, and
tennis. I still knock out three to four hours of tennis of a sum-
mer’s afternoon. My wife being a pianist (a music minor at
Smith, Class of 1928), and my daughter Carol a ’cellist, we have
our own family trio.

My daughter being a student at Music and Art High School,
I have become active in Parent Association activities. Whoever
would have predicted this?

We have frequent trios and quartets at the house and would
welcome any local classmates who would meet to join the fun.

(Feldman is on a business trip to South and Central America;
his wife was kind enough to send us the information above. Ed.)

FRANCIS EMMONS FELLOWS

appress: Hq. 513th M.S. Group, A.P.O. % P.M., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 15, 1905, Hyde Park, Mass. parents: Edward St. Clair Fellows,
Alice Mabel York.

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Hyde Park, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREE: 8.8. (U.S. Military Academy), 1929.

MarRigD: Marjorie Miller, April, 1930; Louise P, Dodge, Nov. 1, 1946, Fort
Leavenworth, Kans, cHitpren: Dan Edward, April 10, 1931; Mary B.
Harlow, June 10, 1933 (stepchild); Constance W. Harlow, Sept, 12,

[ 335]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

1935 (stepchild); Faith, Nov. 8, 1936, Elizabeth D. Harlow, Dec. 29,
194g (stepchild).
occtvparion: Colonel, U.S. Army.

  

HUGH McLEOD FENWICK

aporess: 250 Park Ave, New York 17, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 17, 1905, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Frederick McLeod Fen-
wick, Agnes Keese Duff.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

Magriep: Millicent V. Hammond, June 13, 1932, Bernardsville, N. J. cum-
brew: Mfary Stevens, Feb. 2, 1934, Hugh H., Jan. 29, 1937.

occupaTiON: Transportation, with Transair, Inc.

EDWARD JACOB FERBER

HOME Appress: 831 Afonroe Ave., Scranton 10, Pa.
OFFICE ApprEss: Central High School, Scranton 10, Pa.

BoRrN: Sept. 30, 1907, Scranton, Pa, parents: Jacob Dennis Ferber, Josephine
Herrmann.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Scranton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; A.M., 1930.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Teacher, Central High School.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served from Nov. 20, 1942, to May 2, 1946,

Pacific Theatre.

AT THIS time there is nothing of importance to report. Since
“life begins at forty” I am, of course, just getting under way.
No doubt in the near future I shall travel around the world,
marry an heiress, adopt several girls and a few boys, write the
novel, the short stories, the essays my many friends have urged
me to do. After teaching these twenty-some years, my ambition
is to write something the coming generations must accept as re-
quired reading in, say possibly, 1999.

HASKEL SIMON FERBER

Home aposess: 18 Brookline Ave. Albany, N. Y.
ovrice Avoness: Carl Co., Schenectady, N. Y.

moan: July 17, 1907, Hoosick Falls, N. Y, parents: Ellis Ferber, Fannie
Simon.

[ 336 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Albany Academy, Albany, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MARRIED. CHILDREN: Two.

HARVARD SON: Peter Haskel Ferber, °54.
OccUPATION: Mercantile Business.

JAMES LAIRD FICKINGER

HOME ADDRESS: 2668 Center St., Ingram P. O., Pittsburgh 5, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Superior Steel Corp., Carnegie, Pa.

BORN: May 6, 1906, Sewickley, Pa. parents: Frank Evans Fickinger, Julia
Tressler.

PREPARED AT: Sewickley High School, Sewickley, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREE: A.B. (Allegheny Coll.), 1928.

MARRIED: Edith Louise Bentz, June 2, 1930, Sewickley, Pa.

occupation: Manufacturing.

ERLUND FIELD

HOME ADDRESS: 86 Concord Rd., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 86 Western Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 20, 1904, Weston, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Blake Field, Grace
Rebekah Olsen.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Dorothy Beryl Unite Finch, May 30, 1930, Beaconsfield, England.
CHILDREN: Grace Elizabeth, March 31, 1931 (m. Robert L. Bergen, Jr.,
June 11, 1951); Lesley Beryl and Jennifer Unite, Feb. 2, 1934 (twins);
Peder Olsen, June 16, 1937. GRANDCHILD: Beryl Field Bergen, Feb. 23,
1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Olsen Field, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, sales manager, Whitty Company, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: State Guard, First Corps of Cadets, 1941-45.

OFFICES HELD: Director, South End Association, Ellis Memorial & Eldridge
House; trustee, Waltham (Mass.) Hospital; president and treasurer,
New England Stoker Association.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Heating & Ventilating Engineers; Har-
vard Engineering Society; Harvard Club of Boston.

THE year following graduation found me in England as a Barnett
Fellow, commissioned by the National Federation of Settlements
to investigate Old Age Pension Systems for the Massachusetts

[ 337]

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

and New York State Legislatures. I also wrote reports on Juve-
nile Vagrancy, Boys’ Club work, and other related subjects. |
also delivered lectures to many organizations in England.

The last davs found me engaged to Beryl Finch, to whom I
was married the next May. Meantime, [ was employed by the
Amoskeag Company in their Boston office under one of the last
of our “money-barons,” F. C. Dumaine.

His excellent tutelage prepared me to become identified with
the Whitty Company in 1934. Their efforts to manufacture a
line of stokers kept me busy, mostly at the sales end, through the
War. Since then, their products have been widened to cover all
the important phases of commercial and industrial heating. My
job is bringing i in the business and expanding the company’s sphere
of activity.

I have maintained my interest in Boston’s social problems, cen-
tered chiefly around the betterment of conditions in an expanding
and changing South End.

Incidentally, I presume that I have been partially responsible
for the rearing of four children: the eldest now the wife of a
graduate student at Cornell, the twins at Centenary and Lake
Erie Junior College, and the son at Dublin School.

The legacy my years at Harvard left me were two: (1) Edu-
cation is not WHAT you learn, but the FOUNDATION on
which your whole life is built; (2) the lasting nature of the friend-
ships I made were based, not on the NUMBER of times I experi-
enced them, but on the ONE time when an individual and I es-
tablished a DIRECT relationship.

ROBERT FIENBERG

HOME Aporess: Timber Lane, Cochituate, Mass.

orFicy appress: Veterans Administration Hospital, Boston 30, Mass.

Born: Nov. 26, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Ellis Fienberg, Etta Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. Decrees: A.B. cum laude, 1928; M.D. 1932.

MARRIED: Norma Parsons Littlewood, Sept. 13, 1937, Cranston, R. I. cHip:
Robert Littlewood, March 16, 1939.

occuPATioN: Physician, pathologist, chief of Laboratory Service.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Colonel, Army Medical Corps, May 21, 1941-
Feb. 4, 1946, United States and European theatres.

[ 338]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, 1951-52, vice-president, 1950-51, New England
Pathological Society; chairman, Section of Physiology and Pathology,
Massachusetts Medical Society, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: New England Pathological Society; Massachusetts Medical
Society; American Association of Pathologists and Bacteriologists;
American Society of Clinical Pathologists, International Association
of Medical Museums; American Medical Association; Association of
Military Surgeons of the United States; New England Cancer Society;
College of American Pathologists; Massachusetts Association of Blood
Bank Directors. ‘

PUBLICATIONS: Medical papers on talcum powder granuloma, endometrial
sarcoma, hemangio endothelioma of tibia; Madura Foot in a native
American; osseous Gaucher’s Disease; involution of rheumatoid nodules
with cortisone, primary endocardial sclerosis, focal necrotizing myo-
carditis, necrotizing granulomatosis with anguitis and its relationship
to chronic pneumonitis of the cholesterol type.

THE transition between college where the sciences had claimed
most of my time and the Harvard Medical School was imper-
ceptible. Ihe four years in the latter institution passed rapidly
and then came a rotating clinical internship in Cleveland and sub-
sequently three years of training in the specialty of pathology in
Boston. A year as pathologist of the State Mental Hospital in
Rhode Island was followed by more than three years in the lab-
oratory of the newly opened State Cancer Hospital in Westfield,
Massachusetts. As a first lieutenant of the Army Reserve, I was
summoned in 1941 to the Lovell General Hospital at Fort Devens,
Massachusetts, where I set up the laboratory and remained as
‘chief of the laboratory service for almost three years. In March,
1944, I found myself on a troop ship with the 184th General
Hospital destined for Mansfield, England. Here I remained for
almost two years still chief of a laboratory service but now a
lieutenant-colonel.

In February, 1946, I was discharged from the Army with the
rank of colonel and accepted the position of pathologist and chief
of the laboratory service at the Cushing Veterans Administration
Hospital in Framingham, Massachusetts, where I worked until
August, 1952, when I was transferred to the new Boston Veterans
Administration Hospital as chief of the laboratory service, Lately
I have become an instructor in pathology at the Harvard Medical
School where in accordance with the rules and regulations of the

[ 339 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Veterans Administration, I serve without pay, thus repaying to
some extent the debt I owe to the university.

ALVIN WILLIAM FILSTRUP, JR.

HOME ADpress: 1661 Mfiami Rd, Benton Harbor, Mich.

OFFice aporess: Covel Manufacturing Co. Benton Harbor, Mich.

Born: Nov. 18, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Alvin William Filstrup, Ger-
trude Andersen.

PREPARED AT: Benton Harbor High School, Benton Harbor, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

Markiep: Annie Nowlen, May 5, 1935, Benton Harbor, Mich. (died June
2, 1936); Elaine Hogenson, Nov. 24, 1937, Hinsdale, Ill. cHipren:
Alvin William, 3d, May 27, 1940; Scott H., April 4, 1942.

occupation: Manufacturer, machine tools and coal mining machinery, sec-
retary-treasurer, director, Covel Manufacturing Company; president
and director, Armstrong Coalbreak Company.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club, Berrien Hills Country Club; Harvard Engineer-
ing Society; Harvard Club of Chicago; American Philatelic Society;
American Numismatic Association.

AFTER graduation I decided to have some outside experience
before joining our family company. Therefore I accepted em-
ployment in the Investment Analysis Division of the Illinois Mer-
chants Trust Company in Chicago. During the year I worked
there they merged with the Continental Bank to form the Con-
tinental-Illinois Bank & Trust Company, the world’s largest bank
under one roof.

In August, 1929, | returned to Benton Harbor and started with
Covel Manufacturing Company, builders of machine tools, saw-
sharpening machinery, and grey iron castings. I worked at vari-
ous jobs, including salesmanager of the Foundry Division, dealing
principally with the motorcar builders in Detroit. It is well-
known what happened to the machine too] and foundry business
during the thirties, and our company had it as hard as any during
the depression.

In 1937 I married Elaine Hogenson of Hinsdale, Illinois, whose
grandfather had been a partner with my grandfather in the real
estate business in Chicago during the nineties. We have two boys,
Alvin, 3d, known as Fil born in 1940 and Scott, born in 1942.
Both are rabid baseball fans — Scott for the Tigers and Fil for

[ 349 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Yankees. So for the past four years Fil has been a very happy
bo

During the war we were rushed with our machine tool busi-

ness, So we disposed of our saw-sharpening machinery business.
Foreseeing the surplus of machine’ tools that would be available
after the war, we looked for some other activity for our factory.
After much investigation we decided to manufacture high pres-
sure air Compressors to compress air to 12,000 pounds per square
inch for use in breaking coal from the underground mining faces
in place of explosives. The development of this took about five
years, and just as we were getting going we had a patent suit
from our only competitor. This dragged on for a couple of years,
and we lost in the Federal District Court but won a reversal in
the Appeals Court which was upheld by the U. S. Supreme Court.
The company we organized to handle this activity was the Arm-
strong Coalbreak Company. This spring the Olin Industries of
East Alton, Illinois, acquired an interest in this company and are
now handling the sales and distribution of this equipment. The
use of high pressure air to break coal in place of explosives pro-
motes greater safety in coal mining, and we believe this part of
our business will expand greatly over the next few years. —

I have been active in the Machine Tool Builders Association
for the past ten years, attending most of their meetings and shows.
For the past few years we have been fortunate enough to spend
a month in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, each winter. Summers are
always enjoyable in Benton Harbor which is on Lake Michigan,
so we get plenty of swimming and boating. I play a little golf
and break one hundred once in a while. Elaine has been a den
mother for the Cub Scouts the past three years, and I was pack
chairman one year. Fil is now active in the Boy Scouts, and I am
helping to get his troop functioning properly.

My hobbies are stamp and coin collecting, but at present I am
not very active. I have attended several conventions of the Ameri-
can Philatelic Society and American Numismatic Association.

HERBERT GEORGE FINN

HOME AppREss: 11 Sagamore Ave., Medford, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 520 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

[ 341 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928
BoRN: Nov. 1, 1907, Malden, Mass. parents: John Richard Henry Finn,
Katherine Frances Keenan.
PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1928; Mo»,
1932.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Mary Doherty, Aug. 24, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sheila, June 12, 1938; Deirdre, Sept. 13, 1940; John, April 23, 1942;

Richard, Feb. 8, 1934; Brenda, May 24, 1947; Kathleen, Feb. 1, 1949.
OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U. S. Naval Reserve,
Medical Corps, 1943-46.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in surgery, Tufts College Medical School; member
surgical staffs, several Boston and Greater Boston hospitals; member
Massachusetts Committee on Trauma, American College of Surgeons.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Alpha Omega Alpha; American College of

Surgeons (fellow).
PUBLICATIONS: Few professional articles, medical literature.

AT FORTY-FIVE, I am a man singularly without distinction,
who longs for nothing more than donning a pair of patched
pants, lying on the sod, sucking a blade of grass, and looking at
the sky. When ambition occasionally spurs me, I like nothing
better than to fight the good earth with a hoe, get dirt under my
fingernails, and work in the hot sun until I smell like an Irish
farmer.

If my interests were any narrower, they could be compressed
into a straight line — my job and my family. My reading is con-
fined to Medical Journal A, B, C, D, E, or F, and I am constantly
engaged in a hectic struggle to make smaller an ever growing
mountain of half-read professional periodicals. Occasionally I
dip into Time magazine as an extra-curricular soporific. When I
really want to have a fling, I go to some distant city like New
York to sit enthralled as some confrere expostulates on the di-
minished urinary excretion of the seventeen-hydroxy sterids fol-
lowing total adrenalectomy in the Rhesus monkey.

My naiveté is unbelievable. Only the other day did I hear the
story of the birds and the bees. Fortunate for me that I did since
we own no dictionary of proper names and, if the family grows
any larger, I shall have to put even the girls out on the paper
route.

I still prefer to vote the Democratic ticket and, like all others
who have nothing, believe in sharing the wealth of those who

[ 342 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have. My business efforts at converting this belief into an actuality
are miserably ineffectual, however. I have been agreeably sur-
prised by the affect of the ascendancy of the Republican Party
on the price of beef. We have thus been enabled to graduate
from chuck roast to bottom of the round.

To continue this dreadful saga of the very ordinary man, I make
out an honest income tax return, very unemotionally attend
church services every Sunday, and, very rarely, meditate upon
the reason for my being here at all. My toothpaste has no chloro-
phyll, my shirts no monograms, and my autonomic nervous system
functions quite independently of whatever higher centers I ‘May
possess.

ROSS ALEXANDER FISHER

BORN: May 25, 1908, Jordan, Ont., Canada. parents: Oswald Metcalfe Fisher,
_ Deborah Dorothy Rothschild.

PREPARED AT: Royal Oak High School, Royal Oak, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

DIED: Sept. 20, 1932, Tampa, Fla.

FISHER studied abroad after leaving college. He was a member
of Phillips Brooks House from 1926 to 1927.

SAMUEL FISHMAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 Echo St., Brockton, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1907, Brockton, Mass. parents: Isaac Fishman, Luby Marks.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927, 1932-1933. DEGREES: A.B., 1928( 33)5 s.M. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 19qo.

Marrigp: Sylvia Magid, June 7, 1944, Larchmont, N. Y.. CHILDREN: Mark
Ira, Sept. 25, 19453 Harriet Ann, May 23, ros50.

OCCUPATION: Public accountant.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Boston Ordnance District, War Department,

1942-43.

[ 343 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

RODNEY GORDON FISKE

HOME AporESS: 189 W. s8th St, New York 19, N. Y.

orFice aporess: Baker, Weeks & Harden, 1 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

Bors: Dec. 17, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: John Sage Fiske, Ida
Johnson Gordon.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

miarriep: Brenda Dahlen, Aug. 21, 1936, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leigh Gordon Fiske, °32.

occuparion: Stock brokerage; statistician and customers’ representative;
executive assistant to parmer in charge of research.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R., June, 1942-
January, 1946, United States Theatre.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Air Raid Warning Center, New York, N. Y,,
January-June, 1942.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Society for Metals;
American Insucute of Mining & Metallurgical Engineers.

  

FOR the first four years after graduation, I sold securities for
Dillon, Read & Company, both in Washington and New York.
Joined Munds, Winslow & Potter in 1933 as statistician, where I
remained until March, 1936, when I went to H. C. Wainwright
& Company, first as a statistician, then as a customers’ representa-
tive. Joined Baker, Weeks & Harden in the spring of 1938, in
the dual capacity of statistician and customers’ representative.
There I have remained ever since, with time out for World War
Il.

Started service in the U. S. Naval Reserve in June, 1942, as a
lieutenant. After indoctrination at Quonset Point, Rhode Island,
I was stationed at the Philadelphia Navy Yard as assistant district
transportation officer. In January, 1943, I was transferred to Cape
May, New Jersey, as air controller under Joint Operations,
fourth Naval District and the Eastern Sea Frontier. In the sum-
mer of 1944 I was again transferred to Deputy Chief of Naval
Operations (Air), Navy Department, Washington, D. C., to help
set up new naval aircraft records system. Promoted to lieutenant
commander in summer of 1945. Became section head two months
prior to detachment to inactive duty in November, 1945. After
terminal Jeave, I returned to Baker, Weeks & Harden.

Since graduation, hobbies have consisted of Boston Terriers,
bridge and Canasta, and, athletically, golf, swimming, Squash

[ 344 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rackets, and squash tennis. I won the New York City Class “B”
squash tennis tournament in 1942. In the spring of 1952 I was
elected secretary of the National Squash Tennis Association.

I visited Europe in the summer of 1928, going to England,
France, Spain, and Italy. In the summer of 1952 I took a freight-
er trip from Baltimore via the Panama Canal to Wilmington,
California.

I consider myself an independent v voter, but have voted Repub-
lican since 1928. :

+ WILLIAM BUTLER FITZGERALD

porn: Aug. 1, 1951, Boston, Mass. parents: William Thomas Aloysius Fitz-
_ gerald, Ellen Teresa Butler.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1926.

piep: Aug. 1, 1951, Boston, Mass.

THE information available concerning William Butler Fitz-
gerald is meagre. He replied in only one Report of our Class,
stating that he was working for the Boston Park Department at
that time (1938). Apparently he lived in Boston until his death.

GEORGE AUSTIN FLAGG

HOME AppRESS: 1127 Worthington St., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: MacDuffie School for Girls, Springfield 5, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1906, Springfield, Mass. PARENTS: George Forrestall Flagg,
Jessie Amelia Jones.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cuz laude, 1928(29)5 4 A.M. (Co-
lumbia Teachers Coll.), 1938.

MARRIED: Eleanor Jennie Scovell, Dec. 21, 1935, Scranton, Pa. CHILDREN:
Barbara Ellen, Sept. 6, 1940; Carol Ann, June 30, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Assistant headmaster, teacher of mathematics, MacDuffie School
for Girls, private college preparatory school.

OFFICES HELD: President, Parent Teacher Organization, Tapley Elementary
School, Springfield, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Reality Club of Springfield.

IN SEPTEMBER, 1929, I took a position as head of the mathe-
matics department at Keystone Academy in La Plume, Pennsy]-
vania. I stayed at Keystone for three years and in the summer of

.* [ 345 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

1932 did graduate work in Education at Cornell University. Dur-
ing the year 1932 to 1933 1 substituted for the head of the mathe-
matics department at Montclair Academy, Montclair, New Jer-
sey, and from there went in the fall of 1933 to the Wooster
School, a private preparatory school for boys in Danbury, Con-
necticut. The following nine years I was head of the mathematics
department at Wooster and coach of hockey. In 1942 I was made
senior master at Wooster which position I held until June, 1950.
I was married to Eleanor Jennie Scovell of Scranton, Pennsyl-
vania, in December, 1935, and our first child was born at Danbury
in 1930—a daughter, Barbara Ellen. In July, 1947, our second
daughter, Carol Ann, was born also at Danbury. Moreover, I
attended Teachers College, Columbia, during the summers of
1934, 1935, 1936, 1937, and 1938 when I received my A.M. in
Education from Columbia. In August, 1950, we moved to
Springfield, Massachusetts, where I became assistant headmaster
of the MacDufhie School for Girls which is a private college pre-
paratory school with an enrollment of 140 girls. During the last
two years I have held the position of president of the Tapley
Elementary School Parent Teacher Association,. have been a
member of the Reality Club of Springfield, and have been a teach-
er of a Sunday School class of girls of high school age.
To date I have had what I consider an ideal life. By working
with young people I feel that I have remained young myself.

H. SHERWOOD FLATHER

HOME ADpRESS: 5620 Greentree Rd., Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc., 1231 24th St. N.W.,
Washington 7, D. C.

Born; Dec. 9, 1903, Brookline, Mass. parents: Harry Edward F lather, Hel-
en Heath.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

MargieD: Louise Wall, Aug. 1, 1936, Wellesley, Mass. (divorced July, 1946);
Florence Hoblin, May 1, 1947, Crestwood, N. Y. cHtLpren: Stephanie
Heath, Oct. 1, 1948, Roberta Joyce, Nov. 12, 1950.

occupation: Director of Sales, Bureau of National Affairs, Inc., publishers
of reports, loose-leaf services, and books on legal and economic subjects
with emphasis on administrative Jaw and regulations affecting business.

MILITARY OR NAVAL necogD: Naval Air Reserve, 1927~1929.

[ 346 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFIcES HELD: Member, Board of Directors, Bureau of National Affairs, Inc.,
1947-49; secretary, Sales Executives Club of Washington, 1951-52;
chairman, Education Committee, SEC of Washington, 1952-53; chair-
man, Building Fund Committee, All Souls Memorial Church, Washing-
ton, D. C., 1950; delegate-at-large, United Community Services, Wash-
ington, D. C.; member, Admissions Committee, Family and Child Wel-
fare, 1952-53.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.
SINCE college will be twenty-eight years for me this spring
instead of the twenty-five it will for most of our classmates. ‘The
fact that I did not return to college after freshman year, and that
I am now employed by a company in the nation’s capital, and
all the chain of events in between can probably be attributed to
“the little man who wasn’t there” on a Monday morning in June,
1925. Except for him, my whole story would undoubtedly be a
different one.

On that particular Monday morning T had an appointment with
a city official in my home town of Nashua, New Hampshire, to
talk about a summer vacation job on a road construction project.
The gentleman in question was not in his office when I called
at the appointed time. Planning to call back later, I stopped by
my father’s office. He was just leaving for Boston and asked if
I wanted to drive in with him. I decided to take advantage of the
opportunity to see what, if any, vacation jobs might be available
through the student employment office at Wadsworth House in
Harvard Square. I reached there in time to be interviewed and
accepted for a position as private tutor for the summer on rong
Island, New York..

Before the summer was over, I was asked if I would like to
stay on as tutor during the school year and accompany the
family on an extended trip through Europe, North Africa, and
Asia. It was a tempting offer and after weighing the setback of
one year in college, the educational value of the trip, and the
prospect of becoming Harvard ’29 instead of Harvard ’28, I
bought it. Unfortunately, illness in the family five days before
sailing time resulted in cancellation of the trip abroad. Later,
however, we went to California, where we had a pleasant three
months in and around Santa Barbara, including meeting class-
mate Rod Fiske’s family.

[ 347 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

FRANK FLEISCHAKER, JR.
HOME ADDRESS: 2338 Village Drive, Louisville, Ky.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1400 Cedar St., Louisville, Ky.

Bors: Oct. 6, 1906, Louisville, Ky. PARENTS: Frank William Fleischaker,
Edna Levy.

PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

carried: Elinor B. Hirsch, June 12, 1934, Louisville, Ky. cump: Ann B,
April 24, 1936.

occupation: Vice-president, Hirsch Bros. & Company, manufacturers of
Paramount Foods (condiments).

OFFICES HELD: President, Congregation Adath Israel, 1947-50; treasurer,
Standard Country Club, 1948-52; member Board of Trustees, Jewish
Hospital, since 1952, Temple Adath Israel, 1940-52.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club; Standard Country Club, American Council

for Judaism; Harvard Club of Kentucky; B’nai B’rith; Adath Israel's
Men’s Club.

I WAS born and bred in old Kentucky, the land of beautiful
women and fast horses.

I returned to my native state following my graduation to enter
the field of investment banking. Having survived the Crash of
1929 (without having to jump from a “Louisville skyscraper”),
I saw that if I wanted “The Sun to Shine Bright in my Old Ken-
tucky Home” I had better divest myself of the hazardous and
speculative brokerage business and search about for a more fertile
field of endeavor.

As you can well recall, during the “Depression Thirties” our
nation was in a terrific “pickle,” and it was at that time that |
decided to depart from the Stock Market and to enter the Pickle
Market.

During my formative years as a manufacturer of condiments,
I married Elinor and our only child, Ann, was born. Ann is now
“sweet sixteen” and is attending Edgewood Park, a college pre-
paratory school near New York City.

Throughout World War II, our many and varied Paramount
Pickles were consumed by our Armed forces in all parts of the
world, Pickles for the first time in history had come of age and
now occupy an enviable position in our daily diet.

My relaxation periods have been spent in sports activities, par-

[ 350]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ticularly golf and tennis, and as an interested spectator in the more
vigorous active sports.

I know that in our Harvard Class of 1928, the business pro-
fessions have been many and varied. However, I believe that I
hold the questionable distinction of being the only Class Member
who made his livelihood in pickles!

JOHN GEORGE FLEMMING

HOME ADDRESS: 122 Winsor Ave., Watertown 72, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Franklin St., Boston, Mass. .

BORN: July 5, 1907, St. Pauls, N. S., Canada. parents: Isaac Horace Flem-
ming, Catherine Fraser.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; LLB.
cum laude (Northeastern Univ.), 1932.

MARRIED: Bernice Eleanor Lindegren, March 25, 1945, Everett, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: Joan Linda, Sept. 22, 1946; John Bruce, Oct. 24, 1950.

occupation: Trust officer, Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned ensign, U. S. Coast Guard, July 5,
1942; operations officer (convoy expedition work), Cape Cod Canal,
July, 1942-November, 1943; attended U. S. C. G. Reserve Officers Train-
ing School, St. Augustine, Fla., December, 1943-April, 1944; legal officer
and recorder, Summary Courts Martial, U. S. C. G. Receiving Station,
Boston, October, 1944-March, 1945, defense counsel, General Court
Martial Proceedings First Naval District; naval transportation officer,
legal officer, watch officer, U. S. S. General Howse, June, 1945-October,
1945, Pacific area; separated as lieutenant, January, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director, Cummings Motor Sales, Inc., New-
port, R. I.

MEMBER OF: Bank Cashiers Association, Boston; Bank Officers Association of
Boston; American Legion.

AFTER Commencement I first worked for the Great ft Atlantic and
Pacific Tea Company in the Cost Accounting Division and en-
rolled in a law course at Northeastern University evenings. Just
before that fateful day in 1929 I decided to cast my lot with the
Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company and except for three and
a half years of naval service I have been continuously in the em-
ploy of this fine corporate fiduciary.

Shortly after receiving a law degree in June, 1932, I was ad-
mitted to the Massachusetts Bar. The legal training and back-
ground I acquired have been invaluable aids in connection with

[351 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

the many complicated and involved situations with which I have
been confronted as a trust officer daily engaged in the administra-
tion of estates and trusts of varied nature and content. There are
many fascinating aspects of fiduciary service. Perhaps one of the
most satisfying experiences is the development with persons of
widely varying age and experience of a relationship of mutual
trust and confidence without which sound advice cannot be given
and wise decisions made. It is an experience to administer a trust
fund for a beloved animal. It is a pleasure to help settle the
estate of a loval son of Harvard who bequeaths the rest, residue,
and remainder of his estate to this grand institution of learning.

My hobbies since 1928 have reflected somewhat the changes
which the years have brought physically. I played basketball
for several years until the office spread made the aftermath of this
physically exacting sport too painful. Tennis was fun for several
years until doubles became almost a must. After a few seasons of
fishing rather unsuccessfully in a limited area locally, I turned to
golf. I am an occasional weekend golfer who rejoices to break
one hundred and raves over that one fine shot per round enough
to want to come back for more if and when an opportunity
presents itself.

In matters of religion I was Presbyterian at birth, became a
Methodist during adolescence, and have been interested in the
activities of a Congregational church since marriage and the birth
of our children. Religion, it seems to me, is the daily manifestation
in our lives and activities of a faith in a force and power far
beyond human limitations whose guidance we seek each in his
own way. |

Politically I have been consistently a Republican. Despite the
fact that “other things are seldom equal” I am still conservative
enough to believe that adherence to the principles of economics
as taught us as undergraduates, supplemented by a sympathetic
understanding of the economic and social changes which the tre-
mendous industrial growth of the past twenty-five years has oc-
casioned would provide a sound basis for a national economy
which would truly promote, in the long run, “the greatest good
for the greatest number.” I feel that most Americans recognize
the great social needs and problems which the New Deal-Fair
Deal politicians have used to justify the mortgaging of our eco-

(352 ]

i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nomic life but are far from satisfied with the efforts which have
been made to resolve them. I hope and trust the present ad-
ministration will make substantial progress in its search for a
sound and permanent solution to the national and international
problems of security, freedom from want, and the provision of
full, free, and adequate economic and social opportunity for all
which it would seem is the principal cause of the world-wide
tension in which we presently live,

As a student I found at Harvard invaluable sources of inspira-
tion and guidance. With the passing years I feel I am more and
more indebted to Harvard for the many ways in which it has
helped to influence my life and particularly my efforts to appreci-
ate the problems of the world in which we live.

I am looking forward to the time when Bunny and I may en-
trust to Harvard and to one of her sister institutions of learning
the responsibility of helping to guide our most precious assets,
John Bruce and Joan Linda, to a full understanding of life and its
true values,

HARRY MAYNARD FLETCHER, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 95 Milton Ave., Hyde Park 36, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 405, City Hall Annex, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 19, 1906, Allston, Mass, PARENTS: Harry Maynard Fletcher, An-
nie Elizabeth McGeoch.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Smith, Oct. 17, 1931, Boston, Mass. cuiLp: Stephen
Maynard, Feb. 26, 1936.

OccUPATION: Civil engineering; assistant engineer, Street Laying-Out Depart-

_ ment, City of Boston.

IN THE last five years since the Vicennial Report, nothing im-
portant has happened; to me, that is. Perhaps I am plugging
along a little harder to keep ahead of the rising costs and perhaps
I am growing older too fast because of this. Nevertheless, I guess
we are all over the hump, now that Missouri has her favorite son
back again.

In the winter I enjoy the work of the Scottish Rite Bodies and
in the summer I enjoy playing golf and a vacation in Maine. Some

C353]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

of old New England is still left, and a bit of it is on Deer Isle.
There is no glamor, no excitement, but genuine people still doing
things the hard way, plus the best summer climate in the world.

RUBEN HENRY FOGEL

HOME aporess: 8 W. 16th St, New York 4, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 345 Hudson St. New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Sept. 10, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Jacob Fogel, Ida Waitzkin.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MARRIED: Goldie Hoenig, Nov. 22, 1942, Natchez, Miss. camp: Louise Vic-
toria, Aug. 14, 1946.

occuPpaTion: Investment counsel; account executive, Standard & Poor’s.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted as private, February, 1941; commissioned
second lieutenant (field artullery), October, 1942; assigned gg9th Divi-
sion; served as Battalion S-2, Division Artillery S-2, and assistant G-2,
overseas, September, 1944-August, 1945, with 99th Division in B-2 Sec-
tion as captain, saw action in Battle of the Bulge, Rhine Bridgehead,
and across Germany; honorable discharge, Nov. 26, 1945.

MEMBER OF: New York Society of Security Analysts.

LIKE most of our generation I find myself, on trying to condense
the experience of twenty-five years, thinking in terms of periods:
pre-war, war (hot), and postwar. The first period began in 1928,
and what could be a more logical place for a major in economics
and minor in banking and finance than a Wall Street brokerage
house in 1928. I arrived on the scene just in time to catch the last
act of the Financial Follies of the twenties which wound up in
the market crash of 1929. It was quite an event, that crash, and
I can still remember the night following that 16,000,o00-share
day when the senior partner came through around midnight as
we toiled to clear the decks for the next day and said, “Gentle-
men, you are making history.” It sounded important, but some-
how I couldn’t picture any future Harvard lecturer referring to
the historical event by mentioning the fact that Fogel was there,
This phase of my pre-war life lasted six years till 1934 by which
time the effects of the first of the numerous “Deals” began to be
fele throughout the investment world. Other pastures began to
look greener and I tried some. There followed another six-year
period during which, after a few short turns at selling, I settled

[354]

;
i
i
i
i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

down to what seemed a permanent and fairly comfortable niche
in the credit business as credit manager.

By late 1940, however, the shape of things to come was getting
clearer. The “phony war” had ended. The world had had its
taste of Blitzkrieg and I began to feel stirring in me that feeling
which in retrospect I have come to recognize as an instinct for
getting into the right place at the wrong time. Thus there ended
for me the pre-war period and in February, 1941, I enlisted and
embarked on the military phase of my career. This took me
through the bumbling, dawdling pre-Pearl Harbor days, through
the hectic, frenzied build-up that followed, and final victory deep
in Germany on V-E Day. The highlight of this period was the
night we sat in a dug-out in the Ardennes Forest during the »
climactic phase of the Battle of the Bulge when a senior officer
came through and repeated that hackneyed phrase, “Gentlemen,
you are making history.” Again it sounded important but I
couldn’t help feeling that though I was making history, I hadn’t
planned it that way.

In the interim, I had made one of my few wise decisions and
in 1942 had taken a wife. Among the other benefits and blessings
of this step was the anchor which it provided to normal living
through the war years and the snug haven it offered to which to
return when it was over. Thus it was that in August, 1946, oc-
curred the most important event in my postwar career — the
birth of Louise, our only child. This, too, was an historical event
of importance in which I played a direct part. But, unlike the
previous two occasions, of this one I could say, “I planned it that
way.”

After my discharge I decided to return to my first love, the in-
vestment field. Numerous “Deals” had come and gone, but some-
how or other the investment business had survived and was
thriving. Security analysis and investment counselling became
my specialties and I find my work most interesting and stimulat-
ing.

"As the fifth of the six-year periods which seem to characterize
my post-college career begins, I cannot help wondering what this
period will be called, if I’m still around to bring my story up to
date for the Fiftieth Reunion year. Will it still be called the post-
War period? I hope so, but I wouldn’t bet on it.

[ 355]

ee MN -

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ALLEN ORRICK FORDYCE

HOME AporESS: Big Horn, Wyo.

Born: May §, 1905, St. Louis, Mo. parents: William Chadwick Fordyce,
’95. Christine Orrick.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

mcarnieD: Marian Robertson, Sept. 13, 1933, Wancouver, B. C., Canada.
CHILDREN: Helen McGregor, March 12, 1935; Allen Orrick, Jr, June
30, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Chadwick Fordyce, Jr., ’26.

occupation: Rancher, raising cattle, sheep, and hogs; associate management,
Tepee Lodge, dude ranch.

OFFICES HELD: President, Wyoming Hereford Association, 1947, 1948, Sheri-
dan Cattle Feeders Committee, 1947; member, Big Horn National

Forest Advisory Committee, 1951, 1952; director, Dude Ranchers
Association, 1933-37.

MEMBER OF: Elks Club of Sheridan, Wyo.; American Society of Animal
Production.

IN 1928 I started to learn to be a broker. I was marking the board
with chalk in a broker’s office in the fall of 1929 and my career
as a broker was remarkable only in its brevity and the startling
circumstances that the two firms which enjoyed my services went
broke.

I then spent a happy period peddling fire extinguishers in south-
ern Missouri. At this job I was able to eat and enjoy the debu-
tante season in St. Louis, but failed to achieve the top of the fire
extinguisher ladder. During this time I got a job in the summer
running Tepee Lodge at Big Horn, Wyoming, and finally had a
chance to buy it. I observed during these first years that success-
ful brokers and business men liked to ride horses and farm, things
which were just what I had always wanted to do. Since success
as a banker or a broker seemed hopeless I decided to do my rid-
ing at the beginning rather than towards the end of a career and
foresook St. Louis for good and became a full-time Dude Ranch-
er. Due to the forbearance and friendship of a great many people
this was a successful venture and soon there was enough money
to get into the cattle business as well, which was done by borrow-
ing the full purchase price of cows from the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation. At this juncture I was married and have
stayed very happily so ever since. Our first ventures into the

[ 356]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cattle business were ill-fated as to weather but due to the munif-
icence of the late lamented Democratic government we stayed
on and have since ridden the magnificence of inflation into a
different and more difficult world.

We stopped operating the dude ranch at the start of the war
and sold it directly thereafter. During the war the only event
of more than passing interest was the addition of a thousand hogs
to our agricultural program and a set of irate neighbors to our
social life. Since then we have somewhat increased our cattle and
have shown successfully in the major feeder and fat cattle shows
in the country.

We started out by leasing grazing land from the Cheyenne
and Crow Indians and lived on the Crow Reservation for four
years. Since then we have acquired a ranch near Big Horn, Wyo-
ming, and another at Decker, Montana. This makes our operation

a good deal easier than fighting the last of the Indian wars which
in my experience are always won by the Indians,

Politically I have been more or less inactive and am distin-
guished only by being one of the few Democrats who never voted
for Roosevelt. I have been active in promoting such local activi-
ties as horse racing, rain making, cattle shows, and rodeos. As far
as “religious convictions” go I was baptised in the Anglican
Church a few years ago and follow the course of least resistance.
A rancher has few hobbies. In my case this part of life is taken
up by a great interest in the breeding and cross breeding of cattle
in order to develop an animal which will produce meat at a lower
comparative cost. We maintain a registered herd of Herefords
along with a commercial operation which carries some Angus
and Shorthorns, but in the main is a Hereford operation. Nearly
all Easterners have a great curiosity about numbers of cattle and
acres and always ask. We control about 50,000 acres and sell
about 1,200 head of cattle each year.

As this is written my brother Will and I have just repurchased
the dude ranch, Tepee Lodge, and I expect to return to more
riding and fishing this summer.

Our daughter Helen graduates from Concord Academy n next
June and our son Allen is at Middlesex. Both have turned out to
be smarter than their male parent and are a great help in our
ranch operation.

357]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

EDMOND JEAN FORKIN

HOME AporEss: 87 Kinsey Ave, Kenmore 17, N. Y.

orFice aporEss: Doolittle & Co., Liberty Bank Bldg., Buffalo, N. Y.

porn: Oct. 1, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: John Forkin, Mae O’Brien,

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

marrieD: Lovey Mary Rhoads, Buffalo, N. Y. cuitpren: Edmond Jean, Jr.
March 26, 1930; Susan Johanne, May 15, 1932.

occuPATION: Municipal bonds, manager, department, Doolittle & Company,

MEMBER OF: Bond Club of Buffalo; Harvard Club of Buffalo.

WITHOUT false modesty or bitterness, my life has been such a
monumental zero I see no useful purpose in recounting it. Polit-
ically I have always been right-wing Republican. Religiously |
have always been lukewarm Protestant. I feel occidental creeds
have not kept pace with other western development — hence the
decline in this century of western religions.

Socially I see moral values changed immeasurably since the end
of World War I. With a Hollywood and Times Square Aristoc-
racy (whose not inconsiderable contribution to mankind con-
sists of words and phrases such as “jerk” and “nuts to you”)
spear-heading the advance of “the people” politically, morally,
and socially, there exists a new type of thinking toward every-
thing that history may decide one day identifies our times as “the
Age of Sophistry.” All this seems to have had a salubrious effect
on the population, i.e., high birth rate, longer life expectancy, and
television. I am not a misanthrope.

DANIEL SMYSER FORNEY

HOME Appress: 822 S. Fifth St. Moberly, Mo.

OFFIC ADDRESS: 504-6-8 W. Reed St., Moberly, Mo.

BoRN: Jan. 27, 1906, Moberly, Mo, parents: Frank Blair Forney, Myrtle
Tucker,

preparep AT: Moberly High School, Moberly, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

maagizp: Catherine Hurst Sharp, 1935, Macon, Mo. cuitp: Daniel Smyser,
Jr., July 1, 1936.

occupation: Manager of store, half-owner, retail furniture business.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club.

[ 358 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN FEBRUARY, 1927, I obtained a leave of absence from Har-
vard to enter the furniture business with my father. At first I
thought I might return to school and get my degree; however, I
took a liking to retailing and soon gave up any thought of re-
turning to Harvard.

I have done the usual amount of travelling in the North Amer-
ican continent. My marriage in 1931 ended in divorce after
two years. In 1935 I married Catherine Sharp, a school teacher
and graduate of Missouri University. We have one child, a sixteen-
year-old-son. We are rather active Presbyterians. Basically I am
a Democrat, although I have never voted anything except a split
ticket. My main hobby is charting the Dow-Jones stock averages.
I have found “charting” very interesting and at times profitable!

LEBARON RUSSELL FOSTER

HOME ADpRESS: Prospect Avenue Extension, Princeton, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 44 Nassau St., Princeton, N. J.

BORN: June 19, 1908, Brunswick, Maine. PARENTS: William Trufant Foster,
’o1, Bessie Lucille Russell. .

PREPARED AT: Newton Classical High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.B.A, magna cum laude,

1931,
MARRIED: Margaret Jane Persons, Sept. 5, 1931, New York, N. ¥. CHILDREN:

Warren William, Dec. 4, 1934; Robert Russell, July 22, 1937; Peter
Blanchard, Oct. 7, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Russell Trufant Foster, °28, M.B.A,, °30.

OCCUPATION: Research executive, Opinion Research Corporation.

LAUNCHING out in investment analysis with the old Standard
Statistics, following graduation from Harvard Business School
I now find myself twenty-two years later in a relatively small
research organization, in a small town contrasting sharply with
the catacombs of New York. And I’m enjoying the small-town
swim immensely. Community Chest, building campaigns, School
Board, and service club have their rewards; the New England
town meeting may be inefficient, but it is every man’s democ-
racy at its liveliest.

This year marks our tenth anniversary for the Public Opin-
ion Index for Industry, which we operate as an intelligence sys-
tem for leading oil, steel, automobile, electric power, and var-

[359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ious other concerns. A major research project is scheduled each
month, always with the central purpose of assisting corporate
managements in getting along with their publics and their em-
ployees. Focus of interest is shifting rapidly from measuring
what people think and why to ways and means of changing
opinion, and concrete proof of results achieved. Improvement
in industry’s techniques of communication describes a geometric
curve upward.

We have three boys—one in college, one in prep school,
and one five-year-old, scientifically spaced to solve the baby-
sitter problem. But there is still time, now and again, for a little
golf and Vermont skiing. I am always glad to see classmates
when they come to Princeton.

RUSSELL TRUFANT FOSTER

HOME ADDRESS: 279 Fern Sc, West Hartford, Conn.

oFFice appress: Capitol City Lumber Co., 1q00 Park St., Hartford, Conn.

porn: Sept. 15, 1906, Brunswick, Maine. parents: William Trufant Foster,
’o1, Bessie Lucille Russell.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: $.B., 1928, M.B.A., 1930.

maraiep: Mary Reid Chatillon, Oct. 8, 1938, Chicago, Ill. (divorced 1949).
CHILDREN: Faith Brittingham, Jan. 28, 1940; Jeffrey, Dec. 21, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: LeBaron Russell Foster, 28, M.B.A., "31.

occupation: Vice-president, Capitol City Lumber Company.

OFFicES HELD: Instructor in marketing, selling, and distribution, Northeastern
University, 1947-48; member of directors, Springfield (Mass.) Sym-
phony Orchestra, 1946-48: president, University Club of Springfield,
1947-48; president, 1946-48, chairman, Board of Governors, 1948-50,
Harvard Club of the Connecticut Valley; chairman, Committee on
Aviation, Springfield (Mass.) Chamber of Commerce, 1950-51; member
Budget Commitee, Springfield Community Chest.

MEMBER OF: Longmeadow (Mass.) Country Club, Hartford Golf Club.

IT’S Sunday afternoon. My accountant warned me yesterday he
dvesn’t intend to make out my income tax on March 14, and
Ruth Gay has phoned that if I don’t mail my Class history today
she is going to write it herself. It’s pressure like the Business
School, March, 1930, when Bob Hatch and I were grinding out a
policy report for Professor Doriot, deadline 10:00 P.M.
Twenty-three years later finds me distributing building ma-

[ 360 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

terials through six lumber yards, all in Connecticut. If you want
to build a house for Prince, panel your play room with knotty

ine, or build a 50,000-dollar ranch house, call Hartford s-o1rtr.
We'll even sell you a lot, furnish the blueprints, provide a con-
tractor and decorator, and lend you the money. All you have to
furnish is a wife — and the down payment.

Before moving to Hartford two years ago, we operated a
Royal Crown Cola bottling plant in West Springfield, Massachu-
setts. The franchise covered the Western half of the state. We
started from scratch in a remodelled automobile show room. The
bottles spun around behind plate glass windows. Our assets in-
cluded a virgin territory, a rented building, rented delivery trucks,
sizeable loans, and a lot of optimism.

Things were just beginning to get rolling when the Japs
bombed Pearl Harbor. Our sugar quota was cut fifty per cent,
gasoline cut sixty per cent, new machinery, trucks, and tires
frozen completely, and male labor disappeared. Somehow we kept
going until the war ended, hacked away at our loans, bought the
building, erected a garage, bought new trucks one by one, finally
got our sales up to third largest in Western Massachusetts. (We
never quite caught Coca-Cola.)

Then Sears-Roebuck (bless them) built a 2,000,000-dollar de-
luxe store across the street, and some hungry real estate specu-
lators gobbled up our buildings and bottling business for cash.
Into the ash can went the aspirin (day-time use) and the sleeping
capsules (night use). A long story but it had a happy ending.

Any number of persons have asked me how I liked being a
small business man. Certainly it has drawbacks. The security and
peace of mind that goes with a large, well-established, national
company is lacking. There is no such thing as retirement plans,
promotions based on seniority, or the carrot of a 75,000-dollar
yearly salary if you get to be president. If your small business
goes badly, or economic conditions change against you, you may
lose your shirt, and your friends’ shirts too,

But the small business man has his compensations. If you are
already president, your only superiors are your customers, your
employees, and the ubiquitous government. The job can’t be
monotonous, because you are sales manager, production manager,
treasurer, personnel manager, accountant, and father confessor

[ 361 ]

oO Le LS

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

for your employees, all wrapped into one. Any unsolved prob-
lems are babies which inevitably land on your own door-step.

Perhaps the biggest compensation of the small business man is
the per cent of earnings which you can salt away after taxes,
thar is, if there are any earnings. The federal capital gains tax
treats the undistributed profits of the small enterprise far more
kindly than the income tax treats the salary of an executive. If
you plough back your earnings, and eventually sell out, you pay
Uncle Sam a twenty-five per cent capital gains tax and have
something left for old age. At least, that’s the theory.

Leisure time — what leisure? Bringing up a thirteen-year-old
daughter alone with a housekeeper seems like a full time job in
itself. If I ever remarry, I can appreciate the never-ceasing job
of the housewife, having been one myself. School report cards,
ball gowns for dancing school, braces for the teeth, and teen-age
beaux who never know when to come home . . . the re-educa-
tion of Daddy is a great experience.

My other hobby 1s selling Harvard College in competition
with Yale, Princeton, Dartmouth, and the other Eastern colleges.
Working through the Harvard Clubs in Springfield and later
Connecticut, a group of us have been searching the schools for
the best Harvard candidates. Charlie Pratt, Charlie Goodrich,
and a dozen other alumni are working to skim the cream of the
secondary school crop. It is hard to imagine a more rewarding
way to spend one’s evenings.

Vacations — until four or five years ago, there was no vacation
so relaxing as a few weeks’ skiing in Canada, that is, until they
started making the runs steeper, the ice harder, and my wind
shorter. Last January I dreamed again of the thrill of racing down
the Flying Mile at Mt. Tremblent at twenty degrees below zero.
I did my dreaming lying prone on a Virgin Island beach.

Twenty-fifth Reunion: it is hard to realize that our Twenty-
fifth is here at last. I shall never forget the time my brother Barrie
and I attended our father’s twenty-fifth, when we were sopho-
mores. I remember asking Barrie, “How the hell did all these old
goats manage to live so long?”

[ 362 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES LEWIS FOX, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 350 Central Park, W., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: New York Medical College, 1 E. 105th St.. New York 29,
N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Lewis Fox, Esther
Jacobs.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; DeWitt Clinton High
School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(29); M.D. (Long Island Coll.
of Medicine), 1934.

mMarkiED: Betty Finkle, Jan. 6, 1938, New York, N. Y.

occuPATION: Medical research, research associate (professorial rank) in
surgery, New York Medical College.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Investigator for Office of Scientific Research
Development, engaged in research on treatment of infected war wounds
and burns and improved methods in the treatment of shock from burns
and trauma.

MEMBER OF: Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine; Harvey So-
ciety; American Physiological Society; American Federation for Clini-
cal Research; American Association of Immunologists, New York
County Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers in medical journals dealing with: bacterial growth and
inhibition by drugs; biochemical studies of traumatic shock and treat-
ment of patients with newly developed solutions of sodium salts; electro-
lyte abnormalities in kidney diseases,

THE first problem after graduation was to make certain which
way to go. As a junior I had been away for one year teaching
chemistry at the College of the City of New York, and had be-
come interested in chemistry and chemical engineering. During
my college vacations I worked with the engineers building the
Eighth Avenue subway, and after graduation I had a brief trial
of subway and tunnel engineering in New York City. It also
seemed possible to combine chemistry, engineering, and eco-
nomics in the field of finance, and this was tried for a brief time
with Lazard Fréres. These experiences convinced me that my
original goal, medicine, was what I really wanted.

Admission to medical school at the last minute proved diffi-
cult but in September, 1930, I was accepted at the Long Island
College of Medicine. Medical School was very different from
college, especially since it was necessary to earn enough to pay
the bills. Hence, with the completion of the various subways and

[ 363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

tunnels, I turned to running a summer day camp in Darien, Con-
necticut, where my parents lived. After graduation from medical
school, the internship at the Jewish Hospital of Brooklyn, with no
salary but at least with no expenses, was a valuable and exciting
experience. Opportunities for utilizing my training in chemistry
in medicine became apparent and I decided on research in this
territory rather than practice. During my first research fellow-
ship at Mr. Sinai Hospital, we discovered some spectacular photo-
chemical changes with the sulfa drugs which sent me back to
Harvard to work with my former undergraduate adviser, Profes-
sor George S. Forbes. Perhaps my attitude was different, but
instead of a tepid adviser he proved to be an illuminating teacher
and guide in research. The new Mallinckrodt Laboratories were
just opening and the transition from old Boylston Hall was
miraculous. Undergraduate chemistry would have been a much
happier experience had building of the new laboratories not been
so long delayed.

My research then shifted into bacteriology and I spent a most
stimulating year with the late Hans Zinsser at the Harvard Medical
School. Fellowships, even in pre-inflation days, did not permit one
to support a wife; nevertheless after five years of courtship I
succeeded in persuading Betty to marry me. She was in the music
publishing field in New York City, and commuting from Boston,
especially during the big hurricane, was rugged. Fortunately,
arrangements were made to transfer my research to the College
of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University. Research
and teaching in the revived chemotherapeutic and antibiotic at-
tack on infectious diseases kept me busy until the war came along.
This brought many medical problems, one of the most important
of which was a need for a better treatment of shock from burns
and wounds. It was exciting to find in experimental trials with
patients, that large amounts of solutions of simple sodium salts

(salt and soda) were quite effective. The newly created Office of
Scientific Research and Development appeared extremely inter-
ested in and financed these studies. It was, however, discouraging
to attend some of the meetings of the various shock committees.
With reports on the one hand that blood and plasma were not
always available, the possibility of using salt solutions, frequently
by mouth, appeared challenging. Perhaps one of the few benefits

[ 364 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the war was the decision to continue government financed re-
search. It was hard to let this research go to seed; when the U. S.
Public Health Service again became interested and greatly ex-
panded facilities became available at the New York Medical Col-
lege and Flower and Fifth Avenue Hospitals, I decided to
migrate here in 1950.

The combination of full-time research on electrolytes, teach-
ing medical] students and graduate physicians, and ample oppor-
tunities to work with patients, are truly the ingredients of a
happy career for me. Despite all the discussion of interference by
government agencies, I should like to go on record and state that
the “government” has never interfered with our research program,
but has provided funds for equipment and technical assistance on
a scale which none of the three medical schools (with which I
have been affiliated) could possibly afford. Association with med-
ical students and graduates of many different colleges through the
years has made me believe that most colleges are missing an im-
portant opportunity to help students at a time when they are most
susceptible. Many students haven’t learned to think clearly for
themselves, and this applies not only to thinking about their
studies, but also about social, political, and economic affairs, and
perhaps most important, about the way they ought to live. It
might be interesting for some college, and I hope it might be
Harvard, to try the benefits of medical advances in the field of
mental health during the college career. Perhaps in this way the
maturity (or whatever it was) that enabled returning veterans
to achieve such outstanding scholastic records, might be developed
in less mature non-veteran students.

HENRY MORGENTHAU FOX

HOME AppREsS: 17 Clark Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 721 Huntington Ave., Boston
15, Mass,

BORN: May 17, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Mortimer Joseph Fox,
Helen Morgenthau.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers’ College, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: 8.B. 1928; M.D. (Johns Hopkins), 1933.

MARRIED: Ruth Berrien, Dec. 20, 1941, New York, N. Y. cuttoren: Helen
Morgenthau, Oct. 20, 1942; Benjamin Berrien, July 18, 1947.

[ 365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

occupation: Psychoanalyst: assistant professor of psychiatry, Harvard Medi-
cal School, senior associate in psychiatry, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: On acuve duty as chief of Psychiatric Service,
118th General Hospital (Johns Hopkins Unit), April, 1942; stationed
in Australia and the Philippines, May, 194z-November, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York and Boston; Wellesley Country
Club; American Psychoanalytic Society; Boston Psychoanalytic So-
ciety; American Medical Association; American Psychiatric Associa-
ion,

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in psychiatric and general medical journals
concerning teaching of psychiatry to medical students and _ clinical
problems in the field of psychosomatic medicine.

IT WAS only at the end of my senior year at college that ]
managed to pick out a possible vocation. I had chosen my courses
partly because of the subject but even more because I had heard
that the lecturer was interesting. This reasoning worked out quite
well at the time and in the long run I did not regret it, but courses
in the history and literature of the Renaissance and then in philos-
ophy, to which I switched my field of concentration, did not
seem to point the way toa career. At college I had no particular
wish to teach, and although I was fascinated by courses with
Professor Whitehead, I realized quite clearly that I was by no
means cut out to be a professional philosopher. I remember get-
ting an “A” in metaphysics and an “E” in ethics, which was some-
what puzzling to my instructors as well as to myself.

Sometime in April of my senior year it occurred to me that an
interest in literature and curiosity about the way people think
and feel might be a background for becoming a psychiatrist.
Somewhat to my dismay I discovered that it was necessary to go
to medical school first. The only course I had taken in science
was astronomy in which I got a C-minus, which was hardly a
recommendation for acceptance by any good medical school.
During the summer after graduation I went to Columbia Uni-
versity Summer School to learn about inorganic chemistry, and
the next year returned to Harvard as a special student. I was in
the laboratory all day every day, and by the end of the year
managed to get the minimum scientific courses for medical school.
There was considerable justification for feeling that I was admit-
ted to medical school largely because of the fact that the famous
Dr. William Welch of Johns Hopkins had once shared a room

[ 366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with my grandfather in Paris at the time of the peace conference
after World War I. Dr. Welch, who was a distinguished pathol-
ogist in the German tradition, had a great respect for the micro-
scope and the test tube, and I was sorry a few years later to cause
him some disappointment when he discovered that, instead of
embarking on what he considered a hopeful medical career, I
was going to become a psychiatrist.

I had a fine time at Johns Hopkins where it seemed very much
easier to make friends than it had been at Harvard. The climate
of Baltimore was warmer in every way. I was in a class of sev-
enty instead of a class of about a thousand, and I greatly enjoyed
the camaraderie. During one of the summers a group of us toured
Scotland in an Austin-Seven, attended lectures in anatomy at
Edinburgh, and played golf in the heather. The final years of
medical school were particularly pleasant for me because the
focus of interest had shifted from the laboratory to working with
live patients. I became so interested in clinical medicine that for
a while I thought I should not be a psychiatrist after all and took
a regular medical internship at Johns Hopkins Hospital. Even
then I was not quite sure, but I decided to try psychiatry and em-
barked on what turned out to be a five-year training program at
the Henry Phipps Clinic, which is the phychiatric division of
Johns Hopkins Hospital. I was in a white suit for six years in all,
but managed to get an occasional glimpse of Baltimore social life
which I very much enjoyed. I had no special urge to leave, and
after my intern years were over I stayed on as a full-time member
of the teaching staff. If it had not been for the war I should prob-
ably still be there.

It was during the summer before Pearl Harbor that I met a girl
on a New York week-end who not very much later became my
wife. We had only been engaged for two weeks when war broke
out and, since I already held a reserve commission in the Hopkins
Unit, we knew that there was not much time to lose, particularly
as the Unit included quite a few enthusiasts who apparently could
not wait to be sent overseas. As it turned out we had about four
months of married life and, when our Unit was sent to Camp
Edwards, we settled down for what we thought would be a sum-
mer of preparation before going to England. After having been
sent as far east as possible we were sent as far west as possible two

[ 367 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

weeks later, and we were actually on our way to Australia less
than three weeks after putting on our uniforms. Instead of heal-
ing the sick in the jungles of New Guinea we spent a number of
weeks fighting the battle of Sydney, where we struggled through
a surprisingly large number of official dinners. We finally man-
aged to set up our wards at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital
after parading through the streets to give the local populace a
show of American military might, although none of us had ever
held a gun. Later we went to the Philippines where we set up
tents in a swamp and felt that we redeemed ourselves a little for
the softness of our Australian experience. One night while we
were still in Sydney, a cablegram was pushed under my door
announcing the birth of my daughter Helen, whom I was not
destined to see until she was over three years old.

The day before I left Leyte in the Philippines, after we had
been overseas for three and a half years I received a letter from
my friend George Thorn, who had become professor of medi-
cine at Harvard, asking me to set up a psychiatric teaching unit
at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. The project was to be sup-
ported by the Commonwealth Fund, and it was to be an experi-
ment in teaching the emotional influences in general medicine.
It was an unusual opportunity, and it seemed strange to find my-
self not only back in Boston but also a member of the Harvard
University faculty. We bought a house in Wellesley Hills, and
our son Benjamin was born about a year later. We chose Welles-
ley largely because of the excellent public school system. As it
turns out, our daughter is at Winsor and our son is at the Page
School (connected with Wellesley College), mostly because we
felt the children could get a better break where the classes were
not so large.

One of the first things I did after I came to Boston was to get
myself psychoanalyzed. This experience is, of course, one of the
unusual adventures of a lifetime. I then went on to complete
psychoanalytic training at the Boston Psychoanalytic Institute,
which took about five years in all and now practise psychoanaly-
sis along with teaching and research which has to do with the
effects of emotions on endocrine glands and vice versa.

I realize in writing this that my professional life seems to have
taken up a great deal of my time and interest and I have not said

[ 368 ]

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

anything about hobbies, politics, or religion. These can quickly
be summarized by confessing that my athletic activities are large-
ly limited to swimming in the sea and mowing the lawn. As to
religion I should say that my wife was brought up as a Protestant,
and my family in my father’s words, “lived as Jews,” which
apparently meant that we contributed to Jewish charities and
always paid for a pew at the temple but rarely went more than
once a year. Since my father’s death we have sold the pew. In
response to considerable pressure from our daughter who felt
ashamed of our neglectful attitude to religion we sent her to
Sunday school and chose the Unitarian Church because of our
respect for the minister, the Reverend William B. Rice. Politi-
cally I tend to be a Democrat, and although I voted Republican
in Massachusetts, I was an enthusiastic supporter of Adlai Steven-
son who does not have a military. mind but thinks clearly, and
I must say I felt sorry that he was not elected.

** HUGH CORBY FOX

BORN: May 1, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Hugh Corby Fox, ’94, Mar-
guerite Hitt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Emily Lowe Wentworth, June 20, 1928, Brookline, Mass.; Ana
Luisa Meyer, Oct. 15, 1932, Buenos Aires, Argentina; Ellen T. cum-
DREN: Sarah Emily, July 14, 1930, Marguerite Hannah, Sept. 5, 1933;
two others.

piep: April 12, 1944, Mexico City, D. F., Mexico.

wipow: Mrs, Ellen T. Fox, Apartado 2739, Mexico City, D. F., Mexico.

FOLLOWING his graduation from Harvard Hugh Corby Fox,
Jr., took graduate studies in Europe, where he remained for
almost a year. Then, having qualified for the United States
Foreign Service, he was made a secretary in the diplomatic serv-
ice and a vice-consul in the consular division. He was first sent
to Buenos Aires in Argentina and in 1932 was transferred to
Berlin where he became consul and remained until 1937. Back
in Washington he did work connected with economics and
trade until he was assigned, in 1938, to the U. S. Embassy in
Mexico City as second secretary. Before he retired from the

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

diplomatic service in 1940, Fox studied intensively the expropria-
tion of American oil possessions,

While at Harvard Fox was active in many organizations. He
was a member of the Freshman Football Squad, the Freshman
Crew Squad, the Second Football Squad in 1925, the Champion
Class Football Team in 1926, the Second Football Team in 1927,
the Class Crew Squad in 1926, the Cercle Francais, Speakers’
Club, Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770, the Iroquois Club, and
the Spee Club; he was also sub-chairman of the Business Board
for Red Book and a member of the executive committee of the
Dramauc Club in 19:6. His widow, his mother, the Countess
Marguerite de Pourthales, and four children survived him.

JOHN BAYLEY FOX

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Pleasant View Rd., Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Morgan Hall 117, Harvard Business School, Soldiers Field
Post Office, Boston 63, Mass.

Born: March 11, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Walter Sylvanus Fox, Alice
Newbury Hall.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: M.B.A., 1937 (51).

MarrigD: Eunice Jameson, Sept. 1, 1934, Bennington, Vt. CHILD: John
Bayley, Jr., Nov. 6, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Sylvanus Fox, Jr., 33.

occupation: Assistant dean, administrative, Harvard Business School.

WARTIME GOVERMENT Post: Consultant to War Production Board.

OFFIcES HELD: Trustee, Robbins Library, Arlington, 1951-52, since 1952.

pusLicarions: “Absenteeism-Management’s Problem,” with J. F. Scott;
“Labor’s Response to Management,” other small articles.

AT THIS moment I may, perhaps, be at least a runner-up for
the dubious distinction for the title of the man who has travelled
farthest to get to the Reunion. For there seems to be some reason
to expect that my wife and I are leaving Arlington headed west
across the Pacific and should be flying westward in time to be
back in Cambridge by June ist, 1953. Despite the generous offer
to “tack on such riders as you need,” as one of my jobs at the
Business School, Harvard of course, has been membership on
the Admissions Board, I am going to try to confine my remarks
to the space available on this form.

[ 370]

Pc alter

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Thanks to the encouragement of my wife, I went back to
school in 1936 and to my surprise have continued on at the same
institution ever since. The satisfactions that have come from hav-
ing had a small rdle in the growth and development of many
young men planning careers in business have many times out-
weighed the inconveniences of having to count our pennies care-
fully and often. To have had a small but continuing responsi-
bility helping select, educate, and place young men, has been so
fulfilling that there has not been much time nor energy available
for either hobbies or other outside activity.

We do have a farm where this is being written. We have per-
haps twenty acres of cleared land and almost 180 acres wooded.
This continues to be interesting and useful from a variety of
viewpoints and I suspect has convinced our son that he does not
want to be a Maine farmer, and has convinced my wife and my-
self that the deep country is really the only place to live.

Based on an entirely inadequate statistical sample, I am appar-
ently a little better at getting appointed to fill unexpired terms
than I am in appealing to the voters of our town to turn out in
large enough numbers to re-elect me.

Since 1928 I have voted for only two Republican candidates
for the presidency, but my voting at the state level has been
almost entirely for the Republican candidates.

We have no formal religious affiliations but when we do go to
church it would be to either a Unitarian or a Congregational one.

Because I am convinced that responsible and intelligent business
leadership throughout the Free World is a vital bulwark against
the spread of Communism and because I am equally convinced
that the Business School is doing with its present resources all
it can to turn out adequately equipped young men, I find myself
continually searching for every means available that others may
share the same convictions.

HARRY L. FRANC

HOME apprEss: 6414 Forsythe Blvd., Clayton 5, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 308 N. 8th St., St. Louis 1, Mo.

BORN: Feb. 9, 1907, Toledo, Ohio. parents: Harry L. Franc, Sadie M. Gans.
PREPARED AT: Soldan High School, St. Louis, Mo,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

[371]

ST ata cinematics AMA |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

saarriepD: Ruth C. Glaser, Oct. 23, 1934, St. Louis, Mo. cumzp: Harry L,
3d, Jan. 29, 1936.

occupation: Investment securities; parmer of Henry, Franc & Co., mem-
bers of New York Stock Exchange.

oFFices HELD: Director, Sommers Children’s Bureau since 1938 (vice.
president since 1942); director, Jewish Aid Association, 1938-47; trustee,
Temple Israel since 1939 (president, 1943-46); director and treasurer,
Jewish Federation of St. Louis, 1943-50; director and treasurer, Jewish
Child Welfare Association since 1944; director, Council House, 1951-32;
director, Jewish Community Center Association, 1952; member various
Community Chest Budget Committees, since 1944.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of St. Louis; Westwood Country Club; St,
Charles Club.

RECEIVED “Goad No. 1” —and in my case it is working, al-

though I have the same feeling I had back in 1924 when I sat

down to write an English A theme. (I hope this will be a better

one.)

After graduation in 1928, I was employed by Waldheim, Platt
& Company, investment brokers. One year of experience in a
bull market, then the crash, followed by four years of bear
markets, was my introduction to the brokerage business. Hav-
ing weathered that, I became a partner in 1934 and have con-
tinued ever since with the same firm, the name of which has
now been changed to the name above.

In 1934 another event was our marriage and I am glad to re-
port that partnership is also still a happy one. Ruth and I have
one child, a boy Harry, 3d, whom we call Terry, derived from
the Latin tertius, which proves I was no Latin scholar. He is
not either; he prefers football, baseball, and basketball to Eng-
lish, Latin and Math.

As for me, I used to like golf, now it is bridge. Another
hobby, photography, also has disappeared, replaced by com-
munity activities, both religious and charitable. Travelling has
been of the usual type — cruises, resorts, in the South, North, and
East, and one summer in Hawaii.

My political convictions—I am a Republican. At Harvard
I learned to respect our constitutional form of government with
limited authority granted to the Federal Government by the
Constitution and the system of checks and balances created by
that instrument. Therefore, I believe the new administration will
lead us on a road of sound government and a stable economy.

[372]

el

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE TAPPAN FRANCIS, JR.

HOME AppRESS: Avonwood, Haverford, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 627 Land Title Bldg., Philadelphia 10, Pa.

norN: March 13, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parents: George Tappan Francis,
Frances Coren Brown.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1929.

marRiED: Helen Rockefeller Bowles, June 29, 1933, Shaker Heights, Ohio;
Elinor M. Ward, March 9, 1940, Delray Beach, Fla. cHitp: Austin
Ward, June 25, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Sayles Francis, ’24; Edward Lownes Francis, °31.

OCCUPATION: Representative, Swain & Company, investment dealer firm.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Contract negotiator for six months, Chief Con-
trol Branch, Philadelphia Ordnance District, U. S. Army, September,
1942-December, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Club of Cleveland, 1930-35.

MEMBER OF: Merion Cricket Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Philadel-
phia Securities Association.

SINCE departing the Cambridge scene I have lived in the Cleve-
land area from 1930 to 1942, employed by two investment firms
and one investment counselling one. I moved to Philadelphia
in September, 1942, and outside of employment with govern-
ment, I have been in the investment business.

I met my wife in Cleveland and married her in Florida. We are
fortunate to be able to visit her parents about two out of every
three years in Delray Beach, Florida, which has been the major
goal of our travels. We have had several short sojourns in New
England during the last few years.

Outside of tennis, our hobbies are centered about Wardie and
our house and surrounding small grounds, which seem large when
the lawn has to be mowed, garden beds cultivated, or snow re-
moved.

ANSELM FRANKEL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 8008 Westmoreland Drive, Sarasota, Fla.

BORN: Nov. 27, 1906, Des Moines, Iowa. parents: Anselm Frankel, Edna
Kohn.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Des Moines, Iowa; Grinnell College,
Grinnell, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

[ 373 ]

a+ <b cnagaaiebaainenlaabalinitadi.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

manmep: Helen Van Camp, Feb. 10, 1930, New York, N.Y. ciitp: Martha
Ellen (m. John F. Van Vieck). Graxocuito: Martha Ellen Van Vleck.
orrces HELD: Member Board of Directors, The Players’ Theatre, Sarasota,

acepen oF: Mfen’s Garden Club, Sarasota Bird Club; Harvard Club of
Sarasota.

ON THE whole I believe I have lived the life I should choose
again after leaving Harvard. I worked for several years in Filene’s
in Boston. Then the “back to the country” movement converted
me and I bought a place in the country outside of Greenfield,
Massachusetts. My wife and I went through all the agonies of
farm life. During our twenty years we raised at various times
cows, sheep, turkeys, chickens, ducks, guineas, hogs, and many
others which I have been only too happy to forget. During the
late war we went into the roaster business on a large scale and I
know we fed Franklin county throughout the war. The need to
dress so many birds led me to purchase a poultry picker which
is a comparatively new machine. After the war I arranged to have
machines made for me and started a corporation, the Red Bird
Company, to sell them. I took on a complete line of farm ma-
chinery and built up a mail order business. Shortly after the war
we started coming to Sarasota for longer and longer visits and
finally we built a home here and left Greenfield for good. I have
recently dissolved our business and am “at leisure.”

In Greenfield I was most active in the Christian Science church,
doing every job from sweeping the walks to being a president of
the church. I participated in community affairs such as the Boy
Scouts, the Community Chest, etc. Since coming to Sarasota I
have been interested in our Little Theatre group — at present am
publicity director and I appeared in a recent play.

I believe my wife and I enjoy travel more than anything we do.
In 1939 we went to Europe and we plan to go in 1953. We have
been to Mexico three times, the West Coast frequently; we have
been in all forty-eight states, and last summer we were in Canada
for two months. We hope to go around the world. I still carry
from my Harvard days an anti-social attitude toward all civic,
service, and fraternal groups. Since coming to Florida I have
become a rabid baseball fan and spend all my free time at the
training camp here. For two summers I had season tickets to Red
Sox games, but with the decline of my favorite team I now man-

[374]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

age a calmer attitude toward the sport. My two favorite maga-
zines are The New Yorker and Time. My favorite newspaper is
the New York Herald Tribune. Sarasota for the present seems
to fill my every need. It has a good climate, a splendid beach,
much activity in the way of concerts, plays, and culture; I have
a world of friends here, and a constant stream of winter visitors,
and last but hardly least, Florida has no income tax.

MAX SCHWAB FRANKLIN

HOME ADDRESS: 7536 Buckingham Drive, Clayton 5, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 634 N. Grand Ave., St. Louis 3, Mo.

BORN: June 13, 1907, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Morris ‘Nathan Franklin,
Celia Lovett.

PREPARED AT: Webster Groves High School, Webster Groves, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928 DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.D. (St. Louis Univ.),
1933.

marrigD: Gertrude G. Cohen, April 11, 1937, St. Louis, Mo. cup: Dale
Helaine, March 12, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Physician; specialist in internal medicine and cardiology.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Flight surgeon, Air Transport Command, forty-
four months, half in South Pacific.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in internal medicine, St. Louis University School
of Medicine; associate physician, Jewish Hospital; president, 1948-50,
cardiologist, since 1937, Faith Hospital; District Deputy Grand Consul,
Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Fraternity, since 1950; delegate, St. Louis
Medical Society, 1952.

MEMBER oF: Masonic Lodge; American Heart Association; American Col-
lege of Physicians (fellow); American College of Cardiology (fellow);
Southern Medical Association; Ambassador Club; Westwood Country

’ Club; Harvard Club of St. Louis.

PUBLICATIONS: “Coronary Thrombosis in Young Adults”; “Recent Treat-
ment of Acute Rheumatic Fever”;’ “Treatment: of Hypertension”;
“Heart Disease in the Dental Chair.”

APPROXIMATELY fifty-five pounds ago I graduated from
Harvard. I wonder what I shall weigh for the Fiftieth Anniver-
sary Report. Of course, everything is all right since I am a doctor
and abide by the rule, “Do as I say, not as I do.”

After college came medical school at St. Louis University, then
hospital training, followed by a two-year apprenticeship and
private practice. I never collected from my first patient, but
enough have followed who have paid their bills so as to recom-

[375]

sai apoilirretecseeemcatinaaieaiatienelh ha, i
, ,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

vense Uncle Sam for giving me almost four more years of edu-
cation, half of it in the Pacific as a flight surgeon.

Upon returning to civilian life and private practice, I found
that life took up where it left off, so that now it is almost hard
to remember that I once wore a uniform. I have continued my
schooling by taking frequent post-graduate courses, chiefly in
cardiology, which is my major interest. Four of these courses
have been at Harvard. I am certified as a specialist by the Ameri-
can Board of Internal Medicine and am a fellow of the American -
College of Physicians. 1 have even become a teacher myself,
being an instructor in cardiology at St. Louis University School
of Medicine.

In 1937 I married the girl who lived upstairs, and we declared
dividends in 1940 with a daughter. She is now almost thirteen
years old and independent as only a teen-ager can be. She heart-
ily disapproves of the demands of my profession. When only .
seven, she questioned her mother, “Did you have to marry a
doctor? Couldn’t you have married just a man?”

My hobby was always fishing, but lately this has been replaced
almost entirely by golf, especially since I once broke a hundred.
Politics is certainly no hobby of mine. I have never voted a
straight ticket, but I lean more to the elephant than to the donkey.

DALE DAVY FRANTZ

HOME appress: R. 2, Springfield, Ohio.

BoRN: Oct. 6, 1905, North Hampton, Ohio. parents: Harrison Frantz,
Mary Olive Davy.

PREPARED AT: North Hampton High School, Springfield, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: $.B., 1928.

UN MARRIED.

SAMUEL HARRY FREDERICK

HOME Appress: 1182 Bay St., Taunton, Mass.

orrice aporess: Box 1076, McClellan AFB, Calif.

Born: May 27, 1907, Braddock, Pa. parents: George Edward Frederick,
Mary Augusta Snyder.

paeparen at: Mansfield High School, Mansfield, Mass.

[ 376]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1927-1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG., 1929.

MarRIED: Harriet Bernice Harris, June 24, 1939, Taunton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Harriet Ann, May 13, 1940; George Edward, Nov. 29, 1946.

occupaTiON: Lieutenant colonel, United States Air Force, commanding
officer, 2842 Transportation Control Wing.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered July 13, 1942, as second lieutenant, Air
Corps; left for Italy in December, 1943, and returned in June, 1945; re-
mained on active duty as reserve officer; on Guam when Korean War
started, returned in November, 1952; campaign ribbons, Legion of
Merit, commendation ribbons.

UPON graduation in June, 1929, I started out to lick the world
as an engineer, but like a lot of others in 1931, it was a question
as to who was licking whom. In February, 1932, I forgot I was
an engineer and went to work for R. H. Macy, New York City,
as a warehouse supervisor, After observing so many persons’
“blow their stacks” because of the highly competitive life one
leads in New York City, I promised myself if I ever felt that I
was building up a critical pressure, I'd get out fast. July, 1941,
was that critical time, and in a matter of six days 1 was working
for the General Electric Company at Lynn, Massachusetts.
One year later I was drilling in Miami, Florida. Not knowing
the personnel assignment methods of the services, I assumed I
should be a maintenance officer and enrolled for further train-
ing on the repair of aircraft and engines. Six months later I was
a civilian personnel officer for 5,500 civilians. Fortunately, I
was emancipated in a week when the fact that I had worked for
R. H. Macy was discovered, and so I’ve been a supply officer
ever since. At least I can say that I enjoy the work; there’s
never a dull moment, since my whole career in the Air Force
has been one of.cleaning up “snafus.” In fact, I like this type
of industrial management so well, and since it would appear
that my services can be used for some time to come, I plan to
remain on active duty until retirement. |
I have been blessed with a loving wife and two fine children.
My only regret is that I didn’t meet her sooner. Since I didn’t
join the Navy, I’ve only been half-way around the world. My
family have accompanied me, except during my sojourn in Italy.
My hobbies are two, cabinet work and dancing. The cabinet
work I do for my wife and home, and the dancing we both do.
I am a firm believer that one should only exercise when one en-

L 377 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

joys it, which probably accounts from my lack of extra avoir.
dupois, a twenry-eight-inch waist, and an appetite which needs
no curtailment.

My social, political, and religious beliefs Til lump into the
philosophy by which I live, “Whatsoever ye would that men
should do to you, do ye even so to them” (Mat. VII, 12).

SAMUEL GANNETT FRENCH

HOME apprEss: 10 Woodland PI, White Plains, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 347 Madison Ave, New York 17, N. Y.

pors: Nov. 3, 1905, Akron, Ohio. parents: Harold Waldo French, ’o1,
Margaret Emerson Gannett.

prepareD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DECREE: A.B., 1928.

Marnie: Christine Ewing Tall, Oct. 29, 1932, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Anne, July 14, 1935; William Chapman, Nov. 9, 1937.

occupation; Agent for H. W. French Company, Inc., overseas natural
rubber exporters.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Chief of Rubber Section, OIT, Department
of Commerce.

orFices HELD: Member, Office of Price Administration Rubber Advisory
Committee; director, New York Rubber Trade Association.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Whippoorwill Club, Inc.

SIX weeks after graduation I started to work for the first time
in my life—on the docks of New York to learn the rubber
business. My employer was not too impressed when he learned
that I had been an English major at Harvard. In December,
1929, following the crash, I joined my Dad’s firm. His business
was that of a rubber broker and his main function was to act
as American selling agent or representative for various overseas
rubber shippers. These foreign connections had been established
over the years through personal contacts. Six months later I lost
my Dad and immediately competitors began to scramble for the
overseas accounts. This meant a trip abroad in 1931 where my
father’s friends gave me wonderful help and assistance. In 1932
the price for rubber dropped to two and one-half cents per
pound and things looked mighty grim. (Following hostilities in
Korea in 1950 the price of rubber rose to over ninety cents per
pound.) In October, 1932, Christine and I were married in
brooklyn.

[378]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1936 Chris and I, leaving our six-months-old daughter be-
hind, travelled to the Far East, visiting Ceylon, Malaya, French
Indo China, China, and Japan. It seemed inevitable to us then, as
it does today, that the Malays must struggle somehow to gain
human dignity.

In 1942 Uncle Sam took over the rubber business lock, stock,
and barrel, so I took a job in Washington for five years and
moved my family to Silver Spring, Maryland.

In late 1946 I returned to New York to pick up the threads
in the rubber business and today I am sitting at the same desk
where I began, Looking back, if I might retrace my steps, I
should certainly want an A.B. at Harvard. For practical rea-
sons I should probably forgo the pleasure of majoring in Eng-
lish and select economics instead with the view of going to the
Harvard Business School.

FRANCIS STUART FRIEND

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Chamberlain Rd., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Paper Co., Clyde Street, Somerville, Mass.

BORN: July 12, 1903, Boston, Mass. parents: Archer Dana Friend, Francis
Smith Niver.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

MARRIED: Natalie Sheldon, Dec. 1, 1928, Newton, Mass. cHmpren: Judith
Sargent (Mrs. Paul Edward Strohm), Aug. 31, 1930; Susan Cabot and
Gretchen Stuart (twins), Aug. 3, 1931; Frank Sheldon, July 12, 1935;
William Stuart, July 12, 1936.

ROBERT SAMUEL FRIEND

HOME ADDRESS: 534 W. Stratford Pl. Chicago 13, II.

OFFICE AppRESss: Irvin Jacobs & Co., Room 300, 105 S, LaSalle St., Chicago,
Il.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1906, Milwaukee, Wis. PpARENTs: Samuel R. Friend, Blanche
Grauman.

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; J.v. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1931.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

[ 379 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served in U. S. Navy from February, 1942,
to November, 1946; held rank of lieurenant commander when placed
on inactive duty; had overseas duty in Pacific; served as acting dis-
trict legal officer for Ninth Naval District after returning from over-
seas.

orFicés HELD: Master, Masonic Lodge, 1941.

MEMBER oF: Chicago Bar Association; Illinois Society of The Sons of
The American Revolution.

FROM 1931 to February, 1942, I practised law. From February,
1942, to November, 1946, I served in the United States Navy,
holding the rank of lieutenant commander when I was placed on
inactive duty. From November, 1946, until the present date, I
have been associated with Irvin Jacobs & Company, mortgage
bankers, as an attorney.

HARRISON CLEMENT FROST, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 19620 Kinsman Rd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

OFFICE appress: 1840 Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio.

BorN: Nov. 8, 1905, Montreal, P. Q., Canada. parents: Harrison Clement
Frost, Jane Maud Bird.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1928.

marRieED: Nancy E. Morgan, Jan. 17, 1936, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Susan M., Aug. 28, 1940; Peter T., Aug. 31, 1947. :

OCCUPATION: Investment banking; partner and sales manager, Hayden, Miller
& Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army, major, March, 1941-March, 1946; start-
ed with znd Cavalry Regiment at Fort Riley and finished with oth Air
Force at Erlangen, Germany, as executive liaison officer with British,
French and Belgians, awarded Bronze Star and French and Luxem-
bourg Croix de Guerre.

orrices HELD: Director, Cleveland Security Analysts Association, governor,
Bond Club of Cleveland; trustee, Phillis Wheatley Association, gov-
ernor, Cavalry Veteran Association, director, American Legion Post
$4, educational committee, Investment Bankers Association; captain,
Division A, Cleveland Community Fund; ex-president, Harvard Club
of Cleveland, Union Club, Cleveland Skating Club.

IT so happens that this twenty-fifth anniversary of the Class of
’28 coincides with two others which I regard with equal pride:
the fiftieth anniversary of Hayden, Miller and Company, in
which I am now a partner, and my twenty-fifth year with the

[ 380 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

company. Five of those years were, to be sure, spent in the
Army, but I consider that as only a “short sabbatical” from the
investment business.

It’s been a good twenty-five years with health normal, wealth
nominal, and happiness in abundance. By that, I don’t mean that
it’s been a continuous bed of roses, however, for as all members
of the investment banking fraternity know, the long period
following 1929 was rough and often critical. Then, there were
many times in the equally long span of army years when Id
gladly have been almost any place else than where I was. Post-
war, there were some trying readjustments and today’s troubled
world is not without its quota of worries, but in the aggregate
Pil settle for the next quarter-century being as all-around full
of living as the last.

As to said future, my only cause for long-term concern out-
side of the stock market, atom bombs, World War III, commu-
nism, and the condition of our one-hundred-and-fifty-year-old
house is my young son Pete. He is now only five and I figured
out the other day that if he is able to get to Harvard and then
able to get through, that he will be in the Class of 1970! The
appalling corollary to this is the thought of the limitations which
. a wheel chair will impose on me at his Commencement.

JUJUN FURUKAWA

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Wakamiya-cho, Ushigome-Ku, Tokyo, Japan.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Furukawa Mining Co., Marunouchi, Tokyo, Japan.

BorN: Aug. 1, 1904, Tokyo, Japan. parents: Jutoku Saigo, loyoko Iwakwia.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929.

MARRIED; Sachiko Yoshimura, 1933, Tokyo, Japan. cxitp: Junnosuke, Dec,
5, 1935-

OCCUPATION: Mining.

+ LIBERTAD ROBERTS GAETAN

BORN: July 4, 1907, San Juan, Puerto Rico, parents; Manuel Barbosa Gaetan,
Sarah S. Roberts.
PREPARED AT: San Juan Central High School, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

[ 381 ].

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.D., 1932.
MARRIED: In 1934. CHILDREN: Leastte; Manuel.
piep: May 5, 1942, San Juan, Puerto Rico,

AFTER spending one year at Tufts College, Libertad Roberts
Gaetan came to Harvard where he was a member of the St. Pau!
Catholic Club and the International Club. Having been grad-
uated from Harvard Medical School he apparently became as-
sociated with the Hospital General de Madrid in Spain. For
fourteen months he continued his study abroad and then re-
turned to his native country to become clinical director of the
Insular Antituberculosis Sanatorium in Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico.

FREDERIC McINTOSH GALBRAITH

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Cedar St., Wallace, Idaho.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Day Mines, Inc., Day Bldg., Wallace, Idaho.

BoRN: May 2, 1907, Concord, Mass. parents: Archibald Victor Galbraith,
’99, Helen Ecob.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1927-1929. DEGREE: AB., 1928(29).

marrieD: Elizabeth Avery Brock, June 7, 1930, Easthampton, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: Alan Farwell, July 27, 1934; Margaret Brock, March 16, 1940.

occupation: Mining geologist, chief geologist (D. M. I.) in charge of ex-
ploration, development, sampling, and related chores.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, So-
ciety of Economic Geologists.

PUBLICATIONS: Two short papers on geomagnetic exploration in the Sudbury

district.
WE have spent four years in Timmins mining gold, eight years
in Sudbury mining nickel and copper, and eleven years in Wal-
lace mining lead, zinc, and silver since leaving Cambridge in
1930. Both the children were born in Sudbury and have the
privilege, therefore, of being Canadians in the eyes of the Cana-
dian government and U. S, citizens here. It has been fun for
all of us, though I am sure that my wife and I remember Canada
with a great deal more warmth and feeling than either of the
children, who were too young.

Our travelling has been pretty much restricted to the various
moves we have made, and we have not been outside of North

[ 382 ]

ene

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

America yet. In 1938 we did go to California from Sudbury, to
visit my wife’s family; and last spring we all went back to East-
hampton to see Alan graduate from Williston, and to visit my
father and mother. We shall not make the Reunion this year.
Alan was very nearly a Harvard son, especially after being ad-
mitted; but he is now a freshman pre-medic at Washington, Seat-
tle, being so much nearer home. That was a reluctant decision in
many ways.

While our political inclinations tend to be liberal, we were
delighted with the results of the last election and expect the
change to be for the better.

My own extra-curricular activities are chiefly golf, badminton
(conservative doubles), and trout fishing — depending on the
season.

LEON JAY GALINSKY

HOME ADDRESS: 3619 Adams Ave, Des Moines 10, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Broadlawns Hospital, Des Moines 14, Iowa.

BORN: Feb, 3, 1908, Sioux City, lowa. parents: Herman Galinsky, Jeannette
Cohen.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.D. (Univ. of Chicago),
1933.

occuPATION: Physician; medical director, Tuberculosis Unit, Broadlawns
Hospital.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Medical Corps, A. U. S., 1942-46; C. B. I.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American College of Physicians;
American College of Chest Physicians; American Trudeau Society,

WILLIAM EDGAR GRATTAN GALLWEY

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Presidio Terr., San Francisco, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 950 56th St., Oakland, Calif.

BORN: July 26, 1906, Newport, R. I. parents: Neptune Blood William Gall-
wey, Mary Newbold Edgar.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

MarrigD: Irene Grissim, Dec. 14, 1929, Piedmont, Calif. cxitpRen: Michael,
July 13, 1933 (died Feb. 29, 1936); Irene Baker, Oct. 9, 1934; Timothy,
Jan. 26, 1938; Mary Baker, Aug. 12, 1943.

[ 383 ]

aie ait iets tea ANO A |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

occvraTion: President, Vacu-Dry Company, manufacturers of dehydrated
foods.

MEMBER OF: University Club and Commonwealth Club, San Francisco; Peb-
ble Beach Racquet Club.

IMMEDIATELY after leaving college in 1925, I went to work
in New York for the Bank of New York and Trust Company,
where I remained for two years. In 1927 I decided I was fed up
with New York social life and needed a little adventure. I stowed
away on a boat and ended up in San Francisco as an accomplished
engine-room wiper. My plan was to remain in San Francisco for
about three months, but I met a young lady who changed my
mind. It took me two years to convince her she ought to marry
me, but she finally did in December, 1929. We now have three
children: a daughter, eighteen, who is a freshman at the Univer-
sity of California; a son, fourteen, first year high school at Lick
Ww ‘ilmerding School in San Francisco; and a daughter, nine, in the
fourth grade at the Madison School in San Francisco.

My business activities in the West have been as follows: three
years in banking with Anglo and London Paris National Bank;
three years in investment counselling with Loomis Sayles & Com-
pany. In 1934 I joined with two other men in organizing and de-
veloping a new dehydrated food company, using a new vacuum
dehydration process. After many vicissitudes, the company has
prospered and now operates two plants, one in Oakland, Cali-
fornia, and one in Selah, Washington. Since 1941 I have been
president of the company.

Outside of business and family, my principal interests are as
follows:

Sports: (active) tennis and golf; (inactive) watching almost any-
thing.

Hobbies: music — concerts and collecting classical records.
Religious: active member of St, Mary’s Episcopal Church in San
Francisco; active in Moral Re-Armament Movement.

STANLEY SAMUEL GANZ

HOME Apparss: 79 Martin St., Cambridge 38, Mass,

orricg aporess: Ham, Ganz, Connors & Roberts, 16 Court St., Boston 8,
Mass.

[ 384]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porN: Feb. 8, 1907, Salt Lake City, Utah. parents: Harry Ganz, Ida New-
house. ,

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1928; LL.B., 1931.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Norton Ganz, ’21, M.D., 24.

occuPATION: Attorney-at-law, member of firm.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member Office of General Counsel, Board of
Economic Warfare, Foreign Economic Administration, U. S. Com-
mercial Company, 1942-45; counsel to special administrator of U, S.,
Commercial Company in Japan, 1945-46.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, First Parish in Cambridge; president, Cambridge
Federation of Settlements; vice-president and director, East End Union.

MEMBER oF: American Bar Association; Massachusetts, Boston, and Cam-
bridge Bar Associations; Harvard Club of Boston, Union Boat Club,
Harvard Musical Association.

AFTER my graduation from the Law School in 1931, I entered
the general practice of law in Boston. My relationship with the
firm with which I started has been unbroken, except for an ab-
sence during the war years. With the passing of years the firm
— which has been a small one —has changed its membership
because of deaths and additions, but there has been sufficient con-
tinuity to permit the building of associations which I have greatly
valued. For this reason, as well as because of its general nature,
I have found the practice of law interesting and often exciting.

Since my residence has remained in the Harvard neighborhood,
I have been thoroughly conscious that my intellectual develop-
ment since my graduation has not been forward. My attempts to
read good literature become increasingly feeble. I like music and
attend concerts, but I turn to the program notes only occasion-
ally. I go to plays but seldom read them. I enjoy the Harvard
football games and rarely miss one.

I have endeavored to take some part in civic matters when .
called upon. I have been active in church work and in the inter-
ests of local settlement houses.

ERNEST LOVETT GARCEAU

HOME appREss: 1 Hoof Print Trail, South Woodstock, Vt.

OFFICE .ADDRESS: Electro-Medical Laboratory, Inc., South Woodstock, Vt.

BORN: May 31, 1906, Boston, Mass, parents: Edgar Garceau, M.D. ’90,
Sally Holmes Morse.

[ 385 ]

i apenrnnmheiih ns td IO MAM | be Lf
* 7

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

pxrpareD at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

ssargiepD: Dunlop Scott-Glen, 1935, Shawnee, Okla.

Harvard BROTHER: Oliver Garceau, "33, M.B.A., "35, A.M., °39, PH.D. '40.
occupation: Electrical engineering, president and director of research,

Electro-Medical Laboratory, Inc. design and construction of diagnostic
neurological and scientific instruments.

OFFICES HELD: Engineer, International Telephone & Telegraph Corporation,
1930-31; research engineer, Harvard Medical School, 1931-35; president
and director of research, Electro-Medical Laboratory, Inc., since 1935;

registered professional engineer, Massachusetts, since 1945, Vermont,
since 1951.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Institute of Radio
Engineers (associate); American Association of Advertising Science,
New York Academy of Sciences; Massachusetts Society for Preven-
tion of Cruelty to Animals; Green Mountain Horse Association.

puBLications: Technical papers in medical and scientific journals.

SONNY, my stout little Morgan, is responsible for my current
position as ostler to him and my wife’s three horses as well as the
miniature mule previously mentioned in these chronicles. One
day in Massachusetts while we were riding on the path in our
own woods, the only trail left to us by the advance of progress,
my wife noticed that the poor beast was so bored that he was
experimenting with taking me around with his eyes tight shut.
This seemed a lamentable career for a venturesome and spirited
animal and so we loaded the horses and the dogs and the mule in
a van and took them to a farm on a not particularly accessible
hilltop close to the Vermont home of Sonny’s illustrious progeni-
tor. We have a little stone house and the horses a snug stable,
while the laboratory, which gets serious attention only in bad
weather, is installed in an ancient barn. It was a good move, for
our thirty-four-year-old saddle horse is bounding around like a
colt of twenty, and when Sonny explores the endless trails he
never goes with his eyes closed.

The laboratory has been engaged in the construction of the
electroencephalograph, of which I developed the earliest practical
design at the Harvard Medical School in the early thirties. This
instrument has captivated the popular as well as the scientific
imagination, and we have sent them to all civilized countries as
well as to some spots where they are likely the only artifacts of

[ 386 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

western culture. Even as I write this, the road commissioner with
the town’s grader is beating a path to our door. I hope the world
doesn’t follow him.

YVELIN GARDNER

HOME ADDRESS: 51 Hilbert St., Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Committee on Alcoholism, New York Academy
of Medicine, 2 E. 103rd St., New York 29, N. Y.

BoRN: July 12, 1906, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Bertram
Gardner, ’97, Gardina Greeleaf Yvelin.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

MARRIED: Elizabeth Stoddart, June 30, 1933, Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Diana, Dec. 19, 1935; Geoffrey, July 23, 1939; Pamela, Jan.
9 1943.

occuPATION: Public health, health educator, associate director, National
Committee on Alcoholism.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered service April, 1943, commissioned
lieutenant (j.g.) U. S. Navy Supply Corps; twenty-three months in
Pacific, 1943-45, Solomon Islands area; released to inactive duty Febru-
ary, 1946, lieutenant commander.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Officer-in-charge plant termination, Consoli-
dated Aircraft Plant, Allentown, Pa. (RFC-U. S. Navy), 1945, com-
mendation,

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Porter & Company Real Estate, Inc., New York,
1939-47; associate director, National Committee on Alcoholism, since
1947; chairman, Insurance Committee, Real Estate Board of New York,
1940; regional representative, International Christian Leadership.

MEMBER OF: Cherry Valley Club; Mendelssohn Glee Club; Harvard Club
of New York; American Public Health Association, National Con-
ference of Social Work; General Brokers (Insurance) Association;
International Christian Leadership, Washington, D. C.; Real Estate
Board of New York.

I HAD better get this off before Ham Heard has to send me
another self-addressed envelope. In addition to the minor vice
of procrastination, however, much soul-searching has been neces-
sary prior to making this report. Since our instructions urge that
we disclose our “inner convictions,” however, after considerable
thought I am impelled to narrate the unusual experience life has
led me through since leaving the “classic shades” of Cambridge
some twenty-five (can it be true?) years ago. While being of
lesser interest to most at this time, these experiences perhaps will

[ 387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

years I have now enjoyed a rich and fruitful experience, one
offered, I believe, to few. Our organization is developing along
the lines of the Tuberculosis, Heart, and Cancer societies, con-
centrating on education, rehabilitation, and the stimulation of re-
search. Since the time when I embarked on my present duties,
alcoholism has been placed in the same category as these other
ailments —a valid disease and health problem — by the Ameri-
can Medical Association and the U. S. Public Health Service.
Only the surface has been scratched as yet, however, and in the
public mind it is still often considered in the realm of a “moral
issue.” But forces are under way nationally, and that is why |
have said these experiences may have a more interesting and “his-
toric” value by the time of our Fiftieth, when this concept will
surely be accepted by all.

Has it just been by chance that I have been led this way? I
leave it to your imaginations to judge, but I myself do not think
so. Such a reshaping of values as I have known can only come
about through crisis, in my own opinion. One of the greatest
joys in my present work, as part of my lecturing, which is a
major part of this work, is to be invited to speak at boys’ and
girls’ private schools over the country. Quite a few of these in-
vitations have come from headmasters who are graduates of our
own Alma Mater. Among those to whom I have had opportunity
to give help and information, I number, too, several other members
of the distinguished Class of 1928.

Perhaps these lines (if anyone has had the strength to read this
far) may bring some understanding to someone of the resources
today available through this modern approach, someone who may
know of another who has need of help and knowledge of this
vast problem which affects some 4,000,000 families. If so, I
hope he won’t hesitate to write us at the National Committee
(address listed above). For this, really, has been my purpose in
disclosing the more personal side of my life since leaving college.

Well, you won't find me up as high in Dun and Bradstreet as I
had planned on graduation. But, instead, I have been blessed with
riches I never thought I'd come to know. Be seeing you in June.

[ 390]

“ eee scnenancenseniseanesianmnaa east

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALBERT WHYTE GARNER

HOME AppRESS: Chez Le General La Houlle, Blvd. Circulaire, Agdal, Rabat,
French Morocco.

OFFICE ADpREss: Naval Ordnance Facility, Navy 214, Box J, F.P.0., New
York, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 30, 1906, New York, N. Y.. parents: Milfred Otho Garner,
Louise Imogene Rupp.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-10926, 1928-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(31).

marrieD: Ethel G. Doyle, June 6, 1932, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Commander, U. S. Navy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Officer-in-Charge, U. S. Naval Magazine, Cohas-
set, Mass. 1942, U. S. Naval Ammunition Storage Facility, Quebec,
P. Q., Canada, 1943; commanding officer, U. S. Naval Magazine, Balti-
more, Md., 1944, U. S. Naval Magazine, Saipan, M. L, 1945. .

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Cercle Franco-Américain, Rabat,
French Morocco.

ACCORDING to mail that has reached me lately, the famous
Class of ’28 is about to have its Twenty-fifth Reunion. I don’t
believe it! Something is wrong somewhere — it’s not possible
that so many years have passed since we left Cambridge! But 1 am
willing to go along with a gag — and tell you what I have been
doing these few years.
_ Right after leaving Cambridge, I went into merchandising in
New York. The area of my activities gradually spread until I
was spending quite a bit of time in Kentucky where my wife and
I became interested in horses. We started shipping horses to New
England, and before long we were settled in a pleasant old house
in Marshfield, Massachusetts, leading a pleasant country life —
selling horses, breeding dogs, and getting in some sailing. The
war and the Navy interrupted this good life, and from the winter
of 42 to ’46, I was busy with Naval Ordnance — spending time
in Cohasset, Quebec, Washington, Baltimore, and Saipan. Then
back to merchandising and the horse business again — this time
at the race track — only to be interrupted a second time by the
Navy in the fall of 1951. So here lam in French Morocco — far,
far from Cambridge — and no chance of going Stateside for the
Twenty-fifth (?) Reunion in June.

I expect to be here another year or more. Any classmates who

[ 391 ]

———— —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

find themselves in Morocco must get in touch with me either at
the Naval Base in Port Lyautey, or at my home in Rabat. I promise
a most cordial and hospitable welcome.

DAVID LLOYD GARRISON

HOME appress: Old Lexington Road, Lincoln, Mass.

orFic& aporess: J. H. Emerson Co, 22 Cottage Park Ave., Cambridge 40,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1906, Barnstable, Mass, PARENTS: William Lloyd ‘Garrison,
97, Edith Stephenson.

PREPARED aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS §N COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

marrigp: Alice E. O'Reilly, July 27 1945, Toul, France. cHi~preNn: Christo-
pher L, Dec. 21, 1946; Edith Alice, April 26, 1948.

occupation: Advertising in a small medical manufacturing concern.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army four and a half years, mainly in Europe
with sth General Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Nuttall Ornithological Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional ornithological notes.

MY LIFE seems to divide into chapters that are singularly dis-
continuous and in the wrong order. Right after college I enjoyed
the reflective and philosophical sort of existence that is supposed
to belong to old age. I was able to travel some and think a lot.
Family life is different. Now, in the sere and yellow leaf, I
find myself immersed to the ears in business and in starting to
raise a young family, kids four and six. The war years made a
separate chapter, which was interposed between the others and
walled off from them completely. When I think of those doings
it is almost like reading about a fictional character.
Hammy has suggested a number of topics to touch upon—

hobbies, military record, religious convictions . . . I might say
I find the last two mutually exclusive. Love your neighbor as
yourself. Do good to them that hate you. . . How do you recon-
cile the Sermon on the Mount with the atom bombs and other
forms of scientific mass murder? I can only say it was a surprise
to me when, in 1940, by some slow process my mind finally chose
armed resistance to armed evil. But in this decision I felt fate
had forced me to turn my back on the faith of my fathers; and I
still cannot make the pieces of this puzzle fit together.

[ 392 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hobbies is better. It is not quite the word I would use, because
it suggests electing a pastime to occupy empty hours. There are
no such hours. Things to do pour over me like a waterfall flowing
across a rock. The schedule includes lots of good things, however,
that are certainly not business. I continue to be interested in
ornithology, and manage to keep up a little with the subject and
with friends who have the same unaccountable preoccupation.
A couple of times a year I take a whack at oil painting.

_Among hobbies perhaps I should list digging and planting. The
rootless war years left me with a land hunger, a deep desire to
settle on soil of my own and make things grow. This is not a bad
idea for a family man, it is conducive to sitting in the garden from
time to time, chatting with our neighbors, which is good, too.

Of course, home is the thing.’ Having married late, I have got
to make up for lost time with the family, and we do lots of things
together. (Lately it has been skating, even my four-year-old
daughter showing a style like her Uncle John.) Of course, the
kids seem to us like some special miracle — the same idea all you
other fellows have got.

Looking back to college, I am aghast at how little notion I had
as to what to get out of it. I graduated fit for no trade . . . and
surprised, what’s more. But the “Humanities” or whatever it was
we studied and absorbed in those years have paid off. Life is
never dull. The power to enjoy life, to measure its gifts, to sense
the integration ‘of its infinite relationships— this is an indes-
tructible benefit for which we are greatly indebted to the old
Yard . . . and to each other.

ROBERT STOLZ GARSON

HOME ApprESs: 18120 Parkland Drive, Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1020 National City, E. Sixth Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1906, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Moses Joseph Garson,
Florence Stolz.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; LLB.
cum laude, 1931.

MarRiED: Marjorie L. Koblitz, May 3, 1933, Cleveland, Ohio. cHripREN:
Peter Kay, April 3, 1937; Michael Jon, Jan. 9, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Attorney, real estate: vice-president, H. D. Koblitz, Inc., real
estate brokers and property management.

[ 393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Office of Price Administration, associate dj-
vision counsel, Food Price Division, Washington, D. C.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Bar Association; Ohio State Bar Association; Cleve-
land Advertising Club; Oakwood Country Club.

THE end of college meant the beginning of Harvard Law School
for me, and then, in 1931, the practice of Jaw in Cleveland. That
went along quite normally until 1942, when restlessness that
seemed to come from the start of the war took me to Washington
and some two years of government work. Thereafter came pri-
vate practice again — first in Washington and then in Cleveland,
the latter with emphasis on real estate and property management.
During the years I’ve acquired, and still have, a wife, two boys,

about thirty pounds, and some waistline — not to speak of other
things not worth as much mention.

ROSS GARY
HOME AppRESS: Norfolk, Nebr.
BORN: March 9, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Nathan Melville Gary,
Rose Frasier Lovegood.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrieD: Mary Gertrude Raymond, 1933, Manchester, N. H. cHivpren:
Janet, Aug. 16, 1941; Barbara, 1948.

WE LOVE the wide open spaces and finally made it. There are
very few Democrats out here.

ROGER ELIOT GAY

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Outlook Ave., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: §80 Broad St., Bristol, Conn.

BorN: July 12, 1906, Malden, Mass. parents: Fritz Walter Gay, ’98, M.D,
’o2, Millie Louise Dunbar.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

marRieD: Ruth Hollister, Jan. 1, 1929, Waterbury, Conn. cuHiLp: Susan
Kimberly, Sept. 18, 1930 (mm. William Chittendon, June 17, 1950):
cranpcHitp: William Howe Chittendon, July 5, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Gay, ’30.

OccuPATION: President, The Bristol Brass Corporation, manufacturers of
sheet brass, brass wire, and brass rod.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member, Brass Mill Industry Advisory Com-

mittee of War Production Board; chairman of similar committee for
OPS.

[ 394]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

=== prices HELD: Member, Finance Committee, Republican Party, State of
Connecticut; treasurer, Republican Party, City of Bristol; president,
American Standards Association, New York; director, The Bristol
Brass Corporation, National Association of Manufacturers, New York,
Whitney Chain Company, Hartford, Bristol Traction Company, Bristol
Associates, Inc., Bristol Bank & Trust Company, Research Corporation,
New York, American Hardware Corporation, New Britain; chairman,
Industrial Problems Committee, National Association of Manufacturers,
New York; trustee, Research Fund of American Society of Tool Engi-
neers,

MEMBER OF: American Standards Association; American Society of Tool
Engineers, Detroit; Chippanee Country Club; Town Club, Country
Club of Farmington, Conn.; New Haven Lawn Club; Cloud Club,
New York; Economic Club, New York; Blue Mountain Forest Asso-
ciation, New Hampshire; St. Bernard Fish and Game Club, St, Alexis
Des Monts, Canada; Copper & Brass Association, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous speeches.

IT IS rather appalling to review one’s personal life over the past

twenty-five years with any idea that it will ever be read. The

answers to the various questions asked are almost a biography
in themselves. A review of them recalls many good friendships
made, many pleasant days and nights, and several trying periods.

In all, the years have been good to me. I have always been happy

in my work, to which I have given a lot of myself but from

which I have gotten so much more than I have put into it. My
family has had to put up with many of the annoyances common
to any man who almost puts his business before anything else.

In my own way I have tried to make them happy. To their

understanding I owe a great deal. I am a Republican and Epis-

copalian and my principal hobbies are hunting and fishing, though

I don’t indulge in them as much as I should like to.

I guess one of the greatest satisfactions I have gotten out of
life has been the hundreds of business contacts that I have made
over the years. I like people, I like working with them, and I
guess that’s one reason why I have knocked myself out to be
associated with so many men of such diverse businesses and
opinions. Except for occasional visits to the West Indies, my
travels have been entirely limited to the North American Con-
tinent and that travelling generally done in connection with busi-
ness. Vacations are things that I don’t know too much about.
Some day I am going to take two weeks off just to see what it’s

[ 395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

like. I am looking forward to my Reunion with a great deal of
anticipation, The parties so far have been excellently planned
and I think our committee is doing a grand job.

LESTER CURRAN GELINAS

HOME ADDRESS: 78-11 35th Ave. Jackson Heights, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cox & Arenson, 51 Chambers St.. New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1906, Willimantic, Conn. parents: Edmund Joseph Gelinas,
Nellie Curran.

PREPARED AT: Windham High School, Windham, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1032.
MARRIED: Afargaret McCabe, Oct. 5, 1935, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:

Margaret E, Aug. 25, 1937; Peter, April 18, 19405 Elaine M., Aug. 21,
1943; Kathleen, Nov. 7, 1945.
occuPpaTION: Lawyer.

WILLIAM BUCKINGHAM GENTLEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 3227 Robin Rd., Louisville 4, Ky.
OFFICE appress: 1400 S. Fourth St., Louisville, Ky.

Born: Oct. 10, 1906, Lynn, Mass. parents: Frederick William Gentleman,
Elizabeth Buckingham.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927, 1935-1936.

Maraiep: Dorothy Pugh, Aug. 3, 1940, Gloucester, Mass. CHILDREN: Susan
Buckingham, Sept. 12, 1941; Sarah Cresson, Oct. 22, 1943; Pamela Heri-
tage, May 19, 1947.

occupaTion: Rector of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church.

OFFICES HELD: President, Louisville Ministerial Association, 1952-53; mem-

ber Speakers Bureau, Red Cross, Community Chest; member * Standing
Committee, Diocese of Kentucky, since 1949.
meMaeR oF: Audubon Country Club,

AFTER leaving college I was with Estabrook & Company, bro-
kers, until 1931; I made a very bad broker. I then sold life insur-
ance for one year—no good. I attended General Theological
Seminary in New York City from the fall of 1932 until grad-
uation in 1935. My first charge was in Mansfield, Massachusetts,
where I stay red until 1938. I went to the All Saints Church in
Cincinnati in 1938 and remained there until February, 1946, when
I accepted a call to my present position. It is a dull story but a
very exciting and, I hope, productive life. It’s been a long and,

[ 396]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in early years, a hard road from college, but life is relatively
serene now since I have at long last found that what a person
believes in sets the mould for his life. I recommend this faith to
all who read this. |

I waited from 1928 until 1940 to find a wife; she is worth every
one of those lonely years, except when she objects to my after-
noons of golf. At present [writing the name of Gentleman is
wrapped up in ladies three, ‘but then — what's in a name.

NATHANIEL COWDREY GIBSON

HOME apprEss: R. F. D. 1, Clinton, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1904, Utica, N. Y. parents: Walter Campbell Gibson, Mary
Llewellyn Cowdrey.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

GIBSON’S mother has written to say that her son is ill as a result
of two years of service in the Amy

WALTER _GIERASCH

HOME aAppREss: Johnson Hall, Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

BORN: July 15, 1905, Chicago, Ill. parents: Walter Siegfried Gierasch, ’o2,
Georgia Mercer Boit.

PREPARED aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

marriep: Mary T. Hellen, Feb. 22, 1930, Washington, D. C. cuito: Emily,
Oct. 30, 1930.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Boit Gierasch, ’29 (deceased); David Mercer
Gierasch, ’30 (deceased); Edward Darley Gierasch, °36.

occuPaTion: Instructor in English.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous brief articles in academic journals.

AFTER delaying the receipt of my Harvard diploma by taking
time off to go to Europe twice during my junior and senior years,
I finally got it in the mail in time to accredit me for teaching
at Middlesex School. I was hired to teach English but found my-
self doing a grab-bag job of sitting at the teacher’s desk in classes
of mathematics, French, history, and English and trying to direct
the attention of somewhat reluctant boys to the higher things of
the mind. Later, after a go at a little teaching in elementary

[ 397 ]

cpeetane! 53 area mmmglnaaiondlal al,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

science, my headmaster thought it time to make me head of the
English department for my last five years at the school. Of
course, I was also involved in the usual educational conferences,
education committees, and academic writing of a very minor sort.

In 1937, by the kindness of James B. Munn, I was appointed
instructor in English at Harvard and taught there and at Rad-
cliffe for three years between secondary school jobs. It was a
pleasant if somewhat impecunious post, but I was working for
no higher degree and had no plans to stay in college teaching.
By the end of three years Harvard had naturally had enough of
me.

In the fall of 1940 I worked for a short while on a fill-in job
at Middlesex, and in January, 1941, came to Andover as instruc-
tor in English, where I have remained to date and hope to stay.
The only teaching variation has been a two-year stint in the reli-
gion department in addition to my work in English. During the
war I was made a local warden with no noticeable duties, and
since the war I've been learning and instructing for the Red Cross.
Most recently I’ve been doing some research and reporting for
the School and College Study of General Education, sponsored
by the Ford Foundation. And right along throughout my teach-
ing career I've been enjoying the pleasures, bearing up under
the miscellaneous duties, and squirming, for the most part quietly,
under the petty annoyances and fatiguing irritations of the life of
a housemaster and classroom instructor. _

My daughter has turned a critical eye on my career and her
own schooling and colleging and dived into the advertising busi-
ness, where she’s having a fine and hectic time.

Travel in our family has been limited to vacation motor trips,
mostly in the northeastern United States and Canada to the tune
of 15,000 to 20,000 miles a year. We carry along binoculars and
a telescope for watching birds and the usual amateur photog-
rapher’s miscellaneous quota of gadget bags to hold two or three
cameras and the accompanying paraphernalia. Hobbies given up
many years ago with little reluctance or regret included bridge,

golf, and tennis. My family say I always liked swimming best
because I could do it lying down.

A quarter of a century in school teaching suggests often enough
that you had better not predict too firmly and finally what any

[ 398 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

individual will turn into or show himself capable of doing if he
suddenly catches the urge. So I have gradually been reaching
Thoreau’s conclusions: “I desire that there may be as many differ-
ent persons in the world as possible, . . . I would have each one
be very careful to find out and pursue his own way, and not his
father’s or his mother’s or his neighbor’s instead. . . . Let every
one mind his own business, and endeavor to be what he was made.”
I think I’ve found my way, and my only care to change is to get
better at what I’m doing. So also with Thoreau I like to say,
“] made no haste in my work, but rather made the most of it... .”
My friends do their best to cure me of my ignorance of the rest
of the world.

JOHN ROSSI GIESE

HOME AppREss: 232 Willow Ave., Camp Hill, Pa.

OFFICE appRESS: Modjeski & Masters, State Street Bldg., Harrisburg, Pa.

BoRN: Feb. 12, 1907, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Alexander Franklin Giese,
’98, Estelle Lenoircy Boyd.

PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Edith Virginia Herb, 1936, St. Clair, Mich. cumpren: John David
May 23, 1937; Edith Emily, April 16, 1943.

occuPATION: Partner, Modjeski & Masters, consulting engineers, special-
izing in bridges, foundations, and heavy construction.

OFFICES HELD: Engineer-in-training, 1928-30, assistant resident engineer,
1930-37, resident engineer, 1937-40, executive assistant, 1940-49, part-
ner, since 1949, Modjeski & Masters.

MEMBER OF: Pennsylvania Society of Professional Engineers, National
Society of Professional Engineers; American Society of Civil Engi-
neers; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Harrisburg Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Participated in several articles, published under firm name.

EXCEPT for two short periods (January to September, 1930,
and February, 1932, to September, 1933) I have cast my lot with
Modjeski & Masters since graduation. Progress, if there is such
today, may be roughly marked by decades. Our Tenth Reunion
in Cambridge found me winding up ten years of the life of an
itinerant construction engineer who helped build bridges over
the Mississippi, Ohio, and St. Clair Rivers and some of their
tributaries. After transfer to the home office in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, in 1940, the travelling continued but was of the

[ 399 J

A eet enti ails Nae hed RAL Melee,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

visit Variety rather than long term. The jobs were more numer-
ous and the Army, Navy, and Maritime Commission added a
variety of non-bridge work such as storage depots, shipyards,
and miscellaneous oddments of construction — the use of which
remains as much of a puzzle to me as they were to those who were
to use them.

After the war we turned again to bridges but found that they
had become only parts of vast systems of scenic roller coasters
and spaghetti a la Moses, so we had to learn to build expressways.
By 1949 our design operations were so spread that it became
necessary to add more active partners, and thus the second decade
ended. |

Strangely enough, the centers of our operations have drifted
back to the scenes of my first jobs — Louisville, New Orleans,
Davenport, Port Huron —and I get the vague and uneasy feel-
ing that “this is where I came in.”

During these wanderings a small family was accumulated: wife,
then boy, then girl. Our social activities revolve quietly around
the local high school, Presbyterian church, and the Country Club.
It seems an extravagant waste of printing and space to try to
describe us, for in attempting to present the framework, I find
we have been pictured in thousands of books, articles, reports,
and cartoons as the average American suburbanites (sans dog).
Perhaps the best way to find a difference is for you to come to
the Twenty-fifth — we hope to be there.

DAVID SHIRK GIFFORD

HOME ADDRESS: 3528 Sassafras St., Erie, Pa.

OFFICE ApprESs: 604 Marine Bank Bldg., Erie, Pa.

BoRN: Feb. 27, 1907, Erie, Pa. parents: Perl Vincent Gifford, Mary Whitehill
Shirk.

PrepAreD AT: Central High School, Erie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B. (Univ. of Pittsburgh),
1932.

Maggiep: Martha Stephenson Carr, May 1, 1935, Erie, Pa. cxizp: Virginia
Louise, May 31, 1937.

occupaTion: Attorney.

MILITARY Om NAVAL RECORD: Drafted April 11, 1944; basic training, Camp
Wheeler, Ga., until September, 1944; JAG School, Ann Arbor, Mich.,

[ 400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to January, 1945; Third Service Command, Baltimore, until February,
1945;, McGuire General Hospital, Richmond, Va. until June, 1945;
Philippines untll May, 1946, with War Crimes Detachment.

orFices HELD: U. S. Commissioner, 1935-44; school director, 1950; director,
Y.M.C.A., First Federal Savings & Loan Association of Erie County,
Motor Club; trustee, Church of the Covenant.

MEMBER OF: Shriners.
SPURRED on by the news that other procrastinators have al-
ready sent in their vital statistics, I adjust my specs, soon to be-
come bifocals, and peer back through the haze surrounding the
twenty-five-year gap that is responsible for all this sweat, tears
and agony. With so many years to choose from the important
events should stand out like pegs on a cribbage board. Probably
approaching senility accounts for the difficulty 1 in selecting and
relating these glimpses of yesterday. -

Except for minor temporary jobs, I first became a regular
wage or fee earner in September, 1932, when I passed the Bar
Examinations. From that time to the present I have shared of-
fices with my father, at the same location, a very pleasant and
satisfactory arrangement. Twenty years have seen an increase
both in the volume of work and in the accumulation of desk
debris and other impedimenta, but I am still glad that I chose Jaw
as a career. I enjoy the variety of clients and the different situa-
tions that arise in connection with titles, contracts, estates, cor-
porations, and tax work which make up the bulk of my practice.
However, I often feel that there should be a compulsory tele-
phone cut-off after three minutes, especially if the conversation
has been a monologue. This may be one of the important de-
velopments of the next twenty-five years.

In May, 1935, I married the girl I had been going with for
some eight years, and have been glad of it ever since.

My job as U. S. Commissioner, from 1935 to 1944, while it
lacked the importance and financial return of Prohibition days,
gave me an opportunity to meet many FBI men and others in
the government service, who were of uniformly high type and
ability. The variety of defendants and offense was also an edu-
cation.

In 1936 I became interested in a Sand and Gravel Company,
winding up as its secretary and treasurer, and learned the joys
of meeting a payroll and keeping books for the government.

[ gor ]

acre eae sealant a.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

1939 saw us take a plunge and buy a house. Fortunately, b
the time Uncle Sam beckoned, we had managed to clean up the
mortgage. However, Barnum was right, for we are now in the
midst of going through the same performance in acquiring an-
other home.

Not long after we purchased our home, my father bought a
farm just outside the city where I have spent considerable time,
planting trees, building a pond and boat house, picking fruit and
getting stung by bees, and in other activities to a degree that
frequently irritates my wife, who thinks it would be better if
I spent more time among the snapdragons and heliotrope in our
own backyard. It is a very curious phenomenon that what a wife
considers interesting and pleasant pursuits for her spouse are
seldom so regarded by him.

On Easter Monday, 1944, I entered into partnership with
Uncle Sam and wound up at Camp Wheeler for Infantry Basic
Training. After sweating through the summer and progressing
to mail clerk, I went to the Judge Advocate General’s School
at Ann Arbor, whence I emerged in January, 1945, as a second
lieutenant, This was a very interesting period during which |
met a wonderful group of men from all over the country. After
brief service as Post JA at McGuire General Hospital in Rich-
mond, Virginia, I was shipped to Manila where I spent several
months with the War Crimes Detachment.

After my return to civilian life, things picked up pretty much
where they had left off two years or so earlier. Church activi
ties, co-superintendant of the Sunday School, Red Cross, Boy
Scout, and Y.M.C.A. work all competed with my practice and
my home for attention. Weeks and months that dragged in the
military service now fly by so fast that it is impossible to crowd
in everything that should be attended to. So many things are

waiting to be invented and so little time to use all those tools in
my workshop.

In 1949, in a weak moment I agreed to run for School Board,
and received a six-year sentence. It is interesting, though often
disheartening, especially when the majority of six to three starts
throwing its weight around. In order to do a first-class job, I
should give it about twice the time I am able to afford.

Last fall I was encouraged to find that I had at last voted for

[ 402 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a winning presidential candidate. I hope he and Congress will
succeed in reversing many of the policies and lack of policies of
the past twenty years. It dismays me to realize how much of our
time, energy, and money is spent in protecting ourselves against
our own government. What elaborate devices we must contrive
to keep the government's hand out of our pockets. I firmly be-
lieve that there must be a constitutional limitation both on income
taxation and inheritance taxation. Without it, incentive will die
and enterprise cease. Still I am convinced that ours is the best
nation in which to live and work. I hope this conviction will
still prevail at the time of the Fiftieth Report.

QUINCY ADAMS GILLMORE, JR.

HOME apprEss: P. O. Box 117, Woodbury, Long Island, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 8, 1905, Atlantic City, N. J. parents: Quincy Adams Gillmore,
Frances West Hemsley.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Noél Chatillon, April 30, 1935, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Frances
Hemsley, June 2, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Retired,

MEMBER OF: Union Club; Racquet and Tennis Club; Cold Spring Harbor

~ Beach Club; Society of Colonial Wars, Sons of the Revolution; St.

Nicholas Society.

AFTER two years at Columbia Law School I became a real
estate broker in New York City. Iwo years later I was asso-
ciated with an insurance brokerage, Hutchinson, Rivinus & Com-
pany, in the same city. Mounting high blood pressure finally
brought on a stroke in 1946, forcing my retirement. I am still a
hopeful Republican and a member of the Episcopal Church.

MAX GINSBERG

HOME AppREss: 10 Gardner St., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: 70 Washington St., Salem, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1906, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Solomon Ginsberg, Eva
Kortchitzer.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928,

OccuPATION: Physician.

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

* CARL GINSBURG

porX: May 1, 1905, Alytaus, Lithuania. parents: Israel Ginsburg, Nina
Levenson.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928, AM,
1929; PH.D., 1940. oy

MARRIED: Fruma Vartovsky, 1931, Paris, France. cHiLp: Rita Marilyn, June
26, 1942.

pieD: Oct. 8, 1952, Boston, Mass.

wwow: Mrs, Carl Ginsburg, 1911 Bunker Hill Rd. N.W., Washington,
D.C. .

AFTER he had earned a Master’s degree Ginsburg became a
Rogers Travelling Fellow at Harvard and studied Romance
languages and literatures at the University of Paris. In college
he had received the Sales and Bassett Scholarships and had been
a member of the International Council. Ginsburg became a sub-
stitute teacher in the high schools of Boston, and in 1934 the
Library of Congress appointed him as a Romance language spe-
cialist. He was later transferred to the State Department and in
1948 was chief of the Bibliography Branch in the Reference
Division, He was at one time in charge of publications at the
American embassy in London. In addition to his wife and
daughter, his mother and two sisters survived him.

SAMUEL HERMAN GLASER

HOME ADDRESS: 130 Beverly Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 N. Main St., Natick, Mass.

BorN: April 26, 1907, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Israel Glaser, Lena Yoffe.
PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass. :
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Molly Samueli, Feb. 14, 1935, Chelsea, Mass. cuitp: David Mark
Sept. 8, 1943.

OccUPATION: Re-processed and re-used wools: vice-president, Glaser &
Yoffe. | .

MEMBER OF: University Club; Temple Emeth Brotherhood; Brandeis Asso-
ciates.

AFTER spending four uneventful years as an undergraduate, I
returned for a year of postgraduate studies which left me com-
pletely prepared for a brilliant career in the business world.

[ 404 ]

—__

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Starting in my father’s business in the summer of 1929, I saw
events rapidly develop in a story-book manner, except in reverse,
so that by 1932 I found myself in the company of many of my
colleagues sitting uncomfortably at the bottom of the ladder.
- With the coming of F.D.R. and a fairly rapid recovery of the
economic structure, my financial situation gradually changed and
by 1935 when receiving, by the standards of the times, the re-
spectable salary of thirty dollars per week, I considered myself
ready for matrimony, particularly since this was the culmination
of a whirlwind courtship of two years standing.

From this point on history began to develop with an ever-
increasing speed, including the birth of a son, the coming of
World War II, and the Tenth and Twentieth Reunions. By now,
with all the inflationary pressures on values, depreciation of the
dollar, and other manifestations of the New Deal, there became
apparent an ever-increasing shrinkage in time. Whereas in under-
graduate days an hour exam lasted for an interminable length of
time, or a lecture by some of our professors seemed endless, the
hour has now shrunk to one-half, and a day to twelve hours. It
was only a couple of years ago we celebrated the Twentieth
Class Reunion and now we are told to prepare for the Twenty-
fifth within a few months. I only hope that the passage of time
will resume its old orderly pace again and allow us to meet in
twenty-five years with our ranks intact.

WILLIAM JAMES GLENN

HOME Aporess: Groveland, Wayzata, Minn,

OFFICE ADpREss: Blake School, Hopkins, Minn,

BorN: Aug. 8, 1906, Lansdowne, Pa. parents: Oliver Edmunds Glenn,
Alice Thomas Kinnard.

PREPARED AT: Lansdowne High School, Lansdowne, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; ED.M., 1936.

MARRIED: Marian Berry, Oct. 18, 1930, Minneapolis, Minn. cxttp: Marcia
Jane, Aug. 23, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Culbertson Glenn, ’30. .

occupation: Head of English Department, assistant headmaster, varsity foot-
ball coach, Blake School.

[ 405 ]

a ten nee il RR Alli aa |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

THOMAS BURKE GLYNN

HOME aponess: Bayberry Lane, Greens Farms, Conn.
orrice aporess: Syfo Water Co., 637 N. Broadway, White Plains, N. Y,

porn: Jan. 1, 1905, Brighton, Mass. parents: Michael Henry Glynn, Kath.
enne Burke.

prepareD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1928(29).

marniep: Mabel Jennings, Dec. 26, 1936, Westport, Conn, cHILpren: Leila
Sanford, Dec. 7, 1937; Alichacl Jennings, Jan. 26, 1942.

occupation: Vice-president and treasurer, Syfo Water Company.

MEMBER OF: Fairfield Country Hunt Club; Squadron A Association, toist
Cavalry; Blind Brook Polo Club.

I WORKED in Wall Street from October, 1929, to December,
1932, as securities salesman analyst, and accountant representative.

In January, 1939, I left Wall Street to help found the business
I am now in, which has mainly to do with manufacture of soft
drinks as a mixer with the “hard stuff,” dispensing equipment,
such as valves, faucets, and numerous specialty items in this field,
I have enjoyed a part in pioneering and developing the business
from what was first just an idea.

I am happily married, with one daughter and one son. I have
continued an avocation of horses: polo, hunting, and training, and
my family takes an active and enthusiastic part. |

I hope that, with the good Lord’s help, we continue the good
life together for many, many more years.

DWIGHT SARGENT GODDARD

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Forest St., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 Kent St., Somerville, Mass.

worn: Feb. 3, 1905, Concord, N. H. parents: Henry Martin Goddard, Lena
Augusta Sargent.

puepaneD AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925, 1926-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

margigp: Ruth Davis, Aug. 16, 1941, Lexington, Mass. cHiLpreNn: Joan Bev-
erly, Oct. 17, 1932 (adopted); Virginia Sargent, May 22, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Martin Goddard, '18.

occupation: Wholesale foods, part owner, Birch & Goddard.
MEMBER OF: Masons.

ON graduation from college I became connected with the Hills
Brothers Company of New York. The depression finally caught

[ 406 ]

i

: 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

up with me in 1933. Finding myself without a job, I decided to
start my own business associated with Stanley W. Birch. We
now operate a wholesale food business under the name of Birch &
Goddard.

I married Ruth Davis, Syracuse University ’28. We now ; have
two daughters, Joan, aged twenty, who was graduated from Dana
Hall and now attends the New England Conservatory of Music,
and Virginia, aged nine.

In 1949 it was necessary for me to undergo two serious hip
operations which have left me with an artificial hip joint. This
requires my using a cane at all times. We are an active family
in the Hancock Congregational Church in Lexington.

I am an Ike man politically, socially, and religiously. After
twenty years thank God for a change in the White House.

WILLIAM GOLD

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Sunset Rd., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 575 Albany St., Boston 18, Mass.

BoRN: June 20, 1908, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: David Max Gold, Sophie
Stoloff.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. ©

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

MARRIED: Evelyn Glickson, Sept. 21, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Steven
Bruce, July 18, 1939; Judith Leslie Aug. 9, 19423 Marjorie Dianne,
April 8, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Superintendent of mill and secretary, Globe Knitting Mills,
manufacturers of children’s knitgoods;. associate, Globe Tool and
Gauge Works.

MEMBER OF: Temple Emanuel Brotherhood, Metropolitan Yacht Club.

MY business career started in 1928 with the Globe Knitting Mills,
a firm manufacturing children’s knitgoods, and continued on un-
til the year 1941. With the outbreak of the war, our firm took
on government contracts for the manufacture of Navy sweaters
and G.I. fatigue caps. We also set up a separate firm known as
Globe Tool and Gauge Works, for the manufacture of essen-
tial parts used in radar and bomb sights. We did this by con-
verting the machine tools used in the maintenance of our knit-
goods plant — adding additional equipment and also some top
mechanics. I was able to help in various ends of this new busi-

[ 407 ]

SO

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ness such as expediting, procuring of materials, setting up of sho
systems, etc. I eventually also learned tool design and found it
extremely fascinating. I guess this was my heritage, as my father,
may his soul rest in peace, had been a mechanical genius and
inventor as long as I could remember.

Now to retrogress — in the year 1933 I met my one and onl
and fell hard. I didn’t give up until I had her safely in tow and
we were married in 1935. That was the best thing that could
have happened to me in more ways than one as my wife soon be-
came a financial wizard and all my monetary problems were
solved. In due course of time our family increased; first, Steven
now a lad of thirteen, second, Judy now ten, and then another
lictle gal, Margie, who will soon be five. What more can any
man ask for? I surely ask for no more as I love nothing better
than to see these kids just growing up. All this would seem to
point me out as essentially a family man addicted to his hearth
and eminently satisfied by just being with his wife and children.
This you can see is substantiated by my lack of memberships
in fraternal or social organizations. However, my wife more
than makes up for my lack of organizational contacts as she is
a very busy club woman and charity worker.

With the purchase of our home in 1948, I acquired a hobby
partly from necessity and also, I soon discovered, out of innate
love for tools and working with them. I soon set up a workshop
and in the course of the last few years have made many things
that have taken their place in our home, such as: built-ins, lawn
furniture, desks, and my crowning achievement, a knotty pine
rumpus room. ’

My other great hobby during the years has been sports — play-
ing at golf, baseball, ping-pong, and handball, and more recently
acting as a spectator of all sports both indoor and outdoor, In
this respect my son is turning out to be a chip off the old block
and I hope a future Crimson athletic great.

Nothing much has happened to us in the line of travel except
our honeymoon cruise to South America and occasional automo-
bile trips around the eastern part of the country. With this I'll say
finis for the present and get back into that old easy chair.

[ 408 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BERNARD GOLDBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Sherbrooke Rd., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1242 Commonwealth Ave., Allston 34, Mass.

porN: Nov. 19, 1906, Boston, Mass, parents: Samuel Zangwell Goldberg,
Celia Objilier.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D. (Friedrich-Wilhelms

Univ.), 1935.

MARRIED: Pearl DeSoto, Nov. 19, 1935, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Barbara
Frances, Aug. 11, 1936; Martin William, April 22, 1940.

occupation: Physician, general practice.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
King Solomon Lodge, No. 236, I. O. O. F.; Brotherhood Lodge, A. F
& A. M. .

PUBLICATION: “Inversio Uteri Infolge Maligner Tumoren.”

AFTER graduation I spent two years studying medicine at the
University of Leipzig, Germany. I then transferred to Friedrich-
Wilhelms University in Berlin, Germany, where I spent the next
three and a half years completing my medical course. I received
the degree of M.D. in March, 1935. During my stay in Europe
I had opportunities to visit England, France, and Switzerland.
During one of my vacations I was fortunate in being able to live
a couple of weeks in the American Dormitory in Paris. I was
also. very fortunate in being able to return to Boston every sum-
mer vacation. After receiving my M.D. I returned home to Bos-
ton. From April, 1935, to April, 1936, I interned at the Long
Island Hospital in Boston Harbor, Massachusetts. On my birth-
day, November 19, 1935, I married Pearl DeSoto in Boston. After
completing my internship at the Long Island Hospital, I interned
at the Cambridge City Hospital, Cambridge, Massachusetts, from
April, 1936, to July, 1937: On August Il, 1936, Barbara Frances
was born. |

In November, 1937, I opened my office for the general practice
of medicine at 1242 Commonwealth Avenue, Allston, Massachu-
setts. Here I had my office and residence combined. On April
22, 1940, Martin William was born. The year 1950 was an ex-
citing one for us. We bought a lot of land in Newton, Massachu-
setts, and began building a home in February. It was a long and
arduous task, but finally it was ready and we moved in in Octo-
ber, 1950. My office is still located in Allston, Massachusetts.

[ 409 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Barbara Frances is now a junior at Newton High School and

Martin William is in the eighth grade at Weeks Junior High
School in Newton.

MORRIS GOLLUB

HOME aporEss: 520 Rockdale Ave, New Bedford, Mass.

Bors: Nov, 11, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Raphael Gollub, Lena
Tarano.

prepariD At: B. M. C, Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MiarrieD: Ruth S. Zais, Sept. 3, 1933, Fall River, Mass. CHILDREN: Karl Lloyd,
Aug. 27, 1934; Paul Norton, Sept. 8, 1936.

occuPaTION: Packaging consultant, sales agent, and mail agent.

MEMBER OF: Wamsutta Lodge; Harvard Club of New Bedford; Jewish

Community Center, Tifereth Israel Synagogue; Fisherman’s Club; Fair-
haven Sportsmen's Club.

JUNE, 1928, found me happy to leave Harvard and anxious to
tackle the world. There were a short stint at Macy’s, a fling at the
Law School, then twenty years in the supermarket arena. Now
there is an exciting new field, packaging.

This morning’s headlines scream that Uncle Joe Stalin is dead.
I hope that this event is the beginning of an era of peace in our
world. We have had enough of dictators, of wars, of personal
fears. We of ’28, trained in depression, ripened and matured in
eventful, exciting, and prosperous years are fortunate to be living
in such a “full age.” If now we could but be blessed with world
peace for the rest of our lives, we could then truly consider our-
selves to have lived in a Great Age, a personally complete and
satisfying age. Pray that we have it.

I have been going fishing since I was a pup, but never did I
enjoy it as much as now that I live in New Bedford. From early
spring to late fall, 1 am out there catching blues or striped bass or
cod or tautog or fluke. You name it and the waters around New
Bedford have it; be it game fish or dead weight bottom fishing.
And don’t think that those large heavy ones that come from a
long way down don’t give you a thrill. The islands and the waters
around them have a serenity that nothing else gives me; places
whose names you know, too: Wood’s Hole and Middleground;
Cuttyhunk and Sow and Pigs; Hen and Chickens and Martha’s

[410]

eee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Vineyard and Menemsha Bight. All these and more are at my
back door!

My greatest fortune is my family. My greatest pleasures and
happiness (and worries and troubles) have been given me by my
wonderful and wonderfully devoted wife, Ruth, and by my two
sons, “great guys,” Karl and Paul.

June, 1953, finds me happy and eager to return to Harvard if
only for a few days, thankful for all she has given me and wish-
ing the vain wish that somehow I could have those four years

back.

EDWARD EVANS GOODALE

HOME ADDRESS: 3059 Q St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

oFFIcE AppREss: U.S. Weather Bureau, Washington 25, D. C.

Born: April 7, 1903, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: Joseph Lincoln Goodale, ’89,
Adelaide May Evans.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MarRieD: Sara Metin, June 5, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. (separated 1948).
cuitp: Evelyn Evans, Dec. 6, 1931 (2. Robert R. Hinchcliffe, June 30,
1951).

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Lincoln Goodale, '18, M.p., ’23.

occuPATION: Assistant chief of Arctic operations, United States Weather

Bureau.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Special consultant to chief of U. S. Army Air
Force, September, 1941-January, 1943; commissioned captain, U. S.
Army Air Force, February, 1943; promoted to major, August, 1944;
remained in service until July 10, 1946; at time of discharge was chief
of Air Rescue Division of Atlantic Division Air Transport Command,
U.S. Air Force.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Travellers Club; Arctic Institute of North America.

DURING the spring of 1926 I left Harvard to go into farming,
but this new tack on life was short-lived as in the following year
I made preparations to go on the Byrd Antarctic Expedition. My
interest in the Arctic began before I left Harvard having spent
one winter and two summers with the Grenfell Mission in Labra-
dor. So it is not surprising that my desire for a career in Arctic
work was deep rooted. As a sled-dog driver for Admiral Byrd,
I reached to within 270 miles of the South Pole. For my contri-

[qtr]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

bution to the work in the expedition, I received
Congressional medal in 1930.
After my return from the Antarctic, I married and lived
r 7

vears in Ipswich, Massachusetts, where I spent most of m ten

working with my brother raising apples. During

337 I made a trip to northern Labrador with nin
‘ately chartered schooner.

1 early September, 1941, I received a telephone call f,
on)

Aington. Someone in the War Department was jn uitin

ser [ would be interested in joining an Arctic expeditio

be paida sizeable salary for the responsibility I was to he
ere was a cloak of secrecy about the expedition, | , “
rely to Washington for the details. There, I was greeted

vander Charles J. Hubbard, Harvard ’24, who had been
om the Navy to the Air Force and was getting per-
Aree Arctic bases where eventually airstrips would be
rying light bombers to England. I was appointed as
sultant and went to the most northern base of the
on Baffin Island within the Arctic circle. | spent a

"with this small military group in almost complete
igorous conditions,

to the United States in November, 1942, I ac-
‘on as captain with the Air Forces. In August,
d to a new Arctic Search and Rescue Unit at
. IT stayed in this branch of service until |
49. My last assignment was as chief of Aut-
Division, Air Transport Command.

ervice, I joined the Weather Bureau and
° Official in Charge of a station to be built
ay at Thule, I assisted in the rescue of 3
ad crashed two hundred miles north of
cipation in this rescue, I received the
ial Citation. I have remained with the
her Bureau ever since, The work '
to the Arctic twice a year, inspect
1S,

¢ achieved the life I most desited
cer in Arctic service.

ine
Ks

Special Bold

e
the summer of
€ students jn 4

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM MELVIN GOODHUE

ADDRESS: 86 W. Lincoln PL, Freeport, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Arma Corp,, 254 36th St, Brooklyn 32, N.Y, Mineola, NOY.
orn: May 23> 1906, Portsmouth, N. Fi. PARENTS: William Herbert Good-
BORN ae, Ethel Gardell Beyer, } | -
PREPARED AT? Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1928, S.M., 1929. _
marriep: Lyna V. Gray, March 28, 1941, Boston, Mass. CAYLDREN* Witham
Melvin, Jr. April 18, 19425 Beth Anne, July 13, 19445 Sreven Brooks,

July 18, 1947. ;
occUPATION: Electrical engineer.

MEMBER OF: American Insutute of Electrical Engineers,
pupLications: Papers on dielectrics, pow er-rectifiers (two), non-ineat
systems, mathematics, microwaves (Signal Corps TEpOrt) .

I WAS born of middle-class parents (my mother was a school
teacher), and because 1 lacked brothers and sisters my Yate ‘has
been an uphill fight inv olving the support of the enure Lamily
since the 1929 crash. My first position yvolved an Mterestng
court litigation (power rectifiers). Then came research (dielec-
trics), much teaching (Harvard, Gary College, Stev ens Insurte,
and Yale), more research (microwaves), and finally industrial
work at the Navy Yard, Portsmouth, New York (where 1 was
born), and Alma Corporation. The Navy Yard job involved
interesting building designs — theatres, naval prison, large res-
- taurant, power networks. The Arma job involves some wicky

electronics, measurements, and servo work.

My scientific interest has always been so intense that only an
ever-expanding home laboratory would satisty me. “Ths included.
working models such as the famous “iglog’ which made the
second front page of the New York Times, “This igloo was cast
in solid ice by a refrigerator apparatus, transierted to alow tem-
perature refrigerator, holes burned in top for chimney and in

Side for thermometer, a fire piaced inside, it was hoally Memon-

Strated at living temperatures inside without any melting (ambient
temperature was thirty degrees Kahrenheir), The home ls is
Well equipp ed for thermodynamics, low “Lemperanate teinger-
tion and air conditioning, mechamwsms, electronics, leenric oN et
Optics, ultra violet, mineral collections, ete, Oe

L4s3 \

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

in cood condition. Best game — chess. Political — value of United
States Constitution and “Best governed are the least governed”
Business — the business machine exists to serve human beings

y

not human beings to serve the machine. Social — informality
. wo
humbleness, and kindness — no cruelty.

HENRY NELSON GOODMAN

HOME appress: Schwenksville, R. D., Pa.

orFice appress: College Hall 217a, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia
4, Pa.

porn: Aug. 7, 1906, West Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Lewis Good-
man, Sarah Elizabeth Woodbury.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1928, PHD.,
1O4I.

Marrigp: Katharine Sturgis, April 13, 1944, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Professor of philosophy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted, 1942; worked as psychologist and
psychiatric assistant in rehabilitation center and training center; sep-
arated, 1945, as technical sergeant.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Association for Symbolic Logic, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: Association for Symbolic Logic; American Philosophical
Association; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: The Structure of Appearance, Harvard University Press,
1951; several articles in philosophical and logical journals.

MOST of the twenty-five years were spent producing the book
mentioned above, with inroads occasioned by running an art
gallery in Boston for thirteen years, by military occupation, by
my wife’s painting and exhibitions, and by teaching. The sequel
will not be easier.

The questionnaire says the Class wants to know my convic-
tions. I doubt it. And having been subjected at some times to
the standard so-called rightist conservative business convictions
and at others to the standard so-called leftist liberal academic con-
victions, I have come to value questions above convictions.

The Re(? )union will have to struggle along without me, since
I'll be lecturing in London at the time if I can think of anything
to say. I am sure the Reunion will be a great success, Class
officials assure me that it will differ from other extravagant tribal

[414]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ceremonies by being a sound and lucrative financial operation for
the University.

CHARLES CHAUNCEY GOODRICH

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Sunny Reach Drive, West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 111 Pearl St., Hartford, Conn.

BoRN: July 1, 1907, Hartford, Conn. parents: Charles Augustus Goodrich,
Margaret Dicks Cutter.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MaRRIED: Betty Jane Price, Sept. 15, 1934, Waterbury, Conn. cHivpren:
Elsie Ives, Jan. 19, 1936; John Cutter, Oct. 22, 1944.

occupPaTION: Insurance adviser.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1940-48, chairman, 1948-50, Board of Assessors,
Town of West Hartford; chairman, First District Committee, West
Hartford Republicans, 1937-40; secretary, Town Committee, 1939-40;
vice-chairman, Department of Budget and Program, Episcopal Diocese
of Connecticut, 1936-42, Schools Committee, Harvard Club of Connect-
icut, since 1952; member Cathedral Chapter, Christ Church Cathedral
Chapter, 1950-52.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut, Hampstead Hill Club, Hart-
ford Tennis Club; Hartford Golf Club (formerly); Church Club.

MY CAREER started abruptly on leaving Harvard when my
father got me a job in a local lumber yard as nursemaid to the
horse. After three years of such postgraduate study, I was con-
sidered eligible to enter the insurance business. This has been
my career ever since, first as a salesman and now as a buyer. The
insurance business has always seemed to be in a welter of detailed
ambiguities, Advice, to chart a course through this prolific maze
or verbiage, is much sought after by corporations, institutions,
and government bodies. Twenty-odd years of study and experi-
ence have lent proficiency and I enjoy this profession immensely.

My family consists of Betty and me (we met by chance on a
secluded isle off the Connecticut shore and decided at once upon
matrimony); my daughter, Elsie Ives, who is off to school and
college for the next six years, and John, whose enthusiastic energy
keeps us all young.

Since we live in a somewhat isolated spot north of Hartford —
the only in-town hayfield left — with scenery, woods, and even
swimming pools about us, our incentives to travel are not strong.

[415 ]

ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

An exception to this statement is Elsie, who last summer covered
nearly 1,000 miles in visits to schoolmates in the northern United
Srates.

I think that social, religious, and political convictions are all
intermixed, or should be. As a confirmed Anglican and an active
Republican, with years of organizational work in both groups,
my ideas on society as a Ww hole or my thoughts on the rights and
responsibilities of the individual follow Closely my professed faith
and my political choice.

I believe my emphasis on responsibilities, as well as rights, stems
also from my life at Harvard in the late “2o’s.” Our group, like
many others there, had a healthy feeling of responsibility for
staffing all sorts of extra-curricular activities at college. This
feeling is one I aim to seek in all candidates who appear before
the Connecticut Harvard Club Schools Committee.

ROBERT RHEA GOODRICH, II

HOME appress: R. F. D. 1, Cranbury, N. J.
oFFice AppREss: Radio Corp. of America Laboratories, Princeton, N. J.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1906, Berkeley, Calif. parents: Robert Rhea Goodrich, Cath-
erine R. H. Woolston.

PREPARED AT: Anaconda High School, Anaconda, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, S.M., 1930.

MarrieD: Elsie Wilkinson Clayberger, June 7, 1941, Moorestown, N. J.
cuiLpreN: Rhea Woolston, Sept. 21, 1944; Daryl Wilkinson, April 21,
1947.

occuPATION: Research engineer in electronic research, Radio Corporation
of America.

MEMBER OF: A number of local civic and hobby clubs. .
PUBLICATIONS: Joint authorship of several articles in Electronics and R. C. A.

Review on the “Vidicon” — first commercial photoconductive televi-
sion camera tube.

AFTER graduation I went to the Engineering School to learn
something about communication engineering. I was interested
in radio and more particularly talking pictures which had started
a revolution in the entertainment field a few years before.

In 1930 when I finished the course and started looking for a
job I learned that Radio Corporation of America, General Elec-
tric, and Westinghouse had together bought the Victor Talking

[416]

LAE gmt Cee aa ec ae

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Machine Company and under the name of RCA Victor were
bringing together their labs for phonographs, home radios, and
television in Camden, New Jersey. Television in the thirties was
challenging only as something in the future, but RCA Victor
was planning to gamble heavily on it.

I got a job as a student engineer and shortly had assignments
in the acoustic and television sections, finally winding up in Dr,
V. K. Zworykin’s section where he was perfecting both his tele-
vision camera tube called the Iconoscope and his picture tube
called the Kinescope. His dream of an all-electronic television
system with no mechanical rotating disks, etc., was coming into
reality at that time. Then the depression struck, and most of the
student engineers of 1930 were let out along with many good
radio men. But RCA Victor kept spending money on television
development and fortunately for me I was in one of the active
sections. | .

My interest was in the design, construction, and processing of
the television picture tubes but as these were taken up by factory
engineers, I shifted to work with camera tubes. The Iconoscope
was the first camera tube to be generally accepted although the
Image Dissector of Philo T. Farnsworth was a most ingenious
device. The competition between Zworykin and Farnsworth for
the place of leading television inventor was most interesting to
follow — of course I was glad the team I was on won.

Finally in the fall of 1942 RCA moved its laboratories to
Princeton. So I gave up living in Camden and moved to Prince-
ton, New Jersey. Before the move I had gotten married but
family life with two boys didn’t get under way until we came to
Princeton. Then the pressure for space became so great with the
coming of our second boy that we moved out into the country
and bought a house with four acres of land about it. This pur-
chase has proved a most happy experience. The growing things
all around us, along with the easy road connection to Princeton
and the RCA labs, make me feel I don’t wish to live in a city or
town again.

To get back to the progress of television: all this time tele-
vision really was still in the laboratory. But the start of the final
push was beginning. When RCA collected all its research groups
together at Princeton, work on a new television camera tube

[ 417 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

PSR = AT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

started with vehemence. As the war came on this Continue ;
importance for military applications. The resule was tha, th
e

-

Imace Orthicon after the war became the principal teley
studio camera tube. It made it possible for television to be
bie business. I feel no small chrill at being on the scene as

of this development took place and in adding somethin
team-mate fo the race.

When the Image Orthicon was taken over by the factory, ou,

research group looked for new fields —to make a camerg tube
>ven to supersede the greatly successful Image Orthicon, And
ve call the new contender the Vidicon, a photoconductive cam.
-a tube. It is very much in style, having a mechanism of opera-
on resembling the Transistor. As the Transistor is to the radio
x¢ the Vidicon is to the previous commercial television tubes
first application is expected to be for commercial television
- > ° ?
it may make the relevision studio very soon too.

his report brings me up to date in my adventures in the tele-
1 laboratory. At home we have two active boys still quite
+ but destined to be Harvard men some day, I hope. In the
7 class I keep up my interest in the West and in natural
ces. The development of the areas about my boyhood
in Tucson, Arizona, and Anaconda, Montana, I follow
and when our boys get old enough I expect to take them
frequent visits. I feel the boys should be exposed to the
ealth and opportunities which are in the West of our

The Rockies are a truly wonderful part of the United

Sion
Come
much

8 aa

FREDERICK GOODRIDGE

3 26 Garden St, Cambridge 38, Mass.
3: Hollingsworth & Whitney Co., 60 Batterymarch St., Bosto™

1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Frederj « Good:
Susan Blake MacPherson, s: Frederick Jame

rowne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
Ei 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B, 1928(30).

¢ C, Lund, Aug. 8, 1952, Braintree, Mass.
cr manufacturing.

[ 418]

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HELD: Vice-president and assistant clerk, director, Hollingsworth &
Cees pitney Company, paper manufacturers; assistant treasurer and direc-
Ww ‘Lollingsworth & Whitey Ltd. of Canada, timberland owners. —
ro d Club of Boston, Skating Club of Boston, Cambridge

: ar
MEM ating Chub.
AFTER graduation, | spent fourteen happy years as office boy,
sistant, statistician, and come what may with Stone &
Webster, Inc., and subsidiaries. In 1943, after much debate with
myself, t accepted a position with Hollingsworth & Whitney Com-
pany: During the war years we were short of many things, n-
cluding men, but by hook or by crook, we managed to get by. it
was an interesting and challenging experience. After the war, we
embarked on a major expansion program in the South, and have
kept on going at top speed ever since. ;
In August, 1952, Lacquired another hobby. After all these years,
| married a girl | had known for a long time. The days are not

long enough, and I love it!

clerical as

| EDWARD E. GORDON

HOME ADDRESS: 31 W. roth St., New York 11, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Institute for Crippled & Disabled, goo First Ave., New York,
N.Y. . |

porn: March 6, 1907, New York, N. ¥. parents: Morris Ginsburg, Satah

~  R. Rapkin. , :

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1928, MOD. (Tufts

Coll.), 1933.

MARRIED: Lynn Grayson.

OccuUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First lieutenant, June 18, 1943, Medical Corps,
Army Air Force; New Guinea, Dec. 10, 1943; Saidor, Morotai (Moluc-
cas), Philippines, to December, 1945; separated March 10, 1949; final
tank, major.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor, New York University Medical School,
1950-52; at present: medical director, Institute for Crippled & Disabled,
associate professor of rehabilitation medicine, College of Physicians &
Sur geons, Columbia University, member Rehabilitation Committee,
American Trudeau Society.
MBER OF: American Trudeau Society; American Congress of Physical

Medicine; American Medical Society.

1 419 | :

ME

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

pusications: Afwltiple Sclerosis: Application of Rebabilitation Techniques,
Naconal Muluple Sclerosis Society, New York, 1951; “Changes in
Blood Gas Equilibria in Physical Hyperthermia,” Journal of Applied
Physiology, January, 1949.
THIS report would never have been written were it not for my
wife’s insistence. She’s goaded me into this as only a wife can do
by accusing me of lacking Class loyalty, ignoring Harvard activ-
ities including my Harvard past, etc. But she is no booster in
the Afain Street fashion. She believes Harvard is still one of the
few educational citadels of the liberal and liberal arts concepts
in American life and should not be ignored. And she’s right...
I’ve contributed nothing so far to the Class fund, taken part in
no activities, and joined no Harvard Clubs. Looking back to my
undergraduate days it might be said by some that I didn’t do any
of the things some of my classmates deem so important; for one
thing I did not establish those contacts which seem to provide
a source of social and economic satisfaction to them. Perhaps
this is the reason for my apparent lack of Harvard conscience.

This conscience, however, is alive at least in thought, for I do
feel Harvard is still one of the great institutions where freedom
of thought and expression are not at the mercy of the inquisitors
who have recently appeared on the educational scene. And were
I to have a son I should send him to Harvard. But my Harvard
past comes up to haunt me. Recently, in the midst of a North-
easter, I found by yelling above the wind that my host aboard
a sloop was not only a Harvard man but a classmate of mine to
boot! On top of that, my wife’s long-lost first cousin is a Harvard
man! To round this out, one of my best friends is a Harvard
man! I obviously hide my Harvard past unduly, for they are all
nice guys. I yield to inscrutable fate, from which I had thought
myself free. Once a Harvard man, always a Harvard man!

Of course this does not sketch in the details between the two
ends of the past quarter century. I went to medical school, prac-
tised in hospitals, went to war, and finally settled down in New
York City. At the present time I feel I have achieved at least
one of my ambitions, and that is not only to practise medicine
but to engage in research and teaching also. Yet I am a traitor
to the end, I fear, for I am associated with the College of Physi-
cians and Surgeons, Columbia University Medical School.

[420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘Though my profession had its roots at Harvard, my side inter-
ests did not. In the course of the years I have picked up enthu-
siasms for sailing, skiing, and anthropology; in a lukewarm way,
for farming and gardening — but the latter are much too hard,
and the ever-present hazard of poison ivy mitigates the joys of
earthy contact.

In reviewing what [ve jotted down so far it becomes apparent
that my reticence about Harvard is really unjustified, for it has
actually contributed a great deal to my development. It also be-
comes evident, on a little reflection, that any one agent can never
be the sole influence on a man’s life as some enthusiastic Harvard
biographers infer. Harvard contributed much toward my out-
look on life, true! and toward preparation for my profession,
albeit no “contacts” were made at school. But there were other
important factors: my wife, Boston Latin School, books I’ve read,
people I’ve known, and meeting a cross-section of America and
part of the other world in the Southwest Pacific during the last
war. All these influences have given me an inkling into what I
think is most important, to know what people have said and
thought in the past as well as in the present, and to understand
what people feel elsewhere in the world as well as here. If “Veri-
tas” is to prevail, man’s interests must have extension in time and
space and not only in the old school tie. Hail Harvard!

- DANIEL EDWARD GORMAN

HOME Appress: 66 Gardner St., Peabody, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peabody High School, Peabody, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 11, 1906, Peabody, Mass. parents: Daniel Augustus Gorman,
Annie Julia Porter.

PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Peabody, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29),

MArRigD: Evelyn Ruth Earle, Aug. 1, 1945, Peabody, Mass. cuitp: Dan-
iel James, June 12, 1946. i

OccuPATION: Teacher of English, public speaking, and dramatics. .

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, S. Navy; purser, Liberty Ship, S. S. Noah
Webster, service in North Adiantic and Mediterranean, 1943-45.

GRADUATING into a depression I lived for a while in my
garden. In 1934 I began my teaching career in Peabody High
School. Every boy and girl who has been in my classes has

[421 ]

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

left the school my friend. I think that I could become mayor
of our city if I ran.

I spent the summer of 1936 hiking in Ireland and was known
as O'Gorman. I have probably seen more of Ireland than any
nanve-borm Irishman. I spent the summer of 1938 on an Italian
freighter which took me to the “hot spots” of Europe. In 1943
and 1944 I went back on an American freighter and the “hot
spots” had fused into one big hell.

I love life. I love my son, my wife, my mother. I love God —
especially God who is unconfined by stained glass windows, mas-
sive oaken doors, and beamed ceilings. I love all the “kids,” and
could never hurt one. I love the flowers in my garden and am
very fond of the vegetables which will grow there also. I love
Wales, especially Langland Bay. You can have the Casbah, and
the market place in old Algiers.

I have rooted like mad for the New York Yankees for over
thirty years now —and in that same time have cast many asper-
sions upon the Boston Red Sox. I used to play softball, and at
golf. I once did a lot of bowling — in fact, I bowled fifty con-
secutive strings once in a six-hour stretch without sitting down
for a rest. In those days I was in good physical condition, though
the mental condition was somewhat lacking.

By the way, who is president these days? (I hope that is
enough for politics.)

It is now 2:30 a.m. and I have 23,946 more papers to correct
before dawn, so I shall have to leave this literary rambling. Let
me therefore complete this latest detachment of my life (more
twenty-five years from now) by submitting these findings:

Beer (ale) — fitter ambrosia than what the gods had. An ade-

quate diet of beer and aspirin tablets will prevent anything —
especially colds.

Pure tar soap will cure warts.

The Yankees can’t lose,

The most backward thing in the United States is high school
education. How long are we going to cheat our "teen-agers?

Teachers are wonderful — but broke.

My best wishes to every member of the Class of ’28, and theirs,
and everybody. |

 

[422]

ARMA

 

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JACQUES SIMON GOTTLIEB

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 500 Newton Rd., Iowa City, Iowa.

porn: Feb. 2, 1907, Trinidad, Colo. parents: David Hart Gottlieb, Sarah
Sanders. —

PREPARED AT: Trinidad High School, Trinidad, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.D., 1933.

marrieD: Helen White, Dec. 29, 1934; Belmont, Mass. cHitpren: Marilyn
Lee, June 17, 1939; Jacquelyn, May 15, 1945; David Hart, Dec. 19, 1946.

OccUPATION: Psychiatrist.

TWENTY-FIVE years after and still preparing for exams! it
is with regret that I shall be unable to join my friends and class-
mates at our Twenty-fifth Reunion. I hope those of you who re-
member me will wish me well while in your celebration glee, for
at the same time as you are renewing old friendships and cele-
brating I shall be taking the medical examinations for licensure
in the State of Florida. This unhappy event is demanded by the
move which my family and I are making from the solid conserv-
ative Mid-west to the land of sunshine and entrepreneurs. It
happens that I am leaving my present position as assistant direc-
tor of the Iowa Psychopathic Hospital and professor of psychi-
atry at the State University of Iowa College of Medicine to assume
a new post in Miami, Florida, as director of the Institute of the
Jackson Memorial Hospital and chairman of the department and
professor of psychiatry at the University of Miami School of
Medicine. Drop in and see me when in town! — non-profes-
sionally, of course.

Time — and it is hard to realize that twenty-five years have
passed — has dealt kindly with me and mine. After college I
attended Harvard Medical School and thereafter spent a num-
ber of years bouncing from one hospital to another in the New
England and New York areas. Finally I landed in Iowa, where
I have remained in attendance for seventeen years. The recent
decision to move to Miami is, therefore, a major event in the
rather uneventful course of my life and the lives of the members
of my family.

Yes, along the way I acquired : a family and a very happy one,
I may add, I was married in 1934 to Helen White, a Bostonian
who still retains but faintly her New England aroma. Three
bouncing, active children — two girls, ages thirteen and seven,

[ 423 ]

i Ag
"Atacama A MENA AA OOO

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

and a boy of six — keep our lives from being humdrum. In addi-
tion, our lives have been interspersed with many pleasant mo-
ments, inconsequential to others but important to us, numerous
trips in and out of the country and, when time would permit,
a casual hunting or fishing adventure into one of the “out of the
way” spots.

Now that my family and I shall be on the beaten path of the
traveller, we can hope for and expect a visit from our friends,
The invitation is out and the door is always open.

CHARLES DARROW GOWING

HOME aboREss: 42 Crafts Rd.. Chesmut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 11 Beacon St. Boston, Mass.

sors: March 1, 1905, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Franklin Patch Gowing,
Bertha Darrow.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B, 1928.

marriep: Anne Locke, May 14, 1931, Weston, Mass. cHitpren: David, Jan.
6, 1933; Jeremy, Dec. 7, 1937.

occuPATION: Architecture.

THE Twenty-fifth is a little like coming out into a clearing after
a long walk in the woods. From a small height you can look
back and see about where the trail began — you can look ahead
and see the sort of country yet to be travelled.

I’m afraid my personal travelogue would never be saleable as
adventure story or lecture. But rising, belatedly, to the urgent
(and I suspect only) invitation to write an autobiography, I shall
begin after the Harvard days.

Three years at MIT. fitted me in 1931 to take a job in an archi-
tectural office at fifteen dollars a week. This financial inde-
pendence made me feel able to support a wife. A very nice young
fellow, who now gives another reason for being, arrived to show
that the foolhardiness of youth often pays off. My job paid six
dollars — then building stopped completely. It was then, during
empty days, that I finished my college education by reading all
those books in my field of concentration (English) that I had only
known in those convenient outline forms.

Another most satisfactory son appeared in 1937; building began

[ 424]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to resume, and soon I had the thrill of seeing my own paper con-
cepts take concrete form. War stopped all private construction;
I worked on the cyclotron and other buildings for Oak Ridge.
These plans were made before anyone knew whether the bomb
was possible or not.

Since the war I have worked in large offices, and also inde-
pendently, finding my profession an intriguing one, though defi-
nitely not the way to make “a fast buck.” My hobbies (as always)
are on the sedentary side, although I’m very fond of grubbing
around in the garden, and have a fellow feeling for growing things.
I hope that the same miraculous force is still working in me, and
that by study and practice I can grow in understanding and kind-
ness. : oe

ERNEST ALLISON GRANT

HOME ADDRESS: 802 Broadway, New York 3, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 86 Fourth Ave., New York 3, N. Y.

BORN: June 27, 1903, Fredericton, N. B., Canada. PARENTS: Ernest Ludlow
Grant, Evelyn Maud Schleyer.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; A.M., 1930.

MARRIED: Muriel Gladys Hale, June 22, 1928, Melrose, Mass, CHILDREN: Ernest
Harrison, Sept. 12, 1929 (7. Alice Barton Green, Nov. 10, 1951); Car-
olyn Hale Grant, Oct. 25, 1933.

occuPATION: Headmaster, Grace Church School.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Episcopal School Association (national);
chairman, Parish School Association, Diocese of New York; secretary,
Guild of Independent Schools of New York.

MEMBER OF: Church Club; American Association for Gifted Children.

PUBLICATIONS: “John Howard Payne,” in collaboration with Professor Stan-
ley Williams of Yale, for the Dictionary of American Biography, 1931's

1932.

JANUARY 1, 1953, found me at the | mid-point of my sixth
year as headmaster of Grace Church School, the mid-century
expression of Grace Church’s continuing interest in education.
Founded as a Choir School in 1894, the school became a co-edu-
cational elementary day school in 1947 and I was given the op-
portunity to come to New York as its administrative head. Start-
ing that summer with a nucleus of twenty-one boys from the
old school, and housed in the old choir residence buildings, we

[425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

now have a completely re-built plant, with a three-story addi-
tion and 210 boys and girls, Such phenomenal growth is due not
only to the fact that the shortage of classroom space was favor-
able to its development, but also to the fact that there has been
an unusual amount of far-sightedness and old-fashioned codépera-
tion within and without Grace Church parish.

It would be wholly inaccurate to say that my coming to New
York City was the latest step in a carefully thought out plan al-
ready formed on that June day in 1928. The contrary is all too
true. Except for the certainty that I was to be married the next
day and the probability that I would enter the Graduate School of
Arts and Sciences in the fall, June 21st found me with no long-
range plans for the future. Nevertheless, four years, a fine young
son, an A.M., and a partially completed Ph.D. thesis later, I was
earning a precarious living teaching second grade in a small
school on Washington Avenue, Cambridge, Although I had been
awarded a fellowship for the year 1931-32, the stipend was an
insufficient supplement to my slender income and I turned my
back on further graduate study and hence upon college teaching.
In the fall of 1932 I joined the faculty of John R. P. French's
newly re-organized Cambridge Schoo] on Concord Avenue.

The years at the Cambridge School were ten in number and
were a period of experimentation, of attempts to find a goal be-
yond that of eking out a living on the salary of a classroom
teacher. A daughter joined the family in the fall of 1933 and I
entered professional camping the following summer. From this
point on, my activities overlap each other in point of time and,
in review, frequently appear to have been at odds with respect
to central purpose. Yet, as I look back at this period, I see that
experiences were being sorted out and further explorations in
certain directions were being rejected, and that the classroom
teacher was beginning to develop a taste for administration, But,
when in the spring of 1942 I accepted the appointment as princi-

pal of Friends Academy, New Bedford, Massachusetts, I was
hardly motivated by any conviction that I could serve the com-
munity better as an administrator than as a teacher. My pri-
Mary purpose was to increase my income. For it has been the
case for several decades that, unless he has a private income, the

[ 426 ]

eee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

male teacher must either become an administrator or must aug-
ment his teaching by means of other jobs.

The five years at Friends Academy were rewarding ones. The
school had a steady, if unspectacular growth, and the principal
was active in the Boy Scouts, the Kiwanis Club, and in church
affairs, and made the acquaintance of a classmate, Duncan How-
lect, then minister of the Unitarian Church in New Bedford.
Thus, I passed the war years far from the noise of battle, but
not beyond the influence of newspapers, newsreels, and radios.
Not unlike others who stayed at home, the impact of the world-
wide holocaust led me to re-examine the philosophical bases of
the educational system under which I was practising my profes-
sion. So it was that when the opportunity came to head a church
school I was ready.

This is not the place to set forth in detail the reasons for leav-
ing the field of secular education or for attempting an apology
of the church-governed school, It will be enough, I hope, to say
that twenty years as teacher and administrator in both modern
and conventional schools led me to the conclusion that the only
education that can nurture the whole child is one that includes
definite spiritual and moral training and content. The five years
at Grace Church School have served but to confirm and strength-
en this conviction. For this reason, I feel certain that the path
from now on is pretty well marked out. I am under no illusions
about the enormity of the task faced by me and my fellow work-
ers in the church schools of America. But the contribution I
want to make is to do what [ can to pass on to the next generation
the heritage of the Judaic-Christian tradition. If by instruction
and example I can in some way help children to grow up with
tender consciences, I shall consider my life well spent. And if my
sector of the battle line be overrun by the enemy, I have faith
that other outposts will not merely hold, but counter-attack in
force.

GEORGE FRANKLIN GRAVELL

HOME ADDRESS: 143 Comfort St., Rochester 7, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey, Rochester, N. Y.

BORN: July 24, 1903, Rochester, N. Y. parents: Frank F, Gravell, Mary
McDonnell.

[427]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

parpanso At: Aquinas Instirure, Grand Rapids, Mich.
VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DECREE: S.B.. 1928.
accupaTion: Oil Business.

JAMES LEONARD GRAVES

Home apoagss: Oakdale Drive, RF.D. 1, Columbia, Tenn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: National Carbon Co., Inc. St. Albans, Vr.

Bors: Oct. 12, 1904, Springboro, Pa. parents: Clarence Melvin Graves,
Birdie MacPike.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-10927.

Marairp: Ruth Barnes, Aug. 4, 1934, Niagara Falls, N. Y. cHitpren: David
James, Feb. 25, 1941; Thomas Paul, May 5, 1947.

oocupaTion: Engineering.

DONALD HOLDEN GREEN

HoME appress: High Street, Ashland, Mass.
orrice aporess: Telechron Depr., General Electric Co., Ashland, Mass.

Bors: June 10, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Edmund Holden Green,
95, Maybelle Gertrude Dustin.

PrepareD AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

magaizp: Ruth Everett Pierce, Feb. 27, 1934, Ashland, Mass. CHILDREN: Su-
zanne Dustin, June 5, 1938; Sally Waite, Oct. 23, 1940.

Haavano BroTHER: Howard Dustin Green, °25.

occupation; Manufacturing, assistant to business services manager, Tele- -
chron Department.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Honorably discharged from Field Artillery Re-
serve with rank of captain approximately year prior to Pearl Harbor.

orricts HELD: Member, 1945-48, chairman, 1947-48, Ashland School Com-
mittee; member Ashland School Building Committee, 1947-50; chair-
man, Ashland Public Health Service Committee, 1952.

HAVING observed the migrations of various members of the
Class as evidenced in the laste Class address list, I suspect my
duings in the past twenty-five years will no doubt seem prosaic.
However, it has been a most satisfying life.

A few years after graduation I started working for the Warren
Telechron Company. This job evolved through Telechron, Inc.,

[ 428 ]

OT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to Telechron Department, General Electric Company. I’m still
there, at present as assistant to the business services manager.

In 1946 my wife and I purchased a very small cottage on the
outskirts of town mainly for the sake of a beautiful view and
acreage for our two tom-boy daughters. After two years of
hectic existence in those very limited living quarters we tore
down, remodelled, and enlarged and are only now recovering
from the ordeal which was second to none, barring not even Mr,
Blanding’s. The moral of our story is that it is apparently easier
and more efficient to build entirely anew; in our case, however,
I think that the end justified the means.

The family is still feebly endeavoring to convert me into being
a gentleman farmer of sorts, but their efforts are weakening what
with the passing of time and the increasing activities of the chil-
dren who are now in high school and are actively and passively
engaged in sports, dances, and many other goings-on.

The fun of seeing them grow up with their expanding interests
and personalities and the sharing of their experiences has been
the most satisfying lot that one could ask for.

FREDERICK WILLIAM GREEN

HOME ApDpDREsS: 56 Woolson St., Watertown, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Brass Co., Waterbury, Conn.
BoRN: Feb. 28, 1900, Waterbury, Conn. PARENTS: George Green, Althea

Alma Foote.
PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.
MARRIED: Lorraine Holcomb, Oct. 2, 1937, Claymont, Del. cuitoren: Fred-
erick William, Jr., March 5, 1940; Susan Christine. July 6, 1942.
OccuPATION: Assistant sales manager, French Small Tube Branch, American

Brass Company.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT POST: War Production Board.

TO compress into a few paragraphs twenty-five years of an un-
eventful life would be quite a task for someone with more literary
ability than I possess, but since [| enjoy reading about what others
have been doing, I should contribute my bit so here goes. Why I
waited until it got all mixed up with income tax when it could so
easily have been done last year is unexplainable except that the
habits of a lifetime are not easily changed.

[ 429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Since leaving college I have been a part of the sales department
of the American Brass Company with headquarters in Waterbury.
Most of my time has been spent in outside sales work in Phila-
delphia and New York City. In 1946, I came back here to get
behind a desk, although I still spend considerable time in travelling
the eastern half of the U.S.A.

What with my peripatetic existence, I have not been a “joiner”
nor have I collected any directorships, but except for the prob-
lems of controls and shortages, etc., I enjoy business life and it
helps us to eat regularly.

During my stay in Philadelphia I met Lorraine Holcomb of
Wilmington, Delaware, and we were married in 1937. This
represents one of the real high spots of my life. Between us we
spend a good portion of our time raising and trying to understand
two modern youngsters. Like others of 1928, our lot is a com-
bination of the joys and exasperations that go to make up family
life. We do lots of things together, the four of us, and while I
can’t be exactly sure, I think each of us enjoys the company of
the rest.

For hobbies I enjoy whatever interests me at the moment.,]
do a lot of gardening and have a workshop which I keep rather
busy. We have been through the experience of remodelling a
house which represents a spot of work to say nothing of educa-
tion. The Greens spend a lot of time playing golf which for me
takes the place of the more strenuous stuff that once was so much
fun. I've given up trying to save my hair and that leaves me more
time for other things.

I have had the opportunity to do work with Cub Scouts and
Boy Scouts which of course is its own reward. Other things
which have occupied me at different times are Civic Theatre,
Men's Choral work, Y.M.C.A., church activities, and some other
shorter-lived avocations. Politically I have been a hopeful Repub-
lican whose hopes have finally been realized.

All in all my life has been an average one but none the less en-
joyable. Looking back over twenty-five years there are those
facets which I might polish up a bit more if the opportunity were
mine but f wonder if I would if it were mine to do again. If
memory serves, I believe someone read a poem on this subject at
commencement so I probably wouldn’ to

[ 430 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

One thing I haven’t done which should have been done is kee
up contacts with my classmates. Accordingly I shall look forward
to seeing them at the Twenty-fifth.

GLEN KINNICUTT GREEN

HOME ADDRESS: 73 Walworth Ave., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 William St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1906, Toledo, Ohio, Parents: Frederick Cookman Green,
Adda Bone. . .

PREPARED AT: East High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: s.B. cum laude, 1928, Gr. (Rutgers
Univ. School of Banking), 1949.

MarRiep: Margaret Edith Armstrong, April 21, 1934, New York, N. Y.
cuitpreN: Kenneth A., Jan. 3, 1937; Alan R., Dec. 30, 1946.

occuPATION: Assistant trust officer, City Bank Farmers Trust Company,
in charge of investments for trust accounts with duties supervising
personnel.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: U. S. Naval Reserve, lieutenant, Supply Corps,
active, 1943-46; inactive reserve status, since 1946.

UPON mature reflection (and who knows better than one’s
classmates how mature?) it occurs to me that perhaps the lives
of some of the other members of this Class have been as serene
and uneventful as mine, Accordingly, confident in this thought
as well as the certainty that one Hamilton Heard, Secretary, will
mutter gratefully — but not in a complimentary fashion — some-
how the courage is found to fill out the Class report.

A middle-western boy who came east to college, I enjoyed
every minute — well, nearly ever minute — of life in the Yard
and then came to New York to seek my fortune where I’m still
seeking it while looking after the fortunes of others. I still think
New York is a wonderful town which probably proves that
some of us never grow up but may indicate that in spite of its
detractors, New York still has something.

Probably the most interesting years for my child bride and
myself were spent in the Navy, particularly in Coronado, which
was a new world flavored with new work, new friends, night-
blooming jasmine, and plenty of martinis. While this dream-
world was followed by short stands in Honolulu, Guam, Saipan,
and Okinawa, the melody of California lingers on and along about

[ 431]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

1970 —W ell, maybe we'd better live that long first before pick-
ing a spot in which to retire.

‘A family of two boys ten years apart in age is quite an ex-
perience but is strongly recommended both as a way to prevent
stagnation and also as the proper approach to refresher courses
in Parent-Teachers Association, amusement parks, and basic al-
phabet. Incidentally it also tends to assure one of a warm wel-
come from the little woman when one gets home in the evening
—the warm welcome that the bottle-weary veteran gives the
mobile reserves.

JOHN W. GREEN

HOME ADDRESS: 903 N. Bedford Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: M-G-M Studios, Culver City, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1908, Far Rockaway, N. Y. PARENTS: Vivian Green, Irma
Etulka Jellenik.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MarRIED: Carol Falk, April 29, 1930, New York, N. Y.; Betty Furness, Nov.
26, 1937, Hollywood, Calif.; Bonnie Nadine Waters, Nov. 20, 1943,
Beverly Hills, Calif. cxmpren: Barbara S., Sept. 26, 1939; Kathe ].
Sept. 22, 1944; Christopher (girl), March 17, 1947.

OccUPATION: Composer, conductor, arranger, pianist, music executive.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Composers, Authors, & Publishers; Acad-
emy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences; Songwriter Protective Asso-
ciation; Screen Composers Association; American Federation of Musi-

cians; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Southern Calif-
ornia.

PUBLICATIONS: Songs: “Coquette,” “I’m Yours,” “Out of Nowhere,” “I Cover
the Waterfront,” “I Wanna Be Loved,” “Easy Come, Easy Go,”
“You're Mine, You,” “Body and Soul,” and many others.

IT WAS in the summer of 1927 that I went to Cleveland to work
as an arranger with the then comparatively unknown Guy Lom-
bardo and his Royal Canadians. While there I collaborated with
Carmen Lombardo and Gus Kahn on my first successful song,
“Coquette,” which became a hit by mid-year of my senior year.
Despite this first flurry of success, my father, who really had no
blind prejudice against the arts or the theatre, strongly opposed
my choice of a musical career because, to quote him, “there 1s
no bum like a pretty good artist.” And my father thought I was

[ 432 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a “pretty good artist.” As a result of his opposition I had majored
in economics, and I had been able to squeeze in only a couple
of music courses as an undergraduate. Following a trip through
Europe with the family during the summer of 1928, | returned
to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences as a result of having
momentarily mesmerized my father into the idea that even a
graduate economist needed more of a rounding out in Belle Let-
tres than my undergraduate courses had given me.

It was too good to last, however, my father was miserable and
I resigned at mid-year of my first graduate year to take a job as
a clerk in the Wall Street firm of Asiel and Company. I eked out
six months and worked myself up to the Delayed Delivery Blot-
ter before quitting to cast my lot once and for all with music and
the theatre. In July of 1929 I formed a collaboration with Ed-
ward Heyman, lyricist, that was ultimately to lead to my most
successful songs. Heyman and I did not find immediate accept-
ance as song-writers, however, and I went my way playing with
dance bands, arranging and accompanying singers. I worked for
Bobbe Arnst for a time and then became accompanist to Ger-
trude Lawrence. Some of my classmates may remember, I hope
with a compassionate smile, the rather unfortunate episode when
I brought Gertrude Lawrence and Bea Lillie to the Common
Room of Gore Hall in our freshman year to give a concert for
the Class. The idea was not universally acceptable, as I seem to
recall.

The late Miss Lawrence became one of my dearest and closest
friends, however, and giving me a job as her accompanist at a
time when I desperately needed it, was perhaps the most signifi-
cant single factor in launching me on a career in the entertain-
ment world. It was for Gertrude Lawrence that Heyman and I
wrote four pieces of special material, all four of which she bought
for a total of 250 dollars—and one of which was “Body and
Soul.” It was through her that the song saw the light of day in
England and ultimately became a very successful European hit,
later to repeat that success via Libby Holman in “Three’s a
Crowd” in New York.

Between the time of my employment as Gertrude Lawrence’s
accompanist and the American success of “Body and Soul” many
things happened, however. Edward Heyman and I failed to rock

[ 433 ]

| |
5 |
or aan: Nab eh aaNet /

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Picture Arts and Sciences and subsequently served two years as
the chairman of the Afusic Branch of the Academy. I am con-
currently secretary of the Academy and a member of its Board
of Directors.

I lefe Metro at the end of 1946 and during the next three years
worked as a composer-conductor on a free-lance basis at Uni-
versal-International, Warner Brothers, and also back at M-G-M.
At M-G-M I was the musical director of “Easter Parade” and was
fortunate enough to win the Academy Award for the best scor-
ing of a musical picture in connection with this film. For the
“Inspector General,” on which I worked at Warner Brothers, |
won the Hollywood Foreign Correspondents Golden Globe
Award for the best motion picture score of the year. In August
of 1949 I returned to M-G-M under long-term contract as gen-
eral musical director of the studio. I am now functioning in that
capacity and am in complete charge of all matters musical, under
the direction of executive producer, Dore Schary. In addition
to my executive and administrative duties, however, I continue
to function as a practising musician. I have worked on “Summer
Stock,” “A Life of Her Own,” “Toast of New Orleans,” “Royal
Wedding,” “The Great Caruso,” “Too Young to Kiss,” “An
American in Paris,” and “Because You’re Mine” as conductor or
musical director or both. M-G-M record albums have been made
from the sound tracks of “Royal Wedding” and “An American
in Paris.”

In 1945, 1948, and 1952 I served as musical director of the
Academy Awards Ceremonies, and in 1952 I won my second
Oscar — this time in collaboration with Saul Chaplin — for “An
American in Paris.” In 1949 I served as the general director and
producer of the Academy Awards Ceremonies. In 1951 I was
chairman of the Academy Awards Planning Committee. I have
been guest conductor of the Hollywood Bowl Symphony Or-
chestra regularly each season since 1945. In the summer of 1952
I conducted three concerts in the Bow] and have just completed

a series of recordings with the Hollywood Bow] Symphony for
Decca which include Robert Russell Bennett’s symphonic syn-
thesis of “Porgy and Bess,” an album of John Philip Sousa, and
a cross-section of the works of Sigmund Romberg. My concert
suite of three pieces for piano, “Materia Medica,” which was

[ 436 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

commissioned in 1948 by the Abbott Laboratories, is now being

layed in concert around the country by the prominent pianist,
Jakob Gimpel. I have been for the past several years a member
of the West Coast Committee of the American Society of Com-
posers, Authors and Publishers. This committee represents the
interests of some 4oo members of A.S.C.A.P. who reside in the
western part of the country. In May of 1952, in association with
producer Arthur Freed, 1 went to Europe for the purpose of
setting up a musical unit to handle two Gene Kelly musicals, the
first of which is in production in England as I write these notes.

There have been three marriages. The first one, at the age of
twenty-one, had no issue as the saying goes, and therefore needs
no further mention here. My second marriage was to Bett
Furness of current Westinghouse fame, and we had a daughter,
Barbara, now thirteen. I was married in 1943 to Bonnie (Bunny)
Waters, ex-swimming champion and actress. There have been
two daughters since, Kathe, eight, and Christopher, six.

My hobbies are sixteen-millimeter motion picture photography,
sound and electronics, and cooking. I take my activities with
motion picture photography and sound very seriously, and the
amount and elaborateness of my equipment leads my good
friends to fear for my sanity. I have much humility about my-
self as a musician, as an executive, as an amateur cinematographer
and electronist — but no humility about my cooking. I am a
first-rate chef; I do not specialize in steaks, barbecues, or spa-
ghetti, but can cook anything and do—and well — including
baking, and I shall be glad to give evidence of same to any itiner-
ant member of the Class of 1928 who will take the trouble to
push the doorbell at go3 North Bedford Drive, Beverly Hills,
California.

MANDEL MONAHAN GREEN

HOME AppDRESS: 94 Louise Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Northeastern Distributors, Inc., 588 Commonwealth Ave.,
Boston, Mass. .

BORN: Noy. 19, 1905, Houlton, Maine. parents: Ellis Green, Lizzie Black.

PREPARED AT: Fort Fairfield High School, Fairfield, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928,

[ 437 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

maxsiep: Ada Bloom, June 18, 19:9. cHitpreN: Judith Lee, July 26, 1932;
John Lewis, June 27, 1934.

waavanp s0N: John Lewis Green, °55.

gocturatton: General sales manager, Northeastern Distributors, Inc.

I ORIGINALLY planned to continue education at Harvard
Business School but had to choose between that and the school of
marriage and chose the latter — with no later regrets. I taught
history and coached athletics at Thomaston (Connecticut) High
School for several years before becoming the high school princi-
pal. I left school work in 1939 to expand my earning potential and
spent several years in the installment business, eventually managing
several branches of an enterprising chain. In 1944 I transferred
my efforts to Michaels Jewelers, but soon accepted a very fine op-
rtunity with the present firm, Northeastern Distributors, Inc.,
one of the leading major appliance distributors in the country. I
became general sales manager in 1946 and have been having a real
challenge concerning scientific distribution in relation to a dozen
leading manufacturers and an outstanding “gang” of very capable
salesmen.

With the wife very busy as treasurer of the Friends of the
Creative Arts Center of Brandeis University, Judy Lee graduating
from the University of Connecticut this year, and John Lewis
now a sophomore at Harvard, active in basketball and track and
planning to be a surgeon — there’s never a dull moment when we
get together and review these modern educational trends.

WILLIAM FREDERICK GREEN

HOME AND OFFICE aboress: Fairfield Scate Hospital, Newtown, Conn.

poax; Feb. 5, 1906, New Milford, Conn. parents: Frederick R. Green,
Catharine Ann Turrill.

pereparrp AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. prcRers: 3.8. cum laude, 1928; M.D., 1932.

magnizp: Adrienne La Bauve, Jan. 29, 1945, Abbeville, La. cup: William
Frederick, 2d, June 20, 1947.

occupation: Superintendent, Fairficld State Hospital.

MILITARY OW NAVAL necOMD: Lieutenant, licutenant commander, U.S.N.R.;
active duty, July 7, 1941, U.S. Naval Mobile Base Hospital #2, Pearl
Harber, T. 11, October, 1941 — September, 1943; U. S. Naval Hospi-
taly in Pensacola and Jacksonville, Fla, released from active duty Oct.

10, 1955.

(438 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Psychiatric Associa-
tion; Newtown Rotary Club.

puBLICATIONS: “Effects of Anoxia in Psychoses,” Archives of Neurology and
Psychiatry, November, 1940; “Frontal Lobotomy Clinical Experience
with 107 Cases,” American Journal of Psychiatry, April, 1949.

ALLAN JACOB GREENBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 10525 Garwood Pl. Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 416 W. Eighth St., Los Angeles 14, Calif.

BoRN: July 31, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Bernard Greenberg, Sadie
Goldberg.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B. magna cum laude

(Boston Univ.), 1931.

MarrigpD: Janis Adele Van Cleef, Aug. 9, 1936, Chicago, Ill. cuitpren: Mari
Van Cleef, May 14, 1938 (died Dec. 16, 1939); Eldon Van Cleef, July
26, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry F. Greenberg, ’33, 4.M., 734; George Greenberg,

"29, M.B.A., "31.

occupaTION: Lawyer, partner in firm of Benjamin & Greenberg.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted as private Sept. 22, 1942; graduated
O.C.S., Camp Lee, Va., July 16, 1943; commanding officer, 2473rd Quar-
termaster Truck Co., 23rd Air Depot Group, 1943; in charge military
justice and discipline, San Bernardino Army Air Field, 1943-44; trial
judge advocate general Court Martial, San Bernardino Air Service
Command, October, 1943, to January, 1946; separated as captain, Air
Corps, Jan. 17, 19465 awarded Army Commendation Ribbon, April,
194

OFFICES a Special assistant to Attorney General of Massachusetts, 1935;
counsel, various bar associations in Massachusetts, in charge prosecution
of unauthorised practice of law, 1934-35; president, First District, East-
ern Middlesex Bar Association, Mass., 1938; chairman, Malden, Massa-
chusetts, Democratic City Committee, 1936-38; vice-president, Beverly
Hills Chapter, Zionist Organization of America, since 1950; assistant
supervisor, Civil Defense and Disaster Corps, City of Los Angeles
(currently); southern California regional agent, Harvard Fund (under
Bob Hunneman), since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Los Angeles Bar Association, Harvard Club of Southern Calif-
ornia; Wilshire Boulevard Temple; American Jewish Committee; Re-
serve Officers Association; American Legion.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions (in early years) to Boston Univer-
sity Law Review.

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

recovery. With our major illnesses now behind us, I devoutly
hope, we and our eight-year-old son live happily in a modern
Neutra-designed home a short block from the campus of the
University of California at Los Angeles. Our home commands
a superb view of the Hollywood Hills and the mountains beyond.
As we sit in our cheery living room and look out over the ever-
changing hills, we seem to feel that now, at last, we have our
place in the scheme of things.

The past twenty-five years have changed but little my outlook
on life. In religion, I adhere to the faith of my fathers. In politics,
I am an independent Democrat. I have been and still am con-
vinced that our country must assume the leadership of the free
nations, acting through the United Nations if western civilization
is to survive in this Atomic Age. I pray that we have the courage,
the patience, and the will to carry out the terribly difficult task
which history has assigned to us.

I look forward with intense interest to the next quarter century.
Whatever it may hold in store for us, of one thing we can all be
sure, it will not be dull.

LEO CARL GREENBERG

HOME appress: 10 Lothian Rd., Brighton 35, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Greymor Manufacturing Co., 25 Union St., Boston 8, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 4, 1903, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Greenberg, Bessie
Goldman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1921-1924, 1926-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.ENG., 1928.

MarriED: Sara G. Beinstein, Oct. 27, 1940, Hartford, Conn. cHipren: Mari-
lyn Janice, Feb. 25, 1942; Allen Robert, Oct. 4, 1944.

occuPATIoN: Manufacturer of portable lamps and novelties.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Illuminating Engineering Society.

MY “outside” work actually started on a leave of absence from
1923 to 1926 when | engaged in design and production work in
radio and hardware.

Following Commencement, 1928, I spent a short period on
switchboard construction for Westinghouse, leaving to work
on design, inspection, and then as plant superintendent of the
Lenk Manufacturing Company. I resigned to join Stone and
Webster Engineering Corporation in the design division where,

[ 442 ]

——o Li

i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to my surprise, most everyone seemed to be playing the stock
markets, with hot tips for the asking. We spent an intensely in-
teresting 1930 at Hopewell, Virginia, expanding the already size-
able atmospheric nitrogen plant. This was my first experience
living with southern folk and was most pleasant. Business then
became so quiet that after months of inactivity, with many of
the boys being dropped or idly solving crossword puzzles, I re-
gretfully resigned. I did not fully realize then what a blank wall
we had run into in engineering work. What a terrific contrast
to today!

Then followed a stretch of free-lance selling of appliances,
pots, and pans to stores. I sold enthusiastically, winding up each
day with a good volume of business and the credit manager
seemed just as enthusiastically to reject half the accounts for
poor credit. That’s learning the hard way.

In 1933 I began a merchandise brokerage business followed by
manufacturing of portable electric lamps, a business in which I
am still engaged. During the second World War we converted
to essential work, with some lamp maintenance included.

Hobbies in which my wife and I both find thorough enjoy-
ment include swimming and travelling (sight-seeing) with the
principal hobby helping a couple of enthusiastic youngsters grow
up. This adds scouting, music, religious work, and many more
varied activities.

We attended the “back-to-school” day at Harvard and found
the classes, now co-ed, fascinating. They certainly belied the
stories that these mixed classes would not work out well.

Wonder how these classes will look during our Fiftieth,

WILLIAM HILL GREENE

HOME AppRESS: 3507 N. Ohio St., Arlington 7, Va.

OFFICE AppREss: Department of the Army, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William John Greene,
Catherine Marie Dooley.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

Marrigp: Katherine Kennard Riley, Dec. 28, 1942, Oak Hill, Jessups, Md.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edmund Greene, ’35.

[ 443 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

a q

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ooctrarios: Coloncl, Chemical Corps, U. S. Amy, currently detaj
Army General Staff. °d to
MITLITARY OR NAVAL rEcorD: Enlisted 1o1st Infantry, Massachusetts
Guard, 19:9; commissioned 1934; inducted into federal service
chemical officer, Headquarters 26th Infantry Division, 1941-44; ch 94
cal officer, Headquarters XX Corps, 1944-45; G-2 (Intelligence Son
Orficer), XX Corps, 1945-46; integrated into Regular Army nut
Army War College, 1950-1; Army General Staff, since 195;,° 7
OFFICES HELD: President, Young Democrats of Cambridge, Mass,, 1936 1
member, Cambridge Board of Public Welfare, 1936-38. » 19383
MEMBER OF: Miscellaneous military associations.

IT WOULD be interesting if the Class statistician could analyze
our careers to determine whether we endured more ViCissitudes
of fortune as a result of the depression and the war than did
graduates of a decade earlier or later. A casual dipping into the
previously published Class reports seems to show many members
making drastic changes in jobs, hobbies, family status, and polit-
ical and religious convictions as the years have slipped by.
Shortly after graduation I joined the Great A & P Company,
I was one of a number of college men who were to become super-
visors in that organization after an apprenticeship as stock audi-
tors without the back-breaking preliminary of managing a branch
store. The plan was quietly abandoned as the depression set in,
but the job fortunately continued. : :
Excess energy generated in the course of this routine occupa-
tion was expended in two hobbies: local politics and the National
Guard. Local politics in Cambridge are Democratic, which af-
filiation coincided with my inclinations. At the instigation of
Frank Reel and Dave Scoll, among others, I joined the Young
Democrats of Cambridge and charged about the political scene
tilting at most available windmills within and without the party.
I did a lot of stump speaking for various issugs and candidates,
including Earl M. Winslow, Ph.D. ’29, Franklin D. Roosevelt
’04, A. Frank Reel, ’28, Thomas H. Eliot, ’28, Henry D. Winslow,
’3z, and others less learned. I was ultimately rewarded for ™Y
services by being appointed as a member of the unpaid Board of
Public Welfare for the city —a very interesting and educational
experience. I still believe it is a part of the duty of every intelli
gent man to take an active and continuing interest in local polt

[444]

Nationa} ;

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Fics, but constantly changing Army assignments have prevented
9 - .
my participation since the War.

| had joined the National Guard in 1929, was commissioned in
1934 and found this hobby had become a full-time occupation
when our division was inducted into Federal Service in January,

1941. There followed a protracted period of training and state-
side assignments, enlivened in my case by my marriage to an
attractive Army Brat in December, 1942. I stayed with the
division (the 26th or Yankee Division) until January, 1944, when
| was transferred to the XX Corps which at once sailed overseas
and became part of Patton’s Third Army and participated in
the drive across Northern Europe. I had been chemical officer
in the division and later in the corps headquarters, but after the
occupation of Germany began I became G-2 or intelligence
officer of the corps. Our assigned area included most of south-
ern Bavaria which I found very scenic and not unduly inclined
to subversive operations of a dangerous nature.

I was released by the Army in May, 1946, and spent a year
in Boston selling life insurance for T. Temple Pond, 21, with
not unpromising results. Nevertheless, when I was offered an
appointment in the Regular Army in July, 1947, I accepted it.
My wife Kitty gave me quite a recruiting talk, too, although
she now insists it was all my idea.

I did a three-year tour as commanding officer of the Chemical
Corps Procurement Agency, purchasing for that branch of the
Army. Then I was selected to attend the Army War College
for a year. As a result of that higher education I am now im-
mured in the Pentagon as a member of the Army General Staff
in the G-4 or logistics section. We have sunk our nest egg
in a small bit of Virginia real estate and a minuscule “rambler,”
and hope to stay put for another year at least.

Having lost my two pre-war hobbies by force of circum-
stances I am now cultivating new ones— newer but more sed-
entary as befits my advanced age. Currently these are reading,
listening to the phonograph, dodging household chores about
the lawn and yard. I am ably assisted in the more sedentary
aspects of this program by our only dependent, a Siamese cat.

arring some more menacing turn in the international situation
—absit omen! — and providing we can find a catsitter, we ex-

[445 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

pect to be present at the Reunion in June. With my br.
in-law: Don Hurley chairman again, I am sure it wil] be a tt
orable occasion. em.

ALFRED MORRIS GREENHOOD

HOME apowess: 261 Winchester St, Brookline 46, Mass.
oFFice aporess: 18 Tremont St. Boston, Mass.
porn: March 9, 1904, Dedham, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin Harris Gree
Zelda Jacobson. nhood,
prepaxep Ar: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass,
» EARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B, (Northeastern Univ,
1932- ”
-arrieD: Edna Sarkovitz, May 15, 1930, Providence,
Louise, Dec. 15, 1932+
gvarp BroTHER: Ernest Julian Greenhood, ’32, LL.B., 735.
tpation: Real estate.
TARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commission in U. S. Army Reserve, Field Arti]
ery, 1923-33-
IME GOVERNMENT posts: Planning division, Ordnance Corps of the U.S
IMYV.

R. 1. camp: Mary

°R graduating in 1928 from college I took a law course at
eastern University during which time I married. Having
‘terested in the real estate business during Latin School and
years, I did not seem to care too much for law; therefore
d my livelihood would be better dependent upon some
h which I was acquainted: — real estate. I did well in
of work, and with dabbling successfully in the stock
il business, and garage business I seemed to be quite
with the way things were going.

‘ith my real estate I have managed to squeeze in five
ork with the Ordnance Corps of the U.S. Army; this
{still is very interesting work, especially in connection
J related to atomic warfare development. ;
er, Mary Louise, attended George Washington Unt
shington, D.C. and, although engaged to be married
"0 a young man breaking into the advertising bus
y taking a medical secretarial course in Boston:

[ 446 ]

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

++ GEORGE GREENSLET

orn: Aug. 12, 1906, Cohasset, Mass. parents: Ferris Greenslet, Ella Stoot-
hoff Hulst.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: AB., 1928; M.B.A,, 1930.
p: Glencora Ada Osborn, Nov. 10, 1933, La Plata, Argentina.
prep: Feb. 20, 1953, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
wow: Mrs. George Greenslet, Lavalle 190, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

GEORGE GREENSLET died after this Report had gone to

press, too late to prepare an obituary. He had sent in his biog-
raphy for the book, which we are printing here instead of the
usual obituary.

“The year after college I entered the Business School and
worked the first summer with the late Freddie Ames in the
aviation business at the Revere Airport. I graduated im 1930
from the Business School and at that time arranged with Pan
American Airways for a job the following October. However,
in the interim I took a four months’ grand tour of Europe by
car with Seth Nichols, Sam. Peale, and Herb Farnsworth (as
this might be read by my wife I skip the details), which covered
France, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Italy, and
Switzerland. On our return I found the job with Pan Air had
gone with the wind as they had just taken over the competing
line N. Y. R. B. A. and had a surplus of staff. Stull wantung to
work abroad, I joined the First National Bank of Boston as
statistician for their Buenos Aires Branch and after eight years
as statistician, tourist guide, detective, and general handy man
with a slice of credit work on the side, 1 was transferred to the
accounting end of the Branch. In 1946 1 was made sub account-
ant and in 1949 accountant, which position 1 still hold.

“The job of accountant in a bank branch of 771 employees
does not line up to the title, as accounting is a small part of the
work, I also handle auditing, personnel, purchasing, maintenance,
taxes, systems, mail, and any other job that does not come under

the direct title of Loan or Foreign Exchange.

_ “Other events which affected my life were getting married

'N 1933, vacations to the States in 1935, 1939, 1945, 1948, and a
tour of Europe in 1951. The 1948 trip included the Twentieth

L447 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Reunion and I hope in 1953 to be able to make a special trip
to be on hand for the Twenty-fifth.

“Life in Argentina during the twenty-two years I have been
here has been anything but dull. The general attitude of the
governments, w hether democratic or dictatorial, has been anti-
American in ever-increasing force. There has been nothing ex-
cept pressure all the time. As I still hope to stay in this country
a few more years, it is prudent for me to omit such details as
I wrote for the Twentieth Report. Times have changed and
are forever changing. It is not a life to be recommended for
those nervously inclined.

“My hobbies continue to be reading and golf, the latter I gave
up for ten years but on taking it up again I found little change
either in my score—low nineties—or in my form which is
a variation of the Hula-Hula dance made slightly more sug-
gestive by increasing corpulence.”

LAWRENCE GREENSPON

HOME ADORESS: 171 New Mfallery Pl, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

oFFice aporess: Greenspon Advertising Agency, Miners National Bank
Bldg, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1905, Bluefield, W. Va. PARENTS: Solomon Greenspon, Fannie
Cohen.

prepared AT: Beaver High School, Bluefield, W. Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: 8.B., 19238. .

Margiep: Sylvia Corner, Nov. 30, 1933, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. cuitp: Barry
Michael, Aug. 8, 1939.

occupation: Owner of advertising agency.

orrices HELD: Member Public Relations Committee, Community Chest; mem-
ber board of directors, Jewish Community Center; member board of
trustees, Temple B'nai B'rith.

meMnBen or: Wilkes-Barre Advertising Club; American Jewish Committee.

I] SUDDENLY realize why there are so many good biographies
—and so few good autobiographies. Much happens in twenty-
five years and it is a bit of a job to pick what might interest old
classmates, rather than being of interest to oneself.

These years have proved one important point to my satisfaction
—there is no substitute for enjoying one’s work. Having been
overwhelmed by the depression before finding a favorable niche

( 448 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the world, I spent some years working at jobs for which I had
no particular taste. A frustrating experience it was!

In 1938 I finally decided it was time for the Great Decision, so
I went into advertising, the field which I had been eyeing for a
long time. In 1943 I opened my own agency. It’s still small, but
it’s mine. Though the wolf did occasionally huff and puff at the
door, I have always managed to keep him from blowing it down.

Once in a great while something happens that brings satisfac-
tion beyond the returns of ordinary achievement. I had the op-
portunity to be very close to a significant experiment from its
birth. Two years ago a client organized a company to manufac-
ture iterns of canvas and deliberately staffed it completely with
disabled veterans, from the superintendent to the janitor. The
company, William A. Betterly, Inc., does not have an able bodied
man employed in the entire factory, though at times close to a
hundred men have been employed there. I have watched these
men, when given the chance, develop skills that more than over-
came their handicaps to become better than average workmen.
I’ve watched these “Men Whom Nobody Wanted” change from
beaten cripples without hope into self-respecting, skilled work-
men, proud of their accomplishments and facing the future with
faith and confidence. It was done by a privately owned and
operated company, hoping to earn a profit, competing for work
in the open market and connected with no governmental or chari-
table agency,

The unique significance of this employment policy lies in the
fact that, since every man was physically handicapped, every man
had to carry his share of the load, Each man did, though it meant
devising some gadget (in which a number of the men usually
pitched in and helped) that aided him in overcoming his particu-
lar handicap, It proves that, given imagination and willingness
on the part of management, the physically handicapped can be
turned into an economic asset, not to mention the vast social good
that also results.’ Needless to say, spreading the word about the
success of this unique achievement has become a pet project of
mine. I have helped spread it everywhere possible and have seen
it appear as feature articles in national magazines. It has all been
a very rewarding experience,

My wife and I hope to see our son’s interest in Harvard some

[ 449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

dav develop beyond critical evaluation of its athletic records,
But this, T guess, is still the prerogative of a thirteen-year-old. At
Icast, should he go there, Vil have an even berter excuse to visit
old haunts that circumstances have kept me away from for a time
all roo long.

ROBERT ETHERIDGE GREGG

Home aporess: Clavbrook Road, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE aporess:; Kendall Mills, Walpole, Mass.

Boas: Dee. 25, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Robert Etheridge Gregg,
‘og. Susan Vail Crowell.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, M.B.A., 1930.

miaraiep: Robina W. Knox, June 15, 1929, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Robina W, May 31, 1934; Robert Etheridge, Jr.. March 15, 1937;
Susan C, Jan. 16, 1942.

Harvarp BroTHER: David Gregg, °18.

occupation; Divisional vice-president and general sales manager, Kendall
Mills, manufacturers of cotton textiles and specialty products.

OFFICES HELD: President, Noble & Greenough School Graduates Association,
1941-42; vice-president and director, Textile Fabrics Association, New
York, N. Y., since 1950, member OPS Industry Committee for Cotton
Converting Industry, since 1950; member, since 1943, chairman, 1949,
Executive Committee, Textile Section, New York Boad of Trade, Inc.;
trustee and treasurer, Dover Church.

mMeMBER OF: Merchants Club, New York, N. Y.; Arkwright Club, New
York, N. Y.; Dedham Country and Polo Club; Harvard Varsity Club.

FOR some time I have been trying to reconstruct out of the
past a few of the many things that have filled the last twenty-
five years. Progress has been slow, and now Hammie Heard’s
second appeal has come in, and I must get to work or be sub-
jected to a third.

Where to begin? Not having been heavily endowed by pre-
ceding generations, and having to work for a living and liking
it, I probably should start with my job and then get on to other
things. Since 1930 when I graduated from the Business School,
I have been with Kendall Mills, at first as a clerk in one of the
merchandising departments and most recently as a vice-president
and general sales manager of the Finishing Division. It has been
a very interesting experience with a young and growing com-

[450]

NR

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pany in an old and declining New England industry. Fight
years in New York during the forties broadened my horizon a
bit and I looked at Boston differently on my return in 1950,
but it still looked good. In New York they say I talk with a
New England accent, and in Boston my friends attribute it to
New York. My mother-in-law says that I talk with a “cultured
accent” and use too much profanity. You can take your choice!

The war passed me by completely as too old or unfit, etc.,
etc., and my company discouraged any ideas I had of being
of value to my country in Washington or elsewhere by pointing
out that we were head over heels in war work, and I could make
just as much of a contribution by sticking to something I knew
about — my job. I did, somewhat comforted by the usual civil
defense, cub scouts, and community work, nights and week-
ends, in which all of us “stay-at-homes” were involved.

As far as the family fireside is concerned, I suppose by some
I may be considered an ingenue for having been married only
once and not regretting it. Raising the Gregg family has been
a lot of fun, and I wouldn’t have missed it for anything; so has
being married to a Vassar girl who has always had time and
been versatile enough to cope with me, a growing family, house-
keeping, and the numerous outside activities in which she has
always been interested. Our oldest and her father are so much
impressed, we have a second generation at Vassar right now.

Looking back at the years at Cambridge, I have a warm and
affectionate feeling —something like the feeling we all have
when we hear “Fair Harvard.” But also I admire the College and
the University for what they are today and what they stand for.
I am not worried by such quips as “the quickest way to Wash-
ington is to go to Harvard and turn left.” Long live freedom of
thought and speech, and for over three hundred years Harvard
has lighted the way! ;

I wish I could go back again and not miss so many oppor-
tunities, “Had I but time...” But probably it would not be
very different, and I should come out into the “fellowship of
educated men” with a spark of light burning here and there
and still only one lifetime to turn them into flame. And as it
has worked out, there have been so many other areas of know!l-

[451 ]

™ © FL RgRNUnee NPE Y Habe oie + svenmanmeee “Rape: 1 emp:

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

edve and skill that have since proved necessary for existence in
an inflationary and tax-levelling economy!

Was there negligence in the Harvard of our day in not teach-
ing us the specific skills which changing economic conditions
have forced many of us to learn since? For instance, I have be-
come a good painter (“house variety,” as I told a water-colorist
acquaintance a while ago); I have done quite a bit of plumbing,
have built a high fidelity radio and record playing system into
our living room, done considerable plastering and cement work,
built a porch on one of the houses we lived in, and I am even a
reasonably good cook. All that with only an A.B. and M.B.A.
background! Had I known what the future held, I probably
should have apprenticed early to one of the trade unions and
taken a night-school course at Fanny Farmer’s.

For recreations, the Greggs still ski as a family. We read a
lot, like to dance, like music and the theatre. Some of. us play
passable tennis, some golf; and all of us like the water and sail-
ing. We travel whenever possible and have managed trips to
Europe, the West Indies, Virgin Islands, and Mexico, as well
as Canada, Bermuda, and the west coast. And there are so
many more places we want to go before long if possible. When
not possible, we putter around our summer-winter home in
Dover with its marsh, woods, and orchard, and cut the winter
firewood, and enjoy the good life.

WARD IRVING GREGG

Home aporess: 3 Gerry’s Landing, Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFIce ApoRESS: 1259 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

Boan: July 19, 1905, Calumet, Mich. parents: William Tecumseh Sherman
Gregg, Lulu Belle Clara Lounsberry.

parparea at: Calumet High School, Calumet, Mich., Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N.H. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: 8.B., 1928; M.D., 1932.

masniep: Edith Emerson Webster, June 13, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. cnit-
par: Roger Lounsberry, Jan. 20, 1934, Thomas Forbes, Nov, 14, 19353
Kenneth Webster, Nov. 28, 1938.

warvarp saotHers: William Farl Gregg, '24, m.v., 28, Richard Lounsberry
Gregg, °38.

occepaTION: Surgeon.

[452]

 

\\

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 87th Mt. Infantry; Winter Warfare Board, 1942;
86th Mc. Infantry and roth Mt. Division, Legion of Merit, Attu invasion,
1943; surgeon, 35th evacuation hospital E.T.O., 1944; June, 1944—August,
1944, 1st Army; 3rd Army, August 1, 1944-August, 1945; 3rd Army
surgical chief; I & E and security; bronze star and five battle stars.

OFFICES HELD: Fellow and instructor in gynecology, University of Pennsyl-
vania, 1936-37; assistant in surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital,
1937-39; instructor in surgery, 1939, instructor in gynecology, 1948-53,
Harvard Medical School; assistant surgeon, Massachusetts General Hos-
pital, 1941; surgeon, 1937, associate surgeon, 1946, Mount Auburn Hospi-
tal; member board of directors, Shady Hill School, 1940-42; director,
Cambridge boat club, 1950.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Society;
Boston Surgical Society; Boston Obstetrical Society; New England So-
ciety of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; American Surgical Society;
St. Botolph Club (formerly); American Board of Surgery.

PUBLICATIONS: Multiple reports in surgical and gynecological problems, vari-
ous medical journals,

SINCE my father was a surgeon, since my brother was finishing
medical school, and since I had worked during summer vacations
in a mine hospital as an orderly in traumatic surgery, I could
hardly accept any other field of interest during college and as a
graduate student. |
In 1931, I married Edith Webster, daughter of Kenneth G. T.
Webster, professor of English at Harvard; and I had an immedi-
ate rise in rank and grade in school with this incentive. While
awaiting my appointment to the surgical service at the Massachu-
setts General Hospital I increased my knowledge of pathology
and German as an assistant in pathology at the Landeskrankenhaus,
University of Graz, Austria. Unfortunately epidemic encephal-
itis, without obvious residual permanent damage, shortened this
effort to seven instead of ten months. After a West surgical
internship and assistant residency at the Massachusetts General
Hospital I had an appointment at the Boston Lying In, 1935-1936,
and the John Goodrich Clarke Fellowship in Gynecology, at the
University of Pennsylvania Hospital, 1936-1937. I was then as-
sociated in the practise of surgery and gynecology with Dr. Joseph
V. Meigs from 1937 to 1941, a Most instructive and happy experi-
ence,
After a year of private practice, Thad for a short time the pleasure
of being an associate and assistant to Dr. Lamar Soutter.

[453 ]

cp AED

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In 1942 after varied starts, assignments, changes in rank, etc., I
started mv Army Career in the A.U.S. with the 87th Mr. Infantry
Regiment. No medical precedent existed and I was fortunate in
my command friends for two years as I was able to avoid Carlisle
Barracks where I was to learn how to teach the basic army
medicine tactics, etc., which I had been teaching and learning
with field troops from the beginning of this idea of special troops
for special problems. Hlowever, paid vacations end and I was
transferred in January, 1944, as chief of surgery to the 35th
Evacuation Hospital, 3rd Army. In the interim I was almost
court-martialed off Adah but I saved many damaged “trench
foot” extremities by being cantankerous. The 35th Evacuation
Hospital started on June 16, 1944, back of “Omaha beach” and
ended near Passan in Germany in June, 1945; casualties were
treared up to August 12th in Erlangen University buildings.

I still live on Gerry’s Landing on the parkway off Mount
Auburn Street. I am happy in my practice primarily of gyne-
cology and my multiple clinic and routine teaching opportunities
as offered through the Medical School and the various resident
staffs.

I vacation, if I can, on Naushon Island off Woods Hole where
I can rest, promote tree culture, road improvement, sail, fish, or
just enjoy the interests of whatever sons are in residence. In
winter, I have encouraged and now struggle to keep up to all three
sons and their friends in skiing and cold weather enjoyment and
survival training in and about our small farm at Pomfret, Vermont.

LOUIS JEROME GRENNELL

HOME appxess: 2 Darlington Rd., Deal, N. J.

OFFICE avoress: 101 W. 30th St, New York 1, N. Y.

boa: April 15, 1904, Russia. parents: Oscar Greenberg, Edna Cooper.

PurpARED at: Curtis High School, Staten Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. Decree: 8.8. cum laude, 1928.

Maauivp: Gertrude Toland, Jan. 7, 1948, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Steph-
amie Roberta, July 7, 1949.

Occupation: President, Fur Trade Credit Bureau, Inc., Fur Trade Com-
mercial Corporation, credit investigation and factoring.

MILITARY Om NAVAL wECOKD: Entered army as first lieutenant, Adjutant Gen-
eral's Department, Sept. 19, 1942; in 1943 promoted to captain in

[454]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

August, 1945, promoted to major; served in Washington, D. C., and

in Caribbean Defense Area; released from active duty, April, 1946.
OFFICES HELD: President, Credit Mens Club of the Fur Industry, 1935.
PUBLICATIONS: “Factoring in the Fur Industry,” Trade Magazine, 1937.

FREDERICK ROBERTSON GRIFFIN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: grr Black Rock Rd., Bryn Mawr, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co., 1616 Walnut St.,
Philadelphia 3, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1906, Braintree, Mass, PARENTS: Frederick Robertson Griffin,
S.T.B., "OI, D.D., ’36, Edith Josephine Bell.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

MarRigeD: Margaret Gilchrist, May 18, 1935, Philadelphia, Pa. cumpren:
Frederick Robertson, 3d, March 13, 1936; Susan, Jan. 27, 1939; Deborah,
Oct. 13, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Life insurance agent.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Member, Pennsylvania War Finance Commit-
tee.

OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Committee, Philadelphia Life Insurance
& Trust Council, 1947-50, Philadelphia Association of Life Under-
writers, since 1952; chairman, Finance Committee, Gladwyne Fire Com-
pany, since 1946, Gladwyne Cub Pack Committee, 1945-46; secretary,
1945-47, director, 1947-52, Gladwyne Civic Association; Neighborhood
Scout commissioner, 1942-445 secretary, Harvard Club of Philadelphia,
1941-45.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Merion Cricket Club; The Rac-
quet Club, Philadelphia.

WITHIN a few weeks of the final examinations in Cambridge,
I started my first job—one which by personal preference
should have no connection with any form of selling — office
manager of a district insurance office. I found that more selling
was needed to get co-operation out of twenty-five girls than
I had ever realized. After several years I “saw the light” and
asked for a transfer to the Sales Department. From then on,
life was one continual challenge.

In 1935 I took unto myself the added responsibility of a wife.
So far she has put up with my many idiosyncrasies and has pro-
vided the necessary balance for her husband’s somewhat serious
approach to life.

[455 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In 1936 I gave up a good salaried position for the opportunity
to build my own future as a life insurance agent. The early
years were rather rough and depressing, but the later results
have been most gratifying. The people whom I have met in
all waiks of life have been very stimulating. It seems to be a
common conception that life insurance agents have a surplus of
time. Consequently, over the years I have become involved in
numerous fund-raising projects and other civic activities.

In 1939 we built our own house in what was then open coun-
try, but now we are in a suburban area. Most of my extra-
curricular activities have centered around our growing neigh-
borhood plus the interests and desires of three children.

In 1948 my wife, my son, and I had a bird’s-eye view of
Canada, the Northwest, and the Far West, as the result of a
convention at Jasper. Other conventions in Quebec, Florida,
Virginia, and New England have added greatly to our pleasures.

Although a resident of the Keystone State, I feel that we
have a second home in Petersham, Massachusetts — the home
of the Harvard Forest.

The Harvard Club of Philadelphia with its luncheon facilities
has meant a great deal to me. The friends, of all ages, which I
have made as the result of fairly regular attendance have been
one of the most important benefits which Harvard has given me.

In the past few months the renewed visits with classmates in
Cambridge, Boston, New York, and elsewhere have made me
very thankful for my Harvard background.

+ KENNETH BERT GRIFFIN

poan: May 23, 1907, Enid, Okla. parents: Bert Amos Griffin, Lillian Davis.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.
Maraizp; Genelle Gibbs, 1935, Chicago, Ill.
prep: Jan. 3, 1951, Chicago, IIL.
WHEN he left Harvard, Kenneth Bert Griffin was at first an
interior decorator residing in his native town of Enid, Oklahoma.
Later, however, he moved to Chicago and became a radio actor
on programs produced by the National, Columbia, and Mutual
3roadcasting Companies. He died in Wesley Memorial Hospital.
He had been filling the role of Vic Hardy in the Jack Armstrong
show.

[456]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CLARENCE ASHTON GRIMES

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Ralston Ave.. Hamden 14, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hamden High School, Hamden, Conn.

porRN: Oct. 26, 1906, Gardner, Mass, Parents: Clarence Avery Grimes,
Mary Ellen Gately.

PREPARED AT: Gardner High School, Gardner, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928(30); ED.M. (Boston Univ.),

1931. .
MarRIED: Katharine Newell, Feb. 6, 1930, Marblehead, Mass. CHILDREN:

Judith, Jan. 5, 193: (m. Herbert Link, March 22, 1952); Patricia, June
18. 1933; Caroline, Dec. 2, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of modern languages (German, French, and Span-
ish), since 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Music director, teacher, Fitch High School, Groton, Conn.,
1931-35; music director, Hamden High School, 1935-46; various offices,
Connecticut Music Educators Association, New Haven In-and-About
Music Club; chairman of Adjudication, New England Music Festival
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles on music education in The School Musi-
cian, Music Educators Journal, New England Music Festival Associa-
tion Bulletin, and Connecticut State Teachers Association Journal.

AT THE risk of seeming pessimistic, I would like to say that
I really wonder how many members of the Class of 1928 will
really be very much interested in what I write —or will even
read it. I can think only of Don Howard and Ken Whittle
for sure, and possibly Dave Thomas, Ross Guthrie, Mal Holmes,
and Norwood Hinkle; although Don Hurley and Hammond
Chaffetz went through high school as well as college with me.

Let’s have what now sounds like a rather prosaic history
first: After June of 1928 I spent a year trying unsuccessfully
to make a living as a professional musician in Boston (you may
recall the plethora of musicians that came about as a result of
the “talkies”). For about sixteen months following that I worked
for Swift & Company in East Cambridge for twenty-three dol-
lars per week. There were several Ph.D.’s on the payroll at
the same figure in those years following ’29. I finally found
that my real profession and happiness was in teaching, and I
obtained my Ed.M. at Boston University in 1931, writing a
thesis on “Music in the Public High School.”

In September of that same year I began teaching in Fitch
High School, located in Groton, Connecticut, at a salary of

(457 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

$1,600. (I give these figures ostensibly to show how much in-
flation is really upon us, but actually to show that one cause
for the decay of democracy lies in the scant attention paid to
such vitally important factors as education, religion, art, etc.).
My simple assignment as a beginning teacher was several classes
in French (I majored in German at Harvard), social studies
(modern, for history), band, orchestra, glee clubs, community
symphony orchestra, plus many other “minor” duties such
as study hall proctor, home room supervisor, and supervisor of
correspondence courses. The experiences gained in this first
job, from which I resigned in four years, were invaluable, al-
though I began to lose hair and notice symptoms of ulcers. The
Community Symphony Orchestra actually developed into a
creditable sixty-piece symphony, and I found myself conducting
the symphonies of Haydn, Beethoven, Tschaikovsky, etc. On the
strength of this I was appointed to the post of music director
at the newly-built high school in Hamden, Connecticut, in 1935.

At Hamden High School music became my forte and by 1939
the band had grown from nineteen to ninety. And in that same
year this group won first division rating in the National Contest
at New York City, being the only New England High School
band ever to attain such honors. The high school orchestra
even performed the entire Beethoven Fifth Symphony.

In 1946 I concluded that the strain was too much (my hair
was nearly gone, and the ulcers were really troublesome). So I
shifted back to languages and have, since 1946, enjoyed teach-
ing second- and third-year French and German and preparing
some really brilliant students to hit the ninetieth percentiles on
the College Boards. During the past six years I have become
increasingly active “behind the scenes” in music. I have been
adjudicator of orchestras, bands, and glee clubs in state festivals
in all the New England states since 1940 and also judge in the
New England Music Festival Association nearly every year since
1940.

My hobbies are string quartet playing, sailing, and mountain
climbing. We spend our summers at Stinson Lake, New Hamp-
shire, where we Own a camp on a very beautiful lake with three
mountains in view. My eldest daughter, Judith, was a skater in
“Ice Capades” for three years before marriage. Patricia is a

[458 ]

EEE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mid-year student at Oberlin Conservatory, and Caroline is just
graduating from high school. Since space has run out, I leave
it to the half-dozen or so readers of this to figure out the “social,
political, and religious convictions” that Mr. Heard requests. Ir
shouldn’t be too hard!

ALBERT SAMPSON GROSS

HOME AppRESS: 541 N. Forest Drive, Teaneck, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 210 Main St., Hackensack, N. J.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: David Leo Gross, Mae Ruth
Ryba.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1928; LL.B. 1931 (33).

MARRIED: Rose Nelson, July 3, 1930, New York, N. Y. cHiLpREN: Nelson
Gerard, Jan. 9, 1932; Paul Lawrence, Nov. 17, 1935; Robert Michael,
Oct. 12, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Special assistant to Attorney General of New Jersey.

MEMBER OF: Bergen County Bar Association, New Jersey Bar Association,
American Bar Association, B.P.O.E.; Harvard Club of New Jersey;
Harvard Law School Association of New Jersey.

A HAPPY life and congenial friends do not always make for
the spectacular. My adult life has been a history of trial and
appellate work of infinite variety. In later years this has been
chiefly criminal work, and notable has been my involvement
as trial counsel in both the longest criminal trial of a single de-
fendant in the history of New Jersey as well as the shortest
murder case.

I am loath to confess that my eldest son will graduate as a
member of the Yale Class of 1953. While I do not begrudge
him his independence of thought, I am resolved that my remain-
ing heirs not wander from the path of true wisdom.

® SAMUEL DANA GROSS

HOME ADDRESS: 368 17th St., S. E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
OFFICE AppRESS: Quaker Oats Co., Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
BorN: Nov. 30, 1905, Chicago, Ill. PARENTS: Dana Gross, Cora Pickering.

[459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

purparp AT: Lake Forest Academy, Lake Forest, Il.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.
occ-paTion: Engineering Department of Quaker Oats Company.

COSMO ANTHONY GUARCIARIELLO

HOME apoRrEsS: 1o11 Centre St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE appress: 131 Endicott St. Boston, Mass.; torr Centre St., Newton,
Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 27, 1903, Aveltino, Italy, parENts: Erminio Guarciariello, Maria
Carmina Nardone.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: M.D. (Royal Univ. of Rome), 1935.

MarRIED: Maria Bianca Pisani, Sept. 12, 1949, Italy. CHILDREN: Bernice, Feb.
13, 1941; Anthony, July 13, 1944; (by previous marriage) Mary Anna-
belle, Dec. 4, 1950.

occuPaTION: Physician and surgeon.

LIFE has been a struggle in the past twenty-five years. From
now on, Ill be able to see it differently, perhaps with a bright
future.

EDWIN CLARKE GUNBY

HOME ADDRESS: 845 Bellevue Ave., N., Seattle 2, Wash.

orFice appress: U, S. Naval Supply Depot, Seattle 99, Wash.

BoRN: Aug. 12, 1907, Sherman, Texas. parents: Isaiah Phipps Gunby, Bessie
Clarke.

prepasen aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925, 1926-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Paul Clarke Gunby, ’14, M.p., 18, Andrew Clarke Gunby,
"15.

occupation: Clerk, G.S.-3, Delivery Department, U. S. Naval Supply.

FRANK NORRIS GURNSEY

HOME AppREss: 326 Walnut St. Manchester, N. H.

OFFICE ADURESS; 293 Elm St., Manchester, N. H.

Bors; Feb, 8, 1906, Keene, N. H. parents: Robert Frank Gurnsey, Maude
Trene Damon,

[ 460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928. .

marrieD: Dorothy Goffe McAllaster, Feb. 9, 1939, Manchester, N. H.
CHILDREN: Gail McAllaster, Dec. 24, 1940; Robert Frank, 2d, Nov. 17,

1942.
occuPATION: Connected with N. G. Gurnsey & Company. wholesale dis-
tributors.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Office of Price Administration.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rotary Club, Manchester, 1949, Manchester Coun-
try Club, 1948, Webster Heights, Inc. (real estate), since 1940; director,
American Red Cross, since 1949, Chamber of Commerce, 1945-47.

MEMBER OF: Two cultural clubs (not enough); forty social clubs (too
many).

I HAVE been in the family business for years. I married late
in life and happily and the children are running us ragged ac-
cording to Dorothy (and myself) — but we like it!

When single I went to Europe several times — for pleasure.
When married (1939) I took Dorothy to Tobago (off Trinidad).
There we enjoyed “The Bacolet” (operated by a guy from
Tufts) for a fortnight at not over ninety dollars, including tips,
beverages, and “Dew Drop,” the maid. We were definite]
warned not to tip over twenty-five cents per week. (We enjoy
conversing about wedding trips.) Ten years later, when still
married to Dorothy, we discovered Guatemala on a banana boat
from New York. We met friends of friends whom we met on
our wedding trip. Definitely some people have a hobby of
travelling by boat. Do you know any better way to relax? This
hobby acquires delightful friends.

My social convictions are friends, cards, beverages.

Politically, I am Republican only because of economic condi-
tions. I am Democratic because of some welfare theories. Labor
must still be educated that you work in order to possess.

Religiously, I feel that when you are in doubt, you ask!

Economically, I believe: teach every person to think — right!
teach every person to work — willingly! Otherwise there will
be no progress.

ROSS RITTER GUTHRIE

HOME apprgss: 5 Hesketh St., Chevy Chase 15, Md.
OFFICE Apress: General Services Bldg., Washington, D. C.

[ 461 ]

719" proreemmemensnemenenes

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

BORN: Oct. 31, 1907, Washington, D. C. PARENTS: Edwin Guthrie, Annie C.
Spalding.

PREPARED AT: McKinley High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. Cu772 laude, 1928.

marrieD: Alice M. Hartfield, March 25, 1947, New Orleans, La. cuiLp: Annie
Hartfield, Jan. 8, 1952.

occuPaTIoN: Attorney, Defense Materials Procurement Agency, Federal
Government.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commander, U. S. Naval Reserve, April, 1941-
April, 1946.

I PRACTISED law in Washington until the war. After five

years in the Navy, I have remained in the Government Service

with a series of emergency agencies. Hobbies: out-of-doors,

swimming, canoeing, camping, etc. -

+ JEROME STRAUSS GUTTERMAN

BORN: May 9, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Albert Gutterman, Esther Strauss.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

piep: Dec. 2, 1949, New York, N. Y.

FATHER: Albert Gutterman, % National Heat Control Corp., 342 Madison
Ave., New York, N. Y. .

LEAVING Harvard in 1927, Jerome Strauss Gutterman became
a bond salesman for two years with Halsey & Stuart Company
of Boston. He then entered advertising work for a short time,
filling the position of secretary to one of the vice-presidents in
the Einson-Freeman & Company, New York. Finally he em-
barked upon his life’s work by becoming connected with the
Eastman Heat Control Company. In 1938 he was the manager of
its New York office and by 1948 he had become vice-president
of the National Heat Control Corporation. Surviving his death
were his father and a brother. .

GENE BURTON HABER

HOME appress: 2251 Roscomare Rd., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

oFFice appress: Ross Loas Medical Group, 2515 Wilshire Blvd., Santa Monica,
Calif.

Born: Feb. 7, 1907, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Jacob Haber, Dorothy Weiner.

[ 462 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prepared AT: Akron West High School, Akron, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D. (Univ. of Chicago),
1933; M-p.H. (Univ. of Pennsylvania).

occuPATION: Pediatrician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcorD: Entered U.S. Public Health Service Dec. 1, 1942;
honorable discharge, March 1, 1950, state side assignments in New
Hampshire and New York State Health Departments; oveseas with
UNRRA in North Africa and Greece, again with Public Health Service
in Munich, Germany; ribbons and medals, American Theatre, North
African Theatre, European Theatre, recognition of service to UNRRA
and selective service of United States Army.

orFices HELD: Member, faculty, University Extension, University of Cali-
fornia; nutrition consultant to District #3, U. S. Public Health (pre-
viously).

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Academy of Pedi-
atrics.

PUBLICATIONS: Strictly medical and now out of date because of scientific
advances.

1 SELECTED the medical school of the University of Chicago
to study medicine. It was not steeped in the tradition which per-
vaded Harvard during my college days. It did have a young,
vigorous and intelligent faculty led by the distinguished Robert
Maynard Hutchins as president. It was a pleasant surprise to learn
that there were other universities where men were willing to
strugele to learn more about the universe and life itself. At Har-
vard we had met A. Lawrence Lowell and the brilliant faculty of
the college. In Chicago, besides Hutchins, there was another
group, this time mostly scientists, led by the world renowned
physiologist Anton J. Carlson, that inspired those of us who went
there for our medical studies.

Four years in medical school and four years more at the hard but
pleasant life of a hospital house officer matured me considerably.
There was almost no time for play and certainly no money. I
finished medical school at the height of the depression, and small
earnings accumulated at hard work in this period were lost in a
bank failure of 1932. I decided to become a pediatrician because
I liked children, and I have continued to like them ever since,
though it is now almost twenty years of daily contact with them.

In 1941, it seemed that war was inevitable. I was already thirty-
four years old and I had not had a serious love affair, and like
many others at that time I married without being sure that the

[ 463 ]

ee

& “SSR Mine necetina

 

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

person to whom I was giving my name was really the one best
suited for marriage to me. In retrospect it turned out that we
neither loved the other. We had a daughter, and mother and child
like many dependents of that period followed me around as our
lush government tried to decide how I should best help the war
effort. In 1944, the Public Health Service, the branch of the armed
forces to which I had become attached, sent me overseas as a medi-
cal officer attached to UNRRA. In 1946 I found myself in Greece
helping with hospital rehabilitation.

The year 1946 was more important in my personal life, how-
ever, I was divorced by my first wife and married my second
wife. I suppose this was a year of rapid self-maturation. Helen,
my second wife and I set our course to lead as complete a life as
possible, helping others and at the same time helping ourselves.
We were married in Athens, Greece, terminated with UNRRA
there, went on to live nine months in Munich, Germany, where I
was attached to the United States Consulate as a medical officer.
In 1947 after extensive travel in Europe we returned to these grand
United States, most happy to see and enjoy a country where war
had not smeared its ugly destruction and where one could enjoy
life again in freedom,

The year 1950 again was a nodal one. We moved to California,
and I began again the private practice of pediatrics. We are here
three years now, and that makes one a native of the state. We
like it very much. I stick to my two hobbies, pediatrics and land-
scape gardening. My wife has joined many important local
musical groups where I go and hear her talented Soprano voice.
She has now for two and one-half years had leading parts in the
opera workshop at the University of California at Los Angeles.

I will not take time to comment on my social and political views
except that I believe in freedom of the individual to express him-
self unless he interferes with the freedom of the majority. I op-
pose the rule of a small group by force as we saw in Nazi Ger-
many and we see in Russia today.

I believe also everyone should be allowed the freedom to wor-
ship as he pleases. I do not feel that one need have this or that
religion because he was born with it or into it. Many Christians

would make good Jews and many Jews would be equally good
Christians. I use these religions as examples since Americans know

[ 464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

them the best. Many persons have left religion by the wayside be-
cause organized religion as such has refused to become so liberal.
However, my personal belief was recently expressed by a metho-
dist minister friend of mine who said: “I have many friends of
other religions. I often say to myself. This man leads a fine exem-
plary life. What a fine Christian he would make.” I am sure many
a Jewish rabbi would also feel the same about attracting good
Christians into his fold. Unitarianism seems to take the best from
the Jewish and Christian religions. It is too bad it does not attract
more persons to it. But why should I comment further on a sub-
ject about which many of our classmates know so much more. I
don’t know whether the ills of the world can be helped by more
persons thinking on these subjects, but I certainly hope so.

CHARLES STEPHAN HACKETT

AppRESS: Box 1'838, University Center Station, Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BORN: June ro, 1905, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Charles William Hackett,
Sara Stephan.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1928(29).

+ NORWOOD HAIN

BORN: Nov. 19, 1903, Warsaw, N. Y. Parents: Leonard Thomas Hain, Mar-
garet Elizabeth Haly.

PREPARED At: Warsaw High School, Warsaw, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 61/772 laude, 1928; LL.B., 1933.

piep: Sept. 19, 1947, Warsaw, N. Y.

Motuer: Mrs. Margaret E. Hain, 51 Jefferson St., Warsaw, N. Y.

UPON graduating with honors from Harvard and receiving his
LL.B. degree from Harvard Law School, Norwood Hain en-
tered the law office of Arthur H. Lester, Esquire, in Warsaw.
As far as the records show, Hain practised law in his native
town until his death,

[465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

CHARLES SIDNEY HALE

Home ApoRESS: Cascade Springs Drive, Ada, Mich.

OFFICE ApoRESS: Michigan National Bank Bldg. Grand Rapids, Mich.

Born: Aug. 18, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Sidney Hirsch,
Ida de Jonge Hesslin.

prepareD AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

marriep: Carmen de Mora, April 27, 1935, New York, N. Y. cumpren:
Charles Martin, Jan. 19, 1936; Martin de Mora, Jan. 29, 1941.

occupation: President, Great Lakes Oil & Chemical Company, producers
of crude oil, dniling contractors, manufacturers of Bromine and its
derivatives.

MEMBER OF: The Peninsular Club, Grand Rapids, Mich.; The New York
Stock Exchange Luncheon Club,

THE old French adage, Si la jeunesse savait et la vieillesse pouvatt,
covers such a multitude of sins of omission and commission that
I can best use it to describe the twenty-five-year period elapsed
since my graduation from college. If one could only foresee
with definite accuracy what the future might hold for one in
life it would make the choice of one’s four years of study at
college a much easier one.

After leaving Harvard in 1928 and going to work in the bank-
ing and brokerage business in Paris, London, Berlin, and other
large cities of Europe in a career which for a few months in 1928
and 1929 appeared to have no limits from the point of view of
financial success, I quickly came to the realization that instead
of living in an age where we were to have two chickens in every
pot, most everyone I knew woke up to find he was stewing in
his own juice. I probably was luckier than most to have spent
the early part of the lean thirties abroad.

In 1936 in New York, I married a most charming girl whom
I had met while living in London. We now live in Grand Rapids,
Michigan, a part of the world well removed from our European
meeting ground. We have two sons. The elder, aged sixteen,
is a first-classman at Culver Military Academy. Our younger,
aged eleven, is in the first year of high school at East Grand
Rapids.

I remained in the financial world until 1946, but my years of
experience and training with everything that had to do with

[ 466 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

finance as I had known it before the days of the Securities and

Exchange Commission gave me the feeling, as the years went

by, that the brokerage business as such was rapidly reaching

uneconomic limits as the result of the many limitations put on

the speculative markets. So far many of these changes have
proved advantageous, but the real test will come when markets
will have to face the strain of liquidating forces such as those
met in 1929. All the magic of the many types of deals handed
out since that time-— New, Fair, and otherwise will in my
opinion be unable to overcome or change the end results of the
basic workings and fundamental principles of supply and demand.
Be that as it may, in 1946 I pulled up my stakes in Wall Street
and decided to try my hand at the creative side. I assumed the
management of a small publicly owned company, The Great
Lakes Oil and Chemical Company. It is engaged in the oil, gas,
and chemical business. Its shares are listed on the New York
Curb Exchange and the Detroit Stock Exchange. I am still ac-
tively engaged in furthering its growth —a full-time job which
carries me to all parts of our United States.

As I said at the beginning, if I had only known what the
future was to hold I should have paid more attention to certain
subjects which were taken as “snaps” while at college. One I
remember, for instance, was Geology A, covering a subject most
essential in my present business. I recollect getting an “E” in
the same and unfortunately it was not for excellence. There
have been times since, however, when I wished I might even
have been given it for “effort.” They say one is never too old to
learn, but I find as one gets older — the days aren’t long enough.
My spare time is taken up by my family, minor sports, and more
business. One more fortunate thing I realize is that one relives
one’s life in one’s children. For those, however, who feel that
they have missed the one golden opportunity and think that an-
other will never occur, I should like to leave my aging class-
mates with the encouraging thoughts contained in this French
saying: Le plus ¢a change, le plus c'est la méme chose.

[ 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

DONOVAN JOSEPH HALL

LAST KNOWN ADoRESS: 31 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 15, 1905, St. Joseph, Mo. parents: Harry Milliard Hall, Agnes
Marie Risenmy,

prepared aT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

Marriep: Dorothy Makepeace, Sept. 5, 1935, Stamford, Conn.

DONOVAN JOSEPH HALL has been carried as a “lost” man
on our records since 1938.

EDWARD BASS HALL

HOME ADDRESS: 196 Dartmouth St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Dec. 27, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: James Dudley Hall, Lillian
Arvilla Lewis.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

MarrieD: Hyacinth A. Sutphen, 1940, Hyannis, Mass. (divorced 1946).

occupation: Advertising copy writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served one year enlistment with 2iith C. A.
(antiaircraft) in Texas, honorable discharge.

OFFICES HELD: News editor, Radio Station WBZ, Boston, 1935-37; advertising
copy wniter, Callaway Associates, Boston, 1938-40, copy director, ac-
count execuuve, A. W. Ellis Company, Boston, 1942-48, Brennan Ad-
verusing Agency, Houston, 1949-51, account executive, Foote, Cone &
Belding, Houston, 1952.

I'VE been in advertising for most of the past fifteen years. But
don’t think it hasn’t been fun. It hasn’t. This year I’m taking a
sabbatical, travelling a bit and tackling some free-lance writing
assignments.

As to the impending 25th reunion, Emerson, at forty-one, con-
fided to his diary: “I avoid the Stygian anniversaries at Cambridge,
those hurrahs among ghosts, those yellow, bald, toothless meet-
ings in memory of red cheeks, black hair, and departed health.”

Last week I saw Roger Gay’s picture in the Tizmes. If his ap-
pearance is typical of the Class as a whole, our Reunion won't be
even mildly Sty gian. I, for one, propose to risk it, Emerson not-
withstanding.

[ 468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER JOHN HALLIDAY

HOME ADDRESS: 245 Windsor Ave., Rockville Center, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE appRESs: Nims, Martin, Halliday, Whitman & Williamson, 60 E.
qznd St., New York 17, N. Y.

porN: Feb. 7, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Walter Halliday, Charlotte
E. Kelly.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927, DEGREES: A.B., 1928(27); LL.B., 1931; J-S.D. (New
York Univ.), 1950.

MARRIED: Nancy Jane Fowler, Oct. 27, 1927, Gloucester, Mass.

occuPATION: Lawyer. |

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army of the United States, 1934-44.

OFFICES HELD: Member Planning Board, Rockville Center, 1937-43; member
Board of Trustees, Village of Rockville Center, 1941-43; mayor, Rock-
ville Center, 1943-45; associate police judge, 1945-46, master, Com-—
monwealth Lodge 4o9, F. & A. M., 1938; member Committee on Trade-
Marks, Association of Bar of City of New York, 1941-43, American
Bar Association, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Chancery Club, Cambridge,
Mass.; American Bar Association; Association of the Bar of The City
of New York; Rockville Center Post 303, American Legion; Com-
monwealth Lodge 409, F. & A. M.; Rockville Center Republican Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Trade-Mark Reporter, editor since 1947; various articles on
trade-marks, copyrights, and unfair competition.

WHEN I finished at the Law School I returned to New York
and entered the office of a predecessor of my present firm. Over
the years I have concentrated principally upon trade-mark, copy-
right, and unfair competition matters in both litigation and ad-
visory work. There was no intricate plan behind this specializa-
tion. It developed because that is what they did where “I first
went to work” and I liked it and stayed. By its nature such
practice is not static, either in legal theory or in place of per-
formance. The travelling frequently involved has afforded me
many enjoyable opportunities to see classmates who had the
foresight to pick the more attractive sections of the country in
which to live and work. —

My “spare time” has been stratified and devoted to hobbies
and outside activities in the usual progression of intensity. After
a period of active lodge work, I devoted about ten years to local
politics in the incorporated village where I live. I found this a
very interesting but time-consuming side activity and discon-

[ 469 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

tinued it after my coming out of the Army. In the Army 1
classification work. This was also interesting (but consume q oti
more time) and afforded me an opportunity to talk with ee
ten thousand extra people—some of whom were Classme
and other men of Harvard. For the post-war years I have ¢ tes
fined my extra-curricular efforts to editing a magazine, won
on a book (unfinished), articles (published), and caddying fe
ny wife at garden clubs and flower shows where, amo ng othe
"aces, she takes the real prizes and blue ribbons for the famil r
Having started with Republican tendencies, I developed these
as as fervent political beliefs; and having retained these ideal,
vite the doings of the past twenty years I am still an optimist.

JAMES MOTT HALLOWELL

sD OFFICE AppREsS: Cloverluck Farm, Pepperell, Mass.

eb. 10, 1907, West Medford, Mass. parents: James Mott Hallowell,
Louise Tucker Harding.

at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

Mary Frances McKey, Oct. 14, 1932, Newton, Mass, CHILDREN:
*n, Oct. 21, 1944; James Mott, 3d, June 24, 1946.

oTHER: Benjamin Harding Hallowell, °36.

- Dairy farmer; cattle breeder.

casure of one’s life is success or failure, my own twenty-
contribute Little either way to the credit of the Class
ine is no Horatio Alger story: I started with noth-
nd up — materially speaking — with approximately
hus I report as a fact, but in no way do I want it
a disgruntled fact. My life has gone the particulat
annelled it, which is the way of my own choosing.
test respect and admiration I salute my classmates
s we all read in this Report — who have aspired
, and finally attained both fortune and fame.

id of them: doctors, teachers, lawyers, statesmen;
's good to realize that our undergraduate days
may have been, buile better leaders than we

oo. . | ‘ €
's simple and short. Eight years in a brokerag

(470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

offices ending with a grub-stake as down payment on a New
England farm, and a swell wife who was willing to share any

life I really wanted to tackle. My three great loves. New Eng-
land, livestock, country living. I have tried to put them together.

As a medium, I chose Guernsey cattle. Results: about where |
began, save that I have learned much about cattle and have had
a wonderful life for many years. The three, unfortunately, no
longer seem to be a workable combination, and whereas most
of my classmates appear to be fairly well established, currently
| am at a crossroads where I must abandon one of my loves and
settle for the remaining two.

It will be fun to get together at our Twenty-fifth. The world,
indeed, has changed, and so have we. I look forward to visiting
again with friends I have not seen for so very long, and to
drinking with them a toast to whatever destiny we may meet
in our next twenty-five years.

EDGAR GUERARD HAMILTON

HOME AppREss: Box 196, R.D.#2, Ligonier, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Vincent's College, Latrobe, Pa.

BorN: Noy. 19, 1892, New Castle, Pa, parents: Lewis Birely Hamilton,
Harriot Guérard McCombs.

PREPARED AT; Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. 7

OccUPATION: Education.

JOSEPH HAMMER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 356 Weston Rad, Wellesley 81, Mass.

BORN: March 18, 1907, Boston, Mass. Parents: Louis Hammer, Jennie
Lepovich,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: AB., 1928, Mo. (Boston Univ,), 1932.
ARRIED; Rose Langbert, Oct. 9, 1935, Boston, Mass, cHipREN: Judith, Nov,
4, 1937; Joan, June 30, 1942.

OC a . |
Mes Physician, general practice.
ITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army Medical Corps, 1944-46, Philippine in-
Vasion, |

L471]

nts NN! RIE AONE AE OUT ASE TANNIN lll, LL EO LL EE AA ETAe a laa, Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

AFTER graduation there were four more years of medical school
work at Boston University School of Medicine, followed b

two years of internship. Then came a year and a half of work-
ing as medical officer at various C. C. C. camps (that vaguely
remembered institution organized by Roosevelt’s New Deal to
get the youth of America off the streets). In 1936 I took the
big step (no, I was married the previous year) and went into
private practice, Since then it has been a steady grind, interrupted
by two years in the Army; and except for playing golf, which
helps keep the bay window under control, the steady grind
continues.

HAROLD THURSTON HANDLEY

HOME ADORESS: 1888 Massachusetts Ave., Lexington 73, Mass.

orrice appress: Church of Our Redeemer, Meriam Street, Lexington 73,
Mass,

Born: Dec. 16, 1907, Swampscort, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Handley, Alice
Smith. .

PREPARED AT: Swampscott High School, Swampscott, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; B.D. (Episcopal Theological
School), 1931.

maraiep: Dorothy Mabel Whiting, Aug. 6, 1931, Sandwich, Kent, England.
cHitpreN: Harold Thurston, Jr. Aug. 20, 1932; Frederick Thomas,
Dec. 20, 1936; Eric Whiting, March 21, 1944.

occupation: Minister, Protestant Episcopal Church; rector, Church of Our
Redeemer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Chaplain, past treasurer, Lexington Minute Men,
Inc.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Army Aircraft Spotting; Red Cross Home
Service; treasurer, Red Cross Council at Fort Devens.

orrices HELD: Member, Red Cross-Lexington Camping Committee; mem-
ber, Church Militant Board; assistant secretary, Massachusetts Diocesan
Convention, trustee, Cary Memorial Library; Town Meeting Member.

MEMBER OF: Tennis Association, Phillips Brooks Club; Masonic Fraternity;
Lions Club; Historical Society; Boy Scouts.

puBiicaTions: Book reviews, Herald-Traveler.

LIKE the young Bostonian who went to California by way of
Dedham, my life has been quite localized. I have not even been
to California. My education was in Boston environs, and my
ministry has been in Saugus and Lexington — this in spite of

[472]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

depression and war and the tendency of men in the ministry
as well as in other businesses to achieve diversity by frequent
change of environment. At times I feel a bit like the Vicar of
Bray who stubbornly held to his post even if earthquakes of
politics and war moved against him. Or perhaps like Thomas
Browne — without his eloquence, of course — who in the midst
of the quick changes of the seventeenth century wrote of eternal
things. |

For there have been many satisfactions in my settled ministry
and life these past twenty-five years. A local character gets in-
volved in many pleasurable duties from Town Meeting to Minute
Men, not to mention greeting the visiting firemen who come to
this historic shrine from everywhere. And there are satisfac-
tions in getting to know parishioners and friends from one gen-
eration to another. There is a sense of the world beating a track
to my door, at least for the door’s sake. As the community has
grown rapidly it has changed, and the change has not been too
rapid for this old pedestrian, There are compensations in an
urban community as well as a rural one. It has been a good place
to have children grow up in, and to grow up in as a family,
churchwise and homewise. |

Only once have I been involved in an international incident,
and that when I was married in England. It looked for a mo-
ment as if I would return to America without a bride, due to
international law and its vagaries, but the storm soon passed and
married life too has been without complications international
or otherwise. . :

So it is as I quietly pursue the life of Pastor, trying to grow
with a growing community, and a growing family. My sons
at the moment seem bent on floriculture, dishwashing, and cow-
punching (not unusual at eight years, I hear). I still play tennis,
bowl, read, eat, and listen. Sometimes I have hidden yearnings
to make by uneventful life seem more important by attaching
alphabetical titles such as F.C.O.P. (Fellow of the College of
Preachers of Washington) or F.V. of L. (Fence Viewer of Lex-
ington) or C.L.C.C.A, (Chairman Lexington Community Con-
certs Association). I could go on, but it would be amusing
rather than impressive; but I would not add that Pentagon neo-
phyte’s initials: L.A.LC. (Lord, Am I Confused! ), for my basic

[ 473 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

faith still does not waver, and sincerely as I vary m hom
by a trip to Boston — proudly through Cambridge, of ¢
I wish my classmates Godspeed!

e duti es
Ourse _

LOUIS HARAP

HOME ADDRESS: 83 Horatio St., New York 14, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 E. 17th St. Room 601, New York 3, N. Y,

BORN: Sept. 16, 1904, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Moses Harap, Yetta Hara

PREP4RED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y. P.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cu7n laude, 1928; am
PH.D., 1932.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Writer, managing editor, Jewish Life.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted into Army, August, 1942; arrived Eng-
land, June, 1943; public relations correspondent at Portsmouth quarter.
master depot until June, 1944; transferred to SHAEF, psychological
warfare division, intelligence section, worked in London, Paris, then
sent on detached service to 12th Army Group Headquarters psycho-
logical warfare branch, intelligence section, worked at Verdun, Luxem-
bourg City radio station, Brussels, Bad Nauheim; then transferred after
VE-Day to information control team at Munich as investigator; dis-
charged August, 1945, as technical sergeant.

pusLications: Social Roots of the Arts, International Publishers, New York,
1949; “What is Poetic Truth?” Journal of Philosophy, Aug. 31, 1933:
“On the Nature of Musicology,” January, 1937, “Some Hellenic Ideas
on Music and Character,” April, 1938, “The Case for Hot Jazz,” Janv-
ary, 1941, Musical Quarterly; “Sartre and Existentialism,” New Masses,
Dec. 31, 1946, Jan. 7, 1947; “An Analysis of the American Jewish
Committee,” April-July, 1948, “German Jewry Under Hitler,” De-
cember, 1949, “The Truth About the Prague Trial,” January, 1953s
Jewish Life; numerous articles and reviews in philosophical journals,
Daily Worker, etc.

's 1930;

SINCE graduation my life has had three divisions: the Harvard
sojourn, from 1925 to 1939, spent as student, research worker,
and writer on philosophy and aesthetics and as librarian of the
Philosophical Library; an interlude of three years in the Amy
during the anti-fascist war; and the rest of the time in MY au”
New York as free-lance writer on aesthetic, social, and poli’
subjects and as editor of several publications on Jewish a
The Harvard period was an overlong preparation and et
for usefulness in the real world and for adequate living:

[ 474 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

¢ what I learned at Harvard I had to unlearn and discard; much
as invaluable. I have never made any money, nor have I ever

desired to do so, for I have had rich rewards of more significant
and less corrupting sorts. And finally, in spite of the awesome
dangers in the immediate future, I have a firm belief that life
in our country will some day be beautiful for the majority of

its people.

HOWARD LESLIE HARMON

HoME appress: Scarborough, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Drake America Corp., 20 E. 20th St., New York, N. Y.

porn: March 31, 1905, Yonkers, N. Y. parents: George Howard Harmon,
Marion Leslie.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923-1924, 192§-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29),

marriep: Frances Bolles, Sept. 21, 1929, Irvington, N. Y. CHILDREN: Howard
Leslie, 1932; Julia Ann, 1934; Mary Pamela.

HARVARD SON: Howard Leslie Harmon, ’54.

occUPATION: Mercantile business.

VICTOR CHRISTIAN HARNISH

HOME ADDRESS: 327 Boston Post Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 675 Main St., Waltham, Mass. _ oo

BORN: July 10, 1907, Iola, Kans, PARENTS: Louis Christian Harnish, Alice
Brinkerhoff Love.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; LL.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Marjorie Doris Rhodes, Dec. 14. 1935. Attleboro, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert Louis, Aug. 24, 1937; Stuart Christian, April 28, 1939; Deborah
Rhodes, June 20, 1942; John Victor, Nov. 7, 1944

OCCUPATION: Lawyer oa artnet of firm, Harnish, Mansfield, Marsh &
Macdonald.

OFFICES HELD: President, Boys’ Club of Waltham, Inc., 1947, Waltham Com-
munity Council, 1948; Master, Monitor Lodge, A. F. & A. M,, 1952-535
treasurer, Jonas Willis Parmenter Rest Home, Inc. 1939-53. -

MEMBER oF: Massachusetts Bar Association, Middlesex Bar Association,
Waltham, Watertown, Newton, and Weston Bar Associations; Rotary
Club; Masons; Odd Fellows; St. Peter’s Episcopal Church; Couple’s
Club. -

PUBLICATIONS: 4 Living Gospel for @ Living Age, The Life and Writings
of Louis Christian Harnish by his son, 1947.

[475]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

set because we have so much more fun with creative ac
and we believe that reading is an important habit that

an ancient system of morality, personal loyalty, and agg;

oe . : Stance
to one another in time of need. It is a way of life we might
adopt with profit in public and business affairs as wel] sin
our private affairs. Stuart and Deborah are calling me to p

la a
game with them—so here’s to a great celebration op
Twentry-fifth.

JAMES RAYNER HARPER

HOME appress: “Merrywood,” R. R. 3, Ottumwa, Iowa.
OFFICE AppRESS: Harper & McInure Co., Ottumwa, Iowa.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1907, Ortumwa, Iowa. PARENTS: Clarence Samuel Harper,

"99, Elisabeth Deuel Chamberlin.
PREPARED AT: Ottumwa High School, Ottumwa, Iowa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.
MARRIED: Kathryn Coupland, June 11, 1935, Ottumwa, Iowa. cHILDREN:
Jeanne, April 26, 1937; Elisabeth, June 9, 1939; Sally, Aug. 20, 1942.
HARVARD BROTHER: Wallace Russell Harper, ’30.

occtuPaTIoN: President, Harper & McIntire Company, wholesale hardware
and appliance distributors,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), U. S. Naval Re-
serve, Sept. 17, 1943, in Supply Corps; Naval Supply Depot, Seattle,
Wash. November, 1943, to March, 1945; Spare Parts Distribution

Center, Pearl Harbor, April, 1945, to December, 19453 promoted to
Lieutenant March, 1945; released Feb. 12, 1946.

orricEs HELD: President, Rotary Club, Cedar Rapids, 1940-41, Ottumwa
Chamber of Commerce, 1950; vice-president, Cedar Rapids Chamber
of Commerce, 1946; chairman, Ottumwa Community Chest Duvé
1952; member Board of Directors, Union Bank & Trust Company:
Otrumwa, trustee, Parsons College, Fairfield, Iowa; member Youth
Center Commission; elder, First Presbyterian Church.

atpaipem of: Rotary Club; Ottumwa Country Club; Elks Club; Masonic
Lodge and Shrine.

AFTER graduation and a trip to Europe, I settled dow? Wy
work for my family firm in September, 1928, at 4 pitifully
mall salary and with long hours, But being single and living
t home, I was able to save a little money to lose in the Sroc

[478 ]

tivities
Shoy

not be forgotten. q
My most important job this year is acting as Master of yy. .

tor Lodge — A. F. & A. M. Masonry is a way of life based

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Market crash. Because the Depression was getting serious and
there were many Harper mouths to feed, I left the nest in
August, 1930 and went to New York City with the New York
Wire Cloth Company. My six years with that company were

spent partly in New York and partly travelling the whole coun-
as a salesman.

My father and my uncle died within three months of each
other and I rejoined the family business in Ottumwa in Febru-
ary, 1937 moving to our Cedar Rapids, Iowa, branch in Sep-
rember, 1937- In the meantime I had been married and our
frst daughter was born in April, 1937. It was a joy to be off
the road and home all the time.

In 1941 I became a vice-president of the company and man-
ager of the Cedar Rapids Division. .

By 1943, even though I had three daughters and the draft
board was not breathing down my neck, I felt I should join
the great conflict so that afterward I could be a part of the
veterans organizations which I was sure would shape the des-
tinies of the world. (In 1947 I joined the American Legion and
received a key which entitled me to play the slot machines, but
I have never attended a meeting!) My family followed me to
Seattle, Washington, and it wasn’t too tough a war as we reall
loved the Northwest. I found the nine months in Pearl Harbor
much more lonesome, and was happy to return to Cedar Rapids
(pop. 72,000).

After my older brother’s death in 1947, I was elected presi-
dent of our company and re-moved to my old home town of
Ottumwa (pop. 35,000). Civic responsibilities set in, but I have
been anxious to get the important jobs behind me so that I can

enjoy life with my family in the home which we built on four
acres of wooded land just outside of town.

he civic jobs are out of the way, but beware of the P. T. A.!

€ don’t have private schools in our section of the country and

Our three daughters are in three different local schools — grade

School, Junior high, and high school. There are entirely too

bua €xtra-curricular activities that we just have to attend! We

the rn home with one wing that can be closed off anticipating

We ay when the girls would go away to school, but I know
Shall be lonesome without them.

[479 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

As to hobbies, I have played very little golf in spite of the
fact we are within a stone’s throw of the Country Club. My
oldest daughter has shown some talent in competitive swimming
and we have enjoyed driving to numerous swimming meets the
last two summers.

Our whole family is looking forward to our Twenty-fifth Re-
union. The girls have been to Florida, Texas, Arizona, and the
West Coast, but ic will be their first trip east. I know they will
be impressed. Any classmates are invited to visit us in Ottumwa
at any ume.

ALBERT JOSIAH HARRIS

HOME appress: 345 E. Grand St, fount Vernon, N. Y.

OFFICE ADORESS: Queens College, Flushing 67, N. Y.

Bors: Aug. 13, 1908, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Saul Harris, Ray Hurwitz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; AM.,
1930; PH.D. 1930.

Mmarriep: Edith Fread, June 24, 1930. cHILDREN: Rona Carol, March 24,
1933; Charlotte Louise, June 8, 1942.

occupation: Director of the Educational Clinic, professor of education,
Qucens College; private practice as consulting psychologist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Civilian consultant (technical expert, part-time),
Test Development Unit, Personnel Research Service, Adjutant Gen-
eral’s Office, War Department, 1944-45.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1950-52, president, 1952-53, International
Council for the Improvement of Reading Instruction; fellow, American
Psychological Association, Council of Representatives, 1948-50; profes-
sional member, National Vocational Guidance Association; chairman,
Ethical Practices Committee, 1946-48, Mental Health Committee,
Queensboro Council for Social Welfare, 1951-53; Committee on Pro-
fessional Ethics, New York State Psychological Association, 1950-52.

mMessuee of: Phi Beta Kappa, Tau Epsilon Phi; American Orthopsychiatric
Associauon, American Educational Research Association; American
Personnel and Guidance Association; American Association for the
Advancement of Science, American Association of University Profes-
sors; Hlarvard Club of Westchester.

puaticaTiOns: Flow to Increase Reading Ability, Longmans, Green & Co,
New York, 1940; revised edition, 1947; articles and papers in eight
professional magazines, two encyclopedias.

ALTHOUGH upon graduation I thought I was going to Jaw
sxhool, a few weeks of hanging around Jaw offices and courts

[ 480 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

changed my mind, and I entered the Harvard Graduate School
to continue my undergraduate major in psychology. Two years
later I emerged with a Ph.D. and a bride, and was extremely
lucky to get a job subbing for a professor on leave. Four years
of college teaching (one at Purdue, three at Simmons) turned
my attention to clinical psychology, and I then spent a year as
assistant psychologist at Worcester State Hospital.

In 1935 I began fourteen years at City College of New York.
This was rich and varied experience: teaching a variety of gradu-
ate and undergraduate courses, working with all kinds of prob-
lem youngsters in the Educational Clinic, counseling college
students, developing a remedial reading service, I early became
very much interested in reading disabilities. By 1940 I had
written a book on reading problems which has been quite suc-
cessful and has given me somewhat of a reputation in that special
field.

In 1949 I was invited by Queens College to set up a new Edu-
cational Clinic. This was a fascinating opportunity to start from
scratch — to select staff and equipment and to establish pro-
cedures unhampered by local precedent. As director of the
clinic, I supervise a staff of psychologists, social workers, psy-
chiatrist, and pediatrician. We carry on a child guidance pro-
gram which, in addition to helping its clients, serves as a demon-
stration center for helping teachers to understand children. In
1951 I was promoted to a full professorship, and as things look
now I probably shall stay at Queens College until I am ready
to retire.

There are many other professional matters to take up time.
While I do not have much time for private practice, a few
clients occupy some evening and weekend time. Outside lec-
tures have become increasingly frequent. In summers, invita-
tions to teach have come from many parts of the country, and
we have gone as far as Seattle. I pay dues to sixteen professional
organizations and have been an officer or committee worker in
about half of them. These labors of love consume many eve-
nings and provide a wide range of conventions to attend. Finally,
it takes many hours of reading and study to keep up with the
ever-expanding field of psychology. If I did not enjoy my work

[ 48r ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

so much, I suppose that I should, resent the way in which :
leaves so little time (outside of vacations) for other thines it
Rona, our elder girl, is now a junior at Radcliffe. all ;
tents and purposes she’s a Harvard student — attends classes”
the Yard surrounded by boys, and is on the staff of the Crim in
also surrounded, Things have changed since our day in cn
bridge. Charlotte is in sixth grade, a wholesome, happy Gig
Scout. You'll have to take my word for it that I have the Wo

most wonderful children in the Class.
My outlook on religion hasn’t changed much. I have never

been able to believe in the kind of diety who watches over peo.

ple like a super-parent. As an agnostic I have a kind of faith

that there is some kind of super-intelligence at work in the
universe, and a hope that in the master plan, which none of ys
knows anything about, mankind has a continuing role to play.

It would be so wasteful to let a super-bomb wipe us out. I feel

comfortable as a member of a Reform Jewish congregation.

When Eisenhower was nominated by the Republicans, I thought
for a while that here was a man who could supply real leader-
ship. Now in October I am convinced that the Democrats, with
all their faults, are infinitely preferable to those, like McCarthy,
who are really riding the elephant. Stevenson looks to me like a
man of real intellectual and moral stature. If Ike wins, I hope
that my judgment of him will prove to be wrong.

Looking back, it seems to me that I have been unusually lucky
these past twenty-five years. I didn’t suffer any personal harm
in either the great depression or the great war. My occupation
and my marriage have been sources of deep satisfaction. My
children are a joy to watch as they grow up. I have a secure
position, an adequate income for my needs, a comfortable subur-
ban home, more family and friends than I can find time for. My
health is good. At times I feel guilty when I see how muc
harder life is for other people than it has been for me, and my
nain worry is that the law of averages is going to catch Up

vith me one of these days,

[ 482 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JACK RAMSAY HARRIS

wom ADDRESS: 4431 E. Sixth Ave., Denver 7, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 550 Equitable Bldg., Denver 2, Colo.

porn: Jan. 5, 1906, Oskaloosa, Iowa. Parents: Homer Hawthorne Harris,
Georgine Ramsay.

PREPARED AT: Ottumwa High School, Ottumwa, lowa.

yEARs IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927. DEGREES: A.B. (lowa Univ.), 1928; y.p. (ibid.),

1930+
marrieD: Ellen Margaret Gandy, June 20, 1936, Spokane, Wash. cuipren:

Sue Ellen, April 5, 1938; Hayden Henry, Nov. 6, 1941.
occupation: Lawyer and president, Albia Coal Company.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Renegotiations of contracts, Army Air Forces
Material Command, Midwestern Procurement District, Wichita, Kan-
sas, 1943-44; director of Legislative Reference Office, 1943; assistant

attorney general, 1941-42, 1944-45.
orrices HELD: President, Law Club, 1942, co-chairman, Red Cross Drive,

1950; director, Colorado Heart Association, precinct committeeman,
1948-50. og
MEMBER OF: Denver Country Club, Lincoln Club; Law Club; Mile High
Club; Rocky Mountain Harvard Club; Phi Kappa Psi; Phi Delta Phi;
American Bar Associations.
A MEMBER of the Class who became such by attending only
the junior year of Harvard College should by all reasoning cut
this report to one-quarter of the usual space, On leaving Cam-
bridge, I returned to Iowa University, where | graduated in
Liberal Arts with my A.M. and in Law with a J.D., in 1930.

Then came the usual trals of a young lawyer.
Thereafter I moved to Colorado from Iowa and became an

available man in Denver, from 1930 to 1936. In that last mem-
orable year I resigned from the law firm of Lewis & Grant and
Went on my own; and also in that same year I married a Smith
College girl from Spokane, Washington, Ellen Gandy. After a
Wedding trip to Hawaii, where I should like to go again, we
feturned to Denver for maintenance of a home and practice of
the law. Our children, Sue Ellen born in 1938 and Hayden
Henry born in 1941, both astonish and confound us to this day.
Lee then an assistant attorney general, then director of
wed ative Reference Office, and thereafter during the war I
Mate oing Tenegotiations of contracts for the Army Air Force’s
. tial Command in a civilian capacity at Wichita, Kansas.
€n I went back to Denver to open a law office, after a bout

[ 483 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

with siceping sickness. Iam sull hoping for an exceptional find
in natural resources, of which our West has much and many.

My wife Ellen is very much of a Joiner and became president
of the Denver Junior League and thereafter a director of the
Association of Junior Leagues, and now is a member of the De-
fense Advisory Committee to Women in the Services, a precinct
committeewoman and a staunch Republican; the latter designa-
tion “Republican” applies to both of us. My family is Episco-
palian, but Tam still a Methodist. As to hobbies, we can all swim
and ride, not too well, with a touch of golf and tennis now and
then — which are both horrible. With this I wind up what
should be a short report on a life that is sometimes trying but
much more often very satisfying.

+ PAUL HYLAND HARRIS
poss: July 2, 1905, Titusville, Pa. parents: Junius Howard Harris, Ruth
Hyland.
pur paren at: Titusville High School, Titusville, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGRFES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; A.M. 1929.
pirn: May 16, 1949, Cambridge, Mass.

HAVING earned his Master’s degree at the Harvard Graduate
School of Arts and Sciences, Paul Hyland Harris was granted
the Rogers Fellowship for 1929-30, the Sheldon Fellowship for
1930-31, and the John Harvard Fellowship in 1932 — all for the
purpose of research abroad in the ficld of Romance languages.
So for three years Harris investigated the “life and social back-
ground of Niccolo Machiavelli, the political literature of the
Renaissance, [and] the relations between France and Italy in the
eghteenth century.

With Marquis Roberto Ridolfi in 1931 Harris established The
New Florentine Collection of Historical and Social Sources for
the publication of “new sources for Florentine social life re-
cently discovered in the Archives of the Guicciardini and in
other private archives of Florence.” Two years later he col-
laborated with Dr. V. V. H. de Lancey on the publishing of the
lant Chapter of Cochin’s Voyage @italie which was to be the
first of a series concerning eightcenth century French writing,
art. and society. He made contributions to Caret de la Sabretache,

L 48, J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Romantic Review, and other publications. For preparing and
printing material Harris received financial aid from the Fund for
the Support of Studies in the Humanities and from the Clark
Bequest in 1933 and 1934.

At Lyons, in 1931, Harris found an eighteenth century paint-
ing, believed lost, which was later attributed to Francesco Casa-
nova. Iwo years later he was awarded the Bowdoin Prize for
foreign languages in the graduate division and by 1934 was the
American editor of Arte Mediterranea. At this time he had been
an instructor and tutor in Romance languages at Harvard since
1932; by 1938 he had become a French instructor there. He was
a member of the Syndicat des Journalistes et Ecrivains de la
France, the Italian Society of Massachusetts, and the Dante So-
ciety of Cambridge. By 1949, though he died at Cambridge,
Harris had probably resumed residence in Titusville, Pennsyl-
vania, |

WILLIAM CHARLES HARRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 371 Rumstick Rd., Barrington, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Airlines, Inc, Turks Head Bldg. Providence,
R. I.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1906, Falmouth, Mass. parents: Henry Wilson Harris, Mabel
Hovey.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MarRiep: Margery Dyer, Oct. 23, 1932, Nantucket, Mass. cHi-preN: Margery,
Feb. 25, 1936; William, March 10, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Wilson Harris, ’20; Morgan Hovey Harris, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Providence sales manager, American Airlines, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Turks Head Club (Providence); Barrington Yacht Club.

THE first few months after graduation were full of confusion.
I had an idea that I wanted to get into air transportation in some
way but at that time it was pretty hard to find much evidence of
this activiry in the United States,

Late in 1928, I went to work for the Boston Airport Corporation
in East Boston, Massachusetts. The airport at that time consisted
of four tin hangers, a small shack, and two 1,200-foot run ways.
It is interesting to note that the automobile parking area at Logan
International Airport now embraces approximately the total area

[ 485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

School in Providence and our son at the Providence Country Day
School.

I feel that my life so far has been a happy, and to me, a success-
ful one. I work for a company that is the leader in its field and |
have a fine family. There is little more that I could ask for.

HOWARD FRANCIS LESTER HART

HOME ADDRESS: Richlee Court, Mineola, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 304-320 E. 45th St. New York 17, N. Y.

MAILING ADDRESS: Harvard Club, 27 W. 44th St, New York 36, N. Y.

BorN: Feb. 5, 1908, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: John Hart, Elizabeth Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.; Belmont
Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1928.

mearriep: Ruth Marion Swenson, Sept. 3, 1936, Cambridge, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alvin Vincent Hart, ’30.

occuPaTion: Advertsing.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Naval Reserve as lieutenant, F ebruary, 1942,
aviation; service in and out of country; lieutenant commander, Septem-
ber, 1945; active volunteer reserve now.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Kiwanis Club of Cambridge.

MEMBER OF: American Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Military Order
of the Wars; Republican Club, Garden City, New York.

ARMED with an S.B. degree I ventured into the brokerage busi-
ness for three and a half years and found that while I could make
money for my clients, I could not make any for myself. The
bank “holiday” in 1932 convinced me of that fact. After dabbling
in a few positions for two years, I finally started my own adver-
tising agency, first in Cambridge, later in Boston. It grew slower
than “Topsy” in Little Eva but it grew until the advent of World
War II when we closed up the agency and all of us went into the
service. After four years in the war, I had a short fling at the
agency business in New York, then came with the Western News-
paper Union as a special representative in the dealer and distribu-
tor fields of clients I obtained. As one illustrious member of a
preceding class said “the business has consisted of wearing out
shoe leather looking for more business.” To date I have seen
half the world and hope to see the other half before my wife and
I are too decrepit to do so. I still play squash, tennis, little boxing,
some rowing, and sporadic golf. The latter improves one side of

[ 488 ]

th ak

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my vocabulary, but the game never improves. As a New Eng-
lander I have been, still am, and always will be a staunch Repub-
lican and the last decade or more has convinced me that I am
right. As for religious convictions, I am sure that if there is a
“heaven” and a “hell” that many sects talk about, then I want to

o down below and “shovel coal,” for I definitely find that most
of the most interesting people, including many of my good friends
and classmates while successful in business are on the primrose path
that leads to the road of everlasting “damnation” according to
theological dogmas, and I do not want to be alone up above.

What the future holds for me, I’m not quite sure. But I am
going to buy another house, do some more travelling, work just
as hard and above all ‘ ‘play even harder.”

I view with mixed emotions the departure of President Conant
from the University, mixed because while his contribution was
great, I wonder if a little more warmth of heart should not be a
fundamental characteristic of the head of Harvard College. And
while the die may be cast already, I still nominate Bill Saltonstall
or Hank Chauncey, good ’28 men.

One may wonder at my address being the Harvard Club of
New York. It is only for mail, since under the Democratic “one
delivery a day” set up, my home and my office often received mail
two and three days late. But even the post office has some respect
for the Harvard Club of New York.

One last comment, at the ’28 luncheon before the Harvard-
Yale game in Cambridge this year, I was amazed at the general
absence of girth and the great preponderance of hair, on the.
head of course, of so many of the ’28 men. The lack of girth
evidently comes from being a Republican, the abundance of hair
from avoiding the barber. But collectively for the Class, as I
viewed them with other twenty-fifths I had seen, I could say as
the Pharisee said to the Publican “I thank God I am not as other
men.” A fine class —this one of 1928,

JOSEPH BARBER HARTWELL

HOME ADDRESS; 223 Conant Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFIcE AppREsS: Walter Channing, Inc., 15 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Feb.. 24, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Fairbanks Hartwell,
’95, Olive M. Barber.

[ 489 ]

OT ta ti

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

preparen at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MarrigD: Anne Ely Paterson, Aug. 10, 1929, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN: Joan
Olive, April 20, 1930 (#. George C. Briggs, ’51, Dec. 6, 1951); John
Barber, June 15, 1932; Richard Ely, Oct. 3, 1937.

HARVARD SON: John Barber Hartwell, 54.

HARVARD BROTHER: Mead Hartwell, ’34.

occupation: Real estate broker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U.S. Naval Reserve, 1943-45; awarded
Asiatic and Philippine Liberation Ribbons.

MEMBER OF: Weston Golf Club.

WE RETURNED after six pleasant years in Philadelphia to our
native Boston in 1935; here we have lived for the last eighteen,
principally placidly and reasonably quietly (despite three active
children) in the Town of Weston, where a power mower, two
cars, and a Dalmatian are integral parts of semi-country life.
Weston (we vote dry, drink wet, and always Republican) still
maintains a rural character. Though but twelve miles from the
State House, it is still small-town enough so that six years on
the Board of Appeals, directorship of the Golf Club, active en-
gagement in many church and civic drives, and participation in
Legion Post activities have been pleasant and not onerous duties.
Early in 1943, enthused by many months of drills and ma-
neuvers with the First Corps of Cadets, I was commissioned in
the Naval Reserve; after two years of west coast duty (mostly
Navy “hurry up and wait”), 1 ended war service sweating out
my discharge points as first lieurenant of N. O. 3, Subic Bay,
P. I. I returned to the States and family as an aged lieutenant at
Christmas, 1945. |

Since the war, I have been happily and usually busily engaged
in the suburban and country residential real estate field with the
firm of Walter Channing, Inc., a mutually (I believe) pleasant
association, where beyond the actual monetary returns, daily
contacts with people and properties have been stimulating and
satisfying.

Truthfully, I can say that my only real sense of being twenty-
five years out of Harvard is measured by the yardstick of our
children's all too rapid growing up. Joan has been married since
December, 1951, to George C. Briggs, ’51, just back from Korea;
John, Exeter ’50, is a Harvard junior; and Dick, almost sixteen,

[ 490 ]

I

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is pointed for the Class of ’59. Except for these very tangible
evidences of passing time, English A, Gray’s 41, and a rainy
June twenty-first afternoon seem but yesterday. 7

CARL HERMANN HARTWIG

HOME ADDRESS: 1306 Sherman St., Alameda, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1904 Franklin St., Oakland 12, Calif.

BORN: July 24, 1907, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Herman Bruno Hartwig,
Helen Hartwig.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: a.B. cum laude, 1928, M.D. 1932.

MARRIED: Helen M. DeCelle, Aug. 6, 1932, Lawrence, Mass. cHmpren: Ju-
dith DeCelle, Nov. 22, 1940; Mark Arthur, April 15, 1945; Eric Carl,
Sept. 3, 1948; Mary Elizabeth, Dec. 23, 1950. .

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Raymond Hartwig, ’36, M.D., '41.

OCCUPATION: Physician and surgeon, specializing in urology.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, Medical Corps, A. U. S., October, 1942,
to May, 1946; started in Air Corps, then transferred to Army General
Hospitals; at close of war, urologist at the Tripler General Hospital,
Oahu, T. H., and consultant in urology for the Hawaiian command.

MEMBER OF: Alameda County and American Medical Associations; West-
ern Section, American Urological Association.

AFTER graduation from Harvard Medical School in 1932, I
spent three years in general surgery at Lakeside Hospital in
Cleveland. Then I spent three years studying urology under Dr.
Frank Hinman at the University of California in San Francisco.
I opened offices in San Francisco in July, 1938, where I practised
until entering the Army. At the close of the war, I moved across
the bay to Oakland and Alameda where I now live and practise
urology. .

There are many Harvard M.D.’s out here, but I believe I am
the only one in this immediate area who is also a graduate of
Harvard College. These others are all ardent Harvard men until
football season, when they all chameleonize themselves back to
their original hues, and leave me to shine (and blush) alone in
my Crimson glory. (I did have one brief but very noisy day, the
day of the one point victory over Army in 1951.) |

The practice of medicine with its attendant obligations, such
j as staff meetings, is time consuming. I also try to keep ahead of

the medical sections of Time, Saturday Evening Post, Reader’s

[ 491 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Digest, and the rest by keeping up with the making of (medical)
books and journals, of which there is no end. “Spare time” of
which there is so little, is devoted to my family. Occasionally
we do get to listen ro a bit of music and visit with friends.

On paper, it makes unexciting reading, but our days, nights,
and week-ends are full. Perhaps it’s best that way.

NELSON CARY HASKELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Tamworth, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tamworth Inn, Tamworth, N. H.

porN: May 14, 1906, Amherst, Mass. parents: Nelson Cary Haskell, Alice
Maria Dunning.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrieD: Madelene Clara Nichols, April 15, 1950, Greenfield, Mass.

occuPATION: Innkeeper.

LIVING in the country is a lot of fun; 1 can wander down to
the river in my backyard to see how the trout are doing or I can
step out in my front yard to inspect the condition of the moun-
tains.

It is part of my job to keep an eye on the bird and deer popula-
tion for the edification of my guests. It also seems to be a part of
my job to produce snow in winter and fair weather in summer,
which is a little harder. In summer I do pretty well but the winter
from time to time is rough. If you don’t believe me just try to
produce enough sun to turn ice into granular by ten A.M. or
reach into your back pocket to produce three inches of powder
over night.

As a further development of this line of effort there is also the
question of producing the proper conditions for sled dogs so they
can race to the best advantage. Just why I should prostitute my
art for a bunch of dogs I don’t know, but it seems to be ¢ part of
the job so I do it.

In between we do an awful lot of hard work of which my good
wife does far more than her share, but living in the country is still
a jot of fun.

[ 492 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL THOMSON HASKELL

HOME ADDRESS: 35814 Essex St., Salem, Mass.
oFFIce appREsS: P. QO. Box goo, Salem, Mass.
porN: July 15, 1906, Barre, Mass. PARENTS: Paul Thomson Haskell, Ruth

Wilder.

pREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrieD: Rebecca Brodhead Benson, June 4, 1932, Salem, Mass. cHILpREN:
Elizabeth, Feb. 8, 1936; Paul Thomson, Jr., June 30, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gorham Haskell, 733.

occuPATION: Purchasing agent, Parker Brothers, Inc., publishers of games.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Member War Production Board Industry Ad-
visory Committee, Toy and Game Industry.

OFFICES HELD: President, Salem Tuberculosis Association, trustee, Shore
Country Day School; director, local chapter American Red Cross,
Family Service Association, Salem Community Fund; assistant director,
Salem Civilian Defense Committee.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and North Shore; Eastern Dog
Club; North Shore Kennel Club; Eastern Yacht Club.

ACCORDING to the letter from Hammy Heard, the memoirs
of our classmates will make fascinating reading. This I doubt,
but to please him and to help fill out one thousand pages, I am
willing to review twenty-five years of hum-drum existence and
to see how it compares with the lives of the rest of the Class of
1928.

Upon graduation I joined Parker Brothers, Inc., of Salem,
Massachusetts, publisher of games which have probably enter-
tained or annoyed many of you most of your lives. It is a typi-
cal New England concern and my business life with it has been
very pleasant and satisfactory. Since 1934 I have been the pur-
chasing agent of the company. One of the chief virtues of the
job is that the plant is located in Salem, a very old and delightful
city in which it is a great pleasure to live. I am able to walk to
and from work and even home to lunch if I so desire. It saves
me from the horrors of commuting. When I see some of my
friends rushing to catch the 8:18 to Boston and panting home
again at quarter to six or six o’clock, I feel very pleased with my-
self for not having to do so.

In 1932 I married Rebecca Benson of Salem and settled down
to live here in a house which is over two hundred years old.

[ 493 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

We have two children: a daughter, Elizabeth, who is graduating
from school in June, 1953, and who I hope will go to college;
and a son, Paul, Jr.. who was born in 1941 and who is headed
for Harvard; but that is a long way off and for all I know he
may end up someplace else.

My hobbies are limited to the judging and showing of dogs
and the running of dog shows. As this is written I am _ presi-
dent of the Eastern Dog Club which runs the Boston Dog Show
each year and am also a delegate to the American Kennel Club.
In addition I belong to several other dog organizations which
take up a lot of my spare ume. In the summer rT play what golf
I can and take the usual other forms of recreation. My charitable
work consists mostly of being president of the local Tuberculosis
Association and serving on various charitable and schoo] boards.
My politics are strictly Republican of the Willkie-Eisenhower
type. I have been mixed up in several of the municipal cam-
paigns and I have been head of the local Eisenhower Committee.

The most rewarding extra-curricular work that I do is to in-
terview scholarship candidates from this part of the world for
Harvard. The contact with these boys is refreshing and the
reasons that they give for wanting to go to Harvard really
strengthen my faith in the University. There are many things
that those of us who live in the shadow of Cambridge see and
hear about the University without pleasure, but when you come
in contact with the undergraduates and with those who wish to
be undergraduates, you realize the strength of the college is
greater than any man or any group of men, and that while time
may not heal all wounds, it will bring changes, and invariably
the changes will be for the good.

ROBERT LAMBIE HATCH

HOME ApoRESS: 521 Lakeland Ave. Grosse Pointe 30, Mich.

orrice apnress: Detroit Trust Co., Detroit 31, Mich.

poan: Dec. 18, 1906, Ypsilanti, Mich. parents: William Bell Hatch, Eunice
Morton Lambie.

varpanep at: Ypsilanti Central High School, Ypsilanti, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: 8.B., 1928, M.B.A., 1930.

Marnitp: Leontine Hotchkiss Terry, March 12, 1938, Hartford, Conn.

Manvarp protHeR: William Bell Hatch, Jr., ’28.

[ 494]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Assistant vice-president and trust officer, Detroit Trust
Company...

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcORD: Lieutenant G g) to lieutenant commander,
commissioned, March 12, 1942; schools in Newport, R. I., Boston, Mi-
ami; executor to commanding officer, sub-chaser during construction,
commissioning, shake-down, convoy duty in the Caribbean; then to
England to lead (with others) the Normandy Invasion and to oper-
ate a beach control vessel; later more escorting in channel; various
duties with Eastern Sea Frontier out of Staten Island; shore duty in-
structing midshipmen on Lake Michigan, U. S. A.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Michigan; various social clubs for eating,
golfing, sailing and skiing.

THIS is supposed to be all about 1 my career, history, family,
travels, hobbies, and social, political, or religious convictions”
since college, or form No. H2428-52 (no copies). Now hear this:

Bidding farewell to the friendly natives of Cambridge, I sailed
out of the Business School in 1930 for a third North Cape cruise.
By that time matters pertaining to independence and finance had
changed a bit and little did I know that the shoals of ’33 were
dead ahead. So, after visiting my family in California and tak-
ing a few leisurely job sights (by correspondence), I returned
to the land of my birth. There, armed with my double-barrelled
degree, I forced my way through the front door and into a chair
at a desk in the Detroit Trust Company. Here I am today —
older,

I have written no book and read very few, but own n reading
glasses.

The family consists of only two. We live in a house in a sub-
urb about twenty minutes from the office under good traffic
conditions which don’t exist here. At home, for obvious reasons,
we are relatively independent, and enjoy doing things together.
We participate to a reasonable degree in community affairs and,
infrequently, attend a Presbyterian church. Perhaps the outstand-
ing characteristic of our family life is a mutual admiration for
the out-of-doors. We play golf, shoot, and ski— together at
least as much as otherwise. Michigan is a good state for those
activities, We are also fortunate in having a place in the woods
on an island in northern Lake Huron where we spend a much
too short summer vacation enjoying a routine which others
might call work.

[ 495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Sure, we all have experienced sorrow, worry, and unpleasant
tasks. Even the war was not all adventure. Fortunately, the
good things of life predominate and we're all pretty fortunate.
Thus endeth this form.

WILLIAM BELL HATCH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Box 128, Twentvnine Palms, Calif.

OFFICE appRESS: Hatch Insurance Agency, The Plaza, Twentynine Palms,
Calif.

BorN: Noy. 25, 1904, Ypsilanti, Mich. parents: William Bell Hatch, Eunice
Morton Lambie.

PREPARED AT: Roosevele High School, Ypsilanti, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREE: 8.8. (California Inst. of Technology),
1930.

marrieD: Ada Elizabeth Watkins, Jan. 27, 1937, Glen Ridge, N. J. cHi-
pREN: Ada Thompson, Oct. 28, 1941; Elizabeth Lambie, Aug. 6, 1944;
Martha Eunice, Sept. 3, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Lambie Hatch, °28, M.3.A., ’30..

occupaTion: Civil engineer and insurance broker (in business for self).

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Civilian post engineer, Twentynine Palms Air
Academy (glider training), Calif.

OFFICES HELD: Elder, Lictle Church of the Desert (Presbyterian); vice-presi-
dent, Joshua Monument National Bank, Twentynine Palms.

MEMBER OF: Lions Club; Twentynine Palms Art Guild, Cal-Tech Alumni
Association, Twentynine Palms Square Dance Club.

AFTER graduating from Cal-Tech I came out to Twentynine
Palms for a vacation, but the word got around and being a civil
engineer, I was called upon to locate the cemetery. One of the
old timers had just died and another old timer had given twenty
acres for a cemetery, but so far no one could find it! Such was
the beginning of my survey work which has continued ever
since. I homesteaded 160 acres and am now busy sub-dividing
everyone else’s land and some of my own. A permanent Marine
Base is now being built in our quiet desert so there is much ac-
tivity going on. [also have my own insurance agency.

In 1937 I married Ada Watkins (Scripps College, 1931; A.M.,
Columbia, 1934) in Glen Ridge, New Jersey. We have three
blond daughters, eleven, eight, and four years of age, whom we
enjoy taking on summer trips and on short vacations during

[ 496 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the year. To our Aljoa trailer we have just added a boat so
will take off soon for Lake Mead — our nearest water! Photog-
raphy is my hobby, ,

u

ALEXANDER BOYD HAWES ©

HOME ADDRESS: 3204 Reservoir Rd., N.W., Washington 7, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fowler, Leva, Hawes & Symington, Cafritz Bldg., Washing-
ton 6, D.C.

BORN: Dec. 3, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Henry Hawes,
Harriet Ann Boyd.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; LLB.
magna cum laude, 1931.

marrieD: Elizabeth Armstrong, June 2, 1934, Hampton, Va. cuitpren: Har-
riet Boyd, July 24, 1935; Susan, March 30, 1937; Matthew Arm-
strong, May 19, 1941; Alexander Boyd, Jr., May 5, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Attorney, later assistant zeneral ce counsel, O.P. M.
and War Production Board.

OFFICES HELD: President, Central Suffrage Conference of D. C,, 1951-52;
chairman, Committee on Public Welfare Services, United Community
Services, 1952-53; vice-president, Harvard Law School Association of
Washington, at present.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Washington and New York; Harvard
Law School Association of Washington, D. C.; D. C. Bar Association;
New York County Lawyers Association; American Bar Association;
Sakonnet (R. I.) Golf Club; Sakonnet Yacht Club.

AFTER Law School, I had the good fortune to serve as law
clerk to Judge Learned Hand. In 1932 I returned to Boston to
work for Choate, Hall and Stuart. I spent nearly a year con-
sidering, as did so many other law clerks then, the aftermath of
Kreuger & Toll, with the result that federal securities legislation
looked good to me. So I was glad to accept Jim Landis’ bid in
the summer of 1933 to go to work for the Federal Trade Com-
mission, which had just been given the task of administering the
Securities Act of 1933.

I remained in this work when it was transferred to the new
S.E.C, and, with short interludes till 1937, ending up as assistant
director of registration. This job seemed to be in a fair way to
developing a galloping case of ulcers, so, just to be sure not to
miss that badge of Washington success, I then went with the

[ 497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

NLRB. The Board, under Chairman Madden, was an exciting
place to be. We ended up with the gruelling experience of the
Smith Committee Investigation. At the time, this seemed to me
the last word in Congressional persecution, but, of course, we
hadn't had the benefit of the higher standards now set by the
junior Wisconsin senator, When F. D. R., I thought unfairly,
dropped the chairman in 1940, I resigned from the board staff.

Early in 1941, I joined the legal staff of the National Defense
Advisory Commission and a few months later that of the Office
of Production Management, which subsequently became the
War Production Board. In the summer of 1944, as the work of
WPB began to turn more and more to demobilization, I trans-
ferred to UNRRA. My principal job there was the negotiation
of one of UNRRA’s first agreements, that with Italy. This took
me to Caserta and Rome for the winter of 1944-45. At the end
of 1945 I left government service for private practice, in which
I have been engaged since.

One of my most interesting, and at first most absorbing clients
has been CARE, which I arranged to incorporate in late 1945
and which I have seen grow from an idea to a world-wide or-
ganization, distributing over 120 million dollars worth of relief in
its short history. Legal work for this organization has involved
negotiations with over a score of foreign governments, as well
as ‘the usual legal tasks for a big purchasing and distributing out-
fit, and has taken me to Western Europe several times. Aside
from this specialty, however, our firm’s practice has been ex-
tremely general, with increasing emphasis on litigation at all
levels — from administrative boards to the Supreme Court.

At one time a government career seemed ideal, furnishing, as
it does, the satisfaction of public service. But the indignity of
the conditions of public employment in the past few years has
changed my view. Like most Washington lawyers, I have been
pressed into the defense of a number of loyalty and security
cases; and I have been horrified at the creeping menace of the

“guilt by association” theory and the general lack of interest
in supposedly basic principles of fair play.

As an extra-curricular interest, I have taken part for several
years in an attempt to secure a trace of democracy for the largest
body of population in the Western World who have no voice

[ 498 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in their government — at the municipal, state, or national level —
the 800,000 citizens of this nation’s capital. So far we have been
defeated by a combination of racial prejudice and apathy. Eventu.
ally we will get the vote, but it is hard not to get cynical first.

My principal other accomplishment has been a minor role in
raising a family of four, a task not yet finished since the young-
est is five years old. We seem to have produced a future Mrs.
Roosevelt (or Luce, depending on your politics), Pavlova, John
W. Davis, and (at this writing) Hopalong Cassidy. It’s never dull.

LOUIS B. HAWES

HOME AppREsS: 18 Ware St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BoRN: July 29, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Julius E. Hawes, Fredericka
Baer.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; Bowdoin College,
Brunswick, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

MarrieD: Margaret Ethel Malaon, March 18, 1928, Memphis, Tenn.

occuPATION: Industrial engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Rowing Committee, Cambridge Boat Club (cur-
rently); vice-president, New England Amateur Rowing Association
(currently).

MEMBER OF: Cambridge Boat Club.

I AM an ardent believer in free trade, believing there is no ex-
cuse for coddling an industry which is unable to survive on its
own merits. To allow each part of the world to produce that
of which it is capable, appears to me to be only reasonable and
a base on which permanent world relations should be founded.

In addition to being interested in all phases of manufacturing,
industrial relations, and marketing, I still enjoy rowing a single
scull and do so whenever possible,

Ike’s victory pleased us very much and gave us both confi-
dence that the United States of America will continue to prosper.

CARLYLE ROBINSON HAYES ©

HOME appress: Middle Street, Woods Hole, Mass. __

OFFICE apprEss: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute, Woods Hole, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 9, 1904, West Newton, Mass. parents: Carlyle Robinson Hayes,
’oo, Agnes Frances Gallagher.

[ 499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

posiuion the average "28er passed through ten or fifteen years
ago. I refer to the extreme youth of our offspring. With my
son, Lyle, having only attained his third birthday last January
tenth, baby Ellen to be one year old on February 28 (?) —she
is a leap year baby! —and daughter Carlotta to be seven on
March zoth, it is easy to see that the Hayeses are tied down with
the responsibilities of parenthood.

I find endless pleasure and pride in our little brood; they pro-
vide me with a fresh outlook on life. However, it is hard for
me to see how they can possibly get as much out of our Twenty-
fifth Reunion as I, a freshman in college, did in June, 1925, when
my father had his Twenty-fifth.

GEORGE MICHAEL HEALY

HOME apprEss: 54 Elmwood Drive, Livingston, N. J.

orFice appress: Aetna Life Insurance Companies, 1180 Raymond Blvd.
Newark, N. J.

Boan: Nov. 15, 1906, South Windham, Conn, parents: Michael Christopher
Healy, Nellie Lucy Murphy.

prepared aT: Windham High School, Willimantic, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

maraiep: Shirley Jo Carter, Jan. 16, 1932, San Francisco, Calif. CHILDREN:
George Carter, Aug. 5, 1936, Howard Michael, Feb. 4, 1943; Alice
Anne, March 3, 1945.

occuPATION: Manager, marine insurance office. |

WRITING (this report impresses upon me the fact that our
Twenty-fifth Reunion is imminent. Somehow I can’t believe
that a quarter-century has rolled into Eternity since we doffed
cap and gown and went out into the prosperous world of busi-
ness. (Depression was still in the oven.) I can recall the parade
and the members of the Class of 1903 who were celebrating their
Twenty-fifth. They looked like nonagenarians to me and I was
sure that we “should never live so long.” Yet here we are and
so, as | look backward over my shoulder at the road I have travel-
led, I seem to be impressed with my unimpressiveness. I have
written no world-shaking treatise. When the atom bomb was
invented, I was not there. When great military or naval vic-
tories were won in World War II, I read about them in my
easy chair, And when we celebrate our Fiftieth with a trip

[ soz ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

through inter-stellar space, I’m certain that I shall not have per-
fected the space ship.

Nevertheless, it’s been a grand twenty-five years.. Almost
every day something occurs which recalls our associations in
Harvard College. Perhaps it’s a friend I meet on the street, a
classmate; perhaps it’s a word in a New York Times cross-word
puzzle; perhaps it’s a book or a phrase which I read; in any
event, I am constantly reminded of my Alma Mater, In sum-
mary, then, I find life has been very pleasant and rewarding, |
consider a Harvard education a priceless privilege.

GEORGE FRANCIS ROBISON HEAP

HOME ADDRESS: 5608 Edgemoor Lane, Bethesda, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Justement, Elam & Darby, Architects, Washington, D. C.

Born: April 7, 1908, Muskegon, Mich. parents: Lionel Heap, Mary Altha
Robison. —

PREPARED AT: Grand Haven High School, Grand Haven, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1928; M.ARCH., 1932.

MARRIED: Catherine Ann Durant, April 2, 1932, Glen Ellyn, Ill. cutpren:
Elizabeth Ann, May 23, 1936; Mary Durant, July 29, 1939; Sarah
Ridgway, Aug. 26, 1942.

occuPATION: Architect. |

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Navy, February, 1944-February, 1946;
served as communications officer, convoy service in Atlantic; conclud-
ed service as surplus materials disposal officer; rank on leaving active
service — lieutenant.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Coérdinator and expediter for public war
housing.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Trustees, Bethesda Public Library Associa-
tion.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Architects; Edgemoor Tennis Club.

PUBLICATION: “Architectural Record,” article.

AFTER graduating, I studied architecture, travelled in Europe,
and then spent nine years, until 1944, on the staff of several fed-
eral housing agencies. Following the war and return to inactive
status in the Navy, I entered an architectural office in Washing-
ton, leaving soon to form a partnership. Our firm of Smeeley,
Heap & Ganger carried on an architectural practice for several
years. Following the retirement of my partners, I continued
alone for a year and a half, until the Korean War. Since then

[ 503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

] have been with the architectural firm of Justement, Elam &
Darby. We have been doing institutional work for the Army,
the Navy, the U.S, Public Building Service, as well as for private
organizations.

Kay has been teaching math at the Madeira School for the
last eight years. Betty will start college next fall, probably going
to W. ellesley. Mary is beginning high school and Sally is still in
elementary ‘school,

Carpentry and brick-laying have been my hobbies in the last
few months. I have always voted the Democratic ticket.

HAMILTON HEARD

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Welch Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE aporess: Russell, Berg & Co., 19 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

Bors: May 4, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Stephen Heard,
Harriet Fancher Eaton.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1932.

Magriep: Katharine Adams, June 22, 1929, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN: Kath-
arine, May 29, 1930; Hamilton, Jr, Feb. 7, 1933; Edward Samson,
Aug. 16, 1939; Ann Donald, Aug. 25, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Hamilton Heard, Jr., 756.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Stephen Heard, ’25, M.B.A., '27.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, Northeast Airlines, Inc.; partner, investment coun-
sel firm of Russell, Berg & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant in Army Aur Force
in March, 1942, and assigned to Ferry Command, which later be-
came Air Transport Command; chief, Ferrying and Tactical Section
of Operations in Headquarters, ATC, 1942-44; transferred to India,
China Division, ATC, June, 1944, to November, 1945, as Assistant Chief
of Staff, Operations, then Chief of Staff, India, China Division; routine
promotions to colonel; one of U. S. representatives at Japanese sur-
render at Singapore; Legion of Merit, Bronze Star, Commendation
Ribbon.

orrices HeLp: Director and member Finance Committee, Aeronautical
Radio, Inc. since 1950, president, Massachusetts Foundation, 1946-50;
trustee, Dexter School, 1946-52; member Standing Committee, Groton
School Alumni Association, 1947-48; member Aviation Committee, Bos-

ton Chamber of Commerce, 1941, since 1946.

meMpex or: Harvard Club of Boston; Brookline Country Club; Union Club
of Boston, Nantucket Yacht Club; Army and Navy Club of Wash-
ington, Boston Madison Square Garden Club.

[ 504 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: ‘Harvard Class of 1928, Tenth Report; Harvard Class of
1928, Twentieth Report; Harvard Class of 1928, Twenty-fifth Report (I
hope).

AS MANY others point out, 1928 graduated at the most un-
fortunate time of any class. We had just a taste of prosperity
before the worst depression of our times. I was fortunate to
weather those years by teaching and coaching at Groton School
for the first two years after graduation and then attending Har-
vard Business School the next two years. Consequently, I found
myself looking for my first business job at the bottom of the
economic cycle in the summer of 1932. I became associated with
Russell, Berg & Company, investment counsel, and became a part-
ner in 1937, a position I still hold.

Everything went well in the investment business — it had to
improve from the summer of 1932; and I enjoyed a happy, con-
tented life until just before the war. During this period my wife
and I skied every weekend and took one memorable trip to
Austria (Arlberg) and Switzerland (Davos) in the winter of
1937—-38.. .

In 1941 I learned to fly at the Boston Airport and in the fall
accepted an invitation to fly with a friend in his Spartan Ex-
ecutive to the Panama Canal, going through Mexico, and all the
other wonderful Central American countries (particularly Guate-
mala and Acapulco, unspoiled at that time). We got lost three
times and made one forced landing; but it was a delightful, edu-
cational trip.

‘Soon afterwards when war broke out, I received my commis-
sion in the Air Force, leaving wife and three small children be-
hind. The impact of war upon a “civilian soldier’s” life can be
terrific, I should imagine, but for me it was a turning point.

With an understanding wife, who never complained, and a
series of lucky breaks in my commanding officers, I enjoyed a
most fascinating army career, which included visits to all the
other continents of the world. If I may repeat from my story
in our Twentieth Report, “I have seen enough of the poverty,
misery, disease, cruelty, and ignorance on the other large con-
tinents of the world (South America, Africa, and Asia) to make
‘me content to live in the United States the rest of my life.”

My boss, Major General William H. Tunner, the outstanding

[ 505 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

authority in the world on air freight, air cargo, air lift, or what-
ever you wish to call it, was commanding general of the Hump
operation over the Elimalayas from India to China during the
war. One dav in 1945 we delivered 5,600 tons to China in a
twenty-four-hour period. This meant that four tons of cargo
were loaded in India, flown to China (between 600 and 1,000
miles, depending upon the India base) and unloaded every minute
during that whole period. Afrer the war he was called in to
organize and operate the Berlin Airlift when the Communists
closed the land corridors to the West and proved for the first
time that the United States could stand up to the Reds and make
them back down. I spent a week of active duty with this opera-
tion.

This association created in me a profound belief in the future
of air freight. It is the reason for my joining Northeast Air-
lines. Having moved whole armies of Chinese soldiers and their
supplies long distances over uncharted terrain, I wanted to
battle the problems of air supply over short distances. Here the
competition of trucks and railroads seems insurmountable, but it
has not shaken my faith in the future of air transport as the
answer to most of the supply problems of the future. I hope
that my belief will be confirmed in our Fiftieth Report,

Do you remember Tennyson’s Locksley Hall, written nearly
fifty years before man learned to fly?

For I dipped into the future, far as the human eye could see,
Saw the Vision of the world, and all the wonder that would be;

Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic sails,
Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly bales.

Aside from this air-transport aspect of my life, which has pro-
vided several fine trips over the country on airline passes for my
wife and myself (Bill Bump’s American Airlines does not give
out passes), we still go to Nantucket Island in the summer; and
I repeat our invitation to classmates that it has a wonderful har-
bor, since I note a great many of you have cruising or fishing
boats,

My daughter Babsie has become independent and moved to
New York, where she is doing very well in Lord & Taylor's.

[ 506 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hammie, Jr., is a freshman at Harvard, on the hockey squad.
Neddie is in his first year at Groton, and Ann is the only one
still living at home.

My mother, secretary of the Harvard Business School since
its early days in the basement of Emerson Hall until her retire-
ment under the compulsory rule at the age of sixty-five (though
she came back to help out during the war), is still in good health
and interested in all Harvard activities.

I wish to add my fervent hope that General Ike will be able
to straighten out the mess in Washington.

MAURICE HECKSCHER

HOME AppRESS: Sheaff Road, Ft. Washington, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1617 Land Title Bldg., Philadelphia 10, Pa.

BORN: May 24, 1907, Philadelphia, Pa. parENTs: Stevens Heckscher, ’96,
Henrietta Armit Brown.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Constance Antelo Butcher, June 21, 1929, Valley Forge, Pa. cui-
DREN: Stevens, Aug. 21, 1930 (mm. Florence Juretta Murray, June 20,
1952); Constance Devereux, Nov. 30, 1932; Martin Anton, Jan. 30, 1935.

HARVARD sons: Stevens Heckscher, 752; Martin Anton Heckscher, 756.

HARVARD BROTHERS: J(ohn) G(ustave) Richard Heckscher, 731; Mark Hop-
kins, ’29 (step-brother).

OCCUPATION: Partner, law firm of Duane, Morris & Heckscher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve, March, 1944-
November, 1945, stationed at Navy Department, Washington, D. C.;
received citation of Secretary of the Navy. |

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Chief attorney, Office of Production Manage-
ment, March, 1941-April, 1942; assistant general counsel, War Produc-
tion Board, April, 1942-March, 1944.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Directors, former vice-president, Family
Service of Philadelphia; member Board of Directors, secretary, Zoo-
logical Society of Philadelphia, member Board of Directors, Community
Chest of Philadelphia; former member Board of Directors, National
Mental Health Association; former chairman, Junior Bar Association
of Philadelphia.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Bar Association; Pennsylvania Bar Association;
American Bar Association; Philadelphia Club; Racquet Club of Phila-
delphia; Philadelphia Cricket Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

UPON graduation I immediately undertook pursuit of the mis-
tress with whom I have spent the rest of my life, namely the law,

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

and enrolled in the Harvard Law School. At the end of my first
vear of law school I was married to the girl I had met when we
were both fifteen. After law school I became an apprentice in
the office of Duane, Morris & Heckscher in Philadelphia, pro-
gressing from student to lawyer, and from associate to partner in
this firm, with which I have continued ever since.

Three children — one daughter and two prospective Harvard
students, the building of a house in 1935, and becoming a part-
ner in my firm that same year were the three great satisfactions
of the 1930 era. |

Since war seemed clearly impending by March of 1941, and
upon receipt of an invitation to go to Washington to work in
the Office of Production Management with Geoffrey Smith
(Harvard ’22), I pulled up my Philadelphia roots and commenced
one of the most exciting and rewarding experiences of my life,
namely, working with the great wartime production agencies
in Washington in association not only with Geoff Smith, but
also John Lord O'Brian, ’96, Milton Katz and Fred Eaton, ’27, and
Manly Fleischmann, ’29, and others. During approximately three
years in this job, I had the privilege of seeing at first hand the
production battle of World War II fought and won. Thereafter,
for a briefer period, I was in the Navy in command of a ma-
hogany desk in Washington, where I had a most modest role
in working on the “roll-up” problems of the Navy.

After my return to Philadelphia, my first post-war project
was to build a tennis court, and my second one to return to my
Jaw firm. Both of these projects have been important to me
ever since. As the children have grown, our family life has be-
come more rewarding, even though active practice of the law
frequently interferes. It is difficult to find enough hours in the
day and enough days in the week for work, for family life, for
community projects, and for the hobbies that I enjoy such as
tennis, shooting, fishing, and “working on the place.” Time has
passed quickly since 1945 and it is hard to believe that now I
have a son who is already married and a better fisherman than I
(Phi Beta Kappa and magna cum laude, Harvard ’52), grown
daughter (Vassar ’54), and our youngest who is a freshman at
Harvard and whom I have not dared to play in singles now for
some time past, oe

[ 508 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Two other highlights of this period have been junkets to
the West in the summers of 1947 and 1950 — a grand experience
for the whole family.

Now the old folks sit home alone, but still happy keeping the
home fires burning, expanding the household to many during
vacations and contracting it again to only two the rest of the
time. Yet I still feel young enough to enjoy good exercise, the
pursuit of the upland game bird and the speckled trout, and to
look forward with great anticipation to the next generation of
the family that should soon be coming along, When the first
grandchild arrives, I shall finally feel old enough to cut down
on the tennis and take up golf.

The account of my years since 1928 can best be concluded b
expanding an observation in the Vicennial Report: I still find that
a wonderful wife, a happy family, a busy job, active hobbies,
and a fair share of community work make for a most satisfying
life.

WILLARD JEROME HEGGEN

HOME apprEss: 50 E, Tenth St., New York 3, N. Y.; Mattituck, Long
Island, N Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 630 Fifth Ave., New York 20, N. Y.

BORN: June 16, 1902, Cambridge, Iowa. PARENTS: George Heggen, Emma
Jones,

PREPARED AT: Creighton School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MarRIED: Lorna Elizabeth Stockdale, Oct. 16, 1931, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Compton Advertising, Inc.; account execu-
tive, New York Life Insurance Company, Phelps Dodge Copper
Products Corporation, and others.

OFFICES HELD: President, governor, North Fork Country Club, 1948-53;
president, North Fork Corporation, 1948-51; chairman, Advertising,
Publishing and Entertainment Section, 1952, member Advisory Com-
mittee on Public Relations, Greater New York Fund.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; North Fork Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Dozens of trade magazine articles; newspaper articles; free-
lance fiction.

BEFORE settling down to this chore I read the sample biographies
provided by Hammy Heard very thoughtfully. One, in particu-
lar, intrigued me — that of Thayer Cumings, Class of ’26.

[ 509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In the last few years I've gotten around to contributing some
time to civic and community projects, Last year I was chairman
of the Advertising, Publishing, Printing and Entertainment Sec-
tion of the Greater New York Fund. I served under Devereux
Josephs, a good Harvard man, who was general chairman. For
the last five years I’ve been president and governor of a country
club located on the eastern end of Long Island. Somebody else
will have to decide whether this work is a contribution to any-
thing in particular. Anyhow, I’ve helped make it into a thorough-
ly solvent institution.

Hobbies? I don’t know — would golf be a hobby? If so, that’s
one. I play mostly in the low eighties on my home course, with
an occasional excursion into the high seventies. I won the club
championship in 1945.

We go to the theatre fairly frequently in the fall and winter.
In fact, in the last twenty years we have seen about everything
Broadway has to offer except the obvious turkeys and we have
ten bound volumes of theatre programs to prove it. I also read
a few books every year just to keep my hand in. Through
friends I'm constantly exposed to music of the better sort, but
I'm not sure it takes. I still prefer the “Rhapsody in Blue” to the
Second Hungarian.

There’s not much in the way of travel except business trips —
places like Florida, California, Sun Valley, White Sulphur, etc.
I hope to get abroad sometime in the next five years, but who
knows what will happen in five years.

How does one sum up one’s social and political philosophy in
a few words? Perhaps you can get a clue from the fact that for
the last twenty-four years I have voted doggedly and stubbornly
for the Republicans, It wasn’t so much that I loved the Repub-
licans more but that I liked the New Dealers and the Fair Deal-
ers less —and less — and less.

I'm no stickler for orthodoxy, either socially or politically, but
I didn’t like the idea of a few Washington hatchetmen rewriting
the whole script. Long live Horatio Alger!

[512]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEO HENRY HEIMERDINGER, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 408 Upland Rd., Elkins Park, Philadelphia 17, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pioneer Suspender Co., Darby, Pa.

poRN: Feb, 10, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: Leo Henry Heimerdinger,
Helen H. Holzheimer.

PREPARED AT: Cheltenham High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

MarRieD: Rhoda C. Nusbaum, June 16, 1932, Philadelphia, Pa. cHILpREN:
Sue, July 19, 1935; Ann, March 17, 1937.

OCCUPATION: President, Pioneer Suspender Company.

AFTER repeated “goads” I have finally settled down to attempt
these autobiographical comments. My delay probably proves that
I am still avoiding English composition wherever possible, as I
did in English A, throughout college, and i in my so-called “dis-
tinction” thesis.

In retrospect, I think I would have benefited more if I had
been a year or two older when I arrived in Cambridge. I’m sure
I was too immature socially, and I feel I would have made better
use of Harvard’s advantages (and I might even have acquired
some facility in writing) if I had started at age eighteen like
most of my college contemporaries. But then, | would not have
been in the Class of ’28, and my family and I would not now be
looking forward to our Twenty-fifth Reunion.

My family, except for our Schnauzer-type mongrel “Boots,” is
strictly a female one, and I like it that way! Sue and Ann, now
eighteen and sixteen, are attractive and self-reliant, interestingly
different in personalities but very close in spirit. It is sometimes
difficult for their father to realize that he is old enough to have
two daughters competing for the use of the car, and one who is
anxiously awaiting replies to her college applications.

Rhoda, whom I married in June, 1932, after rather consistent
pursuance on my part and more intermittent interest on hers, has
always been the charming focal member of our family group.
Though I may not always demonstrate it, I am continually grate-
ful to her for acting as my private “goad,” because otherwise I
might have missed many enjoyable and personally profitable
musical, theatrical, artistic, and social experiences which we have
enjoyed together. One of these days I'll probably yield to her

[513]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

pressure to take up golf, in which she excels, but as of now, I re-
main loyal to tennis.

The four of us travelled together for the first time two years
ago in Mexico, and at this moment we are surrounded with maps
and literature as we work out plans for a European trip this
summer. Rhoda and I have enjoyed two or three Caribbean
cruises, several summer excursions to Maine, a “grand tour” of
the West Coast, and then after somewhat of a lapse in our vaca-
tions, we had five weeks together in Europe last summer. Yes,
my observations were quite different from my recollections of
the Continent during college vacations of 1926 and 1927.

Except for my family, my business has been by far my most
predominant interest. Though concerned exclusively with the
development, production, and distribution of such prosaic items
as men’s belts, suspenders, garters, wallets and jewelry, I find
rarely “a dull moment” and there never seems to be enough time!
According to the books, this would reflect on my ability as an
executive, but I am not ready to concur.

From time to time, I have been interested in and associated
with various ‘charitable and communal activities. The most re-
cent, and I believe the most rewarding, has been my activity as
treasurer and one of the active administrators of our community’s
adult school.

Politically, although I consider myself a Republican, I twice
supported F. D. R., and wished there had not been such compel-
ling reasons which prevented me from voting for Adlai Steven-
son in ’52. I have never voted a “straight ticket,” and I am glad
to observe that more and more (of our countrymen) are “split-
ung their tickets” and thereby attempting more discernment be-
tween candidates.

Despite the not-so-cool “cold war” and the present evidences
of mass hysteria, let’s hope that we will retain the undergraduate’s
enthusiastic desire for a better world, tempered by the perspec-
tive of twenty-five years.

RALPH WALKER HEMMINGER

HOME Avpress: 3 Bancroft Pl. Fair Lawn, N. J.
orricg appeess: 16 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

[514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: April 21, 1908, Meyersdale, Pa. parents: John Ross Hemminger, Vic-
toria M. Walker.

PREPARED AT: Princeton Preparatory School, Princeton, N. J.; Lafayette
Coll., Easton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREES: S.B. IN MECH.ENG. AND BUS.ADM.,
1928(29); M.B.A. (New York Univ.), 1938.

MarRiED: Jessamine Miller Peckham, March 15, 1930, Portsmouth, N. H.
cu1Lp: Girard Leslie, Dec. 15, 1934.

HARVARD SON: Girard Leslie Hemminger, ’56.

HARVARD BROTHER: Earl Wentworth Hemminger, °26.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, in charge administration of pension and profit-
sharing trusts with Bankers Trust Company, trustee.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, American Pension Conference, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Pennsylvania Society of New York; Harvard Business School
Club of New York.

puBLicATions: Miscellaneous publications on subject of pension plans.

ISTAYED an additional year at Harvard after the Class gradu-
ated, to complete the five-year engineering and business admin-
istration course then offered by the Engineering School and the
Business School. Following the completion of the course in 1929,
I tried banking as a career and worked for six months in a small
bank in my home town in Pennsylvania. I then moved on to
New York to learn investment analysis work at Bankers Trust
Company. It was early in 1930, and it was then becoming ap-
parent that the 1929 break was not just another temporary read-
justment.

However, I had high hopes and within six weeks after ar-
riving in New York, Jessamine and I were married. We had
known each other through our college years, and she was teach-
ing at the time in a school in Maine. The next few years were
rugged, and we had every incentive to use ingenuity in stretch-
ing each dollar.

The period did provide a very interesting environment in
which to accumulate investment experience. I made progress,
slowly moving from analysis work into investment administration.
In 1934 I had my first experience with pension trusts: initially
my work on pension trusts was confined to the investment of
the funds of the trusts, but as pension trusts became more im-
portant as a part of the bank’s business, I found it necessary to
learn about other phases of pension plans. Since 1938, I have
been working exclusively on pension and profit-sharing trusts.

[515 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Girard was born in 1934. One of our wishes in relation to
Girard was fulfilled this fall when he was admitted to the fresh-
man class ac Harvard. Prior to entering Harvard, he had four
good years at Exeter.

As to hobbies, I have interested myself in a number of things
from time to time, but have not followed any one hobby con-
sistently. I am given generous vacations and have used these to
travel. In 1938 we bought our present home, and we have en-
joyed doing odd jobs and making changes in it. We have also
had a garden which has been a source of pleasure and relaxation.
No one thing holds our attention for long, but we always seem
to have something interesting to do with our spare time.

As a good Republican, I am delighted with the outcome of
the 1952 election. My political activities, however, have been
limited to running for a local office. I was defeated. However,
in an informal advisory capacity I have rendered limited services
to the states of New York and New Jersey on their pension

systems. ,

CHARLES EDWARD HENDERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 2020 Coldwater Canyon, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Warner Bros. Pictures, Burbank, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1907, Jamaica Plain, Mass. PARENTs: Walter Edwin Hender-
son, Lucy Evelyn Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

MaRRgieD: Ida Pearson, May 12, 1930, Pasadena, Calif. (divorced 1944);
Emylyn Pique (Mitzi Mayfair), April 7, 1944, Santa Barbara, Calif.
cHitpreN: Sara Seyler, Aug. 25, 1933 (7. Kenneth Keith Burch, Aug.
30, 1952); Peter Carroll, April 28, 1938.

occupation: Musical director; songwriter, composer; author; TV producer.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers;
American Federation of Musicians; Songwriters’ Protective Association;
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.

PusLications: How to Sing for Money, George Palmer Putnam, 1939.

1] ENTERED Harvard with the idea of becoming an international
banker. But look what Harvard did to me. After four years of
traipsing about with the Gold Coast Orchestra and the Hasty Pud-
ding Show, I still didn’t know a quetzal from a kopek. But I was
fully trained to enter show business.

[516]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Show business has been my life. I love it because it’s fun; yet I
hate it because it’s so precarious. You have about as much se-
curity as a peanut at the circus. All your friends spend more than
they make, and who are you to be different? Still, to agree with
Irving Berlin, “I wouldn’t trade it for a pot of gold.” I wonder
why. Could it be because I have to spend lots of time with peo-
ple like Betty Grable, Jeanne Crain, Virginia Mayo, Kathryn
Grayson, and Marilyn Munroe?

For thirteen of the past twenty-five years ’'ve been a moving
picture musical director. My specialty is the preparation and re-
cording of musical production numbers. This involves codrdi-
nating material, arranging, writing special lyrics and music, re-
hearsing and directing vocalists, choral conducting, and sound-
track editing. On occasion I conduct the orchestra. After many
years at Twentieth Century-Fox I recently moved over to War-
ner Brothers.

I’ve had the good fortune to be associated with five pictures
which have won the Academy Music Award: A Hundred Men
and a Girl, Alexanders Ragtime Band, Tin Pan Ally, Song of
Bernadette, and Mother Wore Tights. Other outstanding pictures
were Disney’s Fantasia and Bambi, State Fair, The Dolly Sisters,
and a long string of Fox musicals.

During the war I continued my work at Twentieth Century-
Fox in Beverly Hills. Our department provided the music for
many government films. I wrote an Army short entitled Safi
and conducted several U.S.O. shows.

Songwriting is more of a lottery than a business. Nevertheless,
I have always found it a fascinating and occasionally rewarding
avocation. I’ve been a member of ASCAP since 1931, and have
written such songs as Deep N- ight, So Beats My Heart For You,
Carefree, and As If I Didn’t Have Enough On My Mind.

In 1949 I interrupted my picture activities to become a tele-
vision producer in New York. In collaboration with my wife,
Lyn (formerly known as Mitzi Mayfair), I converted “Stop The
Music” from radio to TV. We produced 73 weekly one-hour
shows before resigning to avoid insanity. Never again (it says
here). However, it was a valuable experience and we had the
satisfaction of achieving and maintaining a Top Ten rating.

The earlier part of my career can be dismissed very briefly.

[517 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Four vears with Fred Waring’s Pennsylvanians, as pianist and
arranger (during which I helped write a musical comedy called,
I blush to say, “Rah Rah Daze”); three years in commercial radio
with André Kostelanetz, Burns and Allen, Billy Rose, and others,
vocal direction for Jumbo, At Home Abroad, and the Fort Worth
Centennial; and thence to Hollywood.

I have been married twice. My nineteen-year-old daughter ac-
quired a husband last year and informs me I am going to be a
grandpoppa. Aly son, fifteen, plays piano, guitar, and string bass
rather well. My present wife is a wonderful gal who keeps me
happy and has been tremendously helpful in many ways. In ad-
dition to her dancing, she has a real talent for staging and chore-
ography. She can cook, too. And play chess! Chess is my num-
ber one hobby and I devote more time than I should to it. I am
addicted to both postal and over-the-board play. Any challengers?

Travel, when we can afford it, is our dish. Our ten weeks’ vaca-
tion in Europe in 1950 (my third trip there since college) was a
life-time highlight.

We bought a beautiful hillside house from Lana Turner in 1944,
but haven't lived there for the past four years because of our New
York interlude. We hope to recover it from our tenants next
year. In the meantime we have rented a smaller house which has
a certain awkward charm.

I voted for Ike, believe in a middle-of-the-road policy, and sel-
dom go to church. I like Dewar’s White Label Scotch and Coun-
tess Mara ties, own a miniature French poodle named Jigger, avoid
exercise, and drive an M.G. sports roadster over a mountain to
and from work. Above all, I detest TV. Doesn’t everybody?

WILLIAM JOHNSTON HENRICH

Home aporess: Conifer Hill, Holliston, Mass.

oFrice Apuress: Curtis Publishing Co., Statler Office Bldg., Boston, Mass.

boas; March 25, 1906, Boston, Mass, parents: Louis Richard Henrich, Mary
Rath Johnston.

parpaneD at: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

maauep: Frances C. Skinner, March 11, 1939, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD saoTieR: Louis R. Henrich, ’29.

occuparion: Advertising salesman, Saturday Evening Post.

[518]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army, September, 1943, to October, 1945,
ended up as special agent, Counter Intelligence Corps, in area of
Wurzburg, Lohr, and Kitzingern, Germany.

OFFICES HELD: Governor, Lantern Club, 1949.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; National Industrial Advertisers
Association; Lantern Club of Boston; Springfield Advertising Club.

WHILE in college I worked clearing trails for the Appalachian

Mountain Club. This activity has colored all subsequent develop-

ment, and even today the woods and the mountains remain a

source of relaxation and change. It was natural that, after grad-

uation and looking ahead to a lifetime of work indoors, I should

take the long summer for one last fling in the woods. Ever since
then, whenever possible, I have headed back to New Hampshire
for a few days of climbing.

In 1937 while in Chicago, I went the other way — to the Tetons
in Wyoming. That trip was spent with Harold Miller, ’25, with
whom I have spent many joyous days climbing. This trip cul-
minated in a climb of the Grand Teton.

After the war I returned to Boston and settled down near Carl
Walter, a close friend since our three years on the top floor of
Weld Hall. I bought some twenty-eight wooded acres a few
miles down the road from Carl and proceeded to start turning
the woods from a collection of scrub, useless gray birch, etc.,
plus some good stuff into woods that I would like. In the first
few years I planted some 5000 trees. Then to build a house, which
we moved into in March, 1952. Perhaps it was inevitable when
the place was built that we should call ic Conifer Hill. Fortu-
nately, my wife bore with me, because I moved her from a busy
job in New York and an apartment only five blocks from Grand
Central to almost the other end of the activity and residential
scale,

Along with this affection for the woods and mountains was
perhaps a fetish for keeping in good physical trim. This was a
result of father’s having his first stroke at ’37, excessively high
blood pressure, and dying at 49 when I was in College. So I was
still running the hurdles and the half mile for the Seventh Regi-
ment (New York National Guard) in New York nearly ten years
later. I decided I’d had enough after running the half in a medley
relay against N.Y.A.C. After being run into the ground, it took
me nearly an hour to feel like living again.

[519]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

The result was that in 1943 when I was picked up by the m
with the long whiskers, I was, in my wife’s words “disgustin h
healthy” for my age. (I had previously tried without SUCCESS ty
get a nice soft job as an administrative officer in the Air Corps
Just before going in I had spent several years as first sergeant
in the Ohio State Guard, So basic didn’t kill me, although ag
squad leader at Camp Blanding eight of the fifteen men [| had
with me had not been born when I took my first military train.
ing at C.M{.T.C., Camp Devens, in 1923.

My business existence breaks down into two parts — retaj]
store work and advertising. The first phase included Jordan
Marsh in Boston, Alunan’s in New York, and Dennison’s in Ney
York and Chicago. The second phase included the advertising de.
partment of Procter and Gamble in Cincinnati, where I ended
up as advertising brand man for Teel Liquid Dentrifice. Since
the war, I have been selling advertising space for the Saturday
Evening Post back in New England. My office is in Boston and
accounts primarily covered in central and western Massachu-
setts, plus northern and central Connecticut. The work takes
me away from home about three days a week, but I can usually
get back weekends to work around the house and in the woods
at Conifer Hull. |

Other activities include a certain amount of bridge, a revived
interest in church activities, and definite Republican, sound
money, free money, free enterprise convictions. For the first
time in my life I took some active and financial part in the elec-
tion.

EDMUND FRANCIS HENRY

HOME aAppREss: 49 Grove St. North Attleboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 402-410 First National Bank Bldg., Attleboro, Mass.

porn: Dec. 5, 1906, Attleboro, Mass. parents: John Thomas Henry, Cath-
erine Rose Reynolds.

purparep At: Attleboro High School, Attleboro, Mass.

YEAMS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; 1-8
1931.

maasiep: Dorothy Cordelia Hallett, Jan. 30, 1937, Cambridge, Mass.

occupation: Lawyer; parmer, McIntyre & Henry.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted July 1, 1943; Camp Fannin, Texas,
December, 1943; sailed from San Francisco to Milne Bay, New Guines

[520]

to

  
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
    
   
   
  
   
    
   

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as Infantry replacement, January, 19445 assigned to 24th Infantry Divi-
sions appointed warrant officer (junior grade), April 15, 1944, at Goode-
nough Island, New Guinea; appointed chief warrant Officer, Matsuyama,
apan, Dec. 15, 1945; sailed from Yokohama, Japan, March 15, 1946;
janded at Seattle, Wash., and discharged at Fort Devens, Mass. May,
1946 awarded Asiatic-Pacific Ribbon with three stars, Philippine Lib-
eration Ribbon with three stars, and Bronze Star.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1947~48, president, 1948-49, 24th Infantry
Division Association; member, Attleboro Housing Authority, 1948-49;
general chairman, 1949-50, vice-president and director, 1950-51, Attle-
boro Community Chest; charter member and trustee, United Fund of
Attleboro, Massachusetts, Inc., since 1952.

MEMBER OF: 24th Infantry Division Association; Massachusetts, Bristol
County, and Fourth District Bristol County Bar Associations; Lions
Club of Attleboro; Knights of Columbus; Veterans of Foreign Wars

Post #115. -

AFTER graduating from the College, I spent three years at Har-
vard Law School where my career was in no wise remarkable.
Being reluctant to inflict myself on the public at this point, I spent
about three years in the office of a well-established lawyer in
Boston and took up my quarters at Cambridge. Thereafter, I
spent several years with a casualty insurance company, married
at St. Paul’s Church, Cambridge, and moved out to the suburbs,
Arlington Heights. My neighbors caught up with me in 1943 and
I was drafted in July and went to basic training at Camp Fannin,
Texas. During the next three years I spent very little time in this
country. Upon completion of basic training, I went overseas as
an Infantry replacement, arriving at Milne Bay, New Guinea, in
February, 1944, and was assigned to the 24th Infantry Division
which was then staging at Goodenough Island, a short way up the
Coast. I participated in the landing at Tanamarah Bay, Hollandia,
Dutch New Guinea, April 19, 1944; in the landing at Red Beach,
Leyte, October 20, 1944; and in the landing at Parang, Mindanao,
April 17, 1945. I also participated in operations on Mindoro,
Luzon, and Mindanao, interrupted by a stay at a General Hospi-
tal on Biak Island, Netherlands East Indies. The 24th Infantry
~ vision took over the occupation of the island of Shikoku, Japan,
‘M1945. I served there and in Okayama, Honshu, throughout
the winter and was able to see a bit of Tokyo before returning
iene in March, 1946. When I first joined the 24th Infantry Divi-
on on Goodenough Island, I was assigned to the Judge Advo-

[521]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

cate’s Section where I served during my entire tour of duty with
the Division. [ also did considerable civil affairs work on Leyte,
Mindoro, and A{indanao, P. I.

In June, 1946, I returned to my home town of Attleboro, Mas-
sachusetts, and became the law partner of an old friend, whose
only disability has been that he is a lifelong Democrat. We do
business under the name and style of McIntyre & Henry, and
will tackle almost anything.

My wife and I live in the nearby community of North Attle-
boro, where we have the distinction of being the next-door-_
neighbor of Speaker Joseph W. Martin, Jr. Unluckily, we have
no children, but we have a shoal of godchildren.

I have done my best to lend a hand in the good works that
are necessary in a small community (pop. 25,000), such as Com-
munity Chest, now the United Fund, the various health drives,
and Lions Club. I have a genius for finding unpaid jobs.

I have no athletic proclivities whatever and my waistline shows
it. My main interest and hobby has been in the 245th Infantry
Division Association which was formed to perpetuate the friend-
ships of men who served together in the Division. I was elected
the first secretary-treasurer when the Association was formed in
Matsuyama, Japan, and later served as president. I have continued
to be one of the elder statesmen. I carry on a tremendous corre-
spondence with the men who served with me and I take great
pride and pleasure in my association with them. I consider the
24th Infantry Division one of the elite divisions of the southwest
Pacific and am determined to proclaim its accomplishments at
the drop of a hat. The Division has recently distinguished itself
in Korea, being the first to enter combat in June, 1950, and has
been awarded the Unit Citation, a rare, although not unprece-
dented distinction for an entire Division.

In religion, I continue to be a Catholic. In politics, I am a Re-
publican, of such pronounced conservative stripe that I would ex-
pect very little suffrage in the unlikely event that I would seek
any public office. |

As [ conclude this, I am proud of a record of unbroken opposi-
tion to the New Deal and all its works and pomps.

[522]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STUART COMPTON HENRY

HOME AppREsS: 56 E. Housatonic St., Pittsfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Berkshire Museum, Pittsfield, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 9, 1906, Tufts College, Mass. PARENTS: Charles William Henry,
Estelle Bray.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1928(29).

marRiED: Edith Olive Washburn, Feb. 29, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. cHtLpren:
Elizabeth Stuart, Aug. 10, 1940; Sarah Washburn, April 22, 1943;
Charles Stuart, March 16, 1946.

occupation: Director, Berkshire Museum, art, science, and local history
museum; organizer, art exhibitions, Tanglewood.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of Berkshire.

MEMBER OF: Various local literary clubs, Monday Evening Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Exhibition catalogues and forewords to same.

BEFORE the birth of children my wife and I travelled exten-
sively in Europe several times. We enjoy our family, reading,
and are still strong supporters of the movies. I do not own a
television set as yet.

I do a good deal of painting, and teach several museum classes
in art. We maintain our wedding gift, a ’32 Ford sport coupe,
in perfect running order.

JOHN HERLING

HOME ADDRESS: 6304 Bannockburn Drive, Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1003 K St., N. W., Washington, D. C.

BorN: April 14, 1905, New York, N. Y. Parents: Morris Herling, Mollie
Konrad.

PREPARED AT: Morris High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MaRRIED: Mary Fox, Sept. 16, 1937, Lexington, Va. cup: David Stolberg
(stepson), Oct. 10, 1927 (7. Anne Brand, Sept. 14, 1950).

occupation: Editor and writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Temporary Reserve, Coast Guard, 1944-45.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT post: Director, Labor Relations Division, Office of
Inter-American Affairs, 1941-46.

MEMBER OF: National Press Club, Washington, D. C.; Sigma Delta Chi (hon-
orary journalism); American Jewish Committee; League for Industrial
Democracy; Industrial Relations Research Association; White House
Correspondents’ Association and the Senate and House Press Galleries;
Overseas Writers, Washington, D, C.

[ 523 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Nelson Rockefeller. This involved a great variety of activities,
some travelling in other American republics, but more important
was the planning of the strategy and implementations for a counter-
movement to the Communist control over labor and _ related
groups. This was rather difficult to pursue at the time when the
Russian resistance to the Nazi attack beguiled too many into think-
ing that the Communists had changed their chemistry. We per-
sisted and we managed. The results are fairly durable.

Right after chat, in 1946, I went abroad as a correspondent for
several large newspapers and radio to report the answers to what
seemed the central question of our time: How much real eco-
nomic and political staying power could we count on in the west-
ern world for the necessary defense against the international Com-
munist apparatus and its compulsive pattern of aggression. ‘This
trip took me all over northern Europe. It was a worthwhile six
months.

A few months later, I went on a reporting trip to Argentina,
and broke the first full-length story on the significance of Evita
Peron in all its contours. Later that year, I became editor and
then publisher of what is now “John Herling’s Labor Letter.”

In the past couple of years, I have also been writing a labor
column for the Minneapolis Star and other publications; have, in
fact, become a syndicated columnist. All this has not placed me
in an embarrassing tax situation, but it keeps me hopping. Also,
I have been part-time consultant to the International Information
Administration of the State Department, working especially in
pushing for an effective exploitation, propaganda-wise, of the
labor theme and the attack on Soviet slave labor.

In the meantime, I must report — are you still awake? — that
David is married (I wish he would go into production), and is
now a reporter on the Rocky Mountain News in Denver. My
wife has just finished an onerous project, directing a codperative
housing project for 130 families on an old golf course in nearby
Maryland.

[526]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

4EDWARD JACOB HERMANN

porN: April 11, 1907, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: Louis Alfred Hermann, Fan-
nie Swartz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

prep: May 30, 1939, Newton, Mass.

WHILE at Harvard Edward Jacob Hermann was a member of
the Freshman Lacrosse Team, the Championship Class Football
Team in 1926, and the regular Lacrosse Team in 1927. Soon after
graduation he became associated with William Filene’s Sons Com-
pany in Boston. He returned no questionnaire for the Class’s
Sexennial Report, but in 1938 wrote that he was working for
the Orpheum Theatre in Danvers, Massachusetts. At that time
he was president of the Danvers Rotary Club and a member of
the Mosaic Lodge of Masons.

ROBERT WOODMANSEE HERR

HOME ADDRESS: 180 Fountain Ave., Glendale, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Fox Paper Co., Lockland, Cincinnati 15, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1906, Stent, Calif. parents: Irving Herr, ’o1, Luella Parker
Winship.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: AB., 1928.

MARRIED: Christianna Furse, Oct. 1, 1932, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Donald Furse, May 3, 1939; Patricia Ann, May 1, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Winship Herr, ’27; Richard Herr, °43.

OCCUPATION: Controller, The Fox Paper Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, National Investors Corporation, New York, 1941,
Glendale Presbyterian Church, 1951-52; controller, The Fox Paper
Company, since 1949; various offices, National Association of Cost
Accountants, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Cost Accountants; Harvard Club of
Cincinnati; Harvard Varsity Club.

THE Class of 1928 has had the remarkable experience of walk-
ing the historical bridge from America of the Old Guard to the
new and shining America of better things for everyone. I have
walked that bridge with the 881 other members of our Class,
blown by the high winds of social and political and military ex-
periments, now at a standstill and now on the run, often wonder-

[ 527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ing whether the thin supporting cables would hold or collapse,
and trying to see through the haze to what lay beyond.

I hit the Wall Street boom in 1928 and 1929 as an investment
analyst in New York City, watched the collapse and bought
apples on street corners in 1932; I was glad I had a job and was
not graduating from college in the thirties. I worked against
F. D. R. in the third term election in 1940, made speeches for
Willkie, and then — convinced by the election that Wall Street
was not for me — migrated west in 1941 to learn manufacturing
with R. G. LeTourneau, Inc., Peoria, Illinois, in the first real
resurgence of production activity since the Old Guard days.
Though it took a war in Europe to bring it on, still it was op-
portunity, the first that many of us had ever seen or at least
fully recognized.

The going was tough, with war work keeping the pressure
on continuously, but gradually the lights came on again (in our
part of the world). In 1946 the Herr family moved to Texas
and helped to organize a new post-war plant for the LeTourneau
Company. We rode horseback, attended barbecues and rodeos
faithfully, and even shared in drilling an oil well, but finally de-
cided that we were Yankees after all. In 1949 we moved north
again to Cincinnati and feel after twenty-odd years of post-
graduate work that we are home at last.

Have we crossed the bridge and reached the other side? I be-
lieve there is hope — real hope — that the good of the last twenty-
five years can be salvaged and the bad thrown aside, that we have
learned the importance of social and economic change but can
still preserve the values of integrity and enterprise, ambition and
imagination — hope that my own son and daughter when they
face the world will have faith in themselves and faith in a future
which they can help to create.

SIDNEY ADOLPHUS HESSEL

HoME appress: Nettleton Hollow, Washington, Conn.

boas: Jan. 5, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Sidney Peace Hessel, Grace
Salinger.

preparip at: Woodmere Academy, Woodmere, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DECREES: A.B. 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

[ 528 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT.

marRIED: Beatrice Joan Hofman, June 23, 1932, New York, N. Y. cuivpren:
John Hofman, April 24, 1934; Mary Joan, Feb. 25, 1937; Susan Jane,
Oct. 15, 1941.

HARVARD SON: John Hofman Hessel, ’56.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Naval Training Station, Fort Schuyler,
March—May, 1944; Pacific-Asiatic Theatre, 1944-45; Navy lieutenant.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Five Towns Community Chest, 1939-52, Lepidop-
terists’ Society, since 1953; member Board, 1942-52, honorary member,

since 1952, Woodmere Academy.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Collectors Club, New York;
several entomological societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Short papers and notes in entomological society organs.

THAT I am moved to prepare this biography as early as a
January date amazes me. Of course, the goadings on Class of
1928 stationery were terribly convincing, or at least seemed to
be, until I observed the first of the “sample lives” of the Class of
1926 furnished for my guidance to have been chronicled under
the influence of the Ides of March! I nearly relaxed, but once or
twice a year I am obsessed with a passion to see the top of my
desk, to reduce to a minimum the several high piles of papers of
indefinite standing which I consider matters pending, dateless
things that more often than not will have lapsed into irrelevance
by the time the spirit has moved me to get to them. So with the
first such visitation in months here comes a quarter century of
me for the miserably few who care and don’t already know.

Rigged with a Harvard M.B.A. and unbounded enthusiasm I
shoved off into the financial world in 1930 with no definite port
of call and a cargo, however sound, not much in demand. (Nauti-
cal lingo is courtesy of U.S. Naval Training Station Fort Schuy-
ler, 1944.) Need I tell classmates that those were pretty rough
seas? After several months of foundering I put in at Wall Street
for a brief spell until the next typhoon blew me away again to-
gether with everyone else anchored at that haven for less than
ten years. A few more months were spent completely at sea
until a minor miracle beached me at the Central Hanover Bank
and Trust Company, main office, New York City.

Here I remained high and dry for five years, becoming more
so with each year. On a feeble salary in the investment division,
I learned how to handle money (other people’s) and how not
to; and with the mortgage division, working on arrears, how to

[ 529]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

stay late night after night, overtime without pay, and still be a
reasonably loy al employ ee. That was rugged duty. In 1936 I
resigned under pressure of family financial responsibilities which
fell to me, responsibilities inconsistent with punching time clocks.

For the next thirteen years I was vice-president and part owner
of a crude rubber importing firm. These were filled with much
good and bad, neither of which makes for very interesting tell-
ing. Let's skip it, noting only an interlude of two years in the
Navy, spent almost entirely in Hawaii, without glory or much
excitement, but interesting and with a full measure of long, con-
scientious hours. I hope some time to go back to see and enjoy
sunny Hawaii.

Somewhere above there should have been plenty about Beatrice
née Hofman, at Wellesley when I was there or at the Business
School, about John now a freshman at Harvard, Mary a truly
charming young lady, and Susan good for a fascinating mala-
propism a day. This would have made for much better reading,
but I have organized poorly and must get along. It is your loss.

The war completely altered the nature of the rubber import-
ing business. No longer happy in it, I sold my interests and for
the first time in my life felt that my roots were free and that I
might work towards something that would take me away from
New York City. Temporarily I tried my hand at raising poultry
on Long Island. I could give up commuting on the L. I. R. R., the
subway, and the jam-packed human traffic on the streets. With-
out tying myself down to farmhand chores I had a set-up that
permitted me to do them when I wanted, to pitch in when extra
labor for setting out the chicks or for selling or loading or re-
pairs was needed, to study and to supervise the health and man-
agement problems. I loved every minute of it, not the least
the shovelling, but found it too uncertain a way to make a
dollar.

For years mv wife and I had dreamed of living in a beautiful
place really in the country. Each week we drooled over the
farms and acreage for sale sections of the Sunday papers. On
rare convenient occasions we made a day’s round with an agent
in Connecticut. Finally, in 1951, it really happened — one look
across the valley from where I sit right now and I knew that was

it, two brooks, pond, dam, waterfall, woods, fields, and moun-

[530]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tains (for the East). So we have made what amounts virtually
to the first move of either of our lives, and presumably the last,
I could not fail to take the opportunity at a time I was so free
to do it.

At the moment I have not decided whether I am unemployed
or retired. Temporarily I am enjoying myself completely. Never
has my day been more crowded with activity indoors and out.
I] worked three inches off my waistline before realizing it. In-
tensely interested in all natural history and concentrating on en-
tomology, especially lepidoptera, I am really living with it. Per-
haps as the shakedown in the new habitat becomes more complete
I shall have more free time. If so, the opportunity to pursue
laboratory research along the lines of my hobby is at hand, at
Yale of all places, where I am already working closely on cer-
tain matters with a young professor in the zoology department,
incidentally also of Harvard background. Methinks I am swing-
ing now in the retirement direction.

One more highlight — it is my claim to fame. I have a butter-
fly named after me, Mitoura hesseli. That is not so terribly as-
tounding in itself. That a species of such should be first described
in 1950 from within seventy-five miles of New York City is close
to fabulous. The Northeast United States has been too well col-
lected and studied these many years. Truthfully 1 contributed
less to the proceedings than my two companions at the time of
our taking the original series, They honored me probably be-
cause I was the last to admit that our find was not impossible. I
could write lots more on this subject, but who could possibly
care except another lepidopterist? I doubt that 1928 has two.
If 1am wrong please may he communicate promptly. I can’t wait
to see what he looks like.

+ WRIGHT PLATT HEWITT

BORN: Nov. 23, 1906, South Royalton, Vt. parents: Ernest John Hewitt,
Georgianna Platt.

PREPARED AT: South Royalton High School, South Royalton, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D., 1932.

marrigp;: Natalie Saville, 1928, Quincy, Mass. cumpren: Caroline Saville,
Oct. 16, 1936; Gerna Platt, Nov. 13, rgqo.

[531]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

pep: Feb. 2, 1950, Cambridge, Mass.
winow: Mrs. Wright P. Hewitt, 27 Avon Hill St., Cambridge, Mass.

AFTER a year at Ohio Wesleyan, Wright Platt Hewitt received
both his A.B. and M.D. degrees from Harvard. From 1932 to
1933 he was an intern at the Lawrence and Memorial Hospitals
and was afterwards on ophthalmic and aural services at the Bos-
ton City Hospital. In 1936 Dr. Hewitt opened an office in Cam-
bridge where he resided until his death in 1950, His memberships
included the American Medical Association, Massachusetts Medi-
cal Society, Cambridge Medical Improvement Society, Ameri-
can Board of Otolaryngology, American Academy of Ophthal-
mology and Otolaryngology, American Otorhinologic Society
for the Advancement of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery and
the Boston City Hospital Aural and Opthalmological Society.
He was a member of the Cambridge City Hospital and Mount
Auburn Hospital staffs and belonged to the Harvard Club of
Boston. Surviving him were his wife, two daughters, mother,

and two sisters.

CLIFFORD PAUL HICKOK

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Crest Drive, Tarrytown, N. Y.

BoRN; July 5, 1905, Cleveland, Okla. parents: Olin Hickok, Emma Jean
Anderson.

PREPARED AT: Tulsa Central High School, Tulsa, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, DEGREES: S.B., 1928(32)3; LL.B. (Tulsa Univ.),
1940.

magrigp: Marion Lee Rains, Jan. 10, 1935, Tulsa, Okla. cHitpren: William
Clifford, April 15, 1937; Frederick R. March 24, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U.S. N.R.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Oklahoma, New York, and
American Bar Associations.

MILTON PRINCE HIGGINS

HOME aporess: 575 Salisbury St., Worcester 5, Mass.

OFFICR AppRess: 1 New Bond St., Worcester, Mass.

poun: Oct. 29, 1903, Worcester, Mass, parents: Aldus Chapin Higgins,
Edgenie G. Brosius.

[ 532 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass., Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

marrieD: Alice Lord Coonley, Nov. 13, 1936, Stockbridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Milton P., 3d, March 15, 1938; Prentiss Coonley, Nov. 19, 1939; Mary
Edgenie, Feb. 8, 1942; Patricia Brosius, Dec. 8, 1944; David Dillon,
Feb. 14, 1947.

OCCUPATION: President, Norton Company, Worcester, manufacturers of
abrasives, grinding wheels, and grinding machines.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Advisory committees to National Production
Authority.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Norton Company, Worcester, since 1937, New
York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad, since 1948, Liberty Mutual
Insurance Company, since 1949, Mutual Boiler & Machinery Insurance
Company, since 1951, Boston Manufacturers Mutual Fire Insurance
Company, since 1947, Worcester County Trust Company, since 1943,
Boys Club of Worcester, since 1940; president, Norton Company,
Worcester, since 1946, Community Chest of Worcester, since 1952;
trustee, Memorial Hospital, Worcester, since 1942, Bancroft School,
Worcester, 1952-54, People’s Savings Bank, Worcester, since 1940,
Worcester Art Museum, since 1952, Worcester Natural History So-
ciety, since 1950, Worcester Trade High Schools, 1951-54.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; Hochgebirge Ski; Midas of Wor-
cester; Ow] Club of Harvard, Tatnuck Country, Worcester; Worcester
Club; Worcester Country; Worcester Tennis, University Club; Shop

Brook Association, Worcester.

FOR the first eight years after leaving college, my life centered
around business. I was fortunate to be able to spend most of
this time in training. I worked in the research department,
factory, and sales end of the Norton Company and began to
learn a little about how a manufacturing business functions. Hav-
ing decided that bachelorhood was for me, the one and only
came along and changed everything. Life became a settled one
and centered around first the family and then business. With
the passage of time I have found that family has become big
business as well as a big satisfaction. After three years in Ni-
agara Falls, I settled down in Worcester where I have gradually
been drawn more and more into community and civic life. Much
of my activity has centered around raising money for good
causes such as the Community Chest and the Republican Party.
Sad to say, the latter has been a lost cause too much of the time
in the last twenty-five years.

Inasmuch as the Norton Company has plants throughout the

[533]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

world, I have been fortunate to have done quite a bit of travel-
ling. I have been to Europe several times, as well as to Australia
and South Africa. Australia in particular, I found, offers great
opportunities for jobs as well as for new businesses.

Right after leaving college the skiing bug bit me. Weekends
were spent with the Hochgebirgers barking shins on trees and
bedposts in New Hampshire. Trips were made to Canada, Sun
Valley, Austria, and Switzerland. In 1934, I was the trainer for
the informal United States F. I. S. team in Switzerland and dis-
covered that it takes years to learn the right amount of brand
to feed the racers. I still ski, but mostly with the children. My
other hobbies are tennis, farming, and photography.

I have acquired the desk chair spread, but thank goodness |
still have my hair. Here’s hoping the next twenty-five years will
be as much fun as the last.

HARLOW NILES HIGINBOTHAM

HOME appress: R. D. 2, Joliet, Tl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 208 S. La Salle St., Chicago 4, Ill.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1904, Easton, Pa. PARENTS: Harlow Davison Higinbotham,
Anne Singleton Smith.

PREPARED AT: St. Mfark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

Marriep: Eleanor Dickson, Sept. 29, 1939, Chicago, Ill. crrmpren: Susan
Dickson, Sept. 6, 1941; Anne Singleton, July 27, 1943; Harlow Niles,
Jr, Nov. 25, 1946.

occupation: Securities analyst, economist, Hulburd, Warren and Chandler,
stock and commodity brokers.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Economist, War Shipping Administration,
Washington, D. C,, 1942-45.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Quadrangle Club, University of
Chicago, Union League Club of Chicago.

TWENTY-FIVE years sound like a lot more than they are — at
least until you try to recapitulate a quarter-century in a few
paragraphs. After college I spent two fairly busy years at the
Harvard Business School, becoming a master of business ad-
ministration just in time for the business depression. Then I took
a number of courses at the University of Chicago, with subjects
ranging all the way from Practical Accounting to Greek Thought.

[534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Finally I got a job doing various things in a brokerage house,
and except for three years in Washington during the war, have
been there ever since. My work, though never highly remunera-
tive, is nearly always interesting, particularly in rising markets,

During most of this time I have been living at my family place
in the country, about thirty-five miles southwest of Chicago.
This means over two hours of commuting every day and living
in accordance with a regular schedule, For a long time after
leaving Cambridge and Boston, I had great yearnings to live
closer to New England than this spot. Three years in Washing-
ton, however, gave me a better appreciation of my pleasant life
here than anything else could have done, and V-J Day found me
ready and eager to return, While this location is remote from
most of my good friends of college days, it-has the advantage
of being strategically located for those who occasionally pass
through Chicago and stop over between changes of trains or
planes. I hope they will continue to cross the country and ad-
vise me when they do so.

Unquestionably my best piece of good fortune in the quarter-
century occurred in 1939, when I got married. Our honeymoon
—a motor trip to Acapulco — still stands out among many sub-
sequent happy adventures. For the last ten years, the younger
generation — two girls and a boy — has been our major interest.

My recreational interests and activities have tended to narrow
as time goes on. For several years squash racquets was my favor-
ite sport. In Washington I used to bicycle for exercise, or on
certain odd occasions go for an early morning run among the
Maryland hills with my equally odd confreres. Now I find that
most of my physical activity takes place on week-ends doing the
many strenuous chores that are no longer performed by the
hired man. Actually I find considerably more satisfaction in
swinging an axe than I ever got from swinging a golf club. On
the intellectual side, I have been reading the Classics intensively,
covering all the ground most thoroughly between Mother Goose
and the Oz books. Vacations are spent usually on motor trips
to various parts of the country, sometimes to visit relatives, and
often just to see new places in remote parts of the country.

Although I do not get to Cambridge very often, my interest
in Harvard has continued. I have at various times been a mem-

[535]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Fifteenth Army Group, which became Headquarters, U. S. Forces in
Austria; retumed to U. S. spring, 1946, separated in June.
Mestnern OF: City Club of Portland; Aero Club of Oregon; Portland Hunt

Club.

AFTER a stint at the Business School I went to work as a re-
ceiving clerk in a large local department store. During the en-
suing twenty years I was transferred from one department to
another, becoming buyer for a group of departments and finally
an assistant merchandise manager. Then just last year, desirous
of greater independence, I left retailing and ventured into the
wholesale distribution of automotive parts and equipment. After
so many years spent with almost everthing from pins and needles
to furniture and appliances, the transition to spark plugs, piston
rings, brake lining, and gaskets was less severe than it would seem.

Otherwise my life had been rather uneventful, except for the
military interlude, until about five years ago when I got married.
This brought with it renewed exposure to academic interests as
Dorothy returned to college at her relatively advanced age. Last
June I watched proudly while she received her A.B. degree from
Reed College at a commencement ceremony more modest though
equally as impressive as mine twenty-four years earlier.

FARLE FRANCIS HISCOCK

HOME Appress: Old Harbor Road, Chatham, Mass.

orFice aporess: KIP, Inc. Old Harbor Road, Chatham, Mass.

Bors: May 27, 1903, Auburn, Maine. pARENTs: Wilmot Allen Hiscock,
Florence Myra Hodgkins.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, DEGREE: $.B. (Massachusetts Inst. of Technol-
ogy), 1932.

Maauiep: Laura Jean Ralphs, 1927 (divorced, 1929); Ernestine Jaffe, 1932,
Portsmouth, N. H. (divorced, 1941); Alice Morgan Carson, Oct. 2,
1943, Greenwich, Conn. cuitpren: Wilmot Allen, 1928; Joan Laddon,
Nancy Wright; Richard Carson.

OUPATION: Inventor, president, KIP, Inc., patent holding corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Radioman during World War I (under-age
enlisement), U. S, Coast Guard, World War II; technical aide to
coordinator of Research and Development, U. S. Navy, and in charge
implementation of Joint Chiefs of Staff Directive #56 to create Air
Sea Rescue Services and initiate development of the equipment for
fescue and survival on land, sea, and in the air.

[ 538 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science.
puBLicATIONS: Wartime Safety Measures, U. S. Coast Guard, 1942.

AFTER graduation from M. I. T. in Naval Architecture (Ship
Operation Section) I wanted to break into the shipping business
and secretly yearned to be shipowner and operator. To this
end I took a low paying apprenticeship in a steamship agency
firm, becoming their office manager in Portland, Maine, in 1933.
After eighteen total months of this work the depression plus the
fact that I had seen the “show” in that side of the business im-
pelled me to pull up stakes and go to Washington. Then I went
to Steamboat Inspection Service (see 1928’s Decennial Report)
and after Pearl Harbor to Coast Guard and thence to the opera-
tions of the second World War (see Vicennial Report). |
After some considerable gadgeteering and the like during all
these peregrinations I decided to try for the sixty-four dollar
question —i.e., can you do it on your own? So I embarked on
the trial of what to invent — first a parachute shock decreasing
construction; this was fine but hard to sell due to monopoly and
restrictions in military contracts and like devious reasons. A life
raft came in the interim but not a money maker, good but. “not
invented here” insofar as the impact on the potential users.
After such airy and watery flights I took to coffee, and sud-
denly. with no prior warning but much searching of soul and
sorrowful introspection tried holding a cloth bag containing
ground coffee down in the center of the upper bowl of the
conventional “vacuum maker.” This led to the development of
the “brewing bag” of desized viscose rayon, woven to the cor-
rect mesh to filter properly when packed with just the right
amount of coffee (drip grind). This is KIP, and the Corpora-
tion of KIP, Inc., was formed on the basis of these patents. The
industry seems to like it and at this writing I am building the
“Beamwheel” which is the packaging machine to convert ex-
isting vacuum makers with a seventy-five cent spring clip and
hold-down device. Re. the packaging machine—shows how
naive we can be —I thought that since most everything is pack-
aged, the packaging industry would have no trouble in packing
such a woven textile bag; not so —so I had to dream it up myself,
and file the patent.
At the moment this all looks fine and like a dandy to make some

[539]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

money with —TI think it will —but if you will all keep your
fingers crossed and agree with me that when you try it, the good
fresh clear coffee (and/or tea) ples the “no mess,” i.e., disposabil-
ity of the bag, makes it appealing, we shall be assured of a con-
unued relaxed life in Chatham, Cape Cod. ,

Travels: I've gone around and about the world, in the past
to Europe and South America, Mexico and Canada.

Hobbies are sailing all types of boats and vessels in fine or
hellish weather (and teaching the young about the ocean).

My religious activity is believing that all good men are mem-
bers of the “Miraculous Body of Christ” at all times and in all
weathers. I see or feel no need for formal exhortation at stated
times; however, prayer is in order and at any time; the spirit
powerful and the will to live and to do is the most healthful
medicine the Lord has given us. We all have made enemies, but
since the degree of evil in the world still remains about the same
as in 1588, the trite but so true saying that it is almost impossible
to harm a good man will counteract these latest manifestations of
the Power of Darkness.

Family: we live hard, 1.e., play and work and drink and just
plain push along — wine, whiskey, beer, and ale for breakfast
and when bored. My son Richard seems to be very interested
in the “principles” of matter and fire, air and water — wish I
could take Professor Moore’s course in the history of chemistry
over again; those “homunculi” beating it out in the mountains!

Wow!

CHARLES BAKER HITCHCOCK

HOME aporess: Pound Ridge, N. Y. (P. O., R. D. 5, Ridgefield, Conn.).

ovrice appress: American Geographical Society, Broadway at 156th St,
New York 32, N. Y.

Born: March 16, 1906, Boston, Mass, parents: John Hitchcock, Esther Mary
Baker.

parpangp at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928, A.M.
(Columbia Univ.), 1931.

manuep: Agnes Murchie, Dec. 3, 1931, New York, N. Y. cHiLpren: Gail,
July 29, 1933; Suzanne, Feb. 14, 1935; Esther Lee, March 29, 1937.

[ 540 ]

2$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Geographer: exccutive secretary and chief, Department of
Latin American Research, American Geographical Society, New
York.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Under contract, Department of State, Wash-
ington, D. C.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Association of American Geographers, 1948-50;
executive committee, National Research Council; Research and De-
velopment Board, Washington; chairman, Office Naval Research; chair-
man, U. S. Committee on American Cartography.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; New
York Academy of Sciences; Association of American Geographers,
Arctic Institute; Explorers Club. oS

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Map of Hispanic America, 1937; Various articles,

I REGRET that due to the small space allocated by the 1928
Committee, I am quite unable to put down a meritable and ade-
quate full report of my many achievements of the past quarter
century. ‘Thus, as requested, I shall merely outline in narrative
form but a tiny minimum of the total accomplishments resulting
directly from four undergraduate years at Harvard.

I rather like to think of the Class of ’28 as the present-day
equivalent of those of 1903 at the time of our graduation. This
gives me a more precise and intimate appreciation of our great
age, for certainly in 1928, anybody who had graduated in ’03 was
entirely passé, somebody having dress rehearsal with the nearest
funeral parlor. Strangely enough, if I do not bear this in mind,
Iam apt to feel that there is still some vigor left in the body — all
of which is obviously a snare and a delusion.

An outstanding example of personal inertia has been my ap-
parent inability to comply with Ham Heard’s entirely reasonable
request to put something down in black and white for the Class
Report. At least, the Committee can have the satisfaction of
knowing that each day the statement has lagged, I have felt just
that much more remorseful. It has worsened my already crab-
bed disposition to the stage where it is practically impossible to
get along with me, even for a few minutes.

My most notable accomplishment took place in December,
1931, and in the equivalent month, 1951, it was thus possible for
me to celebrate our twentieth wedding anniversary. How my
wife has been able to put up with me all these years remains a
mystery, Similarly, my three daughters have constantly shown

[sqr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

unmerited consideration, In spite of these undeserved considera-
tions on the part of my cohorts, we have inhabited an ancient
colonial farmstead in Westchester County, New York, for the
past seventeen years. One of our particular hobbies, early Ameri-
can furniture, has been periodically interrupted by our early
American floors, which have tended to disrupt the more delicate
and earlier furniture and incite on the part of their possessors a
desire to mend and restore those objets d’art.

As for personal past, I can thank our mutual friend, Sydney
Tyler, for having invited me to join him on a year’s trip to the
unknown of Southern Venezuela immediately after graduation.
Ir so whetted my appetite for South America that I have had
the privilege and pleasure of visiting since then many parts of
that intriguing continent, from the Beagh Channel north to the
Goajira Peninsula, Through the good auspices of my Venezue-
lan friend, William H. Phelps, we have had the opportunity to
study many patches of a hitherto unknown world. Since 1931,
aside from one year when the Geographical Society of America
provided substitutes, I have been in the employment of the Amer-
ican Georgraphical Society of New York, where I am entrusted
with Latin American Research and Cartography.

But the greatest of my exploits is Agnes, who aside from put-
ting up with me has stayed at home during my travels, a much
more difficult job than going into the back country.

AMOS ROBERT HOBBS

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Emerson Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

orrice appress: Control Engineering Corp., 560 Providence Highway, Nor-
wood, Mass.

Born: Oct. 17, 1901, Needham, Mass, parents: Frederick George Hobbs,
Louize Katherine Smith.

peeparep at: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1923, 1924~1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

Maxaigp: Lanella Ann Simons, Oct. 12, 1950, Westminster, Mass.

occupation; Director of purchasing, Control Engineering Corporation.

osrues urio: Secretary-treasurer, Worcester County Purchasing Agents
Association, 1942-46.

miMbe® ov: University Club, Boston, National Association of Purchasing

Agents.

[ 542 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE thing I enjoyed most in college was my classes in short
story writing, and I did rather well. However, making a living
at it involved privations which I am not yet resigned to, and so
I look forward to the time of financial independence when I can
settle down to some real serious effort along these lines. In the
meantime, I make a satisfactory living as director of purchasing
for the Control Engineering Corporation of Norwood, Massa-
chusetts.

During the winter months, my wife and I read a great deal,
take in a few good shows in Boston and keep our eyes open for
worthwhile happenings at Symphony Hall. During the summer
there aren’t enough weekends for the trips we would like to make
to Cape Cod, the White Mountains of New Hampshire, « and the
Moosehead Lake area of Maine.

Life today seems complex and the immediate future most un-
certain, but not more so, perhaps, than it appeared to Harvard
men of former years as they approached their Twenty-fith Re-
union.

RICHARD BOYLE O’REILLY HOCKING

HOME ADDRESS: 2048 Chelsea Circle, N. E., Atlanta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Philosophy Dept., Emory University, Emory University, Ga.

BORN: Aug. 26, 1906, Berkeley, Calif. PARENTS: William Ernest Hocking,
’or, Agnes Boyle O'Reilly.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips
Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: 8.8. cum laude, 1928; A.M., 1930;
PH.D. (Yale), 1935.

MarRieD: Katherine Everts Ewing, Aug. 12, 1939, West Dummerston, Vt.
CHILDREN: Jillian, Nov. 22, 1941; Jennifer, March 9, 1944; Penelope,
Sept. 8, 1945.

Occupation: Professor of philosophy, Emory University, undergraduate
instruction, graduate instruction, research, and writing.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Ella Lyman Cabot Trust, since 1939; instructor in
philosophy, University of Minnesota, 1935-37; assistant professor of
philosophy, Williams College, 1937-40, University of California at Los
Angeles, 1940-46, University of Chicago, 1946-49; exchange professor
of philosophy, University of Frankfurt, 1949; professor of philosophy,
since 1950, acting chairman of Philosophy Department, 1951-52, Emory
University.

[ 543 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Mesnex OF: American Philosophical Association; American Association for
the Advancement of Science; Southern Society for Philosophy of
Religion; Metaphysical Society of America; Guild of Scholars in the
Episcopal Church, American Council on Religion in Higher Educa-
tion; The Grange.

puauications: Articles: “Some Types of Historical Consciousness in Chi-
nese and Indian Thought,” “Right Pessimism and Right Optimism,”
“Experiences and Lessons Drawn from the University of Chicago—
University of Frankfurt Project,” “Hegel’s Dialectic of Freedom.”

TWENTY-FIVE years ago my college activity seemed to me a
very fragmented thing: mathematics, pole vaulting, choir and
glee club, a bit of work in the architectural school, and all those
debutante parties. But now I see that choir was the unintended
connective tissue, Thanks to Doc Davison’s magnificent grasp
of western civilization through music, I began to get hold of a
unifying principle. That beginning led on to the study of philoso-
phy. It would not be far wrong to say that Pve been trying to
teach philosophy in the spirit of Doc’s choir ever since. And the
math and the architecture and all the rest have fallen into place
as if by plan.

The professional path over the years has been geographically
adventuresome. I incline to recall each place through a person.
Cal Tech means especially Fritz Zwicky, the rough hewn, imag-
inative astrophysicist; the Harvard Graduate School means par-
ticularly my father, for whom I was reader in Phil 9 one year,
Berlin, the cool Baltic German, Nicolai Hartmann, perfectly ob-
livious to Hitler, though it was 1934; Yale calls to mind careful old
Professor Sheldon under whom I wrote a dissertation on “Space
and Intersubjectivity;’ Minnesota means David Swenson, over-
flowing with enthusiasm for Kierkegaard and existentialism; Wil-
liams and U. C. L. A. are two Millers, both deep in philosophy of
history; Chicago means particularly Hutchins reflecting on the
completion of the College experiment, and Emory means Col-
well's belief in first-rate graduate work in the New South.

My present teaching is devoted to metaphysics, and the history
of philosophy, especially in St. Augustine’s time and in the Nine-
teenth Century, and a course on Indian and Chinese thought. My
hopes for writing are: a work on the metaphysical foundations
of science, and a work on Augustine’s philosophy of history.

My convictions at this point in life show less consistency in

( 544]

—

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

politics, more in religion. With regard to politics, my graduate

ear in Berlin early in the Hitler period made me an enemy for
life of shirt movements and secret police in any nation and in
behalf of any class. I dread a one-party system. I rejoice in the
recent slight weakening of one-party control in the South. In-
cidentally, Pve had some brief dealings with two organizations
that are on the Attorney General’s black list. With regard to
religion, the path of experience and study has brought me to the
Episcopal Church. In general I am sure that the work of a stu-
dent of philosophy, and probably of any thinker, is more re-
sponsibly done in the context of such a concrete commitment
than as an outsider looking on. This is why relevant philosophy
nowadays so often comes from Protestant theologians, An in-
tellectual renewal of the Christian perspective on history is in
full swing. Out of it is coming the only alternative, as I see it,
to the Dialectical Materialist perspective on history that is avail-
able to us as westerners. .

Katherine Everts Ewing and I were married while I was still
at Williams College. Our children are all little Southern Cali-
fornians. Now that we are in Atlanta, at the cross-roads of the
Southeast, we are happily able to keep in touch with all four of
the children’s grandparents. Kay’s father and mother live on a
Florida key near Sarasota. My father and mother are living the
year round at the farm near Mt. Chocorua in New Hampshire.
We are endlessly grateful for the sense of stability that the chil-
dren gain from knowing their grandparents well.

Kay is finding ways to keep at her theatre directing as an
avocation. Last winter she directed an excellent faculty and stu-
dent production of “The Madwoman of Chaillot.” The list of
such events over the years is a rich one, going back to Marlowe’s
“Dr. Faustus” at the University of California at Los Angeles. An
avocation of mine is learning to read and write literary Chinese,
chiefly in order to be able to check on translations of Chinese .
philosophers. As a family the five of us are learning madrigals
and chorales; but chiefly we do much reading aloud. Now and
then we get out the hand bells for change ringing. The summers
in New Hampshire involve us all in the July haying. And in-
creasingly the children and their cousins take to tennis and sail-

ing.
[ 545]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Apropos of travel, the places in Europe I should most like to
revisit, taking the family along this time, are: Maria Laach in
the Rhineland, Glendalough in Ireland, and Dubrovnik in Dal-

mata.

EDWIN JAMES HODDER

HOME ADDRESS: 154 Goden St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 9, Mass.

Born: June 25, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Edwin Hodder, Mary Jane
Johnston.

prepareD aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: AB. 71agna cum laude, 1928.

margieD: Rora T. Melville, Feb. 25, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. cHILpREN: Ed-
win James, Jr. Oct. 19, 1931; Melville T., April 7, 1939.

HARVARD SON: Edwin James Hodder, Jr., ’53.

occuPATION: Partner, Hayden Stone & Company, investment bankers, mem-
bers New York Stock Exchange.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Tabor Academy; member Board of Governors, Bos-
ton Stock Exchange.

MEMBER OF: Algonquin Club, Boston, Cambridge Boat Club, Phi Beta
Kappa Society.

THE twenty-five years since graduation have treated me well.

My life has been happy, active, and secure, and filled with bless-

ings. After graduation I went to work in the Boston office of

Hayden Stone and Company and have persisted in the brokerage

business ever since. For a few years while John Chase was in

Furope during the war, I worked at John P. Chase, Inc. In 1946

I returned to Hayden Stone & Company where I became a gen-

eral partner.

June of this year will be a most exciting and eventful month
for my wife and me. Besides the Reunion, we are looking for-
ward to our elder son’s graduation from Harvard and his marriage
to Miss Ruth L. Leird of Casper, Wyoming, who also graduates
from Radcliffe this month,

Melville, our younger boy, is going to Browne & Nichols
where he is a freshman. Already an enthusiastic supporter of
Harvard College, it looks as if he will be a member of the Class
of 1960.

[ 546]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FLETCHER HODGES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: §812 Kentucky Ave., East End, Pittsburgh 32, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stephen Foster Memorial, University of Pittsburgh, Pitts-
burgh 13, Pa.

porn: Aug. 6, 1906, Indianapolis, Ind. parents: Fletcher Hodges, m.p., ’o2,
Rebecca Traill Andrews.

PREPARED AT: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: ABy 1928; Litr.p. (Lincoln Memorial
Univ.), 1945.

marrieD: Sarah Margaret Moore, Sept. ro, 1932, Indianapolis, Ind. cHtLpREN:
Fletcher, 3d, Aug. 6, 1933; Arthur Carlisle, Sept. 10, 1935; John An-
drews, Nov. 18, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Fletcher Hodges, 3d, 56,

occuPATION: Curator, Foster Hall Collection, manager, Stephen Foster
-Memorial Auditorium, University of Pittsburgh.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Air raid warden service, Pittsburgh; blood
donor service, American Red Cross.

orFices HELD: Member, Committee of Management, University of Pittsburgh
YMCA, since 1952; captain of ushers corps, Church of the Redeemer,
Pittsburgh, since 1952; Cub Scout and Boy Scout work, Pittsburgh,
1946-48, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Faculty Club, University of Pittsburgh; Harvard Club of
Western Pennsylvania; Book Club of Pictsburgh.

PuBLIcCATIONS: Bibliography for Stepben Foster, America’s Troubadour,
Thomas Y. Cromwell Co. New York, 1934; A Pittsburgh Composer
and His Memorial, Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania, 1938;
Chronicles of Stephen Foster's Family, editor, University of Pittsburgh
Press, 1944; “Stephen Foster, Democrat,” The Lincoln Herald, Lincoln
Memorial Univ., Harrogate, Tenn., June 1945; “The Research Work
of the Foster Hall Collection,” Pennsylvania History, July, 1948.

MY FIRST three years after graduation were spent in Indianapo-
lis and Chicago, working for a department store, two packing
companies, and a publishing house. I then became the curator
of the Foster Hall Collection in Indianapolis. This collection
consisted of information and material relating to the life and
works of Stephen Collins Foster, the Pittsburgh composer of
such world-famous songs as “Old Folks at Home,” “My Old
Kentucky Home,” “Massa’s in de Cold Ground,” and “Old Black
Joe.” I worked with the collection in Indianapolis from 1931 to
1936, and when it was presented in 1937 to the University of
Pittsburgh, to be placed in the new Stephen Foster Memorial
which was dedicated that year in the city of his birth, on the

[ 547]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

have climbed such mountains as Katahdin, Washington, Chocorua,
Monadnock, Moosilauke, Mansfield, and Greylock. I have picked
grapes along the shore of Lake Erie; I have worked in vegetable
canneries; I have worked with a track repair crew on the New
York Central Railroad’s main line west of Buffalo. Experiences
like these give me a new perspective on life and enough fresh
air, exercise, and sunshine to last until the following year.

My chief talents are the ability to manufacture red blood
corpuscles and to drive a railroad spike into a tie without missing
the spike. The latter is no mean feat —try it.

I hope some day after my children are educated, to devote
more time to hiking and climbing and to reach as many as pos-
sible of the highest ‘points of each of the forty-eight states under
my own power. I have a fair start in this ambition, but so far
have never tackled anything tougher than Clingman’s Dome in
Tennessee — and that does not really count, since I drove a car
part of the way up the mountain.

If any of the Class, or their descendents, enjoy the Foster
melodies, I shall be pleased to send them a gift copy of one of
our University of Pittsburgh publications, “Songs of Stephen
Foster.”

ISRAEL HOFFMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Van Meter Fens, New Rochelle, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Steckler, Hoffman & Steckler, 25 W. qqth St., New York
36, N. Y.

Born: April 27, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Aaron Hoffman, Bessie Shat-
inoff,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; LL.B., 1931.

magniep: Edith M. Ostroff, Feb. 5, 1938, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Barbara Thelma, June 4, 1941; Alice Jane, Sept. 13, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

MeMBER oF: Phi Beta Kappa; Bar Association of City of New York; New
York County Lawyers Association, Circle Riding Club; B’nai B'rith;
Realcry Luncheon Club; Real Estate Board of New York, Inc.

UPON graduation from law school I left my home town of Bos-
ton to come to the big city to make my fortune. Five years out
of Jaw school found me still far from my goal. In 1936 I became
associated with Mr. David Steckler, a well-established lawyer.

[550]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The year 1938 proved to be a lucky one for me. In that year the
law firm of Steckler, Hoffman & Steckler was formed, and ever
since I have had an active and fairly profitable professional ca-
reer. In addition to a general practice, I have acquired a specialty
in litigating with the tax department of the ory ¢ of New York
over many of its real estate tax assessments.

The year 1938 was also lucky for another reason. It was the
year of my marriage. My wife was a blind date whom I married
three months after our first meeting. Our married life has been
a happy one and we have enjoyed the thrill of raising our two
daughters. With no sons to send to Harvard, we shall have to be
satishied with two Harvard sons-in-law. Classmates please take
note. From the money left over after Uncle Sam’s share I have
managed to acquire a house in the suburbs which the Hoffman
family enjoys very much.

Unfortunately my contribution to the war effort was on the
home front so that I have no military or naval record to report.
Civilian defense, blood donations, and war bond drives, however,
did keep me busy for the duration.

Riding, bowling, ping pong (my wife is pretty good at it), oc-
casional tennis (doubles only), and gardening are the hobbies
which take up most of my spare time.

Now for a few words of philosophy. I am not as pessimistic
about our times as many of my friends are. Somehow I feel that
civilization will survive and that the world will go on to bigger
and better things. I think that many of our Class will live to see
the real beginning of atomic energy in industry and an era of
peace and good will.

ARTHUR ANDREWS HOLBROOK

HOME AppREss: 2518 E. Lake Bluff Blvd., Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 425 E. Wisconsin Ave., Milwaukee 2, Wis.

BORN: Feb. 19, 1906, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Arthur Tenney Holbrook,
’92, Bertha Matson Andrews.

PREPARED AT: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928, M.D., 1932.

MaRRIED: Susan Dette, Dec. 19, 1931, Milton, Mass. (divorced 1937); May
F. Baldwin, Nov. 16, 1940, Montgomery, Ala. cuipren: Elizabeth
(Holly), Aug. 9, 1935; Morris Baldwin, Nov. 7, 1943.

[551]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Haat ano BROTHERS: Herbert Tenney Holbrook, ’30; Matson Holbrook, ’35.

occupation: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in Army, March, 1942; began active duty,
June, 1942, as major, Medical Corps; went with 44th General Hospital
to Australia, October, 1943, later to New Guinea and Leyte; returned
to U. S, May, 1945; assigned to small faculty S. W. Pacific Medicos
at Carlisle Barracks, Pa, to teach Pacific Ocean area diseases to medical
officers being redeployed from European Theatre; separated December,
1945. aS lieutenant colonel; various ribbons, three battle stars.

OFFICES HELD: Physician, Milwaukee Country Day School, since 1937; staff
member, Columbia Hospital, Milwaukee Hospital; member associate
staff, Milwaukee County General Hospital, member governing staff,
Columbia Hospital, 1949-52; president, Harvard Club of Milwaukee,
1948-50; chief medical examiner, Milwaukee, for New England Mutual
Life Insurance Company, since 1949; examining surgeon, Soo Line Rail-
road, since 1949; member Board of Directors, Family Service of Mil-
waukee, since 1949; president, Milwaukee Society of Internal Medicine,
1952-54; president elect, Milwaukee Academy of Medicine, 1953.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Northwestern Medical Asso-
ciation; Milwaukee Academy of Medicine; Milwaukee Society of In-
ternal Medicine; Central Society for Clinical Research; American Col-
lege of Physicians (fellow); Milwaukee County Society for Mental
Health; Planned Parenthood Association; Milwaukee Art Institute;
Harvard Club of Milwaukee, University Club; Town Club of Milwau-
kee.

PusBLicaTions: Fifteen articles on medical subjects in ten different medical
journals, between April, 1934, and August, 1952: four papers dealt
with diseases of the blood; two with hemodynamics, two with “Re-
breathing Heart Test”; four with gastrointestinal tract; two with skin
dieases; one with common cold.

HAVING wanted to be a doctor from the time when I first
played with an old stethoscope of my father’s, I was spared any
difficulty in selecting a career after graduation. Following four
years in the Medical School, I spent twenty-seven months on
medical services at the Massachusetts General Hospital and then
returned to Milwaukee to join my father who had limited his
practice to internal medicine since 1918. The day after I got my
license to practise in Wisconsin, he and Mother left for a four-
month trip around the world, and I received my long-awaited
chance to perform on my own. That opportunity was fortunate,
since it occurred in the depression year of 1935. There was no
rush-rush in those days. Registered nurses called in daily hoping
for any kind of assignment. Hospital-admitting personnel made

[552]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one feel he was doing the hospital a favor to request a bed. Fees
were small, but overhead was commensurate.

During the intervening years I have practised as an internist.
Every morning is devoted to hospital and house calls; every aft-
ernoon, except Saturday and Sunday, to office work. With the
advent of hospital insurance plans, it is now very difficult to se-
cure a hospital bed no matter how sick the patient. As a result, I
make many home calls, day and night, just as advertised by cer-
tain drug firms.

In the thirties I began doing some small investigative arbeits in
order to qualify for membership in the Central Society for Clin-
ical Research. At that point it was simply a matter of diverting
some leisure time. The habit was formed, however, and now cre-
ating that kind of time constitutes my major and most frustrat-
ing problem.

The great trouble with this type of professional career is that
it affords such scant opportunity to be with one’s family. As yet,
I have not solved that one. Vacations in winter, summer, and fall
of varying lengths do help in the right direction. My wife, be-
ing a Southerner, takes a dim view of snow and cold. Hence, dur-
ing the past twelve years, we have worked a system of alternat-
ing the winter breaks between Alabama-Florida and Sun Valley.
Ward Gregg had infected me with the skiing bug when we
roomed together at Vanderbilt Hall. Later I suffered a chronic
relapse, when I went to Graz and Vienna for special postgraduate
medical studies and found the Tyrol so accessible. Then Sun Val-
ley opened, and the fever has spiked along ever since.

Summers we go to the family lodge on the Brule River in
northern Wisconsin. This affords the treasured chance to canoe,
fly-fish for trout, and relax in the woods with May, Holly, and
Morris.

During the fall and winter I play squash as regularly as I can
manage in an attempt to keep fit for skiing and tennis. The Town
Club courts for squash and tennis are only eight minutes from my
office, making it quite easy to work in some play over the noon
hour two or three times a week.

Other recreational pursuits include attending the concerts of
the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, playing cribbage at the drop
of a hint, and taking stereo-realist photographs.

[553]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Politically IT am happy Ike was elected. For one reason, the
tax bite has less sting with a man of his strength, talents, and high
purpose at the head of our government.

NEWTON DEUEL HOLBROOK, III

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 21 Tauxemont Rd., Alexandria, Va.

porn: Dec. 30, 1905, Torrington, Conn. parents: Newton Deuel Holbrook,
Helen Coe Godfrey.

prepared AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B. (Vanderbilt Univ.), 1930; A.M.
(ibid.), 1932.

marriepD: \fagda Bezner, April 25, 1931, Heidelberg, Germany. CHILDREN:
Clara, April 4, 1934; Julia, March 5, 1941; Natalie, Oct. 7, 1942.

occupation: Government employment.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: MIS/U. S. Army, January, 1943-July,1946.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Lodge; ROA; American Legion, Department of Jus-
tice Post, Washington, D. C.; D.U.

I TRANSFERRED from Harvard to Vanderbilt and majored in
German. I taught at the University of North Carolina and the
University of Delaware until January, 1943, when I enlisted in
MIS/U. S. Army. Since the summer of 1946 I have been in gov-
ernment employ.

FRANCIS HOLLAND

HOME appress: 644 Orchard St., East Lansing, Mich.

orFice aporess: Atlas Drop Forge Co., Lansing, Mich.; General Drop Forge
Corp., Buffalo, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 2, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: George Henry Holland, Mary
Elizabeth Tarpey.

prepArED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1930(31).

Marriep: Barbara Anne Graham, Feb. 17, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Hugh Henry (“Jeep”), Feb. 21, 1943; Francis Graham (“Jomp”), Jan.
28, 1945.

HARVARD a sess: Sampson Philip Holland, ’11; John Holland, ’20; George
Holland, ’22.

occupanion: Sales manager, codrdinating sales programs and sales staff of
General Drop and Atlas Drop Forge.

MILITARY om wAvAL meconn: U. S. Army Ordnance, 1942-45; officer-in-
charge ODIIC for trucks, 1943-453 commendation ribbon; captain.

[554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

UPON leaving Business School I joined Lever Brothers Com-
pany, having decided that “sales” would be my life’s work. I
stayed with Lever until 1942 when, being in the Reserve Corps, I
was reactivated into the Army. My work with Lever was most
interesting, as I worked for them in every part of the United
States. One of my most interesting experiences was the “Swan

Soap” campaign in coérdinating the nation-wide sales and ad-
vertising Campaigns.

During the latter part of my army career, I was stationed i in
South Bend as officer-in-charge of the ODIIC for medium trucks.
Here I worked closely with members of our great automotive in-
dustry. The field was entirely different from the consumer ap-
peal selling of soap, but to me equally fascinating.

I decided, upon being inactivated from the army in 1945, to
remain in the Midwest and in the heavy fabricated metals field. I
am now sales manager for Atlas Drop Forge Company and Gen-
eral Drop Forge Corporation, and divide my time between the
two plants. We live in the delightful college town of East Lan-
sing, home of Michigan State’s Number One football team. We
are loyal rooters and brag about “our team.”

My two boys, Jeep and Jomp, keep us from ever considering
that life is dull; what with building club houses, music lessons,
football, cub scouts, and the ever-important questions of a seven-
year-old and a nine-year-old! Although the children often ask
questions about the “old-fashioned days” when we were in school,
we do not feel that life is that different and expect that in later
years they too will find this out in their own inimitable fashion.

HAROLD LaVERNE HOLLAND

HOME AppREss: 54 W, Fairview Ave., Dayton 5, Ohio.

OFFICE apprEss: Headquarters, United States Air Force for Europe, Wies-
baden, Germany.

BoRN: Aug. 4, 1906, Dayton, Ohio, Parents: George Francis Holland, Ame-
lia Caroline Volz.

PREPARED AT: Steele High School, Dayton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1931.

MarrieD: Marjorie Elizabeth Gillaugh, Nov. 30, 1933, Dayton, Ohio, cum-
DREN: Linda Diana, March 10, 1937; Mary Janet, Jan. 5, 1949.

OccUPATION: Colonel, Judge Advocate General’s Department, U. S. Air
Force,

[555]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MALCOLM HAUGHTON HOLMES

Home aporess: 69 Fox Hill Rd. Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE AporESS: 290 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass.

poas: Aug. 2, 1906, Brockton, Mass. parents: Charles Wales Holmes, Ethel
Mae Horton.

paePareD AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: $B. 1928.

UN MARRIED.

oocuPATION: Dean, New England Conservatory of Music.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Fighteen months in Infantry, Radio, Army Spe-
cialized Training Program, Special Services (music).

oFFices HELD: Director, Harvard Musical Association, since 1949, vice-presi-
dent since 1951.

MEN(BER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Musical Association; Phi
Mu Alpha Sinfonia (music); Pi Kappa Lambda (honorary music); Delta
Omicron (music patron).

puBuications: Conducting the Amateur Orchestra, Harvard University
Press, 1951; editor, two publications of music.

MY TWENTY-FIVE years since graduation have been devoted
almost exclusively to music, with the accent on orchestral con-
ducting. I began my career as assistant conductor of the Pierian
Sodality under G. Wallace Woodworth, and became conductor
in 193z when he resigned to take the Glee Club. I held this post
until 1950. In 1933 I joined the music faculty of Wellesley Col-
leze, where I remained eleven years as conductor of the college
orchestra, instructor in chamber music, assistant in music appre-
ciation, and manager of the Wellesley Concert Series. While
there I conducted the first American performance of Gluck’s
opera Alceste (1938)—three years before the Metropolitan
Opera staged it. In 1935 | became conductor of the Radcliffe or-
chestra (later merged with the Pierian Sodality), and for one year
led the M. I. T. orchestra.

In 1940 and 1941 I was on the faculty of the Berkshire Music
Center, learning about “life with Koussevitsky.” In 1942 I be-
came conductor of the Harvard band —a post I still hold, main-
ly because it allows me to indulge in my two vices — conducting
and watching football — at one and the same time. (I also get
Letter seats through the band than ’28 does through the Harvard
Athletic Association!!)

In 1944, after cightcen months in the service, I came to the

(558)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New England Conservatory as assistant to the director, and was
appointed dean and conductor of the Conservatory orchestra in
i945- I still hold both posts. In 1946 I joined the faculty of a
summer Chamber music camp in the Berkshire Hills to conduct
their orchestra. In 1951 my book on amateur orchestras was pub-
lished by the Harvard Press; and the following year I graduated
from What’s That to Who’s Who. I have spent five summers
travelling abroad, doing research in the British Museum and
studying conducting with Sir Adrian Boult. Each year since
1938 I have been guest conductor each season at the Boston
Symphony Pops and Esplanade concerts.

Mine is perhaps a one-track existence, but a very rewarding
one, nevertheless. It is impossible to grow old or get into a rut
working with young people in music. I wouldn’t have missed a
minute of it — strenuous though it has been.

STANDISH WHITMAN HOLMES

HOME ADDRESS: 115 Rider Ave., Malverne, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 350 Fifth Ave. New York 1, N. Y.

BorN: April 11, 1906, New Bedford, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Mason Holmes,
Alice Parker.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MaRRIED: Evelyn Judith Nelson, Oct. 10, 1930, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Standish Whitman, Jr. April 10, 1932; John Mason, July 6, 1938
(died Aug. 9, 1938); Elizabeth Ann, March 27, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Harold Dennison Holmes, ’16; Charles Parker Holmes,
22.

occuPATION: Sales, Ames Textile Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant advertising manager, 1930-42, assistant sales manager,
Staple Division, 1942-46, American Viscose Corporation, New York;
sales manager, Rayon and Synthetic Fabrics Division, Everfast Fabrics,
Inc., New York, 1946-47, Glen Raven Mills, New York, 1947-49, Riegel
Textile Corporation, New York, 1949-52.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Hempstead Golf Club, Long
Island.

A FALTERING (and now almost non-existent) textile business
in New Bedford, Massachusetts, forced me in the fall of 1928 to
look elsewhere for employment. A very nice but thoroughly un-
suspecting fellow in the Lord and Taylor’s store in New York

[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

offered me a job as section manager, which at that time was re-
tail language for floorwalker. Walking floors, while it served the
useful purpose of conditioning me for nocturnal strolls around
the bedroom with the young Holmeses who were eventually to
arrive, Was not, as it proved, my particular dish of tea or bathtub
gin as we called it in those days. Therefore, after a short hitch
with R, H. Macy, where I was at least six per cent less efficient
than I was at Lord and Taylor, I resolved that the retail business
and all its ulcers (known colloquially as “Macy stomach”) would
have to seek its destiny without me,

Thus was the consuming public spared many tight shoes. In
1930, the rayon yarn and fiber industry, at that point an infant
industry, branded with the stigma of producing “artificial silk,”
was looking for young men with college background and some
retail experience. I had the good fortune to sell myself to Amer-
ican Viscose Corporation, largest manufacturers of rayon yarn
in the world, this particular “sale” not being hurt by the fact
that the man who hired me was a very fine Harvard man of the
Class of 1919 by the name of Charles Chester Bassett.

After sixteen pleasant years with this firm, during which time
I saw the rayon product develop from a strictly basement prod-
uct into the darling of the haute couture, I left the yarn and
fiber end and subsequently have worked for southern fabric mills
which were customers of American Viscose. The work has been
mainly selling, executive sales positions, etc.

I have been married for twenty-two years to a very beautiful
and very tolerant woman who gave up a promising theatrical
career for the dubious pleasure through the years of watching
my hair disappear, my arteries harden, and my bad habits change
only slightly for the better. There are probably two excellent
reasons for Evelyn Holmes’s patience and tolerance toward me:
first, Stan, Jr., aged twenty, now in Officers’ Candidate School
at Fort Benning, Georgia, who kicked off the family traces and
went to Princeton, subsequently seeing to it that I had Kazmaier
coming out of my ears. But withal he is a very fine and solid
lad, The second reason is Elizabeth Ann, aged twelve, blue-eyed
and blonde with all the beauty and strength of character of her
mother’s Norwegian forbears. The wolves will be trying to take

uver any day now and I dread the awful moment,

[ 560 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Early in our married life, due to a superlative job of selling by —
my wife, I joined the Lutheran Church in our small Long Island
village, and have found it a rich and rewarding experience.
Among many things, it has helped us to withstand the tough
moments of bereavement and the various other low points that
most of us encounter at some time or another.

My politics have been pretty consistently Republican, although
I confess I have had to swallow kind of hard sometimes in pull-
ing down that lever with the eagle on it; in 1936, for instance.
In 1940 it was extremely easy to do so, and I spent nearly all
my free time for months before that election pushing doorbells
and raising dough for Mr. Willkie. |

So far as active sports are concerned, there has been time for
golf here and there, though not enough to attain sufficient ability
to keep from losing money to Buttrick, Merwin, and Pollard
whenever we get together. I find that so far as golf is concerned,
I look up soon enough but I just don’t lunge in time.

Needless to say, we are looking forward to the “big moment”
in June, 1953, and have our fingers crossed in hopes that the war

situation with our son and the school situation with our daughter
(she will most likely be in the midst of examinations in early
June) will allow us to present a solid front of Holmeses in Cam-

bridge.

** ROBERTSON HONEY, JR.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1906, New York, N. Y. Parents: Robertson Honey, Mabel
Elsworth Boggs. .

PREPARED AT: Clifton College, Bristol, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. 1928(27); LLB., 1931.

DIED: Oct. 12, 1937, at sea.

WHEN Honey had received an LL.B. from the Harvard Law

School he entered the practice of law in New York. There he

was for a time connected with the firm of Davies, Auerbach &

Cornell. At the time of his death he held a position in the New

York firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft. He was lost at

sea while returning from a vacation in Bermuda.

[ 551 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

WILLIAM PLUMER HOOKER

HUME ADDRESS: 455 Old La Henda Rd., Woodside, Calif.
OFFICE Apress: California Container Corp. 100 Bush St., San Francis

Co, ‘
Born: Feb. 27, 1905, Maxwell, Nebr. PARENTS: Arthur R, Hooker, liga t

Rushlow.

PREPARED AT: Beloit High School, Beloit, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929-

MARRiED: Katherine A. Walker, Oct. 25, 1929, Los Angeles, Calif. Fi
beth A. Paul, June 15, 1938, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN: Susan, Nov -
1934; Jay Scott, Dec. 15, 1936; Alice C., Nov. 20, 1941; William Paul
June 29, 1944. 1

occupation: President, California Container Corporation, manufacturers of
paper board products.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Research packaging work for the government
(while still in the employ of Container Corporation) to transport syn
thetic rubber from point of manufacture to point of conversion into
wartime products, such as tank tires, airplane tires, etc.

MEMBER OF: Menlo Circus Club; Jonathan Club; St. Francis Yacht Club

Los Angeles; Washington Athletic Club, Seattle; Stock Exchange Club,
Seattle Tennis Club.

SINCE getting out of school my entire business career has been
spent in the paper industry. Ten years with Kieckhefer Con-
tainer Company in Milwaukee, Chicago, Detroit, Three Rivers,
Michigan, and Olean, New York; then with Container Corporz-
tion of America and its subsidiary, California Container Corpora-

tion, for thirteen years to date, in plants located in Chicago, Cleve-

land, Wilmington, Delaware, Boston, Philadelphia, and the West
Coast.

CURTIS JAMES HOOPER
ome aporess: 128 Mill Hill Rd. Southport, Conn.
“FICE ADDRESS: 51 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

zw: Feb. 9, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: James Harvey Hooper, Ona Av-
gusta Olcott.

ppareD AT: Senn High School, Chicago, III.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1927-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; S.M., 1929:

eattp: Marion Gillis, March 1, 1930, Arlington, Mass. cHILDREN: Sus
Feb. 6, 193! (m. Robert A. Cushman, Nov, 6, 1952); Jay, Sept. 13s 1934)
Cynthia Ann, March 25, 1936; Olcott, Dec. 21, 1937; Donald, Oct.
1945-

yarp BROTHER: Robert Channing Hooper, ’31,

(562 ]

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

N: Consulting civil engineer, chief of Traffic and Earnings De-
ent, Parsons, Brinckerhoff, Hall & Macdonald, responsible for
and economic surveys indicating revenue potential of highway,

arking facilities.
bridge ne ay Research Board of National Academy of Science;
ti tute of Traffic Engineers, American Association of State Highway
Officials; Connecticut Society of Civil Engineers, American Society of
Civil Engineers; American Society of Photogrammetry.

AFTER head-holding for days and viewing each new goad with
fresh dismay, [’ve come to the conclusion that twenty-five years
of living cannot be slapped onto a piece of paper without drag-
ging from the depths of our beings the joys and sorrows of these
twenty-five years. With five kids and an apportionate number
of dogs, cats, ponies, and for many years goats, we were more
busy than we believed possible now that we can look back from
the half-way point, |

Engineering with the state wasn’t grandly compensating. It
sure took a whale of a lot of home engineering to plan seven
futures as well as to plan and design the highways needed for the
trafic on Connecticut roads. Our fun and hobbies have been
the simple family-inclusive things we could all do—that is up
until a year or two ago, when we found beaux on the doorstep,
and a page turning over.

The page is turned now. Susan our oldest is through college
and happily married to her young engineer. Jay and Cynthia,
our high school seniors, both about to depart, one to Cornell and
Jay from Loomis to serve his country or education-bent, we don’t

know yet, Olcott is completing his sophomore year at Fairfield
Prep and Donny, the child of our old age, and apple of his
mother’s eye, is now in second grade at Pequot School, Southport.
bens chewing the pencil (as in English A) and wondering
m W to put it on paper, certainly raked the coals and brought up
sccid, a hot little flame: the year Jay broke his neck in a diving
pti , iL. and we didn’t know for days whether he would have the
/ bic e of getting out of bed; the fun at Christmas of assembling
chalf amily; and just being grateful for health and home and a
In soe job. ,
into on nina 19§2, these Hoops started to roll and straight
Sleeve Cc port, Connecticut, after seventeen years in Gilder-
»Onpecticut. After I had wound up almost twenty years

[ 563 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

in the Connecticue Highway Department as director of Traffic,
Planning, and Design, the opportunity to enter the consulting
ficld was presented by Parsons, Brinckerhoff, Hall and Macdon-
ald. This brought with it the opportunity of making the morning
and evening dash for the commuters’ special. The new position
has broadened the challenge of my traffic planning activities to
include many of the states having difficulties in providing modern
highways to keep pace with the ever-increasing use of automotive
transport.

So here we are again (as at commencement) looking forward
to the vast possibilides of new and exciting work.

HENRY NORTHEY HOOPER

HOME ADDRESS: 1304 E, McMillan St., Cincinnati 6, Ohio.

OFFICE aporess: Cincinnati General Hospital, 3231 Burnet Ave., Cincinnati
29, Ohio.

porx: Aug. 1, 1907, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Henry Northey Hooper,
Mary Ellis Griffith.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A. cum laude, 1932.

MaggieD; Clara Louise Zinke, April 25, 1941, Cincinnati, Ohio. cup: Eliza-
beth Kent.

occupation: Superintendent of city, university, acute general hospital.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army, Nov. 4, 1942—April 20, 1946; adjutant,
25th General Hospital, eight months; Civil Affairs and Military Govern-
ment officer, 2d Infantry regiment, sth Infantry Division, 3d Army,
France, Germany Luxemburg, Czechoslovakia.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Hospital consultant, Medical Division Office of
Civilian Defense, Washington, April-November, 1942.

MEMBER ov; Literary Club, Cincinnati; American and Ohio Hospital Asso-
ciations. °

rustications: Articles in hospital journals; papers for The Literary Club.

I HAVE continued uniformly the undistinguished career begun

in college. My first two years in the world of finance, commer-

cial banking, contributed nothing except the crash of the stock

market. Whereupon, realizing that more knowledge was needed

for bigger and better crashes, I returned to the Business School

for two years. Armed with an M.B.A. and a cum awarded by a

starry-eyed faculty, I returned to the same bank at a twenty-five

per cent cut. This time, afrer nine months of my services, most

[ 564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the banks of the country closed their doors. By 1935 they
were federally insured and I could do no further damage. So
I entered the field of institutional administration, on lovely Pine
Mountain in Georgia. There followed two years as administrator
of the institution for the after-care of poliomyelitis, known as
the Georgia Warm Springs Foundation. There occurred some
interesting sessions with our late great alumnus, F. D. R., Class
of 1904, and some arguments about burning garbage in boilers
and where buildings should be located. Naturally, I won all the
arguments, but the buildings were placed where he wanted them.
The sunny south was too nice and too easy, so I returned to the
home town as superintendent of the Cincinnati General Hos-
pital. This is one of the large, municipal, university hospitals
for the indigent, which has a reasonably good name among those
of its type and in the world of medical education. Its adminis-
tration consists of spending too much of the city’s money and
educating successive city managers who can do nothing about
the hospital anyway. In a few more years J shall have said “no”
to enough people to assure their kicking me out. .

In roq1 I married Clara Louise Zinke of Cincinnati, once
known in the world of tennis. Now we have a two-year-old
daughter, who has finally convinced her father that he should
no longer attempt back somersaults.

For the period March to November, 1942, this Class member
served in Pandemonium on the Potomac as hospital consultant to
the office of Civilian Defense. I can modestly state that, without
benefit of fan dancers, my services were accepted, and no hos-
pitals were bombed. I entered the army in November, 1942, on
a direct commission, served for a time as adjutant of the 25th
General Hospital and then was jettisoned into Civil Affairs and
Military Government. Once overseas I managed to scratch and
bootlick my way down the line until I finally became part of an
infantry regimental staff, and served with the sth Infantry Divi-
sion in Patton’s 3d Army throughout the European show. They
gave me a bronze star, not for valor, a croix de guerre for not
molesting the French girls, and some little stars on a ribbon to
show that they had paid my transportation to various parts of
Europe. I wound up in the military government of Frankfurt,
Germany. When I returned they were so delighted to release

[ 565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

me that they gave me a silver leaf and a reserve Commission in
the Infantry, where I am now an obstacle to the advancement
of younger and abler officers. I returned to the hospital desk
where I try to smile through most of the problems. That is all
one can do about them anyway. We have no problems which
50,000,000 dollars will not solve, and I have no personal prob-
lems for which a similar amount will not provide the solution.
“In addition to my other duties,” I am professor of Hospital Ad-
ministration in the College of Medicine of the University of
Cincinnati, but medical students call for little professing in this
field. In hobbies I do a little bass fishing and a little photography.
I have been holding the usual offices in local and state hospital
associations and belong to a Literary Club which has just cele-
brated its ro2zd anniversary. We are a collection of fusty tradi-
tionalists who like to do a little amateur writing. Yes, I voted
for Ike.

EDGAR MALONE HOOVER, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 5705 Chevy Chase Pky., N. W., Washington 15, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2430 E St., N. W., Washington 25, D. C.

born: Feb. 22, 1907, Boise, Idaho. parents: Edgar Malone Hoover, Mary
Jane Redfield.

PREPARED AT: Boise High School, Boise, Idaho; Loomis School, Windsor,
Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1928; AM.
1930; PH.D., 1932.

MarRiED: Mary Francis Wolfe, Jan. 31, 1934, Arlington, N. Y. CHILDREN:
William Graham, April 18, 1936, Peter Redfield, April 29, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Redfield Hoover, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Economist, U. 5. Government.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve, active duty,
January, 1944, to February, 1946; assigned to office of Strategic Services
in U. S. and Europe.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Economist with National Resources Plan-
ning Board. Office of Price Administration, War Production Board,
and Office of Strategic Services.

MEMBER oF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Economic Association, Cosmos
Club; National Association of Amateur Chamber Music Players.
PUBLICATIONS: Books: Location Theory and the Shoe and Leather Industries
(Harvard Economic Studies, 55), Harvard University Press, Cam-
bridge, 1937; The Economic Effects of the St. Lawrence Power Project
(Part VI of Reports of St. Lawrence Survey, U. S. Dept. of Com-

[ 566 ]

 

:
i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

merce), Government Printing Office, Washington, i941; Industrial
Location and National Resources (with others), National Resources
Planning Board, Washington, 1942; Economia Geogrdfica, Fondo de
Cultura Economica, Mexico City, 1943; Tbe Growth of the American
Economy, (with Harold F. Williamson and others), Prentice-Hall, Inc.,
New York, 1944, revised edition, 1950, The Location of Economic
Activity (Economic Handbook Series No. 1), McGraw-Hill, New
York, 1948, Spanish translation published, Mexico, 1951; articles: “The
Location of the Shoe Industry in the United States,” Quarterly
Journal of Economics, 1933; “The Measurement of Industrial Local-
ization,” Review of Economic Statistics, 1936, “Industrial Location and
the Housing Market,” Annals of American Academy of Political and
Social Science, 1937, 190; “Spatial Price Discrimination,” Review of
Economic Studies, 1937, 14; “Versuch einer Theorie der raumwirt-
schaftlichen Umgliederung,” Welrwirtschaftliches Archiv, 1938, 47; “The
Significance and Implications of Cutthroat or Ruinous Competition,”
in Papers on Price Policy, issued by Conference on Price Research,
National Bureau of Economic Research, Inc.. New York, 1939; “Shoe
Manufacturing,” in Dictionary of American History, Charles Scrib-
ner’s Sons, New York, 1940; “Interstate Redistribution of Population,
1850-1940,” Journal of Economic History, November, 1941; “Strategic
Factors in Plane Location,” (with Glenn E. McLaughlin), Harvard
Business Review, 1942, Vol. XX, No. 2; “Research in the Area of
Productive Capacity and Investment,” Papers and Proceedings, Amer-
ican Econontic Review, May 1949, 39; “Research in Regional Eco-
nomic Growth,” (with Joseph L. Fisher), in Problems in the Study of
Economic Growth, National Bureau of Economic Research, Inc., New
York, 1949; “Capital Accumulation and Progress,” Papers and Pro-
ceedings, American Economic Review, May, 1950, 40; “The Outlook
for Capital Expenditures,” The Analysts Journal, qth Quarter 1951,

Vol. 7, No. 4; also eleven reviews and three abstracts.

MEDIATELY after graduation 1 was fortunate enough to

e a year of travel and residence in Europe under a Shaw Fel-
ship from Harvard. Returning to Cambridge, I put in seven
e years there acquiring an economics Ph.D., some teaching
tutoring experience, an invaluable year of apprenticeship to
late Professor Joseph Schumpeter, and —last but far from
— a wife and son.

oined the University of Michigan economics faculty in 1936
taught at Ann Arbor until the war. Another son came,
new and good friends, and some interesting government

Itation on the side.
€ war years were spent working for the government in

[ 567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Washington and in Europe, and were full of interesting experi-
ence in such diverse fields as the rationing of gasoline, economic
intelligence work, Naval red tape, and the exchanging of vodka
toasts “with Russian G.I’s,

After a short post-war return to Ann Arbor teaching, the
fleshpots of Washington beckoned again, and I have since fed,
without apologies, at the public trough. Most of the post-war
period I spent as a member of the staff of the President’s Council
of Economic Advisers. One son is now considerably bigger than
I, and heading for college this fall; my wife is busy training her-

~
self at Howard as a graduate social worker; and our main extra-

curricular pleasure continues to be the making of chamber music.

DONALD BILLINGS HOWARD

HOME ADDRESS: Ascutmey, Vt.

OFFICE ApoREss: Community Church, Perkinsville, Vt. Bryant Chucking-
Grinder Co., Springfield, Vt.

Bors: March 30, 1907, Lowell, Mass. parents: John Albert Smith Howard,
Ella Belle Billings.

PREPARED AT: Chelmsford High School, Chelmsford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; s.1.8. (Boston Univ.), 1931.

mMarniED: Phyllis Foye Boyce, June 22, 1928, Cambridge, Mass. cHILDREN:
Hollis Seavey, Sept. 15, 1929, Carolyn Demorest, March 20, 1933;
Demorest Boyce, Sept. 1, 1938.

ooctPaTiION: Pastor, Community Church; inspector, machine parts.

orrices HELD: Chaplain, Shadow Valley and Silver Lake Granges, Glover and
Barnard, Vt., 1935-38, Burlington, Vt., Lodge No. 100, Masons, 1946-47;
leader, Powwow River Handicrafters 4-H Club, Amesbury, Mass,
1940-41; secretary, Nantucket, Mass., Ministerial Association, 1939; shop
committeeman, Local 999, Burlington, Vt., United Auto Workers C.LO.,
1945-47; conductor, Lamoilleman’s Choir, 1948-50, Morrisville, Vt.;
youth director, White River Valley Council of Churches, Bethel, Vt.,
1936-39.

MemBer or: Mendelssohn Men’s Choral Club; Burlington (Vt.) Council
No. § and Chapter No. 3, York Rite Masons.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles and verse in Zions Herald, Boston, Church Manage-
ment, Cleveland, Pastors’ Journal, Philadelphia, Pastor, Nashville, Drift-
wind, North Montpelier, The New England Gladiolus annual, Boston,
and Burlington Free Press.

JUNE, 1928, was a fatal month. In its last ten days I was gradu-
ated, married, and appointed to my first pastorate, at barely
twenty-one.

[ 568 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The 1928 summer in Flint, Michigan, has been my one desertion
from New England since leaving Thayer 68 except (all in 1946)
for a Montreal funeral, an Atlantic Conference Associated Male
Choruses sing in White Plains, and a United Auto Workers Con-
vention in Atlantic City. But we have visited or lived in most of
New England, and I have preached in all save little Rhody from
Revere, Massachusetts, to Madison, Massachusetts, and from Isle
la Motte, Vermont, to East Haddam, Connecticut.

Deciding my vocation was to minister to rural federated
churches (Matthew 22:14, Revised Standard Version), I hit Ver-
mont after attending a seminary in 1931 when the depression be-
gan to register here. Becoming a Vermont Methodist Episcopal
pastor, I was sent to successive fields several times more rustic
than my Merrimack Valley boyhood misled me to expect, and
when I was rusticated to the church in Nantucket, I called a halt
to itinerating and in 1940 became a Congregational clergyman
whose pastorates, even if not always choice, would be of my own
choosing. Today it is not yet revealed why my family and I
should have been sent into the New England Southern Confer-
ence in 1939 when in 1940 the Vermont Conference was to
merge with the very Conference which I had been trying to enter
for ten years (2 Timothy 1:12).

After a year in the lower Merrimack Valley I was called to
Woodstock, Vermont, in 1941. Except for 1939 to 1941 and 1949
to 1952 in New Hampshire, we have lived in the Green Moun-
tains for twenty-two years and wish to live out our days here.

In 1942 I entered the Cone Automatic Machine shop in Wind-
sor and have since been employed in similar factories, a plywood
mill, and a cheesery. In those organized I have always been
elected to union office and especially enjoyed opportunities to
help fellow employees as their steward. From union activities and
the week in Atlantic City I learned about politics in general.

As to the last I am registered birthright Republican, but we
have usually moved just in time not to be able to vote for presi-
dent, That circumstance was no national loss this time because I
should have voted for Adlai Stevenson as most nearly of all the
candidates the collegian who had the political ideals of Lincoln.

Twice I have thought seriously enough of teaching school —
my original purpose in going to college —to take summer uni-

[ 569 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

versity work at Harvard in 1938 and at New Hampshire in 1950.
Although I liked Comish, New Hampshire, Center district
school, where [ was in 1950 to 1951, along with my pastorate,
in that there is no letting go of your charges, nor enough hours
in a day with which to accomplish what is needed —I saw teach-
ing as too like preaching to be conjoined as they were in colonial
times (Jeremiah 20:9). So I took a machine shop job and like it,
partly as a foil for the emotional strains of the pastorate (2 Corin-
thians 11:7-9).

My wife and I have enjoyed Vermont living for our children.
Our eldest, after teaching mathematics to Air Force boots at
Lackland Field in San Antonio, is a carpenter in Springfield,
Vermont. The youngest is in Claremont, New Hampshire, High
School. And our daughter is a Boston University College of Ed-
ucation sophomore.

In my spare time I have climbed (*twice) Washington, *Jay,
*Mansfield, *Camel’s Hump, *Pico, Killington, and Monadnock
afoot and *Philo and *Ascutney a-car. For food and fun a garden
has been on most summers’ agenda. A war casualty was a prom-
ising strain of fragrant gladioli developed from 1936 to 1942
which I shall try again when we buy Dunmovin (Romans 15:28).
Fern study, Vermont geology, collecting stamps by postoffice
cancellations, and sporadic study of Saxon Christianity from the
Dark Ages until now are some other byways crisscrossing activ-
ities sampled under “offices held.”

Probably I am one of ten thousand men of Harvard who have
profited professionally by studying there but gained even more
for sheer fuller living itself. In the preceding class reports I kept
some contact with others in 1928. And Ashton Grimes’s family
actually met mine once at his camp on Stinson Lake. If we can-
not reune in June I shall not be indifferent to reports of you who
do.

HERBERT BRUEN HOWARD

beoxte apoasss: 976 Mandalay Rd. Clearwater Beach, Fla.
wes: March 21, 1905, Detroit, Mich. parents: Charles Herbert Howard,
Jule Louise Bruen.

puspsnen at; Highland Park High School, Highland Park, Mich.
[570]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928; 1929-1931. DEGREES: S.B. IN MECH. ENG., 1932;
ti.B. (Detroit Coll. of Law), 1936.

marrieD: Monica Ellen Cuddehee, Aug. 31, 1934, Detroit, Mich.

occupation: Retired Commander, U. S. Navy; former law officer with
Office of the Judge Advocate General, U.S. Navy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned Lieutenant (jg), U. S. Naval Re-
serve, December of 1942; switched to U. S. Navy, 1946, as Special Duty
Officer (Law); spent ten months in 1948 and 1949 in Tsingtao, China,
as legal officer and foreign claims commissioner; promoted to Com-
mander, January, 1950; detached from Office of Judge Advocate General,
Oct. 31, 1951, to become hospitalized at National Naval Medical Center,
Bethesda, Md.; retired for physical disability from Navy on May 1, 1952.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Production engineer with War Production
Board, Detroit, from October, 1941, to December, 1942.

MEMBER OF: Michigan Bar Association and U. S. Patent Office.

AFTER graduation I took up law and got my degree in 1936. |
worked as a patent attorney with Norge Corporation and with
the firm of Barthel and Barthel, both of Detroit, from 1932 to
1941, during which years I became registered to practise before
the United States Patent Office. In October, 1941, 1 began work-
ing with the Detroit War Production Board as a production en-
gineer. On December 15, 1942, I was commissioned in the U. S.
Naval Reserve, had my officer indoctrination course at Holly-
wood Beach Hotel, Hollywood, Florida, and switched over to
the Regular Navy in April, 1946, as a special duty officer (Law)
_with the Navy Office of the Judge Advocate General. My first
hitch with the OJAG in Washington lasted until May, 1948,
when I got orders to take over the jobs of legal officer and for-
eign claims commissioner at Tsingtao, China. My second and
last hitch in Washington commenced in July, 1949, and ended
quite abruptly in October, 1951, at which time, after having suf-
fered my third heart attack, I was transferred to the U. S. Naval
Hospital, National Naval Medical Center, Bethesda, Maryland.
My hospitalization lasted for six months, at the end of which
time I was retired from the Naval Service as a Commander, U. S.
Navy (Retired).
We have recently purchased a home in Florida (976 Mandalay
Road, Clearwater Beach) and have begun life anew in these won-
derfully healthful surroundings. Mrs. Howard likes Adlai. I

like Ike. (It’s always been that way, too.)

[571]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ADDISON ARMSTRONG HOWE

BorN: Dec. 10, 1906, Irvington, Ind. PARENTS: Thomas Carr Howe, Jen-
nie Etta Armstrong.

PREPARED AT: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929, DEGREE: A.B. 1928(29).

MARRIED: Jane Finley Moore, Oct. 9, 1937, Indianapolis, Ind. cHILpREN:
Thomas C. 2d, July 29. 1940; Jane A., Aug. 24, 1942; Addison A.,
June 23, 1946.

piep: May 8, 1948, Indianapolis, Ind.

wwow: Mrs. Addison A. Howe, 5241 Boulevard Pl., Indianapolis, Ind.

FOLLOWING a year spent at the Harvard School of Business
Administration, Addison Armstrong Howe entered sales work
with the L. S. Ayres department store in Indianapolis. Soon after,
he left to take up the study of law at Indiana Law School where
he was in his second year at the time of the Class’s second Re-
port. By 1938 he was practising law with K. W. Hadley, legal
representative for the Railroadmen’s Federal Savings and Loan
Association in Indianapolis. He had become director of Arm-
strong Landon Hardware & Lumber Company, secretary and
director of Courtland Hotel Company, treasurer and director of
Kokomo Hotel Company; his memberships included the Wood-
stock Club, the Board of Trade, the Indianapolis Bar Association,
the Indiana Bar Association, and the Y.M.C.A.

Shortly before his death Howe reported that he was a sales
representative with E, H. Rollins & Sons of Indianapolis. During
World War II he had served by managing priorities for the
Electronic Laboratories which produced equipment for the Air
Force, Signal Corps, and Bureau of Ships. In 1948 he was presi-
dent of the Indianapolis Harvard Business School Association.

LAURENCE PRESCOTT HOWE

HOME ADDRESS: 143 Spruce St., Burlington, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Free Press Association, 189 College St., Burlington, Vt.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1905, Burlington, Vt. PARENTS: Willard Bean Howe, ’87,
Annie Bean.

PREPARED AT: Burlington High School, Burlington, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928, A.M., 1939.

Marrigp: Francies Ball Coolidge, June 27, 1936, Bellows Falls, Vt. cHiLpREN:
Martha Bean, April 4, 1939; Ruth Elizabeth, June 25, 1940.

[572]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: George Frederick Howe, A.M., °2}3, PH.D., °30.
occuPATION: Salesman, display advertising, largest daily newspaper in Ver-
mont.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Signalman, Flotilla 1-412, U. S. Coast Guard
Temporary Reserve, 1943-45.
AFTER June, 1928, I attended Harvard Business School one
year. The summer of 1929 I spent travelling with a friend
through England, Wales, and western Europe (while the French
were occupying the Rhine!). My early jobs included newspaper
circulation work, proof reading, classified advertising, and re-
porting. Then came seven years of teaching: 1930 to 1934, public
high school, Windsor, Vermont, 1934 to 1936, private boys’
boarding school— Vermont Academy, Saxtons River, Ver-
mont; and 1938 to 1939, after two years of graduate work in the
School of Education and the College of Arts and Sciences, a year
of private day school at the Country Day School for Boys of
Boston in Newton.

In 1936, I married Francies Coolidge, who had taught in ele-
mentary schools for eight years. We set up housekeeping in
Shaler Lane, Cambridge, in the fall of Harvard's tercentenary
year. I was working for my A.M. in teaching which I got in
1939, shortly after our first daughter, Martha, was born. Betsey
was born fifteen months later, and the first years of their lives we
all spent in East Boston and Winthrop.

Social work occupied the next ten years, 1939 to 1949, almost
all of it in East Boston — first with the East Boston Social Cen-
ters, and then from February 1, 1942, as headworker of Good
Will Neighborhood House, a Red Feather Agency. During
this period I became well acquainted with other leaders in boys’
work, and with executives of other agencies supported in whole
or in part by the Greater Boston Community Fund. We met
regularly in the Monday Lunch Club and the United Settlements
of Greater Boston.

War services came partly from serving the recreation needs of
men in the armed forces who attended U. S. O, dances we spon-
sored, partly in volunteer capacities in the aircraft warning cen-
ter, and most rewarding as a signalman in the Temporary Re-
serve of the Coast Guard, where as a member of Flotilla 1-412 I
helped fight “The Battle of Boston Harbor.” (Ever try scaling

[573]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

the high side of a Victory Ship by rope ladder as it rode empty
into the shelter of Boston Harbor?) My last social work was
done in Bridgeport, Connecticut, at the Hall Home Settlement.

In the fall of 1949 I returned to Burlington, where I was born.
My work has been selling display advertising for Vermont’s larg-
est daily newspaper — the Burlington Free Press.

Shifting from city to city has hindered our putting down very
deep roots as a family in any community. Our common inter-
ests with other parents have been fostered in social work, scout-
ing, Parent Teachers Association, and church affiliations. I have
headed men’s groups in Aft. Vernon Church (Boston) and in the
First Congregational Church in Burlington. In 1953 I hold the
office of president of the Vermont Church Council. I was sec-
retary of the Harvard Club of Vermont in 1936, which office
gave me a delegate’s seat at the Tercentenary. Although I have
contributed regularly to the Harvard Fund, I have only attended
one Class Reunion — at Poland Springs in 1948.

Color photography has been my most consistent hobby. Ver-
mont scenes and especially sunsets are part of my collection. I
also used slides to interpret the camp and indoor activities of the
settlement houses in East Boston. Since “Doc” Davison and
“Woody” took me into the Glee Club and Summer Session
Chorus at Harvard, I have enjoyed singing in church choirs and
at home. Scarcity places a high value on tenors, it seems; but it is
nice to be wanted!

, MARK DEWOLFE HOWE

HOME appress: 58 Highland St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Langdell Hall, Cambridge 38, Mass.

Boax: May 22, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Mark Antony DeWolfe Howe,
87, Fanny Huntington Quincy.

PuePARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; LL.B., 1933.

Mageitp: Mary Manning, Feb. 19, 1935, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Susan,
June 10, 1937; Fanny, Oct. 15, 1940; Helen, July 30, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHFR: Quincy Howe, ’21.

occuparion: Professor of law, Harvard Law School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned major, U.S. Army, January, 1943;
discharged as colonel, December, 1945; served in Mediterranean and
Furopean Theatres in Military Government and as chief, Government

[574]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Branch, Civil Affairs Division, War Department; awarded Legion of
Merit and Distinguished Service Medal.

OFFICES HELD: Professor, 1937-43, dean, 1940-43, University of Buffalo School
of Law; professor of law, Harvard Law School, since 1945.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Historical Society; Colonial Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor: Holmes Pollock Letters, 2 vols., 1941, Touched with
Fire, 1946, Holmes-Laski Letters, 2 vols. 1953; author: Readings in
American Legal History, 1949, Cases on Church and State in the U.S.,
1952; co-editor: Constitutional Law: Cases and other Problems, 1952.

IN 1943 I took leave of absence from my position as dean and
professor of law at the Law School of the University of Buffalo
when I was commissioned in the Army for work in military gov-
ernment. My military assignments took me to North Africa,
Sicily, Italy, Southern France, England, and inevitably Washing-
ton. I had the good fortune at all times to be engaged in inter-
esting work and from time to time to be witness to, it not par-
ticipant in, important decisions. In October, 1945, I accepted a
post at the Harvard Law School where I hope to remain for the
rest of my days. My principal academic responsibility at the Law
School is in the field of American Legal History, though I do
some teaching in other fields. I have also been doing some teach-
ing in the College where I have been offering a course in law in
the General Education program. Beyond these academic duties,
I have undertaken the responsibility of writing a biography of
Mr. Justice Holmes which, at my present rate, may appear among
my posthumous works. As a by-product of that enterprise I
edited the correspondence of Holmes and Harold J. Laski.

My political convictions and affiliations are Democratic.

THORNDIKE DUDLEY HOWE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 10711 Memorial Drive, Houston 7, Texas.

OFFICE apprEss: P. O. Box 19027, Houston 24, Texas.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1905, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Thorndike Dudley Howe,
’o4, Anne Sturm Rotan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN G.E., 1928.

Marriep: Amy Crosby Bygrave, Dec. 29, 1934, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN:
Thorndike Dudley, 3d, March 7, 1936, Olivia Anne, Oct. 3s 1938;
Virginia Hayden, Feb. 8, 1943; George Endicott, April 1, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Spencer Douglas Howe, ’37,

[575]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

occuPATION: President, T. D. Howe Construction Company, Inc., general
contractors.
OFFICES HELD: President, Houston Unit, American Contract Bridge League,

1952.
MEMBER OF: Houston Engineers Club; Pine Forest Country Club.

MY CAREER started two days after graduation in Guntersville,
Alabama, working for Robert & Company, architects and engi-
neers, Atlanta; continued in 1930 in Bucksport, Maine, as engineer
for Morton C. Tuttle Company, engineers and managers of con-
struction, Boston; and came to a dead stop in 1931. A year at
M. I. T. and another at the Business School started it off again,
once more with the Tuttle Company, this time as a business an-
alyst. In 1933 the company sent me to Chicago where I met my
wife, a native New Englander. Bill Magie was responsible for
this — meeting my wife, that is— not the trip. We were married
in Concord and lived in Cambridge until the spring of 1938 when
we pulled up stakes and moved to a three-room walk-up in Hous-
ton which served as both house and office of the newly formed
T. D. Howe Construction Company. In 1941 we built a house
west of the city limits on three quarters of an acre and for what
it may be worth I recommend that no one ever do this if he plans
to cut his own grass. In our case the problem became so acute
what with four children, none at the grass-cutting age, that we
moved again and this time planted centipede grass (adv.) which
requires no water, fertilizer, or cutting. It does have patience —
two years of it, in fact, before it shows. Except for a forest fire
completely surrounding us, a firebug sleeping under the house,
a hurricane or two, an ice storm which shut off all power and
hence also water and heat, birds in the chimney and wasps in the
bedroom, life has been reasonably placid — if it can be so de-
scribed when your wife votes your ticket only one time in
eighteen years.

I have become a devotee of duplicate contract bridge —a
much superior form of entertainment to eating, which also has
its merits. I have even travelled out of town to play in tourna-
ments, travel which at one time I should have considered the
first step to the loony bin — perhaps it still is.

Outside of an abortive attempt to incorporate a two-square-
mile area where I live, and thus prevent annexation by the big

[576 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

city, I have had no political or religious activity whatever — un-
less perhaps building three or four churches constitutes religious
activity.

We have travelled not at all beyond one trip to Florida and two
to Boston (one deductible).

I have gained ten pounds since 1928 and kept enough hair to
have one W. W. Lord who really needs one accuse me of wear-
ing a toupee. On the other hand, I am deaf in one ear (my wife
says both ears), long since bi-focalled, and unable to keep up
with my eldest on the other end of a cross-cut saw.

All in all and looking at it objectively, it seems to me that m
career is singularly undistinguished and one I should be glad to
live over.

JOHN PHELPS HOWLAND

HOME apoREss: Ravine Drive, Sylvania, Ohio.

orFics aporess: P. O. Box git, Toledo, Ohio.

Born: July 7, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Henry Phelps Howland, Carrie
Grace Tooker.

PrePaRED aT: Harvard School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

MarrieD: Sara Louise Landers, April 27, 1940, New York, N. Y, CHILDREN:
David Phelps, April a, 1943; Suzanne MacKenzie, Jan. 9, 1948 (died
Feb. 19, 1948); John MacLure, Aug. 27, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, director, general sales manager, The Landers
Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director, The Landers Corporation, since
1940; president, 1946-50, director, Infant Items, Inc, Fremont, Ohio;
director, Fred Rudge, Inc, New York, since 1945, partner, Stabelan
Chemical Company, Toledo, 1946-52; secretary, director, Toledo Dis-
count Company, 1950-52; member Board of Public Affairs, Sylvania,
Ohio, 1942-46.

MEMBER oF: Toledo Club, Inverness Club, Downtown Club, Harvard Club,
Rotary, all of Toledo; Harvard Club of New York; Downtown Harvard
Lunch Club, New York (founding member), Plastic Coating & Film
Association, Rubber Manufacturers Association, New York.

VIEWED in their entirety, offsetting the bad with the good, the
years since 1928 have brought more good fortune than I perhaps
deserve. These years of social change, political dictatorship, eco-
nomic and military strife, have joined the pages of history and
I find myself enjoying a happy domestic life: two sons (naturally

[577]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

of exceptional promise) who might have been older had their
Dad been smart enough to marry their splendid mother sooner;
a nice home on ten acres of small-town real estate in a commu-
nity of good neighbors; and adequate income even after the ex-
orbitant taxes made necessary by years of waste, corruption, and
carelessness.

I’m still Protestant by conviction, a conservative by nature.
Politically it has taken six elections to find Howland backing a
winning presidential candidate.

Travels, with the exception of a wedding trip to Hawaii and
occasional jaunts to Canada, have been confined to the U. S. A.
Unfortunately I’ve failed to develop a hobby. I prefer fishing —
have caught a tarpon, killed a salmon, and one year had licenses
in eight states, but it takes too much time from family and job.
Photography, stamps, bird-watching, wood-working, or you
name it just don’t seem to appeal. I read neither as much nor as
well as I should. I have been moderately active in church affairs
and Cub Scouts, but earlier experience in community affairs of
a small town proved rather disillusioning. During the “next
twenty-five” I hope to succeed in broadening to some extent
what to date has been a rather narrow, materialistic, and selfish
life. The primary prerequisite to this broadening 1s the acquisition
of a true sense of fundamental values in which I can enjoy full
confidence. Perhaps then I may become an optimist as was Ham-
my Heard when, in his first letter re. Class Report, he wrote, and
I quote, “Your memoirs will be fascinating. . .”

DUNCAN HOWLETT

HOME ADDRESS: 7 Chestnut St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First Church in Boston, Berkeley & Marlborough Sts. Bos-
ton, Mass.

BORN: May 15, 1906, Newton, Mass, parents: Albert Duncan Howlett, Ella
Murdock.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: S.B., 1928; LL.B. 19313 S.T.B. cur laude,
1936.

Marriep: Margaret L. Merritt, June 30, 1931 (died Sept. 2, 1933); Carolyn
Abbott Chance, April 26, 1943, Summit, N. J. cHitpren: Margaret
Lawrence, March 28, 1932; Albert D., Dec. 21, 1944; Richard C, ‘June
11, 1946, Carolyn Abbott, July 4, 1949.

[578]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oocupaTion: Minister.

orrices HELD: Assistant minister, 1933-34. associate minister, 1934-35, Minis-
ter, 193§-38, Second Church in Salem (Unitarian); minister, Unitarian
Church in New Bedford, 1939-44, First Church in Boston, since 1946;
member, Historical Library Board, since 1945, member advisory com-
mittee, Department of Publications, since 1946, chairman of commission
of planning and review, 1938-51, chairman, pamphlet commission, since
1950, member editorial board, The Christian Register, since 1952, Amerie
can Unitarian Association, member, Harvard University Board of Over-
seers’ Committee to visit the Divinity School, since 1940; trustee, Frank-
lin Technical Insticute, Boston, since 1941, Dexter School, Boston, since,
1961; member of corporation, Norfolk House Center, Boston, since
1944, New England Hospital, Boston, since 1950; president of The Re-
treat, Inc. (the corporanion of Senexet House, retreat at South Wood-
stock, Conn.), since 1947, member board of incorporators, since 1948,
member, Society for Promoung Theological Education, Society for
Propagating the Gospel Among the Indians, Fmerson College, Boston,
member executive board, Massachusettes Convention of Congregational
Ministers, since 1949, moderator, since 1952; member board of dircc-
tors, General Theological Library, Boston, ance rg¢t.

pumications: Man Aganst the Church to be published in the fall, numerous
articles, book reviews in various magazines, etc.

TO me, as to most of us, I suppose, the war looms largest of all
the things that have happened since June, 1928. even though |
spent the whole of it working among the people of the Unitarian
Church in New Bedford, Massachusetes, and in the wider com-
munity, We who stayed behind cannot even imagine what the
battle was like. On the “home front,” however, there was suffcr-
ing enough: the disruption of families, the breakdown of morals,
and the loneliness, anxiety and heartbreak, especially for some.
After graduation, I entered the Harvard Law School, the re-
luctant victim of a conflict I could not resolve. It involved the
desire to enter the ministry, but it was not the usual church-
versus-the-world conflict. I have always fele that one best serves
one’s fellow-men by laboring in the midst of the world rather than
withdrawing from it. The conflict for me was over the choice
of the means to an end. In the late ’20's and early ’30’s there were
few who thought that the answer to man’s religious needs lay in
the church, as it was then constituted. Where it was not archaic
in expression or authoritarian in government, it was weak, in-
effective, and neglected. Furthermore, almost everybody from
my parents on down opposed the idea of my entering the min-

[579]

i+ 2 SSESEE8 eh nmnaltCEa ai ideal otacadamansel .

‘
HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

istry, and on the other hand, literally no one encouraged me in it.

Out of the inertia then, more than anything else, I went through
the Law School, took the Bar exams, and began the practice of
law. But it was no use. | enjoyed my practice, and learned much
from it, but the work never mattered to me in the way that re-
ligion has always mattered. Each of us, if he is to be anything
at all, must be what he himself really is. Then he finds himself,
and everything he does seems quite suddenly to be completely
worth while. Almost magically life takes on a zest and a meaning
for him which he has never known before. It was so with me
when at last I made the decision to enter the ministry, and it has
been increasingly so ever since.

While at the Divinity School I elected to enter the Unitarian
Church. Freedom in religion was its watchword and its practice,
and I was drawn to the straightforward, independent, non-clerical
type of man I found in its pulpits. I would have preferred to
enter no particular church, had that been possible, and so to have
escaped the denominational label which the world seeks to paste
upon the brow of every clergyman. I abhor all sectarianism, espe-
cially that variety which holds itself aloof and declares itself to
be right and all others wrong. But you can’t labor in the church.
You must labor in some particular church. Thus willy-nilly you
become a sectarian in the minds of all men, even though you
would give your life tomorrow, if by doing so you could make
an end of sects including your own. I believe in the brotherhood
of man, and would like to hew down all the high-turreted walls
behind which the various religions draw in, there to maintain
their differences from one another.

My life during these years has been entirely devoted to the
churches I have served and the communities in which they were
located, Salem, New Bedford, and Boston. I have served and
am serving on the usual boards, corporations, committees, and
commissions, both in the Unitarian denomination and in the com-
munities in which I have lived. Among them, and of special in-

terest here, is the Committee to Visit the Divinity School. Out of
our Report in 1944, came the commission which called for a
“New Center of Religious Learning at Harvard” and I am cur-
rently involved in the effort to raise the $5,000,000 necessary to

[ 580 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

make that dream a reality. I had the honor to serve as president
of the Harvard Club while in New Bedford.

The ministry leaves no time for hobbies, and hardly any for
sports. A friend, his wife, and I drove a Ford sedan from Cher-
bourg to Calcutta in the summer of 1935, a feat which somehow
looms larger and larger as the years go on. In the summer of 1939
] was in Poland for the Unitarian Service Committee and beat an
exciting retreat across Europe as one frontier after another banged
shut for good behind me. Other than that, my life has been right
in the groove, but it is a wide one. I have crossed the continent
three times in the course of my work and covered most of the
forty-eight states except the deep South.

My avocation, if that is the way to put it, has been my family.
I am the proud father of four children and am married to a girl
who to me seems to grow lovelier every day. The children con-
cur in his judgment, so it must be true. We see all too little of
each other during the hurly-burly of the winter season, although
I try to be home for story-time with the children when possible.
We more than make up for it in the summer, however. At our
farm in Lovell, Maine, we live and work and play together high
on a hill overlooking the White Mountains. Mornings I read and
write, the children romp, and Mother does the household chores.
The afternoons and evenings are ours together in the beauty and
stillness of the New England countryside.

ELLIS HUMPHREYS

HOME ADDRESS: 5386 Pershing Ave., St. Louis 12, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mississippi Glass Co., 88 Angelica St., St. Louis 7, Mo.

BORN: May 18, 1906, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Richard Duane Humphreys,
’o5, Fannie Harrington Ellis.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928,

MARRIED: Ruth M. Palmer, 1936, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1952); Melba
A. Gibson, 1952, St, Louis, Mo. critpren: Sandra, 1936; Michael H.,

1938. .

MOVED to St. Louis in 1940 and like living there very much.
What with efforts to keep the wheels of industry turning haven’t
had time for much in the way of social amenities and contacts.

[ 581 ]

“HERP Gi Aad SRO NAST i Aa la - “ puaeimpenninmamnstmatnameminntttt seins

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ROBERT INGLE HUNNEMAN

HOME aporess: 191 Clyde St. Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

orrice aporess: Palmer, Dodge, Gardner, Bickford & Bradford, 53 State St.,
Boston 9, Mass.

Boax: Nov. 21, 1905, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Carleton Hunneman, ’89,
Annie Wilson Ingle.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. Cu7 laude, 1928; LL.B., 1931.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carleton Hunneman, 21.

cocupation: Lawyer,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Served with U.S. Army, 1941; U.S. Navy, 1942~
45, in Mediterranean and Pacific Theatres, discharged as commander,
U. S. Naval Reserve; awarded Commendation ribbon and Presidential
Unit Citation.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Noble and Greenough School, Ella Lyman Cabot
Trust, Inc.; trustee, Radcliffe College, Abbot Academy, Brookline Sav-
ings Bank; director, The Little House, Bradley Pulitzer Company, Brad-
ley Lumber & Manufacturing Company, Bradley Park Development, Inc.;
Class agent.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Union Club, Boston; Harvard
Club of Boston; Harvard Travelers Club; Boston Bar Association; Amer-
ican Bar Association.

THE first three years following graduation I spent at the Har-
vard Law School. There was nothing unusual about my career
there except that in my last year I helped Zechariah Chafee, Jr.,
gather material for a report for the now almost forgotten Wick-
ersham Commission.

The summer following graduation from college and each
summer while at Law School I spent in Europe, the first alone,
the second with Bill Saltonstall, and the third and fourth at a
Schloss overlooking the Inn River where I had a job as tutor-
companion to some American boys.

In the fall of 1931 I got the only steady job I have ever had. I
sull have it.

In the summer of 1937 I took a bicycle trip in the French Alps
and the following summer my brother and I took a “falt-boat”
trip on the Isar, Inn, Salzac, and Danube, getting out just before
Munich. |

On January 1, 1941, | became a member of the firm, but my
elevated status was short-lived, for on February roth I was draft-

[582]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ed and became an unqualified private in the United States Army,
Then came Pearl Harbor. On being told that I had passed the age
limit for officers’ candidate school I applied for (and got) a com-
mission in the Navy. Well blindfolded myself, I led the blind
around Quonset for a year before being ordered to Admiral
Hewitt’s staff in Algiers. Following the fall of Sicily and the in-
vasion of Italy I was ordered to the Pacific where I acted as intelli-
gence officer for a photographic squadron busily engaged in
photographing Jap occupied islands. I saw the end of the war
from a balcony of the naval hospital at Aia.

During the last seven years, in addition to practising law, I have
devoted a fair share of my extra-curricular time to local chari-
ties and to the affairs of Radcliffe College, Noble and Greenough
School, and recently, Abbot Academy, of which I am a trustee.

My job as Class agent has led to many pleasant exchanges of
letters with classmates of whom I should otherwise have lost
track, Sven Olander’s letters from Sweden have not only been a
joy but an education.

This past summer I spent my vacation in Scandinavia. I liked
the scenery, I liked the fishing, and I liked the people.

FREDERICK ATHERTON HUNT

HOME ADDRESS: 123 Annawan Rd., Waban, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 84 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 20, 1907, Braintree, Mass. parents: Atherton Nash Hunt, ’87,
Sarah Weeks Lane.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1931.

marrieD: Dorothy Louise Bruce, July 22, 1933, Waban, Mass. cuitp: Bruce
Atherton, Nov. 9, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Atherton Hunt, °23, L.3., '26.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Hunt and Hunt, family law firm.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

THE time has come when this job must be done. For twenty-
four years after June, 1928, I was not conscious of the fact that
this Report would impose any very heavy burden. For the last
seven or eight months, however, I have studiously avoided the
undertaking and my diagnosis is that I have been waiting for the
lightning to strike in this final year and bestow upon me some

[ 583 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

claim to fame. It is with difficulty, therefore, that I finally rec-
oncile myself to the fact that [ am nothing more, and I hope
nothing less, than an average member of Harvard 1928.

It would be easy, I suppose, to adopt the attitude that the vital
statistics of this Report carry sufficient information to identify
me and that so far as other incidents of personal history are con-
cerned my friends know about them and others probably are
not interested. A library of Harvard Reports we have in the
office going back more than sixty years indicates, however, that
this would be a somewhat unsporting attitude and that either one
must indulge in a little self-glorification or deliver a philosophical
lecture. For the latter I am not equipped and if I indulge in any
of the former it will be done in the same spirit that Bill Lord
wrote in our Twentieth Report that he had been selected for
membership in the National Geographic Society.

What do the past five years of unreported history have to
offer? A few things perhaps warrant comment. I think of the
fact that the real estate market finally reached a crest where, with-
out heed for the future, we decided to build a house, only to find
that it meant thereafter slaving for a bank. I recall discovering
that the United States did extend beyond the Potomac so that we
travelled to such pioneer places as Florida and Nassau. It was fun
using Hammy Heard’s Northeast Airlines as a time-saving means
of getting to Mr. Katahdin for a camping trip with my son. (1
wonder if Hammy every heard from the angry passenger who
was bounced at Millinocket for a couple of smoke-ripened pas-
sengers with reservations.) A Vermont jury trial which my broth-
er and I handled in Bill Bump’s bailiwick at Brattleboro was an
interesting experience, particularly since it was on behalf of
George Russell who had a recalcitrant debtor there . . . (settled
after three days’ trial, no verdict). Another red letter has been
the tremendous enjoyment our family has had in recent months
from a school program which we think should be more widely
used. This is the Newton School and School Exchange under
which our son and thirty other Newton High School students
had an opportunity to spend about a week at school with their
contemporaries in Idaho Falls, with visits at Chicago, Yellow-
stone Park, and Sale Lake City as they travelled. The boys and
girls with whom they lived out there are to arrive in the spring for

[ 584]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a return visit in our homes in Newton and we hope that their en-
joyment of their trip will be at least comparable with that of our
group.

These are the things which come to mind and since they touch
upon career, family, travel, and hobbies, perhaps they serve the
required purpose. My only other thought would be to say that I
have found much satisfaction in the increased contacts with
members of the Class as our Twenty-fifth approached, and |
hope that the affair itself will carry out the promise of the pre-
Reunion activities.

HERBERT WARD HUNTER

HOME ADpREsS: 6 Manning St., Needham Heights 94, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 25, 1906, Roslindale, Mass. parents: Herbert Forester Hunter,
Eliza Ward.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MaRRIED: Mary F. Valdina, Aug. 21, 1937, Hyde Park, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Ward, Aug. 6, 1938; Herbert Forester, 2d, March 29, 1942.

occupation: Bank cost analyst.

OFFICES HELD; Secretary, Board of Deacons, First Baptist Church of Need-
ham, Mass.; committeeman, Pack 3, Needham Boy Scouts of America.
MEMBER OF: Dalhousie Lodge, A. F. & A. M., Newtonville; Bank Officers
Association of the City of Boston; American Institute of Banking, Boston
Chapter, Inc., Amateur Telescope Makers of Boston, Mass.; Amateur

Artists of Islesford, Maine.

FROM the occupational point of view I spent about five years
trying everything when nothing was fixed, then nine years in
teaching, and the last eleven years in banking. From an economic
point of view I rode out the storm for ten years, and then settled
down to invest first in a home and family, with the hope that
eventually there would be some surplus of time, materials, etc.,
with which to improve our lot; and I find myself richer by the
investment, but with little surplus of any kind in view.

“But,” as some of the philosophers ask, “what are occupations
and economics? Are they not just means to an end? The end
of happiness and enjoyment of life?” From this point of view I
must sing another tune. I have been busy which is the first req-

[ 585 ]

TF 3 RE rel er ne Hventeanennenn nea

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

uisite, I believe. As mentioned in previous reports I have used
about everything I learned in Harvard. I have also been needled
into keeping up to date on many subjects by the demands of the
younger generations as they seem to be rapidly overtaking us in
comprehension and know-how. Even old hobbies have been re-
vived from time to time and new ones developed — the latest is
water-color painting in which I started out to encourage my
younger son but found inspiration and satisfaction in landscapes
of the Maine seacoast; it is a hobby which promises to continue.
Incidentally, judging from the relaxation it gave me, I guess Ike
and Winnie Churchill are pretty smart — anyone with ulcer pos-
sibilities take notice!

Throughout all, it seems that scientific curiosity has kept me
looking for what it is that makes things tick. I have remained rel-
atively conservative, changing only gradually after new ideas
have proved themselves. However, I cherish a reputation for
obtaining and analyzing the facts, which is my stock in trade.
This made me a Taft man until Ike began to speak for himself.

I still like to put over a good idea, that is teach or sell it, but
the argumentativeness is not what it used to be. I judge the
change as the dawning of realization that some folks have to learn
some things their own hard way. More and more I am content
to sow the seed and let it grow at its own sweet pace — guess
that came from the gardening hobby (the wording, I mean).

Looking towards the future we have hopes of delivering two
good candidates for Harvard degrees. But how they differ! At
this time one might qualify for the engineering school while the
other could end up in either Divinity School or some sort of “47
workshop.” Time will tell.

WILLIAM REED HUNTINGTON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: St. James, Long Island, N. Y.

sons: Jan. 28, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Francis Cleaveland Hunt-
ington, '87, Susan Louisa Butler.

perpanen aT: St. Afark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YPARS IM COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGRPES: A.B. cur laude, 1928; B.ARCH. (Univ.
of Virginia), 1932.

Manmiep: Katrina T. Roelker, Sept. 23, 1931, Bedford, N. Y. curpren: Lydia
May 21, 1932; Madge, July 9, 1937, Mary Katrina, Aug. 18, 1943.

[ 586 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHERS: Prescott Butler Huntington, ’26, Christopher Hunting-
ton, 732.

occuPATION: Architect.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Civilian Public Service, Camp #46, Big Flats,
N. Y., April 4, 1944-Oct. 25, 1945; assistant director for American Friends
Service Committee. .

OFFICES HELD: Member staff Foreign Service Section, 1945-47, member New
York staff, 1949-50, commissioner, 1947-49, member Foreign Service
executive committee (at present), American Friends Service Committee;
member New York Group for World Foundation, 1936-38; member
executive board, World Federal Union, World Federalists, 1939; mem-
ber editorial board, The Witness, 1942-44, member executive committee,
Episcopal Pacifist Fellowship; chairman, Suffolk County Committee for
World Federation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Institute of Architects;
The Digressionists; Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association; United
World Federalists; Fellowship of Reconciliation, Century Association;
Religious Society of Friends, Westbury Meeting.

AFTER that (1948) my plans are uncertain,” I wrote in my last
sentence in our Vicennial (sic—-nasty word) Report, “but I
know I must try to do something to help avoid another war.”
Well, here I am five years later, puttering along with personal
and local affairs, unable to point to any present effective activity
as helping to avoid the colossal catastrophe that, even though we
have come to pay so little attention to it, seems to loom ahead.
This futility and frustration, alas, is typical of my “Class Life.”
Perhaps, in a broad sense, it is typical of the life our Class has had
to face.

I am not going to repeat in detail here the personal account of
the first twenty of the past twenty-five years, but it is startling
to look back on our general optimism as we graduated at that
peak of the twentieth century’s early promise. Everything was
rushing onwards and upwards, and success was certain to a
healthy, willing youth in almost any direction. We were too con-
fident, too happy, taking peace and prosperity too much for
granted. The depression jolted us. The never-meant-to-be sec-
ond World War knocked us down; we now find ourselves in
mid-life, in mid-century, in a very middled world. Our personal
struggle is tough enough with all this, but there is an overlying
perplexity and challenge which is tougher. Shouldn’t we do
something about the whole mess?

[ 587 ]

TPP irre

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Long Island north shore. (Incidentally, I worry deeply about
the beauty of the land, how it can be passed on to the communi-
ties of people that come after us, about how to save some of
this island from the wantonness of exploitation, about how to es-
tablish the wooded parks needed for intelligent and lasting town-
planning.) My mother let me remodel her house so that my
family could live in one end of it, my office occupy a part of it;
she shares her acreage with us so that my wife can farm it with
chickens and ducks, vegetables, sheep, and a good milking cow.
Could anything be better? Come see.

And as for my children—do any of you good classmates
have boys who want to meet three wonderful girls?

DONALD JOSEPH HURLEY

Howe aporess: Aberdeen Rd., Partridge Hill, Weston 93, Mass.

orFice Appress: Goodwin, Procter & Hoar, 84 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

Bors: May 4, 1907, Gardner, Mass. parents: Cornelius Joseph Hurley,
Rose O'Loughlin.

preparrp AT: Gardner High School, Gardner, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; LLB.
1931.

Marnep; Miriam Greene, Aug. 28, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. cHitpreN: Cor-
nclia Greene, March 25, 1940; Donald McK., Nov. 15, 1941; Stephen
Nash, July 17, 1943; Rosamond Page, Sept. 18, 1947.

oocuparion: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Navy, lieutenant commander, December, 1943-
January, 1945; American Theatre.

orrices HEtp: Partner, Goodwin, Procter & Hoar; vice-president, director,
member Executive Committee, Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce;
member Finance Committee, Town of Weston, member Budget Com-
mittee, United Community Services of Metropolitan Boston, vice-presi-
dent, director, clerk, Fitchburg Paper Company, Mass., vice-president
and director, Merrimac Paper Company, Lawrence, Mass.;, director,
Lilly Varnish Company of Massachusetts, Gardner, Mass., trustee, mem-
ber Board of Investment, Charlestown Savings Bank; general chairman,
Boston Mid-Century Jubilee, 1950, Twenticth and Twenty-fifth Re-
unions, Harvard Class of 1928, chairman, Committee on New England
Economy, 19§3-

Mosenea of: Union Club of Boston, Harvard Club of New York; Weston
Golf Club, Boston Bar Association; American Bar Association.

[ 590 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALONG with many of our classmates, I went on to Law School
after praduation. After three very pleasant years of study in-
terrupted by summers as a Morse telegraph operator and as a
manager of telegraph offices, I finished Law School in June,
1931, the depths of the depression. In September, 1931, I be-
came associated with Goodwin, Procter & Hoar, attorneys of
Boston. My first years of practice were spent largely on legal
matters involving bank receiverships and corporate reorganiza-
tions. In 1932 I became a director of a suburban commercial
bank, Stoneham Trust Company, which fortunately survived the
Bank Holiday. ‘The experience was invaluable because it indicated
to me the pitfalls which should be avoided by banks and business
during later periods of unbridled optimism and inflation.

In 1937 I married Miriam Greene, Radcliffe ’31, a very lucky
break for me. That summer we went on our honeymoon to
France and England. In September of the following year when
war clouds were gathering, we decided to go to Germany, Aus-
tria, and Czechoslovakia. We were in Prague during the tempes-
tuous days of the Munich crisis. As gas masks were being distrib-
uted and the Czechs were on a war footing, Miriam and I asked
ourselves how we had ever decided to choose that time to be in
Central Europe along with such soldiers of fortune as Vincent
Sheean and John Gunther. However, in retrospect I look back
on that fall as a time of relative security, even though it seemed
quite otherwise, particularly when we were held incommunicado
on the Ewropa by German police authorities in Bremerhaven.

Shortly after our return from Germany I became a partner

in my firm as of January 1, 1939. Our classmates in Massachusetts
may recall the pardon and parole scandals of that period. My
partner, the late Sam Hoar, and I became counsel for the Massa-
chusetts Pardon and Parole Investigating Commission. After two
years of intensive work, numerous hearings held throughout the
Commonwealth, perjury trials of racketeers, etc., we filed a re-
port of our findings which became the basis for the first success-
ful impeachment trial of a public official by the Massachusetts
Senate in the history of the Commonwealth, the imposition of
restrictions on the pardoning power of the Governor, and the
establishment of more advanced procedures in the parole of
criminal offenders.

[591]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In 1943 I was commissioned a Navy lieutenant, and, strange as
it may seem, since most lawyers did anything but legal work dur-
ing the war, I was assigned to the Procurement Legal Division of
the office of the under secretary of the Navy. When Mr. For-
restall became secretary of the Navy, our division became the
office of general counsel of the Department of the Navy in the
executive offices of the secretary of the Navy. I was associated
with a top-flight group of young lawyers from all over the coun-
try, and as a result of this assignment, I did not experience the
hiatus in my professional life that happened to so many of my
contemporaries.

After my return from the service, I became convinced that
as a lawyer I should do my best in trying to help the New
England economic picture during a period characterized by
the flight of our textile and shoe industries so basic to our area.
I have felt strongly that professional men in general and lawyers
in particular ‘in the Boston community should do everything
within their power to keep this area economically strong. With
this thought in mind, I became a director of the Boston Real
Estate Board and chairman of the Aviation Committee of the
Boston Chamber of Commerce. Along with Dick Berenson, Bill
Bump, and Hammie Heard, I worked on the development of
Logan International Airport, which is now as good a commercial
airport as can be found in these United States.

In 1950 I was appointed general chairman of the Boston Jubilee,
sponsored by the Boston Chamber of Commerce and the City of
Boston, again working very closely with the aviation team of
Bump, Heard, and Berenson. For the purpose of being shown
the plus side of the economy of Boston and New England, fifty
of the leading industrialists and businessmen of America came
to Boston for a meeting at Faneuil Hall held under the sponsor-
ship of the Jubilee Committee and Boston financial and bank-
ing interests. Incidentally, we also had a baked bean supper on
the model of the old church suppers held for 12,000 citizens of

Greater Boston on Boston Common, with an additional 30,000
persons waiting in line and with the Lord Mayor of Boston, Eng-
land, as a guest — quite a party. But don’t be uneasy — there
will be no giant bean supper during our T'wenty-fifth Reunion.
Seriously, however, I think the Boston Mid-Century Jubilee of

[ 592 ]

—
THTaT NI-P POLARS TION NINN tiie deity ah mat eimneny: wns sator-yiunay, due.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1950 did something to restore the confidence of the ordinary
Bostonian in the economic future of Massachusetts and New
England.

As for the family, Miriam and I have quite a team. Cory is
quite a young lady for a twelve-year-old; Don is now in the
sixth grade and “utility” on the Little League baseball team of
Chilmark, Martha’s Vineyard; Steve is in the fourth grade and a
much better fisherman than his father, and Page, our youngest,
will really be spoiled if her Daddy has anything to say about it.
We have so much fun together whether skating on our little pond
in Weston or at “Whale Hill” on Martha’s Vineyard in the
summer where the “team” helps the old man pull his lobster pots,

JAMES ABBOTT HUTCHINSON, JR.

WOME ApoRrEss: South Lincoln, Mass.

orrice appress: 50 Congress Se, Boston g, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1906, Plainfield, N. J. parents: James Abbott Hutchinson,
Mary Knowlton Whiton.

preparep aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

marnizp: Barbara Stevens, Sept. 10, 1938, Magnolia, Mass. contoxen: Peter,
July 28, 1940; Polly, April 19, 1943.

MARVARD BROTHER: John Whiton Hutchinson, ’29,

occupation: Investments, partner, salesman, Hutchinson & Company.

WHAT makes a Report of this nature so hard to write? Isn’t it
because it is not possible or fitting to state “everything” that has
happened since 1928? If you could, your Report would almost
certainly be interesting. But much of what has been really im-
portant is either immodest or in poor taste to mention. That
leaves just the standard, stereotyped stuff to put down, and that
has every likelihood of being dull to any reader. So let me see if
the standard stuff can be made readable.

In business, it has been securities anything profitable and
legitimate. It is a fascinating, interesting, stimulating business.
Why? Because this business is knowing something about a lot
of other businesses. (After twenty-five years at it, I wonder
why I could not have learned one or two simple rules the first
year or two.) Too few people who have money for securities
want to “invest.” They want something that is “safe,” “pays

[ 593]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

well,” and will “double in value” in short order; and there is no
such thing. In fact, too few know what they want a given
amount of money to do for them.

Politics: The last presidential candidate that I voted for who
was successful was Hoover. If my grandchildren read this, per-
haps they will say what a stuffy, old reactionary he was. But I
doubt if they tab me for that reason.

Harvard: I doubt if it is really much harder academically now
than it was in our day. However, I do feel Harvard 1s distinctly
harder academically than other “Ivy” institutions. This opinion
I get as a result of recent talks with lads who have been to
both Harvard and other places. As for me, I got little or noth-
ing out of the books. From all the rest of it, I got a great deal.
There has never been anything like it. I have always felt it would
be a good idea if Harvard required some more practical course
than it does. Something a lad could capitalize on when he left
college. Don’t abandon the classics, etc., but somewhere along
the line require a course or two in shorthand, typewriting, me-
chanics, public speaking.

I suppose because I got so much out of the non-academic end, I
don’t like to see Harvard take a lowly position on the athletic
field. Athletics, to my mind, are a part of a well-rounded, well
developed person and institution. This does not mean I am for
“big-time” football —a crack eleven every year. But I should
like to see Harvard have a good team in some sport once in a
while, instead of being in the cellar of the league in football,
baseball, hockey, basketball, and swimming. It is not good for
anyone to be beaten too frequently. I don’t know if there is any
one reason or person to blame for this, but I have my suspicions.

I am particularly interested in Harvard hockey. I deplore and
decry the poor showing this sport makes each year. This was a
sport Harvard formerly was a “power” in. Harvard desperately
needs its own rink. You wouldn’r come to Harvard to study
chemistry if they had no laboratory, would you? Having no rink
is a deterrent to players coming to Harvard. It is difficult to
develop them even if prospects do appear. Harvard is known
all over the world. It has the reputation of offering the best. For
this reason it is fitting that a leader, like Harvard, should make a
better showing and take a higher stand on the athletic field. I

[594]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sincerely hope that by the time this is printed there will be enous
improvement to make what I have said superfluous. (October
1952.)

Hobbies and other interests include hunting, skating, golf, fis]

ing, ornithology. Although I particularly enjoy gunning for any
thing with feathers, I have no interest whatsoever in shootin
anything else. For me it is exciting and absorbing to try to cree
up on some ducks. I have an enthusiastic companion in th:
sport in my twelve-year-old son. Like his father, he’ll go at th
“drop of a hat.” Conditions — rain, snow, cold, cyclone — mak
no difference. In the winter I keenly enjoy ice-skating, any kind
For exercise and fresh air, there is no substitute for a smooth shee-
of ice, preferably outdoors! In summer, I play a fair amount o1
golf, but it is not as compelling as it used to be. Eighteen holes
take a lot of time, and by the time the snow flies, I find I have
not played as well as I thought I could. I am fond of fishing, but
don’t go often. This involves driving a car somewhere into
Maine, and I dislike driving. Under the heading of fishing, how-
ever, the past few summers at the seashore, I have put out lob-
ster pots. I have always wanted to have a few lobster pots of
my own. Although fun, it is hard work and dirty work. My
chief conclusion is that lobsters are worth fifty cents a pound.

I like reading: newspapers, particularly the New York Herald
Tribune; and J. P. Marquand is my favorite author. I do not
care for novels in an old English or Irish setting. Television: I
can take (if before nine P.M.) the pro-football, baseball, boxing,
and perhaps one or two comedians; but the rest I can leave, espe-
cially the ten- and twenty-year-old tear-jerking movies. In a
special spot of importance I naturally place my family — wife
and two children. I am lucky to be able to say that some member

is always willing to join me in the above activities. We have
had good health, and for this I am most thankful.

FREDERIC WILLIAM ILFELD

HOME apprEss: 525 N. Rodeo Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 436 N. Roxbury Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1907, Las Vegas, N. Mex. Parents: Ludwig William Hfeld,
Minnie Schutz.

[595]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: New Mexico Normal High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; M.D., 1932.

sarrieD: Jane Mandelbaum, Jan. 25, 1938, Santa Fe, N. Mex. CHILDREN:
Frederic William, Jr., Dec. 19, 1940; Thomas J., Jan. 24, 1943; David
Norman, Jan. 29, 1947.

occuPATION: Orthopedic surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered as first lieutenant, U. S. Army, Medical
Corps, June, 1941; chief, orthopedic service, Station Hospital, Camp
Callan, Calif, 1941-43; at 348 Station Hospital, Cardiff, Wales, three
months; at 5th General Hospital (Harvard Unit) at Salisbury, England,
and Toul, France, 1943-45; at Birmingham General Hospital, Van Nuys,
Calif.; discharged, lieutenant colonel.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Leo Baeck Temple; instructor, University of Southern
California Medical School.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons; American Board
of Orthopedic Surgeons; American Medical Association; Western Or-
thopedic Association; California Medical Association, Harvard Club of
Southern California.

PUBLICATIONS: “Recurrent Dislocation of the Shoulder,” “Manipulation of
the Herniated Intervertebral Disc,” “Experimental Production of Visceral
Tumors with Hydrocarbons,” “Fat Embolism.”

I AM trying to think back over twenty-four years since gradua-
tion to bring together the important personal events that have
helped to shape my life. The world has been kind to me since
graduation. After four years at the Harvard Medical School and
enjoying life in Vanderbilt Hall I began my hospital training
which lasted for about five years. In 1938 I married a Radcliffe
graduate, Jane Mandelbaum from Des Moines, Iowa. After a short
period in Boston, we moved to Los Angeles, California. The war
interfered, and in June, 1941, I entered the Army Medical Corps
and was stationed at La Jolla, California, for about two years.
During this term of duty I managed to hook a 185-pound Mar-
lin fish after only ten minutes of trolling and successfully landed
the monster using an old frayed line. From La Jolla my orders
directed me to Camp White, Oregon, then to Camp Beale, Cal-
ifornia, and overseas to England in November, 1943. After a
short tour of duty in Wales, I was sent to the 5th General Hos-
pital (Harvard Unit). I remained with this hospital until Ger-
many surrendered in May, 1945. Shortly thereafter I returned to
the mainland and re-entered private practice in Los Angeles in
September, 1945.

Since then, my main interests have been devoted to the prac-

[ 596 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tice of orthopedic surgery both in the office and clinics at the
Los Angeles County General Hospital, Children’s and Cedars of
Lebanon Hospitals. I have acted as a consultant in orthopedic
surgery to the Veterans Administration and I am an instructor
on the faculty of the University of Southern California Medica]
School.

I still play tennis, swim, ride the ocean waves, fish, and ski. My
family of three boys— aged six, ten, and twelve years— my
wife, and I enjoy frequent camping and pack trips.

I adhere to Reform Judaism and am a trustee of our Temple. I
have written about eight medical papers dealing with orthopedic

sur gery .

ROBERT REHR IMPINK

HOME AppREss: Box 67, Shillington, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 330 N. Fifth St., Reading, Pa.

BorN: Feb. 17, 1908, Reading, Pa. parents: Irvin Francis Impink, Rosa
Frances Rehr.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; M.D., 1932.

MarrieD: Mary Poindexter Dives, Jan. 7, 1939. cHtLpREN: Edward Dives,
Aug. 31, 1940; Mary Roberta, May 4, 1942; Deborah, July 16, 1946,
Anne Stewart, June q, 1948.

OccUPATION: Physician, practice limited to general surgery; chief of surgery,
St. Joseph’s Hospital, Reading.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: On active duty Jan. 6, 1942, with 52d Evacuation
Hospital, affiliated unit of Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia; overseas
to Pacific Theatre Jan. 20, 1942; stationed in New Caledonia, Woodlark
Island, Finschaven, New Guinea, Manila, returned from overseas duty
Sept. 14, 1945, with rank of lieutenant colonel.

MEMBER oF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); American College
of Surgeons (fellow); American Association for Surgery of Trauma
(fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers on minor surgical subjects.

AFTER graduation from college I succeeded in postponing work
for pay for almost eleven years. This was accomplished by spend-
ing four years at Harvard Medical School, two years in internship
at the Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia and four and a half
years as a surgical resident. One of these years was spent on the
Fracture Service of the Presbyterian Hospital in New York,
the others at the Pennsylvania Hospital. Finally in January, 1939,

[ 597 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I was able to persuade Mary Poindexter Dives that we should set-
tle down peacefully to raise a family in Shillington near Read-
ing, Pennsylvania. While I practised surgery on the staff of St.
Joseph’s Hospital in Reading we were blessed with a son in Au-
gust, 1940. For three years life was very pleasant with winter
holidays of skiing in the Laurentians and summers in the coun-
try near Shillington. With the war I was off with the Pennsyl-
vania Hospital Unit in January, 1942, for the Pacific Theatre.
Our second child, Mimi, was born in May, 1942. I made her
acquaintance at the age of three and a half years, in September,
1945, when I returned from the Philippines.

Since the war we have settled down again in Shillington and
again life is very pleasant. We have two more children, Debbie
and Anne, and the skiing holidays have been resumed. Surgery
is often too time consuming to allow the pursuit of family and
cultural interests but it offers other compensations. The only
important recent break in the routine was a plane trip to Japan
in December, 1949, as civilian consultant in surgery for the
Army.

These twenty-five years have been full of activity and have
passed with incredible speed. They have been enjoyable and
leave me eager to undertake the next twenty-five with fervor

and perhaps a bit more wisdom.

FRANCIS HENRY INGOLDSBY

HOME AppREss: 179 Walton St., Englewood, N. J.

OFFICE Appress: McBurney School, 5 W. 63rd St., New York 23, N. Y.

BorN: March 16, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Emmanuel Ingoldsby,
MoD., 98, Agnes Josephine Mahon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(30); A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1940.

MarrieD: Elisabeth Vincent Lang, April 12, 1931. CHILDREN: Joan Agnes,
March 2, 1932; Francis Henry, Jr. Sept. 1, 1933; Roger, Jan. 31,
1937; Elizabeth Meigs, Jan. 24, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Francis Henry Ingoldsby, Jr., ’55.

occupation: Director, remedial reading clinic.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Troop Committee 23, since 1949, Board of Review,
since 1950, Boy Scouts of America, Englewood; secretary, New York
City Schools and College Branch, Y.M.C.A., since 1945.

[ 598 ]

¥

ec

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: National Association for Remedial Teaching; Association of
New York Private Schools, National Roster of Scientific and Special-
ized Personnel.

YOU say it is twenty-five years? By the calendar it tallies cor-
rectly. By these towering offspring who speak with the rumble
of maturity and drive with the zest of youth, there can be no
doubt. But at last, from your letters, the Reporters, your sched-
ules, invitations, and urgings, I am sure that it is the Twenty-
fifth, the millenium of reunions — incredible and wonderful.

As a boarding school master in the early thirties, A.D. (after
Divisionals), lugging hampers of lunch for mountain-top picnics
with a horde of swarming, eager, ever hungry, and atomic boys
— then skiing, skating, bicycling, swimming — my initiation into
the fraternity of Mr. Chips was delightfully complete.

Betty, and a girl, and a boy became the trinity of life. The de-
pression closed in on our aspiring young school. After a two-year
fling at business, we emigrated to New York City and McBurney
School where I learned about education — its theory, practice,
and the importance of attitude and basic skills for the successful
student. The possibilities of remedial reading for better education
were fascinating; I became fascinated. Our reading clinic ap-
peared shortly thereafter with its service for school and college.

At various times in an educational career one inadvertently be-
comes involved in directing throbbing streams of student life into
such channels as visual and general education programs, war skill
courses, war bond drives, or whatever a current need may indi-
cate. These interests occasionally spill over into our community
life with the result that it is quite easy to find oneself sitting
among thousands of Boy Scouts at West Point Stadium after a
campfire lunch of chicken leg seasoned with smoked log. How-
ever, these pursuits meet the contagious backflood of our family
life: from Joan who patiently explains modern art and the delights
of flying, Buddy, ’55, with his burning desire to make Varsity base-
ball and a few home runs against Yale, Roger who presently sur-
veys the world through his view-finder and from the inky depths
of a darkroom — right down to Bitsy who keeps us well-informed
on the doings of Sparky and his riddles.

The gathering of the clan takes place in August at a weather-

[ 599 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

beaten old Vermont farm sitting atop the world’s best view and
the world’s worst road. There in the evening quiet of rustic
simplicity we are content and at peace with the world.

LEWIS MYER ISAACS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 161 WV, sqth St, New York 19, N. Y.

OFFICE ADbREsS: 475 Fifth Ave. New York 17, N. Y.

Boax: Jan. 7, 1908, Pelham, N. Y. parents: Lewis Montifiore Isaacs, Edith
J. Rich.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; LL.B. (Columbia
Univ.), 1931.

MarrieD: Carrie Fabrikant, May 26, 1940, Darien, Conn. CHILD: Carol Her-
mine, Aug. 10, 1941.

occupation: Law, partner in firm of M. S. & I. S. Isaacs.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered service as private, March IT, 1044;
trained at Ft. Sill, Okla.; transferred to South Pacific, Sept. 19, 1944;
assigned anti-tank company 1o3rd Inf. Regiment 43rd Div. for campaign
in Aitape, New Guinea, November, 1944; took part in landing at Lin-
gaven Gulf, P. I, January 9, 1945; discharged Nov. 30, 1945; issued good
conduct medal; American Theatre ribbon; Asiatic Pacific service ribbon;
two battle stars and one bronze arrowhead, Philippine liberation service
ribbon with one battle star, World War II victory ribbon.

orrices HELD: Counsel and director, Honest Ballot Association, 1934-51;
treasurer and director, The Edward MacDowell Association, since 1947;
vice-president, James Weldon Johnson Community Center, since 1950;
zone commander, Air Warden Service, New York City, 1951-52;
chairman, Committee on Real Property Law, 1949-52, member Execu-
tive Committee, 1952, Association of the Bar of City of New York.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Association of the Bar of the
City of New York.

FOLLOWING graduation, it took almost no time for me to get
from Cambridge to 116th Street and Broadway, New York,
where the Columbia Law School holds forth the promise of
teaching one to forget all the lore one has learned and filling
the vacuum with the law. The promise was partially fulfilled and
a large vacuum duly created (which remains to this day). My
three years in law school were devoted to waiting for the business
depression (which resulted from or at any rate followed on the
entry of our Class into the business world) to achieve its nadir,
whereupon I joined the bar of New York State and started my

[ 600 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

professional career as a clerk in the office of M. S. & I. S. Isaacs —
founded over eighty years ago by my ancestors and today one of
the five oldest law firms in New York City. By dint of hard
labor and perhaps a little nepotism, I soon became a partner in
the firm in which I now enjoy a happy practice.

Most of my day-time has, since 1931, been devoted to this
practice. There was an unhappy hiatus of a couple of years dur-
ing which I became a member of General Marshall’s club. I
strained my back trying to load ninety-five-pound shells into
Long Tom rifles, then changed to thirty-calibre carbine bullets,
whereupon I was shifted to the South Pacific and joined General
MacArthur’s local in a triumphant journey through New Guinea
to Manila. Towards the end of 1945 I was deducted from the
armed services as a buck sergeant and faded away as a mili-
tary figure, much sooner and in a much happier mood than my
erstwhile boss.

I have had other, happier experiences. Item: In 1940, on the
sands of Paradise Beach, I saw a mermaid — or what at first sight
appeared to be one. Second sight proved more engaging, as did
the mermaid, who turned out to be Carrie Fabrikant (Cornell
’28), and who is now, as a result of her engaging qualities, Carrie

F. Isaacs. Item: In 1941 was born Carol H. Isaacs (Dalton
- Schools ’59), a proud, happy, and intriguing child.

Our marriage has produced but one serious problem, so far
insoluble: shall we celebrate our “Twenty-fifth” in Cambridge
or Ithaca? Other than the practice of law, I have formally en-
gaged in few adventures, most of them sops to my conscience
for the unearned pleasures and protections afforded one lucky
enough to have been born in these United States and educated
at Harvard, I am an officer and director of the James Weldon
Johnson Community Center, whose problem in East Harlem,
New York, is to teach that civil rights involves civility as much
as rights. For many years I was a director of and counsel to the
Honest Ballot Association, whose object was to assure the hon-
esty of elections, regardless of creed, in politics, in labor, and in
any other field where the voice of the voter was to be heard.

I am an officer and director of The Edward MacDowell Asso-
ciation, which maintains an artists’ colony in Peterborough, New

[ 6or ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Hampshire, where creative artists are encouraged and permitted
to work in peace,

Additional to my family, my proudest boast is that I once
won the backgammon championship of the Harvard Club of
New York City, an achievement I have never since been able to
equal. The burden of the attempt, however pleasurable, is
damned expensive.

That's it, except that mention must be made of the acquisi-
tion of a house in the country (complete with mortgage, wasps,
and a leaky roof) where, in the summer months, I can take my-
self after a hot day in the City (by foot, train, and car) to spend
the evening pulling crab-grass from the remains of a lawn, admir-
ing my wife’s flowers, cursing the moles, the rabbits, the snakes,
and praying for the very rain which makes the day-time so un-

bearable.

EDMUND BALCH JACKSON

HOME ADDRESS: Yo Mrs. Henry W. Newbegin, 15 Kennedy Rd., Cambridge,
Mfass.

orricé appress: USS Tarawa, Fleet Post Office, New York, N. Y.

BorN: July 2, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Allen Winchester Jackson,
Mary Elizabeth Balch.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS LN COLLEGE: 1924-1929.

UN MARRIED.

occupation: Commander, Air Intelligence, U.S. Navy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Navy, 1942-46, and since 1951; commis-
sioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve, April 28, 1942; ordered to Naval
Air Station, Quonset Point, R. I, for indoctrination, Aug. 17, 1942; fol-
lowing Air Combat Intelligence training, ordered to Composite Squadron
13 as ACI officer; squadron conducted anti-submarine patrols from
escort carriers in Atlantic until December, 1944; transferred to Pacific
and touk part in Okinawa campaign; became lieutenant commander
Oct. 17, 1944, and executive officer of squadron shortly before; seps-
rated Feb. 12, 1945.

ovis HELD: Investment counsel, 1929-42, consultant, Scudder, Stevens &
Clark; manager, Useppa Island Club, Lee County, Fla., 1948, 1949, Essex
County Club, Manchester, Mass., 1949, 1950.

A ROLLING stone may gather no moss; once rolling, however,
it can gather a momentum which defies control.
It took World War II to dislodge this stone from a deep and

[ 602 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a soft bed. Boston was the setting, and investment counsel pro-
vided the dollars which man-about-town activities dissipated.
There was the traditional bachelor apartment on Beacon Hill,
with occupants coming and going in direct reflection of the mar-
riage and divorce rates, but with the way of life continuing un-
changed. Bath-tub gin gave way to stingers, battered gray felts
to black homburgs, and touch football to Sun Valley vacations.
The etchings — along with Jackson — survived all such transi-
tions.

Pearl Harbor finally broke this mould. It led to a Navy com-
mission via the Washington scramble and the Quonset “sixty-
day wonder” route. Life aboard aircraft carriers was my meat —
while the war lasted. With peace its charm faded last, leaving a
legacy of restlessness which ruled out a return to the nine-to-
five routine of Scudder, Stevens & Clark.

Resort hotels appeared to offer the antithesis of such a rou-
tine. By June of 1946 I was deep in the maelstrom of hypochon-
driac patrons, defective plumbing, and kitchen temperament which
is the management’s picture of any summer hotel. Thus began
the cycle of Maine to Florida which keeps resort operators well
tanned and which provides a laugh for almost every headache. It
also furnished golf, tennis, swimming, and elbow-bending, along
with generous vacations between seasons. The Essex County
Club was under Jackson management when overrun by the
Classes of 1925 and 1926 during their Twenty-fifth Reunions.
Aspen’s Hotel Jerome enabled me to witness the international ski
races of 1950. All of which kept the stone rolling and free from
family entanglements.

Early in 1951 I was recalled to active ‘duty in the Navy. This
has meant commuting among Newport, Cuba, and the Riviera
aboard the carrier USS Tarawa, a program which keeps me — un-
like most recalled reservists — purring. In fact, travelling on an
international scale and at somebody else’s expense is so satisfying
that I hope to continue it when again a civilian.

[ 603 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

JAMES JACKSON, JR.

HoME aporess: Meadowbrook Road, Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADRESS: 30 State St., Boston, Mass.

poax: April 25, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: James Jackson, 'o4, Rachel
Brooks.

prepared at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.B.A. 1930.

Marriep: Sally Sears Pratt, Feb. 16, 1928, New York, N. Y. cyivpren:
James, 3d, Dec. 6, 1928 (on. Anne Ludlow, June 13, 1951); Michael, Feb,
3. 1938 (rm, Leslie Jones, Dec. 27, 1951); Phyllis, March 22, 1936; John
T. P., Dec. 21, 1937; Timothy, Feb. 1, 1946. GRANDCHILDREN: Jane Ann
Jackson, March 28, 1952; Linda Jackson, July 29, 1952.

Harvagn son: Michael Jackson, '53.

cccuPaTION: Investment broker and banker; partner, Townsend, Dabney &
Tyson.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, junior grade, U. S.
Naval Reserve, March 19, 1942, Newport, R. I.; Quonset Point, R. I;
South Adlantic Fleet; inactive duty from August, 1944; resigned as
lieutenant commander, Jan. 9, 1951.

orrices HELD: Director, Prudential Fund of Boston; treasurer and secretary,
New England Group Investment Bankers Association; president, Bond
Club of Boston, 1951-52, Board of Trustees of Dedham Country Day
School, since 1950; member Vestry, St. Paul’s Church, Dedham, Mass.,
1949-§2-

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country & Polo Club; Beverly Yacht Club; Kittansett
Golf Club; Somerset Club.

OUR family is large and growing, consisting of four sons and one
daughter. Our two oldest, Jimmie (Trinity College ’51) and
Michael (Harvard College ’53) are married and have presented
us with granddaughters. All things being equal our fourth son
will graduate from Harvard on our Fortieth Reunion.

After graduating from the Harvard Business School in 1930 |
spent eight years as a statistician and salesman in the investment
business. Since 1938 I have been a partner of Townsend, Dabney
& Tyson, investment dealers and members of the New York
Stock Exchange. Lately I have become managing trustee for
several trusts.

Politically I am a Republican. My activity in the party has
been centered around raising campaign funds with varying
success.

Directly after the war we moved from Millis to Dedham,
where | have become active in church and local school affairs.

[ 604 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My hobbies are boating and golf. I have recently given up a
moderately successful racing career as my crew, Consisting of my
two oldest sons, have married and gone their own ways. I have
now taken up fishing which necessitates a small power boat,
consequently I am being looked down upon as a “stink-pot”

sailor by my family.

JOSEPH PETER JAZOWSKI

HOME ADDRESS: 55 Hollingsworth Ave., Braintree 84, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 83 Granite Bldg., Quincy 69, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 27, 1898, Korezyna, Poland. PARENTS: Peter Jazowski, Emilia
Plaza.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREE: D.M.D. cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Helena Marion Jagielska, July 12, 1926, New Bedford, Mass.
CHILDREN: Joan Patricia, Nov. 24, 1931; Joseph Peter, Jr. Dec. 16, 1935.

occuPATION: Dentistry; dental education, assistant professor of clinical den-
tistry, Harvard School of Dental Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Graduate assistant, Massachusetts General Hospital, 1930, 1931;
vice-president, business manager, Quincy Symphony Orchestra, 1941,
1942; secretary, South Shore District Dental Society, 1946, 1947; sec-
retary-treasurer, 1947-49, president-elect, 1950-52, Omicrom Kappa Up-
silon Dental Honorary Fraternity; president-elect, Harvard Dental
Alumni Association, 1952-53; member Editorial Board, Harvard Dental
Alumni Bulletin, 1947-53.

MEMBER oF: American Dental Association; Massachusetts Dental Society;
American Academy of Dental Science; Harvard Odontological Society;
Harvard Club of Boston; Masons; Omicrom Kappa Upsilon, Gamma
Gamma Chapter.

IT WAS at least a month ago that “Hammie” Heard’s second
reminder arrived and no doubt he has enough to do without
sending any more reminders to perhaps one of ’28’s least impor-
tant members. Outside of Don Hurley, Henry Chauncey, and
one or two others, no one in our Class was aware that there was
a Jazowski. Consequently, why take up space and use up ink?
But “Hammie” states that this will make good reading. I doubt
it. Besides, who likes a dentist well enough to read about him?
However, in order to make life a wee bit easier for Mr. Heard,

some things do come to my mind. Immediately after satisfac-
torily completing the first year I transferred to Harvard Dental

[ 605 ]

"TT" RFE OnO

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

School on Longwood Avenue on the opposite side of the Charles,
where new and more permanent acquaintances and friendships
developed. These, of course, would be out of place in this sketch,

Hence I'll go back to our freshman Year when we met in the
New Lecture Hall to be told, perhaps for the first time, about
cocci, bacilli, spirochetes, etc., followed by some very startling
revelations about these minute demons. However I was to learn
much more about such mysteries the following year, and I am
still learning. I also recall the long themes in English A. One of
these I particularly recall and regret that I did not repossess it in
1928, because it was a very determined exposition on some phases
of our social and economic conditions. It would be interesting
reading now. Well, my ideas have changed decidedly to the
right. Think what age and experience will do in spite of one’s
dislike for change! But maybe it’s because of that oft-quoted
statement of President Lowell that “the only thing permanent
about Harvard is change.” There are other reflections from Har-
vard but these should suffice to show what time can do.

Those who completed their education in 1928 had one year
as a head start, but I completed mine in 1929. Most of you know
what happened then. It also happened to me, but worse. There
were the obligations incidental to hanging up one’s shingle, but
prospects were dimmer as tempus fugit. However, that’s all wa-
ter over the dam. By dividing my time between private prac-
tice and teaching at Harvard Dental School, depression finally
took the count and I won the decision. My appointment at the
Dental School began as an assistant in prosthetic dentistry. When
the Harvard School of Dental Medicine was opened I was for-
tunate enough to be one of the few to receive an appointment to
its faculty. At present I am assistant professor of clinical den-
tistry in this new and highly stimulating environment.

MARK ALFRED JENSEN

HOME aponess: 618 36th Ave. N., Seattle 2, Wash.

OFFICE aporess: Washington Fish & Oyster Co., Pier 54, Seattle 4, Wash.
Bown: Feb. 6, 1907, Seattle, Wash. parents: Roy Jensen, Kathrine Fausbol.
purparep aT: Roosevelt High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1924-19728. DFGREZ: 8.B., 1928.

[ 606 J

- py

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRIED: Elizabeth Allen Steele, July 3, 1943, Reno, Nev. cHitpREN: Mark
Alfred, Jr., 1944; Kathrine S., 1946; Elizabeth S., 1947; J. D. S., 1948.
OccUPATION: Vice-president, Washington Fish & Oyster Company, Inc.,
treasurer, Portland Fish Company, Portland, Oregon, and Meredith

Fish Company, Sacramento, California.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 1929-31, Naval Air Station, Pensacola, and U. S.
Fleet; 1941-44, air officer, U. S. S. Long Island (CVE); 1944-45, com-
mander, Air Support Control, Pacific.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Portland, Ore.; University Club, Seattle,
Wash.

WE HAVE had one addition in our family since the Twentieth
Reunion Report, and of course being the youngest he is also most
spoiled. We also have a change of address and a new home over-
looking our scenic Lake Washington. With our nephew of nine
who lives with us, we have a fairly full house, five children from
three to nine years old. Life is very pleasant in our great North-
west, and I should like to have more of my classmates visit, but
not stay, as there are too many people here now.

THEODORE JOHN

HOME appREsS: 837 Florida, 5S. E., Albuquerque, N. Mex.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 700 E.. Central Ave., Albuquerque, N. Mex.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1905, Beggs, Okla. parents: Henry J. John, Filomena Kvap-
ilova.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marRigD: Lela Reigh Bates Atkins, June 19, 1943, Midland, Texas. cHiLpreEN:
Lady Faith Barbara Atkins, March 24, 1937 (stepdaughter); Ralph Jay,
Feb. 3, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Accountant; automobile dealer; lumber broker (Mexican im-

ort).

MILIpaRY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Army as private, infantry, 1942; com-
missioned second lieutenant, infantry, Fort Benning; retired first lieu-
tenant, infantry.

NOTHING of much importance except that I have been voting
the losing ticket for the past twenty years.

GEORGE WALKER JOHNSON

LAST KNOWN appreEss: 182 N. Arlington Ave., East Orange, N. J.
BORN: Jan. 13, 1906, Morro Velho, Brazil. parents: George Alfred John-
son, Marcella Walker.

[ 607 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Erie, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

GEORGE WALKER JOHNSON has been carried as a “lost”
man on our records since 1943.

CECIL ALLEN REED JOHNSTON

LAST KNOWN AppRESS: 155 E. 72nd St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 5, 1906, New Matamoras, Ohio. PARENTS: Charles Allen John-
ston, Mary Cecile Biddle.

PREPARED AT: Knox Academy, Galesburg, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

CECIL ALLEN REED JOHNSTON has been carried as a “lost”
man on our records since 1952.

JOHN CHARLES JOHNSTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2500 Q St., N. W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Housing Administration, 1001 Vermont Ave,
N. W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Charles Johnston, tt.. “oo
Annie Florence Perkins,

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

marrieD: Katherine F. Farrell, Oct. 16, 1941, Washington, D. C.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Johnston, ’34, LL.B., 737.

OccUPATION: Property manager, supervision of field personnel in connec-
tion with real estate acquired by administration incidental to insuring
operations under the National Housing Act.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Joined A. A. F. in May 1942, and served as chief
warrant officer until March, 1946, in Pentagon Building in the office of
the Assistant Chief of Air Staff, in connection with the establishment of
training programs and the provision of facilities and equipment inci-
dental thereto.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1926, I worked for Employers Li-
ability Assurance Corporation as an auto claims adjuster in their
Boston office, working for Dan Linscott’s father. After two
years of this, I became a Special Agent for this same concer
working in the Middle West and Philadelphia, my duties con-
sisting of business promotion. In 1930 I returned to Boston and
went to work for Henderson & Ross, Real Estate and Insurance,

[ 608 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

managing their insurance department, and subsequently worked
in their sales, rental, appraisal, and property management depart-
ments. During those depression years, there was little where-
withal for travel and hobbies, but I did have a shore European
holiday in 1932 during which I motored through England and
Wales.

As for political convictions, I have always been a registered
Democrat, and during the “30's I did some “leg-work” for the
Young Democrats of Brookline, Massachusetts, In 1g3g 1 came
to Washington and went to work for the Federal Housing Ad-
nunistration, where I have been employed since, with the ex-
ception of the war years. My duties have been concerned prin-
cipally with property management activities, although for a
three-year penod I was making residential appraisals.

I was married in 1941 to Katharine Farrell of Philadelphia,
whom IT met here in Washington. As she, too, works for the
Government, we lead a fairly quiet social life and, of course,
enter into no political activity. Our travels consist of vacation
tnps, generally to Cape Cod for a week or two in the summer,
and sometimes to Florida for a short stay, and there are a few
long week-end trips throughout the balance of the year. We
have few hobbies, other than very amateurish photography, as
space is limited in apartmenc living. I play a little very poor
golf, which steadily gets worse,

Other than working with Ollie Picher in the AAF during the
war, [have not had much contace with other members of 1928.
I contemplate attending our Washington luncheons, but so far
I've been unable to do so. Although I've been unable to make
any definite plans as yet, I hope to be in Cambridge in June to
renew old acquaintances.

CARROLL HENRY JONES, JR.
HOME ApoREss: 2016 Wilmette Ave, Wilmerte, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Stevens-Davis Co, 600 W. Jackson Bivd., Chicago 6, Ill.
poaw: Nov. 5, 1907, Evanston, Ill. panents: Carroll Henry Jones, Helen
Frances Weeks.
PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, IIL
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1918, a.M.,
1930.

[ 509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

wearnizp: \fary Jane Perry, July 30, 1948, Westport, Conn. cuivp: Virginia
Lee, June 17, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Franklin Weeks Jones, ’25 A.M., '27; John Sills Jones, ’31,
1L.B., ‘35.

voacpation: Editor: writing and digesting articles, supervising preparation
and publication of all copy in firm publishing employee and salesman
training programs.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted June 17, 1942, served nearly four years
in Army Air Forces; graduated from officer candidate school (The
Adjutant General's School, Fort Washington, Md.) in June, 1943;
served with Weather Wing H. Q. at Asheville, N. C., and then as
public relations officer with Air Materiel Command in Wichita (Kans.),
St. Louis (Mo.), and Chicago (Ill.); separated from service with rank
of captain.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; American Management Association,
Chicago Geographic Society (formerly).

PUBLICATIONS: Primarily articles on industrial and human relations in Stev-
ens-Davis Company's various publications.

TWENTY-FIVE years—a quarter of a century —is a big
period of time in any man’s language. But it seems to have
slipped by incredibly fast as I look back upon our commence-
ment ceremonies in Harvard Yard. Haec olim meminisse iuvabit,
it we can slightly twist a phrase of Vergil.

I shall forever be indebted to Harvard for the Sheldon Travel-
ling Fellowship I was fortunate enough to receive upon gradua-
tion and the carefree (wish I could find it again) year of travel
if afforded me in Europe and the Mediterranean. That was in
the lush, late ’20’s, before the depression hit, when everyone
scemed to think there was no limit to how high the stock market
could travel, until, for the several hundredth time, we relearned
the awful truth of that cliche: “What goes up gotta come down.”

Just why I ever decided to go into writing for a living I'll never
know, except that the urge was there. It’s certainly not the most
affluent profession in the world, but I do think it’s one of the
inost rewarding from the point of view of self-satisfaction. I'll
admic I've been pretty happy in it in spite of the fact that I’ve
never coined an immortal word or penned a never-to-be-forgot-

ten phrase.

After several years in graduate study at Harvard, I decided I
wanted to take up writing. | took several preliminary jobs in
the ficld of publishing and then cut my teeth as a reporter for the

{ 610]

ong

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Chicago Daily News. With that experience under my belt, I
transferred to public relations and publicity, writing radio scripts
and press releases (with the inevitable job of occasionally having
to explain to a disgruntled client or two why some never made
the papers — the favorite bugaboo of publicists), and at the same
time trying to untangle knotty public relations problems.

After a spell in “weather” with the Army Air Force (of which
I now remember practically nothing that was so carefully taught
me), 1 was informed that my talents in “creating good will”
were needed by the Air Forces’ Materiel Command (later
brought under the Air Technical Service Command). And so I
found myself once again back in public relations, working with
various plants turning out aircraft equipment of all types, some
doing a creditable job, others, unfortunately, not so creditable.

I stayed in public relations for a while after leaving the service
and then switched to publishing and an editorial desk with my
present company. Our firm has been publishing employee and
salesman training programs for a half a century, and I have found
the work extremely interesting, in spite of the fact that we have
a deadline to meet in at least one publication every week, and I
am constantly trying to fight my way out of hundreds of mag-
azines, house organs, and other publications that continually pile
up around me. I guess I’m young enough, though, to still get a
kick out of my work.

The best thing that ever happened to me is a five-foot — six-inch
blonde, Mary Jane, who has somehow found the courage and
patience to put up with me for better or worse. The next best
thing is Virginia Lee, who manages to keep our household in a
graceful state of mild chaos. The next best thing — well, you
never know how large a family will get.

We bought a house in Wilmette, along Chicago’s North
Shore, over two years ago, and I have been trying to learn the
rudiments of gardening under my wife’s patient tutelage. I’m
still very much of an amateur when it comes to household repair
jobs, minor though they may be, but I like to think I’m learning
fast. Our house is at the edge of the countryside (which is de-

veloping fast), and I must say it’s a welcome relief after living
in a city apartment.

[ 611 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

My hobbies? an occasional game of tennis or golf, bowling,
swimming, taking in a concert, play, or movie.

Politics? w ell, that always starts arguments, so I’d better let
well enough alone.

I'm going to try my darndest to get down to Cambridge for my
Twenty-fifth Reunion — but if, by any chance, I shouldn’t be
able to make it, I want to wish all my classmates a hilarious old
time with the best of spirits (Scotch, preferably). My best
wishes to all of you for a wonderful Twenty-fifth — and an
even better Fiftieth!

FRANKLIN PEENE JONES

HOME AppREss: R. F. D. 1, Bennington, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 South St., Bennington, Vt.

BORN: June 2, 1906, New Rochelle, N. Y. parents: Franklin Miter Jones,
Elizabeth Gertrude Peene.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1933.

MarrieD: Margaret Shepard, April 27, 1935, New Rochelle, N. Y. cHtipren:
Francis Shepard, June 1, 1936; William Livermore, July 20, 1939; Eliz-
abeth Osborne, May 12, 1950.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Moderator, Bennington Rural Schools, Inc.; clerk, Old Ben-
nington Weavers, Inc. Ben Mont Papers, Inc., H. E. Bradford Com-
pany, Inc.; vice-president, Mt. Anthony Country Club; director, Widen
Tanning Company, and others, president, Rectis Textiles, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Vermont Bar Association; American Bar Association; Masons,
Shrine (Cairo Temple); Elks; Mt. Anthony Country Club; Bennington
Club; Harvard Club of New York.

WHEN I left college it was with one of the dream jobs, namely
instructor and photographer on the University Afloat then due to
sail around the world in September, 1928. To fill out the sum-
mer I worked as photographer for the New York Stock Ex-
change making passport photos to identify the members, clerks,
and messengers. By September the University Afloat had sus-
pended operations, so I went to the Law School for one year;
then spent two years as a junior clerk with Davis, Polk, Wardwell,
Gardiner and Reed in New York; then went back to Law School,
finishing with the Class of 1933. By this time I had decided that
I did not want to practise in New York regardless, and chose

[ 612 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Vermont because my family had enjoyed their summer place in
Londonderry so much.

I made a connection with the late Samuel H. Blackmer, Yale
’24, in Bennington in June, 1933, and have been here ever since.

In 1937, we formed the firm of Blackmer and Jones. In 1938,
Mr. Blackmer went on the bench. In 1946 I took in another Yale
man, M. W. Ehrich, Jr., Yale 1938, Harvard Law, 1941, and in
1950 took in Eugene V. Clark, Harvard 1940, Cornell Law, 1948.
Business has always been up and down, but in general has been
better every year. We are really general practitioners and have
done a little of practically everything. One of the satisfactions of
this is to find that you can deal quite well with the city specialists
because your background is broad, and you do know your own
limitations. The greatest satisfactions in the law business have
come from doing general counsel work for manufacturing cor-
porations, and if enough of this work comes in I am quite happy
with my work. I don’t do litigation unless I have to, but have
done enough so that I know how to go about it.

My family is small: a boy sixteen who is a senior in high school
and interested in engineering, a boy thirteen in eighth grade who
is growing fast, and a girl, two, who is satisfied to run the whole
family. We still have a few sheep and chickens, and a pony, but
have given up the rest of the livestock. Our home is three miles
from the office. It is a nice old 1770 house and quite comfort-
able since putting on an addition and adding some land until
we now have about ten acres.

During the war I tried to get into the Navy without success,
and the draft board didn’t seem to want me after being called for
examination twice. Consequently the war found me here for the
duration with only local participation,

I had an interesting time starting in 1939, when without being
a golfer, I undertook to run the local Country Club on a sort of
receivership basis. This lasted nine years, and we did succeed in
putting the club on its feet, and I suppose as a logical result got
me playing golf. Even so it was only last year I managed to
break one hundred. But I play quite often and have few other
hobbies. /

My library keeps growing until now I have been forced to
discard some books to provide room for others, but it has been

[ 613 ]

nine: AARON NOLO CETTE LAL ENC eg

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

a great joy to have it at home in this day when almost every-
one depends on compilations, anthologies, and book clubs. To
date I have escaped all of these.

I ran unsuccessfully for the legislature about six years ago and
have since done nothing in politics except moderate the school

district.

In general the tempo of country life has become my tempo.
And one doesn’t expect too much activity or change once one
has accepted the situation. I have always enjoyed our reunions
as a welcome retracing of steps and pleasant chance to visit with
many I haven’t seen in between.

LOMBARD CARTER JONES, II

HOME ADDRESS: 1435 Lexington Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 35 W. 53d St., New York 19, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 23, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Isaiah Tobey Jones, ‘98,
Helen Sands Foster.

PREPARED AT: Sandwich High School, Sandwich, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1928.

MarRIED: Edith Howard Walton, Sept. 30, 1933, New York, N. Y. cut-
DREN: Stephen Bradford and Richard Walton, May 10, 1938 (twins).

occupation: Graphic designer, commercial artist; consulting art director.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Consultant, Office of Strategic Services, Wash-
ington, D. C., June, 1942; information specialist, Office of War In-
formation, Washington, D. C., Oct. 7, 1942-June 3, 1943; chief of
Booklet Division, Bureau of Publications, New York, June 3, 1943-
Sept. 14, 1945 (overseas in North Africa, Italy, Greece, and Egypt,
October-December, 1944).

OFFices HELD: Assistant editor, Forum & Century, 1931-34; executive editor,
New Yorker, 1934-35; managing editor, American Mercury, 1935; as-
sistant director, WPA Federal Writers’ Project, New York, 1935-36;
editorial consultant, Reader’s Digest, 1936; associate editor, Scribner's
Magazine, 1936-39; art director, House Beautiful, 1940-42, Architectural
Record, 1942; consulting art director, American Smelting & Refining
Company, General Electric Company, Shell Oil Company, Standard
Oil Company (New Jersey), and others; instructor in Reproduction
Processes, Pratt Institute.

MeMmBeR oF: American Institute of Graphic Arts.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous book reviews for the New York Times Book
Review, 1939-41; articles with illustrations: “Spots Before Your Eyes,”
Point of View, September, 1947, “The Immortal Mish,” ’48 Magazine,

[ 614 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

January; illustrations for three books: The House for You, Fielding’s
Travel Guide to Europe, and Watch out for the Weather; and for 168
other publications,

WHERE to begin? Chronologically, back in the 1928 boom,
with the fifteen-dollar-a-week job in a well-known agency? (I
have never developed any enthusiasm for advertising agencies
since.) Domestically, during those tumultuous evenings when
my wife put our marriage to the test by teaching me bridge?
(She gentled me.) Paternally, that shining afternoon the twins
and I first appeared together in public? (It is hard to pass un-
noticed when pushing a vehicle which looks like an ultra-con-
servative Good Humor wagon.) Dramatically, that incredible
moment in Grand Central Sration when I discovered, as our
roung were about to depart for their first summer camping, that
I had lefe the tickets at home? (I retrieved them and made a
dashing and spectacular delivery just before the train pulled out.)
. +» T could go on. But where to begin? (And Hammy Heard
says it is high time I did.)

I suppose September, 1945, after the war, is as good a time as
any. That’s when I sat down and reviewed the years I had spent
since college, working as a magazine editor. They had been in-
teresting, insecure, and inconclusive; I did not intend to continue
them; I had other ideas.

A neglected talent as a cartoonist, a few years’ experience as
a magazine art director, and encouragement from my wife and
a group of editors, designers, and art directors with whom I had
worked during the war determined me on a new career. At first
I concentrated on drawing, principally for magazine illustration,
and developed my work to a point where it received favorable
notice in the October, 1949, issue of the American Artist, in an
article entitled “The Pen-and-Ink Revival.” However, one does
not live by drawing alone, I discovered — at least this one doesn’t.

I began taking commissions designing, illustrating, and produc-
ing leaflets, folders, booklets, and other promotion material. Two
booklets I did for the Crowell-Collier Publishing Company were

selected for the Art Directors Show in 1948. That was quite an
exhibition year for the Jones family. My son Stephen, aged
nine, had painted — on order from an editor interested in chil-

[615]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

dren’s work — a cover for the December, 1947, issue of the United
Nation World. It too was selected for the Show.

Not long after this I branched out as a consulting art director,
designing and producing two periodicals for the General Elec-
tric Company and two for the Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey. My list of clients has increased since then, and though I
find less time these days for drawing, I still manage to keep my
hand in. Frequently my schedule seems alarmingly overloaded,
but the work always gets done, and I enjoy it, despite the long
hours and the pressure, which goes up oftener than it goes down.

Last fall 1 began teaching a course at Pratt Institute in Repro-
duction Processes — technological, not biological, as I hasten to
explain to people with raised eyebrows. I took over, on a week's
notice, from a friend who was returning to active duty in the
Air Force. It has been a stimulating experience for me and, I
trust, for some of my students. I hope to go on with it next
year, incorporating all the changes and innovations that have
occurred to me this year.

Leisure? there is very, little of it in our family. Reading, listen-
ing to good music — when we can’t find it on the radio, we turn
to the record-player — and an occasional evening of cards with
friends or with our boys are the principal relaxations. More
strenuous have been the Saturday afternoons spent at Richard’s
school painting scenery for Gilbert and Sullivan operettas or at
home doing the thousand and one small jobs of building and re-
pairing which present themselves to anyone handy with tools.

But enough of me. What of my wife? The boys and I think
of her as the indispensable woman. Despite us — and she looks
after us very well indeed, even spoils us — she manages to pur-
sue, with dash and distinction, her own career as a book reviewer
and literary critic. If you don’t believe me, turn up your TV
set some evening when Edith Walton is on “The Author Meets
the Critics” program.

And what of our sons? Dick Bennett, observing them at a
tender age, remarked, “Stephen will make it, and Richard will
sell it.” But Stephen’s activities this year at Browning, where he
is business manager of the school magazine, and Richard’s activ-
iués at Allen-Stevenson, where he is a reporter on the school

Newspaper and a cello-player in the school orchestra, indicate

[616] °

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to me at least, that if either boy makes anything that boy will
sell it, and very persuasively too. Both boys are looking forward
to the Reunion. I hope it will sell them on the idea of going to
Harvard. |

RUFUS HORTON JONES, JR.

HOME appREss: 41 Carleton St., Portland 4, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 53 Exchange St., Portland 3, Maine.

BORN: July 23, 1907, Portland, Maine. PARENTS: Rufus Horton Jones, Mabel
Lord Hersom.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cu? laude, 1928; M.B.A.y 1932.

MARRIED: Ruth Sheldon Fosdick, March 11, 1939, New York, N. Y. cuit-
DREN: Deborah Fosdick, Dec. 26, 1941; Rufus Horton, 3d, Feb. 1, 1944;
Candace Lord, Nov. 29, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, director, Simonds, Payson Company, Inc.,
advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Kents Hill School, Kents Hill, Maine, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Advertising Associates of Maine.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in national magazines such as New Republic, Amer-
ican Legion Magazine, Saturday Review of Literature, Saturday Eve-
ning Post; recently, articles for clients and clients’ relations in odd pub-
lications.

THE way it is, fellas, in the past twenty-five years I done quite
a bit in the way of getting ready to live, Gee, I’ve learned lots
of things. And if life would stand still so I could take hold of it,
sort of, and let me arrange things neat and orderly, I'd do lots
of things, too, honest. What I mean, here I been knocking
around advertising, publicity, and public relations all these years,
I should be set almost any day to dish up some big-cash literary
copy. You know, to me what’s money? I want only the kids
should say, “Yeah, sure, my old man did that. He’s a writin’
fool!” 7

Tonight, of course, I got to go to the Parent Teachers Asso-
ciation. Tomorrow, the boss is having a dinner. Friday? I got
to balance the checkbook Friday. Sure, make it Saturday; all I
got on is a kid’s birthday party. Sundays I play along pretty
regular with the Congos, thinking how good the sermon is for
somebody else. Heck, I’m no joiner beyond being on the board
of a small preparatory school and a nominal member of the Re-

[ 617 ]

= = sesso tinea tensanta snnentbiitettbnindbeninle..

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ublican Party which I don’t trust too much anymore, seeing
who is calling themselves a Republican these days. Of course |
spend a lot of time blowing Bronx cheers (want I should show
you?) at the idiocies and pomposities of what is sometimes re-
ferred to in passing as civilization. But basically ’'m still a naive
trusting party with a child-like faith in his own future, in the
meantime doing last things first, mowing grass and painting win-
dow boxes and keeping up the family scrapbook, My wife who
is intelligent and is a cute dish and writes books, does all my
serious thinking and major family planning with the help of
three Philadelphia lawyers, ranging from eleven to five. But |
tell you when I am ever in bed with a broken leg, then I am
going to write me up a real good piece, like how life begins ar
forty-six. Maybe.

VICTOR OWEN JONES

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Prescott St.. Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Boston Globe, Boston 7, Mass.

BORN: Sept, 14, 1905, Wallingford, Conn. pARENTs: John Owen Jones, Em-
ma Julbey Molina.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928(29).

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Night editor, The Boston Globe.

MEMBER OF: Baseball Writers Association of America (honorary).

WILLIAM BARKSDALE JONES

HOME ApprEss: Vaughan, Miss.

BORN: April 26, 1904, Rosedale, Miss. parents: William Barksdale Jones
Anne Fontaine.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Naval Reserve, 1942-46.

{ 618 |

TRF ont

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STANLEY SANFORD JOSELOFF

HOME aporess: Renwick Hall, North Avenue, Westport, Conn.
orFicz apozess: 100 Fifth Ave, New York, N. Y.

woan: April 1, 1907, East Norwalk, Conn. parents: Robert Joseloff, Anna
Kantor,

parpansp at: Norwalk High School, Norwalk, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. 1928, LL.B. (Yale), 1932.

maanisp: Barbara Gordon, Dec. 30, 1940, Baltimore, Md. cuttpren: Jill, Oct,
29, 1941; Michael and Gordon (twins), May 13, 1945.

oucupation: Advertising, president, Storecast Corporations of America and
Ilinois and Store Broadcasting, Inc. of Philadelphia.

WARTIME COVERNMENT Posts: Pacific Branch, Office of War Information.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

pustications: Several advertising, radio, and grocery trade publications.

AFTER taking my LL.B. at Yale Law School, I worked in the
legal department of Lee and J. J. Shubert for four and a half
years, It was a compromise between my yen for the theatre and
entertainment business and a gnawing feeling that a legal pro-
fession offered more security. The yen, however, won out. I
turned from briefs to songs for Shubert productions, and after I
spread my lyrics about through several shows and bistros, a young
man by the name of Billy Rose lured me to write songs for his first
Aquacade at the Cleveland Great Lakes Exposition and the Fort
Worth Frontier Centennial. Following those, I worked free-
lance in Hollywood until Young and Rubicam, Inc., advertising
agency, persuaded me to produce radio shows. I stayed with this
agency for about five years — with a year on loan to the radio
division of the Office of War Information. In 1944 1 became head
of program development for the American Broadcasting Com-
pany and then went to the Biow Company, an advertising agency,
where I was in charge of all radio activities: “Screen Guild Thea-
tre,” “Suspense,” “Take It or Leave It,” “Life of Riley,” etc.

For the past five years I have headed my own organization,
Storecast Corporation of America and subsidiaries. We operate
five F. M. radio stations between Hartford and Chicago and
specialize in grocery products, advertising, and merchandising.

It has been an interesting, enjoyable, and fairly rewarding
twenty-five years, At least to me, when an announcer on TV or

[ 619]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

radio says, “And now a word from our sponsor,” I find a source
of enjoyment probably denied to the average man. I have long
since learned to count my blessings.

PAUL EDWARD JOSTEDT

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 159 Tudor St., Waterbury 10, Conn.

BORN: June 12, 1902, Waterbury, Conn. parents: Nils Jostedt, Anna Nilsson.
PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

HARVARD BROTHER: Oscar Carl Jostedt, p.M.p. 24.

occupaTion: Roofing.

MEMBER OF: Gota Lejon Benevolent Society.

AFTER college I went roofing as I had several summers before.
Then I was put in charge of a new office in Bridgeport to take
care of the work in that area. In 1930 things went sour, the
office was closed, and my job with the Wilson Roofing Con-
pany was about over. I did some work for the company after
that, but it was not choice.

In 1934 I tried a little teaching, but we did not like each other
very well. Later in 1934, I tried coal sales with a new company
for two years. The company went under — too many bad ac-
counts. After that, I continued roofing with my brother and
coal sales on my own. The latter have about dried up now.

I used to do quite a bit of fishing as a hobby, but changed to
gardening in the mid-thirties. I am still at it. I have been an ac-
tive church member, serving a long time now as secretary of the
Official Board, Methodist.

Politically, I have been Republican and working as an official
at elections and serving as a delegate to several town conventions
and the such.

In 1939 my intuition told me that our world crisis had a funda-
mental basis not yet understood. I stated it in our Vicennial Re-
port. Iam now more convinced than ever that I am on the right
track, that we are on the wrong side of the fence in world affairs,
and that we are trying to do an altogether too big and too noble
job. We are going to take a more aggressive policy and not just
parry the moves of the Kremlin. We cannot muddle through,

English fashion, much longer. The flying saucer fad shows us to

[ 620 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be looking for help from some unknown source or fearing ven-
geance from it. I have not seen any of them as yet.

I was classified as a conscientious objector on account of m
views, and was spared from going to camp by a hair when F, D. R.
suddenly declared the law excusing those over forty from mili-
tary service.

We must all admit that we are living in a most interesting and
exciting, as well as a suffering, world. Its solution should be our
No. 1 problem. [ have made it mine, and hope to have more in-
formation by Reunion time.

JULIUS LEONARD KABATSKY

HOME aDpreEss: Clifford Hotel, Detroit, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Silverston & Kabatsky, 827 Penobscot Bldg., Detroit, Mich.

porn: April 8, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Abraham Kabatsky, Ada
Snyder.

PREPARED AT: Northern High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1933.

UN MARRIED.

occuPATION: Attorney, private practice.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT PosT: Special attorney, U. S. Department of Justice.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan; Detroit Bar Association;
Michigan State Bar Association, Federal Bar Association; B'nai B'rith.

WITH an A.B. degree granted to me in 1928, I came home to
Michigan to join the ranks of those seeking a job. In the fall of
1928 1 worked diligently and enthusiastically for the election of
Al Smith to the presidency. The Republicans promised “two
chickens in every pot” and after the election proceeded to take
the pot away. (Editor's note — this is not an unbiased opinion.)

By 1930 rigor mortis had set in in the economy of Detroit, so I
went back to school — the Harvard Law School, and in June of
1933 received an LL.B. degree. Returning to Detroit and its
closed banks, which did not affect me because I had no money
on deposit or to deposit, I opened a law office in the Penobscot
Building.

From 1935 to December of 1947, I was a special attorney of
the Department of Justice; I resigned to give my full and complete
attention to the practice of law.

Never having been married, I cannot tell you of the pleasures

[ 621 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

and incidents of that status. I can say I have enjoyed my single
state: in fact I represent the “Fifth Freedom” — the right to live
alone! The Lord knows they messed up the other four freedoms.

My travels have taken me to all the forty-eight states in the
Union. And in the summer of 1951 I travelled by car (alone) up
the Alcon Highway to Fairbanks, Alaska, then north to the
Arctic Circle. I took the boat trip, returning from Seward,
Alaska, to Seattle! |

Most of my majority has been spent under a Democratic Ad-
ministration ...I have gained weight and some funds in the
process! I still maintain my interest in women, although Father
Time has informed me that the law of diminishing returns is
beginning to show its effects.

Twenty-five years out of college: it seems such a long time,
but in the history of Harvard, it is merely another generation.
Reunions are good for one’s soul. I attended those of our Class
in the past, the Lord willin’ and me able, I shall look forward to
the Fiftieth.

SAMUEL KARLIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1123 Lowerline St., New Orleans, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 204 Medical Arts Bldg., New Orleans 15, La.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1908, Portland, Maine. parents: Myer Karlin, Gussie Rosoff.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(29); M.D., 1932.

maArrieD: Alece J. Geisenberger, June 27, 1938, Dallas, Texas. CHILDREN:
Robert A., Aug. 3, 1949; Richard M., June 21, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician, general surgeon; assistant professor, clinical surgery,
Louisiana State University Medical School; senior visiting surgeon,
Charity Hospital of Louisiana; senior surgeon, Touro Infirmary.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Aledical Corps, U. S. Army, July, 1942—-February,
1946, European theatre as major, chief of surgical team, Fourth Auxil-
iary Surgical Group, April, 1944-November, 1945.

MEMBER oF: American College of Surgeons; Southeastern Surgical Congress;
New Orleans Surgical Society; Louisiana Surgical Society; American
Medical Association; Orleans Parish and Louisiana State Medical So-
cieties,; Harvard Club of Louisiana; National Rehabilitation Association;
American Board of Surgery (diplomate).

AFTER college I spent four years at Harvard Medical School,
graduating in 1932. Then Henry Ross, a medical school class-

[ 622 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mate, and I went to Europe for six months, presumably to do
postgraduate work in pathology at the Landeskrankenhaus, Graz,
Austria. In reality, if the trip wasn’t quite a Grand Tour, it’ did
get me to England, France, Germany, and Switzerland, I was in
Vienna the night Hitler was chosen chancellor and watched the
Austrian Nazis parade by torchlight. I started my internship at
Touro Infirmary in New Orleans in July, 1933. It was then
the policy of this hospital to have a Harvard Medical School grad-
uate in each intern group, a system now sadly abrogated. In 1934
and 1935 I was resident in gynecology under the famous Dr. C.
Jeff Miller, and the following year resident in surgery and chief
resident. I also started the year 1936 to 1937 in the latter capaci-
ties, but resigned to go into private practice as assistant to Dr.
Isidore Cohn, professor of surgery at Tulane and later at Louis-
iana State University.

The next year I took a double plunge in opening my own
office and getting married. The four years following were spent
wondering when the Officers’ Reserve Corps would request my
imminent presence. It wasn’t until July, 1942, however, after
several false alarms that I was in uniform as a captain with the
Sixty-fourth General Hospital, L.S.U. unit, which was activated
in New Orleans and subsequently stationed at Fort Jackson, Co-
lumbia, South Carolina. Early in 1943 my request for a trans-
fer to one of the new auxiliary surgical groups was granted. I
was with the Fourth Auxiliary Surgical Group at Lawson Gen-
eral Hospital in Atlanta for a year before going overseas in April,
1944. I had only a few weeks in England before, as chief of a
surgical team, I crossed the channel early in June and landed on
Utah Beach. Two of these teams were supposed to do all the
abdominal and chest surgery, for an entire division, so I had a
busy war.

Early in 1946 I reopened my office in New Orleans and since
then have been practising surgery, teaching surgery, and study-
ing surgery. It is also my hobby. Much of my leisure time is
taken up with our three-year-old son, and his hobby is zoo visit-
ing. We also have a three-months-old son, so I find myself at
middle age very much the family man. I don’t know whether it
is too personal to add, but I do think my wife is the most won-
derful girl in the world, and every night I thank God for sending

[ 623 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

me this lovely, intelligent creature. I am a registered Democrat,
because in Louisiana it has been a must in order to vote in the
local elections, but haven't made up my mind yet about the
forthcoming national election. I don’t want state medicine, but
on the other hand think that some form of compulsory insurance
for low income groups would be a good thing.

JOHN EDWARD KEEFE, JR.

HOME ADORESS: 251 Pond St., Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.

oFFick aporess: 11 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

poax: Oct. 18, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Edward Keefe, Mary
Reddington.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1931.

marriep: Mary E. McGrath (Radcliffe ’32), June 15, 1940, Boston, Mass.
CHILDREN: John Edward, 3d, April 9, 1941; Mary Frances, Aug. 21, 1942;
William Thomas, Nov. 23, 1944; Barbara Ann, Sept. 22, 1950.

occupaTIoN: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD; Called to active duty as captain, Sept. 23, 1940;
reverted to inactive status as lieutenant colonel, May 15, 1946; gradu-
ated from the School of Military Government and the Command and
General Staff School, and filled, among others, assignments as instructor
in tactics, Field Arullery School; adjutant, 18th F, A. Brigade; member
of the Military Government Selection Board in the War Depart-
ment; Military Government Officer, Tenth Army, in the Ryukyus Cam-
paign; and provincial food controller for Chung-chong Pukto Province
during the early days of the occupation in Korea.

orricEs HELD: Assistant corporation counsel of the City of Boston, in charge
of the lingation section, since February, 1950.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association; Na-
tonal Association of Plainuffs’ Compensation Attorneys, Harvard Law
School Association; American Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Mil-
itary Order of the World Wars, Military Government Association, Re-
serve Officers Association, Knights of Columbus; Bar of the Supreme
Court of Korea (honorary member).

FOLLOWING graduation from law school, I spent a few months
assisting in the liquidation of the Industrial Bank and Trust Com-
pany, and then became associated with the offices of ‘Thomas C.
O'Brien, 'o&. Iam still there, although twenty years of pleasant
association with Mr. O'Brien came to an end with his death on
Thanksgiving Day, 1951.

[ 624 ]

 

net

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1950, shortly after his election as Mayor of Boston, I was
appointed an assistant corporation counsel by Mayor Hynes,
and assigned as chief of the trial section. Between the City Law
Office and my own, I manage to keep busy.

Like so many of my classmates, I was shifted about during the
war years. As a result, the junior Keefes arrived in such widely
separated places at Lawton, Oklahoma; Charlottesville, Virginia;
Washington, D. C.; and Boston. I have continued my interest
in the military and am currently assigned on a reserve status as
Command and General Staff instructor at the ro3orh ORC School
at the Boston Army base.

In politics, I made two attempts to capture a seat in the Massa-
chusetts legislature, but muffed both times, the last time by a
scant g2 votes. I am cured. I have been active in several fraternal
and veterans’ organizations, particularly in the Knights of Co-
lumbus, in which I have held various offices.

CHARLES RUSSELL KEENE

HOME ADDRESS: 216 Crescent Ave., Buffalo 14, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Connelly Bros. Ship Chandlers, Inc., 159 Ohio St., Buffalo,
N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1905, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Herbert Keene, ’98,
Louise Josephine McLaughlin.

PREPARED AT: Harrisburg Academy, Harrisburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928,

MarRieD: Mary C. Norwalk, Dec. 27, 1935. STEPCHILDREN: Elizabeth Nor-
walk, May 10, 1924, Gilbert Norwalk, Feb. 12, 1927; John Norwalk,
June 24, 1929; Sarah Norwalk, Jan. 12, 1932.

OCCUPATION: Secretary.

SHORTLY before the war I became so crippled by arthritis
that I have not been able to leave the city to attend reunions,
etc, As a result, I have lost contact with many of my class-
mates whom I should enjoy seeing again.

DANA JOHN KELLY

HOME AppRESS: 21 Mystic Ave. Winchester, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 State St., Boston 9, Mass.
BORN: June 2, 1906, Malden, Mass. PARENTS: Daniel John Kelly, Mary Ur-
sula Sullivan.
[ 625 ]

27) Toro Re PREM

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Louise G. Welsh, Sept. 16, 1939, Malden, Mass. cHrtpren: Dana
John, Jr, May 5, 1942; Diane Louise, July 5, 1945; Laurence A., Sept.
18, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Attorney at law,

oFFices HELD: Grand Knight, Winchester Knights of Columbus, 1937-39; dis-
trict deputy, Massachusetts State Council, Knights of Columbus, 1939-42.

AFTER graduation from college I graduated from the Harvard
Law School in 1932, losing one year in law school as a result of
illness. While attending law school I acted as assistant coach and
backfield coach in football at Winchester High School. Upon
graduation from law school I entered the general practice of law
in Boston. For a number of years past I have been engaged
principally in the trial of cases. I have been trying cases to a
considerable extent for insurance companies although still main-
taining a general practice.

I was engaged for many years in the fraternal work of the
Knights of Columbus. My wife and I became interested in ama-
teur theatrical groups. I have also been interested in music and
have appeared in amateur musical productions. For the past
fifteen years I have been singing as the basso profundo in the
quartet which constitutes my church choir, For the past few
years my athletic activities have been confined to coaching and
assisting the younger boys of my elder son’s age, as I have found
that the legs and wind are not what they used to be. I believe
that these boys and the girls too need all the help that they can
get as times have changed considerably since the day we received
our degrees, It is my belief that these youngsters need ground-
ing in fundamentals more than ever in their principles and con-
duct as well as in sports. In conclusion I can only state that my
life since graduation has been that of the average man in business
or a profession with some outside activities and a family which
is healthy and normal, for which I am profoundly thankful.

ISAAC HERBERT KEMPNER, JR.

HOME AppBESS: 3688 Willowick Rd., Houston 19, Texas.

OFFice appress: Imperial Sugar Co., Sugar Land, Texas.

Born: Oct. 1, 1906, Galveston, Texas. parents: Isaac Herbert Kempner,
Henrietta Blum.

[ 626 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

magrieD: Mary Josephine Carroll, April 8, 1930, Houston, Texas. CHILDREN:
Isaac Herbert, 3d, Aug. 28, 1932; James Carroll, July 25, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harris Leon Kempner, 24.

OCCUPATION: President and director, Imperial Sugar Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant U. S. Naval Reserve,
March 25, 1942, and ordered to active duty with Bureau of Supplies and
Accounts, Washington, D. C., May 27, 1942; assigned to Office of Pro-
curement and Material, Washington, Jan. 26, 1943, and attached to
Bureau of Ordnance Negotiation Unit; chief of Bureau of Ordnance
Unit, Office of Procurement and Material, Jan. 1, 1944; lieutenant com-
mander, March 1, 1944; Legion of Merit, 1945; separated from active
duty Oct. 15, 1945; honorably discharged Feb. 7, 1950.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Imperial Sugar Company, Fort Bend
Utilities Company (Sugar Land), City Stevedoring Company (Galves-
ton); director, Imperial Bank & Trust Company (Sugar Land); trustee,
Sugarland Industries, Kempner Fund (Galveston); director, member
Executive Committee, United States Cane Sugar Refiners’ Association.

MEMBER OF: Texas Club; Bayou Club; Harvard Club of Houston, Army &
Navy Club (Washington, D. C.); New York Coffee & Sugar Exchange.

GORDON STANLEY KENISON

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: 112 Chenery St., Orange, Mass.

BorN: March 30, 1906, Melrose, Mass. PARENTS: Ervin Kenison, Mary Ann
Barker.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: B.R.E. (Boston Univ.), 1929; s.17.M.
(ibid.), 1932.

GORDON STANLEY KENISON has been carried as a “lost”
man on our records since 1949.

WENTWORTH KENNARD

ROME apprEss: Walnut Road, South Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Raytheon Manufacturing Company.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1906, Somerville, Mass. parents: William Wentworth Ken-
nard, ’97, LL.B., ‘oo, Lena Sears Doe.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1930.

[ 627 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

marRieD: Eleanor Potter Fay, Sept. 7, 1934, Middlehope, N. Y. cutcpags:
Joan, July 1, 1935; Dwight, Nov. 14, 1938; Fay, Jan. 4, 1946; Beth, Feb.
28, 1950.

occupation: Publications engineer.

MEMBER OF: Salem Ski Busters.

STALIN’S Condition Grave,” and the world holds its breath,
but for what? The chances:of peace breaking out do not seem
to have changed greatly in the last twenty-four hours. Which
fact adds to: what am I waiting for? A few weeks won’t turn
up many miracles that twenty-five years have not. So let's ga.
But how does one breathe interest into the average? Certainly not
with inspiration from a TV cheese commercial, and that is the
accompaniment to which this is being written. Yes, that is the
measure of the averageness; last night it was tax returns with the
same TV competition. Maybe we held out too long before suc-
cumbing, but TV is still kinging the roost too much of the time.

For months this form has been resting in that familiar pigeon
hole marked “deferred” along with notes for a will, and an ap-
plication for admission to Exeter for Dwight. If that doesn’t
come out soon, it will have to be replaced with an application for
admission to Harvard. But seriously, for the information of fu-
ture reunion committees, that No. 3 Goad addressed to the Mrs.
did the trick. When she pulled the old standard child psychology
of “Which are you going to do tonight, your will or your Re-
port?”, what could I do?

That I should be an editor of technical reports, attempting to
assist other engineers in their efforts at self expression, might seem
rather incongruous for one forced to take English F because of
a failure in English A, but what facets of life do not contain
such incongruities,

For any of you who find too little family detail in this script.
salt it to suit, from “The Berrys” or any of the other syndicated
family comic strips; there will be little that is out of place, even
to no divorces. Or is that becoming exceptional?

Our sole effort to keep up with the Joneses turned out dis-
astrously, When two years ago we turned in our 1941 car to
become at last one of the beachwagon elect, within a month, in

our small town of 1,173 voters, we counted no fewer than five

[ 628 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

other new Plymouth Suburbans of the identical model and color
as OUFS.

As you may have suspected, my principal hobby is my family.
This is followed closely by another which is shared by all the
family, that sport so appropriate to New England at this season
of the year, skiing. Yes, we got Beth travelling under her own

»wer on her own skis this winter, a good month before her
third birthday. If the rains will only cease, she might be ready
for down-hill next season.

Tomorrow will be my third pre-reunion luncheon at the Har-
vard Club. For future reunioners, I deeply regret not taking them
in from the beginning. And here an observation shared by my
wife Lee from a recent Vassar Reunion of her own: at the first
luncheon all but a very few clasmares seemed very old and un-
familiar, but by the second one I found myself seeing everyone
as he had appeared while at college. How many of you have
shared this same illusion?

And while we are on observations and advice, a decision |
reached a little over a year ago, I recommend highly to anvone
in the vicinity of a Twenty-fifth. Establish “Yes” as your stand-
ard response to all opportunites. It completely inhibits what
appears to be a strong tendency to say more and more “No's” as
ume passes.

* CONRAD MAX KENNEDY

poan: Aug. 13, 1907, Fredonia, Kans. parents: Max James Kennedy, Eliza-
beth Wolever.

purvanen at: Fredonia High School, Fredonia, Kans.

YRARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1928, DEGREES: 8.8, 1928, LL.B. 1931.

mannizp: Frances Chapman, Oct. 12, 1935, Memphis, Tenn.

pip: Dec. 11, 1947, Fredonia, Kans.

Motuer: Mrs. Max J. Kennedy, 5929 Beaumont Ave., Ls Jolla, Calif.

HAVING attended the University of Kansas for two years,
Conrad Max Kennedy came to Harvard where he subsequently
received both his S.B. and law degrees. He then commenced to
practise law in his native town of Fredonia, later becoming an
attorney with the Legal Department of the Tennessee Valley
Authority and making his home in Knoxville, Tennessee. The

[ 629 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Secretary lost track of Kennedy for many years after our Decen-
nial Report, but apparently he returned to Fredonia and was en-
gaged in business there in 1942. Later he joined the Personnel
Orsfice of the Pan-American Airways System in New York. Not
unul 1951 was word received of his death.

+ KENNETH JAMES KENNEDY

Born: Nov. 24, 1905, Fredonia, Kans. parents: Max James Kennedy, Eliza-
beth Wolever.

PREPARED AT: Fredonia High School, Fredonia, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

pirp: May 11, 19:9, Cambridge, Mass.

AT THE time of his death Kennedy was in his first year at
Harvard Law School. Before coming to Harvard he had spent
two years at the University of Kansas.

SARGENT KENNEDY

HOME ApprEss: 43 Appleton St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

orrice appress: University Hall B, Harvard College, Cambridge 38, Mass.

Born: April 5, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Frank Lowell Kennedy, ’92,
s.8. '98, Grace Lowell Forbes.

PREPARED AT: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; S.M., 1930; M.B.A. CUM
laude, 1937.

Marriep: Elisabeth Morgan Pratt, April 6, 1929, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Frank Lowell, 2d, July 3, 1931; Cynthia Pratt, April 18, 1936; Elisabeth
Morgan, May 16, 1939; Nathaniel Forbes, July 13, 1943.

HARVARD SON: Frank Lowell Kennedy, 2d, ’53.

occuPATION: Registrar of Harvard College; secretary of the Faculty of Arts
and Sciences.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Connected with Navy V-12 Training Program,
in civilian status, aS an assistant dean.

ornces HELp: Various positions with charitable and educational organiza-
tons.

BIRTH, school, college, engineering school, marriage — all have
taken place in Cambridge, Massachusetts, In 1930 I was offered
a job with the New Jersey Bell Telephone Company in Newark
and since we felt that we should shake our provincialism we took

[ 630]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the big jump and moved way down southwest to Montclair, New
Jersey.

Five years through the depression with the New Jersey Bell
was time enough to clear the air and to indicate to us that we
really liked New England best and that my personal interests
were more in the line of human relations than in engineering.
Thus, back to Cambridge we went and to two years in the Har-
vard Business School. I stayed on there after graduation as a
research assistant in human relations in business administration,
and discovered shortly that research and the struggle for a doc-
tor’s degree took more patience and specialized interest than
was in me.

In 1939 I was offered the position of assistant dean of Harvard
College and continued doing this job until 1946, working in a
civilian capacity with the Naval V-12 unit throughout the war.

In 1946 I was appointed to my present job with the long-
winded title and am still operating in that capacity.

As to my “private life,” we continue to live in Cambridge in
the winter and in Annisquam, Massachusetts, in the summer.
Tennis on land and trolling for striped bass and keg-lining for
tuna in and around Ipswich Bay pretty much take care of what
free time I have in the summer, and in the winter months we
try to do as much family skiing as possible. Don’t get me started
on the safety factor involved in five-foot, double-ended, “Goon”
skis, but during the ten years I have been using them I have been
lucky enough to avoid any sprains or strains,

Jazz is still very much of a hobby, and even though I do not
have the intestinal fortitude to spend the required effort to keep
my lip in shape, I like to play the cornet at the drop of a hat.
The only trouble is that there are so few hats in Cambridge. 1
have recorded on tape some fifteen hours of jazz from my scratchy
collection of breakable Bix, Nichols, et al; records which I used
to dare play only once in a long, long, time for fear of making
them more scratchy. Now they are available for continuous
play, a fact which frequently causes family howls.

Of course, the mainspring of our lives is our four wonderful
children whose zest for life and good-natured needling keep
us on our toes and give us our deepest pleasures. Like everyone

: [ 631 ]

nsec nails isnt taht Pa NORMattadnaddeali aL... |, i

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

else, we have had our ups and downs, but so far, since the ups
have outnumbered the downs, we can count ourselves among
the lucky ones and are grateful.

RICHARD SIEGMANN KERSTEN

HOME ADDRESS: 107 Chatham St., Chatham, N. J.

OFFICE ADoRESS: New Jersey Bell Telephone Co., 26 Journal Sq., Jersey City,
N. J. .

porn: July 22, 1907, Minneapolis, Minn. parents: George Albert Kersten,
Adeline Louise Siegmann.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN GE. magna cum laude, 1928.

marriep: Lois Holliday, July 21, 1934, Northome Lake Minnetonka, Minn.
CHILDREN: Richard Holliday, May 9, 1939; Katherine Louise, June 17,
1943-

occupanion: Division plant superintendent, New Jersey Bell Telephone

Company.
MeMBeR OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Telephone Pioneers of America;
Chatham Fish and Game Association; Harvard Club of New Jersey.

THE accumulation of Twenty-fifth Reunion literature has now
reached the point where it can no longer be ignored in the hope
that it is nothing but another problem which, if given enough
time, will solve itself. The request for early codperation has long
since passed the pleading stage, and I suspect the deadline demand
is already in the mail, There should, I suppose, be much to re-
cord in reviewing the span of twenty-five years since Commence-
ment. The statistics recorded above are a mere shadow of the
substance of those years. The trivia which have given them
meaning are hardly worthy the dignity of print, and after the
days have become years and the years add to a quarter century,
I am beginning to suspect that experience as a standard of refer-
ence is more of a refuge than a resource. However, one is con-
fronted by the obvious choice of saying something for the record
or being reduced to statistical nomenclature.

Commencement in Cambridge in 1928 was followed by two
more years there as an instructor in the then existing Engineer-
ing School and as proctor in a building known only as 25 Holyoke
Street. Both have since disappeared from the Harvard scene, and
I trust my association had no bearing in either case. Certainly

[ 632 J .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the income tax with which I first became acquainted in 1929 has
flourished lustily ever since, and the Republican Party which got
my first vote in 1928 has obtained at least a temporary reprieve
from decadence.
When I left Cambridge in 1930 to come to New Jersey, my
acquaintance with the latter place had been limited to that ac-
quired in the process of getting from New York to Philadelphia.
If that had proved to be typical of the place, I am sure I should
no longer be here or entertaining any prospect of continuing to
work and live in the state. With the exception of an occasional
period of engineering, staff or personnel work in their own right,
my time since 1930 has been spent entirely in the plant opera-
tions of the telephone business. As such, the problems cannot
have been too dissimilar from those encountered by other operat-
ing men in industry in general and in utilities in particular, The
principal problem has been people, whether in connection with
production or quality control, consolidation or expansion, labor
relations or labor-management relations. Very few of the peo-
ple with whom I have worked have been Harvard men; those
that have been have worn well. I wish there had been more, for
the sake of continuity, perhaps, if nothing else.

So much for, or so little about, work which has had a way of
interfering with some other things, while at the same time mak-
ing them possible in the first place, and more rewarding in the
second, Family, travel, hobbies, and outside activities all have
had their place over the years. Some.have perhaps received too
much attention or others too little. The problem has been one
of selection, for some things are all inclusive from the standpoint
of time and effort required, and others are mutually exclusive.
There is much that could be recorded in passing, particularly
concerning children and family life, but I hesitate to commit to
print any ideas or conclusions on the subject. They will cer-
tainly prove to be transitory, and I should later find myself ra-

tionalizing to support them.

It is perhaps not without reason that foresight in the absolute
Sense is not as common a commodity as hindsight, for it might
prove difficult to contemplate with equanimity the next twenty
years if the last twenty have been a true sample of the rate of

[ 633 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

change which may be anticipated. I hope that I am not betray-
ing an innate resistance to change; only that at forty-five I find
it he Ipful to be better prepared for it than at twenty-five.

HENRY MULLIKEN KEYES

HOME Appress: Lowell Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1:8 Washington St., Boston 8, Mass.

pors: June 12, 1904, Concord, Mass. parents: George Shepard Keyes, Alice
Munroe Brown.

prepareD at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

maaziep: Mary Walcott, June 17, 1932, Marblehead, Mass. cHiLpren: Jon-
athan M., March 14, 1935; Henry W., May 24, 1937; David, May, 1941;
George S, September, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Daniel French Keyes, ’37.

cocuPaTion: Cotton merchant, E. A. Shaw & Company.

MILITARY OR Nava recorD: Massachusetts National Guard, 301 F. A., 1923-
26, Massachusetts State Guard, 1942-43; Office of Strategic Services,
1943-45.

orrices HE1D: Chairman, Concord Cub Scouts, 1950-52, Concord Red Cross
Fund Campaign, 1947, Concord Community Chest Fund Campaign,
1948; member Concord Finance Committee, 1939-43; member Concord
Road Commission, since 1949.

I \VAS born, have lived most of my life, and rather expect to
end it, in Concord, Massachusetts. I was the fourth generation
born in the house in which I am now living, and whether my
rather fanatical devotion to the home sod stems from this fact,
or from plain inertia | won't venture an opinion, I attended the
Jocal grammar school and then spent four years at Middlesex,
where I managed to get my diploma and letter in crew. I entered
Harvard in the fall of 1923, but flunked out at midyears. This
harsh experience plus an interim job in forestry saw me back at
Harvard in the autumn of 1924 somewhat chastened and with a
considerably better sense of values. My association with the Class
of 1927 having been so brief, and having many friends entering
with the Class of 1928, I decided to sever connections with ’27
and went through college as a member of the Class of 1928, a
decision [ have had no reason to regret. My scholastic record
suffered somewhat from my enthusiasm for shooting, as the duck

( 634]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

season then ran from September through the middle of January,
and my week-ends in this season from Friday to Tuesday.

My first job was with the Great Northern Paper Company in
Millinocket, Maine, but I left this within a year not caring to
spend my life there. I then went with E. A. Shaw & Company,
raw cotton importers and merchants, in Boston, where except
for war duties in 1943 to 1945 I have been ever since. I have
been a director of the company since 1950. I find it an extremely
pleasant and congenial business but it has suffered from the mi-
gration of mills to the South—a trend that seems destined to
continue.

In 1943 I joined the Office of Strategic Services and I spent the
rest of the war instructing groups of various nationalities in
demolitions, guerilla warfare, etc., which was a very interesting
and satisfying experience, except that I never got out of the
U.S.A. and came to feel that I was the most highly trained in-
dividual in the country who had never fired a shot in anger.

Outside of business and the civic interests listed earlier my
chief interests have been hunting — particularly grouse and quail
— fishing, old cars, and farming, the latter being a part-time one-
man operation, but I manage to maintain a flock of chickens,
pigeons, ducks, and a small herd of beef cattle. Our four boys
are a great source of interest and satisfaction, They are all quite
different from each other but each has inherited at least one of
their old man’s particular interests, which fact is very gratifying.
The oldest expects to enter Harvard this coming fall.

PETER HOUSTON KILHAM

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 208, RFD, North Attleboro, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 12, 1905, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Harrington Kilham,
Jane Houston. .

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MarRIED: Frances Potter Breese, Dec. 31, 1933, Tamworth, N. H. curmpren:
Robin Breese, March 20, 1935; Anne, Sept. 19, 1937; Lawrence, Sept. 17,
1941; Susan, July 15, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Harrington Kilham, Jr., °25, M.ARCH., ’28.

OoccuPaTION: Inventor and builder of special machines.

[ 635 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

out all the boulders, planted and plowed two cover crops, levelled
the ground, and are now starting to seed with timothy and clover,
Our house, in the meantume, is still only half complete.

On top of this we built a beautiful machine shop. Its main
floor is thirty-six feet square with a twelve-foot ceiling and huge
windows all around. It is located on a slope and has a space below
for the farm equipment. One can drive into either floor.

In April, 1951, I left the Reénforced Paper Company and
started manufacturing the metal forming machine designed in
New Mexico. It sold very well, and in February, 1952, we turned
it over to a Springfield manufacturer on a royalty basis. As many
people had asked us for a machine to bend tubing and strip steel in
circles, I started designing one. After seven months of designing,
the Curvit, as the new machine is called, was ready. It met with
a fine reception and is being used for jet engine rings, radar
parts, tubing for submarines, machine gun traverses, and other
things where a specially fine job is needed. The expense and labor
in the development of the Curvit has been almost too much for
us, but we hope it will enable us to keep our combination shop
and farm going.

WILLIAMS VINCENT KING

HOME appress; 16 Barry Pl., Radburn, Fairlawn, N. J.

OFFICE apprEss: Gibbs & Hill, Inc, Pennsylvania Station, New York 1, N. Y.

Born: May 10, 1906, Denver, Colo. parents: William King, Georgia Wil-
liams Poole.

PREPARED AT: East Denver High School, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B. IN MECH. ENG. cum laude, 1928.
MarriED: Dorothea Constance Smith, June 17, 1933, New York, N. ¥. cuiL-
pREN: Gail Cynthia, May 22, 1934; Laurence Williams, Feb. 19, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Gilbert King, ’31.

OCCUPATION: Professional engineer; design and construction of power plants;
project manager, Gibbs & Hill, Inc., consulting engineers and con-
structors. .

OrFices HELD: Chairman, Meetings Committee, Harvard Engineering Society,
New York, 1936, 1937.

MEMBER OF: Tau Beta Pi (honorary society), 1928, Harvard Engineering
Society; American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: “Ionization Losses in Paper Insulated Cables,” April, 1929,
“Lectures on Power Plant Scheduling,” 1950 and 1952, American Insti-
tute Electrical Engineers (transactions); “Calibration of Special Flow

[ 638 J

ae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Nozzle,” Sept. 15, 1933, “Discharge Coefficients —Long Radius Flow
Nozzles,” July, 1941, American Society Mechanical Engineers (trans-
actions); “Moisture Drainage Tests — Turbine,” Power Magazine, May
31, 1932, “Well Timed Plan,” Power Magazine, November, 1952.
MY INTEREST in Harvard actually started in 1923 when my
high school teacher, Ralph S. Picts (Class of 1895), took a per-
sonal interest in promoting my college career and became most
instrumental in my winning the Rocky Mountain Harvard Club
Scholarship. It is to him I owe the privilege of writing this Re-
port on the occasion of my Twenty-fifth Reunion. Unfortunate-
ly, my father, a Colorado pioneer who settled there in 1870, had
died in 1918, and my mother died two years later.

I am indeed very fortunate in having two children, one eighteen
and the other six years old. My daughter, Gail, is now a first-year
student at Hood College, which is situated in Frederick, Mary-
land. Naturally it is my desire to have my son become a member
of the Class of 1968 at Harvard.

It is an interesting coincidence that classmate Vernon R. Kiser
is my brother-in-law. At my wedding in 1933 1 had no premoni-
tion that best man Vernon and sister-in-law Aldean, the maid of
honor, would be married in 1941.

Since graduation, my entire business career has been devoted
to the design and construction of large power plants to gener-
ate steam and electricity. In 1928 I started work with the Brook-
lyn Edison Company as an engineer; in 1937 I was transferred
to the Consolidated Edison Companies, and in 1941, during the
war effort, I became associated with Gibbs & Hill, Inc., as a proj-
ect engineer. From 1941 to 1945 I was engaged in design and
construction of war power facilities at the Cherry Point, North
Carolina, Marine Air Base, at the Great Lakes Naval Training
Station, at San Antonio, Texas, and at Ponca City, Oklahoma,
where an aviation gas plant was constructed. Since 1945 I have
been actively engaged in the design and construction of power
plants for the City of Indianapolis, Indiana.

At present I have two ambitions: to see my daughter graduate
from Hood College in 1956 and to attend my Fortieth Reunion
when I hope to see my son graduate from Harvard with the Class
of 1968.

[ 639 ]

,

yr

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PHILIP EDWARD KIRBY

HOME ADORESS: 36 Washington St., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFIce AporEss: VVestinghouse Electric Corp., Belmont 78, Mass.

porn: Aug. 29, 1905, Springfield, Mass. parents: Michael Kirby, Anne Fliz.
abeth Sullivan.

PREPARED AT; Chicopee High School, Chicopee, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DECREE: $.B. (Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1929.

marweD: Lora Elizabeth St. Pierre, Oct. 21, 1936, Springfield, Mass. cu.
preN: Michael, Nov. 24, 1937; James, July 8, 1942.

occuPaTION: Sales engineer, contacting syndicate and public utility com.
panies.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Sergeant, 4th Motor Squadron, Mass. State
Guard, February, 1942—March, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Illuminating Engineering Society; Electric Institute of Boston.

FRANKLY, the only reason I am writing this is that I enjoy
immensely reading our Class Reports, I enjoy particularly read-
ing about my old friend, Jim Pates, and reminiscing about our
good times in Little Hall. 1 enjoy hearing about Bob Hatch and
Al Cendella and wonder about my old room-mate, Jack Sprague,
and Dinny DeNike of the Albany (N.Y.) DeNikes. And so I
feel that the least I can do is to give a brief fill-in on myself.

Well, I studied to be a banker and as such won my S.B. in
economics from the Wharton School of the University of Penn-
sylvania in 1929. Just in time for the “crash.” So instead of bank-
ing, I ended up in the employ of an electrical concern. You may
have heard of it — The Westinghouse Electric Corporation. That
was in October of 1929 and I am happy to say I have been with
this same outfit ever since. It has been a happy and prosperous
association for both of us.

Up until 1940 I was connected with the merchandising divi-
sion of the company, refrigerators, ranges, etc.; since then, I have
been with the lamp division here in New England.

In the meantime, I have wed a wonderful girl, settled down
ina nice old house, and am presently engaged in helping to bring
up two active young men. They are both planning on Harvard
and all I hope is that the old pocket-book can stand it when the
time comes,

Outside of my family and business, my avocations are few.
Our greatest pleasure, meaning Sara’s and mine, comes with the

[ 640 ]

f

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fall and our season tickets to the stadium. We certainly enjoy
the games and our seats are the best, first row in the colonnade.
As you know, they are ideal in inclement weather and offer
perfect accommodations for thermos bottles, etc., etc.

Well, that’s about it, and if the Committee is interested, this
is the result of their third “GOAD”; the one addressed to the
nearest female relation. That did it,

VERNON RUSSEL KISER

HOME apprEss: R. D. 5, Somerville, N. J.

OFFICE aAppRESS: Research Corp., Bound Brook, N. J.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1903, Racine, Wis. PARENTS: Frank Albert Kiser, Christina
Marie Olsen. .

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Lincoln, Kans., Kansas State College,
Manhattan, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: $.B, IN C.E. AND BUS.ADM., 1929.

MarRiED: Aldean N. Smith, Nov. 8, 1941, New York, N. Y, CHILDREN: Frank-
lin Christopher, Dec. 15, 1942; William Frederick, Jan. 16, 1947; Robert
Vernon, Oct. 24, 1950.

occuPpaTiON: Engineering, manufacturing and installation of Cottrell Elec-
trical Precipitators, production superintendent of manufacturing, Re-
search Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Governors, Harvard Engineering Society;
member Bridgewater Township Zoning Committee.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Harvard Club of New Jersey;
Harvard Varsity Club; North Eastern Poultry Producers Council.

TRADITIONS sometimes are rather difficult. For instance I
should much prefer writing about any other subject than myself,
but as the Ides of March approach the heat of tradition becomes
intense through unkindly “Goads,” telegrams, and telephone
calls. So here’s my report, I bow to tradition. ,
After completing my work in engineering and business ad-
ministration in 1929, I embarked upon my professional career.
During the first ten years I enjoyed the life of a gypsy as I
roamed back and forth across the country as a construction engi-
neer. Many of the brightest spots during this period were the
enjoyable reunions with classmates living near my various stops.
In the mid-thirties, I joined my present connection, Research
Corporation, which I soon discovered was far more interested in
cleaning industrial gases at a good profit than doing research as

[ 641 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

the name implies. The company is notable for contributing a
large share of its earnings to schools and colleges, including Har-
vard, for the development of scientific projects in which it is
interested. Some of the projects have blossomed into the promi-
nent scientific developments of the present day.

Leaving the field and being assigned to the production office
at the outset of the war— which involved quieter and more set-
tled living — I was slowed down to a walk and soon found myself
married to Aldean, We had met nine years previously as the
principal assistants at Vincent King’s wedding, but had seen little
of each other during the interval. My wartime activities were
limited to a rejected enlistment by the Navy, setting up a produc-
tion shop in Cambridge which we operated for the M. I. T. Ra-
diation Laboratory, and the operation of our local production
shops.

kk is often said that you can take the boy off the farm but you
can’t take the farm off the boy. I am afraid that is my case. At
the close of the war, Franklin who was three succeeded in break-
ing our apartment lease and, I having been raised on a large
Kansas farm, we returned to a small New Jersey farm. We call
the place “Bohabr” which is derived from the nicknames of our
three boys, Bob, Hank, and Bill. We dabble in field crops, or-
chard, trucking, a large flock of chickens, and a lot of lawn. Farm
labor is scarce and expensive so Aldean, the boys, and I supply
most of the labor which is cheap and inexpensive. I have knocked
off approximately thirty pounds from apartment living and Al-
dean does not worry about losing her figure. My principal hobby
has been farming, but I still devote considerable time and money
to hunting and photography.

Our travels have been very limited during the past ten years
due to raising the boys, the youngest of whom is two years old.
However, I know of no better way to stay young and enjoy
life than co try to live with three growing boys.

CLAUDE KLAPPER

HOME ADDRESS: 350 S. Mariposa, Los Angeles, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 7507 Seville Ave., Huntington Park, Calif.
BORN: Oct, 5, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Ira Klapper, Bessie Goldstein,

[ 642 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prepareD AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.D., 1932.

marrieD: Addie Meyer, February, 1949 (died December, 1950); Jeri Blodtcky,
November, 1951.

occuPATION: Physician; eye, ear, nose, and throat specialist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Medical Corps service in Europe, South Pacific,
and Japan; rst lieutenant to major; October, 1943-December, 1946.

BERTHOLD ANTONIO KNAUTH

appress: Flowmeter Corp. of America, High Falls, N. Y.

BORN: July 18, 1906, Seabright, N. J. parents: Antonio Knauth, Else Uhlich.
PREPARED AT: Kingston High School, Kingston, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929.

MARRIED. CHILD: one.

OccUPATION: Research.

RUSSELL FARIES KNIGHT

HOME ADDRESS: 1630 W, 51st St., Kansas City 2, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Stevens-Davis Co., Chicago, II.

BoRN: March 31, 1906, Wichita, Kans. parents: Robert Franklin Knight,
Mildred Faries.

PREPARED AT: Central High School and Kansas City Junior College, Kansas
City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MaRRigD: Esther Frances Erhardt, June 3, 1944, Kansas City, Mo. cHiLpreN:

Russell Faries, 2d, May 10, 1947; Melinda Anne, May 19, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Salesman.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Finance officer, U. S. Army, 1943~46.
MEMBER OF: University Club of Kansas City; Lake Shore Club, Chicago;

The Military Order of the World Wars; Reserve Officers Association
of the United States.

WILLIAM ABRAHAM KOSHLAND

HOME appress: 52 E. 64th St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE aporess: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. 501 Madison Ave. New York 22,
N.Y.

[ 643 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

BorN: Nov. 9, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Koshland ’go, Estelle
Mary Wangenheim.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stephen A. Koshland, ’25.

occuPATION: Book publishing; assistant treasurer and director, Alfred A.
Knopf, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in the U. S. Navy, October, 1942; hon-
orably discharged as ARM ic, September, 1945; served in American,

_ Asiatic, and Pacific theatres; received the Distinguished Flying Cross,

Air Medal, and two Gold Stars in lieu of second and third Air Medals.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

ROBERT LOREN KRILL

HOME ADDRESS: 2111 Bennett Ave., Evanston, Ill.
oFFIce AppREss: Lerner Stores Corp., 310 W. Polk St., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Feb. 19, 1906, Kalamazoo, Mich. parents: Charles Arthur Krill, Nellie
M. Kennedy.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

marrigD: Dorothy C. Pierce, Oct. 19, 1930, New York, N. Y. cHiLpREN: Ar-
thur Pierce, July 11, 1941; Robert Edward, June 30, 1944.

OccuPATION: Midwest branch manager, Lerner Stores Corporation, retail
stores.

OFFICES HELD: Director and vice-president, State Street Council, Chicago;
director, Retail Merchants Association, Chicago, Illinois State Retail
Merchants Association, Illinois Chain Store Council.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Union League Club and Illinois
Athletic Club, Chicago.

1 WENT into the retail business after leaving school and have
been in that field ever since. This has covered the world’s larg-
est store —Macy’s—a small specialty store in Providence,
Rhode Island, and finally for the last fifteen years a large retail
chain store organization, After living in New York and then in
Providence, we have been in Chicago for the last six years and
like it, Our home is in Evanston which is a nice suburb with
good schools which our two boys, aged eight and eleven, attend.
We take an active part in our local school, church, and other
activities and as for politics, I am at last on the winning side.

[ 644 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROGER MARTIN KYES

HOME apprEss: Cranbrook Road, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

orFice apprEss: GMC Truck & Coach Division, Pontiac, Mich.

sorN: March 6, 1906, East Palestine, Ohio. PARENTS: Lafayette Martin Kyes,
Myra Eunice Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Rayen School, Youngstown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928,

marRieD: Helen Gilmore Jacoby, June 5, 1931, Marion, Ohio. cHILDREN:
Carolyn, April 3, 1934; Frances, Nov. 11, 1936; Katharine, March 17,
1941; Anne, Sept. 20, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, General Motors Corporation, general manager,
General Motors Corporation Truck & Coach Division.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Kirk-In-The-Hills Church, United Fund, Pontiac;
member Board of Directors, Brookside School Cranbrook.

MEMBER OF: Bloomfield Hills Country Club; Bloomfield Open Hunt, Or-
chard Lake Country Club; Detroit Club; Detroit Athletic Club; Recess
Club; Detroit Skating Club; Union Club of Cleveland; Harvard ‘Club of
Michigan.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles and speeches,

I THINK I could sum up my career by saying it has been typi-
cally American. I can well remember the young man who stepped
out of the graduating Class of 1928, being thoroughly sold on the
thought that Harvard had given him all the knowledge that the
world had to offer. It didn’t take long for some very able and
wise men to knock his ears down and, as a result, he learned very
young that every person with whom he came in contact had
knowledge and wisdom or a point of view that would be valu-
able to assimilate.

In 1931 I had the great, good fortune of being joined i in mar-
nage with Helen Jacoby, who came from Marion, Ohio. I am
happy to say I not only found a true partner but that each year
has been more wonderful than the one before. We have been
blessed with four lovely daughters who are a great joy to us.

Before I left school Glenn L. Martin made an arrangement
with me to come to his company as assistant to the president. I
was to make surveys of the country and recommend the location
of the Martin operations from Cleveland, Ohio, in a proposed
new base of operations and assist in building of the initial pro-
duction of the operation. This I completed at Middle River,
Maryland, in 1930, and then went on an assignment for the Black

[ 645 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

& Decker Manufacturing Company. In the spring of 1932 I
joined the Empire Plow Company in Cleveland, Ohio, in which
I was vice-president. In 1940 Mr. Henry Ford and Mr. Harry
Ferguson asked me to head the Ford Tractor Ferguson System
Farm Equipment development — which I did. I was a substan-
tial partner, both in the United States and in overseas operations.
I sold out all my interests in the Ford-Ferguson development late
in 1947 and joined General Motors Corporation in 1948.

My first assignment was as executive in charge of Procure-
ment and Schedules Staff Work which involved the codrdination
of all of the procurement activities of General Motors. In 1950
I became general manager of the GMC Truck & Coach Division
and vice-president of General Motors — which position I now
hold.

In between times we have done a great deal of travelling, both
in Europe and the Orient, as well as through the United States;
we belong to the usual clubs and participate in the usual social
activities.

HENRI ZIEGLER LAKE

HOME ADpREss: 139 E. 79th St. New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 55 Broad St., New York 15, N. Y.

BORN: May 12, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Steers Lake, Marie
Ziegler.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Virginia La Branche, Feb. 15, 1936, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Vice-president, Personal Trust Department, Manufacturers
Trust Company (banking).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, U. S. Army Air Force, 93rd Bombard-
ment Group (H), Second Division, Eighth Air Force.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Shinnecock Hills Golf Club.

LYMAN LORENZO LAMB

HOME apprEss: R. D. 1, Chardon, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1736 E. 30th, Cleveland 14, Ohio.

BoRN: Feb. 8, 1907, Seattle, Wash. parents: Charles Herbert Lamb, Mary
Elizabeth Haller.

[ 646 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: West High School, Rochester, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN M.E., 1929.

marrieD: Mary H. Spencer, March 30, 1927, Portsmouth, N. H. cxnp:
Grace Mary, Jan. 16, 1934 (mm. Robert C. Butcher, Dec. 15, rsx),
GRANDCHILD: Robert C. Butcher, Nov. 10, 1952.

occuPaTION: President, sales and administrative duties, Micro Precision Gear
& Machine Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Order; Kiwanis.

1 HAVE been very lucky in business, with an interest in a splen-
did corporation, which is really just a group of wonderful peo-
ple. All of us work hard and love every minute of it. The life
of a small businessman has been a bit complicated the past few
years, but we always have hope. As for politics —I finally voted
for a winner in 1952, after all these years!

Family life has been full and satisfying. We are settled on a
small farm in the wilds of Ohio’s Geauga County. Our spare
moments are spent pursuing fish in local streams and lakes, with
fair success.

As to travels, whenever we start out we always wind up in
Florida in late March. It’s a pleasant habit at that.

+ ROBERT KEEN LAMB

porn: May 17, 1905, Washington, D. C. parents: Robert Scott Lamb, Sa-
rah Keen.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927, 1928-1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude,
1928(29); A.M., 1933; PH.D., 1935.

MaRRIED: Helen E. Boyden, March 26, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert B., June 19, 1941; Roland W., March 3, 1943; Albert.

Diep: Aug. 25, 1952, Boston, Mass.

wow: Mrs. Robert K. Lamb, 4 Francis Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

AS MANAGER of publicity at Harvard, Lamb remained there
from 1928 to 1932, at which time he was made instructor and
tutor in economics in Harvard College. In 1935 he was awarded
a Ph.D. and also appointed an instructor at Harvard for a three-
year term. In 1936, however, he became an assistant professor at
Williams College, and in 1937-1938 he also taught one day a
week at Bennington College. From 1938 to 1940 he was a special
investigator for the Senate Committee on Education and Labor,

[ 647 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

concerned with hearings on violations of civil liberties, From
1940 to 1947 he was staff director of the House Committee on
Migration, later staff director of the Senate Committee on Prob-
lems of American Small Business, and still later legislative repre-
sentative for the United Steelworkers of America. In 1948 he
taught a course in social sciences at Harvard. At the time of his
death he was a lecturer in history and English at the Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology. He was secretary of the Society
for Applied Anthropology and a member of the American Eco-
nomic and American Economic History Associations. His wife
and three sons survived him.

%* EDWIN HYDE LAMBERT

BORN: Sept. 15, 1904, London, England. parents: Ambrose James Lambert,
"oz, Mae Hyde.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, London, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

DIED: Oct. 29, 1947, Tucson, Ariz.

moter: Mrs. Ambrose J. Lambert, Apache Hotel, Tucson, Ariz.

UPON leaving Harvard Edwin Hyde Lambert was occupied in
various forms of writing as well as with theatrical positions. The
Boston Globe and Boston Herald published feature articles he
had written and the Boston Evening Transcript his book reviews.
He worked in the publicity line for Haney-Curtis, Inc., of Boston
and for the Women’s and Children’s Hospital, and he became
the managing editor of the Cambridge Evening Journal. Stock
companies which engaged him were the Denham Theatre in
Denver, Colorado, and Boston’s Copley Theatre.

Sometime after 1938 poor health forced Lambert to settle in
Tucson, Arizona. For three years an invalid, there he wrote and
published both short stories and poems and began a book on his
father’s experience in Russia as an international war correspond-
ent, Lambert was survived by his mother.

WILLIAM GOODFELLOW LAND

Home appress: R, F. D. Fitzwilliam Depot, N. H.
orFice appaess: P, O. Box 175, Washington 4, D. C.

[ 648 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porN: Jan. 18, 1907, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: William Platt Land, Louisa
Goodfellow.

prePareD AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; A.-M., 1931.

MARRIED: Rose Anna Veselak, Sept. 26, 1931, Brookline, Mass. (divorced
1948). CHILDREN: Donald Worcester, Nov. 26, 1938; Heather Hill, Oct.
2, 1943.

occuPATION: Research related to education, man-power, and scientific or
technical literature.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U. S. Naval Reserve,
attached to DCNO (Air) as historian of naval air operations.

SINCE the last report I have done several quite varied projects,
both technical and historical, for the Library of Congress and
the U. S. Office of Education. At present I am mainly engaged
in the Survey of Physiological Science which is being conducted
by the American Physiological Society for the National Science
Foundation.

IRVING ISAAC LANDAU

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Road, Billerica, Mass.

BORN: March 23, 1907, Switzerland. parents: Joseph Landau, Helen Moched-
lover.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; M.D. (Berlin
Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Marja Dwojra Lewerant-Szpiro, Jan. 6, 1935, Warsaw, Poland;
Lena Cohen, Nov. 26, 1943, Nashua, N. H.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Landau, ’29, LL.B., 32.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society.

ARTHUR ALEXANDER LANDERS

HOME ApprEss: Langdell Hall, Exeter, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

BORN: June 9, 1906, Somerville, Massachusetts. parents: Arthur Crawford
Landers, Mary Hannah Alexander.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Director of music, Phillips Exeter Academy.

[ 649 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U. S. Naval Reserve as lieutenant (jg),
October, 1942; indoctrinated at Quonset, R. I.; stationed at Dallas Air
Station, March-September, 1943; in Seattle, September-November, 1943;
in Aleutians, November, 1943-April, 1945; promoted to lieutenant (sg),
November, 1944; stationed at Passamaquoddy Bay, May-—September,
1945, and Lido Beach, Long Island, September, 1945-July, 1946; promoted
to lieutenant commander, October, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Visiting Committee to Music Department of Harvard
University, 1950-51, 1951-52, 1952-53; trustee, New Hampshire Sym-
phony Orchestra, 1950-51, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: American Guild of Organists, Matthay Piano Teachers Associa-
tion; Harvard Club of New Hampshire.

I AM still a bachelor, but not from choice. All the women I have
been interested in seem to have had other plans. Still, being with-
out impedimenta has had its advantages. I have been able to move
around freely and to do considerable travel and study. In this
I have been assisted by our Jong summer vacations. In Germany
I studied conducting and piano with Bruno Eisner and Arturo
Schnabel. In France 1 took Nadia Boulanger’s courses at the
American Schoo] at Fontainebleau. One summer I enjoyed a motor
trip through England, Scotland, Wales, another, a Mediterra-
nean cruise; and during another, a North Cape Cruise. I have trav-
elled all over the United States (one summer with two others I
drove 10,000 miles without leaving the United States), have spent
parts of several summers at Paradise Ranch in Wyoming, and
have circled through Quebec, The Gaspe, Cape Breton, and
Nova Scotia. I have enjoyed several vacations in Puerto Rico,
the Virgin Isles, and the Caribbean.

Nor has the mind been neglected, although since the war it
has received much less attention. But before that I attended the
Concord Summer School of Music, the Westminster Choir Sum-
mer School, the Middlebury Summer School of Music, the Yale
Summer School of Music, Stanley Chapple’s Summer Courses,
the English Folk Song and Dance School, and the New England
Conservatory of Music. These studies have involved the teach-
ing and playing of the organ and piano; conducting, both instru-
mental and vocal; voice study and culture; chorus techniques;
solfeggio; and the study and practice of musical pedagogy.

For three years | was director of music at the North Shore
Country Day School in Winnetka, and since that time, except for

[ $50 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

war service, I have been director of music at Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy. Here I seem to be fairly permanent; that is, as far as |
am concerned.

I am an independent voter, but will certainly vote Republican
this election if only for a change in administration. My friends say
[ am a conservative liberal. Whatever that means, I guess they
are right. I am also a practising Episcopalian.

ROBERT GORDON LANDERS

HOME apprEss: Ravine Drive, R. R. 1, Sylvania, Ohio.

oFFice ADDRESS: P. O. Box 911, Toledo, Ohio.

BorN: Feb. 22, 1905, Toledo, Ohio. parENTS: Ralph Abner Landers, Annetta
Mary MacLure.

PREPARED AT: Scott High School, Toledo, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: 8.B. cw7m laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Ruth Ellen Anderson, March 29, 1930, Toledo, Ohio. cHtLprEN:
Joan MacLure, Dec. 29, 1930 (7. Maurice D. O’Connell, Aug. 2, 1952);
Judith Ellen, April 13, 1932; Lucia Gordon, Dec. 12, 1934.

occuPATION: President and general manager, Landers Corporation, manu-
facturers of plastic and rubber coating.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Director, rubber products, War Production
Board, 1943-44, 1945-46.

OFFICES HELD: ‘Trustee, Riverside Hospital, Toledo Blue Cross, Sylvania
School Board, Girl Scout Advisory Board; member Advisory Board,
Rubber Manufacturers Association, member, Army Navy Munitions
Board; member O. P. S. Advisory Board of Industry.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Toledo and New York, Inverness Club;
Country Club; Toledo Club; Downtown Club; Ottawa Skeet Club;
Rotary Club; Chamber of Commerce.

ISTARTED to work the day after I got home from graduation,
picking up where I had left off summer work. My father sort
of expected me to follow along in his business, so not being the
argumentative type, I went along with the idea and he made a
good decision for me. The ’29 depression didn’t hit us painfully,
because we had got pretty well burned in 1921 — cotton textiles
with no floor. I spent two years as a busy little bachelor, when one
night I was assigned to Ruth Anderson (Smith ’28) as a partner.
She had told me earlier, with customary Smith determination,
that two things she wasn’t going to do were to live in Toledo
and to marry a Harvard man. Asa result I never formally asked

[ 651 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

her to marry me, but we were wed in 1930 and have lived in
Toledo ever since. I never saw my father alive after our wed-
ding, so I came home with the plant, employees, stock-holders,
widows, and orphans, and a new wife on my neck at age twenty-
five. It wasn’t bad, as it turned out, even though our Toledo
banks closed early in the national scene. I helped start a new
bank and today am one of three of the original directors — the
rest either died or went into a business where they could make
some money,

We never made the hospital with our first child, so the doctor
didn’t charge full price. I almost lost my aplomb that night, but
it turned out to be a good warning against future indifference
to the laws of nature. .

In 1937 a little pants and suit man from East Side New York
came in and said that F. D. R. had authorized him to organize
our workers, so we became initiated into the Textile Workers of
America. Even in those days we had a pension plan, profit shar-
ing, stock purchase, high wages, etc., all that goes with paternal-
ism—but the boys wanted to join, so I felt, after swallowing
my pride for one night, go ahead and join. It probably worked
out better for all.

When World War II broke out, some competitor suggested
me for a job in the office of Rubber Director under Jeffers; when
Mr. Jeffers left I left, then John Collyer came in, and I went back
while he was there. Washington is a great experience to which
everyone should be subjected briefly — confusion, cocktails, etc.

My wife and three girls and I moved to the country in 1937, so
that by the time they were seven they were pretty fair ama-
teur horsewomen and could jump three feet six inches without
fear on their part. We have got one married to a Marine (Wil-
liams ’50) and fair prospects for the others —I hope.

Business-wise, I am thoroughly a small business man having
helped start a few; it’s surprising how the nickles and dimes add
up, and I am not at all envious or fearful of large corporations.
I hope to retire soon and maybe sleep right through to seven-
thirty some morning.

[ 652 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

% HENRY DANIEL LANE

BORN: Sept. 12, 1906, Ashmont, Mass. parents: Dennis Lane, Annie Mudden,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1024-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Doris E. Clauss, Nov. 14, 1929, Malden, Mass. cuitp: Anne Frances,
April 19, 1931.

prep: Feb. 9, 1941, Dorchester, Mass.

winow: Mrs. Henry D. Lane, 16 Algonquin St., Dorchester, Mass.

FOR twelve years before his death Henry Daniel Lane had been
production manager for the David Malkiel Advertising Agency
in Boston. Before obtaining this position in 1931 he had been
assistant advertising manager for Sears, Roebuck & Company of
Boston for two years and had later held the same post at Hough-
ton, Dutton Company. His widow, a daughter, his father, and
a sister survived him.

JOHN HAMILTON LANE

HOME AppRESS: 17 Florence Ct., Babylon, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Remington Rand, Inc., 315 4th Ave., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 31, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: John Bennett Lane, Helen
Margaret Hamilton.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE! AB., 1928

MARRIED: Violette Ridgway, Dec. 25, 1930, Winthrop, Mass.; Nancy Connor,
April 2, 1945, Washington, D. C. cuitpreN: John Hamilton, Jr., Dec.
5, 1934; Susan, Nov. 24, 1945.

occupation: Manufacturing.

WILLIAM SIDDON LANGFORD

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Cabrini Blvd., New York 33, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Babies Hospital, Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center,
622 W. 168th St., New York 32, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1906, Lakewood, N. J. Parents: George Philip Langford,
Edith Mary Siddon.

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B., 1929(28); m.p. (Columbia Univ.),
1931.

[ 653 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

mararieD: Rebecca A. Beeman, June 30, 1928, Chittenango, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Eric Siddon, May 23, 1938; Mary Ellis, Oct. 29, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Kingdon Langford, M.B.A., 1941.

occuPATION: Physician, child psychiatry; director, Pediatric Psychiatric
Clinic, Babies Hospital; professor of clinical psychiatry, Columbia Uni-
versity Medical School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army, Medical Corps, Army Air Forces,
February, 1943, to December, 1945; Aviation Cadet Selection to June,
1944; instructor at the Army Air Forces School of Aviation Medicine;
captain to major.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, American Orthopsychiatric Association, 1952—54.

MEMBER OF: American Psychiatric Association; American Orthopsychiatric
Association; American Pediatric Society; American Academy of Pedia-
trics, American Academy of Child Psychiatry; Group for Advance-
ment of Psychiatry; New York Academy of Medicine; American Medi-
cal Association; Medical Society of New York County; Medical Society
of New York State; American Association for the Advancement of
Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers pertaining to the field of child psychiatry in the
periodical medical literature.

MY LIFE since leaving Harvard has, I suppose, by most stand-
ards been far from an exciting one. From the standpoint of the
one who has lived it, the years have been far from dull; they have
been rich with satisfactions gained from my family, my friends,
my professional work and my vacations. These satisfactions have
been greater because of the realization that I have been able to
contribute to the happiness of other human beings.

First my work: Late in medical school I began to think of a pro-
fessional career in child psychiatry and finally entered it through
the doorway of initial training in pediatrics. Since then, begin-
ning late in 1935, I have been at the Babies Hospital, New York,
which is the pediatric service of the Columbia University Medi-
cal School. Here, with a relatively short time out in military
service, the days and years have rolled by rapidly; when one is
doing work from which he gains deep satisfactions, time does
not stand still. There has been clinical practice with troubled
children and their troubled parents; teaching of medical stu-
dents in both child psychiatry and pediatrics; and work with
pediatric residents to help them in an orientation to their future
practice which will enable them to be of greatest service to the
children they treat. This last aspect of my work is possibly the
one which has brought the greatest challenges and satisfactions.

[ 654 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

This is an area in which I have been a pioneer; in many ways the
rapprochement between pediatrics and child psychiatry which
was mostly a dream in the beginning has now been established.
There is also that satisfaction which comes out of watching those,
in whose training one has had some part, develop professionally
and in their practice of medicine with children, and of feeling
that through them I may have been a helpful influence in the
lives of many more than I could have seen directly. In a world
where many individuals seem to be stuck in jobs which they do
not enjoy, I feel most fortunate.

Next my family: Here too, I feel most fortunate. In 1953 I
am about to celebrate my twenty-fifth wedding anniversary as
well as my Class Reunion. During the past years my marriage
has been a happy one. We by now are aware of a great deal of
what each other thinks without the necessity of conversation.
This helps after a rough day at the hospital where conversation
isa large part of the psychiatrist’s activity! Our handwriting has
also grown to look alike (my Harvard friends will wonder, re-
membering my penmanship lessons in English F, whether mine
has improved or my wife’s suffered). There are some advantages
to postponing children until ten years after marriage; it gives
two people a chance to work off some of the rough corners be-
fore children complicate their lives. The children, one of each,
give both fun and headaches to us both. Eric, going on fifteen,
has an interest in science which thus far has resulted in no ex-
plosions. From the looks of things, that will continue to be his
field of interest. I suspect he may well want to go to Harvard,
but I am carefully avoiding any pressure on him. My daughter,
Mary, just past ten, may well head towards Smith like her mother;
regardless of what she does educationally, I suspect that her
flashing black eyes will be most useful to her.

Vacations: Nothing elaborate. For twenty years almost, they
have been spent in a small upstate New York village which up
to about fifty years ago flourished in glass making. Now there
is little to do but fish and garden, both of which I enjoy. During
the two months we spend there each summer, the old bean stag-
nates and as little thought as possible is given to the activities of
the other ten months. Last summer, one month was spent in a

[ 655]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

hammock convalescing from an illness and watching birds. This
is something I plan to continue during succeeding vacations.

Spare time: No one enjoys piddling around more than I. Do-
ing nothing is what I enjoy, but during non-vacation times there
is not much spare time. Evenings (my wife assures me that they
are all too short since she is convinced that I rarely get home in
time to eat with the family) are concerned with things which I
bring home from my work — preparation for lectures and teach-
ing, working up professional papers, or data from clinical investi-
gation, catching up on my reading and during the past four years,
the chores of a part-time editor of a professional journal. It is
not as bad as it seems for I am able to steal time to do nothing, to
read detective stories, or even the classics, and to obtain great
relaxation through watching the only drama of modern times
which has not been contaminated by modern psychodynamic
psychology with its complexes and conflicts — TV wrestling.

If the next twenty-five years are as full as the past, I won’t care
much what happens afterwards,

DAVID SIDNEY MASSON LANIER

HOME ADDRESS: Southboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1906, Colchester, Conn. parents: Sidney Lanier, Elizabeth
Masson.

PREPARED AT: Asheville School, Asheville, N. C.,; Gunnery School, Wash-
ington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B., 1928(30).

MARRIED: Marjorie Washburn Fuller, Sept. 6, 1930, Lancaster, Mass. cHIL-
preEN: David Sidney Masson, Jr., Nov. 15, 1932; John Washburn, March
10, 1939.

HARVARD SON: David Sidney Masson Lanier, Jr., 54.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Stevenson Lanier, ’26; Sterling Lanier, ’33, A.M. °47-

occupATION: Teacher, director of admissions, coach of crew, boys’ college
preparatory school.

MY POST-HARVARD vocation has been education for boys at
the college-preparatory school level. It began in the fall of 1928
when I returned to the Gunnery School where I had spent my

last two years of preparation for Harvard. There I remained
until the spring of 1943.

[ 656 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

These were good years, concerned with the teaching of Eng-
lish primarily, and of various other courses on the side as occasion
demanded. Also there was coaching to be done in football,
hockey, and baseball; and in extra-curricular hours many of us
were keen to take advantage of opportunities offered to the trout
fisherman and the upland bird hunter by that corner of Connecti-
cut that leads up to the more rugged territory of the proper
Berkshires.

As the years advanced, occasional administrative experiences
came my way. More important, in 1930 I attended a wedding
at which my presence was certainly necessary but in which my
part was by no means a major one. In 1932 one boy came along;
he is currently a junior at Harvard. And in 1939 the younger
brother followed. At present he is in his senior year at St. Mark’s.

In the spring of 1943 I turned in my resignation at Gunnery.
At the time I was under the impression I stood a good chance of
securing a commission in the armed services as an education offi-
cer. When this prospect failed to materialize, I considered chang-
ing to some field other than education. Fred Weed, however,
suggested the possibility of St. Mark’s, and I commenced activities
there in September, 1943.

My main job now at St. Mark’s is handling admissions, and I
like the sort of work it is. Another interesting feature of my
life here is the business of coaching crew. At Harvard I spent
four years pretty much concentrating on this sport. After col-
lege I had nothing to do with it for almost twenty years except
just once. About four years ago in August during a visit at Exeter,
I was invited to join Bill Saltonstall, Henry Bragdon, and Charlie
Swift, Exeter coach, in a short work-out on the Exeter River. It
was an experience no less memorable for the fact that my wife
was the Cox. My conclusion afterwards was that once every
twenty years was too little, or a whale of a lot too much. Any-
how, it’s fun to be again connected with rowing and watch boys
getting as much satisfaction from it as I used to think I did.

[ 657 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

EMERY PHILLIPS LASKEY

HOME apprEss: 317 Abbey Rd. Manhasset, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fairchild Publications, Inc., 7 E. 12th St., New York 3, N. Y.

BORN: March 29, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Stephen Laskey, Edith
Emery.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

MARRIED: Madeline Taylor, Newton Highlands, Mass. cHILDREN: Jane
Taylor, Nov. 26, 1931 (m. Allen MacDonald ’50); Robert S. GRranp-
CHILDREN: Stuart A, MacDonald; Philip B, MacDonald.

occupation: Advertising director, Daily News Record.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Fireside Club, Flushing, Long Is-
land; Harvard Business School Club of New York.

WHILE at the Harvard Business School I decided on sales and
advertising as a life’s work. When offered a job, upon gradua-
tion, that combined these two activities, I accepted what I be-
lieved would be a temporary position in the advertising depart-
ment of Daily News Record, the daily newspaper of the textile
industry. In doing so, I violated my previous twin resolves of
keeping away from New York City and from the textile indus-
try, in which my father had been engaged until his death some
years before.

] wanted, however, to marry the girl I had been engaged to
since we were sixteen, and in 1930 a job was a job. Both the job
and the marriage turned out to be successful, and twenty-three
years later they still seem to me to be the best decisions of my life.

Being advertising director of the Daily News Record, the sixty-
year old Fairchild daily, with its nation-wide sales staff of twen-
ty-odd men, has left me no time for outside activities, except for
my share in bringing up the family which, in itself, has been a
full-time job for Madeline and me. I take a modest satisfaction
in the facts that Daily News Record has increased its lineage some
four-fold during my twelve years as advertising director and has
continued to forge ahead during the recent eighteen months of
relative depression in the textile industry; and equally important,
that my daughter, Jane, had the good judgement to marry a Har-
vard man. My son, Robert, a six-foot-one, 190-pound, fifteen-
year-old sophomore at Manhasset High School is still undecided
between Harvard and Princeton, but [’m hoping for the best.

[658] _

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We usually spend our vacations at our summer home at Marsh-
field, Massachusetts, but this year we (Madeline, Robert, and I)
took a combined business and pleasure five-week trip to England.
It did wonders for us all, and I recommend such a trip as per-
fect for developing a boy of high school age. Madeline, being
secretary of her class at Wellesley (1928) is up to her ears in
preparation for her Twenty-fifth Reunion. We expect to be very
busy this June between Wellesley and Cambridge.

ANTHONY OSBORNE LEACH

HOME ADpREss: Riverside Avenue, Riverside, Conn.

sorN: April 13, 1906, Manchester, Mass. parents: Osborne Leach ’96, Alice
Choate Perkins.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

NELSON BORLAND LEE

HOME ADDRESS: 8 the Green, Woodstock, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White Cupboard Inn, Woodstock, Vt.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1906, Westwood, Mass. parents: George Cabot Lee, ’94,
Madeline Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B, 1928.

MarRiED: Mary Flagg, June 6, 1931, Boston, Mass. cuitpren: Nelson Bor-
land, Jr., June 12, 1932; Elisha Flagg, May 12, 1934; Richard Shattuck,
Dec. 29, 1937; John Derby, Sept. 10, 1947; Charles Jackson, Jan. 17, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Elisha Flagg Lee, ’56.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Cabot Lee, Jr., ’21; James Jackson Lee, ’24.

OccUPATION: Innkeeper.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted V.O.C., August, 1942; basic training,
Camp Lee, Va.; officer candidate school, Fort Francis E. Warren, No-
vember, 1942; commissioned second lieutenant, Feb. 19, 1943; assigned
as supply and transportation officer, quartermaster corps K-9, Robinson,
Nebr.; promoted to first lieutenant, November, 1943; detachment com-
mander, quartermaster corps K-9, April, 1944; promoted to captain,
December, 1944; relieved from active duty, November, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Selectmen, Westwood, Mass. 1937-42;
member, 1950~53, chairman, 1952, Board of Trustees, Village of Wood-
stock, Vt.; member Board of Directors, Woodstock Hotel Company,
Inc., since 1950, Woodstock Enterprises, Inc., since 1952.

[ 659 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Vermont; Harvard Club of Boston; Eastern
Dog Club; Woodstock Country Club; Lakota Club; Woodstock Rotary
Club; Teago Grange.

I FINISHED college in February, 1928, with the happy idea of
attending The Sorbonne and then teaching French, but fate de-
cided otherwise. I returned from Europe in the fall, 1928, and
went to work for The Stillwater Worsted Mills in Harrisville,
Rhode Island. From there I went to the Business School for a
year and left to get married. In the fall, 1931, I became asso-
ciated with the firm of Boit, Dalton & Church, insurance, and
came to roost in my native town of Westwood, Massachusetts.
For eleven years I was an insurance broker and got mixed up in
local politics, community funds, and lived the life of the proper
Bostonian.

Feeling my job was not exactly essential, I tried to get a com-
mission in the Naval Aviation Administration program, but was
rejected. I tried the same thing in the Army Air Force but was
turned down because I was an insurance broker. At this point
I began to wonder what was wrong and enlisted in the Volunteer
Officer Training Program. After the army trimmed forty pounds
off they made me a second lieutenant and sent me to a Remount
Post in Nebraska. Here I went to the dogs and stayed there un-
til I was sent to Leavenworth in October, 1945, whence I was
sprung from active duty.

In 1936 we had picked up an abandoned farm in the hills back
of Woodstock, Vermont. We had started it back into cultiva-
tion and when in the spring, 1945, we were offered the adjoining
farm we made the big decision to give up a commuter’s life and
try dairy farming. We started in raising Jerseys, maple syrup,
and two more sons.

In the fall, 1949, we made an offer for The White Cupboard
Inn situated across the street from our “city house.” We tried
to withdraw later, but instead suddenly found ourselves in the
hotel business. It has been a most enjoyable and interesting
experience.

With our roots now well established in Woodstock I have be-
come once more embroiled in local affairs, both business and
political.

The family now consists of five boys. The oldest will be in

[ 660 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the armed services after having one year at Cornell. The second
is a freshman at Harvard, and the third is at Milton Academy.
The last two are just starting their education in Woodstock.

We have managed to get in two trips to England and now plan
a month each spring in Bermuda.

As far as hobbies go, a dairy farm and an inn do not permit
much leisure time. We formerly raised and exhibited Golden
Retrievers. We have kept Morgan Horses at the farm and
the riding in and around Woodstock is unsurpassed. The fishing
and shooting are also excellent.

All in all it’s a wonderful life in the hills of Vermont.

-+kRAYMOND FORBES LEONARD

BorN: Oct. 8, 1907, Brockton, Mass. parents: Ernest Ezekiel Leonard, Ida
May Gibbs.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.C.P., 1931.

MARRIED: Eleanor Clark, Oct. 11, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. cHitpren: Richard
F., Feb. 14, 1933; Frances A., Jan. 1, 1936.

pieD: Aug. 9, 1948, Philadelphia, Pa.

wivow: Mrs, Raymond F. Leonard, 3235 W. Penn St., Philadelphia, Pa.

THREE years after receiving his A.B. degree at Harvard, Ray-
mond Forbes Leonard was awarded a further degree in City
Planning. There followed two years of work in New York and
in Connecticut until in 1933 he joined the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority as a member of its planning staff. In 1937 he accepted a
position as planning technician in charge of a National Resources
Committee, covering six states, but left after three years to be-
come head of Urban Community Relations for the Tennessee
Valley Authority. Shortly before his death Leonard was made
chief of the City Planning Commission’s Land Planning Division
and then executive director of the Commission.

In Philadelphia, according to the New York Times, Leonard
was successful in “developing a basic plan for a city expressway
system, preparation of an airport program for the Philadelphia-
Camden area and supervision of plans which led to the acquisi-
tion of more than fifty new municipal recreation sites.” He
published articles in technical periodicals and collaborated on a

[ 661]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

“Baltimore-Washington-Annapolis” report. Among his member-
ships were the American Institute of Planners, the American
Society of Planning Officials, the Engineers Club, and the Harvard
Club of Philadelphia. He was survived by his wife, a son, and a
daughter.

THOMAS DIMOCK LEONARD, JR.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 155 W. 56th St., New York 19, N. Y.
BORN: July 31, 1903, Staten Island, N. Y. parents: Thomas Dimock Leon-
ard, Lucy Moore Norton.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.
occuPATION: Photographer.
LEONARD sent the Secretary an article reprinted from Photo
Arts in lieu of an autobiography. It states, in part: “Tom Leon-
ard is one of this country’s outstanding photographers of indus-
trial and architectural subjects. His studio on New York’s West
56th Street is seldom active; most of Leonard’s work is done out-
doors on location .. . Tom Leonard sees his subject in terms
of mass and line, light and shade. These are the important com-
ponents and their photographic inter-relationship determines the
outcome of the picture... Leonard has an artist’s eye, and sel-
dom finds it necessary to crop the finished print at all. So careful
is his original composition, that the bottom edge of his ground
glass in the 5 x 7 camera is slightly masked to match exactly the
final print proportions he prefers. Leonard’s versatility with his
somewhat cumbersome 5 x 7 Deardorf view camera is surpris-
ing ... he has become convinced that, with the possible excep-
tion of fast candid work, almost any shot available with the re-
flex can be taken with the view camera .. . Leonard himself does
every bit of his darkroom work. Development is largely standard-
ized. On his printing, however, every enlargement is preceded
by a careful test strip. From it, an approximate exposure is
selected for a full sized test. This print is scrutinized to determine
what must be done to achieve the nearly-flawless print quality
characteristic of Tom Leonard’s work. Certain adjustments of
exposure are set in this stage. Only at this point does Leonard
begin to see the original idea taking shape on paper. His crisp
blacks, clean greys, and clear whites are the result of the careful

[ 662 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

technical work that goes into the making of each of his prints.
His work draws a clear simple line from exposure on location to
publication in this country’s leading magazines and journals.”

WILLIAM ARMAND LESSA

HOME ADDRESS: 1000 Manning Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles 24,
Calif.

porn: March 3, 1908, Newark, N. J. parents: Luigi Lessa, Alessandrina
Menichella.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Newark, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B, 1928; A.M. (Univ. of Chicago),
1941; PH.D. (ibid.), 1947.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Anthropologist, assistant professor of anthropology.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted into Army as private, Aug. 12, 1942;
commissioned second lieutenant, Corps of Military Police, April 9, 1943;
Occupational Police School, Fort Custer, April-May, 1942; Civil Affairs
Officer in Allied Milicary Government, attached to British Eighth
Army, North Africa and Italy, 1943-45, promoted captain, April 7,
1945; honorably discharged Nov. 5, 1945; received African-Furopean
Theatre ribbon (with five battle stars), Victory ribbon, and Bronze
Star Medal.

OFFICES HELD: President, Anthropology Club, University of Chicago, 1939-
40; secretary-treasurer, Central States Branch of the American An-
thropological Association, 1946-47; secretary, American Anthropological
Association, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Ameri-
can Association of Physical Anthropologists; Society for Applied An-
thropology; Southwestern Anthropological Association; Harvard Club
of Southern California; Sigma Xi Scientific Fraternity; Society for the
History of Medical Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Monographs, articles, and book reviews in Quarterly Review
of Biology, American Anthropologist, American Journal of Physical
Anthropology, Human Organization, Journal of American Folklore,
Scientific Monthly; book pending, The Ethnography of Ulithi Atoll.

THE pleas, the cajolery, and the goads (three) which were neces-
sary to get me to write this account of my life during the past
quarter century convince me that I should never be able to con-
front a Saint Peter, and might do well, especially since I am an
anthropologist, to take refuge in some primitive religious cult
where entry into the afterworld is direct and unencumbered with

[ 663 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

the past. Perhaps these months of procrastination reflect what
most of us dread to face—an apologia pro mea vita. Maybe
that’s why in the end we find escape in supposedly humorous ac-
counts of ourselves.

After preparing for and being accepted into medical school I
found that the spell of Earnest Hooton and his apes had been
too much, so on being graduated I resolved to go into anthro-
pology. It took ten years to get back to do graduate work (Chi-
cago) in this field, but in the meantime I did some research in
Hawaii and China, I liked Hawaii so much that I returned to
live there for several years. .

When the war came the Army exercised its prerogative as a
beautiful bungler of talents and made me a private in the Corps
of Military Police. It finally discovered that I had hidden vir-
tues and made me an officer, going so far as to send me to a school
for military government. But despite my protests that I could
be of most use in the Pacific I ended up as a civil affairs officer in
Italy. Luckily I was assigned to a “spearhead” group of British
and American officers attached to Montgomery’s Eighth Army
and was able to operate almost autonomously in getting numer-
ous front-line villages and towns back on their feet. My friends
back home read A Bell for Adano and knowingly drew their own
erroneous conclusions, While I was not the prototype for Major
Joppolo, who gave his people a bell, I did give mine enough
flour to make some spaghetti and water to flush their toilets.
They acted grateful. Every so often, to keep life from becom-
ing too serene, some absent-minded liaison officer would order
me to a town still being disputed by the Germans. As “governa-
tore” I would then have no subjects to govern; they would all
be hiding out in cellars or the woods. I guess my crowning
achievement was Venice. They sent me rushing there on an hour’s
notice, my chief qualification being that I seemed to be the only
AMG officer available who could catch up with the advancing
New Zealand armoured column (I had a fast little truck), find
the place in the dark (I had been in Venice for a day in 1933),
and not get himself shot by trigger-happy partisans (I spoke
Italian). I ran the city for nine delirious days, but the only solid
accomplishment I can recall was that I fixed the gondola prices

[ 664 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in an effort to protect the good citizens from the inrushing Brit-
ish and American “swanners.”

I must have taken my job seriously. Once I got a letter from
the AMG officer saying it was all right for me personally to ar-
rest people, and to prosecute them, and to sentence them, but

lease would I refrain from doing all three. Any combination
of two would be enough. I never had the heart to tell him that
once in a while when defense lawyers were confused or inept I
helped by giving advice for the benefit of their clients. One
thing I did get out of the war was a doctoral dissertation on the
disintegration and reintegration of the Italian community, but as
I look back I see it as a fine bit of opportunism not worth in-
flicting on the academic world.

T like it here in Los Angeles. The local campus of the Univer-
sity of California is young and vigorous, and I have resisted the
call of other institutions. Each summer I usually go into the High
Sierra to camp, that being my main hobby. For a bachelor be-
latedly dedicated to sprouting roots I do not, however, do so
well, The natives of Ulithi Atoll, 6,000 miles away, have twice
lured me there, and every so often I work on an Indian reserva-
tion. I have a sabbatical coming up and plan either to go to
Europe or New Guinea, but may instead end right here, trying
to clean up the unfinished work of my misspent youth. There
are movie studios nearby and a few odd jobs have turned up.
Once for three months I was a technical adviser on a big-budget
South-Sea island musical, but they have been afraid to release it,
it's so bad. When we need a few laughs at a party I can usually
liven things up by narrating from my incredible store of anec-
dotes,

Harvard is an increasingly wonderful memory and I keenly
regret that as of this writing it looks as if pressure of work will
keep me from being at the Reunion. Perhaps it’s just as well. I
can get sickeningly sentimental.

LEON JUDAS LEVENSON

HOME Appress: 78 Kilsyth Rd., Brighton, Mass.
OFFICE ADpDREss; American Theatres Corp., 646 Washington St., Boston 11,

Mass.
[ 665 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

BORN: June 29, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Copel Levenson, Sarah Carp.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Marion Saphir, June 4, 1950, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Walter Sabin Levenson, ‘19, M.p., '22 (deceased) ; George
Sidney Levenson, ’20.

occupation: Motion-picture theatre executive.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted as private, Army Air Forces, Feb. 26,
1943; basic training, Keesler Field, Miss.; stationed at Hamilton Field,
Calif., Base Contracting and Purchasing Office; discharged as staff ser-
geant, Sept. 22, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Chapter head, Kappa Nu Fraternity, 1927-28; president, Na-
tional Council of Jewish Juniors, 1937-38; vice-president, Sentry Lodge,
B'nai B'rith, 1938-39; member Board of Directors, Boston Center for
Adult Education, 1950-54, Brookline-Brighton Community Center, 1950-
553 civic councillor-at-large, New Boston Committee, 1951-54; national
chairman, Concessions Committee, Theatre Owners of America, Inc.,

1953:
MEMBER OF: Variety Clubs International, New England Confectioners Club;
National Confectioners Association, American Veterans Committee;

Boston Aid to the Blind.

AFTER concentrating in economics in the special field of money
and banking, and spending four years in a Boston bank, I shifted
to the motion-picture business in 1932, and I am still associated
with the same group, although our name has changed from Para-
mount Publix to M & P Theatres to American Theatres Cor-
poration, with the last name banner still waving over fifty
theatres.

Since 1937, except for time out for service with the Army Air
Forces, my efforts have been expended more in the field of sales
inside the theatre rather than operation of the theatres. This so-
called Miscellaneous Income Department has shown a steady
growth in face of all kinds of adverse conditions, and at the
present time is the perfect example of “the little tail wagging
the big dog.” Popcorn was the greatest thing to hit the motion-
picture industry since the advent of talking pictures.

Along the way I have found time to enjoy a number of sight-
seeing trips, spaced about two years apart, which took in such in-
teresting places as Cuba, Nassau, Jamaica, Panama, Guatemala,
Mexico; and the list of places I hope yet to visit is much longer.

For many years my hobby has been backstage work for ama-
teur performances. I find great relaxation in and get a big kick

[ 666 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

out of pulling curtains, shooting lights, and cueing entrances
and exits. While stage managing an amateur musical comedy in
1949, | met Marion, who was the star singer in the show. We
were married in June of 1950 — which almost makes me the last
bridegroom in the Class. ,

I am also a philuminist, which will give you philatelists some-
thing to think about. My collection contains only items picked up
at places that I have visited personally.

EUGENE ALFRED LEVINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 27 W. 72nd St., New York 23, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 S. La Salle St., Chicago 3, Ill.
BorN: March 20, 1907, Seymour, Texas. parents: Abraham S. Levinson,

Jennie Rachel Miller.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Seattle, Wash.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: SB. cum laude, 1928, LL.B. (Columbia

Univ.), 1933.

UNMARRIED.
HARVARD BROTHER: Jack Jerome Levinson, LL.B., ’27.
OccUPATION: Secretary, company counsel, Consolidated Grocers Corporation.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army Air Forces (procurement work, princi-
pally at aircraft plants in Texas); lieutenant colonel, April 28, 1942-
March 31, 1946; letter of commendation from commanding officer.
MEMBER OF: Bar of State of New York, State of Illinois; Chicago Bar Asso-
Clation. .
MY LIFE since graduation has been varied and has afforded me
the Opportunity of experiencing the governmental, professional,
and business worlds. From 1928 to 1932 I was in Wall Street
in the investment banking business, and “getting along nicely” as
they say. Then came the 1932 Depression (over twenty years
ago but still vivid in my memory). I left investment banking
and entered Columbia Law School from which I graduated in
1935 and then became a member of the New York Bar.

In September, 1935, I joined the staff of the General Counsel’s
office of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington,
D. C, to regulate my former investment banking associates,
and also become steeped in the New Deal philosophy. Having
become “expert” in matters S. E. C. and desirous of tasting the
fruits or, more accurately, experiencing the problems and chal-
lenges of being a downtown New York lawyer, in 1937 I became

[ 657 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

associated with the law firm of Cook, Nathan, Lehman & Green-
man, 20 Pine Street, New York City.

My career as a downtown New York lawyer was challenging
and I found the lawyer's life quite to my liking in some measure
because of the fine associates I had, and even though the econom- .
ic rewards were not as great as those achieved by the clients rep-
resented. Not unlike many others, I found my legal career in-
terrupted by World War II. In April, 1942, I joined the Army
Air Forces as a first lieutenant, doing procurement work, as a
contracting officer, principally at aircraft plants in Texas. At
the time of my separation from the Army Air Forces, I was a
lieutenant colonel, a rank that seemingly impresses a few per-
sons, but unfortunately sometimes not the “right” persons.

Except for about a year and a half with my old law firm and
six months with the Antitrust Division of the Department of Jus-
tice, Washington, D. C., since my return from the Army I have
been associated with Consolidated Grocers Corporation of Chi-
cago, Illinois, as secretary and company counsel. My work-a-
day activities there, while most varied, seem to have to be per-
formed under pressure to the theme-song of the food industry —
“turnover and narrow profit margin.” As a lawyer in a national
company my problems seem always to be in the twilight zone
of business and law, and sometimes I wonder whether I am a
lawyer or a business executive.

FREDRICK HERBST LEVIS

HOME ADDRESS: 328 N. Meramec, Clayton 5, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 344 Pierce Bldg., St. Louis 2, Mo.

BORN: June 9, 1907, St. Louis, Mo. parents: George Senger Levis, Adele
Herbst.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

Marnigp: Marjorie Grinnell, March 27, 1939, New York, N. Y. cHILDREN:
John Grinnell, Oct. 10, 1942; Fredrick Herbst, Jr., Nov. 2, 1947-

OccuPATION: Insurance; partner, Kaufman-Wise Insurance Agency.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted into Army in November, 1942; grad-
uated from the Infantry School, Ft. Benning, July, 1943; separated as
first lieutenant, Infantry, April, 1946.

[ 668 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Harvard Club of St. Louis; president, St. Louis
Country Day School Alumni Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of St. Louis; St. Charles Club.

I WENT to Europe for the summer right after graduating.
That fall I entered the investment business with Stix and Com-
pany of St. Louis, becoming a partner in 1937. I was married in
March of 1939. In October of 1942, our first son was born and the
following month, I enlisted in the Army. I received my commis-
sion at Fort Benning, Georgia, as a second lieutenant in Infantry.
I was too old to be a line officer and therefore spent my army
career instructing at various posts in the South.

I returned to civilian life in March, 1946. In November, 1947,
our second son was born, which completes our family. In De-
cember of 1948, I decided to change businesses and I joined a
general insurance agency as a broker and in May, 1952, I was
made a partner. At the present moment I am very busy making
insurance a career.

I have always been very interested in various civic affairs and
participated in many charity endeavors. I have travelled quite
extensively in the United States as well as Canada and the West
Indies, and we hope to do much more in the future.

BENJAMIN BERNARD LEVY

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Gammons Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rogers Corp., Goodyear, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1907, Beverly, Mass, parents: Isaac Levy, Fannie Felz,

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass. |

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

MarRIED: Shirley Rome, Nov. 10, 1935, Bridgeport, Conn. CHILDREN:
Deborah, April 21, 1938; Frederick R., Sept. 18, 1945.

occUPATION: Sales manager, in charge of all sales activities, Rogers Corpora-
tion, manufacturers of specialty fibers and plastics.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Rejected by Navy, became seaman 3/c, Coast
Guard Temporary Reserve during most of war; patrolled Boston Harbor
twelve hours a week.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Temple Israel Brotherhood, 1946-50, Temple Shalom,
Newton, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club.

AFTER graduation I accepted a job as a chemist in a tannery
where fantastic earning opportunities, for those days, were in-
dicated. Progress, in title, was rapid, but the pay lagged—a

[ 669 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

usual occurrence in many companies that feel that title is more
important than income. I hit out on my own as a manufacturers’
representative to the shoe field. During this period I met, on a
blind date at Wellesley, a girl whom I married in November, 1935.
Married life with all of its adjustments has been most gratifying
and rewarding, especially with a daughter and son who afford us
a great deal of pleasure.

In 1938, in anticipation of half-ownership, once a deficit was
liquidated, I became sales manager of one company I represented.
My golden opportunity literally went up in smoke in 1944, shortly
after we got into the black. My present employer, wanting to
get into the manufacture of fibrous products for the shoe indus-
try, came looking for me and in short order we came to an agree-
ment and I was made manager of the shoe products division. I
made progress in this job so that in 1951 1 was made sales man-
ager of all divisions of the company. Perhaps the Harvard influ-
ence helped in my promotion because our marketing consultant,
a Harvard ’21 man, recommended me for the job. Promotions, I
find, don’t make work easier, but increase the load more than
I ever contemplated. I am charged with increasing our volume
50% in the next five years.

I travel extensively all over the country promoting our prod-
ucts to a wide variety of industries. The results are gratifying,
but the constant grind has taken me away from my family and
the small amount of communal work which I enjoy so much.
With hope springing eternal, I am looking forward to the day
when the pressure will ease and I can lead a more normal life.

GOSTA MINDOR LEWANDER

HOME apprEss: 54 Magnolia Drive, Dobbs Ferry, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 48 W. 38th St, New York 18, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1904, Hybo, Sweden. parents: Oscar Mindor Lewander,
Karin Sophia Backstrom, -

PREPARED AT: Umea Hogre Allmana Laroverk, Sweden.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MargigD: Margaret Castleton, Sept. 19, 1926, North Attleboro, Mass. cuiL-
pren: Elizabeth Anne, May 27, 1931; Christine Mabel, June 15, 1944.

occupation: Advertising manager, Moore Publishing Company.

[ 670 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, since 1948, chairman Finance Committee, since
1949, Zion Episcopal Church; trustee, vice-president, Pathfinder, 1937-
39; president, Men’s Club, 1936-37.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

THIS business of selecting items from over 9,000 yesterdays and
highlighting your life’s events in a few paragraphs really presents
a problem. I probably never would have been asked to do this
if | had not walked along Charles River one day many years ago.
You see in 1923 I was ignorant of the existence of Harvard, since
the first eighteen years of my life were spent beyond the Arctic
Circle. It was not Harvard as an institute of higher learning that
first attracted me; it was Harvard, owner and operator of Weld
Boat House, which really fascinated me. The sight of broad
comps, narrow comps, and singles which were carried out of this
boat house and rowed by students on the Charles, put a strange
yen in me. More than anything else I wanted to row. And the
only way to get a boat out of Weld’s, I was told, was to be a stu-
dent at Harvard. That’s how I first started to think about going
to Harvard.

Despite the warning of one of my college advisers that I was
“too honest” (or maybe he meant that I was “too naive”) to be
in advertising, I entered this business in 1928 and have been there
ever since. At J. Walter Thompson Company, where I began
my business career, I met so many stimulating and first-rate peo-
ple that I found the transition from Harvard to business most ex-
citing. No professor, doctor, or business man I had ever met dis-
played a higher professional and personal integrity than Stanley
Resor, the president of this company. Obviously, my adviser
had overlooked the fact that in the advertising business integrity
is as much of an ingredient of success as in any other business.

In previous class reports I have reported some of the various
functions I have filled. Suffice it here to say that I have divided
my time about equally in the last twenty-four years between
working for an advertising agency and for a publication (ad-
vertising end). I’ve met and talked with men in various indus-
tries — food, drug and cosmetic, automotive, electrical, radio,
television, motion picture, magazine, newspaper, trade paper,
and other industries. I’ve enjoyed dealing with various kinds of
executives, learning something about their marketing problems,

[671 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

and now and then advancing a small contribution toward their
solution.

In April, 1935, we bought an old house in Dobbs Ferry, New
York, which lies twenty-two miles up the Hudson River from
New York City. We modernized it and have stayed there all
this time, since we do get a sweeping view of the Hudson and
of the country-side of New Jersey. After a hot summer day in
the city I find it most relaxing to come home and dine under the
shade of our Tulip tree. Whenever we have steak on the menu,
I wheel out a portable charcoal broiler from the play-room and
appoint myself chef. If you have never inhaled the aroma of
burning charcoal searing a juicy steak, while the glow of a martini
is warming your insides, you have really missed something!

But living in Dobbs Ferry also means pulling up weeds, mow-
ing the lawn, and cutting 190 feet of hedge. In the really hot
weather a handy man relieves me of these duties. In spring and
fall, however, I like to do the chores myself.

For recreation I play backgammon at the Harvard Club, bridge
on the commuter’s train, and party bridge with my wife. Then
there is golf, swimming, and hiking —none of which I pursue
too vigorously. Occasionally I paint a picture (oils), write, and
take part in various community affairs.

With Margaret heading up the Philanthropic committee for
the Woman’s Club, working for the Red Cross, and taking part
in numerous charity drives, we are really involved in a lot of local
activities. Besides, I am a vestryman for the church and chairman
of the Finance Committee. Still we seem to have time for vari-
ous adult courses, offered by the local high school. That’s how
I learned to paint.

Anne, my eldest daughter, born in Stockholm while we were
abroad for fourteen months, whizzed through high school and
college in six years. She is now in the Public Relations Depart-
ment of the American Gas Association. Christine, aged eight, is
doing well and looking forward to a Toni doll for Christmas.

Hope to see you at the Twenty-fifth Reunion — especially
some of you fellows I have not seen since graduation!

[ 672 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRISON LEWIS

HOME ADDRESS: 3225 Coquelin Terr., Chevy Chase, Md.

oFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington, D. C.

porN: Nov. 4, 1905, Dallas, Texas. parents: Benjamin Harrison Lewis,
Martha Valentine Ellis.

prEPARED AT: Santa Monica High School, Santa Monica, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928(29).

MARRIED: Hilda Bruhm, May 5, 1937, Leipzig, Germany. cHmpren: Harrison
Torick, March 31, 1940; Robert Cabell, May 26, 1949.

occuPATION: Foreign Service of United States; International Economist;
Deputy Officer in charge Economic Section, Chinese Affairs Office.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT PoOsT: Secretary of Legation, Bern, Switzerland.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Washington, D. C.

I ATTENDED Heidelberg University in the summer of 1928
and, after a tour of Europe, returned home at the end of the
year. My mind was made up to go into the Foreign Service of
the United States but my father asked me to spend a year in his
business, so I was a realtor in Beverly Hills, California, until the
fall of 1929. I went to Washington, D. C., to attend Crawford’s
school to prepare for the entrance exams for the Foreign Service.
My first post was in May, 1930, at Nagoles, Mexico. The follow-
ing November I was brought back to the Foreign Service School
in the Department of State and had a look in on the capital’s so-
cial season. oe

The next spring five of us set off for the Far East. My post
was Singapore, where I stayed until 1935; but during that time
I had several long trips throughout Indonesia, Siam, Indo-China,
and India, and took a trip around the world on home leave. On
my trip to Indo-China, I had the good luck to shoot a ten-foot
tiger.

My next post was Leipzig, Germany, where I met my wife
who was attending the State Academy of Art. We married in
May, 1937, and had a honeymoon home leave, driving across the
Northwest to reach California. |

The next fall we were transferred to Calcutta and set up our
first household. Following the custom, we supported a staff of
ten servants and enjoyed the life of the Sahib, With all the heat,
we enjoyed the vivid beauty of India and had some fine trips.
We went houseboating in Kashmir, waded in the reflecting pools

[ 673 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

of the Taj Mahal, and looked out upon Mt. Everest from Dar-
jecling. Our son, Jack, was born in Calcutta in the spring of
1940.

That summer I was brought back for a year’s study at the
School of Social Sciences, University of Chicago. It being over
a decade since college days, it required good hard study of twelve
hours a day to keep up with the schedule. Social activities ceased
to exist except for Saturday nights when my wife and I became
steady patrons at a Smorgasbord restaurant and Sunday after-
noon when we visited Chicago’s museums.

In that fatal month of December, 1941, I was on my way
alone to Berlin and had reached Madrid by the 7th. The next
day I was detailed to Bern, Switzerland, where I remained
throughout the war. My wife and son could finally join me in
April, 1945, and we stayed on there for another two years, by
which time 1 was practically a Swiss cheese.

After home leave in the spring of 1947, I was assigned to
Budapest, Hungary, as Commercial Attache, and we lived an
exciting and emotional year there observing the Communists
taking over. Shortly after my arrival there, | was left in charge
one Saturday when word came that an American citizen had been
arrested for slandering the Communists. I drove down to a vil-
lage jail to see him and that night, after he had been sent up to
the jail in Budapest, I tried to have him placed in my custody as
representative of an occupying power. While waiting for him
in the jail, his keepers tried to slip him out to the dreaded An-
draszy Ut 60. There was a scuffle outside; his wife, who was
waiting for me, called my name. I ran outside, found the prisoner
flat on his back in the back of my car. I had only to get in, fold
his legs inside, tell the driver to take off and the prisoner was in
my custody, The Communists protested violently in the follow-

ing days and ten months later demanded my recall as persona
non grata, but with the Hungarians the episode established a spe-
cial bond.

The following year I served in the Legation at Vienna. We
lived in a lovely house by the Vienna woods, enjoyed the opera,
and the baroque beauty of the city, and tried to keep out of the

way of the Russian occupation forces. In May, 1949, our second
son was born.

| 674 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After a Christmas home leave in California, I was assigned’ in
January, 1950, to the United States Mission to the United Na-
tions in New York, where I was in charge of the Economic and
Social Section. We enjoyed living at Great Neck and having
our own country about us. Life at Lake Success was often an
incredible fantasy, with the antics of Malik and the screeching
of Chinese Communist Wu.

In the summer of 1951, I was transferred to the Department of
State in Washington, D. C., to serve in the economic section of
the Chinese Affairs office, We live in Chevy Chase, Maryland,
without servants, but with dishwasher, garbage disposal, and all
the other amenities of the good but not gaudy American life.
Our kids love the neighborhood and we'll be sorry to go, but
our time is up next year and we'll be off for foreign fields again.

JEROME SIDNEY LIEBERMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 4730 N. Woodburn St., Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Milprint, Inc., Milwaukee, Wis.

BoRN: Aug. 21, 1906, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Jerome Sidney Lieberman,
Nell Lyon.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

MarRiED: Eleanor Clara Tulin, April 6, 1929, New York, N. Y.

occuPaTION: Financial executive, Milprint, Inc., packaging materials, print-
ing, and lithography.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Office of Price Administration, 1942-47; re-
gional representative in New York, 1942-44; assistant price executive,
price executive, and assistant director, Consumer Goods Division, Wash-

ington, 1944-47.

UNTIL the beginning of World War II my business life was
spent primarily in Wall Street with various Stock Exchange
firms. My pursuits were analytical and economic. It is safe to
say that my views politically were far to the left of those of
my associates, but equally far to the right of the convictions of
my liberal friends.

Just prior to Pearl Harbor, I had about completed arrange-
ments to go with the War Production Board in Washington.
The coming of the war and my wife’s illness necessitated a shift
to OPA in New York. This shift ultimately led me to Washing-

[ 675]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ton anyway, where for three years I found myself arguing about
prices with someone: either my colleagues, individuals seeking
special consideration, or members of Congressional committees.
This phase of my life was an extremely busy and almost exciting
one and left me with practical evidence to reinforce the convic-
tion gained in Economics 7b that man is not omniscient enough
to control completely the productive process by governmental
means.

_ After returning to New York for a relatively short time, dur-
ing which I did some rather interesting work for the Anglo-
American Council on Productivity, I took my present position
with Milprint, Inc. in Milwaukee. Geographically this move
meant for me a return to my native Middle West after an absence
(except for visits, of course) of over twenty years, and for my
Connecticut-born wife a complete readjustment.

My wife is presently engaged in seeing to it that the readjust-
ment will not be one-sided as, through the League of Women
Voters, she has thrown herself into a Wisconsin reapportionment
battle that is currently raging hereabouts. My guess is that the
State of Wisconsin will be reapportioned on a population basis
(the League’s position).

Business-wise my new association has been an extremely happy
one, as I find myself among a group of very hard-working,
decently motivated executives in the fast-moving, rapidly-grow-
ing, highly competitive flexible packaging industry. It appears
that there it requires a more conscious effort to attain a mildly
intellectual level than was the case in the Fast, but it is not im-
possible,

My being forced to take inventory of a quarter-century of
my life was in one sense a very discouraging experience. On the
other hand, it brought home to me the fact that I have been
fortunate in having had a wide range of diversity in my business
activities and in accumulating many men of good will as friends
along the way. :

[ 676 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANIEL BOND LINSCOTT

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Tidd Ave., Woburn, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Employer’s Group, 110 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

porn: March 21, 1905, Woburn, Mass. parents: Percy William Linscott,
Grace Bond.

prePARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1927-1928.

marriED: Wildie Bradley, Dec. 23, 1936, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: Marah,
Nov. 22, 1937; Cyrus, Feb. 10, 1940.

occuPaTION: Insurance; superintendent, home office compensation and lia-
bility department, Employer’s Group.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Community Fund; chairman, Salvation Army, seven
years; member, City Council, Woburn, Republican City Committee.

BUILT freight cars in Pittsburgh, raised bananas in Central
America, construction work here and there, and finally into the
insurance business. The last has taken me all over the country
and shortly before and during the war to the West Indies, South
America, and Africa.

I dabbled in politics at the local level long enough to lose con-
fidence in the integrity of most politicians. My political and so-
cial convictions are not completely jelled. There seem to be fail-
ures and faults in the political systems of any party. Socially and
economically I feel there is a definite trend towards the elimina-
tion of caste and power which in the long run may be detrimental
to humanity.

I suppose my family life is normal. We all speak to each other
at least once a week. Mrs. Linscott is active in church and charita-
ble affairs. We are about to face the problem of higher education
for the children. Our hobbies are mutual, fishing for relaxation
away from home, raising trees and shrubs at home where we have
about four acres allowing lots of room for landscaping. Business
takes me around this country. Last year Mrs. Linscott and I did
England, Denmark, Sweden, and France. This only gave her ideas
for further travel.

+ JOHN JAMES LISTON

BORN: Aug. 1, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Patrick Henry Liston, Ann

Marie Hartney. ;
PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

[ 677 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1928,
DIED: Jan. 22, 1952, Waltham, Mass.

A TEACHER of English at Watertown High School for twenty
years, John James Liston spent his fourth year at Harvard in
the Graduate School of Education. He wrote articles and books,
including a dictionary, on the game of bridge and was well known
as an authority on the subject, He resided for many years in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.

JOHN WALTON LIVERMORE

HOME Appress: West Redding, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 E. 54th St., Apt. 11B, New York 22, N. Y.

porn: Feb. 28, 1903, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: John R. Livermore, Jose-
phine Whitney Brooks.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

marRieD: Cornelia Brady Kip, Sept. 16, 1930, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Investments and real estate (for self).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, two years, 7th Regiment, New York
State Guard, “K” Company.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, Harvard Club; New York Zoological
Society (patron); Cooper Ornithological Society; Avicultural Society
of America; Avicultural Society of England; Levern Trust of England
(life member) ; American Ornithological Society.

SINCE 1939 we have acquired a farm at West Redding, Connec-
ticut. On it is one of the best waterfowl collections in the world.
This consists of over forty varieties of rare ducks, swans, and
geese; also a small collection of pheasants, doves, and other rare
American and foreign birds from all over the world. Included
among these are — Rheas! Most of these take the severe north-
ern winters. A few have to be put indoors in the winter.

As a result of my interest in birds we are attending the meet-
ing of the International Union for the Protection of Nature and
La Sociedad Venezolana de Ciencias Naturales in Caracas this
September! This visit will include two field trips and on our own
a trip by plane to Angel Falls, the largest waterfall in the world,
which was discovered in 1935 in Venezuela.

[678].

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS WILSON LLOYD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Hook Road, Katonah, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jonas & Naumburg Corp., 516 W. 35th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1905, Short Hills, N. J. parents: Thomas Wilson Lloyd,
Elizabeth Jewett. mo -

prREPARFD AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

marrieD: Eleanor Stanton Whitney, Sept. 26, 1931, Rumson, N. J. cHitpren:
Eleanor Duane, Dec. 6, 1932; Sarah McAllister, April 1, 1935; Thomas
Wilson, 3d, Nov. 1, 1937; Whitney, Jan., 1942.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

HENRY DYER LOCKE

HOME AppREss: 10 Winthrop Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 175 Berkeley St., Boston 16, Mass.

Born: April 29, 1906, Watertown, Mass. parents: William Lorenzo Locke,
Sarah A. Dyer.

PREPARED AT; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1928; A.M., 1932; PH.D.
1934.

marRigeD: Alice Monk, Oct. 18, 1930, Watertown, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy
Jane, Jan. 6, 1932; William Wesley, April 13, 1935.

occuPATION: Casualty insurance, vice-president, research and plarming, Lib-
erty Mutual Insurance Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Massachusetts State Guard, Nov. 20, 1942-Dec.
15, 1944.

OFFICES HELD: President, Boston Chapter, American Statistical Association,
1948-49; treasurer, Unitarian Society of Wellesley Hills, 1949-52.

MEMBER OF: American Economics Association; American Statistical Asso-
Clation.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers in various editions, Proceedings, Insurance Accounting
and Statistical Association, also Proceedings, Mutual Insurance Advisory
Association.

MY PRIMARY achievement in four years as an undergraduate
was an awakening to the purpose, scope, and methodology of eco-
nomics. By June, 1928, I had high enthusiasms that Marshall's
“Principles” offered acceptable solutions to fundamental social
problems, and to my immediate personal problem of making a
reasonable living.

[ 679 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

The years 1929 and 1930 proved the Jatter enthusiasms unac-
ceptable in the employment markets but reinforced the former.
Encouraged by Professors Taussig and Burbank, I returned to
Harvard, having been promised financial support if I could attain
a rank within “the first handful” of graduate students. How
many could they crowd into “the first handful”? That ques-
tion was crucial at the time and remains intriguing. At any
event, I was fortunate enough to be appointed instructor in eco-
nomics and tutor in the Division of History, Government, and
Economics. Graduate work and teaching culminated in the es-
sential thesis— mine was strongly implemented with statistics
— and the Ph.D. in 1934.

Circumstances had convinced me that practical statistical work
would strengthen my background and had created the friendly
interest of Professor J. D, Black. Result; my introduction to the
Liberty Mutual Insurance Company. Introduction was fol-
lowed by indoctrination and then by an increasing sense of re-
sponsibility to the company and of the company’s responsibility
to the public, a

Four million workers rely on Liberty’s resources to provide
them with medical care and to relieve financial loss resulting from
injury or disease caused by occupational accidents. This makes
ours one of the most dramatic and human of all businesses. When
the nitrate-laden freighter Grandcamp exploded at Texas City the
blast caused injury or death to 800 employees of our policy-hold-
ers. When you heard about the sabotaged plane that crashed in
India killing American press correspondents, or about construc-
tion workers pinned beneath a “Euclid” overturned in Thule,
we were already paying compensation benefits to their depend-
ents. Fortunately most of the people we protect are on produc-
tion lines or at work benches and—largely as a result of the
continued emphasis casualty insurance has placed on loss preven-
tion — factories today are generally safer than the home.

Nearly a million policyholders find it possible to sleep at night
because they are protected from fire, law-suit, burglary, or other
loss by Liberty Mutual. Owned exclusively by these policyhold-
ers, the company is an excellent example of enlightened self-inter-
est producing worthy “human” values. within the competitive
enterprise system. .

[ 680 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It follows that my belief in the underlying validity of the
tenets of the classical economists remains firm— despite de-
pression, “New Deal,” the ravages of a horrible war, and the en-
suing inflation. I even have hope that the world can understand
and apply them in the years ahead. Religious conviction is nec-
essary for such confidence. :

Good fortune was mine when I selected Harvard, chose to
study economics, and to work for Liberty Mutual. My best
good fortune of all is my family. When you read this, if all goes
well, Nancy will have graduated from Wheaton College and Bill
will have entered his senior year at Middlesex. Hobbies are ex-
clusively a result of family activities: a modest bit of skiing, hik-
ing over the peaks of the White Mountains, racing a Herreshoff-
12 on Sundays in July and August. If you will bear in mind that
Middlesex sports require a lot of watching, that I manicure a
lawn and cultivate a garden, you will conclude correctly that
dull moments are never a problem.

HARRY LEO LODISH

HOME ADDRESS: 4686 Liberty Rd., South Euclid, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 660 Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: May 5, 1907, Teteiv, Russia. parents: Hyman Lodish, Rebecca Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1928; LL.B. 1931.

MarrigD: Naoma Lipkowitz, April 24, 1938, Cleveland, Ohio. cHILDREN:
Lawrence Allan, April 16, 1941; Ruth, March 19, 1943; Jules Roy, March
3, 1945; Abigail, Oct. 22, 1947; Judith, Nov. 1, 1949; Alvin David, Dec.
30, 195%.

OCCUPATION: Industrial relations manager for Industrial Rayon Corporation,
Cleveland.

MEMBER OF: American Management Association; Council On World Affairs;
Ohio Chamber of Commerce; B'nai B’rith; Boy Scouts of America;
National Congress of Parents and Teachers, Cleveland Chamber of Com-
merce; Y.M.C.A.; Mid Day Club.

GRADUATION from Law School in 1931 was a typical “born
thirty years too soon or too late or something.” Not only was
there no work to be had for a newcomer in the profession, but
well-established lawyers were “crying the blues.” I took the
Ohio State Bar examination early in 1932 and started to scratch
around for a livelihood. Occasionally, at the start, some lawyer

[ 681 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

or law firm in Cleveland would have a particularly challenging or
important problem which I was asked to help on, and thus, acci-
dentally and almost imperceptibly, I gradually became a lawyer’s
lawyer. For the next three years the bulk of my work was re-
search, briefing, and also trial work for other lawyers.

In July, 1935, the Wagner Act was passed, and I was talked
into (literally) accepting the job of regional attorney for the Na-
tional Labor Relations Board in Cleveland, Ohio, in November
of 1935. Volumes could be written about the work involved in
this new and revolutionary field. Suffice it to say that it was ex-
tremely interesting, challenging, and almost too tough physically.

But we got along. In spite of everything, I managed to make a
lot of friends and influence some people and even talked a fine
young lady into marriage in April of 1938. After that, NLRB
assumed a double meaning. In addition to National Labor Re-
lations Board is also meant Naoma Lodish raising babies.

When Larry was almost a year old, in February of 1942, the
Industrial Rayon Corporation felt they needed someone to bring
peace and light into their labor relations, and I joined the com-
pany first as office counsel, then labor relations manager, and now
industrial relations manager. We've been in labor ever since!

KWONG HUNG LOK

LAST KNOWN apprEss: Wong Fok Hain Co., Sai Moon Road, Sunning,
Kwangtung, China.

BoRN: March 10, 1902, Chongchair, Kwangtung, China. PARENTS: Kwang
Shingyung Lok, Sue Yan Wong.

PREPARED AT: Yauchai Academy, Kwangtung, China.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, 1935-1936.

KWONG HUNG LOK has been carried as a “Jost” man on our
records since 1948.

DAVID ARMS LOMASNEY

HOME appress: Split Rock Road, Syosset, Long Island, N. Y.

orFice appress: D. A. Lomasney & Co., 39 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: March 3, 1905, Youngstown, Ohio. parents: Leonard J. Lomasney,
Frances Arms.

[ 682 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prepareD aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrigD: Ellen Dexter Fales, April 27, 1937, New York, N. y. CHILDREN:
Lynne Fales, Jan. 12, 1941; David Fales, March 3, 1943; Lauren Fales,
May 26, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Myron Arms Lomasney, ’30.

occuPATION: Securities dealer, partner, D. A. Lomasney & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Huntington Coast Guard Auxiliary, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club, Locust Valley, N. Y.; Cold Spring Harbor
Beach Club, Cold Spring Harbor, N. Y.; Seawanhaka Yacht Club;
Broad Street Lunch Club; Harvard Club of New York.

AMBITIOUS graduates of the Class of 1953 may go to northern
Canada or to the Texas oil fields in search of fame and fortune.
Two to one though, very few of them will go to Wall Street
this year. In 1928 it was different. The magnet of a booming
stock market and the concentration of much of the nation’s finan-
cial power in “The Street” drew hundreds of our Class there. At
the time there were probably few of us fledgling financiers who
did not expect to do well —and quickly. Had we only known
that the stock market pyrotechnics of the twenties were nothing
more than a non-recurring speculative surge, which fed on itself
until the inevitable crash occurred, we probably would have
turned to some other profession. Twenty-five years later, how-
ever, the few of us left can say that, rough as the going has been,
it has been an exciting profession and just as lucrative as a man
has been willing to make it!

After leaving College in June of 1928, I joined the Guaranty
Company’s Bond School at 140 Broadway, New York City, and
learned more finance in six months than I have ever learned since!
Some of the “new era” financial instruction we received seemed
rather peculiar a few years later. For example, the opinion that
“railroad bonds, like British Consols are permanent debt and
thus should never be reduced or retired.” Ten years later rail-
road debt was being reduced very rapidly, but in quite a different
way!

After completing the Bond School course, I was sent to the
Fifth Avenue Office of the Guaranty and started selling securities
to the bank’s depositors, or to any other person who wandered
into our ornate offices looking for experienced (?) financial ad-
vice, .

‘[ 683 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

union there was one member of the perennially young type. He
was addressing his class, and saying how youthful they all still
looked. As he spoke, the rising tide of conversation from the
wives’ cocktail party in the next room became audible. He
cocked his head towards the sound and said to his classmates:
“The only thing that bothers me, fellows, is how you young-
sters ever acquired such a bunch of middle-aged wives.” After
seeing many of our classmates at the Twentieth Reunion and at
a few luncheons and dinners here in New York, I think that age
has treated us pretty kindly. Unfortunately, there has been no
wonder drug yet developed which removes baldness, grayness,
and paunches, but for a group that has lived through a terrible
war and a bad depression we have done pretty well.
Here’s hoping we can say the same at our Thirty-fifth.

BRIAN BANCROFT LONG

HOME ADpRESS: 21 E. Ninth St., New York 3, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 745 Fifth Ave. New York 22, N. Y.

Born: March 17, 1907, Stamford, Conn, parents: William Joseph Long, ’92,
Frances Marsh Bancroft.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MaRRiED: Jean Northrup, March 6, 1937, Carmel, N. Y.

OccUPATION: Assistant to vice-president for export operations, E. R. Squibb
& Sons (temporary).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted as private, Army Air Forces, March 17,
1942; commissioned in London, Aug. 10; service in United Kingdom,
France, Germany, Belgium, Spain, and Sweden, returned home as major,
November, 1945; recalled September, 1950; after seventeen months and
service with 3rd Army headquarters in Atlanta, became civilian again.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

IT HAS been an interesting twenty-five-year period which has
taken us pretty well over the world. Unfortunately, some of the
most interesting places—in Europe— were seen without the
alter ego, due to the war. We have, however, managed to hunt,
fish, and ski over quite a bit of North America. In off seasons,
tennis and working around a place in the country consume our
leisure time, Our last tour in the Army in Alabama and Georgia
gave us a chance to know and appreciate some of the South.

[ 686 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

What worries us most is the ostrich-like attitude we see every-
where toward the war in Korea, universal military training, and
present world conditions. It seems to beg the question that na-
tions only remain free because they are strong.

CHARLES VEAZIE LORD

HOME ADDRESS: 595 N, Main St., Brewer, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Columbia Investment Co., Bangor, Maine.

BORN: June 5, 1905, Bangor, Maine. parents: Nathaniel Lord, Elsie Prentiss.

PREPARED AT; Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MARRIED: Frances F. Curran, Jan. 31, 1930, New York, N. Y. cymopren:
Nathaniel, Dec. 13, 1931 (died July 3, 1951); Anne Rawson, July 13,
1933; John MacCollum, April 7, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Investment securities.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Trustees, Eastern Maine General Hospital,
Bangor; Campaign chairman, Bangor Y. M. C. A, Bangor-Brewer Com-
munity Chest, 1950.

MEMBER OF: Society of the Cincinnati.

BORN in the State of Maine I am essentially 2 home town boy.

After leaving college 1 worked for a timberland management

concern for three years doing odd jobs of cruising, surveying,

and scaling. One assignment took me down the length of the

Penobscot River during the spring freshet to locate > and estimate

flooded out pulpwood.

With exceptionally poor timing I left Maine in September,
1929, for a job in a brokerage firm in New York City where
I remained into the depths of the depression in 1932. During the
depression year of 1932 to 1933, I attended the Harvard Busi-
ness School with enjoyment and much interest. On returning
to Maine I was employed as a statistician by Columbia Investment
Company and I have been active with this concern ever since
in all phases of security dealing and management.

I have found increasing satisfaction in being able to spend my
free time in the refreshing environment of this state in country
living, sailing its bays, canoeing its lakes and streams, and skiing
its hills with my family and friends.

[ 687 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

WILLIAM WALCOTT LORD

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1416 Easton Drive, Lakeland, Fla.

Born: Nov. 1, 1906, Portland, Maine. PaRENts: John Anderson Lord, Elinor
Lawton Carter.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Fonchen Richardson Usher, June 12, 1935, St. Louis, Mo. CHILDREN:
Fonya Usher, June 13, 1939; William Pepperell, Feb. 1, 1943; Carter
Usher, June 13, 1946; Elizabeth Usher, February, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Hosmer Lord, °33.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Hebron Academy, Hebron, Maine; director, Casco
Bank & Trust Company, 1943-49.

UNTIL 1952 my livelihood has been the tanning of cattlehides.
Looking back—and even at the time—TI see it resembles a
twenty-four-year ride on the Thunderbolt at Revere Beach. And
don’t think I didn’t lose a hat or two on the drops. (“Maybe
that’s where your hair went, too,” mutters Fonchen kibitzing
over my shoulder.)

Another obstacle to supporting our family is my penchant for
betting against the New York Yankees. Both my mother and
Gordon Brown warned me against the practice and I am aston-
ished that I continue so to do.

At present I am engaged in dealing in two of Florida’s great
natural resources — beach-front and baloney. From such a semi-
retired condition I find that it is easier to contemplate with com-
passion this world where moth and rust doth corrupt and New
Dealers break in— apparently having been delegated to take
away even that which we have.

We expect to drive to the Reunion (in one car) even though
for cross-country touring with our four children we have not.
yet discovered the perfect seating arrangement.

FREDERICK WILLIAM PAUL LORENZEN

HOME AppRESS: Dogwood Lane, Stamford, Conn.

OFFice appress: Dwight, Royall, Harris, Koegel & Caskey, 100 Broadway,
New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Feb, 28, 1907, Dresden, Germany. parents: Ernest Gustav Lorenzen,
Charlotte von Koschambahr,

[ 688 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pREPARED AT: Hopkins Grammar School, New Haven, Conn.; Cambridge
High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; LL.B. (Yale),

1931.
marrieD: Dorothy Page Walker, June 30, 1931, Portland, Maine. cHiLpren:

Lucinda Holt, April 8, 1933; Gale Valentine, Sept. 14, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Jay Lorenzen, M.B.A., 33 (deceased).

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Chief boatswain’s mate, U. S. Coast Guard Re-
serve (T).

OFFICES HELD: Member, secretary, Stamford (Conn. ) Town Zoning Board of
Adjustments and Appeals, 1939-49.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Indian Harbor Yacht Club, Green-
wich, Conn.; Stamford (Conn.) Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Legal briefs.

AGAINST the backdrop of momentous events transpiring in
the last twenty-five years, nothing that has happened to the Lor-
enzen family really seems important enough to commit to pa-
per. Only my classmates’ frantic urging persuades me to write
this epitaph of the past quarter-century.

Though I resolved during my legal education at Yale never to
practise law in New York City, economic realism promptly
forced me to break that resolution about as soon as it was made.
June of 1931 saw me take (and happily pass) the New York
State Bar examination and also step from bachelorhood into
marital bliss (also happily).

In the fall of 1931 I passed through the portals of 100 Broad-
way, to become associated with the law firm of which the then
Chief Justice of the United States had, for many years, been a
partner. His son, a former solicitor general, initiated me into the
mysteries of actual practice, courtroom procedure, and appellate
work — all so different from book learning. .

The law is no easy mistress; the reward for long hours i is more
often satisfaction with a task well done than wealth. On the
whole, however, I can say that life in the law has been tough but

ust.

| While the vicissitudes of practice have actually caused me to
try more cases outside of New York than in our local courts, I
am geographically still where I started twenty-one years ago and
there I bid fair to become as permanent a fixture as the Trinity
Church across the street. .

[ 689 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

More interesting perhaps has been that part of life for which
the law has furnished the means. Our family has endeavored to
find recreation in which we could all join. The common de-
nominator in winter has been found on skis. We all enjoy the
beautiful scenery found only when all of nature’s mistakes have
been covered by unending white. The grotesque figures formed
by trees bent with feet of snow or covered by inches of frost
give mountain tops a quality far removed from our exhausting
civilization. There is nothing like a flashing down-hill run (even
at my advanced age) to restore vigor lost behind the desk.

In summer we have all agreed that sailing is a fine competitive
sport which leaves no golf widows and orphans during those long
summer weekends. In addition to the expected benefits from salt
air and sunshine, our sailing activities have brought us friends
from Bermuda to California and from New Orleans to the Great
Lakes, The sport has brought a degree of self-reliance and judg-
ment to our daughters which I hope will stand them well through
all their lives. It would be false modesty not to admit that suc-
cess achieved on the water has also seemed rewarding.

Perhaps you can learn more about us from the following pro-
fessional account taken out of our scrapbook than from any-
thing that I could write. From the New York World, Telegram
& Sun of August 23, 1951:

Lorenzen Clan Within Reach
of Luders Title

By Bill Wallace
Staff Writer.

Greenwich, Conn., Aug. 23. — Will Joe Dowrie of Chica-
go shortstop the Lorenzen family’s search for the Holy
Grail? That is the question of the moment at the Interna-
tional sailing championships of the Luders 16 class which
conclude here at Indian Harbor Yacht Club tomorrow
morning. Se

The elusive championship represents the Holy Grail
which Fred Lorenzen has pursued but never caught at Chi-
cago and on the West Coast the past few years. Going in-
to today’s fourth and next to last event Lorenzen held a one-

[ 690 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oint lead over Dowrie, the Chicago fleet’s representative,
26-25. In third place, still a factor, was the home club’s smil-
ing George Swift, with 20.

The Lorenzen crew is strictly a family undertaking. The
clan enlists Fred, a New York lawyer as skipper, wife Doro-
thy in a straw bonnet, and teen-age daughters Cindy and
Gale. They trounced the fleet of nine yesterday in a stiff
breeze by a solid three minute plus. So far Lorenzen has
had two firsts and a second. But Dowrie, with a boatful of
Windy City skippers, Maxwell Evans, and Sam Clarke, is
right behind, two seconds and a first. ’

P.S. We made it, and I may add that the females of the family
are not just bilge “boys.” They are all able skippers i in their own
right with winning races to their credit.

May the next twenty- -five years do as 5 well as have those just
passed,

JOHN ADAMS LOUD

HOME ADDRESS: 123 Garden St., Needham 92, Mass.

‘OFFICE ADDRESS: 5 Rowe’s Wharf, Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1903, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: John Adams Loud, ’98, Adele ©
Johnson Pigeon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10924-1927.

MARRIED: Natalie Putnam Farmer, Sept. 25, 1943, Gloucester, Mass, cHIL-
pREN: Anne Adele, May 30, 19453 John, April ; 22, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Loud, ’27.

occupation: Owner, John A. Loud Company, printing machinery.

MEMBER OF: Pi Eta Club, Longwood Cricket Club, Badminton and Tennis

Club, Eastern Point Yacht Club.

SINCE leaving college I have been j in the printing machinery and
equipment business in Boston. We sell mostly in New England,
but sometimes ship to other parts of the country and abroad. This
is an enjoyable and very interesting business. We are in con-
stant touch with book and newspaper printers and publishers as
well as advertisers and commercial printers.

With my father and mother and brother I travelled through
England, France, Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, and Italy.

[ 691 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Recently my wife and I toured Canada, going up the Saguenay
River and around the Gaspé Peninsular. Most of our summers
are spent at Fastern Point, Gloucester, Massachusetts, where we
hope all friends who read this will call to have a swim and a
drink.

My hobbies are tennis, reading, and music. My wife and I
like the theatre and are members of the Theatre Guild. I vote
Republican, but am not a politician and never expect to be.
Neither am I a churchman, but my wife and children faithfully
represent the family every Sunday in a Protestant church. On
Sunday mornings I either play tennis or simply relax and review
past sins or plan that my children will have a great future!

WHARTON LOWELL

LAST KNOWN abprEss: Norman Apts, 1332 Shatto St., Los Angeles 14, Calif.

BORN: Nov, 12, 1904, Chestnut Hill, Mass. parents: James Arnold Lowell,
’91, Mary Wharton Churchman.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.; Noble and Greenough
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

marrieD: Laurel Mailloux, Nov. 18, 1931, Carson City, Nev. (divorced).
CHILDREN: Ralph, March 17, 1926; James, Sept. 16, 1927.

WHARTON LOWELL has been carried as a “lost” man on our

records since 1952,

NATHAN LOWENSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1349 Lexington Ave., New York 28, N. Y,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 186 Joralemon St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

Born: July 2, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Solomon C, Lowenstein,
Linda Berger.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: AB., 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

MagRiED; Elizabeth Hays Corn, Feb, 13, 1934, Scarsdale, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Linda L., April 19, 1940; Daniel Hays, May 10, 1943.

occupation: Campaign director, Long Island College Hospital Building
Fund.

oFFices HELD: Numerous professional positions with charitable and educa-
tional organizations, 1939-52.

MY DAUGHTER met me at the door tonight with “Now
Daddy, you have to write that composition.” It seems she had

[ 692 ]

OT LOT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

opened my mail and found a follow-up letter from “Lump” Jones
(if he calls himself “Lump,” I guess I can't object to his ad-
dressing me as “Dear Nate”) urging me to send in my biography
and photograph.

It was a nice letter and ‘ ‘Lump” had Linda, the boss-lady, on
his side so the time for procrastination has finally expired. I had
really intended to do something about it as evidenced by plug-
ging up during the Christmas holidays by reading my nephew’s
Freshman Redbook which is now called the Freshman Bulletin
and comes out early in the year. He lives in a building called
Wigglesworth which they squeezed in between Widener and
Massachusetts Avenue. I’m still trying to figure out how they
made the space.

The instructions on top of this sheet say “The Class wants to
know all about your—.” I doubt whether they do and they
certainly won't get “all” because I don’t intend to tack any riders
on this, but here goes.

After graduating from the Business School I spent six years in
a large New York department store before deciding to leave re-
tailing. The next three years saw me on Wall Street as a secur-
ity analyst which was pleasant enough but not very remunerative
in those days of lean pickings in the brokerage business. So I
gravitated to the fund-raising field for charitable and educational
organizations where I have been with four groups over the last
fourteen years. Three of these positions have been confined to
New York, but I did have one job which required travel and ©
took me to such remote places as Portland, Oregon, and Seattle
where I managed to see some old Harvard classmates. '

The next thing about which the Class wants to know “all” is
my family and here I might almost be tempted to succumb. Re-
member, Nathan, zo riders. I have a wonderful wife and two
glorious children, It would take many times the size of the
Twenty-fifth Report to describe the happiness of my nineteen
years of marriage to Betty as well as her courage through our
trials and tribulations. As for Linda, I might suggest that “Lump”

Jones and “Hammie” Heard put her on the job of getting the
biographies from those of the 882 living members of the Class
who haven’t yet sent them in. She has a way with the men.
Danny currently favors Princeton because of its football superi-

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ority, but those things can change in ten years. We almost had
him for Harvard, when my namesake was captain, but the Army
got Carroll first.

Now I have come to the place for tacking on riders, so I am
afraid the Class will have to wait for our Fiftieth Reunion to learn

“all” about my travels, hobbies, and social, political, and religious
convictions.

CHARLES GREENE LUMAGHI

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Windermere PI., St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: June 27, 1906, Collinsville, Ill. parents: Louis Francis Lumaghi, Laura
Greene.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.
OCCUPATION: Finance,

RALPH GORDON LUTTMANN

HOME Appress: Fort Hill Village, Scarsdale, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 315 Fourth Ave., New York 10, N. Y.

BORN: July 24, 1906, Asbury Park, N. J. parents: William Otto Luttmann,
Minnie Knickmann.

PREPARED AT: Silver Bay School, Lake George, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrieD: Adele Euretta Hopper, July 30, 1932, White Plains, N. Y. cHILb:
Ralph Gordon, Jr., April 2, 1935.

occuPATION: General sales manager, International Accounting Tabulating
Division, Remington Rand, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Winged Foot Golf Club.

IN TRYING to determine what had happened in the last twenty-
five years I turned to the Vicennial Report. Five years ago I said
that I hoped to return from a flying trip to South America in
time for the Class Reunion, Times have not changed much, be-
cause today I hope to return from a flying trip around the world
in order to make the Twenty-fifth. While I missed in 1948, this
time the three of us will be there.

Looking back over the last twenty-five years certainly causes
some strange feelings. If the next twenty-five are so action-
packed and move as rapidly it will be all over before you realize

[ 694 ]

f

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

it. In any event the last twenty-five have been wonderful. Best
of all has been my family — small but full of Jove and cheer. After
I met my wife in 1926 we both went our ways to school and
travel until 1932 when we came back together and were married.
In 1935 Ralph was born and the three of us have had a great time
together. Ralph is finishing at Hebron this year but where he is
going to college is still undecided.

Actually the twenty-five years have been divided into three
parts. The first one was from 1928 to 1934 when I worked with
the International Business Machines Corporation and learned the
tabulating business. From 1934 to 1945 I worked in the domestic
division of Remington Rand and since then in the international
division. I was always in the punched card business and now with
electronic equipment being developed the future promises to be
even more challenging. Working in export of course has provid-
ed tremendous opportunities for travel and to meet people the
world over. During the past five years I have been fortunate
enough to tour Latin America and Europe several times and also
to visit the Far East twice. The further one travels the more con-
vincing it becomes that the people of the world want and need
peace but not with slavery. With Eisenhower's election the die
is cast as to the future shape of the world. No matter what the
future portends there at least will be firm and incisive action. _

For relaxation Adele and I play golf although we still can’t
come close to conquering the game. Ralph has started playing,
although swimming is his main forte. During the winter read-
ing and bridge fill in the idle hours and church-going just across
the street at a small Community Church with an excellent min-
ister. Yes, the last twenty-five years have been full and exciting
years. We are looking forward eagerly to the next twenty-five.

JOHN MARTIN LYDEN

HOME AppRESs: Rosebrook Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 630 Fifth Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: Noy. 9, 1905, Youngstown, Ohio. parents: Martin Francis Lyden,
Mary Margaret McGinnis.

PREPARED AT: Rayen High School, Youngstown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

[ 695 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

marrieD: Ruth Pierpont Stephens, Nov. 19, 1938, New York, N. Y. cxt-
prEN: John Pierpont, April 6, 1940; Lucy Stephens, Jan. 26, 1943.

occupation: Advertising agency executive, partner, Ted Bates & Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Canaan; New Canaan Country Club.

AFTER graduation I went to England as a Sheldon Fellow from
Harvard, working in philosophy. I remained there until the
spring of 1929 when my eyes went back on me and I had to re-
turn. The next year I came back to Harvard to enter the Law
School, but my eyes again became a problem so I had to give up
the ivy halls for good.

After a varied newspaper experience in Ohio, I came to New
York in 1932 and through a series of coincidences and misad-
ventures landed a job in an advertising agency.

I went through the usual migratory period in the agency busi-
ness during the years that followed — ultimately joining my
present organization about eleven years ago.

We are a rather large New York agency but sans glamour and
chromium plate — quite unlike Mr. Wakeman’s romantic con-
ception. We are preoccupied with the intricate problems of sell-
ing smal] packaged items to a lot of people.

The only hobby I have tried to do something about is writing
a little fiction. This I have done off and on over the years, but
not very successfully.

My principal relaxation is reading in the general field of the
philosophy of man and his culture — which takes me a little into
history and religion.

Tam a poor joiner. I leave that field to my energetic wife who
is currently president of the Wellesley Club of Southern Con-
necticut and active on various other fronts.

Looking back on twenty-five years, I think there should be
some great summation—some proper set of words — which
should come to one. Instead, I think we all feel like Mr. Pulham
in a similar situation. I wish I could feel gay, or even philo-

sophical, Instead, I can think only of Mr. Gide’ s remark, “Man
has only one enemy — time.”

[ 696 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

-RONALD THEODORE LYMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 60 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 9, Mass.

porn: Aug. 12, 1905, Waltham, Mass. parents: Ronald Theodore Lyman,

’o92, Elizabeth Van Cortlandt Parker.

PREPARED AT: Ot. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

marriep: Olivia Morgan, 1941, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1947); Susan J.
Storey, Dec. 30, 1950, Boston, Mass. cHmpreN: Elizabeth P., Jan. 12,
1942; Jennifer, Jan, 18, 1944; May Lowell, May 18, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Lowell Lyman, ’37, LL.B., 40.

occuPATION: Investment counsel, general parmer, Scudder, Stevens & Clark.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted as private, U. S. Marine Corps Re-
serve, July, 1940; active duty, November, 1940; transferred as ensign,
U, S. Naval Reserve, March, 1941; stationed Washington, D. C., Quonset
Point, R. I, Jacksonville, Florida, Port Hueneme, California, Saipan,
M. I, principally as executive officer or commanding officer of Avia-
tion Ground Units, placed on inactive duty as commander, U.S.N.R.,
January, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, treasurer, and director, Scudder, Stevens &
Clark Fund, Inc., and Scudder, Stevens & Clark Common Stock Fund,
Inc.; director, Waltham Federal Savings & Loan Association; trustee
and assistant treasurer, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital; board of managers,
Boston Provident Association.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Union Boat Club.

LOOKING back to 1928, the first few years after graduation
now seem singularly uneventful in retrospect, although the hap-
penings of those days were doubtless most important at that
time: my first job and exposure to the west working for a grocery
chain in Oklahoma; the 1929 crash which brought me back to
Boston to the investment counsel business with Scudder, Stevens
and Clark, where except for the war years I have been ever
since; the 1932 depression; and F. D. R. and all his works. They
even seem quite normal compared with the upheavals of the war,
confiscatory taxes, Harry Truman, and the Bear that walks like
aman. But still I count my blessings with gratitude: a wife be-
yond my fondest aspirations, three most satisfactory children,
three equally satisfactory stepchildren, an absorbing business
which has treated me better than I deserve, enjoyable friends,
reasonably good health (despite a recent series of operations),

[ 697 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

a modicum of good works to salve the conscience, and an attrac-
tive place in the country where I can enjoy my hobbies of exer-
cise and upland gunning.

DANIEL JOHN LYNCH

HOME ADDRESS: 172 Euclid Ave., Springfield 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 15 Ashburton Pl., Boston
8, Mass. ‘

BORN: June 11, 1902, Hopedale, Mass. parents: Thomas F. Lynch, Nora
Elizabeth Sheehan.

PREPARED AT: Springfield Technical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; ED.M. (Boston Univ.),
1939. “

MaRRIED: Mary M. Fitzgerald, Nov. 20, 1943, West Springfield, Mass.

occuPATION: Examiner in State Health Department.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Engineering, science, and management war
training, American International College, 1943-44.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Springfield, Mass.

IT HAS been well said that much that is called research in educa-
tion and the social order is nothing more than the laborious re-
arrangement of the obvious.

With that thought in mind, I shall endeavor to give an account
of the main events of my history for the past twenty-five years.

After receiving my A.B. degree from Harvard in 1938, I
taught school in Vermont until 1931. During those years I taught
all subjects in the high school at Readsboro, Vermont.

From 1932 to 1944 I was employed as a social worker by the
City of Springfield. In the meantime, I obtained my Ed.M. degree
from Boston University, School of Education, in June, 1939.

On November 20, 1943, | was married to Mary M. Fitzgerald of
West Springfield. She and I have had nine years of conjugal felic-
ity, and look forward to many more years of happiness in the fu-
ture,

During the period from 1945 to date, I have been employed
by the Massachusetts Department of Health as an investigator.

Since graduation I have travelled during vacation time in
the Province of Quebec, Canada, in Cuba, and in Mexico. How-
ever, in my book, there is no place like home.

[ 698 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN GILBERT LYNESS

HOME ADDRESS: 5 Winchester Rd., Newton 58, Mass.

oFFicE ADDRESS: Northeast Airlines Inc., Logan Airport, East Boston 28, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1904, Amesbury, Mass. PARENTS: John Thomas Lyness, Emily
Isabel Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Dorchester High School,
Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1927.

UNMARRIED, .

occupation: Air Transportation; supervisor, IBM accounting department,

oFFices HELD: Grand Knight, 1934~35, financial secretary, 1942-44, Mt. Pleas-
ant Council #98, Knights of Columbus.

MEMBER OF: National Machine Accountants Association, Massachusetts
Chapter; former member, Handel & Haydn Oratorio Society, Vested
All Male Choirs of St. Paul’s Church, Dorchester, and Immaculate Con-
ception Church, Boston; University Club Glee Club, Boston; National
Association of Credit Men, Boston Chapter.

WHILE far from satisfied with myself and what I have done with
the past tweny-five years, I have acquired a reasonably temperate
view of life. A substantial degree of hope and optimism has pos-
sessed me, and together with excellent health, a variety of inter-
ests, and many lasting friendships, has made life worthwhile.
My first job when jobs were not too plentiful (remember?)
was in the accounting department of the Gulf Oil Corporation in
Boston, It didn’t yield much negotiable matter but brought with
it many happy associations which still live. It also brought me
out of myself and I’ve been told that that was an improvement.
While there I studied accounting and credit and collections. Dab-
bling into the loan business on the side taught me enough to con-
fidently accept an offer from the Boston office of the First Ban-
credit Corporation, a nationally operated finance company, whom
I served as credit man and office manager for some three years.
There is a pressure business!
~ With my nerves not too far off-normal I entered a Belmont
real estate office and peddled property until after Pear] Harbor.
That business is loaded with disappointment and headaches but
fascinating; and were it not for the slump in activity after the
memorable December 7th, that’s where I’d be now.
War work at the Bethlehem Shipyard in Quincy introduced
me to the maze of wires and relays which make possible electric

[ 699 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

machine accounting. After a short time there was no doubt in
my mind that “this was it.” I have been fortunate enough to en-
joy every kind of work required of me but this IBM business is
in a class all its own. It sounds crazy, but being nursemaid to a
collection of trick machines which resemble closely a Rube Gold-
berg cartoon can be fun. The opportunities, the pace of the work,
and its future are limitless. (So is the danger of ulcers, but to now
I've been immune.)

Since 1946 I have been with Northeast Airlines, and the com-
bination of a most modern and specialized kind of endeavor within
the most up-to- -date division of the transportation industry pro-
vides a very interesting means of livelihood.

People, good conversation, reading, and music are my chief
interests outside of my work; and as soon as I’m old enough, I
hope to take a swing at golf. TV? It’s all yours. Solutions to
world problems? Haven't taken myself that seriously yet; but
some more sincere religion might help. Am still a bachelor, but
I said I am hopeful and optimistic, didn’t I?

STUART DUANE LYON

HOME ADDRESS: 929 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 9 E.. 55th St.. New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: April 12, 1907, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Irving Duane Lyon, Florence
Montague Barnes.

PREPARED AT; John Herbert Phillips High School, Birmingham, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marriED: Helen Stickler, Oct. 1, 1936, Brooklyn, N. Ys Ola Maye Orey,
June 30, 1941, Jersey City, N. J.

occupation: Advertising, president, S. Duane Lyon, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, League of Advertising Agencies, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Church Union;
Mediaeval Academy of America, American Philological Association;
International Eating, Drinking, & Speaking Society, Grand Jury Asso-
ciation of New York. ;

PuBLicaTion: “Copy to Make the Mouth Water,” Printers Ink, Apri 13,
1945.

THE fact that twenty-five years have passed so quickly rather
stuns me as I sit down to write. It seems only yesterday that

graduation from Harvard was my primary problem and 1 not the
serious problem of earning a living.

[ 7¢0 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Not knowing precisely what I wanted to do other than to enter
business, I had the doubrful distinction, within a period of nine
months, of 1. attending Guaranty Trust Bond School (in 1928,

ou remember, everybody had to be a bond salesman); 2. being
a sales clerk in the Silk Department of R. H. Macy’s (and get-
ting fired); 3. becoming a cub reporter on the Brooklyn Daily
Eagle (finally working my way up to nine dollars per week);
and 4. becoming advertising manager, assistant to the sales man-
ager, and purchasing agent in a metal furniture concern (all for
twenty-five dollars a week), After a year I joined Canada Dry
Ginger Ale in the Sales Promotional Department and in 1931
changed jobs to become advertising manager of the Sheffield
Farms Stores, a grocery chain of some goo units. I continued in
this post until September 15, 1933, when my late father and I
started the present advertising agency with which I have been
associated until the present,

Upon reflection I am convinced that the last twenty-five
years have been one of the most thrilling periods in which any-
one could have lived. In fact, even if I had had the choice of
living in any other era, I believe I still should have chosen this
period in which to have my “floruit.”

I have been especially delighted with the general st social and
economic advancement of so many millions of our citizens who
today represent the “nouveau middle class” upon which, in my
opinion, depends the future prosperity of America and which
seems to be, at this writing, our greatest bulwark against Com-
munism. Enough has already been said by others about the late
Mr. Roosevelt. Suffice it to say I am a Republican who can see
he contributed mightily to a social revolution in our times. Per-
haps future generations will demonstrate that his greatest inade-
quacy was a persistent and consistent inability to evaluate Marxian
Communism.

By religious persuasion I am a Christian — though an un-
worthy one — and a member of the Episcopal Church, In fact, I
am privileged to attend a parish, the Church of the Resurrection,
which is generally termed “High Church.” This little church is
very well aware of its Catholic heritage and because of this fact

is making splendid progress.
If you were to ask me about the one event which has shaped

[7o1 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

my life most, my answer would be— my marriage to my wife
Ola. For twelve years she has made my life a proud and happy
one and | pray God will continue to bless her all the days of
her life.

JOHN DANIEL LYONS

HOME aApprEss: 5 Shenandoah St. Dorchester 24, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 147 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: July 9, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Patrick Joseph Lyons, Teresa
Johanna McNaught.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: AB. 1928; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1942.

MARRIED: Margaret M. Murphy, June 1, 1931, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jane Florence, Jan. 9, 1933; John Daniel, Jr., May 1, 1938; Constance M.,
Nov. 6, 1941 (died Dec. 26, 1941); Paul J., Feb. 16, 1943; Robert B.,
Oct. 8, 1945; Richard J., Aug. 26, 1946; Mary L., May 5, 1948.

occupation: Lawyer, claim supervisor, Travelers Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Knights of Columbus 98.

I RETURNED to Harvard in 1929-1930 and attended the Busi-
ness School. I sold securities for about a year but learned that
there were very few “buyers.” I worked as an investigator and
tried my hand at selling insurance and in 1936 I joined the Trav-
elers Insurance Company as a claim adjuster and have remained
there ever since. In 1942 I obtained a law degree from the Bos-
ton College Law Schoo! and became a member of the Massachu-
setts Bar in 1943.

My present position is that of Supervising Adjustor in charge
of General Liability Claims at the Travelers Boston branch office,
and I am frequently in contact with the Boston lawyers in our
Class.

‘Six children have kept my wife Margaret and me busy and we
have found no time for hobbies, Jane, the oldest, is a sopho-
more at Emmanuel College, and John, Jr., is a freshman at Boston
Latin School. The three younger boys are in grade school and
my youngest girl is not yet of school age.

At the time of this writing I am building, with the help of
John, Jr., a small cottage on Nantucket Sound at South Yar-
mouth which I hope to have completed in time to spend the
summer there.

[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES ARNOLD MABEY

HOME apprEss: 1 Amherst Pl., Upper Montclair, N. J.

oFFicE ADDRESS: Weston Electrical Instrument Corp., Newark 5. N. J.

BorRN: Dec. 5, 1904, Weston, Mass. PARENTS: Ernest Linwood Mabey, Mary
Eliza Barnes

preparep AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925, 1927-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1928(30).

marrigpD: E. Marion Kilpatrick, Dec. 17, 1940, Montclair, N. J.

occuPATION: Division chief, development of industrial process instruments
and automatic control equipment.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; American Institute of Electrical
Engineers; Instrument Society of America; Montclair Society of En-
gineers; Chemists’ Club of New York.

PusLications: Professional articles, Journal of the Instrument Society of
America, 1948, and Instruments Magazine, 1951; contributions to Hand-
book of Instrumentation and Control, McGraw-Hill, to be published
1953; several U. S. patents,

AFTER twenty-five years I can still recall how good the world
looked to me as I set out from home and Harvard to take my first
job. This was with the Radio Division of the Research Labora-
tories of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation
in New York City where I spent a couple of busy, eventful years
living the life of a commuter from East Orange. However, all
too soon the Great Depression ended the bright prospects of
those days and I found myself among the unemployed. This
was, indeed, a “time of troubles,” as I suppose many of us will
testify, but for me it was not without its bright spots. I look back
with pleasure to a brief year in Cambridge at the Graduate School,
mostly browsing happily through the Widener stacks under the
pretext of writing a biography of the scientist, Joseph Henry.
But the wolves were at the door; so in 1933 I joined the engi-
neering staff of the Mathieson Alkali Works to help in the con-
struction of a new chemical plant in Lake Charles, Louisiana.
These three years in the deep South were trying at times for
an exile from old familiar friends and places, but in it I did find a
career in the field of industrial measurements and process in-
strumentation, which I have followed ever since.
In 1937 I was back in New England working for the Bristol
Company, a manufacturer of industrial instruments and control
equipment, in Waterbury, Connecticut, as a physicist developing

[ 703 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

new apparatus in this field. For the next twelve years — to which
I still look back with some nostalgia—I lived and worked in
Connecticut, eventually becoming director of research for this
company. At long last (if I may coin a phrase) I abandoned with-
out regrets the bachelor state, having by rare good fortune found
a girl of like mind and interests, a Vassar girl with a Yale doctor-
ate (the latter connection I have treated with magnanimity). We
made our home in a beautiful little Connecticut town, and there
found friends to share our interests in books and literature. We
became immersed in the tremendous affairs of Our Town, the
Town Meetings, the school problem, the wartime community
services; all a happy, new experience in community living.
Meanwhile, because of age, physical disabilities, and the technical
work in which I was involved I had been kept from military
service.

The end of the war, however, produced changes in business
that seemed to counsel a move; so, in the spring of 1948 we found
ourselves in Washington, District of Columbia, where I spent a
year or so at the National Bureau of Standards. But government
service and the attractions of Washington were not enough to
keep me from returning to the New York area and the more
familiar problems of industry. I was at first with the Instru-
ment Division of Thomas A. Edison, Inc., of West Orange, New
Jersey, as chief engineer, but this turned out not to my liking; so,
since early 1951, I seem to be more happily settled as division
chief for the Weston Electrical Instrument Corporation of New-
ark, New Jersey.

After twenty-five years, I find myself still proud of and grate-
ful to my alma mater; still a confirmed New England Yankee;
still a dilettante in books and literature (more so, in fact, since
arthritis is my willing excuse from the active sports); still liberal
in opinion, though not willing to be counted among that class
who call it liberalism to deny belief in any firm, absolute values.
Looking forward not so very far, I hope by the time we
have to think of retirement Harvard will have a program for
re-training us — for teaching, for instance.

[ 704 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES F. McCAFFREY

HOME ADDRESS: 4739 Washington Blvd., N., Arlington, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: School Health Dept., 1800 N. Edison St., Arlington, Va.

poRN: Oct. 19, 1906, Somerville, Mass. parents: Charles Francis McCaffrey,
’99, Margaret Mary Brosnahan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: M.D. (Georgetown Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: Lois Maxine Gaylor, Feb. 17, 1940, Pensacola, Fla. cuitp: Charles
Francis, Jr., Jan. 15, 1950.

occuUPATION: Physician: medical adviser to Public School System, Arlington
County, Virginia, and director of Georgetown Compensation Clinic,
Washington, D.C.’

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U, S. Navy as lieutenant (j.g.), Medical
Corps, 1937; served as flight surgeon in U. S. S. Enterprise, Wasp, and
Yorktown, and as senior medical officer in U. S. S. Mindora and
Philippine Sea, retired as commander, Medical Corps, February, 1951.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Aero Medical Association;
Army-Navy Country Club. - -

AFTER leaving Cambridge I attended medical school at George-
town University. Upon graduation, I interned at Boston City
and Cambridge City Hospitals and then became resident physi-
cian at Childrens Hospital, Washington, District of Columbia.
After a year of private practice in Somerville, Massachusetts,
where I had reopened my father’s office, I decided to make the
Regular Navy my career. Aviation and its medical research ap-
pealed to me so I applied for flight training and, upon its com-
pletion, was designated Flight Surgeon No. 8 in 1939. Then
followed a rotation of service aboard aircraft carriers and in Naval
and Marine Corps air stations, each duty more challenging than
the previous. Many problems were facing aviation in those days
and I had the opportunity to do research in connection with the
low pressure chamber, the anti-gravity suit, and high altitude oxy-
gen masks. Duty on board ship also gave many opportunities to
study individual problems of a psychological nature. The old
slogan “Join the Navy and See the World” was most applicable
in my case, for I covered both Atlantic and Pacific Oceans very
thoroughly. The war years were very exciting, We took part in
the invasions of the central Pacific campaigns from the attack on
Marcus to the landings on the Marianas.
When I “fell apart in the seams” in 1951, I was retired from

[705 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

the Naval Service. Since a long period of recuperation was nec-
essary, I spent the last two years catching up on my reading
and enjoying my hobby of model railroading. I am in “O” guage
and find it fascinating and time consuming. My health restored,
I have returned to the practice of medicine in the District of
Columbia and Arlington, Virginia. Being a civilian again also
has the added advantage of enabling me to enjoy my home and
family, usually a sporadic privilege in the Navy.

My old friend and classmate Ross Guthrie introduced me to my
wife during my medical school days. My three-year-old son,
while slightly younger than the majority of the Class children,
is already exhibiting signs of Harvard spirit and making plans
to enter college some time around 1967.

My politics, except for the numerous terms of F. D. R., have
always been Republican. I was one of the millions who watched
the election returns on television with great glee.

I am looking forward to our Reunion in June when I hope to
see the old crowd again. Hasta Mafiana!

JOHN JOSEPH McCARTHY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 247 Williams St., New London, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1904, East Boston, Mass. parents: Patrick Henry McCarthy,
Mary McCarthy.

PREPARED AT: Berkeley Preparatory School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928; A.M. 1936.

MARRIED: Frances Dorothy Swasey, Dec. 29, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Eileen F., Oct. 29, 1936; John Joseph, Jr., Sept. 20, 1938; Mary T., Jan.
2, 1941; Brian F., June 16, 1945; Patricia, March 10, 1949.

occuPaATION: Organist, St. Mary’s Church, New London; music director,
New London High School.

OFFICES HELD: Dean, New London County Chapter, American Guild of
Organists.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut, Knights of Columbus; Bulkeley
Club.

1 GRADUATED in 1928 and spent a year trying to decide my
life’s work, Still undecided when the stock market blew up in
1929, I retreated within the ivory towers of the Graduate School
of Arts and Sciences, majoring first in history and finally in
music. After four years of this I suddenly realized I was marking
time. So in 1933, leaving behind the unfinished work toward a

[ 706 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Ph.D., I moved out into the world, married, and began the strug-
gle for existence. I have been in New London, Connecticut, as
organist and choirmaster of St. Mary’s Church (Roman Cath-
olic) since 1937. Since 1951 I have been in high school music
with some private teaching on the side. The work i is quite ex-
hausting but interesting.

Let me add a few comments on extra-curricular activities. I
travel very little, mostly in imagination — some day perhaps. My
five children seem to place me a little above par as far as Class
productivity is concerned. My hobbies are all within the wide
field of music: such items as the collecting of string instrument
bows and choral and organ music. The family unity is strength-
ened by a common religious conviction and practice. I hope to
make music another factor in family unity. My vote went to the
General — this time I hit the jackpot.

No matter where you are life is a constant struggle against
factors. I find that a sifting down to the essential objectives, and
a self-disciplining will make it easier. P. S. It is harder when you
start late.

+ DONALD GOODING McCLOUD
BoRN: Aug. 4, 1905, Chicago, Ill. parents: Roy Michael McCloud, Gertrude
Gooding. .
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.
pip: April 19, 1930, Norwalk, Conn.

McCLOUD was active for a time after leaving college as case-
worker for the Industrial Aid Society of Boston. He then en-
tered teaching and at the time of his death was a member of the
faculty at the Thomas School in Rowayton, Connecticut. He had
made plans to teach at De Veaux Military Academy during the
next year, A member at some time of the Massachusetts and
Connecticut State Guards, McCloud was survived by his mother.

JOHN HILDRETH MacCOLLOM

HOME ADDRESS: 1060 Clarendon Crescent, Oakland 10, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 172 Golden Gate Ave., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: June 6, 1907, Manchester, Conn. PARENTS: Edward Davidson Mac-
Collom, ’91, a.M., 92, Estelle Kinney Bingham.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

[ 707]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

marrieD: Isabel Muir Carmany, Feb. 23, 1935, Reno, Nev. cHILpREeN: Alex-
ander Muir, Dec. 8, 1935; Roberta Carmany, April 5, r9qo.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Bingham MacCollom, ’23.

occupation: Head of Statistical Department, adviser to Film Buying De-
partment, United California Theatres, Inc., motion picture theatre chain.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Navy, April, 1944-December, 1945; Fire
Controlman DD580, South Pacific, Philippines, Cruiser Destroyer Task
Force.

I WENT to Paris in the fall of 1928, and worked for nearly a

year in the Paris Branch of the Bankers Trust Company of New

York. I returned to Boston in October, 1929, and worked with

Alexander Shaw for H. C. Wainwright & Company, stock brok-

ers. Oo

_ In May, 1930, Bill Reis ’29 and I bought a 1923 Ford for thirty-
five dollars and started an eight-week odyssey to California which
led us into some unusual places and situations, I have been in Cali-
fornia ever since, except for a trip to Boston in 1941 and twenty
months in the Navy. The Navy turned me down for a com-
mission three times because of my height (or lack of it), but they
finally handed me Greetings from the President, shaved my head,
and put me in a “monkey suit.” It didn’t take long to get me on
board a destroyer and my travels began. . . interesting and
educational.

I returned to my old job with United California Theatres i in
January, 1946, and am still there; however, I hope to get out of
the movie theatre business before long, there isn’t much of a
future in it. It is not all the fault of television, just too many
lousy pictures. |

MORRISON RIDGWAY McCORMICK

HOME ADDRESS: 1320 Sheridan Road, Menominee, Mich.

Born: Dec. 22, 1905, Menominee, Mich. parents: George Wellesley Mc-
Cormick, Anna Morrison.

PREPARED AT: Culver Milicary Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

magrkiep: Katherine N, Brokaw, Aug. 29, 1942, Kansas City, Mo. CHILD:
Pamela B., Dec. 5, 1945.

occupation: Manufacturing.

°

[ 708 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CLINTON VILES MacCOY

HOME ADDRESS: Norwell, Mass.

oFFice ADDRESS: Wheaton College, Norton, Mass.

porn: March 27, 1905, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: William E. MacCoy,
Susan Stewart Viles.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928; A.M., 1929; PH.D., 1934,

marrieD: Mildred Seymour, Sept. 3, 1936, Wollaston, Mass. cHttpren:
David Seymour, Oct. 19, 1946; Martha Lee, Jan. 17, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Professor of Biology.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and editor, curator of fishes and mammals, New
England Museum of Natural History, 1929-38; assistant biologist, New
Hampshire Fish and Game Department, 1939; assistant professor of
zoology, University of Massachusetts, 1939-44; associate professor of
biology, Wheaton College, since 1944.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Limnology and Oceanography; American
Society of Mammalogists; Sigma Xi; American Society of Ichthyology
and Herpetology; United States Power Squadron.

PUBLICATIONS: Various papers of technical and popular interest.

AFTER graduating from the college I worked for my master’s
and doctor’s degrees and consequently remained at the University
until 1934 on a part-time basis working in a number of biological
fields such as oceanography and herpetology. The other part of
the time some of this training stood me in good stead while work-
ing at the New England Museum of Natural History (Boston
Museum of Science).

I gave the Old World the go-by and concentrated on the New,
for at about this period parts of the Southwest and the Caribbean
Islands managed to remain practically intact in spite of my €x-
peditions to them.

In 1936 I acquired my wife and country house and have re-
mained with both ever since. The year of 1939 was mostly de-
voted to work with the New Hampshire Fish and Game Depart-
ment where I did biochemical analyses of many New Hampshire
streams, rivers, ponds, and lakes, a not unpleasant occupation.
This work helped determine fish-stocking policies and related
matters and in turn called me back to an earlier job of editing.

For the next five years I professed zoology at the University
of Massachusetts, a satisfacory accomplishment because I have
since repeatedly come upon my former students now competent-

[ 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ly engaged in such fields as the well-trodden area of medicine, in
dental research, wild-life management, conservation, limnology,
and related disciplines, students in whose biologic training T am
happy to have had some part.

During the war years there the Army Air Corps held up pret-
ty well as I taught their contingents subjects like navigation and
meteorology. Since 1944 I have been intimately concerned with
laboratory, field, and lecture platform as a member ostensibly in
good standing of the Wheaton College faculty.

We now have two adoptees, a boy nearly seven and a girl
something over one year. My wife accomplishes all sorts of
things from putting up with me and bringing up children, to
antique decoration, some floriculture, and taking a course in ma-
rine motors with me. We invested in a forty-foot Friendship
sloop two years ago and have had fun going places and doing
some hydrobiology by ourselves and with classes of students.

I have tried seriously to develop a habit of ridding myself of
hobbies, but with little success, having lately encumbered said
self with that of food preparation, commonly known as cook-
ery, and desmoschoenology, for which there is no other word.

JAMES RENO McCURDY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 5606 Ninth St., N., St. Petersburg, Fla.

OFFICE AppREsS: First Federal Bidg., St. Petersburg, Fla.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1906, Dansville, N. ¥Y. PARENTS: James Reno McCurdy, Dora
Voorhees.

PREPARED AT: Dansville High School, Dansville, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928,

MaRRIED: Durive Gerard, Aug. 19, 1937, Cleveland, Ohio (second marriage),
Clara Armstrong, Aug. 11, 1948. cHitp: James Reno, 3d, March 25, 1928
(m. Gloria Gundlach, July, 1950). GRANDCHILD: James Reno McCurdy,
4th, May 21, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Voorhees McCurdy, '27.

OccuPATION: Real estate appraiser,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army, private first class, 1943-45. .

OFFicEs HELD: Vice-president, St. Petersburg Area, Harvard Club of West
Coast of Florida, 1951.

MEMBER OF: St. Petersburg Yacht Club,

MY FIRST employment was with the General Fireproofing Com-
pany in Youngstown, Ohio, in export sales. Since 1930 I have

[710 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been in St. Petersburg, Florida, in the real estate business. |
have been affiliated with John B. Green, realtor, First Federal
Building, since 1935 and have specialized in real estate appraisal.
Mr. Green and myself are doing all of the valuation work for
the First Federal Savings and Loan Association of St. Petersburg
with resources of 45,000,000 dollars and mortgages of 35,000,000
dollars and have done considerable work for the Veteran’s Ad-
ministration, appraising for G. I. loans. I am also active in ap-
praisal for estate and tax purposes,

There is nothing else of particular interest. I try to find time to
enjoy Florida living and think I have been successful at it, If
any of you have now, or do have in the future, a real estate
problem in St. Petersburg, Florida, I shall try to help you.

GORDON CLYDE MACDONALD

HOME ADDRESS; 24 Otis St., Watertown 72, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1906, Watertown, Mass. parents: Almon Hendry Macdonald,
Minnie Evelyn Reid.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREE: B.Mus. (New England Conservatory
of Music), 1949.

MarRizp; Audrey E, Lester, June 15, 1937, Arlington, Mass.
occuPATION: Musician.

SEAVER LORNE MACDONALD

HOME apprEss: Garrison Lane, Exeter, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Exeter Light & Power, Exeter, N. H.

Born: Dec. 14, 1906, Hathorne, Mass. parents: Edward Peter Macdonald,
Minnie Murdock.

PREPARED AT: Danvers High School, Danvers, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MARRIED: Grace I. Macdonald, 1927, Merrimac, Mass. cHILDREN: Two.

occuPaTION: Public utilities.

NORMAN McDONALD

HOME ADpREss: Campgaw Road, Ramsey, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 81-16 4sth Ave., Elmhurst, N. J.

[yi]

awh.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

BorN: April 17, 1906, South Shields, England. parents: James McDonald,
Mary Pass.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

marrieD: Ruth Servoss Pardee, July 17,-1937, Greenwich, Conn. cum:
Malcolm James, March 27, 1944.

occupation: Coordinator of research, Equipment Division, Todd Shipyards

Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

CHRONOLOGY (with a dash of the historical):

1928 — Deep nostalgia after four happy years. Some alleviation
after two months in Europe.

1928 — Fall — investment banking business in New York City.

1929 — Slight dip in the market. End of I. B. B. for N. McD.

1930 — Life insurance salesman.

1930 — Fall — partner in life and general insurance firm.

1931 — New Year’s Day — engaged to be married.

1931 — Oil burner salesman in Beantown.

1932 — New Year’s Day — disengaged to be married.

1932 — People in Beantown staying far away from oil burners,

1933 — Assistant to manager in water-softening company in New
York City. :

1934 — Water not hard enough in New York City,

1935 — Partner in oil burner distribution company in New
Jersey.

1935 — Some, but not enough people buying oil burners in New
Jersey.

1936 — Rutgers University — courses relating to poultry.

1937 — Purchase of farm, “Deeprocks.”

1937 — July elopement in the new manner. Families of Ruth
Servoss Pardee and N. McD. attend ceremony in Greenwich,
Connecticut — happy day.

1944 — March, birth of son Malcolm — happy day. 7

1945-— Flora and fauna count up to four acres of beans, a vege-
table garden, 7,000 leghorns, fifteen pigs, three sheep, thirteen
cats, five dogs, and a saddle horse.

1945 — Advent of fog generators and DDT. Combustion Equip-
ment Division of the Todd Corporation in need of man to

coérdinate research —I’m it, Seeing America at last.

[712]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1946 — Experiments with the U. S. Public Health men along the
Mexican border.

1947 — Experiments with Cornell University at Ithaca, New
York, with the University of California at Riverside, Cali-

fornia, and with Texas Agricultural and Mechanical College
all over Texas.

1948 — Experiments with Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechan-
ical College at Stillwater, Oklahoma, with the Canadian De-
partment of Agriculture in Ontario, and with the University
of Florida all over that state.

1949 — Inspection trip. with the American Mosquito Association
up and down California.

1950 — 1951 — 1952 — More of the same.

1937-1953 — Lrout stream five minutes from the house. Deer,
rabbits, partridge, and woodcock on the property.

1953 — January 26— grabbing a plane for a state Board of
Health meeting at Grand Island, Nebraska. Hang the narra-
tive style. Better get this in the mail as is or committeeman
Vincent King will be on my neck again. Life is good!

SAMUEL BROWN McGAVRAN

HOME ApprEss: 780 Grandon Ave., Bexley, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 820 Huntington Bldg., Columbus 15, Ohio.

BoRN: May 6, 1906, Cadiz, Ohio. parents: Francis Johnston McGavran,
Mary Virginia Holt.

PREPARED AT: Cadiz High School, Cadiz, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cuz laude, 1928.

MarRieD: Mary Glover, July 23, 1932, Americus, Ga, CHILDREN: Jane, Jan.
18, 1937; Frank Johnston, 2d, April 11, 1940; Samuel Brown, Jr., July 4,
1943; Margaret Ross, Oct. 3, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Research associate, Ohio Chamber of Commerce.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Columbus district price economist, Office of
Price Administration.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of Central Ohio, 1949, 1951-52;
vice-president, Columbus Chapter, American Statistical Association,
19513; chairman, Board of Deacons, Broad Street Presbyterian Church,
1949.

MEMBER oF: Crichton Club.

[713]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

JAMES RALPH MACK

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Burton Woods Lane, Cincinnati 29, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 3133 Burnet Ave., Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

BorN: Oct. 19, 1906, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTs: Ralph William Mack,
Fannie Goldstein.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREES: A.B. CU: laude, 1928; M.D., 1933-

MARRIED: Frances Meyer, Aug. 22, 1947, New York, N. Y. cHmItpren: Claire
(stepdaughter), aged 7; Barbara Ann, Sept. 18, 1948, Ralph James, Feb.
23, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Surgery.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned as captain, Medical Corps, A.US.,
Feb. 14, 1942. Entered active duty, June 22, 1942; overseas (E.T.O.),
Dec. 18, 1943, to Sept. 2, 1945, with 25th General Hospital (Cincinnati
Unit); service in England, France, Belgium, Germany (injured in
Normandy in July, 1944, and sent back to England for ten weeks);
December, 1945, on the northern edge of “Bulge,” and separated from
service Feb, 28, 1946 (terminal leave began Dec. 9, 1945).

OFFICES HELD: Clinical instructor in surgery, College of Medicine, Univer-
sity of Cincinnati; clinician, General Surgery, O.P.D., Cincinnati Gen-
eral Hospital; attending surgeon, Jewish Hospital, assistant attending
surgeon, Children’s Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Cincinnati Academy of Medicine; Ohio State Medical Asso-
ciates; American Medical Association; American College of Surgeons;
Central Surgical Association; Cincinnati Surgical Society; Mont Reid

Surgical Society, American Board of Surgery, Losantiville Country
Club.

SITTING in my office on Sunday, March first, trying to get
past the dead-line at the very last minute, what thoughts go
through my weary head as to the past twenty-five years, and
especially the well-known “eleventh hour’?

First, I believe I have the very best excuse for being late that
was ever offered — namely, wanting to get my last-born, Ralph
James Mack, into the vital statistics — just six days old today. Of
course, this biography could have been in months ago and the
new arrival added in a footnote, so to speak, but naturally I feel
that he deserves more consideration than that, especially since
he’s the first boy in the family. Mother and child doing well,
father recovering slowly.

An account of my career since graduation actually has to
begin around Christmas time of our senior year, when, major-
ing in psychology, I was lost in a maze of facts and theories re-

[714]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lating to the physiological basis for emotional and psychological
behavior. A desire for more knowledge of fundamental human
life processes, combined with who knows what other influences,
changed a prospective apprentice in his father’s shirt manufac-
turing business, into a pre-medical student, with I might add, no
pre-medical sciences to his credit. I was blessed with a father of
rare understanding and feeling and an unfulfilled yearning for a
medical education during his own youth, so the way was opened
for me and the long years of graduate education began.

First came eleven months of concentrated pre-medical science
courses at the University of Chicago, where I learned not only
something of chemistry, physics, and various “ologies,” but also
that New England winters are not so bad after all. Then back
to Boston for four years in Harvard Medical School — hard
work, hard play, inspiring teachers, many fascinating new expe-
riences and worlds opened to inquiring eyes, ears, fingers, noses
and minds, and the companionship of a remarkable and stimulat-
ing group of fellow-students.

Internship at the General Hospital in my home town of Cincin-
nati was followed by a year of pathology — and then —a far
cry from psychology, five years of surgery in the same institu-
tion. I must add that although these many years of medical educa-
tion and graduate surgical training were not easy, they were won-
derful, gratifying years of striving, learning, being part of a
hard-working and most often smoothly working team, and in
time passing on to the younger men what was being absorbed
from the older.

Having thus acquired an impressive surgical training, and
missed the worst years of the depression, I was finally prepared
in October, 1940, to offer my knowledge and skill to the waiting
world! Office was rented, furnished, and duly opened — an-
nouncements sent out — secretary employed — but who noticed?
We can pass over the next twenty months rather quickly, as
those during which my office partner and I would race to the

office — first one there got the couch for the long, weary after-
noon hours of waiting, and waiting, and waiting. Apparently,
there were a few other doctors around town, and we were not so
vital to the health of the nation as we had dared to hope.

[715 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

December 7, 1941 — two single doctors with no dependents or
responsibilities — or practices to speak of.

We went our separate ways, he to the Navy and I to the
Amy. I entered service with the 25th General Hospital, re-

cruited from the Cincinnati General Hospital and Medical Col-
lege, and stay ed with it almost the entire time, with the usual peri-
ods of detached service, special assignments, etc.

Since so many of our age group saw military or naval serv-
ice, it is hardly appropriate, I believe, to go into great detail as
to my own stint.

Being a doctor, especially a surgeon in war time, puts one in
a little different position than he would otherwise occupy —
some features of which are good and some bad. I was exposed,
as were so many others, to the vexations and frustrations of being
in the wrong place at the right time, and vice versa, and so fre-
quently forced to sit idly by, unable to put my one bit of special
skill and knowledge to work. On the other hand, especially dur-
ing the Bulge, those of us who happened to be close by had the
satisfaction of being in a position to work long hours, under trying
conditions, and feel that we were really doing a job and doing
some good, At the same time, we were privileged to see and to
know the “typical American boy,” when he was dog-tired, cold,
hungry, wounded, and homesick, and to learn by first-hand ex-
perience and intimate contacts to what heights he can arise — of
gratitude, selflessness, cheerful sacrifice for his comrades, stoicism,
true heroism, and never failing, wise-cracking humor. A rare ex-
perience which it does one good to recall occasionally.

Back from service—and back to the practice of surgery in
January, 1946. Fortunately, things were different from the start.
Aside from the general change in the state of the world, the local
public apparently felt that I was no longer “just out of school.”
That was most fortunate because in the summer of 1947, I met
“the girl,” and suddenly making a living became really important.
I acquired a perfectly grand seven-year-old daughter at the
same time, and since then we have added Barbie, aged 4Yen and
Ralph, aged 6 days.

As I sit here reflecting, 1 find myself a most contented man,
with a modicum of worldly success, a continuing interest and
satisfaction in my work, and a profound joy of home and family.

[716]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hobbies? Gradual change, along with greying hair, bifocals
and a family, from playing polo and jumping horses to the
more sedate game of golf.

Religion? Judaism. Not very active in religious affairs, I must
admit, but retaining a strong feeling for the religion of my fore-
bears and a profound interest and sympathy with the problems
faced by Jews in other parts of the world,

Politics? A Democrat all the way from Al Smith to Stevenson.
Well, I was on the winning team for a long time.

It took letters and “goads” and a long, long time to get me
started on this “sketch” — and it looks as if it might be just as
hard to call a halt. But this is it! We'll save the rest for the Re-
union.

MAURICE FRANCIS McMAHAN

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Fayette St., Boston, Mass.

OFFicE ADDRESS: High School of Commerce, Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 10, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John J. McMahan, Sarah
Elizabeth Connelly.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; A.M,
1930. .

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Military Intelligence; India, Burma, China.

DANIEL JOHN McNAMARA

ADDRESS: 688 Washington St., Brookline, Mass.

BORN: June 14, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Daniel Francis McNamara,
Anna Reynolds.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1928.

HARRISON CHANDLER MACOMBER

HOME AppREss: 39 Hollis Ave., Braintree 84, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass,

[7:7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

BORN: July 26, 1902, Braintree, Mass. PARENTS: Harrison Woodward
Macomber, Effie Louise Coffin. ,

PERPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

marriep: Katharine Louise Dennison, April 9, 1937, Canton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Harrison Chandler, Jr. Feb. 24, 1938; Richard Arthur, Aug. 31, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Trust Department supervisor (in charge all income collection
for accounts followed by us in fiduciary or agency capacity), Old
Colony Trust Company.

ROGER McSWEENY

HOME ADDRESS: 350 First Ave., Apt. 14D, New York ro, N. Y.

OFFicE appress: American Cable & Radio Corp., 67 Broad St., New York 4,
N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Edward Shearman
McSweeny, Marie Curley.

PREPARED AT: Warwick High School, Warwick, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: S.B.IN E. ENG. cum laude, 1929.

marriep: Agnes J. Schiller, July, 1944, Brooklyn, N. Y. (died February,
1946); D. Ruth York, May, 1949, Brooklyn, N. Y.

OccUPATION: Radio Engineer.

OFFicEs HELD: Member, various committees in Institute of Radio Engineers
and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Institute of Radio Engineers,
American Institute of Electrical Engineers, Harvard Engineering
Society.

LURED by dreams of travel after graduation I indentured my-

self, in the modern manner, to the International Telephone and

Telegraph Corporation. The depression curtailed foreign activ-

ities and I found myself chained to a desk at New York head-

quarters with occasional leashed airing to such exotic spots as

Sayville, Long Island, and Gary, Indiana.

Completely housebroken by 1935, 1 was sent down to E! Sal-
vador to install radio stations there. Since that time I have done
similar work in Panama, Colombia, Puerto Rico, Peru, Ecuador,
and the Virgin Islands. Asa result I have lived in Latin America
for various periods of several months to several years with in-
termediate periods of a year or two in New York.

Through these cycles I have acquired a high esteem for the
American way of life. By some mysterious and unique combi-

[718 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nation of factors, it permits a nation composed of the laziest and
most self-satisfied individuals in the world to live the easiest, full-
est life anywhere.

Being now afflicted with graying hair, an expanding bottom,
and other indications that time marches on, I am taking advantage
of American ease at its ultimate by cliff-dwelling in Manhattan.
For exercise I turn the pages of the daily paper and for excitement
I ride the Third Avenue el to and from the office.

CHARLES DANIEL McQUAID

HOME ADDRESS: 4615 Chestnut St., Bethesda, Md.

BORN: June 4, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Peter Daniel McQuaid, Eliza-
beth Louise Mahony.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. 1928(29); LL.B. (Northeastern
Univ.), 1936.

MaRRIED: Edith A. Toperzer, April 17, 1937, Medford, Mass. cHILpREN:
Ann Elizabeth, Sept. 16, 1938; Peter Charles, Oct. 24, 1940; Susan Marie,
May 8, 1942.

occupation: U. S, Air Force major, Directorate of Special Investigations,
Headquarters, USAF; on leave of absence status from the Travelers
Insurance Company, Claims Dept., Boston, Mass.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant in the U. S. Army
Air Corps, May 8, 1942; Squadron and Group Intelligence Officer of
303d Bomb Group (H) from Biggs Field, Texas, to Molesworth,
Hunts., to Casablanca between August, 1942, and August, 1945; pro-
moted to major in April, 1945; reverted to inactive status in February,
1946; recalled to active duty, December, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association.

FOR all it may have seemed long and complicated as the years
toiled on, it’s now foreshortened and shockingly simple. Carefree
years while Culture’s veneer was thinly applied: years of de-
pression — cares freely supplied: marriage at last to the loveliest
bride: Ann, Pete, and Sue seriatim arrived: Nazi Hitler’s greed
denied: Communist Stalin who just now died: what comes next
not yet descried: Lord, God of Hosts, with us abide!

To fill this in just a bit: while eking out a bare subsistence in
the early thirties, I went to law school at night because it was
cheaper than doing other things at night. Upon finishing, I had
not acquired the desire to practise, but found the Travelers In-

[719 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

surance Company willing to risk a modest amount every week
on the chance that I could investigate claims. Regular employ-
ment made marriage possible, and from 1937 to 1941 we lived and
loved our idyll in Cambridge and in Dedham. Susan, and my com-
mission in the Air Force were delivered on the same May day
in 1942. Then came the long separation from home and family.
I returned home and back to the Travelers late in 1945, but the

turn of events and a turn of phrase by Winston Churchill con-
vinced me we were in an interbellum period and in December,
1948, I returned to active duty with the Air Force. My present
assignment is in Washington.

Environment being what it is, Pete, Grade 7, is talking about
West Point. That may not be a bad idea; there seems to be no
trouble about academic freedom there. Although I have heard
ugly rumors about beautiful girls going to Harvard, Ann, Grade
9, talks about Smith and Wellesley while Susan, Grade 6, talks
about quitting school. I understand tuition rates reflect our ex-
panding economy and Susan may have Daddy in mind. However,
they are all fine students, and classmates who sit on scholarship
committees are earnestly invited to submit early bids,

The form on which this story is submitted, invites an expres-
sion of social, political, or religious convictions. Mine are con-
servative, independent, and Roman Catholic respectively. None
were acquired in college. As the years progress, I expect to be-
come indifferent about the first two and strengthened in the last.

Meanwhile Edith and I look forward to the Reunion and look
a little farther ahead to a long continuation of our biennial re-
unions with Herb and Viv Ellison at Yale games in New Haven.
“Down with Yale” comes with more gusto when said to their
teeth in their own blue Bowl. “We're twenty tonight, Who says
we are more?”

LEE MASON McTURNAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Hinde & Dauche Paper Co., gog E. Grove St.,
Bloomington, Ill.

porn: Sept. 13, 1903, Indianapolis, Ind. parents: Lawrence McTurnan,
Lydia Mason.

PREPARED AT; Franklin High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1925-1928, DEGREE: A.B. 1928,

[720 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Alice Foster Light, Nov. 29, 1934, New York, N. Y. cup: Lee
Bowes, Sept. 13, 1937.

occupation: Manufacturing, sales; partner, wholesale firm.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered active duty from Cavalry Reserve, June,
19423; U. S. Army, 1942-December, 1945; captain; European Theatre,
three battle stars; Northern France, Rhineland, and Central Europe
campaigns.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Bloomington Country Club; Amer-
ican Legion.

BENTLEY GILBERT MACY

HOME ADDRESS: 121 Cottage St., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 224 Granite Block, Fall River, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 29, 1907, Fall River, Mass. parents: David Macy, Sarah I.
Bernstein.

PREPARED AT: B, M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(30).

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Aaron Macy, ’33, LL.B., ’36.

OCCUPATION: Insurance and real estate.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Navy Public Works, Panama Canal Zone.

OFFICES HELD: President, Kavodian Credit Union.

STILL a Democrat.

WILLIAM ASHLEY MAGIE, II

HOME ADDRESS: 695 Prospect Ave., Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1640 Carroll Ave., Chicago 12, Ill.

BORN: July 3, 1906, Winnetka, Ill. parents: Frank Ogden Magie, Marie
Florence Quick.

PREPARED AT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, Ill; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MarRIED: Margaret Jean MacGregor, July 2, 1929, Manchester, N. H.
CHILDREN: William Ashley, 3d, May 4, 1931; Peter MacGregor, May 3,
1935; John Q., 2d, May 13, 1939; Margaret Ellen, April 9, 1943.

HARVARD son: William Ashley Magie, 3d, ’53.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank Ogden Magie, °18.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, Magie Brothers, manufacturers of process oils
and greases,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Reserve Officer, Field Artillery, 1928-42.

L721]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

OFFICES HELD: Director, Magie Brothers; vice-president, Taleen Oil Com-
pany; governor, Winnetka Community House; chairman, Winnetka
Boy Scouts, 1941-46, 1947 Red Cross Campaign; vestryman, Christ Epis-
copal Church of Winnetka, 1942-47.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago; Sheridan Shore Yacht Club; Chi-
cago Curling Club; National Lubricating Grease Institute; American
Society of Lubricating Engineers.

AFTER spending one year in a New York bank J have been
in the oil business in Chicago since 1929. Our company processes
petroleum and fatty oils for the printing, foundry, and metal
working industries. One of our main products is extreme pres-
sure lubricating grease which we make for steel and other
heavy manufacturing plants. Along with this goes the many
special type greases used by the automotive industry. I often
wonder what difference it would have made had I concentrated
in chemistry rather than economics. Inside our shop I am pri-
marily concerned with chemical reactions whereas on the out-
side it is always economics. Who knows?

During the thirties my summers included small sail boat racing
on Lake Michigan and the winters found me trying to keep an
ice boat from turning over on one of our inland lakes — a very
good sport for fifteen years ago! In 1941 we bought a farm in
New Hampshire to which we are devoted, but we never seem
to be able to spend much time there. Consequently it is not
seriously cultivated. Our middle-west farm friends tell us we
haven’t a farm but a large “rock garden.” The last two years
both Margaret and myself have taken up curling which is com-
paratively new in Chicago. We have enjoyed this very much and
find it strenuous enough for anybody of our advanced age.

I think we have been very fortunate to have had several very
interesting vacations — some with our whole family —to Mex-
ico, Bermuda, the Virgin Islands; and this last summer Mar-
garet and I and two of our boys toured England, Scotland, Ire-
land, the Scandinavian countries, and western Germany. It was
a new experience for me to drive on the left side of the road,
then on the right, back on the left, and then literally on either
side in some neutral ground between Norway and Sweden.

Our oldest boy, who is a senior at Harvard, expects to be mar-
ried this June before he goes on active duty in the Navy. Our

[722]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

next boy should be a Harvard freshman next fall. The other
children will soon be off too. Perhaps this will bring us back to
New Hampshire for longer visits and give us the opportunity to
come to Boston. We have missed seeing many of our very good
Harvard and Radcliffe friends in New England the past short
twenty-five years.

JAMES AVERY MAIN

HOME appress: Sunnyridge Road, Harrison, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 14, 1905, Wilmington, Del. parents: Archibald McNicol Main,
Mary Jane Avery.

PREPARED AT: Bulkley School, New London, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Rebecca McDowell Horr, March 16, 1935, New York, N. Y.
(died April 25, 1940); Marion L. Morris, Sept. 2, 1943, New York,
N. Y. cHitpren: Christopher Avery, June 6, 1937; James Creighton,
April 18, 1940.

occuPATION: Employed by The Flintkote Company, manufacturers of
building materials.

BENJAMIN WILLIAM MANDELSTAM

HOME ADDRESS: 2014 W. qoth St., Minneapolis 9, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 737 E.. 22nd St., Minneapolis 4, Minn.

BORN: March 1, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Isaac Wolf Mandelstam, Rose
Blumenthal.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1932.

MARRIED: Selma A. Siskind, June 3, 1934, Nahant, Mass. cuHi_preN: Cynthia
Jean, Dec. 21, 1935; Robert Wolf, June 7, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Felix Mandelstam, ’17.

OccUPATION: Hospital administrator.

oFFices HELD: Director, Men’s Volunteer Corps, Beth Israel Hospital, 1943-
45, 1047-49; chief medical officer, Brookline Health Hospital Unit,
Civilian Defense, 1944-45; assistant cubmaster, cubmaster, Troop 116,
Brookline, Mass., 1948-49; secretary, 1935-36, president, 1948-49, Phi
Delta Epsilon Club of Boston; chairman, Committee on Economics,
Minneapolis Hospital Council, 1951, 1952; member, board of directors,
Temple Israel, Minneapolis, since 1951, Minneapolis War Memorial
Blood Bank, 1952, Minneapolis Convalescent Home, 1951, 1952.

[723]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

We have many innovations in hospital design, decor, and manage-
ment. We were able to open for patients in February, 1951 (hav-
ing had open house and the dedication in November, 1950, amid
freezing weather). From February through December, 1951, I
suffered all the trials and tribulations of a new, growing service
organization which must of necessity depend mainly on one indi-
vidual to keep it on a selected path. By 1952, although we were
not by any means in the black, or on a really smooth road, things
were going along fairly. well, and I managed to get away for a
trip to Yellowstone with the family. Of course, we picked the
weeks when the thermometer hit 107 in some of the places.

Now we are, we hope, well adjusted Minneapolitans, expecting
temperature changes of eighty degrees in one week, and minus
twenty in the winter. But we like the city, its people, and the
lakes. Selma has been active in many organizations, Cynthia, like-
wise, outdoing her Mother and Dad in communal activities. Only
Bob has so far been wise enough to let the world come to him.

I play a little golf, but not well. Selma makes me take an inter-
est in our flower garden in the summer, and Bob is letting up a
bit on his demands that I skate with him in the winter. Both
children go riding with me occasionally. My friends are trying
to convince me that hunting and fishing should be avocations at
this age, but have not yet been successful. I prefer to putter
around the house, or be kept busy by some Temple committee
work — that is, when I do get away from the hospital.

ERIC GREGORY MANTLE

HOME AppRESS: 325 Dell Ave., Pittsburgh 16, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: June 3, 1906, Newquay, Cornwall, England. parents: Gregory Doug-
las Mantle, Jessie Maskell.

PREPARED AT: Schenley High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

maretep: Margaret Lang, July 28, 1936, Elizabeth, N. J. cutcp: Eric Richard,
1942.

occupation: Advertising, agency account executive.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Staff Sergeant in an infantry Headquarters Com-
pany, 1943-44; Stateside service only.

[ 726 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOR the fact that I became an advertising man, the credit (or
blame, if you look at it that way), goes to a successful Harvard
graduate who kindly counselled me when I was looking for a job
without knowing what. He thought advertising was work |
would like, and there is evidence he was right in that I have
been with the same organization for all twenty-five years. The
actual work has been varied, proceeding through agency produc-
tion, media buying, copy writing, and account contact.

It has, in short, been sufficiently stimulating, varied, and en-
joyable to call for few interests outside of the group I work with
and for at the office, and the all-important little group I work with
and for at home. This is limited at present to one wife, one child,
and one cat; but, it is subject to change without notice, since you
never can tell about cats. .

During the war, the S~3 work to which I was assigned was
not, I’m sure, particularly helpful to the effort, but was an inter-
esting experience nevertheless.

I have no particular hobbies; have never owned a car, but en-
joy vacations on water. In fact, on one such holiday I acquired a
third-hand cruiser; and on another, a first-hand wife. Wives can
get burned up occasionally without serious harm, but when the
boat got burned up in 1940, it stayed that way.

For the most part I stay close to home, where I often balance
expenditures of office energy by letting inertia take its course
(as by getting this biography in at the last moment).

GERARD FRANK MARIANO

appress: 30 Montauk Ave., New London, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1906, New London, Conn. parents: Rocco Rocco Mariano,
Josephine Carino.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

WILLIAM SEWARD MARINER

HOME apprEss: Snug Harbor, Dover, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1300 Statler Bldg., Boston, Mass.
Born: April 6, 1906, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: George Edward Mariner,

Margaret Greenough.

[ 727 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

marrieD: Evelyn Floyd Ventres, Aug. 12, 1933, Rockport, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Specification engineer, Metcalf & Eddy, engineers.

OFFICES HELD: President, Christian Endeavor Society, Bingham, Maine,
1929-31. °

MEMBER OF: New England Water Works Association; Boston Society of
Civil Engineers; New England Sewage and Industrial Wastes Associa-
tion; American Water Works Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Two professional papers.

EARLY July in 1928 found me cancelling a planned engineering
tour of Europe and, instead, going to Bingham, Maine, for the
New England Public Service Company on the construction of
Wyman Dam. There, after a few months of survey work, I was
placed in charge of the field testing laboratory where a consider-
able amount of testing of earth and concrete was done.

Following completion of the project at Bingham in early 1931,
I went to work as an engineer for Liberty Mutual Insurance Com-
pany in Boston, Massachusetts, at first in connection with con-
struction safety; later, on industrial safety. In September, 1934,
Liberty and I parted company.

Various odd jobs during the next twenty-one months kept m me
more or less busy even if they did not make me wealthy.

In June, 1936, through a fortunate combination of coincidences,
I was engaged “for two or three months” as an assistant engineer
for Metcalf & Eddy. Except for a few months with the Braintree,
Massachusetts, Sewer Department, I have been with Metcalf &
Eddy since then, serving as assistant engineer and project engineer
on design work and as resident engineer on construction work.
At present I have general charge of the preparation and issue of
contract documents for construction projects. I am registered as
a professional engineer in Massachusetts and New Hampshire.

As for hobbies — perhaps interests would be a better word —
with my wife I enjoy gardening, trout and salmon fishing, color

photography, and development of our place at New London, New
Hampshire.

[728 ]

aT ere eso ITS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IRA MARKWETT

HOME ADDRESS: 1075 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.
oFFIce appress: Grayson-Robinson Stores Inc., 550 W. s9th St., New York,

N. Y.
porN: Oct. 30, 1907, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Louis Markwett, Lena

Grandberg.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.B.A. magna cum laude,

1930.
marrieD: Helen Lourie, Nov. 11, 1934, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN: Linda, July

5, 1938, Lenore, July 10, 1942.

OccUPATION: Director of west coast operations, retail chain stores.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Women’s Naval Uniforms Inc., executive vice-
president, general manager, under direct supervision of U. S. Navy, to
procure all uniforms for WAVES, 1943-44.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Chief, Women’s Clothing Section, Research
and Development Branch, Military Planning Division, OQMG, work-
ing with brigadier general Georges F. Doriot, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Executive vice-president, Women’s Naval Uniforms Inc.,
1943-44, S. Klein on The Square Inc., 1946-47; vice-president, Lily of
France Inc., 1948-52.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

In this age of Bigger Business with its crying need for men,
With Executive ability in action, word, and pen...

With a Bradstreet for a Bible and a slide rule in our hand,
We shall make a million dollars and supply our own demand.

THESE are the opening and closing verses of a poem by an un-
known genius on the capabilities and the future possibilities of
the business school Class of 1930.

However, the crash of 1929 altered the crying need for men,
and when we entered the business world in the summer of 1930
it certainly seemed that we and the classes following us would
have to supply our own demand.

After a trip to Europe in the summer of 1930, I went to work
for Blair & Company in my chosen field of investment banking.
However, as the market dropped, our feet on the desks rose higher,
so that by January, 1931, I decided to look for greener pastures.
Those pastures turned out to be the stockrooms in Filene’s and

[ 729 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

my uniform an old long brown coat — very practical when dust-
ing bins and sweeping floors.

I was doing some merchandising at Filene’s when the war
broke out. Much as I fancied myself a tough guy and not really
interested in women’s clothes, I was put in charge of the WAVE
uniform procurement program and then Jater given the responsi-
bility, as expert consultant, for research and development of the
WAC uniforms.

After the war I became interested in low cost, mass merchan-
dising methods at S. Klein on Union Square, which was bought
by the Grayson-Robinson Stores Inc. However, I was destined
to work even more closely with women’s clothes — because in
1948 I became associated with a nationally known manufacturer
of qualiry foundation garments. I guess that was too close, so
I returned to my first real interest — mass merchandising at low
cost — back with Grayson-Robinson.

Now that Radcliffe and Harvard have become as one, I feel
an even greater satisfaction in knowing that in 1934 I anticipated
a trend by marrying a Radcliffe girl, Our two daughters are
looking forward to going to Radcliffe themselves.

Since the war and the rapid development of air travel, we have
managed to spend vacations in Bermuda, Nassau, The Virgin Is-
lands, Jamaica, British West Indies, Cuba, and have suffered the °
customary dysentery in Mexico City and Acapulco.

Although I shall be very busy on the West Coast, I hope to
be able to return for our Reunion in June.

JOHN WIGHT MARTINDALE

HOME AppREss: 585 W. 214th St., New York 34, N. Y.
OFFICE appREss: Laxer & Shapiro, 575 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BoRN: June 14, 1907, Glen Ridge, N. J. parents: Harry T. Martindale,
Ruth H. Wight.

preparen AT: Glen Ridge High School, Glen Ridge, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: ABs 1928, B.D. (Union Theological
Seminary), 1932.

marriep: Cecile Lieberman, Dec. 24, 1935, New York, N. Y, cuitp: David
Anthony, Nov. 4, 1939.

occupation: Labor relations consultant,

[730 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT post: Director, Disputes Division, National War
Labor Board, Region Il.
MEMBER OF: Industrial Relations Research Association.

WHEN I graduated in 1928, it was my intention to enter the
ministry. The transition from that objective to my present vo-
cation — labor relations consultant — was a gradual one, and not
as illogical as it might appear to be on the surface. I graduated
from Union Theological Seminary in 1932, when even jobs in
the ministry were hard to find. After several months of unsuc-
cessful efforts to find a congregation that wanted to listen to me
every Sunday, I turned to teaching. Since nobody wanted to
study theology, I taught economics and labor problems, which
had been my major at Harvard. This led in turn to jobs with
the New York State Department of Labor (1937 to 1939), the
U. S. Department of Labor (1939 to 1943), the National War
Labor Board (1943 to 1945), and my present association with a
law firm which specializes in handling labor relations problems
for employers. .

As an alumnus of the Glee Club, my principal hobby is still
choral singing. I am now a member of the Cantata Singers — a
chorus which each year gives two or three public performances
of the works of Bach and his contemporaries. Other recreational
activities include square dancing, tennis, swimming, and ice skat-
ing, but I don’t find as much time to engage in any of these
activities as I should like.

*- JEMUEL GATES MARTY, JR.

BORN: June 23, 1906, Kansas City, Mo. Parents: Jemuel Gates Marty,
Juliet Wilson.

PREPARED aT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

pep: Nev. 27, 1929, Florence, Italy.

SOMETIME after leaving college Marty reported that he was
in Paris, France. He died soon after in Italy, survived by his

father.

[731]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

SCHUYLER LOREE MATHEWS
HOME ADDRESS: 214 California St. Walters, Okla.
OFFicE appress: Air Training Dept., Fort Sill, Okla.
BorN: April 23, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Harold Chauncey Math-
ews, Edith Churchill Candee.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.
MARRIED: Jean Elizabeth Hawn, Oct. 27, 1932, Albany, N. Y. cyicpren:

Anthony Thompson, Jan. 5, 1939; Clinton Schuyler, May 16, 1940;
David Churchill, Sept. 10, 1948.

occupation: Civilian flight instructor, tactical flight training of Army pilots,
Department of the Army.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
January, 1942; naval aviator, June, 1942; naval air primary training
until September, 1944 (chief flight instructor Naval Reserve Air Base,
Squantum, etc.); Air Combat Intelligence, September, 1944-Novem-
ber, 1945 (staff Air Pacific Sub Command Forward, Guam; U. S. S.
Hamlin, Okinawa and Tokyo Bay); lieutenant commander, April,
1944; commander, November, 1945; volunteer reserve to date.

MEMBER OF: Fort Sill Officers Mess.

I BEGAN flying in 1929 and in so doing settled the trend of most
of my subsequent blessings and misfortunes. Through Robert K.
Black (a Harvard man for one week — didn’t like it, got in his
car and went to Amherst — didn’t like that much better, as his
“higher” education ended with Army wings at Kelly Field) I
met my wife New Year's, 1932, and was married that fall. I lived
in New York till 1936, working at various pot-boiling jobs mostly
in real estate. A craving for fresh air and elbow room drove us
up the Hudson to Garrison, where I spent several years com-
muting, remodelling my house, hunting, and passing the time of
day with the neighbors. Son Tony appeared in 1939 and turned
an orderly household into a shambles of bathinettes, diaper re-
ceptacles, smells, and yells. Double trouble came in 1940: Clinton
was born. The craving for fresh air again drove me back to air-
planes; I taught seaplane flying until Pearl Harbor, when the
Navy seemed a logical step (didn’t get my hands on another sea-
plane till mid-1945). I flew over Harvard and its environs al-
most every day for eighteen months (from Squantum), before
being transferred to the sunny South. I made an acquaintance
with Children’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School through
the medium of son Tony, who played with matches and might

[732 ]

opr omg et

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

not have survived were it not for the knowledge gained in the
lugubrious laboratory of the Cocoanut Grove Club. Tony is
now a healthy behemoth of fourteen — thanks to Boston medicine.

After covering a primary training beat from the Carolinas to
Miami and the Mississippi for eight months, I was remodelled
into an ACT officer (ask Bill Saltonstall or any of a number of
classmates), and passed an undistinguished year pushing a pencil
in the Pacific and losing sleep to a procession of “red alerts.” I
came back to peacetime and seaplanes on the Hudson, and a post-
war model called David in 1948 (two A. M. bottle-feedings were
child’s play after the indoctrination of wartime watches). Late
1950 found private flying in the doldrums, and an invitation to
join the Air Training staff at Fort Sill sounded good enough to
accept. For the past two years I have been teaching young Army
officers to fly low and slow, and to land in clearings, potato
patches, roadways, and any other places no right-minded aviator
would glance at twice. Being a civilian under military jurisdic-
tion I miss the stimulation of running my own establishment;
however, the work is fascinating and the pay check comes in like
clockwork, rain or shine.

Oklahoma, while interesting in lots of ways, lacks the green
trees and mountains and rivers of the Mathews’ natural habitat.
With some seniority in my job, I am able to take a summer and
a winter vacation, and some long week-ends. We have remodelled
an elderly school bus into a travelling bunk-house; when time
allows, we go touring or sightseeing or just plain camping. Last
summer we saw long stretches of the Midwest, the upper East
coast, and part of the South. This Christmas found us in Mexico,
learning to order gasoline and grapefruit in Spanish. Next sum-
mer, it will be the Pacific coast. It’s a painless education for the
kids (and the adults no less!).

CHARLES FRAZIER MAURICE

HOME apprEss: 118 FE. goth St., New York 16, N. Y.

OFFICE aAppress: Waldron & Carroll Inc., 145 W. 45th St. New York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1905, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. parents: Charles Frazier Maurice,
Emily Cook Wilkinson.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,

[ 733 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1928 (30),
occupation: Manufacturing, Mercantile Business, leather goods.
MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of New York; Adirondack League Club.

ARTHUR LEO MAY

HOME apprEss: 160 E, 48th St, New York 17, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 420 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: June 27, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph John May, Genevieve
Catherine McClintock.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.
MARRIED: Divorced.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Joseph May, ’15 (deceased); William Henry May,
M.B.A., 24.

occupation: Member Advertising Department, Nation’s Business, general
business publication of United States Chamber of Commerce.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned Army Air Corps, March, 1942,
assigned Ferry Division transporting aircraft from Maine to Prestwick,
Scotland; later assigned to Air Transport Command, served in Amer-
ican, European, China, Burma, and India theatres; spent last year on
“The Hump” flying supplies to China; returned with rank of captain,
1945. .

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; National Aeronautical Associa
tion; National Industrial Advertising Association.

MY BUSINESS life and career is easily divided into three parts:
air transportation before World War II, the war years, and the
field of advertising and promotion.

Back in 1929, believing that “flying was here to stay,” I helped
to pioneer the first air passenger service between Boston and New
York. Through mergers we became American Airlines. My job
was to help increase the number of passengers. This was done
through personal contact, advertising, and public relations.

I spent one year at Boston Airport as New England manager.
I was fortunate, as my company selected me to attend the trans-
portation course at the Harvard Graduate School of Business
Administration. I was happy to spend eight years with American
Airlines and play an active part in its growth. My capacity was

eastern sales manager in charge of all offices between Boston and
Cleveland.

[ 734]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

With this experience I joined Northeast Airlines as special
representative for the president. My primary job was helping the
air line get new air mail and passenger routes approved through
the Civil Aviation Authority in Washington. In 1940 I also
started one of the first advanced pilot training schools using
Northeast Airline pilots as instructors. .

Having a reserve commission, I was called to active duty in
March, 1942. With my air line background, I was assigned to
the Ferry Division of the Army Air Corps. Our first big job
was to move the Eighth Air Force to England. I was assigned
to the operation of the Air Transport Command covering all
bases from Maine to England. In 1944 I was transferred to New
Delhi, India, and assigned to the China, Burma, India theatre.
I helped to set up bases in Chentu, China, our first B-29 base,
worked with General Stillwell and General Chenault in Burma
on projects to secure the Burma Road and Hump Airport bases.

The codrdination of these efforts resulted in the greatest “air
lift” ever accomplished by the Air Transport Command. I re-
turned in 1945 with the rank of captain. I had seen enough air-
planes. With new sights, and having seen possibilities during the
war years come true, I returned to my first love — advertising:
first, by selling national newspaper advertising, then to the multi-
million Hearst magazine market representing Cosmopolitan, and
finally to Nation’s Business.

As our publication is owned by the United States Chamber
of Commerce, the world’s largest organization of business men,
we play a big part in helping to increase both the sales and ac-
ceptance of industrial and consumer goods. This means I have
daily contact with leading companies, advertising agencies, and
public relations groups. Through them, and our audience of
business men, we play a distinct part in their sales activity. It is
an active job that is as fluid as the business tide.

I have changed my hobby lately from fast aeroplanes to fast
cameras. I use a Nikkon with F.1.4. lens, It’s the fastest. I am
glad that the man I voted for is now in the White House. He is
really going to find the forgotten man — the business man. My
religion came back during the war, and I still have it. I am a
bachelor at present, but still looking.

[735]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

WALTER MAYNARD

HOME ApprEss: 60 E, gist St. New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shearson, Hammill & Co., 1¢ Wall St.. New York, N. Y.

BorN: April 19, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Walter Effingham May-
nard, ’93, Eunice Ives.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

marrizo: Eileen Burden, Feb. 9, 1932, New York, N. Y. caitpren: Walker,
Jr., Nov. 14, 1932; Sheila, Aug. 1, 1936; John, Feb. 23, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Walter Maynard, Jr., ’54.

occupation: Partner, Shearson, Hammill & Company, securities.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Air Force, 1943-45; discharged with rank of
lieutenant colonel; awarded Legion of Merit; O.B.E.; mentioned in
dispatches.

OFFICES HELD: President, Association of Stock Exchange Firms, 1952; gover-
nor, Greenwich House, 1947; trustee, Austen Riggs Center, Inc., 1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard and Racquet & Tennis Clubs of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on economic subjects in professional and
technical publications.

AFTER graduating, I spent an agreeable year at Trinity College,
Cambridge, England, studying Modern European History, and
travelling during the extended vacations.

In October of 1929 I went to work in the securities business
in New York and, with the exception of the war years, I have
been enthusiastically engaged in it ever since.

In 1933 a combination of commuter’s life and an exceptionally
severe winter caused me to undertake an Easter skiing holiday in
company with Steve Van Rensselaer, and from that time my
winters have been enlivened by many skiing excursions, the lat-
est being to Aspen last February.

After Pearl Harbor I joined the Air Force and spent the next
few years in England and on the Continent, mostly concerned
with the problem of using our bombing effort wisely.

After the war I came back to Wall Street, where participation
in an active and growing business has kept me fully occupied. I
have, however, found time to be president of the Association
of Stock Exchange Firms, and to supplement winter skiing activi-
ties with small boat (Thiszle) sailing during the summers.

[ 736 ]

cae Serpe SASS MIRON

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

* WILLIAM HARPER MEDDERS

porn: Nov. 19, 1904, Still Pond, Md. parents: William Medders, Olivia

Harper.
PREPARED AT: Tome School for Boys, Port Deposit, Md.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B., 1928.
pieD: Dec. 9, 1937, Still Pond, Md.

FOR a year after graduation Medders studied at the Harvard Law
School, leaving to enroll at the Law School of the University of
Pennsylvania. In 1933 he became a member of the Bar and joined
the firm of Maloy, Brady & Yost of Baltimore. In time he opened
his own office near his parents’ home on the eastern shore of Mary-
land. While in college he held the Harvard Club of Maryland
Scholarship and was a member of the Freshman Finance Commit-
tee and the Class Crew,

DONALD FRED MEEKINS

HOME ADDRESS: 288 Central St., Foxboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 294 Washington St., Boston 8, Mass.

BorN: July 8, 1905, Salem, Mass. parents: Fred R. Meekins, Matilda Janet
Morton. ,

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: SB, 1928(29).

MarRigD: Signe M. J. Bjork, Oct. 1, 1932, Medford, Mass, cutcpren: John F.,
Oct. 4, 1937; Carol M., Oct. 1, 1939; George E. and Elsa R., June 27,

1941.
occuPATION: Designer and draftsman, civil works, Charles A. Maguire &

Associates.

EXCEPT for a year of teaching science in a junior high school, I
have worked at engineering in Connecticut and Massachusetts.
The work in engineering has been interesting with much variety,
being in the fields of sanitation, flood control, structures, high-
ways, and oil refineries.

Every father should spend as much time educating his children
as possible. This I believe and my four would probably ask why
don’t you try to live up to your beliefs. The children are all
different. John is interested in science and flying airplane models
is his hobby. He occasionally says things that show a well de-
veloped personality, such as “T don’t feel bad when I lose a game,

[737 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

why should I, so long as I do not lose more than half the time.”
Almost intuitively, he knows when and what to say, and never
breaks a confidence, °

Carol has a good command of English and enjoys reading.
George has taken an active interest in birds and spends money he
earns on feed and feeders. Elsa is unusual in that she will stay at
a task usually of her own making for two or three hours at a time.
She likes to draw and her needle work is excellent.

In interesting the four children in instrumental music, I have
developed an interest in it myself to the point of making it my
hobby. The children are all in the school band and orchestras.
John plays a sousaphone and bass viol, Carol a clarinet and alto
clarinet, Elsa a clarinet, and George a trombone and baritone
horn. Even Signe has renewed acquaintance with a piano and I
have undertaken to learn to play a violin.

As a result of food allergies among several common foods, the
extent of which has only recently been learned, mediocrity at
school and at work would sum up my achievements.

JOHN HENRY MEIGS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 86, San Anselmo, Calif.

BorN: April 8, 1905, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Martin S. Meigs,
Madeline Moore. :

PREPARED AT: The Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.; Powder Point,
Duxbury, Mass.; Huntington School, Boston, Mass., Santa Barbara
High School, Santa Barbara, Calif; Browne and Nichols School, Cam-
bridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.ARCH., 1933.

marriep: Anne Helena Swan, July 25, 1936, Mill Valley, Calif. cHrpReN:
Norman Nottingham, June 21, 1942; Cynthia Anne, Oct. 5, 1946.

occupation: Architectural designer, boss, draftsman, office boy with prac-
tice limited to residences with occasional bus shelter or outhouse.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Home Owners Loan Corporation, 1943-44.

I AM sorry not to have filled out this questionnaire sooner, but
we have just returned from a five-week stay in New England.

Most of this time was spent floating in that seventy-two-degree
water at Martha’s Vineyard.

On one jaunt to Boston I took my ten-year-old son on an in-
spection trip of the subways. We came above ground at Harvard

[738 ]

LL

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Square, but he was reluctant to pass through certain iron gates,
He has sat long hours at television, and somehow iron gates and
ivied walls could only indicate a penitentiary. The corner of
Matthews and Grays was the end of the road; we were soon back
in the subway. This was seeing Harvard twenty-five years later,
and having seen it I shall not feel compelled to return again next
year to get drunk.

RICHARD MEISENBACH

HOME ADDRESS: 4138 Maryland Ave., Shreveport, La.

OFFicz ADDRESS: J. B. Beaird Co., Inc., Shreveport, La.

porn: March 5, 1907, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Roland O. Meisenbach, m.p.,
’05, Marion Gates Vinal.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MarRIED: Lorna Doone Strunz, July, 1929, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1935);
Mary Louise Edmundson, March 16, 1946, La Jolla, Calif. crmpren:
Gretchen, Feb. 28, 1930 (7. May 27, 1950); Margo, Oct. 11, 1932 (died
Sept. 9, 1950); Richard Lee, Aug. 13, 1948. GranpcHiLp: Mitchell Lee
Foster, March 28, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Sales executive, manager LP-Gas & NH3 Systems Sales Divi-
sion, J. B. Beaird Company, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U.S. Navy, three years
in London as top secret control officer on Staff of commander, U. S.
Naval Forces in Europe.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Salesmanagers Club, Providence, R. I., 1941.

MEMBER OF: Berkeley Tennis Club; Shreveport Yacht Club; Shreveport
Country Club; Army & Navy Club, Washington, D. C.

1928-1931: I was in Boston, Massachusetts, in stocks and bonds;
financial career ended by the depression.

1931-1934: I was in Boston, Massachusetts, in a department
store, working from floor walker to merchandise manager — a
long hard struggle. |

1934-1942: I was in Providence, Rhode Island, and Hartford,
Connecticut, with the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company. I
opened a new Firestone store in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, then
managed the Providence Store, and finally was made manager
of stores for the Hartford, Connecticut, District.

1942-1945: I was in a Boston, Massachusetts, department store,
working from floor walker to merchandise manager — a long
hard struggle.

isdn ihe a alles ake ek ee 1

[ 739 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

1945-1947: I was in Los Angeles and San Francisco, California,
back with Firestone again; not for long, however, as I had to
have a fling at ‘‘a business of my own.” Ten years as a bachelor
came to an end and ] married Mary Lou in La Jolla, California.
This is “the garden spot of America” where we should like to
retire,

1947-1950: I was in Berkeley, California, with Locker Pak
Frozen Foods Company. The idea of selling frozen foods at
wholesale prices to locker and home freezer customers, now so
widely advertised, was a few years premature. Thus ended an-
other small business. During this period the combination of a
new wife and the California climate brought forth a son who ts
only a little older than his nephew. Yes! we are grandparents;
Gretchen my daughter, living on Long Island, has a young son.

1950-1951: I was in Shreveport, Louisiana, in steel fabrication.
The Korean War had just started when I joined the J. B. Beaird
Company. I spent the next year and a half searching the country
for defense orders. Later I commuted between Washington and
Shreveport as Beaird’s Washington representative.

1952: I was in Washington, D. C., with the National Produc-
tion Authority. Beaird decided to lend my services to NPA as
Branch Chief of the Engine and Turbine Division to represent
the heavy metal tank industry. Mary Lou and Ricky moved to
Washington with me. We loved that city partly because the
day and night baby-sitting service supplied at “The Westchester”
left us free to ride on the Washington Merry-go-round. Mary
Lou (Baldwin School — Smith College) and I had a chance to
look up and visit many of our old eastern classmates. We had the
opportunity to see how our government operates at close range.
Every tax-payer should have this experience. Enough said —
I still have a few Democratic friends.

1953: I am in Shreveport, Louisiana, with LP-Gas & NH3 Sys-
tems. (LP Gas is liquified petroleum gas commonly known as
propane or butane. NH3 is Anhydrous Ammonia. Systems are
tanks or containers for these products.) As soon as we were set-
tled back in Shreveport, I took off on a cruise by air. Mexico,
Central America, Venezuela, and the Caribbean area were in-
cluded in my itinerary, A survey of the markets for our products
was the reason for the trip. On my return I was given the re-

[ 740 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sponsibility for the sale of our LP-Gas and NH3 system sales.
This job means, again, more travelling. By the way, Anhydrous
Ammonia is the new “Fabulous Fertilizer” that is injected into
the soil as a gas. It is a fascinating business that has grown faster
even than the crops to which it is fed.

Mary Lou’s son Bob graduates from Kent this June and hopes
to enter Stanford in the fall. Her daughter Jeanne is working
with United Air Lines in Los Angeles after a two year sojourn
at the University of Arizona. .

We still love to dance. Mary Lou can pass for “Miss Arthur
Murray.” We play bridge whenever we get a chance. I still
play golf and tennis but now on a “Try Monthly” basis.

Ricky, our five-year-old, keeps us both mentally and physically
in good shape by his activities which are many, varied, constantly
changing, and never dull. He sings in St. Mark’s Episcopal choir.
We all hope that our next survey trip will be to Cambridge in
June.

+s SCUDDER MEKEEL

Born: April 30, 1902, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Isaac A. Mekeel, Elisabeth
May Schureman.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1928; A.M. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1929; PH.D. (Yale), 1932.

MARRIED: Velma Lucile Brown, April 30, 1925, New York, N. Y. cHILpREN:
Joyce Haviland, July 6, 1931; Judith Abbott, May 3, 1934; Peter.

pep: July 23, 1947, mear Lake Placid, N. Y.

wipow: Mrs, Scudder Mekeel, 3519 Blackhawke Drive, Madison 5, Wis.

ASSOCIATE professor of anthropology at the University of Wis-
consin, Dr. Scudder Mekeel died en route to Lake Placid. Before
coming to Harvard he had attended Princeton University for three
years and the Université de Strasbourg in France for one year.
Upon his graduation he took his Master’s degree at the University
of Chicago and in the summer of 1929 was a Fellow of the Lab-
oratory of Anthropology at Santa Fe, He was made a mem-
ber of the faculty at Yale for the years 1929 to 1933 and received
his Ph.D. there in 1932. Returning to Harvard he was a Fellow
of the Social Science Research Council in 1933 to 1934 and a
Research Fellow in psychology in 1933 to 1935.

[741]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In 1935 Mekeel accepted the position of field representative of
the Commission of Indian Affairs, in charge of Applied An-
thropology, for the United States Indian Service attached to the
Department of the Interior, where he remained for two years;
in 1936 he was also acting director of the Socio-Economic Staff,
a special unit of the Soil Conservation Service attached to the De-
partment of Agriculture. Then, in 1938, he became director of
the Laboratory of Anthropology in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and
only later joined the faculty of the University of Wisconsin. At
the time of his death he was engaged in research at the New
York Academy of Medicine during a year’s sabbatical. He was
a member at some time of various scientific associations, among
them the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
American Anthropological Association, American Sociological
Society, and the African Institute of Languages and Cultures. He
made contributions to scientific periodicals and wrote Americans
and Their Prejudices. Besides his wife and three children, a broth-
er and a sister survived Mekeel.

+ EDWARD pve SELDING MELCHER

BoRN: Aug. 20, 1906, Northeast Harbor, Maine. parents: John Stevens
Melcher, ‘81, Helen de Selding.

prepareD aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

piepD: Dec. 30, 1943, North Africa.

WHEN he had graduated, Edward de Selding Melcher became
associated with the Farmers Loan and Trust Company of New
York. By 1938, however, he had been drama editor on the
Evening Star in Washington, D. C., and had become a screen
writer for R.K.O. Studios in Hollywood. Of this latter oc-
cupation he commented in the Decennial Report, “I wrote screen
plays for Helen Broderick and Victor Moore which were im-
mediately converted into ‘starring vehicles’ for Joe Penner, and
I wrote a ‘starring vehicle’ for Joe Penner which was immediately
converted into a screen play for Helen Broderick and Victor
Moore, Then I came home.” Home was New York City where
Melcher was a writer probably until he enlisted in the service.

[742]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In College he was a member of the Freshman Squash Team, the
Fly Club, the Iroquois Club, and the Hasty Pudding-Institute of
1770. He died while serving his country in North Africa,

JOHN DOUGLAS MERRIAM

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Embankment Rd., Boston 14, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 75 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

porN: Nov. 4, 1906, Newton, N. J. parents: Edwin Wilson Merriam,
Marie Schroeter. .

PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: [924~192'8. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; LLB,

1931.
UNMARRIED.
occupation: Lawyer, member firm of Nutter, McClennen & Fish.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted March 21, 1941; 26th Division, Camp
Edwards, Mass.,; adjutant general, Officer Candidate School; assistant
adjutant general, then Port Claims officer, Seattle Port of Embarka-
tion; adjutant, Claims Service, AFWESPAC, Manila, P. I.; discharged
February, 1946, major.
MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association.

GOAD (god), n. (OE gad, corresp. to Lombard gaida, arrow-
head) 1. A stick, pointed at one end, for driving cattle, esp. oxen
used in ploughing. 2. A pointed rod used to urge on a beast.

Gad! even seeds become trees! Even the Egyptians had only
their ten plagues! The yeast probably hasn’t had the right kind
of material to work on. With all the gilded allure of the Reunion
Reporter I thought this was to be the last work in gravy trains,
but it turns out to be just another cattle car. “Beasts,” indeed!
Too late I realize what lambs those Camp Edwards sergeants
were, But we are promised a thousand pages (or more) of “fas-
cinating memoirs”! I drool, and all is forgiven. But I am to con-
tribute my own, What could be simpler, and more fun, with
those “sample lives” for guidance? “Lives of great men all re-
mind us . . .” they remind me of the itinerant musician with his
dilapidated hurdy-gurdy who one day practised his art before
Toscanini’s house, eventually driving the exasperated master to
express himself with all the vehemence of which he was capable,
and proudly appeared on the street the next day with a notice
on his instrument reading, “Instructed by Toscanini.”

[743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I work at the law business, but not the branches that specialize
in wrangle and chatter. For classmates, at least, I should prefer
to plan an estate rather than settle one. I am not really given to
doubts about my profession, but

I wonder often what Dick Berenson buys
One-half so precious as the stuff he sells.

The hostages I have given to fortune are not of the classic and
traditional kind, so I won’t need my quota of the thousand pages,
and for the same reason my memoirs must lack much of the ad-
vertised fascination. Even the Lampoon used to be censored
from time to time. Lest my soul shrivel for lack of such essential
provender — if not at first hand, at least at second —I have
accumulated, or “collected” as it is more elegantly styled, more
than my quota of “bottled chatter” (books). I wonder whether
I can find space on my shelves for a copy of the Anniversary
Report? I can make room by giving my copy of the forty-two
line Gutenberg Bible to Carl Pforzheimer. I can still keep and
read my forty and forty-one line copies. No, I haven’t read all
my books. I have deliberately refrained from learning gypsy so
I'll have a sufficient reason for not having read every last one.
Now I must run up to Berlitz for my Turkish lesson. I have two
books in that tongue. That’s the price I pay for my acquisitive
instincts. What price do you pay for yours?

ROBERT DEXTER MERRITT

HOME apprEss: Old Meadow Road, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Business Service, 210 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: March 9, 1908, Somerville, Mass, PARENTS: Percy Dexter Merritt,
Eva May Beatty.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1928, m.B.A. (New
York Univ.), 1933.

MarRiep: Gertrude Bennett, Aug. 14, 1938, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Edith May, June 8, 1943; Dexter Reed, April 24, 1948.

occupATION; Writer and editor, business and financial subjects.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: War Production Board, 1942; War Labor
Board, 1943-45.

[744 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LORING CHASE MERWIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1320 E. Washington St., Bloomington, Ill.

oFFIce apprEss: The Daily Pantagraph, Bloomington, Il.

sorN: March 26, 1906, Bloomington, III. PARENTS: Louis Buckley Merwin,
Jessie Fell Davis.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

marrieD: Marjorie Sward, Jan. 5, 1935, Pasadena, Calif. cumpren: Amanda
Fell, March 16, 1936; Susan Buckley, Nov. 14, 1937; Miles Loring,
Dec. 25, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Davis Merwin, ’21.

occupation: Publisher, The Daily Pantagraph; president, Bloomington
Broadcasting Corporation (Radio Station WJBC).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (j. g.), U. S. Naval
Reserve, August, 1942; assistant personnel officer, Great Lakes Naval
Training Station, September, 1942-January, 1944; press officer, U. S.
Naval Forces in Europe, February, 1944-July, 1945; public relations
officer, Twelfth Naval District, August-November, 1945; conducting
officer for war correspondents, Normandy Landing, Siege of Brest,
Walcheren Island landing, Rhine Crossing; received Secretary of Navy
commendation ribbon (individual) and unit commendation ribbon
(Rhine crossing) ; released as lieutenant, November, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Illinois Wesleyan University, since 1947, Withers
Public Library, 1942-52; member Advisory Council, Illinois State
Normal University, since 1945; member Bloomington City Planning
Commission; chairman, Bloomington Community Chest, 1941; presi-
dent, Bloomington Country Club, 1940, Unitarian Church, 1939, Illinois
Daily Newspaper Markets, 1952; director, Bloomington Y. M. C. A,
since 1937.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Delta Chi (journalistic); Harvard Club of Chicago;
Racquet Club of Chicago; Bloomington Club; Bloomington Country
Club; Anglers Club; American Legion.

PUBLICATIONS: Newspaper editorials; occasional contributions to Quéill,
Editor & Publisher.

LOOKING back over the twenty-five years since I left Cam-
bridge makes me feel just a little like Harry Truman. I won’t
quite admit there’s been a “mess.” On the other hand, I find that
the years have been more distinguished by the things I intended
to do than by my actual accomplishments. Unlike Harry, Ill
freely admit it.

One of my college ambitions, which I early found it necessary
to abandon, was to go through life on a schedule which was
known in those days as the “Randolph System.” This was a

[ 745 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

system devised in company with certain other classmates (who
shall be nameless) which took its name from Randolph Hall
where most of us lived. It was also known as the “Fifteen Minutes
a Day System.” It was our conviction that any student, willing
to use his wits instead of his mind, could go through college and
pass the necessary examination by studying intensively for not
more than fifteen minutes per day. We set about probing the
workability of our system, with varying degrees of success. In my
case | managed to get my degree but it was not “cum” anything
— except possibly the skin of my teeth.

Those of us who managed to operate on the “Randolph Sys-
tem” while in college were convinced that it had equal applica-
tion to life after graduation — substituting fifteen minutes of
work for fifteen minutes of study. I’m sorry to report, in my
case at least, that it hasn’t proved out. On the other hand, ?m
convinced that my college training under the System has en-
abled me to compress many a forty-eight-hour day into twenty-
four. I owe a lot to the “Randolph System” — except that I
should like to go back to college and take all of those courses
over again! .

For most of the twenty-five years since leaving Cambridge
I’ve been in the newspaper business — which isn’t work anyhow.
If you like it, you just live it. Otherwise you don’t live. In my
case, I like it so well that I sometimes wonder if I should accept
my salary or whether I should pay the Pantagraph — the Panta-
graph being the 107-year-old newspaper here in Bloomington,
Illinois, which four generations of our family have published.

I came back here in 1935 after six years in Pasadena, California,
and the tile manufacturing business. The tile business never
amounted to much but I did meet Marjorie — Marjorie Sward of
Turlock, California— who consented to marry me. The chil-
dren started arriving soon after our return to Bloomington, and
although we didn’t come close to producing a Class baby, we
do have a son who ts probably among the most recent arrivals.
His name is Miles (alias Mike), he was born on Christmas day,
1949, and I am counting on him to wheel me back to the Fiftieth
Reunion. My escort for the Twenty-fifth Reunion will be en-
tirely feminine — Marjorie and daughters Jill and Susan — if the

[746 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

latter two can be excused a few days early from their school at
Dobbs Ferry. |

Since 1935 the only extended interlude in my newspapering
took place during the war — with three and a half years in the
Navy. The associations made it like going back to college. I
spent most of the time in the European Theatre working for
classmate Barry Bingham as a press officer. Barry was the PRO
for the Theatre. His successor was Dick Aldrich of the Class of
1924. I also spent some time in France and Germany and during
the Rhine Crossing with classmate Vic Jones who was immortal-
izing the feats of the Boston GI’s for the Globe. After V-E
Day I was sent back to California as a PRO and managed to
sweat out the rest of the war commuting between a beach house
at Malibu Beach and a Navy office in downtown Los Angeles.

Since the war I’ve been back in Bloomington devoting myself
to the Pantagraph, a radio station (acquired in 1947), and my
hobbies of golf and shooting. I have a couple of bird dogs with
the unimaginative names of “Queen” and “Jack” and get some
pretty fair pheasant and quail shooting nearby. I also had a couple
of horses until one of them pitched me off in 1950 and broke a
vertebra, which interfered with my golf so I gave them up —I
mean the horses. My golf is getting no better fast, although I
did manage to break eighty twice last summer. I am considered
a soft touch at bridge.

HOWARD AARON MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 720 Wilson Rd., Wilmington, Del.

OFFICE appREss: Miller Bros. Co., Wilmington, Del.

BORN: Dec, 22, 1906, Wilmington, Del. parents: Nathan Miller, Anna
Schultz.

PREPARED AT: Wilmington High School, Wilmington, Del.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; LL.B, 1931.

MaRRiED: Henriette S. Goldstein, May 16, 1932, Albany, N. Y, cuip: Rachel
Ann, May 29, 1947.

occupation: Retail furniture, vice-president (management, merchandising),
Miller Brothers Company.

MILITARY OR NAvAL RECORD: U. S. Army, April, 1943-October, 1945; state-
side service almost all with ground force units and work primarily in

military justice.

[ 747]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

oFFices HELD: Deputy attorney-general, State (Delaware) Tax Board, 1932-
34; chief rent attorney, Office of Price Administration, for State of
Delaware and part of South New Jersey, 1942-43. _

I'VE never had much Class esprit de corps in college or out,
and I’m surprised that I am writing this and agreeably surprised
that I anticipate attendance at the Reunion with so much pleasure.

I submit this short autobiography, most of which could be
pieced together from my answers to specific questions. I went
from college to three years at Harvard Law School. I practised
in Wilmington for the next ten years. I had a small, general
practice with the corporate work inevitable to any lawyer in
Delaware. I went to the Office of Price Administration as rent
attorney in our area for a short hitch, until I was drafted by the
Army. I went to Camp Stewart, Georgia, where after three short
weeks in an anti-aircraft battery, I was transferred to the Judge
Advocate’s office. I was made a corporal in another two weeks
when KP interfered with office work. I became a warrant officer
fourteen months later so I could eat with the commanding officer.
I spent time by reason of successive transfers at Camp Gordon,
Georgia, Percy Jones Hospital, Battle Creek, Michigan, and Camp
Beale, California, I was awaiting shipment at the last camp when
the war ended. I went back to civilian life and joined the family
furniture business. 1 am married and have a five-and-a-half-year-
old daughter. I am independent in politics and a little left of
center despite voting for Hoover and Landon. I guess vegetable
gardening is my hobby and poker and horses my vices. I have
lost lots of hair and gained a little weight.

ROBERT COLBY MILTON

HOME ADDRESS: 553 Salisbury St, Worcester 5, Mass.

oFFice appress: Parker & Milton, 340 Main St., Worcester, Mass.

BoRN: Dec, 9, 1906, Worcester, Mass, parReNTS: Charles Colby Milron, Grace
Emeline Baker.

PREPARED aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; LL.B. 1932.

margiep: Alice Elizabeth Safford, Oct. 8, 1932, Lowell, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert Colby, Jr, May 7, 1934; David Safford, Feb. 19, 1938.

HARVARD SON: Robert Colby Milton, Jr., *56,

HARVARD BROTHER: Stanley Baker Milton, i1.B., ’2q.

L748 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Law.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Traveler’s Aid Society, Worcester, Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, Worcester.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; University Club of Worcester;
Tatnuck Country Club.

SINCE 1932 I have been associated with my brother in the gen-
eral practice of law in Worcester. I am a Republican, but I have
never been active in politics. I have taken modest parts in local
civic enterprises but work and family have claimed most of my
time. I am an Episcopalian and for about five years I taught
Sunday School.

_My wife, who attended Lowthorpe School of Landscape
Architecture while I was in law school has recently renewed her
professional interests and is now a garden consultant and horticul-
tural expert. My elder son graduated from Middlesex School last
year and is now at Harvard. My younger son is at Middlesex.

Living as a family unit has been my chief interest and this has
involved subsidiary activities in widely diversified fields. As a
family we have enjoyed music, cheered the Red Sox, fished at
dawn, stayed away from the movies, kept cats and dogs, played
golf, watched birds, and collected stamps, coins, and shells. In

1936 we planned, and moved into, a new house; but in 1949 we
decided to build again — and now, in a smaller home, with more
space outside, we have a sizeable pond for swimming and skating,
and plenty of room for flower gardens in which to work. We
have never travelled beyond short holiday ventures and brief sum-
mer vacations in northern Vermont.

I fear this is the report of a conventional and conservative New
Englander, but it briefly tells what has been happening to me
during the twenty-five years since graduation.

GEORGE HENRY MITCHELL, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 38 Bellevue St., Dorchester 25, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Tremont St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. parents: George Henry Mitchell,
Sarah Frances Mallen.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928(29); LL.B. (Boston Univ.),

1934.
[ 749 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

marrieD: Lillian McCarthy, June 25, 1938, Boston, Mass. curtpren: William
P., May 7, 1939; George H., Dec. 8, 1942; Eugene J. and Jane S., Feb.
15, 1944 (twins); Sarah A., May 16, 1950; Robert J., July 3, 1951.

occuPATION: Attorney-at-law and assessor.

OFFICES HELD: Massachusetts House of Representatives, 1941-42.

MY LIFE has been uneventful except perhaps in the field of re-
production, and of course the credit there belongs to my wife.

Part of my time each year is occupied as an assistant assessor
for the City of Boston. This has earned for me a superficial
popularity, as the taxpayer hesitates to express his true sentiments,
at least, in my presence.

I have been a candidate for the Massachusetts Legislature and
elected in 1940, and defeated in 1942. If there is a better anti-
dote for a Harvard education than working in a steel mill, as one
of our classmates claims, then I suggest campaigning in a Demo-
cratic primary. If you want to know my political convictions,
then I may say that my sympathies go to that other classmate who
reported that he finally despaired of dragging the Republican
party, screaming and kicking, into the twentieth century. The
large majority of my classmates who vote the Republican ticket,
as revealed by the Tenth Report, caused me to doubt for the
first time the value of a Harvard education.

CHARLES WILSON MIXER

HOME apprESs: Apt. 11-N, 35 Claremont Ave., New York 27, N. ¥.
OFFICE AppREss: Columbia University Libraries, 535 W. 114th St. New
York 27, N. Y.
BORN: Jan. 29, 1906, Salt Lake City, Utah. parents: Charles Thomas Mixer,
Maud Genevieve Wilson.
PREPARED AT: East High School, Salt Lake City, Utah.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; 8.8. (Columbia Univ.), 1934.
UNMARRIED.
occupation: Library administrator, assistant director of libraries, Columbia
University.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve, 1942—45, with
duty as librarian, U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
oFrices HeLp: Editor, D. C. Libraries, District of Columbia Library Asso-
ciation, 1936-38; editor of Journal, 1941-45, executive board member,
1943-45, president, 1945-46, Maryland Library Association, chairman,
Maryland membership committee, 1939-41, chairman of insurance for
libraries committee, 1952-53, American Library Association; secretary,

[750 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Maryland Committee for Conservation of Cultural Resources, 1942—45;
member of committee on cooperative microfilm projects, Association
of Research Libraries; program chairman, New York Regional Catalog
Group, 1951-52; chairman, committee on Preservation of University
Records, since 1950, treasurer, Friends of the Columbia Libraries, since
1951, Columbia University.

MEMBER OF: American Library Association; Maryland Library Association;
New York Library Club; New York Regional Catalog Group; Associa-
tion of College and Reference Libraries; Archons of Colophon; Friends
of the Columbia Libraries; Riverside Church.

pusLications: “Insurance Evaluation of a University Library’s Collections,”
College and Research Libraries, January, 1952; various short articles
for D. C. Libraries, the Journal of the Maryland Library Association,
and the Columbia Library World; inspection reports on the N. Y.
Maritime College Library, the Fordham University Libraries, and the
N. Y. University Libraries for the Middle States Association.

SINCE mid-1934, my career work has been that of a professional
librarian, a field which has been congenial intellectually and en-
vironmentally and one which offers higher financial inducements
for men than is generally realized. As was the case with others
of our classmates, it took a few years to discover and to get
started on what was to become lifetime work. From the very
start, immediately after graduation, however, my occupations
were and have continued to be centered around books in one
way or another. .
At the time we finished College, book publishing was my goal.
An appointment to the staff of Ginn and Company, the textbook
publishers in Boston, embarked me in the field in 1928. Several
other college graduates were taken in at the same time for a nine-
month training course in the company’s Athenaeum Press, which
brought valuable first-hand experience in the various steps of
book manufacturing from typesetting to operation of the bind-
ing machines and to shipping. From the completion of that train-
ing period until the end of 1931, I worked in the company’s
editorial offices in Boston on direct mail and magazine publicity.
At that point the Depression closed in, the company cut down its
staff, and we college graduate hopefuls with no seniority found
ourselves out on the street. .
When assiduous job-hunting had turned up nothing of value

by early February (1932), I decided to return to our hospitable
Alma Mater to start what was then a two-year program for a

[751]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PAUL McGREW MOFFETT

HOME ADDRESS: Box 345, Route 12, Kirkwood 22, Mo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1010 Pine St., St. Louis, Mo.

porN: March 1, 1906, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Thomas S. Moffett,
Louise McGrew.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

marrieD: Dora Taft, June 7, 1930, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1938); Olive
Laurine Oliver, April 10, 1942, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Deborah
Taft, March 6, 1932 (m. F. C. Barton, 3d, April 30, 1952); Thomas
Oliver, June 15, 1948; Laurine Louise, Aug. 8, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Seymour Moffett, ’31; M.B.A., °33.

occuPATion: Assistant vice-president, Southwestern Bell Telephone Com-
any.

MENnER oF: Harvard Club of St. Louis; The Farmers’ Club of St. Louis.

JOHN MORABITO

HOME AppRESS: 3 Indian Hill Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stone & Webster Engineering Corp., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 27, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Francis Morabito, Mary
Gnilo.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. in CE., 1928. .

marriep: Edith E. Corchemny, Aug. 30, 1930, Malden, Mass. curio: John
Francis, Dec. 26, 1931.

occupation: Type, engineering design and construction. Position, struc-
tural engineer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Called to active duty, April, 1941, as first lieu-
tenant in F. A. Transferred to Corps of Engineers, October, 1942.
Served overseas from March, 1942, to April, 1945. Assigned to the En-
gineer Board at Ft. Belvoir in March, 1945. Discharged as major, July,
1946. Promoted to lieutenant colonel, U.S.A.R., July, 1952.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Supervised initial plans for testing of engineer
material and equipment in first atomic test.

TWO MONTHS ago all attempts to recall the highlights of the
last twenty-five years ended in complete and dismal failure; but
now with Goad No, 3 prodding me incessantly, my past sud-
denly crystallizes and breaks down into four separate and indi-
vidual phases — the eager years immediately after graduation; the

[754]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sober years of the depression; the call to arms in 1941; and the
happy and prosperous years following.

Phase No. 1 was characterized by the impetuousness of youth.
Patience was an unknown virtue. A job, marriage, and a baby all
came in rapid succession. But frankly, in retrospect, I would
not have had it otherwise.

Naturally, phase No. 1 made me an ideal victim of phase No.
2, the Big Depression. I’m sure that no one will object if I sort of
skip over these years. Actually, to me, and maybe to many others,
the depression served as sort of balance wheel that set us on
an even keel and enabled us to take the future in stride.

Phase No. 3, the war years, was the eventful era of my life,
as it must have been for most of us, I remember the day in 1940
when that “letter” came. I had just finished painting the last
picket in the fence around my new house when the mailman
handed me orders to report to Fort Bragg. Military Scene I had
come home to roost! Six years passed before we moved back to
our “dream” home.

My wife, Edith, soon found out that a house is not a home
without a man. So she became my constant companion during ©
the pre-war days. Maybe she overdid it, because one day while
going through the Panama Canal, my colonel suddenly grabbed
me from behind and said, “Look, John, there’s your wife!” It
may have been meant as a joke, but to me it was the highest sort
of compliment to my wife and to all wives who made every effort
to be with their husbands until the last possible moment.

Insofar as my army life is concerned, I can truthfully say that
I was indeed fortunate. In the first place, I was given the type
of job which I liked and for which I was well suited. Miracle?
Yes, it certainly was. And secondly, if one must fight a war,
I can think of no better place to fight it than in New Cale-
donia, It truly was the “Garden Spot of the Pacific,” both in
climate and in beauty of scenery. Outside of an occasional
outburst of “Dengue Fever,” the island is immune to serious

diseases. .

A few months after landing on this island, I was trans-
ferred to the Engineers, in which capacity I helped to build
up an important supply base for the South Pacific Base Com-
mand.

[755]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I recall, with pleasure, one incident in New Caledonia when
approximately forty Yale, Harvard and Princeton alumni got
together for an unexpected reunion. If I remember correctly, the
Class of ’28 was well represented.

In 1945 I returned to the States and was assigned to the Engi-
neer Board at Fort Belvoir. While there, I worked on a prelimi-
nary phase of the Atomic Test which was held in the Bikini
Islands.

Phase No, 4 started in 1946 when I returned home. During
these years, I have discovered the meaning of home. I love to
putter around the garden and workshop, and Edith keeps me
busy providing her with facilities for her hobbies which are many
and varied. My favorite sports are golf and fishing, with an
emphasis on fishing for small-mouth bass in New England and
for snook in Florida.

Someday we intend to make Florida our permanent home; that
is, after my son, Jack, graduates and after — well, we can dream,
can’t we!

+ FRANK RAYMOND MORAN

sorN: Feb, 12, 1904, Somerville, Mass, parENTs: Frank Edward Moran, Ethe-
lind May Clark.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1929.

MarrigD: Elinor Luthera Gale, Sept. 25, 1932, Dorchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Clark, Jan. 14, 1934; Alberta Gale, March 2, roqr.

pieD: March 31, 1941, Medford, Mass.

wow: Mrs. Frank R. Moran, 6 Rockwell Ave., Medford, Mass.

FRANK Raymond Moran entered the foreign department of
the First National Bank of Boston the year after he left Harvard.
Apparently he resided until his death in Medford, Massachusetts,
always making banking his vocation, A widow and two children
survived him.

DONALD WINCHESTER MORELAND

HOME appRess: 10 Frost St., Cambridge go, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 14 Somerset St., Boston 8, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 19, 1905, Winchester, Mass. parents: William Edwards More-
land, Agnes Murdock Smith.

[756]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
1933; SM. (Boston Univ.), 1941.

marrieD: Elizabeth Putnam, Jan. 22, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. cuttp: Jona-
than Putnam, Feb. 17, 1944.

occuPATION: Social worker, executive director, Boston Provident Associa-

tion.

OFFICES HELD: Director, South End House, United Community Services of
Metropolitan Boston, Benevolent Fraternity of Unitarian Churches,
Greater Boston Community Council, Prospect Educational Exchange
(Cambridge); president, Massachusetts Conference of Social Work,
1945; Vice-president, Lend A Hand Society; member Settlement Budget
Committee, United Community Services of Metropolitan Boston; mem-
ber Budget Committee on Homes for Aged, United Community Serv-
ices of Metropolitan Boston; member Home Service Committee, Boston
Metropolitan Chapter, American Red Cross, member Advisory Com-
mittee, Paine Fund, Cambridge; incorporator, Federick E. Weber
Charities Corporation; member Standing Committee, First Church in
Cambridge (Unitarian); member Social Service Advisory Committee,
Massachusetts General Hospital; treasurer, vice-chairman, Boston Chap-
ter, American Association of Social Workers.

TWENTY-FIVE years have passed, so they say, but I find it
hard to believe. Soon after graduation from college I became a
social worker in Boston, and then decided that if I were to be a
professional social worker, it might be well to obtain some grad-
uate education. After some part-time or full-time work at the
schools of social work at Simmons College, the University of
Chicago, and Boston University, I was awarded a Master’s
degree by the latter university.

My first social work experience was with the Industrial Aid
Society, Boston, from 1929 to 1937. Since then I have been with
the Boston Provident Association, assuming the position of its
executive director in 1944. The hundred-year-old Boston Provi-
dent Association is as well-known an old Boston institution as are
the Old State House, Trinity Church, the Boston Museum of
Fine Arts, and the Athenaeums — the Boston and the Old How-
ard. The Association is a private family service agency to which
people of all economic backgrounds come because of a wide
variety of personal or family problems for which they seek a

solution.
I have been particularly interested in the entire social work

structure of the Greater Boston Community, in the relationship

[757]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

of public and private social and health services, and in the inte-
gration of the community’s services. I have served, or now serve,
on the boards or committees of a good many social or health
agencies. About once a year, I teach a semester course on the
history of American social work and help to bring up a new
generation of social workers in the way they should go.

My wife, our son, and our home are my great interests. After
having hoped for three or four children, we have settled for one,
a boy who is the equivalent of the three or four we wanted, who
keeps us busy, young, and up-to-date. Now when some of our
friends complain about the quietness of the house, their children
having gone off to college, and are wondering what new interest
to cultivate, we know nothing of quietness, and we wonder only
as to what will happen next?

We bought our home because we wished to remain in Cam-
bridge, and because we wanted an old colonial house. We have
had much fun in restoring the old house, and in furnishing it so
far as we can with antiques, inherited or purchased. In order to
escape from the pressures of work, I have spent a good deal
of time in cultivating a knowledge of antiques, in seeking them
out, and in doing some lecturing about them.

To complete the story, my wife and I have been involved in
many of the activities of our church. Both of us were born into
the Unitarian tradition, and in that tradition we remain through
conviction.

As for politics, I have little to contribute, except the warm glow
of satisfaction that comes from having finally voted for one who
was successful in being elected President of the United States!

HAROLD LOOMIS MORGAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 100 Rings End Rd., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 7 W. 66th St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Feb, 9, 1907, York, Pa. parents: Harold Loomis Morgan, Frances
Wellington Horn.

PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marriep: Olga B. Davis, Oct. 1, 1932, Dorchester, Mass. cHtLpReN: Jenifer
Davis, Dec. 30, 1934; Harold Loomis, 3d, March 20, 1938; Kate Chandler,
July 14, 1944.

[758 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Television executive, vice-president in charge production
services, American Broadcasting Company.
MEMBER OF: Noroton Yacht Club.

WELL here I am, one of the late ones. The excuse, if it is one,
is that the past twenty-four-odd years have had a kind of head-
long pace that still leaves me wondering how so many things
could happen so fast in so short a span of time. Short span, eh?
but who among us will question that our times have been jam-
packed since June, 1928?

I did not go on to Law School or Business School because a
friend of the family offered an opening in that fascinating field,
finance, at the bottom, of course. I started with a Hartford, Con-
necticut, brokerage house which was making more money than
it knew how to spend — utilities, investment trusts, and the like.
We had sumptuous outings and dinners, but I got fifteen dollars
a week — eighteen dollars after a year. I was in “Research” and
had at least reached the point where I saw my stuff regularly
in print — house issue — when the roof fell in. I was fired by a
receiver in December, 1930.

Standard Statistics in New York, with its new-fangled invest-
ment counsel, was the only outfit in my line regularly offering
jobs in those days, so I became an investment counselor. That
trade persisted for some years, eleven in fact, through a succession
of small firms and ending with a period of attachment to the
Edward J. Noble interests — Life Savers, etc.

Then a new career started. Noble bought a radio station —
WMCA, New York. The former owner-managers moved out,
and a couple of my bosses and I were moved up Broadway into
show business. This was in addition to carrying on in the finan-
cial business. What a transition there was on Wall Street! You
could buy a turtle with your name on it in the Penny Arcade on
our ground floor. The girls from Roseland across the street
dressed differently from Broad Street file clerks. Upstairs we had
disc jockeys and John J. Anthony. It was fun.

Some two years later Noble bought the Blue Network and the
shift into broadcasting was more complete. One by one the finan-
cial tasks dropped away while network duties accumulated. The
end of a phase was as budget officer of what had become ABC.

Meanwhile television, just a cloud no bigger than a man’s hand,

[759 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

had grown to the point where personnel had multiplied and the
money was pouring out. In 1949 I was sent up to the new plant
at 66th Street as business manager.

From then on the job and the business grew until I wound up
in charge of things you see on our air—scenery, props, make-
up, costumes, graphic art (sometimes stagehands) — plus the
studio and operating personnel and the financial functions that
put it there. We have had a very rough time of it with our big-
ger competitors in the twenty-month period since we first asked
the Communications Commission for permission to merge with
United Paramount Theaters. But approval finally came this
month, and we all feel loaded for bear. The industry is still quite
young with few apparently enduring patterns yet set. For those
of us in the thick of it, life is rigorous enough but most assuredly
not dull.

Going back, I joined up with John Howland ’28 and some
other Harvard men in bachelors’ quarters in Brooklyn Heights
in 1931. Shortly afterwards I met Olga Davis, Radcliffe ’30, who
was living over in the Village. That did it. We were married
on October 1, 1932, and moved into a Village apartment.
We were very poor, but so was everybody else. Actually,
I suppose we were luckier than those in the classes that
graduated farther ahead of 1929. We never did more than see
the end of the plush decade and then there was trouble. Thus
far, it has been gradually a little better each year.

The children began to come: Jenifer in 1934; Harold, 3d
(Hank), in 1938. The problem of raising children in New York
City became more difficult, at least to our way of thinking, so
we moved to the country in 1939. First came Stamford, Con-
necticut, then Darien three years later, and we have been there
ever since. Kate, our last, was born in 1944. We have tidal water
at our garden wall, and a pond across the road in back so that
there’s immediately at hand swimming in the summer and skat-
ing in the winter — plus ducks, swans, sea gulls, and sunsets. I
think the children have really enjoyed it and I know that their
mother and I have. Whatever happens to them, their early years
were very pleasant. Jenifer is now in her first year at Pembroke
in Brown. Hank is in his last year in junior high and then either

[ 760 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

high school or, perhaps, Exeter or Andover. We aren’t sure. He
has his eye on Harvard and his mother and I believe that his rec-
ord in the next three years will be good enough to get by Bill
Bender. Kate is in grade school and who can tell about her.

As I said first, I still wonder how so much could have happened
in a little over twenty-four years. Possibly because I was in the
financial business, I was very much disturbed at the political
trends in the 1930’s, since institutions and governmental patterns
I believed in seemed to be coming apart. Looking back from the
Monday morning quarterback position of 1953, I think it is per-
haps better that we did go through this period of trial and
change, as at the moment it looks as if the American pattern has
proved flexible enough to adjust itself to changing needs. The
challenge comes more broadly from the world at large. Let us
all hope we shall get through the next period of transition with
equal good fortune.

Most of my time in the last two decades has been taken up
with working — business in the daytime and many evenings dur-
ing the week and the usual fixing, mending, and puttering around
on weekends. There has been time for occasional golf and more
recently some sailing during the summer. The obvious missing
factor is participation in community projects, and I am hopeful
that there may be more of that in the future.

On the whole it has been very pleasant since June, 1928, so I
have been lucky — at present, no complaints.

RICHARD WHIPPLE MORGAN

HOME ADDRESS: 23 South St., Cuba, N. Y.

OFFIce appress: Acme Electric Corp., Cuba, N. Y.

BORN: July 23, 1907, Cuba, N. Y. PARENTS: Henry Paul Morgan, Mary
Whipple.

PREPARED AT: Cuba High School, Cuba, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

occupation: Manufacturing.

[ 761 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

JOSEPH MORRILL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 350 Maple Ave. Great Barrington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Country Classics, Great Barrington, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1905, Brookline, Mass, PARENTS: Joseph Morrill, ’96, Harvard
Law, ’o1, Olive Williams Morison.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Julia Neil Chapin, May 18, 1929, Springfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
Julia Chapin, April 16, 1930, Joan Williams, July 2, 1932; Joseph, 3d,
May 28, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: John D. W. Morrill, 726.

OccUPATION: Executive partner, wholesale sportswear.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Wyantenuck Country Club.

ACTING on the suggestion of Jim Hutchinson, who believes
firmly that each classmate should speak out frankly on some of
the controversial subjects of the times, I shall make my report
more philosophical than factual.

A quarter century has elapsed, and I find that I can fill but
little space in the list of so-called accomplishments, room for
which is so liberally provided on the form. Like many of you,
I have turned my hand to several fields in the struggle to earn
a living, but for the most part, I have been self-employed. Some-
how or other, the wolf has been kept away from the door, and
the family has had its due share of the nice things in life.

What I have missed in the way of accumulating material things
has been more than compensated by the pleasures, trials, and
tribulations of raising a nice family. Being extremely fortunate
in the selection of the ideal mate whose interests largely parallelled
mine, we were off to a good start. Our love of sports of all
kinds has been passed on to the children to the point where we
all golf, ski, and play tennis together. Emphasis has been on
that phase of life rather than on more cultural things. The girls
have made much more of their summers with varied jobs in all
parts of the country than their parents even dreamed of. In my
opinion they are far better prepared to make their way in this
tough old world than we ever were. I find it just as impossible
to give them any advice they will take as my father did with me,
and have come to the conclusion that a parent is unable to teach
his children anything. The best we can hope for is to arm them

[ 762 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with an inner sense of what is right and wrong that will stand
them in good stead through life.

Living as we do here in the Berkshires, far removed from the
hubbub of the city, I find that I can exist without reading the
paper twice daily, and can even skip the newscasts without seem-
ingly missing anything of real importance, In talking with city
friends, I find that I am nowhere near as much of an alarmist
as they are over the dire problems of the day. We have always
had vexing problems and as fast as any major one is happily
solved, it is then replaced by several others just as trying. Despite
the troubles and no matter under what system the world will
live, I know that people must be housed, fed, and clothed, and
for that they must inevitably work.

On the broad subject of government, I guess I am fully as
disgusted as any of you, but at least I admit I do not know the
solution. There is no doubt but what we are going through a
major change, and that when the process is completed the out-
come will be unpredictable. What does bother me is the fact
that with more people supposedly benefitting from more and
higher education than any other nation in the world, Americans
as a group do not seem to make the best of it all. No one as yet
seems to have mastered the art of putting into the right words
the message that will make the people as a whole realize the pos-
sible consequence of wrong thinking at the time of decision.

Golf has always been good to me and I still enjoy it to the ut-
most. The yearly succession of tournaments gives ample oppor-
tunity to indulge in the thrill of competition which I love. With
the years, while the quality of actual shotmaking deteriorates, the
effectiveness of the game as a whole improves due to better head-
work, I am doing all I can to teach the game to my son to the
end that he can have as much fun out of it as I have had. If so,
he will be most fortunate. In the winter, skiing fills the void for
the family as a whole. In between these activities, we try to

sandwich in trout fishing, tennis, gardening, travel, and all the
other desirable activities that vie so forcibly for every free hour.

If any of you are ever in doubt as to Harvard’s worth in this
day and age, I would seriously recommend a session at the Busi-

ness School in the Advanced Management group. For fifteen
weeks there in 1943, my eyes were opened and I left with the

[ 763 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

feeling that Harvard was doing a superior job. As alumni we
continue to be ribbed on our accents, our pinkies both in college
and in the government, our woefully inadequate football teams,
etc., but underneath it all, we can often detect the envy of the
deriders. My faith in Harvard is always revived on those Com-
mencement days when I accompany my father to the Yard for
those inspiring exercises, and watch in awe as the long file of
Harvard Alumni pass in review. Here is Harvard at its best and
anyone should feel proud to belong to that society.

On life in general, I feel younger than many of my age group
with whom I come in contact, although the before and after pic-
tures in the book will show the ravages of time. Many milestones
have been reached. Our oldest daughter has completed college
and has been working in New York for two years. The next one
is a junior at Wellesley, majoring in Math, which clearly proves
she has far greater intellectual capacity than her Old Man. The
baby 1 is now too old to play Little League baseball any more, and
is taking an active interest in Scouting.

As parents, I fear our group has not done as well as it might,
and yet we too have had to find a way to bring a semblance of
balance into the time-consuming demands of the day. We all
share the same high hopes for their ability to overcome the ob-
stacles as they meet the challenge of the day and hope they have
the adaptability to conform to the changes as they develop.
Somehow, I fee] that they are far better prepared for the troubles
up ahead than we were at the same time.

PAUL ROCKWELL MORRILL

HOME appress: 57 Federal St., Reading, Mass.

OFFIcE appress: Hickox Secretarial School, 367 Boylston St., Boston 16,
Mass.

BorN: June 15, 1906, Cambridge, Mass, parents: Pliny Blanchard Morrill,
Eva Hayes Crane.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1927-1929, 1932-1933. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(33).

MARRIED: Enid Ewins, Sept. 19, 1942, Medford, Mass. cxitp: Arthur Pliny,
July 10, 1946.

occupation: Instructor, Hickox Secretarial School.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted U. S. Army, April 16, 1942, private,

[ 764 ]

~~ —

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

zooth MP Bn.; corporal, Co. clerk, sos5th MP Bn.; instrument corporal,
106th Infantry; awarded Combat Infantry badge, European Campaign
Ribbon with Battle Stars for Rhineland, Ardennes, etc.; POW in
Germany four months; honorably discharged as infantry sergeant, Oct.

26, 1945.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Co. M, 423d Infantry, advanced observation

post in Germany, December, 1944.

THIS is a minority report. It is written in the name of all those
who, like myself, did not zoom forth from Harvard, cannon-
balling to ever greater heights of wealth and achievement. The
minority of us ordinary mortals is probably sizeable, and should
be heard. At any rate, what happened to me shouldn’t happen
to a dog, let alone a gay dog from Harvard.

After college, I spent a few years in studying for and trying
out the ministry. But at Harvard I had been one of the lucky ones
who had acquired an ability to think for myself, a real love for
learning, and a desire to live my own life. I had to find out the
hard way that all this does not mix too well with the church.
When the church and I finally severed all diplomatic relations,
there were loud sighs of relief on all sides.

I had regained my independence, but was totally unprepared
to earn my living in any other way. I did not know where my
next meal was coming from, but was sure I should get a good one
at the Twenty-fifth Reunion, if I could hold out that long. I be-
came, in turn, a chauffeur for a salesman who had lost his license;
a filling-station attendant; an elevator operator; and had just
reached the comparative eminence of a salesclerk in a Boston
uniform store, when Uncle Sam decided it was time I put on a
uniform myself.

During a good part of my sojourn with the U. S. Army, I, un-
like the war novels, had a hell of a good time. I knew where my
next meal was coming from. I made some cherished friends whom
I still have, I matured. I was proud to be doing my bit under the
leadership of the greatest of all Harvard grads. I even took time
out to marry the girl with whom I had been in love for years,
and am glad to report we are still married and working at it.

After months of policing the maneuver area in Tennessee with
the 505th Combat MP Bn., I was transferred to the infantry — to
the 106th Division. I was lucky enough to survive the Bulge and

[ 765 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

the German prison camps, When liberated by our 2d Armored,
God bless them, I was staggering around with pneumonia, all
ninety-six pounds of me, but was still determined to make that
Twenty-fifth Reunion.

The next couple of years after the war were spent having a
wonderful time working at Boston’s famous Old Corner Book-
store, because I have always loved books; but it gradually dawned
upon me that I should never make a living in the book business.
I visited a secretarial school, where the manager told me that if I
would study there for a year under the GI Bill, he’d like to con-
sider me as an instructor. I did, and he kept his promise.

I have been happily installed for three years now as an in-
structor in shorthand and English at the Hickox Secretarial School
in Boston, the oldest and best such school in the country. My
love for books is satisfied by having as a hobby a very tiny mail-
order business in out-of-print books. My wife and I (and the
bank) own a little suburban home, where much of our time is
occupied with the mental marvel who is our son.

And I’m sure that old soldiers never die — not, at least, until
after the Twenty-fifth Reunion,

BINGHAM WILLING MORRIS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: P, QO, Box 1151, Southampton, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: June 25, 1906, Old Westbury, Long Island, N. Y. Parents: John
Boucher Morris, Violet Lee Willing.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

marriep: Mary Rawlins, July 3, 1934, Southampton, Long Island, N. Y.

OccUPATION: Private investor, real estate, and experimental farmer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Assistant to Procurement Officer with Minder
Construction Co., constructing Army Air Base, Beane Field, St. Lucia,
B.W.L, 1941-42; with Post Engineer, Beane Field, St. Lucia, B.W.L,
1942-44; Board Supervisor in Suffolk County, N. Y., for Officer of Price
Administration, 1945.

orFices HELD: Member, Project Committee, Southampton Village Improve-
ment Association, 1950-52; Tennis Committee, Meadow Club, since
1936; Governor and Chairman, House Committee, Meadow Club, since
1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet & Tennis Club, New
York; Chesapeake Bay Yacht Club, Easton, Maryland; Meadow Club,
Southampton, New York; Southampton Club, Southampton, New York.

[ 756 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I'VE been in at least a half dozen different businesses. I’ve trav-
elled and lived around the world — I even won a tennis champion-
ship in Riga, Latvia!

I like the outdoors and dachshunds and growing things and
exercise.

I dislike cities and foreigners and creeping socialism.

EDWARD ALEXANDER MORRISON

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Montpelier Row, Twickenham, Middlesex, England.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4 Paper Buildings, Temple, London, E. C. 4, England.

BorN: March 29, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Edward Alexander
Morrison, Isabel Gautier James.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926. DEGREE: B.A. (Oxford Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Barbara Mackenzie-Smith, July 14, 1942, Newmarket, Suffolk,
England. cup: Thomas Alexander, Feb. 21, 1950.

OccUPATION: Barrister-at—Law. -

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Air gunner, Royal Air Force; three periods
operational duty bomber command; two periods of duty at Air
Ministry; awarded D.F.C, 1941; attained rank of Wing-Commander.

MEMBER OF: University Club, New York; Boodle’s, London.

JAMES ROBERT MORSE

HOME ApprEss: g Hawes St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 Court St., Boston 1, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob R. Morse, Rebecca
Ratshesky.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

MARRIED: Janet Strauss, April 7, 1936, Brookline, Mass. (divorced 1946);
Ruth Wolf-Fortlouis, April 3, 1948, Brookline Mass, cHtLpREN: James
Robert, Jr., Oct. 14, 1937; Eric Ralph, April 8, 1950, Roberta Ann,
Feb. 19, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Alan Richard Morse, ’19, M.B.A,, ’213 John Morse, 726.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, director, United States Trust Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: U. S. Army Air Forces, captain, 9th Air Force,
active duty, May 25, 1942—May 31, 1946; European African Middle
Eastern Service Medal.

[ 767 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

OFFicES HELD: President, Brookline Taxpayers’ Association, 1952, 1953;
treasurer, Brookline Citizens’ Committee, Inc., 1952, 1953; member
Town Meeting, Brookline, 1952-55.

MEMBER OF: Temple Lodge, A. F. & A. M.; Scottish Rite Bodies; Aleppo
Temple; A.A.O.N.MS.

HAVING started to work in a bank just prior to the dark days
of the depression, I was quite disillusioned by the upheaval. A
few years later I was married, and had a son by the time war was
declared, After military service, I was divorced. A return to
the banking business again was most fortunate for me, and I mar-
ried a second time. Another son arrived after several years. At
the time this is written, we are expecting another child. My inter-
est in communal affairs distresses my wife. We enjoy ourselves,
particularly during the summer months and week ends spent in
Falmouth, Massachusetts.

WILLIAM GIBBONS MORSE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 274 Maple Ave., Shrewsbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 70 Grove St., Watertown 72, Mass.

BorN: April 19, 1906, Germantown, Pa. parents: William Gibbons Morse,
"99, Marjorie Dewey.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: AB., 1928.

marrieD: Katrina Hitchcock, Sept. 9, 1930, Erie, Pa. cHiLpREN: Mary Dewey,
July 6, 1931; Frances Van Cleve, Sept. 13, 1933.

occupation: Packaging engineer, The Hinde & Dauch Paper Company,
manufacturers of corrugated fibre shipping containers.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (junior grade), Supply
Department, December, 1943; stationed at U. S, Naval Shipyard, Phila-
delphia, as (1) specialist in packaging, packing, and corrosion preven-
tion technique, (2) officer in charge, Containers Division, separated
as lieutenant, January, 1946.

IN JUNE, 1928, I had no clear idea of what I was going to do
in life, but felt sure of one thing that I was not going to do. I
was never going to be a salesman. So, for the past twenty-four
years, I have been a salesman.

In trying to think what goes into the molding of a salesman
out of someone like me, it seems that it has been more just circum-
stances rather than any deep ideas or figuring on my part. Grad-
uation found me, like hundreds of others, not too sure of myself

[ 768 ]

teat Qo epee rT” |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

or of life. The first thing that I had to take care of was that Rad-
cliffe girl whom I had had in my hair for the past four years.
Of course the obvious way to take care of that situation was to
marry her. (N.B. Marriage took care of it. I still have the girl but
not the hair.) But when one takes on the responsibilities of a wife
it means a job to support a wife. Four years of higher education
had taught me that still higher education was not for me. So I
went to work at The Hinde and Dauch Paper Company in Water-
town, Massachusetts, as a sort of office boy. A year or so of
that and one day the boss suggested that I try going out with one
of the salesmen. Not so bad at that — he did all the talking while
I did the listening. Next step, a territory down East offered to
me just as we were about to step off on the cruise of matrimony.
And so it began, the Making of a Salesman. If I thought at all
about it then, I supposed selling to be a step in the right direc-
tion, but just what direction I did not know. Now I know that
selling is a direction all its own, fascinating, depressing, nerve-
wracking, ego-boosting, not too lucrative but lucrative enough to
send one girl through Stephens Junior College out in Missouri,
and to maintain another at present at Radcliffe, and at the same
time to maintain a home at above average standards, Selling can
be and is more than just one job. I sell boxes, but I have learned
something about grinding wheels, baby chicks, orchards, maple
sugar, soap making, furniture construction, and a host of other
occupations. So I was wrong on another score that day when I
graduated. Still higher education has been for me ever since that
time and will continue to be as long as life continues.

Selling has taken me about quite a bit in New England in the
past twenty-five years. I once remarked that I should take a job
anywhere in the United States as long as I could spend my sum-
mers on Cape Cod. I must have remarked it in more than a
whisper. I have been shifted from Cambridge and Boston to
Portland, Maine, to Winchester, Massachusetts, had a two-year
stretch away from that Cape during the war when I became a
“packaging engineer” for the duration and fought out the war
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; then back to Boston and then to
Shrewsbury, Massachusetts, where I cover the industrial center
of New England (Worcester) and surrounding countryside. I
feel sorry for the guy who always lives in the same old spot.

[ 769 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Each move for us has meant new friends, new interests, new
sales methods to learn, but never losing the old connections en-
tirely. Christmas time brings a wad of cards from all the old
gangs with whom we have partied and worked, news of their
new arrivals, of gossip among the group, of their families which
like ours are growing up and going off to college, even getting
married. Kay and I dream of one day retiring, perhaps to that
old summer place at Cotuit on the Cape, but if and when we do
we are going to be glad that we can take so many friends with
us in our memories. -

Bringing up girls I find means in a measure bringing up boys
too. Since the girls’ high school days a succession of the stronger
sex has popped in and out of our lives. One young man (from
Harvard) who has only brothers told me the other day that when
he marries he is going to have only daughters—so that he can
get waited on as I do. Do I? I have my favorite chair which
no one dares to usurp, my special coffee cup, my radio programs
which everyone listens to or else retires to her own room and
private radio, my Time magazine which must remain in its same
spot in my private reading room or else. But I’m not hard to get
along with, if my women just leave me alone. That is a sure-
fire prescription for a successful marriage. When some young
man gets around to asking me if he can be my son-in-law I may
have to re-do some of my ideas and take him into partnership.
But for the present life is most pleasant, not too exacting, never
exciting, but full of contentment. Our job in the immediate fu-
ture is to see to it that life can continue to be just like that for
everyone in the world.

ROBERT ELMER MOSS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 205 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 20, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Lloyd Moss, Ethel A.
Clark.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; A.M., 1929; M.D. (Boston
Univ.), 1938.

Margiep: Gilma Blauvelt, June 1, 1934, Brookline, Mass.

occupation: Psychoanalyst, private practice.

[770 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Psychoanalytic As-
sociation; American Psychiatric Association; American Psychosomatic
Society; American Association for the Advancement of Science; Bos-
ton Psychoanalytic Society,

puBLIcATIONS: Eleven papers on medical and psychiatric subjects.

TAUGHT at Tilton School, Tilton, New Hampshire, from 1929
to 1933. Spent a year at Boston University fulfilling pre-medical
science requirements and then attended Boston University School
of Medicine, 1934 to 1938. Interned at Peter Bent Brigham Hos-
pital until 1940; then, had residency in medicine at Massachusetts
Memorial Hospitals until 1942. Went to Colorado on Rocke-
feller Fellowship in Psychosomatic Medicine, at Colorado Psy-
chopathic Hospital for one year. Returned to Boston and under-
took psychoanalytic training while working in medicine and
psychiatry at Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals and Boston Uni-
versity School of Medicine. Still associated with these institu-
tions, although primarily engaged in private practice in recent
years.

ISADORE HARRY YAVER MUCHNICK

HOME apprEss: 38 Gleason St., Dorchester 21, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 68 Devonshire St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1908, Boston, Mass. parenrs: Joseph Muchnick, Fannie
Yaver.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: AB. cur laude, 1928; LL.B. 1932.

MarRieD: Ann Zusman, Feb. 23, 1937, Boston, Mass. cHipreN: Frances
Sylvia, March 12, 1942; David Martin, Feb. 27, 1945.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Boston City Council, October, 1942, to December,
1947; member, Boston School Committee, Jan. 1, 1948 to date; chair-
man, Boston School Committee, Jan. 1, 1952 to Dec. 31, 1952.

MEMBER oF: Since graduation from Harvard Law School, I have held
numerous (and in many cases unimportant) offices in various re-
ligious, charitable, professional, communal and fraternal organizations.

AFTER graduating from Harvard College, I spent a little over a
year in the department store retailing and advertising field trying
to earn a living as well as to learn something about these inter-
esting fields. I then entered Law School in September, 1929, and
upon my graduation in June, 1932, I started to practise law. After

[771]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

the usual experiences of clerkship, apprenticeship, near starva-
tion — almost no income common to the young lawyer, I fi-

nally started to arrive. I now have the pleasure of heading what I
like to think is one of Boston’s better law firms.

I have had the pleasure of handling many controversial consti-
tutional questions and have been responsible for forcing some
beneficial changes in the law as a result.

During this time, I got married, acquired a family and became
interested in politics.

My first venture for public office saw me elected to the Boston
City Council, to which position I was subsequently re-elected
twice without opposition. As a candidate for the School Com-
mittee, I was again successful in my first attempt and was re-
elected to a second term, which I am now serving. I tried twice
to break in on a Democratic Primary and was defeated on each
occasion — once for the office of Attorney General and once for
the office of Congressman.

Other than that, I have been spending my time trying to earn
a living, raise a family, and make my community a better, sound-
er place in which to live.

This may read like a strange account from one who holds
deep religious convictions, and whose original intention was to
enter the rabbinate.

JOHN FRANCIS MULDOON, JR.

LAST KNOWN appreEss: 31 Albion St., Melrose, Mass.

BORN: June 5, 1905, Roxbury, Mass. parents: John Francis Muldoon, Clara
Genevive Callahan.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

JOHN FRANCIS MULDOON, JR., has been carried as a “‘lost”

man on our records since 1934.

WILLIAM MULFORD

HOME appress: 31 S. Wyoming Ave., Ardmore, Pa.

OFFice appress: 110 Ardmore Ave., Ardmore, Pa.

Born: Dec. 19, 1905, Halifax County, Va. parents: William Wheeler Mul-
ford, ’90, Phoebe Housen Clark.

[772]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE; A.B., 1928(29).

marrigD: Frances B. Snyder (Hayden), Nov. 7, 1936, New York, N. Y.

occuPATION: Building construction, president, Mulford Construction Com-

an

unary OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant (junior grade), Navy, October, 1942~
May, 1943 (medical discharge).

OFFICES HELD: Cub Scout master, 1939-40; chairman, Youth Committee, Ard-
more Rotary Club, 1952; director, Main Line Chamber of Commerce,
1940-41; member Schools Committee, Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

MEMBER OF: Merion Cricket Club; Unity Lodge, F. & A. M.; Fourth Street
Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Main Line Builders Association;
Orpheus Club (associate member); Rotary Club; Chamber of Com-
merce.

PUBLICATION: Construction Reminders from the Hard School.

IN 1928 we emerged from the decadent Gold Coast to step forth
and find our place in the dying phases of the Gilded Era. To me,
as with many of you, who neither inherited nor married “con-
nections” the problem of making functional such a background
proved arduous. Punctuations such as the depression and the
war aided in prolonging my adjustment approximately eighteen
to twenty years, following graduation.

In this period I worked for the New England Telephone Com-
pany, taught school, took a year’s work at the Massachusetts
State College and two and a half years at the Harvard School of
Landscape Architecture. Still somewhat nebulous, I worked for
a landscape concern for a year, and then started my own business
of landscape contracting. Fortunately in this period of low valua-
tion I was able to acquire, by shoestring tactics, some commercial
real estate.

When the war ended and the landscape business had become
history, I was still in the adjustment process, but the continued

“thrashings” were beginning to pay off. My directional sights
were beginning to focus. With some knowledge of construction
and design I got a job with Ralph Bencker, a Philadelphia archi-
tect, and went back to school at night for five years, to supple-

ment my knowledge in these two fields.
In 1948 the fog was slowly lifting as I started the Mulford

Construction Company, amid humble surroundings. Since that
time and as of the present writing the company has gained steady
momentum. We haven’t reached the million mark per annum in

[773]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

volume, but we are getting there. What was originally alteration
and residential work is rapidly turning to commercial and indus-
trial lines.

I have no children except one step-daughter, Constance, who
married a relative of mine, incidentally a Harvardian. His sud-
den death brought to our midst Constance and three little ones.
I can say with complete confidence that I have not been denied
the experience of raising a family.

My proudest hobby is not playing golf; sometimes I do a brush
or pencil drawing — threaten to get in a little tennis — but en-
joy most working with youth organizations and youth groups.

OTIS EMERY MULLIKEN

HOME ADDRESS: 3729 Cumberland St., N.W., Washington 16, D.C.

oFFIcE ADDRESS: U.S. Department of State, Washington, D. C.

BORN: March 20, 1907, Medford, Mass, parents: William Emery Mulliken,
‘oz, Edith Jennie Otis.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. C477 laude, 1928, A.M., 1934; PH.D,
1942.

MarrigD: Jean Buford Hayden, May 4, 1935, Lexington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carolyn Weymouth, Feb. 3, 1941; Sherrill Jean, March 14, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Emery Mulliken, Jr., ’39.

occupation: Officer in charge, United Nations Social Affairs, Department
of State, U. S. Government.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Chief, Labor Division, Office of Agricultural
War Relations, U. S. Department of Agriculture.

pusLications: Contributions to Inter-American Affairs, 1943, 1944, 1945,
Persistent International Issues, 1947.

MY LIFE has been very pleasant, relatively uneventful, and, I
fear, not overly constructive in any social sense, except for the
existence of two very fine daughters for which my wife is en-
titled to at least equal credit.

After graduation I drifted through two years of public school
teaching in Cleveland, Ohio, enjoyed thoroughly two years of
teaching economics at the University of California at Los Angeles,
and in the fall of 1932 returned to Harvard to acquire a Ph.D.
and continue an academic career.

By January, 1935, I had fulfilled all requirements except the
dissertation when I was offered a job in Washingtom with the

[774]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Agricultural Adjustment Administration working on the prob-
lem of wage setting in the sugar beet and sugar cane industry.
Labor economics was then my field of special interest. I left
Cambridge for Washington not knowing whether I should be
there for three months or six. I have now been here for seven-
teen years and hope to spend most of my life here with retire-
ment in California if there is room left by that time.

In May, 1935, I married Jean Buford Hayden whom I had met
while she was also acquiring a Ph.D. at Harvard and who coached
me through my graduate work. After our marriage Jean con-
tinued for several years as assistant professor of economics at
Vassar, but by 1938 we had established our home in Washington.

Fight years in the Department of Agriculture working on
agricultural labor and related problems with travel through all
parts of the United States, Puerto Rico, and Hawaii gave me
a fairly good idea of this country and its people. In 1943 I
shifted to the State Department where my work has taken me
to South America, Europe, and the Middle East. I consider my-
self reasonably well travelled and somewhat less provincial than
twenty-five years ago.

My work in the Department of State has been concerned with
international problems arising in the United Nations system, es-
pecially those relating to labor, health, social welfare, and mi-
gration; it has involved attending a goodly number of interna-
tional conferences.

I have two serious interests: my family and current interna-
tional problems; only two hobbies: non-fiction reading in the
winter and flower gardening in the summer. I am completely
convinced that the only prospect my children have of a life
worth living is by the development of a much greater measure
of international codperation and mutual understanding than exists
at present — not simply in the political field but possibly more
fundamentally in the economic, social, and cultural fields — and
I hope to continue my small part in furthering that codperation

and understanding.

[775]

‘ HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

+ DONALD MURCHIE

BorN: Dec. 8, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Guy Maurchie, ’95, Agnes
Donald.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B. 1928(27).
MarRiED: Margaret Redington, Feb. 14, 1931, San Mateo, Calif. cHILpREN;
Donald Redington, April 19, 1932; Noel Emily, Dec. 25, 1935.
pDIED: June 6, 1945, Medfield, Mass.

WHILE at Harvard Donald Murchie participated in football,
track, and crew; he was also a member of the Freshman Finance
Committee, the Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770, the Iroquois
Club, and the Delphic Club. Following his graduation he joined
the International Business Machines Corporation of New York
as a salesman and industrial engineer. Later he was made branch
manager in Baltimore and in 1933 was sent to Washington to do
research in the government for this corporation; by 1934 he was
doing sales work in central Massachusetts and evidently became
thereafter the manager of the Boston territory. In 1938 he had
settled on a farm in Framingham, Massachusetts, and was en-
gaged in advisory work on accounting problems, connected with
I. B, M. punched card machines, He had developed an interest in
the Burlingame Corporation, an investment management com-
pany. A former member of the Coast Guard, Murchie was the
son of the late rector of Trinity Church, Boston, and a godson
of the late President Theodore Roosevelt.

ALVIN JOHN MURPHY

HOME appress: River Street, Conway, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Dept. of Public Works, Boston, Mass.

BorN: June 28, 1907, Winchendon, Mass. PARENTS: Timothy Thaddeus
Murphy, Emma Virginia Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Murdock High School, Winchendon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926,

marriep: Anna Mary Riley, Oct. 19, 1935, Conway, Mass. cHILDREN: John
Timothy, March 15, 1937, Margaret Anne, Nov. 14, 1939; Kathleen
Louise, Oct. 2, 1942.

occupation; Assistant civil engineer, Massachusetts Dept. of Public Works.

MEMBER or: Harvard Engineering Society; Conway Chapter, Society for

the Preservation and Encouragement of Barbershop Quartet Singing
in America, Inc.

[776]

~__

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY LIFE since I left college has been the same as the life of the
average American citizen. Nothing interesting or unusual has
happened to me; so that is the end of my tale.

BERNARD BOYED MURPHY

HOME ADDRESS: 589 S. Lakewood Ave., Tulsa, Okla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 616 S. Boston, Tulsa, Okla.

BoRN: June 18, 1904, Pentoga, Mich. PARENTS: Frank Boyed Murphy,
Frances M. Dowling.

PREPARED AT: Iron Mountain High School, Iron Mountain, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN CE. 1928.

MARRIED: Virginia Grace Bowlin, June 18, 1932, Tulsa, Okla. cuiLpren:
Byron Boyed, March 15, 1936 (died Jan. 20, 1941); David Bowlin,
April 27, 1943; Patrick F., July 15, 1948. .

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Thomas Murphy, ’36; Francis Dowling Murphy,

33.
occupation: Chief of section, mechanical design engineer, War Depart-

ment, Corps of Engineers, Tulsa District.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Reserve officer, Corps of Engineers, until March,
1941, when commission expired.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Tulsa; Professional Engineers’ Society, Okla.;
Engineers’ Club of Tulsa (past member).

I CONTEND that this engineering game is one that should not
happen to a dog. After twenty years of it, however, you begin
to learn a little and settle back to bask in the sunshine of your
efforts. Then “bang” comes another war, new technology, atom
cracking, etc., so back to the old treadmill. You never catch up,
but one thing you know — tomorrow will be different!

I spent eight years with The Texas Company, in Port Arthur
and Tulsa, six years jumping here and there, and the last eleven
with the War Department, Corps of Engineers, Tulsa District.
I guess that six-year period was the Dark Age of my life. I
worked, had a satisfactory income, most anything one wants ex-
cept I didn’t know what I wanted. Perhaps most of us have had
a similar experience — I never tried to find out. Time is the great
leveler it seems and life moves on.

The advent, not too far apart, of two more boys was the high-
light of the way back. We live a fairly normal life except time
is too short to do all the things we want to do and all the things
we should do. We are now, as time permits, planning a new home

[777]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

which we hope will not interfere with our attending the Reunion.
I bowl during the season, enjoy an occasional game of golf or a
spirited session at bridge, and aid in my small way the Cub Scouts.

Recently I spent a pleasurable day with a professor of an east-
ern college who was acting in an engineer-consultant capacity
for the Corps of Engineers. During this day I asked him if the
changes at Harvard during the past two decades had resulted in
any appreciable long-range differences from the Harvard I knew.
He smiled and said, “Harvard is still — Harvard.”

I want to send my boys to Harvard. I want them to experience
that which only Harvard can give them.

JOHN EDMUND MURPRHY, Il

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 2166 Kalakaua Ave., Honolulu 15, Hawaii.

BorN: March 26, 1908, Brighton, Mass. parents: John Edmund Murphy,
Lucy Hannah Shea.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Pierce Fitzgerald, Aug. 4, 1939, Ciudad Bolivar, Vene-
zuela (divorced 1953). cHiupREN: Jane Elizabeth, July 31, 1940; John
Edmund, 3d, Oct. 23, 1943; Pierce Fitzgerald, Oct. 13, 1944.

OccUPATION: President and general manager, House of Music, Ltd., retail
music store.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Economic adviser, Foreign Economic Admin-
istration.

OFFICES HELD: President, Maracaibo Chapter, 1942-43, honorary vice-presi-
dent, Caracas Chapter, North American Society of Venezuela; president,
Kensington-College View Citizens Association, Maryland, 1945-47.

MEMBER OF: Founder and conductor, Honolulu Oratorio Society.

MY CHIEF interests from 1928 to 1936 were musical, and during
this I organized a choral society in Framingham, Massachusetts.
From 1936 to 1943 I was in Venezuela arranging land and sub-
surface rights, lease and purchase, for the Mene Grande Oil Com-
pany. I initiated and co-founded the North American Society
of Venezuela, an organization which unified the actions of Ameri-
can citizens in that country during World War II.

From 1943 to 1947 I held a government post in the Maryland
and Washington, D. C., area, and since 1947 have been in Hono-
lulu and the Pacific Trust Territory. In 1947 I was sent on a

[778 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mission throughout the Marshall, Mariana, and Caroline Islands
to determine the economic needs of the native islanders. In De-
cember I returned to Honolulu, separated from the Government,
and re-entered private business. I founded the House of Music,

Ltd., in July, 1949.
In 1950 I was guest conductor of the Honolulu Symphony

Orchestra concerts, and since 1948 have been permanent conduc-
tor of the Oratorio Society of Honolulu.

ARTHUR CARPENTER MURRAY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Waldemar Ave., Winthrop 52, Mass.

BoRN: March 2, 1907, Winthrop, Mass. PARENTS: John Joseph Murray,
Mary Anne Carpenter.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D., 1932.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Physician, general practice.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, Army Medical
Corps, July, 1942; discharged, major, Medical Corps, March, 1946;
served with 35th Infantry Division in U. S., 1942 and 1943; in Europe
as battalion surgeon for year with 45th Infantry Division; later with
s9th Evacuation Hospital and 57th Field Hospital; commissioned major,
Medical Corps, U. S. Army Active Reserve Corps, 1946; assigned as
division artillery surgeon in 94th (Bay State) Infantry Division, 1947-
52.

OFFICES HELD: Board of Health physician, Winthrop, 1940-52; School physi-
cian, Winthrop, 1950-52; member Attending Staff, 1934-52, secretary
of Staff, 1952, Community Hospital, Winthrop.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society (fellow); American Medical
Association (fellow); New England Pediatric Society; Massachusetts
Society of Examining Physicians; Massachusetts School Physicians
Association; American Academy of General Practice; Cottage Park
Yacht Club, Winthrop; Harvard Club of Boston.

STANLEY MYERS

HOME apprEss: 60 Greenwood Ave., Swampscott, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 137 Mathewson St., Providence, R. I.
BORN: July 14, 1908, East Boston, Mass, Parents: Solomon Myers, Sarah

Rose Shore.
[779]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; sm. (New York Univ.),
1930.

MarRIED: Ray Lyons, Aug. 14, 1932, Brooklyn, N. Y. cHILpREN: Susan Lyons,
March 22, 1938; Richard Stanley, March 18, 1945.

OoccuPATION: Operate sewing and manicuring implement and pocket knife
sections in department stores; vice-president and general manager, The
James Cutlery Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Directors, Temple Israel of Swampscott and
Marblehead, 1946-51.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Lynn.

AFTER spending the year 1929 at the Harvard Law School, |
went to New York City to attend the Graduate School of Retail-
ing at New York University, and then to enter the glamorous
and lucrative (as it was then described) field of department store
retailing. I am sure now that my decision to go to New York
was influenced by the fact that I had met my “wife to be” that
summer when we were counsellors at associated camps for boys
and girls — and she lived in New York.

I soon learned that department store retailing was hard work
and, at that time, not as lucrative as had been pictured. However,
after five years in New York at Bloomingdale’s and Loeser’s, I
came to Gilchrist’s in Boston as buyer of toilet goods and drugs
and leather goods. Then in 1940 I became merchandise manager
of accessories and smallwares.

After twenty years of department store life, I thought that
“the grass on the other side of the fence was greener” and went
into the cutlery business with an associate. Then, I found that
the grass was not quite so green — with the problems of needing
more capital as we expanded and the additional time that I found
had to be spent away from home and family. However, we are
now over the hump and I am partially adjusted to air travel to
all sections of the country and to hotel life for four nights each
week. What a change from a lifetime of occasional travel no
farther than New York to now going south to Texas, north to
Minnesota, and points east!

With the arrival of Ricky we gave up apartment life in Brook-
line to live in Swampscott where we had spent many pleasant
summers.

The passage of years has caused me to change from the active

[ 780 ]

~~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sports of tennis and swimming to the more passive ones of sail-
ing with Susan and occasional skiing jaunts with Leon Bayard.

All the time I can find is devoted entirely to my wife and chil-
dren.

OSBORN PREBLE NASH

HOME ADDRESS: North Street, Mattapoisett, Mass.

Born: Nov. 5, 1902, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Howard Pervear Nash, ’93,
Emma Augusta Jones.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; Diploma from the Sor-
bonne, 1932.

marrieD: Florence Cook Perchard, July 12, 1930, Mattapoisett, Mass. cup:
Deborah Ann, March 29, 1945. .

OCCUPATION: Textiles.

MEMBER OF: National Cum Laude Society; Machacam Club; Town of
Mattapoisett Planning Board.

AFTER graduation I taught French and Latin until 1945, first
for nine years at Governor Dummer Academy, and later at
Williston Academy. This work brought much contentment.
However, after the arrival of our dear daughter, my wife and I]
both keenly felt the need for a different sort of home life than
seemed possible in the private school field. We returned to Mat-
tapoisett to live permanently. I am now employed by a local
textile manufacturing concern. The work is extremely interest-
ing, and I have hopes for the future.

Now and then I read a book, my flowers keep me busy, and
Deborah Ann sees to it that neither Florence nor I are idle for
long.

Although an Episcopalian, the church of my faith here is
open only in summer, and we regularly attend the local Con-
gregational Church, of which my wife is a devoted member. My
religious thoughts are, I believe, humble, deep, and broad. They
have comforted me when life has seemed difficult.

EDWARD MEYER NATHAN

HOME appress: 74 Independence Ave., Quincy, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1159 Hancock St., Quincy, Mass.
BORN: Oct. 16, 1907, Farrell, Pa. PARENTS: Israel Nathan, Bertha Payne.

[ 781 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: Sharon High School, Sharon, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; M.D. (Tufts
Medical School), 1932.

marRiED: Mildred Julius, Aug. 25, 1929, Boston, Mass. cuttp: Nancy Claire,
March 19, 1936,

occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Surgical Service, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, and
Quincy City Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Fraternity; Quincy Harvard Club.

AFTER graduation I entered Tufts Medical School. Upon the
completion of the first year, I married the girl with whom I
“went steady” during my years at Harvard. In 1932 I realized
my ambition and became a doctor. In 1937 I opened my office
in Quincy, Massachusetts (my wife is a native). In 1936 our
daughter, Nancy, who should have been the future Harvard
quarterback (All American eventually, of course), was born.

The subsequent happy years of my life can be condensed into —
— one office, one wife, one daughter.

Sounds dull? On the contrary, it’s been wonderful.

EDWARD ST. JOHN NEALLEY

HOME AppREsS: 101 Woodvale Ave., Prince Bay, Staten Island 9, N. Y.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Esso Shipping Co. 115 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 2, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Henry Allison Nealley, Mary
Eliza Liscomb.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marRieD: Marjorie Louise Hopkins, Oct. 3, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. CHILD:
Theodore Liscomb, Nov. 4, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Statistician, Marine Transportation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, Harvard, 1928;
Massachusetts National Guard, 1924-27; U. S. Army, 1932; New York
State Guard, 1942~43; U. S. Army, 1943-45.

SPENT first ten years after college bouncing around from job
to job through the depression periods. Ended up hauling lobster
pots off Maine coast in winter of 1935 to 1936. Lost most of
gear from storms — boat cut badly by ice. Sold out and returned
home to Cambridge — became engaged to a very sweet girl.
Went down to New York to get job with Standard Oil Com-

[ 782 ]

~~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pany of New Jersey in the Marine Department. Worked for
Port Steward figuring feeding costs, clerical work, etc. Trans-
ferred to Marine Personnel Department. Assigned job handling
Draft Board correspondence.

Then drafted myself (the next week).

Served in Ordnance, Quartermaster, and Infantry. Attained
rank of Sergeant. Lost thirty pounds (since regained, I’m SOIry
to say). Enjoyed G.lI.’s view of wartime (Fort Dix, Mississippi,
Scotland, England, Wales, Normandy, Northern France, Belgium,
Holland, Rhineland, Prussia, Bavaria, and Southern France).

Arrived home loaded down with two good conduct medals,
flat feet, a charming vocabulary (absolutely non-Bostonian —
certainly not “proper” Bostonian). Returned to Standard Oil.
Transferred to Claims Section — where I am now working.

Enjoy residing in charming one-hundred-year-old farmhouse
with forty-five windows. Now painting same. (I still have thirty-
five to go.) Spend spare time arguing with or disciplining my
son, aged six (or trying to answer his questions, such as “Why are
there clouds?” “What is rain?”, “Why is there darkness?”; “What
makes television work?”).

Skills acquired since graduating from Harvard: fishing, dish
washing, cutting wood, painting, boat repairing, camping, shoot-
ing (M1) (22) (30-30), etc.

Have acquired a wealth of experience but very little wealth.
My philosophy of life consists of a feeling that “friendship” is
more valuable than worldly goods. “Getting religion” (as they
say in Maine) as I grow older. Feel that application of “golden
rule” is more important to our welfare and welfare of this coun-
try than anything else right now.

HORACE McKENZIE NELSON

HOME AppRESS: 62 Pine Ridge Rd., Reading, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Telephone & Telegraph Co., 185 Franklin

St., Boston ro, Mass.
BoRN: March 9, 1905, Montague, Prince Edward Island. parents: Horatio

Nelson, Annie McKenzie.
PREPARED AT: Prince of Wales College, Prince Edward Island.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1923~1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

[ 783 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

marrieD: Dorothy Louise Belcher, June 16, 1937, Arlington, Mass. cHrp:
David MacKenzie, July 28, 1942.

occupaTION: Massachusetts rate engineer, telephone business.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Cub Scouts, Publicity for Parent-Teachers Asso-
ciation.

AFTER a year at the Harvard Business School, I started work-

ing for the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company

in New Hampshire in 1932, and in 1937 was transferred to the

General Office at Boston. Since that time the major portion of

my time has been spent in commercial engineering, which con-

tinues to be most interesting work. |

A large part of my time at home is spent in various outdoor
activities with my son David. He is apparently very successful
at school but, in addition, has a natural flair for athletics. Skat-
ing, skiing, and baseball are the major attractions, with the ex-
pectation at present that he will develop into a better-than-aver-
age baseball pitcher in the Little League. As a result of trying
to keep up with him, and as much hunting and fishing as I can
find, I have so far avoided any physical incapacities and enjoy
life as completely as ever.

There are no major accomplishments to point to but I find
time for the usual amount of reading and, in general, am well
satisfied with my lot.

I stand ready to cheer the accomplishments of my classmates
and, based on the Twenty-fifth Reports, I know there will be
plenty to admire. To all that I look forward, and to all I say
the very best of good fortune.

HUBERT TERHUNE NELSON

HOME apprEss: 58 Old Short Hills Rd., Short Hills, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 Holmes St., Millburn, N. J.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1904, Evanston Ill. parents: Fred Oscar Nelson, Jennie Lind
Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Evanston High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

marrizp: Lillian J. Horton, Jan. 18, 1930, New Haven, Conn, CHILDREN:
Sally Howard, Jan. 18, 1931 (mm. Whitney Hillard Roddy, Jr., April 7,
1951); Karen, Feb. 7, 1935; Ruth Horton, Feb. 26, 1937. GRANDCHILD:
Bruce Duane Roddy, Oct. 27, 1952.

[ 784 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: President, Nelson, Phillips & Company, Inc., water softening
and other forms of water treatment.

OFFICES HELD: President, National Association of Soft Water Service Oper-
ators, 1949-50, Millburn Rotary Club, 1950-51, Millburn qth of July
Committee, 1953; chairman, Committee on Corrosion Research, Na-
tional Association of Soft Water Service Operators, currently.

MEMBER OF: Racquets Club, Short Hills, N. J.

SHORTLY after college I began work in New Jersey for the
Johns-Manville Company, introducing blown house insulation
for existing buildings. A rough time was had during the depres-
sion, but we managed to eat, and I look back upon the experience
with reasonable satisfaction.

In January, 1937, I transferred to Robert Heller & Associates,
a management consulting firm in Cleveland, Ohio, which tells
people how to run their businesses for a fat fee. This work was
with a variety of clients, and involved travel just about all over
the country. It involved interesting work, hectic battles with
report deadlines, little normal family life, occasional dyspepsia.

In August, 1939, I moved to Pittsburgh to work for The Co-
lumbia Steel & Shafting Company, whose products soon became
critical in the war effort. During that period I became a modest
pillar in the great struggle, diligently working the victory gar-
den, pounding an Air Raid Warden’s beat, and jockeying steel
around the country to points of most pressing need. The war
ended, and there came that restlessness which would not be
denied, even though we had spent seven pleasant years in Pitts-
burgh, and had made many friends there. We pulled up stakes
in June, 1946, and moved to Short Hills, New Jersey. Here, in
partnership with one of my Pittsburgh friends, I took the fran-
chise for a new kind of business, Culligan Soft Water Service.

The task, and the gamble, was to found a new business in a
new industry, and we went through all the crises, heartbreaks,
and discouragements that could be expected in getting such an
enterprise safely under way. Fortunately, the product soft water
is sound; it does create a better standard of living for each family
using it, and it saves much more than its cost. Our original faith
in it has been justified. Excuse the plug, my wife swears I sell

soft water in my sleep.
After almost seven years the new enterprise appears to be

[ 785 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

safely under way, and while the financial returns are not yet
astronomical, there are other rewards. I live and manage our
business in this small suburban town, and know as friends many
of its people. There grows that feeling of attachment for the
community, its interests and problems, and in turn comes a feel-
ing that we are an accepted, useful part in the life and activities
of those around us.

Our family should have top mention because it has meant so
much to me during all these years: a wife who took a gamble
with me early in the depression, who has been steady as a rock
during all our ups and downs, and who has that wonderful faculty
of always doing the right thing; three sparkling daughters fill in
the picture, and now a fine son-in-law and lively grandson add to
our joys.

Hobbies comprise gardening and the various phases of car-
pentry that have led to extensive remodelling of our old kitchen,
as the latest project. A lot of fun, and it has the satisfaction that
goes with transforming a dismal, awkward room into a modern
machine for living, in pleasant surroundings that can only be
achieved with natural woods, colorful plastic flooring and counter
tops, bright cheerful wallpapers.

There has not been much time for literature, although I duti-
fully read my wife’s Book-of-the-Month selection and keep up
with a variety of magazines. Among the latter I find The New
Yorker tops in good writing and variety of subject matter. Gil-
bert and Sullivan is about the highest I go in music appreciation,
yet I will take it by the hour and with sheer delight.

After twenty-five years I should like to offer some reflections
on my years at Harvard College. I now regret that I did not take
greater advantage of the facilities offered me there both for aca-
demic learning and other cultural pursuits. The opportunity was
certainly greater than my intellectual maturity or interest at
that stage in my life. Under any circumstances I for one might
better have spent two or three years of other activity between
high school and college. Yet I have a profound gratitude for my

experience there, and for what the College did for me, far beyond
what I can ever repay in material things.

With writing this report has come the pleasant duty of casting
rather far back into the past. For the memories are pleasantly

[ 786 J

~~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tinged by the now distant view, and scrapes and escapades of a

by-gone day are recalled with a tolerant, half-believing smile. Yet
above it all, old friends become again the best friends, and my best
wishes to you all.

MORRIS NEWMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 13 Havelock Rd., Worcester 2, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 171 Main St., North Brookfield, Mass.,; 48 Pearl St., Worces-
ter, Mass.

BORN: May 25, 1908, East Boston, Mass. pareNTs: David Newman, Bessie
Snyderman, —

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass. |

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.
Law), 1933-

MARRIED: Minnie L. Gould, Feb. 23, 1936, Clinton, Mass. cHiLprEeN: Yale
Hershyl, Dec. 11, 1936; Gail, March 17, 1938; Sarita, 7 July 27, 19393
Harvey, Oct. 4, 19435 Paul, March 2, 1946.

OccuPATION: Law and insurance.

OFFICES HELD: President, South Works Credit Union of the American Steel
& Wire Company, Worcester, Mass., 1934-45; director, Credit Union
League of Massachusetts, Inc., 1938-45.

MEMBER OF: Worcester County Bar Association; Noddle’s Island Lodge,
AF, & A.M.

DURING my connection with the American Steel & Wire Com-
pany I had occasion to become a charter member and first presi--
dent of the South Works Credit Union. As a direct result I was
enabled to become a director of the Credit Union League of
Massachusetts, Inc. Since engaging in the full time practice of
law, my time has been divided between this work and my wife
and five youngsters. Before having an opportunity to select a
hobby, I shall have to wait for the youngsters to grow up, per-
mitting their continual stream of questions to serve as such in
the meantime. A report without a mention of my charming and
devoted wife would be lacklustre.

~

GEORGE SETH NICHOLS

HOME AppREss: Glezen Lane, Wayland, Mass.
OFFICE appREss: Bourne, Connor, Nichols & Whiting, 177 State St., Boston,

Mass.
[ 787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928 -

BoRN: June 13, 1905, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Seth Nichols, ’85, Mary
Etta Hodgdon.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(29); M.ARCH., 1932.

marnigD: Zella Trelawney Wheeler, Aug. 31, 1935, Pittsfield, Mass. cHILDREN:
Charles Seth, Sept. 23, 1937; Mary Trelawney, March 19, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Rhodes Nichols, ’2q.

occupaTion: Architect; partner in firm.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Federal Public Housing Authority, 1942-46.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Massachusetts State Asso-
ciation of Architects; Massachusetts Chapter A. I. A.; Vokes Players, Inc.

NOT being an ardent reader, I] was persuaded by Zella to read
Marquand’s H. M. Pulham, Esq., which she thought would in-
terest me. At the end of page twenty I looked up at her and
remarked, “I don’t see any point in reading this book, I know
what each character is going to say and do next.” Similar to
Marquand’s characters, my life since and during College has
been a normal pleasant one with events of outstanding importance
to me such as marriage, children, and turns in business. Still I
find it difficult to make it an interesting story and would like to
turn the job over to Marquand.

The architect’s career in the past twenty years has been frus-
trated by depressions, wars, and shortages but these were merely
additional challenges to be solved along with the multitude of
problems which arise with each architectural commission. Upon
graduation from the Harvard Architectural School, the then ram-
pant depression forced me into self-employment, with my office at
home. Looking back on this it wasn’t too bad, for what I earned
I could keep easier than ] can today. At the beginning of the war
I foresaw difficulty in continuing private practice and wanted to
add my bit to the war effort so I became a project planner with
the Federal Public Housing Authority. I worked on the War
Housing Program in the New England Region and then was
given a special assignment for Navy housing in the San Francisco ©
area. After the war I associated with an architectural firm in
Boston for about three years, and then with three other architects
formed the above mentioned firm for the general practice of
architecture.

For outside interests, Zella and I have belonged to an amateur
theatrical organization known as The Vokes Players, in Wayland,

[ 788 J

—~_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

since it was formed fifteen years ago. Although she and the chil-
dren occasionally appear before the footlights, my activities are
confined to the backstage work including scenery design and
construction. I have also been active on the building construction
program for the theatre and had two terms as president.

My other spare time activities consist primarily of family proj-
ects, odd jobs around the place, and construction of our “camp”
at the Cape. The first stage of the camp was started during
bachelor days, and was entirely built by myself with the able
assistance of willing friends. One of my most loyal assistants
was Herb Farnsworth. As time and family progressed, quarters
became inadequate — hence an addition constructed by the whole
family and more willing friends. I cannot recommend that my
friends and acquaintances follow my example in designing and
building their own houses as it would not be healthy for my
business, but I can’t deny that it is fun and gratifying.

ROSSWELL CLOUTMAN NICHOLS

HOME ApprEss: 11 Maple Street, Wilton, N. H. (temporary).

BORN: July 26, 1905, Milford, N. H. PARENTS: Rufus Stratton Nichols, Ed-
wina Florintine Cloutman.

PREPARED AT: Wilton High School, Wilton, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1930. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E. AND BUS. ADM., 1930. -

MarRiED:. Helen Levenia Maxwell, Aug. 25, 1929 (divorced 1942).

occuPATIon: Inactive through ill health.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcORD: Inducted as private, U. S. Army, 19423; basic
training, Camp Hulen, Texas, 1942; Officer Candidate School, Camp

- Davis, N. C., 1943; commissioned 2d lieutenant,’ 1943; discharged,

captain, 1946; 24 months American Theatre, 2 months European

_ Theatre.
MEMBER OF: Clinton Lodge No. 52, F. &A. M., Wilton, N. H.

TWENTY-FIVE years is a pretty big chunk of a man’s life.
And I suppose the twenty-five years since 1928 are a good meas-
urement of practical achievement. So here goes for a brief ac-
count in retrospect.
To use a well-worn simile I guess I can say that like Gaul my
career is divided into three parts — business in Baltimore for about
twelve years, service in the Army for nearly four years, and then
inactivity to the present time. By all orthodox standards of meas- |

[ 789 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

urement, marriage, offspring, and important offices held I find
there is little to write about. And I can’t give any striking expla-
nation as to why there isn’t more to report in that line — Destiny,
I guess, or maybe just indolence.

But these twenty-five years haven’t been without formation
of some firm convictions about this period in which we have
lived and are living. As I look around me and take stock of my
own life I am doubly certain that we are living in an era that will

o down in history as one of the most ridiculous and stupid of
all. Posterity, I believe, will look upon us with more pity and
scorn than we look upon the gay nineties or even the witchcraft
of Salem. And why? Because we have got so far away from
adherence to the fundamental laws of God and nature that we
virtually are living in a fool’s paradise.

Here are a few popular beliefs of today that I think will give
some future generation many a hearty laugh:

1. That any day now will bring forth a statement on radio or
in newspapers that a group of new “miracle drugs” has been
found that will cure all of our ailments.

2. That great scientific advances are being made because
surgeons have “perfected” techniques for cutting out people’s
lungs, stomachs, gall bladders, “gizzards,” or what have you, and
these people continue to “live.”

3. That we are the bulwark of private enterprise and capitalism
because we will have no part of what has been termed “socialized
medicine.” That the profit motive should be an integral part of
cutting up human beings and curing human ills.

Have I stepped on anyone’s toes? I hope I haven’t. So that
I won't be completely misunderstood, however, I want to say
that we are very fortunate in living in an era where plagues,
infectious diseases, epidemics, and the like have been controlled
greatly or even eliminated. Our medical doctors and researchers
deserve great credit for this tremendous achievement. But despite
this great advance, the basic or constitutional health of our nation
is very poor and is deteriorating at a rapid rate.

That’s it briefly. If I could live the years over I think they
would be different in some respects. But I’m not dissatisfied en-
tirely despite the paucity of “extracurricular” activity.

[ 790 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILFRED BIRKS NIGHTINGALE

HOME appRESS: 747 Glenayre Drive, Glenview, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 S. State St., Chicago, Ill.

poRN: June 23, 1906, Cambridge, Mass, parents: John Samuel Nightingale,
Mary Susanne Birks.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrieD: Dorothy Pillinger, July 25, 1930, Oak Park, Ill.; Janet Pointer,
July 1, 1939, South Bend, Ind. cxrpren: Robert Allen, Dec. 22, 1941;
Susan, Dec. 14, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Frederick Nightingale, ’12.

occupation: Merchandise manager, Carson Pirie Scott & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, 1942, U. S. Navy,
Aviation Supply Corps; separated as lieutenant commander, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago.

AFTER a year or so around Boston I decided to try my luck
in Chicago and, except for three years in the United States Navy,
have been here ever since with the same company. After occupy-
ing all the various jobs on the way up such as assistant buyer,
buyer, divisional merchandise manager, I became an associate
general merchandise manager.

Since I have been in the retail business and have a family it
doesn’t seem as if there has been much time for hobbies. My golf
game is the consolation kind rather than championship.

I have been able to keep up on all the latest happenings at Har-
vard through the medium of the Chicago Tribune but have de-
cided a field trip is necessary in June, 1953, to confirm all the
news accounts. -

With all the “Big Ten” competition I can’t guarantee my son
will choose Harvard some years hence, but I shall do my best.

PAUL HENRY NITZE>

HOME ADDRESS: 3120 Woodley Rd., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Dept., Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1907, Amherst, Mass. PARENTS: William Albert Nitze, Anina
Sophie Hillsen. _

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Phyllis Pratt, Dec. 2, 1932, New York, N. Y. cuivpren: Heidi,
April 3, 1934; Peter Paul, Sept. 17, 1935; William Albert, 2d, Sept. 27,
1942; Phyllis Anina, Oct. 23, 1947.

[791]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

occupation: Director, Policy Planning Staff, State Department.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Director, Foreign Procurement, F. E. A.; vice-
chairman, U. S. Strategic Bombing Survey.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Dillon, Read & Company, Inc., 1935-37, 1939-
41; president, P. H. Nitze & Company, Inc., 1938-39; assistant to Sec-
retary of State for Foreign Assistance Programs, since 1947; deputy
assistant, Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, 1948-49; deputy di-
rector, 1949-50, director, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington; Links Club, New York;
River Club, New York.

BECAUSE I am a professor's son, my first interest after leaving
the academic life at Harvard was to get into the world of prac-
tical affairs as rapidly as possible. In the atmosphere existing
‘when we graduated, this seemed to be the business world. After
a preliminary go at being a cost accountant and then doing an
economic survey job in Germany, I found the job I was looking
for in Dillon, Read & Company just at the beginning of the 1929
market crash.

The next ten years I look back on as years of hard but stimu-
lating work. The problems were concrete. If a decision were
right, and even more so if it were wrong, the results were im-
mediately and tangibly visible. Toward the end of this period
I had an increasingly strong feeling, however, that something
which I did not understand was askew in the general atmosphere
of the world,

So, firm in the belief that Harvard is the place where one
finds the answers to what one does not understand, I resigned
from my firm and went back to Harvard to take a belated year
of postgraduate work in philosophy and sociology. Even at
Harvard the answers didn’t seem much easier to find, but at
least the questions could to some extent be sorted out.

There followed two years during which I was in business on
my own, in the field of corporate reorganization and finance.
These were profitable but nervously exhausting so I went back
to my old firm of Dillon, Read & Company.

In 1940, when the Germans broke through to Dunkirk, James
Forrestal asked me to come to Washington and there we have
been almost continuously since. The life of a bureaucrat in
Washington during these years of war, of trying to find our

proper post-war stance, of meeting the even greater challenge

[792]

Ee

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of our present problems, has been wearing, at times frustrating,
never dull. At their best these years, and the personal associations
which have gone with them, have permitted a feeling of partici-
ation in great accomplishments. The results were never as im-
mediately obvious as they were in business; the eventual impact
of wisdom and of courage, far greater. :

In addition to being a bureaucrat and a family man, I am now
a farmer. Any classmates travelling down Route 301 interested
in pure bred Herefords, in fishing, shooting, or growing tobacco
should stop off at Causein Manor Farm, Bel Alton, Maryland.

JOSEPH ALEXANDER NOBILE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 465 Park Drive, Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Angelo Nobile, Lina Dt Vaio.

PREPARED AT; Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1928 (29); LLB. (Northeastern
Univ.), 1935.

UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Attorney-at-law, public accountant, tax - consultant,

OFFICES HELD: Legal editor, Trusts and Taxes, Banking Law Journal, Banker
and Tradesman, 1939-50; member Tax and Trust Committees, Boston,
Massachusetts, and American Bar Associations; member Educational
Committee, American Institute of Banking, member Committee on
Industries, Boston Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: Boston, Massachusetts, and American Bar Associations; Jus-
tinian Law Society; American Insticute of Banking; American Bank-
ers Association Graduate School Alumni; Riverside Golf Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Editorial articles on banking, trusts, and taxes for Bankers
Publishing Company.

NATHAN CROSBY NORCROSS

HOME appress: 4901 Lincoln Ave., Oakland 2, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 400 29th St., Oakland 2, Calif.

Born: Aug. 28, 1906, Hudson, Mass. parents: Josiah Crosby Norcross,
Louisa Jane Bellows.

PREPARED AT: St. Alban’s School, Washington, D. C.; Hoosac School,
Hoosick, N. Y.; Massachusetts Inst. of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928, M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1932;
msc, (McGill Univ.), 1936.

[ 793 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MarRIED: Jean Dessart Wigman, June 28, 1941, Toledo, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Victoria Dessart, May 27, 1943; Jane Willard, April 8, 1946; Nicholas
Crosby, Dec. 7, 1947.

occUPATION: Neurological surgeon. :

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, S. Naval Reserve, July 4, 1941-Dec. 15, 19453
naval hospitals: Mare Island, Aiea, T. H., and Great Lakes; finished as
commander, Medical Corps, U. S. Naval Reserve. .

MEMBER OF: Various medical societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Ten papers on medical subjects.

BOSTON University Medical School, 1928 to 1932; M.D., 1932.
Intern, Gorgas Hospital, Canal Zone, 1933. In Spain and Eng-
land studying neuropathology and neurology, 1934. Montreal
Neurological Institute, 1934 to 1936. Hospital of the University
of Pennsylvania: resident and Harrison Fellow in Research Sur-
gery, 1936 to 1939. Instructor in surgery, University of Califor-
nia Medical School, 1939 to 1940. Neuro surgeon to Toledo
Clinic, January, 1941, to June 28, 1941. In Navy, getting out
the last of 1945. |

Settled in Oakland and started private practice in 1946. Have
been exploring portions of California for the last seven years
when I can get away. Discovered last year that doctors too can
get sick and spent six months on my back. Slowly getting back
to work now, poorer but wiser. Had a lot of tropical fish at one
time. Like to take colored movies and am interested in sports
cars.

JOHN ALBERT NORDBERG

HOME apprEss: 49 Mora St., Dorchester 24, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 36 Milton Ave. Dorchester, Mass.

Born: Dec. 12, 1903, Dorchester, Mass. parents: John Nordberg, Lena
Hoyer.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MarRIED: Florence O'Neill, 1926, Boston, Mass. cHipReN: Carol, Jan. 9,
1927; Florence, April 27, 1928,

OCCUPATION: Transportation.

[794]

~~

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD WALTER NORRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 129 Chambers St., Apt. 617, New York 7, N. Y. .

orrice ADDRESS: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., Boston, Mass.

porN: Aug. 13, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Edward Walter Norris,
Lulu Augusta Barnes.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

“YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~19263; 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

FRANK WATSON NORRIS

HOME ADDRESS: Route 1, Oconomowoc, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2300 W. Cornell St., Milwaukee 9, Wis.

BorN: Aug. 21, 1905, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Richard Horton Norris,
Margaret Watson Allis.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Seaman, Sept. 22, 1928, Milwaukee, Wis. cHmtpren:
Elizabeth, July 19, 1929 (m. John Lansing Mace, Nov. 24, 1950); Frank
Watson, Jr., Sept. 24, 1939. GRANDCHILD: John Lansing Mace, Jr., June
3+ 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Horton Norris, Jr. ’17 William Allis Norris,
18, Thomas Wyatt Norris, ’24.

occuPaATion: Printing and Lithographing: vice-president i in charge of Bank
Check Division, Columbian Art Works, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Columbian Investment Co., since 1945; presi-
dent, Wisconsin Bank Note Co., since 1946; treasurer, Cub Scout Pack
No. 7, Oconomowoc, 1949-50; director, Seebreeze Land Co.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Harvard Club of Milwaukee, Oconomowoc
Lake Club; Oconomowoc Golf Club; Campfire Club of Chicago; Fish
_ Taggers Association (charter member).

NEARLY twenty years ago we decided that year-round living
in the country was the real thing for us. So we winterized our
summer home on Oconomowoc Lake, thirty miles west of Mil-
waukee, and have been living here ever since. The whole family
agrees that the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages. In
the winter, week-ends are devoted to ice boating, skating, ski-
ing, and skate sailing. Besides golf and tennis in the summer,
sailing i is the main sport, particularly for the kids. Nick, aged
13, is now upholding the family honors in his X boat, Before
graduation from Vassar, Betsy had established an enviable record

for him to shoot at.

[795]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Outside of the usual civic activities (Community Fund,
Y.M.C.A,, Boy Scouts, Hospital Drives, etc.), my time has been
pretty well taken up with the production and sale of Bank Checks
at the Columbian Art Works.

Life’s dullest moment —an eighteen hour stretch incommuni-
cado in a county jail (with no plumbing facilities) on suspicion
of counterfeiting. Life’s second dullest moment — after three
days deliberation, the jury came in with a verdict that the sheriff
was not guilty of false arrest, he had just made a mistake.

Vacations, for the most part, have been in search of bass and
trout. These include trips to Colorado, Wyoming, Montana,
South Dakota, and Canada. No world records, but lots of fun.
Must buy fly rod for my one-year-old grandson this summer.

CRAWFORD NORTH

HOME ADDRESS: 202 Major Ave., Staten Island 5, N. Y.

OFFIce appRess: Port of New York Authority, 111 Eighth Ave., New York
u1, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1905, Staten Island, N. Y. PARENTS: George Knox North,
Edna Marion Baile.

PREPARED AT: Curtis High School, Staten Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927, 1928-1929.

marriep: Ruth Eglinton, June 14, 1930, Staten Island, N. Y. cHitpren: Ina
Houghtaling, June 3, 1932 (m. Herbert James Cooke, July 6, 1951)5
George Knox, March 16, 1936. GRANDcHILD: Rebecca Ruth Cooke,
March 30, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Development and operation of transportation and terminal
facilities, promotion and protection of commerce of the Port of New
York; organization analyst and designer of operating procedures.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Sector commander, Air Warden Service.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, Harvard Engineering Society,
1952-53; president, 1952-53, national director, 1953-55, New York
Chapter, Systems and Procedures Association of America.

1 HAVE just received “Goad No. 1” which, of course, is not
the first but more than likely the sixteenth needle, between
Hammie Heard and my good wife, Ruth, to get going on what
I have been doing in a fleet twenty-five years. This past year,
thanks to the Reunion Committee, ’'ve seen a good many class-
mates—some of whom I hadn’t seen since Cambridge. The
two get-togethers that I attended—the annual dinner of the

[ 796 ]

tL

Wehaddda dh ky

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard Club of New York in January and the Princeton game
last fall — were most enjoyable,

Speaking of Princeton, it was like old times taking the Pennsy
down to Princeton Junction and the Toonerville into the town.
And a good game too — the Harvards’ run-back of that opening
kickoff was a delight to see.

The year 1952 was special for Ruth and me—we became
grandparents. Our Ina, age nineteen at the time, being the cul-
prit by giving birth to Rebecca Ruth Cooke on March 30th. At
that rate we should be great-grandparents, at say SIxty-Six, We
should live so long!

The years 1953-57 will be son George’s big time. He will
start college next fall, God willing! Where? We don’t know
just yet.

I have kept in touch with a few "28ers over the years. We see
Swede and Lish Nelson once in awhile now that they are back
in New Jersey again. We got together with Pup and Lillias
Adams at the time of the Twentieth Reunion. Expect to see more
of them now that their boy is at Lawrenceville.

We see Tony Leach occasionally. I will never forget the
night he dropped in with some gory antelope meat that he had
collected on a hunting trip in Montana. If you want some fun
‘sometime, have "Tony tell you how they hunt antelope | in Mon-
‘tana.

I do see some of the Engineering School boys quite regularly
at the Harvard Engineering Society meetings in New York —
Roger McSweeney, Shelley, York, Dud Colton, Vernon Kiser,
and Vincent King.

As for business activity, I have spent about all of my time in.
public agencies —the last four with the Port of New York
Authority, as a designer of clerical systems. Despite this heavy
government background I am still a strong believer in a minimum
of government and hope that “Ike” will lead the way in this re-
spect,
As for community activity, Ruth is very busy with her volun-
teer hospital work, Red Cross Blood Banks, etc, I am making
no contribution whatsoever at present and feel right guilty about

it.
As for travelling, we don't get around very much — principal

[797 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

reason being we don’t have an automobile. When we do get
away from Staten Island on a vacation we usually head for New
England — Boston being our favorite spot.

ROBERT HUME NORTH

HOME apprEss: River Street, Billerica, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Y% Johns-Manville Products Corp. of Mass., North Billerica,
Mass.

BorN: April 15, 1907, Ellendale, N. Dak. Parents: Earle Manson North,
Marguerite Elizabeth Hume.

PREPARED AT: Maine Township High School, Des Plaines, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. In C.E., 1928.

MARRIED: Margaret Alice Gustin, Dec. 26, 1932, Lincoln, Nebr.; Geraldine
Taylor, Feb. 18, 1945, Chocorua, N. H. cHinpren: Nancy Patricia, Aug.
28, 1936; Nicholas Warren Hume, Feb. 23, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Manson Earle North, 731.

occupPATION: Manufacturing; production superintendent.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Billerica Committee for Public Safety, 1942-
44; Air Raid Report Center, 1943-45.

OFFICES HELD: President, Billerica Business Men’s Club, 1943-44; trustee and
treasurer, First Parish Church, Billerica, 1946-49; member, finance
committee and school building committee, Town of Billerica, since
1947. .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Lowell; Billerica Historical Society.

ALTHOUGH a degree in civil engineering would imply a ca-
reer in construction, I expected that fundamental knowledge of
engineering with its training in analysis would have much value
in all phases of manufacturing. After twenty-five years, I do
not regret my early decision that an engineering education would
prove a desirable background and foundation on which to build
a career in manufacturing. |

Since graduation my experience has been varied as a mechani-
cal draftsman, machine designer, purchasing agent, sales engineer,
consulting engineer, industrial engineer, and production superin-
tendent. These occupations have never been dull nor monoto-
nous.

My military record is a blank, a source of regret to me and
some resentment when a communication from Washington
shortly after Pearl Harbor stated that none of the armed services
would accept my enlistment because of my assumed importance

[ 798 ]

I

ae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the production of vital war materials. The local draft board
persisted in my deferment. However, I am proud of four broth-
ers who served. :

My family is an active one with varied interests, much fun
and pleasure interspersed with considerable and not distasteful
labor. Our friends say that “There is always something new
with the Norths.” By the way, we do not have the radio pro-
gram altho my wife is known as Jerry. Our latest venture is
our purchase of a colonial home and farm in Gilmanton Iron
Works, New Hampshire. After April ist, this will be our per-
manent address and a homestead to which we will retire some-
day.

As to travels, they have been limited to all states but one east
of the Missouri-Mississippi, only Nebraska beyond, plus On-
tario and Quebec in Canada, This year will see my first trip
abroad, to England and Scotland on an assignment by my em-
ployer.

My hobbies are hunting, fishing, gardening, and now, per-
haps, some farming. I read extensively and take active part in
community affairs of some variety because I enjoy it but also
to discharge what I feel a duty and obligation to society.

Politically, I vote independently but took much pleasure in
helping elect the presidential winner in 1952 after twenty years
of betting on the wrong horse.

LEO MATTHEW NOWACKI

HOME ApprEss: 83 Snowden Ave., Schenectady 4, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREss: General Electric Co., Schenectady, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1906, Dunkirk, N. Y. parents: Leon Nowacki, Anna Lep-
pert. .

PREPARED AT: St. John Kanty School, Erie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Helen Kruszewski, Jan. 24, 1935, Rome, N. Y.

occupation: Electrical engineering.

[ 799 ]

—a al

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

NATHAN WALLER OAKES

HOME ADDRESS: 10822 Carnegie Ave., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

OFFICE appREsS: Mercury Clutch Corp., Western Reserve Bldg., Cleveland,
Ohio.

BORN: March 12, 1905, Detroit, Mich. parents: Herbert King Oakes, Har-
riet Colledge Waller.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MarrieD: Mary Anderson, July 21, 1932, San Antonio, Texas (divorced,
1933); Mercedes Virginia Stephens, Sept. 5, 1935. CHILD: Nathan Waller,
Jr., Aug. 18, 1937.

OccUPATION: Manufacturing.

JUSTIN McCORTNEY O'BRIEN |

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Perry St., New York 14, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Columbia University, New York 27, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 26, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Quin O’Brien, Ellen McCortney.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, DEGREES: PH.B. (Univ. of Chicago), 1927; A.M.
1928; PH.D., 1936,

MARRIED: Isabel Stewart Ireland, Jan. 24, 1931, New York, N. Y.

occuPATION: Professor of French, Columbia University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, U. S. Army, to lieutenant-colonel, as-
signed to Office of Strategic Services with a year and a half in London
and Paris; Legion of Merit, Légion d’Honneur, M. B. E.

OFFICES HELD: Member Editorial Board, Romanic Review, since 1937; mem-
ber Executive Council, MLA, 1952-55; professeur, l’Ecole Libre des
Hautes Etudes, New York.

MEMBER OF: University Club, New York; International P. E, N. Club.

pusLicaTions: The Novel of Adolescence in France, Columbia University
Press, 1937; The Journals of André Gide, editor and translator, 4 vols.,
Knopf, 1947-513 The Maxims of Marcel Proust, Columbia University
Press, 1948; Madeleine, Knopf, 1952; periodical articles and reviews.

HAD I remained at Harvard, I might have known more than the
handful of classmates 1 did know; but my mother’s death early
in the fall of 1926 caused my return to Chicago. After two semes-
ters at the University of Chicago, it became clear that I could
get a degree there in 1927, and this allowed me to return to Cam-
bridge for an A.M. in 1928. The move was perhaps providential,
for it brought about a change in concentration from English

[ 800 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

literature to Romance philology. My graduate degrees were ac-
cordingly in the new field; and if I was slow in getting the Ph.D.,
this delay is because of spending two years (1929 to 1931) as
tutor and instructor at Harvard and then starting at Columbia in
1931 as instructor. The typically uneventful career of a univer-
sity faculry member can be best traced through my publications
and those of my students — with the exception of two and a half
years (1943 to 1945) in the Office of Strategic Services as chief of
the French section, SI, in Washington, but chiefly in London and
Paris. Then I lived a very exciting period, selecting, training,
dispatching, and maintaining contact with secret agents who re-
ported information from behind enemy lines. We established
two records in this work: that of losing less than five per cent of
our men, and that of securing United States’ decorations for all
of them who actually parachuted in or infiltrated through the
lines.

Despite the fun and excitement of those years, I was very
happy to cast off the uniform and return to Columbia in 1946.
Promotion to a professorship came in 1948, and shortly before
then my teaching was concentrated in the graduate school and
in the field of contemporary French literature. Most of my writ-
ing since the war has concerned André Gide and Marcel Proust,
and much of it has been done during the summers at our small
farm in Canterbury, Connecticut, which, acquired in 1941, rap-
idly became an absorbing passion. A recently finished study of
Gide should appear in 1953, the fruit of many hours spent with
the writer in France and numerous seminars at Columbia. Over
the years I have done much radio broadcasting and some sub-
titling for the movies, but prefer research and writing.

EDWARD EBBER OCNOFF

HOME apprEss: 1234 N. Hayworth Ave. Los Angeles 46, Calif. ;
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1557 N, Vine St., Hollywood, Calif.; MGM Studios, 10202
Washington Blvd., Culver City, Calif. .
BORN: Nov. 11, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Reuben Ocnoff, Hadassah

Levenson. |
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925, 1926-1931, DEGREE: A.B. 1928(31).

[ 8or ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928
MARRIED: Trudy Cline, Sept. 19, 1945, Hollywood, Calif. camp: David
Hannon, April 4, 1948.
occupaTION: Music: arranger, copyist, conductor, instrumentalist.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S, Army Air Forces, April 6, 1942, to Sept. 27,

1945; sergeant, 19th Weather Squadron, European-African-Middle
Eastern Campaign.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; American Society of
Music Arrangers; American Federation of Musicians; Men’s Club of

The Institute of Religious Science and Philosophy; Self-Realization
Fellowship.

MY FIRST contribution to Twentieth Century Art turned out
to be music arranging for radio programs in New York, My
next great effort made me musical director of the Scott Furriers
radio program in Boston.

In 1937 B.S. (before the smog), I came to what was then
beautiful Hollywood. As violist for radio and pictures, I en-
joyed especially the work under Dr. Rozsa in the Alexander
Korda picture series.

1942 found me in the U. S, Air Force 19th Weather Squadron,
circling the globe and drawing maps and charts, mostly in Africa
and Arabia. I organized my G.I. buddies into choral groups and
the beautiful performances were very gratifying. During this
time I had the opportunity to make interesting trips into Israel
and Egypt.

In September, 1945, I married Trudy Cline, the girl I met in
"41 and didn’t have time to court when the draft board called
me. Our son, David, born in April of 1948, is the cutest little
guy we ever could have hoped for.

In these post-war years, I worked as librarian, copyist, violist,
and occasional orchestrator in pictures. For the past few years
I have been happy to be associated with the music department
at MGM, under our own dynamic Johnny Green, ’28, as musical
director. | |

As for hobbies, I’m still a born sun-worshipper and go out for
the milder forms of relaxation like hiking in the hills and swim-
ming. Lately, I’ve become absorbed with getting young David’s
childhood onto movie film. The favorite pleasure in our family
is the study and practice of metaphysical work. Our greatest
thrill is to hear little David enter into the discussions about rein-
carnation and the Divine Presence, but with conviction, And

[ 802 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

he’s not even five yet. This new generation may yet be the one
to bring about much better human relations and much more
Peace on Earth.

SVEN FOLKE OLANDER

HOME ADDRESS: Hantverkaregatan 16, Lycksele, Sweden.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Statens Liroverk, Lycksele, Sweden.

BORN: May 9, 1904, Lund, Sweden. parents: Sern Olander, Emma Wilhel-
mina Levau.

PREPARED AT: Real- -Gymnasium, Halsingborg, Sweden.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

UNMARRIED,

occuPATION: Teacher of mathematics and physics.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: War Emergency Service; sergeant, 2d Royal

Engineering Corps, 1939-44.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Local Board, Swedish Association of Teachers;
member Board of Directors, Lycksele Art Society; member Board of
Trustees, Lycksele Music Association.

MEMBER OF: Swedish Association of Physicists; Swedish Astronomical So-
ciety; American Association of Physics Teachers; Physical Society,
London, L’ Association Guillaume Budé, Paris.

SINCE World War II, I have been on the permanent teaching
staff of the Swedish State Secondary Schools, and to a certain
extent I am free to move from one school to another. I want to
see as much as possible of my country, and as there is a great de-
mand for teachers of mathematics and physics, I have taught in
many different schools, ranging from the Arctic Circle to South
Sweden. At present I am in a small town, situated in the same
latitude as Fairbanks, Alaska, and for about eight months a year
I live amid ice and snow under the flickering pale-green streamers
of the auroras. oo

I think there is no more wonderful work than teaching —
teaching young boys and girls of ages between thirteen and eight-
een. And by teaching I do not simply mean filling them to the
brim with mathematics and physics, but also listening to them,
understanding them, guiding them, and, if possible, creating in
them a feeling for the value and the joy of travel in space and
time, just as I myself have travelled ever since my school days:
in space, all over North America, western, middle and southern

[ 803 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Europe, North Africa; in time, aided by the great literatures, from
Claudel across the centuries back to Homer.

My first great travel experience was America— New York —
the torch on top of the Woolworth Building! Standing alone one
night on the deck of the big liner, half buried under two hundred
pages of a Sunday newspaper, watching thousands of twinkling
windows across the water, I was perplexed, frightened, but de-
termined not to give in. After a year’s work as a plumber in
New York, I entered Harvard.

Some things shocked me: the rigorous curriculum, attending
classes just as in school. I had not expected just that —I had
dreamt of the freedom of the universities — but I got used to it.
I should require volumes to tell you about all the good things
that attracted me, things that I could not have found at any other
university, especially not in Europe. My college friends gave
me much that I shall never forget, and so did some of my teach-
ers, all gone now, teachers who were not only great scholars but
also great men: Osgood, Kellogg, Babbitt, and Whitehead.

Then I worked my way across the continent; I met people of
all descriptions, from the [WW’s, hiding under the bridges out
west, to professors and presidents of different universities, I got
to know the great hospitality of the American people, especially
those of the middle and the far West, their readiness to help; I
was amazed at the wide differences in culture between neighbor-
ing regions; and I saw the most varied and the most magnificent
scenery that any continent could show.

I went back to Sweden and then I travelled for years in Europe,
always on the brink of starvation and always the better for being
poor. How I love France and Spain! With Don Quixote in my
hand, I wandered across the glowing monotonous mmesetas of
Castile and La Mancha, read and wandered by turns, With Garcia
Lorca’s lyrics singing in my head, I rambled across the sierras
and valleys of Granada and Andalucia, all sunshine and shadows,
blinding sunshine and delicately colored shadows, scenes of in-
credible beauty. Oh glorious days!

I studied at the University of Lund, Sweden, at the Friedrich
Wilhelm University in Berlin, at the Sorbonne and the Collége
de France in Paris, at King’s College i in Edinburgh, mathematics
and literature; not for any degree, just for the sheer fun of it. For

[ 804 ]

4

=

. 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ten or fifteen years I absorbed all, assimilated all, then I began to
grow old and as I grew old, I became more selective and I drew a
sharp line between good literature and less good literature and ac-
cepted only the good.

If the immense treasures of the Widener Library ° were the
first great influence in my life —if Babbitt and his militant hu-
manism were the second — the third and, as I believe, the final
was my meeting with Paul Claudel in Paris. I had come all the
way from rabid pseudo-scientific rationalism, through Babbitt’s
Aristotelian humanism, to solid Thomistic Christiani

The chief events, the happiest moments, of the last ten years
— outside my teaching — have been the leisure hours I have been
able to spend in the company of all the great men of Christendom
and of the world of arts and letters: listening, learning, not only
on my own behalf but also in order to be able to give something
valuable to my pupils. To enumerate all those happy moments
would be to give you a list of names, beginning with Homer and
Aeschylus and ending with our great contemporaries: Fauré,
Messiaen, Honegger, Bazaine, Rouault, Eliot, Pound, and Claudel
— names infinitely precious if you know and love them all, mean-.
ingles if you value matter more than mind.

ANDREW OLIVER

HOME ADDRESS: 165 E. 65th St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

BorN: March 14, 1906, Morristown, N. J. Parents: William Hutchinson
Pycheon Oliver, ’92, Lydia Winthrop Seabury.

PREPARED AT: Mesa Ranch School, Mesa, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 19283 LL.B., 1931.

MaRRiED: Ruth Blake, Feb. 21, 1936, Newton Lower Falls, Mass. CHILDREN:
Andrew, Jr., Nov. 29, 1936; Daniel, April 10, 1939, Ruth Field, Nov.
16, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Peter Oliver, ’22; Seabury Oliver, "28, M.B.A., "30.

occupation: Lawyer, member of firm of Alexander & Green.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, General Theological Seminary of the Protestant
Episcopal Church; trustee, treasurer, The Protestant Episcopal Society
for Promoting Religion and Learning in the State of New York, The
Corporation for the Relief of Widows and Children of Clergymen
of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the State of New York, vestry-
man, Church of the Resurrection, New York; director, Shattuck Denn

Mining Company.
[ 805 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928 >

MEMBER OF: Provident Loan Society; Midnight Mission; Down Town Asso-
ciation; Church Club of New York; Badminton Club of the City of
New York.

IN 1932, 2 year after graduating from Law School, I commenced
practice of law with the firm of Alexander & Green, where I have
remained ever since, becoming a member of the firm in 1944. No
layman could comprehend what a lawyer experiences in twenty
years of active practice, but any lawyer could better any tale |
might tell. I count it my greatest privilege during those twenty
years to have been associated with my father, and for the last
eight years, until his retirement, as one of his partners.

Since 1931 I have lived in the heart of Manhattan and would
not willingly give up city life for what Sidney Smith called the
“sort of healthy death” of life in the country.

My summers have been spent largely at Mattapoisett, in Massa-
chusetts, where I find constant pleasure, with my wife and chil-
dren, in sailing the waters of Buzzards Bay in our eighteen-foot
cat-boat, built three years ago to our own specifications, No
sport compares with sailing, and in certain waters no boat can
compare with a cat-boat, at least with our Cat.

And I still hold to the faith of my fathers, the holy Catholic
and Apostolic Faith, once delivered to the saints, professed by
the whole church before the division of east and west and, as
Thomas Ken said, “as distinguished from all papal and puritan
innovations and as it adheres to the doctrine of the Cross.”

SEABURY OLIVER

HOME ApprEss: 3 Kenilworth Rd., Morristown, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 115 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 28, 1904, Morristown, N. J. PARENTS: William Hutchinson
Pycheon Oliver, ’92, Lydia Winthrop Seabury.

PREPARED AT: Mesa Ranch School, Mesa, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

Margiep: Nathalie Whitmore Whitall, June 24, 1936, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Sarah W, July 5, 1944 (adopted); William, Nov. 25, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Peter Oliver, ’22, Andrew Oliver, ’28; LL.B. 31.

occupation: Investment adviser, parmer, Oliver & Quayle.

MEMBER OF: Down Town Association, New York; Morristown Field Club;
Shakespeare Club of Morristown.

[ 806 ] ,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SINCE the Decennial Report of 1938 there have been two main
changes in my life.

In 1945 my wife and I adopted a baby girl and i in 1947 a baby
boy. This move has been a tremendous success. Sally and Will
are now nine and seven and a half respectively, and have brought
nothing except happiness since they arrived.

I find them more strenuous than I had expected, but I think
it is normal for those who start to raise a family ten or twelve
years later than do most other couples. If it were possible to get
competent and permanent domestic help we would make it four
instead of two,

In January of 1945 I formed an investment counsel firm with
another Harvard man — John H. Quayle, Jr., ’27 (formerly of
Cleveland). It has been slow getting started, but 1952 was by
far the best year to date for Oliver & Quayle and we are both
hopeful of having our firm continue to grow.

In the summer of 1952 my wife, her mother, and our two chil-
dren went to Brittany for three months. My father-in-law and
I flew over and joined them all for a month in the middle of the
summer. Although undertaken with considerable trepidation,
the entire summer proved a great success and worked out par-
ticularly well for the children.

Although not the most economical way of spending a summer,
it was certainly one of the most pleasant.

Generally since college I have spent part at least of every sum-
mer at Mattapoisett on Buzzards Bay. Activities there are re-
stricted to sailing a Butte Cat, swimming, tennis, and some fish-
ing of a sort.

Winters pass as I imagine they do for most people in this cli-
mate —- more indoors than out.

Recently I have begun collecting first editions of the works of
Sir Arthur Conan-Doyle and should be most interested to hear

from any classmate who might have similar interests, This sounds
more impressive and expensive than it really is.

I have made no plans for sending my son to Harvard as we
all may be totally crippled by taxes in ten or twelve years. If
Harvard is fundamentally as atheistic then as it is now I shall
probably try to send him elsewhere.

[ 807 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I belong to few clubs or organizations and have on the whole
a minimum of activities outside my work and my home.

HENRY CUSHING OLMSTED

HOME ADDRESS: 230 E. soth St. New York, N. Y,

OFFICE appREsS: Kerite Insulated Wire & Cable Co., 30 Church St., New
York, N. Y.

BORN: June 12, 1905, Harrisburg, Pa. parents: Marlin Edgar Olmsted, Ger-
trude Howard.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

MARRIED: Doris M. Brixey, June 14, 1927, New York, N. Y. (divorced, 1935).
cuit: Richard DeWolfe Brixey, Oct. 24, 1930.

occupation: Manufacturing.

EDWARD VALENTINE O’MALLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 100 W, Glendale Ave. Phoenix, Ariz.

orFice appress: P, O, Box 3558, Phoenix, Ariz.

BORN: Feb. 23, 1905, Parnell, Mo. parents: Edward Lawrence O’Malley,
Mary Bernadine Stephan.

PREPARED AT: Santa Clara University, Santa Clara, Calif,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MarRieD: Virginia Ann Mets, June 4, 1927, Tucson, Ariz. CHILDREN: Ed-
ward Valentine, Jr. Oct. 21, 1929 (7. Jane Anne Jones, June 5, 1952),
Ann, Jan, 25, 1931 (7. John W. Knowlton, March 25, 1951).

occuPaTION: President and general manager, The O'Malley Lumber Com-
pany and afhliated companies.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: State Appeal Board, Selective Service.

orFices HELD: Member Board of Directors, Arizona Public Service Com-
pany, Phoenix Title & Trust Company, First National Bank of Arizona,
American Institute for Foreign Trade, Young Men’s Christian Asso-
ciation, St. Luke’s Hospital, St. Joseph’s Hospital, Industrial Council;
past president, Phoenix Country Club, Arizona Club.

MEMBER OF: Phoenix Country Club; Arizona Club; Kiva Club; Phoenix
Press Club; Valley Field Riding & Polo Club.

UNFORTUNATELY it was necessary for me to leave school
shortly before my graduation, and I never experienced the great-.
est gratification of a college career. My entrance into the family
business came immediately after leaving school and was followed

[ 808 ]

aunt mma.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

shortly by my marriage. I started as a clerk and bookkeeper in
the line yard building material business and after two years be-
came secretary of the corporation. In 1942, upon retirement of
the general manager, I took over that position and am still hold-
ing it today. After the death of my father i in 1947, I became
president of the company.

Our children are both married. Our son, “Ted” Junior, is in
the Army and our daughter Ann is living in Louisiana where her
husband is an engineer for the Humble Oil & Refining Company.

Hobbies have suffered the past few years because of a lack
of time, and also a cooling that seems to come to those who have
perhaps been too close to their hobbies. Photography, hunting,
fishing, and outdoor life are now mostly memories; although oc-
casionally I do manage to go up to my small ranch in the White
Mountains of Arizona where we make a pretense of raising cattle.

When I became of voting age I registered as a Republican and
have never changed that registration, although I have seen times
when only about ten per cent of the population of Arizona was
so registered. I have never missed supporting a national Repub-
lican candidate, so you can see the past years have not been too
kind politically. I hope we make it this year, even though I was
in the Taft camp. (This is written prior to the election.) I was
quite active for many years in Harvard Club activities and only
recently have > passed this on to the younger men. _

ALBERT HENRY O’NEIL

HOME ADDRESS: 157 E. 72nd St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 161 E, 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 19, 1903, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Charles Henry O'Neil, Mary
Felicita Wenger.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Isabel Nyia McDonald, June 18, 1932 (divorced 1948). CHILD:
Nyia Ann, Sept. 9, 1937.

OccuUPATION: Assistant sales manager, Freeport Sulphur Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT post: War Production Board, Washington, D. C.,,
June, 1942—November, 1943.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Metropolitan Club of Washing-
ton, D. C.; Sales Executive Club of New York, The Metropolitan

Opera Guild.
[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

FOLLOWING graduation I went with Hayden Stone & Com-
pany in Boston, and after a year was transferred to the New York
office. Shortly thereafter, having decided that I preferred trad-
ing in securities to selling bonds, I left Hayden Stone & Company
and went with Hoit, Ross & Troster, dealers in unlisted securities.
I was made a partner in 1937 and resigned in 1942 to go to Wash-
ington, D. C., where I joined the War Production Board and
ended up as chief priority officer in the Ferro-Alloys Branch of
the Steel Division. I left WPB in November, 1943, to go with
Freeport Sulphur Company. Freeport is the oldest sulphur min-
ing company in the United States and the second largest producer
of brimstone — the type of sulphur most in demand throughout
the world. The mines are located in Louisiana and Texas. I
travel around the United States and Canada considerably and
thoroughly enjoy my work and my associates at Freeport.

Aside from my business activities, my chief interest is in my
daughter, Nyia, who goes to The Brearley School in New York
City and who, I hope, will go to Radcliffe in the fall of 1955.
I have just about given up squash and tennis and am trying to
develop a decent game of golf which at the moment seems hope-
less. For many years I was very active in the Boys’ Club of New
York, but have not been able to keep up this interesting work
since my job takes me out of New York a great deal of the time.
My political beliefs have been strongly Republican (though I did
vote for Al Smith in 1928) and naturally, after the great Repub-
lican victory this fall, 1 am convinced that our country will get
the kind of leadership required to lead us out of the mess in which
we have been for so many years.

RAYMOND MILTON OOTHOUT

HOME AppREsS: 5115 Waterbury Rd., Des Moines 12, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 205 Farm Bureau Bldg., Des Moines 9, Iowa.

BORN: July 11, 1906, New Bedford, Mass. parents: William John Oothout,
Selena Levick.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: 8.B. IN C.E. cum laude, 1928.

MaRgiep: Miriam Leigh Muehler, Aug. 20, 1929, Evansville, Ind, cHILpREN:
Raymond Milton, Jr., Sept. 15, 1934; Nancy Leigh, Feb..20, 1936.

[ 810 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Civil engineer, vice-president, and director, Koss Construc-

tion Company.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers; Iowa Engineering So-
ciety; Kansas Engineering Society; Des Moines Club; Kansas City
Club; Wakonda Club.

THIS history properly begins in the summer of 1927 when I
returned to the Harvard Engineering Camp at Squam Lake,
New Hampshire, as an instructor. In my-class was one George C.
Koss, the son of a midwestern highway contractor, who toward
the end of the eight weeks’ course asked me if I would consider
leaving my native New England to work for his father after
graduation. I cannot remember what tipped the scales in mak-
ing such a weighty decision, but shortly after bidding Harvard
farewell, my trunk loaded with all my worldly goods and my
wallet containing a minimum of cash, I was on my way to Des
Moines, Iowa, to join the Koss Construction Company. A few
days later I was deported to Hot Springs, Arkansas, to assume my
first assignment as timekeeper on a bridge project over the Oua-
chita River.

My first year in the construction . business was very instructive
and opportunities for learning were plenteous since I was on the
job eleven hours a day six or seven days a week. Furthermore, I
found the word “timekeeper” was used in its broadest sense. In
addition to keeping time and making up pay-rolls, I was variously
used as carpenter, surveyor, truck driver, cofferdam and false-
work designer, concrete puddler, and cost finder. Each of these
pursuits doubtless imparted something to me which I might not
otherwise have had, but the study of construction costs served
me best in that it eventually permitted me to shed my role as
timekeeper. Before the end of my first year I was frequently
called upon to assist in estimating and bidding on new work.
After two more years of field experience, and following the res-
ignation of our chief engineer, I was called into Des Moines to
assume the title of construction engineer and the responsibility
for obtaining paving and bridge construction contracts for the
company.

When our Arkansas work was completed, the equipment and
the nucleus of a crew were moved to New Harmony, Indiana, to
start the construction of a bridge over the Wabash River. It

[ 811 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

was here that on July 12, 1929, I met my bride-to-be, a Memphis
girl who by a quirk of fate happened to be visiting her aunt. A
year of living in inexpensive rooming houses, eating in greasy
restaurants, and getting most of my recreation at the pool table
had worn my resistance to a low ebb. My resolution to acquire
at least a modest fortune before thinking about marriage was
ready to snap. Miriam Muehler and I were married at Evansville,
Indiana, on August 20, 1929.

Black Friday was just a black headline to me, and it would be
some time before the grim reality of its prophecy struck home.
For two years contractors enjoyed a nebulous prosperity. Con-
tract prices worked lower and lower, but construction material
prices fell at a faster pace and usually ensured a profit for the short
selling contractor. By the time I was called into the home office,
however, this phase of the cycle had come to an end, and my next
three years were spent in the nightmarish quest of contracts in
a buyer’s market. Somehow or other we survived the great de-
pression, but at the dawn of the new era a pronounced streak of
silver emblazoned my forelock. |

With our entrance into World War II, highway construction
was drastically curtailed, and my company took the natural step
into the field of airport paving, building sixteen major projects
for the Army and Navy during the war period. Since that time
until the present we have been very active in both the highway
and airport fields throughout the Middle West. Still in quest of
contracts, my work occasionally carries me from the Canadian
border to the Gulf and from Ohio on the east to New Mexico
on the west. The bulk of our work is, however, concentrated
in Iowa, Kansas, and Missouri.

My marriage, despite its precipitation, has proved to be the
permanent type, and in addition to a loyal and patient wife, an
eighteen-year-old son and a sixteen-year-old daughter round out
the family. Ray is a senior at St. John’s Military Academy, and
Nancy is a junior in high school.

Partly due to the nature of my work and partly due to a pro-
clivity in the past for seeing new places, my travels during these
twenty-five years have been rather extensive. In addition to brief
sojourns in Cuba and in Canada and Mexico, forty-one states have

been thoroughly covered, only seven in the Northwest having

[812]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thus far eluded me. My favorite trip, which has become an an-
nual affair, is a mid-winter flight to Southern Florida.

I have no hobbies as such and devote most of my spare time
to golf, playing in the low eighties with a few rounds each sea-
son under eighty when my putter is “hot.” I also do a little bow]-
ing and deep sea fishing.

Politically, I am a narrow minded and frustrated Republican,
Not having established my legal residence in the State of Ar-
kansas in 1928, I have never voted for a successful presidential
candidate, but have on occasion helped to elect a few governors
and congressmen. With the November election imminent as these
words are written, I close on a sanguine note. There appears to
be an outside chance for a change after twenty years of dema-
gogic rule, but in any case I am confident of the country’s fu-
ture despite the vagaries of contemporary politicians.

DONALD DAGGETT OSBORN

HOME AppRESS: 44 Catlin Ave., Rumford, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 133 Waterman St., Providence 6, R. I.

BORN: Jan, 28, 1906, Waltham, Mass. parents: Everett Daggett Osborn,
Bertha May MacMullen.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREE: D.M.D. 1929.

MaRRigeD: Virginia I. Hager, Oct. 18, 1930, Waltham, Mass. cuipReN: Don-
ald Daggett, Jr.. May 12, 1932; Joan and Jane, Sept. 30, 1934 (twins)
(Jane died Dec. 31, 1934).

OCCUPATION: Orthodontist.

MEMBER OF: University Club; Rhode Island State Dental Society; American
Dental Association; American Board of Orthodontists; Northeastern
Society of Orthodontists; Angle Society of Orthodontists; American
Association of Orthodontists.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific papers on orthodontia.

CHARLES BARRON OTIS

HOME AppRESS: 423 S. Country Rd., Bay Shore, Long Island, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 67 Pearl St., New York 4, N. Y.
BoRN: March 22, 1906, New York, N. Y. Parents: Charles Otis, Annabel

Bodwell Vining.
[813 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1928(29).

marriep: Marie Antoniello, June 11, 1932, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward V. Otis, ’21.

occupation: Publisher: president, The American Banker, Chairman of the
Board, The Bond Buyer.

ROBERT PALMER OUTERBRIDGE

HOME ApDpREsS: 8 Goodwin Rd., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 114 Central St., Somerville 45, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 2, 1907, Reedsburg, Wis. parents: Robert Palmer Outerbridge,
Della Genevieve Dennett.

PREPARED AT: Superior Central High School, Superior, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1928; LL.B., 1931.

margieD: Charlotte Clarke Taylor, Nov. 19, 1936, Portland, Maine. cu-
pREN: Catherine Clarke (Taylor), Dec. 30, 1930 (step-child); David
Clarke (Taylor), Aug. 4, 1933 (step-child).

OCCUPATION: Secretary-treasurer, patent counsel, director, Spray Engineer-
ing Company.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous U. S. patents; controversy in Life Magazine on
when Twentieth Century began.

I CONDEMN all bureaucrats. I condemn everyone who won't
condemn all bureaucrats. I condemn everyone who won't put
lights in his house and sit up all night damning all bureaucrats.
That is my summary of the past twenty years. The first full
calendar year for which I paid a federal income tax after grad-
uation from Harvard Law School was 1932, and my federal tax
that year was 1.83 per cent of gross income. For the year ended
December 31, 1952, my federal income tax was 25.73 per cent
of gross income, a figure which represents an annual cumulative
increase of 1.195 per cent for each and every one of the past
Roosevelt-Truman years. When we graduated a dollar was
worth well more than one hundred cents. Today a two-cent
newspaper costs a nickel and the good old Saturday Evening
Post sells for fifteen cents. We did not have over three and a
half million federal employees when we graduated, but we have
been supporting them for years,

What have I been doing since graduation from Harvard Law?
Why, working to support bureaucrats — what else would non-

[814]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bureaucrats expect? If it were not for people like myself, peo-
ple who help produce the wealth which is taxed to give bureau-
crats a living, those pure bureaucrats would starve — (and
wouldn’t that be just too bad?) or else they would have to be
wealth producers for a living, and perish that thought for such
as they. But cheer up. All is not lost. I have consistently voted
Republican for years in the now-realized hope that some day the
American people would have sense enough to turn the rascals
out, and with the death of Phil Murray and the exodus of Tru-
man there has passed from the American scene the most unholy
alliance that ever throttled a nation.

DAVID RUSSELL OVANS

HOME ADpRESS: 85 Summer St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 6, 1906, Allston, Mass. parents: David Ovans, Sarah E. Nutting.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
1937.

MARRIED; Elisabeth Napier, Nov. 9, 1940, Yonkers, N. Y.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT PosT: Price attorney, Office of Price Administration,
Washington, 1944~47.

MEMBER OF: Masons.

AFTER college I worked for two years for a small radio manu-
facturing company which went broke in the spring of 1931. The
next five years were very lean picking but I kept working most
of the time in a wide assortment of jobs. The most enjoyable of
_ them were summers teaching swimming on Nantucket and Cape
Cod and six months in Bermuda as sports director at a large hotel
in the spring of 1934. Other work in resort hotels was not hard
to take but there was even less moss than usual for rolling stones.
I stayed around Boston enough to finish evening law school
and was admitted to the Massachusetts Bar in 1937. For five
years I was associated with William D. Morton, Class of 1927,
and William D. Whitmore of 1929 in law practice in Boston and
we had a lot more laughs together than seem to be usual in a law
office. In the spring of 1943 with the breath of my draft board
hot on my neck we went to Keesler Field in Mississippi where I

[ 815 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

was an instructor for six months in an air force mechanics’ school.
This job provided me with a grand stand on the Army and its
ways and a firm conviction that we should not let the Army train
any more of our youth than is absolutely necessary. I also ob-
served many times that one draftee over about thirty years old
would usually wreck the morale of the rest of his company of
young fellows. When drafted at almost thirty-seven I was quickly
rejected so the Army should have let me go on being moderately
useful as an instructor.

My old love for Cape Cod had led me to meet my future wife
there in the summer of 1940. I claim to be one of the most suc-
cessful of our Class as a wife-picker. It is still a source of amaze-
ment to me that pure chance could lead two of such similar tastes
to meet and marry.

From 1944 to 1947 I worked for the Office of Price Admin-
istration in Washington as a price attorney and did a lot of lis-
tening and not much talking because as a Republican I had prac-
tically no kindred spirits. OPA and all the government offices
were filled with a peculiar breed who may not have been Com-
mies or fellow travellers to any great percentage, but were cer-
tainly not believers in the American capitalistic system and were
constantly doing their best to tear it down. Many of them in
the OPA thought they had a permanent strangle-hold on the
country but fortunately Congress turned the price controllers
out quite rapidly. Price and wage controls are probably unavoid-
able in wartime but with the difference between war and peace
become rather indefinite there is great danger of our selling our
freedom permanently and for only a few dollars a week.

Talso worked for a half year for the President’s Amnesty Board,
reviewing the cases of those who had gone to jail for draft eva-
sion and this work was quite interesting, with no doubts about
whether it was a proper field for a government to handle. My
favorite character was the objector who had to be carried out
of jail after almost five years so that he could not be accused of
codperating with the jail authorities,

At the end of 1947 I decided to return to Boston to take the
chances of law practice again and we have never regretted the
move although starting law practice in Boston, with its more
than ample supply of lawyers, should be a once-in-a-lifetime ex-

[ 816 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

perience for anyone. I had not known Ross Guthrie in College
but we went on many an enjoyable outdoor expedition with him
around Washington and saw him through courtship and marriage
before we left. . . | a | Ce

We bought a house in Hingham which is only two miles from
the cold surf of the full Atlantic Ocean and every warm evening
from mid-June until late September we have a swim while din-
ner is cooking. Try that for a refresher after a summer day in
an office! My wife is a crack gardener and does the persnickety
work while I supply the dumb labor and tend the large vegetables,
when not after striped bass. _

From mid-way May to November I go striped bass fishing on
the ocean side of Cape Cod every chance I get in my beach
buggy “The Striper Teaser.” Chatham is my favorite spot and
the season just past the best in three years. ‘Twelve stripers in
last September and October between twenty-five and thirty-
three pounds with quite a few smaller ones helped to make up
for two fairly lean years. You don’t catch striped bass, they
catch you. They are definitely not shmoos, although once in a
great while they are easy to catch. ee a |
- The past nine months have been particularly busy ones for us
because we took on the care of my grandnephew and niece for
an indefinite period. For a couple who are not spring chickens
a boy almost six and git] almost four are quite a handful. With
a pair so lively we have to do considerable maneuvering just to
keep ahead of them. :

Experience has convinced me that good health is the sine qua
non of life and yet there is nothing more common than to see
people abusing their health, either at work or play.

HENRY WALCOTT OWEN

HOME ApprEss: 1606 Lorimer Rd., Glen Burnie, Md. -

OFFICE appress: Hq. Air Research and Development Command, Baltimore
3, Md. .

BORN: June 12, 1906, Whitinsville, Mass. parents: Henry Arthur Owen,
Georgia Spaulding Walcott.

PREPARED at: Northbridge High School, Whitinsville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

[ 817 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

marrieD: Helen Jane Price, Dec. 24, 1943, Dayton, Ohio. cumpren: Hugh
Walcott, June 11, 1948; Amey Elizabeth, Dec. 19, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Statistician, United States Air Forces.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War II, February, 1941~March, 1946;
Cold War, since July, 1951 (Korea: September, 1951-September, 1952).

AFTER five years of military service in the last war and a five-
year interval as a civilian, | drew a reservist tour to Korea. An
enjoyable feature were several hops to Japan.

The Barracks are as homelike as ever and the many problems
of government organization and control seem as far as ever
from solution. My present assignment is 6,746 and 6,718 by the
Air Force numbers. This work tends to confirm the half-truth
that statisticians played the role of astrologers in mediaeval times.
The figures and research underway are certainly astronomical as
is the crystal ball needed in this fog of war weather.

JOSEPH PACIFICI

HOME appress: 40 EF. soth St., Savannah, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 E. Taylor St., Savannah, Ga.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1906, Norwich, Conn. pARENTs: Romeo Pacifici, Elvira
Fachini.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: $.B., 1928(29); M.D. (Royal Univ,,
Rome), 1935.

MaRRIED: Ione Rachels, July 4, 1938, Savannah, Ga. CHILDREN: James Grady,
May 20, 1939; Mary Theresa, Aug. 6, 1940; Joanne, Dec. 5, 1941; Joseph
Albert, May 20, 1946; Maureen Elvira, Dec. 5, 1948; Margaret Louise,
Jan. 7, 1950; Lucy Rea, Jan. 19, 1951; Kathleen Ione, Dec. 31, 1951.

OccUPATION: Physician, general practitioner.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Medical Corps, U. S. Army, July 25,
1942—Dec. 26, 1945; European-African-Middle East Theatre.

OFFICES HELD: President, Staff, St. Joseph’s Hospital, Savannah, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Georgia Medical Society; Medical Association of Georgia,
American Medical Society; American Heart Association, Lions Club;
Knights of Columbus— 4th Degree; Ambassador’s Club.

SOME time after graduation I went to Rome, Italy, where I
lived for nearly four years during those eventful years when
Fascism was on the march. I was a medical student at the Uni-
versity of Rome. I learned from the man in the café, the restau-
rant, and the street that regimentation was something to be

[ 818 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

feared and hated and that you went along because that was it
or else. When they learned to know and trust you, they opened
up and spilled their tale of woe. You got the inside dope on the
so-called big shots who were a lot of delinquents, bullies, and
chiselers. During these years I became a Doctor of Medicine
and came home with a love for humanity which I owe to my
teachers and a hatred for regimentation.

By a combination of circumstances I came to Savannah, Geor-
gia, where I met the nicest folks in the world and where I de-
cided to live. During my ups and downs here, I met my wife.
An evening’s entertainment is always forthcoming when some-
one says, “Get Joe to tell you how he met Ione.” It’s long and
complicated, but ends with a wedding on July qth, 1938, at the
Cathedral of St. John the Baptist, Savannah, Georgia. The Wed-
ding Mass was said by the then Bishop of Savannah-Atlanta,
Gerald P. O’Hara, who is now Archbishop and Apostolic Nuncio
to Ireland. His wedding gift to us was a beautiful Raphael’s
Madonna which was blessed by the late Pope Pius XI whom I
had the great pleasure of meeting several times during my stay in
Rome. In three years we had a son and two daughters. The
number three child was two days old on December 7, 1941. I
lefe Savannah in July, 1942. My wife was what she called a

“camp follower” with three children and a washing machine.
My Army separation came through in October, 1945, and I
came back to Savannah to take up where I had left off, the gen-
eral practice of medicine and the rearing of children.

I am a family doctor. I work hard, long hours with quite a
few night calls. The troubles of my patients are on my shoulders
—grandma’s heart, Butch’s tetanus reaction, Susie’s blues, and
Pop’s ulcers, They are all in a day’s work. Sometimes I wish I
had chosen another way to make a living, but there is a great deal
of satisfaction in being important to folks who bring me their
broken hearts as well as their lives.

I am not much of a “joiner” of clubs. I do belong to the Lions
Club and the Knights of Columbus. The kids pushed me into
the K of C because they wanted to see daddy with his sword.

IT am not a Democrat or a Republican — but I guess just an
American. That’s why my man won the last election, because
there are many of us who are just Americans,

[ 819 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

By now I am not a New Englander any more. I’m a real

Georgia Cracker, for I enjoy turnip greens and corn bread, but
to keep my self respect, I absolutely refuse to eat grits. I enjoy
fishing like most Savannahians, but have very little time for it,
and incidentally very poor luck.
_ My wife and I have a full life trying to raise our two sons
and six daughters and do not find much time to get really mad
with each other. We have no frustrations and no fears for the
future since we have come to realize that life is such a simple
thing if we but live it so,

EDWARD PAGE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Quarters 11, Fort McNair, Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % State Department, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: July 31, 1905, Ardmore, Pa. parENts: Edward Page, Olga von
Bendler.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.; Country Day School
Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; Breveté (Ecole Nationale
des Langues Vivantes, Paris), 1934; diploma (National War College),
1947.

MarRiED: Teresita Bartol Dalley, Aug. 3, 1935, Kennebunkport, Maine.

occupation: Diplomatic Service (foreign service officer, Class I); deputy
commandant for Foreign Affairs, National War College, Washington.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: First secretary, U. S. Embassy, Moscow, 1942-
46, member, U. S. Delegation to Yalta, Potsdam, and Paris Conferences.

OFFicks HELD: Secretary general, U. S. Delegation, Paris Conference, 1946,
counselor, U, S. Embassy, Rome, 1947-50; deputy U. S. commandant,
Berlin, 1950-51, National War College, 1952-53.

EDGAR PANGBORN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Voorheesville, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 25, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Harry Leroy Pangborn,
Georgia Harriet Wood.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Friends School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army, September, 1942~December, 1945, New
Guinea, March, 1943-December, 1944; Philippines, January-November,
1945; most of the time in clerical work for a station hospital,

[ 820 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Authors Guild of America.

puBLicaTions: Mystery and “science-fiction” short stories and novelettes
(Special Award of Merit, Ellery Queen’s Mystery Magazine Annual
Contest of 1951); novel, West of the Sun (Doubleday), 1953.

UNEVENTFUL record. Would rather not go to town on life-
history until 1978, partly because I never heard of anyone, except
maybe Benjamin Franklin, who knew enough about himself to
talk sense in an autobiography — and even Uncle Ben preferred
to skim around the edges of it and have fun. I have merely put
in the time trying to learn how to string two sentences together
without falling over my feet: so I write books.

Social-political convictions: of the center, by which I mean
that I try to listen to the noises on both left and right, and use
my own head at the same time. Some of my best friends are ex-
tremists; but they have never succeeded in telling me what to do.

Religious: same thing, almost. I had the good fortune to be
brought up as an agnostic, and have never found reason to change.
If you should still want a livelier and more detailed account in
1978, I swear I'll oblige.

HANNE MAKAN PANOSIAN

HOME ADDRESS: 25 S. Huntington Ave., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1902, Aintub, Turkey. PARENTS: Nazareth Panosian, Rachel
Nazai Makanian.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

OccuPATION: Mercantile Business.

HENRY MELVILLE PARKER

HOME AppREsS: 124 Harmony St., New Castle, Del.

OFFICE ApprEss: U, S. Atomic Energy Commission, Wilmington, Del.

BoRN: March 15, 1906, Lebanon, Pa. PARENTS: Richard Bentley P Parker, Har-
riet Williams Dalzell.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MarrigD: Esther Janet Hanlon, Aug. 18, 1930, Hudson, Mass. cHILpREN:
Ruth Vallily, Aug. 21, 1931; Elisabeth Bentley, May 15, 1934.

[ 821 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Dalzell Parker, ’25.
occupaTION: Chief, Separations, AEC, SRO Washington Area Office, U. S.
Atomic Energy Commission.

+ FRANCIS SLOCUM PARKS

BoRN: Nov. 16, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Francis S. Parks, Jennie Slocum.
PREPARED AT: St. George's School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

piep: Nov. 24, 1930, New Haven, Conn.

WHILE at Harvard Parks was a director of the Cercle Francais
in 1928 and a member of the Fencing Squad in 1926. He died
from injuries received in an automobile accident when he was
returning from the Harvard-Yale football game.

MAXFIELD PARRISH, JR.

HOME ApDpREss: 7 Paul Revere Rd., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFice appREss: Polaroid Corp. 730 Main St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: Aug. I4, 1906, Cornish, N. H. parents: Maxfield Parrish, Lydia
Austin,

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N. Y.; Lake Placid-Florida School,
New York and Florida.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

marriep: Helen Louise Kilgard, May 13, 1939, Minneapolis, Minn. CHILDREN:
Sally Jane, April 24, 1943; Samuel David, Oct. 22, 1945; Joanna Max-
field, Sept. 7, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stephen Parrish, 2d, ’32.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

MEMBER OF: Society of Non Joiners (life member).

SOMETIMES I have envied those who knew at the age of six-
teen just what they were going to do in life, who worked at this
through college and on graduation went right into it.

In high school my all-consuming hobby was playing with
machinery and to a lesser extent drawing and painting. I always
assumed that 1 would go into the same profession as my father,
but some years out of college it became apparent that it took
more than a vague wish to make a living at art, and so I turned
the first hobby, machinery, into my profession; and it has served

[ 822 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

me well. I have been trying for thirty years to find a name that
fits what I do. Gadgeteer comes the closest but lacks the prestige
I feel the job deserves. To be a good gadgeteer you have to bea

ood machinist, inventor, physicist, chemist, metallurgist, and
have to have an instinct for engineering. The average M. I. T.
graduate twenty-five years out makes about the same salary as I
do, and doesn’t have half the fun, so I figure I’m doing all right.
Major spare time hobby now is drawing, illustration, and cartoon-

ing.

My chief philosophical slant from the lofty plateau of middle
age could probably be described as more or less placid. Being
once a great student of guns and all weapons of war, and having
read a lot of the history of them as well as how they were thought
of by the people of the times, I do not view with too great alarm
the advent of the atom bomb. When gun powder first came into
serious use the whole world viewed it with much the same horror
that they now do the unleashed atom. The advent of the cross-
bow also worried the world no end, and the Pope of the time is-
sued an encyclical against it.

The spectacle of Communism spreading through the world
is not a joyful one, but I view this simply as a development of
an American invention, mass advertising to sell the unknowing
a spurious piece of goods. Sometimes I wonder if our own ad-
vertising men, if all were turned loose on the problem and given
a really adequate budget, couldn’t in a sense fight fire with fire,
and beat the Russians at their own game. Maybe as simply as re-
using some of the old and proved slogans like, “Eventually, why
not now? Throw over the Communists.” Or, “Ask the man who
is owned by one. Don’t sell out to a Communist boss.”

If the Class life questionnaire had included a question such as,
“Tf you had your life to live over, what would you have done
differently?”, I suppose I would have answered it thusly: “I would
have gone to Harvard first instead of to Dartmouth for the first
two and a half years of my undergraduatehood.” I can’t think of
any one other thing less liable to provoke disagreement by the
persons who read this than that statement.

[ 823 ]

- HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ALFRED FRANCIS PARROTT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 5 Muriel Rd., Port Washington, Long Island, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Consolidated Edison Co. of N. Y., 4 Irving Pl. New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 21, 1908, Plandome, N. Y. parents: Alfred Francis Parrott, ’98,
Rose Josephine Rocheleau.

PREPARED AT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

markigD: Constance Harcourt-Palmer, Oct. 21, 1933, Brooklyn, N. Y. (di-
vorced, 1937); Jeannette M. Trudeau, June 29, 1946, Hubbard Woods,
Il.

oocupaTion: Forecasts and economic research.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant j.g., U.S.N.R., Feb-
ruary, 1942; assigned Office of N. I. O., Norden; attended Midshipmen’s
School, Northwestern University; assigned to U.S.S. Idaho (BB-42) in
gunnery department, July, 1942; attended gunnery officers’ Ordnance
School, June, 1944; assigned to U.S.S. Antietam (CV-36) as assistant
gunnery officer, September, 1944; released November, 1945, with rank
of lieutenant commander; received American Theatre Ribbon, Pacific
Theatre Ribbon (four stars), China Liberation Ribbon, Japanese Occu-
pation Ribbon, Victory Ribbon; recalled to active duty, March, 1951;

spent two years as gunnery officer of U.S.S, Midway (CVA-q1) with
rank of commander; released March, 1953.

AT graduation time I suffered from the delusion, common at the
time, that there was a great deal of easy money to be made in
Wall Street. In the fall of 1928 I joined Harris, Forbes & Com-
pany. In 1930 this firm was merged with Chase Securities Cor-
poration. When the banks were ordered to liquidate their securi-
ties affiliates in 1931, this firm, and incidentally my job, were
liquidated together. After a couple of temporary jobs, I was em-
ployed by Consolidated Edison Company in September, 1933 and,
except for six years of military service, have been with them ever
since. My work has been mostly economic and special studies —
in the Forecasts and Economic Research Bureau before the war
and in the Treasury Department after the war. It has been very
interesting and I have enjoyed it immensely. My specific title
when I left was assistant engineer (a misnomer), Just what my
niche will be when I go back this time, I don’t know, but it will
undoubtedly be something similar if not the same.

I spent most of the war on a battleship in the Pacific and an
aircraft carrier, and joined the host for whom the “South Sea

[ 824 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Isles” lost every bit of the glamor and romance we used to asso-
ciate with them. However I did have a lot of good times in the
Navy and remained active in the Reserves after the war. Conse-
quently, I was not too surprised when I was recalled to active
duty in March, 1951. By the time this is published, I should be
back with the Edison Company, having spent two years as gun-
nery officer of the U.S.S. Midway (CVA-41) with the rank of
commander. Most of this time was spent in European waters,
especially the Mediterranean. While I must admit that I have
enjoyed the past two years, it will still be much nicer to be able
to get home every night.

My first marriage ended in divorce in 1937, but my second
“took.” Jeannette and I have been very happy but, unfortunately,
have not yet had any children. However, we’re still hoping.

Hobbies come and go, but those that have lasted longest have
been Go, an oriental board game similar to chess, skiing, which I
took up in 1937, and bridge. Lately [’ve been getting interested
in rose growing. I gave up tennis a few years ago but, while con-
tinually threatening to do so, have not yet taken up golf.

In politics, originally I was a Democrat but have voted Repub-
lican since 1940. In fact, I now find that I have to be careful not
to become a little rabid on the subject.

GEORGE GOWEN PARRY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 127 W. Springfield Ave., Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia 18, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Schnader, Kenworthey, Segal & Lewis, 1719 Packard Bldg.,
Philadelphia 2, Pa. ©

BORN: Jan. 30,, 1907, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: George Gowen Parry,
Flora Rosalie Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Germantown Academy, Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925, 1927-1928. DEGREES: a.B. (St. John’s Coll.),
1930; LL.B. (Temple Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Suzanne Claire Engert, Feb. 10, 1934, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Louise Lockwood, Dec. 1, 1934; George Gowen, 3d (“Mike”), July
»1937.

HARVARD SeOTHERS: Richard Parry, 38; Stephen Harris Parry, *46.

occupation: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (junior grade), U. S.
Naval Reserve, 1941; assistant to district intelligence officer, Fourth
Naval District, 1941-43; assistant security officer, Office of Strategic

[ 825 ]

EEE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Services, Algiers, to 1944; security officer, U. S. Fifth Army and
British Eighth Army, Italy, 1944; security officer, Mediterranean The-
atre, 1944-45 (Caserta, Naples, Bari, Brindisi, Anzio, Rome, Florence,
North Africa, Middle East, Southern France, Balkans); U. S. Eighth
Fleet, Mediterranean and North African waters; permanent rank,
Commander, U. S. Naval Reserve. Legion of Merit, Gold Star (second
award); U. S. Army Commendation Ribbon; Order of Crown of
Italy; Order of St. Mary of Bethlehem, Commendation Supreme Allied
Commander, Mediterranean; American Defense Service Medal; Amer-
ican Theatre Ribbon; Mediterranean Theatre Ribbon; World War II
Victory Medal; European Occupation Ribbon; Star of Italy (British).

oFFices HELD: Member Committee on Criminal Justice, 1950-52, member
Committee on Marriage and Divorce and Family Law, since 1951,
Philadelphia Bar Association, member Board of Managers, 1949-52,
president, since 1952, Sleighton Farm School for Girls, Delaware
County, Pa.; secretary, Veterans of Strategic Services, Philadelphia,
1947-50 (now defunct).

MEMBER oF: Academy Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Philadelphia
Cricket Club; American Legion; Military Order of Foreign Wars;
Pennsylvania Historical Association; The Round Table.

SINCE leaving college I have worked at the following jobs: re-
porter for the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, a travelling corre-
spondent on special assignment in Europe for the Associated Press;
Freight, Passenger, and Public Relations Departments, consecu-
tively, United States Lines, New York City; real estate tax as-
sessor, Philadelphia, law clerk, Court of Common Pleas, Phila-
delphia County, Pennsylvania; and attorney-at-law, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. In 1935, when my elder child was about eight
months old, I returned to Philadelphia from New York and en-
tered the night school (law) of Temple University, from which
I was graduated in 1939 after four years of working in the day-
time and attending school five nights a week (a schedule I
wouldn’t wish on a dog). Though officially graduated as of 1939,
due to illness I was unable to receive my degree until the spring
of 1940. However, as some “wag” remarked, I must have gone
home at least once during those four years as in 1937 I successfully
produced a son!

Following the usual “cram” course I passed my Pennsylvania
Bar examination and finished serving my clerkship just in time
to be ordered on active duty with the Navy, from which I did
not emerge until the end of December, 1945.

Since January 1, 1946, 1 have been affiliated with the law firm

[ 826 ]

-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Schnader, Kenworthey, Segal & Lewis which, despite the opin-
ions to the contrary of some of my classmates and particularly of
Maurice Heckscher, is unquestionably the finest law firm in Phila-
delphia!

My pet hobby is still travel but unfortunately since World War
II I have had little opportunity to indulge it with the exception
of business trips to Chicago and California and my regular sum-
mer jaunts to Maine. There have been some Naval Reserve as-
signments during this period, but these can hardly be classified
as travel.

I am at this point even less athletic than I was in college, my
exercise being largely limited to such constructive activities as
mowing the lawn and working in the garden with occasional
clumsy attempts at household carpentry and painting.

My social activities are those common to most suburban com-
munities, including a liberal (though discreet) amount of drink-
ing, and excluding any form of cards (which I detest, not on
moral grounds, but because they require an amount of intellectual
effort inconsistent with my mental laziness).

I am a registered Republican, but have been known to vote
for the Democrats, though I enthusiastically supported “Ike” in
the last campaign.

I am a Roman Catholic.

My daughter, now eighteen, was graduated last spring (1952)
from Eden Hall, a boarding school in Torresdale, Pennsylvania,
and is presently a freshman at Manhattanville College of the
Sacred Heart, Purchase, Westchester County, New York, where,
having inherited her mother’s industry and my brains, she holds
a four-year scholarship (partial). She has not yet decided on
her major field of study, but at the present writing, I have the
distinct impression that it will bear some close relationship to
the male sex. She is extremely attractive, hence modesty forbids
my saying anything except that she has likewise inherited her
mother’s looks!

My son, who in a weak moment I consented to name after me
(a fact which we have attempted to conceal by calling him
“Mike’”), is now fifteen and is a member of the Fourth Form at
Chestnut Hill Academy (first year of high school), of Chestnut
Hill, Pennsylvania. Needless to say he is my favorite son, though

[ 827 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

at this point in his career I cannot comment too specifically upon
his accomplishments. He is extremely fond of music for which
he has shown a great appreciation and has an ambition to become
a doctor. He has recently shown a budding realization that there
are such things as girls in the world which, no doubt, accounts
for an increased interest in the family bathtub; and like myself,
he is allergic to most forms of work. Generally speaking, I feel
sure that any of my classmates who have had fifteen-year-old sons
will know exactly what I am talking about.

Another male member of my household who is a great favorite
of mine is Peter Parry, who at the age of thirteen I regret to say
has developed prostate trouble. Before you become alarmed,
let me add that Peter is a dog whose only claim to fame other
than his physical disability is a touchy disposition which has
prompted him to take bites of varying sizes out of numerous
delivery men and other “trespassers” upon the Parry property.
In addition to Peter the family roster includes a temperamental
canary named “Denny” (after Dennis Day) who seldom sings,
a hamster of advanced age though unknown sex called “Rose-
marie,” and ten unusually affectionate goldfish.

Since I have about exhausted all personal items which may
conceivably be of interest to my former associates at Harvard, |
shall close by admitting to a certain inferiority complex produced
by reading the varied accomplishments of my more illustrious
classmates such as Barry Bingham, Johnnie Chase, Bill Saltonstall,
et cetera.

JAMES SALISBURY PASS |

HOME AppRESS: R. D, 2, Cazenovia, N. Y,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pass and Seymour, Inc., Solvay, N. Y.

BorN: June 21, 1904, Geddes, N. Y. parents: James Pass, Adelaide Salisbury.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

MarRieD: Fay Brigham, April 8, 1931, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Henry Pass, ’15.

occupaATION: Manufacturer.

1929-1930: Geologist, at Hollinger Consolidated Gold Mines,
Timmins, Ontario.
1930-1934: Travel, study, prospect for minerals.

[ 828 ]

eee AA ean

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1934-1941: Geologist, at International Nickel Company, Copper
Cliff, Ontario. Underground and surface mineral exploration.
1941-1952: Laboratory assistant, foreman, personnel manager,
treasurer, Pass and Seymour, Inc. This firm manufactures elec-

trical wiring devices.

NORBERT THOMAS PASTERNACKI

HOME ADDRESS: 7730 E. Jefferson Ave., Detroit, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6203 Chene St., Detroit, Mich.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1904, Detroit, Mich. parents: Charles Victor Pasternacki,
Rose Zoltowski.

PREPARED AT: New York Military Academy, Cornwall, N. Y.; University of
Detroit High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D., 1932.

marriepD: Amalia Cyrowski, Oct. 14, 1939.

occuPaTION: Practice of medicine.

oFFIcEs HELD: Chief-of-staff, Lakeside General Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Michigan Medical Society;
Wayne County Medical Association; American Academy of General
Practice.

AFTER graduation I was fortunate to spend four years at the
Harvard Medical School, graduating in 1932. There followed
three years of internship. Since 1935 I have been engaged in
the general practice of medicine in Detroit, Michigan, being af-
filiated with Grace, Holy Cross, and Lakeside General Hospitals.
In 1939 I married Amalia Cyrowski, an attorney. And so on
the one hand kept busy by an active medical practice and on
the other protected by the law I have led a safe and happy life
since leaving the Charles for the Detroit River.

JAMES J. PATES

HOME AppREss: Djalan Djawa 105, Djakarta, Java, Indonesia. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Standard-Vacuum Sales Co. Kotak Pos DKT-48, Dja-
karta, Java, Indonesia.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1907, Monongahela, Pa. PARENTS: James Samuel Pates, Mary
Josephine Johnston,

PREPARED aT: Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MarRRiED: Alice Winifred Brown, March 22, 1932, New York, N. Y. (di-
vorced 1945); Meta Mary Lewis, Jan. 15, 1946, Brisbane, Queensland,

[ 829 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928
Australia. CHILDREN: James Johnston, Jr., Feb. 23, 1933; Meta Margaret,
Oct. 4, 1946; John Lewis, Oct. 14, 1949.

HARVARD SON: James Johnston Pates, Jr., ’55.

occupaTION: Manager, Djakarta District, Standard-Vacumm Sales Com-
pany;‘sales, storage and distribution of petroleum products.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned captain, Q.M.C. March 1s,
1942, in Melbourne after escape from Netherlands East Indies; served
as petroleum officer and G-4 officer at various headquarters in North-
ern Australia, Papua, and New Guinea; honorably discharged as lieu-
tenant colonel, Jan. 15, 1946; awarded Southwest Pacific Area ribbon
with three campaign stars.

MEMBER OF: Societeit “de Harmonie”, British Cricket Club, Djakarta.

IN October, 1928, I left the United States for China as a junior
marketing assistant for the Standard Oil Company of New York
(Socony). After twenty-five years, I am still with the same com-
pany, with its name slightly changed, and still marketing petro-
leum products. The emphasis is now less on efficient and profit-
able distribution, however, than it is on problems of personnel,
politics, and finance, Also, though kerosene (oil for the lamps
of China) is still an important product, sales of asphalt for roads,
gasoline for motor cars, fuel oils for tractors, factories and Diesel
locomotives, and the specialized lubricants therefor have dis-
placed it as the backbone of the oil business in the Orient.

My work has given me an opportunity for travel, and this I
have enjoyed. The travelling has included large sections of
China by sedan chair, junk and oxcart, Manchuria by motorcar
on frozen rivers in lieu of roads, Siberia by rail, and many sec-
tions of Europe, Africa, and Australia by ship, plane, train, and
car.

My hobbies used to be bridge and riding, but lack of time
for the former and excessive weight for the latter have forced
me to forego both. Raising three children, the eldest of whom is
now Class of ’55 and the youngest pre-kindergarten age, is a
hobby in itself.

FRANK BURDETTE PATTERSON, JR.

HOME Appress: 8869 N. Clarendon St., Detroit 7, Mich.

orFice appress: S. S. Kresge Co., Detroit, Mich.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1907, Jamestown, N. Y. parents: Frank Burdette Patterson,
Katharine Rice.

[ 830 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Burr and Burton Seminary.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marriep: Lillian Walsh, June 1, 1936, Jamestown, N. Y. cHiILp: Barbara
Ann, Dec. 19, 1937.

occupaATION: Mercantile Business: Manager of S. 5. Kresge Store.

HENRY GROSVENOR ELDREDGE PAYSON

HOME ApDpRESs: Bristol, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 208 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 19, 1907, Belmont, Mass. parents: Gilbert Russell Payson
’g0, Ellen Holt Eldredge.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1927-1928.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gilbert Russell Payson, ’21.

occupation: Lighting fixtures.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army, four years, attained rank of Staff Sergeant;
two years at Harvard Headquarters Army Training Schools; two
years after service in Counsellor for Veterans Office at Harvard.

SAMUEL RANDOLPH PEALE

HOME appreEss: 470 Park Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Mr. John D. Rockefeller, Jr., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New
York 20, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 4, 1905, Summit, N. J. Parents: Franklin Dixon Peale, 788,
Martha Vail Tufts.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~—1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

MARRIED: Margaret Elizabeth Van Schmus, Jan. 27, 1934, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Samuel Rodgers, May 24, 1936; Margaret, Nov. 11, 1938.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Franklin Vail Peale, *18, Lu.p., ’22 (deceased); Rodgers

Peale, ’21, $.B., 22, A.M., '20, PH.D. '30.

OCCUPATION: Finance, Rockefeller Brothers, Inc.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Consultant in Quartermaster General’s Office,
Washington, February—April, 1943.

OFFIcEs HELD: Assistant treasurer, Bank of New York, 1942-50; trustee,
estate and property, Episcopal Diocese of New York, 1943; vestryman,
Church of the Ascension, New York Cicy.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

[ 831 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

IN 1928 I put off deciding on what type of business to choose
by enrolling in the Graduate School of Business Administration
from which I was graduated in 1930. Having spent the two pre-
ceding summers working, I joined Herb Farnsworth, George
Greenslet, and Seth Nichols on a final vacation of some length
(almost three months) in Europe. In spite of coming back broke
and to the rude awakening of a depression, I have never regret-
ted this venture.

Basic training in finance in the early thirties was pretty rough.
The optimism of my business school days was quickly shattered
and I was indeed fortunate in not being fired from the Bank of
New York where I was employed from October 1, 1930. The
necessarily slow progress during this period did not prevent me
from thinking that two could live together at least as well as
separately and a lot more happily. Elizabeth thought so too, so
in 1934 we were married, and in 1936 were started on raising a
family (not large but we believe of quite satisfactory quality).

The war found me a little old for active service. Except for a
brief period as consultant in the Office of the Quartermaster Gen-
eral, which to my surprise I found considerably overstaffed, I
was trying to do the work of other men who had temporarily
left the bank for military service. This, as well as my own job,
kept me busy, but added greatly to my financial experience.

Post-war found me somewhat restless and looking for new
horizons. This urge was most adequately satisfied when I was
offered the opportunity to help the Rockefeller family on their
investments. This has been my only change of employment
since 1930. Consequently, my life has neither been turbulent nor
dynamic. But I am happy with the even course it has taken and,
looking back, there is little I should have had otherwise.

CHARLES ROBERTS PEAVY

HOME appress: % W. M. Carney Mill Co., Atmore, Ala. (permanent).

OFFice apprEss: % Dept. of Anthropology, University of Chicago, Chicago
37, Ill. (temporary).

BORN: Oct. 31, 1904, Atmore, Ala. parents: Julius Franklin Peavy, Alice
Carney,

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

[ 832 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Chicago), 1942; a.m.
(ibid.), 1947. .

MARRIED: Ellen Olga Cosgriff, Jan. 5, 1944, Chicago, Ill.

occupation: College professor.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Cryptographer, U. S. Army Air Corps, Ground
Forces, 1942-43, at several Army Air Bases in U.S. A.

OFFicEs HELD: Member, Crane Pacific Zoological Expedition of Field Mu-
seum, Chicago, 1928-29; fellow, Department of Anthropology, Uni-
versity of Chicago, 1947; instructor, Bryn Mawr College, 1947-48; re-
search assistant, Institute for Research in Social Science, University of
North Carolina, 1948-49; associate professor, chairman, Department
of Sociology and Anthropology, Wilson College, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: American Geographical Society (fellow), New York; Amer-
ican Sociology Society, Philadelphia; Anthropology Society; Amer-
ican Anthropology Association, Sigma Xi.

TWENTY-FIVE and a fraction years ago Harvard College
genially granted me a leave of absence to organize myself for
an impending zoological expedition for the Field Museum of
Chicago (the Crane Pacific Expedition of the Field Museum, to
be exact). Scheduled to start Jate in 1927, we who were inter-
ested were impelled by a sense of haste to get prepared for such
an undertaking, spending considerable time, for example, with
the map collections of the American Geographical Society of
New York, and such. As is often the case with ventures of that
sort, time dragged; the ship for the expedition, being built on
the Dalmatian coast, didn’t get built on schedule; the leave of
absence turned out to have been unnecessary, but as a result of
all this Murry Fairbank ’28 was able to be properly graduated
in time to accompany the expedition; without him it would have
been a miserable failure.

The ship did leave Gloucester in the fall of 1928 (Jiyria, 150-
foot brigantine), manned by a professional crew of eighteen, five
members of the scientific party, the owner C. Crane, and three
Harvard men who were going along for the ride. On board
were Dr. William L. Moss, one-time faculty member of the Har-
vard Medical School, as medico; Cornelius Crane, owner (and
noteworthy as cousin of Harlow Higinbotham 28); Sidney
Shurcliff ’27; Murry Fairbank ’28; and myself (ex-’28). Un-
happily John B. Fox ’28, whom Crane invited to go, was too busy
with more prosaic affairs to join us. (Karl Schmidt, now Curator
of Zoology, Chicago Natural History Museum; Walter Weber,

[ 833 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

recently than I have when she went with her friend, Mary Chase,
to Boston to suffer through the opening of the play Harvey. Then
it was that, in a show of temperament at the Copley, Mrs. Chase
used her handbag in such a way as to make it necessary for
Frank Fay to open the play with a black eye.

In recent years we have left the hinterland only occasionally,
restricting our forays to New York to the vicinity of the Al-
gonquin. Here my wife sees from time to time friends in the
theatre and Actor’s Equity whom she knew when she was a di-
rector and stage manager of the Central City Opera Association
in Colorado, where Lillian Gish and Walter Huston have given
way through the years to Lily Pons and Mae West. My wife,
too, no longer plays the old woman in Sun-Up on the road. She
does, however, miss smoking the corn-cob pipe. As for Tobacco
Road, she still wonders.

So it is. As we face this important Rite de Passage of stock-
taking of twenty-five years later, some perchance face it with
a little trepidation. The editorial comments in the third number
of the Reunion Reporter make us aware of a number of changes
at Harvard, especially touching on the fact of the Yard being
overrun with students from Radcliffe, With a sigh some might
say: “Other times, other customs.” However, to me, I would
feel a little bit out of place not to see specimens of that interest-
ing bio-social category, Female, in and around and all over a
campus and classrooms. Professionally speaking, to use a hoary
and time-encrusted and very corny definition: “Anthropology is
the study of Man (embracing women, of course).”

As suggested for this “life history,” and if anyone happens
to be interested in my political views, I should say this. In the
words of the title of the Faculty Play two years ago at Wilson Col-
lege, certainly “You Can’t Take It With You.” I should add,
however, that, in my opinion, you cam leave it behind you. And
that is why, at this moment, and as regards national politics, I have
the feeling of grinning like a Cheshire Cat. I also have the feeling
that it will be all right to be pinched and to wake up, for it no
longer need be a “Wonderland” with everything cockeyed and

out of kilter and with the necessity of our having to run as fast
as we possibly can in order to stay in the same place. I feel that,
if I grin like a cat, I need no longer fear that all I shall have left is

{ 838 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the grin. And that goes for American culture too. We “can’t take
it with us,” but we don’t have to “give it away.” It looks now
as if we have a fighting chance to “stand our ground.”

WILLIAM CREIGHTON PEET, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1275 Clay St., San Francisco, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Oceanic Steamship Co., 215 Market St., San Francisco, Calif.

BoRN: Sept. 7, 1907, Rye, N. Y. PARENTS: William Creighton Peet, Meta
Brevoort Potts.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

MARRIED: Sarita Weekes, May 26, 1933, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y. (di-
vorced 1953).

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Maclay Peet, 36, LL.B. ’39.

occupation: Water transportation: vice-president, The Oceanic Steamship
Company, assistant vice-president, Matson Navigation Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
July 10, 1942; released from active duty Dec. 18, 1945) with rank of
heutenant commander.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Secretary, Pacific Coast director, War Ship-

ping Administration.
MEMBER OF: Pacific Union Club, San Francisco, Metropolitan Club, Wash-
ington, D. C., Seawanahka Yacht Club, Oyster Bay, N. Y.

SPURRED on by the final goads from Ham Heard, I have put
an end to procrastinations and turned to on the Class life. Should
we commence with the bright blue morning in Cambridge, June
1928, and work forward, or cast a retrospective glance over the
past years from my present perch overlooking San Francisco Bay
on a warm moonlit evening?

Certainly life is full of surprises. Nothing was further from
my mind than my present location and occupation when I de-
parted blithely from the Yard with a passport to the world in
my hand. After spending some months travelling in Europe, I
migrated to my uncle’s coffee plantation in Costa Rica. Tucked
away on the slopes of an extinct volcano, the firma exerted a
subtle charm which it was difficult to shake. Then the rains
came — day after day, without cessation.

On returning to New York in the summer of 1929, I obtained
a job as clerk on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange,
just in time to be present on that momentous day when the bot-

[ 839 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

tom dropped out of the gilded age, Not being gifted with pre-
science, it took me quite a while to realize what had happened.
But I read all the books that were published by those who thought
they had the answer.

When Franklin Roosevelt appeared upon the scene, I never ques-
tioned the validity of his campaign song and shortly afterwards
enrolled in the ranks with those who felt that the country would
be rescued under his leadership. Accepting a job with the NRA
was not a matter of personal financial hardship for most people,
including myself. Quite the contrary; whatever was lacking in
experience we worked hard and enthusiastically, and I don’t be-
lieve the taxpayers were defrauded.

By the time that the blue eagle fell to earth, I had been bitten
by the bug which incubates that avidity for life in Washington
subsequently to be diagnosed as Potomac fever. Working in
New York seemed rather prosaic; so I welcomed the oppor-
tunity to return to Washington in 1937 as secretary of the Mari-
time Commission. Hence came my introduction to Merchant
shipping, through the back door, so to speak.

After we entered World War II, I donned a naval uniform
but never put to sea. I was transferred to San Francisco, how-
ever, and vowed that sooner or later it would be my home. Dur-
ing those hectic days I encountered a steady stream of old friends
and acquaintances whom I had met passing to and from the Pa-
cific theatre. Many of them expressed a similar desire, and for a
few it has been fulfilled. It took five of the postwar years to
accomplish my purpose, but here I am, looking westward across
the Pacific to the Island of Hawaii and the South Pacific which
our steamships serve, .

For extra-curricular activities ] have kept up an active par-
ticipation in various sports — skiing and figure skating in winter,
tennis and sailing during the summer months. Having resisted the
blandishments of television, I find my favorite indoor pastime re-
mains the written word, even though the free moments ; appear
to be dwindling.

No one associated with shipping, particularly on the West
Coast where post-war operations have been constantly harassed
by strikes and slow-downs, can preserve an entirely objective

attitude toward the domination of the economic scene by labor

[ 840 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

unions. The pendulum has swung a long way since 1932. One
more big push and the shipping industry will collapse in the
arms of the government. |

It appears to me that the three factors which bear the most
influence on the course of individual destiny are one’s innate
qualities, luck, and timing. Whether these are ordained by na-
ture or God is the puzzling question. I don’t expect the answer
in our time, but I wouldn’t exchange this fascinating era for any
other period of history. Although a few years older than Walter
Pitkin’s prescribed age for beginning life, I am still looking for-
ward to the fresh surprises that the future will bring.

i JEROME AUGUSTINE PENDERGAST

BORN: July 20, 1904, Norwood, Mass. parents: James E. Pendergast, Nora
Genevive Dalton.

PREPARED AT: Norwood High School, Norwood, Mass.; Perkins Institution
for the Blind, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: $.B., 1928(29).

pep: May 15, 1933, Norwood, Mass.

AFTER one year at Harvard Law School Pendergast was forced
by ill health to give up his studies. He had lost his sight at the
age of thirteen. At the time of his death he was engaged in the
insurance business in his native town. He was survived by his’
parents and by five brothers and two sisters.

HENRY CLIFFORD PENDERGRAFT

HOME ADDRESS: 832 First, N.W., Mason City, Iowa.

OFFICE appRrEss: U.S. Post Office, Mason City, Iowa.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1906, Hedrick, Iowa. parents: William Henry Pendergraft,
Elma Jane Stevens.

PREPARED AT: Ottumwa High School, Ottumwa, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREES: A.B. (State Univ. of Iowa), 1930;
A.M. (ibid.), 1950.

MarRieD: Genevieve J. Jackson, June 30, 1934, Richmond, Mo, cHILDREN:
Sara Ellen, May 4, 1936; Ann Elaine, Sept. 14, 1939; Lynne Elise, April
12, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Postrnaster.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Officer, U. S. Navy, 1944-46; with 3rd Fleet
in Pacific, lieutenant in U. S. Naval Reserve, Marshall Islands, Mari-
anas, Okinawa invasion.

[ 841 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I COMPLETED college training at the State University of Iowa
in pre-medicine and education, June, 1930. I planned to use
teaching as a means of financing a medical education, but this
was impossible and I continued teaching for twenty-one years
less the three years I gave my country. I was appointed Director
of Elementary Education in 1946, which position I abandoned to
enter the postal service as postmaster. I have attempted writing
and have had some short technical materials published in elemen-
tary school journals. I have been terribly absorbed in my family.
My wife, a music major in public school music, insists that our
daughters be musicians.

For relaxation and recreation I turn to horticulture and flori-
culture. I give lots of time to my church and community — the
“Y”, Community Chest, etc. I am more than a little disturbed by
the trend our American society seems to be taking. I yearn for
the good old feelings of security, stability, certainty, loyalty,
honesty, and independence. God hasten the day when we may
once again experience them.

ALEXANDER ROBERT PENN

HOME ADDRESS: 3224 Terrace Drive, S.E., Washington 20, D. C.

OFFICE AppRESS: The Surgeon General, Main Navy Bldg., Rm. 2828, Wash-
ington 25, D. C.

BoRN: Dec. 29, 1906, Brest Litvush, Poland. parents: Maurice Penn, Sima
Savonuchi.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.R.c.S. (England); L.R.c.P.
(London) 1933.

MarkieD: Ruth Ann Vaughan, 1931, London, England; Helen Gordon,
June 31, 1936, New Hampshire; Joan Evans, Aug. 16, 1946, London,
England. curxo: Sally Elizabeth, Feb. 10, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Physician and surgeon.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Hon. Chief Medical Officer, Royal Air Force,
Hackney Squadron, London, England, June, 19q0-June, 1942; Emer-
gency Medical Service, Bilte Warfare, London, England, June, 1942-
1945; captain, U. S. Army, at Surgeon General’s Office, Washington,
D.C.

MemMBeR oF: Royal College of Surgeons, England; Royal College of Physi-
cians, London (licentiate),; British Medical Association; American

Medical Association; Harvard Club of England.

[842 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TRAVEL broadens a man,” said Bacon, and I sailed for Englan.
after graduation from Harvard, not only to gain a medical edu
cation, but to see whether Merrie Old England would polish of
the rough spots, giving me a more cosmopolitan attitude. My
reception was a warm one. Harvard had a great reputatior
amongst Oxford and Cambridge graduates who attended the Lon.
don Hospital Medical School. I was indeed fortunate in meeting
Sir Hugh Cairns, Lord Nuffield Professor of Neurosurgery whc
made my stay a most enjoyable and profitable one. A formes
pupil of Cushing, Sir Hugh Cairns guided my medical career.
and in five years I completed my undergraduate work in medi-
cine and surgery and sailed for home. From 1933 to 1936 I did
postgraduate work at the Boston City Hospital and private prac-
tice in Alabama. September of 1936 found me in England again
where I embarked in private practice and postgraduate work at
the Hammersmith Postgraduate and St. James Hospitals. The
lack of adequate medical service in 1939 caused me to be in

the Royal Air Force until 1942, when the great number of

civilian casualties caused my transfer to the Emergency Medical

Service, Mobile Team. At the completion of the war in 1945,

T returned to postgraduate work in England and private practice

until 1948, when I returned to the United States.

LAWRENCE ROBERT PEPPER

HOME apprEss: Route 1, Box 22A, Thermal, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Coachella Valley Union High School, Coachella, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 6, 1904, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Frederick William Pepper,
Frances Pearl Sealey.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925, 1926-1928, DEGREES: S.B, cum laude, 1928; A.M.,
1929.

MARRIED: Lola Mae Hartry, June, 1932, St. Louis, Mo. (divorced 1945);
Dorothy Alice Bacon, 1948. cHttpreN: Lois Jean, April 15, 1933; Rob-
ert Bacon, March 18, 1950; Patricia Kay, March 28, 1952.

OccuPATION: Teacher.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Taught in Army Air Forces College Training
Program and Army Specialized Training Program full-time during
war,

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, American Association of University
Professors, Missouri Chapter, two years; secretary, Coachella Valley

[ 843 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Sports League, 1947; president, Coachella Valley Union High School
Faculty, 1952-53; member Council, Southern Section, California Teach-
ers’ Association, 1950~52.

MEMBER OF: California Teachers’ Association; National Education Asso-
ciauion.

MY LIFE since leaving Harvard has been a series of enjoyable
moments, with a little hard work necessary to make those mo-
ments enjoyable, plus a couple of disasters. I went from Harvard
to the English Department at the University of Missouri, where
I specialized in the teaching of writing — any kind, from technical
writing to the graduate course in creative writing. Knowing
that I should never get rich in teaching, I decided to enjoy my-
self. I seldom taught more than nine hours a week, so I had
plenty of time for my hobbies, all connected with being outdoors
— tennis, floriculture, hunting, fishing, travelling. I have spent
sixteen vacations of three and one-half months at the seashore
or in the mountains. I have travelled through Mexico five times
and got as far north as Newfoundland, where I once spent a
summer. I have enjoyed my work, mostly, and have had plenty
of time to do some thorough reading. I have enjoyed my family
and still do — they range from a daughter, a sophomore at Stan-
ford, who tells me that what I learned at Harvard (outside my
field, where I have found out for myself) is out of date; a son of
two years and ten months, who pulled in his first trout yesterday,
though I thought for a time that the trout would pull Bobby in,
and a baby daughter, almost ten months.

I taught the Army Air Forces and the Army Specialized Train-
ing Program during the war. In the fall of 1945 I had an accident
which sent me to the California desert to live —I inhaled a piece
of evergreen which I was chewing. As far as anyone knows, the
foreign body or what is left of it is still there. My health was
somewhat impaired, but I still managed to win a valley tennis
championship (doubles) last year. Since 1 came to this desert
(now irrigated by the All-America Canal), I have been farm-
ing and teaching at the high school, which adjoins my property.
This fall I had polio and am not completely recovered.

What do I know? Less than I did. What do I believe? Less than
I did. 1 belong to no political party but am ashamed of a United
States run by Truman. More and more I can see that there is

[ 844 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nothing much the matter with the world outside of people. Since
we are going to be dead such a long time, I wish people would
let each other alone while they live. No one, of course, can say
we are still in the Dark Ages, but sometimes we act as though
we were. |

DAVID CROWELL PERCIVAL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: § Mt. Vernon St., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 373 Washington St., Boston 6, Mass.

BORN: July 15, 1905, Marblehead, Mass, PARENTS: David Crowell Percival,
’91, Harriette Williamson.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

MaRRIED: Esther Baker Peirce, June 14, 1933, Brookline, Mass. (divorced
1947; died Jan. 19, 1949). CHILDREN: Sara Baker, May 7, 1934; David
Crowell, 3d, June 5, 1937.

occupation: Wholesale jeweler, salesman, D. C. Percival & Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Diamond Peacock Club, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Corinthian Yacht Club; Boston
Jewelers Club.

AS YOU can see from the above, I am still living in the town of
my birth to be near the salt water which I love, even just to look
at when the weather does not permit sailing or swimming. I
commute to Boston daily where for the last twenty years I have
worked in the family business founded in 1864 by my grand-
father and now headed by my father, also a Harvard Alumnus.
Although there are many headaches in helping to run a luxury
business today in competition with the television and automobile
industries, just to name a couple, I find the challenge very stimu-
lating, and above all the friendships gained from the contacts
over the years have been most rewarding. If we can continue
to convince the manufacturers that the wholesaler is indispensable
to the small retail jeweler, there is no doubt that the firm will
teach the century mark and more. Perhaps, too, the new admin-
istration in Washington will be able ta cut expenses through
economies, thereby making it possible to take off the burden-
some excise tax, or at least cut it. I know that these are times
that “try men’s lives” but I have great confidence that “Ike” will
lead us out of the mess he inherited. With a son approaching the
draft age, I have, like many of you, my stake in his success.

[ 845 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

While on the subject of my son, I might say that along with
my daughter I have a couple of good representatives in the field
of Sports, which happens to be my hobby. Sally, in tennis, has
been especially successful, being not only the school champ, but
the Club’s as well. She graduates from The House in the Pines
this May where she is preparing herself for a fling at secretarial
work. In case any of my classmates is looking for one, here’s your
chance. I have enjoyed playing tennis with both of them, but
lately have given it up as a bit too strenuous. This is also true
as far as racing boats are concerned, but I do enjoy a sail now and
then. I recommend it for those who like to get away from it
all as most relaxing. I follow the football team with season tickets
to the Stadium, and in fact am a rooter for amateur sports in all
forms. My son has introduced me to basketball, his favorite sport,
and I have become a real fan myself. I am a great believer in the
value of team sports as a means of teaching youth the sacrifices
necessary to the success of the whole Jeading to a basis for a better
understanding of our Democracy and what is expected of its
citizens to make and keep it strong.

Although I have seen very little of my fellow classmates over
the years, I have thought of them often and am not only look-
ing forward to seeing them again at Reunion time, but also to
reading their reports as well. I hope to see them at many more
Reunions too and perhaps before this June meeting rolls around |
can find out from my Dad the secret of his success so I can pass
it along to you. You see, he has his sixty-second this year.

WAKEFIELD EZRA PERKINS

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Patterson Way, South Boston 27, Mass.

BORN: May 12, 1907, Watertown, Mass. PARENTS: James Oliver Perkins,
Mary Jones.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

occupation: Plumbing.

[ 846 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KINGSLEY ARNOLD PERRY

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Seelye St, Amherst, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lessey Street, Amherst, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 19, 1907, Chicopee, Mass. parents: Charles Arnold Perry, Etta
Mae Brill.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1928. DEGREES: a.B. cuz laude, 1928; LL.B. 1931; ED.M.,
1944.

MARRIED: Justine Rexford Bristol, May 5, 1934, Milford, N. H. cumpren:
Brille Rexford, March 29, 1936; David Arnold, Feb. 7, 1938; Deborah
Allyn, Feb. 7, 1939; Regina Allyn, July 10, 1944

occupation: High school principal.

OFFICES HELD: President, American Youth Hostel, Amherst, 1947-49, Am-
herst Lions Club, 1945.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Secondary School Principals; Massa-
chusetts Association of Secondary School Principals; Amherst Lions

Club.

AS A high school principal I have been especially concerned
with the guidance of students into a satisfactory life-work since
sO many years of my own life were spent in finding one. It is a
field still young and with a need for much more research, but
at least most schools, parents, and teachers are aware of the
urgency of correctly appraising aptitudes and interests in the
young and of using some measure of guidance so that they may
be fulfilled.

For my part, I practised law in Boston for some eight years
after graduation from the Harvard Law School in 1931 and re-
ceived such a fill of will contests, tax abatements, guardianships,
trust agreements, and other impedimenta of big city banking
that I was glad to be rid of that lucrative but humdrum business.
While still practising law I became interested in teaching and be-
gan work on my Master’s degree in education, which I received
from the Harvard Graduate School in 1944. Along the way I
managed a large roadside restaurant and for seven summers I
owned and operated a summer hotel in southern Vermont, But
during the past ten years I have gradually withdrawn from all
other activities and concentrated on the principalship here in
Amherst with occasional part-time teaching assignments at Smith

College and the University of Massachusetts.
While still in college and law school I was an active founder

[ 847 ]

17 FSET ETEgP ESE ESR OEE

—___—_—_—— a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

and director of the University Players at Falmouth whose his-
tory was recently set down by Norris Houghton in But Not
Forgotten —a famous company since so many well-known per-
formers were members of it. Joshua Logan, Margaret Sullavan,
Henry Fonda, James Stewart, and many other radio and stage
performers received their training there. But three summers ago
an attempt I made to re-establish such a group at Highfield on
Cape Cod proved financially disastrous. A college group of play-
ers from Smith, Amherst, Williams, Mt. Holyoke, and other col-
leges was formed and an art school set up, and the venture is in
fact still being carried on at Highfield, but now by an “angel”
with substantial funds to meet the deficits.

Great praise is due my wife Justine who has stood staunchly
by in times of stress and gives moral support when it is most
needed. With our four children we have spent the past two
summers touring the United States and Mexico. We have camped
in most of our national parks and visited all but a few of our
states. We have swum in the Pacific at Acapulco, gone through
a national election at Mexico City, seen the flowers at Xochimil-
co, climbed the pyramids at Teotihuacan, and endured the vicis-
situdes to which the tourist in Mexico is heir. And how these
shared adventures weld a family!

The debt I owe Harvard for the liberal and specialized educa-
tion I received there is immeasurable, and in lieu of gifts of money
which lie within the power of few teachers, I try to guide stu-
dents to Harvard who I believe will profit from her resources and
do credit to her name.

BERTRAM ALLEN PETKUN

HOME Appress: 215 Dorset Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Horovitz, Petkun & Rothschild, 6 Beacon St., Boston 8,
Mass.

BorN: Dec. 6, 1906, Chelsea, Mass, PARENTS: James Petkun, Jennie Rosenthal.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1931.

MagRigp: Ruth Grass, April 23, 1944, Boston, Mass. cHinpREN: Carol Ann,
March 6, 1945; Richard Michael, Oct. 20, 1947.

HagvARD BroTHER: Maynard Petkun, ’25, t.a., 728.

occupation: Lawyer.

[ 848 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Coast Guard Reserve (temporary).

OFFICES HELD: Associate editor, Workmen’s Compensation Law of the
NACCA Law Journal.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association; Na-
tional Association of Claimants Compensation Attorneys; Harvard Law
School Association, Boston City Club; New Century Club; Tau Epsi-
lon Phi; B’nai B’rith; Zionist Organization of America; Temple Shalom
of Newton; Temple Israel Brotherhood.

DESPITE the fact that so much has happened in this hectic
world, it does not seem at all possible that twenty-five years have
passed since my undergraduate days; but “Goad Number Three”
is incontrovertible evidence of that fact.

Upon graduation from Law School I became associated with
my partner, Samuel B. Horovitz, with whom I have practised
ever since, specializing almost exclusively in Workmen’s Com-
pensation Law. Our firm, Horovitz, Petkun and Rothschild, has,
I believe, grown to be the largest plaintiffs’ law office in the
country devoted to this branch of the law.

The passage of time has brought increasing satisfaction in the
knowledge that I have had a part in making life a bit more palata-
ble for hundreds who had been crippled and maimed in industry.
The widow whose husband’s body was found floating in the
water many months after he had disappeared, the seaman who
was unable to obtain justice until the Norwegian ship upon
which he sustained a fractured skull could be seized, the many
victims of beryllium poisoning, the silicotics who were doomed
to death by lung disease, and countless others have offered a chalt
lenge which has endured these many years.

In 1944 I married Ruth Grass, and with the arrival of two
lovely children, a daughter and a son, my life has been busy and
contented. One of my fondest ambitions is to have my son,_
Richard, become a good Harvard man twelve or thirteen years
hence. a |
My summers have been spent sailing and golfing at both
Gloucester and the Cape. More recently, I have been trying my
hand at the Churchillian hobby of painting, and find that it has

much to offer.

[ 849 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

JOHN SOWERS PFARR
HOME ADDRESS: 5651 N. Luce Rd., Alma, Mich.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Leonard Refineries, Inc., Alma, Mich.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1906, Portsmouth, Ohio. parents: Philip Pfarr, Aurilla
Florence Sowers.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth High School, Portsmouth, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

MARRIED: Susan Elizabeth O'Neal, Dec. 26, 1927, Catlettsburg, Ky. CHILDREN:
Jacqueline Susan, March 1, 1931 (7. Donald S. Michael, Nov. 1, 1951);
John Sowers, Jr.. Feb. 12, 1940; Diana Elizabeth, Oct. 2, 1943. GRAND-
cHiLD: Susan Fdith Michael, Dec. 16, 1952.

occuPATION: Petroleum refining, vice-president and manager of manufac-
ture, member Board of Directors, Leonard Refineries, Inc.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Member Technical Crude Oil Committee,
District II.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Campaign and Services Committee of Michigan
United Fund; director, W.F.Y.C., Inc. (radio station); secretary, di-
rector, Peninsula Asphalt and Construction Company; member Gen-
eral Committee of Refining, American Petroleum Institute; member
Manufacturing Committee, Asphalt Committee, Western Petroleum
Refiners Association.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Testing Engineers, American Associa-
tion of Asphalt Technologists; Elks, Masons; Rotary; Saginaw Club,
Saginaw Country Club; Alma Country Club.

I WAS unable to be present during the 1928 graduation exercises

at Harvard since I was in Ann Arbor, Michigan, taking the en-

trance examinations for Medical School. I was accepted and
completed one year. During that year the depression began in
my father’s business. In an attempt to continue in Medical School

I borrowed s00 dollars and signed notes and notes and notes to

purchase a restaurant in Ann Arbor. At this time my secret mar-

riage was announced and I thought I was a business man. In
four months I gave up the restaurant to those who had endorsed
the notes and I went to work to pay off the creditors. (They
were paid the final installment eight years later.) The only job

I could locate was one as a pipe fitter helper at the Latonia, Ken-

tucky, Refinery of Standard Oil Company (Ohio) — as you will

note above I am still in the petroleum refining industry and I must
say it has been kinder to me than the restaurant business. I left

Standard Oil (Ohio) in 1937 as Manager of the Asphalt Manu-

facturing Department and became associated with the Ashland

[ 850 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Oil & Refining Company of Ashland, Kentucky, where I we
eventually given the title of Technical Director. In 1943 I re
signed and entered the employ of Leonard Refineries, Inc., o
Alma, Michigan, where I am now Vice-president and Manage
of Operations.

Seven years ago, when the project was started, I would say
that one of my hobbies was to oversee the remodeling and mod-
ernization of an old farm house on thirty acres overlooking
beautiful river and the golf course. It has definitely ceased to be

a hobby and I sometimes wonder how many five-year plans |
can take.

For my political views I can state that I cast my first Repub-
lican ballot in November, 1952. Consequently, I have been on
the losing side only once (Al Smith in 1928). I felt that the only
way to get a needed change was for some of us to help and I
was glad to assume the role of a temporary Republican. I’m hop-
ing I like the change so much that in the Fiftieth Anniversary
Report I can say that the number of democratic ballots cast now
equal those for the Republican nominees, and that my “success-
ful” voting average has not decreased. SS

Unfortunately I knew few of my 1928 classmates. Most of
my friends in Harvard were in the Class of 1929, since being a
transfer student, I was listed in the Class of 1929 until almost
the date of graduation and my residence days were spent in
the dormitories of the Business Administration School instead
of the Yard.

v

CARL HOWARD PFORZHEIMER, JR.

HOME ApDpREsS: Vigil Hill, Purchase, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 25 Broad St., New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: July 17, 1907, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Carl Howard Pforzheimer,
Lily Maud Oppenheimer.

PREPARED AT; Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B, 1928; M.B.A., 1930,

Marriep: Carol J. Koehler, Sept. 1, 1931, New York, N. Y. cHripren:
Nancy Carol, June 13, 1934; Carl H., 3d, Oct. 27, 1936.

occupaTION: General partner, corporate director and officer, fiduciary
trustee, Carl H, Pforzheimer & Company, members New York and
American Stock Exchanges, investment bankers and brokers, and in-
vestment trust managers.

[ 851]

_ _____

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Plattsburg Special Camp, 1940; battalion adju-

tant, Regimental S-3, 17th Regiment New York Guard, September,
1940-July, 1942; Office, Chief of Staff, U. 8. Army, as Chief of Foreign
Financial Branch, War Department General Staff, July, 1942-Novem-
ber, 1946; negotiated with various foreign governments agreements
for maintaining the purchasing power of U. S. forces serving abroad,
and for protecting personal and official funds when foreign currencies
were devalued; served as expert consultant to Secretary of War, Feb-
Tuary, 1947-June, 1948; received Legion of Merit, Army Commenda-
tion Medal; Legion d’Honneur, Medaille de Reconnaissance.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Franco Wyoming Oil Company; trustee, The Carl
and Lily Pforzheimer Foundation, Inc. Horace Mann School; trustee,
secretary, Mount Sinai Hospital, director, treasurer, Neustadter Founda-
tion; trustee, secretary Dental Clinic Board, The Boys’ Club of New
York; treasurer, Purchase Community Chest, Purchase Association;
vice-president, Purchase Community, Inc.; member Overseers’ Com-
mittee to Visit the Harvard University Press; alumni adviser, Harvard
University Office of Student Placement.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Grolier Club; City Midday Club;
Westchester Country Club, Rye, N. Y.; Union Boat Club, Boston,
Army and Navy Club, Washington, D. C.; Independent Petroleum
Association of America (associate member),

YOUTHFUL ideas about becoming a doctor were quickly dis-
pelled in sophomore year by the advice and the grades received
from a young chemistry professor named James B. Conant. More
mature reflection on college life seemed to indicate that admin-
istering things came more easily than creating them: not an edi-
tor but a business manager, not an oarsman but a coxswain, not
a playwright but an actor (?), and when an officer usually the
treasurer. So, there were two more years in Cambridge and I
had an M.B.A. With banking on my mind, I spent three mag-
nificent years in Europe studying international finance, serving
also for six months on the organizing committee and faculty of
the first postgraduate business school in France. During the
first year, though, I made two fairly important trips home; the
first to propose to, the second to marry, the best girl a man could
have at his side for life.

I started working for my father's firm just in time to see every
bank in the United States close; and very shortly thereafter, the
powers that were in Washington created laws which forbade
commercial and investment banking in a single organization. The
firm chose the latter; and viewing the past twenty years, who is

[852]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to say which form of banking has had to set aside the greater
amount of much needed office space for a never-ending flow of
examiners — federal, state, and local. Even goldfish manage to sur-
vive in a glass bowl (if properly protected from voracious Harvard
undergraduates) when in the right atmosphere; the firm is well
past its fiftieth year, and I am fortunate still to have the wise
counsel of my father as senior partner and the stimulating daily
companionship of partners and associates who used to feed me
lollipops. A general partner since 1934, I have had a fine root on
which to graft broad training at Harvard and abroad. Much that
was built up prior to the invasion of Poland, particularly foreign
business, disappeared during World War II; and we have turned
to other fields such as managing whole accounts, estates, and
trusts. The firm continues, as it has from its inception, to special-
ize in the oil industry. An easy life, you say — sure, as long as the
economy is, or seems to be, robust; but it can be rough when the
cycle turns and prices skid, a phenomenon probably no amount of
planning will ever wholly overcome.

Fortunately I have the opportunities to indulge in varied city
and suburban communal activities, being most interested in areas
of education, literary scholarship, and medical care and research,
the latter probably a subconscious reversion to pre-sophomore
ideas. In this period of great stress on our youth, I am chiefly
concerned with giving crowded city boys a wider opportunity
while growing up and with secondary school development of
expedited preparation for college and professional schools; and I
gladly find time for personal contact with many young people
seeking guidance. Particularly rewarding was participation a year
ago in Cambridge in a Harvard Conference on Careers attended
by seemingly well balanced seniors and business school students.
Infinitely preferring to work with institutions and individuals
rather than engage in actual money-raising, I have eschewed the
latter with the single exception of dunning classmates (requests
from one as faithful as Bob Hunneman are not lightly ignored)
as part of the pleasure of plugging for Harvard 1928. Just as in
college days, the life from active extra-curricular endeavors is
tremendous.

Wartime experiences in Washington and overseas gave me the
stimulating privilege of top echelon views into our governmental

[ 853]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

and intergovernmental operations. This Opportunity for ob-
serving high political maneuvering at first-hand provided the
necessary training for my only venture into politics: a speech
nominating the successful candidate for the local school board in
Purchase. I'd rather be the man who says “the man who” than the
man who.

Another by-product of World War II was an aversion to living
inacity. The family stayed in Chevy Chase throughout the war,
even during my overseas assignments, and became ardent country
dwellers. So, we have lived ever since in Westchester County in
a very commodious and comfortable old two-story flat-roofed
house on top of a windy hill, with undampered fireplaces in al-
most every room. After swathing the stucco walls with brick
and the roof with aluminum — all before Korea — it doesn’t leak
anymore; well, only in very wet weather. The air is pure, the
woods inviting at all seasons, the vegetables and eggs fresh during
appropriate seasons; and the view over the surrounding area is
wonderful and getting better, what with ice storms, Thanksgiving
tornados, and lightning clearing the land close to the house faster
than we can afford to plant more trees for a little shade and
privacy. Any classmate needing top grade combustibles can have
same merely for the hauling, after clearing with Al O’Neil who is
largely responsible for the bountiful supply of logs and kindling
to feed the fireplaces; with plenty of cutting and splitting still to
be done.

Fussing around our home, inside and out, provides the proper
ingredients of relaxation and exercise needed to meet the progress
of time and greying hairs. I haven’t grown any taller nor gained
but a few pounds. A few kind friends still think I could fit in the
rear seat of a shell and even have strength enough to hold a pair
of ropes for four miles, on a very calm day. Besides printing
and books, fishing (mostly in Colorado before the war and in
Vermont since) and barbecuing outdoors on all clement week-
ends, the most fascinating hobby of all is enjoying the emergence
of our children as people. The war-induced gap in business con-
tinuity seemed enormous at the time, yet it closed over; but it
was the concentration on military assignments precluding really
knowing the youngsters for six years of their lives that cannot be
recovered, which has intensified the pleasure of living with them

[854]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and their friends. Nancy is now a freshman at Radcliffe and C;
3d (better known as Pete), a junior at Horace Mann. Our daug
ter keeps us current on life in Cambridge, on modern mus
philosophical trends, and the mores of youths from nineteen
twenty-five, our son keeps us informed on supersonic spee
latest chemical developments, and all manner of geological ai

zodlogical phenomena. Both are contributing to what we hope
preserving a healthy outlook on life.

The coming generation, what with the draft (which shou
ultimately be Universal Military Training) and efforts for peac
have plenty of nearby and long-term problems. Many qualms fc
the future are progressively allayed at each discussion and cor
versation with our children and their friends. What and how the
are taught by their mother and at school and college seems to m
solid and gratifying.

In any event, I view the future —at least to the Fiftieth Re
union — with fatalistically calm equanimity.

LOUIS VanDEPOELE PHELAN

HOME ADDRESS: 12250 Shetland La., Los Angeles 49, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 3521 Schaefer St., Culver City, Calif.

Born: March 8, 1905, Lynn, Mass. parents: Michael Francis Phelan, Marie
T. VanDepoele.

PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.
MARRIED: Caroln Olsen, Aug. 18, 1931, Chestnut Hill, Mass. cHitpren:

David V., Jan. 1, 1934; Joan, April 4, 1936; Virginia, April 13, 1940.
OCCUPATION: President, House of Napkins, Inc.
MEMBER OF: Culver City Rotary Club.

OLIVER STANTON PICHER

HOME apprEss: 4725 Ashby St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.
OFFICE appress: Hq. USAF, Pentagon, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1905, Pasadena, Calif. parents: Oliver Sheppard Picher,
Emily Irish Stanton.

PREPARED aT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B, C4772 laude, 1928.

[855]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

marriep: Marion Lewis, Nov. 9. 1931, Honolulu, Hawaii. carpren: Oliver
Lewis, Aug. 28, 1932; Sarah, July 19, 1935.

HarvARD SON: Oliver Lewis Picher, ’54.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Stanton Picher, '36, A.M., °38.

occuPATION: Major general, United States Air Force.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: South Pacific and Southwest Pacific, island
hopping under Admiral Halsey and General MacArthur from Guadal-
canal to the Philippines.

LUCKILY, I was carried away by the glamour of Mr. Lindbergh’s
motoring across the Atlantic and went to flying school right after
Harvard. This resulted in my getting a regular commission in the
Army Air Corps at a time when there were only about 1200
officers in it. After the passage of much time, many places, not
getting killed, and being at the right place at the propitious time,
I look up with surprise to find I am a major general. As to air-
planes, I am outmoded by the decline of the piston engine and the
propeller, and look with personal alarm at the color pictures in
magazines of the XF-104 boring into the wild blue. I take solace
only in the fact that the red-cheeked pilots will soon be super-
seded by an old man pushing a button.

JAMES VANCE PICKERING

HOME appress: Ohio & Warren Streets, Cadiz, Ohio.

oFFicE Appress: N. V. Standard-Vacuum Sales Co., Medan Merdeka Selatan
18, Djakarta, Java, Indonesia.

BoRN: Feb, 16, 1906, Cadiz, Ohio. parents: Charles Clayton Pickering,
Margaret Kane.

PREPARED AT: Cadiz High School, Cadiz, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. Cur laude, 1928.

marniep: Martha Burry, Oct. 25, 1936, Carnegie, Pa. cHiLp: James Vance,
Jr., Oct. 9, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Managing director, N. V. Standard-Vacuum Sales Company,
Djakarta, Java.

MEMBER oF: Societeit “De Harmonie”; British Cricket Club; The Yacht
Club; Djakarta Golf Club.

AFTER graduating in 1928, I joined the Far Eastern sales organ-
ization of the old Standard Oil Company of New York, which
subsequently became a part of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Com-
pany, and was assigned to marketing work in North China. From
then until 1941 there followed a series of assignments to various

[ 856 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cities in China which culminated in one that left me in Chungking
as of Pearl Harbor Day. During the first year and a half of the
war, I continued on in free China doing what I could to assist
with regard to petroleum supplies. After a vacation at home I
returned to North-Eastern India in a civilian capacity to assist in
the forwarding of petroleum products to China. Just before the
end of the war I was reassigned to Chungking and V-J Day found
me in the same spot as the beginning. Shortly thereafter I re-
turned to New York for a rotational assignment of two years from
which I was sent back to Shanghai in 1947. The Communists cap-
tured Shanghai in May, 1949, and because of my position as
general manager of our company, they seemed inclined to hold
me personally responsible for a good part of the alleged sins of the
capitalistic world. As a result I had considerable difficulty in
securing permission to leave, so that I finally got out only at the
end of 1950. After a vacation at home I was assigned to Indonesia
and have spent the last year trying to acclimatize myself to the
tropics, a strange language, as well as a most unusual political,
social, and economic situation. .

I was married to Martha Burry in 1936 and reached Nanking
not long before the shooting started in the Sino-Japanese war that
necessitated Martha’s evacuating from Central China shortly after
her arrival. Our first and only child, James Vance, Jr., was born
in Shanghai in 1940, just before she left with him in the general
evacuation of American dependents from the Far East. This
evacuation lasted seven years as far as my family was concerned,
as they did not return to China until 1947. With the Communist
threat, another evacuation was necessary in the latter part of 1948.
As a result, my wife feels that as the helpmate of an expatriate
American, she has unavoidably spent an unduly large part of her
life at home away from home.

RICHARD EDWIN PILLE

HOME apprEss: 667 Clifton Ave., Newark 4, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 300 Broadway, Newark 4, N. J.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1906, Massillon, Ohio, parents: Edwin Henry Pille, Sarah
Maude Vallelly.

PREPARED AT: Washington High School, Massillon, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. Ct7 laude, 1928.

[857]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

marriepD: Ruth Hart, Jan. 26, 1929, Boston, Mass. camp: Richard Hart,
Feb. 21, 1937.

occupation: Life insurance, vice-president in charge of agencies.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Boys Club; member Executive Board, chairman,
Organization and Extension Committee, Boy Scouts, member Board
of Directors, member Finance, Quality Business and Research Advisory
Committees, Life Insurance Agency Management Association; presi-
dent, Civitan, Hartford, Conn., 1938.

MEMBER OF: Essex Club; Harvard Club of New Jersey; Insurance Club of
Dallas, Texas; National Society of Sales Training Executives; National
Federation of Sales Executives; National Association of Life Under-
writers.

MY POSITIVE negatives have always been good forecasts of

events to come. I usually do the opposite — witness:

I swore I should never work in or near New York City. I did,
and do.

I swore to Jack Wilson, Tom Eayres, and Bill Glenn I should
positively not be married before aged thirty. I was at twenty-two.

I swore I should never be involved in a business demanding
travel. I have been, and am.

Some kind genie must bless me with my own perversity for
all of these have been good. All have been stimulating. All have
been fun.

Katie Gibbs School on Commonwealth Avenue saw more of
me in 1928 than did Harvard Law School, Courting my bride-to-
be was my vocation and avocation. We shall never know how
important one little event was in shaping our lives. Our marriage
license (which cost sixty-five cents and was good for six months)
expired Monday, January 28. We had all the necessary birth
certificates, etc., obtained by stealth to keep our marriage secret.
So, to save the sixty-five cents (who said the upkeep wasn’t im-
portant?) we took the fateful step on Saturday morning, at eleven
o'clock, January 26, 1929. We met in the long hall of the Copley
Plaza at eleven, and fifteen minutes later the Justice of the Peace
in the building behind the hotel tied the knot.

Katie Gibbs must have had its own F. B. I. for two weeks later
my wife was told, “Please, no married women here.” Well, the
secret didn’t last; nor did I at Law School. But I did manage to
pass and proudly, the only course I mever attended — of all things,
Procedures, taught by a visiting Yale professor. I know for sure

Yale must be a cinch.

[ 858 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Perversity set in again and as evidence I have a treasured
memento in the form of a letter from Guy Holliday, then Secre-
tary of Harvard Law School. This was in 1930, a year later. To
get that letter we spent 1929 and 1930 in the new apartments on
Oxford Street. There I combined official attendance at Boston
University Law School and unofficial attendance at Harvard
Law School to make up all four exams. Guy Holliday’s letter was
quite congratulatory. But now, looking back, 1 am not so sure
of one of his statements — “very few men are able to overcome
such a handicap.” Maybe he meant very few were ever foolish
enough to try. Anyway, I took the complimentary viewpoint
and said, “There, now I know The Law is easy, I'll have no more
of it.”

These were hectic years. Remember the depression. And I
recall a sort of courage I wouldn’t have today. I also recall how
much fun we had chaperoning dances and house parties when we
probably needed supervision ourselves. I chuckle too in memory
of leading through the yard our great dog—a little Boston
terrier — fully garbed in a crimson greatcoat for warmth and
style.

So much for younger history, almost a quarter of a century
ago. What has happened since?

Children consist of one male child who is now sixteen. He
towers over and looks down upon his impossible parents. An-
dover is working on him. He keeps us young and, with his friends,
continually amazed at the wonderful combination of maturity
and immaturity in children today. He likes football, basketball,
golf, swimming, television — almost everything — and so we
do too.

Business: Pve had ewenty-three years at one calling, and am
somewhat of an ‘evangelist about it, because it is all wrapped up
with the America we grew up in, where the dignity and inde-
pendence of the individual was all-important, and hard work,
sacrifice, and thrift accepted as normal responsibilities which
would bring their due rewards,

Yes, I am a staunch Republican, maybe even a reactionary if
these stand for government by law and not by people, for nations
and people living within their incomes, for progress through indi-
vidual effort and not through the social state.

[ 859]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Travel has been forced upon me and I am grateful. We have
lived in succession in Cambridge, Massachusetts — Akron, Ohio
— Hartford, Connecticut — Fairfield, Connecticut — Baldwin,
Long Island — Hartford, Connecticut — and now Newark, New
Jersey. There are few cities of any size in the United States
which I have not visited because of my business. I guess I have
gotten like the old fire horse. When I am in the barn I want the
bell to ring. As soon as I’m out of the barn I want to get home
again. But I have had a wonderful opportunity to see our great
country and how amazingly similar we all are and how alike we
live on either coast, or in the South, or in the North. Even toa
jaded business traveller it is still a thrill to cross our country and
observe the progress and growth we continue to make.

I come home each time convinced we'll muddle through in
spite of all our troubles. I can’t help wonder, though, why one-
third of us live in or near the five largest cities. With all that
room elsewhere one cannot doubt man’s gregariousness, as we
see our nation of cliff dwellers and satelite suburbanites.

Vacations — almost all of them are at Saybrook, Connecticut,
_ where the Connecticut River empties into Long Island Sound.
No one is more of a seashore enthusiast than the Middle West-
erner who has once swallowed salt water. We like the sun, and
the sand, and the water, and the easy life at the shore.

Spare time and hobbies— what is spare time? Does anyone
have it? Does anyone want it? I take part in a little “hacker”
golf, canasta or bridge, television under duress, dinner or a show
in New York City, odd jobs around the house and yard. Boy
Scouts, The Boys Club, and other civic activities, business meet-
ings, and dinners — all of them make life good and worth living.
Spare time is only that which one could wish for to fill with
more of the same things.

So here we are in middle age and it may be later than you
think. “Times sure are changing. The barber no longer holds a
mirror behind me when he is finished so I can see the back of my
head, The material in my clothes I notice shrinks in certain
places (you know, around the waist or in the seat). Shoe laces
are so short they are next to impossible to reach.

“{ ran into an old friend the other night. He had changed so
much he didn’t recognize me. ‘You've put on a little weight,

[ 860 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Tom,’ I said. ‘It’s this modern food,’ Tom replied. ‘It seems to
be more fattening.’

“I got to thinking about poor Tom this morning when I was
shaving. Stopping a moment I looked at my own reflection in the
mirror. They don’t use the same kind of Blass in mirrors any

more.”

DOUGLASS PILLINGER

HOME ADDRESS: 772 Park Blvd., Glen Ellyn, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Rosenthal, King and Robin, 105 W. Monroe St., Chicago 3,

Ill.
BORN: July 16, 1906, Chicago, Il], parents: Edward James Pillinger, Pamela

King Douglass.

PREPARED AT: Oak Park High School, Oak Park, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. _ magna cum laude, 1928, 5D.
(Northwestern Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Harriet Ellen Hale, June 15, 1933, Fort Pierce, Fla. CHILDREN:
Hugh Edward, Apnl 9, 19353 s Eucy Ann, way 27, 19413 Carol, Jan. 3,

1947.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Village of Glen Ellyn, IIL, 1945-49; librarian, Chi-
cago Bar Association, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Literary Club; Law Club of Chicago; University Club
of Chicago; Glen Oak Country Club; American, Illinois, and Chi-
cago Bar Associations.

PUBLICATIONS: Opinion Evidence in Illinots, co-author with Willard L. King.

THE years 1928 to 1953; twenty-five years; a quarter of a cen-
tury; a generation: are there any other ways of saying it? Thin-
ning and graying hair, fighting that increasing mid-section girth,
these are ways too. There came October, 1929; F. D. R. and
government by alphabet; “Peace in our time”; “the day of in-
famy”; Hiroshima — Korea — Ike — Penicillin, and_ television.
Oh well, here goes —

The Senior Class Album said “Business.” There must have
been a detour along the way, because the fall of 1928 found me
in the Law School of Northwestern University from which I
graduated in 1931. I have practised in Chicago since that time
and with the same firm, first as what is euphemistically called a
law clerk but is, in reality, messenger boy and carrier of books,
first class, then as an associate, and then for half of that quarter
of a century asa partner. Can it be that long?

[ 861 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I was married in Florida in June, 1933, to Harriet Hale. Under
such circumstances Florida is lovely in June. (Florida Chamber
of Commerce may copy.) We have three children, judiciously
spaced, but designed to make us perennial members of the
P. T. A. Hugh will be eighteen shortly, and hopes to find himself
in the freshman class at Harvard this fall. Lucy will be entering
junior high school the same fall, and Carol will on that same
September day find herself in first grade.

The law, they say, is a jealous mistress, but I have found time
to indulge in the usual civic activities of suburbia, including in
my case a stint as president of the village for four years.

Some years ago under the urgings of my partners, I joined the
Chicago Literary Club—one of the more venerable literary
societies in the country. In between briefs and impatient clients
I have found time to write three papers for the club — one on
Emily Dickinson, one on Elinor Wylie (I can’t keep away from
women poets), and the latest on the Oneida Community, which
last year I read before the Law Club here in Chicago under the
more interesting and accurate title of “Socialism, Sex and Silver-

ware,”

More directly related to the law, I wrote with my partner
Willard King, some years ago, a book on opinion evidence in
Illinois. At the present time I am serving as librarian and as a
member of the Board of Managers of the Chicago Bar Associa-
tion.

Looking backwards I can see many crossroads at which a dif-
ferent turning might have meant a different life-——but not a
happier one, I am sure. Most of us I suspect have not matched
our dreams. When viewed against the historic events of these
twenty-five years, our accomplishments as individuals may ap-
pear as trivia, But in these days of our years hope springs eternal.
Perhaps it is fortunate that in a tense world those hopes are, for
the most of us, rather simple —Tll do better this week-end —
how could anyone take a six on that lousy sixth hole!

GEORGE BARTON PIPER

HOME appress; 8 Fairwater Ave., Nassau Shores, Massapequa, Long Island,
N.Y.
OFFice AboRESs: 29 Meserole Ave, Brooklyn, N. Y.

[ 862 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Sept. 6, 1906, Newburyport, Mass. parents: Fred Willis Piper, ’o4,
Edith May Barton.

preparED AT: Wilbraham Academy, Wilbraham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1928(29).

margieD: Ann Margaret Gallivan, June 18, 1932, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Distributor, heavy construction equipment, credit manager,
Edward Ehrbar, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Air Force, March, 1942-September, 1945; thirty-
three months in European Theatre with 6znd Station Complement
Squadron and the 96th Air Depot Group.

MEMBER OF: Masons.

ONA Monday morning, after a strenuous week-end of puttering
around the house I shall concede, without too much argument,
that the years are rolling by and that I can’t seem to do things
quite as easily as I used to —at least not without an ache or two.
It so happened that on one lovely Spring day five years ago after
years of apartment dwelling, we decided to build a house in the
suburbs and I became another of New York’s multitude of com-
muters. I ride the Long Island daily to my office in Brooklyn
where I am credit manager for Edward Ehrbar, Inc., a fine com-
pany and an interesting job. Most of my leisure time is spent
reading, running a model railroad, and listening to music.

As to physical changes through the years — well, my weight
isn’t more than five pounds over that of my college days, which
of course keeps my waistline about the same. I can boast of a full
head of hair with a stray gray to be found if you hunt for ic.
Consequently, people are apt to say that I look much younger
than my years — which comment helps smooth out those Mon-
day morning blues.

GEORGE THOMAS PLAKIAS

HOME appress: 11D Franklin St., Feeding Hills, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Western Massachusetts Rendering Co. 1862 Main St,
Springfield, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 18, 1907, Adronova, Greece. PARENTS: Thomas George Plakias,
Georgia Pappas.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

MarriED: Grace K. Keyes, Jan. 18, 1931, Winthrop, Mass. cup: Thomas

J. Jan. 30, 1947.
[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

occuPATION: Salesman.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army, corporal; entered July, 1943, dis-
charged October, 1944.

MEMBER OF: Hampden Lodge of Masons; Melha Temple, Shriners.

ARTHUR GAYTON POLLARD ©

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Fairmount St., Lowell, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: James L. Cooney Agency, 22 Appleton St., Lowell, Mass.

BORN: March 7, 1904, Lowell, Mass. parents: Harry Gilmore Pollard,
Leah Parchert.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

marrieD: Marion I. Grady, Sept. 8, 1948, Manchester, N. H.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker, real estate agent.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army, Fort Devens, 1942; basic training,
Fort Leonard Wood, Mo.; European Theatre, 254th Combat Engi-

neers, May, 1943; discharged October, 1945; five battle stars, Unit
Presidential Citation, Purple Heart.

MEMBER OF: Lowell Harvard Club; Vesper Country Club; Masonic Bodies
‘in Lowell and Aleppo Temple A.A.O.N.M.S., Boston.

IN JUNE, 1926, the A. G. Pollard Company, Lowell’s biggest
and best department store burned down, and | left college. Dean
Bacon gave me leave of absence for a year. However, | started to
learn the mercantile business from the bottom up and so did not
return to college. When World War II came along I was assistant
general manager.

President Roosevelt invited me to join the Army and I accepted.
In no time I found myself at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri, in the
Engineers. Being young and in good shape I was quickly sent
overseas as a replacement, joining the 254th Combat Engineering
Battalion. I spent a year in England training for the invasion, and
then enjoyed the open air and country-side of France, Belgium,
Germany, Luxemburg, and Czechoslovakia. However, there was
some talk of my being in Paris on the Fourth of July and Bastille
Day!

After my discharge from the Army I went back into retail

merchandising, following in the footsteps of two generations of
Pollards.

[ 864 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

However, at this time I am a real estate and insurance man —
with time out for golf, and such opportunities that may present
themselves. Happily married, Marion and I live with my folks,
who have just passed their fiftieth wedding anniversary this
spring. So I have two “wardens” looking after me —and I al-
most forgot the real boss of the house — “Ting,” the Chow dog.

JAMES LAWRENCE POOL

HOME aDorEss: Closter Dock Road, Alpine, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 700 W 168th St., New York 32, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Eugene Hillhouse Pool,
’95, Esther Phillips Hoppin.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1932; D.M.S. (Ibid.), 1941. |
marRieD: Angeline K. James, June 14, 1940, Cold Spring Harbor, Long
Island, N. Y. cumpren: James Lawrence, Jr., March 16, 1941; Eugene

Hillhouse, May 9, 1943; Daniel Stuart, Feb. 10, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Beekman Hoppin Pool, ’32.

occuPATION: Neurosurgeon; professor of neurological surgery, Columbia
University, director of service of neurological surgery, Presbyterian
Hospital of New York (Neurological Institute).

“MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Major, later lieutenant colonel, Medical Corps,
Army of the U. S.; overseas, World War II, September, 1942-July,

1945; in service with gth Evacuation Hospital, July 1, 1942-July 1,
1945; chief of neurosurgery, England General Hospital until discharge,
April, 1946; service in U. S. A, England, ] North Africa, Sicily, Italy,
France, Germany.

OFFICES HELD: President, American Academy of Neurological Surgery,
1952-53; vice-president, Association of Nervous and Mental Diseases,
1951-52; overseer, Harvard College, 1948-54; director, Yerkes Labora-
tories, Florida, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF; American Medical Association, New York County Medical
Society; Harvey Cushing Society; American Academy of Neurologi-
cal Surgery; New York Neurological Society; New York Society of
Neurological Surgery; American College of Surgeons (fellow); Asso-
ciation of Nervous and Mental Diseases; Harvey Society; Excelsior
Club; Practitioner's Society; Cruising Club of America; British Royal
Ocean Racing Club.

PUBLICATIONS: The Neurosurgical Treatment of Paraplegia, C. C. Thomas

' Co., 1952; Columbia-Greystone Associates (co-author), Paul Hoeber,
1949; numerous technical medical and research articles.

[ 865 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

AFTER leaving Harvard I graduated four years later from
Columbia Medical School (P. and S.) and then spent the next
seven years as intern in medicine, surgery, neurology, and finally
neurosurgery, with one year in research, I started private prac-
tice in 1939, married in 1940, was overseas from 1942 to 1945, and
then back to civilian duties by April, 1946. I became professor
of neurosurgery at Columbia—Presbyterian Medical Center in
January, 1949, and have enjoyed the headaches and interests of
this job ever since, although the fun far outweighs the tribula-
tions of the post. I am now busy raising three boys in Alpine,
New Jersey, a pleasantly small country community only fifteen
minutes from my office at the Medical Center. I manage to keep
reasonably fit by chopping with the axe instead of the squash
racquet.

Hobbies include chopping (both as vocation and avocation),
and sailing the fifty-year-old dinghies in races at North Haven,
Maine, where we go in the summers. I also manage to do occa-
sional water-color paintings which my wife does far better. Post-
war travels have included only an occasional trip to Europe for
medical meetings, and to California, Louisiana, Texas, St. Louis,
etc.

Religious views, rather than “convictions,” include only a firm
belief in the value of community service by participation in church
and allied activities, which our entire family enjoys thoroughly
in this small town.

Political views have crystallized, with incipient senility per-
haps, around the belief that the individual counts for more than
the herd, regardless of what stratum of the herd is occupied by
the particular individual. I am also certain that politics can never
be kept clean unless we the people participate in some way, re-
gardless of how lowly the post or how insignificant the job may
seem.

In closing, let me say how much I have come to appreciate
Harvard by having seen something of the inner workings of the
university as an overseer. Harvard continues to be progressive
in teaching and educational methods, and continues to breed
independence of thinking. More and more it will be up to us,
the Alumni, to keep this bulwark of independence as strong and
as flourishing as ever.

[ 866 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am looking forward to seeing you and your families at our
Twenty-fifth and later reunions.

FRANCIS ALDEN POOLE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Lancaster Rd., Needham gz, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Oliver St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: June 29, 1906, Barre, Vt. PARENTS: Francis Alden Poole, Marion
Kaler Rounds.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1024-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrieD: Miriam Barnes, Sept. 6, 1930, South Weymouth, Mass. cHup:
John Fitch, Jan. 30, 1943.

occuPATION: Division servicing manager, New England Telephone and
Telegraph Company. .

OFFICES HELD: City chairman, Seventh War Loan Drive, Concord, N. H.;
trustee, New Hampshire Memorial Hospital, 1946-47; secretary, Con-
cord, N. H., Rotary Club, 1945-46; director, Newton Y.M.C.A., 1949,
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, since 1952; chair-
man, Commercial Division, Boston Red Feather, 1951.

MEMBER OF: Veteran Motor Car Club of America; Rolls Royce Owners
Club; Sandy Bay Yacht Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago twenty-five years seemed like an
eternity and I felt sorry for the old men returning for their
Twenty-fifth. What a change is wrought in one’s point of view!
I hope the next twenty-five slow down to a walk, but remain
equally enjoyable.

The “Sample Lives” so thoughtfully sent to us were most in-
spiring and interesting and exhibited a high level of literary skill,
they were discouraging, therefore, to one not having the flair.
Perhaps that accounts in some part for my delaying action.

In college I took the usual pre-med courses, planning to work a
year or two after graduation to acquire some wherewithal and
then return to medical school. I went to work as programmed,
with the telephone company in Springfield, Massachusetts. At
this point any similarity to my intent ceases. I have been in the
telephone business ever since, and have thoroughly enjoyed it.
After playing the suburban circuit in Lawrence and Gloucester,
Massachusetts, and Lancaster, Concord, and Manchester, New
Hampshire, I came to Boston by way of a three-year sojourn as
manager in Newton. I always thought I should like working in

[ 867 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Boston and have not been disappointed. The atmosphere of the
old town is neighborly, and renewing college friendships is most
pleasant.

In 1930 I married the “girl next door” having been her “steady”
more or less through high school and college. The ceremony was
performed in the Congregational Church of which we were both
members and by my father who was the minister. In our many
moves about New England “Mim” has taken everything in stride
and established a happy home with no complaints. She likes people
and people like her and we both like photography and sailing;
but when it comes to tinkering with old cars, she prefers to use
a palette and canvas.

We are both middle-of-the-road Republicans which I guess
makes us pretty conservative, but after years of practice our team
finally won in ’52. I hope we don’t have to wait for our Fiftieth
for the next victory!

HOWARD SUMNER POORE

HOME appress: Arundel Avenue, Greenwood, Mass.

OFFIce Appress: Lehman Hall, Harvard University, Cambridge 38, Mass.

Born: Aug. 18, 1906, West Newbury, Mass. parents: Philip Allen Poore,
Mary Dyer Noyes.

PREPARED AT: West Newbury High School, West Newbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).
MARRIED: Mary Page Anderson, May 28, 1932, West Newbury, Mass. cui-
DREN: George Howard, Feb. 15, 1939; Susan Mary, March 29, 1941.
occupATION: Accounting, in charge of Corporation Salary Department,
Harvard University.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club, Laurel Grange P, of H., West
Newbury; Troop Committee, Wakefield Boy Scouts; Greenwood and
Woodville Parent Teachers Associations.

1 WAS employed by the investment firm of Edward B. Smith &
Company, presently known as Smith, Barney & Company, from
1929 until 1942 when the Boston office was discontinued. I man-
aged to weather the depression with the above-named firm. I
was optimistic enough to become married in 1932 on ninety
dollars per month. From 1942 to date I have worked for the
Comptroller's Office of Harvard University, first in its Anony-

[ 868 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mous Research Department (government research contracts),
then secondly and finally in its Corporation Salary Department
in charge of paying salaries of academic and administrative offi-
cers of the University. I still get a boot out of dealing with the
financial problems of some of the professors I had while in college.

I have lived while single in Cambridge, and while married in
Malden, Stoneham, and Greenwood. I decided in 1938 to settle
down on land of our own, so purchased a half acre of land on
which we erected a ten-foot-by-twenty-five-foot Hodgson port-
able house. Then we added thereto under an expansion program
as our family became larger. After World War II subsided we
erected in 1947 under our own power a conventional house using
the present portable sections‘as wings— being thrifty Yankees
we could not bear to discard the old when we built the new. In
our humble opinion the combination is quite satisfactory. I have
acquired considerable education in house building while construct-
ing our own house — it is surprising how much advice and assist-
ance one can pick up from willing, helpful neighbors, _

My principal hobby has been mountain climbing and camping
though limited chiefly to the White Mountain region. I had to lie
low during the eight years between the birth of my son and the
summer after my daughter became five and so old enough to make
Mt. Washington on her own legs. Since then we have spent the
greater part of my vacations climbing and camping and shooting
Kodachromes. I have found rubbing elbows with fellow campers
and climbers a most satisfying and informative experience.

My fourteen-year-old son is interested at the moment and prob-
ably for some time to come in hot rods and antique cars. I am
learning more about what makes the old Model A he has as-
sembled tick or not tick than I know about my own Oldsmobile.
My daughter, twelve, is a horse lover and we must perforce spend
much of our time feeding and training her three-colored colt.
They are both learning together.

Nearly all of our weekends are spent about thirty miles away
in the town of West Newbury where I was born and where my
family still lives. Church administration and Sunday School
activities there take up most of the time though we ty to do some

farming and gardening between whiles.

[ 869 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

My wife and I are trying to develop enough hobbies and inter-
ests to carry us along in the distant furure when we shall have to
moderate a bit and take things at a slower pace.

FAIRFIELD PORTER

HOME ADDRESS: 49 S. Main St., Southampton, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 654 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 10, 1907, Hubbard Woods, Ill. PARENTS: James Foster Porter,
’95, Ruth Wadsworth Furness.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928(29).

marriep: Anne Elizabeth Channing, Sept. 22, 1932, Sherborn, Mass. cutt-
DREN: John Fairfield, Feb. 20, 1934; Laurence Minot, Jan. 17, 1936;
Jeremy, Dec. 18, 1940; Katharine Minot, May 20, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Fliot Furness Porter, ’24, M.D., ’28.

occupation: Painter, writer on art for Art News.

SINCE graduating I have studied art at the Art Students League
in New York and have been occupied with painting and with my
children. During the war I worked as a draftsman for the firm
of Walter Dorwin Teague, which was engaged in work for the
Navy. Last fall I had my first one-man exhibition in New York,
which was a success, except financially. I am hoping that my son
Laurence will enter Harvard next fall.

HILLMAN LOUIS PORTER

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Waverly St., Waterbury, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sponge Rubber Products Co., Derby, Conn.

Born: April 8, 1906, Gloucester, Mass. paRENTs: Julius Porter, Mary Kimbel.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

Marriep: Marcia Feinn, Nov. 12, 1939, Pittsfield, Mass. cuttp: Mary Kim-
bel, April 3, 1946.

occupation: Plant chemist, The Sponge Rubber Products Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Research and development, U. S. Rubber Com-
pany.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society, Rubber Division; American So-

ciety of Quality Control; St. John’s Lodge No. 2; Harvard Club of
Connecticut.

THE past twenty-five years have found me from beginning
ull now in the rubber and plastics business. By this time I’ve

[ 870 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

decided to make it my life’s work. There is never a dull da
for there is plenty of “bounce” in the every-day problems I run
into, and if I do get a bit bored I find a most energetic wife
and daughter bouncing me around the house, in the garden, on
the golf course, even pushing me into cultural activities. What
rof said “Ten years out of college and one forgets all he has
learned’? It’s not so with my family.

I belong to Temple Israel in Waterbury, Connecticut, where
I am a member of the Executive Board, and an active member
of the Interfaith Council. With the passing of years I find my-
self going regularly more and more to Friday night services
and am getting as much pleasure out of it as I did at Professor
Kirsopp Lake’s class on religion.

During the summer I spend the weekdays dreaming of shooting
“70” golf but weekends come and I shoot my usual one hundred.
In the winter I just dream, or putter around the house doing
a little carpentry work or studying the seed catalogues, or
reading a few abstracts on rubber technology. All in all my life
is not an exciting one but one that is full and happy.

CLARENCE STERLING POSTLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 2125 Ralston Ave., Burlingame, Calif.

BoRN: Dec. 30, 1905, Paris, France. parents: Sterling Postley, Ethel Cook.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE; A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Evelyn Taylor, Jan. 20, 1931, San Francisco, Calif. CHILDREN:
Sandra, Aug. 31, 1938; James Sterling, July 9, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Personal investments.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, senior grade, U. S. Naval Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club; Seawanhaka Yacht Club; Brook Club;
Piping Rock Club, Burlingame Country Club; Pacific Union Club;
Society of the Cincinnati; Sons of the Revolution; Society of the

War of 1812.

UNFORESEEN events certainly can change a life. There have
been two of outstanding importance in mine. The first was when
my room-mate, Maynard Canfield, was killed in an aeroplane
wreck shortly after graduation. We had intended to go to Law
School together, but his untimely death so affected me that I
gave up the idea and took a job with the Chemical Bank in New

[ 871 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

York, Had poor Maynard lived I might today be an eminent
shyster of some sort. Would that I were, for they seem to be
inheriting the earth in this age of political crooks.

Tales of easy money in the 1929 stock market soon made me
restless with the prosaic dullness of a bank job, so I joined Blyth |
& Company in San Francisco and enjoyed almost a year of such
easy prosperity that I look back on it with nostalgia. Then came
the crash. Blyth & Company went out of brokerage and con-
centrated on investment banking, and the second unforeseen
event occurred that changed my life. My father died at the early
age of fifty-one, leaving me a comfortable inheritance. Since
there seemed to be no future in the brokerage business and there
was no need to scratch for a living I decided to give my full time
to my inherited investments, a tricky and none too satisfying busi-
ness in the dubious and rabble-rousing thirties.

On January 21st, 1931, Evelyn Taylor of San Francisco and I
were married, and a short time later Dick Magee, an old friend,
and I bought a large cattle ranch in Nevada. When I think back
to what we paid for the place and what ranch property is worth
today I wonder how I could have been so financially myopic as
not to have gone 100 per cent into the beef business.

So the long years of the Roosevelt depression passed until the
war started to pull us out of it. I joined the Naval Reserve as a
lieutenant, senior grade, but did not last long in the service, A
bad reaction to yellow fever vaccine put me in the Great Lakes
Naval Hospital for three months followed by a medical discharge.

I returned to the care of my investments and my ranching
interests. Two children were born to us, Sandra now fourteen,
and James Sterling, nine. Finally last year beef and land prices
in the West seemed so high that they could not, in my judgment,
go much higher, so I sold out the ranch for a capital gain that

must have gladdened the grafting hearts of the Truman crooks
in the Bureau of “Infernal” Revenue.

Now that cattle and land prices are down considerably I am
looking around for another ranch, for I intend to devote my
remaining years to agriculture, the most stable and philosophically
rewarding pursuit, to say nothing of the healthiest, in an unstable,
unsatisfactory, neurotic age, in which the rewards of success
seem to be confiscatory taxation and coronary occlusions.

[872]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Twenty-five years, a quarter of a century, have passed since
that day in June when Canfield and I stood looking out our
window in Massachusetts Hall at the tents and caperings of the
Class of 1903 holding their Twenty-fifth Reunion in the Yard.
With the cruel superiority of youth I remarked to Canfield,
“Look at the old goats, when we are out twenty-five years we
shall have more sense than to come back and act like kids.” Well
the twenty-five years are up and we shall be back. Canfield only
in spirit, God rest his soul, but I shall be there in the flesh. I’m
just another old goat trying to be a kid, and t strange to say I am
looking forward to it.

FREDERICK HARVEY POUGH

HOME ADDRESS: 4680 Independence Ave., New York 71, N. Y.

BORN: June 26, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Francis Harvey Pough, Alice
Hooper Beckler.

PREPARED AT: Soldan High School, St. Louis, Mo. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude, 1928; s.M. (Washing-
ton Univ.), 1932; PH.D., 1935.

MARRIED: Eleanor Crenshaw Hodge, Oct. 14, 1938, North Haven, Conn.
CHILDREN: F. Harvey, Jr., Jan. 13, 1942; Barbara Hodge, Jan. 29, 1945.

OccUPATION: Consulting mineralogist.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Explorers Club; Geological So-
ciety of America (fellow); Mineralogical Society of America; Society
of Economic Geologists; Geophysical Union; Mineralogical Society of
Great Britain; Sigma Xi; others.

PUBLICATIONS: The Jewelers’ Dictionary, 1945, 1950; Field Guide to Rocks
and Minerals (to be published in fall, 1953); Understanding Volcanoes
and Earthquakes (to be published in fall, 1953).

AFTER graduation I looked, briefly, at the field of business (in-
surance) and decided, without dissent from the insurance indus-
try, that scientific fields seemed greener. So I went back to school,
put in a year at Heidelberg learning to drink beer and speak
German, in that order, and wound up at Harvard with a Ph.D. in
mineralogy, a field in which there were then, and are now, no
jobs. After a few months with The American Museum of Natural
History of New York, I succeeded in talking them into an
appreciation of their need for my services. In 1938 I was married
to Eleanor C. Hodge of Philadelphia and we now have two
children, F, Harvey, Jr. who is eleven, and Barbara who is eight.

[ 873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Meanwhile I stayed at the museum and progressed from as-
sistant to acting curator of mineralogy. This included the gem
collection, best in the world (Adv.!), the meteorite collection,
all of the geology (no paleontology, six others did that), vol-
canoes, earthquakes, and sundry phenomena the museum couldn’t
find anyone else to do. During the war minerals became strategi-
cally important and some work was done for the Manhattan
Project. At the same time a volcano sprang up in Mexico and
I managed to get in half a dozen trips to it for the purpose of
recording its growth and making a color movie of it.

Through seventeen years at the museum, till July, 1952, I
turned out a constant stream of uninspired prose on the subjects
of gems, minerals, volcanoes, earthquakes, meteorites, and similar
subjects. Two books are due in the Fall, one a field guide to
minerals, the other a juvenile on volcanoes and earthquakes. Since
July, 1952, I have been back in business, as a consultant in min-
eralogical fields, mainly gems and strategic mineral resources. It
is beginning to look as if there are jobs in the field of mineralogy

after all.

RALPH ORRIN POWERS

HOME Appress: 71 Greenleaf St., Malden 48, Mass.

porn: Nov. 25, 1905, Athol, Mass. parents: Arthur Powers, Beatrice Rus-
sell Small.

PREPARED AT: Athol High School, Athol, Mass.

‘YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

OCCUPATION: Politics.

CHARLES AUGUSTUS PRATT, JR.

HOME Appress: 76 Wilton Rd., Windsor, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

BoRN: Aug. 16, 1905, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Charles Augustus Pratt,
86, May Louise Denison.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. Decree: s.B. (Trinity Coll.), 1933.

Marnigp: Sylvia Griswold Gorton, June 27, 1931, Hartford, Conn. cHILDREN:
Philip Gorton, April 30, 1932; Charles Augustus, 3d, May 24, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Philip Gorton Pratt, ‘3.

[ 874]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Denison Pratt, ’22; William Porter Pratt, ’28.

occupation: Education, teacher of mathematics and physics, secretary of
Loomis Alumni Association.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Harvard Alumni Association, 1951-53, Animal Trap
Company of America, Lititz, Pa, member, 1951-53, chairman, 1953,
Harvard Nominating Committee for Overseers, Directors, and Coun-
cilors; secretary, ten years, president, 1951, member Schools Committee,
Harvard Club of Connecticut.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut.

WITH the exception of the first year out of Harvard, my life
has been spent in school teaching back at my own school, Loomis.
It has consisted of all that goes with such a job: coaching football,
some hockey, and a lot of track, Later came some administration
and admission work, and finally most of my extra-curricular time
has been spent in alumni relations and fund raising. Of course a
full teaching schedule of physics and mathematics keeps one from
having too much free time.

The general outline of school work seems from the outside
pretty much the same, but the yearly change in student body
presents many interesting and changing problems to be met. How
the guy in his early teens has his problems!

I have kept in touch with Harvard and lately have been quite
active in its alumni affairs (served as a marshal at the 1950 Com-
mencement and haven’t missed one since). All of this has been
timed nicely with son Phil headed for graduation during our
Twenty-fifth. It has been very gratifying, in that Phil seems to
have enjoyed Harvard even more so than I did. He is a much
better discus thrower than his old man, but now the competition
is tougher, so he has to be! A good swimmer, Phil has also been
on some of the best teams that Harvard has ever had. To me one
has to work harder at that sport than any other, and I become
tired just thinking about it.

I managed to make all H-Y football games since missing the
one in 1928 while on the west coast. Joe Crosby said I was soft
hearted when I mentioned that I was glad the Yale kicker did not
miss in last year’s 21-21 game. I’m sure I did not feel that way
when I played. Time mellows! I have always voted Republican
even though in-laws and strong-minded grandparents were Demo-
crats.

Why does one put off these Reports until the Class secretary

[ 875]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

starts applying the needle? I had a comparatively free month in
August to take my time on it, and I sure did, I find myself writing
this on the busiest weekend I have had yet.

Spare time, whatever that is, has been spent in travel, painting
(houses and such that is), keeping the old place looking well,
shining up the car and keeping it running, cleaning out the old
cess pool (not a hobby), and generally looking busy. Of course
a month at the beach or lake is always welcome and sought after.

A short sketch of a poor school teacher’s life would run like
this. After college first came a year on a Standard Oil of Cali-
fornia tanker, back east to school teaching, got married, studied
at William and Mary, studied at Trinity, Phil was born, drove to
California and way stations, taught at Wesleyan during a summer,
moved three times around school campus and finally bought a
home in Windsor, after fifteen years C. A. P., 3d, arrived and in
another fifteen years we shall really be old, a half a dozen meet-
ings at Harvard during the past three years and up comes the
Twenty-fifth through less haze than the Twentieth or the
Fifteenth or the Tenth. I cannot seem to recall the others. I
used to play a lot of golf and tennis, but now I have retired to
that wild game of horse-shoe pitching.

WILLIAM PORTER PRATT

HOME Appress: 9 Sanborn Rd., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastern Gas and Fuel Associates, 250 Stuart St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: May 16, 1907, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Charles Augustus Pratt,
’86, May Louise Denison,

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MarRiED: Elleen C. Phillips, June 1, 1935, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Wil-
ham Porter, Jr., Oct. 1, 1938; Carolyn A., Jan. 15, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Denison Pratt, ’ 225 Charles Augustus Pratt, Jr., ’28.

OCCUPATION: Statistician with company in bituminous coal, coke, marine,
and gas business.

MEMBER OF; Wompatuck Club, Hingham,

IN 1928 it was popular to be a bond salesman, and I started out
that way after graduation. I managed to survive the depression in
the early thirties, and in 1935 I joined another bond house where

[ 876]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I felt I had a better opportunity to support a newly-acquired
wife. My wife and I spent our winter and spring weekends then
up in the suddenly popular ski country of New Hampshire. Now
I wonder where we got all that skiing energy. The only exercise
I get now is walking to the office and bowling tournaments at
the Wompatuck Club in Hingham.

Son Billy arrived in 1938 after we had moved to Hingham.
Result — less skiing ‘but a delightful town in which to raise a
family. In 1941 I left the bond business for good and became a
shipyard worker in the Quincy Yard of Bethlehem Steel Com-
pany. After several months’ experience working on ships, I
transferred to the cost analysis office where we kept track of
the costs of various ships being constructed. It gave me an op-
portunity to see airplane carriers, cruisers, destroyers, and tankers
in various stages of construction, and I still wonder how every-
thing got into a ship on time and in the right order.

In 1943 Carolyn arrived, making a nice foursome (although '
we don’t play golf). In 1945 I left the shipyard and came to
work for Eastern Gas and Fuel Associates with which I am pres-
ently connected.

In Hingham my wife and I have been active in the Episcopal
Church as past presidents of the Couples Club. I have been a
member of the vestry for two terms and have sung in the senior
choir since 1944. I now have the satisfaction of hearing Billy
sing in the junior choir, and expect Carolyn will sing in it too
when she is old enough. We have been active in local P. T. A.’s,
Hingham Civic Chorus, etc. I have been chairman of the Red
Feather Drive in Hingham, president of the Community Chest,
and am now treasurer of the Boy Scout Town Committee.

_ I have voted Republican every time in the National elections
and hope this fall I won’t be on the losing side again. By the
time this Report comes out, the new president will be in office
and the country will still be going along regardless. I only hope
a reaction sets in against moral weakness in public office. It is
hard to bring up children to do the right thing morally when
standards around them are so low.

- Gosh, it doesn’t seem twenty-five years ago that I left college.
In fact, it seems only yesterday that my wife and I followed
the development of our children first by days, then weeks and

[ 877 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

months. At the rate he is growing, it won’t be long before |
won't dare to talk back to my son! We are all looking forward
to the Reunion next June.

JOHN McAFEE PRESTON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 440 Roehampton Rd., San Mateo, Calif.

porn: April 12, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Louis Butler Preston,
99. Mabel McAfee.

prEPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Mary Isabel Dwight, Oct. 31, 1936, Washington, D. C. cHILpREN:
Joan Dwight, March 12, 1940; Louis Dwight, Oct. 29, 1941; John Mc-
Afee, Jr. March 7, 1946.

occuPATION: Farming.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, Army Air Forces,
1942; assigned to various bases and duties in Western Flying Training
Command, 1942-44; sent to Contract Termination Course, Harvard
Business School, 1944; transferred to Air Technical Service Command
as contracting officer, 1944-46; discharged as major, 1946.

orFices HELD: Attorney, Alexander & Green, New York, N. Y., 1931-37;
assistant to president, 1938-42, director, since 1938, Kern County Land
Company; vice-president, director, Northern California Retriever Trial
Club; president, Sugar Bowl Ski Club, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Labrador Club; Burlingame Country Club; Pacific Union Club;
Sugar Bow] Ski Club.

AFTER practising law in New York City for a few years I
moved to California where 1 was admitted to the State Bar.
Until the war, I worked for the Kern County Land Company,
operator of a number of ranches in several western states. For
a while I lived in Bakersfield in the southern San Joaquin Valley,
and later moved to San Francisco, where the company’s main
office is located.

After the war I went into farming on my own, and am now
operating a dairy and fruit ranch and also have an interest in
several other pieces of land of various types scattered through-
out the northern part of the state. Actually, our home (where
I also have an office) is in San Mateo, a suburb of San Francisco.
As this is some distance from the ranch I spend a lot of time on
the highways going from one place to another.

I took one brief shot at politics in the early thirties when I ran

[878 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for a small job in New York State on the Republican ticket, As
I recall it the GOP was not too popular in those days! Since then
my only activity in this line has been to help out in raising funds
for our local Republican Finance Committee.

As far as hobbies are concerned my wife and I do a lot of hunt-
ing and skiing and some fishing. We helped to start the Sugar
Bowl] which has become a successful ski resort in the High Sier-
ras (advt.). We are also interested in breeding and training Lab-
rador retrievers for hunting and field trials. So far we haven’t
come up with a champion, but hope to make it some day. Our
grammar-school-aged children are getting to be good skiers
and are most helpful in training dogs.

One of the greatest mistakes I made since moving west was
to bet on Harvard against Stanford when they played at Palo
Alto a couple of years ago.

LAWRENCE MORRIS PRITCHARD

HOME AbpREsS: Blue Mill Road, Morristown, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

BORN: March 29, 1906, Salt Lake City, Utah. parents: Ralph Lynton
Pritchard, Laura Effingham Lawrénceé.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MarrieD: Ann C. Norman, Sept. 29, 1934, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1947); Evelyn S. Johnson, 1949. cutLp: Laura Effingham, Sept. 13, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, Guaranty Trust Company of New York.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U. S. Naval Reserve,
1943-46. |

OFFIcEs HELD: Director, Benjamin Moseley Company, Inc.; treasurer, Wind-
beam Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, University Club; Morris County
Golf Club; Rockefeller Center Luncheon Club; Windbeam Club.

AFTER graduation I entered the banking business in New York
and for several years did a good deal of graduate study in that
field. During the war an interlude in the Navy confirmed the
fact, first suspected in “Mil. Sci.,” that I am a natural civilian and
I returned to banking as soon as possible. Avocations have in-
cluded an active interest in a knitwear manufacturing concern,
collecting United States postage stamps, fly fishing, and some
golf.

[ 879]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

SAVERIO FRANK PROCOPIO

HOME ADDRESS: 222 Portland Terr., Webster Groves 19, Mo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1601 Railway Exchange Bldg., St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: Feb, 21, 1906, Brockton, Mass. parents: Peter Procopio, Rose Maria
Fiorentino.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1928. DEGREE: A.B. C107 laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Kathryn Veronica Finn, Oct. 23, 1943, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Maria Katherine, Dec. 16, 1944; Ilda Frances, Nov. 12, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Domenic Romolo Procopio, °35, A.M., 739.

OCCUPATION: Insurance: manager, Casualty and Accident Departments, de-

velopment and servicing clients’ insurance programs, W. H. Mark-
ham & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U. S. Naval Reserve,
1942-46, supervising insurance procurement for U. S. Navy audits
contractors; awarded Legion of Merit.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT PosT: Chief, Insurance Division, U. S. Navy.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant superintendent, underwriting, 1936-42; chief under-
writer, Employers’ Group, New York City, Boston, 1946-48.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of St. Louis.

I DESERTED New England for New York in 1928, subcon-
sciously, perhaps, to prospect for Wall Street gold. Instead |
stumbled into insurance from which I have not recovered.
Business-wise, it was slow and uneventful progress through the
depression and early New Deal days. During this period I
improved my bridge, took up golf with no success at all, and
argued incessantly with the Borahs about the doings across the
ponds and the appeasements.

Came the end of all such nonsense and, oddly enough, I was
found fit only in a minor way for the Battle of Washington.
Our attempts to economize on insurance expenditures resulted
in a series of skirmishes with Congress, As at least one more
distinguished member of our Class has discovered, the Congres-
sional mind is not to be crossed without being divested of our
most prized possessions. And I have often since wondered how
serious we are about economy in government. I had to leave
New York to find in New York the little woman. Now there
are, in addition, two littler women, After a brief return to Bos-
ton we have become midwesterners, if only geographically.

[ 880 ]

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My principal remaining hobby is collecting records, mostly
children’s records at the present time. Otherwise my spare time
is pretty well scheduled by “The Women.”

NATHAN MARSH PUSEY

HOME ADDRESS: 211 S. Union St., Appleton, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lawrence College, Appleton, Wis.

Born: April 4, 1907, Council Bluffs, lowa. parents: John Marsh Pusey,
Rosa M. Drake.

PREPARED AT: Abraham Lincoln High School, Council Bluffs, Jowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; A.M.
1932; PH.D., 1937.

MaRRiIED: Anne Woodward, June 10, 1936, Bryn Mawr, Pa. CHILDREN:
Nathan Marsh, Jr., Nov. 13, 1937; James Reeve, June 3, 1940; Rose-
mary, April 5, 1942.

OCCUPATION: President of Lawrence College.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Commission on Liberal Education of the Asso-
ciation of American Colleges.

I SPENT the first year following graduation in Europe, chiefly
in France and Italy, checking up in a desultory way on many of
the things we had been told in college about the development
and achievements of western civilization. Later after graduate
schoo] came another opportunity to go to Europe for a second
year, this time to Greece, on an Archibald Cary Coolidge fel-
lowship. I had meanwhile shifted my major academic interest
from English to Greek and ancient history.

All this now seems a long time ago, but I set it down since I am
still more interested in the interaction of past and present, and in
books, artifacts, and ideas, than in almost any other thing. I
wish there were some way to get back to Europe and to the Mid-
dle East now with my whole family for more such wanderjahre.

It was my original hope to find a job with a publishing house,
but not succeeding immediately and being quite without funds,

I took a job as teacher at the Riverdale Country School in the
autumn of 1929. The choice was influenced perhaps as much by
the opportunity thus afforded to live in New York City, as by
any other thing. It was an interesting experience for me, and
in depression years with all their advantages for people with
small incomes, unmarried, and with most of my living needs pro-

{ 881 ]

iinet ican GTSOinNnaaaeasiaiaeiaiasnneatiidiennnnaiaiesniistiininnenmt ee.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

vided for at the school, I got on quite well. IT was at that time
especially happy to be able to attend a great many plays during
the two New York theatrical seasons. During these years I also
discovered I had an aptitude for teaching and perhaps as a re-
sult soon began to be seriously interested in education. By the
autumn of 1931 I was ready to return to Harvard for graduate
work. It seems now that by this choice I embarked upon a career
that proceeded thereafter with more or less inevitability.

I came to Lawrence College as a teacher in the autumn of 1935
attracted by an experimental program being set up in liberal
education, After three years, serving a kind of apprenticeship
in higher education and thoroughly enjoying myself in the
process, I accepted a position teaching history and literature at
Scripps College in California, not least because of the opportu-
nity thus provided to see another part of the country. After two
years I moved again, this time to Wesleyan University in Con-
necticut to teach Greek and ancient history and to become in-
volved in more educational experiment. And then in 1944 I
came back to Lawrence, where my college teaching career had
begun, as its president. I have served in this capacity now for
almost nine years.

I was married in 1936 to Anne Woodward a few days after
she graduated from Bryn Mawr. I met her first when she was
only thirteen and suspect now, in at least a half-conscious sort of
way, began right then to wait for her. In any event it was a most
fortunate decision for me, for we have been very happy to-
gether for more than sixteen years and seem to become more
so all the time. We have three children — Nathan, James, and
Rosemary — and we are in work which in very large measure
we do together. It probably makes more demands on her than
it does on me, but this is all right, since she is better at it than I
am. We are both very fond of Lawrence, believe it is a remark-
able college, and hope to be here for a long time to come.

I have become increasingly interested in religion, am a member
of the Protestant Fpiscopal Church, and try to do something
constructive as layman in the local parish and diocese. I con-
sider myself to be a member of the Republican party — though
definitely more of the “eastern” than the “midwestern” persua-
sion, but have not been especially interested in politics. Liberal

[ 882 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

education is my chief concern, That young people growit
should have liberating intellectual experiences seems to me
important in any year than who should be president, though ;
ognize there may be considerable irresponsibility in the attit
1 suppose the truth is I have never gotten over the great ;
experienced in my undergraduate years at Harvard and the
citement I found then in reading under the guidance of ¢
teachers. Perhaps I am now propagandizing, maybe even b
subversive—in trying to help other young people to hav
similar kind of exciting intellectual pleasure. I hope my motivai

belief that we can stand a good deal more of this kind of edu
tion is not wholly rationalization.

WILLIAM ARTHUR RAFFEL

HOME ADDRESS: 311 Broadway, Milford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 240 Fairfield Ave., Bridgeport 3, Conn.

BORN: July 17, 1907, Waterbury, Conn. parents: Louis Milton Raff
Tillie Albert.

PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1031.

MarrigD: Harriet Dorothy Tabor, Oct. 1, 1949, Washington, D. C. cam
DREN: Richard Albert, Aug. 24, 1950; Nancy Ann, June 12, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant commander, U. S. Coast Guard
1942-46; law officer, 12th Naval District (Calif.), 1942-43; Law
Officer, 14th Naval District (Hawaii), 1943-45; law officer, 13th Naval
District (Seattle), 19q5—discharge.

OFFicES HELD: Legal Advisor, Board of Contract Awards, U .S. Treasury

Dept., 1933-35; Assistant Chief, Enforcement Div., Bureau of Customs,
1935-42.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs, Washington, D. C,, and Connecticut; Torch
Club, Bridgeport, Connecticut.

AS THE father of a nine-month-old daughter and a two-and-
a-half-year-old son, I have been understandably hesitant about
the inclusion of this postgraduate sketch in a volume which
contains similar sketches by grandfathers. How can I ever con-
vince my son and daughter, if in later years they chance upon
our Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report and find that their father,
who claimed to have recaptured his lost youth by his belated mar-
riage (first) in 1949, was in fact, heaven help him, a contemporary

[ 883 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I brought back from Maine with me two prized possessions —
one, my boat on which I enjoyed a wonderful two-day cruise
from Portland through Cape Cod Canal to Milford, Connecticut,
where I now reside with my other prized possession, my wife,
formerly Harriet Tabor of Portland. If ever my wife reads
this far into this report, I expect that I shall get the very devil
from her; first, for having mentioned my boat before her; and
secondly, for having referred to her as a possession.

Our home faces Long Island Sound, which is a source of pleas-
ure to both of us, since we are very fond of the water. We
are experiencing the social confinement that is attendant on hav-
ing two very young children, but I make no complaint on that
score. As a matter of fact, 1 look forward to spending the
evening with my two-and-a-half-year-old son, when we fre-
quently give a “Pops” concert for the benefit of my nine-
months old daughter, which she seems to enjoy immensely. Our
neighbors, who tell me that they do not share my daughter's
enjoyment of the concerts, say that they can faintly make out
the tune of “Pop Goes the Weasel,” as Richard and I each crank
away at a musical jack-in-the-box, followed by an awful clatter
as the two Jacks obediently pop out of the box, when the tune
reaches the “pop” time, all of which must prove at best, that
I have already progressed far into my second childhood, or at
worst, that I have reached the age of senility.

WYNN MACK RAINBOLT, JR.

HOME Appress: Oenoke Ridge, R. F. D. 2, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 285 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 24, 1906, Norfolk, Nebr. parents: Wynn Mack Rainbolt, ’oo,
Margaret Weills.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(30).

Married: Katharine Foster, Oct. 7, 1933, Concord, N. H. cuitpren: Wynn
Mack, 3d, Sept. 17, 1935; Ellen Rollins, Aug. 20, 1939; Faith Kingsbury,
July 16, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Duane Weills Rainbole, ’32:

occupation: Advertising; associate copy director, Young & Rubicam, Inc.

memper or: Harvard Club of New York; Country Club of New Canaan.

[ 886 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BECAUSE of what seemed to me a rather narrow attitude on
the part of the Dean’s office, I returned to College in the fall of
1927 not as a senior, like the rest of the Class, but as a dropped
freshman on probation. As a result, I finally graduated in 1930
—two years late. Of to this flying start, I went to work that
summer in Westboro, Massachusetts, dipping railroad ties and
telephone poles in creosote.

In December, 1933, just after I was married, the creosote folks
decided that they could get along with less help, which included
me. Finding a job in early 1934 wasn’t in quite the same category
as rolling off a log. After some travail, however, I finally wound
up working for Young & Rubicam in New York. That was
eighteen years ago. I’m still working for them, and expect to
continue doing so.

Leaving the world’s affairs out of it, and simply reporting on
our own family, these past eighteen years have been, on the
whole, good. The children seem to be growing up as reason-
ably normal, decent kids. Katharine is happily fixing up, bit by
bit as finances permit, a house that is new to us but old in the
countryside. I find year-round pleasure in a set of matched irons,
two or three trout rods, a couple of shotguns, a couple of springer
spaniels, and a pointer pup, of whom I expect great things.

Like a good many families, I suppose, we’re trying to strike
a sensible balance between having as much fun as possible as
we go along, and at the same time making some reasonable pro-
vision for the future. Things are obviously a little unsettled
hereabouts, and how our particular plans are going to work out
in a world which may be considerably changed tomorrow morn-
ing, I don’t know. But I can’t do anything more than I am doing
about it, so ve quit worrying. And that seems like a pretty
good note on which to stop.

CHARLES KIMBALL RANGER

HOME ADDRESS: 2322 Carlton Terr., Louisville 5, Ky.

OFFIcE appress: P. O. Box 328, Louisville, Ky.

BorN: Feb. 1, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Reuben Oscar Ranger, Mae
Carrie Wardwell.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. cum! laude, 1928.

MarRiED: Rosemary F. Flanagan, Feb. 8, 1940, Nutley, N. J.

occupation: Director, Artists’ Materials Division Laboratory, Devoe &
Raynolds Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: J. B. Speed Museum, Louisville; Louisville Art Center Asso-
ciation; Harvard Club of Kentucky; Association gof Harvard Chemists.

PUBLICATIONS: Tristinmdlus Values of Artists Oil Color Standards for Com-
mercial Standard CS 98-42; short articles for trade magazines.

THE caption of this section of the Class Life questionnaire re-
calls quite vividly to my mind one of our early assignments in
English A when the instructor asked us to write our autobiog-
raphies. 1 remember beginning my composition with the state-
ment that my life had been rather uneventful and consequently
there was nothing unusual to relate. Thinking back over the
twenty-five years since graduation, I find a similar situation
prevails. I do not mean to imply that life has been a hum-
drum existence for me. Yet on the other hand I have not had a
part in any epoch-making event, nor have I done anything to
change the course of world history.

The quarter century of my life since receiving my degree
has followed the usual pattern of events for the average grad-
uate. I accepted a position in the Newark, New Jersey, labora-
tory of the Devoe & Raynolds Company which manufactures a
complete line of paints, varnishes, lacquers, enamels, artists’
materials, and brushes. During the following twenty-five years,
I have been associated with this same company as a chemist in
Plant Control Laboratories, the Research Laboratory, and many
divisions of the Product Development Laboratories. In 1947 I
was appointed assistant technical director of the Trade Sales De-
velopment Laboratory, and in 1950 director of the Artists’ Ma-
terials Division Laboratory, which is my present position. I find
working in this field both stimulating and challenging since it in-
volves both technical experiments in the laboratory and personal
contact with artists throughout the country.

In 1934 I obtained a leave of absence to travel in Europe and
visited several industrial laboratories in England and on the
continent. In 1940 I married. In the same year ] was transferred
to Louisville, Kentucky, where the Research and Development
Laboratories were centralized. During the war years my posi-

[ 888 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion was classified as essential, so from 1940 to 1945 my efforts

were concerned with the many types of finishes required by
the Armed Services,

We have been making our home in Louisville for thirteen
years now and to date I have not been made a Kentucky
Colonel. 1 suspect the reason is that I have not been able to switch
from Scotch to Bourbon. We make occasional visits to Boston
and usually include a tour around Harvard to note the changes.
Here’s hoping that by Reunion time the Cambridge police have
relaxed their parking rules, since the Kentucky license plate on

my car parked outside the Yard seems to act like a magnet for
their tickets!

ROBERT RANTOUL

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Stow Road, Harvard, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1907, Newburyport, Mass. parents: Albert Wood Rantoul,
’88, Edith Congdon.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 192'8; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),

1932.
UNMARRIED.

OccuPATION: Lawyer and farmer.
MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted into the Army, November, 1942; spent
ten months in Texas in infantry training (roznd Division), mostly as

court-martial clerk; medical discharge, October, 1943, as private first
class.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Benevolent Fraternity of Unitarian Churches, 1937—
42; secretary, Unitarian Laymen’s League, since 1951; Isles of Shoals
Unitarian Association; director, Harvard (Mass.) Taxpayers Asso-
ciation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Massachusetts Bar Association;
American Bar Association; Harvard Historical Society.

AFTER graduation, I spent twelve years with the Boston Legal
Aid Society; then, in 1942, I was drafted into the Army and
spent ten months in infantry training in Texas, after which I
received a medical discharge, returned to Boston and was with
the law firm of Warner, Stackpole, Stetson and Bradlee for
five years.

Until 1947, I made my home in Cambridge, taking an active
part in church affairs and holding various offices in the church,

[ 889 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

including deacon. In 1947, I moved to Harvard, Massachu-
setts, where I live on a farm, practise a little law, engage in
church activities, and generally enjoy the country. I am now
moderator of the local Unitarian church and chairman of its
Parish Committee. I have also been president of its Men’s Club,

MAURICE RAVICH

HOME ADDRESS: 114 Exchange St., Lawrence, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 301 Essex St., Lawrence, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 20, 1907, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Louis Ravich, Margaret A.
Sukernick.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; LL.B., 1932.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTion: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted as private, U. S. Army, May 12, 1942;
spent two years in China-Burma-India Theatre of Operations, awarded
Asiatic Theatre Ribbon with two battle stars, Presidential Unit Cita-
tion; discharged as captain in Signal Corps, March 17, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Commander, Post No. 15, American Legion, Lawrence,
clerk, Lawrence Community Chest; director, Bon Secours Hospital
Guild.

WITH the exception of four war years, I have been engaged in
the general practice of law in Lawrence, Massachusetts, since
my graduation from Law School.

CHARLES SANFORD RAYMENT

HOME ADDRESS: 105 Nevada St., Northfield, Minn.

orrice appress: Carleton College, Northfield, Minn.

BorN: Jan. 28, 1907, Whitman, Mass. parents: Frank Henry Rayment, Ruth
Alice Sanford.

preparep aT; Whitman High School, Whitman, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; A.M.
(Univ. of Mich.), 1936; Pip. (ibid.), 1941.

MargieD: Frances Mary Derleth, Sept. 15, 1940, Marquette, Mich. cui:
Elizabeth Ann, Aug. 7, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Education.

[ 890 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘+s PHILIP ALBRIGHT REED

Born: February 1, 1907, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: George Ellis Reed,
Clara Louise Goodspeed.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

piep: April 28, 1936, New York, N. Y.

REED was associated with the Loose-Wiles Biscuit Company
before his death, which occurred after a long illness. Surviving
were his mother and a brother, Brooks Reed.

ADOLF FRANK REEL

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Independence St., Tarrytown, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, 15
W. 44th St. New York 36, N. Y.

BORN: June 30, 1907, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Herman Reel, Blanche
Ullman.

PREPARED AT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B, cum laude, 1928; LL.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Virginia Wentworth, March 29, 1947, Saugus, Mass. CHILDREN:
Thomas Paine, Feb. 28, 1948, Christopher, March 15, 1949; Jeffrey,
Feb. 18, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; executive secretary, New York Local, American
Federation of Television & Radio Artists.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army, 1942-46; private, basic training,
Fort McClellan, Ala.; private, rst class, Classification School, Wash-
ington and Jefferson College; corporal, Counter Intelligence Corps,
Fort Myers, Fla.; sergeant, Transportation Corps, Charleston, S. C.,
and New York Port; 2nd lieutenant, Claims Div.. AGO Washington,
D. C.; warrant officer, 1st lieutenant, Staff and Faculty, JAG Officer
Candidate School, Ann Arbor, Mich. captain, Claims Dept. Manila,
Philippine Islands, and defense counsel for General Yamashita, Manila
and Washington.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Attorney, Ordnance Procurement, Detroit,
1942.

orrices HELD: President, Young Democrats of Massachusetts, 1933-35; cam-
paign manager, Massachusetts Progressive Committee for Franklin D.
Roosevelt, 1936; Democratic party nominee, Massachusetts State Sen-
ate, 1940; national executive secretary, American Federation of Radio
Artists, 1950-52; treasurer, Good Schools Association of the Tarry-
towns, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Bar Associations; Judge Advocate General’s Association.

puBLICATION: The Case of General Yamashita, University of Chicago Press,

1949:
[ 891 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

no evidence, no finding that Yamashita committed, ordered, con-
doned, or even knew of the atrocities, but the inevitable verdict
was that he should hang because he was in command of the men
who did the acts.

Believing that this set a precedent, new and dangerous in
Anglo-Saxon jurisprudence, we of the Defense managed to get
the case before the Supreme Court of the United States. Upon
the request of Chief Justice Stone, two of my colleagues and
myself left Manila by plane on Christmas day, 1945, arriving
in Washington with one week to prepare the argument. In addi-
tion to the basic point, we claimed that Yamashita had not been
given a fair trial. I have been unable to find any lawyer who,
when informed of the farcical proceedings to which we were
subjected in Manila, would not agree with the late Mr, Justice
Rutledge: “This was no trial in the traditions of the common
law and the Constitution.”

The majority (6) of the Court, however, held that they
could not interfere with a military proceeding, so President
Truman likewise refused to intervene, and our client was hanged.
So I wrote a book about it. Although most trade publishers said
they liked the work, none would print it. At length I was advised
to try a University Press, and the first offeree, the University
of Chicago Press, brought it out in 1949. The book was well
received by reviewers and editorial writers, and the unusual pub-
licity it commanded was enhanced by General MacArthur’s order
censoring it in Japan. (The volume has since been translated and
is currently circulating in Japan.)

While I was in Manila, a blind date produced Lieutenant Vir-
ginia Wentworth, Army Nurse Corps, a native of Saugus, Mas-
sachusetts. Two years later, back home, we were married. The
rumor that I remained single until the approach of my fortieth
birthday, solely because I was waiting for a victim to be called
Virginia Reel, is a canard. We have three children, all boys —
Tommy, aged five, Chris, aged four, and Jeff, aged one. Their
delightful mother holds up well, but father is becoming more
decrepit by the minute.

A year after I returned from the war, there was a new de-
parture, this time to New York. In June, 1947, I became the as-
sistant executive of the American Federation of Radio Artists, and

[ 894 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

early in 1950 succeeded to the top post. As the result of a rec
merger, it is now “Television and Radio Artists,” and I’m exe
tive of the large New York local, This is the A. F. of L. un.
representing all broadcasting performers (except musicians)
and a most interesting group. It is often said that our members]
comprises a few hundred millionaires, which may be true, t

it is also true that the majority of card-holders earn less th
$2,000 a year in this field.

The work was interesting for awhile, but today, with merg
achieved and major negotiations settled, the doldrums have s
in. As this is written, I’m once again contemplating a chang
this time to go into private law practice in New York.

Meanwhile there has been campaigning for Stevenson, workin
to get better schools in Tarrytown (where I have become

home-owner), and trying to keep pace with the cowboys an

Indians who ride herd on what I once fondly thought of a
“spare time.”

I have come to the conclusion that the French philosopher
was wrong. The more things change — well, the more they
change. Drop in, sometime, and see.

ROBERT PHILIP REICHENBACH

HOME ApDREss: 26 E. gist St., New York 28, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 74 Trinity Pl., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept, 20, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Louis Reichenbach, Helen
Reichenbach.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

Marrigp: Katharine Mayor, Nov. 6, 1936, New York, N. Y.
HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Martin Reichenbach, ’33.

OccuPATION: Public utility analyst, Institutional Utility Service: consulting,
analyses, and statistics on electric and gas utilities.
OFFIcEs HELD: Director, Flowmeter Corporation of America.

MEMBER or: New York Society of Security Analysts; Downtown Harvard
Lunch Club.

AFTER a final fling in Europe following June, 1928, I started in
Wall Street towards the end of that year. I spent the first five
years with the old investment firm of Ladenburg, Thalmann &
Company, then four years in the brokerage business, Since late

[ 895 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

in 1938 I have been with Institutional Utility Service as public
utility analyst. Our firm specializes in the analysis of electric
and gas utilities. Keeping up with one of the nation’s basic in-
dustries certainly keeps one busy and there’s never a dull mo-
ment.

Fortunately we have a place in Rhode Island, at Buttonwoods
on Narragansett Bay. My wife Katie, who is definitely some-
thing special (as I believe all members of the Class who have met
her will testify), is a native of Rhode Island (Pembroke gal), and
the house was built by her grandfather. There is plenty of swim-
ming and there are lots of good quahaugs and clams a few
feet from the front porch; and my brother-in-law, who lives
next door, has a converted fishing boat which sleeps four and
can take you to Nantucket, barring another hurricane. Natu-
tally we spend as much time at Buttonwoods and away from
the city as possible.

A couple of summers ago Katie and I jumped in the car and
drove out to Wyoming and Colorado, spending some time in the
Jackson Hole country of Wyoming which, with its Grand Teton
Mountains, is to my mind one of the grandest spots I’ve ever hit.
In the hot-headed days of my youth I did some mountain climb-
ing in Europe — crawled up the Matterhorn, Monte Rosa, Piz
Bernina, some of the Dolmites, etc.; this time I looked at the
Rockies and Tetons strictly from the bottom, but it was swell
seeing new mountains again. By that I don’t mean to belittle our
eastern mountains which I love dearly.

Katie and I certainly hope to be at the Reunion to which we
are both looking forward with great pleasure.

CHARLES ESTES REID, II

HOME Appress: 1141 Great Plain Ave., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFIce apprEss: % Gilman Brothers Inc., too Shawmut Ave., Boston 18,
Mass.

BoRrN: Jan. 20, 1907, Augusta, Ga. parents: Edmund Clifford Reid, Annie
Smith Jaynes.

PREPARED AT: Richmond Academy, Augusta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-19278. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MarrigD: Alice Lillian Osborne, March 21, 1932, Orlando, Fla. CHILDREN:
Constance Eleanor, March 12, 1933 (7. Earl A. Andersen, Jr., Oct.

[ 896 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

6, 1951); Clifford Osborne, March 15, 1940; Alice Jaynes, Dec. 1¢
1942.
occupation: Credit manager, Gilman Brothers, Inc., wholesale druggists.
orFices HELD: Director, Boston Credit Men’s Association, 1947-50; chair
man, Drugs, Cosmetics, and Pharmaceuticals Industry Committee, Na-
_ tional Credit Congress, 1951.
MEMBER OF: Boston Druggists’ Association, National Association of Credit
Men; Norfolk Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Needham, Massachusetts; Travel-
ling Men’s Auxiliary of Massachusetts; Toastmasters International.

AFTER a few months in office equipment sales following grad-
uation, I entered the credit field with General Motors Accept-
ance Corporation. My work in this field continued, both in inside
operations and sales, with General Contract Purchase Corpora-
tion (a subsidiary of Morris Plan Bank), and Commercial Credit
Company. In 1938 the Texas Company gave me an opportunity
to learn something about the petroleum industry in their wholesale
credit department. In 1945 I left the Texas Company to accept
the position of credit manager with Gilman Brothers, Inc., one
of New England’s leading drug wholesalers. (Please excuse
the “commercial!’’)

My work, I’m glad to say, is intensely interesting, The credit
man of the past had no such fun. He sat on a high stool, his
glasses far down on his nose perhaps, pored over his ledgers, wrote
collection letters, but rarely left the office to call on customers,
and usually played only a very small part in management. Today,
things are a lot different — the credit man has to be a salesman;
he has to keep the customers happy, the sales manager happy, the
treasurer happy, and still find some time to keep “the little woman”
happy. He has to know a little law, has to be an office manager,
an accountant, a psychologist, has to have the patience of Job,
and an iron constitution.

Alice and I celebrate our twenty-first anniversary this year.
She has been a wonderful wife and mother. Connie is now
twenty and married —that makes me realize that many years
have slipped quickly and quietly away since graduation. She
went to Green Mountain Junior College in Poultney, Vermont,
before getting married, and is now the receptionist in the office
of a Boston insurance firm, waiting for her husband to return
from Korea.

Clifford is thirteen, and knows more about sports than his “old

[ 897 ]

L -

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

man” ever did or ever will know. He is particularly interested in
baseball, played on the sixth grade team last year, and is a Boston
Braves fan whether they are winning or losing. He enjoys beat-
ing his father at ping-pong, and does this more often than I like
to admit. He hasn’t learned yet to appreciate the advantages
of dancing school.

Alice is now ten, plays the piano and does ballet dancing very
well. She seems to have a lot of ability in all of her subjects at
school, and does a good job of organizing “plays” with the
neighborhood children. She plans to have half a dozen children
when she grows up!

To be continued . . . see the Fiftieth Anniversary Report...
I hope. .

JOHN ANTHONY REILLY

HOME ADDRESS: 225 Cypress St., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pontiac Motors Div., General Motors, 31 St. James Ave.
Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 11, 1905, South Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Phillip Reilly,
Agnes Connell.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

marriep: Viola G. Havican, Sept. 18, 1940, Somerville, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Gerard and Robert Henry, May 27, 1941 (twins); Paula Marie,
Oct, 11, 1945.

occuPATION: Mercantile business.

‘+; ALFRED SEYMOUR REINHART

BORN: July 30, 1907, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Morris Reinhart, Lena Abra-
hams

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.
piED: Oct. 26, 1931, Boston, Mass.

FOLLOWING graduation Reinhart entered the Medical School
where he studied for three years until his death in 1931. Know-
ing that he was afflicted by a generally fatal heart disease, he de-
termined in the months left to him to record his own case his-
tory. He did so in a room at the Thorndike Memorial Labora-

[ 898 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tory of the Boston City Hospital, refusing drugs until the last in
order that his notes be more precise. He was survived by his
mother. While at Harvard he was the receiver of the Clement
Harlow Condell, Bowditch, and Charles Joseph Bonaparte
Scholarships, he was president of the English High School Club
of Harvard, 1926 to 1927, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

BERNARD JACOB REINES

HOME ADDRESS: 317 W. 88th St., New York 24, N. Y.

BorN: Jan. 20, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Reines, Rose L. Stanet-
sky.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

MarRRIED: Frances Supnick, Feb. 16, 1947, Staten Island, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Meyer George Reines, ’36.

OccuPATION: Playwriting.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army, October, 1942, to June, 1943, limited
service, honorably discharged, rank private first class.

MEMBER OF: Dramatists Guild of the Authors League of America.

PUBLICATIONS: For Country and Mankind; Twelve Plays About Dreams
That Came True, Longmans, Green & Co., 1944, many one-act plays
and radio plays, in magazines and anthologies.

AT A period when most “Class Lives” are settled, for better
or worse, my career is still in flux, tho it is flowing at last in the
right channel, So, this is a brief and still-interim report.

I landed in New York (from Boston, my home town) in June,
1929 (after some graduate work at Harvard), with thirty-six
dollars in my pocket, plus the ambition which pre-dated even
my Harvard days to become a playwright. All too soon after, the
Depression landed on me with a thud. There were occasional
jobs, much unemployment, etc., standard history for a lot of us
in the ’30’s. I can’t do justice to it in less than a book (which I’ll
write, eventually), so shall simply say it was rough, with some «
compensations. I learned a lot about what made the world tick,
but found it impossible to do sustained writing. For a while I
did write poems, and published some till I felt (and how wrong I
was) that poetry was a futile thing in that brute of a world.
Anyhow, I survived and came back home to Boston at the end
of the decade, down for the count of nine, but determined to
get going as a playwright, on however small a scale.

[ 899 ]

— ene staan

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

After more than a year of trying writing radio plays and one-
act plays, I made my first sale, which led to my becoming a rep.
ular contributor to a magazine of plays for young people. Dur-
ing the war, I also wrote plays to promote war savings for the
Treasury Department. By the time I was drafted in October, 1942,
I had published over forty short plays. Minor as they were, —
I was started. Some of them were even listed in the Best One-
Act Plays volumes of those two years, and many were reprinted
in anthologies.

Honorably discharged in June, 1943 (rank, PFC), I returned
to Boston briefly, decided to tackle New York again; my plan
was to break into radio writing, which I hoped would enable
me to go on and write a play aimed at Broadway. By a fan-
tastic coincidence, I reached Manhattan again with just thirty-
six dollars. Breaking in was hard, but in three years I sold rough-

ly fifty radio plays to leading network programs. Many of
these were on war effort themes, as were a number I wrote for
the Office of Inter-American Affairs, Treasury Department, etc.
In 1944 Longmans, Green & Co. published a book of my one-act
plays, For Country and Mankind. |

In 1946 two important things happened to me, I met the girl,
and I got a very exciting idea for a play. (Incidentally, the du-
Ponts, sponsors of Cavalcade of America, unwittingly sponsored
the match; it was my work on a script for this program that led
to my fateful “blind date” with Fran outside Carnegie Hall.)
We were married in February, 1947, then, forswearing radio, I
set to work on the play. This wound up on Broadway early in
1949 as Forward the Heart, lasted only nineteen performances,
but got some encouraging reviews. Some of my experiences
with that production were heartbreaking and taught me a lot.

Next, after I sold a few television plays, an independent movie

producer took an option on the movie rights to Forward the
Heart, whereupon Fran and I rented a house in the country
(Woodstock, N. Y.), and I set to work on a new play. This one,
laid in roth century Massachusetts, took a lot of research and a
Jot more work, When the year was up, we moved back to New
York with the play not yet in good shape. After letting it cool
a while, while writing more television plays, I'm currently
working hard to finish it (1 have a third play idea ready to go).

[ 900 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

And well, that’s about it, and my time is up, anyway; I have to
get back to that play.

So, in summary: I’m still in midstream. Exciting experiences
come my way only between long intervals of dogged, outwardly
uneventful work. My active interests revolve mainly about the
arts, occasional chess, etc. My intellectual interests are world-
wide, and optimism and pessimism run on an alternating current
wire in me, at the ways of the world Anno Domimi 1953. My
wife has put up with an awful lot, in the course of my struggles

as a playwright, but she is as of the moment quite hopeful of
the outcome. So am I,

** HOWARD CLARK RELF
BORN: July 16, 1907, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Richard Howard Relf, Mary
Ellen Howes.
PREPARED AT: Central High School, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1928; LL.B. (Univ. of
Minnesota), 1931.

MARRIED: Catharine Lee.
piep: May 3, 1951, St. Paul, Minn.
wipow: Mrs. Howard C. Relf, 1787 Dayton Ave., St. Paul, Minn.

UPON graduating from the University of Minnesota Law School,
Howard Clark Relf became associated with the law firm of
Melrin, Brown & Sherman in Minneapolis, There he remained for
several years; but his practice of law was interrupted by the
war, and in March of 1942 he entered the Army. He was with
Headquarters of the goth Infantry Division and received train-
ing in Texas, Louisiana, and California. As a pare of the Third
Army, the goth Division played a réle in the landing at Normandy,
in closing the Falaise Gap, and in repulsing the German army
at Bastogne. Having been discharged in 1945, Relf was connect-
ed with the Enforcement Division of the Office of Price Ad-~
ministration for some time and later joined the Minneapolis re-
gional office of the War Assets Administration where in 1948 he
had attained the position of assistant regional counsel.

[901 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

JEROME HOSMER REMICK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 157 Ridge Rd., Grosse Pointe Farms 36, Mich.

porn: Dec. 21, 1903, Detroit, Mich. PARENTS: Jerome Hosmer Remick, Ade.
laide McCreery.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

marrieD: Annette Palms Lewis, June 25, 1927, Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich,
CHILDREN: Jerome Hosmer, 3d, Sept. 12, 1930; Lewis Palms, Oct. 28,
1932; Fenton McCreery, Sept. 29, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Sales executive.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: War Production Board, Washington, D, C,
carbon dioxide industry.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Village Grosse Pointe Farms, Central Volunteer Com-
mittee; president, Detroit Creamery Realty Company; vice-president,
director, Detroit Symphony Orchestra, Inc.; vice-president, trustee,
Children’s Hospital of Michigan; director, United Foundation, U. S. 0.
of Metropolitan Detroit, Hospital Trustees Committee of Michigan,
United Community Services.

MEMBER OF: Country Club of Detroit; Yondotega Club; Lambs Club of
New York; Harvard Club of New York.

MARK CLAIBORNE RENO

HOME ADDRESS: 11055 Old Bladensburg Rd., Silver Spring, Md.
OFFice apprEss: Department of Justice, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Feb. 4, 1907, Burlington, Iowa. pareENTs: Mark Miles Reno, Maud
Alice Claiborne.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Des Moines, Iowa.

YEARS {N COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; LL.B. (Drake Univ),
1931,

markieD: Dorothy Beatrice Morgan, Aug. 25, 1936, Des Moines, Iowa.
cumpren: Mark William Claiborne, Aug. 23, 1941; Jonathan Morgan,
Sept. 27, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, U. S. Infantry, 1943-44; various ranks,
War Department General Staff, 1944-46.

[ 902 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD von PECHMANN RENOUF

HOME appress: Calle Gral. Aureliano Rivera 17-B, Villa Obregon, 1
Mexico.

porn: Nov. 23, 1906, Hsiku, China. PARENTS: Vincent Adams E
Baroness Lilli von Pechmann.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928

marrigp: Catharine Innes Smith, Sept. 4, 1935, Washington, Conn. cui

Hester, Dec. 10, 19365 Johanna, Feb. 19, 1940; Edda Susan, Jus
1943.

OCCUPATION: Painter; writer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Mexico; Club Citlaltepetl de México; V
ington Art Association, Washington, Conn.

pusLications: Articles i in the art review Dyn, story in Tomorrow.

AFTER graduation I went to Europe, where I stayed for
years, watching the storm clouds gather for World War II, g
ting acquainted with the European way of life, and trying :
hand at writing. During this time I became interested in mode
art and psychoanalysis, My writing was not lucrative, and
taught English and was a tutor in a charming Austrian family
the Tyrol. In 1934 I came into an inheritance for which I r
turned to the United States. In 1935 I married Catharine Inn
Smith, whose brothers, Alexander and Carleton, I had know
at Harvard, She has proved herself a marvelously discreet, cor
panionable and harmonious wife and mother. Not long after ow
marriage 1 took up the study of psychology at Columbia in the
thought of making a career of guidance and therapy. However,
the theories and methods I learned seemed too unconvincing and
ineffectual for me to make a career of them — even though they
were grist in the mill toward the working out of my orientation

and theories of life. I took up painting, which supplied much
that was lacking in academic studies. In July, 1940, we went to
Mexico, and I studied drawing and painting with Carlos Merida
and joined forces with the painter, Wolfgang Paalen, in the
publication of the art review Dyn in which various articles of
mine were printed, together with reproductions of my paint-
ings. Like other Americans in Mexico, I was registered for the
draft, and kept in suspense until finally the draft age was low-
ered and I was notified by my draft board that I was overage

[ 903 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Among our friends here in Mexico there have been a good
many political refugees from Europe, whose experiences made

the issues of liberal democracy versus totalitarianism painfully
clear.

Since leaving Columbia I have continued the study of psychol-
ogy, chiefly the various analytic schools of psychotherapy, and
have recently done a small amount of psychological counselling.
Analysis is a wrecking tool for the removal of erroneous attitudes,
But the end goal of therapy is the construction of a religious ac-

ceptance of life. Psychotherapy will, in time, become a religious
and philosophic rather than a merely medical discipline.

At present I am engaged in working out various fundamental
ideas concerning the purpose and meaning of life.

As to my family: we all go mountain climbing together, play
music, read aloud, sing, go on picnics up in Contreras, one of the
most beautiful spots in the whole wide world. For exercise my
ladies dance, and 1 thump the punching ball, skip-rope, and play
tennis. Hester, our oldest, is now a junior at Putney, and Johanna

and Edda, fired by her reports from there, are also hoping to
go as soon as their time comes.

LOUIS REYNAL
HOME ADDRESS: 1112 Park Ave. New York 28, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 26, 1904, White Plains, N, Y. PARENTS: Eugene Sugny Reynal,
Adele Fitzgerald.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

Marnigp: Katherine Whelan, April 22, 1935, Baltimore, Md

HARVARD BROTHER: Fugene St. Rose Reynal, ’24.

occupaTION: Industrial designer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered U. S, Navy as lieutenant (junior grade)
Aug. 1, 1942; served two years plus as communications officer, Sup.
Ships, Orange, Texas, one year in charge communications, M. T. B

Base, Navy 3100 Mindora, Philippine Islands, discharged as lieutenant
commander, November, 1945.

Memeer oF: Racquet and Tennis Club; Westminster Kennel Club.

AFTER leaving college I spent two years in Paris studying paint-
ing. Returning to this country [ spent the ensuing years up to

[ 904 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the war on various enterprises dealing with painting and design.
Since the war I have been doing industrial design work, the
major part of which has been expositional display.

WENDELL PHILLIPS REYNOLDS ©

OFFICE ADDRESS: 599 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 27, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Paul Revere Reynolds, ’87,
Amelia Dyer Stead. —

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925; 1926-1927.

OCCUPATION: Journalism; special correspondent for Central American News-
papers, % American Consulate, Paris, France.

WALTER PAUL RHODES

HOME ADDRESS: 4216 Center Ave., Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 525 William Penn Pl., Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

BORN: March 3, 1905, Wooster, Ohio. parENTs: Lewis M. Rhodes, Gertrude
Shibley.

PREPARED AT: Wooster High School, Wooster, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Betty Mather, Akron, Ohio. cHILpREN: Paul Chilion, Aug. 16, 19403
Mary Ann, Oct. 19, 1931 (m. Mr. Hicks, Feb. 9, 1952); Walter P., Oct.
1, 1943. |

HARVARD SON: Paul Chilion Rhodes, ’52.

occupATiON: General sales staff manager, National Tube Division, United
States Steel Corporation, producer of wrought steel tubular products.

MEMBER OF: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh; American Mar-
keting Association; Sales Executives Club,

BEFORE a self-imposed deadline —but after several “prods”
from Ham Heard — I attempt the following account of my life.

A quarter of a century ago (can it be possible!) I cast my lot
with the rubber industry. Apparently I was satisfied to remain
there, until one day in 1944 I received a call from Henry Wal-
lace that National Tube Company was looking for a general sales
staff manager and was I interested. So now I have been in the
steel business for eight years.

The years have passed swiftly. I have watched my family
grow to maturity and been plagued with all the problems inci-

[ 905 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

dental to their development. Mary Ann, our only daughter,
after two and one-half years at Wellesley advised us she would
be married in New York on February 9, 1952. When you expe-
rience this event, you will know that the family is just advised.
Her husband went to Princeton, which resulted in a problem
easily solved, when I sat next to him at this last Harvard-Prince-
ton game. We didn’t have to put the cork back in the bottle! Be-
fore this Report is published, we hope to be grandparents.

Our elder son, Paul, permitted me to re-live four years at
Harvard. He was graduated with the Class of 1952. In this |
disagree with Dr. Elliott Perkins for I’m very glad that he did
not do many of the things we did twenty-five years ago. I’m
sure he did not experience the mental justification I felt prior
to my regular calls to Dean Leighton’s office after our Saturday
night dances. Paul is now at Ellington Field studying radar in
Officers Candidate School,

Our younger son Walter is timber for the Class of 1965. Be-
ing inclined towards athletics, and an acceptable student, he
will be knocking on one of the doors at University Hall before
long.

Up to this point, my family has been my hobby, taking most
of my time and interest. Our plans, recreation, and vacations
have centered around them. This year, only two weeks hence,
we are deviating from our usual vacation schedule involving
Canada, and will spend three weeks in Bermuda resting and
enjoying life on that little coral island with congenial people
— away from radio, newspapers, television, and politics. It must
be we are mellowing with age — but hasn’t it been twenty-five
years since we set out to conquer the world?

CLINTON FRANCIS RIAN

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Channing Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.
OFFice aporEss: Veterans Taxi, 1615 Cambridge St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BorN; May 30, 1906, Columbia, S. C. parents: Albert Clinton Rian, Della
Eugenia Foulk.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1930.

Marrigp: Evelyn Cardiff Greely, Sept. 24, 1932, Medford, Mass.
OCCUPATION; Restaurateur; co-owner of taxi business.

[ 906 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S, Army, ist sergeant, January, 1943, to
November, 1945; Infantry in Italy; Quartermaster Corps in France;
member of a close-knit QM outfit in Bremen, Germany.

AS SHOWN in the Vicennial Report, I have been in the food
(feeding) business for years. However, I became a shipbuilder
in 1941 and soon found myself in the Army — without a friend —
so, “I had it.” Upon returning “from the wars” (terribly stereo-
typed don’t you think?), I returned to my business for a short
time.

I became interested in being “master of my own destiny,”
and became affiliated with a taxi outfit. Making out but good.
However, “to each his own,” and I am at present wavering.
Evelyn and I are surely hoping for better things, — and some-
times “wishes do come true!”

GEORGE CHARLES RICHARD, II

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Mayhew Ave., Larchmont, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Rochelle Standard-Star, New Rochelle, N. Y.

BORN: April 9, 1905, Lynn, Mass. PARENTS: George Adolph Richard, Mar-
garet Theresa Usher. |

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; S.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: St. Clair Smith, 1933, Newton, Iowa. cHILDREN: Thomas Lane,
April 15, 1943; Margaret Randall St. Clair, Sept. 19, 1944; Deborah Nell
Duchane, June 25, 1946.

occupation: Newspaper editor.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Sergeant, New York National Guard.

OFFICES HELD: Founder, secretary, Harvard Club of Westchester; commis-
sioner, scoutmaster, cubmaster, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Westchester.

PuBLIcaTions: Magazine short stories, articles in many national publica-
tions including Esquire; editor, Westchester Crimson, publication of
Harvard Club of Westchester.

AFTER leaving Harvard Law School, which I attended after
college, I travelled in the Far East and Africa; then I came back
and attended the Columbia School of Journalism and became a
writer. I also married one. I have always had a hobby of paint-
ing, mostly in oils, and now I have a sub-hobby of developing
a farm-home which we own in North Hillsdale, New York, and
incidentally helping raise three children! These activities take

[ 907 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

time. I have worked on papers in Lynn, Massachusetts, in
Mount Vernon, New York, and am now on the New Rochelle
aper. We live in Larchmont, New York, and are active in many
church, school, and civic groups there.
My ambitions for the next twenty-five years are to become a
writer of good sea stories, a Harvard parent, and to move on to
my farm to live.

ROBSON ADAMS RICHARDS

HOME AbpREsS: 671 Central St, R.F.D. 1, Framingham, Mass.
OFFIce ADpress: Dennison Manufacturing Co., Framingham, Mass.

BorN: May 7, 1906, Melrose, Mass. parents: John Robson Richards, Jessie
Isabel Adams.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1928.

MaRRIED: Mabel Norgard, July 20, 1931 Shirley, Mass. cuitp: Peter Robson,
May 28, 1937.

occupaTion: Assistant credit manager, Dennison Manufacturing Company.
OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Committee, Cub Scouts; vice-chairman,
Red Cross Fund Campaign; secretary, Unitarian Men’s Club.

AFTER four years as an accountant with General Motors Ac-
ceptance Corporation, the depression caught up with me. In
1934, I became affiliated with the Dennison Manufacturing Com-
pany where I am now assistant credit manager. Credit man-
agers never get rich, but usually hold their positions through
good times and bad. I firmly believe we shall continue to have
both in spite of what the starry-eyed boys in Washington say
or do.

Like most of the members of the credit profession, my politics
are on the conservative side, so my vote has been cast for the
loser for as long as I can remember, Perhaps this time we shall
get the change so many Americans have been hoping for, so
many years.

My principal hobbies are: one red-headed wife, one teen-aged
son who is building a hot-rod, one English Cocker spaniel, and
one half-Persian cat. Twenty-five years have produced no money,

but no ulcers, and the fervent hope that my son will do better
than the old man.

[ 908 }

 

[
|
i
i
r

prone aneneoe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ ARTHUR WELLAND RICHARDSON

zorN: July 31, 1906, Minehead, England. parents: Frederick Leopold Wil-
liam Richardson, Anne Blake.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: AB. cum laude, 1928.

marrieD: Hope Livermore, Oct. 6, 1928, Westbury, Long Island, N. Y.
cuitpren: Arthur Blake, July 1, 1932; Constance, Jan. 28, 1936.

prep: Feb. 7, 1946, Tucson, Ariz.

UPON his graduation from college Arthur Welland Richardson
went on to further study at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Paris
with the intention of making his career in architecture. Awarded
a diploma by the French government he returned to this coun-
try to join the architectural firm of Harrison & Fouilhoux of
New York. In 1941 he entered the Navy and was with the
French forces in North Africa, serving as a Liaison Officer. In
college Richardson was a member of the Freshman and regular
Hockey Teams and belonged also to the Freshman Jubilee Com-
mittee and Freshman Soccer Squad. At the time of his death he
was a Lieutenant Commander in the Naval Reserves on terminal
leave. His father and four brothers were also alumni of Harvard.

ALLAN GRANT RICHTMYER

HOME ADDRESS: 4312 Brookridge Drive, Mission, Kansas.

OFFICE appress: U. S. Rubber Co., 16th and Swift, North Kansas City, Mo.

BORN: Oct. 8, 1906, Coxsackie, N. Y. PARENTS: Mark Case Richtmyer, Lillian
May Kellogg.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

Marriep: Jane Edith Jansen, Nov. 5, 1926 (separated 1933); Marie F. Kass,
March 17, 1939, Albany, N. Y. cHiLpREN: Burton Hall, Dec. 6, 1927;
Allan Grant, Jr., Oct. 24, 1940; Peter Mark, May 18, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nelson Kellogg Richtmyer, ’23, a.m., ’25, PH.D. '27.

occuPATION: Sales manager, Kansas City District, Fisk-Gillette Tires Di-
vision, United States Rubber Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: New York State Guard, 1944-45.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Head of Research and Planning, Tire Ration-
ing Department, Office of Price Administration, Washington, D. C.

orFices HELD: Manager, Business Analysis, Sales Operations, Distribution
Planning, Fisk Tires Division, U. S. Rubber Company; chairman, ex-
ecutive Committee, Cub Scouts.

MEMBER OF: Kansas City Athletic Club.

[ 909 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

IT’S a fact. The early period following my graduation consisted
of one year successfully avoiding anything serious at the Harvard
Business School and six years unsuccessfully seeking what in Wall
Street would make the fabled grasshopper seem like an ant of
exceptional industry and purpose. Thanks to a strong stomach, |
survived.

Since that time, except for a two-year leave of absence during
the war while I assisted the O.P.M., O.C.S., W.P.B., and O.P.A.
in keeping our country rolling on rubber, I have been with the
United States Rubber Company. Following my return from
the Battle of the Potomac, I became associated with the Fisk
Tires Division (later the Fisk-Gillette Tires Division) as man-
ager of business analysis, later as manager of sales operations
and manager of distribution planning. Since 1947 my work has
been in the field of active selling and sales management. For the
past two years I have been district sales manager at Kansas City,
which job includes seven states (big ones). I like my work and
my company, the best in the business.

Outside of business, my interests are mostly related to our two
boys, Rick and Peter, and include Boy Scouts, Cub Scouts, base-
ball, swimming, fishing, and football (ouch). I have actively
worked with the Scouts, and am currently managing a team in the
Northeast Johnson County (Kansas) Junior Baseball League.

I still play golf whenever possible. My game has not great-
ly improved over the years, but my golfing temperament has.
In between pulled muscles and stiff knees, I enjoy playing aerial
tennis at the Kansas City Athletic Club. This game was invented
here; it’s something like badminton, but more strenuous.

WARREN FREDERICK RIDEOUT

HOME appress: 54 Beltram St. Malden 48, Mass.

OFFice appress: 77 Franklin St. Boston 10, Mass.

Born: Nov. 29, 1906, Malden, Mass, parents: Elihu Rideout, Olivia Small.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927, DecRegs: as. cum laude, 1938(27); LL.B., 1930.

Maggiep: Marjorie E. Black, Sept. 25, 1937, Malden, Mass. cuitpren: Douglas
Warren, Nov. 9, 1939; Carolyn Louise, Dec. 3, 1941; Bruce Edward,
Jan. 29, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

[910 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Member Selective Service Advisory Board,
Malden.

OFFICES HELD: City councilor, Malden, 1936, 1937.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; various professional organizations.

I RECEIVED my college degree in June, 1927, and entered Har-
vard Law School in September of 1927. Upon receiving my law
degree in 1930 and upon passing the Massachusetts Bar exams, I
commenced the practice of law in Boston. I have found the
practice of law very interesting ever since. If I were to choose
an occupation again I should choose the same one.

ELMER ALBERT RIECKMAN

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kimball, Lamb, Rieckman & Co., 612 First National Bank
Bldg., Oshkosh, Wis.

BORN: June 18, 1900, Oshkosh, Wis. PARENTS: Herman Rieckman, Anna
Reinert.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Irene Maves, Nov. 8, 1933, Milwaukee, Wis.

OccuUPATION: Certified Public Accountant, partner in accounting firm of
Kimball, Lamb, Rieckman & Company.

CHANDLER ROBBINS, II

HOME appRrESS: 64 Highland Ave., Auburn, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P. O. Box 259, Lewiston, Maine.

BoRN: Nov. 21, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: William Bradford Robbins, ’go,
Marian Sears Bennett,

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Sarah Fraser, May 2, 1936, Morristown, N. J. cHmpreN: Hanson
Corning, April 24, 1937; Theodore Bennett, Feb. 26, 1939; Marian,
Aug. 13, 1941; Sarah, June 2, 1943; Jane, June 7, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Bellows Robbins, °36; Peter Gilman Robbins, °47,
M.D. '49.

OccuPATION: Assistant to president, for process and product development,
Bates Manufacturing Company, textile manufacturers.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Production Section, Research and Development
Division, Office of the Quartermaster General.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1948-51, Commodore, 1952, Eastern Point Yacht
Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Merchant’s Club, New York;
Eastern Point Yacht Club.

[ort ]

$$

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

FREDERICK MEAD ROBERTS

HOME ADDRESS: 401 Beacon Sr., Boston 15, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1905, Dedham, Mass. parents: Odin Roberts, ‘86, Ada Mead,

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.Ay 1932.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sumner Mead Roberts, ’21, M.D., °25 (deceased).

occuPATION: Investment banking, president, Minot Kendall & Company, Inc,

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Ward 5, Republican Committee, Boston, 1948-52,
State Club, 1949-52.

MEMBER OF: Boston Security Analysts Society; Merchants Commercial Club
of Boston; Saint Botolph Club; Essex County Club; The Country Club
of Brookline; Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York.

EVER since I was graduated from the Harvard Business School
in 1932 I have been engaged in various forms of banking. My
principal function has been to analyze and investigate companies,
especially new ones. For the past twenty years the political and
financial climate for growth concerns has not been good. Two
concerns which I have been associated with would be far ahead
of where they are today if it had not been for excess profits
taxes.

Besides being president of Minot Kendall & Company, I am
also a director of the Photon Corporation of Cambridge which
has developed a “Photo composition” machine which may revo-
lutionize printing. This company through subsidiaries also makes
industrial linings and finishes: The Chase Chemical Company of
Pittsburgh which makes ingredients for paints and linoleum and
also applies certain industrial finishes. The Livingstone Engi-
neering Corporation which makes electrode steam boilers, The
Old Dominion Manganese Company of Strassburg, Virginia, and
the New Products Research Corporation of Boston. I have
been director of others which are inactive or have passed out
of existence. The successful companies have been a combination
of good men and good ideas with the former factor being the
Most important.

As I have mentioned before, conditions for the past twenty
years have not favored this type of business. Neither does the
locality of New England. Here a great deal of money has gone
into the dead hands of trustees, investment trusts, investment

[914]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

counsel, and insurance companies. There is a tendency to re-
member a man for his mistakes and not for his successes — to
condemn a new venture merely on account of newness. Yet on
the other hand good opportunities exist for venture capital in
New England, particularly in electronic and special instrument
industries located in and around Cambridge.

On November 4, 1952, national conditions may have turned
very much better for business men. For the past twenty years
we have had lawyers, professors, social service workers, and
union labor leaders dominant in Washington and more recently
an apparent infiltration of people who can only be classified
as parasites,

For the last thirteen years I have been financial guardian of
my brother’s children and also have acted as a trustee for an-
other family with children. I think my interests have not been
restricted to the monetary side of things and that I may know
more about the younger generation than the usual bachelor.
As far as I have observed, a year or two in the armed services
does no harm at all, and if one has no particular bent such as
toward being a doctor, universal military training after grad-
uating from college may be beneficial.

From 1930 to 1933 I served in Battery A, roist Field Artillery
in the Massachusetts National Guard. Hypertension kept me
from any active service in the last World War.

My hobbies are golf, bridge, curling, and gardening. I think
there is nothing worth doing unless one attempts within the
scope of one’s time and ability to do it really well.

While on this subject— even though the Yale football game
last fall was disastrous there seems to be a desire at Harvard
to have this game played and coached well. On the other hand
the leading house team which beat its Yale opponent and all
the other Harvard house teams with ease had varsity squad tal-
ent on it. No credit can be awarded for this very minor per-
formance — such talent could have been used to better ad-
vantage.

[915 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ARCHIBALD THOMAS ROBERTSON

HOME AND OFFICE Appress:; STEM (ECA), % U. S. Embassy, Bangkok,

Thailand.

BORN: June 25, 1906, Louisville, Ky. parents: Archibald Thomas Robertson,

Ella Broadus.
PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, DEGREES: A.B. 1928; AM. (Duke Univ.), 1929.

marrigp: Malvina Waring Blackburn, Oct. 29, 1934, Greenville, S. C.
occupation: Government Service.

ACCORDING to the Special Technical and Economic Mission,
Robertson left Thailand in early December, 1951. (Ed. note.)

DOUGLAS ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 3243 Camino Campestre, Tucson, Ariz.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Flying R Ranch and Circle Z Ranch, Patagonia, Ariz.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Theodore Douglas Robin-
son, ’04, Helen Roosevelt.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

MarrieD: Louise Miller, May 6, 1933, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y. cuit-
prEN: Douglas, Jr., Sept. 12, 1934; Nora, Feb. 22, 1936; Theodore D,,
Aug. 6, 1938; Lynne, April 3, 1940.

OccUPATION: Aviation.

JUDSON BALDWIN ROBINSON

HOME apprEss: % American Club, Bartolomé Mitre 530, Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

oFFice appress: Alsina 633, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

BORN: July 13, 1907, Brookline, Mass. parents: Channing Robinson, Bertha
Baldwin.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

MarriED: Sheila S. C. Carranza von Heinrich, Oct. 25, 1945, Montevideo,
Uruguay.

occupation: Advertising: Buenos Aires office of the J. Walter Thompson
Company,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Naval Reserve: June, 1941, lieutenant
(junior grade), December, 1946, commander; served in Canal Zone,
1941-43, Washington, 1943-44, Buenos Aires (Assistant N. A.), 1944-46.

MEMBER oF: American Club of Buenos Aires; San Andrés Golf Club.

[916 ]

 

r
e
EB

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN MARCH, 1932, I came to Buenos Aires and one of the first
people I met — not dreaming that he was here — was our class-
mate George Greenslet. There were three of us here: George,
myself, and Corby Fox, who at the time was a vice consul.
Corby left soon afterward, and several years later, as you know, he
died. That left George and me as the class representatives in
Buenos Aires.

Last Friday, February 20th, George died. The news was a
shock, and his death marks a great loss to this community so’ far
from home, as well as to his classmates and other friends through-
out the world.

So now I am alone. I only hope that Lc can fill in part of the
gap which George left in the representation of our Class in
Buenos Aires.

LEO ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Browne St. Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room gos, 82 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 2, 1907, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Charles E. Robinson, Rose Ger-
trude Silbert.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. Cur laude, 1928; M.B.A., 1931.

MARRIED: Pear] Jacobson, Jan. 1, 1949, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Linda Carol, Feb.
25, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Robinson, '29, 11.B., '32; Maurice Robinson, 34;
Robert Robinson, ’4z; Samuel Robinson, 36.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Expert examiner, U. S. Civil Service Com-

mission, 1942~43; member of Massachusetts State Guard, 1942-45.

OFFICES HELD: President, Northeastern Products, Inc., 1939-52.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Nu Fraternity; Roberts Club.

VARIETY seems to be the word that would sum up my busi-
ness career since I left the Harvard Business School in 1930. The
first year I spent in the wholesale (florist) business. The sec-
ond year I spent in retailing (statistical work in a department
store merchandise office). The next twenty years were spent in
manufacturing. But even the manufacturing was of a varied na-
ture (from cosmetics to sportswear). And now I am in insur-
ance work. Suffice it to say, I have been very much occupied
since the old college days with very little time out for extended

[917 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

vacations or tours. During the war years our firm worked on
many War contracts, some extremely important. We were able
to say, when asked by the government to report on the man-
ner in which we fulfilled all these contracts, that every single
contract was completed on time or in advance of the scheduled
completion date. I am extremely proud of my record during
the critical years of the Second World War. It was during
part of this period that I recruited for the federal government
during the day and worked far into the night on my firm’s
war contracts, When I finally had to give up my govern-
ment work because I no longer could do justice to both jobs,
I then, for the remainder of the war period, worked day and
night on these war contracts.

Perhaps long hours of work, a habit which started with me
almost immediately on leaving the Business School, have had
something to do with my getting married some twenty-one
years after leaving college. I am now bringing up an infant at
the same time some of my classmates are enjoying their grand-
children, I can report to you fellows, though, that in my opin-
ion it is just as much fun to do it at this stage of life as it would
have been to do it twenty years earlier. I do not feel however
that I have missed anything from life by not having married
early. It was as natural for me then to be an “old” bachelor as
it is for me now to be a father of a very young child for the
first time.

During these busy years I was able to keep up my interest
in some sort of sport or sports. To this day I play squash when-
ever I can, which is about twice a week. After thirty-five |
learned something of mountain-climbing and have continued
with this vigorous but enjoyable pastime.

As to my hobbies, the only real hobbies | have are my sports.
I am keenly interested in current events and always have been.
Politically I should like to class myself as an Independent, voting
for the man rather than the party.

Now that I have started on this summary, I feel that I could
continue indefinitely. But it would have no purpose, Looking

back over the twenty-five-year period, I can say that it was
packed with interest, success, disappointment, pleasure, and
above all variety.

[918]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH EUGENE ROCHETTE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 104 Washington St., R. F. D., Whitman, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Commerce Clearing House, Inc., 111 Devonshire St., Bos-
ton 9, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1906, Worcester, Mass. parENTS: Joseph Eugene Rochette,

* p.M.D., 00, Mary Louise Mellor.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B. Cur laude, 1928(27).

marrieD: Marjorie I. Holt, Aug. 18, 1934, Worcester, Mass, cHILpREN:
Lawrence Mellor, Aug. 23, 1935; Katherine Margaret, Feb. 18, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Mellor Rochette, p.m.p., 728.

occuPATION: Sales representative, Commerce Clearing House, Inc. a loose-
leaf law reporting and publishing firm; territory in Boston’s financial
district. -

OFFICES HELD: President, P.T.A., East Bridgewater, Mass.; chairman, East
Bridgewater branch, Red Cross, 1950-52, “On-to-Washington” com-
mittee (to raise money to send high school seniors on a trip to Wash-
ington, D. C.), 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester (formerly); Worcester Economics
Club, Box 4 Associates (Worcester Voluntary. Fire-Fighter); Lions
Club of Braintree.

SHORTLY after receiving my A.B. in 1927 (as of ’28), I spent
four months as a harvest hand from Nebraska to western Sas-
katchewan. From early 1928 to 1931, | advanced from a plan-
ning clerk to a chief clerk of planning statistics in the machine
division of the Norton Company in Worcester. By 1931 the
bottom had fallen out of the machine tool business and I started
a mew career as an electric appliance salesman. Except for a
six-month interim with the New England Telephone and Tele-
graph Company, I remained with the W. H. Sawyer Company
of Worcester until February, 1944. I became a sales engineer
in their general electric heating and engineering division, and
heating, air conditioning and insulation occupied my life morn-
ing, noon, and night for some eleven years, Among the few
consolations for the night work were the eight- or nine-day win-
ter cruises to Bermuda, Havana, or Nassau, These had to be dis-
continued with war approaching, ,

In February, 1944, I accepted a sales position with Commerce
Clearing House, Inc. It meant leaving the old home town, but it
also meant freedom from evening, Saturday, and even Sunday
sales calls. We began to have a little more normal family life.

[919 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928 |

The last nine years have flown by. In 1946 we bought a 150-

year-old Cape Cod cottage in East Bridgewater and we are still _

in the process of remodelling and renovating it. In 1948 Kathy was
born. This event seemed especially wonderful to us, as we had
practically given up hope of another child. 1 think we get a
bigger “Lick” out of our second child than our first. Those of

you with two “generations” of children will probably admit they

keep you young.

Although both Margie and I were city-bred, we have long
since been sold on small town life with plenty of lebensraum.
Weare active in community affairs, have a good vegetable garden,
raise a few apples, and plan what is next in remodelling our Cape
Cod. Our next big problem is Larry who graduates from high
school this June, apparently right in the middle of our Reunion
Week, which is not very considerate. He appears headed for

an engineering course, though where he will matriculate is not
settled.

ROBERT FRANCIS RODGERS

HOME ADDRESS: 4303 Oakdale Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn.
oFFice ADDRESS: North Atlantic Constructors, Thule, Greenland.

BoRN: Dec. 12, 1906, Orange, Mass. pArENTS: James Edward Rodgers, Mary
Elizabeth Burke.

PREPARED AT: Orange High School, Orange, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1927-1929. DEGREE: 8.B., 1928(29).

MARRIED: Jeanne E. Hague, May 1, 1934, Minneapolis, Minn. CHILDREN: Burke
Edward, April 21, 1935; Joel Edward, July 1, 1937.

occupation: Construction, business division, airbase project on Greenland.

OFFICES HELD: President, American Premium Company, 1933-48; chairman,
Scout Committee, Edina-Morningside Church.

1 WAS with the tna Casualty and Surety Company after
graduation. In 1933, with others, I organized the American
Premium Company. In 1948 1 was travelling auditor for Glen-
denning Motorways Inc., and since 1951 have been with the
North Atlantic Constructors at Thule, Greenland, Peary’s base
on his last trip to the North Pole. My contract here will prob-
ably prevent my attending the twenty-fifth.

I made a mistake in 1932 and it took me five more elections
to get the vote changed so that I could vore right again.

[920]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My two sons are now in high school with the elder gradu-
ating in June with his future school plans at present unsettled.
My chief regret is that I have failed miserably in keeping con-
tact with Class’ members during the past twenty-five years —
perhaps a change can be made.

On May ist of 1934 I was married to Jeanne Hague of Min-
neapolis, Minnesota, a graduate of the University of Minnesota,
and with our two boys, Burke and Jolly, and dog “Otis” we live
at 4303 Oakdale Avenue, South, Morningside (Minneapolis),
Minnesota.

A few trips east and Florida plus a few visits to Chicago have
constituted my travelling except for three round trips to Thule,
Greenland. My hobby is strictly hunting, in which my Blue
Belton setter “Otis” has excelled, making my pheasant trips to
South Dakota and western Minnesota pleasant and profitable
(in game). All that I can say about Thule is that it’s really cold
and the ice-cap is poor company on a windy night.

EDWARD HAMILTON ROEMER

HOME ADDRESS: 1284 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 185 Franklin St., Boston 7, Mass. -

BORN: July 30, 1902, Boston, Mass. PaRENTS: Edward William Roemer,
Elizabeth Hamilton. .

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.; Worcester Academy,
Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MarRiED: Mary G. O’Brien, Aug. 19, 1924, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Mary F.,
Aug. 29, 1925.

occupation: Buildings engineer, in charge of all building construction,
New England Telephone & Telegraph Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Section, 1940-44; vice-president, Na-
tional Section, 1944-51, Harvard Engineering Society.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

AFTER leaving Harvard at the end of my sophomore year I
entered the building construction business with the firm of
Dwight P. Robinson & Company and stayed with this organ- .
ization for about six years. During this period I put in con-
siderable night school work on engineering subjects, In 1930
I went to work for the New England Telephone & Telegraph

[921 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Company in their building department and after various assign-
ments, I was appointed building engineer in 1945. In this capac-

ity I am responsible for the design and construction of telephone
buildings in New England.

I am married and still like it even though we celebrated our

silver anniversary in 1949. I have one daughter who graduated
from Dana Hall School in Wellesley and Connecticut College

for Women in New London, Connecticut, and now is director
of volunteers at the Children’s Hospital in Boston.

POLYCARPOS PETER ROMANOS

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 428 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: July 5, 1897, Ordon, Turkey. parents: Panagiotes George Romanos,
Rhode K. Oacabides.

PREPARED AT: Tilton,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1930.

POLYCARPOS PETER ROMANOS has been carried as a “lost”
man on our records since 1934.

WILLIAM RICHARD ROSE

HOME ADpRESS: 155 S. Main St., Ellenville, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Home National Bank, Ellenville, N. Y.

Born: April 2, 1906, Ellenville, N. Y. parents: William Clemmens Rose,
Amy Bradley Childs.

PREPARED AT: Pawling School, Pawling, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928 DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: George Childs Rose, ’22.

OCCUPATION: President, Home National Bank, Rose & Douglas Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Indoctrinated Quonset Point, R. I., Class, May,
1942; commissioned lieutenant, U. S. N. R., August, 1942; went to
Pacific attached to Hawaiian Sea Frontiers; attended Fighter-Director
School, Pearl Harbor; attended Air Combat Intelligence School, Quon-
set Point, October, 1944; taught Naval Air Operational Training at
Beaufort, S. C., was scheduled to attend MISX when peace was de-
clared; spent five months as ACI Officer for Carrier Air Group 4;
promoted lieutenant commander, July, 1945, commander, July, 1952.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Veterans’ Memorial Hospital, Ellenville, N. Y.,
since 1946; president, Fantinekill Cemetery Association, Ellenville,

[922]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

N. Y., since 1950; chairman, Group VI—New York State Bankers
Association, 1951-§2; trustee, Ellenville Savings Bank (at present).
meMBeER OF: Many small town societies and clubs.

IT SEEMS only yesterday that I was writing a similar story for
che Tenth Reunion. Then the Twentieth and now the big
Twenty-fifth.

My life probably follows a familiar pattern —I came with the
Home National Bank shortly after graduation and have re-
mained with it ever since, becoming its president in 1941, only
to resign in 1942 to join the United States Navy. My navy
career paralleled many of my Classmates’, having been at Indoc-
trination School with Bill Saltonstall and crossing paths with him
at various spots in the Pacific—— ACI School was a similar ex-
perience with Link Brayton, Bob Hunneman and others —1I
was fortunate during my Navy days in seeing most of the Pa-
cific and working on plans for the invasion of Japan which
fortunately were cancelled.

In 1946 I returned to the bank and have spent the intervening
time trying to catch up. About the same time I assumed the
presidency of Rose & Douglas Company, a family hardware,
heating and plumbing business in Ellenville and have managed
to keep myself extremely busy.

I have worked with various committees of the New York
State Bankers Association, serving as chairman of Group VI, dur-
ing years 1951-52.

As far as political convictions are concerned I am proud to be
among the early “I like Ike” group and enjoyed the pleasure of
a Republican victory for the first time since the year of our
graduation.

The rest of my activities have been centered about a small
town community life, and I have enjoyed working with various
civic, fraternal, religious, patriotic, and other groups. At the
present moment I have a big job with Civilian Defense, due to an
unusual set of circumstances making Ellenville an important
factor in the State plans,

I attended the Harvard-Princeton luncheon this fall and if that
is any indication of the Twenty-fifth in June, there can be no
question of its unqualified success as the biggest thing in Har-
vard’s history.

[923 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

JAMES ALAN ROSEN |
HOME ADDRESS: 431 E. 2zoth St., New York, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 105 E. 73rd St.. New York 21, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 26, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Hyman Abraham Rosen Ann
Kirschner.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.D. (Univ. of Chicago)
1932.

MARRIED: Florence Reye, Sept. 26, 1947, New York, N. Y.

occuPATION: Physician, specializing in obstetrics and gynecology.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Four and a half years in Army Medical Corps:
two years as surgeon in Caribbean Theatre hospitals; two and a half

years in charge of female surgery at Tilton General Hospital, Fort
Dix, N. J.—all from early 1942 through 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Attending obstetrician and gynecologist, Lincoln and Beth
David Hospitals, New York.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Obstetricians; Phi O. E.; American
Medical Association; New York Academy of Medicine, American

College of Surgeons; American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology;
American Academy of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

PUBLICATIONS: About a dozen papers in obstetrics and gynecology; one book
for the laity: Fertility in Men and Women.

WHEN I was turned down for admission to the Harvard Med-
ical School I thought that the end had come, but actually my
four years at Rush Medical School at the University of Chicago
did more to make me grow than anything else in my memory.
It taught me the folly of local and provincial attitudes which
are so common to most “proper” Bostonians and since then the
one main joy in my life has been to travel, see how the world
lives, and learn from experience. So after medical school I
spent seven years in various hospitals all over the United
States — Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Boston, and New
York — learning my trade at many different knees; and then
after long mental exertion decided to settle down and practise
in Manhattan. The reasons 1 gave myself then — and they still
hold — were the presence of the living theatre, the musical
world, and the art world there at all times and not just in sea-
sons. Don’t get me wrong—TI do not participate in but just
partake of these ineffable delights. I know that economically
I could have been better off outside of New York, but I still

[924-]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have no cause to regret my original decision. Professionally
New York City is good too, though highly competitive.

Then just about the time I was firmly establishing a place in
_ New York obstetrics and gynecology, along came World War
II, Although not in the reserve I joined up in early 1942, and
my hospital was one of the first to get to England and then to
Iceland — when it was an important and busy and oh so top secret
base. Then after the successful European invasion I came home
and became chief of the largest female surgical division of the
army. My friends(???) in high places were so pleased with
my work that I was declared essential and so I didn’t get out of
uniform until I had been in for almost four and a half years,
The only bright spot in this period was that professionally I
didn’t stagnate like so many of my friends. Frankly I hope I
never work as hard again as I did those years — but for peanuts
and by order! - oo

After the war I returned to New York City to pick up the
threads of practice but found I had to rebuild, and only now do I
seem to see results. At present I am one of the chiefs in the divi-
sion of obstetrics and gynecology at two major hospitals in
New York City — and this is no mean honor, believe me. In ad-
dition to about a dozen short medical papers I also wrote a
book for the public on sterility called Fertility in Men and Wom-
en, which all the critics liked but is still selling too slowly.

I married five years ago for the first time and am still wrapped
up with a most wonderful wife, although everyone wants to
know why she married me! No children! Life is hectic in New
York but I love it. We see all the shows, go to concerts, meet-
ings, exhibitions, friends’ homes, etc., all the time and try to work
in between. We have a hard time finding time to do all we want
to do, For vacations we travel—so far all over the United
States, Canada, Central America, and northern South America,
most of western Europe and North Africa — nothing like travel
to get away from it all. Recently I’ve acquired a steus camera
and may turn out to be a camera bug if it continues to intrigue

me. !

Finally, I like the political situation now at hand. I always
feel the need for a change and will look ahead to a brighter fu-

[925 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ture for all the people all over the world — and that includes me
and mine too!

MARVIN CHAUNCEY ROSS

OFFICE AppRESS: Los Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles 8, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1904, Moriches, N. Y. parents: William Edwin Ross, Mary
Katherine Rogers.

prePARED AT: Lynbrook High School, Moriches, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1927. DEGREES: a.B. cum laude, 1928(27); A.M., 1930.

MARRIED: Mrs. Lotus Robb Smith, Sept. 10, 1937, Cambridge, Mass.
oocuPATION: Curator of art museum.

HAROLD EDWARD ROTE

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Francisco Ct., Orinda, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 220 Montgomery St., San Francisco, Calif.

porN: Feb. 11, 1906, Franklin, Pa. parents: Allyn T. Rote, Azella Eliza-
beth Horst.

PREPARED AT: Greensburg High School, Greensburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: AB. 1928; M.B.A. (Northwestern
Univ.), 1931; Lu.B. (Chicago Kent Coll. of Law), 1935.

MarRiED: Janet W. Emery, Oct. 26, 1941, Greensburg, Pa. cuiLp: Janet Azel-
la, Feb. 25, 1943.

occuraATION: Adjuster and attorney, supervisor, bond claims, Aitna Life
Affiliated Companies.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Boatswain’s mate first class, Air Patrol San
Francisco Coast Guard, October, 1944-November, 1945.

oFFices HELD: Director, Orinda Association, 1950; Moraga Del Rey Im-
provement Association, 1950-51.

DURING the first five years after graduation, while still engaged
in going to school to learn more about less and less, the subject
under consideration was employed by the Chicago Mail Order
Company in Chicago, Illinois, a fine place to ride out the depres-
sion as statistician and buyer.

After graduation from law school, the subject practised law
first as a partner, then as a sole practitioner from 1937 through
1941. During said time said practice was confined to divorce,
probate, real property, and bankruptcy, said business being de-
veloped through the use of real estate broker’s license used in
the buying and selling of all types of Chicago properties.

[926]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A little paper marked “greetings” received in May, 1941,
changed the course of events — for while the “powers that be”
were endeavoring to decide whether old men of twenty-eight
and beyond should be given one year of training, this being was
hog-tied in Chicago by deferments of three-month durations, so
that no new business was developed. After the decision was made
that said “old” men were again free to move about in the busi-
ness world, said business was gone, so the move was made to
start anew in greener pastures, namely, Seattle, Washington.

Not to be alone in such a momentous move — this subject did
get married on October 26, 1941, journeying to Seattle only to
arrive just prior to the big knife in the back delivered on De-
cember 7th, 1941. Immediately this being was 1A in the draft,
in which category he remained until February, 1944. It being
necessary to eat, and the starting of a law career again not seem-
ing to be the best thing to do, this subject joined the AZtna
Casualty and Surety Company ranks as an adjuster, later being
admitted to the Bar of the State of Washington.

About January, 1949, the AXtna Casualty and Surety Company
decided the services of this adjuster were needed in San Fran-
cisco, so a transfer was made, Since that date, the subject has
resided in Arenda, an unincorporated area, east of Oakland, a
region fast growing with the resultant problems which the subject
of this discourse has helped to solve and pay for in ever increas-
ing taxes. A quick use of figures indicates that he has ridden
almost 50,000 miles in the last four years on Greyhound busses
just to work in San Francisco where he supervises the claims aris-
ing from other people’s habit of taking what is not theirs — at
first just to borrow it, or those who bite off more than they can
chew, so one becomes a contractor to finish up jobs — or help
a banker who being a banker can only see money get out of a
loss caused by not seeing what is obvious to others,

All in all, this subject has not made a blaze across the sky, has
enjoyed life, kept his religion, and in raising a family is complet-
ing a mild but successful twenty-five years.

[927 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928°

BENJAMIN ROWLAND, JR. |

‘HOME ADDRESS: 154 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fogg Art Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge 38,
Mass.

BorN: Dec. 2, 1904, Overbrook, Pa. parents: Benjamin Rowland, Louie Clem
Lennig.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1928. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1928; A.M., 1929;
PH.D., 1930.

MARRIED: Lucy Thomas, Nov. 19, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. cuitpren: Lucy
Lennig, Feb. 28, 1944; Virginia Thomas, Feb. 22, 1945; Sarah and Elise
de Boulignez (twins), Nov. 9, 1948; Margaret Elizabeth, April 14, 1952.

occupation: Professor, Fine Arts Department, Harvard; Martin A. Ryerson
Lecturer on Fine Arts.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Naval Reserve, July, 1942-June, 1945; Commu-
nications; lieutenant and lieutenant-commander, Washington, D. C.
MEMBER OF: College Art Association, American Archaeological Associa-

tion; China Art Society; Society for Japanese Studies; New York Zoo-
logical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Jaume Huguet, Harvard University Press, 1932; The Wall-
paintings of India, Central Asia, and Ceylon, Boston, 1938; T. Naito,
The Wall-paintings of Horyuji, trans. and ed. with W. R. B. Acker,
Baltimore, 1943; The Art and Architecture of India, Pelican Press (in
press); Harvard Outline and Reading List in Oriental Art, Harvard Uni-

versity Press, 19§2.
NO REPORT of this kind should be without a mention of hob-
bies. My life consists of three full-time hobbies: family, teaching
oriental and western art at Harvard, and water color painting.
In various ways I am paid for all three: 1) since our last Report
our family has more than doubled with twins, Sarah and Elise,
1948, and a fifth daughter, Margaret Elizabeth, born in 1952. I
would be grateful for a good comeback for the crack about
“enough for a basketball team” and challenging Eddie Cantor; 2)
Harvard and Radcliffe continue to pay my salary; 3) as a result
of my third hobby of water color painting I am represented by
pictures in the Fogg Art Museum, the Boston Museum of Fine
Arts, the Detroit Institute of Arts, and the City Art Museum of
St. Louis. I have had annual shows at Doll & Richards, Boston,
since 1949, and special exhibitions in the Baltimore Museum of
Art, 1949, the Detroit Institute of Arts, 1952, Berkshire Art

Gallery, 1952, and the Palace of the Legion of Honor, San Fran-
CISCO, 19§2.

[928 ]

 

F

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ HARRY WILLIAM ROWLEY

porn: Nov. 19 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Harry William Rowley,
Annie Hand Tracy.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

margieD: Madolon Dalton.

pep: Aug. 28, 1937, Provincetown, Mass.

ROWLEY had been engaged in the publishing business before
his death in Provincetown. His mother and wife survived him.

,
ABRAHAM DANIEL RUBENSTEIN

HOME ApoREss: 164 Ward St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

orFice Aporess: Massachusetts Department of Public Health, 41 Mt. Vernon
St., Boston 8, Mass.

Born: Nov. 19, 1907, Lynn, Mass. parents: Max Rubenstein, Dora Mamber.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. pecrees: as. cum laude, 1928; m.p. (Boston
Univ.), 1933; M-p.H. (Harvard Univ.), 1940.

marrieD: Dr. Delilah Reimer, Dec. 26, 1937, Boston, Mass, cHinpren: Jocl
Jay, April 7, 1939; David Harvey, June 13, 1941; Susan Sophia, March
24, 1947,

occupation: Director, Division of Hospitals, Massachusetts Department of
Public Health; assistant professor in epidemiology, Harvard School
of Public Health, lecturer in public health practice, Boston University,
Boston College, Simmons College.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Coordinator Public Health in Civil Defense
Region 5, during World War II, at present Hospital liaison, Civil
Defense Organization in Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Consultant in preventive medicine, Beth Israel Hospital, Bos-
ton, since 1950; member Board of Trustees, New England Sinai Hospi-
tal, since 1952; member Advisory Committee, Boston College School of
Nursing, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Delta Omega Honorary Society; Massachusetts Medical So-
ciety; American Medical Association; Massachusetts Public Health
Association; American Public Health Association, Massachusetts Hos-
pital Association; American Hospital Association, New England Hos-
pital Assembly; Greater Boston Medical Society; Phi Delta Epsilon
Medical Fraternity.

PuBLications: “Endemic Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever in Massachusetts”;
“Salmonellosis as a Public Health Problem in Wartime”; “Epidemic
Diarrhea of the Newborn in Massachusetts,” a ten year survey; “The
Age Distribution of Poliomyelitis in Massachusetts”, “Expectancy of
Poliomyelitis in Schools and Camps.”

[929]

—.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

somewhat within reasonable girth. Next summer the boys are

planning a trip across the country. With some misgivings, I am
looking forward to this trip.

BORIS BENJAMIN RUBENSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 5121 Ellis Ave. Chicago rs, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 185 N. Wabash Ave., Chicago 1, Ill.

porn: April 15, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Rubenstein, Liza Cheskis,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1938, A.M., 1929; PH.D. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1933; M.D. (ibid.), 1933.

maRRIED: Dorothy Iris Covitz, June 12, 1933, Chicago, Ill. critpren: Karel
Leah, Oct. 24, 1938; Deborah Ann, Sept. 30, 1945.

occupation: Physician specializing in endocrinology and psychosomatic
medicine; research in various problems of human reproduction.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, Medical Corps,
U.S. Army, Jan. 5, 1943; ward officer, Schick General Hospital (psy-
chiatry); command of 816 Medical Hospital Ship Platoon, North Af-
rica, 1943-44; returned to U. S. for research on flame injury to Edge-
wood Arsenal, Chemical Warfare Service, Medical Department; re-
leased with rank of major, July, 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT post: Civilian consultant, Chemical Warfare Serv-

ice, 1946-47.

oFFices HELD: Vice-president, South Side School of Jewish Studies (in
charge adult education), 1950-52; member Board, Hyde Park Jewish
Community Center.

MEMBER OF: Endocrine Society; Psychosomatic Society; American Physio-
logical Society, Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine; A. A.
A. S.; American Medical Association, Society for Personality Study;
local medical societies.

puBLications: The Sexual Cycle in Women, many publications on various
aspects of the endocrine and emotional factors in human reproduction;
Sperm Survival in Women; Emotional Factors in Infertility; Studies on
Basal Body Temperature and Vaginal Smears of Women.

 

UPON graduation I was sure that a research career in physiology
was how I| wished to spend my professional life. After a year in
the graduate school I was convinced that a medical education
would be a prerequisite and thus was off to the University of
Chicago in the fall of 1929. The details of getting through
medical school may be omitted; but on graduation and marriage
in June, 1933, in the depths of the economic depression, I was
glad enough to get a National Research Council fellowship fol-

[932]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lowed by Rockefeller Foundation fellowships that permitted me
to do research and support myself and family. At Western Re-
serve University when the Rockefeller Grants were awarded, I
discovered the cyclic fluctuation in the basal body temperature
and vaginal smears of women that provide a technique for find-
ing the “fertile period” as well as rough assay for cyclic sex hor-
mone production, It followed then that the technique could be
applied in the study of infertile couples as well as to the study
of correlation between emotional and sex-hormone fluctuations.

In 1940 I returned to Chicago when at Michael Reese Hospital
better facilities for clinical investigation were offered. In 1943
I entered service to remain for three and a half years; 1 was re-
leased with the rank of major and a citation of meritorious work
performed, So in 1946 I returned to Chicago and Michael Reese
Hospital. And I decided also to try my hand at private practice.
The private practice has gradually consumed the time previously
devoted to research (as I had feared), but the rewards made it
difficult to surrender to the lure of exploring the unknown —
although that remains my heart’s desire. I continue in practice
and to a slight extent to do research on emotional factors in in-
fertility and various sex-endocrine disturbances.

SAMUEL SOLOMON RUDERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 497 Rock St., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 385 High St, Fall River, Mass.

BORN: June 14, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Benjamin Harry Ruderman,
Tillie Fishkind.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1924-1928, DEGREES: S.B., 1928; Rabbi (Jewish Theological
Seminary of America), 1932; MHL. (ibid.), 1949.

MarRIED: Tillie M. Grusin, June 14, 1932, Boston, Mass. cnitp: Ora Beth,
March 26, 1935.

occupation: Rabbi, Temple Beth El, Fall River.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Enlisted U. S. Naval Reserve Chaplains’ Corps,
September, 1943; eight weeks’ course of indoctrination, Chaplains’
School, Williamsburg, Va.; temporary duty N.O.B. Norfolk, Va.
assigned Great Lakes Naval Training Center and Hospital, Great
Lakes, Ill. fifteen months; ordered to serve with Fourth Marine Division
in Pacific; duty in Hawaiians, Guam, Saipan, Iwo Jima; after Fourth Di-
vision was deactivated, served at Transient Center, Fleet Marines,

[ 933 ]

—~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Guam; separated March, 1946, received Presidential Citation Ribbon,
in addition to usual ones.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Civic Music Association, Fall River, since
1946, Ministerial Association, 1943, Boy Scouts, Massassoit Council, Fall
River, since 1932, Rabbinical Assembly of New England, 1947; presi-
dent, Connecticut Federation of Jewish Men’s Clubs, 1939, Jewish Fam-
ily and Welfare Fund, Fall River, 1943; co-chairman, Roundtable
of Christians and Jews, New London, Conn., 1938-39; member Rabbin-
ic Cabinet, Jewish Theological Seminary of America, 1952; member
Executive Board, Red Cross, Cerebral Palsy, Salvation Army (Fall Riv-.
er), Bristol County Mental Health Association, Fall River Mental
Health Clinic. oo

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club, Fall River; Rabbinical Assembly of America;
Masons; Knights of Pythias; Harvard Club, Fall River, N.A.A.CP,;
Chaplain’s Association of Armed Forces; Zionist Organization of Amer-
ica, Jewish War Veterans; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Ledgemont
Country Club.

PUBLICATION: Zionist Credo, 1949.

TO COMPRESS the story of twenty-five eventful years into
capsule form is a formidable task, At best I may succeed in
sketching some of the externals, but I cannot be very sanguine
about conveying the spiritual essence of those years — which ul-
timately constitutes their reality.

Following graduation from Harvard, I entered the Jewish
Theological Seminary of America to prepare for the rabbinate.
This in itself constituted a strangely interesting development,
for 1 began my freshman year at Harvard with ambitions to
become an engineer; in my sophomore year a medical career
beckoned, followed by visions of some form of social work. All
of these yielded at the end of my junior year to the ministry as
my life’s work. It would take me too far afield to delineate the
currents and cross-currents, the self-searchings and the whole
complex of motivations that made up this Odyssey. Suffice it
to state that it was a decision that I have never regretted. As the
years roll by I have become more and more of the conviction
that there are few professions which yield greater genuine sat-
isfactions, and opportunities for service and for creative self-
development,

One week after ordination in 1932, without prospects or re-
sources, | embarked upon my first real venture of faith by mar-
rying the girl whom I had been courting for almost seven years.

[934]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It was faith largely on her part, which I hope has been vindicated.
We celebrated our twentieth wedding anniversary last June, and
in a mood of reminiscence, happily concluded that our marriage
still retained the zest and warmth of twenty years ago — and in
many ways had grown riper and sturdier.

My first rabbinic post was a pioneering one in New London,
Connecticut. The year 1932 was a depressed year, economically
and spiritually. It did not seem an auspicious time for launch-
ing a new organization. Nevertheless, our efforts were rewarded
with more than ordinary success and we spent nine very satis-
fying years with a small but wonderful group of stalwart spirits.
We sank deep roots in New London, and to this day we bear
for it an affection which invariably is associated with one’s “first
love.”

It was in New London that our daughter, Ora Beth, was born.
It was at Connecticut College for Women that she launched
upon her educational career (in the nursery school), It is in-
teresting to note that Ora Beth is now completing the cycle at
Connecticut College for Women where she is enrolled as a fresh-
man, ‘

In 1941 I accepted the invitation of Temple Beth El in Fall
River, Massachusetts, where a challenging situation existed which
fired my imagination and daring. The intervening years have
vindicated my judgment, for I have been privileged to serve a
congregation that has become one of the most forward-looking
in New England. |

Pear] Harbor came soon after I settled in Fall River. By the
score the young men and women of my congregation left their
homes and civilian pursuits to don the uniform of Uncle Sam.
For more than a year I held back, weighing in my mind where
my greater duty resided, whether with them or with my con-
gregation, Soon letters started to arrive from my “boys” from
all parts of the world. This decided me, and with the blessing
of my family and congregation, I enlisted in the Navy.

The following three and a half years were the most exciting
years of my life, They started with the period of indoctrination
at the Chaplains’ Training School at the College of William and
Mary, at Williamsburg, Virginia. This was followed by tempo-
rary duty at NOB, Norfolk, and then permanent duty at the

[935 ]

a Ly

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

largest naval training center in the world, at Great Lakes, Illi-
nois, where, I believe, I had the largest contingent of men of
any chaplain in the Army or Navy. Each day brought anywhere
from twenty to fifty men into the chaplain’s office with prob-
lems that ran the entire gamut of human striving. It meant twelve
to eighteen hours a day of nerve-wracking effort, but I would
not trade them for anything in the world. After fifteen months
of such duty I received orders to the Fleet Marine Force in the
Pacific and ultimately found myself with the Fourth Marine
Division of Iwo Jima fame. I felt very humble in the presence
of this valiant group of marines, who perhaps more than any
other group, paved the way for victory in the Pacific. Through
their achievements and sacrifices, I am privileged to wear the
Presidential Citation Ribbon.

Then came V-J Day, and I shall never forget the profound and
humbling spirit of thanksgiving which permeated the entire
camp as we repaired to our respective chapels to thank the Al-
mighty for this surcease from blood and death. After sweating
out six more months in Guam and Saipan I returned to the States
early in 1946, where I have continued since then to work in the
“Vineyard.”

In the intervening years I have done some intensive travelling,
in France, Italy, Greece, and Israel. I have toured with my fam-
ily the length and breadth of this magnificent country of ours.
In the war days I had covered huge areas of the Pacific. I have
hopes of filling in the places yet untravelled in the years to come.

In my own community there have been unlimited opportunities
for service, with the Boy Scouts, Red Cross, Cerebral Palsy, Men-
tal Health, Civic Music, Community Chest, and what-not. In
my own congregation I have been privileged to witness its phe-
nomenal growth from a small demoralized group to a progres-
sive expanding organization. We are in the midst of a building

program at the present time which will more than double our
already extensive plant.

The calendar tells me (and the secretary of the Class of 1928,
too) that a quarter of a century has passed since graduation from
Harvard. It requires an active exercise of the imagination to
realize that we are twenty-five years older. Yet in spirit I feel
as young now as I did then. I attribute this largely to the warmth

[936]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and love of my family and the life-giving invigoration which
can come only from working at those things which are inher-
ently worthwhile. I could write a book on this alone. I pray
that the next twenty-five years may be at least as spiritually re-
warding as those that have receded into the limbo of memory.

JOHN CONRAD RUETER

HOME ApDpRESS: Wimington Island, Savannah, Ga.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: P. O. Box 1444, Savannah, Ga. .

BoRN: May 11, 1906, Boston, Mass, pARENTs: Conrad John Rueter, °84
Helene Emily Ramseyer.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1024-1928. DEGREE! A.B. 1928,

MarRIED: Helen L. Prescott, Sept. 2, 1927, New Bedford, Mass. (divorced
1935); Joanna McD. Gibbes, Sept. 4, 1937, Savannah, Ga. CHILDREN:

~ Conrad John, Aug. 12, 1928; Henry Hermann, April 19, 1940; James

McHenry Rauers, Feb. 23, 1944.

OCCUPATION: President, Precast Concrete Company, concrete products.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted in Naval Reserve, October, 1940; called
to active duty, Oct. 1, 1941; as BMzc, commissioned ensign, Oct. 1,
1943; lieutenant (j.g.), Jam. 1, 1944; imactive status, September, 1945;
served in Gulf and Caribbean on minesweepers, 1942-43, then in
Pacific till August, 1944; took part in Marshalls and Admiralty Island
campaigns.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Thunderbolt, Georgia Parent Teachers Association,
1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Oglethorpe Club; Savannah Golf Club; Sports Car Club of

Savannah; Savannah Pistol Association; Savannah Tennis Association.

MY LIFE since college has been in a large measure devoted to
acquiring (and retaining to a limited degree) skills in the non-
gainful pursuits. After graduation I had a year of Law School
and then was New England agent for the Charles Bauer Com-
pany of New York (advertising display machinery). From 1933
to 1936 I was with Doug Lawson’s insurance agency, and moved
to Savannah in 1936, subsequent to my divorce. In the meantime
I had joined the Automobile Racing Club of America, an organ-
ization of amateur drivers and had a lot of fun with extremely
modest success, Interspersed with this activity was tournament
tennis of somewhat the same caliber. This is the end of the
Northern Chapter.

In 1936 I moved to Savannah, Georgia, where I married Joan

[ 937 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Gibbes and which I liked so well that I have stayed there ever
since. After a brief period in the insurance business I was lucky
enough to win the city doubles and singles championship a num.
ber of times. In 1945 I was among the founders of the Precast
Concrete Company.

As vice-president of the Savannah Tennis Association I am
in charge of a programme of free clinics for school children. Last
year we had over 300 under instruction, and I hope we are
headed for a lasting revival. Being in charge of and also a mem-
ber of the staff of five volunteer instructors has kept me well
occupied and untroubled by insomnia. .

Socially, I caught a bad case of leprosy, when in the Demo-
cratic South I worked for the Republican party and Taft, at
that; though I like to feel that the ravages of the ailment were
somewhat abated by my later labors for Eisenhower.

Philosophically, the easy-going tenor of this section of the
country suits me to a “T”, This all goes to prove that a rolling
stone gathers a lot of fun and varied experiences, if not much
else.

MALCOLM JAMES RUHL

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Walnut Ave., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 77 Washington St., Salem, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 8, 1906, Andover, Mass. parents: Albert Ruhl, Lillian Brown.

PREPARED AT: Punchard High School, Andover, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(28).

MARRIED: Jean Thompson, Jan. 9, 1943, Andover, Mass.

OccuPATION: Treasurer, Salem Mutual Fire Insurance Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted, Air Force, June, 1942; survived officer
candidate school, Miami Beach, 1942, headed north as cryptographic
security officer for various assignments with Army Airways Com-
munications System at northern bases—including Presque Isle,
Bafhinland, Newfoundland and The Pas, Manitoba; released from active
duty as a captain in March, 1946.

AS IN the past, the final summons for biographical informa-
tion comes, for me, at a time of change — an awkward circum-
stance, since it seems highly desirable just now to forget the past
and concentrate on the possibilities of the future. Perhaps, later,
there will be some justification for treating the subject at reason-

[938]

 

-
©
=

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

able length, but for the present, 1 deem it best to forego an in-
terim report. Even tennis-——a major activity for many years —
is giving way, this spring, to a new interest, Little League Base-
ball.

HENRY ARTHUR RUSCH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 114 E, zoth St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 E. 77th St., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Arthur Rusch, ’91,
Eda Florence Dolliver.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1934.

MARRIED: Frances May Williams, July 27, 1945, New York, N. Y. cHitpren:
Cecile Osborn, Sept. 28, 1946; Henry Arthur, 3d, April 18, 1948;
Valerie Williams, Oct. 16, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Rusch, 734, LL.B. °37.

occupation: Physician, specializing in otolaryngology.

| MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Navy in May, 1942, as lieutenant,

Medical Corps, U. S. Naval Reserve; discharged February, 1946, as

commander, Medical Corps, U. S. Naval Reserve; service in Mediter-

ranean, North African, European theatres.

_MEMBER oF: American Academy of Allergy; American Medical Asso-

ciation; American Association for the Advancement of Science; Har-

vard Club of New York City; Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club; The

Skating Club, New York.

TO QUOTE our Vicennial Report: “The years just prior to
the war were occupied with clinical work in New York City
and with the practice of medicine at the Oyster Bar Diagnostic
Center as attending allergist and as treasurer for that group.
Concurrently, a long-standing interest in music developed into
the sponsorship of a county symphony, the Nassau Philhar-
monic Society, in which I served for two years as president.

“Then came naval duty as chemical warfare officer at the naval
hospital at Newport, Rhode Island, the overseas convoy, the
air raids at Bizerte, D-Day at Salerno, the German shells at
Anzio, a typical mobile hospital where psychiatric casualties ran
as high as one-third of the census, and finally the Special Hos-
pital at Seagate, Brooklyn.”

Starting again: in the autumn of 1950 I terminated my practice

[939 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

of allergy and closed my New York office. I had been married
a lirtle more than five years and had two thriving youngsters,
Thanks to their self-sacrificing grandparents, my wife and |
were able to take a stimulating, if whirlwind, tour in England,
France, Italy, and Switzerland which included a trip to the
Rusch family homestead in the remote Canton of Appenzell.

On our return I followed a plan previously conceived, in re-
sponse to my interest in the field of bacterial allergy, of entering
The Roosevelt Hospital as a resident in otolaryngology. For
those to whom the connection may seem obscure, I might add
by way of explanation that the germs infesting the air passages
of man are of great importance in the development of asthma
and various other allergies. |

It has been something of a jolt to don again a white uniform
and to start near the bottom of the professional ladder, but the
. two-year experience now terminating has been most rewarding.

With the beginning of the new year, 1953, I shall return again
to private practice in Manhattan, more confident of being able
to help my fellows.

During this hospital period our third child was born, Our first,
Cecile, now just past six and in first grade at The Brearley School,
is devoloping by bounds and pirouettes; Harry at four-and-a-half
astounds his parents by putting together some of the innumera-
ble objects he takes apart, and Valerie at one year is a sweet
and happy toddler. The companionship of the three is a delight,
particularly to their parents, who find at this period their chief
pleasure and calling in the development of their children, wher-
ever their aptitudes may lie, into constructive personalities.

SYDNEY IRVING RUSINOW
HOME AND OFFice Appress: Montezuma, Colo.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1907, Newark, N. J. parents: Max Rusinow, Sarah Schuss.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

magrigp: Eulalie Menuez, Aug. 18, 1928, Lausanne, Switzerland. cniLb:
Sydney Irving, 2d, Oct. 29, 1930.

occupation: Real estate.

[ 940 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CLINTON PARKER RUSSELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 911 St. Joseph St., Dallas, Texas.

OFFICE appRESS: 415 N. Ervay St., Dallas 1, Texas.

BoRN: Aug. 17, 1906, Dallas, Texas. PARENTS: Clinton Parker Russell, Har-
riet Waters.

PREPARED AT: North Dallas High School, North Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marRiED: Aileen Bain, Dec. 12, 1939, Yuma, Ariz. (divorced 1950).

occUPATION: Secretary and director, Russell Realty Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Dallas.

MEMBER OF: Pentagon Lodge No. 1080.

GEORGE FORD RUSSELL

HOME ADDRESS: 3903 N. Stevens St., Tacoma 7, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tacoma News Tribune, Tacoma 1, Wash.

BORN: July 4, 1906, Lynchburg, Va. parents: Frank Russell, Frances Em-
ily Ford.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.B.A. cum laude, 1930.

MarrieD: Mary Bartlett Baker, Sept. 4, 1929, Tacoma, Wash. CHILDREN:
Mary Bartlett, Dec. 16, 1930, Mildred Ives and George Ford, Jr.
(twins), July 3, 1932.

OCCUPATION: Newspaper work; manufacturing.

NATIONAL Dairy Products Corporation, where I was secretary -
to the president, Mr. Thomas H. McInnerney, was the point of
departure after graduating from the Harvard Business School in
1930; and four years in New York being enough for self and
small family, we “came west’ in 1934 and have since resided
in Tacoma, Washington.
Industrial management engineering was “hot” for three years
and resulted in efforts expended on reorganizing a large Port-
land, Oregon, sawmill, doing consulting work for several in-
dustries including wholesale hardware, plywood and doors, and
meat packing in addition to similar work for the Tacoma (Wash-
ington) News Tribune, The newspaper work led to permanent
employment there after a rather drastic reorganization in 1937
-and the relationship has continued for many years with general
satisfaction, I think, to both employer and employee.

[941 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Service as a creditor representative, on the voting trust of a
large plywood and door mill (Wheeler Osgood Company),
served to furnish much basic information on lumber, timber,
and the wood industries of the Pacific northwest until the credi-
tor representatives were relieved of their duties in 1947 due to
our having recovered for the principal the deficits originally
complained of by the creditors.

The extreme newsprint shortages experienced just after the
second World War led to organization of West Tacoma News-
print Company, a plant for the production of newsprint, located
twelve miles south of Tacoma. Ten other Pacific Coast news-
papers joined the News Tribune in ownership of the mill which
came into production in 1947; and since no other papers had
representation “on the ground” the general management direc.
tion of the enterprise fell, naturally, toward Tacoma and in par-
ticular on me. Thirty-three other newspapers, in 1951, joined
in the ownership of the venture and the output is being expanded
to care for the additional tonnages required in 1953 and there-
after.

As a result of experience gained in the wood working indus-
tries and, particularly, in plywood just before 1940, and because
of a long background in “ham” radio, Mann-Russell Electronics
was born and has prospered as a producer of high frequency
dielectric heating process and equipment. Patents of a basic
nature have been issued as a firm foundation for the enterprise
which specialized in the curing of adhesives for wood lamina-
tion and other deep therapy industrial applications. Continuous
process equipment for edge gluing veneer and wood are among
the more startling and useful products of the firm, but they in-
clude equipment for preheating thermo-plastics for molding and
for generally applying internal heat to thick substances otherwise
considered as good heat insulators.

Varied industrial pursuits including a new television station
added to the News Tribune’s KTINT, FM and AM, permit less
leisure time than one might consider desirable for a family re-
siding on Puget Sound, but such time as is available for non-
productivity is with pleasure consumed in boating — power boat

racing and generally wasting time on the water in pursuit of
salmon (or more often, dog fish).

[942 ]

a
sa anata goes heme A rita Ree opeet a ee het edhe ope GES gE DT PI REPL MEERA EI EL ITER BI IIE NI ERT I TPES vr

desecrmpegtonite wt aly

PERNT TAME AN

Ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I have found travel by air saves much time on eastern trips
(Bump, please note) when such are required to attend functions
of one kind or another. Membership on the Newspaper Indus-
try Advisory Board of NPA and on the Board of the Bureau of
Advertising of the American Newspaper Publishers Association,
along with trips on account of newsprint or electronics or to at-
tend the publishers’ meetings each spring in‘New York, have
made eastern journcys of sufficient frequency to keep life inter-
esting and active.

I hope everybody else in the Class of 1928 has had an equally
interesting last twenty-five years, that his marital status has been
as free of major conflict as Mary's and mine, and that the next
near term holds promise of action and satisfaction,

GILBERT VALENTINE RUSSELL, JR.

HOME appress: 12 Liberty Se., Montpelier, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Life Insurance Co. sat State St., Montpelier,
Vt.

BoRN: Oct. 14, 1904, Methuen, Mass, parents: Gilbert Valentine Russell,
Mary Elizabeth Smyth.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

Marrien: Mildred Helen Shepherd, June to, 1933, Glenbrook, Conn.
cHiLp: Cynthia Gallup, April 20, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harlan Smyth Russell, '22.

occupation: Life insurance, supervisor, Punched Card Division.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Cost Accountants; Insurance Account-
ing and Statistical Association; Men's Club of Christ Episcopal
Church.

EXCEPT for two years following graduation as a neophyte in
investment banking, my business career has been devoted to
punched card accounting methods in manufacturing (textile,
newsprint, nautical apparatus), and since 1949 in life insurance.

The Decennial and Vicennial reports will refresh those class-
mates who are interested in the Odyssey of Goubert. All my at-
tempts to escape Feather Duster Roosevelt or Harry Truboy
were in vain, even in unspoiled Vermont. Yes, my political and
social conviction may be expressed in the words of Bismarck in
1878: “My idea of a Republic is a little state in the north of your
great country — Vermont.” .

[ 943 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

. Through the years like many of you, I have had my vicissitudes
and was a member of Forty Plus Club in 1948 hence missed our
Twentieth Reunion. My hobbies have been closely connected
with family — landscape gardening, household mechanics, pic-
nics, and swimming, with a little tennis and more golf on the
side. For vacation, I must confess I forsake the mountains and

lakes for the Maine Coast. At this writing my life seems full
and secure.

READE HAINES RYAN

HOME AppRrEss: 332 Grosse Pointe Blvd., Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.
OFFICE apprEss: Guardian Bldg., Detroit, Mich.

BoRN: May 24, 1906, Mexico City, Mexico. parents: Thomas Reade Ryan,
Ethel Eleanor Haines.

PREPARED AT: Magdalen College School, Oxford, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: AB. cum laude, 1928.

maraiep: Anne Moment, Feb. 9, 1934, Plainfield, N. Y. cHiLpren: Reade
Haines, Jr., Jan. 4, 1937; Susan C., Nov. 22, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Wallace Ryan, 730.

occupation: Comptroller, Detroit Harvester Company, manufacturers of
automobile body hardware, farm implements, aircraft and automotive
industrial hydraulic pumps.

MEMBER OF: Detroit Racquet Club; Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan.

“THE instructions on our reporting form bothered me greatly, for

I find looking back very difficult. In broad perspective, I have
had -great satisfaction in having followed two main lines of en-
deavor which involved a wide variety of experiences. First, in
investment banking in Wall Street, I was lucky enough to par-
ticipate in a number of interesting and challenging corporate and
financial reorganizations. From this experience a transition to
manufacturing was simple.

During World War II, I started off in the production of
plastics, both molded and laminated, and then moved into the
production of radio transmitting equipment. The latter situa-
tion gave me the satisfaction of feeling that my efforts played
a valuable part in delivering vitally needed equipment for the
Normandy invasion and in winning two Army-Navy E Awards.

But it was also exhausting, so I returned to Wall Street and in-
vestment banking at the close of the war. However, I did not

[ 944 ]

L

Pasa aee gern A SRI PERE IT IPE IEN Ie N LIIN A e

. naam tamara REYNE DANE ME
user segsuntnepeneipiie t E t lS RE Lot AEE SSRN RE ANE TE OO ae NE a Settee Se EEE

OT PE

See eet Tee, Siete py ae ee

RRR RT

\

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

stay long for an underwriting introduced me to Detroit Har-
vester, whose future looked brought enough that I was easil
persuaded to return to manufacturing. As comptroller, I began
with responsibiliry for four plants, which have now grown
to seven, both by acquisition and construction. The automobile
industry has been a most liberal education. It has periods of
high tension when car models are basically changed, since parts
manufacturers like ourselves are competing for business which
will last for two or three years. In the interim periods I spend
much of my time helping to persuade the production depart-
ments that they can be as efficient as our cost estimates claimed
they would be.

The years have been kind to me with respect to my family.
It is a wonderful and thrilling experience to watch the growth
and development of children. My son has caused me only one
disappointment. He wants to go to Princeton and his reason is
simple. He plans to be a lawyer and go to Harvard Law, but
he does not want to spend seven years in one place. If any
classmates have a good answer for this dilemma, I shall be grate-
ful for any letters of advice.

EMIL ADOLPH SACK, JR.

HOME AppREss: 6 Jeanette Drive, Port Washington, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 422 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1906, Augusta, Ga. Parents: Emil Adolph Sack, Martha
Beulah Chester.

PREPARED AT: Academy of Richmond County, Augusta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925, 1926-1929.

maRrieD: Wylena Elizabeth Brickle, Aug. 11, 1930, Augusta, Ga. CHILDREN:
Martha Virginia, June 28, 1931 (died July 4, 1931); Elizabeth Lee, July
15, 1936 (died May 9, 1938).

occupation: Credit and loan officer, assistant manager, Chase National
Bank, Grand Central Branch. .

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Recruit, Sampson Naval Training Station, April
1, 1943; to Sp. (A) rst Class at Bainbridge, Md.; to chief specialist (A)
(AA) at Sampson, company commander, physical education instruc-
tor; assistant regimental adjutant; separated Oct. 8, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: President, Men's Club, secretary, Men's Council, Associate
of the Vestry, Grace Church, Brooklyn; director, Welfare Committee,
Eastern Crest Association, Port Washington.

[945 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MEMBER OF: Central Badminton Club; Chase Officers’ Club; Eastern Crest
Association; Harvard Club of Long Island; Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Fraternity; American Legion.

THE sophomore year of the Class of 1928 coincided with the
Florida “boom.” That year I spent in Miami, and as a result
arrived from Harvard in Wall Street (at Bankers Trust Com-
pany) a year late, in June, 1929, at the height of another “boom,”
which was abruptly deflated four months later. Despite the ad-
verse trend and before the nadir I received a magnificent (200-
dollar) raise in salary, on the strength of which my wife and I
were wed in Georgia and embarked on an Atlantic coastwise
cruise back to New York. By the end of my second year with
the bank, economic conditions in general had worsened, and we
accepted a ten per cent salary decrease. For a period, in my
spare time I wrote short stories. My agent encouraged and con-
soled me by observing that eventually my efforts would be re-
warded but that editors, also subject to economic pressure, were
resorting to stock-piles of manuscripts accepted in prior years,
I appreciated his kindness but concentrated thereafter on bank-
ing. Early in 1937 | transferred my allegiance to Chase.

My wife and I joined “The Grace Court Players,” an amateur
theatrical group, in 1932. We were already playing tennis in the
summer, and the same year took up the winter activity of bad-
minton. Although we were novices, we became members of the
Metropolitan Badminton Association and subsequently partici-
pated in team matches and in local, sectional, and national tourna-
ments over a period of years.

I particularly mention badminton because it influenced my
Navy career. Assigned originally to a course in navigation, I
was “requested” for PI training when the commander in charge
saw me play and learned of my Metropolitan ranking (I did get
in two courses in navigation later). During my thirty months in
the Navy I survived two near misses: a bolt of lightning missed
me, striking a flagpole about twenty feet away; while instructing
new recruits, I sprained, instead of breaking, my neck in dem-

onstrating a backward roll (tumbling).

When we gave up cliff-dwelling and purchased a home a couple
of years ago, we did not realize that our tennis and badminton
days were numbered, and that (shades of Mr. Blandings!) we

[ 946 ]

r

Ge rehe cot ME II! LAY

. saayaie SoA NNO TREAT a, AT REEL CC EITNR nN RP ERR ME OEE SR Fie IMO EA
nego QS TOE ES a AI opens

en Pa aA OER REM TE EOEIE TER AO TETAS AE NE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

were destined to become ditchdiggers, carpenters, plasterers,
electricians, plumbers, painters, and in our lighter moments
horticulturists, ornithologists, and entomologists. But we have
so become, so help me.

My studies over the years have included accountancy, con-
versational Spanish, psychology, and salesmanship, It is ap-
propriate here (though not immediately apparent why) to men-
tion that in November we enjoyed immenscly going to the pre-
game 1928 luncheon at Carey Cage and later visiting other class-
mates in New England, We have been enthusiastically encour-
aging others to attend Class luncheons and dinners and to plan
above all on being at the Reunion in June, Last November also,
my application for the two-year Graduate School of Banking
course at Rutgers University was accepted, The sessions there
usually start the third week in June; just recently I received
notice that, alas! the session will start June 8th!

JOSEPH SAHAGEN

HOME ADDRESS: 1128 Princeton St., Santa Monica, Calif.

orrice aporess: Children’s Welfare Foundation, 2711 Wilshire Blvd., Santa
Monica, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1907, Harpoot, Armenia, parents: Jacob Sahagian, Mary
Danielian.

PREPARED aT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: 8.8. cur laude, 1928; LL.B. (North-
eastern Univ.), 1932.

MarRiED: Barbara L, Moore, Jan. 1, 1950, Providence, R. 1. cuipren: Beverly
Ann, Dec. 31, 1943; Judith A., March 9, 1946 (by previous marriage).

occupation: Assistant director, Children’s Welfare Foundation.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Civilian physicist, Anti-magnetic Mine War-
fare, U. S. Navy; erected the Degaussing Range in Argentia, Newfound-
land; engaged in smoke screen research off Puerto Rico and Panama.

I HAVE only two comments. (1) Making money is the predomi-
nant occupation of our generation. We started out to earn money
to live. Many of us are ending up living to earn money. It is
senseless. We may rationalize that we are making contributions
to the arts, sciences, or professions, but how quickly we are willing
to change the course of our important contribution if we see an
increase in income. I am not sure what we can do about it, except

[ 947 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

to recognize that it is not good, and try to point out more worthy
horizons to our children. (2) The instability of marriage augurs
ill for the future of our country, The children of the Zuni In-
dians have tremendously more emotional security than average
American children have, What good are social security and com-
pany pensions to the millions of impoverished souls who have no
memory of the love of a father and mother in a wholesome family
relationship? Again, I do not know the answer, but I am sure tha

the problem is one of the most serious of our time. |

DAVID JAMES SAKLAD

HOME ADDRESS: 775 Dade Blvd., Miami Beach, Fla. |

OFFICE AppREsS: Feiner Insurance Agency, 1635 Washington Ave., Miami
Beach, Fla.

BorN: Oct. 18, 1906, Lithuania. parents: Jacob Saklad, Gertrude Shemel.

PREPARED AT: Stuyvesant High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MarRIED: Hermine J. Warner, March 30, 1938, Buffalo, N. Y. cHILpREN:
James, July 14, 1942; Donald, Aug. 19, 1947.

occuPATION: Insurance Agency.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: Warrant Officer, U. S. Army, Oct. 21, 1943,
to Dec. 26, 1945; overseas service in Belgium, Holland, Germany,
France, and England as intelligence officer on U. S, Strategic Bomb-
ing Survey.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Regional insurance officer, U. S. Veterans
Administration, December, 1945, to January, 1951.

MEMBER OF: American Legion; National Association of Life Underwriters;
U.S. Power Squadrons, Harvard Club of Miami.

RICHARD SALLET

HOME appaess: Meckenheimer Allee 119, Bonn, Germany.

BoRN: Feb. 17, 1900, Strassburg, West Prussia, Germany. PARENTS: Daniel
Gottfried Sallet, Martha Galling.

Prepared AT: Royal Gymnasium, Osterode, East Prussia, Germany.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928, DEGREES: A.B. 1928(29); PH.D (Koénigsberg),
1930.

Marrizp: Gretel Stolzenbach, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1942); Ellen
Trendelenburg, March 24, 1943, Berlin, Germany, cHitpren; Martha
Maria (Maja), May 10, 1932; Herbert Danicl Woytcke, Jan. 8, 1935;

[948 ]

 

§
§
|
i
;
i

ema wena teeetgeatnste smite AE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Dirse Wilkis, Aug. 10, 1936; Gottfried Ulrich, March 17, 1944; Ernst
Michael, June 24, 1947.

occupation: Retired Foreign Service officer, Counselor of Legation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I: volunteer in infantry forces,
June, 1915; with combat units for most of remainder of war; com-
missioned ensign in 1916, lieutenant in 1917, company commander in
1918; with unit crushing communist uprisings and organizing first
republican forces, 1919-20.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: World War II: Mostly in | Berlin Foreign
Office, except for brief tour of duty at German Leagtion, Lisbon,
1942-43.

OFFICES HELD: Editorial writer, Dakota Freie Presse, New Ulm, Minn.,
until 1933; member, editorial board, Journal of Air Law, 1931; lecturer
in political science, Northwestern University, 1931-33, dozent (lec-
turer), Deutsche Hochschule fiir Politik, 1933-34; in German Govern-
ment Service, 1934-37, 1938-45; secretary, Inter-Universities Commit-
tee, British Zone of Occupation, 1945-47; member, Foreign Affairs
Committee, Central Association of German Expellees and Refugees,
since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Minnesota Historical Society, St. Paul (life member).

PUBLICATIONS: Russian-German Settlements in the United States, Univer-
sity of Chicago Press, 1931; The Department of State and Foreign Serv-
ice of the United States, in: Europa-Archiv, Frankfurt, 1950; Special- .
ist or All-Round Man in the Foreign Service, in Das Parlament, Bonn,
1953; Tbe Diplomatic Service: Its History and Organization in France,
Great Britain, and the United States, Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, Stutt-
gart, 1953. All these were in German.

RATHER reluctantly do I commit a curriculum vitae to the
semi-privacy of our Report, since mine is neither a story of
shining success nor one of impressive accomplishment. In 1928
I returned to K6nigsberg University, obtained a Ph.D. degree
two years later, then returned to the States and was appointed
lecturer in political science at Northwestern University.

At the time when many a college professor joined the New
Deal administration, I felt likewise stirred to action by the chal-
lenge which the new regime in Berlin presented to American-
German political relations, decided to put my hands to the wheel
and, during the following years, was attached to the German
Embassy in Washington, in charge of public relations. The
ever-widening rift between the two nations showed my inability
to turn the tide. One day in 1937, I felt compelled to request,
by trans-Atlantic telephone, the immediate stop to an anti-Amer-

[ 949 ]

semen.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Hobbies? Yes: collecting books, mostly on history, whenever
I can spare a few marks. Having lost all other Possessions in the
last turbulent months of the war, I salvaged the major part of my
little library. Another hobby is genealogy. My ancestors, of Old
Prussian stock, that Baltic tribe closely akin to Lithuanians and
Letts, were obscure peasants and it is difficult to find traces of
them. But after much searching of local records, or whatever
there is left of it, I might be able to describe their times, if not
their lives, in a family history which I am gradually compiling.

Vacations? None at present. As long as East Prussia was
accessible, vacation meant that I would go there, walk over the
land, sniff the air, row over the lakes, roam through the forests,
looking at big trees which my dad once helped in preserving —
watching moose and deer or inspecting some prehistoric place
of habitation. That is out— for the duration. I have no similar
attachment to any region of Western Germany. There is only
one other place in the world which I might call a sort of second
home: New Ulm, Minnesota, and the northern part of that state
with its lakes and forests. Will I ever see either of them again?

Politics? Decidedly anti-collectivist and in a somewhat old-
fashioned way favoring many ideas of Thomas Jefferson; and a
passage in his last letter, written ten days before his death, still
rouses my enthusiasm: “The people of the world have not been
born with saddles on their backs, nor a favored few booted and
spurred, ready to ride them by the grace of God.” (I cite from
memory, so please excuse possible minor errors.)

ARNO GUSTAV SALMI

HOME ADDRESS: 203 Wallace Ave., North Park, Rockford, IIl.

OFFICE ApprEss: 340 Blackhawk Park Ave., Rockford, III.

Born: Aug. 10, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Gustav Salminen, Jose- ‘
phine Tilus.

PREPARED AT: Stonington High School, Stonington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: 8.8. IN MECH, ENG. AND BUS. ADM. Cum
laude, 1929.

Marniep; Margaret Louise McNamara, June 24, 1933, Akron, Ohio. citt-
pren: William Arno, Dec. 15, 1939; Jane Ann, May 20, 1942.

occuPATION: Assistant purchasing agent, charge of procurement research,
George D. Roper Corporation (manufacturing and sales gas ranges,
rotary pumps, and tog millimeter shells),

[952]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Rockford Lions Club, Inc.; Rockford University Club and
American Society Tool Engineers (formerly); Harvard Club of
Chicago; Blackhawk Council, Boy Scouts of America.

SO PRACTICALLY twenty-five years have gone by! Where
have they gone? And what has happened to all the things we
planned to do, hoped to accomplish, and strove to secure?
Twenty-four years, plus a few months, ago, I left the inspiring
environment and associations of our Alma Mater to become an
automotive engineer —and a famous one—I was sure at the
time! So on July first, 1929, I started work at the Nash Motors
Company plant in Milwaukee, with and under several other Har-
vard men. But the Fates really threw the book at us who went
to work that year. They really had a laugh over the way they
could change men’s lives by what transpired 1,200 miles away
at a place called the Stock Market, Wall Street, in the city of
my birth, New York. Because in October of that year they
turned day into night — or rather the dreary darkening of dusk
which became increasingly darker. In another year it caused
Nash to close that plant, and put me on my way to earning a
Ph.D. from the school of experience. But there was — as always
—a major compensation, a golden bit of sunshine which came
through the dark hours, days, months, and years. I fell in love
and married the pirl.

Business-wise I then moved on to the following places — A. O.
Smith Corporation, Milwaukee; B. F. Goodrich Company, Ak-
ron, Ohio; Scovill Manufacturing Company, Waterbury, Con-
necticut; Ingersoll Milling Machine Company, Rockford, Illi-
nois,; Illinois Water Treatment Company, Rockford, Illinois;
Blue Cross Hospital Service, Rockford, [linois, Unit Machinery
Company, Rockford, Illinois; and my present connection at
George D. Roper Corporation.

Highlights of these twenty-five years have been: (1) Marriage,
(2) birth of my boy (now thirteen) and girl (now ten and a half),
(3) an operation two and a half years ago whereby the almost
certain diagnosis of cancer was found to be incorrect, (4) the -
purchase of my house —a “Modern Swedish Country Cottage”
on an acre of land which keeps me “housebroke,” and (5) my
work during the war years in determining the type and number
of special vital machines needed for M-q tanks, 155 millimeter

[953]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

guns, liberty ship gear reducers, B-29 wing spars, and many
others, including one which we only knew was something which

would end the war overnight and which was proved at Hiro.
shima.

Hobbies I have few and mild, consisting mainly of reading
and camping out of doors with my family — now that both son
and daughter are scouts (and I am institutional representative

for the Boy Scouts). I also enjoy my work with the Lions Club
and am proud to be part of that organization.

NATHANIEL SALTONSTALL

HOME ADDRESS: 245 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 53 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

porN: April 24, 1903, Milton, Mass. PARENTS: Philip Leverett Saltonstall,
’89, Frances Anna Fitch Sherwood.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Santa Barbara School, Car-
pinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Leverett Saltonstall, ’22.

occupation: Architect, parmer, Saltonstall & Morton.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army Air Corps, major, May 21, 1942 — Jan.
12, 1946; United States Theatre.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Putnam & Cox & Saltonstall, Boston, 1931-42, Sal-
tonstall & Morton, since 1945.
MEMBER oF: American Institute of Architects; Boston Society of Archi-
tects; Massachusetts State Association of Architects; National Coun-
cil Architectural Registration Boards; American Arbitration Asso-
ciation, Boston Architectural Center, Union Club of Boston, Harvard

Club of Boston; Commercial Club of Boston (The Merchants Club),
Architectural League of New York.

 

SINCE the last Class Report the firm of Saltonstall & Morton
has been designing many types of architecture, one of which is
a Motel, namely, the Yankee Traveler at Plymouth, Massachusetts,
and the Mayo Hill Colony ar Wellfleet, Massachusetts. The lat-
' ter is a group of vacation houses; each house provides two apart-
ments consisting of a living-bedroom, bath, and kitchenette. It
is unusual in its entirety in that it has a Casserole Kitchen where
prepared food is sold and which can be reheated by the tenants
in the apartments. I am sure after our Twenty-fifth Reunion the

[954]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

quiet, peace, and comfort of The Colony would be welcome.
Communicate with me now!

Another interest to me is the Mayo Hill Galleries also at Well-
fleet, which consists of an Art Gallery and unusual Gift Shop.
This moved to Delray Beach, Florida, this past winter.

My hobbies and interest are continuing the same — all activi-
ties connected with the art world. I am a trustee of the Institute
of Contemporary Art, Boston, on the Board of the Friends of
Chamber Music and Cambridge School of Design, on the Ad-
visory Committee of the Skowhegan School of Painting and
Sculpture,

WILLIAM GURDON SALTONSTALL

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Pine St., Exeter, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1905, Milton, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Saltonstall, ’92, Caroline
James Stevenson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; A.M., 1931; L-HD, (Williams
Coll.), 1947; Lub. (Tufts Coll.), 1950; tap. (Dartmouth Coll.), 1952.

MARRIED: Katharyn Watson, Sept. 22, 1931, Brookline, Mass. cHILDREN:
Josephine, Jan. 14, 1933; Katharyn, March 7, 1934; William Gurdon,
Jr., June 7, 1937; Samuel S., Jan. 8, 1941; Deborah, Feb. 11, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Saltonstall, ’33; Henry Saltonstall, ’35.

occuPATION: Teacher of history; principal of Phillips Exeter Academy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, lieutenant-commander, U. S. Naval
Reserve, 1942-46; Air Intelligence officer attached: first, to VB-17 on
board carrier Bunker Hill; secondly, to VH-1, an Air-Sea-Rescue
Squadron at Saipan; and thirdly, to the instructional staff of the Air
Intelligence School, Quonset Point, R. I.

OFFICES HELD: Delegate from New Hampshire to Republican National Con-
vention, 1948, 1952; vice-chairman, American Council on Education,
1952~53; president, Harvard Teachers’ Association, 1950-51, New Eng-
land Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, 1951-52; Over-
seer, Harvard, 1946-52, Shady Hill School, 1950-52; trustee, Golden
Rule Farm, New Hampshire Historical Society, Currier Art Gallery.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club; Harvard Faculty Club; Harvard Club of New
York; Beverly Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Ports of Piscataqua, Harvard University Press, 1941; John
Phillips, Founder of Phillips Exeter Academy, 1951.

[955]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

APART from my family, the school and the sea continue to
absorb most of my time. I’ve now been teaching history for
over twenty years and don’t know how to do it right. I've
been sailing boats for forty years and still have plenty to learn.

Having lived in Exeter for almost a quarter-century, we're
more sure than ever that there’s no place we'd rather be. Won't
be too long until we can speek in town meetin’! There’s no
end of work to be done at the school, and I’ve particularly en-
joyed the opportunity to go on teaching and coaching since my
election as principal in 1946. Members of 1928 have given me
a flattering share of their business. It’s fun!

Serving as a member of the Harvard Board of Overseers has
been a major experience. The opportunity to know the univer-
sity of today through six years of association with those who
make it what it is, has been always valuable and sometimes ex-
citing. The independent search for truth, in library and labora-
tory, is never dull. Nor is the continuing search for better ways
to teach it.

For fourteen years our family vacations have centered on a 26
yawl we built up near Exeter on the banks of the Piscataqua.
Hunneman, Chase, Hurley, and Chauncey are a few of the class-
mates who've joined us. Arbella has only four pipe berths, but
there’s always room for Katharyn and me and our five young-
sters: Joey, Smith ’55; Kitty, Radcliffe °56; Bill, Jr., Exeter ’55;
Sam, seventh grade in public school; and Deborah, pre-kinder-
garten — a good crew if I do say so! Come aboard some time,
if you can catch us, .

We're all looking forward to a great party in June, 1953. As
the person who asked Don Hurley to run our Reunion, I think
I never made a better appointment. He and Bob Hunneman

(who has done such a superb job as Class Agent) deserve the
thanks of all hands,

HARRY MARKS SALZER

oFFice appgess: 868 Doctors Bldg., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1906, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Moses Salzer, Hilda Marks.
PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

[956]

 

'
i
t
5
i
E

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D. (Univ. of Cincinnati),
1933-

marRiED: Mary Einhorn, Nov., 1930, Cincinnati, Ohio; Eleanor Weber,
May 23, 1946, Williamstown, Ky. cmupren: John M., April, 1934;
Richard H., June, 1937. |

OccUPATION: Physician.

DONALD GEORGE SANBORN

HOME apprEss: P, O. Box 86, Hong Kong, China.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Socony Vacuum Oil Co., Hong Kong, China.

BorN: Feb. 6, 1905, Lynn, Mass. parents: Chester Anthony Sanborn,
Mabel Gertrude Chester.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

occuPATION: Oil Production.

SAMUEL COHEN SANDER

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Orange St., Brooklyn 2, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 515 Seventh Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Alfred Sander, Mathilde
Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; A.M.
(New York Univ.), 1932.

MarrigeD: Ruth Slocum, Aug. 30, 1930, Brookline, Mass. cuitpren: Thomas
Alfred, Jan. 4, 1942; James Slocum, Dec. 20, 1944.

occupation: Assistant vice-president, lending officer in connection with com-
mercial loans, Trade Bank & Trust Company.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Active in civilian defense work and in war
loan campaigns.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of governors, April, 1950, to April, 1951, treas-
urer, since 1951, Federal Grand Jurors’ Association, Eastern District,
New York; member board of governors, Credit Men’s Club of the
Fur Industry, Inc., since 1952.

MEMBER oF: New York Credit & Financial Management Association, New
York Institute of Credit.

[957]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

CRIMSON SONNET
Here set I down that which you wish to know
About the years since June of '28,
Regarding work, a bank loan officer’s fate:
Victorious, keeping credit losses low!
And how I vote to some may be a blow;
Republicans I seek to decimate
Despite that change may now be over-late.

Children have I of ages sev’n and ten;

Of Tom and Jim I many tales could tell.
Love music and for glee club still have yen.
Love golf, but new, so do not play too well!
Enjoy my kodacolors now and then

Get pictures of some lovely woodland dell.
Enough of this — good luck to all! Amen.

CHARLES ELIOT SANDS

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Shaw St., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Boston Juvenile Court, Pemberton Sq., Boston, Mass.

BORN; June 29, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Jacob Sands,
’o7, Florence Waddington.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A. 1931; LL.B. (Suf-
folk Law School), 1938.

MarRiED: Gertrude M. Sanborn, April 14, 1937, Richmond, Va. cum:
Charles Eliot, Jr., July 28, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederick Waddington Sands, ’37; Kenneth Fillman
Sands, °39.

OCCUPATION: Probation officer, Boston Juvenile Court.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD; Staff and faculty, Field Artillery School, De-
cember, 1940-April, 1946; Battalion Executive, 912th Field Artillery;
Civil Affairs Division, SHAEF; secretary, U. S. Group Control Coun-
cil for Germany; separated as colonel.

OFFICES HELD: President, West End Neighborhood Council, Beacon Street
Chapter, Unitarian Laymen’s League; director, Benevolent Fraternity
of Unitarian Churches, treasurer, Citizenship Training Group, Inc.

MEMBER oF: New England Society of Criminology; Massachusetts Civic
League; Goodwill Associates; Massachusetts Probation Officers’ Asso-
ciation; Boston Bar Association; Appalachian Mountain Club; Massa-
chusetts Horticultural Society.

[ 958 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN THE fall of 1930, having left the Business School with plans
to enter an accounting firm the first of the year, | was introduced
by Miss Katherine Lyford at the Massachusetts Civic League to
Judge Cabot of the Boston Juvenile Court. Judge Cabot offered
me the position of probation officer, a vacancy having just oc-
curred, and stated that if I should accept, he felt I should stay
“about a year” before resuming my business plans. I have been
there ever since, except for the war years, and have enjoyed
thoroughly working with Judge Cabot and his successors, Judge
Perkins and Judge Connelly. Delinquent boys sound like ornery
creatures, but are actually very pleasant and frequently pathetic
persons. My work has been mainly in the West End of Boston
and I feel myself an adopted member of this community.

In 1937 Miss Gertrude Sanborn, Lesley ’29, and I were married;
our tastes have continued similar, and we have found marriage a
soul-satisfying experience which has surpassed our greatest ex-
pectations. We bought a little old house in the undeveloped
wooded part of West Roxbury, enjoyed remodelling it, and in
July of 1939 our son Butch, really Junior, came along. In Decem-
ber, 1940, as a captain in the Field Artillery Reserve, I was called
to active duty and sent to Fort Sill in Oklahoma to take the
Battery Officers’ course, was held there as an instructor in tactics,
and became a colleague of my old friend and classmate, Ed Keefe,
who was already on the faculty. Both my parents and two of my
grandparents were teachers, and I had, to this point, rather con-
sciously avoided becoming imvolved in this profession. But I
thoroughly enjoyed my year teaching artillery tactics. The next
year, following Pearl Harbor, I spent as secretary of the Tactics
Department — Officer Candidates Course, a year of tremendous
expansion at the school. I was fortunate in being able to have
my family with me, and remember pleasantly interludes picnicking
on the range, and getting to know about prairie dogs, jack-rabbits
and coyotes, enormous fat rattlesnakes, and the persimmon, pecan,
and black walnut trees. There followed seven months of duty
at Grenada, Mississippi, with the 912th Field Artillery as S-3
and battalion executive. At Grenada southern hospitality was
everything it is claimed to be. The wife of the president of a
small bank whose invitation to move into their fine old house we
had accepted, said to Gertrude, three days after our arrival, “Now

[959 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

you folks have moved in and can take charge of the help, I'm
going to have a chance to visit my sister in Memphis for a week
or two.” And off she went leaving house, help, and husband in
the charge of almost complete strangers.

From Grenada we went to Charlottesville, Virginia, where |
was to attend the course in military government (Class IV). Ed
Keefe, then in the Provost-Marshal General’s Office in Washing-
ton, I’m certain had something to do with this transfer. It was a
fine course, and immediately on completing it I was flown to
London (August, 1943) to take the British military government
course at Wimbledon. Instead of Wimbledon I was assigned to
the staff of General Morgan (COSSAC) and was later deputy
chief, under a British chief, of administration for the Civil Affairs
Division of SHAFF, then executive officer of the German Coun-
try Unit, SHAEF, and later secretary, United States Group
Control Council for Germany, subsequently Office of Military
Government (United States) for Germany under Generals
Wickersham and Clay. In Berlin I requested transfer to the
Quadripartite Allied Secretariat, and as assistant United States
secretary had the not unmixed pleasure of listening to the negotia-
tions of the Control Council and its elements, repeated in English,
French, and Russian. =

I was separated from the army in time to spend Christmas of
1945 at home with my family, and we promptly took a three-
month auto trip to Mexico during which I was able to persuade
my wife that we should all go to Berlin where I had been offered
the position, as a War Department civilian employee, of executive
officer in the Finance Division under Mr. Joseph Dodge, then
working on the reform of Germany’s currency. On Mr. Dodge's
leaving I was asked to go to Niimberg as secretary general to
organize the secretariat for the United States War Crimes Tri-
bunals, the international trials having just terminated. I went
with some reluctance but enjoyed very much my association with

General Taylor, chief of prosecution, General Watson, post com-
mander, and the five state supreme court judges who had been
recruited to constitute the six tribunals. One of my responsibilities
was to see that the defendants had counsel of their own choosing,
and we were able to obtain outstanding German attorneys for

[ 960 }

Lt

¥
pea teh A Tan RET MET Ka .
\

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this function. We left Berlin on the termination of my contract,
flown out, bag and baggage, because of the Russian blockade.

Our tenants at home obligingly relinquished the house to us,
and we have settled down to our gardening, supervising of Butch’s
home lessons (Class VI now at Boston Latin School), and my
work at the Juvenile Court. I have been much interested in the
operation of our Massachusetts Youth Service Board, established
in 1949 to provide additional study and treatment facilities for
delinquents committed by the courts, and am convinced that this
has been a great step forward. I also concern myself with the
Big Brother Association, the Charles Hayden Goodwill Inn for
Boys, the Massachusetts Civic League, the Elizabeth Peabody
House, and other good causes, for which I beg money from my
friends. Our hobbies continue to be gardening, sailing, skiing, a
cellar workshop, and making noises at the piano.

RICHARD HARLAKENDEN SANGER

HOME appress: 16 Abingdon Rd. N.W., Washington 16, D. C.

oFFice appress: Dept. of State, Division of NEA/P, Washington, D. C.

BoRN: July 22, 1905, Sangerfield, N. Y. parenrs: William Cary Sanger, '74,
Ethel Cleveland Dodge.

preparen aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.B.A., 1931,

marriep: Marion Child, Nov. 19, 1931, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Patience
Margot, May 3, 1941; Richard Harlakenden, June 12, 1944; Ann Cary,
Jan. 30, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Cary Sanger, Jr., ’16.

occupation: Deputy Public Affairs adviser, Bureau of Near Eastern, South
Asian and African Affairs, Department of State.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: American Embassy, London; Murphy mission
to Algiers and service in Casablanca, Cairo, and Washington for Board
of Economic Warfare and Department of State.

OFFICES HELD: First secretary, policcal officer, American Legation, Beirut;
assistant chief, Near East Division, Department of State; State Depart-
ment representative, first U. S. diplomatic mission to Yemen, assistant,
State Department adviser for Near East, regional specialist, Board of
Economic Warfare Mission to Algiers, North African economic spe-
cialist, American Embassy, London; economic warfare analyst, Foreign
Economic Administration, foreign affairs specialist, Republican National
Committee.

[ 961 ]

_—____—__— Le

t ,
»
@

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

the American Legation — now Embassy — in Beirut, Lebanon,
where I had a most interesting two and one-half years as first
secretary and where we enjoyed the work, the life, and the
sights of Damascus, Jerusalem, Baghdad, Palmira, Petra, Cairo,
and Luxor. Early in 1951 I completed my assignment and re-
turned to the department where I am at present deputy adviser
for Public Affairs to the assistant secretary for the Middle East.
This work includes giving guidance to the Voice of America
and the United States Information program in the Middle East,
plus work with the Psychological Strategy Board on this area,

The best thing that has happened to me during these twenty-
five years has been marrying Marion Child whom I met when
she was in Wellesley and I was at the Business School. She has
common sense and an understanding of the value of the dollar
which balance my deficiency in both these directions. We have
three children, Patience aged twelve, Dick aged eight who is
headed for Harvard in the Class of ’66, and Ann Cary who is
five.

In 1936 we had a competition between six different architec-
tural firms to design us a modern house that would not be mod-
ernistic and in spite of an outstanding contribution by Gardiner
Cox and Nat Saltonstall, we chose a design by Bill Huntington |
which we like more and more as the years go by. The Arab |
Room in the basement is, I believe, one of the few of its kind -
in the United States. When I am in this country I see something
of our classmates in and around Washington and New York,
plus trips to Cambridge. I also try to get a short vacation on
Guana Island every winter and a longer one on a dude ranch out
West in the summer. This activity doesn’t leave much time for
other pursuits such as tennis, but I have been able to write a
certain number of articles mostly on the Near East and I am
finishing up a book on the Arabian Peninsula.

I am sorry this report has become so long, but the path I have
followed these twenty-five years has been a winding one, Now

that my basic education is complete, I hope the next twenty-five
will be less devious though not less interesting.

[ 964 ]

: |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARSTON CLEAVES SARGENT

HOME Aporess: P. O. Box 109, La Jolla, Calif.

orfice aporess: U. S. Navy Electronics Laboratory, San Diego, Calif.

porn: April 2, 1906, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Oscar Groves Sargent,
Nannee May Sargent.

prepareD at: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1928(29); PH.p. (California Inst,
of Technology), 1934.

maraigp: Grace Charlotte Tompkins, April 8, 1933, Pasadena, Calif. crit-
DREN: Jean Anne, 1940; Harry Tompkins, 1947.

occupATION: Director of training in military research and development
laboratory.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant (junior grade), U, S.
Naval Reserve, September, 1942; duty with CNO and Buships, 1943-
45, im connection with oceanography; with JTF-1, February-August,
1946, oceanography survey, northern Marshall Islands; separated as
lieutenant commander.

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers on subjects in biology and oceanography.

AFTER a year of graduate work in biology at Harvard, in 1930
I went to California Tech, where I received my doctor’s degree
in biophysics and plant physiology four years later, picking up
a wife on the way. During three depression years I was a research
assistant and in 1937 went to the Scripps Instirution of Ocean-
ography of the University of California in La Jolla, With a new
daughter we left this incredibly pleasant spot, where the sea
lions barked from one side and the coyotes from the other, to
beat around the country during the war years. Like those of
many others, my years of service contributed to the death of
some men and the survival of others, but did not involve hearing
a shot fired in anger, For a biologist and oceanographer, six
months among the coral atolls of the central Pacific was an un-
paralleled opportunity.

Although La Jolla is as euphoric as ever, the last six years of
world-wide trouble have been reflected in our lives. In this
year of war and of a bitter election, I feel unable to weigh my
career to date, and my probable future, as most of us would hesi-
tate to weigh the accomplishments and future of western civili-
zation. I hope that by the time my little boy is twenty-five years
out of college idealism will have made more progress against
materialism, dialectical and otherwise. I hope he is free of the

[ 965 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

gripping fear of new and nasty weapons and of the paralyzing
suspicion of the integrity of his neighbors and countrymen,
Meanwhile I can forget it for a while by taking a long walk
across our dry hills and mountains in the hot sun, collecting
plants, by talking with our friends, by listening to music.

ROBERT EASTMAN SARGENT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 23247 W. River Rd., Grosse Ile, Mich.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2457 Woodward, Detroit 1, Mich.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1907, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Robert Eastman Sargent,
Helen Martino Lawton.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

mareieD: Katharine L. Ball, Aug. 15, 1942, Boston, Mass.

occupation: Divisional sales manager, American Safety Razor Corporation,
manufacturing razors, blades, shaving brushes, cigarette lighters: divi-
sion consists of five states with organization of fifteen salesmen.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Naval Reserve, 1942-45; Seventh Amphibian
Force, commanding officer of an LCI (1), then group commander of
Rocket LCI Group; lieutenant commander; Pacific Area, entire war.

MEMBER OF: U. S. Power Squadron.

CAREER: Shortly after graduation, I peddled cigarettes for a few
years. Now I peddle blades.

Family: An attractive wife and an ugly bulldog.

Hobbies: Cruising in the Great Lakes in a “stinkpotter,” mildly
sneering at windless sailboaters.

THOMAS WILKINSON SATTERTHWAITE, JR.

HOME aporess: Oldwick, N, J.
OFFICE appress: Green, Ellis & Anderson, 61 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Thomas Wilkinson Satter-
thwaite, Lucille Carnes Weeks.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MargiepD: Anne T. Stewart, June 10, 1937, Short Hills, N. J. cHrpren: San-
dra Stewart, Dec. 5, 1939; Anne Weeks, Sept. 22, 1942.
occupaTION: Investment banker and broker.

OUTSIDE of the major undertaking of commuting to New
York from this remote locality, my extra-curricular activities

[ 966 }

sp DR ePIC IERIE CS EM RO TI EN

 

t
r
4
i
i
t
‘
i

ery

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

include trout fishing in the spring, surf-casting for striped bass
during the summer, and cutting the grass on what, I am sure,
must be several square miles of lawn surrounding our home.

GERMAIN SAUTE

HOME apprESs: 536 Main St., West Warwick, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 160 Benefit St., Providence 3, R. 1.

BORN: June 19, 1907, Laiche, Belgium, Parents: Julian Emile Sauté, Rosalie
Marie Collignon.

PREPARED AT: West Warwick High School, West Warwick, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: $.B., 1928. .

MARRIED: Barbara Elizabeth Newell, Nov. 11, 1933, Washington, R. I.
CHILDREN: Patty Newell, March 28, 1939, Pamela Taft, April 15, 1942.

OCCUPATION: President-treasurer, What Cheer Garage, Inc.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Providence; Manchester Lodge, F. & A. M.,
Coventry, R. IL.

TWO jobs, two businesses, one wife, and two daughters pretty |
well cover my career from 1928 to 1953. The first job was with
Bethlehem Stee] Company and lasted until July, 1930.- It was a
good job, but trying to sell steel from an Eastern mill to Chicago-
philes in those depression days was not easy. So, I felt that my
next job of helping an old friend run his lumber business would
be more fruitful. Also, by being at home I could tend my par-
ticular romantic fence better than from Illinois.

However, the financial fruits of friendship were less rewarding
than the romantic culture of fences, and while I didn’t make much
money, I did marry Barbara E. Newell (Erskine ’28). Two
daughters, Patty and Pamela, have since moved in.

Economically, the struggling continued. The lumber thing got
sort of stalemated, and finally we burst into automobile service
work, where the war caught us with our coveralls on, and inas-
much as we did quite a lot of government work, the draft board
kept us that way.

Since then I have become president-treasurer and only stock-
holder of the What Cheer Garage, Inc. (incorporated 1893), in
Providence, where we are quite prepared — here comes a com-
mercial — to store your car, repair it, paint it; rent you a shiny
limousine with liveried chauffeur; or if you don’t feel very well
we'll send our ambulance for you; and if unfortunately it’s too

[ 967 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

late for that, you can take your last ride in one of our big black
hearses. Once in a while we sell a voiture d’ occasion as the French
have it, and usually I eat lunch at the University Club, a couple
of blocks down the street.

Last year, for the first time, our family took an extended trip
during July, going as far as the North woods of Minnesota,
Prior to that we had not been further than Florida or Nassau.
The good Lord willing, we hope to get around more frequently
in the future.

Politically, we lean the Taft way. We vote a straight ticket.
Our church is Congregational, of which we are a trustee. The
education of our children has involved us in the fortunes of the
Rocky Hill Country Day School to the point that we are a trustee
there also.

Our home is thirteen miles outside of Providence in an eighty-
year-old house with no really close neighbors, and about two or
_ three acres of lawn, trees, and such. When I get home early

enough, I can enjoy sunsets on the river across the road.

By keeping up a reasonable turnover of the stock in a little
room downstairs, and having a few lumps of ice on hand at all
times, we hope that our Fiftieth Report won't be too different

from this one.

 

ROBERT WILLIAM SAWYER, III

HOME appress: 46 Ferncliff Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: 3721 Grand Central Terminal, New York 17, N. Y.

BorN: May 7, 1906, Winchester, Mass. PARENTS: Robert William Sawyer,
Jr.,’02, L..B., ’o5, Louise Cushing Dunn.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass. 1

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927, 1928-1930. DEGREES: $.B. in C.E., 1930; SM, |
1931.

MarrigD: Anita J. Jacobsen, Sept. 8, 1933, Brooklyn, N. Y. (died December,
1951); Doris Mary Jones, January, 1952, White Plains, N. Y. cHiupren:
Robert William, 4th, Dec. 3, 1934; Gerry Dunn, Oct. 28, 1938; Jon
Bancroft, July 17, 1941 (died July 6, 1949), Charles Russell, Aug. 23,
1946.

HaRvAnp Brotuer: Alfred Worcester Sawyer, '34, 8.M., "35.

OCCUPATION: Engineer, Stock Construction Corporation, heavy construc-
tion — airports, industrial plants, foundations, etc.

[ 968 J

PE A RTE EA tom SRNR OR Bhd NA A es Ns Sg

.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Principal assistant engineer with Malcolm Pirnie,
consulting engineering work with Corps of Engineers, U. S. Army,
Bureau of Yards and Docks, and other federal agencies on water
supply and sanitation problems for installations in U. S. and off
shore.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Planning Commission, Scarsdale, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; Shenorock Shore
Club; American Society of Civil Engineers, American Water Works
Association.

| I AM a Republican.

HAROLD HIMMELSBACH SAXTON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 99 S. Erie St., Mayville, N. Y.

BorN: April 2, 1904, Washington, D. C. parents: Harold Newell Saxton,
Ada Amelia Himmelsbach.

PREPARED AT: Albany Academy, Albany, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1923, 1924~1926. DEGREE: M.D. (Univ. of Buffalo),
1930.

MARRIED: Gwendolyn Mary Harrison, April 23, 1929, Buffalo, N. Y. cxum-

_ DREN: Dorothy Jean, Jan. 17, 1930 (7. Melvin L. Anderson, September,

1949); John Harrison, Jan. 22, 1931; Anne Kathleen, Jan. 17, 1938.

occuPATION: Rural practice of medicine.

|MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Naval Reserve; active duty from August, 1942,
to April, 1946; entered service as lieutenant commander; promoted to
commander July, 1945; sea duty on troop transport in Atlantic, 1943-
45; other duties at shore stations along Atlantic Coast.

MEMBER OF: County, State, and American Medical Associations; American
Academy of General Practice.

I KEPT busy most of the time caring for the sick. In my spare
time I hunt and fish, do some gardening, raise orchids in the
living room and mushrooms in the cellar. Recently [ve been
beating out my brains studying elementary nuclear physics, a
Navy correspondence course.

I’m interested in all the world about me, and find very few
things to dislike except some of the schizophrenic type of modern
art and music. Life has been fortunate — I’ve been lucky in en-
joying my work. .

[ 969 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

HOWARD WALLING SAYLES

HOME ADDRESS: 225 N. George St., Millersville, Pa.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Family and Children’s Service of Lancaster County, 129 E.
Orange St., Lancaster, Pa.

BORN: May 12, 1907, Waverly, Mass. parents: Dwight Madison Sayles,
Eliza Marian Morrison.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.S.s. (Boston Univ.),
1940.

MARRIED: Louise A. Hawkins, Jan. 10, 1942. CHILDREN: Patricia Louise, Dec.
30, 1942; Dwight Madison, zd, March 17, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Irving Monroe Sayles, ’22; Madison Sayles, ’27, M3,
29.

oocuPaTION: Social work executive, directing staff of twenty people.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Chairman, local social services division, Civilian
Defense.

OFFICES HELD: Board member, Washington, Pa., Crippled Children’s Society,
1946-47; director, Lancaster County Community Council, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Social Workers; National Confer-
ence of Social Work; Kiwanis Club of Lancaster; Millersville Volun-
teer Fire Department.

IT LOOKS as if the spirits of 1928 will not ferment any more
if I put off writing my “class life.” Like many other people |
have been hoping that some rare thoughts would come to me, but
all that happens is that they get rarer and rarer, Ill just jot some-
thing down before they completely disintegrate.

Let’s see! About twenty-five years ago there were some hale
and hearty jam sessions in and about the Harvard Yard. The
eternal question of “what am I going to do after I leave these
‘sacred’ walls?” was as ever-present as the cry of “Reinhart.” At
least two of us were agreed on our philosophy about the voca-
tional road ahead. We wanted to be able to use whatever abili-
ties we had in as constructive a way as possible. We wanted
plenty of chance for initiative. We hoped for a sufficient degree
of responsibility, We wished to avoid areas where there would
be too many controls. We aspired to work which had a reason-
able degree of service.

As I hiked along the vocational road I had to make several
turns and, once in a while to run into a one-way street and a de-
tour. I started as a teacher in a private school in Holderness,
New Hampshire. Two years of this convinced me that I should

[970 ]

 

IK tee PAE ZH No Ha RP a MONE, ten at abbarcoR phe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

look around a bit more. I resigned from Holderness and started
a search for a job. Imagine trying to find a job in 1930! Little
do the present-day grads know what depressions mean! Anyway
I ended up as a life insurance salesman. I’m not sure which end
was up since the sales sheets were almost perfect blanks. At this
point I took stock of the vocational market and there seemed
to be one healthy area—relief. I found that workers were
needed in the soft coal belt for child feeding projects. I spent a
good part of the next two years in Western Pennsylvania and
West Virginia in the American Friends Service Committee’s
Coal Fields Relief program. Following this job I became an in-
vestigator in the Emergency Relief Administration in Massa-
chusetts. There I learned more about social service and about
politics, When this job ended, I took a trip to Florida to visit
a classmate who was in aviation. This leisure couldn’t go on for-
ever and the next move was a job of setting up the accounting |
system for the William Underwood Company’s Social Security
program. Accounting was interesting, but it didn’t quite fill the
bill. Thus I went into specialty sales and survived this work for
a year. oo

These Marco Polo, Jr., travels and peregrinations — page Eng-
lish A — came to a halt when I decided to become a professional
social worker. The Child Welfare and Emergency Relief jobs
had struck a note until then unheard. When I found that a man
could make a decent living in this field I signed up for Boston
University’s Graduate School of Social Work — Harvard doesn’t
offer one — and began work towards an M.S.S. Maybe the hur-
ricane of 1938 was aided and abetted by this great decision, In
the course of time I met Eliot Sands at the Juvenile Court, Don
Moreland at Provident Society, and Frank Waite at the Massa-
chusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.

After getting my degree, I was a caseworker in the Lowell,
Massachusetts, Family Society, then a child placement worker in
the Boston Church Home Society. With casework and super-
visory experience in back of me, I accepted an administrative
position — jobs now gave way to positions — as executive direc-
tor of the Washington, Pennsylvania, Children’s Aid and Family
Society. In three years a similar but larger agency invited me to
be its director.

[97t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

My time is occupied now with directing the Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania, Family and Children's Service, working on various civic
projects, and helping Louise bring up our two children.

CARL SCHEFFY

HOME ADDRESS: 311 Sherman St., Canton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: % Altec Service Corp., 37 Isabella St., Boston 16, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 10, 1905, Andover, Mass. parENTs: Clinton Cyrus Scheffy, ’o;,
Elizabeth Jane Leighton.

PREPARED AT: M{ansfield High School, Mansfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MarRieD: Anne Bruce Winter, Oct. 25, 1930, Mansfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carl, Jr, Jan. 17, 1932; Leighton, Feb. 8, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Luther Scheffy, ’35; Hubert Scheffy, 736.

occupation: Service Inspector, Altec Service Corporation, installation and
maintenance of theatre sound, public address, projection equipment,
and Navy gunnery training devices.

TWENTY-FIVE years: where have they gone and what have
I been doing? It all started at another 25th reunion twenty-five
years ago. I had accompanied my Dad, Harvard, ’03, at one of
his 25th doings and thereby met a classmate of his who suggested
that since talking picture equipment installations were getting
under way I might have “what it takes” to get in on the beginning
of a new business. After leaving college in June, 1926, and spend-
ing almost two years with a small radio manufacturing firm that
was showing signs of withering away, I seized the opportunity
to wander forth into greener pastures.

For better than two years I practically lived from a suitcase.
Said suitcase would, I think, have taxed even the scientific deduc-
tions of Sherlock Holmes had he been forced to obtain clues
from it in order to trace my travels in every state east of the
Mississippi, save Florida. That one I’m saving for over sixty-five,
if I make it. By the fall of 1930 the commotion caused by the
talkie beginnings was starting to settle down so I followed suit
by marrying Anne Bruce Winter that October. In 1934, after a
bitter taste of the depression and the better taste of repeal and
also richer by the addition to the family of two boys, Carl, Jr,
and Leighton, I was assigned to service theatres on Cape Cod and
the adjacent islands. However, that, as it seems all good things

[972]

 

©
=
i
£
¢
EE

entree en near peter Fi

in Seek

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

must do, came to an end in the fall of 1941 when I was transferred
to the Boston area. It took a bit of doing, but I finally managed
to shake loose the sand, clams, and cranberries, get used to driving
in city traffic and become a suburbanite. Followed quickly the
war years with booming theatre business, manpower troubles,
special projects, material shortages, and few dull moments. The

ost-war adjustment period succeeding would have been difficult
enough for all of us in the theatre business without the added
troubles caused by the appearance of the “New Home Com-
panion,” that blinking one-eyed monster, T.V. Someone, once,
had a bright idea that went, “If you can’t lick him, join him!”
Maybe it will work, in this case, but I am skeptical. Now, with
Movie industry rumblings about Cinerama, Cinemascope, and
3-D it looks as if we are in for another ride on the merry-go-
round, 1953 version. Perhaps we shall all fall off and land in the
poorhouse but then, too, some one of the lot may be able to snatch
the gold ring.

. Hobbies? Amateur radio consumes more time than I give it,
but it does help keep me posted, in an incidental way, about the
1953 facts of life. How should I know otherwise, at my age,
that the girls in one of Boston’s suburban finishing schools find
dates with M.I.T. students more interesting than those with
Harvard men? That unorthodox and unexpected cataclysm over-
whelmed me during a recent chat with another amateur in the
Canal Zone. For once, Jetting gallantry overrule honor I refrained
from pointing out, for his misguided cousin’s enlightment, that
this situation might work both ways and that Harvard men are
smart enough to be governed accordingly.

Seriously, though, amateur radio frequently plays a vital role
during a communication emergency. I learned that well on Cape
Cod during the 1938 hurricane. Amateur radio and Civilian De-
fense are inseparable and my most fervent hope is that the condi-
tions never occur which will prove that statement true.

Not that I am superstitious, but in closing I can’t help wonder-
ing a bit what sort of a milestone our Twenty-fifth might become
in view of the train of events that followed that other Twenty-
fifth I attended. Anyhow, as it will be Dad’s Fiftieth we both
intend to be around to find out.

[973]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

HENRY WARING SCHERESCHEWSKY

HOME ADDRESS: 141 Main St., Andover, Mass.

OFFiceE appREsS: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

porn: Dec. 25, 1904, Baltimore, Md. parents: Joseph Williams Scheres.
chewsky, ’95, Bessie Berry Conklin.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Mayday Bradley Redmond, Aug. 25, 1928, Arlington, Mass,
CHILDREN: Bradley Waring, Jan. 7, 1935; Susan Berry, Nov. 16, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Forby Schereschewsky, °32.

occuPaTION: Business management: bursar, Phillips Academy.

oFFicEs HELD: Headmaster, The Newcastle School, Mt. Kisco, N. Y, 1933-
35, The Bedford-Rippowam School, Bedford N. Y., 1938-46; treasurer,
business administrator, St. George’s School, Newport, R. I., 1947-51;

bursar, Phillips Academy, since 1951; director, American Red Cross,
Bedford Chapter.

MEMBER OF: Association of Business Officers of Preparatory Schools, Na-
tional Association of Educational Buyers; College and University Per-
sonnel Association; Andover Service Club; Lions Club, Bedford (Char-
ter member).

AMONG the important mile-stones of the past twenty-five
years since graduation were, first, my marriage in August, 1928,
and second, the birth of a son in January, 1935, and a daughter
in November, 1939. In the period between 1928 and 1930 events
occured which changed my course from mercantile to educational
business.

Following my marriage in 1928 I worked, successively, at
Macy’s in New York, Filene’s in Boston, and the Worcester office
of the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company, dis-
tributing a period of two years over these particular efforts to
amass a living wage each week for two people. There is no need
to recall that our national economy, during this short span, after
booming (I didn’t know that it was), burst with such a blast that
1 was blown straight into school teaching in the fall of 1930.

The school was the Newcastle School in Mt. Kisco, New York,
country day, co-educational through the ninth grade, small
enough to get to know every one and, almost, everything in a
very short time. The after-blast of the depression of the early
thirties finally caught up with us, and in the spring of 1933 the
trustees announced to the faculty that the school would close.

[974]

  

Ya AON REE NTH RATE IE PEM NE ETE IG USGI ESOTERIC HERO ENT

aco 00 tae MOLES AL ORNS SIRE

rt ipaien manag eh nemo

seohaN a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

All, however, was not over even then, for a group of the faculty
and I reorganized the school with the blessings of the trustees
and with what few assets remained after the liquidation. I was
named Headmaster, and for two years we operated in the black.
We then in 1935 amalgamated with the Bedford-Rippowam
School located in the nearby town of Bedford, New York. There
for three years as Assistant Headmaster I directed athletics and
taught Latin and science. This idyllic existence ended with my
appointment as Headmaster of the school in the fall of 1938. I
was called from Martha’s Vineyard where in the summer of that
year my wife and I had established a small camp for boys of
junior age.

For the ensuing eight years we devoted ourselves to the affairs
of the community and school, during which time our daughter,
Susan, was born. In June, 1946, the end of the first academic
year following the close of the war, I resigned my position to
look elsewhere for a future in a larger school where I could try
my hand at school business management on a broader scale. Con-
centration in business management seemed, by this time, far more
definitive than jousting with theoretical educational windmills
in the windy corridors of trustees’ minds and construing the
sciolistic conclusions of parent-teachers’ meetings.

In the summer of 1947, after completing a fund-raising assign-
ment at the Greenwich Country Day School as executive secre-
tary, I was named treasurer and administrator of the business
affairs of St. George’s School in Newport, Rhode Island. There,
with the support of the vigorous administration of Willet Law-
rence Eccles, then Headmaster, followed four years which saw
the enrollment reach an all-time high and at the same time a sub-
stantial reduction in debt accumulated during the war years and
operations in the black for the last two years there.

In the summer of 1951 I was named Bursar of Phillips Academy
at Andover, Massachusetts. At this writing, this charming New
England town and its fine academy seem finally to represent the
ideal in work and life. Our son, Bradley, is presently attending
Belmont Hill School where he is learning to distribute his ener-
gies more or less equally between athletics and studies; our daugh-
ter, Susan, is facing new vistas of experience in the excellent
public school system of Andover.

[975 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Somewhere in this account, the trials and tribulations that in-
evitably accompany any family chronicle of its times seem to
have been diffused by the anodyne of the years that have gone
before. For this I am grateful. The reality is the future, and in
this 1 am profoundly optimistic. I like Ike.

ERICH MAREN SCHLAIKJER

HOME ADDRESS: 202 Burns St., Forest Hills, N. Y.

orrice appress: Brooklyn College, Bedford Ave. & Ave. H, Brooklyn,’

N. Y.
BORN: Nov. 22, 1905, Newtown, Ohio. parents: Erich Schlaikjer, Clara
Ryser.

PREPARED AT: Winner High School, Winner, South Dakota.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B., 1928(30). “

MARRIED: Myrtle Catherine Carroll, Nov, 29, 1933, New York, N. Y. cHILo:
Maren C., Jan. 6, 1941.

occUPATION: Education.

MORRIS JACOB SCHLANGER

HOME ADpRESS: 6509 Summit, Kansas City, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1101 Main St., Kansas City, Mo.

BorN: July 11, 1907, Wichita, Kansas. parENTS: Julius Schlanger, Grace
Aronson.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(29); M.B.A., 1930.

MARRIED: Jane Sarah Greenman, Dec. 24, 1936, Olathe, Kansas, CHILDREN:
John Schlanger, March 23, 1943; Jane Ellen, Oct. 24, 1948.

occupation: Divisional merchandise manager of ready-to-wear, Harzfeld’s,
Inc., women’s specialty store.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted Dec. 21, 1942, discharged Sept. 18, 1945,
with rank of staff sargeant; served in Anti-Aircraft Artillery and Quar-
termaster Corps; no overseas service; no medals; no fun.

MEMBER OF: Kansas City Chamber of Commerce; Advertising and Sales
Executives Club; Harvard Club of Kansas City.

UPON graduation from the Harvard Business School, I was em-
ployed for the firm for which I still work. This can be explained
as a combination of 1) fideliry, 2) lack of imagination, 3) lack
of guts, 4) tremendous patience on the part of the management.

[976 J

Se RE FG SA TSN PRES AP IEEE REESE NET PEON TILE POAT TYRE POEM A ENOTES TPS ANE LIN IAD

A Mita, gee NOE aS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT -

Marriage has provided me with—1) a wife who combines
understanding of my idiosyncrasies with an annoying habit of
second-guessing everything I do; 2) two children, whom I love
dearly, but whom I would cherish more if my wife would only
teach them manners; 3) an Airdale dog, Pat by name, with an
abnormally low I.Q. (even by canine standards); 4) a maid named
Esther, with an I.Q. probably lower than Pat’s, but apparently
normal otherwise; 5) the largest mortgage, equated to income,
in the state of Missouri.

My travels have been restricted to numerous business trips to
New York. My social, religious, and political convictions may
be summed up in a sentence — “Give the other guy a break, but
keep the keys to the cash register.”

BERNARD CUTNER SCHOENFELD

ADDRESS: 18708 Topanga Beach Rd., Malibu, Calif.

Born: Aug. 17, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Jacob Mylburn Schoen-
feld, Flora Cuter.

PREPARED AT: Dwight Preparatory School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: 8.B., 1928.

occuPATION: Government service.

RUDOLPH WALLACE SCHRADER

HOME AppREsS: South Egremont, Mass.

OFFIcE appRESS: Egremont Tavern, South Egremont, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 7, 1906, Somerville, Mass. parents: Carl Ludwig Schrader, Maude
Lillian Wallace.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1928(29).

MarRIED: Irene M. Gautier, Nov. 8, 1947, Pinehurst, N. C.

occupation: Innkeeper; owner and operator, inn over 200 years old.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: In service May 26, 1942—March 1, 1945; entered
as first lieutenant at Chanute Field, Ill; helped convert Hotel Stevens
in Chicago to military use; in North Atlantic twenty months — Iceland,
Greenland, Newfoundland, Labrador, etc.; special commendation, Gen-
eral Spaatz; left service as captain.

OFFICES HELD: Associate manager, New Ocean House, Swampscott, Mass.;
manager, Harvard Club of Boston; secretary, Berkshire Innkeepers

[977]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Association, Boston Stewards Club; director, National Association Club
Managers, moderator, Town of Egremont.

MEMBER OF: American Hotel Association; Audubon Society; Wyantenuck
Country Club, Great Barrington, Mass.

I OBTAINED a degree and sat down to analyze what it had
equipped me for income-wise. The answer was close to zero,
but I was not discouraged because I had worked summers (now
it can be told) ata girls’ camp. At this establishment I had a good
bit to do with the food department, and I decided I could easily
be a hotelman. I consulted with a man named Clement Kennedy,
of the New Ocean House at Swampscott, and pleasingly enough
he seemed to agree. His agreement began a wholly desirable
relationship of some nine years, during which time I did just
about everything that the advertisements say should be done in
a hotel. While with this superior organization I got excellent
experience even though I worked like crazy; I got myself up in
the better brackets and also realized I was in the right sort of
work, “I keep telling myself.” At the end of this nine-year period
I was asked by Mr. Seth Gano, of the Harvard Club of Boston,
if I would be interested in coming to said spot. I answered “yes”
and after an interview or two I found myself situated there. It
was a pleasant four years, but while I must say I love Harvard
men individually, in groups of 3,500 they are — well, at least
cumulatively — illegitimate! So I got myself out of it all and
found this present location in the Southern Berkshires, which I
own and to which I am devoted.

As the above information indicates, I was away with Uncle
Sam for a period of time, but this was over in 1945, and I pro-
ceeded to re-set myself here. I bought an old grist mill (having
felt I had been through one) and converted it into a place to
try to have guests sleep, and people have done so. Later I ac-
quired another inn in this town known as Mount Everett and
ran this for four years; I have just put the bite on a guy who
bought it.

In 1947 I went into partnership with a person in connection
with a property in North Carolina — it should never have hap-
pened. Ir was here that I became married and that is the only
part of that sojourn I enjoy recalling.

Now we are in the Tavern again, plus our Old Mill, and as

[978]

 

t
5
r
i
'
b
|
f
‘

ay a TG aD

techy aR MCENROE oR NOE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

happy as one is allowed to be. Incidentally, we shall be glad
to furnish rates at the slightest request. Our work is long, not
hard. We see many many friends of long standing who give
us new life and pleasant greetings, They come from all over
and furnish us with a substantial desire to keep ourselves always
open for more of the travelling public, stinkers though some of
them may be.

I have been lucky enough to travel over most of the forty-
eight states and a fair part of Europe. That was before I was mar-
ried, but still delightful. How I wish I could develop a good
going hobby, but this business affords one such a minimum of
time off, it is nearly impossible. And this is only a feeble excuse
in opposition to obvious lethargy.

Politically, my life has always been that of an unhappy and
unrequited Republican, but I still have hopes, especially this good
year of ours. Personally, I have run for town moderator once
and was not elected, but on the second shot I made it with no
opposition. It is a job without too much work, but with a great
deal of satisfaction. I have no great convictions concerning our
American way of life. It obviously is the best, and it can be
maintained only by such co-operative conviction. As a Class we
got out of college when things were pretty easy. They tough-
ened fast and have stayed so. I think it is best they continue a
bit tough. I hope labor begins to realize it owes as much to
capital as capital continues to owe to labor. My future looks
wholly adequate, which is all one can expect.

FRANKLIN JAMES SCHWENTKER

HOME ADDRESS: 45 Revere Rd., Apt. 6, Drexel Hill, Pa.

OFFIcE appress: Wharton School of Finance & Commerce, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 4, Pa.

Born: Aug. 25, 1906, Albuquerque, N. Mex. parents: Frank Benjamin
Schwentker, Louise Maude Summers,

PREPARED AT: Phoenix Union High School, Phoenix, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; c1.u. (Amer-
ican Coll. of Life Underwriters), 1936.

MarrigD: Pauline Estock, July 28, 1928, Santa Ana, Calif. (died June 2,
1946); Barbara B. Burr, April 11, 1947, Phoenix, Ariz. cettpreN Frank-
lin David, March 29, 1939; Robert Bristol, April 7, 1948; Bruce James,
Aug. 22, 1952.

[979]

——- Ly

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928 |

occupation: Teacher of insurance; chartered life underwriter.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned lieutenant, U. S. Naval Reserve,
Oct. 4, 1942; ordered to U. S. Naval Air Station, Quonset Point, R. L,
for indoctrination and Air Combat Intelligence School; intelligence
officer to commander, Support Aircraft; assigned to Staff of Admiral in
Command, served in following amphibious operations in Pacific: Kiska,
Marshall Islands, Hollandia, Saipan, Palau, Ulithi, and Leyte Gulf; pro.
moted lieutenant commander, September, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: President, Arizona State Society of Chartered Life Under.
writers, 1947-48, 1948-49; member Board of Directors, Arizona Asso-

ciation of Life Underwriters, 1939-42, 1946-49, Maricopa County Chap.
ter, American Red Cross, 1938-q2.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Chartered Life Underwriters, American
Association of University Teachers of Insurance..

AFTER graduation I entered the life insurance business in Phoe-
nix, Arizona, and for two years served as cashier in my father’s
agency, We then moved to Los Angeles where I spent the next
few years in the field selling. During these depression years sell-
ing did not prove to be especially lucrative, but we made a com-
fortable living and at least there was no worry about pay-cuts
or losing one’s job. . 7

In 1934 I was made manager of my company for the state of
Arizona and we moved back to Phoenix. The next eight years
were spent mainly in the building and development of our agency
organization. I enjoyed the educational and training aspect of
the work very much and after securing my C.L.U. degree in
1938 I taught C.L.U. classes for Arizona State College in addition
to my regular duties.

After the war I took over the agency as general agent on a
partnership basis. While the agency continued to be very suc-
cessful, the partnership did not pan out, and although my friends
with greying temples looked at me askance, I decided to pull out
and make a career of the one thing that interested me most,
namely teaching.

I was awarded a fellowship under the S. S. Huebner Founda-
tion for Insurance Education and undertook my graduate studies
at the University of Pennsylvania in the fall of 1949. I have now
completed all the required course work, passed my preliminary
exams, and hope to have my dissertation completed in time to
receive my Ph.D, degree in June, 1953. For the last two years
I have been teaching in the Wharton School. I expect to make

[ 980 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a career of teaching with some research and writing, and some
consultation work on the side. This may not be as profitable as
the insurance business but to me it will be a fuller and more
satisfying life.

The death of my first wife in 1946 was a severe blow, but a
happy second marriage has made life worth living again. Cur-
rently our three boys are our vocation, our avocation, and our
hobby as well. They give us time for little else. David is a First
Class Boy Scout and has gotten me deeply involved in the ac-
tivities of the troop. I intend to do more after I recover from
the rigors of the last camping trip. Bobby and Bruce just about
drive their mother to distraction and result in the familiar state-
ment as I step in the house in the evening, “They are all yours,
now — you take over.” They area great bunch.

NEWELL TAYLOR SCHWIN

HOME Appress: 5123 Morse Ave. Skokie, III.

OFFICE AporEss: 410 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 11, Il.

BORN: June 3, 1906, Elkhart, Ind. parents: Payson Elmer Schwin, Katherine
Boyd.

preparen at: Nicholas Senn High School, Chicago, IIL

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

maraiep: Mary Chapman Lowell, Jan. 19 1929, Golden, Colo. cHiLoren:
Helen Lowell, June 12, 1936; Robert Lowell, Oct. 13, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Executive assistant to vice-president in charge of Columbia
Broadcasting System.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD; Commissioned lieutenant (junior grade), Decem-
ber, 1942; spent June, 1943-June, 1944, at sea, Atlantic and Mediter-
ranean waters in charge armed guard gun crews on two merchant
vessels; action against enemy in Anzio operation and elsewhere; sent
to west coast June, 1944, assigned as gunnery officer USS Natrona
(APA 214); took part in Philippine and Okinawa operations, earned
five battle stars; discharged November, 1945, Great Lakes, Ill, as
lieutenant commander.

orFices HELD: Secretary, School Board, Skokie, Ill., 1946-52.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Press Club; Harvard Club of Chicago; North Shore
Country Club, Chicago Federated Advertising Clubs; Sigma Delta
Chi; Pi Kappa Alpha; Association of National Advertisers (company
representative); Financial Public Relations Association (company rep-
resentative).

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles in professional advertising and consumer

finance publications.

[981]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

WHERE the twenty-five years have gone I'll never know. It’s
hard to believe that twenty of the years have been spent work-
ing for one company — nineteen of them in one department.
Grey hairs and a bulging waist line don’t measure it for you. Per-
haps only the lines on the kitchen door marking the annual growth
of one’s children adequately tell the story.

Coming late to Harvard (having spent my freshman college
year at Ohio State and my sophomore year at Western Reserve)
as a junior in the fall of 1926, I have never failed to be impressed
since with the cordiality with which I quickly became a member
of the Class — even though a sort of johnny-come-lately. And to
this day, despite a nomadic sort of existence which goes with
being an executive of a large chain organization, and which has
prevented much participation in alumni activities, friends made
in my two years in Cambridge have remained good friends in-
deed,

_ My wife, Mary Lowell, was graduated from Simmons in 1928.
She followed a professional career for many years in the home
economics field where she built up a notable reputation for her-
self, first as manager of the Home Economics Department for
Hotpoint and later as founder and first head of the Home Eco-
nomics Department for Quaker Oats. The business of two ca-
reers in the family continued over many years— to our satis-
faction. We are raising two children of whom we are very proud.
As this is written, Helen is in her third year at Niles ‘Township
High School, Skokie, Illinois, and Robert, recovering from polio
which he contracted during the summer, is in eighth grade.

We hope to return for Reunion in June. It will be good to
see some of you again after all these years. I trust the changes
of a quarter century will not be too shocking .. . frankly, I
would guess most of them are for the better.

DAVID EARL SCOLL

HOME appress: P. O. Box 187, Chappaqua, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 400 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1906, Baltimore, Md. parents: Jacob Scoll, Sarah Felser.
PREPARED AT; Evanston Township High School, Evanston, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 19241928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 192'8; LL.B., 1931.

[ 982 ]

f

rae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Mary Elizabeth Krome, Nov. 3, 1939, Washington, D. C. cum
preN: Medora, May 10, 1941; Jonathan Paul, Feb. 5, 1943; Janet, May
29, 1945; Stephen Krome, Nov. 8, 1947.

occupation: Attorney, Landis, Taylor & Scoll.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Executive officer, Combined Shipping Adjust-
ment Board (U. S. British Wartime Merchant Shipping Control Au-
thority).

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; International
Law Association; Association of Interstate Commerce Commission Prac-
titioners; Maritime Law Association; Harvard Club of New York.

THE summer of 1928 was very hot. I spent the hottest week

in New York City, trying to find a job among the publishers,

with letters of introduction that secured me the privilege of
waiting forever in the outer offices of the great book houses.

The long waits, the discouraging interviews, the foul heat, my

two-dollar room at the Times Square Hotel, and the Automat

convinced me that I was not ready to face the music, least of all
in New York City. Through the generosity of the Bursar and
kind friends (whose generosity enabled me to claim that I was
supporting myself) I returned to Cambridge, enrolled in the

Law School, and finished with an unimpressive mark.

I was admitted to the Massachusetts Bar in 1931 and practised
in Boston until 1935. Then I joined the cavalcade of lawyers
to Washington. I was subsequently employed as an attorney,
with and without titles, by the Reconstruction Finance Cor-
poration, the former United States Maritime Commission, the
Temporary National Economic Committee of the Seventy-sixth
Congress, and the War Shipping Administration. The Combined
Shipping Adjustment Board, of which I was the Executive Offi-
cer during the war, was one of those novel Roosevelt-Churchill
organizations set up to ration our combined war resources —
always in short supply —in this case, merchant ships. At the
end of the war, I spent a year in California (mostly commuting
to Washington) with Henry J. Kaiser.

In 1945 I became a member of the New York Bar and set my-
self up to practise law in New York City. On the side, I was
counsel to the Joint Committee on the Economic Report of
the Eighty-second Congress in 1950, and briefly a consultant
to the Collective Measures Committee of the United Nations in
1951. The French Government awarded me the Legion of

[ 983 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Honor in 1949. At the present time I am associated with James

M. Landis and Telford Taylor in the firm of Landis, Taylor &
Scoll.

Ir is interesting that in the decade of the thirties when the
spirit of free inquiry gained momentum in the University under
the leadership of President Conant, a similar spirit was manifest
under the leadership of President Roosevelt. Perhaps this was
not altogether a coincidence, in view of the influence then being
exercised in the government by the graduates of the University.
The one reassuring result of the recent election, from a Demo-
crat’s point of view, is President Eisenhower’s willingness to
appoint graduates of the University to important jobs in his ad-
ministration, beginning with President Conant. It shows that
the Republican leaders didn’t really mean all the terrible things
they said about us Democrats in the campaign. ‘They just
thought it was time for a change of Harvard men.

JOHN CARMICHAEL SCUDDER

HOME ADDRESS: 2310 Steiner St., San Francisco, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 310 Kearny St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: John Arnold Scudder, Alice
Barrett.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

Marrigp: Florence McCormick, June 1, 1935, San Francisco, Calif. CHILDREN:
Susan, Jan. 29, 1939, Sunny (Florence), Jan. 1, 1942.

occuPATION: Real estate.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Navy, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: Pacific Union; Burlingame Country Club.

EDWIN LINTON SEAGRAVE

HOME Appress: 2 Midland Gardens, Bronxville 8, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 11, 1907, Slatersville, R. 1, PARENTS: Charles Edwin Seagrave,
Laura Linton Tabor.

PREPARED AT: Mt. Hermon School, Mt. Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

[ 984 ]

 

STOR petanentomis sate aren i Ne Me Me EE TR AMAR RANPIN AT IRON PN SN AAR RRC RN CA ta it: Sia nt,

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marniep: Virginia Morris, Oct. 11, 1940, Galveston, Texas. canon: Charles
Edwin Seagrave, Aug. 8, 1941.

occupation: Telephone business, American Telephone and Telegraph Com-
sinners oF: Harvard Club of Westchester.
AFTER completing my undergraduate work and being impa-
tient to try working and living in New York City, I moved to
New York on June 24, 1928, and entered the telephone busi-
ness on the following day. I then had in the back of my mind a
vague objective of returning to New England and entering a
different business there if after a year or two New York should

not work out well.
As to working in New York, 1953 finds me still here. Twenty-
three years with the New York Telephone Company in various
assignments here in the city proved to be both interesting and
challenging. This success resulted in 1951 in employment here
with the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. Two
years in this work in a field with broader scope has represented
new challenges and much job interest. Discounting the occasional
and temporary conviction, which most men scem to be subject
"0, at times, that there must be easier and better ways to earn
. living, my twenty-five years of working in New York have
‘iven me a great deal of satisfaction.
As to living in the city, after twelve years of that, the greener
“ass in the suburbs looked like the only answer, Marriage to
irginia, a fine Texan girl who I hope and believe would not
w give up New York for Texas, has resulted in a happy
nily life and a son Chuck, who may some day enter Harvard.
few more years of maturity may mellow his present eleven-
r-old view that any educational institution is only as good as
final scores obtained by its athletic teams, The last dozen
s of living in Westchester County have been ones that \
Id not trade for any others except for more of the same.
| and all on balance, weighing depressions, wars, new deal,
Jeal, taxes, and inflation (the next few years now offer some
with respect to these last four ills) —and the lack of many
dual accomplishments which in 1928 1 was sure 1 would

iccomplished by this time, the last twenty-five years have
fed a worth-while experience.

[ 985 ]

~ sag HOD FR
Wir aren aor RONNIE RR At came site rupmitngtetee wy vtecemy vest a magnate ten A tone Ta SE ANIA IE IEE 8 FT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

* MARION DUBOIS SEASHORE

BorN: April 10, 1907, Iowa City, lowa. parents: Carl Emil Seashore, Mary
Roberta Holmes.

pRepARED AT: University of Iowa, lowa City, Iowa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.
piep: Aug. 23, 1926, Lobster Lake, Maine.

AFTER two years of study at the University of Iowa, Seashore
came to Harvard for a year. He was drowned in an attempt to
swim ashore when the canoe in which he and three companions
were riding was upset. One of his companions swam to the bank
and supplied a log which would hardly support two of the men.
Seashore helped the two men to shed their wet clothes and then
set out for the shore. An expert swimmer, he was probably
overcome by exposure to the cold water.

WLADIMIR SAMUEL SEIDEL

HOME ADDRESS: 1170 Genesee St., Rochester 11, N. Y.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Dept. of Mathematics, University of Rochester, Rochester
3, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 21, 1906, Odessa, Russia, parents: Samuel Seidel, Tatiana Beer-
man. .

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B. summa cum laude, 1928.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTION: Professor of mathematics.

MEMBER oF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America; Sigma Xi.

PuBLicaTions: Articles in various mathematical journals.

HERBERT ABRAHAM SELTZER

HOME ADDRESS: 321 E. 167th St., Bronx 56, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Home & Hospital of the Daughters of Jacob, 167th St. &
Findlay Ave., Bronx, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 28, 1907, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Solomon Hyman Seltzer,
Edith Abramson.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

[ 986 ]

De OR MEARE Mitre tig ACNE net Alo MNES Sat

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928, DecREES: a.B. cum laude, 1928, A.M. 1929;
Rabbi (Jewish Theological Seminary), 1933.

married: Lilyan Sarah Kellman, June 27, 1935, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Lewis Seltzer, °25; Carl Coleman Seltzer, ‘29.

OCCUPATION: Executive director of home and hospital for the aged.

MILITARY O® NAVAL xecord: Commissioned first heutenant, chaplain, U. S,
Army Reserves, March, 1936; service terminated, March, 1941.

orrices HELD: Chairman, Superintendents Committee, Association for Care
of Jewish Aged & Infirm, 1945-44, Relief Committee, Rabbinical As-
sembly, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: National Conference Jewish Social Welfare; Rabbinical As-
sembly of America Welfare Council; Greater New York Hospital
Association,

PUBLICATION: Mininnon Standards for Homes for the Aged, Welfare Coun-
cil.

SINCE I have lost both my hair and Harvard accent — the

former due to heredity, the latter to environment — my brief

account of the past twenty-five years should suffer from no out-
ward inhibitions.

Following graduation and an A.M. in anthropology, I weighed
a teaching career in the field against the long-standing family
tradition of one son in each generation entering the ministry.
Deciding on the second, I pursued the curriculum of studies
which four years later led to my ordination. In 1937, after only
a brief sojourn in the active Rabbinate, I veered off into the
executive branch of social service. Beginning as an assistant
in a comparable institution, since 1941 [ have been in my present
post, executive director of one of the largest organizations of its
kind in the country (bed capacity, 720).

With so many “displaced” persons in the world today, it is
a real satisfaction to engage in a profession in which I feel so
at home and where both my secular and religious education
find application. Not ar all wasted are my anthropology, Tal-
mud, and social sciences. I could also have used some law, engi-
neering, medicine, home economics, and more, many more psy-
chology courses!

But what a far cry my present work, with its complex daily
routine and multitude of details, is from those nostalgically
peaceful days spent in Harvard Yard, where my chief concerns
were: will I make the Dean’s list, and how will the football team |
fare next Saturday. To the best of my recollection, we were

[ 987 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

moderately successful in both. Maybe if I had studied harder,
the team would have won more often!

As to hobbies: I have reached the age where I’m content to
relax indoors, listening to recordings, and outdoors playing an
occasional round of golf. I still haven’t broken eighty (without
cheating).

Although circumstances thus far have not permitted me to
travel, I am planning to get away some day soon and see a little
more of the world. Perhaps such a trip with its reputed broad-
ening influence, would help clarify my social and political think-
ing — which now appears beclouded by the doubts, contradic-

tions, and sombre hues most of mankind displays. Never having -

fallen victim to any of the ‘ ‘isms” — right or left —I have re-
mained by conviction a liberal, in voting an independent, by
nature a pessimist, hoping for the best while expecting the worst.

Looking back—can it be a quarter century? — the roseate
hue that time lends is not alone the reason why my memories
of Harvard are so pleasant. The warm friendship of the boys,
the easy manner of the profs in sharing their learning, the surety
that we knew it all in those pre-crash years of glory, these push
the calendar back for me in my frequent recollections of those

halcyon days.

GEORGE ISRAEL SHAPIRO

HOME ApprESs: 38 Ellis Rd., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gardiner, Maine.

BORN: March 27, 1906, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Samuel Shapiro, Ethel
Kladky.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrieD: Lucille Gorin, Nov. 15, 1933, Great Neck, Long Island, N. Y.
cxitp: John Martin, April 9, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Shoe manufacturer, president, Gardiner Shoe Company, Gardi-
ner, Maine.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Boston, Augusta Country Club, Augusta,
Maine,

AFTER graduation from College, I joined my father in the shoe
manufacturing business in South Braintree, Massachusetts. In
1935 we moved our factory to Gardiner, Maine, where we manu-

[ 988 ]

 

ftp SAPP BL ER A RAEN ENA CAR CBU URS RN

Pe A RR I RN CS NOI OG AMER Ml ar ta SEC pe OAR IOMRE In ARPA PORREEIM BEA ELSA INO 8 i BE GR

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

facture our “Yorktown” and “Modern Priscilla” shoes. During
World War II, at the request of the Army, we turned over a
large part of our production to making combat boots. The shoe
business is a very complex business and keeps me quite busy most
of the time.

Of course, my greatest interest in life is my family, and 1
spend as much time as possible with them. We have wonderful
times together. John is very interested in sports, and we rarely
miss a Harvard game.

As for relaxation and exercise, boating, swimming, and golf
at our summer place on Lake Cobbossee in Maine with Lucille
and John keep me happy and contented.

RUSSELL THORNLEY SHARPE

HOME AporEss: The Evergreens, Monticello College, Alton, Ill.
OFFICE ADpRESS: President's Office, Monticello Collcge, Alton, Tl.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1905, East Greenwich, R. 1. parents: William Langford
Sharpe, Flora Alice Thornley.

PREPARED AT: Providence Technical High School, Providence, R. 1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DECREE: 3.8. suntma cum laude, 1918.

MarRIED: Evelyn Forsyth Jillson, Oct. 26, 1929, Providence, R. 1. (divorced
1946); Betty Ward, Aug. 20, 1946, Picdmont, Calif. camo: William
Forsyth, June 16, 1934.

occupation: College president.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RecorD: Called to active service as major, 211th Coast
Artillery (anti-aircraft) (First Corps of Cadets), Sept. 16, 1940; served
as battalion commander, regimental executive with rank of lieutenant
colonel, 1940-42, assistant chief of staff for supply and later for training,
Anti-Aircraft Training Center, Camp Haan, Calif, 1942-43; director

of training, with rank of colonel, Otfice of Special Assistant for Anti-
Aircraft, Headquarters, Army Air Forces, Washington, D. C., 1944-46.

OFFICES HELD: Corresponding secretary, Harvard Chapter, Phi Beta Kappa,

1937-40; president, Eastern College Personnel Officers, 1938-40.

MEMBER OF; Commonwealth Club of California, Phi Beta Kappa; Phi Delta
Kappa.

PusLications: Financial Aid for College Students, American Council on
Education, 1946; articles on student personnel work and educational ad-
ministration in Encyclopedia of Educational Research, Harvard Alumni
Bulletin, Proceedings of Eastern College Personnel Officers, California
Journal of Secondary Education, etc.

I SPENT the year after graduation in Europe as a Sheldon
Travelling Fellow. In 1929, I returned to Harvard where I con-

[ 989 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

tinued my work in English at the Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences and served in a number of administrative posts until
1940. In September of that year, my National Guard regiment
was called to active duty by the President. The next six years
were passed in Texas, California, Washington, and in the Mediter-
ranean theatre in various assignments, chiefly military training and
lanning. When I once again became a civilian, I migrated to
California, held a personnel post with a government agency and
then returned to college administration and teaching as vice-
president of Golden Gate College in San Francisco. In 1950, I
resumed my graduate study at Stanford University, working in
the field of administrative theory: by the time this biography
sees print, I hope to have received my Ph.D. Recently, I was
elected president of Monticello College at Alton, Illinois.
The quarter century since 1928 has gone swiftly, uneventfully,
and, on the whole, pleasantly. If the next twenty-five years treat
me and mine with equal kindness, I shall be content.

ALBERT MILO SHATTUCK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 715 S. Second St., San Jose 12, Calif. °

OFFICE appRESS: Stocking Rose Gardens, San Jose, Calif.

BorN: May to, 1906, Worcester, Mass. parents: Albert Milo Shattuck, Abi-
gail Smith Fisher.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

mMarrigeD: Paula Helene Hillegarth Brown, Oct. 24, 1936, Brooklyn, N. Y.
(died April 16, 1942); Marcelena Undine Wolgast, July 21, 1944, New
York, N. Y.

occupaTion: Gardener.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Army, January, 1943, to September, 1945;
corporal in Quartermaster Corps, 638th Q.M. Battalion; D.P. to Ar-
mored Divisions on Tennessee and Colorado maneuvers; O.CSS, in-
complete 1945; attached to Training Battalion, Camp Lee, Va.

PUBLICATIONS: Poems in various periodicals; weekly garden column in Win-
ter Park, Florida, Herald, 1948-50.

I BELIEVE I can now call the motive power of my conscious
life, the pursuit of gentleness. The discipline in perspective that
I received at Harvard has insured my sanity in all my mental
activities. It has vitalized the maturing of my faculties in and
beyond all adaptations to practical techniques. The treasury of

[ 990 ]

 

FS ONT Ra Om ST TE NNN BNET ESI ID NRE MONT SB SARI PEER ARE TLR ITE IAG ISET SOME MEY ATTN ARE A AH ecteca ens

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

leisure that Harvard encouraged me to fill was never entirely
squandered. Now that the peak of outgoing is climbed, I still know

where to seek fulfillment.
Down Easters say Boston will never come to much. It's too far

from Maine. My great hope for Harvard is that it will never get

too far away from New England.
After work on various farms and as a waiter on Beacon Hill, |

had a spell in the statistical office of Gilchrist & Company, then
toured all the States as secretary to Richard Halliburton. 1 in-
dulged in half a year in Harvard Graduate School during 1929-
30; then was handed a thousand dollars to go where | pleased and
come back a man. On the way to Dublin, I landed at the Devon,
England, retreat of the psychologist, Meredith Starr, where 1

worked and studied. M y cap and gown kept me warm as master
in a small boys’ school, Eton House, Southend-on-Sea, F'ssex,

for two terms, 1930-31. After more preparation at Meredith

Starr's, | embraced the depression on farms in New York State,
house to house campaigns in Boston and Brooklyn, then two years
in California as cook, artist’s model and caretaker of a ranch.

Shipping myself back east by freight was a good underlining ex-
perience. During 1934 I was clerk of Wachusett Country Club,

West Boylston, Massachusetts, then to Meredith Starr’s in Eng-
land again for six months of unraveling and restitching. In 1935 1

helped John Lonzo Anderson, the only classmate patient enough to
keep up with me, to build a log cabin home in Hunterdon County,

New Jersey. On this project I first met my dear wife, Marcelena,
or Lee as she abbreviated herself as a successful New York de-
signer of antique furniture and crystal fixtures. After work as a
iveter’s apprentice on the Brooklyn College buildings, 1 spent
even years in the shipping department of Bemis Brothers Bag
company, at Brooklyn and at East Pepperell, Massachusetts, my
ncestral whereabouts. During this time life passed pretty much
; usual and I learned to appreciate affection and friendship.
After the death of my wife, Helene, there was no reason why |
ouldn’t be a soldier, so they stood me for most of three years,
ernately praising and reviling my betters, and never healthier
an when sleeping under snowbanks. I enjoyed more leisure
n ever since Harvard, and on the tide of reviving romance en-

ed the deepening realm of loving relationship in marriage to Lee

[991 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Wolgast in 1944. This was a period of best inspiration in writing.

When the Army’s ajm had spent and ejected me I was at last
ready to learn a trade, so took the two-year course for the Certifi-
cate in Ornamental Horticulture at Long Island Agricultural and
Technical Institute, Farmingdale, New York. A process I recom-
mend to anyone topheavy enough to imagine he actually knows
anything in its true relations when he graduates from Harvard or
elsewhere. So just twenty years after (by Alickanda Dumbass)
I was ready, with Portia, to face life in its intimate implications.

The upshot was a year and a half as gardener at the New York
Botanical Gardens; two years as superintendent of the Mead
Botanical Garden, Winter Park-Orlando, Florida —a project of
fine idealism; and fifteen months as a senior nurseryman in the
University of California Botanical Garden at Berkeley. Since
October 1, 1952, I have been an emergee from academic privilege
and a convert to commercial responsibility, which I find far more
wholesome. Until the Botanical Gardens of America relearn the
intense respect for human valuations that is the mainstay of the
best commercial growers, I see for them only a very refractory
future.

My present work is not only satisfactory but satisfying, and
with men of the highest character. It leaves mind and emotion
free for constructive study. For years the guiding light of my
understanding has been the Analytical Psychology of Dr. C. G.
Jung of Zurich, as developed in his many books, far more re-
warding to me than any “literary” titanisms I know of.

Nature I accept with gradually widening trustfulness. Too
often I find collecting books easier than ripening a friendship,
and this must be corrected. Some day Lee and I hope to return
to New England to run a small country nursery (plants), and
while it’s frozen under, design and refinish furniture.

Those who really want to know me better, should drop in some
afternoon about supper time. If lucky, they’ll be enchanted by
Lee’s charm and French cooking. If they find me alone, and dip
into one of my stews, they'll rise sadder and wiser the morrow
morn.

L992 ]

IE EEO PST AEH NCL MTR VIENNA EAA AA AAU Oe Aa: + -

\

later get er gayon

Meg Pas CO St

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

** FRANCIS CHARLES SHAUGHNESSY
poan: Aug. 20, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Stephen Shaughnessy,

Mary V. Kearns.
puapanep AT: West Philadelphia High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGRER: $.B., 1928(19).
meaanizo: Lucille E. Adams.
pico: April 10, 1947, Philadelphia, Pa.
winow: Mrs. Francis C, Shaughnessy, 8:4 S. q8th St. Philadelphia a3, Pa,
LITTLE is known of Francis Charles Shaughnessy’s life, for he
wrote little in answer to the Secretary’s requests for information,

Some time after leaving Harvard, Shaughnessy made law his pro-

fession and in 1938 was practising it in Philadelphia. Hlis wife

survived him.

ALEXANDER AGASSIZ SHAW

appress; Ormond Beach, Fla.
RN: June 26, 1905, Beverly Farms, Mass. parents; Robert Gould Shaw, ad,

95, Mary Hannington.
REPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928,
arriep: Helene Chess Ellsworth, June 30, 1927, Paris, France. Cuilpren:

Robert Gould, Sept. 18, 1928; Phyllis Ellsworth, Nov. 4, 1931.
UPATION: Agriculture.

HENRY SHAW

> appress: 76 Westland Rd., Weston 93, Mass.
E appress: Bergeron Co., Inc, 50 Guinan St., Waltham, Mass.
Nov, 17, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Carleton Anderson Shaw, '95,

ia Ward Richards.

rp at: Kent School, Kent, Conn,

'N COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: AB, 1928,

9: Dorothy Ella Wiliams, Dec. 25, 1935 (died April 4, 1945). CiL-
N: Frederick Carleton, July 8, 1937; Peter Freeman, Dec. 20, 194}.
1oN: Part owner and operator, Swiss Screw Machine Products.

¢ OR NAVAL RECORD: Sergeant, Massachusetts State Guard.
1etp: Director, clerk of corporation, Bergeron Company, Inc.
of: National Rifle Association (life member); Weston Badminton

; Weston-Wayland Chess Club,
[993 |

WENA te PR pipe sre mynnnan
“ EY tages. " 5. .
NE AF 80 pot car ete ate nee <TH ATID in eee Fr me eS

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

A FURTIVE glance cast over my shoulder at the past twenty-
five years reveals the fact that I have done a variety of things
in a number of places but that the resultant mark on the world
is scarcely conspicuous, I have successfully avoided taking life
too seriously.

The summer of 1928 was spent cruising around England, Bel-
gium, and France on a dilapidated bicycle appreciating what |
had learned in Fine Arts. If you travel alone, you have friends
everywhere. In the fall I got a teaching position at Moses Brown
School in Providence. As a teacher I am not a spectacular suc-
cess.

In June, 1929, I went to Detroit where I was a student engi-
neer with Packard for a year till 1 was laid off during a slump
in the depression. I stayed in Detroit learning about Silent Auto-
matic oil burners, then came to Boston and installed same for a
very limited time. The fall of 1930 found me back in my old
home town of Groton, Massachusetts, picking apples at seven
cents per box.

After that I started in the Freight Traffic Department of the
Boston and Albany Railroad at thirteen dollars and fifty cents
per week and did tariff work on the third floor of the South
Station for almost fourteen years, marrying in 1935. I had been
rooming on the wrong side of Beacon Hill at two dollars and
fifty cents per week but my wife and I now bought a house in
Hopkinton. Son Fred was born in 1937. Six years later we
bought my present house in Weston.

With war upon us I considered enlisting and realized that in
any case I could not continue wasting my life in the railroad
office, ] ran down a newspaper ad and took a job as a second
class machinist at Harvey Radio Laboratories in Cambridge.
Peter was born in December, 1943, and in the spring of 1945
my wife passed away.

In Cambridge I became an operator of Swiss type automatic
screw machines, then went to the Waltham Watch Company
as a set-up man in the same line of work, In the spring of 1948
I joined Paul Bergeron and Howard Eisan as Bergeron Company,

Inc. We now have nine Swiss automatics, own a good building
in Waltham, and have twelve employees. We specialize in fine

994]

AR Abwe Trees z °

Ra ENO CR SEC” SET EV aRONOE I Be EHR RI REE ST RHETT ERR CI

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

finish, close tolerance work, and are doing O. K. Come up and
see me some time.

I seem to have accumulated rather an assortment of hobbies,
and get enough exercise with tennis in the summer and badmin-
ton, skating, and skiing in the winter. I have done quite a bit
of rifle and pistol shooting, being lucky enough to win a hand-
ful of small-time medals. Hunting, fishing, photography, garden-
ing, machine work, music, and chess also keep me amused. My
son and I are desperately busy in our spare (?) time restoring
a 1933 Packard. Fred plans to enter Harvard in t955. Possibly
Tam the only licensed taxidermist in the Class.

JOHN IRVING SHAW

HOME aporess: Brinker Road, Barrington, III.

orFicz appeess: 135 S. LaSalle Se, Chicago 3, IIL

porn: Aug. 27, 1906, Evanston, HL parents: Archibald Wilkinson Shaw,
Fulah Paddock.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MARRIED: Barbara King, Aug. 20, 1931, Santa Barbara, Calif, (divorced 1946);
Shirley Paulson, Sept. 26, 1946, Evanston, Il. cmoarn: Susanne, Dec 5,
1932; John Irving, Jr. Sept. 5, 1935; Archibald W., 2d, Jan. 18, 1950;
Bruce Paddock, Aug. tt, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Dustin Shaw, ‘30.

OccupATION: Finance; treasurer, Shaw & Company, Inc. partner, Shaw,
Isham & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RrEcoRD: Lieutenant commander, Office of Procurement
and Material, Navy Department, Washington, D. C., Aug. 7, 1943, to
January, 1946.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Chief of Ordnance Section, Scheduling and Re-
porting Division, Office of Procurement and Material, Navy Dept.,
Washington, D. C. April, 1942, to August, 1943.

MEMBER OF: Racquet Club of Chicago, Onwentsia Club; Barrington Hills
Country Club; Artic Club of Chicago; Chevy Chase Club, Washington,
D.C.

FRANCIS EDWARD SHEA

HOME AND OFFICE Appress: Deephaven, Route 3, Wayzata, Minn.
BoRN: Nov. 3, 1904, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James Daniel Shea, Minnie
Russell.

[995 ]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; A.M. (Tufts Coll.), 1932,
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Catholic priest.

MEMBER OF: Classical Club of Twin Cities; Minnesota Academy of Science,
Mediaeval Academy of America.

eeararcorninpiomamerrneemerctetemany ‘nae Ey “

FA, PENN RIOR IP a mR

AFTER graduation my first job was with The Barrett Company,
at its Frankford, Philadelphia, plant, at first in the routine labora-
tory and then as assistant in research. The offer of a more
lucrative position as technical representative lured me in 1929
to The Neville Company, Pittsburgh. The depression torpedoed
this connection in 1931, and that fall graduate work was under-
taken at Tufts College and an A.M. degree received in June,
1932, Through a former Neville associate, a position as technical
representative with The Celluloid Corporation (Celanese sub-
sidiary) was secured. Headquarters for this job was Chicago,
and the work required travelling through the Middle West seek-
ing new outlets for tri-cresyl phosphate. The Twin Cities were
part of my territory, and on visits here I established contacts
which resulted in resigning my position and undertaking studies
for the priesthood.

In 1940, after five years of study, I was ordained at Provi-
dence, Rhode Island, for the Archdiocese of Saint Paul. My first
appointment, a brief one, was to the Cathedral of St. Paul. Then
for eight years teaching at the preparatory Seminary consumed
my time. From 1946 to 1948, while teaching, I was also admin-
istrator of a Maronite Rite parish in St. Paul. In 1948 I was
appointed the first resident pastor of a missionary parish in
Taylors Falls, Minnesota, and in 1950 was appointed to the pas-
torate of the Church of St. Therese, which covers the south-
east end of Lake Minnetonka. Since I came here, the parish
has completed a commodious rectory, and plans are under way

for the completion of a church as well as for the construction
of a school.

[996 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN LEO SHEA, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Benton Rd. Belmont 78, Mass.

orvicg apoagss: 31 State Se. Boston 9, Mass.

porn: May 4 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: John Leo Shea, Alice Claire
O'Connor.

parrareD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DECREE: AB. 1928.

maraiep: Ann Marie Sheehan, June 28, 1934, Cambridge, Mass. cHILpReN:
John L, March 20, 1940; Paula M. May 22, 1943.

nHARvARD BroTHER: Richard Leonard Shea, ‘49. .

occupation: President and treasurer, Shea & Company, Inc, investments,

MILITARY OR NAVAL gecoap: Lieutenant, U. 5. Naval Reserve, April, 1942;
promoted lieutenant commander, 1945, statistics and research officer,
assistant ordnance officer Staff Commander, Caribbean Sea Frontier,
eighteen months, ordnance officer Commander Support Aircraft, U. S.

Pacific Fleet, one year.

orFices HELD: Director, West Virginia Water Service Company, West
Virginia Producuon Company.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Secunties Dealers, Inc.; National Se-
curity Traders Association, Crosscup-Pishon Post, American Legion,
Harvard Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS; Ordnance Handbook for Air Support, various articles for

trade publications,
I ENTERED the investment business in 1928 and, except for
war service, I have been in it ever since. In another twenty-
five years I may understand it. It has generally been an interest-
ing occupation with a good deal of varicty from movie-making
to municipal bonds.

In the post-war years I have spent a substantial part of my time
on the affairs of the West Virginia Water Service of which I
am a director, Jointly with Allen & Company of New York we
underwrote a natural gas producer last summer, The West Vir-
ginia Production Company. By an odd coincidence the first
well to come in was Nic.-128, so at least the Class numerals are
on a well.

During the war I achieved a boyhood ambition to see a great
naval battle. I was a staff officer on the flagship for the invasion
of the Philippines and the ensuing naval battles.

As for a career, I haven't done anything important enough
to dignify by such a name. My hobby as well as my occupa-
tion is the investment business.

[997 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

THOMAS BONNER SHEA
HOME ADDRESS: 14 Dorr St., Roxbury 19, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 6 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BoRN: June 6, 1906, Boston, Mass, parents: William Henry Shea, ’92, Mary
A. Cawley.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928; LL.B. cum
laude, 1931.

MARRIED: Josephine M. Muriaty, June 25, 1944, Boston, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHER: William Henry Shea, Jr., °28.

occupation: Lawyer, general practice, associated with firm of Harrigan &
Caulfield, Boston, Mass.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted Army Air Force, as private, Sept. 1,
1942; Borinquen Field, Puerto Rico, January, 1943, to June, 1944,
Charleston Air Force Base,— October, 1945, Separated as technical
sergeant, Oct. 15, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Service officer, 1947, adjutant, 1952-53, Roxbury Post # 44
American Legion.

TWENTY-FIVE years have been consumed rapidly enough by
a course at the Law School, three years as a law secretary to the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, some years of general law practice,
service in the Army Air Force (not too difficult to be sure, and
providing what little travelling I have done), a few years as an
associate attorney in the Boston Regional Office of OPA and
OHE, and finally a voluntary and welcome return to private law
practice. Our Class is well represented by many members of the
legal profession, and a contact with one of them, large or small,
win, lose, or draw, is always a special pleasure. It is an old theme
that there is more to the practice of law than mere financial re-
turn, and the following is my version.

The client, even in modest problems, looks to the lawyer as
the authority whose voice settles all doubts and fears, and the
gratitude often displayed is touching. There is a sense of power
which is very heady indeed. Jury trials and arguments before
judges satisfy any desire to appear as on a stage, to talk in public
and get the desired result for your moods and demands. Cases
which I have handled have provided a dramatic range of human
events. Facing up an investigating legislative committee on behalf
of unpopular clients, defending a soldier before a general court-
martial on a charge of a particularly brutal murder in a Puerto

[ 998 ]

\

* eorine trate eatgncritetaeee min RNRRE tadr in ars Ay

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Rican village (acquitted, he drew his pay, forgot his lawyer and
straightway did the town without him), a last minute trip to the
death house at Charlestown to confer with condemned men, a
father and son combination, a successful battle with a judge who
wanted to put sixty days in the common jail on a mother of two
infants for defying the dignity of the court by violation of an
equity decree — under compulsion of her husband (I suppose I
should have insisted that she keep her babies out of the court
room), getting a divorce for an cighty-two year old man who had
broken up with his first wife in the west twenty years back and
at last had found “the right woman” — the judge told him he
was an optimist — these to me have been colorful incidents. A
grind, quite often, but the recurring and always changing prob-
lems of other people have a gripping fascination.

I am a Democrat and do not hesitate to say that I admire Tru-
man and Acheson and company for their major stands. At the
same time I am very proud of the determined and courageous
manner in which Senator Leverett Saltonstall handled the process
of confirmation of President Conant as High Commissioner. I
am still and always will be grateful to the College for bright years
of happy associations and stimulating contacts with teachers of
great and good minds. Perhaps such a debt can be somewhat re-
paid by practice of Harvard traditions, as I see them, of inde-
pendence of mind, moral courage and integrity, and sincere
devotion to the dignity and rights of individual human beings.

In conclusion let me say that in 1928 the “Twenty-fifth” ap-
peared to me as the first gathering of those ready to retire. Now
that the Twenty-fifth is here for me I regard it as the beginning
of the second time around.

WILLIAM HENRY SHEA, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 259 Beacon St., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: New Court House, Pemberton Sq., Boston 8, Mass.

Born: Aug. 13, 1903. Boston, Mass. parents: William Henry Shea, ’92,
Mary A. Cawley.

PREPARED aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

UNMARRIED.

[999 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Bonner Shea, ’28.
occuPATION: Officer of Massachusetts Superior Court.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

WHEN | finished College, I went to work in the stock brokerage
business, where I remained until a short time after the great
market crash. Then, there followed a period in the resort hotel
business in Bermuda. Although the hours of work were long, I
had the opportunity to enjoy the social life for which the island
is famous. In 1932 I returned to Boston permanently and engaged
in various occupations. Since 1937 I have been an officer of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court.

During my vacations I have travelled extensively to Bermuda
and to many of the better known resorts in Canada, from Quebec
to Vancouver. I have also made a number of trips to the Pacific

Coast where, of all the cities I visited, San Francisco impressed
me the most.

Beginning in 1942 and for some years thereafter, I spent a
great deal of my time in volunteer civilian defense work for the
City of Boston, and combined this activity with participating in
a number of Community Fund and Red Cross fund drives.

DAVID SHER

HOME AppRESS: 1111 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 61 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1908, Omaha, Neb. parents Philip Sher, Rebecca Saxe,

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Omaha, Neb.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: s.B. cum laude, 1928; LL.B. cum laude,
1931.

MARRIED: Phyllis M. Tulin, Nov. 30, 1934, New York, N. Y. cmp: Michael,
Oct. 20, 1938,

occupation: Lawyer, member of firm of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Divisional chairman, War Bond Drive, New
York City, 1943.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Board, Hofheimer Foundation, 1940, National Com-
munity Relations Advisory Council, 1944-46, Finance Committee, Re-
publican-Liberal-Fusion Committee for Mayor of New York City,
1949; member publications committee, Commentary magazine, 1944;
panel member American Arbitration Association, 1945; member, New
York City Mayor’s Committee on Unity, 1945; vice-president, American
Jewish Committee, 1946-52; trustee, International Rescue Committee,

[ to00 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
1948, New York Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, 1949, Adelphi Col-
lege, 1952; president, Jewish Family Service, 1949.
memsBea or: Century Country Club; Harmonie Club; Lotos Club; Associa-
tion of the Bar of the City of New York.

RICHARD THOMAS SHERMAN

WOME appagss: 430 E. 6th Se, New York 22, N. Y.

Orrick aporess: % Harold Ober Associates, 40 E. goth St. New York 17,
N. Y.

porn: June 23, 1906, Bancroft, Iowa. parents: Thomas C, Sherman, Eva
Anne Lantry.

preparen at: Fergus County High School, Lewistown, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: AB. magna cum laude, 1918.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BroTHER: Edward Lantry Sherman, ‘32.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, U.S. Army, April,
1942; stationed in Washington, Information Department, April-October,
1942; stationed in ETO, London, with Office of Strategic Services,
October, 1942~July, 1944, rank on discharge, captain.

PUBLICATIONS: About eighty short stories in magazines, novels: To Mary
With Love, 1936, The Unready Heart, 1944, The Bright Provnise, 1947;
A Kindred Spirit, 1950.

IN 1933 there was published a novel about Hlarvard, Not To
Eat, Not For Love, which for our generation still remains the
definitive novel about Harvard. Ic was written by George Wel-
ler, 1929, and in it there is a passage appropriate to these twenty-
five-year self-inventories in which we are now engaged:

“ ‘But consider the Harvard leper,’ said Pont. ‘He must take
Cambridge with him wherever he goes. Ele can never seem
to get it tamed down to a memory. Think of the men for whom
Harvard remains forever an intractable experience. Even when
they do what they planned and do it well they have to go back
to Cambridge and walk through the Yard with the accomplish-
ment inside them. Until then it is not confirmed.’ ”

There is, 1 suspect, at least a touch of the Harvard leper in
all of us. And what we are doing now, in these records, is try-
ing to get a quarter of a century (chilling phrase) “tamed down
to a memory.” As most of us are discovering, it isn’t so simple.

[ 1001 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In fiction I have sometimes relied on the melancholy charms of
nostalgia and have even exploited them. But the feeling is dif-
ferent when the nostalgia concerns a major part, perhaps the
major part, of your own life. In fact, when I look backward
from a great distance of years I find that I am troubled by the
same uneasiness which overcomes others when looking down-
ward from a great height. Maybe it is a kind of emotional ver-
tigo translated horizontally into time.

That is generalizing, however, and in these notes I think most
of us are more interested in the particular and the specific. Dur-
ing the first six years following graduation I worked on the
editorial staffs of two magazines, first The Forum and then
Vanity Fair. Both publications are now defunct, though I don’t
believe I can be held responsible for that. After I had been with
Vanity Fair for about two years, its astute editor, Frank Crown-
inshield, told me that he felt I would be better suited to writing
than to editing. At the time I thought that this was merely his
urbane and tactful way of firing me, but I realized later that
he was speaking for my own welfare, and I have never ceased
to be grateful to him for it. Since then, writing has been both
my business and my profession. I cannot say that I have always
“enjoyed” it. But I will say that I wouldn’t exchange it for any
other,

In 1935 I went out to Hollywood to do the screen-play of a
magazine story I had written a few months earlier. I went out
intending to stay six weeks, and I ended by staying some eight
years, on and off. Like Harvard, Hollywood is subject to al-
most endless attempts at analysis and definition, and also like
those pertaining to Harvard, the analysis and definition can never
be wholly successful. Therefore, perhaps, P'd better pass over
that phase — and in a way it was only that, a phase. Today I can
scarcely remember the names of more than two or three of the
films I worked on, and I’m sure no one else could remember
even those. But it was good experience, and there was a lot of
it, and I have few regrets. Maybe it lasted a little too long, that’s
all.

After coming out of the Army, I returned to New York,
where I now live, between moderate and sporadic spurts of
travel. Incidentally, in regard to this matter of travel, I may

[ 1002 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be able to make a contribution and a correction. Writers are
always being envied for the fact that they “carry their office
in their heads” and can go anywhere at any time. This is only
partly true, however, for sometimes you travel a long distance
and arrive at a most attractive and delightful place only to find
that your head has stubbornly and perverscly decided chat it
is totally incapable of any productive functioning. Still, I sup-
pose this occupational hazard is a cross which all writers must
bear, preferably while lying in the sun on some golden and far-
flung beach. When a stockbroker or an engineer goes away
on a vacation, he at least has the satisfaction of knowing that he's
on a vacation. A writer can never be certain, Nevertheless, as
I have said, I wouldn't trade jobs.

SAMUEL NATHANIEL SHERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 9331 Hazen Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

Born; Dec. 5, 1906, Malden, Mass. parents: Lours Abraham Sherman, Sarah
Abel.

preparen at: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DECREE: A.B, 1938(j0); Mo.H.L, and Rana (Jew-
ish Theol. Sem.), 1938.

MARRIED: Sally Sayre Guber, June 11, 1933, New York, N. Y. crip: Karen
A., Dec. 7, 1947.

OccUPATION: Rabbi.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Army as ist lieutenant, July 17, 1942;
released as captain, Oct. 25, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: President, Schenectady Zionist District, Schenectady Jewish
National Fund, New York Scate Zionist Region, Newton Ministers As-
sociation, National Service chaplain, Jewish War Veterans, Boston City
Hospital; board of directors, Newton Red Cross, Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica, Newton Community Council.

MEMBER OF: Rabbinical Assembly of U. S.; International Platform Associ-
ation; Harvard Club of Southern California; Board of Rabbis of South-
ern California; California Teachers Association.

UPON graduation from Harvard I entered the Jewish Theological
Seminary. After two years of my four-year course, I went to
Israel (then Palestine) and spent a very fruitful year studying at
the Hebrew University and at the Rabbinical School of Chief
Rabbi Kook. While returning home to complete my studies, I
travelled for several months in Europe and the Near East.

[ 1003 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In 1933, after completing my studies at the Seminary, I was
called to the pulpit of the Nott Terrace Synagogue in Schenec-
tady, New York, where I remained for five years. While there I
studied law for one year at the Albany Law School and took some
education courses at Union College. I also introduced and
taught Hebrew as a regular language course at the Nott Terrace
High School.

In 1938 I returned to Boston and became the Rabbi of Temple
Emanuel in Newton, Massachusetts. In the summer of 1942, I
volunteered my services and became an Army chaplain, serving
both at home and abroad (Newfoundland) and was released in
October, 1945, aS a captain. I returned to my congregation in
Newton where I served until the summer of 1949.

After a few months of loafing we came to sunny California and
I tried my hand at private life. It didn’t turn out as expected
and I found that I was not happy outside the Rabbinate. So I am
now returning to my ministerial work by degrees and expect to
return completely very shortly.

One of my avocations was news analysis. While in Newton, I
conducted a daily five-minute radio program for almost two years
(under an alias) which surprised me by enjoying a rather high
Hooper rating. I also wrote a daily news analysis column for a
small daily that also appeared in several “throw” weeklies. After
my return from the “wars,” the supply of news commentators
was so far in excess of the demand that I gave it up. However,

one of these days, I should welcome the opportunity to try my
hand at it again, oO

MORDECAI SHORE

HOME ADpRESS: 52 Summit Ave., Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: 1'8 Tremont St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: June 26, 1904, Russia (Lithuania). parents: Yosef Shore, Bryna
Eidelsohn.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; LL.B. 1933(31).

marRiep: Freda S. Kahn, June 28, 1936, Lowell, Mass. CHILDREN: Geila
Judith, Dec. 4, 1942; Michal Bryna, Feb. 21, 1947.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

WE LIVE in troubled times. Since 1914 the world has been in a
state of ferment. War breeds war and big wars breed bigger and

[1004 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
better wars and bigger and better dictators. The watchword of
our generation is bigness big wars, big business, big govern-
ment, even big universities. Bigness, mind you, not greatness.
Modern technology has sired mass production resulting in im-
measurable improvements in man’s physical needs and comforts,

but have ethics and morality kept pace with the Industrial Revo-
lution? The answer is obvious — we are as far removed from the

standards of human conduct, as envisioned in the Old and the
New Testament, as were the contemporaries of the Prophets and
the Apostles. Yes, over the centurics we have become more re-
fined and acquired a rich layer of gloss, but intrinsically there has
been very little change, if any, for “every imagination of the
thoughts of his heart is only evil continually.”

Such was the trend of my thoughts in my pre-marital state. I
hesitated until, of course, I met the right girl and we were married.

We travelled in Europe in 1936. England and Holland lay open
to us — their countryside friendly, civilized, but stirring uneasily.
Next we crossed over to Germany — stiff, forbidding, and fore-
boding; and Russia, superficially friendly, but sallow and suspi-
cious. Lithuania, Latvia, and Poland were still basking in the
glory of their recently won independence — soon to be smothered
by the big bear hug. Altogether, we were very happy to be
fondled again by the September breezes of the Western Hemi-
sphere and to breathe more easily and naturally.

Then came World War II. For years we had been pondering
the question of whether it was our right to bring new children
into the world. Selfishly we decided that married life couldn't
be complete without the pleasures and travails of children. 1 still
vividly recall how fervently Freda prayed that our older one be
not born on the first anniversary of that day which will go down
in history in infamy. To be sure, her prayers were heard. Geila
was born on December 4. A child must have a mate and not
necessarily of the opposite sex. Thus Bryna was brought into

the world four years later, and our family and happiness are now

complete.
However, we are still wondering whether we were justified in

bringing down to earth two more innocent souls to grow up in
the atomic age, in an atmosphere charged with atomic bomb dust,

[ 1005 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

where the sensitive soul can perhaps enjoy bliss fitfully, but must
endure misery interminably.

Is there no solution? Alust the Golem man is creating eventu-
ally destroy mankind itself? The U.N. does not seem to offer
the answer. Perhaps a “Manhattan Project” for peace, ethics, and
morality would succeed — we have never spent multi-billions for
peace projects. Or perchance little Israel might again become the
pillar of fire to lead the world out of its darkness. Or must we
conclude that the genius of the white race reaches only the
material world, while a spiritual rebirth can be engendered only
among the yet dormant peoples like the Hindus and even the
Chinese?

To sum up—lI enjoy a good drink, good conversation, and
occasionally, a good book.

HAROLD PAUL SILBERT

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Voss Terr., Newton Center 59, Mass. .
OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Jacob Coleman Silbert, Fannie
Kelson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, M.B.A., 1930. .
MARRIED: Viola Breebaart, Feb. 1, 1930, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Martin

Richard, May 7, 1931 (a. Ruth Appel, Oct. 25, 1951) Louise Ann,
March 20, 1933-

occupation: Certified Public Accountant — employ staff of assistants.
OFFICES HELD: Chancellor commander, Knights of Pythias, 1939.
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants; Massachusetts Society of

Certified Public Accountants (fellow); Knights of Pythias; Henry
Price Lodge, AF. & A.M.

IT had been my hope that somehow this staggering chore of
transcribing upon paper the events or lack of events of twenty-
five years would solve itself. Perhaps an idea would be born,
perhaps writing ability would suddenly blossom.

The years 1929 and 1930 at the Business School taught me to
analyze and to study cases, but not to write. Marriage in 1930
and the arrival of a son in 1931 didn’t even qualify me as the
Class father, jet alone correct the faults so apparent in English A.

[ 1006 J

 

i
:
i
&
E
:
t
i
i
i
t
f
i
i

riveree

GHA ERNE HRT PEED BEIT OH

an

PEMA

pe apeptatieey tee OA

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Now, if I could just get my daughter Louise to write this for

me — Louise, twenty years old, a junior at Barnard. She could

do it with no trouble. But she’s in New York and she offered no
help when home on vacations. My wife — hell no! — she makes
me write her letters, although she is wonderful at almost every-
thing else including moral support and the ability to goad me
to this. (That word “goad.” Shame on you, Hammy Heard, for
goading people. It even adds that word to their vocabularies.)

My last hopes, my son Martin and his bride of a year and a

half, laughed me off. “Dad,” they said, “We can’t place ourselves
in your stodgy old atmosphere and write of depression days.
We don’t know what they were.” They don’t know, but I do,

and so do you.
From July, 1930, to September, 1932, I had approximately
eighteen jobs, was fired from most and succeeded at none. In
1932 I became a salesman of baker’s yeast. I looked for customers
and I also delivered the yeast from a sedan delivery truck which
the boss let us use nights and Sundays. That was a real break.
Who had a car in those days? Things went well with me during
hose dark years. I delivered the yeast and we all ate rather well
ntil 1937, when I suddenly found myself the ex-manager of that
east company. You see, I had worked up from the truck to
2come the boss and then came disaster. Since we still had to eat,
ried a hand at jobbing yeast to the many friends | had found
jong the greater Boston bakers. I did fairly well until 1942
en my source of supply deserted me. Here I was fourteen
rs out of college and back where I started, and just as broke too.
answer to a help wanted ad brought me back to the field I
ays wanted and made me an accountant, first with a federal
cy, three years later with a firm of C.P.A.’s, and for the past

years strictly on my own. In the Twentieth Report |
used you a C.P.A. in our Class and I didn’t fail you. 1 made
the third try and it was even harder work than this feeble

ry effort. |
of the above didn’t help me to learn how to write, but it

: tells you the story of twenty-five years, of a wonderful
life, two swell children, and a modicum of financial success.
h your permission, I shall now return to making out tax

[ 1007 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

‘returns, because two weeks from today is March 1sth. May all

Twenty-eighters always find themselves in at least the 42%
bracket!

LEO SILBERT
HOME ApprEss: 65 Wolcott Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

orFice appress: D. F. Silbert & Co., Inc. 177 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 4, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Nathaniel Frederick Silberr,
Frances Segool.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, M.B.A., 1930.

MaRRigD: Annette Marjorie Rosenberg, Jan. 24, 1932, Hartford, Conn.
CHILDREN: Bailey S., Dec. 25, 1934; David F., April 23, 1936.

HARVARD SON: Bailey S. Silbert, ’56.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul H. Silbert, ’37.

occupation: Flour broker and mills’ representative, buying, selling, and gen-
eral administration.

THERE is a saying that sticks in my mind as I write this that I
first heard in that now remote period when we were freshmen
studying European history, It ran thus, “Happy are the people
whose annals are brief.” That in a general way and relatively
considered sums up life since graduation. Nothing colossal,
nothing stupendous, simply beginning with the ‘difficult phase
familiar to most of trying to get a foothold in a competitive
society, doubly difficult in those depression years of the early
1930's; and somehow passing on to the successive phases of mar-
riage, family, and home with all the accompanying efforts neces-
sary to meet these ever growing responsibilities and in the process
having one’s share of family illnesses, frustrations, errors, and
satisfactions. This is the overall picture, the framework which
by itself is bare but when covered and filled by the substance of
living through this period with one’s wife and family, two fine
sons, anticipating and sharing the same circumstances, good or
bad, meeting life with integriry, courage and optimism and using
real basic values as a measuring stick, no longer is bare but pulsat-
ing and meaningful and alive with personality and direction. In-
ject into the bloodstream an appreciation and enjoyment of music,
literature, and the fine arts and the net result is a reasonably happy
life, in fact twenty-five years of it, measured since graduation.

[ 1008 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I could mention that during the war years, after taking a leave
of absence from my business, the Army having refused to rein-
state my reserve commission, the Navy rejecting me for less than
rwelve-twenty vision, and the War Production Board having
tentatively offered a job as a commodity specialist which never
materialized, I finally spent three high pressure intense years with
Bendix Aviation in a productive capacity filling Navy contracts.

I could also mention the enjoyment and satisfaction I experi-
ence working with my hands at a bench either in metal or wood
and the complete relaxation felt after strenuous exercise, but
about this and other similar matters I shall not mention a word.

MAURICE ZOLMON SILTON

HOME apprEss: 116 S. Las Palmas Ave. Los Angcles 4, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5720 Wilshire Blvd. Los Angcles 34, Calif.

Born: May 6, 1906, Boston, Mass. paresis: Myer Wolff Silton, Fanny
Lurinsky.

prepareD AT: Dover High School, Dover, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: 8.8. 1928, at.p. (Univ. of Chicago),
1933

MARRIED: Hilda S. Scrimling. Jan. 16, 1938, Pacific Palisades, Calif. critoren:
Naomi Grena, Jan. 27, 1939; Robert Marvin, Feb. 14, 1941; Myrna Ann,
March 10, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Morton Max Silton, "31, M.B.A. "33,

occuPATION: Physician, obstetrician and gynecologist.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U.S. Naval Reserve Medical Corps, 1943-46;
lieutenant commander, principally general surgery aboard U. S. Naval
Transport, Asiatic Pacific Theatre; five Bronze Stars, Asiatic Pacific;
two Bronze Stars, Philippine Liberation.

OFFICES HELD: Resident physician, Los Angeles City Maternity Service, 1934;
resident in obstetrics and gynecology, Los Angeles County General
Hospital, 1934-37; instructor, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecol-
ogy, University of Southern California Medical School; associate senior
attending obstetrician and gynecologist, Cedars of Lebanon Hospital;

attending obstetrician and gynecologist, Los Angcles County General
Hospital, Queen of the Angels Hospital, Temple Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (diplomate) ;
American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Society for the Study
of Sterility, World Fertiliry Association, Los Angeles Obstetrics and
Gynecology Society; American Medical Association; California Medi-
cal Association; Los Angeles County Medical Association; Harvard
Club of Southern California; Los Angeles Professional Men's Club; Phi

[ 1009 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Delta Epsilon Medical Fraternity; Tau Epsilon Phi; Brentwood Coun
Club; University of Southern California Medical F aculty Club.
puBLications: “Sickle Cell Anemia Complicated by Pregnancy”; “Analgesia

and Anesthesia with Asphyxia Neonatiorum.”

CAN it be possible that twenty-five years of my life have passed
since graduation from “Fair Harvard”? The events that have
occurred during these years that once seemed to have such mo-
mentous importance now appear to glow with a faint glimmer
of light. I recall with pleasant memories the successful completion
of my studies in Rush Medical College, Chicago, and looking
forward to going still further west for my internship in sunny
southern California. Time travels so rapidly! I believe I really
enjoyed my work and the associations at the Los Angeles County
General Hospital and decided to be an obstetrician and gynecolo-
gist. After a three-year residency in this specialty, I went into
private practice in Los Angeles. It was slow at first, but I man-
aged to be quite busy by teaching in the University of Southern
California Medical School and by working in the clinics; how-
ever, my private practice progressed and increased by leaps and
bounds.

In the midst of my professional career, I married Hilda Strim-
ling on January 16, 1938, and a year later our first-born daughter,
Naomi Grena, arrived; then two years later our son, Robert
Marvin, was born; and when we thought our family was com-
plete along came Myrna Ann, a few months after I had volun-
teered in the Medical Corps of the U. S. Naval Reserves. I just
can’t believe that my oldest child, Naomi Grena, is now fourteen
and so concerned over boys, dates, etc. To be a generation ahead
of the children and to have them regard you as old fossils make
one fee] his age like no other reminders.

World War II interrupted my private life for three years,
during which I participated in the Invasion of Saipan and Tinian,
Bougainville, Leyte, Lingayen Gulf, and finally Iwo Jima. My
life aboard ship was mixed with fear, anxiety, thrills, boredom,
and interest. 1 enjoyed the travelling to the far-off places and
visited practically every island of interest in the South Pacific.
I recall the few days after V-J Day when I went ashore in Waka-

yama, Japan, with Army troops of occupation for a visit and
sight-seeing, and was very pleasantly surprised and very ready

[ 1010 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to “forgive and forget” the Japs because of their warm and kind
reception. When I retumed to my ship that night, we saw an
old movie, “The Fall of Bataan,” which reminded me of the
atrocities committed by the Japanese; my ire was aroused again.
After a short span of time, again we are faced with such con-
flicting emotions and realizations. Hlow can one, especially one
who has participated in previous war activities, forget for an
instant the atrocities and sufferings that come with war. Yet, we
also remember from the Hitlerian era the futility of compromise.
Personally, I feel sincerely that a strong effective United Nations
should be the answer, so that twenty-five years from now our
graduation Class may celebrate its Golden Anniversary in a
world once more free from tension, fears, and lack of security.

ARCHIE HERBERT SILVER

HOME ADDRESS: 64 Coolidge St. Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE aporess: Boston Business Exchange, 64 Coolidge St. Brookline 46,
Mass.

BORN: July 13, 1906, Boston, Mass. panents: Max Silver, Tillie Frankil.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: $.B.. 1928, A.M., 1931.

MargigeD: Sarah Shapiro, Dec. 9, 1944, Bangor, Maine. cumoren: Marsha
Merle, Dec. 15, 1945; Rachel Ann and Laurel May (twins), July 31, 1950.

HARVARD BRoTHER: Herbert Arthur Silver, ‘25.

OCCUPATION: Real Estate.

MILITARY OR NAVAL recorD: Corporal, Aur Corps, Army Intelligence, Euro-
pean theatre, June, 1942, to November, to4s.

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting member, Brookline.

STEPHEN HARDY SIMES

HOME aporess: 35 Mark Sc. Portsmouth, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 244 State St., Portsmouth, N. H.

Born: May 11, 1907, Portsmouth, N. H. parents: Thomas Hardy Simes,
Catherine Murat Tayloe.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; 11.8. (Univ. of Virginia),
1931.

UN MARRIED.

[ 1011 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928
“occuPATION: Lawyer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted U. S. Army, April 1, 1943; basic train-
ing at Fort Knox, Ky,; assigned Military Intelligence until May, 1945;
attended officer candidate school, commissioned rst lieutenant; to Japan
in September, 1945, to duty with judge advocate, Eigth Army; took
part as assigned defense counsel in first and fifth war crimes tials in
Japan, conducted in Yokohama in December, 1945, and January, 1946;
assigned division judge advocate, 1st Cavalry Division, February, 1936,
assigned to General Headquarters, AFPAC, in Tokyo, June, 1946, ex-
ecutive officer, Office of theatre judge advocate; reverted to civilian

status serving as chief counsel to military affairs division office of the
judge advocate, Far East Command.

SIMES’ sister reports he is serving as chief counsel to the military
affairs division, office of the judge advocate, Far East Command.
He has taken part in the truce negotiations in Korea. She does
not expect him to return for at least another year. His current
address is: Judge Advocate Section, G.H.Q., Far East Command,
APO 500, % Postmaster, San Francisco, California.

++ JEROME SIMMONS

BoRN: Dec. 3, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Harry Leonard Simmons,
Fanny Sturman.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.
‘pigp: March 6, 1930, New York, N. Y.

WHEN he had received an A.B. in 1928, Simmons spent a year
at the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. He later
became a salesman for his father, a New York fur merchant.

DANIEL SIMONDS

HOME ApprESS: 57 Clyde St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Simonds Saw and Steel Co., Fitchburg, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 27, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Alvan Tracy Simonds, ’99, Susan
Lansing.

PREPARED AT; Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

“YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Sprague, June 18, 1928, Boston, Mass. (divorced); Hope
Richardson, Aug. 31, 1943, New York, N. Y. cumpren: Elizabeth
Sprague, July 16, 1929; Daniel, 3d, May 11, 19313; Charles Sprague, Feb.

20, 1934; Holly, Sept. 15, 1940; Sandra Lansing, Nov. 17, 1944.
HARVARD son; Daniel Simonds, 3d, ’53,

[ 1012 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Chairman of the Board, Simonds Saw and Steel Company.
MILITARY OR NAVAL REcogD: Active duty, U.S. Army, November, 1940-May,

1945.

member OF: American Society of Metals; Army Ordnance Association;
Advisory Committee to Commanding General, Northeastern Area, U.S.
Army.

IT IS understood from usually reliable sources close to the Pro-
vost that Harvard College breathed a sigh of profound relief
mixed with gratitude that the Class of 1928 had left its sheltering
(>) walls (standing). The college had done its best, in a rather
abortive effort, to educate a reluctant student, though an en-
thusiastic classmate. It has taken this fellow many years to real-
ize that he would like to return and faithfully pursue the educa-
tion that he had so ably resisted for four years. But perhaps I
have that answer in the fact that my elder son and namesake
is of the Class of °53, and I am very proud to say that he has
turned his endeavors purposefully to the end of securing a worth-
while education, and may I say, more power to him.

My younger son Charles, of whom I am equally proud has,
for reasons known only to himself, joined an educational insti-
tution in New Haven, the name of which escapes me for the
moment; he has satisfactorily mixed football, curricular, and
extra-curricular activities in equal parts and plans to join us at
the Reunion to see how the other half lives.

My oldest daughter Lisa is a graduate of Smith, Class of ’51,
and is now on President Eisenhower's secretarial staff, a step in
the right direction and certainly an indication of the value of
academic learning. My other two daughters, Holly, twelve, and
Sandra, eight (I trust that Sandra will age quickly before June
so that she can come to the Reunion), are progressing normally
(for Simondses); I am a mighty happy father. Enough about
the next generation; let us come to a subject dear to my heart —
myself.

Hurled into a monetary maelstrom in 1928, I still find myself
bafflingly close to the vortex; and were it not for a truly wonder-
ful person, my wife Hopie, goodness knows the answer — I hope
Inever do. Let me be considerate enough of the reader to over-
look the years 1928 to 1940, during which time my friends and
business were somewhat begrudgingly absorbing me.

[ 1013 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

My father, Harvard ’99, was an officer in the Ordnance De-
partment, U.S. Army, during the First World War. I belatedly
followed in his footsteps and was commissioned a second lieu-
tenant, Ordnance Department, U. S. Army Reserve, in May,
1940, and as a complete surprise to me, was called out on duty
in November of that same year. I marched proudly off to war
to see action in such perilous and far-away places as Boston,
Washington, Boston, Washington, and Baltimore. My two great-
est concerns during this period were the danger of court-martial
and being run over by a horse-drawn vehicle.

Speaking of court-martial, as many brother officers will re-
member, we were forced at times to “throw away the book”
in order to fulfill the requirements of an assigned task. During
the last three years of the war I had the privilege of serving
under the command of one of the greatest men I have ever
known, Major General Philip Hayes, U. S. A. I was responsible
for the entire supply and equipment to troops going overseas
from Hampton Roads, Port of Embarkation, Virginia. At times
I was forced to beg, borrow, or even almost steal equipment in
order to meet short-notice sailing dates. From these demands a
new and far more simplified program of supply to troops de-
veloped by necessity, and the high command either liked it or
reached in the wrong basket, for I was commended, not court-
martialed (a mighty lucky draw!).

The victories in 1945 brought dreams of peace and happiness
to this country, but I’m afraid we all realize now that these
dreams have been fading ever since. The next generation is now
marching down the same old tired road; may they make and
take the proper turning. Well, I am looking forward to telling
you much more about myself in June; and, incidentally, hearing
much more about you and yours.

P.S. Personal information: I have most of my hair, the Army
Dental Corps has most of my teeth, and I wear glasses, due solely
to the regulation which came out during the Truman regime

drastically reducing the size of print in newspapers, magazines,
and books.

[ 1014 ]

- | . a

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT SIMONDS

HOME aDorEss: 1821 Buckingham Rd. Los Angeles 19, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 228 S. Robertson Blvd. Beverly Hills, Calif.

soan: Feb. 9, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel Simonds, Rebecca Flato.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; A.M, 1930; M.D. (Tufts
Coll.), 1934.

MaraieD: Vivi Karen Bergius, Oct. 31, 19037, Tia Juana, Mexico. cHitpren:
Rebecca Ann, Feb. 19, 1939; Arnold B., Jan. 28, 1940; John D., Feb. 11,
1943; Paul R., July 15, 1945; Daniel C, Aug. 14, 1952.

occUPATION: Physician specializing in Pediatrics.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army Medical Corps, Aug. 1§, 1942-Jan. 5,
1946, major, medical officer, Communicable Diseases; American and
European Theatres, ETO Ribbon with one battle star.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Examining physician, Draft Board.

orrices HELD: Member staff, Los Angeles Children’s Hospital, Se. John's
Hospital, Los Angeles County General Hospital; past president, Pedi-
atric Section, Los Angeles County Medical Society.

MEMBER oF: F. & A. M., Los Angeles Lodge No. 42; Los Angcles County
Medical Society; Southwestern Pediatric Society; California Medical
Association; American Medical Association.

SUNCE separation from the service in 1946, the practice of pedi-
atrics in Beverly Hills, California, has kept me busy. I have a
special interest in the control of epilepsy in infants and children
and am active at the epileptic clinic at the Los Angeles Children’s
Hospital.

I enjoy occasional deep sea (albacore) fishing with the chil-
dren off Catalina Island.

Gardening was my hobby, but with five active children, the
garden has gone to pot; however, I still take some pride in our
Southern California orchard of tangerine, lemon, grapefruit,
orange, fig, avocado, persimmon, and apricot trees.

We make a trip east at least every other year; however, this
custom becomes increasingly difficult as the family grows in
size and numbers. But it looks as though we shall make it in

June, 1953.

[ rors J

2PM RRR ETT Wan IR IME TI MERRIE PEF SH w

avec apearestprsep dette paginas UE EAE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

JAMES WALTER SINGER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Crestwood Drive, Clayton 5, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1300 Washington Ave., St. Louis 3, Mo.

BORN: July 13, 1907, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTs: James Walter Singer, Amalia
Constam.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

MarRiED: Nancy Lois Barkhouse, Nov. 18, 1933, St. Louis, Mo. cuHicprey:

James Walter, 3d, Aug. 2, 1935; Evelyn Barkhouse, June 15, 1938,
Thomas Edgar Louis, July 31, 1942.

occuPATION: Wholesale distribution of floor coverings, director, Renard
Linoleum and Rug Company, sales and administrative manager.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Office of Price Administration, St. Louis Food
Rationing Board.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Renard Linoleum and Rug Company, since 1932,
Temple Shaare Emeth, St. Louis, 1929-32, Adult Education Council,
St. Louis, since 1952, Council House, 1943-46, St. Louis Chapter, Amer-
ican Jewish Committee, since 1950, Jewish Federation of St. Louis,
1939-40, 1944-47; director and treasurer, Jewish Sanatorium, St. Louts,
1933-515 secretary, treasurer, second vice-president, first vice-presi-
dent, St. Louis Country Day School Alumni Association, since 1945;
trustee and treasurer, Mary Institute, since 1949; chairman, St. Louis
Chapter, American Jewish Committee, 1947-50; member National Ex-
ecutive and General Committee, American Jewish Committee, since
1947; member Board of Governors, Greater St. Louis Community
Chest, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Advertising Club of St. Louis, Adult Education Council of St.
Louis; American Jewish Committee; Friends of St. Louis Art Museum,
Harvard Club of St. Louis; Missouri Historical Society; National Coun-
cil of Christians and Jews; Phi Beta Kappa; St. Louis Council on World
Affairs; St. Louis Country Day School Alumni Association; St. Louis
Symphony Society, Westwood Country Club.

AFTER graduation I spent four months abroad. Before my re-
turn I decided against law school, where I had enrolled, and came
back to St. Louis and: business,

On October 15, 1928, I started manhandling rugs for Renard
Linoleum and Rug Company, wholesale distributors of floor
coverings. I am still at it and have been a director of the com-
pany for some years. That we are now the country’s largest
organization of its kind is purely coincidental. We operate
seventeen branches and warehouses in an area extending from
Pittsburgh to Denver and from Canada to the Gulf.

[ 1016 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Civic affairs have occupied much of my time. Particularly
absorbing has been my work as treasurer of Mary Institute, a
St. Louis girls’ preparatory school, and for the American Jewish
Committee. During the war I had the distinction of being re-
jected at least twice by every branch of the service. No one
would take a chance on my losing my glasses. Instead, I served
on the Sc. Louis ration board. Restaurant owners, food whole-
salers, and hotels substituted for the Axis.

One of my principal activities was, until recently, tennis. Now
I've made some concession to gray hair and St, Louis summers.
The results vaguely resemble golf and oil painting. Books, ice
skating, and extra dry martinis (with a drop of sherry and a
twist of lemon peel) are also prime hobbies. We like to travel,
too, and have ranged from St. Louis to Mexico, the Caribbean,
South America, Europe, and all around the United States,

Nancy — that’s Mrs. Singer —is a graduate of Wisconsin,
Class of 1933. She is really a good painter, swimmer, tennis
player, horseback rider, wife, and mother. The following are
our principal accomplishments:

1) Jim, our eldest boy, is now seventeen, a senior at St. Louis
Country Day. His current major pastime — football, basket-
ball, and baseball excepted — is selecting a college. Harvard is

a leading choice, despite a sometimes critical appraisal of his
old man. I believe, however, the decision must be his own; but
I'll gladly give sound advice on request.

2) Our daughter, Evelyn, fifteen, is known as Barkie. Next
to horses and riding on the hunt, she likes dogs best. At present
she’s in ninth grade at Mary Institute. She prefers horses and
dogs.

3) Tommy, ten, is in his first year or fifth grade at Country
Day. He's a well rounded, alert citizen who’s merely interested
in everything. He’s also the family southpaw and fisherman.

Cornsilk, Barkie’s horse, and Jacques de Singer IV, a poodle,
complete the family. All of us— with the exception of animal
auxiliary — plan to be at the Reunion.

And that’s the story of Singer, °28.

[ 1017 ]

ee —___ .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

JOSEPH FRANCIS SINNOTT

HOME ADDRESS: 2265 Juan St., San Diego 3, Calif.
OFFICE Appress: P, O. Box 1831, San Diego 12, Calif.

BoRN: Dec. 7, 1905, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: John Sinnott, Mary Henri
etta Luce.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN EE. cum laude, 1929.

MarRIED: Carol Frances Wescott, Nov. 4, 1933, Riverside, Calif. cuttoren:
Joseph Francis, Jr.. March 2, 1937; Michael W., Sept. 7, 1939; Terry L,
June 7, 1945.

occUPATION: System planning engineer, San Diego Gas & Electric Com.
pany, public utility.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, San Diego Section, American Institute of Electrical
Engineers, 1949; president, Electric Club of San Diego, 1949; director,
San Diego Yacht Club, 1952.

MEMBER OF: University Club of San Diego; Cuyamaca Club; San Diego
Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers on engineering subjects, particularly for presentation
before American Institute of Electrical Engineers.

ALBERT FLEETFORD SISE

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Croton St., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.
' OFFICE ADDRESS: Bldg. 32, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Mass.

porn: April 23, 1907, Medford, Mass. Parents: Lincoln Fleetford Sise, '97,
Eleanor G. Stanwood.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MARRIED: Susan Miller, Sept. 6, 1936, Winnetka, Ill. cumpren: Mary, June
8, 1939; Nancy, Dec. 30, 1941; Sally, May 29, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Herbert Stanwood Sise, 734, M.D., 38.

occuPaTiON: Technical administration, associate director, Servomechanisms

Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. :
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Staff member, group leader, Radiation Lab-
oratory, M. I, T., under Office of Scientific Research & Development.
OFFICES HELD: Associate Director, Servomechanisms Laboratory, M. I. T
since 1946; staff member, Radiation Laboratory, M. I. T., 1942-46;

chief engineer, Yankee Network, 1932-42; president, Schussverein Ski
Club.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers.
PUBLICATIONS: Few miscellaneous magazine and newspaper articles

[ 1018 ]

—— LLL

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY UNDERGRADUATE career was notable chiefly because
of a marked lack of interest in the academic subjects with which
I came in contact at the time. Consequently, 1928 found me
minus a degree, immature, and very poorly adjusted to face a
factual world — but a world that has turned out to be not a

cruel one but a most pleasant world.

In 1928 I entered the brokerage business in New Haven, prin-
cipally because everyone seemed to be in this business, During

the crash of 1929 the small company with which I was associated

promptly folded and I left the brokerage business a sadder but

wiser man. Then followed a number of associations with var-

ious types of enterprises including some of my own origination.

Some were successful, others were failures, but this process of

self-education did manage to provide me a living during this
somewhat trying period as well as allowing me to mature, In
1932 I became a research associate at Harvard's Blue Hill Ob-
servatory and later that year participated in setting up the Mount
Washington Observatory. Shortly thereafter I joined the “Yan-
kee Network” (a regional broadcasting chain) as an engineer.
I stayed with this organization for ten years, later becoming
chief engineer of the network.

In 1936 I journeyed to the hinterlands of Illinois to marry
Susan Miller of Winnetka. Being a true New Englander and
never having been west of the Hudson River in my life, I was
surprised to find Chicago a civilized community with no Indians.
Susie has put up with a lot these past sixteen years and in the
process has become a continual source of inspiration to me.

During the late thirties I participated in the design and con-
struction of radio’s first commercial “FM” station in Paxton,
Massachusetts, and radio's most unusual station on top of Mt.
Washington in New Hampshire. Both of these were memorable
and exciting experiences.

With the outbreak of the war it was inevitable that I should
find myself in the weapons research business at M.L.T.’s Radia-
tion Laboratory in an immensely enjoyable post as “buffer”
between many of the nation’s top “long-haired” scientists and
the military. I am in a very similar post today. The Hudson
River has regained its correct position in geography but, after

having spent varying amounts of time in each of the forty-eight

[ 1019 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

states my “New Englandism” has not been cured as evidenced
by my owning a farm in Vermont where I hope some day to
retire.

Hobbies? Mine are farming, skiing, sailing, tennis, gliding,
carpentry, and three daughters about teen age.

Philosophy? Perhaps it is better expressed by Louis Bromfield
than by me. However, I am convinced that the man who man-
ages to own his home and a few acres of Jand in a rural com-
munity where he can raise a few of the necessities of life is in
the long run a much happier and better adjusted man than the

one who lives and rears his family in a city apartment. Over.
simplified? Sure.

JOHN MILTON SLADE

HOME apprEss: 6 Hillside Ave., Mahwah, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 195 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: May 17, 1907, Chicopee, Mass. PARENTS: Louis Palmer Slade, A.M,
’97, Charlotte Keach Boone.

PREPARED AT: Senior High School, New Britain, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B. IN EE. magna cum laude, 1928.

marriep: Florence A. Kittell, July 18, 1931, Troy, N. Y¥. c#Hitp: Richard
Palmer, Feb. 11, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Benjamin Slade, ’27; Henry Boone Slade, ’33, 5.M. 34.
occuPATiON: Personnel supervisor dealing with salary administration, Amer-
ican Telephone and Telegraph Company.

OFFICES HELD: Communications officer, Local Defense Council, 1942-45; com-

mittee member, Boy Scouts; director, Mahwah Savings and Loan Asso-
siation, since 1950.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Engineering Society; Men’s Club; Church Group;
Choral Society; Bowling League; Telephone Pioneers; Tau Beta Pi.

AFTER one summer of final freedom I cast my lot with Amer-
ican Telephone and Telegraph — starting in the line gangs of
the Long Lines Department— and after twenty-five years am
still happy with Mother Bell. I acted like an engineer for several
years, but in 1935 switched to the personnel side of the business
and have been wrestling with wage and salary problems ever
since, getting “expert” in two different brands of Salary Stabiliza-
tion in the 1940's and early 1950's. I transferred from Long
Lines to the general departments of American Telephone and

[ 1020 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Telegraph in 1951 and suppose my tenure at this happy level
may last a while longer.

My wife and I enjoy the life of a small community and get
pleasure from home handicrafts, Our son, when home from
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (you cannot get undergraduate
engineering at Harvard anymore), keeps us aware of the new
terms and techniques in the engineering ficld. Summer vaca-
tions in Rhode Island tend to make me feel that I am still a Down
East Yankee even after lo these many years in New Jersey,

ARTHUR HYMAN SLAFSRKY

HOME aporess: 18 Mountain Se. Sharon, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 999 Watertown Se, West Newton 65, Mass.

soan: May 19, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Jacob Slafsky, Nellie Barron.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

MARRIED: Beatrice Goodman, Aug. 17, 1930, Somerville, Mass. cHitpreN:
Jerrold G., Dec. 12, 1933; Anne Rose, Nov. 4 1939; Ellen Jane, June 27,

1946.
HARVARD BROTHER: Leo Slafsky, '24.
occupation: Merchandise manager, Barron's, department store.

MY LIFE has been quite uneventful, especially in comparison
with those many terrific ones outlined in the Vicennial Report.

I stuck my nose into retailing as a career and found I couldn’t
let go. I graduated from a buyership in Boston’s best known
specialty store to a merchandising position in a smaller depart-
ment store in suburban Boston.

I didn’t get into the Armed Services during the last brawl but
tried to do my bit by working at headquarters of Army Air
Force Aircraft Warning Service, the nerve center for the entire
New England area.

I moved out of the city a couple of years ago and am now
enjoying the life of a country squire. I keep hoping that my
son who is a sophomore at the University of Massachusetts will
be able to finish his college career before Uncle Sam calls him.

Very happy that I can participate in the Twenty-fifth Re-
union of the Class of °28.

°

[ 1021 ]

| Ahtaeenatentat een
ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ALLISON WHITING SLOCUM
HOME ADDRESS: 2575 S. Race St., Denver, Colo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Red Comet, Inc., Littleton, Colo.

Born: Dec. 12, 1906, Burlington, Vt, PARENTS: Allison Wing Slocum, Mary
Whiting Bowers.

PREPARED AT: Burlington High School, Burlington, Vt.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Suzanne Stalker, Aug. 19, 1939, Boston, Mass, CHIDREN: Anthony
H., April 6, 1941; Robin S., Feb. 24, 1948.
HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Bowers Slocum, '26, M.B.A., °30.

occupation: Manufacturer of fire extinguishing equipment, Eastern Di-
vision manager, Red Comet, Inc.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Lieutenant, Navy, two years.

AFTER two years at the Business School, I got off to a flying
start with a wholesale hardware company in St. Louis, fully ex-
pecting really to put the business on the map. The company
went broke within a year. So I went back to Boston, with a
manufacturer of metered mail machines. That company went
broke within a year.

My next association with the Boston Woven Hose and Rub-
ber Company in Cambridge, Masachusetts, lasted ten years, dur-
ing which time I acquired a hobby of cruising up and down the
New England Coast in an old sloop built in the year one. It
had no business being out of a well protected harbor, which I
found out in a ‘“Northeaster,’ when the seams welcomed the
whole ocean. But at least it had the discretion to hit a harbor
instead of a beach on Cape Cod.

The Navy must have figured I was getting along in years,
for the assignment given was the softest that has come to my
attention, Operating a small supply ship out of Key West and
Miami carrying supplies to bases in the West Indies and Bahamas
constituted a vacation. It did seem strange that whenever we
put into Havana or Nassau, something always went wrong with
the engines, requiring three or four days for repairs.

After the Navy, four months with the New York Rubber
Corporation in New York City made me long for the sea, so
I took a sport fishing boat to Florida and took parties out fish-
ing for a season. We caught a lot of fish but didn’t make much
money, so I took the boat back to New York, sold it, and headed

[ 1022 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for Denver, Colorado, to lose some money in an alfalfa dchy-
drating company, which prompuy folded as soon as I had any-
thing to do with the management of it.

For the last five years I have enjoyed an association with a
company manufacturing automatic fire extinguishing equipment
in Denver, the Climate Capital of the world. As soon as they ac-
quire an ocean here for sailing, everything will be fine.

DAVID LOUIS SMITH

HOME AND OFFic® Apoagss: 348 Main Se, Medford 55, Mass.

poan: Sept. 28, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Smith, Ida Joseph.

preparep At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. pecarss: ae, 1928, pato. (Tufss Dencal
School), 193}.

maanigo: Sally Geffen, Feb. 27, 1934. Boston, Mass. canon: Robert Allen,
Jan. 24, 1945.

occupation: Denust.

MILITARY OR NAVAL BEcoan: Captain, Army, Dental Corps, three years in
World War II.

MEMBER OF: American Dental Association; Massachuserts Dental Sociery;
Greater Boston Dental Society, North Eastern Dental Society,

MY TIME since graduation has been spent in the study and
practice of dentistry. It has been my hobby, my life, and my
living. My family has been inextricably intertwined with my
hobby. My hope and expectation are that my son will also
have as his main hobby denustry.

Life in general has been uneventful, except for a period of
service during World War II as an army dental officer,

FRED EMERY SMITH

HOME aporess: 40 Linnaean Sc. Apt. 10, Cambridge 38, Mass.

orFice aporess: City Hall, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1902, Westbrook, Maine, parents: George W. Smith, Mary
A. Girard.

PREPARED at: Westbrook High School, Westbrook, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREES: 8B. (Univ. of Maine), 1924; s.m. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1928.

MarRigep: Evelyn B. Murray, June 2, 1934, Cambridge, Mass.

OccuPATION: Sanitary engineer, Cambridge Health Department.

[ 1023 ]

—_—v 7

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army and Air Force, November, 1942-
May, 1947; served in European, North African, Middle East, and Asiatic
areas.

OFFICES HELD: Committee assignments in social and professional organiza.
tions. |
MEMBER OF: Masonic Order; professional organizations.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in professional journals.

IT WILL be noted that my attendance at Harvard was limited
to one year as a graduate student; I received my degree in 1928,
Except for army service I have been employed by the City of

Cambridge since graduation, serving in the Water and Health
Departments.

WILLIAM STEVENSON SMITH

HOME ApprEss: 6 Avon Pl., Cambridge 4o, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Museum of Fine Arts, Boston 15, Mass.

Born: Feb. 7, 1907, Indianapolis, Ind. parents: Louis Ferdinand Smith, Edna
Wirth Stevenson. Te ,

PREPARED AT: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.; University of Chi-
cago, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1928, PH.D., 1940.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Archaeologist: assistant curator of Department of Egyptian
Art, Boston Museum of Fine Arts, lecturer on Egyptian art, in Fine
Arts Department, Harvard University.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcORD: Lieutenant commander, U. S. Naval Reserve,
active service, 1942-46, largely in Near East.

OFFICES HELD: Archaeological assistant, Harvard-Boston Egyptian Expedi-
tion, 1930-39; assistant curator, Department of Egyptian Art, Museum
of Fine Arts, Boston, since 1941; lecturer in Fine Arts, Harvard Uni-
versity, since 1948; director, American Research Center in Egypt, 1950.

MEMBER oF: Archaeological Institute of America; American Oriental So-
ciety; College Art Association.

PuBLicaTioNs: A History of Egyptian Sculpture and Painting in the Old
Kingdom, 1946, 2nd edition, 1948; Ancient Egypt as Represented in

the Museum of Fine Arts, 1942, 3rd edition, 1952; various articles in
scientific journals.

FROM 1930 to 1939 I was engaged in excavation work at the
Giza Pyramids, as assistant to the late Dr. George A. Reisner,
"89. I returned to the United States in the summer of 1939 and
resumed work in the Department of Egyptian Art at the Bos-

[ 1024]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ton Museum of Fine Arts, where I became assistant curator.
During the winter of 1939 to 1940 I worked for my Ph.D. at
Harvard in the Fine Arts Department. From 1942 to 1946 I
served in the Navy, being stationed in the Near East,

In the autumn of 1946 I returned to Fgypt with Mr. Dows
Dunham, curator of Fgyptian art in the Boston Museum, to close
down Harvard Camp, which since tgo6 had for forty years
formed the headquarters of the expedition of Harvard Univer-
sity and the Museum of Fine Arts, In 148 I received a lecture-
ship in the Fine Arts Department at Harvard where I have since
been giving a course in the history of Fgyptian art. In February,
1951, I returned to Fgypt for a year on a Fulbright Grant and
as director of the newly formed American Research Center in
Egypt.

In addition to the publications listed above, I have since the
war contributed a chapter on the Egyptian Old Kingdom for a
new edition of the first volume of the Cambridge Ancient His-
tory, which has not yet appeared. I have also prepared for pub-
lication the second volume of Reisner's History of the Giza Ne-
cropolis, which deals with one of the expedition’s most interest-
ing discoveries, the comb of Queen Hetep-heres, the mother of
Cheops. This volume is at present in the Harvard University
Press. During my last visit to Egypt, I also completed the draw-
ings and text for the wall reliefs from the pyramid temple of
King Weserkaf, the first king of Dynasty V, for a proposed
publication on that pyramid at Saqqara. I am at present working
on the material for the next volume of the Giza publications.

ERNEST AUGUSTUS SNOW, JR.

HOME appress: 86 Kellogg Ave. Amherst, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEsS: Fernald Hall, Universiry of Massachusetts, Amherst, Mass.

BORN: June 17, 1905, Arlington, Mass. parents: Ernest Augustus Snow,
Frances Mabel Dow.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1927§-1928. DEGREES: $.B., 1928; $.M., 1940.

MarkieD: Bernice Frances Eddy, Sept. 29, 1933, Arlington, Mass. cHILprEeN:
Ronald Edwin, Oct, 14, 1936; Stephen Eddy, July 3, 1945.

_ Occupation: Sanitary chemist, Division of Sanitary Engineering, Amherst

Laboratory, Department of Public Health, Commonwealth of Mass.;

also teacher, corrosion expert, and limnologist.

[ 1025 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

we grasp the idea (and act on it) that man differs from the
animals in being a time-binder. Evolution depends partly on
the fact that when anything has arisen in a body its use modifies
it to adapt it to the conditions existing at that time. (With apolo-
gies to Lucretius.)

Matter is no simple thing invented by physicists but has mat-
velous innate properties, atom bombs to the contrary notwith-
standing!

Man is a puny speck of dust in the eyes of the Great Architect
of the Universe, but nonetheless, a proud and overweening crea-
ture when prosperous. (You see, I can’t help preaching at the
first convenient opportunity!)

ROBERT WATERS SNYDER

HOME ADDRESS: 19452 S. Sagamore Rd., Fairview Park 26, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1901 E, 13th St., Cleveland, Ohio.

porn: Aug. 18, 1904, Fostoria, Ohio. parents: George Amos Snyder, Stella
May Tuttle.

PREPARED AT: Fostoria High School, Fostoria, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Isabel Menefee Kingree, Dec. 29, 1951, Lakewood, Ohio. CHILD:
Douglas I. Kingree, aged twenty-one (step-daughter).

OCCUPATION: Management planning analyst, United States Navy.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, S. Army Air Forces from 1942 to 1946; en-
tered service via draft; attended Finance Officer Candidate School at
Duke University; served as finance officer, numerous locations; highest
rank, captain.

WOLF HERBERT HENRY SNYDER

HOME appress: 27 N, Cannon Drive, Edgemoor Gardens, Wilmington 3,
Del.

oFFice appress: Catalytic Construction Co., Widener Bldg., Philadelphia 2,
Pa.

BorN: Aug. 27, 1903, Dresden, Germany. PARENTS: Henry E. Snyder, Ger-
trud Elise Bauer.

PREPARED AT: Gymnasium, Dresden, Germany.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: 8.8. IN MINING ENG. cum laude, 1928
(29).

[ 1028 ]

we asascengs x

TRE MEE ALACRA AE at Oi Py Nae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marRieD: Elfriede Elisabeth Bartels, Dec. 3, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Barbara Edolgard Elfriede and Wolf Joachim Henry, Sept. 15, 1934
(twins).

occuPATION: Project engineer, Catalytic Construction Company.

MEMBER OF: Wilmington Trail Club.

. FEW of you classmates will know me, for I was not a freshman

with you and I did not graduate until 1929, as I took one year

of post-graduate courses as an undergraduate for financial rea-

sons and a scholarship I could not have held in the graduate

school. My progress may not have been as spectacular as that
of some of you fellow classmates, but the years since gradua-
tion have been joyful and happy ones.

The start was slow, As an explanation, I may have to start
with pre-college days. I was born of American parents in Ger-
many, where my father had a prosperous export and import
business and great plans for his four children, two girls and two
boys. The first World War overtook us, however, before we
could leave Germany. Though well treated, we were not per-
mitted to travel, nor was my father allowed to make business
transactions, After an inflation that ended in an exchange of
one trillion to one, we were completely broke. In May, 1925,
five of us (one sister had died from under-nourishment)’ were

finally able to return to the United States. I say return, but for
us three children it was the first visit to the country of which
we were Citizens.

In spite of my father’s vast experience, he was considered too
Id to find employment, and it was up to us children to keep
hings going. Yet, in the fall of that year, I as the oldest entered
Tarvard; and my sister and brother took night courses at Bos-
on University and Northeastern. After graduation 1 owed
Jarvard one year’s tuition, but even more important, it was up

2 me now to support the family and help brother and sister
) complete their college education.

The future looked bright. I started as mining engineer for
ie Bethlehem Steel Corporation, and after two years I was to
9 to South America into mine management. The depression
osed the mines, however, and in 1932 like many others I was
pking for any kind of a job. Through part-time work of
awing stock market charts, I drifted into economic and finan-

[ 1029 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

cial research, a worth-while study which may yet prove of value
to me.

At this low point in my financial status (twelve dollars a week)
I had the nerve to write to a girl I had known in Germany to
come over here and marry me. She had been born in the Virgin
Islands, the daughter of a missionary of the Moravian church.
This fact probably helped persuade her finally to accept my
plea, as for generations past women of that church had been
willing to go across the seas at the request of their congregation
to marry a missionary in need of a wife. A stock market rally
advanced a few shares of Bethlehem Steel stocks sufficiently to
pay for her voyage, and by Christmas, 1933, I could call Elfriede
my wife.

In September, 1934, the twins were born. The pay was still
low; also my mother was living with us and needed medical care.
In January, 1940, with new war clouds arriving and engineers
badly needed, I thought it was time to get back into my field,
This time it was mechanical engineering, work simplification
for a machine tool company. In spite of my effort to do the
best job I could, I soon found that, because of the years I had
lived in Germany, I was not trusted in that hysterical pre-war
period. For a long time it seemed that having suffered in Ger-
many for my American citizenship, I was to encounter even
worse difficulties here.

I am deeply grateful to those Harvard professors and some in-
fluential Boston friends who had enough confidence in me to
vouch for my loyalty to this my country and make it possible
for me to find work where I was fully trusted. By Christmas,
1940, I was employed by Stone & Webster Engineering Cor-
poration as structural designer, and all during the war years I
helped design in rapid succession numerous war plants all over
the United States and Canada. It was fascinating work, with
different types of industries and constantly varying conditions.

In January, 1946, I accepted an offer to work for E. I. Du-
pont at Wilmington: pressure vessel design and stress analysis
of high pressure units (60,000 p.s.i. and up). In September,

1948, Catalytic Construction Company in Philadelphia — a young
but vigorous and rapidly expanding outfit — had an opening for
me, Here I am best able to make use of my varied experience in

[ 1030 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the design of structures, machinery, pressure vesscls and in stress
analysis; and for the last two years I have been project engincer
for this company on one of our country’s major atomic energy
projects.

Both my children started college this fall, Barbara at Madison
College in Virginia and Henry at Cornell. In spire of taxes and
in spite of our complaints about waste and corruption, this our
country is yet the great land, where you can start with nothing
much of material value, get your education, and move ahead ac-
cording to your ability. And best of all, the old pioneer spirit
is yet alive, even in cities, with most neighbors willing to help
and stand by if need arises.

HYMAN SOBELL

HOME ADDRESS: 69-63 Park Drive, E, Kew Gardens Hills, N. Y.

orice aporess: Metropolitan Employment Agency, 166 W, qist St, New
York 36, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1908, Boston, Mass. pangnts: Bamet Sobell, Anna Sokoloff,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. pecares: am cum laude, 1928(19), A.M, 1932.

maarriep: Selma Irene Reisner, Oct. 8 1950, Boston, Mass. ctnitp: Deborah
Ruth, Oct. 1, 1951.

OccUPATION: Personne] placement, owner and general manager, Metropolitan
Employment Agency.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army, Signal Intelligence, E.T.0. 1942-

meneorn or: Phi Beta Kappa.

AFTER my discharge from the U.S. Army in October, 1945, I

devoted all my time and energies on behalf of the Jewish survivors

of World War II in Europe, who were determined to migrate to

and settle in Palestine, despite a multiplicity of obstacles. When

the Arabs precipitated the war against the Israelis, I did what

little I could to help. Subsequently I participated in a number of

projects connected with the Stare of Israel.

In the meantime, having acquired a lovely wife and begotten a
daughter, I decided that I had better concentrate on more practical
and remunerative pursuits. And so, in November, 1952, I em-
barked, somewhat reluctantly, upon my present business venture.
It would be premature for me to hazard any prediction as to what
I shall be doing five years from now.

[ 1031 ]

ee
7

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MYER NATHANIEL SOBILOFF

HOME ADDRESS: 687 Woodlawn St., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 142 Second St., Fall River, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1907, Fall River, Mass. parents: Israel Sobiloff, Fannie Gollub,

PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

marriep: Cilla Sander, July 10, 1932, Sharon, Mass. CHILDREN: Ellen Barbara,
May 11, 1948; James Israel, Dec. 15, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Finance and management.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Member, Massachusetts State Guard, honorary
discharge with rank of sergeant to become 2nd lieutenant, Massachu-
setts State Militia; attended Massachusetts Military Academy.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Member of committees for conservation of
manpower and of waste materials for war effort, local bond drives and
campaigns pertaining to war effort; member, Fall River Emergency
Housing Committee.

OFFICES HELD: President or treasurer, Fall River Curtain Company, Inc,
1935-47; treasurer, Somerset Investing Corporation, since 1938; member,
Economic Stability Committee, N.A.M., 1946; member, Airport Com-
mission, May 28, 1946, to April 28, 1952; director, Society of Friends
of Touro Synagogue, Newport, R. I., since 1946, Red Cross Fund
campaign chairman, 1947; treasurer and director, Attleboro Realty &
Trading Corp., 1948-51; president, 1948 Community Fund of Greater
Fall River, Inc.; former national vice-chairman of Joint Defense Appeal
for many years, executive committee member and board of directors
member, American Red Cross; member, Fall River Jewish Council;
member executive committee and board of directors, Fall River Boys
Club, Massasoit Council Boy Scouts of America; member of board,
National Board of Joint Distribution; member of board, Jewish Home
for the Aged; former vice-president and director, Temple Beth-El;
former president and director, Union Plate & Wire Company, Acle-
boro, Mass.; member, Logast Syndicate, since 1950; director, Loesers,
Inc., 1950-52, Aspinock Corp., 1951-52, Ambrook Industries, Inc., since
1952.

MEMBER OF: Shriners, Knights of Pythias, Elks, Ledgemont Country Club,
Fall River Harvard Club, Rotary Club, Legion of Guardsmen, Holstein

Friesian Association of America, Plymouth County Breeders Associa-
tion, Fetherdick Tennis Club.

TWO successive jobs of brief duration followed graduation. In
February, 1929, 1 formed with others a curtain manufacturing
company in which | remained interested until 1947. During the
middle thirties, together with my brother with whom I had be-
come associated, we ventured into other fields of business and,

[ 1032 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in 1938, began devoting most, and subsequently, all of my time

to my present work. I am in the business investment field and

also act as a business counselor and coérdinator.

Up to three years ago, I farmed seriously for approximately
ten years. The setting of our place in Middleboro, Massachu-
sects, was idyllic and, once there, my other world disappeared.
Our specialty was dairying, with a few cash crops, as well as
the breeding of pure bred Holsteins. The work was vigorous
as nature is demanding. This effort is doubly rewarded as both
the physical and the mental participate in accomplishment. 1 be-
lieve it was my first full appreciation of the wonders of the animal
kingdom, the beauty and the power of the four seasons, the
majesty and the strength of heaven and earth.

For relaxation, squash and tennis are my athletic hobbies.
During the summer we enjoy the quict loveliness of the Cape. 1
really play a violin that sounded somewhat better years back.

My wife accepted (yes to marriage) me in June, 1931, and
we were married July 10, 1932. We have enjoyed beautiful
moments and shared tragedy. If this were 1931, 1 would still
sropose to her and I think she would accept. We were without
children until 1948. In May of that year we were blessed with —

daughter, Ellen. Two and one-half years later our son, Jimmy,

yas born.
As with most of us, my last twenty-five years have been active

id full. My experiences have been varied. Neverthcless, I have

at devoted the time (as if time in itself is sufficient) to develop
philosophy. But I do have beliefs and convictions, firm despite
esent world chaos. Amongst them, I believe in fundamental
iths and precepts as propounded by the founders of this coun-

. I believe our American form of government is the best yet
nduced by anv and, especially, our own civilization. Its in-
iciencies are not the results of the system but that of the
itations of man. I have confidence in the basic qualities and
ngth of the average American citizen and look to its leaders

world preservation. | want to continue to develop and im-

ve through our way of life.

f religion, I am of the Jewish faith and shall continue to
y its privileges as well as all responsibilities attached thereto.
‘ieve in the oneness of man. It ts my thought that a tired

[ 1033 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

and disappointed Deity, because of man’s inadequacy, introduced
different denominations. One Religion — possibly not until

Eternity. My years of living have continued to affirm my early

conditioning of a Supreme Being. I do endeavor ‘to spread His
Gospel. | .

CHESTER LLOYD SOLOMONT

HOME AppRESS: 16 Merrill Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

orFicE ADDRESS: Lloyd Advertising, Inc., 209 Washington St., Boston 8,
Mass.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Morris Louis Solomont, Fliza-
beth Chaloff.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrigD: Elaine Neumann, Jan. 14, 1930, Montreal, P. Q., Canada. CHILDREN:
Susan and Michael (twins), Feb. 18, 1934.

occuPATION: Treasurer and art director, Lloyd Advertising, Inc.

I HAD made up my mind during the last two years of college that
the easiest way to make $200,000 a year was to become a na-
tionally syndicated comic strip artist. So I proceeded to draw
up a ghastly comic strip, disgustingly called “Kuthbert Kabot at
College” (I can hardly believe it myself), and directly after
graduation, set off for the big city with my samples. After two
weeks of being turned away without them even being looked
at, I managed to get into the private office of the president of
one of the larger syndicates. He patiently went through what
I had and then said, “Son, let me give you some good advice.
Put these on a shelf in your closet, and then after twenty-five
years, look at them and say, ‘that’s what I did twenty-five years
ago!” Which would bring the unveiling to just about now.
But they have long since disappeared. My dog had a passion for
sharpening his teeth on two-ply cardboard.

Disillusioned but not undaunted, I returned to Boston and got
a job with the New England Theatres Corporation, as a sort of
one man art department, free-lanced at the same time with illus-
trations for the Boston Post, Globe, and the then-existent Tran-
script. 1 still remember the boot I got out of making ninety-
eight dollars in a single day by illustrating the 1929 stock market
crash for the Boston Globe. (Vic Jones, do you remember?)

[ 1034 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

By October, 1929, I had amassed enough of a fortune to buy
a ring, and so I got myself engaged in Montreal, and was mar-
ried in January, 1930.

From 1930 to 1932 I was the art director of the Paramount-
Publix theatres of New England. In 1932 I entered into partner-
ship in an advertising agency called Bresnick and Solomont (and
did rather well) until 1950, when my partner and I agreed to
disagree. I sold my interest to him. By January, 1951, a group
of former employees decided to open a new agency, and I joined
them as treasurer and art director. Lloyd Advertising, Inc., is
now two years old and, I am happy to report, still paying its rent.

I am writing this having juste recurned earlier tonight from
visiting my daughter at Sarah Lawrence College, where she is
enrolled as a freshman. My son attends Boston University. It
frightens me just a little to realize that so many ycars have rolled
by. I loosen my belt a notch at regular intervals, my gout at-
tacks arrive just a little more frequently. You know, [ think I’m
just about ready for a Twenty-fifth Reunion.

TS-OEN SOONG

LAST KNOWN AporESS: 139 Seymour Rd. Shanghai, China.

Boan: March 10, 1907, Shanghai, China. parents: Soing Chi Ju Soong, Nie
Kweitsung.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s University, Shanghai, China.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928,

TS-OEN SOONG has been carried as a “lost” man on our rec-
ords since 1950.

AGIS SPARKS

HOME apprEss: 486 Old Farm Rd., Pittsburgh 34, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 213 Market St., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 4, 1906, Lowell, Mass. parents: James Spiros Spirakis, Anna
Condikey.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1978.

[ 1035 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MARRIED: Christina Manesiotis, Oct. 19, 1941, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN: Ann,
June 12, 1944; Helen, Jan. 8, 1947; Dorothy, April 6, 1951.
HARVARD BROTHER: Clement Sparks, ’37.

OCCUPATION: Food service equipment dealer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army, October, 1942—F ebruary, 1943; Navy Ses

bees, October, 1943-November, 1945; year at Saipan, Pacific; ended »
electrician’s mate third class.

LEBARON HOLMES SPARROW

HOME apprEss: 177 Old Mill Rd., Fairfield, Conn.
orFice appress: General Electric Co., 1285 Boston Ave., Bridgeport, Conn.

BoRN: Feb. 8, 1905, Mattapoisett, Mass. parents: Frank Miller Sparrow, 83,
Sarah C. Hubbard.

PREPARED AT: Tilton School, Tilton, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: $.B. IN C.E., 1928.

Marriep: Estelle A. Blanchard, June 1, 1935, Tilton, N. H. cHitpren: Lee,
April 4, 1937; Susan S., May 8, 1939.

occupation: Electrical manufacturing: manufacturing engineer responsible
for layout, methods, quality, and costs.

MEMBER OF: Fairfield Beach Club, Conn.,; Pequot Yacht Club, Southport.
Conn,

FOR the first several years after graduation I worked at the
profession for which I had trained and studied, namely civil engi-
neering. I had several jobs, some interesting and pleasant, some
not, The part I liked least about them was the continual moving
about the country from one location to the next. I finally de-
cided to make a change so that I could settle in one spot and put
down some roots. I have often wondered since if this was a
wise move. With this end in view I picked on manufacturing
as the most likely field for my meager talents. In 1934 I trans-
ferred my efforts to the General Electric Company in Bridgeport,
Connecticut, and have been with them ever since as what they
call a manufacturing engineer. The title means nothing much
and it was quite a change from the type of work for which |
studied; however it has been a steady job and a means of eam-
ing a living in the slightly hectic times we have lived in since
graduation, I at least accomplished my purpose to settle down,
for we have lived here ever since except for a short period dur-
ing the war when I worked in Schenectady and Pittsfield on

[ 1036 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

special assignments for the company’s war work, We all believe
that Fairficld County is the most wonderful part of the country

in which to live.
I was marred in 1935 and in to3> and tory blessed with

daughters. They are now in secondary school and hopes and
plans are for college later on. | regard them as my greatest
achievernent and a complete reward for any and all drudgery

that has or may come along.
We live very much as a family, doing together the things we

all enjoy. At present we helong to The Farticld Beach Club

for irs bathing and tennis and The Pequot Vache Club for its

sailing. This latter sport is confined meaty to the girls now,

though later on TE should like a boat of my own, These are the
only two clubs ro which T presently belong and pretty much
indicate our activities of this ty pe. Travelling has been con-
fined mostly to business of short vacation taps. PE have had many
assing fads but haven't as yet settled on any real hobby,

We are all looking forw ard to the Tw enty-ffth with antici
pation and [hope ro renew friendships that have had little at-
tention since 1928.

It has taken me considerable ame to complete this resumé; it
was started back in the summer, but [am happy to he able to
add chat [ had the great preasure of voting for a winning presi-

dent.

MORRIS R. SPFLFOGFL

rome apoaess. 67 Old Colony Rd. Chestnut Phil 62, Mass.

Frick appaess: 20 Pemberton Sq. Boston &, Mass.
pan: Oot 1g. too, Malden, Mase parrsre: Jacob Spelfogel, Mane Yessin.

arpartD at: Public Larin School, Boston, Mass,

EARS IN COLLEGE: 192g-1928. DERFFS: AB, 1928, TL, IQ}E.

arnirp: Helen S. Sremnberg. Oct. 7. 1974 Boston, Mass. caitpwen, Evan
Jay, Jan. 28, 1935, Berre-Anne, Nov. 23, 1937.

rvann son: Evan Jay Speitogel, '54.

av arp RROTHER: Benjamin Spelfogel, am, °38,

“UPation: Attomey, Steinberg & Spelfogel.

RTIME GOVERNMENT post: Local Draft Board No. 34

ICES HELD: Assistant attorney general, Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
1952-53; general counsel, Massachusetts State Housing Board, 1952-535
member Advisory Committee, Massachusetts Civilian Defense, president,

[ 1037 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

National Federation Jewish Men’s Clubs, New England Region, since
1950, Brotherhood, Temple Mishkan Tefila, Roxbury, 1948-50, Brother.
hood, Mishkan Israel, Dorchester, 1928-32; vice-president, United Syn.
gogues of America, New England Region, since 1949; secretary, Associ.
ated Synagogues of Greater Boston, since 1949, Temple Mishkan Tefila
since 1951, Temple Israel, Hull, since 1948; trustee, Nantasket Youth
Center, since 1946; chairman, United Chaplaincy Commission, Mass.
chusetts, School Committee, Temple Mishkan Tefila.

MEMBER OF: Brotherhood Lodge, A. F. & A. M.; King Solomon Lodge,
Knights of Pythias; Amos Lodge, B’nai B’rith; Zionist Organization of
America, American Jewish Congress; Massachusetts Law Society; Mas-
sachusetts Bar Association; Boston Bar Association; Associates of Bran-

deis University.

LOOK at the man on your right, and look at the man on your
left,” said Professor MacLaughlin at the Harvard Law School,
“one of you three will not be back next year.” I was among
those privileged to come back, received a law degree, and became
a lawyer. That disposes of the first three years after graduation.
One year as a law clerk and two years trying to pick up a client
——these activities dispose of three more years. Just as I was
beginning to see financial daylight, I went “the way of all flesh”
and got myself married. Fortunately (or unfortunately) my
wife’s father was a lawyer, so after competing with him for five
years for the family business, I finally joined with him in a law
partnership. This arrangement has been in effect to the present
time.

That ends my story, except perhaps for a few details which
may be of some interest. Our marriage has been blessed with
two of the nicest kids in the world: my daughter Bette-Anne,
presently a junior at Newton High School, is a pretty, well-
mannered, intelligent young lady. My son Evan, a freshman at
Harvard, is a good-looking, well-behaved, athletically inclined, in-
telligent young man. It is through the activities of my son that
I re-live the happy college days of the middle twenties. It is
with an inward smile that I reprimand him for his pranks, tricks,
and short-cuts — all of which I myself practised some quarter-
century ago. I am therefore thoroughly convinced that genera-
tions do not change, and history certainly repeats itself.

In addition to a fine wife, two wonderful children, and the
good health of my family, I have been blessed with the comforts

[1038 J

. 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of a fine home, a good law practice, and an honored position in

my community. No man could ask for more. I still play a little

softball and touch football; and my wife, children, and I attend

as many Sporting events as possible. Outside of the game in

California, and the one in Michigan, my wife and I, and in later

years my children, have attended every Harvard football game

both at and away from Cambridge since graduation.

During the summer months we spend our time in our small

cottage at Hull, where I enjoy fishing and bathing (this used to
be called swimming during my Life Guard days at Magazine
Beach). I am still the family champion at pinochle and cribbage,
and always enjoy a quict evening at home with the family.

In a small way I have made a definite effort to aid the com-
munity and the people in it. For the past ten years I have headed
a local drive for raising necessary monies to send underprivileged
children to summer camps. Of this activity 1 am particularly
proud, fully convinced that my efforts have contributed some-
what in reducing much of the juvenile delinquency so prevalent
in our community today.

I have held high offices in religious and public life, principal
amongst which are the presidency of all the Jewish Men's Clubs
of New England, and being Assistant Attorney General of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts. My wife and I have been very
active in the Scout movement in and around Boston, my wife as
Girl Scout Troop Leader and District Leader for the Newton
Area, and I as Chairman of the local Scour Committee. I have
and still do direct the activity of the Youth Center in my sum-
mer community of Hull, and have contributed of my time, effort,
and funds to community and philanthropic endeavors.

And so, in retrospect, I fecl that I have made some headway
in satisfying three philosophical thoughts which have motivated
and permeated my activities through the years: firstly, to prize
learning above all else, for it 1s man’s mind which distinguishes
him from the beast; secondly, to attach one’s self to the com-
munity and serve it well, for the community serves us only so
ong as we serve it; and thirdly, to accumulate worldly goods,
1ot for the sake of being wealthy, but in order to use them as a
neans of attaining eternal happiness for one’s self and mankind.

In conclusion, I pay tribute to Harvard for what it has done

[ 1039 J

?

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

for me, the community, the country, and the world. I am proud
to be associated with this great institution and with everything
it stands for. I am happy to have known its professors, instruc.
tors, students, and alumni. Lastly, I am thankful to the good
Lord for having given me the past twenty-five years, and fer-
vently pray that the future years bring forth a better and more
tolerant understanding amongst men and nations, ultimately re-
sulting in a just and lasting peace.

CECIL PAUL BITHEL SPIDELL

HOME ADDRESS: 19 E. 18, Tulsa, Okla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Radio Station KAKC, sor S. Elgin St. Tulsa, Okla.

BORN: May 30, 1904, Joplin, Mo. PARENTS: Thomas Martin Spidell, Alta
Pearl Cofer.

PREPARED AT: Chanute High School, Chanute, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B. lagna cum laude, 1928.

MarRIED: Diane Mayhew, Aug. 17, 1931, Harrison, N. Y. (divorced 1945);
Marion Acosta, July 27, 1949, Tulsa, Okla. cutLpren: Paul Ellis, Aug.
2§, 1932; Sherrill Ann and Sherrill Lynn, Dec. 29, 1941 (twins).

OccUPATION: Advertising account executive, Radio Station KAKC; free-
lance advertising.

_ WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Director of Civilian War Programs, National
Office of Civilian Defense, Washington, D. C.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Lodge, AF. & A.M., Cambridge, Mass.; Acacia Fn-
ternity; Harvard Club of Tulsa.

pusLicaTions: Articles in Hunting and Fishing Magazine.

AFTER fifteen years in advertising in New York City, inter-
rupted during World War II by government war service, |
came to the Southwest where I have been engaged in adverts-
ing agency and radio work, operating my own agency for four
years until 1949 and joining KAKC then, While with IBM m
New York, I travelled throughout the United States and Canada
in company work. Extra-curricular activities included publicity
committees, USO, New York City; British War Relief Society,
New York; American Red Cross, New York; New York World’s
Fair.

My principal hobbies are hunting, fishing, golf, photography.
I am a Protestant and registered Republican. It is my belief that
more should be done to interest outstanding high school stu-
dents from the Southwest in acquiring their college education

[ 1040 ]

Pe RAR RE RE AS Ra

BS Shh MARL SS ang ee 08 asa a

ER RF REINO MCN SERIO sete ep IME Mas nore aN Fa

1 iad NO AGEN CARMEN EBON MIRAE Hn EITHER OK PLN SAR RTE TIT ORTH RINE PA RE TT

Niet

i SoS Aner ‘He ABIMENCER ARE

SOLE SRE URAL NORTE RO ALOR REL AOE OIA RES MNP IIE TITS MAME HEL IETY IH ANGER POEL EGE ITER IR MEN, Oe PLM Pci

ogy oe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Harvard, best in the world, and likewise their graduate edu
ion € n i

. Ih e forty ard men here in Tul AM

tensely proud of the achievements of Harvard University

the di President Conant. No matter what d

f individual ess, we all poss n common a deep
for Ha d

JOHN COLLINS SPRAGUE

ness: 303 Ediso n Blvd., Port Hur ich.

RESS: Acheson Industries, Inc Por Elus ny Mee

g 2, 108, Nigar 2 Falls, N.Y. PAREN ; Edmund Clarence
re, Lillian M. Pra

: Nichols School, "Bu ffalo, N. Y.; Tonbridge e Scho ol, Kent, Eng-
LEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B., 1928(29).
el Flynn, May 24, 1934, Cos Cob, Conn. cHiLpren: Jane, May
John Edmund, Jan. 21, 1942; Mary, May 15, 1945.
ecretary-treasurer, director, Acheson Industries, Inc., mdus-
ng company whose subsidiaries and divisions manufacture
aphite, graphite greases, specialty printing inks, predispersed
plastics, etc.

‘AL RECORD: U, S, Coast Guard Temporary Reserve, boat-

first class, St. Clair River, Mich.
irman, Zoning Board of Appeals, Port Huron, 1948, Board
“irst Congregational Church, 1951; trustee, Port Huron
1947. -
‘Club; National Association of Cost Accountants.
rts of the Class catalogue the first twenty veats
te lives, That leaves the last five years to ac-

sy matter because the pattern has changed

the shore of Lake Huron at the head of the

e we watch the greatest fleets of ote boxts
rid pass the front door, The children swim
yhile T play golf. 1 still say you can have
ar Boston —Tll take Port Huron,

enience of recent years was a Hutopean

hel and my eldest daughter Jane (aged
15 to London for two weeks: after tht
ucerne, Venice, Rome, and Ca Ky



HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

all we had time for. I got the greatest kick from visiting my
old school at Tonbridge in Kent County, England. Meeting old
masters was reminiscent of seeing the characters in Goodbye,
Mr. Chips. I flew both ways and now wouldn’t bother with
luxury liners, in spite of trouble on departure. We were on
three different planes and were twenty-four hours late, but we'd
all do it again tomorrow, just to get back to Capri.

+ FRANK PENROSE SPROUL
BoRN: June 7, 1906, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Frank Penrose Sproul, Charlotte
Elizabeth Howe.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).
pieD: Nov. 6, 1932, Randolph, Mass.

FOR a year after leaving Harvard, Sproul studied aviation engi-
neering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. While in
college he had been a director of the Flying Club (1927) as well
as a member of the Freshman Wireless Club, Freshman Cross

Country Squad, and the Speakers’ Club. He died in the same

airplane accident in which our classmate Frederick L. Ames was

killed.

ROBERT HUGH SPROUL

HOME AppRESS: 5311 Augusta St. Washington 16, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Navy Department, Washington, D. C.

BORN: May 14, 1908, Indianapolis, Ind. parents: Alexander Hugh Sproul,
Gertrude Duncan.

PREPARED AT: Salem Classical & High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. Cuz laude, 1928; LL.B. 193}.

MarrieD: Bernadette E. A. Marsolais, Dec. 4, 1931, Lexington, Mass.; Ida
Knaus, Nov. 25, 1945, Washington, D. C. cHmpren: Barbara Ann, Jan.
12, 1934; Robert C., March 7, 1936.

occuPATION: Attorney; chairman, Navy Panel, Armed Services Board of
Contract Appeals (president, every third year, on rotating basis).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Active duty, U.S.N.R., September, 1942, te
March, 1946; present rank: lieutenant commander.

AFTER graduating in 1928 I spent two years at sea as radio
operator, riding freighters to such ports of call as Honolulu,

[ 1042 J

3
y



HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PUBLICATION: “A Technic for the Evacuation of Secretions Following In-

sertion of a Stone-Jardon Implant,” Case Report, accepted by American
Journal of Ophthalmology.

ISRAEL SOLOMON STAMM

HOME ADDRESS: 784 Clinton Ave., Apt. 26, Newark 8, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Rutgers University, go Rector St., Newark 2, N. J.

BoRN: Aug. 1, 1906, Norwich, Conn. parents: Max Stamm, Leah Alpero-
vitch.

PREPARED AT: Norwich Free Academy, Norwich, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B, summa cum laude, 1928, aM,
19313 PH.D., 1935.

UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Associate professor of German.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 1942-46: military policeman; Officer Candidate
School; G-z in Egypt; instructor in school for prisoners of war in
France; military government in Berlin; discharged with rank of captain.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Modern Language Association of America,
PUBLICATIONS: Articles in professional journals.

BEFORE the war I was a graduate student and instructor in
German at Harvard. After four years in the Army, I joined the
faculty of Rutgers University. My years have been devoted

chiefly to teaching and studying and to the contemplation of
the nature of things.

I enjoy my work, the arts, good food, and travelling. |

SAMUEL FORDYCE STANLEY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 42 E. 64th St., New York 21, N.Y.

BORN: Feb, 22, 1906, St. Louis, Mo. parents: David Sheridan Stanley, Jane
Fordyce.

PREPARED AT: Asheville School, Asheville, N.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

UNMARRIED, ;

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Wright Stanley, °35.

occupaTION: Free-lance writer. °

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 33d Fighter Group, North Africa, Sicily, Italy,
1942-44.

MEMBER OF: West Side Tennis Club,

PUBLICATIONS: Various popular magazines.

[ 1044 ]

nc pease alge 2 CD

REN AN ANE AR IN DHE rs tee OF ETE

fe gO STR (ONAN nt ROE PR Ge Re OHNO A: EE ESTERASES

a etree



HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

started out again once before, after Appomattox. I began work.
ing, first in the grease-pit of a filling station, and then running
the station, and then a chain of stations. Then I worked for the
Philip Carey Company, and afterwards for the Ruberoid Com-
pany, as a salesman, branch manager, sales supervisor, assistant
division manager in Lexington, Kentucky, Memphis, St. Louis,
and Atlanta.

My first marriage ended in divorce. A fall from a roof, with
both feet broken, kept me out of the war.

Then, against all probability, Dorothy Walsh and I met again.
Her first marriage had also ended in divorce. We were married
on December 31, 1942, in New York, with Harry Morgan and
his wife Olga as our witnesses. Since that day I can say, in the
words of Sir Thomas Browne, “As for my life, it is a miracle...
which to relate were poetry and not biography.”

For a year and a half we lived in Toledo, where I worked for
Bob Landers and John Howland as personnel manager of the
Landers Corporation. But the lure of New York was too strong,
and in 1944 we moved to the city, where I have been sales man-
ager and am now vice-president of J. G. Wilson Corporation.
We have no children. Dorothy has her own career, in which
she is highly successful, as manager of staff employment at
Macy’s. We live quietly on lower Fifth Avenue, in an apart-
ment crammed with books and albums of records. During busi-
ness hours both of us have enough contacts and conversations
with others, so our social activities are meagre. We read about
400 books a year. We listen to music. I keep adding to my un-
published works.

We enjoy travelling, preferring places like Port-au-Prince and
New Orleans to Havana or Miami. In May we usually go to
Ponte Vedra Beach. Before too long we hope to move to Florida
permanently. Now and then we go to Boston, and ask for a
room on the Garden side of the hotel, so we can look down and
see the swan boats. We wander around Boston and go out to
Cambridge to stroll through the Yard in a fine mood of nos-
talgia. Our love for Harvard is very strong. The undergraduates
seem amazingly young. Everything looks smaller than we re-

member it as being.
I suppose that we are selfish and self-centered and introverted

[ 1046 ]

 

|
t
t
{

‘ SRE iF RT ei Bee oR REN et A Mg Sa

seit 1 ect ANE, NINN FA 15 MERU NEG EINE SALTS ARON SELES POET

oe a



HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

GEORGE LEDYARD STEBBINS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 320 W. Eighth St., Davis, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Division of Genetics, University of California, Davis, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1906, Lawrence, N. Y. PARENTS: George Ledyard Stebbins,

- Edith Alden Candler.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif. ‘

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928, AM,
1929; PH.D., 1931.

marrieD: Margaret Goldsborough Chamberlaine, June 13, 1931, Baltimore,
Md. cupren: Edith Candler, Sept. 17, 1932 (a. Bruce Charles Bech-
told, Jan. 14, 1952); Robert Lloyd, Aug. 30, 19333 George Ledyard, 3d,
Sept. 27, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Dows Stebbins, ’27.

occupation: Professor of genetics and geneticist in Experiment Station,
University of California, College of Agriculture.

OFFICES HELD: President, Society for the Study of Evolution, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi, Botanical Society of America;
Genetics Society of America; Society for the Study of Evolution;
American Society of Naturalists; National Academy of Sciences.

puBLIcATIONS: The Human Organism and the World of Life (with C. W.

- Young), rst edition, 1938, 2d edition, 1951, Harper Brothers, Variation
and Evolution in Plants, 1950, Columbia University Press; about ninety
monographs and shorter papers in fields of botany, genetics, and evolu-
tion in various scientific journals.

AFTER graduation I spent three years in Perkins Hall and the
(Old) Botanical Laboratories, getting my Ph.D. Then I got mar-
ried and went to teach general biology and botany at Colgate
University, while gradually accumulating a family. My expeti-
ence there was in many ways distasteful to a scientist and scholar,
though I understand that the Colgate of today is very different
from that presided over by the late not much lamented G. B.
Cutten. Nevertheless, I was much broadened by the experience,
and gained concrete results in the form of an elementary text-
book on biology which has sold well, including use by the armed
forces during the last war, and has gone into an entirely revised
second edition.

In 1935 I had a chance to come to the University of California,
Berkeley, on a temporary research grant, which led to a regular
academic appointment in 1939 and a steady climb up the academic
ladder until I reached the full professorship in 1947. In 1950,
instruction in genetics was badly needed on the Davis campus,

[ 1048 ]

 

|
|
i
|
|
|
|
|
|

Lee Dey Aosta

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

JOSEPH LOWENBACK STEINER

HOME ADDRESS: 3719 Reading Rd., Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Par Beverage Corp. and Kenner Products Co., 912 Sycs.
more St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BorN: Feb. 16, 1907, Cincinnati, Ohio. parENts: Sigmund S. Steiner, Emma
Lowenback.

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Marjorie Selig, Nov. 20, 1941, Cincinnati, Ohio. cxtp: John
Albert, Aug. 21, 1943.

occuPATION: Treasurer, Par Beverage Corporation and Kenner Products

Company, manufacturers of toys, novelties, housewares, and soft drink
concentrates sold as franchises to bottlers.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Posts: Economist, Cleveland Regional Office, 1942-
44, head, Price Adjustment and Pricing Branch, Washington National
Office, 1944-45, Office of Price Administration; price executive, Cin-
cinnati District Office, Office of Price Stabilization, consultant on price
adjustments to Director of Price Stabilization, Washington, D. C,, 1951.

MEMBER OF: Losantiville Country Club; Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Ameri-
can Jewish Committee.

1: 1928-41

AFTER leaving Cambridge and until shortly after our entry
into the war, I was in the beverage business. Our chief products
were “Tom Collins, Jr.” and “Lemmy Lemonade.” At the repeal
of prohibition, it was my idea to bottle a prepared Tom Collins
and we organized the Tom Collins Corporation to manufacture
“Tom Collins, Sr.” and various bottled highballs and cocktails.
Schenley Liquors initially had a half interest in this corporation
but, unfortunately, not vice versa. My work was mainly sales
promotion, advertising, and selling.

During this period 1 made some headway reading Keynes but
little trying to convince my more ardent Republican friends
that Roosevelt was the best friend big business had and that his
international position was sound. Now that we have gone from
floors to ceilings and from the Axis to the Communists, it is easy
to forget the conflict of the thirties.

I played a great deal of bridge and tennis, read a fair amount,
and was still ambitious to write “that” play.

[ 1050 ]

 

 

  

Se mente pO PORE NRA EP POEM D ALORS IN AEM De ERIN AGN AE TERE SA OPES | SEI TOPE

-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

2: 1941-46

The second period of my life since leaving college coincided
with the war years. Marjorie Selig (Smith ’30) and I were on
our wedding trip in Nassau on December 7, 1941.

Having been rejected on the physical by the military and
wanting to get into war work, I found my background in busi-
ness and economics best suited for the O.P.A. The Price Execu-
tive of the Cleveland Regional Office, with whom I discovered
I had taken Professor Taussig’s course in Economic Theory,
asked me to join his staff. We moved to Cleveland in September
— the first of four wartime moves— with family and furniture
and the problem of finding a place to live each time.

My work was deciding applications for price adjustment from

firms in the region and establishing area prices, on dry groceries,
coal, milk, and other commodities. This was a varied economic
experience. It also provided me with greatly needed mental
training because I had almost lost the ability of quickly reading
and grasping a complicated document and of doing the close
reasoning and exact writing this work required.
_ After being in Cleveland about a year and a half, I thought it
essential that the agency try to codrdinate its policy on individual
price adjustments. The national office also felt this to be neces-
sary and I was asked to become head of a branch on individual
price adjustments for this purpose.

My work in Washington was absorbing, but almost com-
pletely confining. It was a policy making job, attached to the
office of the Deputy Administrator for Price. Its main functions
were to determine what kind of adjustment provisions were
needed, to set standards for each type, to determine when adjust-
ment provisions should be included in ceiling price regulations
and to try to obtain proper overall consistency in view of the
great differences among the industries being regulated. This
meant working closely with others in the deputy’s office, with
a wide cross section of the price branches in the national office
and with the regional economists in the field offices. Harvard
men were generously sprinkled among these people. I also wrote
or reviewed operating instructions which guided the agency in
applying various adjustment provisions and helped draft parts

[ro51 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

through the whole period. That is my association with the Bell
System. ‘

A few days after graduation I joined the New York Telephone
Company in New York City. I went from one assignment to
another and at times, particularly during the depression, despaired
of ever attaining any degree of success. I stayed with it though
because, despite what many think, the telephone business is ex-
citing and fascinating. There is nothing drab about it.

My first real opportunity and challenge came when I was
transferred to the Operating and Engineering Department of the
American Telephone and Telegraph Company at 195 Broadway.
After a number of years there, I accepted a position in 1949 as
general commercial engineer with the Wisconsin Telephone
Company in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and said goodbye to subur-
ban life and the joy (?) of commuting on the Long Island Rail-
road, Later I was appointed Milwaukee division manager.

As this is being written I am in the throes of moving to Des
Moines, Iowa, having joined the Northwestern Bell Telephone
Company. My family is still in Milwaukee but will join me soon.
By the way, Milwaukee is a wonderful place to live, My business
has taken me around a good part of this country, but I haven't
seen anything better. We loved it there. Perhaps Des Moines
will measure up. Time will tell.

Aside from my work, the picture is fuzzy. My grand wife and
two swell kids and myself have had a fine life. We've had a lot
of fun, travelled a bit, had good health, eaten well, never had any
bad bumps. If the next twenty-five years are as good, I'll be
satisfied. But I should like to vote for a winner some time—
haven’t yet. So

THEODORE NELSON STENSLAND

HOME apprEss: 229 E. Lake Shore Drive, Chicago 11, III.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Ill.

Born: Nov. 14, 1905, Chicago, Ill. parenrs: Theodore Stensland, ’98, Grace
Nelson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREFS: A.B., 1928; LL.B. (Chicago-Kent Coll.
of Law), 1932.

MARRIED: Dorothy Shattuck, April 23, 1932, Chicago, Ill.
[ 1054]

 

t
'
I
i
3
t
,
i
}

.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
occuPaTioN: Lawyer. ,

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Attorney for Alien Property Custodian, 1942-
44.

WHAT sort of biography would be of interest? Success, pros- -
perity, good health, and well-being are fortuitous gifts of Provi-

dence, and need not be itemized here. But it occurs to one

that, at this juncture, at which we who are alive meet again

for perhaps the last time together, some few observations of

perennial meaning may not be amiss.

In twenty-five years, the significant values do not so much
change, as sharpen. The concept which was “Harvard” in 1928
is a more cogent one today. And the “Veritas” of the escutcheon
is more pregnant than it was late in the twenties, — pregnant
with truths to which we were constantly exposed as under-
graduates, and better understand today,—the truths of such
intellectual aristocrats as Lowell, Rand, Kittredge, Lake, Lowes,
—and more. Under these we could have learned the truth of
the enduring worth of free inquiry, —of the dignity of indi-
vidual man, — of forbearance toward one another, — of good-
will, — and the truth of reverential recognition of that small
minority of superior moral and intellectual quality.

Be all this as it may, — I’ve had a wonderful time, — and this
is due, in large measure, to the privilege of having been among
you at Cambridge, under the irresistible glare of a few great men.

WILLIAM STEPHENS

HOME AppRESsS: Conestoga & Radnor-Chester Rd., Ithan, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Pulley Co., Philadelphia, Pa.

BorRN: Nov. 16, 1905, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: George Stephens, ‘92, Ellen
Sears Willis.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cu7m laude, 1928; Ep.M. (Boston
Univ.), 1936.

MARRIED: Emilie Beauveau Sinkler, June 23, 1931, Radnor, Pa. CHILDREN:
William, Jr., Jan. 7, 1934; James Mauran, Sept. 8, 1937; George, Aug. 20,
1945.

HARVARD son: William Stephens, Jr., ’56.

OccUPATION: Statistician, American Pulley Company, manufacturers of power
transmission and materials handling equipment.

[ 1055 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, S. Coast Guard Reserve (T); volunteer duty
on picket-boat watch and beach patrol.

ALTHOUGH by no means politically a Mugwump (rather, an
~ unreconstructed Yankee Republican), I might well be called a
vocational Mugwump. My mug has been in education and my
wump in industry. I have been an out-and-out academic teacher
(mathematics), an instructor in vocational schools (mathematics),
and now I am engaged in the manufacturing field as a statistician
(mathematics again). Between times— during the war years to
be exact —I was in both fields, serving as instructor or rate-set-
ting and as assistant to the Director of Aptitude Testing at a
Bethlehem shipyard. But always a strong thread of mathematics
in the cloth.

Since most of my life was spent in New England, I am cul-
turally as well as politically a Yankee. The past few years I have
lived among the Quakers, and expect to continue to do so on an
amicable basis.

The bond with Harvard is presently represented by son, Bill,
Class of ’56. I hope the bond will be strengthened in the future
by Jim, Class of ’59, and George, Class of ’67 (?).

MARSHALL MACK STEVENSON

HOME appRESs: Wentworth, N. H.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Willis Mack Stevenson,
Celeste Josephine Bussell.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; B.D. (Gordon Divinity
School), 1939.

mMaRRiED: Freda Esther Billeter, June 29, 1934, Palisades, N. J. CHILDREN:
Willis Mack, 2d, June 26, 1935; Jeanette Esther, Aug. 19, 1937; Marshall
Mack, Jr., Nov. 12, 1952.

occupation: Clergyman,.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT PosT: Farm Labor Assistant, Grafton County, N. H.
(U.S. Dept. of Agriculture), 1943, 1944.

OFFIcEs HELD: Member of board of trustees, Daniel Webster Council Boy
Scouts of New Hampshire, 1940-46, silver beaver award, 1946; chaif-
man, Town & Country Church Committee, New Hampshire Congre-
gational Christian Conference, 1944-47, Town and Country Church
Committee, New Hampshire Council of Churches, 1945; adult advisor,
State Youth Program, New Hampshire Congregational Christian Con-

[ 1056 ]

 

 

SPORE TN I A REET OO RAH LEE, IMR EE OI TEEN POMEL LIN

/

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ference, since 1951; scribe, 1942-44, chairman, committee on ministry,
since 1951, Grafton-Orange Association of Congregational Christian
Churches; patron, Iona Chapter, Eastern Star, Haverhill, N. H., 1951.

MEMBER OF: Masons, 32°; Order of Eastern Star; Grange, New Hampshire
Symphony Orchestra (first clarinetist); New England Panel for the
Study of Congregationalism.

pusLications: Desultory articles in New Hampshire Congregational Con-
ference magazine.

UPON graduation from Harvard I taught for three enjoyable
years at Rumsey Hall School for Boys, in western Connecticut.
I chen turned to the ministry, a calling which had beckoned me
from boyhood days. In 1936 I came to my first New Hampshire
parish, in the rural town of Stratham, near Exeter. In 1941 I
went to another rural parish, at Piermont, a town on the Con-
necticut River, somewhat north of Dartmouth College. The
work in these two parishes convinced me that rural areas are
of vital importance. Where some three-quarters of our national
population, generation after generation, comes from the country,
about half of the rural churches are unable to provide resident
ministry or to support an adequate program for their communi-
ties. The effect of this situation on the children and youth grow-
ing up in them, and later to go out in every walk of life in our
land, can be tragically serious. I was happy, therefore, in 1944,
to accept the first appointment in an experiment by the New
Hampshire Congregational-Christian Conference. This is called
“The Life Ministry to Town and Country Churches in New
Hampshire.” The Conference guarantees an adequate income
(modest base salary, health insurance, retirement plan, some
money funded each year towards the college education of one’s
children, car allowances, and a house), and the “Life Minister”
in turn spends his life (to age sixty-five) undertaking ministry
in certain rural areas which otherwise could not have experi-
enced leadership. The Conference board of trustees selects the
areas to be served, for terms that average four years. Through
yoking arrangements subsequently, or through increased interest
and support, these areas have so far been able to maintain vigor-
ous programs under good leadership after the Life Minister has
left for another field. My present field includes the towns of
Wentworth, Pike, and Haverhill. Plenty of driving involved!

[ 1057 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

(Over 33,000 miles in the last year.) I also serve as the Protestant
chaplain of the State T.B. Sanatorium at Glendiff.

Ours has been a happy family. Willis is a senior in high school
planning to enter the ministry. Jeanette is a sophomore. And
now we are starting all over again with the delightfully-entertain-
ing Marshall, Jr., aged three and one-half months as of this writ-
ing. Country life has its joys, and some headaches. All hail to
the gracious wife of a country minister, who has coped on occa-
sion with everything from a hand pump in the kitchen (sans
running hot water, of course) to small stoves (I refer to the
dust, Willis carries coal and Jeanette takes out the ashes! ), party-
line telephones, and endless canning.

My chief hobby has been music. The training under Doc
Davison in Harvard Glee Club days helped in one parish, where
we organized a group of singers. (Mrs. Stevenson was librarian
and I was manager and conductor.) This group raised over 1600
dollars in two and a half years for such community projects as
fire-fighting equipment, visual aid equipment for the public
schools, etc. In the past year, by dint of much practice, I have
just barely held down the first clarinet chair in the New Hamp-
shire Symphony Orchestra. This organization is made up of
students, amateurs from business and professional life, and a
scattering of professional musicians from the whole state. Great
fun!

I look back to Harvard with deep gratitude and fondness. If
I could do it again, I would try harder, of course, on many things
that I neglected. Harvard was like a delayed-action bomb! It
greatest effect came after 1928. The impetus of those days has
made life rich and interesting for me ever since.

Oh yes! and I have watched with pride the really distinguished
careers of a large number of my classmates.

ALBERT IGLAUER STIX, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 7526 Wellington Way, Clayton 5, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 320 N. Fourth St., St. Louis 2, Mo.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1906, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: Albert Iglauer Stix, ’94, Adele
Meyer.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo,

[ 1058 ]

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I voted for Roosevelt and was charged with being a Red. I sup.
ported Dewey in 1948 and was attacked as a reactionary. I think
Adlai is able in spite of the Princeton background but I support

Eisenhower because I feel our Democratic process is strengthened
by rotation in office.

MARK MOENUS STONE

HOME ADDRESS: 78 Bishopsgate Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 183 Essex St., Boston 11, Mass.

BorN: April 14, 1907, Malden, Mass. ParENTs: Harry Joseph Stone, Augusta
Goldman.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Clara Ruth Segel, May 14, 1933, Norfolk, Mass. cnizp: Peter,
April 10, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Sylvester Robert Sto
A.M., ’25, PH.D., ’30.

OCCUPATION: Converter, jobber, textiles.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, S. Robert Stone, Inc., 1940-50, Fisher Manufac-
turing Company, Inc., 1943-50.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

ne, ’20; Samuel Irving Stone, ’24,

AFTER leaving college, I went to work in a textile converting
business, and from 1943 to 1950 I was in the mill end of the
business, too. For the last three years I have had my own textile
company.

The middle four months of 1943 I spent at the Harvard Busi-
ness School, attending on company time one of the earliest
A. M. P. courses. This was a fascinating and stimulating experi-
ence, with its forty hours a week of classes, and long hours of
preparation each night. Here I met many wonderful members
of the Business School’s famous faculty, and about sixty-five
other “business men” from over the whole country, who had
come to Cambridge as part of the government’s “Retraining for
War Production” program.

' I married Clara Segel after being out five years. We have one
child, Peter, who is now thirteen and is in junior high school.
In 1940 we moved to Newton, one of Boston’s most convenient
and comfortable suburbs. Since Peter commenced his schooling,
Clara and I have had our full share of Parent Teachers Associa-

[ 1062 ]

STO EE sa MRI So

sate 98)

tae Asan te AW
6 GPRS OE SPINS SDA EMER PLT IID S FAA LAD PEALE. 4

ag eye BONY PE ORIEN Ee RI en At HRI

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘tion activity. My participation in scouting has continued since
my undergraduate days, when I was the assistant scoutmaster of
Troop 3 in Cambridge. |

In the early years of my married life I took up silversmithing
as a hobby, during which time I made, among other things, a
complete silver tea set, of which I am quite proud, and of which
my wife is very fond. I hope to return to this really creative
recreation again, before I am too feeble to swing a hammer.

I have done my share of photography, both movies and stills.
In the first half dozen years of our marriage, Clara and I did a
lot of travelling and now we are waiting for Peter to get to col-
lege so that we can start again. I do a lot of “tinkering” and
fixing at home, which fact gets around, and as a result I may be
called upon by any of the neighbors to do things from solder-
ing a broken wire to helping their children with Math.

During the past twenty-five-year period of world-shaking pro-
portions, although my personal life has been happy and relatively
simple, I have been very conscious of the turbulence and chal-
lenge of our times. In the next twenty-five years, I wish for our
classmates that they and their families may live in a world at
peace.

JOHN KUHLES STORR

HOME ADDRESS: 2032 Summit Ave., St. Paul 5, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 710 Guardian Bldg., St. Paul 1, Minn.

BoRN: Aug. 1, 1906, St. Paul, Minn. parents: John Norman Storr, Clara
Kuhles.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Minnesota), 1930; A.M.
(Columbia Univ.), 1931.

marriep: Mary L. Bernier, Sept. 12, 1935, St. Paul, Minn. cumpren: Nancy
Claire, May 5, 1937; Mary E., April 19, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: World War I]; U. S. Marine Corps, August,
1940—October, 1946, Navy Commendation Ribbon with star (CincPac
& CincLant), Presidential Unit Citation with star (ist Marine Divi-
sion), Asiatic-Pacific Medal with two stars (Guadalcanal-Tulagi land-
ing and campaign), American Theatre Medal (U. S. Atlantic Fleet),
European-African-Middle Eastern Medal, American Defense Medal
(Base) (Iceland 1941-42), Victory Medal, Organized Marine Corps Re-
serve Medal with star, discharged as lieutenant colonel, U. S, Marine

[ 1063 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Corps Reserve, twenty years’ service Graduate Junior Staff Couns
Command & Staff School.

MEMBER OF: St, Paul Athletic Club; Osman Temple (Shrine); St. Paul Board
of Realtors; St. Paul Association of Commerce.

FROM 1932 to 1934 I was in brokerage general insurance; 1934
_q4o in private school teaching; and from 1934 to the present time
in real estate brokerage and management. I am a member of the
House of Hope Presbyterian Church. Activities and hobbies:
bowling, hunting, fishing, gardening, stamp collecting, and read.

Ing ,

HAROLD STRAUSS

HOME ADDRESS: 215 E. 7oth St., New York 21, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: .% Knopf, 501 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: June 18, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Jack Strauss, Florence
Klauber.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928.
marrieD: Mildred Bernstein, May 21, 1931, New York, N. Y.
HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Jack Strauss, °32.

occuPATION: Editor-in-chief, book publishing house.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army Air Force, March, 1943 — Septem-
ber, 1946.

MEMBER OF: P, E. N. Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Innumerable articles.

WILLIAM VICTOR STRAUSS

HOME appress: 3819 Dakota Ave., Cincinnati 29, Ohio.
- OFFICE ADpREsS: The Rollman & Sons Co., Fifth & Vine Streets, Cincinnati
29, Ohio.
BorN: Dec. 16, 1907, New York, N. ¥. parents: Harry Abraham Strauss
Therese Abraham.
PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 192'8; M.B.A. magna
cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Elsa Lovitt, Sept. 6, 1932, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHmpren: Margaret,
June 10, 1938; William V., July 5, 1942.

occupation: Vice-president, The Rollman & Sons Company (allied stores
of Ohio), department store.

[ 1064 ]

rated

RNP Ie OT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orFices HELD: Member Board of Directors, Jewish Vocational Society,

chairman, Commercial Division, Cincinnati Community Chest.
MEMBER OF: American Economic Association.

pusiicaTions: “A Wartime Fiscal Policy”; “The National Debt”; “Britain’s
Wartime Finance.”

AFTER graduation from the College I entered the Business
School, from which I received an M.B.A. degree in 1930. Re- —
turning to my home city of Cincinnati I joined the John Shillito
Company (Cincinnati unit of Federated Department Stores)
and with the exception of two years spent in the wholesale drug
business, my business life has been in the field of retailing. After
several years with the Paris Shops of Cincinnati, I joined the
Rollman Company in 1947 and am currently vice-president of
this unit of Allied Stores Corporation, of which Jordan Marsh
is the Boston unit. Aly responsibilities cover the control, operat-
ing, and personnel functions of the business.

The success of my marriage can be attributed to the over-
whelming impression which I made upon my future wife when
ve originally met —I in the full glory of my junior year of
Jarvard, while she was still a mere infant in high school. The
lationship entered into from this auspicious beginning has

ren a most happy one, and our two children are growing up
a very satisfactory fashion.

The externals of my life have been quiet and uneventful. My
ocational interests have lain in the field of literature and music,

uile my wife has devoted herself to the field of clinical psy-
ology. I am one of the minority in my Class whose political
liations have been with Roosevelt, Truman, and Stevenson.
ave delved to some degree of thoroughness into the field of
ynesian Economics, and in a brief flurry of writing activity
the early forties produced a few articles on fiscal problems
roached from the Keynesian orientation. I am not afraid
he Welfare State, nor do I believe that liberal social and
1omic programs lead to the direction of socialism or com-
ism. On the contrary, I am convinced that the maintenance
stability of our private enterprise system is best served
igh the type of measure initiated by Roosevelt and contin-
throughout the Truman administration.

7 contacts with Harvard in recent years have been sketchy,

[ 1065 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

but I look forward with anticipation to the enrollment of my
son at Harvard. Influences dating from my college years have
played an important role in shaping my adult interests and ac.
tivities. If I were to single out one Harvard relationship thar
has most influenced my later years, there could be no doubt
as to what I should place as the most permanent and lasting. For
three years at Harvard I was privileged to know and have
friendly association with Alfred North Whitehead. I look back

upon this contact as the most satisfying and rewarding of all
my Harvard experience.

WILLOUGHBY INGALLS STUART

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Brimmer St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Hutchins & Parkinson, 27 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BorN: March 11, 1906, Swampscott, Mass. parents: Willoughby Herbert
Stuart, Jr., Claire Ingalls.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1928, DEGREE: A.B. 1928(29).

MaRRIED: Ann Miller, Sept. 5, 1942, Fort Sill, Okla. CHILDREN: Willoughby
Ingalls, Jr., Sept. 7, 1944; Susan, Dec. 6, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harborne Wentworth Stuart, ‘4q.

occuPATION: Stockbroker.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted as lieutenant colonel, Exec. FA Brigade,
with 26th Division, January, 1941; C & GSS, Fort Leavenworth, Kans,
1941; G-3 Division, War Dept., Washington, D. C., 1941-42; Exec.
Plans Sect. (GSC) Hq. AGF, Washington, D. C., 1942; CO 326th
FA Bn., 84th Division, 1942-43, assistant Division Artillery Exec. 84th
Division, 1944, Camp Howse, Texas; Div. Arty. S-3 63d Division,
1944; instr. and exec. Tactics Dept. FA School, Fort Sill, Okla., 1944-453
CO of troops to Philippines, 1945; G-3 32d Division in Japan, 1945-45;
promoted to colonel, April, 1946; discharged July 24, 1946.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Harvard Lodge, A.F. & A.M., 1947-48; director,
Bausch Machine Tool Company, 1948-51; commander, Greater Bos-
ton Chapter, Military Order of the World Wars, 1950-52; secretary,
Beacon Hill Association, since 1951; state commander, MOWVW,, since
1953; member of governor’s council, Society of Colonial Wars, since
1953-

MEMBER OF: Union Boat Club, Eastern Yacht Club; Cambridge Skating
Club; Harvard Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Massachusetts Consistory; Aleppo

Temple; Military Order of the World Wars; Society of Colonial
Wars,

[ 1066 ]

La a REN ARES HOE SIDR ETHIE ADT Gre

sey pe Oe) aT ome
cares grea aide BETTER OE Teo

Ae ah Age EON BO TF NON Sen Ae eS

RalesX

ie Baiyption! MRAM at A

AT Nb OREO GENIN LET, TE

ae Cece

LURES TREE MR RN ean te SHE

ate!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER eight months in Europe I decided that my original idea
of a military career was still the thing. Unfortunately I soon dis-
covered a regular commission was impossible as there were even
some West Point graduates who were not. being put on active
duty, so -— eventually I entered the investment field with Baker,
Young & Company.

Concurrently I spent considerable time on the military. By
1941 I had completed every extension course written for Field
Artillery and Command and General Staff and had taken tours
of active duty at every opportunity.

In addition, I must admit I joined the ranks of that famous
group of “screwballs,” locally known as “sparks,” who will arise
from anything and at any hour of the day or night to observe
large conflagrations.

Competitive rowing and figure skating, handball and squash
served to round out those years and keep me busy.

Finally, as war clouds began to loom on the horizon I resigned
from banking, took a two months’ cruise to South America and
then went on active duty for three months at Fort Sill, Oklahoma,
as a student at the Field Artillery School. On returning I put
to use my newly acquired knowledge by tutoring and conduct-
ing seminars in military science at the “Widow’s” as well as with
other privately formed groups.

In 1939 I took over as executive officer of the artillery brigade
of the 26th Division and went on extended duty when the Di-
vision was inducted in January, 1941. During the next five and
a half years I found life most interesting and varied. One most
interesting assignment was during the initial occupation of Japan
when my principal duty was directing the disposition, which
in most cases meant the destruction, of Japanese guns, swords,
planes, ammunition, etc., on the island of Kyushu and the south-
ern part of Honshu; also as a side-line, the repatriation of about
25,000 Koreans.

In 1941, while on duty in Washington, D. C., the outstanding
event of my life occurred —I met my wife. A year and a half
later we were joined in holy matrimony in the Ft. Sill Old Post
Chapel. The next two years found my uncomplaining camp fol-
lowing wife and me in various parts of Texas, Louisiana, Missis-
sippi, and then back at Fort Sill where our son was born.

[ 1067 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Following my discharge I was offered a regular army com-
mission which I turned down to take over as assistant headmaster
of The Manter Hall School (the “Widow’s”) which was no longer

a tutoring school but was now a full-fledged prep school with
three separately located schools and about 250 students. Here
I remained until 1950 when I returned to investments with
Hutchins & Parkinson.

I now appear to be a firmly established Bostonian with a family
and a house which has been most instrumental in affording use-
ful hobbies and developing abilities as a carpenter, electrician,
plumber, painter, and general handy man. Include a little squash
and a fair amount of bridge and you have about the current pic-
ture. Summers we have been spending in Marblehead Neck.

As to political convictions —I feel there is far too much poli-
tics regardless of which party is in power and approve highly of
the two-party system when the Democrats are in. As to religion
—my wife and I were both raised as Episcopalians but I am
afraid have “back-slid” as far as regular attendance at church is
concerned. Our only boast is our eight-year-old son who is a
pillar of the church and who last year won a prize for attendance
at Sunday School. We can’t even take credit for that — his
grandmother escorts him.

Sounds like a rather dull twenty- -five years, on reading this
over, but it really hasn’t been.

ELLIOT TORREY STURGIS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 4429 Wickford Rd., Baltimore 40, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Glenn L. Martin Co., Baltimore, Md.

BoRN: Aug. 9, 1906, Medford, Mass. PARENTS: Elliot Torrey Sturgis, Alice
McLeod Burbank,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

margieD: Helen M. Burbank, 1928, Medford, Mass. (divorced). CHILDREN:
Mary Torrey, June 12, 1929 (m. Francis E. S. Wolfe, June, 1951); Cyn-
thia, March 13, 1937. GRANDCHILD: Mary Torrey Wolfe, Feb. 17, 1953.

occupation: Chief procurement engineer and purchasing agent, Glenn L.
Martin Company, aircraft manufacturers,

MEMBER OF: S.A.E., Hillendale Country Club; Potapskut Sailing Associa-
tion; Ordnance Association; Chesapeake Bay Yacht Racing Association.

[ 1068 ]

 

%
i
\
¥
[

PARE AEN NR SENT a EE ANE
in ahh bP MERTON PET EON LEILA: LOD LEED NEE SENET A sorrte ee

cao en eco ON DO oer eros am sAN

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SEVENTEEN years at hard labor with the aircraft industry —
without distinction and (so far) without disgrace. Spare time
much more important — besides paying bills — bringing up chil-
dren — concentrated on racing sailboats on the Chesapeake Bay.
Notably — Silroac, fancy Stevens designed six-metre — and Pin-
tail, a Liiders twenty-five—bought and sailed down from
Noroton, Connecticut. Next in importance — hunting — deer in
Tomogami, Ontario, and Old Town, Maine; ducks, geese, quail
(all varieties) at my own place in Cecil County, Maryland, about
twenty-five acres at the head of the Chesapeake, near the mouth of
the Susquehanna River. Have deer there too but we don’t shoot
‘em. Good bay fishing, too. Other assets: martinis, charcoal
steaks, etc. Other fishing spots recommended from personal ex-
perience — Pine River, northern Michigan (trout), and Lake of
the Woods, Ontario (wall-eyes and bass).

In earlier years I chairman’d the board of assessors and raised
Norwegian Elkhound dogs in Lexington, Massachusetts.. I learned
flying in a secondary sort of way some years ago and still do a
little on occasion.

Now very busy — spending about $11,000,000 a month of the
taxpayers’ money on military aircraft, baby sitting and diaper
changing with my brand new granddaughter — trying to decide
whether a bachelor’s lot is blessed or cursed — and whether, if I
looked, any unsuspecting female would take on a man of my ad-
vanced years.

HOWARD OVERING STURGIS

HOME AppRESS: 121 Valley St., Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Gorton-Pew Fisheries Co., Ltd., Gloucester, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 9, 1906, Andover, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Sturgis, ’90, Josephine
Putnam.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928,

marriep: (Mary) Eleanor Brown, Oct. 16, 1933, Rhinelander, Wis. cun-
pREN: Eleanor Brown, April 9, 1937; Howard Overing, Jr. Nov. 30
1938.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Sturgis, Jr., °27; George Putnam Sturgis, °27,
M.D., "31

occupation: Manager, By-Products Department, Gorton-Pew Fisheries
Company, Ltd., in charge production and sales,

[ 1069 ]

|
\

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: First Motor Squadron, first Corps of Cadets,
Massachusetts State Guard, August, 19q0-March, 1944.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Gorton-Pew Fisheries, since 1948, member Schoo]
Committee, Manchester, Mass., 1942-46, chairman, Pack Committe,
Cub Scouts, Beverly Farms, 1950-52; member Executive Committee,
By-Products Division, National Fisheries Institute, Washington, D. C,
since 1947; member Industry Advisory Committees, O. P. S.

MEMBER OF: Veterans’ Association; First Corps of Cadets; Harvard Club of
the North Shore; Essex County Club; Manchester Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional reports for fisheries and feed publications.

AFTER one year at the Business School, during which there
was no adequate meeting of minds (between me and the faculty),
I tried to bulldoze my way into the aviation industry. My friends
gave me the finest of introductions, and I could not have been
received more courteously. However, it was quickly apparent
that every other recent college graduate was either just ahead
of me or was breathing on the back of my neck while the in-
dustry was quite uncertain where it was going. Nobody found
a job, but we were all encouraged to learn to fly and to read a
tome called All about Airplanes (several thousand pages of his-
tory and technical drudgery). It was hoped that the depression
would be over before we could finish the book. I fooled them,
but it was then clear that the depression had only just begun,
and the new industry was facing too many problems all at once.
For a year I took a fling at attempting to put a super-lubricat-
ing device in all the garages and filling stations in New York
State. In 1931 such few cars as were on the road just travelled
without grease so the only way to set up a machine was to put
it in at our own expense and let it sell itself. The devices “sold”
themselves all right, but not for money, I didn’t mind being a
grease monkey for prospective customers, but going back to
Syracuse each night got me down. That city was depressed be-
fore most of us ever heard the word. It had depended upon the
Jate-lamented Franklin automobile for so long that it was in
the dumps whenever Franklin ceased operating. In 1931 that
was about three months out of four. Someone once said “ex-
perience is what you get while looking for something else.” I
am sure I got it that year. My big moment in that year was 4
fleeting glimpse of the girl who was to be my bride two years
later, but I was too dumb to realize it at the time. She was on

[ 1070 ]

|
|
|

 

AS RSA EL RTT PMNI I ECT BAER MID

BEIM LOT OTS.

 

|
|
|
|
|
i
t
é
|
é

se etl i NATE T REN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the way home to Wisconsin from Smith and, since I never
visited Northampton, this was surely a providential meeting, for
me at least.

Another year found me engaged in a fantastic scheme to pro-
mote deep-water salvage equipment designed by our foremost
submarine inventor, Simon Lake. This was known as the “Lake-
Raily Lusitania Expedition.” Hilton Raily had been New York
manager of Byrd’s first Antarctic expedition, and the Lusitania
was the objective of our search. Again there was no financial
reward as funds gave out at the critical moment, but no value
can be placed upon the experience of five months in and around
London that winter. My principal job was the exhaustive stud
of every admiralty, insurance, German, French, and other offi-
cial or unofficial record or comment concerning the construc-
tion, history, and loss of the ship. This entailed close contact
with our salvage master, David Kidd (how appropriately named),
the British Admiralty, Lloyds, the London Times, and authori-
ties at the British and Imperial War Museums, to mention just
a few. When it was all over Raily summed up our efforts in a
lictle-known and aptly-named book called Touched with Mad-
ness. My side-kick all the way was Reg Bishop, brother of our
classmate Jack. We both wangled our way into the Princes and
Queens Hockey Club where it is safe to say we played more
hockey and had more fun than in any similar period of time
before or since.

Experience one cannot buy, but sometimes it leaves one
completely busted too. That was my circumstance in September,
1932. A new insurance service organization beckoned, and I
grabbed at the magnificent twenty-five dollars per month that
nearly paid for carfare and snack lunches (that was before
Dever’s Metropolitan Transit Authority and the Truman dol-
lar), but it left me some self-respect. When I became engaged
to my vision of two years earlier my boss came through with a
hundred per-cent increase. He doubled this again when we were
married in October, 1933, so we were in clover. Twelve years
later we had built a substantial business, but all of my associates
had either died or retired, and restrictions had so changed our
operations that I sold out.

Five years ago I advised my classmates that the by-products

[ 1071 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

end of the fishing industry was consuming everything but the
smell and was investigating the possible use of the squeal, if any,
As a matter of public relations we have consumed the smell for
many years and our friendly competitors have been forced to
do likewise with the encroachment of civilization on what were
once only fishing villages. I must admit that if fish have a squeal
they have kept it entirely to themselves. Through electronics
we can locate fish at great depths, but it is the mass of the school
rather than their voices which discloses their hideaway.

My work at Gorton’s of Gloucester is always interesting
though frequently exasperating. Each time we make a step
ahead half of it is cut away before it is possible to consolidate
our position by another replacement for oil, detergent, synthetic
vitamin, or amino acid, and foreign competition takes a slug at
what is left. Still, the by-products end of the fishing industry
is practically basic because most of our efforts are aimed at im-
proving animal and poultry feeds. Thus my contacts with the
feed industry, the agricultural schools, and experiment stations
give me the closest of associations with my number one avocs-
tion, “farming” on a very small scale. With many another
American I like to think of myself as a free-trader, but when
our own dollars have been used to develop an industry such as
ours in all the low-standard areas of the world to such an extent
that imports in 1952 will double domestic production, while the
reverse was true in 1950, it is hard to be liberal-minded. One's
own ox is rather important when he is being badly gored.

Politically, I have always been a Republican though I admit
to having voted for Democrats on occasion. I make no claim
that this action gives me the privilege of calling myself an [n-
dependent as a number of Democrat friends recently attempted
to be in their efforts to sway the Massachusetts voters. As a
matter of fact, it seems to me that most Independents like to
hide away from major party affiliation in order conveniently to
dodge responsibility except at voting times, Otherwise they do
not choose to stand up and be counted.

As with most of us, I believe, my outstanding hobby is my
family, I never tire of their company, whether it be lobstering
or fishing with my son, or playing tennis with. my wife and
daughter, My wife, incidentally, right at the start decided it

[1072 ]

 

 

 

I Ba tM A AER NA AIT TS IOAN AER PM RE NORE

re PeP tale eno pth cers

Lemp

ng ett oa he

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

would be easier to learn tennis than to teach me golf. Tennis is
still my first athletic love although several years ago I learned
the wisdom of limiting myself to doubles which is a better game
than singles anyway. All my singles opponents suddenly became
ten to fifteen years younger than I! Most of my contemporaries
had shifted to golf. Other interests include sailing, tinkering in
my shop, puttering around my miniature farm, and, being a
Sturgis, just fooling with things mechanical.

RALPH CHRISTOPHER SULLIVAN

HOME aAppREss: 160 Thacher St., Milton, Mass.

oFFIcE apprEss: Hutchins & Parkinson, 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

sorN: April 2, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Daniel Joseph Sullivan,
Laura Isabella Lash.

PREPARED AT: Milton High School and Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

MELVIN BERTRAM SUMMERFIELD

HOME appRESS: 97 Arlington Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Franklin Advertising Agency, 171 Newbury St., Boston
16, Mass. .

BORN: July 5, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Summerfield, Mattie
Hambro.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Jeri Stearns, April 22, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan Carol,
Nov. 10, 1938; Martin Andrew, June 14, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Max Harold Summerfield, p.m.p., 7°16.

OCCUPATION: Owner and general manager, Franklin Advertising Agency.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: 1st lieutenant, Field Artillery, U.S.A. Reserve.

OFFices HELD: Master, Major General Henry Knox Lodge, 1936-37, and
3d Lodge of Instruction, A.F. & A.M., Boston.

MEMBER OF: Advertising Club of Boston; Technical Advertising Associa-
tion; National Industrial Advertisers Association.

IT being January 1, 1953, it seems to me that the best thing I
can do this New Year’s Day is to complete this report covering
the past twenty-five years of my life. Let it be known immedi-

[1073 ]

ayia a
1 RMT

}
\

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ately, however, that in my opinion, I’ve done nothing which wil]
contribute to posterity, nor shall I ever merit the Hall of Fame,
Starting with graduation, at which time I also received a second
lieutenant’s Commission in the Field Artillery Reserve, I spent
two weeks at Fort Ethan Allen to try out my shiny new gold
bars. Following this, I spent the remaining weeks of the sum.
mer working in the research laboratory of a gelatin company
testing colloidal reactions mainly by eating marshmallows five
days a week. This was good preparation for the advertising
business which I founded in the fall of 1928 because anyone who
can eat as many marshmallows as that can easily take all the
abuse heaped on “‘huckster.”

The Franklin Advertising Service became a reality sometime
in November, 1928, with one mail-order client. The fact that
_ it is still operating under the same management (that’s me) after
twenty-five years indicates that it now has more than one client.

During all these years I have never failed to vote Republican,
Although it didn’t do me much good for five elections, the sixth
one gave me a great sense of satisfaction and well-being, and |
now feel that our country is headed for a great era of honest
leadership.

Shortly after graduation, I became interested in Free Masonry
and spent most of my spare time during bachelor days partici-
pating in the work of Major General Henry Knox Lodge which
takes its membership exclusively from the armed services of the
United States. This lodge received its charter on the quarter
deck of the frigate, Constitution, and is dedicated to the in-
numerable Masonic Patriots who played such an important part
in American history since the days of the Revolution. One of my
greatest thrills came when I was installed Master of Major Gen-
eral Henry Knox Lodge in historic Faneuil Hall.

I married Jeri Stearns, April 22, 1936. We have spent most
of the past seventeen years at our home in Chestnut Hill, break-
ing the monotony by several trips to Mexico, Guatemala, and
the West Indies. Our daughter, Joan, is now fourteen, and 2
typical “teen-ager.” She is working hard at Dana Hall, probably
to follow in her mother’s footsteps at Smith. Son, Martin, whois
ten, is heading for Roxbury Latin School and, I hope, Harvard.

We spend our summers, and most weekends during the spring

[ 1074]

“SY AT OOS Aaa Hae A RM et aE BTA AIR OARS RANE AONHER OT SH

ease een AR a Rtn emt

[nice etna Meo RATE ARC eben MPSS T RR

PAU I ser NE RN tT

PONE TC CM EE GFR COLI RAPER MERI SSIS oN OME NINES EPO NAMASTE ACERT Nh RME SERVE TESTED o



yo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

OFFICES HELD: Consulting physiologist, University of Texas Medical Branch
Hospitals, since 1949; acting chairman, Department of Physiology, i949.
51; member Faculty and Admissions Committee, University of Tex
Medical Branch, since 1951; consultant, medical division, Oak Ridge
Institute of Nuclear Studies, Oak Ridge, Tenn.; consultant on problems
on artificial respiration, National Research Council, Washington, 1951.
discussant, Third Conference on Renal Function, Josiah Macy, Jr,
Foundation, N. Y., 1951; president, 1947-48, director, 1950-51, Galveston
Little Theatre; speaker and debater, America First Committee, Chi-
cago, 1939-41; permanent convention chairman, Galveston County Re.
publican Party, May, 1951; delegate from Ninth Congressional Dis
trict of Texas, Republican Party National Convention, July, 193:
(pledged for Dwight Eisenhower); delegate, Texas Republican Guber-
natorial Convention, August, 1952.

MEMBER OF: American Physiological Society; American Association for the
Advancement of Science; Society for Experimental Biology and Med. =
cine; Society of the Sigma Xi. é

PUBLICATIONS: About eighty papers in technical journals dealing with re
search in the field of physiology, including: “The Function of the
Brain in Olfaction,” Journal of Comparative Neurology, 1933; ‘So
dium Chloride in Diabetes Insipidus,” American Journal of Physiology,
1939; “The Pituitary-Adrenocortical Relationship,” Physiological Re-
views, 1940; “Anoxia in Aircraft,” Memorandum Report No. TSEAA-
696-79E, ATSC, USAAF, 1946, “The Sequence of Circulatory, Res
piratory, and Cerebral Failure during the Process of Death, its Rel
tion to Resuscitability,” Texas Reports on Biology and Medicine, 1951; ;
“The Principles of Resuscitation,” Anesthesiology, 1952; “The Intrarenal t
Pressure during Experimental Renal Hypertension,” Journal of Er
perimental Medicine, 1952.

Agar eet BAS DORAN PM GREENE PEIN RNP 7 aOR SRO TIC TE

fee te ge AZ RRO MRE TE OPER IE ER MM EY

JOHN BUTLER SWANN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Cherry Hill, Stockbridge, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1903, Pittsfield, Mass. PARENTs: John Butler Swann, ‘98 |
Marguerite Gray.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.; The Institute Carnal, Swiu-
erland,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1024-1928. DEGREE: 8.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Mary Frances Potter, July 14, 1933, Hamilton, Mass. cHILpRes:
Rosaly, April 14, 1937; Mark, Dec. 22, 1939; Robert Hooper, May 5:
1943; Clover, March 15, 1946; Nicholas, Feb. 6, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Howard Gray Swann, ’28,

occupaTion: Designer and builder; farming; lumber; real estate.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Civil Air Patrol.

[ 1076 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

a house; the depression was deepening; and when we finally de.

cided to move out of town we found and bought for far lex
than it would have cost to build a small house a farm, adjoining
my vacant land, with a thousand acres and a spacious house.
As no one in 1934 was considering any building I dabbled,
gently at first, in farming and then got in deeper and deeper unt
by 1937 we had ten thousand turkeys, eighty dairy cows, thirty

angus, sheep, pigs, chickens, a grocery store, and many other -
enterprises, none of which could seem to make money or even

to make two ends meet. We gradually gave it all up.

In 1939 I got a commission to build a house in Lenox, then
came other houses and considerable remodelling work. I was
thriving, but the war was close at hand, and not long after 1941
my practice faded completely.

In the three years of gathering war clouds I had learned to
fly a plane and had become the proud owner of a Piper Cruiser
having imagined that I might be of assistance in an all-out war.
As it happened, however, the best I could do during the war
was to join the Civil Air Patrol.

Since the war my architectural practice has never recovered,
partly because most of the work being done here consists of
small contractor-built houses, and partly because I have not be-
come registered as an architect. During the war a group of

architects decided that Massachusetts architects would acquire
more prestige if they procured legislation to force the registra
tion of all architects as is the case in most of the states. It was
probably a reasonable act but since it was enacted during the
war when many architects were away, and since the Govern
ment of Massachusetts had a “fragrance” at that time which prac-
tically reached to the moon, I just could not persuade myself to
go to the trouble of meeting their requirements. I can still prac-
tise architecture but it must be called by some other name. And
judging by the rate that my loathing for bureaucrats is subsiding.
a substitute name looks very permanent.
_ At the present time I find myself engrossed in the training of a
family of three prospective Harvard men and two very lovely
ladies. The athletic instruction I find particularly wonderful a
an excuse to spend days on skis and a great many afternoons at
touch-football and on the ice. In between I am busy trying to

{ 1078 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

At college, the association with young and inquiring minds
and the joy of teaching do much to make the profession seem
worthwhile. The higher rewards are when your former students
come back to tell you what they have accomplished.

As my boys grow up, one of my principal joys has been to
take them fishing or camping. In this way they have learned to
love the outdoors, a resource they can mine 1e throughout the rest
of their lives.

For awhile, I had hopes of bringing about a marriage between
the idea of conservation and the Boy Scouts but the match was
not consummated. I do what I can for conservation through the
local fish and game clubs.

We all like to swim and sail, but since I prefer fresh water and
my wife salt, we have never been able to decide on a permanent
summer home and compromise, as we did last summer when we
went to the Belgrade Lakes for ten days and to Wakefield, Rhode
Island, for another ten.

Now that Ike is in the White House, I feel a lot happier about
the future of the United States, even though our elder son has
just received his notice to report for his physical.

Some day I will catch the Big Trout or catchra falling star.

ROBERT DWIGHT SWEZEY

HOME ADDRESS: 4411 St. Charles Ave., New Orleans, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 520 Royal St, New Orleans, La.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1906, Somerville, Mass. parents: Arthur Dwight Swezey,
Elizabeth Thompson.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

_ YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B. 1928; LL.B. 1931.

’ marrieD: Helen Hyde Brereton, April 29, 1938, Washington, D. C. cHu-

DREN: Robert Dwight, Jr., Aug. 7, 1939; Maria, Aug. 24, 1942; William
Denny Brereton, July 27, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Earl Swezey, ’29, ED.M., 738.

occupation: Radio and television executive; executive vice-president,
WDSU Broadcasting Corporation.

OFFicEs HELD; President, Radio Executives Club of New York, 1946, Ad-
vertising Club of New Orleans, 1951; member Board of Directors,
American Cancer Society, New Orleans Chapter, since 1951, New
Orleans Tuberculosis Association, since 1951, New Orleans Area Boy
Scouts, since 1950, Broadcast Music, Inc., 1934-48, New Orleans Better

[ 1080 ]

\

REALONE OTE SI

SARS ee stag MEP SB SIO

a0 tN, gente NRCP ETE TROT SPP ETRE NE fet

MEN TERE TA METI ROTO ROTEL SEE IE

)
\

325 St ARASH AMI Ge OIE PR MR IPO IERIE -

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

children in a Fifty-seventh Street apartment. If you can get
sufficiently far away from big business, big names, and big sal.
aries to achieve an objective and unemotional view of them, you
find that they are an awfully small part of the big picture, or
so at least it seemed to us, and we left New York, which we love,
to cross the Mason-Dixon Line to play a much smaller and slower.
paced circuit. Our little company pioneered, and is still pio-
neering, television in a three-state area, and I still get to New
York, Chicago, Washington, and Hollywood several times a year
on company and industry business.

My family have become Yankee Creoles and love it. When
business becomes too absorbing, or the city too hectic, we beat
a retreat to our little farm by a clear river in a sleepy Mississippi
town, where neither we nor the horses wear shoes. It’s peace.
I have been unwise enough to have found no time for genuine
hobbies, except for patching up our two old farmhouses in Long
Island and Mississippi, and casually flirting with reforestation in
upper New York State and Mississippi.

I have few convictions other than “Do unto others...,”
“The world is so full... ,” “Getting and spending we lay
waste... ,” and “Only the stupid stay bored.” I don’t like any
more than the rest of you the current trends silhouetted against

the backdrop of history. I have all my fingers and toes crossed,
hoping that our chrome civilization won't follow the earlier ones
of glory and grandeur. |

JAMES THORNTON SYKES

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Linnaean St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 5, 1906, Toronto, Ont., Canada. PARENTS: Frederick Henry Sykes,
Louise Lavelle Ryckman.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H. |

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928(27).
occupation: Special agent for Standard Oil Company of New Jersey.
AT PRESENT I am in Frankfurt am Main, Germany, as special

agent for the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and liaison
with the American Army of Occupation.

{ 1082 J

ens

ng ahs ie SOI i

ee ag WTI RRS a YT a be EERE BH

See LPI oP PPR EAN REO I IR PINT AEE

ten

sige ope nf Pigeon 6 abit EEN AL pte!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM WALTER TAFF

HOME ADDRESS: 100 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

OFFic& ADDRESS: 181A Harvard St., Brookline, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 4, 1904, Brookline, Mass. parents: William Walter Taff, Agnes
C. O’Riorden.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

OccUPATION: Real estate: president and treasurer, Taff & Company.

CLARENCE BENJAMIN TAFT

HOME apprEss: 28 E. roth St.. New York 3, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 350 Fifth Ave., New York 1, N. Y-

BORN: Dec. 1, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Clarence Clement Taft, Rebecca
Marie Kittredge.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: AB. 1928.

MaRRIED: Sara Chesnut Stockton, Sept. 14, 1931, New York, N. Y. cup:
Richard Stockton, May 12, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, director of product development, Schenley
Laboratories, Inc., pharmaceutical manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: New York Academy of Sciences.

EIGHT years ago in Mexico City one afternoon, I felt a strong
surge of sympathy for some bulls, as I watched them being relent-
lessly stung, goaded, and readied for the kill. And, as you would
expect, there was a difference among the bulls in the way they
responded to the goads and in the account each gave of himself.
But in the end, both the fast and the slow had given their lives,
and eight years later, I know how it feels to be a bull —the
“goads” have driven me to it.

After four years of graduate work and medical school, the
impact of the depression lifted me forcibly out of academic life
into the pharmaceutical business. My work has taken me from
New York to Boston to Mexico City, and back to New York
again. Several companies and many “miracle drugs” later, I am
older, wiser, bloodier but unbowed, and paying my bills with
fifty-cent dollars. Days of conferences interminable and deci-
sions debatable incline me to “remembrance of things past,” but
headaches and all, I enjey my work.

[ 1083 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I have a beautiful and too-perceptive wife who has badgered
me into composing this theme, an over-intelligent son who tells
me how to do it, and last but far from least, a large and hand.
some Irish setter and a miniature Labrador retriever who own
and manage the household. In occasional sports, I assert my in.
dependence, but the balance of power is against me.

Excluding those years of travel on the Long Island Railroad,
which I feel should qualify me at least for the Purple Heart, my
journeys have been confined to the United States, Canada, and
Mexico. Living in Mexico for a brief time left me with mixed
feelings: a compound of relief from daily frustrations and of
nostalgia for a return another day—to browse and browse.
There were so many siestas I missed.

Some years ago I cast aside a family heritage of Republicanism
and achieved the estate of Independent, politically and socially.
However, the exigencies of my struggle for solvency during
those years of inflation somehow leave me little time in which to
contemplate and enjoy this state of detachment.

MARTIN TALL

HOME ADDRESS: 109-25 Jamaica Ave., Richmond Hill, 18, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jamaica High School, 168th Street and Gothic Drive,
Jamaica, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 3, 1907, Malden, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Tall, Fannie Davidov.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928(27);
A.M., 1928.

MARRIED: Faye Kanefsky, Nov. 28, 1935, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Emily, May 22, 1940; Franklin David, April 21, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bernard Tall, 18.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of French, senior high school; teaching gardening to
elementary school children.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Registrar for rationing and draft.

OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Committee, Kew Gardens American
Labor Party; County Committeeman, 1951-53; candidate, State Com-
mittee and Judicial Convention, 1952.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Teaching of French; Phi Beta Kappa,
Teachers Union of New York, since 1935.

AFTER June, 1928, I set out by sea for Brooklyn. I landed
promptly in a big ditch (dry). I hobnobbed with the unem-

[ 1084 ]

LOREM R ET OIF Rage RE NRCG 6 i Ae ey

eae Or att, Ne

poe ign amet Re ee ae dg it

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ployed till I got a great idea: I became office boy to General
Harbord of the Red Cross of America, who headed Hoover’s
campaign in New York. Hoover’s election again made me un-
employed, so I asked J, P. Morgan and Ed Doheny for a job.
Finally John D. Rockefeller’s firm hired me as a junior clerk at
26 Broadway. Mimeographing I found to be sometimes fasci-
nating but with no future. I finally landed a job as the entire
language department of a private school in Westchester. Three
square meals a day with the boys improved my health immensely,
after four years of eating beans in Cambridge. Next year I be-
came a substitute teacher of languages and joined the Unem-
ployed Teachers Association and Teachers Union —long may
she wave!

Since then I have battled for better public education against
all its enemies. My platform: fifteen pupils to a class, horseback
riding and all sports for all pupils. For the last five years I have
been enjoying gardening as my hobby, even venturing into
orchids and corresponding with growers in India, France, Scot-
land, and England. This experience enables me to teach science,
when I add a little nerve to my qualifications,

I visited France, Italy, and England in 1938 before the chil-
dren came, in 1940 (Emily) and 1944 (Franklin David). I saw
Montreal and the Northeast in following years. My experiences
have led me to give up the two big parties and work for better
economic conditions and against jim crow and other bad condi-
tions of discrimination. There is nothing like being a substitute
teacher in a big city to give one a good economic education.

After knowing half a dozen people who committed suicide,
I concluded that the Jewish religion was a useful possession for
me and, after Hitler, decided it was a very precious thing. How-
ever, I decided that justice in the world was more important
than anything else, and working towards that is my chief aim
now. To all my friends of the Class of 1928: best wishes for
peace now and in the future.

[ 1085 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

CHARLES TATHAM, JR.

HOME aAppREss: “Wolf Hollow,” Glendale Road, Ossining, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 74 Trinity Pl., New York 6, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 21, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Tatham, Sard, :

Theresa Roe.

PREPARED AT: Institut Sillig, Vevey, Switzerland.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MARRIED: Julie DeFrees Campbell, March 30, 1933, New York, N. Y. cum. :

DREN: Charles, 3d, Aug. 15, 1936; Campbell, July 5, 1940.
HARVARD BROTHER: Eddison Collins Tatham, ’31.

ate

occupaTION: Public utility analyst, vice-president, Institutional Utility :

Service, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, New York Society of Security Analysts, Inc., 1944-
45, West End Taxpayers Association, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: New York Society of Security Analysts, Inc.; West End Ta. ;

payers Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Security Analysis (co-author), third edition, 1951; articles in
Public Utilities Fortnightly, The Security Analyst, Investment Dealers
Digest; fiction in Collier's, National Home Montbly.

BARRETT LEARNED TAUSSIG

HOME appress: 18 Narragansett Drive, Clayton, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4500 Olive St., St. Louis, Mo.

" BORN: May 30, 1906, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Albert Earnest Taussig, "92,
Harriet Palmer Learned.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D. (Washington Univ.),
1932. a

marRiED: Margaret Humphreys, June 15, 1935, Mantoloking, N. J. chu
DREN: Harriet Palmer, July 3, 1937; Barrett Wakefield, Oct. 27, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Bondi Taussig, ’26 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Practice of medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in medicine, Washington University Medical
School, 1936-42; assistant professor of clinical medicine, 1945-52.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association (fellow); American Heart As-
sociation.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in medical journals.

AFTER finishing my formal medical training at Washington
University School of Medicine in 1932 and a year and a half
internship at Barnes Hospital, I spent a year at Harvard Medical

{ 1086 ]

Sa Moga ete tte

cee yn pag oa ema te EL Mts

URINE 9

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

School as a research fellow. It was in Cambridge that I met
Margot and we were married at Mantoloking, New Jersey, on
June 15, 1935. We came to St. Louis and I spent another year
at Barnes Hospital as assistant resident and then went into the
practice of medicine, I also remained on the staff of Washing-
ton University as instructor in medicine and in 1942 was placed
in charge of the class of junior medicine as an essential teacher.
For this reason I was at no time in the armed services. I have
made my specialty internal medicine and in 1949 I was certified
by the American Board of Internal Medicine. During the years
I have divided my time between the practice and the teaching
of medicine. I consider the latter of the utmost importance as a
means of maintaining my professional skill and my continuing
knowledge of up-to-date medicine. Students are the most stimu-
lating influence a doctor can have.

I have two children and we lead a placid life in a small ranch
house in one of the suburbs of St. Louis. I concentrated in music
at Harvard and this still remains my favorite hobby though with
the exigencies of the present-day living, I have less and less time
for it. I have some friends in the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra,
and I get the greatest pleasure in playing piano in quartet and
quintet groups with my enthusiastic symphony friends.

+ ALLAN CURTIS TAYLOR

BORN: Feb. 5, 1906, Addison, N. Y. PaRENTs: Lynn Allen Taylor, Janet
Lublin.

PREPARED AT: Addison High School, Addison, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

piep: May 30, 1938, Trudeau, N. Y.

MoTHER: Mrs. Lynn A. Taylor, Trudeau, N, Y.

THE year after he graduated Allan Curtis Taylor spent studying
at the Alliance Frangais, Paris, and travelling in France. For a
short time he then became a French and English instructor in his
native town of Addison, leaving to enter the United States For-
eign Service Schoo] in Washington, D. C. He was appointed to
consular service and sent to Ottawa, Canada, as a vice consul,
which position he held for eighteen months. He was then sent
to Port Elizabeth in the Union of South Africa, remaining there

[ 1087 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

as vice-consul for two years before he was stationed in Ca
Town, in the largest of South Africa’s consulates. After another
two years of service Taylor returned to make a visit in Addison,
New York; then in 1937, because of a chronic illness he retired
to the Adirondack Mountains, living there until his death.

While at Harvard, Taylor was a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon Fraternity. In high school he was manager of the basket-
ball team, also president and valedictorian of his class. His par.
ents, a brother, and a sister survived him.

JOHN PRATT TAYLOR

HOME apprEss: 711 E, Greenman Rd., Haddonfield, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Radio Corporation of America, Camden, N. J.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1906, Williamsport, Pa. PARENTS: Edward Leon Taylor,
Bertha Pratt.

PREPARED AT: Williamsport High School, Williamsport, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN E. COM. ENG., 1929.

marrieD: Ethel Larned, June 27, 1931, Schenectady, N. Y. cimpren: Ed
ward Leon, 3d, Dec. 21, 1932; Dorothy Jane, Aug. 2, 1942.

occupation: Advertising manager, Engineering Products Department, Radio
Corporation of America.

ROBERT BATES TAYLOR

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Salem St., Andover, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 27, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Herbert Taylor, Maria

Louise Bates.

PREPARED At: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1927~1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1928(29); a.m. (Mid-
diebury Coll.), 1935.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Blakely, Sept. 1, 1948, Brookline, Mass.

occupation: Chairman, Department of Spanish, instructor in Spanish, Phit
lips Academy, Andover, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Pan-American Society, English-Speaking Union, New Eng -

land Modern Language Association, Intercambio Estudiantil de is
Americas, |

THE saying “life begins at forty” applies to me, as before thi
milestone was reached I was a bachelor with rather heavy family

[ 1088 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

responsibilities. My private life consisted of frequent visits to my
family and several delightful summers spent in various parts of
New England with my sister. Professionally, I was fortunate,
starting my teaching career at East Greenwich, Rhode Island, at
a co-educational academy. I later taught French at Williston, and
for a good many years at Wilbraham Academy before coming to
Andover in 1943.

About the time of my marriage I was asked to teach Spanish
as well as French and now I teach only Spanish and am the chair-
man of the department. Being married has given me an entirely
new circle of friends and more activity in town affairs. This is
a friendly community in which to live, and we enjoy life in a
country town with easy access to Boston,

A year and a half ago we took my sister's son for a visit as
she was very sick and couldn't care for him. Since her death
Jase summer we have obtained legal custody of our nephew and
have made him the son we never had. It is a rewarding experi-
ence. Dexter is now eleven years old.

Some time ago I spent a summer in France with my sister. We
also visited relatives in England. More recently my wife and I
spent a summer in England and Spain. I have been to Mexico
several times and am very much interested in educational prob-
lems there. I have been the New England agent for an exchange
program between Mexican and American students and have ar-
ranged for a good many such exchanges. One of the boys who
same to New England proved to be an exceptionally brilliant stu-
dent with nothing behind him in the way of support or encourage-
ment. In Mexico only the wealthy are able to get help. This lad
is anxious to go to an American medical school (preferably Har-
vard), so needs American college credits and good training in
English which he spoke not at all when he arrived. He made
such amazing progress during the first two months that I was
able to procure a scholarship for him at Andover and he remained
here until June. (He had arrived on Christmas day.) After six
months in Mexico he came again to the States and is at the Hol-
derness School preparing for college next year. His average for
the last three years of his schooling in Mexico was 99.5%! I am
sure he will succeed and more than justify the help he is getting.

[ 1089 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Andover has many exchange students and they are also a source
of interest to us. We derive great pleasure from contacts with
people from other countries.

THOMAS APPLETON TAYLOR

HOME ApprEss: 1310 University Ave. Palo Alto, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 140 New Montgomery St., San Francisco, Calif.

BoRN: Nov. 6, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: William Richard Taylor,
Anna Appleton.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B. magna cum laude, 1923.

MARRIED: Dorothy Rice Bacon, Oct. 11, 1930, Springfield, Mass. cHicores:
David Appleton, June 12, 1934; Richard Spaulding, Jan. 4, 1937; John
Bacon, Dec. 19; 1941.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president in charge of engineering staff, Pacific
Telephone & Telegraph Company.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Montclair Engi-
neering Society; Transportation Club of San Francisco.

WARREN LEWIS TAYLOR

HOME ADDRESS: 750 Marsh Ave., Reno, Nev.

OFFicE ADpREss: Bldg. RF, U.S. Naval Base, Brooklyn, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 21, 1905, Boston, Mass. pARENTs: Charles W. Taylor, Nora A
Enright.

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Hyde Park, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MARRIED: Iva M. Rattenne, March 16, 1946, Treasure Island Chapel.
occupaTioN: Navy.

+ WILLIAM JEREMIAH TAYLOR

‘BORN: Dec, 3, 1902, Chelsea, Mass, PARENTS: Jeremiah Taylor, Nellie Haye.
PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

piep: July 11, 1934, Malden, Mass.

UPON leaving Harvard, Taylor went on to earn his M.D. 2t
Tufts Medical School in 1932. He was an intern at St, Luke's

[ 1090 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hospital in New Bedford, Massachusetts, and later at the Brook-
lyn Eye and Ear Hospital. He had passed the Massachusetts state
examinations and intended to start a practice there. He was a
member of the Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity.

WILLIAM HAHNE TEGTMEYER

HOME aporEss: 823 Gunnison St., Chicago qo, Ill.

orice appress: Wm. H. Tegtmeyer & Co., 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3,
Hl.

porn: Nov. 28, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: William Oscar Tegtmeyer,
Elizabeth Hahne.

PREPARED AT: Lakeview High School, Chicago, II.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: 8.B. 1928; M.B.A. (Northwestern
Univ.), 1931.

marniep: Constance Haig, May 4, 1940, Chicago, Hl.

OCCUPATION: Investment securities; proprietor of Wm. H. Tegtmeyer &
Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted into Army as private, June, 1942; served
overseas mostly, in England with Air Force Fighter Group, two years;
released as captain, March, 1946.

OFFIces HELD: Treasurer and chairman, Christian Science local church,
1947-50.

MemeBeR oF: Harvard Club of Chicago, University Club of Chicago; Civic
Study Forum of Chicago; Bond Traders Club of Chicago; Executives
Club of Chicago.

THIS fall, under the urging of my wife, I finally gave away all
but a few of my college textbooks and notes on this and that
subject gleaned from lectures by Harvard’s intellectual “greats”
of a quarter century ago. So, it is a fitting time to comb through
my past experiences, to throw out most of the old to make room
for the new, and yet to save a few valued truths and experiences
as underpinnings for an expected improvement in the present and
future.

Until entering the Army in 1942, I had spent practically all of
my business career with the largest local stock exchange brokerage
house, Paul H. Davis & Company. I had held almost all of the
jobs available, except in the selling end of the business, and was
an unlisted securities trader when I received “Greetings.”

At about the same time that I entered the brokerage business,
I enrolled at Northwestern evening school. Off and on for a

[ 1091 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

from any customer or broker. For example, we do this ing .
bank stock (Chicago National Bank), a life insurance stock :
(Franklin Life Insurance Company), a corn refiner (The Hubin. ©
ger Company), a manufacturing company (Robbins & Myex |
Inc.), and several natural gas issues (including Arkansas Westen —
Gas and West Ohio Gas). Of course, when some customer wang _
Mutual Trust Funds, we always try to include John Chase’, -
“Shareholders’ Trust of Boston.” Occasionally we even buy and .
sell entire businesses. ;

Now the past has been gleaned, and I can say in the words of ;
Whittier’s hymn —

For all the good the past hath had
Remains to make our own time glad.

God’s love and blessing, then and there,
Are now and here and everywhere.”

CORCORAN THOM, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 5123 Watson St., N.W., Washington 16, D. C.

OFFICE aDpREss: The Riggs National Bank of Washington, D. C,, 1503 Pes
sylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C.

Born: July 7, 1906, Nahant, Mass, pareNts: Corcoran Thom, Mary Ly.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MarRiIED; Eliza H. Mitchell, June 20, 1936, Washington, D. C.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

DAVID DUDLEY THOMAS

HOME appREss: 40 Cochituate Rd., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2076 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge qo, Mass.

BORN: Nov, 27, 1905, Providence, R. I, parents: Leo Boone Thorns,
Evelyn Gertrude Dudley.

PREPARED aT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

UNMARRIED,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Service, February, 1941-September, 1945:

[ 1094 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN PLACE of history, I respectfully submit the enclosed “pome”
by way of greeting.

What seek ye over the rise, goodfellow, hale
And well met, pilgrim of the open road —

What bright new prospect where the cobbled trail
Crosses the summit by the thorn-tree’s goad?
Water dripping from a spring through rocks
Eroded, to calm the fever of the night —

To weep wet tears when heavy the heart unlocks
The memories and promise of the Light!

What seek ye over the Mountain, red-beard, friend?
The hill of time dark between me and thee,

Past, present, and future has an end

Where sea-birds soar above sheer space and we
Look down upon the breakers far below

And hear a light-house fog-horn chanting slow.

BEVERLY TUCKER THOMPSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3601 Wisconsin Ave. N. W., Washington 16, D. C.

oFFicg aporess: U, S. Atomic Energy Commission, Washington 25, D. C.

Born: Oct. 13, 1905, Chicago, Ill. parents: Beverly Tucker Thompson,
Martha Carnahan Black.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B, 1928,

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Attorney, Office of the General Counsel, United States Atomic
Energy Commission.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT post: Counsel, O. S. R. D., 1940-42.

KARL JEFFERSON THOMSON

HOME appress: 15 Stuyvesant Oval, New York 9, N. Y.; Granville, N. Y.

OFFICE aporess: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co, 1 Madison Ave., New
York 10, N. Y.

BoRN: March 25, 1906, Granville, N. Y. PARENTs: John Cephas Thomson,
Louise Marie Schneider.

PREPARED AT: Granville High School, Granville, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927. DEGREE: M.D. cum laude, 1931.

[ 1095 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

marrieD: Dorothy Williams Hatch, Nov. 30, 1933, Cambridge, Mass. am.

_ DREN: Jane Jefferson, June 25, 1945; Ann Jefferson, Sept. 6, 1947.
occupation: Physician,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U, S. Public Health Service, 1942-46.
MEMBER OF: Harvey Society; American Society for Clinical Investigation,
New York Bacteriological Society; American Heart Association, Amer.

ican Trudean Society; American Association for Advancement of
Science.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant medical director, Metropolitan Life Insurance Com
pany, New York City; assistant clinical professor of medicine, College
of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University; visiting physician,
Bellevue Hospital, New York City; assistant physician, Presbyterian
Hospital, New York City. © ,

PUBLICATIONS: The Heart in Pregnancy and The Child-Bearing Age, Little,
Brown & Co., Boston, 1941, and some 30 scientific papers on the
heart and circulation, infectious diseases, and degenerative diseases.

IT was my good fortune to be admitted to Harvard Medical
School after three years in college (one at Harvard and two a
Johns Hopkins). I graduated cum laude from Harvard Medical
School in 1931, and during the next two years held a medica
internship on 4th Medical Service (Harvard) at Boston City
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts. During 1933-34 I was resident
in medicine, 2d Medical Division (Cornell) at Bellevue Hospital,
New York City. From 1934 to 1937 I was a research fellow, Har-
vard Medical School, with studies devoted to physiology of circu-
lation in pregnancy and management of pregnant women with
heart disease. During the next five years I was assistant, then as-
sociate physician of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company San-
tarium, Mt. McGregor, New York, and was in charge of non-
tuberculous medical service at that institution. From 1942 to 1946
I was with the U. S. Public Health Service, first as liaison officer
to National Research Council, Washington, D. C., and later
worked on immunity in malaria. After the close of World War
II, I returned to the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in
New York City and was appointed assistant medical director in
1947. I was associate visiting physician, 1945-48, visiting physi-
cian, since 1948, 1st Medical Division (Columbia), Bellevue Hos
pital, New York City, and during the same interim was instruc-
tor, associate and, in 1952, assistant clinical professor of medicine
at Columbia. Since 1948 I have been assistant physician at the
Presbyterian Hospital, New York City.

[ 1096 ]

ff

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Ancestral farm in Granville, Washington County, New York
(in family since 1800 where great, great grandfather lived and
practised medicine) was taken over in 1937 and operated as a dairy
farm since that time. It serves also as a summer home for family
and weekend retreat for me. In this 5-1 normally Republican
community I have tried to promote the principles of the Demo-
cratic party with singularly insignificant success,

MARTIN BUEL TINKER, JR.

orFick aporess: 219 Savings Bank Bldg., Ithaca, N. Y.

porn: March 6, 1906, Clifton Springs, N. Y. pARENTs: Martin Buel Tinker,
‘95, Ethel Bates.

prepared at: Itacha High School, Ithaca, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.D. (Johns Hopkins
Univ.), 1933.

mtarnieD: Grace Louise James, Jan. 7, 1931, New York, N. Y.; Dr, Mary
D. Ridgeway, Dec. 6, 1947, Ithaca, N. Y.

occupation: Physician.

HARVEY LIND TITUS

HOME appress: Diamond Crest Lane, Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 420 Lexington Ave., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: May 30, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. pareNts: Harvey Ozrow Titus, Daisy
Johnson Adams.

PREPARED at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1928(30); LL.B. cum laude (Boston
Coll.), 1936. ,

MarRieD: Frances McInerney, Sept. 23, 1932, Laconia, N. H. (divorced
1948); Beverly Pearl Clatur, Jan. 21, 1948, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Naomi, Dec. 15, 1935 (died April 29, 1951); Jonathan, July 12, 1938;
Timothy, June 29, 1943; Meredith, June 22, 1949; Martha, Aug. 31, 1952.

occupaTION: Executive, president, Carbon Black Export, Inc. export trade
association.

MEMBER OF: Association of Interstate Commerce Commission Practitioners;
Institute of Food Technologists, American Chemical Society; Bos-
ton Bar Association; Chemist’s Club of New York; Traffic Club of
New York; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: “Dehydration of Certain Foods in an Atmosphere of Meth-
ane,” published in English journal; “The Effect of Adsorption to Car-
bon Upon the Carcinogenicity of Certain Hydrocarbons,” Archives
of Industrial Hygiene.

[ 1097 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

SHORTLY after graduation I went to work in the statistical de.
partment of Warren Telechron in Ashland, Massachusetts,. Eight
months later [ went to work for Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc., Boston, .
as assistant in the sales department under Edmund Billings. [Ip «
June, 1936, I was graduated cum laude from Boston College —
Law School and in the same month was admitted to the Maw. .
chusetts Bar. I stayed with the Cabot Company until 1945 and
have many pleasant memories of association with Harvard peo |
ple in that company. The last two and a half years in the Cabo -
_ organization were spent in supervising the research which led |
up to the first commercial application of chrometographic sep —
aration and to the building of the plant in McAllen, Texas, ult. -
mately known as Valley Vitamins, Inc. On January 1, 1946,1 ©
left the Cabot organization to become the president of Carbon -
Black Export, Inc., New York City. This is the Webb-Pomerene —
export trade association of the carbon black industry.

JOHN RICHARD TOMBAUGH

HOME ADpRESS: 127 N. Catherine Ave., La Grange, IIL.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 433 E. Erie St., Chicago 11, Ill.

BORN: Dec. 27, 1905, Minerva, Ohio. PARENTS: Solomon Franklin Tombaugh,
Ida Agnes Starkey.

PREPARED AT: McKinley High School, Canton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; A.M., 1920.

marriED: Mary Louise Scranton, Aug. 19, 1930, Alliance, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Richard Franklin, Aug. 18, 1932; James Russell, Nov. 21, 1939.

OccUPATION: Editorial service manager, Scott, Foreman & Company, edv-
cational publishers.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Scoresman Credit Union, since 1940; president
Chicago Book Clinic, 1945-46; vestryman, Emmanuel Episcopal Church,

since 19§1; treasurer, 1951, secretary, 1953, Chicago Kiwanis Club:
secretary, Kiwanis Youth Foundation, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago, Chicago Book Clinic, Chicago
Kiwanis Club, Kiwanis Youth Foundation, Catholic Club of Chicago
National Council of Teachers of English.

NOT much given to retrospection, I find little in my life since
graduation to interest myself, let alone others. The details are
dull: a year as English instructor at The Manlius School, in up-
state New York; a year of the same at Washington and Jefferson
College in Pennsylvania; back to Manlius as head of the English

[ 1098 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

come of the recent national election. Influenced perhaps by acci-
dent of geography, by a growing concern for realistic political
discussion, and by sheer admiration for unusually articulate ex.
pression, I have come to regard the recent ex-governor of Illinois
as a man of high principle and boundless good-will. That he
failed to win is not remarkable, all things considered: that he did
so well is, I believe, an indication that the day is not far away
when candidates for public office will feel obliged to discuss im.
portant national issues during a campaign, and to discuss them
rationally, honestly, unemotionally. On that, it seems to me, de-
pends to a considerable extent the future welfare of our demo-
cratic processes, if not their survival.

SOLOMON TOUMARKINE

HOME AppREsS: 522 Marsh Rd., Wilmington, Del.

OFFICE appress: Ogden-Howard Furniture Co., Fifth and King Streets,
Wilmington 11, Del.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1905, Odessa, Russia. parents: David Toumarkine, Sarah
Kahn.

PREPARED AT: Wilmington High School, Wilmington, Del.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928,

MarRiED: Sadie Cohen, June 30, 1933, Brooklyn, N. Y. cHitpren: Elaine,
April 5, 1939; David, July 31, 1943.

occupation: Sales manager, retail furniture and appliance business.

MEMBER OF: Power Squadron, Wilmington.

HORATIO BATES TOWER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 397 Highland Ave., Wollaston 70, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tower Photo Service, 1241 Hancock St., Quincy 69, Mass.

Born: Aug. 12, 1905, Cohasset, Mass. PARENTS: Horatio Bates Tower, Ger-
trude White Hall.

PREPARED aT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; ED.M., 1937.

MARRIED: Hermine Hopkins, Sept. 28, 1929, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joyce, June 2, 1932; Judith, June 8, 1937; Christopher, July 6, 1942.

occuPATION: Photographer,

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Civilian Defense.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Quincy.

[ 1100 ] ‘

 

 

¥.

i
B
‘
zk
t
e
£
£

Agee fe pe ene aria a ght Bere

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WHEN I left those hallowed halls of learning on the banks of

the Charles, the fabulous facades of finance seemed to offer an

easy and profitable path to contentment and security. The per-

sonnel man over at the Atlantic Bank decided to take a chance and
soon I found myself pounding the pavement with the other finan-
cial wizards of the messenger department. After several major
fiascos —I once deposited in the little green box at the corner
which is customarily reserved for the United States mails several
securities destined for immediate negotiation at the Federal Re-
serve Bank —I was placed within the portals of the institution
where harried superiors could keep me under constant observa-
tion. Several years later —I trust that my connection with the
bank was not directly responsible — this institution encountered
financial difficulties and I soon found myself pounding an adding
machine from morn till night in the dark recesses of New Eng-
land’s largest financial institution. Both the bank and I soon real-
ized that the world’s worst adding machine operator was in their
midst and no regret was offered by either party when I tendered
my resignation.

What to do? I had three mouths to feed now. The prospect
of guiding our youth to nobler and finer things and the even
more pleasant prospect of long and lazy summer vacations seemed
to favor the teaching profession. Accordingly I enrolled in the
-Harvard Graduate School of Education and received an Ed.M., de-
gree in 1937. After a year of teaching I realized that the financial
demands of a growing family could not be met by the salary
of an experienced teacher.

Considering various occupations that would allow me to sup-
port my family in the manner in which they wished to be sup-
ported I decided to try photography — my hobby at the moment.
Even if I could only make my hobby self supporting a substantial
amount of legal tender would be diverted from the coffers of
the vendors of photographic equipment to the support of my
family. I have been in the photographic business since then and
am now the owner of a small and fairly profitable enterprise.

I have lived in the vicinity of Boston since graduation, first in
Cambridge and since 1932 in Wollaston. As far as politics are
concerned most of my choices have usually come under the wire
a poor second or third. Occasionally a lesser official would romp

[ 1101 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

home in front but as far as the presidential sweepstakes were con-
cerned it was not until the fall of ’52 that I was able to pick a
winner.

I have been interested in several hobbies — all of them expen-
sive of course and most of them greeted with mild contempt or
amusement by relatives and friends. Remarks like, “Imagine a
grown man playing with toy trains,” spoken in hushed tones have
been called to my attention. These hobbies have included ship
models, photography, model railroads, and the high fidelity re-
production of radio and re-recorded music. Only the latter has
earned the unqualified approval of the unfortunate people who
have to live with me.

All in all, not an exciting life, but I have had fun here and
there. [ hope to see all of you at the Reunion.

DONALD BYRON TRIBE

HOME AppRESS: Diablo Heights, Canal Zone.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Panama Canal Co., Canal Zone.

BoRN: May 23, 1903, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Byron Ethelbert Tribe,
Lilla Stevenson Woodman.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Marguerite Sanborn, Sept. 28, 1929, Somerville, Mass. (divorced
1947). CHILDREN: Donald Sanborn, June 25, 1935; Janet Valerie, July
25, 1940.

occupaATION: Assistant to chemist-in-charge, Maintenance Division, The
Panama Canal Company.

MEMBER OF: Association of Harvard Chemists; Masons.

THIS is a task from which I have been shying away for a long
time, not because I hate to work or because I am particularly
modest. The reason is, I think, because I felt I had little to tell
which would be of interest to my forty-score-plus classmates,
many of whom, I know, have made substantial headway in the
quest for fame and fortune.

The contemplation of this chore, and its inherent compulsion
to retrace in retrospect my steps through many years, has given
me a clearer view of how I came to be what and where I am. If
I tell my classmates anything they consider of importance here,

[ 1102 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

they can thank our patient H. H., whose numerous and gentle
proddings started the wheels turning.

Among the brilliant and/or exciting lives in this volume will
be a few of lesser glamour, and of these latter, many will seem
successful to me— some perhaps even more worth while than
those that occupied the center of the stage or performed in the
limelight of wide acclaim.

Who is the successful man? There are probably as many an-
swers to this question as we are classmates. In my opinion he is
the man who exerts the utmost influence for good, of which he
is capable, on those with whom he comes into contact. That is
a large order, and by this yardstick no man is wholly successful
no matter how hard he tries. But we can strive — and we do.

There is little in my first fifteen years out of Harvard to dis-

tinguish my life from that of an average chemist happy to con-
centrate on his job and family life. After those early years spent
in various parts of the U. S., I came to the Canal Zone ten years
ago to work in U. S. Government Service. Since then, my job
has changed but little, but I have changed a lot.
- The change in me is best reflected in my gradual awakening
to the fact that there are a host of neighbors who need help —
people who have lost their confidence, or who are going down
in defeat crushed by circumstances they cannot control or do not
understand; beaten, in many cases, by their own personality
faults, by pride, or selfishness, or bitterness, or anger. Those of
us who have passed through such a valley are best able to under-
stand and help others in need. At the risk of seeming smug, I
should like to describe a fragment of my life which threatened
to embitter me for good. The story may help somebody, who
knows?

Until I was divorced five years ago, I engaged in social activities
outside the home to a very limited extent. My family circle, I
used to tell my friends, was my foremost hobby and occupied
practically all of my spare time. My divorce after eighteen years
of marriage came as somewhat of a surprise to me. After becom-
ing adjusted to the new situation, I became acutely aware that
one important factor regarding my family had not changed —
my family was still my foremost interest in life. Mv children
needed me more than ever; and I needed them also. I stood by.

[ 1103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

My family broke up, but in the course of time it proved to be

more “broken up” on paper than actually. My son now lives.

with me, and my daughter lives with my ex-wife a mile or so
away. For several years I have seen both children every day pos-
sible, listened to their troubles and tried to counsel them wisely,
It has paid off. The torment and insecurity which so often af-
flicts the children of broken homes appears to be absent in mine,

This task had to take precedence. It could only be done here
and by me. Liking the Canal Zone has made it easier to stay, too.
I appreciate the few advantages there are of living here, and ]
am not distressed unduly by disadvantages. I enjoy the perpetual
summer weather and the scarcity of flies and mosquitos. Of
course, it rains too much, but that’s only ten months of the year
and we can look forward here to two months of dry season when
it doesn’t rain enough.

My life is a succession of hobbies, but the ones which continue
to interest me most are taking outdoor movies in color, making
mahogany furniture, and working with high-fidelity phono-
graphs. My favorite “good works” at present are my activity in
the Sunday School of the Cathedral of St. Luke, and in the Bella
Vista Children’s Home. |

Soon my son will go back to the United States to complete his
education, and I shall then feel free to complete my life — to live
fully. In my thoughtful moments, I sometimes wonder whether
I have not been “living fully” all along. Pll probably not know
until a certain lady comes into my life, and I look forward to
meeting the one who is “right” for me. Twenty-five years from
now, God willing, I can tell you whether I have found her.

BORDEN CHASE TRIPP
HOME AppREss: Westport Harbor, Mass.
OFFICE Appress: P. O., Adamsville, R. I.

BORN: April 19, 1905, Fall River, Mass. parents: Philip E. Tripp,’ 93, Anne
Borden Chase.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

[ 1104]

   

8 NSE RN REET ATR ETE HORII

rirheqionpron area yeaa feng Pats ea hfe SEE SERIES EY

A AA mL TRF I

ata pia nee Re ha

ear TS EN PY RR PD LO AR AB ACIS ee eR

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Alice Dennett, Aug. 31, 1929, Westport Harbor, Mass. cHILpREeN:
Peter Dennett, July 1, 1932; Anne Borden, May 29, 1938.
occuPATION: Dairy farmer, country storekeeper.

*-* DONALD PITKIN TUCKER

BORN: June 12, 1906, Winchester, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Austin Tucker,
Mabelle Merrill.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1924, 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(29); M.B.A, 1931.

marriEeD: Mary Louise Moss, Oct. 20, 1934, Mendon, Mass. cuHmpren: Don-
ald Pitkin, Jr., Feb. 8, 1938; Thomas Howard, Nov. 20, 1939; Lynne,
June 17, 1945.

piep: July 24, 1952, Providence, R. I.

WHILE an undergraduate, Donald Tucker was a member of the

Dramatic Club and of the Red Book staff. After graduation from

the Business School he became associated with the International

Business Machines Corporation in Providence. A short time later

he entered the textile finishing business with the Cranston Print

Works Company in Cranston, Rhode Island, and he was still in

its employ at the time of his death. Gardening and skiing were

his hobbies, and he was active in various community activities

and accounting associations.

HENRY DENISON TUCKER

HOME ADpREsS: 37 Oak St., Shrewsbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Norton Co., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1905, New Bedford, Mass. PARENTS: Arthur Leslie Tucker,
Jane Francis Denison.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928. DEGREE: S.B. 1928.

MaRRIED: Bernette Reynolds, June 21, 1947, Milford, Mass. curtp: Denison
Williams, March 4, 1951.

occuPATION: Associated with Norton Behr Manning Overseas, Inc., abra-
sive exporters.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: First draft, February, 1941; discharged January,
1946, as captain; no overseas service.

I WAS very negligent in getting my life history in to Heard, but
at least I tried several times. This is my first attempt:

[ 1105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

The years immediately after graduation seemed to pass in a
very comfortable way. Life in the investment business was en-
joyable and even the crash in the stock market along with the
subsequent downfall of the Republicans which has persisted for
— well, you can see when I started this life history.

Now that this new era is here the complicated past will not
have to be reviewed. After five years in the Army I met a girl.
We started out our life at a little over forty in Marlboro, and [I
went to work supplying the foreign markets with Norton abra-
sives. Our present project is Denison, aged two. We moved to
Shrewsbury to be nearer Worcester and with a larger house hope
to fill more of the rooms. Adopting another boy will give the
future Pennypackers and Bacons their due problems. Preliminary
offers will be accepted from Saltonstall, Pratt, or Weed.

RALPH WILLIAM TURNER

HOME ApprEss: 71 High St., Exeter, N. H. —

OFFICE ADDRESS: Emerson School, Exeter, N. H.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1904, Framingham, Mass. parents: James Albert Turner,
Martha Frances Copithorne.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: S.B., 1928; ED.M. (Univ. of New
Hampshire), 1940.

MarRieD: Marion Dewey, Aug. 18, 1928, Framingham, Mass. (divorced);
Frances Anne Eckhardt, Aug. 29, 1938, Manchester, N. H. curvoren:
James Dewey, Dec. 10, 1932; Ralph William, Jr. July 28, 1941; Vir-
ginia S., Jan. 16, 1945.

occupation: Headmaster, Emerson School, a junior boys’ school.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Coast Artillery, May, 1943; served as
athletic officer and education-information officer with rank of 1st lieu-
tenant and captain; stationed at Fort Munroe, Virginia, Portsmouth
Harbor Defenses, New Hampshire, and Washington and Lee Un:-
versity, Virginia; separated June, 1946.

OFFices HELD: Director, Universal Coat & Linen Service, Cambridge, 1930-
42, Echo Farm Dairy, Inc., Framingham, Mass., 1930-48; member school
committee, Framingham, Mass., 1932-37; president, Men’s League and
church corporation, Park Street Baptist Church; secretary-treasuref,
Independent Schools Association of Northern New England.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Hampshire, Varsity Club.

ON leaving Harvard I thought of trying my luck at teaching
and coaching for a couple of years, and then had a five year whirl

[ 1106 ]

 

|
E
[
i
|
'
‘
£
‘
{
i
‘

AR Ate

esi a gt a ok ANE re Ne ABLE tm

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at business. The teaching profession got a return engagement in
1935, and since that time it has been my career. There’s some-
thing about seeing these kids continually growing up that cer-
tainly gets under the skin, and becomes a part of one. Football,
baseball, wrestling, basketball, and all of their sports continue to
be one’s hobbies. Camping, fishing, swimming, cook-outs and all
are as much fun with each succeeding generation as they were
for us.

Living in a boarding school such as we do, one’s entire life is
primarily centered around its activities. In 1940 we purchased a
place in Maine, and operated it as a summer camp school for boys.
This is Quillcote, the old Kate Douglas Wiggin home, and here
we get more of living the life of a boy while trying to help with
his education.

Politically I am very happy to see Ike at the helm. It took a
long time to get a change, but things are looking up.

Travel has been confined to the eastern U. S. and Canada with
a trip now and then in the Midwest. One doesn’t go too far on a
teacher’s salary.

Hobbies have been turned into projects with boys to a great
extent. We have had a good deal of time consumed in the restora-
tion of Quillcote, and its maintenance. It’s a family project, and
with it goes country living, fishing, maple sugaring, and all the
fun of a rural community.

CORTLANDT ROLAND TURNEY

appress: Harvard Club, 27 W. 44th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Home Insurance Co., 59 Maiden Lane, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 4, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Theodore Lyman Turney,
Julia Adelaide Sutphen.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE A.B., 1928(29).

MarrieD: Dinanda Hanse, 1942, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1946). cuit:
Cortlandt Roland, Jr., June 7, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

[ 1107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

ERNEST ARTHUR TUTEIN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 51 Wildwood St., Winchester, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 22, 1904, Revere, Mass. parents: Ernest Arthur Tutein, Edith

Maud Robinson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MARRIED: Ruth Clarkson, Sept. 245 1927. CHILD: Arthur, 3d, June 7, 1928,
OCCUPATION: Finance.

HENRY J. UMANS
HOME ADDRESS: 300 Riverside Drive, New York 25, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Feb, 9, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Jacob Umans, Sarah Ehrlich.
PREPARED AT: New Utrecht High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREES: a.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1928; ts.
(ibid.), 1930.

MARRIED: Shelley Barnett, June 28, 1938, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: Robert
S., Dec. 17, 1941; Peter A., Jan. 18, 1946.
OccuPATION: Restaurateur, president of two restaurant corporations; attorney.

I WAS admitted to the New York State Bar in 1931 and from
then, until about eight years ago, I engaged in the general prac-
tice of law. During much of that period, my legal and also my
family connections brought me into close association with the
restaurant field. I acquired an interest in two restaurants in down-
town Manhattan and found that they occupied my time to such
an extent that I had very little opportunity to devote myself to
anything else. That is the situation at present.

As a result my leisure time is largely concentrated in precious
weekends with my wife and those two restless, tireless, and very
hungry young animals to which people, in all innocence, refer
as our “nice, lively young boys.” In addition, I generally find it
expedient to surrender to the pressure of the campaign which the
family begins early in the year for a summer vacation that may
land us anywhere between Bermuda and California.

[ 1108 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD WILLIAM UMPHREY

HOME ADDRESS: 2281 Sur Le Lac, Ile Bizard, P. Q., Canada.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Canadian Industries Ltd., P. O. Box 10, Montreal, P. O.,
Canada.

BorN: May 28, 1903, Miami, Man., Canada. parents: Harman Umphrey, Ella
Elizabeth Playfair.

PREPARED AT: Miami High School, Miami, Man., Canada.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1929-1930, 1932-1933. DEGREES: B.A. (McMaster
Univ.), 1925; s.m. (Harvard Univ.), 1933.

marriEeD: Alma Margaret McDonald, July 22, 1938, Montreal, P. Q., Can-
ada.

OCCUPATION: Production manager, chemical, Canadian Industries Limited,
responsible for manufacturing operations and maintenance of capital
assets employed in production.

MEMBER OF: Chemical Institute of Canada.

I HAVE been employed since graduation by Canadian Industries
Limited, first in the Engineering Department and later in the
Chemicals Department. During the war years I was employed
by the company’s wartime subsidiary, Defense Industries Limited,
as resident engineer in charge of construction of plants to pro-
duce tetryl, TNT, and smokeless powder, together with various
chemicals used as ingredients in the manufacture of the explosives
named.

My wife and I, along with Lord Tweedsmuir our Dobermann
Pinscher, occupy a cottage and three acres of land on Ile Bizard,
an island in the Lake of Two Mountains situated about sixteen
miles north-west of Montreal, where a warm welcome awaits
any member of the Class of 1928 who gets this far north.

NICHOLAS UNKOVIC

HOME ADDRESS: 5740 Aylesboro Ave., Pittsburgh 17, Pa.

OFFICE appREss: 747 Union Trust Bldg., Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

BORN: Aug. 24, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Kosto Unkovic, Josephine Polic.

PREPARED AT: Bellevue High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; LL.B. (Dickinson Law
School).

marrieD: Mary D. Clark, Oct. 26, 1935, Chicago, Ill. cHiLpreN: Mary Afade-
lon, Oct. 6, 1936; Constance Clark, Dec. 23, 1938; Christine, Dec. 25,
1940; John Clark, Oct. 21, 1943; Nicholas Clark, Sept. 8, 1951.

occupation: Attorney-at-law specializing in labor relations exclusively,
partner, law firm of Reed, Smith, Shaw & McClay.

[ 1109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Section on Labor and Industry, Pennsylvani;
Bar Association; past chairman, Labor Committee, Administrative Lay
Section, American Bar Association; member Executive Committee,
chairman, Placement Committee, Allegheny County Bar Association,
member, Pennsylvania Labor Law Commission; permanent member,
Judicial Conference of the United States Third Circuit; member Com.
mittee on Public Relations, Pennsylvania Bar Association; member
Labor Relations Law Section, American Bar Association; president,
Parent-Teachers Association, Sacred Heart School.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Pennsylvania Bar Association; Al-
legheny County Bar Association; American Judicature Society; Du.
quesne Club, Pittsburgh; Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club; Pittsburgh
Athletic Association; Industrial Relations Research Association; Judi-
cial Conference of the United States Third Circuit.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in various law reviews on labor and other
subjects.

AFTER finishing law school at Dickinson School of Law, Car-
isle, Pennsylvania, I was fortunate to practise law for seven years
with the late H. Fred Mercer, an outstanding trial lawyer of
Pittsburgh.

Labor law attracted my attention in 1937, and I have been spe-
cializing in this field ever since. In 1942, I became associated with
the law firm of Reed, Smith, Shaw & McClay; and since January
1, 1948, I have been a partner in the firm. I have done labor work
for corporations throughout the country, such as United States
Steel Company and subsidiaries, Corning Glass Works, Westing-
house Electric Corporation, Diamond Alkali Company, Jones &
Laughlin Steel Corporation, Pittsburgh Steel Company, Pitts-
burgh Plate Glass Company, Standard Steel Spring Company,
Mesta Machine Company, Pittsburgh Department Stores, and
other industrial, utility, and commercial corporations.

It is keenly interesting, however, stormy, to represent corpora-
tions in labor matters in these chaotic days of social change.
Labor work takes me from coast to coast. The complexities, un-
certainties, and constant changes offer a real, though rugged,
challenge. Labor law is perhaps the fastest moving law field to-
day and, to me, it is the brightest facet of a profession too often
lost in detail and precedent,

My avocation of addressing college, graduate, and industrial
groups on the interpretation of labor’s impact on the changing
social scene grew naturally out of my profession. It keeps me

[i110]

 

t

sa H snes etna. Sai aN
SIE eNOS ECP EAE IE IE CCP sac ei fd ALLA AEM ROTM ORES ORL PI POE PE *

ew a MARTE CHEST

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on the alert to be questioned by students and group members.
We have one real hobby, collectively and individually — travel,
and that goes for the whole family.

ORAZIO ERCOLE VACCARO

HOME appRESS: 150 Islington Rd., Auburndale, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 600 Washington St., Boston 11, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 23, 1904, South Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Pasquale Vaccaro, Clor-
inda Giliberti.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B. Cu laude, 1928(29); A.M., 1930.

marrigeD: Margaret Grosso, Feb. 7, 1934, Cambridge, Mass. cutLprEN: Joseph
Pascal, Feb. 7, 1935; John Lawrence, March 13, 1936, James Anthony,
Sept. 25, 1943; Phyllis Clorinda,. Jan. 1, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Pascal Vaccaro, ’16, LLB., ’19.

occupation: Social work: supervisor of social service, Massachusetts De-
partment of Public Welfare, Division of Child Guardianship.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Board of Directors of Newton Conferences, So-
ciety of St. Vincent De Paul; president, Corpus Christi Conference,
Society of St. Vincent De Paul, Holy Name Society, 1949-50; cub-
master, Pack 33, Norumbega Council, Boy Scouts of America; district
chairman of cub scouting, Norumbega Council, 1948-49; committee-
man, Newton North Little League; director, Farragut Codperative

Bank.
MEMBER oF: Holy Name Society; Knights of the Blessed Sacrament; Society

of St. Vincent De Paul.

ON THE threshold of our twenty-fifth anniversary, I find my-
self living the quiet life of a typical suburban family man. The
9:14 train to Boston and the 5:15 home at night are caught with
monotonous regularity. At night at the dinner table we all vie
with one another in reporting the interesting news of the day.
Joseph tells of his interesting experiences in his part-time job
after school, Johnny the problems of sailing his boat on the
Charles River, Jimmie his cub scout projects, while Phyllis dem-
onstrates the hootchie-kootchie dance she learned at kindergarten
(progressive education — ugh!), and my wife discusses her club
plans for which she finds time despite caring for us and our eight-
room house. You see I can scarcely get in a word edgewise.
When we separate for our individual pursuits, my older sons
occasionally let me have my car to attend cub scout meetings, St.

[xri1 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Vincent De Paul activities, or other community interests, Though
I have achieved neither riches nor renown my wealth lies in the
respect of my neighbors, a wonderful wife, and four fine children,

FREDERIK HERMAN VAN PESKI

HOME AppREss: 106 Zilkerduinweg, De Zilk, The Netherlands.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 129 Prins Hendrikkade, Amsterdam C., The Netherlands

BORN: June 22, 1904, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. PARENTS: Vincent Van
Peski, Emily Mathilda In’tveld.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MARRIED: Martha Nyland, June 15, 1932, Wassenaar, The Netherlands.

occuPATION: Merchant, managing director, N. V. De Hollandsche Com
pagnie at Amsterdam.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: In resistance movement against invaders; assigned
first staff-officer of commander, Tenth Region Dutch Military Forces
of the Interior, November, 1944; appointed secretary to naval officer
in charge Amsterdam, May, 1945; honorably discharged, Sept. 26, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Kirk-elder, churchwarden, Dutch Reformed Church at Am
sterdam, 1945-51; chairman, Dutch Reformed Youth Council at Am

sterdam, since 1948; member boards, number of charitable committess
and social societies, Amsterdam.

MEMBER OF: Great Club “Doctrina et Amicitia,” Amsterdam; Royal Row-
ing and Yachting Club “De Maas,” Rotterdam,

IT WAS Sunday afternoon in De Zilk, March 1, 1953: 4 tele
phone call, the Western Union on the line with a telegram from
Boston, from Hammy Heard, reading “. . . life history...
Class Book . . . we want it you want it how about it...”

Yes, what about it? They are twenty-five years of one’s life—
a great many happy days, many sorrowful days, and much hard
work (too much, really), all these twenty-five years. There has
been joy, disillusionment, happiness, satisfaction, dissatisfaction
with oneself, but contentment with my share of real life, and
thankfulness for all the many things for which life has been
worth living. And would the good days have been as good, if
they had not followed bad days?

After twenty years of marriage, we are still happy indeed and
Martha has been a good comrade in everything. She did not
mind when I started De Hollandsche Compagnie half a year be-
fore we married. And she stood by when the first difficulties

[ 1112 ]

BO EES EL AE PLING IRL OE 0 EE AS EY

a an ey S00 Fae AAO I TT

pod Meee ee at ee Ei Ame ta tae LE

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

came for the new commercial enterprise. But we got over all
troubles, time after time, even over the troubles caused by the
war. De Hollandsche Compagnie held out and I can be satisfied
about how business developed, especially again during the last
few years, notwithstanding many odds.

It is unfortunate that my business never led to a trip to the
United States. My travels have covered part of Europe only.
Ever since I married I have wanted to visit with Martha the many
good friends I made in America during the four happy years I
studied there. But since the war no dollars are allowed for pleas-
ure only, so on whatever holidays we spent outside Holland, we
went to Switzerland, Italy, France, Belgium, or England —a
small world in the eyes of Americans! The only hope we have
now is that we shall be able to get hold of enough dollars to make
our trip to Cambridge for the Twenty-fifth Reunion possible!
Strangely enough I am optimistic about this, but founded on what
reasons, I could not tell. But that is the greatest optimism!

Isn’t it stupid, all of us having fought a terrible war in order to
be able to live freely in a free world, that the result is only that
we have to submit to dozens of restrictions and that the world for
us (flying) Dutchmen of the year 1953 has become smaller than
for Columbus in 1492!

But I have hobbies besides travelling: music, art, rowing, walk-
ing, camping; much sport I gave up after marriage and starting
my own firm, because there was no opporunity for it. Time for
politics I have never had. But I seem to be a born liberal.

Although we never had children, we are very fond of all chil-
dren. In my spare time I devoted much energy to leading boys’
clubs in the slums of Amsterdam. The problem of the “street-
corner youth” is an ever growing one in every city and it cap-
tured me. Our Dutch Reformed Church, in coéperation with
the authorities of town and country, contributes what is in its
power to help to solve this problem. When I became chairman
of the Youth Council I had to give up taking the lead in clubs,
which I regretted. I learned most of the problems of the youth
during the years I actually associated with many boys and played

with them at least once a week. Now the knowledge means much
in talking at many meetings and solving problems on paper!
The housing problem after the war (a tremendous one in Hol-

[ 1113 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

land), and living in a house with more rooms than we were al-
lowed to occupy, induced us to leave Amsterdam as a residence,
We took refuge in a part of a small old farmhouse in a tiny village
behind the dunes, six miles from Harlem, in the middle of the
bulbfields. It takes me a little less than an hour to get to my
office in Amsterdam, and it is quite a pleasant change to live in
the country. Let some American friends hop over and see us at
tulip-time some day. Everyone will be welcome!

LESLIE HOWARD VAN RAALTE

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Ellington Rd., Wollaston (Quincy) 70, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 67 Coddington St., Quincy, Mass.

porN: Dec. 21, 1905, Glasgow, Scotland. parents: Richard David Van Raalte,
Elizabeth Frances Charlotte Thomas.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-192. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D., 1932.

MaRRIED: Edna Mary Catarius, March 1, 1940, Wollaston, Mass, CHILDREN:
Gretchen and Leslie, Jan. 11, 1942 (twins); Christopher, June 4, 1946.

OccUPATION: Physician, specializing in obstetrics and gynecology.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army Air Force, September, 1942—April, 1946;
captain to major, Medical Corps.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Quincy
City Hospital, Milton Hospital; consultant in Obstetrics and Gyne-
cology, South Shore Hospital; Norfolk County Hospital; president,
Harvard Club of Quincy, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; American Board Obstetrics
and Gynecology; Obstetrical Society of Boston; American Academy
Obstetrics and Gynecology; New England Obstetrical and Gyne-
cological Society; Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical
Association.

HAVING matriculated from the College, I began that fall at
Harvard Medical School. My proudest accomplishment, after
having been exposed to eight years of Harvard erudition, is still
not to have a trace of a Harvard accent,

What else is there to say in a sketch of this sort which may be
different from another’s experience? Little, I think.

In 1936 I began to practise in Quincy, Massachusetts, specializ-
ing in gynecology and obstetrics (for which I was presumably
specially trained). By now I seem to have deluded a fair num-
ber of patients and some of my peers into believing my conten-

[1114]

 

g
|
|
[
E
|
:
i
;

LYON LRA PATINA OATS UR" bette

ESP ant Pee ee

AN LOIRE RR RRR ties iF sha Hy

rhage.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion, since I am presently chief of the Department of Gynecology
and Obstetrics at both our local hospitals.

I married in 1940, had identical twin daughters in 1942, and
was nearly penalized by my colleagues for illegal advertising.
The usual stint in military service followed: I was in the Army
Air Forces from September, 1942, to April, 1946, and did noth-
ing to startle the Surgeon General. Our son was born in the
summer of 1946. (We got out of the Army just in time.)

The nature of my practice (or my lack of organization) makes
life rather confining, so that there is not much time for hobbies
or recreation. My golf is in the high eighties, or slightly worse.
Vacations are largely spent in travelling. Incidentally, one does
meet Harvard men in the darndest places. A couple of years ago
I found a lad from Bombay, who had also roomed in Weld, on
the tram going up the Jungfrau.

The future looks dim — just a constant struggle against taxes
to get enough together to educate the youngsters and be able
to slow down a little if I live to be sixty-five. Or should I?

STEPHEN VAN RENSSELAER

HOME AppREsS: 180 E. 79th St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: First National Bank, New York 15, N. ¥.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Augustus Van
Rensselaer, Caroline Elisabeth Fitzgerald.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

mMarrieD: Lillie Esther Langstroth, Aug. 1, 1946, Piedmont, Calif. cxmp:
Stephen, Jr. Aug. 18, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, loan officer, First National Bank, New York
City; director, Upson Company, Lockport, N. Y.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army Air Force, May, 1942-December,
1945; assigned to troop carrier command in European theatre of ope-
rations; combat intelligence officer with 439th Troop Carrier Group,
participated in Normandy and southern France invasions, crossing of
Rhine River, Holland and Bastogne operations; received American
Theatre ribbon, African-European Victory ribbon, Distinguished Unit
Citation, and seven battle stars.

OFFICES HELD: Governor, 1946-53, president, New York Chapter, Robert
Morris Associates, 1950-515 member, Youth Bureau Committee and
other posts, community Service Society, New York City.

[1115 ]

' HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MEMBER OF: Holland Lodge, Racquet and Tennis Club, Piping Rock Club,
all of New York City.
PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on credit matters.

IT is difficult to realize that twenty-five years have slipped away
since that time shortly before graduation when I was told that
starting in a bank was excellent business training. So I took the
advice of my betters and joined up with the First National Bank
of New York and have been there ever since. The only footnote
that I should like to add to the advice of my betters is that bank-
ing is more than a good training ground — it’s a satisfying and re-
warding profession. I have enjoyed very minute of it and my
only regret is that the bank has compulsory retirement at age
sixty-five.

I plead guilty to a slow start in the marital race but I am run-
ning strong and picking up places at every milepost. Here com-
pulsory retirement is unknown so I am looking forward to many
years of bliss with a champion running mate. It was worth the
wait. Young Steve, aged three, has already expressed a preference
for Harvard and is very grumpy over missing the Reunion festivi-
ties. However, he is looking forward to combining his fifth with
our Fiftieth.

Hobbies seem to have slipped 1 me by. How do you find time
for them? I have a stack of magazines, books, etc., that I have
been promising myself to read since last year. I am sure that you
have guessed where they will end up.

Sports are still attractive. Golf and tennis in the summer and
skiing and skating in the winter.

As to politics, need I say more than that I have voted for only
one presidential winner. Three cheers for Ike. My losing streak
is finally broken. I do not regret having spent six weeks on a
Willkie Club. I am still unreconstructed. Taxes, the cost of living
and what-have-you are most unwelcome but despite them all I
am mighty thankful to be an American. We continue to enjoy
the best life in the world, Let’s keep it that way. That’s all! I
have run out of space.

[ 1116 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ PETER WILLIAMS VAPHIADES

BORN: Dec. 12, 1906, Smyrna, Asia. Parents: William Vaphiades, Ouranis
Gabriel.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

piepD: June 21, 1938, Providence, R. I.

OVER the years the Secretary has received next to no informa-
tion concerning Peter Williams Vaphiades. The year after grad-
uation he was occupied as an assistant manager of a cafeteria in
Providence, Rhode Island; in 1934 he was engaged in the mercan-
tile business there. He was survived by Mrs. Urania Vaphiades.

FRANK VARMUS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 188 W. Merrick Rd. Freeport, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1907, Newburgh, N. Y. parents: Jacob Varmus, Esther
Greenberg.

PREPARED AT: South Side High School, Newark N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, DEGREE: M.D. (Tufts Medical School), 1931.

MARRIED: Beatrice Barasch, June 24, 1936, Freeport, N. Y. cumpren: Harold
Eliot, Dec. 18, 1939; Ellen Jane, Oct. 4, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAYAL RECORD: Medical officer with Army Air Force, Septem-
ber, 1942, to April, 1946; separated as major from Orlando Air Base,
Orlando, Fla.

OFFICES HELD: Committeeman, Troop 59, Nassau Council, Boy Scouts of
America, since 1947.

MEMBER oF: Nassau County Medical Society; American Medical Associa-
tion; American Veterans Committee.

AFTER only two years’ exposure to Harvard culture (which
wasn’t enough to qualify me for admission to Harvard Medical
School), I went to work for a year to replenish my funds and
then entered Tufts Medical School. I obtained my MLD. in 1931
and spent the next five years in interning, residencies, and trying
to get rooted.

In 1936 I located in Freeport, New York, which at that time
was a small town and close enough to the big city to prevent
stagnation. Any doubts about Freeport being the town in which
I was to settle were removed when I met the girl I married there.
With the exception of the war years, I have lived there ever
since, practising general medicine.

[1117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In 1939 our boy Harold was born — the settling-down process
was really getting serious. Much to my surprise I was becoming
a family men. In 1942 I joined the Air Force and was assigned to
the Air Force Hospital at Orlando, Florida, where I remained for
the duration of the war, winding up as chief of medicine. My
family was with me during this time and it was even augmented
with the birth of Ellen Jane in 1944, during a lull in the war.
Since there is little likelihood of a lull in the present war, we
feel that our family is probably complete.

Our travels and vacations are almost always of the whole fam-
ily type and show a marked preference for the mountains of New
England, especially in the winter as we are all ski enthusiasts.

Hobbies are many and varied but mild, still waiting to be bit-
ten by the one that will eliminate all the others. Right now they
are the usual golf, cards (bridge and pinochle), scouting, fishing,
skiing, and ceramics. Tennis was No. 1 sport until I decided to
take some of the advice I give my patients who are approaching a
Twenty-fifth.

Religious conviction — Liberal Judaism.

Political conviction — Adlai Stevenson.

Pet gripe — McCarthyism and the atmosphere of suspicion
and fear that is stifling free expression.

Pet preach — Less competitiveness — less work — more re-
laxation — enjoy!

JOHN A. S. VERDIER, II

HOME ADDRESS: 920 Lakeside Drive, S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich.

BORN: Feb. 25, 1907, Grand Rapids, Mich. parents: Leonard D’Oye Verdier,
Anna Emiline Carpenter.

PREPARED AT: Grand Rapids Central High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

OccuPATION: Maritime Service.

FRANKLIN TEMPLE WAITE

HOME appress: Water Street, Mattapoisett, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 106 Spring St, New Bedford, Mass,

[1118 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porN: Oct. 30, 1905, Roxbury, Mass. parents: George Franklin Waite,
Edith Abigail Brown.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B. cu? laude, 1928; A.M. 1930.

MARRIED: Henriette M. Scanlan, May 21, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carol T., April 14, 1936; Norman W., Nov. 3, 1937-

occuPATION: Social worker, child protective work, district agent for
Massachusetts Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Children.

I HAVE been with the same agency since graduation. Family,
work, “tinkering,” and small town life and activities have made
a very full and satisfying life.

THEODORE EVERETT WALCOTT

HOME ADDRESS: 72 Piggott Rd., Medford 55, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Walcott Sales & Service Inc., 862 Broadway, West Somer-
ville 4q, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 31, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Everett Marshall Walcott,
Marion Stewart Sanborn.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, M.B.A., 1930.

MarRiED: Edith Mae Strong, July 30, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Ruth, Nov. 12, 1932; Virginia, May 10, 1934; Philp, Nov. 23, 19353
Kenneth, Aug. 28, 1945.

occupation: Owner of retail electrical appliance and TV business.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted into Army, November, 1943; spent a
year in U.S.; one year in Pacific; won Bronze Star on Saipan; served
in 23d Repl. Depot which won unit citation; highest grade: Pfc; 1945-
48, 794th Ordnance Company, 94th Infantry Division (Reserve); since
1948, Hq. & Hq. Co. rorst Infantry, Mass, National Guard, warrant
officer junior grade, Unit Administrator.

MEMBER OF: Electric Institute of Boston; YD Club.

I HAVE had three jobs since I graduated from the Business
School in 1930. I worked for the U. S. Post Office Department
in Boston for nearly four years, until May, 1934. At that time I
entered the electrical appliance business, first as salesman for W. L.
Thompson Inc., GE distributor, for two and a half years, and
later as an independent dealer. I have been in that business con-
tinuously since then except for eighteen months during 1942-43.
when I worked for the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance
Company, and the years 1944 and 1945 when I was in the service.
I am in the lower echelon of the Class so far as income goes, but I

[1119]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

believe that if one has good health, is happily married, and has
a religion that means something to him, then he has been bounti-
fully blessed.

My work is interesting and varied, but it keeps me tied pretty
close to Boston; a trip to the Yale game at New Haven, fifteen
days at Camp Drum, New York with the National Guard, and
a ten-day trip with my family in April are about all the chance
I have to get away. I have never been to Florida, since that was
not one of thirty states that I visited at Uncle’s expense while I
was in the service. New England winters have become mild
enough so that I do not mind having to stay around here, and be-
sides 1 go “nuts” then coaching a couple of teams in the local bas-
ketball league. I have an interesting family and certainly enjoy
being home with them after being away in the service for two
years. I have thus far avoided stomach ulcers (an occupational
disease in the appliance business) either by dumb luck or plenty
of exercise.

I said a year ago that if “Ike” got the Republican nomination,
the Democratic nomination wouldn’t be worth a dime, and I
lived to see that prediction come true to my great satisfaction —
twenty years is a long, long time. Expect to spend the next few
years marrying off my daughters and trying to hide away a few
bucks for my old age where the tax collector won’t find them.

J

RICHARD CURRIER WALDRON

HOME aApbpRESS: 130 Boulevard, Mountain Lakes, N. J.

OFFIicE ApprEss: The Okonite Co., Passaic, N. J.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1906, Somerville, Mass. parents: George Fitts Waldron,
Almyra Day.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: s.B. cum laude, 1928.

MarRiED: Katharine French Pulis, Sept. 27, 1930, Newark, N. J. CHILDREN:
Betty Day, Oct. 9, 1931; Ann Barry, Dec. 30, 1934.

occupation: Electrical engineer, assistant to chief engineer of Okonite
Company, makers of insulated electric wires and cables.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Mountain Lakes
Club, Appalachian Mountain Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Minor articles in trade publications.

~

[ 1120 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY CAREER’S history is simple and uneventful: twenty-five
years with one company doing the same type of sales engineer-
ing. It is work I enjoy, and it has provided me with a livelihood,
although during the depression this might have been questioned.
I remained a civilian during the war probably due to some ex-
tent to the type of work I was doing and possibly with some re-
gard for my family.

I regret I cannot fill in any names for “Harvard sons” but
the girls came along first and then in those days they had not
learned much about RH factors.

We started our married life in a five-room house with a large
mortgage. The family grew larger and with much scrimping
the mortgage grew smaller. We added to the house and others
added houses around us so at the end of the war we moved to
a less thickly built up community and a twelve-room house on
the lake. Now the family is growing smaller and this year my
wife and I are alone except during vacations. Something is
wrong in this procedure as when we needed the room we couldn’t
afford it and now we have no use for it. Perhaps someone will
arrange this better, but I hope the government doesn’t try, as
many of us have had enough of its controls. Perhaps the solu-
tion is up to the girls to provide some grandchildren to visit us
and use the space we now have available.

We all expect to attend the Reunion although it may be a little
complicated with Betty’s graduation from Wheelock and my
wife’s twenty-fifth reunion from the same school, and with trans-
portation from Bucknell for Ann and her luggage,

Why not a questionnaire such as included in the Decennial
Report? I found this very interesting and had been waiting for
the opportunity to brag about the ownership of three boats. The
questionnaire didn’t require that I describe them as a beat-up
sail-boat and two canoes, one of which leaks badly!

KENNETH STEWART WALKER

HOME appreEss: P, O. Box 467, Rancho Santa Fe, Calif,

OFFICE appress: P, O. Box 1791, San Diego 12, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: John Yates Gholson Walker,
Mabel Burke.

[ 1121]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

marriEgD: Alida D. Robinson, Sept. 30, 1933, Hyde Park, N. ¥. (divorced
1944); Nancy Morse Hooker, May 13, 1944, Burlingame, Calif. crtupren:
Martha Douglas, Aug. 29, 1934; Kenneth Stewart, Jr., May 2, 1936
(died May 22, 1949); Anne Stewart, July ro, 1945.

OccUPATION: Finance: vice-president and trust officer, Security Trust &
Savings Bank of San Diego, in charge of Trust Department.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned second lieutenant, Army Air
Force, April 12, 1942; honorably discharged as lieutenant colonel, Dec.
25, 1945, having been contract carrier supervisor of Pacific Division
Air Transport Command, stationed at Hickam Field, Honolulu, handling
contracts of United Air Lines and Consairway, each operating twenty
four-engined aircraft in the Pacific.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Alumni Association of St. Paul’s School, 1946-50;
commissioner for Cubbing, Boy Scouts of America, New York City,
1935-37; member, Executive Committee, Planned Parenthood Federa-
tion of America, New York, 1946-50; member, Executive Committee,
Military Order of the World Wars, La Jolla Chapter, 1951; treasurer,
Church of the Holy Innocents, West Orange, N. J., 1945-50; director,
San Diego Chamber of Commerce, 1951; member, Executive Committee,
La Jolla Town Council, 1951; treasurer, Mt. Soledad Memorial Associa-
tion, Inc., since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Cuyamaca Club, Constitutional Foundation, Commissioned
Officers Club, the San Diego Club, all of San Diego; La Jolla Beach &
Tennis Club; La Jolla Chapter of American Legion; Racquet & Tennis
Club, New York; Military Order of the World Wars.

BORN IN New York City on October 30, 1905, I spent the
first twelve years in Llewellyn Park, West Orange, New Jersey,
with elementary schooling at Carteret Academy, followed by
six years at St. Paul’s School. Went to Harvard in 1924, but due
to desire to get into the business world, left in 1927. Spent three
years with the American Writing Paper Company in Holyoke,
Massachusetts, and in the summer of 1930 went to France to take
the summer course at the University of Grenoble.

From there I started in the Paris office of the Central Hanover
Bank and Trust Company, and subsequently, to the London office
prior to returning to the main office of the bank in New York
City in the spring of 1931, where eventually I became vice-presi-
dent in charge of the Trust Department of their Plaza office.

I married Alida Robinson in 1933, helped to produce Martha
in 1934 and K.S., Jr., in 1936. I was divorced in 1944 and married

[ 1122 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Nancy Morse Hooker in Burlingame, California. Our daughter
Anne Stewart Walker, was born in 1945 in San Francisco.

I was with the Air Transport Command from March, 1942, to
December, 1945, emerging in the shape of a lieutenant colonel.
The majority of time was spent in the Pacific where I ended up
as Contract Carrier Supervisor for United Airlines and Consair-
way. Returned to my previous capacity at the Central Hanover
Bank for five years, finally moving to La Jolla, California, in
1950. We have just completed and moved into our new home in
Rancho Santa Fe. At the present, I am vice-president and trust
officer in charge of the Trust Department of the Security Trust &
Savings Bank of San Diego, California.

ARTHUR CLEARY WALLACE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1904, Sheffield, Mass. parents: James Martin Wallace, Eliza-
beth Cleary.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1928(27).

MARRIED: Lucy Smith, Oct. 7, 1939, Greenwich, Conn. cuit: William Smith,
Dec. 29, 1947. .

OccUPATION: Head of Lower School, St. Paul’s School.

HENRY JARED WALLACE

HOME apprEss: 112 Irwin Ave., Ben Avon, Pittsburgh 2, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 525 William Penn Pl., Pittsburgh 30, Pa. ©

BORN: Feb. 26, 1907, Shaler Township, Pa. parents: Richard Watson Wal-
lace, Lillian M. Fingal.

PREPARED AT: Allegheny High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cv7 laude, 1928.

MaRRIED: Jane Graham Bowman, May 4, 1934, Pittsburgh, Pa. cHILDREN:
Elaine, Jan. 24, 1936; Beverly, Oct. 17, 1939; Henry Jared, Jr., Oct. 26,
1943.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, Sales, National Tube Division, United States
Steel Company, steel producers and manufacturers of steel pipe and
tubing.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club, 1951.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club, Chamber of Commerce, Harvard-Yale-Princeton
Club, Oakmont Country Club, Shannopin Country Club, Duquesne

[1123]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

The poundage is about the same as in 1928. As the man says,
however, what used to be muscle is something else. I am a va-
cation fisher, a devotee of the steam bath and rubbing table in
the winter, and a summer week-end golfer. Jane says I am also
a winter Christian, and my church attendance proves it.

I have been in the steel business since graduation. We have
been damned (in 1938 for having expanded too much), praised
(during the war for the job done), castigated (in 1948 and 1950
for not have expanded fast enough), seized (by his eminence,
H. S. T., for a very brief period in 1952), investigated (annually
by Congressional committees), controlled (most of the time since
1941), vilified (periodically by the C.1.O.), criticized (perpetu-
ally by the Democrats), and generally not left alone enough to
run our own affairs. It is a satisfactory business. It gives one
the feeling of being in the swim.

JAMES HENRY WALLACE

HOME ADDRESS: 149 Robbins Rd., Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Hereford St., Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 3, 1906, Binghampton, N. Y. parENTs: James Henry Wallace,
Dawn Nelson.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(30).

Marriep: Katharine B, Carswell, June 14, 1941, Gorham, Maine. CHILDREN:
Dawn Nelson, July 12, 1942; Jon Robert, Jan 2, 1944; Richard Carswell,
September, 1949.

occupation: Director and president, Miss Farmer’s School of Cookery, Inc.,
in Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Republican Town Committee, Sanford, Maine,
1938-39; president, Portland (Maine) Chapter, American Newspaper
Guild, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

PuBLications: Three books of poetry: The Gallows Tree, Portland, Maine,

1937; A Cross for Bravery, Portland, Maine, 1941; The Wall of Light,
Boston, 1951.

AFTER graduation I floated around doing some teaching, tra-
velling, and trying to land a job on a newspaper. The sum total
of my efforts was a year in Europe with a first-hand chance to
study the habits of Belgians, Frenchmen, and Italians, and enough
knowledge of French and Italian to teach those languages. While

[1126]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Europe, I wrote a weekly column for a Portland, Maine, news-
paper which helped to satisfy my yearning to write for a news-
paper. When I returned, I worked with the Federal Writer’s
Project in Maine, and as assistant state director was instrumental
in getting Maine, A Guide Down East on the market.

From 1942 to 1946 | was employed on the city staff of the
Portland Press Herald, a morning paper, and had my fling ar
police reporting and the other beats of that journal. In 1941 I
acquired an assistant and boss, Katharine Carswell of Gorham,
Maine, whom I married in June of that year. As of the present
reading, we have a daughter, Dawn, 10, and two boys, Jon, 9,
and Dick, 3, whom we consider “the greatest.” If they desire,
they shall go to Harvard — the boys, I mean — and I know they
will make much more of a name there than their dad ever did.

At present, I am president and director of Miss Farmer’s School

of Cookery in Boston. I own a summer place in Raymond, Maine,
and I had almost rather fish than eat. Amen!

WILLIAM ENGLISH WALLING

HOME ADDRESS: 120 S, LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chicago National Bank, Chicago, Ill.

BorN: April 19, 1907, Hubbard Wood, Ill. parents: Willoughby George
Walling, Frederika Christina Haskell.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

LANDON LONGWORTH WALLINGFORD

HOME appress: 2474 Grandin Rd., Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 401-403 Ingalls Bldg., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BoRN: March 21, 1906, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTS: Buckner Ashby Walling-
ford, Annie Reaves Longworth.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Joyce Weber, Nov. 4, 1938, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHitp: Buckner
Ashby Wallingford, 2d, March 23, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nicholas Longworth Wallingford, °32.

OCCUPATION: President, Walldon, Inc., mortgage bank; vice-president, Larch-
mont Realty Co.

[1127 ]

———— LS

'

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

BERNARD WANTMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 415 Pleasant St., Athol, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 451 Main St., Athol, Mass.

porN: April 9, 1907, Somerville, Mass, PARENTS: James Wantman, Bessie
Andelman.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(38),; M.D. (Middlesex
Medical School), 1935.

MARRIED: Beatrice Linchitz, June 13, 1937, Boston, Mass, cHILDREN: Joan
Frances, July 21, 1938, Mayer Elihu, Jan. 10, 1940; Charles David, Jan.
22, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Morey J. Wantman, 34.

occupation: Physician.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Medical Corps, U. S. Army, 621s

Medical Clr. Company, July, 1942~January, 19463 _ overseas, January,
1944-October, 1945; four battle stars.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Medical Staff, Athol Memorial Hospital.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; Massachusetts Society of An-
esthesiologists; American Society of Anesthesiology.

THIS is the paragraph devoted to wit or wisdom. My life has
been lacking in both. My travelling has been at the expense of
the U. S. taxpayer, and all I found out is that people are the
same no matter where they live or what language they speak.
They ask little of life: merely to be left alone so that they may
enjoy simple pleasures with their friends and family.

I've done a little fishing and probably hold some sort of record
for travel without catching a fish. My social and political con-
victions can be summed up quite readily — “things are in a
mess.” With religion in mind [ll close with a /prayer, “Please
God do something about the mess.” |

ROBERT GEORGE WARD

HOME ADDRESS: 129 Woodward St., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.
OFFicz ApprEss: 200 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass,

BORN: Nov. 6, 1906, Huntersland, N. Y, parents: Lester Watson Ward,
Susan Davis Rice.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: §.B., 1928; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
1944.

 

[1132 ]

i
i
¢

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Muriel R. Munkittrick, Sept. 11, 1943, San Diego, Calif. crmpren:
Marilyn Jane, Aug. 25, 1946, Linda Margaret, Nov. 10, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Paul Ward, ’25.

occuPATION: Assistant secretary, assistant manager, Ordinary Policy De-
partment, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1949-51, president, since 1951, Boston-Hermon
Club. 7

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association; Ameri-
can Bar Association; Boston-Hermon Club; Associated-Life Office
Management Association Institute. .

A TELEGRAM carried to me on a five-mile hike through the
woods of the Adirondacks brought me out of the woods into
the life insurance business. For seventeen years I was with The
Columbian National Life Insurance Company in Boston, first as
a clerk in the actuarial department and finally as assistant secre-
tary and assistant treasurer when I left in 1945 to join the John
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.

I had always envied you fellows who had an opportunity to
study law. In 1940 I decided there would never be a better
time to resume my education so I enrolled at Northeastern Uni-
versity Law School. I was delighted to find the professors and
instructors such capable teachers that I finished my studies in
the prescribed four years of night classes while I continued in my
regular position with The Columbian National. Following grad-
uation in 1944, still proudly pocketing my LL.B. degree, I was
pleasantly surprised to receive a letter from the chairman, Board
of Bar Examiners, that I passed the Massachusetts Bar Exami-
nation that year. |

In 1943 I married Muriel Munkittrick while she was in the
“Waves,” stationed at San Diego, California. Even though I
needed her here more than the Dental Corps of the Navy did,
President Roosevelt wouldn’t let her come home. That sur-
prised me because people in all walks of life were telling me
what Roosevelt had done for thém.

I have often wondered if I should have registered as a Dem-
ocrat instead of a Republican, although I have yet to uncover a
voter who voted for President Truman. As it now is apparent
that either 1) politicians are elected to offices high and low
without votes, or 2) people are ashamed of their choice, I have
finally decided to make no prediction whatever or bets on the

[ 1133 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

election outcome. Politics are getting so confusing it is some.
times difficult to tell a Republican from a Democrat, except at
election. Let’s abolish politics and put the politicians to some
productive work! Let’s have more “sense” and less “ism” in
government.
Marilyn, our first child, was the most beautiful baby ever born.
From the first day she was round and perfect and smooth like
a pumpkin; she was and always will be my “Pumpkin.” Linda
came, almost on my birthday, five years later, a little late to be
Marilyn’s companion and vice versa, we thought, but she is so
good natured that people clamor to take care of her. She is al-
ready a good companion to all of us. We are very grateful for
these two very special blessings. |
Listing philately and woodworking as hobbies has become
a habit, although little time is spent on my limited stamp collec-
tion. I like to work with wood, making furniture and also refin-
ishing old pieces. It is a joy to see the results of my handi-
work appear in substance before my eyes, in contrast to the in-
tangible service of the life insurance profession. Mahogany, cher-
ry, maple, etc. — the grains of the different woods are beautiful
and interesting in their natural form. They take on added beau-
ty and warmth when made into choice pieces that are finished,
such as a curly maple lowboy. Isn’t it just so with all kinds of raw
material? Even you and I must be taken with our backgrounds
of education and experience, fitted together, properly finished
and exposed for some time to humanity in our everyday opera-
tions before the grain in us will show its full beauty and warmth.
Our first twenty-five years should go far to bring out the na-
tural grain. Let’s look ourselves over carefully at this point. Per-
haps we need a refinishing job now!

SYDNEY ALLEN WARM

HOME ADDRESS: 4003 Beechwood Ave., Cincinnati 29, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2335 Florence Ave., Cincinnati 6, Ohio.

BORN: May 20, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Jacob Warm, Yetta
Hochberg. .

PREPARED at: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: 8.8. cum laude, 1928; LL.By 1931:

[1134]

voy Nr LE EAL LT IE LOI PAIL OE TAT OEIC EET aT aE Ta OP PTH HOH ETT HTP HON TTS OPE HPT ECORI OE PF SST Sv FU TONS SERPENT
. oe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Eleanor Jean Schwartz, Oct. 5, 1947, Cincinnati, Ohio. cup:
Alexander David, Nov. 23, 1949.

occuPATION: General contractor, vice-president, J. & E. Warm Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Navy April 6, 1942, as lieutenant
(junior grade); saw active duty in Atlantic and Mediterranean; was
in invasion of Southern France; separated as lieutenant commander.

MEMBER OF: Crest Hills Country Club.

LIFE has been pretty good to me since graduation. I have lived
comfortably, worked hard, and enjoyed myself. I play good,
competitive one hundred golf, and while some of the older men
are boasting about their grandchildren, I can boast about my
little three-year-old — the toughest kid on the block.

JOSEPH WARREN

HOME AppREss: Hotel Lincolnshire, 20 Charles St., Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: April 19, 1906, Brookline, Mass. pARENTs: Joseph Warren, ’97, Con-
stance Martha Williams.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1932; LL.B., 1938.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Warren, ’29, M.D., ’34; Howland Shaw Warren,
"32, LL.B. 735.

occuPATION: Lawyer (temporarily inactive).

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned ensign, U. S. Naval Reserve, Jan.
20, 1941; three months’ training duty, Boston, February—May, 1941;
reported to office of chief of naval operations for active duty Dec. 1,
1941; served in Washington until February, 1943; further training in
Miami, Fla.,; four months’ sea duty in Atlantic; three months in New
Orleans, La.; eighteen months in Pacific, released from active duty as
lieutenant Nov. 27, 1945; honorably discharged April 18, 1951.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of the Cincinnati; The Country Club,
Brookline.

FOR the first seven years after graduation I followed a business
career, first in the City Bank-Farmers Trust Company in New
York in 1928 and 1929, then for two years at the Harvard
Business School, and thereafter in the State Street Trust Com-
pany in Boston from November, 1931, to September, 1935.

In 1935 I made a fortunate decision, the only unfortunate
thing about it being that I did not make It sooner (in spite of
many pleasant associations formed during my business career).

[1135]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In September, 1935, I entered the Harvard Law School, and
from that day until this I have found the legal profession to be
a most congenial one. I graduated in June of 1938 and entered
the office of Hutchins and Wheeler in Boston in September, 1938,
being admitted to the Bar in November, 1938.

I managed to get in three full years in my new profession dur-
ing the period of the approaching storm of the second World
War, excluding three months of active training duty after being
commissioned as an ensign in the United States Naval Reserve
in January, 1941. In November, 1941, I was ordered to active
duty, reporting in Washington a week before the attack on
Pearl Harbor. |

After the war I returned to Hutchins and Wheeler and prac-
-tised my profession for a year and a half until the spring of
1947. Since then, although I have kept constantly in close touch
with the law, I have not been in active practice. It is unneces-
sary to relate that for most of us in 1928 the readjustments ne-
cessitated by the war years have been great. I am confident, how-
ever, that those who have not yet completed this period of re-
adjustment will do so eventually, but in many cases the thing
most essential for this purpose is plenty of time.

WILLIAM HENRY LOCKHART WASHBURN

HOME ADDRESS: 318 High St., West Medford 55, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 52 Church St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 14, 1904, Allston, Mass. parents: Dexter Carleton Washbum,
Lizzie Augusta Sands.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1928.

MarrigD: Millicent Hazel Toy, Nov. 25, 1939, Roslindale, Mass, CHILDREN:
Valerie Fay, July 16, 1941; Diane Elizabeth, Dec. 8, 19425 Kathleen
Carleton, March q, 1946.

occupation: Cashier, United Artists Corporation.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Called into active duty from reserves as first
lieutenant, field artillery, February, 1941; battery commander, Fort
Bragg, 1942; office of Army Headquarters Commandant, Washington,
D. C., November, 1942-November, 1946; promoted to captain, security
officer, Pentagon, 1943; building commandant, Army Air Forces Annex
No. 1, 1945-46; overseas, Germany, 1946~47; adjutant and executive

[ 1136 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

officer, 7734 Eucom Hist. Detachment; 1947-48, battery commander, oth
Infantry Division, Fort Dix, N. J.; received Army Commendation
Ribbon.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, St. Luke’s Church, ‘Allston, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Prospect Lodge, A. F. & A. M., Roslindale.

AFTER graduation I entered the wholesale fireworks business
and remained there during the depression years. In 1939 I mar-
ried Hazel Toy. I was ordered into active duty in the Army in
February, 1941, and went to Fort Bragg, North Carolina. In July
of that year our first daughter was born, followed next year by
Diane, and four years later by Kathleen. The Army saw fit to
send me to Washington, D. C., and after a time I actually found
a house and had my family there. Then I went overseas to Ger-
many for a year, and then back to Fort Dix. I became a civilian
again in 1948.

Since leaving the Army I have been with an export house, a
motor oil company, and am now with United Artists.

KENNETH BUREN WASSON

HOME AppRESS: Hermanos Manchego 908, La Paz, Bolivia.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Comercio 470, La Paz, Bolivia; Casilla 1255, La Paz, Bolivia
(post office address).

BORN; Sept. 22, 1901, Chicago, Hl. parents: Buren Sherman Wasson, Mar-
garet Adelaide Camp.

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

marrieD: Ann J. P. Kessler, Feb. 27, 1936, Lima, Peru.

occuPATION: Managing director, Bolivia Films Ltda., importer and distributor

_of motion picture equipment and films; producer of documentary films.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT PosT: Executive secretary, Coordination Committee
for Bolivia, a dependency of Office of the Coordinator of Inter-
American Affairs, Washington, D. C.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Anglo-American Club, La Paz.

GO SOUTH, young man” was, back there in the twenties, more
or less the current equivalent of advice to the youth of an earlier
era to seek fortune and fame in our undeveloped west. The
western frontier was vanishing, but the countries and the lands
to the south of us were still full of promise. “The last frontier”
some called them.

So South America was the land of golden opportunity — in

[ 1137 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

possible — but where (I have come to learn in nine years) the
reality is quite different from the surface appearance of things.

So I stayed on, I have here, with some associates, a small busi-

ness, which is just beginning to work its way out of the red,
Fortunately, the cost of living is so low that life goes on in very
pleasant fashion in spite of insignificant financial return to date,
I have a little farm of ten acres about an hour from La Paz, with
a small lake on it, where I raise some ducks and geese and keep
a couple of horses for riding through some of the world’s love-
liest scenery. Two devilish dachshunds, mischievous and un-
disciplined, share our life in town and in the country.
Politics? I've been away from the United States so much that
I haven’t been able to vote for years. Consequently, I was un-
able to do anything to help dislodge the Truman Administra-
tion. I note, however, that in spite of my absence and without
my vote, the Republicans were finally able to come through.

My social philosophy is the same as twenty years ago—as

far as objectives are concerned: the greatest good for the great-
est number; equality of opportunity and further progress in
human relations. I have changed, however, in my beliefs with
respect to the means towards those ends. |

I have, in short, gravitated from the center to the right. This

is a phenomenon often associated with advancing age, harden-
ing of the arteries, and a swollen bank account. In my-case none
of these apply — least of all the last, I have simply come to be-
lieve that the private enterprise system, under adequate but not
excessive social control, offers the broadest possibility for hu-
man progress — social and economic — together with the great-
est amount of political freedom, This attitude I am sure is not
the result of changes in the cellular tissues but comes rather
from a more mature understanding of human nature, from years
of observation of people and institutions in various countries,
and especially from watching trends and developments in my
own country at long distance and in world perspective.

The tranquil life of backward countries seems to offer many
advantages in these terrible, hectic days of television, super mat-
kets, and super highways. But being an expatriate also has its
disadvantages, mainly the wide separation from old friends and
certain pleasant associations, I have almost completely lost touch

[1140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the friends of Cambridge days — except for occasional, de-
lightful, and decently convivial encounters with Cliff Hickok
on my rare visits to New York; likewise agreeable and stimu-
lating visits with Howie Hart, who never fails to show up around
the Harvard Club when I am in Manhattan. I haven’t been near
Cambridge since around 1938, and see little possibility of get-
ting up there in June of this year.

However, one can’t have everything, and I’m pretty content
with my present lot, If I had it all to do over again I'd probably
make the same choice.

HENRY LEWIS WATSON

HOME ADDRESS: 56 High St., Gorham, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, Inc., 48 Main St. South
Portland, Maine.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1904, Gorham, Maine. PARENTS: John Sterling Watson, Anna

_ May Files.

PREPARED AT: Gorham High School, Gorham,. Maine; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

marriED: Dorothy Daniels, Sept. 2, 1933, Portland, Maine. cHmpren: John
Lewis, Oct. 14, 1934; Peter Donald, April 9, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Sterling Watson, ’28.

occupation: Marketing clerk, Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, Inc.

TWO months after graduation I took what I considered to be
a temporary job with Socony-Vacuum and as of today, I am
still with the same concern. I have found living and working
in a small town very pleasant, and my days and years have been

                                                   

times very interesting — problems of making a living and rais-
ing a family.

_ There is one recent activity that has meant a great deal to us
— over a period of a year and a half, my family and I have built
and equipped a summer camp, located on a Maine lake not too
far away. We found the project absorbing and extremely in-
teresting, especially for the boys. Our only regret is that we
did not go ahead on this before.

[1141]

— ——

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PHILIP STERLING WATSON

HOME aAppress: Gray Road, Gorham, Maine.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Southworth Machine Co., Portland, Maine.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1905, Gorham, Maine. Parents: John Sterling Watson, Anna
May Files.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925; 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).
marrieD: Marie A. Gallishaw, Oct. 14, 1939, Gorham, Maine.
HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Lewis Watson, ’28.

occuPATION: Tractor and road machinery distributorship.

MY LIFE since graduation would probably be rated as about
average. Fame and fortune have eluded me, but I have few com-
plaints as to the treatment that life has accorded me in other
respects.

My business life started the Monday after graduation, in New-
ark, New Jersey, and progressed in time to Boston, and then
to Portland. It was in Cambridge that I met my wife, and we
were married in 1939. I have always been glad that I waited so
long. We bought a home in the town where I was born and
raised, and we both feel that no other home can equal a country
home in Maine.

JOHN WATTS

HOME apprEss: Oldwick, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bank of the Manhattan Co. . 1 Great Winchester St., London,
E. C. 2, England.

BorN: Aug. 28, 1905, Morristown, N. J. PARENTS: Ridley Watts, Gertrude
Van Epps Hoy.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MarRiED: Mari Boies, March 25, 1933, Scranton, Pa. cHILpREN: David B,
May 18, 1935; Mari G., April 30, 1937; Elizabeth B., Sept. 13, rgqo.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Ridley Watts, ’23; Philip Howell Watts, 31.

OCCUPATION: Foreign banking.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Indoctrination, Naval Air Station, Quonset Point,
R. I; O. and C, ground school, Naval Air Station, Livermore, Calif.
Naval War College, Newport, R. 1; staff, Admiral Pye — president,
Naval War College; staff, Admiral Jennings — commander, Air Train-

ing Squadron, Pacific; staff, Admiral Radford, commander, Task Group
38.4 and 58.4.

 

[1142 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Somerset Hills Country Club; The Links, New York; Leander
Club, Henley-on-Thames, Boodles, London.

THE last twenty-five years, excepting four years in the Navy,
I have spent in the banking and security businesses. I have no re-
rets and, in looking back, realize that the customary and in-
evitable disappointments and frustrations dotting the way have
had positive values.

At this point, the spring of 1953, I am living in London with
my wife and youngest daughter, David and Mari being at school
in America. For the Bank of the Manhattan Company, I am
engaged in contacting, and presumably developing, our connec-
tions in Western Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa.
It is utterly fascinating, and I can truly say I envy no one of
my classmates his job. Each summer the whole family are in
due course reunited and we set off to visit, during my vacation,
a different country from the previous year.

My hobbies still continue to be shooting, golf, and skiing, al-
though there is too little time for any one of them. My gun
still appears to have a bend in the barrel, I cannot yet hit a
screamer off the first tee, and my wife will always lead me on
the Parsen. I trust I shall be able to report more favorably at
our Fiftieth., ,

Many of the happiest moments of the last four years have
been the occasional, and usually chance, meetings with class-
mates. I sincerely hope that anyone passing through London,
prior to my return to New York in August, 1954, will let me
know so that I can garner each last bit of news from home.

I could not end this narrative without paying tribute to all
those classmates who have been working so selflessly and so
effectively to make our Twenty-fifth an outstanding success.

HARRY BELL WATTSON

HOME ADDRESS: 157 Prospect Pl., Rutherford, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bendix Aviation, Teterboro, N. J.

BoRN: March 14, 1899, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Charles H. WW attson,
Susan Bell Frost.

PREPARED AT: Rutherford High School, Rutherford, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREES: . A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1925; §.M.
(Harvard Univ.), 1928.

[ 1143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

marRiED: Carolyn Louise Ott, June 24, 1933, Rutherford, N. J. cumpren:
Richard Bell, Aug. 7, 1936; Virginia Bell, Oct. 3, 1947.
occuPATION: Project engineer, Bendix Aviation. |

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers (senior member); Radio Club of
America; Audio Engineering Society.

AFTER graduation I joined the Radio Corporation of America,
communications, at 66 Broad Street, New York City. After a
year and a half I returned to Harvard as a candidate for a D.CS,
degree. At the end of one year I joined Rangertone Inc. in New-
ark, New Jersey. I was married on June 24, 1933, and had one
child (a boy) on August 7, 1936. I joined Sperry Gyroscope
Company on October 10, 1940. I had another child on October
3, 1947 (a girl). I joined Bendix on May 10, 1948, and am still
there. We lived in Rutherford when first married, moved to
Long Island in 1940, and returned to Rutherford in 1948. My hob-
bies are: amateur radio, Hi Si enthusiasts, and I have an in-
terest in anything of a scientific nature. My present work at
Bendix is to help transistors grow up.

JOHN ROWE WEBSTER
HOME ADDRESS: 1011 Jackson St., Annapolis, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: P. O. Box 151, Annapolis, Md.

Born: Dec. 24, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Joseph Rowe Webster, ’93,
Ethel Brittain.

PREPARED AT: The Widow’s, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1928(29)3; A.M., 1930.
mMarRiED: Anne E. Blood, June 10, 1931, Milton, Mass.

occupation: Fishery research biologist, U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Materials specialist under Controlled Materials
Plan, 1943-46, Washington, .

MEMBER OF: Atlantic Fishery Biologists, Atlantic Estuarine Research
Society.
IN 1930 I started at the bottom of the professional federal civil
service in the Bureau of Fisheries. Now I am advanced a few
grades in its successor agency, the Fish and Wildlife Service, as
a fishery biologist. I spent most of the time in New England or
Washington, D. C. Side trips have included study in Labrador
and extensive travel in the Philippines. Now in my third year at

Annapolis, 1 am striving at some vexing research upon the Ches-
apeake Bay oyster.

[1144]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The girl who was willing in 1931 still is despite unpromised
budgetary problems, eight household moves, and more of both
probable.

For fun I am a back-yard Burbank, specializing in edible spe-
cies. I have not been, nor do I expect to be, an illustrious son
of Harvard or a substantial contributor toward her endowment.

Outside of work and garden, my principal interests seem to be
in support of a mortgage holder, some insurance companies,
several oil companies, a service garage, numerous food packers
and processors, some big utilities, civil bodies, and my local hard-
ware store.

My convictions? there are no religious ones. Otherwise I

earn for free trade and am thoroughly frightened at the pow-
er wielded by organized labor in this country. I wish that
somehow the wishes and requirements of unorganized labor
could be met.

DANIEL WECHSLER

HOME apDpREsS: 800 Avenue H, Brooklyn 30, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 150 Nassau St., New York 38, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 15, 1908, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: Martin Wechsler, Nellie
Waldman.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1928.

MARRIED: Ruth Kaplan, Sept. 18, 1932, New York, N. Y.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Army, Aug. 11, 1943-Nov. 23, 1945; Asiatic-
Pacific Theatre, March, 1944-November, 1945.

MEMBER OF: New York County Lawyers’ Association.

WITH the exception of the time I spent in the Army, I have
been practising law since my admission to the New York Strate
Bar in 1933. |

I have made three trips abroad —two to Europe at my own
expense and one to the Pacific at Uncle Sam’s, I am looking
forward to making more trips— but at my own expense’

[1145 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

LOUIS LORNE WEDLOCK

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Beech St., Rockland, Maine.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Spruce Head Lobster Corp., Spruce Head, Maine.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1905, Prince Edward Island, Canada. PARENTS: James Stanley
Wedlock, Bessie Ella Hillman.

PREPARED AT: Prince of Wales College, Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1928; A.M., 1929.

MARRIED: Esther Barbara Foss, Sept. 19, 1938, Fitchburg, Mass. cHipren:
Gail Katherine, Oct. 13, 1946; Stephen James, Nov. 12, 1948.

OccUPATION: Treasurer, Spruce Head Lobster Corp., wholesale lobster
dealers. .

MEMBER OF: Lions Club.

PLEASE forgive this slave of procrastination! Here, briefly, is
the substance of my life since °28:

From the fall of 1928 until the spring of 1932, I did graduate
work in anthropology at Harvard, and received my Master’s de-
eree in archaeology in 1930. I became assistant to the director
of Peabody Museum and spent two field seasons at Sitio Conte,
Cocle Province, Panama. During the period of 1932-33, I was
with the Department of Old World Archaeology at the National
Museum in Washington, D. C., and spent the field season (sum-
mer) of 1933 in France.

From 1933 to 1940 I was engaged in fur farming (silver black
fox) in Westminster, Massachusetts. In 1941 I became an ac-
countant for the United Fruit Company, and in 1942 for the
Tuttle Construction Company. In 1943 I started in as cost
accountant, then production planner to the production control
manager, but resigned in the fall of 1947 to come to Maine. |
am now treasurer of Spruce Head Lobster Corporation and of
Sims Lobster Company, wholesale lobster dealers, '

In the past several years, I have been out of touch with the
class, except for not infrequent visits to the Peabody Museum
and to Dr. Hooton — who is still my favorite professor. Life
in the lobster business—-and in a small Maine town — leaves
little- time for other activities.

FREDERICK REDFIELD WEED

HOME AppRESS: 109 St. Theresa Ave., West Roxbury 32, Mass,
OFFICE aDpREss: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury 32, Mass,

[1146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: June 3, 1906, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Frederick Weed,
LLB. 98, Mary Duncan Walker.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; A.M., 1932.

maArRieD: Margaret Ralston Jarvis, Oct. 18, 1930, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN:
Peter Redfield, June 13, 1934, Lucretia Jarvis, May 24, 1937.

occupation: Headmaster, Roxbury Latin School.

MEMBER OF: Country Day School Headmasters’ Association, Tavern Club,

I IMAGINE that it is comparatively rarely that one can point
to a particular moment which has determined one’s life’s work.
Such, however, I feel was my experience the day we all regis-
tered at Harvard for our Freshman year. Lewis Perry, then
Principal of Phillips Exeter Academy, wrote a note for me to his
distinguished brother, Bliss Perry. It read:

“Bliss — Take this fellow under your wing. Lewis”

Bliss Perry took me under his wing. Since then I have remained
under what to me has been his magic spell. Later Lewis Perry
re-entered my life, binding me even more securely in the warp
and woof (the Paradise and Penury) of teaching. Had someone
said to me on that September day in 1924, “Look to the Perrys,”
that would have been good advice. Had someone else said on
that same day, “Look out for the Perrys,” that too would have
been good advice. But knowing what I now do, my gratitude
would go to the former adviser.

Upon graduation I spent a year travelling in Europe and the
Orient. In 1929 with the collapse of the generous stock market,
I became a bank clerk in Boston. Perched on a high stool I
longed for literature in place of marginal accounts.

_ In 1930 the bank prospered without me, as I converted my

shrunken nest egg into an A.M. degree at Harvard. During
my brief banking career I achieved my greatest success. To
my shame, I now know it was accomplished by fraud. I per-
suaded a lovely Pittsburgh girl to share my rise to fame and for-
tune in the banking world. I blush!

In a matter of months we were uncomfortably ensconced in
the depression and would have been on relief had not St. Mark's
School generously taken on an inexperienced teacher. During
my fifteen years there I learned a lot from the students; whether
they learned anything from me is more open to question.

[ 1147]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

In 1947 we moved back to Boston, and as Headmaster of the
venerable Roxbury Latin School, I rather frightened myself
with my new title. In pictures, all my predecessors looked so
wise and formidable, and the very word “Headmaster” has
such a connotation of tyrannical and arbitrary might to the long
memory of childhood. I soon found that administration was very
similar to teaching: I was the victim as often as I was the
judge, the butt as frequently as the sage.

It has been my good fortune to be happy, and I attribute
much of this good luck to my initial and continued association
with Harvard.

JACOB M. WEILL

HOME ADDRESS: 160 E. 80th St.. New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 202 Coffey St., Brooklyn 31, N.Y. -

porn: May 15, 1906, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Max Weill, Minnie Weill.

PREPARED AT: Mount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

marrigp: Sylvia G. Steisel, July 3, 1947, Glen Cove, N. Y. cxrip: Mitchell
Steven, Nov. 13, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Weill, ’29, Lu.B., 733.

occupation: President and director, Mutual Paper Company Inc., manu-
facturers, converters, distributors, papers and twine.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Member, Coarse Paper Industry Advisory
Committee, Office of Price Administration.

JACOB IRVING WEISMAN

HOME ApprEss: 161 Wenonah Rd., Longmeadow 6, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 151 Maple St., Springfield, Mass.

Born: March 4, 1907, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Jacob Weisman,
Minerva Bortman.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea Senior High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 19285 | M.D. cum laude
(Boston Univ.), 1932.

MARRIED: Mary Doris Feeney, Sept. 1, 1933, Augusta, Maine, CHILDREN:
Sandra Elaine, April 26, 1939; Marilyn Lee, June 17, 1942,

OccUPATION: Physician, specialist in internal medicine; president and treas-
urer, White Hall, Inc. (real estate),

[ 1148 ]

 

APPL PEE PREP I PRT TREN Be A RNA EH TOYS HE EERE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Captain, Army Medical Corps; called from Re-
serves July 7, 1941; discharged Jan. 3, 1943; assistant battalion surgeon,
ro1st Military Police Battalion; battalion surgeon, 53rd Coast Artillery
Regiment; supply officer, Company A, 54th Medical Battalion.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT Post: Contract surgeon, Army Au Force College
Training Detachment, Springfield College, 1943-44.

OFFICES HELD: President, Parlor Medical Club, 1939-40, Maumonedes Medical
Club, 1952; secretary, Western Massachusetts Heart Association; car-
diologist, Springfield and Municipal Hospitals; assistant physician,
Springfield Hospital; chief, Western Massachusetts Cardiac Clinic;
coordinator, Cardiac Evaluation Center.

MEMBER OF; American Medical Association, Massachusetts Medical Society;
Trudeau Society; American College Chest Physicians; American Board
of Internal Medicine; Lion Club, Masonic Order; A. V. C.; Jewish
War Veterans; Israel Physicians Society; Bnai Brith.

PUBLICATIONS: “Surgery of the Diabetic,” New England Journal of Medi-
cine; “‘Raw’ Milk versus Undulant Fever,” New England Journal of
Medicine; “Effusions Following Pneumothorax,” American Review of
Tuberculosis; “Degenerative Changes in Diabetes” (in preparation).

- TWENTY-ONE years old, with a Harvard degree cum laude,
a burning zeal to be a doctor, broke, and not admitted to any
medical school; that was the picture in June, 1928. So I went up
to Civil Service and the examination for junior chemist which
I passed with the aid of knowledge gleaned from Professor
J. B. Conant, et al.; in September, 1928, I registered for an A.M.
in Education, but before paying my tuition took a quick trip from
the Yard to the Boston University School of Medicine where I
was on the “waiting list.” The dean’s secretary stuck her head
out of the window and yelled, “Weisman! Do you want to go
to med school?” I was in! Good-bye Harvard and A.M.

Then followed four happy years of hard work and play with

a personal income of two dollars (2) a week and a half-year
scholarship each year. Now I was twenty-five years old with
an M.D. degree cum laude, a doctor, broke and no internship I
could afford to accept—and ah yes, a fresh little nurse who,
too, had just graduated from the Boston City Hospical and
was ready to share my woes and joys. Needing an appoint-
ment with an emolument I became junior physician at Fssex
Tuberculosis Sanitarium (hospital), a pleasant and rewarding
experience where modern tuberculosis treatment was still in its
pioneering stage. I married my little nurse, and we had a thirty-

[ 1149 ]

—_ >

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

dollar Chevrolet, vintage “?” But I realized I was in a rut and
not cut out for the leisurely life in a public institution, so I ap-
plied for an internship at Springfield Hospital at no emolument.
There I was at twenty-seven and one-half years old, an intern,
with a wife, somewhat of a chest specialist, broke, and no more
Chevrolet. Eighteen months later I elected to stay in Spring-
field, Massachusetts, because I was offered a position as chief
of welfare clinics at forty-two dollars per week. Now at last
I was a doctor with a shingle on the front stoop, a ninety-dollar
Chevrolet, a bank loan, and a few sticks of furniture. But |
didn’t have to sit around and wait for patients like any new
doctor; I was seeing sixty to a hundred patients per day in the
two welfare clinics assigned to me. Gradually my general prac-
tice, limited to evenings, grew to the point where I had to break
away from the cognomen “city physician” which is the lowest
thing next to being an “army doctor.” So this was the situa-
tion: resignation from the Welfare Department, full-time prac-
tice of medicine, relatively broke, aged thirty-two, but some-
thing new and wonderful had been added by first-born daugh-
ter “Sandy.”
Then I got mad. It was 1939 and Hitler had just marched
into Poland which was just the impetus I needed to join the
Army Medical Reserve Corps—a year later we owned our own
home (4,000 dollars—not a Nixon purchase) and life was
pleasant. F. D. R., the greatest Harvardian of all time, and locally
yours truly, foresaw the dangers of Hitlerism and were sorely
erieved. Six months before Pearl Harbor I was called into
active service, but peacetime army life and North Carolina
maneuvers were not quite what the zealous physician craved —
imagine a physician, not too athletic, pitching tents, drilling,
checking spark-plugs on the vehicles in the Motor Poo] at Camp
Edwards. But December 7, 1941, eventually arrived and I was
a wartime doctor, aged thirty-four, a new and rambunctious
Marily Lee had been added and my nice little home sublet to
an ordinance major because of financial inadequacy. A slight
illness and the “brass” at the Walter Reed General Hospital re-
turned me to civilian life with a promotion to captain. However,
I was spoiled for civilian life since there was only one refrig-
erator to inspect for cleanliness and no “short-arm” inspection,

I REET TTPO RO FR

1 oT Pe enna

[1150]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Springfield College had just started a pre-pre-flight school and I
grasped the chance again to be associated with the military
“brains” and army regulations. There I was, a civilian, but serv-
ing as post medical officer with three soldiers and three nurses
and my own infirmary. I was not too unhappy, financially se-
cure, and now a resident of the Longmeadow section equivalent
to the Brookline section of Boston; and I was gathering somewhat
of a reputation as a cardiologist.

With the war over I began to chafe at the bit. A Harvard
man cannot remain a general practitioner and thus the logical
sequence — study, grind, study, and finally certification by the
American Board of Internal Medicine in October, 1951. What
does this mean? I can now restrict my work and my income
to fifty per cent of the pre-certification era. But it meant staff
promotion, additional free work at the hospital, and a certain
aura found only in the immediate vicinity of medical consult-
ants. However the future looks bright, life has been full, and
now I am practising what I preach to my patients, namely, the
youth-retaining property of indulging in hobbies. I have many —
tropical fish raising, gardening, accordian playing; and more
recently the engulfing satisfaction of boat-building, outboard
sailing and fishing in Long Island Sound from May to Novem-
ber; even more recently — household repairs and fireplace build-
ing. I can only look back with pleasure to the intellectual pur-
suits implanted in me by four years at Harvard; that there
will be a re-awakening of the quest for higher learning is a surety
as soon as Adlai Stevenson is in the White House. I look for-
ward to the Twenty-fifth, the Thirty-fifth, and the Fiftieth
Reunions with a pleasure which I hope will equal that of the
Twentieth. (Obviously this was written before election day, but
wait until 1956. We'll be back.)

* JOHN LEWIS WELLS

BoRN: May 3, 1901, Union Level, Va. parents: John Silas Wells, Mary Ida
Nash.

PREPARED AT: Fork Union Military Academy.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

[rist ]

| |
, Li or

- HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

MARRIED: Lula Hammond, November, 1931, Fairfax, Va. CHILDREN: Frederick
W., March 27, 1936; Barry H., Sept. 7, 1945.

prep: Oct. 8, 1948, Richmond, Va.

wIDOW: Mrs. John L. Wells, 5709 Bromley Lane, Richmond, Va.

APPARENTLY John Lewis Wells was a teacher in Union
Level, Virginia, for some time after he left Harvard. He was
for several years, however, engaged in the retail and wholesale
sale of electrical appliances. In 1939 with R. S. Montgomery,
Jr., former teacher in the Harvard Naval accounting school,
he formed the Welmont Electric Corporation in Richmond. He
was president of this corporation at the time of his death. Dur-
ing World War Il he served as an air raid warden and he was
at one time the president of the Electrical, Radio and Refriger-
ator Club, Inc., of Richmond, also a member of the Harvard
Club of Virginia. Wells was survived by his immediate family
and by six sisters and a brother.

MASON BACHELLER WELLS

HOME AND OFFICE AppDRESS: Belvedere, Calif.

BORN: June 19, 1906, Southbridge, Mass. PARENTS: Channing McGregor
Wells, Irene Kelley.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1928; B.F.A. (Yale Univ.), 1932.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: C. McGregory Wells, Jr., ’26; Alfred Turner Wells, '26.

occupation: Artist and designer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Naval Reserve; lieutenant (j g. ), 1940;
stationed at Boston, Newfoundland, Washington; separated as lieutenant
commander, 1943.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Southern Marin Recreation Center, since 1948;
coordinator, Belvedere City Planning Commission, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Elizabethan Club (Yale), Harvard Club of New York; Racquet
Club and Tavern Club, Chicago.

FOR ME: One professional career started four years after
1928, at A Century of Progress in Chicago, based on an archi-
tectural degree from Yale University. Another professional
career started about 1938, after an incentive year and a half in
the Orient — best was Bali — as a painter. Another career started

in 1940, pressing a seat—- worst was Washington — for the
Naval Reserve.

[trs2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The cycle began after that, in Chicago — architectural, Office,
research work, and client patter. Then again the painter phase,
in Colorado Springs, and thence San Francisco, It is hoped the
third phase will not be necessary again.

Painting, the most difficult — and although free time is liable
to be too free—-and expensive —seems the most desirable, as
the sitting facilities are more varied — drafting stools, deck chairs,
beach chairs, pullman, plane, and even plush chairs, there and
here. Color movies reincarnate the spent travel checks; commu-
nity recreational and planning efforts brace the conscience. Great
works, by me, do not hang on nor cover many walls, but it is
great \ work.

For Harvard: The thinking started at Harvard University
(must have) contributed much to the appreciation of all the
opportunities enjoyed in the past twenty-five years, and for
the next. ...

ROBERT REESE WERTZ

HOME ADDRESS: 394 Jefferson Drive, Pittsburgh 28, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 525 William Penn Pl. Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

BORN: June 19, 1907, Johnstown, Pa. PARENTS: Harry Elmer Wertz, Edna
May Reese.

PREPARED AT: Johnstown High School, Johnstown, Pa.; ; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; LL.B., 1931.

MarrigD: Olive Crawe, Dec. 24, 1934, Newtonville, Mass. CHILDREN: Faith
Woodbury, Sept. 19, 1937; Patricia Joy, May 22, 1941; Charity Marcy,
March 26, 1946; Robert Crawe, Jan. 24, 1952.

OccuPATION: Lawyer; general attorney, United States Steel Corp.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pittsburgh Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1940-41;
vice-president, Pennsylvania Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1041-42;

director, United States Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1941-43; director,
Pittsburgh Central Blood Bank, since 1950; trustee, Big Moose (N. Y.)
Community Church, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh (director, 1947-49);
American, Pennsylvania, and Allegheny County Bar Associations;
Foreign Policy Association.

HAPPY is the nation that has no history, and the same may
be true of individuals. My own course seems to have been affected
rather less than most by the stirring events of the past twenty-

[ 1153 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

casions of religious experience in the past twenty-five years, and
they have all served to deepen in me the conviction that God
does govern in the affairs of men. A deep faith that each of us
is given the strength to accomplish that which is within God's
purpose permits me to face with equanimity the hazards of the
atomic age, and to look forward with confidence to the future,

SAMUEL WESTHEIMER

HOME ADDRESS: 265 Union Blvd., St. Louis, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 315 N. Seventh St., St. Louis, Mo.

BoRN: Oct. 11, 1906, Saint Joseph, Mo. PARENTS: Benjamin Samuel West-
heimer, ’98, Rita Meyer.

PREPARED AT: Lycee Jaccard, Lausanne, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

UNMARRIED.

‘OCCUPATION: Property management.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Entered Army as private, April 9, 1942; com-
missioned second lieutenant of infantry, March 4, 1943; overseas duty
in European Theatre, 1945-47; separated as captain, May 23, 1947;
appointed major, United States Army Reserves, 19 ste

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of St. Louis.

AS FAR as occupations go the past twenty-five years, the road to
fame and fortune has taken a lot of twists and turns and one big
detour. I was engaged in the advertising business from 1932 to
1942. In the latter year I received the usual “greetings” of the day
and spent the next five years in the Army. |

Upon returning from service, I went back into advertising.
Off and on, however, for some years I had been dabbling in
farming. After the war it became strongly evident that farming
had attained the status of big business and since 1951 I have
devoted more and more time to the management of my farm
and the raising of livestock for market.

J. ERSKINE WESTERVELT

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Sinawoy Rd., Cos Cob, Conn.

OFFice AppRrEss: Buckley School, 122 E. 7qth St., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: March 20, 1907, Hackensack, N. J. PARENTS: Julien Durand Wester-
velt, Elizabeth Woodhull Waldo.

[1156]

 

Nt OREN MNES SALIENT OE! OY NOMI O

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Lower Merion High School, Ardmore, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1928; A.M. 1930.
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Teacher of English.

THE first reaction of a bachelor schoolmaster, in these cir-
cumstances, is that he has little to report of general interest; but
the years have passed with such incredible swiftness that they
must have been crammed with something.

A half-year at the Harvard Law School in the fall of 1928 con-
firmed my suspicion that a life spent in that field was not for
me, so I switched to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences
in the following year. In 1930 I joined Ted Wilkins at the
Greenwich Country Day School, teaching boys at junior high
level for the next twelve years. Arthur Wallace came later, and
Charlie Buell was one of our headmasters, a pleasant leavening
in a Yale town!

Since 1942 I have been commuting, pre-dawn to post-dusk, to
the Buckley School in New York; I am one of the rare birds
who enjoy commuting — except during blizzards. I manage to
read a great deal, use the radios sparingly, and have thus far
resisted the blandishments of television. In recent years I have
been working with the English examiners of the Secondary Ed-
ucation Board; it’s an added professional chore, but one which
I find stimulating. |

During the thirties ic never occurred to me that I was living
in an economic paradise. Even my very modest salary supported
extensive travelling — a summer in England; two in Scandinavia;
one in the Mediterranean; flying trips to Moscow, Bermuda, the
West Indies; and several expeditions in my car to the West
Coast, Canada, and Mexico. It seems like another world!

In 1942 the Army decided I’d make a better teacher than in-
fantryman; I spent the war years with my fellow-civilians spot-
ting planes, acting as neighborhood warden, and working for
the Red Cross. Nowadays, except for an occasional stretch on
Cape Cod, I just stay home and pay bills! I am an enthusiastic
vegetable gardener (like Dave Owens) and a frequenter of our
very attractive town beach. I manage to keep up with the thea-
tre. Usually I vote Democratic. My chief joy is martinis and
good conversation. I played all games with magnificent inept-

[1157 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

tude till forty when I decided with relief to be middle-aged.
My doctor just forced me to dispense with twenty-two pounds,
so I entertain the faint hope that my old roommates will rec-
ognize me next June.

RAY CREIGHTON WESTGATE

HOME ADDRESS: 2112 Highland Ave., Fall River, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 21 Bedford St., Fall River, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 14, 1907, Fall River, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Everett Westgate,
Cora Adele Creighton.

PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1928, LLB,
1931.

MARRIED: Muriel Frances Barlow, June 14, 1939, Fall River, Mass. cHiLpREN:
David Frank, Dec. 15, 1940; Elizabeth Ann, May 24, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Milton Alonzo Westgate, ’27, LL.B., 732.

occupaTION: Lawyer, Buffinton, Crowther, Bogle & Westgate.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Fall River National Bank; trustee, Union Hospital
in Fall River, Citizens Savings Bank.

SINCE graduation from Law School in 1931 I have practised
law in the City of Fall River. My practice has been general, but
principally in the corporation, estate, and tax fields. My life has
been that of the average citizen who is active in the business,
charitable, and civic affairs of a small city. I have served as
president of the Harvard Club of Fall River, the local Lions
Club, and Taxpayers’ Association, and on the boards of various
civic groups and of several business corporations.

DINSMORE WHEELER

HOME ApprREss: Route 2, Huron, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1621 Euclid Ave., Cleveland 15, Ohio.

BoRN: May 11, 1905, Chicago, Ill. parents: Edward Dinsmore Wheeler,
Marion Belle Ristine.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: 8.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Mildred E. Lough, 1939, Chicago, N1.; 3 Mary Pollard, May 1, 1952,
Chicago, Ill.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Page Wheeler, '33.
occupation: Advertising, copy and production; weekend farming.

[1158 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ONE man’s biography is of less importance than the fact that
the enemies of the Republic are at last being dragged into the
open and the total defense of democracy is becoming more of
a reality every day. Under the circumstances, it is both salutary
and honorable for us to admit that Harvard has been guilty of
contributing more than her share of rebels and renegades.

As a case in point I submit the following, written by a member
of the Class of ’37: “Men are very generally spoiled by being so
civil and well disposed — A cross man, a coarse man, an eccen-
tric man, a silent man, a man who does not drill well — of him
there is some hope.”

It could be argued that this is a relatively obscure utterance
by one who would be regarded by today’s more realistic and
less temporizing standards as a nobody and a failure, Neverthe-
less, he was, at one time, a school teacher and could easily have
contributed to the corruption of youth. It is a matter of record
that he was a tax dodger and once served a jail sentence — prob-
ably welcoming, as have so many of his kind, the lucky chance
to be a martyr. He wrote a pamphlet advocating civil disobedi-
ence which, out of proportion to its bulk, is said to have added
greatly to the enduring discomfort of our sister imperium.

On the basis of internal evidence alone, it is quite reasonable
to assume that the author of these words fits the category of the
self-conscious, off-center intellectual who crudely asserts his in-
dependence from what he dubs petit bourgeois values by being
rude and offensive (“a cross man’), by indulging in libelous
and inflammatory rhetoric (“a coarse man”), by flaunting odd
dress and behavior. | |

One knows the breed too well. It ridicules, partly out of
envy and partly out of fear, those who assume the basic responsi-
bilities of solid citizenship — family, home, and savings; religious,
social, and fraternal affiliations (“an eccentric man”). It talks
grandiosely about The World and all the while refuses to partici-
pate even in neighborhood activities. One knows a priori that such
a person would prove intractable, non-codperative, and defiant to
the point, even, of refusing to expose and inform on his former

associates and friends (“a silent man”) — too stubborn, it would
seem, to experience the catharsis of confession.
As for making a hero of “a man who does not drill well” —

[1159 ]

—_———___—— BN

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

history, experience, and that good old common sense that is
worth more than all the theory and stardust that ever emanated
from the unworldly and impractical — these show us that un-
less we are completely welded together in one cohesive, codrdi-
nated, homogeneous, uni-directional community we can never
triumph over totalitarianism. How much energy would a tur-
bine generate if the blades became fouled with irrelevant matter?

We must uncover, attack, denounce, and annihilate every last
element that would in any way hamper our march to freedom.
We must not relax our vigilance until the division of the na-
tions into two logical and manageable classifications is completed
— the sheep and the goats. In the last presidential campaign one
of the candidates said, “My definition of a free society is a so-
ciety where it is safe to be unpopular.” It is enough to say that
he was defeated. | : |

But to wind up the affair of the Harvardian quoted in the first
paragraph — when last seen he was operating in and around Con-
cord, Massachusetts, and there are witnesses who will testify to
his having gone underground. But one never knows — just as
one is naturally puzzled about his name — H. D. Thoreau, It’s
a bit alien-sounding —as one would expect from a mischief-
maker. . . . We have been too Jax in permitting just about any-
body to land on our shores. |

OT ORR TT

JOHN ARTHUR WHEELER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Niantic, Conn.

OFFicE appress: U. §. Navy Underwater Sound Laboratory, Fort Trumbull,
New London, Conn.

BORN: March 23, 1906, Horton, W. Va. parents: John Arthur Wheeler,
Abigail Wells Tomlinson.

PREPARED AT: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; ED.M., 1933.

marriep: Ann Delia Crocker, Oct. 26, 1946, Hingham, Mass. cHILDREN:
Marion Crocker, July 28, 1947; David Arthur, Feb. 24, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Scientific and civil service personnel, education and training
specialist, U.S. Navy Sound Laboratory.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Received commission as ensign, U, S. Navy,
November, 1942; active duty, December, 1942; clinical psychologist,
Naval Training Center, Sampson, N. Y.; classification officer, Naval
Training Center, Bainbridge, Md.; personnel officer, N. O. B, Casa

[ 1160 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

blanca; operations officer, Moroccan Sea Frontier Forces; discharged
from active duty, October, 1945; assisted in organization of and main-
tained active membership (to present date) im Volunteer Research
Reserve Unit 3-5, New Haven, Conn.; present rank, lieutenant com-
mander, 1105.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association (clinical, educational, and
counselling divisions); American Personnel and Guidance Association
(professional member); Society for Personnel Administration, U. S.
Naval Institute.

IN RECALLING the personal facts of twenty-five years 1 am
reminded of the many things that have been left undone, but
here are some of the things that were done. My choice of career
originally resulted from a youthful admiration for a great teacher,
who was himself a “Harvard man” of the 1860's. Immediately
upon graduation the only job I found available was in Kansas
City (“Go West, young man.”), and the year following I went
to Milwaukee to teach. Then followed three years back in
Cambridge at the Graduate School of Education as a research
fellow. I had become intensely interested in the problems of
learning. To further this interest I accepted an arrangement
which permitted me to attend the University of Chicago half-
time during the year 1933-34, but at that point a parental simua-
tion made it necessary for me to return to New England and
make as much cash as I could in my profession. For the next
seven years I continued in remedial teaching and psychological
counselling until I found an opportunity to enter again into
college work. A year in the department of education at Smith
College, Northampton, was interrupted by the realities of mili-
tary service in World War II. Believe it or not, however, six
months were spent vainly trying to market my modest talent
to the armed forces in 1942. But at last in December of that
year I reported for active duty as an ensign, U.S.N.R., clinical
psychologist, at the U. S. Naval Training Center at Sampson,
New York. The military record shows what happened after
that, until October, 1945. At this point I considered thar a
change might be made in my career, but I found that not so
easy an accomplishment as I had dreamed, The results of ex-
ploration in new employment were not very promising. I was a
little ahead of the tide, and I did not want to wait.

An opportunity to work in a field closely related to all my

[ 1161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

previous training developed in the Connecticut Veterans’ Ad-
ministration, and I felt a real satisfaction in service for a time
Many diverse opinions exist about the V.A. and anyone who has
worked within its organization is aware of weaknesses; never-
theless a great service has been done for many veterans, and
many intangibles cannot be enumerated. I worked the major
portion of my time at the Community Advisory Service Center
in Bridgeport, Connecticut. An account of this Center’s activity
is reported in the Reader’s Digest for January, 1952. Also a brief
documentary film was made by the U. S. State Department to
portray a typical example of community effort in the successful
rehabilitation of disabled persons. When the inevitable reduc-
tions in force by the V.A. made necessary new plans for the
future, since I now had a growing family, I accepted a transfer
to the Navy’s Underwater Sound Laboratory in New London,
Connecticut. Here I have been an “education and training spe-
cialist” with a wide variety of duties related to the research and
development of equipments which have served and will serve
“The Fleet” in its defense of our country. .

In summary comment I feel sure I will find some understanding
and perhaps agreement with my philosophical feeling that edu-
cation as a profession has great challenges and teaching provides
its individual compensations, but these do not minimize the eco-
nomic struggle for the support of a family in these times, nor
do they afford the means of tangible gifts to one’s Alma Mater
at Class Reunions. Therefore, advise your son or daughter to

think again, or see a psychiatrist, if he or she suggests teaching
as a career!

NATHANIEL WHEELER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 6 Old Colony Rd., Worcester 5, Mass.

BORN: June 20, 1906, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Leonard Wheeler, 66, M.D,
*"0, Elizabeth Bancroft Cheever.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Bancroft Cheever Wheeler, '20, m.p., ’2q; Leonard
Wheeler, Jr., '22, Lu.B., °25.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel.

[ 1162 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Enlisted as quartermaster 3d, U.S.N.R., Novem-
ber, 1940; called to active duty, January, 1941; duty aboard minesweeper
and attack transport; commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), June, 1942; after
training in Communications at Los Angeles, transferred to armed guard
duty (Pacific) as naval communications liaison officer, separated as
lieutenant commander, November, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Memorial Homes for the Blind, 1936-41, Worcester
Natural History Society, 1937-41 (member, board of trustees since
1946); Members’ Council of Worcester Art Museum, 1948-49; trust
officer, Worcester County Trust Company, 1946-48.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; Military Order of the World
Wars; Players Club; Worcester Club; Tatmuck Country Club; Aga-
menticus Yacht Club, University Club of Worcester; Worcester His-
torical Society; Worcester Art Museum.

A PRETTY orthodox career in commercial banking (trust)
was interrupted by the spreading war in Europe and my feeling
that, single and with no dependents, I would soon be drafted if
I didn’t act first. “Slow color perception” was an initial handi-
cap in trying to sell my services to the Navy, but in the ornery
way of the military, my eventual naval duties were devoted to
navigational and communications work at sea, but, by chance,
the above handicap was not put to a challenge.

Postwar banking didn’t hold the interest for me that it had
before, and after much thought I gave it up in favor of more
specialized investment research and counsel.

Following (so far) in the footsteps of late-marrying parents
I am still single but am blessed with a sister and home that pro-
vides no incentive for a change, ‘

Hobbies include sailing, in the summer, in a sizeable class of
International 210s (where lack of wife or youngsters to crew
with me has provided food for thought), furniture redoing, and
restoration of an old family home in Maine.

Social and religious convictions were rather neglected in my
make-up but political and economic convictions are strong and
at the moment enthusiastic.

JOSEPH BALCH WHEELWRIGHT

HOME apprEss: 8 Live Oak Way, Kent Woodlands, Kentfield, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2206 Steiner St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: June 6, 1906, Hardwick, Mass. PArENts: George William Wheel-
wright, Jr., ’90, Emily Greene Balch.

[ 1163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927, DEGREES: GR. St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Medical
College, London; M.r.cs. (England); trce. (London), 1938; licensed
as M.D. in California, 1940.

marrieD: Jane Byers Hollister, Sept. 16, 1929, Santa Maria, Calif. CHILDREN;

Lynda Hollister, July 29, 1931 (7. Klaus Dieter Schmidt, June 2%
1950); John Hollister, Nov. 7, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: George William Wheelwright, 3d, ’25.

occuPATION: Psychiatrist and Jungian analyst.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT posts: Draft Board #98, Medical Division, San
Francisco, Calif; Veterans’ Rehabilitation Clinic, San Francisco, Calif.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of psychiatry, Univ. of California
Medical School, since 1946; associate psychiatrist, Univ. of California
Student Health Service, Berkeley, since 1946, psychiatrist, Univ. of
California Student Health Service, San Francisco, since 1948; senior
analyst, Medical Society of Analytical Psychology, since 1944; president,
Medical Society of Analytical Psychology, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: University Club and Harvard Club of San Francisco; Marin
Yacht Club; Northern California Society of Neurology and Psychiatry,
American Psychiatric Association; Medical Society of Analytical Psy-

chology; (Harvard College) Spee; Signet Society; Hasty Pudding-
Institute of 1770; D.K_E.

PUBLICATIONS: “Jung’s Psychological Types and Marriage,” Stanford Medical
Bulletin, #2, No. 1, 37-39, Feb., 1944; “Jung’s Psychological Types,
including the Four F unctions,” Journal of General Psychology, 33, 265-
284, Oct., 1945; “Jung’s Psychological Types and their Frequency of
Occurrence,” Journal of General Psychology, 34, 3-17, Jan. 1946.

AT THE end of my junior year, I went out to Santa Barbara
and ran a boys’ and girls’ camp with my brother, George, 25.
We rode herd on thirty to forty children every week-day after-
noon, tutored some of them every morning, and took them on
camping trips each week-end, This operation went well enough
so that we repeated it in the summers of 1928 and 1929. During
the winters, I taught assorted subjects to fifth and sixth grade
boys in the Crane Country Day School, Montecito. My nine
months’ stint of teaching netted me about half what I made in
the summer with the camp. It was good experience, and a radical _
change from the carefree existence at Harvard.

In 1929 I married Jane Hollister and a week later, watched the
money for our flat silver disappear in the stock market crash. The
next year we inherited about $5,000 and set off around the
world — slowly and unfashionably — determined to spin out our
money as long as possible. We spent several months in the South

[ 1164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Seas, a month in Australia, then headed for Peking, via Hong
Kong and Shanghai. We settled down in Peking for a year,
which we loved. I wrote short stories and articles and studied
Chinese, while my wife produced a fine daughter — known to
her amah as Hsiah-Loh (Summer Happiness). When the Japa-
nese invaded Manchuria, we got cold feet and Janey returned
to California with Lynda. I made a trip on foot, rail, and mule-
cart into the interior, and worked briefly with James Yen in
Ting Hsien, where he was operating a mass education move-
ment.

In January, 1932, I travelled to Ziirich, Switzerland, with
stop-overs in Manchuria, Russia (which I crossed hard-class),
Poland, and Germany. In Ziirich I met Dr. C. G. Jung, liked
him and his psychological approach, and decided that if the
experts could straighten out my psyche, I would like to do the
same for others. To this end, I spent the next six years in Lon-
don, getting their equivalent of our M.D. Concurrently, I had
many hours of analysis. During 1938-39, I had control analysis
with Dr. Jung, and worked as an extern at Bleuler’s Clinic. My
wife was also being analyzed and trained as a lay analyst during
these years.

My son, John, was born in London in 1934 in the record
time of twenty minutes. Now, in his eighteenth year, he has
established another family record by attaining the height of 6
feet eight. Our male line is equipped with magnificent pitui-
taries!

We picked San Francisco for our home, and got here a few
weeks before the war broke out in Europe. I had to do another
internship to earn the privilege of sitting for the California State
Board Medical Exams. The first few years of private practice
were hard and not too remunerative. But we built a house north
of the Golden Gate, thanks to the F.H.A., and the children grew
and prospered,

I tried to get into the Air Force, the Army, and the Nav v,
but they insisted that I had T.B. I was unconvinced and w orked
long hours, as there was a dearth of analysts, and much need
for psychiatric help. Psychiatry became more respectable, and

I no Jonger felt as though my office were a speak-easy — secret
and not quite respectable, In 1941, I went on the staff of the

[ 1165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

U. C. Medical School, and in 1946, started as consultant for the
U. C. Student Health Service.

In 1948 I really did come down with T.B. This was a most
helpful and productive experience, and apparently the only way
that old Mother Westwind could make me slow down. After
a year, with the help of a pneumothorax, I was back at work
again, but at a more moderate pace.

My wife continues to work as a lay analyst, and also has be-
come something of an agricultural expert. My daughter left the
University of California in the middle of her junior year (volun-
tarily!) and is now going into the baby business. Her husband
graduates from Stanford Business School this summer, just in
time to join the Army, My son graduated from school last
June. He is working in the mountains this year, and plans to
go to Agricultural College next autumn, Uncle Sam willing.

We had a thirty-two foot cutter during the *4os, and hada
lot of fun with her — both in the bay and along the coast. Oc-
casionally, we get up in the mountains to ski.

I am looking forward to the Reunion in June. It will be my
First, as well as my Twenty-fifth.

MALCOLM PRICE WHITAKER

ADDRESS: 2400 16th St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: May 28, 1905, Wheeling, W. Va. PARENTS: Nelsen Price Whitaker,
Stella Rushing.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1927.

OCCUPATION: Aviation.

EDWARD PEIRCE WHITE

HOME ADDRESS: 104 Captain Peirce Rd., Egypt, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Rockland Trust Co., Rockland, Mass.

porN: April 30, 1905, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Owen White, '99,
Myra Hall Nichols.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: AB., 1928.

[ 1166 ]

>

 

F
|
.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Sylvia Howland Whitaker, April 14, 1934, Philadelphia, Pa. cum.
DREN: Edward Peirce, Jr., March 26, 1935; Elizabeth Howland, Marck
11, 1938 (died March 1, 1943); Lucy Nichols, March 13, 1943; Prudence
Owen, April 14, 1945; George Burton, Jan. 7, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frank Owen White, Jr., ’32; Hayward Peirce White, ’36.

occuPATION: Commercial banking, executive vice-president, Rockland Trust

Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Rockland Trust Company, 1937-53; trustee, South
Scituate Savings Bank, Norwell, 1947-53; trustee, treasurer, Peirce Me-
morial Library, North Scituate, 1948-53.

MEMBER OF: Cohasset Golf Club, Cohasset; Scituate Country Club

HERBERT ALLAN WHITE

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 51 Concord St., Malden; Mass.

BORN: June 25, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: John White, Edith Louise
Pray.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

HERBERT ALLAN WHITE has been carried as a “lost” man

on our records since 1933.

WINDSOR HOLDEN WHITE
HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS

: 10 Lowndes Ct.
1, England.

, Lowndes Street, London S. W.

BORN: July 18, 1905, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Windsor Thomas White
Delia Bulkeley Holden.

PREPARED aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928(29).

MARRIED: Jean Stevensen Graves, Oct. 9, 1930, South Orange, N. J. (di-

vorced 1944); Jean Kathleen Mary Fielding, July 12, 1944, London,

England. cHILpreN: Jean Graves, June 17, 1933; Binney Bulkeley, Jan.
23, 1936; Patricia Holden, Aug. 2, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Holden White, 717 (deceased).

occupation: Foreign correspondent for Cleveland Plain Dealer, Cleveland
News; columnist for Philadelphia Inquirer and The Chronicle (Mid-
dleburg, Virginia); president of The Crossroads of Sport, New York.

WARTIME GOVERNMENT post: Press Division Office of Censorship, W ashing-
ton, chief American censor in the United Kingdom.

MEMBER oF: Union Club, Cleveland; Racquet and Tennis Club, New York;
White’s Club, London; Buck’s Club, London; Grolier Club, New
York.

[ 1167 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

LONDON (delayed) . .. Sharp at noon when local bars open
two members of Harvard ’28 were spotted sauntering down fash-
ionable “club-land” street called St. James. Tall elegant Jack
Watts looked magnificent with an “Anthony Eden” black hom-
burg. Mike White complete in striped trousers and black coat
had his corpulent body under a bowler. Both aided their strides
with properly furled umbrellas. Warts hurried his steps into
Boodles Club as White rushed on to White’s Club. The editor
told me to interview White so it was White’s with White. I
caught up with him in the bar and caught the same as he. This
(the assignment not the drink) was “man bites dog” stuff with
one newspaperman interviewing another.

After respectful time for consumption, and anyway over here
you must not hurry or slam-bang any interview if you want to
get anywhere, White started to gurgle then mutter. It seems
except to move his venue of activities the White leopard has not
changed his spots in the past twenty-five years and there still
seems to be considerable but graying hair on the White hide.
The waist we were asked not to mention.

He claimed he had the best job in the world being on assign-
ment here for The Cleveland Plain Dealer and The Cleveland
News as well as doing a (so help me for a guy who once flunked
English A) literary column for the Philadelphia Inquirer; we
should think he has. He can write where, when, and about
what he pleases and get well paid for it. Except when one
of his bosses takes a trip to Europe he is his own boss.

This independence allows Mike to pursue avidly his hobbies
and recreations of twenty-five years ago. He always has some
tough little terriers around which think he is God and bite
everyone else; he shoots like mad; collects sporting books and
paintings; pants when he gets no exercise. Domestically he is
still married to the sister-in-law of General Lord Ismay who was
Churchill’s Chief of Staff all through the most recent World
War and is now secretary-general of NATO. On this subject
(his wife) Mike waxed ecstatic for a bogus Englishman, “won-
derful woman, Old Boy, wonderful.”

Such lyrical hysterics called the barman and another round.
In turn this brought up the topic of polo which we assumed
White had quit a long time ago. “Not a bit of it, Old Boy, going

[ 1168 ]

 

ik

Sai ep PY RN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

stronger than ever.” It seems Mike has himself his own polo
team entitled Polo Cottage named after his cottage at Midhurst
Sussex. Opponents shudder when his maroon and canary jer-
sies gallop on the field with the result that Mike has a room
full of trophies, his name on most of the oldest cups in Eng-
land.

At this juncture we noticed Mike’s right hand peculiarly curled
around his glass. The little and next finger were crooked as any-
thing and swollen. Mentally we put it down to gout, but White
read our thoughts. “Wrong, my dear fellow, not gout. That is
a ‘royal rap over the knuckles.’ The Duke of Edinburgh smashed
those for me in a game last summer. One of those things y’ know
and couldn’t have been done by a nicer person. Great friend
of mine. His wife is a lovely person too. By the by I see that
about the time of the coronation a lot of chaps are having their
Twenty-fifth Reunion at Harvard —they’ll get crowned all
right.”

With this vast information from my interviewee, I solilo-
quized life over the last years had been good. White gleefully
remarked, “I'll have the same too.” The barman thought he was

being addressed by this remark, did his stuff, and that was -30-.

RICHARD GEORGE WHITING

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Brimmer St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 226 Marlborough St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: May 2, 1906, Somerville, Mass, parents: George Washington Whit-
ney Whiting, Alice Maude Hoyt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.D., 1934.

MARRIED: Rosemary Menzies-Wilson, Jan. 14, 1946, London, England. cHiL-
DREN: Timothy Napier, July 4, 1947; Jonathan Merrill, Feb. 9, 1951.

OccUPATION: Physician, specialist in Internal medicine.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Army Medical Corps, 1942-46; major; from
ward officer to assistant chief of Medical Service in General Hospitals.

MEMBER oF: Aesculapian Club; St. Botolph Club.

A YEAR on Wall Street convinced me that I was not intended
to be a banker. Back to Cambridge I went to try again. Eight
years later after Harvard Medical School and appointments. in
assorted hospitals I emerged as a doctor, which seems to have been

[ 1169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

the right answer. In the war years the Army shifted my prac-
tice from Boston to England where I (rather accidentally)
took the examinations of the Board of Internal Medicine. These,
thank God, were the last formal examinations that I shall ever
have to take. I also (with rather more effort) acquired a beauti-
ful wife, but I had to get back to England after the war when
transportation was practically non-existent to do this. The nor-
mal results in the following years were two rather rampageous
sons, whom we endeavor to contain in a silghtly decrepit Beacon
Hill house. Doctors, at least those of the getting-up-in-the-
middle-of-the-night variety, don’t have much time for hobbies,
They also, perhaps because their work is so varied and satisfying,
. have less need of them than most people. We do enjoy the theatre,
however, dancing, and the country when we can get there.

Incidentally, I had to promise my bride frequent trips back
to her home in England, so shortly after the Reunion we shall all
be flying back again to show off Jonathan and Timothy to
their grandparents. .

f

JOHN LOEW WHITNEY

HOME ADDRESS: 89 E. Wyoming Ave., Melrose 76, Mass.
OFFICE appREss: Whitney Laundry Inc., 179 Beacon St., Somerville 43, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 15, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Travis Harvard Whitney,
’oo, Rosalie R. Loew.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

MaRrRiED: Barbara Brigham, June 7, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. cHILDREN: Bar-
bara, Oct. 8, 1931; Wells, Aug. 28, 1933; Rosalie Loew, 2d, June 21,
1935; Lee, Oct. 30, 1942. .

HARVARD SON: Wells Whitney, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Travis Harvard Whitney, Jr., ’25; William Thoma
Whitney, 731.

occupATION: Laundry owner; engineer, washman, extractor boy, shirt
finisher, and janitor.

MEMBER OF: Bellevue Golf Club.

I GRADUATED from the Business School in 1930, married the
next day, and went to work in the Atlantic & Pacific for two years.
Then I went into the laundry business in Brooklyn. After seven
years and my partner finally deciding he couldn’t take me any

[1170]

>

Pe ETT NE TET TT TE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

longer, I sold my interest. 1 moved to Melrose in 1939 and start-
ed a laundry and cleaning plant (without partners). I am still
hard at it from dawn ’till dusk except for three, four, or five
afternoons of golf a week. I have enjoyed occasional trips to
Bermuda and Canada and after thirty years as a Brooklynite am
surprisingly enjoying small-town suburban life.

I am a straight Republican, slightly Episcopalian, and as con-
cessions to old age have switched from ginger ale to water and
from comfortable sleep to a bed board.

Our oldest, Barbara, graduates from Radcliffe this June and
Wells is a sophomore at Harvard. The third, Sally, is graduating
from High School, and the fourth and last will be just old enough
for the Reunion.

KENNETH ALONZO WHITTLE

HOME appreEss: Y.M.C.A., Room 306, Wilmington, Del.

BoRN: April 18, 1906, Hartford, Conn. parents: Alonzo David Whittle,
Augusta Weingarten.

PREPARED AT: New Britain Senior High School, New Britain, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1928.

OCCUPATION: Chemist, .

EDMUND CARL WILKES

HOME apprEss: §5 Maynard St., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: April 29, 1907, Melbourne, P.I., Canada. parents: Clinton John
Wilkins Wilkes, Isadora Emma McClure.

PREPARED AT: St. Johnsbury Academy, and Springfield Central High School,
Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B. #2agna Cum laude, 1928.

occuPATION: Theatre.

CLARENCE FARMAN WILLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 5 Partridge Terr., Northfield, Vt.
OFFICE apprEss: Norwich University, Northfield, Vt.
‘ porn: Dec. 24, 1907, Island Pond, Vt. Parents: Clarence Henry Willey.
Elvira Sally Farman. .

[riz]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

PREPARED AT: Kimball Union Academy, Meriden, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925. DEGREES: A.B. (Dartmouth Coll.), 1932; a.m.
(Princeton Univ.), 1933; PH.D. (ibid.), 1936.

MARRIED: Florence Kate Hartwell, Aug. 15, 1936, Guildhall, Ve.

occupaTION: Professor, Department of Psychology and Education; chief
examiner for State of Vermont Personnel Board.

MILITARY OR NAVAL REcoRD: U. S. Army Forces, 1943~46;. flexible gunnery
research; commissioned Feb. 6, 1945; participated in clinical psychology
program in U. S. Army Forces hospitals.

OFFICES HELD: President, Vermont Psychological Association, 1952-533 secte-
tary, Northfield Chamber of Commerce, 1941-52; adjutant, Sorrell-
Maynard Post No. 63, American Legion, 1948-53.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma
Xi; Vermont Education Association; Northfield University Club.
PUBLICATIONS: “Directional Variations of Apparent Movement” (doctoral

dissertation).

BARRETT WILLIAMS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 99 Pinckney St., Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1906, Dedham, Mass. parents: George Fred Williams,
Frances Ames Barrett.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1928(29).

MARRIED: Blanche Theodora Hill, Nov. 28, 1933, Boston, Mass.; Josephine
Jewell, May 21, 1948, Boston, Mass. cHiLpReN: LeBaron Carleton Colt,
Jr, May 2, 1929, (stepchild); Anne Winslow Colt, Sept. 26, 1931
(stepchild).

occupaTION: Free-lance writer.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Private, 22d Coast Artillery, 1941-43; stationed
Harbor Defenses of Portsmouth, Portsmouth, N. H.; honorably dis-
charged because of disability, 1943.

MEMBER oF: Advertising Club of Boston; Apollo Club; Badminton and
Tennis Club.

AFTER college I wanted to be a writer; I trained for a while
to be a lawyer, and I ended | up as a salesman. For ten years
I went around trying to convince myself that whatever I hap-
pened to be peddling at the moment was the greatest boon to
mankind since the invention of the wheel. It was no go, and
I suspect that most of my successful sales were made to people
who pitied me.

It took a war to set me on the right path, After a hitch in

[1172]

>

EEL OE DI IDE PIT RET |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the army which witnessed my meteoric rise from private to
private first class, I returned to civilian life in the shape of a
free-lance writer. This is a term used to denote one who will
write about anything under the sun at the drop of a hat — or
preferably the drop of a coin, or even a bill. He will write pro
or con, in praise or in blame, about everything from geranium
culture to the nebular hypothesis of Laplace; all for the same
pretty jingle of coin.

This work I enjoyed and have stuck to it since. I never set
the world of letters on fire, though I did manage to land a couple
of articles in national magazines. Mainly, I confined myself to
studying to become a competent craftsman. In the process
I worked for a while as an advertising copywriter with the
A. W. Ellis Company of Boston, as well as turning out copy
for other agencies and the Bryant & Stratton Business School.
I also rented my services to some citizens’ committees in a public
relations capacity, notably the Boston Committee on Alcoholism.
(This organization, I hasten to add, is neither wet nor dry.
However I may have commercialized my talents, I should never
have it said I prostituted them by attempting to deprive sensible
tipplers of their dram.)

Early this year I obtained my present position as a general util-
ity writer for the Loss Prevention Department, Liberty Mutual
Insurance Company, Boston. I work for them on a free-lance
basis (so don’t try to reach me there) but it is a full-time job
which I find both stimulating and absorbing. Accident pre-
vention has progressed beyond the stage of machine guards and
protective equipment into the broader fields of scientific re-
search and miracles of rehabilitation. There is drama here, and
humanity, to stir one’s pen.

Perhaps my outstanding accomplishment of recent years, how-
ever, lies outside the marts of trade. At an age when nature
was conspiring to turn me rapidly into a bent and desiccated
biped, and the odds were correspondingly against me, I managed
to marry a very charming lady. (My one successful selling job!)
She brought with her two equally charming, ready-made chil-
dren. The boy, his education interrupted by a year in the Ma-
rines, is back at Trinity College. The girl, who is studying to be

[1173]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

a nurse, is flawless save for an occasional predilection for Yale
men. She was born in the nick of time to vote for Eisenhower.
Thus, as my T'wenty-fifth approaches, I have safely reached the

haven of a happy home and a satisfying job. I ask no more from
the capricious Fates. | a,

MOSES WILLIAMS

HOME AppREsS: York Harbor, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Minot, DeBlois & Maddison, 294 Washington St., Boston 8,
Mass.

Born: March 6, 1906, Westwood, Mass. PARENTS: Moses Williams, ’91, Anne
Whiteside.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924~1928. DEGREES: A.B., 1928, M.B.A., 1930.

MarRieD: Anstiss C. Boyden, April 25, 1931, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1941);
Mary B. Holden, Jan. 16, 1946, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Harriet How-
ard, Feb. 22, 1932; Moses, Jr., Oct. 18, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Whiteside Williams, ’31, A.M., "32.

OCCUPATION: Trustee, partner in firm managing real estate and personal
property.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned first lieutenant, Army Air F orce,
Oct. 1, 1942; separated Feb. 11, 1946, as major; served in U. S. and two
years in Southwest Pacific theatre; four campaign stars; Philippine
Liberation Ribbon, two stars; Legion of Merit.

OFFICES HELD: Director, State Street Trust Company; trustee, Boston Per-
sonal Property Trust, Farm and Trades School (Boston); member
Board of Managers, Boston Provident Association.

MEMBER OF; Agamenticus Yacht Club; Tennis and Racquet Club; Somerset
Club; York Harbor Reading Room; York Golf and Tennis Club,
Royal Tennis Court.

SINCE I am not a John Marqaund, this account of the life of a
Boston trustee will unfortunately not be another H. M. Pulham,
Esq. The occupation or profession of trustee seems to be peculiar
to the Boston scene and still persists in spite (or because) of the
trust departments of banks. At any rate, that was what I started
out to be in 1930 and what I am in 1953. The work is inter-
esting and varied. Besides looking after widows and orphans,
our firm manages real estate, an offshoot of the time when real
estate was one of the few forms of investment available for
trustees.

When I am not in the office we can usually be found at home

[1174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in York Harbor, Maine. We golf and sail in the summer, hunt
in the autumn, and work on the place the rest of the time try-
ing to keep sumac, alder, and thorn bushes under some sort
of control. During the winter, when the highways and the Boston
- & Maine Railroad make commuting difficult, we hole up in
Boston, except for country week-ends. My winter diversion
is court tennis, an ancient and very fascinating sport.

Politically I am a Republican. My onl

y deflection was in
1928, when I voted for A] Smith. My battered hopes are that

the Republicans will restore enough sanity to the economy of
the country to permit me to pay my taxes, send a daughter to

Bryn Mawr, a non-athletic son to Princeton, and live somewhere
near enough for us to lead the life we enjoy.

SILVIO WILLIAMS

HOME ApprEss: 25 Bartlett St., Haverhill, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Whalom Park, Fitchburg, Mass.; Roger Williams Park,
Providence, R. I.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: George Joseph Williams,
Domenica Guglie.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928.

OCCUPATION: Mercantile Business.

HALE WILLIS

HOME AppREss: 1364 E. Eighth St., Chico, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: Matthew Bender & Company, 255 Orange St., Albany, N. Y.

BoRN: March 22, 1907, Colorado Springs, Colo. PARENTS: Richard Mel-
bourne Willis, Bessie Dee Powers.

prepareD At: Hollywood High School, Hollywood, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1928(33).
MARRIED: Frances Rives Meredith, Oct. 19, 1935, Pasadena, Calif. cHitpreNn

Geoffrey Bruce, Oct. 16, 1937; Susan Elizabeth, May 7, 1939; Richard
Hale and Paul Alexander, July 13, 1945 (twins).
OCCUPATION: Publishers’ representative.

TONIGHT I’m far from home in the town of Coos Bay, Ore-
gon, and have a little time to write my memoirs. As the chief
accomplishment is the family, first a few words about them

[1175 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Home consists of wife Toni, and the four children, Geoffre
and Susan (large), and Richard and Paul (small), all of whom
are quite understanding of their old man. Geoff is a soph in high
school, Sue is a freshman, and the twins, Ricky and Paul, are
in the second grade. The twins sit in the same room at school
get in the same scrapes, and play together at home, and as yet
haven’t broken out in any complex. Geoff loves to fish in Chico
Creek while I snooze on the bank, and he is taller than I am,
also wears one size larger sox. My wife isn’t so lucky with
Susan — Sue can wear her Ma’s clothes, and does. Sue is the only
one with eyes of blue, loves horses, but two horses would just
about fit endwise between our house and the road, so the poor
girl does without.

My wife’s real name is Frances Rives, pronounced Reeves,
and she comes from North Carolina. You fellows are all listed
as Damyankees. She still has a good figure; she’ll take a martin
if pressed; and she swims side-stroke. The Pacific is her adopted
ocean. She likes tacos, with the tortilla part of it crisp and the
meaty part of it pretty hot with red pepper. She’s afraid of
shrill telephone bells, large dogs, and tall buildings ... in sum-
mary, very satisfactory. |

Now for myself: not many of you will remember me. I was
too young, too green, too western to make much of a splash
in Cambridge. In years that followed, I did several things which
I thought adventurous at the time: I sold sporting goods at
Macy’s; acted as advance agent for a little troupe of singers; took
passage as an oiler to Yokohama and Manila; dug irrigation ditches
in Buckeye, Arizona; and chauffered for a man named Eddie
Burke who wrote dialogue for the movies. Eddie was very tal-
ented but he died of an excess of good living.

The year Toni and I were married she saw me as a vely
glamorous fellow, and I certainly shared her view. Little by
little we perceived that the glamor was wearing off, in small
patches. Everything I did was rather disappointing. I wrote a
novel and it bounced. I wasn’t able to go to war because of
an illness which left one arm pretty well damaged. I was fore-
man of a crew of workers making glass fabrics, and that was going
fine when the war ended. For a couple of years I taught school

[1176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but the parents disapproved of me, and so did the superintendent.
Even the janitor quit.

Yet Toni and I were happy. The children were growing.
We all ate hamburgers in fat poppy-seed rolls at Wimpy’s in
Santa Monica, swam in the ocean, lay on the warm sand, even
bought a newer car. Strangely enough, we prospered.

Now I travel for a publishing house, seeing attorneys and
schools, throughout Washington and Idaho and Oregon and in
the Bay area. I’ve made good friends. When I get home I work
half-heartedly around the place, play ball with Geoff, and crit-
icize the household in general. I’m afraid J don’t belong to any
clubs. Can’t play golf and don’t like bridge. Have an occasional
highball with Pete, my neighbor. Love to swim and it keeps
my waist down to just one chummy little roll of fat. My friends
don’t belong to clubs either, excepting one fellow, and I met him
by accident.

Although Harvard is a long way off, and long ago, I love
her. Harvard gave me much more than I ever gave her, and
I’m grateful. I’m grateful for the critical spirit which we all
know, perhaps Harvard’s crowning glory. I’m grateful for many
sweet memories, too. For Dean Greenough’s kind face. Doc
leading the Glee Club and Kittredge stamping out of the
Shakespeare class. The babble of voices of Reno and Lane and
Coffin and Dunbar and all the rest, and the gurgle of the cider
jug. The odd smell of the composition boxes in English A.
Snow falling across the Yard. The first kiss of that girl who left
Wellesley and went to New York to be a painter. The taste
of buttered toast at the Waldorf, and the sight of old Splay-foot
at the Traymore. The slow mournful boom of Mem Hall clock
at midnight.

It’s getting late, here in this logging town surrounded by steep
green hills, and the neon outside the hotel window has winked out.
So, fellows, good-bye and the best of luck.

JOHN O. WILSON

HOME ApprEss: Bedford Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 28 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1907, Bangor, Maine. parents: John Wilson, ‘oo, Emma Hey-
wood Otis.

[1177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928
PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.
MARRIED: Louise A. (Holt) Hilton, Oct. 14, 1933, Medford, Mass. cumoprey:
Henry H. 3d, May 12, 1930 (step-son); Robert .S., March 31, 193,
(died Oct. 2, 1935); James H., March 31, 1937; Ann K., Dec. 31, 1941,

occuPATION: Trust officer, Trust Department, The Merchants National Bank
of Boston.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Board of Selectmen, Lincoln, since 1949; treasurer,
Children’s Art Centre, Inc., since 1949, Boston Music School, Inc., since
1951; assistant treasurer, Federation of South End Settlements, since

1951; director, Cambridge Terminal Warehouse Company, since 1952,
Elhide Company, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; First Corps of Cadets.

FOLLOWING a two-year stretch in the bond business im-
mediately after college, I landed in the Trust Department of the
Day Trust Company, Boston, where I stayed until 1947 when |
moved two blocks to the Trust Department of The Merchants
National Bank of Boston. I am lucky to have found so early a
business I really enjoy, for although the work is not spectacular,
it is extremely varied, involves new problems daily and piles
up faster than I can take care of it. |

On being married in 1933, I moved to Lincoln where I still
live. I was fortunate in obtaining through marriage a three-year-
old son, Henry, who graduated high in his class in 1951 froma
certain Connecticut college whose name is better omitted here,
and is now at California Institute of Technology. My second
son Jim, who by June will be the tallest in the family, is at
Middlesex School in his sophomore year, and in keeping with the
derivation of that word thinks he wants to follow his brother
rather than his father to college. Ann, who is still in the Lincoln
schools, is so much involved with keeping up with her brothers
In sports that she is not concerned about higher education.

The so-called leisure activities have consisted of gardening,
on a diminishing scale, cutting grass when no one else will do
it, shovelling snow when no one will predict a thaw, and keep-
ing involved in Town Government. Having been elected to the
Planning Board—no one else would run—I served my five-
year term and then ran for the Board of Selectmen where I am
on my second term. It is time-consuming, unremunerative, and
one of the surest ways to lose friends, but is interesting and gen-

[1178 ]

 

[

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT ’
erally good fun. During the war I found myself with several
classmates in the First Corps of Cadets, Massachusetts State
Guard. Work with the Community Fund and some of its mem-
ber agencies seems to be a perennial activity.

I participate in sports largely, as heretofore, as a Spectator, al-
though I sail when I can and have taken to flubbing around on
skies while waiting for the children and their friends to break
their necks on various ski tows in New Hampshire.

STURGIS STARBUCK WILSON

HOME AppREss: 78 Blackburn Rd., Summit, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 16-30 Cooper Sq., New York 3, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1905, Yonkers, N. Y. parents: John Howard Wilson,
Georgia Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. 1928; M.B.A., 1930.

Marriep: Margaret L. Gould, June ro, 1933, New York, N. Y. curipren:
Alice G., June 28, 1936; David C., May 27, 1941; Margaret B., July 4,
1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Birback Wilson, °26.

occuPATION: Business executive, president and director, Schieffelin & Com-

an

orriers ‘ie: Director, since 1939, treasurer, 1936-50, executive vice-presi-
dent, 1950-52, president, since 1952, Schieffelin & Company; director,
B. A. & G. N. Williams Company, New York, 1937-45, South Dover
Marble Company, Pawling, N. Y., 1937-45; director, since 1936, presi-
dent, since 1946, Castine Scientific Society, Inc., Castine, Maine; trustee,
Central Presbyterian Church, New York, 1939-43, Summit, N. J,

- 1947-53.

MEMBER OF: Canoe Brook Country Club, Summit, N. J.; Harvard Club of
New York; Forest Lake Club, Hawley, Pa.; Harvard Business School
of New York City; Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York.

TWENTY-FIVE years! Not really! They have been good to
me, and I shall let what’s history now alone.

I’ve had three jobs— two years with Hathaway & Company
in the Wall Street district; two years with Sweet Orr and
Company in the soap-box environs of Union Square, and nine-
teen years with Schieffelin and Company, America’s oldest drug
house, located between that old institution of learning, Cooper
Union, and that old New York landmark — the Bowery.

[1179 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

I enjoyed the work with each of these three companies and
value the friends which I have made. Schieffelin and Company,
founded in 1794, has three divisions: Wholesale Druggists, Im-
porters of Liquors, and Manufacturers of Pharmaceuticals and
Specialties. Because of these three different and distinct types
of business, the problems and planning are many and varied.
The nature of each division requires a separate method of pro-
duction, distribution, marketing, accounting, advertising, and
selling; and each has a unique program for Labor, Personnel,
and Public Relations. I have full and interesting days. My
work in the past has been mainly in the Credit and Financial De-
artrents and in Personnel and Labor Relations.

New York City was my home until 1941, when I moved to
Summit, New Jersey. I don’t mind the commuting, and it would
take a lot of commuting to offset the advantages of two-day
weekends with the family in a small community in the country.
Perhaps I do a little work around the house or the yard — a game
of some kind with the children and their friends — perhaps a
little tennis, a very little tennis these days — perhaps a golf game;
it’s not compulsory weekends with us.

We have gone to Maine for a visit nearly every summer, and
lately I have taken a long weekend at Castine, Maine, for the
duck- -hunting season. Each summer the family has spent some
time in the Poconos, near Hawley, Pennsylvania, which ts eas-
ily accessible to me weekends. Some golf but more fishing —
large and small mouth bass and steelhead trout.

And when I sum it up — twenty-five years in a few words—
I’m thankful for my family and friends.

 

MARK WINKLER

"HOME AppRESs: 1704 Kalmia Rd., N.W., Washington 12, D.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1117 Vermont Ave,, N.W., Washington 5, D. C.

i
;
i
. i
BORN: July 28, 1907, Lawrence, Mass. parENTS: Morris Winkler, Nettie
Wagshal. t
}
ib
:
i

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1928.
MarRiED: Catherine C, Catlin, Aug. 30, 1942, Washington, D. C. cripren:

Corolyn Beth, Nov. 7, 1946; Kathleen Fay, Jan. 2, 1949; Margaret Ann, |
Dec. 12, 1951. :

[ 1180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Winkler, ’36, pH.D., 42.

OCCUPATION: Real estate management, investment, Mark Winkler Manage-
ment.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Drafted into Army, November, 1942; trained
and served in Medical Corps until June, 1944; trained and served in
Intelligence until September, 1945; served in European Theatre with
13th Armored Division from January, 1945; Bronze Star; achieved rank
of technical sergeant.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Garfield Memorial Hospital, Washington, D. C.,
Green Acres School, Rockville, Md.

SINCE 1937 I have operated my own real estate management
office in Washington, District of Columbia. I have developed
and continue to manage several fine apartment buildings and
office buildings and am working on more plans.

My main pleasure and interest is observing and helping our
three young daughters grow up in this world. My wife and I
enjoy together our hobbies of reading, theatre, and travel. As a
citizen of Washington, D. C., I have no right to vote for any-
body at any time, which denial somewhat restricts the expression
of my political convictions.

JOHN LLOYD WINSTON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Mount Paul Farm, Gladstone, N. J.

BORN: Jan. 9, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Owen Winston, ’o4, Mar-
garet Dey Lloyd.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

marrieD: Honora Winthrop Mason, May 28, 1927, Bernardsville, N. J.
(died Dec. 7, 1933); Anne Hostetter, Aug. 10, 1935, Gladstone, N. J.
CHILDREN: Owen W., June 6, 1928 (died June 10, 1945); Mary Win-
throp, April 10, 1931 (7. John Ehrendon, June 16, 1951); Jennifer,
April 6, 1937; Deborah, Jan. 11, 1939. GRANDCHILD: Girl, March 31, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Owen Lloyd Winston, ’29; Francis Lloyd Winston, °31
(deceased).

OCCUPATION: Farmer, owner and manager, Mount Paul Farm.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: U. S. Marine Corps Reserve (aviation), since
January, 1931; active duty, Floyd Bennett Field, Brooklyn, N. Y. No-
vember, 1940; released from active duty November, 1945, as lieutenant
colonel; since promoted and still active.

OFFICES HELD: Member Wing Staff Voluntary Training Unit, U. S. Marine
Corps, New York; member Board of Managers, New Jersey State
Reformatory; member Board of Trustees, St. Bernard's School, Glad-

[ 1181 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928
stone, N. J.,; member Morris County Board of Agriculture; governor,

Somerset Hills Country Club.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

I LEFT college before I graduated because I got married and
figured I had best go to work. I was brought up here on a farm
and wanted to live in the country, so I commuted to work in
New York. The clothing business (Brooks Brothers) and com.
muting were not to my liking, so I was glad when called up by
Uncle Sam in 1940. When I got out of the service, where |
wended my way by stages clean across the Pacific, I wanted
nothing more than to stay home and try to wrest a living from
the soil, We have about seventy head of registered Guernsey
cattle which are doing well and keep me more than busy.

I have just voted for the first winning presidential candidate
since I left college and believe things are looking up.

Although we don’t make enough money to travel or “see” Eu-
rope, there are compensations. Good shooting is one, and there's
plenty to see on a beautiful farm if one will only look. Besides
I want to “see” this country.

I] have a real interest in agriculture and the basic principles
that go with it. OO

FREDERIC WINTHROP

HOME AppRESS: Ipswich, Mass.

BORN: June 30, 1906, Hamilton, Mass. parents: Frederic Winthrop, ’9),
Dorothy Amory.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

MARRIED: Angela Forbes, July 4, 1933, Tandridge, Surry, England. cuu-
DREN: Iris, April 18, 1935; Angela, Sept. 8, 1936; Adam, Sept. 20, 1938;
Frederic, June 11, 1940; Robert, Dec. 14, 1946; Grant Forbes, Feb. 22,
1949; Jonathan, Jan. 1, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Winthrop, ’26; Nathaniel Thayer Winthrop, '34

occuPATION: Agriculture; investment; trustee.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Aide-de-camp, Commanding General, 1st Serv-
ice Command, major, U. 8. Army, 1942-43; chief of Information and
Education Section, Central Pacific Base Command, lieutenant colonel,
1944-45. .

OFFIcEs HELD: Chairman, Hamilton School Committe, 1934-43, Essex County
Agricultural School, 1939-42, Massachusetts Republican Finance Com-

[ 1182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mittee, 1946, Hamilton Finance Committee, 1946-52; president, North
Shore Council, Boy Scouts, 1940-42; member Board of Directors,
Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary; director, Beverly Hospital, Beverly,
Mass.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club; Somerset Club; Tavern Club; Long Point
Company; Union Boat Club, River Club.

MY LIFE since leaving Cambridge has on the whole been happy,
even though not studded with great accomplishments. My
friends have been fine, my health good, and my worries few. On
top of this, I am fortunate in having seven splendid children, two
girls and five boys. The boys, I hope, will some day contribute
to and benefit by the life at Harvard.

My sports are golf, shooting, and riding. Since the war I have
been Master of the Myopia Hounds. These, together with my
farm, keep me in the open air a great deal. My shooting has
taken me around a fair amount, usually to Canada for ducks and
to South Carolina for quail. I usually golf and ride here at
Myopia, but I have played many courses and have hunted
with other packs of hounds.

My main interest and occupation in recent years has been my
land in Essex County which I have been developing to support
nearly 1oo head of purebred Guernseys. As a farmer, I be-
lieve that soil conservation and proper use is vital to the future
of the country. I believe that humus and compost are essen-
tial, but I also believe in the value of chemical fertilizers. I am
not an “organic” farmer. With the increase in population,
coupled with the rising standard of living and with modern
knowledge of agronomy, New England agriculture can make
great strides towards prosperity by using its soil properly. The
prosperity of New England agriculture depends, however, on
the prosperity of New England industry which, unfortunately,
has suffered, particularly in Massachusetts due to inherent high
costs and the unfriendly attitude of several graft-ridden and in-
competent administrations.

As a Republican, I have been viewing with alarm the Socialistic
and Centralist tendencies of the Democratic Administration dur-
ing the past five terms. Novenzber 4, 1952, was a happy day.

As an Episcopalian, I believe that we can all benefit if the
Church plays an increasing part in our lives. However, I believe

[ 1183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

most profoundly in the complete separation of Church and State,

As an American, I believe the most pressing business of the
country at present is to bolster the western world and so defend
the freedom that has made this country great and places like
Harvard possible.

RUSSELL DOUBLE LEE WIRTH

HOME AbpREss: 2604 N. Terrace Ave., Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 221 E. Buffalo St., Milwaukee 1, Wis.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1905, Milwaukee, Wis. PARENTS: Adolph Lee Wirth, Edna
Marian Double.

PREPARED AT: Milwaukee University School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1928.

MARRIED: Mary Elizabeth McMahon, Sept. 7, 1929, Sewickley, Pa. CHILDREN:
Russell Double Lee, Jr., June 30, 1930; Harry McMahon, March 17,
1933; Mary Rogers, Feb. 2, 1935.

occupation: Food manufacturer, president, Red Star Yeast & Products
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Directors, Cudahy State Bank, since 1933,
Family Service Corporation, 1946-50, Milwaukee Rotary Club, 1942-44
Milwaukee Country Day School, since 1948, Greater Milwaukee Com-
mittee, since 1951; member Board of Directors, 1944-50, Board of
Corporation, since 1944, Milwaukee Boys Club.

MEMBER OF: Family Service Corporation; Milwaukee Athletic Club, Uni-
versity Club, Milwaukee; Williams Club, New York; Harvard Club of
New York.

JOSEPH WISE

HOME AppREsS: 211 Ward St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 166-170 London St., East Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 20, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Wise, Sarah Minnie
Sandler.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 19283; LL.B., 1931.

MarRRIED: Madeline Komar, Oct. 11, 1936, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Patricia Ann, Oct. 7, 1937; Susan Jane, Feb. 1, 1941; Nancy Ellen, Nov.
22, 1944.

occuPATION: Ice cream business, in charge Sales and Distribution, National
Ice Cream Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar; Harvard Law School Association; Pine
Brook Country Club; Temple Isracl of Boston,

[ 1184]

~

ony EN PEL TY RT me

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER I “sweated it out” for three years at the Harvard Law
School, I became a member of the Massachusetts Bar in 1931
and succeeded in getting a job in a very good law office at the
grand salary of ten dollars per week — some weeks I made as
much as twenty-five dollars.

Romance in the form of a young lady from Red Bank, New
Jersey, came into my life in January, 1934, hence the change
of occupation from depression lawyer to ice cream super-sales-
man, where the remuneration made it possible for a fellow to con-
template marriage, a home, and family.

We have three lovely daughters who keep us busy, the tele-
phones busy, and the bank account busy. The girls think their
mother the best in the world, and I am inclined to agree with
them. Madeline and I are golf enthusiasts, and are looking for-
ward to playing more, if not better, golf.

If the next quarter of a century brings me as much happiness
and contentment as the last, I shall consider myself a very for-
tunate fellow.

ERIC JAMES WILMER WOOD

HOME AppkEss: Brookville Road, Jericho, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Anderson-Nichols & Co., 330 W. 42d St., New York 36, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: John Walter Wood ‘83,
Nathalie Wilmer.

PREPARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927.

MARRIED: Emilie Randolph Stevenson, Oct. 23, 1036, Glen Cove, Long
Island, N. Y. cuitpreN: Phyllis Randolph, Aug. 29, 1937; Eric James
Wilmer, Jr., June 29, 1943; Emilie Adele, Jan. 12, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Walter Wood, Jr., ’23, M.ARCH., '28.

OccUPATION: Industrial engineering; associated with firm of Anderson-
Nichols & Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Commissioned second lieutenant, Marine Corps
Reserves (Aviation), Nov. 30, 1931; flew with organized Marine Corps
Aviation Reserves at Floyd Bennett Field, N. Y., for approximately ten
years; at time of Pearl Harbor, designated as ordnance officer, then
executive officer, Marine Corps Air Station, Quantico, Virginia; pro-
moted lieutenant colonel and ordered overseas; assignments included
Air Base Commander in invasion of Palau Islands (Pelelieu, Ngesebus,
in the western Carolines, 800 miles west of Tokyo); commanding officer,
Headquarters Squadron, Marine Air Wing in Hawaiian Islands; execu-

[ 1185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928
tive officer, Equipment Section, Maintenance Division, Bureau of Aero-
nautics in Washington.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Cox & Stevens Aviation Corporation; presi-
dent, Smith and Wood, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences; Marine Corps Reserve
Officers Association; Harvard Club of New York; Wings Club; Cater-
pillar Club; Quiet Birdmen, Piping Rock Club,

PUBLICATIONS: Aviation Ordnance Manual, Marine Corps Air Station, Quan-

tico, Va.
LOOKING back on the last twenty-five years, it seems to me
that the days have been fine, but the years have been. all too
short.. Perhaps that is the way Life should be.

After College, and partly as a result of activities during the
early days of the Harvard Flying Club at the East Boston Airport,
I decided to enter the relatively new business of aviation.

In 1929, I assisted in forming Cox and Stevens Aviation Cor-
poration, of which I was vice-president. We engaged in aircraft
charter and sales, and we organized New York and Suburban Aur-
lines. We operated airplanes mainly along the east coast, from
Massachusetts to Florida. Later we expanded our activities, |
had the interesting experience of flying various types of air-
planes throughout the United States, in Canada, Mexico, and
Cuba. During this same time, I was test pilot to the engineering
division of the Curtiss-Wright Corporation, and flew all of their
commercial and military-type aircraft. This included flying in
acrobatic competitions, cross-country racing, and an outside loop
record at the National Air Races at Cleveland. On one flight,
while flying a “fast” single-seater, I set a record from New York
to Boston of 524% minutes. Now, I sometimes wish, twenty-five
years later, that our illustrious class member who is vice-presi-
dent of one of the airlines would arrange his operations to equal
this time on regular schedules today, However, he gives us all
the comforts of home, and speed is not everything.

When I entered the field of industrial engineering, I organized
the firm of Smith and Wood, Inc., of which I was president. In
my opinion, this is one of the most interesting fields of business,
since it allows you to keep in touch with the activities of many
different companies and industries,

At the time of Pearl Harbor, being in the Marine Corps Avia-
tion Reserves, I immediately went on active duty. My first as-

[ 1186 ]

 

£
E
;
-
t
&
F

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

signment was at the Marine Corps Air Station, Quantico, Vir-
ginia. There we had advanced tactical bombing and navigational
training for squadrons just prior to their departure overseas; also,
mapping and radar schools, and all the activities usually asso-
ciated with a military air station. At the same time, we were
able to lead a very pleasant life. I was lucky enough to have
good quarters, and to bring the family down. In fact, in answer
to a friend’s question as to the life at Quantico, I replied: “It is
like fighting the war at Abercrombie & Fitch.” Then I was
ordered overseas, and events swiftly changed into a very dif-
ferent pattern. :

After the war, I returned to Smith and Wood, Inc. Later, I
merged my business activities with the industrial engineering
firm of Anderson-Nichols & Company, with whom I am now as-
sociated. We have offices in New York and Boston, and we
engage in industrial architecture, production and processing engi-
neering, special machine design, and other business management
activities.

The family, complete with three children, are looking for-
ward to our Reunion with great enthusiasm. Hobbies include
photography, raising Labrador retrievers, and having Emilie and
I wonder whether we learn as much from the children as they
learn from us.

In the field of national politics, I have always been a Repub-
lican and I sincerely feel that everyone should be grateful with
the result of the recent elections. (O. K., Hammy Heard, the
elections that took place several months ago.) I also feel that
we should make drastic cuts in federal expenditures, so that
our nation’s capital can no longer be referred to as “Washington
the City Bureauful.” On the international scene, I believe that
Communism can be compared to the plagues that have threatened
the world many times in the past, and that we must be prepared
to cope with it over a period of years. We should lend our al-
lies everything they need for the containment of communism —
with one exception. Lend them our Air Force, Navy, equip-
ment and dollars — whatever they need. But we should never
again, under foreseeable circumstances, send a large American
Army to the Continent of Europe or Asia. If we do, we will be
over-extended.

[ 1187 ]

‘

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

THOMAS WOOD |.

HOME AppRESS: 1619 Comstock Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Samuel Goldwyn Studios, Hollywood, Calif.

BorN: March 9, 1906, Concord, Mass. PARENTS: Richard Farmer Wood,
Victoria Leavitt Phelan.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 19241929. DEGREE: A.B., 1928(29).

marrieD: Lee Patrick, April 1, 1937, Balboa, Canal Zone.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Aqua Velva After Shave Club,
Book-of-the-Month Club.

pusLications: Writings in New Yorker, Life, Look, Saturday Evening Post,
Collier's, Time, Fortune, Town © Country, New York Times Maga-
zine, New York Herald-Tribune, Esquire, and Vanity Fair,

AFTER taking my degree in 1929 when nobody was looking I
started out to set the world on fire, but Coolidge, Shepley, Bul-
finch & Abbott, with whom I was associated, ran out of matches.
Architecture as a profession disappeared from sight, and I went
to Paris to lick my wounds. But posterity wasn’t left without
some evidence of my passing. The reception room in the new
Dillon Field house, where the members who returned for the
Twentieth Reunion got indigestion, was my design and so are
certain sections, exterior and interior, of the New York Hospital
on East sixty-eighth Street.

The period between 1931 and 1936, when I joined the edi-
torial staff of Time, Inc., was a gloomy one. I spent some months
in the South Seas absorbing whatever it is that they absorb down
there, and I startled the passengers of a British boat going to India
by showing up one night at a costume party as Gandhi, but the
details escape me now, and I doubt if wild blondes could pull
them out of me, though they’re welcome to try.

Throughout the years I have enjoyed exceptionally good
health, and I attribute this to the wonderful care that I give my
beautiful body. My diet, which consists of large quantities of
yoghurt, wheat germ, and alfalfa, is legendary, and it neutralizes
the jiggers of rum that somehow find their way into my systeft.

For the past fifteen years I have been living in Hollywood and
for the past seven or eight years have consistently outwitted the
film studios. Considering my close proximity to this glamorous

[ 1188 ]

 

NE RHPL A anh at CE PSR aN rem

ate tiR,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

profession (on a clear day I can see Lana Turner), it may seem
strange that I have remained married to the same girl. There
are some people out here in fact who believe that I am either
dead or asleep. But they’re wrong. .

+ DAVID WORCESTER

BORN: Oct. 4, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Elwood Worcester, Blanche
Tanley Rulison. |

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1927. DEGREES: A.B. (Hobart Coll.), 1929; a.m. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1930; PH.D. (ibid.), 1934.

MARRIED: Eloise Bond Bergland, 1940.

bIED: June 20, 1947, Montreal, Canada.

wipow: Mrs. David Worcester, % Hamilton College, Clinton, N. Y.

PRESIDENT of Hamilton College from 1945 until his resig-
nation a few days before his death, David Worcester was the
son of the late pastor of the Emmanuel Church in Boston. While
at Harvard he was a member of the Freshman Finance Commit-
tee and was assistant managing editor of the Crimson; he belonged
to the Cercle Francais and Phoenix-S. K. Club, and at Hobart
College was made a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Phi.
Having obtained his doctorate degree he became an instructor and
tutor in English at Harvard and in 1937 was made senior tutor
of Lowell House; he was awarded a fellowship to study the life
and poetry of James Thomson. Author of The Art of Satire
(published in 1940), Worcester was also allowed leave of ab-
sence from Harvard to pursue the subject of Jonathan Swift. He
was a member of the board of governors at Stuart School from
1940 until 1942.

Having become a professor and head of the English Depart-
ment at Michigan State College in 1942, Worcester left that
same year to enlist in the Navy. He received a commission as
lieutenant and was assigned to Quonset Naval Base in Rhode
Island where he was connected with the Naval Air Combat In-
telligence School and with the Anti-Submarine Development De-
tachment. He assisted in the organization of courses, taught air
crews, and wrote technical manuals for the Navy. Before his
discharge from the service, the Hamilton College Board of

[ 1189 ]

-HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Trustees voted to appoint Worcester president. He succeeded
Dr. W. H. Crowley at this post in 1945, and Hamilton presented
him with an honorary LL.D. soon after his appointment. His wife,
two sisters, and a brother survived him.

WILLIAM WORTHINGTON

HOME ADDRESS: Schaghticoke Road, Kent, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

BoRN: July 19, 1906, Dedham, Mass. parents: Robert Briggs Worthington,
Velnette Cheney.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928, DEGREE: A.B. 1928(31). |

marrieD: Margaret Gibbs, June 27, 1931, Jacksonville, Fla, CHILDREN: Patricia,
May 26, 1933; William Cheney, Sept. 22, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Worthington, '23.

occupaTion: Head of History Department, Kent School.

OFFICES HELD: Auditor, Town of Kent, 1938; member, 1937-40, vice-chair-
man, 1940-46, chairman, 1946-50, Kent Board of Education; member,
1946-47, vice-chairman, 1947-53, Housatonic Valley Regional High
School Board; treasurer, 1938-40, vice- president, 1940-42, Kent Library
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Few articles in journals of limited scope: New England So-
cial Studies Bulletin and Lure of the Litchfield Hills.

MY CAREER — teacher at Kent School for a quarter-century —
may sound prosaic, but to a teacher his profession i is never dull.
It is sometimes exhilarating, often exasperating, and always in-
teresting. My major subject is United States history, though
I have taught many other fields of history, and indeed d algebra
English, and French to boot.

Margaret and I have indulged in all sorts of civic activities.
We both are active Democrats, which means, believe it or not,
that locally we have been in the minority all the time. Margaret
has served a term as director of the Kent Nursing Association
and has just finished her two-year term as president of it. She
was census enumerator in 1950, has been registrar of voters for
two years, a Justice of the Peace for several years, and most
recently candidate (unsuccessful) for the lower house in Con-
necticut’s General Assembly. Of the political offices I have
held the most significant has been on the board of New Eng-
land’s first regional high school.

[ 1190 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

' The long summer vacations granted to teachers are largely
opportunities for rehabilitation after an exhausting output of
nervous energy. Twice (1929 and 1932) I travelled in Europe.
Since then I have taught one summer and labored the others. A
good many summers we spent occupying and improving a place
we own on Cape Cod, and others I spent for hire, twice on
construction jobs and five times as yard clerk, operator, or agent
for the New Haven Railroad.

Our daughter, Patricia, after four years at Bartram School
near Jacksonville, Florida, chose to attend Radcliffe. To judge
by her enthusiasm “greater” Harvard is an ideal place for youth
seeking knowledge. She is now a sophomore. Our son, Bill, will
graduate from South Kent School in June. At present both of
them are planning to study in Europe next year.

Our life, whether here in northwest Connecticut or on Cape
Cod, is distinctly rural. Gardens, lawns, shrubbery, and some
reforestation on property here occupy a great deal of time and
energy. We do all the maintenance and improvement to houses
and grounds ourselves, without benefit of machines or hired
labor. Under these circumstances the mere task of keeping our
fireplace supplied with logs helps us keep our sense of values
in this modern world.

My reading, aside from the reams of penciled manuscript hand-
ed in by my students, is almost exclusively in the fields of his-
tory and current affairs. We have no television, and aside from
Yale football games and presidential elections our radio is used
chiefly to hear the daily weather report.

Since I discovered that the theologian’s “original sin” is synony-
mous with human cussedness I have begun to grasp the mean-
ing of Christianity. This grasp has become firmer through my
reading of such diverse writers as Toynbee and C. S. Lewis.
And so I now am finding that the realism of the Judo-Christian
tradition may after all offer to men and women in this world the
same sort of satisfaction it offered to St. Augustine.

FRANCIS SIBLEY WRIGHT

HOME AppRESS: 29 Water St., Hingham, Mass,
OFFICE appRESS: Rockland Trust Co., Rockland, Mass.

[rot]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

porn: April 22, 1906, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Frank Herbert Wright,
Helen Sibley.

prePARED AT: Hingham High School, Hingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929.

marrigeD: Frances Paine, May 18, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Francis
Sibley, Jr., Jan. 13, 1940; Stephen Carter, Nov. 12, 1942; John Paine,
Jan. 17, 1944.

occuPATION: Banking.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Second Motor Squadron, Massachusetts State
Guard.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Charitable Society; Hingham Hook and Ladder
Company No. 1; Veterans Association.

THE information submitted above is an account of my life since
graduation, in a nutshell, and needs scarcely any amplification.
The facts speak for themselves. My career is banking, and I
could never find a happier place to, work than the Rockland
Trust Company. I have not travelled too far, although I did
spend three years (1929-1931) with the Standard Oil Company
of New York in Japan.

My family is my chief hobby, and I cannot think of a greater
joy than watching the development of three lively. sons. I do
some vegetable and flower gardening and am a slave to a couple
dozen hens, We have a small sail boat, but it is not the pride of
Hingham Harbor.

I used to spend a good deal of my time and energy as an
active member of Hook and Ladder Company No. 1, Hingham
Fire Department, until the town went big time and appointed a
permanent, serious-minded fire chief, who banned beer with
our monthly clam chowder suppers; so I retired indignantly to
the Veterans Association, where we have beer and no clam
chowder. |

Believe it or not, I teach a Sunday School class in the parish
of St. John the Evangelist Episcopal Church.

RICHARD FARRAR WYER

HOME ApprEss: R.D. #1, Rexford, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory, General Electric Com-
pany, Schenectady, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1904, Kirkwood, Mo. parents: Harry Gage Wyer, '96
M.D., 00, Berenice Crumb.

[1192 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: S.B. IN E.E. cum laude, 1928.
marriEeD: Leah Marie Comeau, Nov. 10, 1929, Kennebunk, Maine. cytpren:
Richard Edwin, May 12, 1936, Berenice, April 26, 1939.
occuPATION: Engineer in charge of plant utilities operation for atomic power
research and development laboratory, General Electric Company.
MEMBER OF: Elfun Society; K-2 Forum; The Round Table (local).
PUBLICATIONS: Numerous trade paper articles on arc welding.
THIS has hardly been a career, but it has been a living. The only
spectacular achievement I can boast of is managing to stay em-
ployed during the depression which inevitably followed the
graduation of so many financial wizards in 1928. I went to work
for General Electric Company in ’28, married in ’29, and have
devoted myself to these two interests ever since. We lived in
apartments or rented houses until after both children were born,
in 1939 we bought a place “with possibilities” and very little
else, about six miles out of Schenectady, and have gradually
realized a few of the possibilities in the ensuing years. We have
about seven acres of poor land, with fruit trees, grapes, and a
garden, all complete with every known pest; this real estate has
been enough to keep me busy and the family fairly well fed.
An old shed converted into a workshop with a few power tools
gives me a place for cabinet work and gadgetry for the house,
as well as plain and fancy time-wasting.

I have never regretted going with General Electric, although
rewards are more in association with fine people, and in job
satisfaction than in salary (H — graduate executives please note).
Occupations have included commercial engineering (sales pro-
motion, pricing, technical advice) in the export subsidiary; ap-
plication engineering; design engineering; and recently plant
engineering and operation at the atomic power laboratory oper-
ated by G-E for the AEC at Schenectady. I have three patents,
assigned to the company, in the arc welding field. We have
lived in and around Schenectady ever since our marriage. Except
for a year and a half of weekend commuting to Fitchburg, I
have worked here continuously. Haven’t travelled for the last
three years, but for eleven years I was on the road almost half
the time. Much of the travel during the war was related to weld-
ing problems arising from the work which culminated in the
A-bomb, although I did not know it at the time. This probably

[1193]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

influenced my later decision to work at the Knolls Atomic Power
Laboratory. I am not connected with nuclear work except in
supplying heat, light, power, and other facilities required for
experiments and construction associated with nuclear power re-
search and building a reactor. If successful, this work will result
first in equipping an atomic energy power submarine for the
Navy. | . :

We have spent summer vacations in Maine for twenty-four
years, always at Cape Elizabeth or Peaks Island in the Portland
area.

What marks have these twenty-five humdrum years left on
this *28er? A religion of the passive type which generates no
interest in dogma, ritual, or revival, and is content to recognize
limits to human knowledge and insight. A strong feeling of
management's responsibility for the degrading practices of to-
day’s Unionism. Satisfaction in whatever success has been at-
tained by men who have worked for me or with me. Growing
appreciation of Harvard: I see many engineering graduates of
other universities who lack the satisfaction and confidence en-
gendered by the old undergraduate engineering school’s insist-
ence on basic training and fundamental understanding. I have
lately acquired a healthy respect for the formidability of govern-
ment red tape as encountered in dealings with the AEC; it can
frustrate even the simplest day-by-day planning, and reduce the
planner to gibbering idiocy unless countered by judicious laugh-
ter and plenty of to-hell-with-it. I lean toward hobbies and
manual labor as antidotes for the tensions developed in trying
to get people to work, and things for them to work with.

With more conviction than ostentation, I am against: Com-
munism; religious bigotry; farm price supports; monopoly and
fair-trade pricing; union strategy and tactics; feminism (it's
killing ’em); rum, gin, and beer. Among other things I
am for: Eisenhower; most Roosevelt reforms; free trade; lower

taxes and more efficiency in government; human relations in
industry; Old Overholt. ,

T1194]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILFRED WYLER

HOME ADDRESS: 333 Central Park West, New York 25, N. Y.

OFFICE appREsS: 60 EF. 42d St., New York 17, N. Y.

BorN: Feb. 24, 1908, New York, N. Y. Parents: Sigmund Wyler, Fanny
Sarah Rosenfield.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

WEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: 8.B., 1928; M.B.A. (New York Univ.),

1934.
maggiep: Marjorie Goldwasser, June 23, 1938, New York, N. Y. cHr_pren:

Ruth Judith, Nov. 6, 1940; Barbara Frances, July 3, 1944.
occuPATION: Certified public accountant, tax consultant, senior partner,
Wilfred Wyler & Company.
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Home for Aged and Infirm Hebrews of New
York, 1945-52.
MEMBER OF; Harmonie Club, New York State Society of C.P.A.’s
MY POINT of view is basically liberal, veering gradually to-
wards conservative. When I occasionally still get mad at in-
justice or intolerance, I realize I still have some of my youth
left; but Pve gained (?) enough in worldly knowledge and cyni-
cal outlook to realize that as we grow older, the factors of pres-
tige, money, power, relations with others in our community,
have certain values of their own and do influence increasingly
our concern for what is right and wrong. I’ve often envied the
man who can see only one side to any question and rests com-
pletely secure in that knowledge, but I know that I really wouldn’t
trade with him if I could.

Careerwise, the years 1928 to 1937, were for me a reflection
of the general economic picture. Two years out of College, I
was making $10,000.00 a year in Wall Street without any “pull”;
subsequently, I had to use “influence” to get a seventeen-dollar
a week job in accounting, a level at which I stayed for two years,
subsequent progress being slow. In 1937, I formed my own
firm, with promised fees of $230.00 per year. A lot of hard
work in the early years, a particular solicitude for clients’ tax
problems, and some lucky breaks — and things grew to a point
where I could worry on a large scale (several branch offices) in-
stead of a small scale.

I’ve usually had a hobby, but not always the same one. Photog-
raphy for awhile, then collecting first editions on a poor man’s
scale, which lasted for several years. (It really can be done —

[1195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

my collection of English and American literature, about 400
“firsts,” has an averge cost of fifty cents per book.) Then oil
painting for several years; only my critical faculties far exceed.
ing my technical ability, I found painting mentally tiring instead
of relaxing. As I grew older, I went in more for physical sports
hobbies, I took up squash racquets after forty, managing to win
a couple of minor club trophies, which tremendously increased
my standing with my children, Last summer, gardening became
the hobby of the moment. Right now, believe it or not, my
hobby is really part of my business: proving to people that they
can save taxes, if they really want to.

As a family, we have lots of fun, We do many things together,
treating our daughters, now eight and twelve, as adults — and
so very often, they measure up to this level. We went ona
three months’ trip to Sweden and France two years ago, and they
were no hindrance. Every summer we go camping for two
weeks on an island and the kids help cook, wash dishes, lug wood
for chopping, etc. The rest of the summer we are at Westport,
Connecticut. .

Credit for our family “togetherness” goes mainly to my wife,
Marjorie (Bryn Mawr ’36), who manages to maintain it in spite
of an incredible amount of community work. Ruth, our twelve-
year old (Brearley School) and Barbara, our eight-year old (Wal-
den School) are alike only in their love of reading and expert-
ness as swimmers. Otherwise, Ruth is the serious student and
Barbara the natural athlete. |

Our winter apartment life is sometimes slightly hectic. One
weekend we had a Russian princess and an Irish immigrant girl
living with us, plus our three dogs, at other times, we have had
as many as twelve dogs, but without the human extras. The rest
of the time, life is somewhat nearer normal.

My suggestion for future Class Reports is that the wives and
children be invited to write them.

ELLIOT ADRIAN WYSOR

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 395 Riverside Drive, New York 25, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1907, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Max Wieser, Beatrice R.

Salisch.
[1196 ]

 

i
i
g
‘
i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris Hall, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1928(29); LL.B. (Columbia Law
School), 1934.

marrieD: Enid P. Sanders, Dec. 24, 1941, New York, N. Y. cnrpren:
Andrew Steven, June 18, 1945; Michael Sanders, May 8, 1949.

occuPATION: Lawyer—of counsel specialist for factual organization of
litigation and administrative proceedings; appellate briefs.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Inducted as technical sergeant, Army Medical
Dept., May 26, 1942; U. S. Theatre; three years as sergeant major of
Regional Hospital, Camp Crowder, Mo., discharged Oct. 24, 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, executive committee, Fusioneers of Queens County,
1933-34; member Executive Committee, City Fusion Party, 1933-34.

MEMBER OF: Bar Association of the City of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: “Accounting Methods” in Fundamentals of Federal Taxation’
series, 1946.

MY EXPLANATION for having put this off was that it’s sheer
cruelty to have to look back over twenty-five years; and auto-
biography was never my particular dish of tea. But, there was
no longer any sanctuary in that or any other excuse. Our Class
goader had found a deputy within the private confines of where
I like to delude myself as reigning supreme. Talking of twenty-
five years, she pointed out, isn’t at all impressive and only con-
fuses the matter. It’s no more than being a little older, a little
bit sadder, but still just Wysor. You can see there was no way
out for me but this,

Before entering Columbia Law School in 1931, there was a
six months’ interlude as a typographer in the publishing house
of Doubleday-Doran; and following that excursion into the arts,
a year and a half in the real estate and construction business
in Miami Beach. Despite an epidemic of local bank failures,
Miami Beach even then offered profitable opportunities, and I
enjoyed the business. However, one of my business associates
was a bachelor lawyer and one of the few Harvard College grad-
uates in the area. His hobby was deep-sea fishing, and whenever
I went along with him his talk was full of law. My decision to
study law became fixed by those talks, a fact which serves to
demonstrate that fishing is not the restful diversion its devotees
claim, but one which may lead along unexpected pathways.

Graduating from law school in the year 1934 was not exactly
good timing, but taking the broad view I have no regrets. As a
profession, law never seems to wholly water down to sheer

[1197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

routine; there is always the challenge of new problems and new
personalities; and then there are so few other pursuits where a
man can continue to grow and be effective into ripe old age.
Except for a short period as a single practitioner, until 1942 I was
associated with various downtown law firms. There were the
usual bachelor extra-curricular activities of golf, riding, and gen.
eral gallivanting. In my middle thirties and unmarried and fool
enough to believe that good! Marriage on Christmas Day in
1941 ended that delusion. It marks for me a good day, the good
companion and a good life. Only five months later, in May,
1942, we were separated by the familiar greeting, and there |
was inducted into this man’s army. But, we were more lucky
than most. Within a year I was stationed at the Regional Hos-
pital in Camp Crowder, Missouri, and we were able to reestab-
lish a home of sorts in the pleasant little midwestern town of
Carthage, only thirty miles from camp. While living there our
first son was born. He has now reached the companionable years,
and confirms the wisdom of not putting off having a family until
after my discharge from service. My memories of Army days
have become largely pleasantly nostalgic, which may be simply
a sympton of the more mellow outlook of middle age. Yet there
is an enrichment of spirit and understanding from Army service
which I could hardly deny. In the curiously close-knit com-
munity of an Army hospital it would be difficult to escape bet-
ter understanding and liking of your fellows as individuals and
human beings. |
Returning from service in October, 1945, we were again lucky
in being able to solve the typical problem of finding and furnish-
ing a home within a few months of our return. A year as a tax
editor of the Practising Law Institute not only provided income
but served as an intensive postgraduate study of federal tax law.
For several years following, I was associated with a mid-town
law firm specializing in trials and corporate matters. When the
firm broke up, it gave me the opportunity to launch a special
type of practice I had tong considered attractive and particularly
suited to my special interests. Consequently, for the past two
years I have devoted myself exclusively to counsel engage-
ments by other attorneys, particularly in the factual organiza-
tion and preparation of litigations and administrative proceedings

[ 1198 ]

 

:
i
i
i
t
i
f
t

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

involving complex factual data. In addition, my practice in-
volves incidental and appellate briefs, and, of course, a good
deal of strategy planning. It involves long hours and hard work,
but is definitely more interesting and varied than ordinary com-
mercial practice and so for me more satisfying. It makes me
look forward with pleasurable anticipation to the years ahead.
For those years, too, I anticipate the pleasure and satisfactions of
home life with my good companion and two sons. Stuffy, per-
haps, but there it is; and so few countries left where a man can
still be free to enjoy even these simple pleasures of family and
the pursuit of his choice.

WILLIAM SHELLY YORK

HOME Appress: 8: Gaynor Ave. Manhasset, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Madison Ave., New York 10, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1906, Gordon, Nebr. PaReNTs: Welcome Sylvester York,
Mary Elizabeth Boyer.

PREPARED AT: Guilford High School, Guilford, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1925-1928. DEGREE: S.B. IN C.E. cum laude, 1928.
MARRIED: Lucia Marguerite Condon, August, 1935, Brooklyn, N. Y. cum-
DREN: Susan Elaine, Feb. 21, 1940; William Frederick, June 8, 1943.

occuPATION: Assistant controller, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.

MILITARY OR NAVAL RECORD: Navy, lieutenant commander, Aug. 9, 1943-
December, 1945, American and Asiatic-Pacific Theatres.

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries (fellow); Harvard Engineering Society;
Harvard Club of New York.

THE first four years after graduation were about equally di-
vided between a field job on a consulting engineer’s staff, a draft-
ing-room job at Electric Bond and Share, and a period of looking
for a third job. In the spring of 1932 I went to work in the
Actuarial Division of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and
spent the next nine years trying to pass examinations on actuar-
ial mathematics, becoming a fellow of the Actuarial Society in
1941. When I came back to Metropolitan from the Navy in
1945, I was made assistant controller.

[1199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

WALDEMAR VAN COTT YOUNG

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 303 McCormick Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

BorN: March, 1905, Salt Lake City, Utah. parents: John McCleene Young,
Chloe Spencer.

WALDEMAR VAN COTT YOUNG has been carried as
“Jost” man on our records since 1931.

THOMAS FRANCIS ZATA

HOME appress; 3 E. Bridge St., Oswego, N. Y.

BORN; Jan. 16, 1908, Fulton, N. Y. parents: Frank Zaia, Anna Cincotta.
PREPARED AT: Fulton High School, Fulton, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1924-1925. DEGREES: A.B. (Syracuse Univ.), 1930, LLa,
(ibid.), 1930.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

EARL FRANKLIN ZELLER

Apress: 142 E. Wilshire Ave., Fullerton, Calif.

BorN: Feb. 14, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Zeller, Ceclia Johnson.
PREPARED AT: Academy High School, Erie, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

+ LUCIUS PAUL ZIEGLER

BorN: March 25, 1905, Celt, Mo, parents: David Paul Ziegler, Allie Florence
Morris.

PREPARED aT: Lawrenceburg High School, Lawrenceburg, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1928.

pieD: May 30, 1930, Washington, D.C.

ZIEGLER became a journalist and in time a member of the staff
of the U.S, Daily in Washington, D. C. His friend and classmate,
Hale Willis, wrote in his report, “I’m grateful ... for Paul
Ziegler’s friendship. Let this brief word be his report. He had to
work his way through and yet he took his cz laude. When he

[ 1200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

died in 1930 he was a reporter on the Congressional Record and a
member of the Press Club. He would have been an outstanding
member of the Class by this time.”

AUGUST ZINSSER, JR.

HOME ApoRESS: 47 Duck Pond Rd., Glen Cove, Long Island, N. Y.

orricz aporess: Aeronautical Division Engineers, Republic Aviation Corp.,
Farmingdale, Long Island, N. Y.

poan: March 28, 1902, New York, N. Y. parents: August Zinsser, Helen
Mohr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: $.B. (Princeton), 1926, s.M. (Har-
vard), 1928.

Marairp: Carol Smith, Dec. 27, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: August,
3d, Aug. 1941, Anthony, 1945. .

occuPaTION: Aeronautical Engineer.

HERBERT ZOLL

HOME Appress: 15 Frances St., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

orrice aporess: Public Latin School, Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, Mass.
Boan: Sept. 18, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Hyman Zoll, Mollie Homsky.
prePpaAreD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1928; A.M., 1920.
MaRRIED: Elsie Robrish, July 4, 1941, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Maurice Zoll, ’32, m.p., 736.

occuPATION: Teacher of English and German.

MEMBER OF: Society of Arts and Crafts of Boston.

HOBBY and avocation: ceramics.

[ 1201 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

In Memoriam

* Deaths reported since 1948.

Carl Colman Alpern, Jan. 2, 1939, at Washington, D. C.

Frederick Lothrop Ames, Jr., Nov. 6, 1932, at Randolph, Mass.

John Nicholas Atheneos, May 7, 1934, at New York, N. Y.

Rudolf Friedhold Bachmann, Nov. 12, 1951, at Evanston, Wyo.

*rederick Spencer Bedard, Jr., May 7, 1947, at St. Albans, Vt.

Roland Percival Beverley, Oct. 29, 1945, at Wilmington, Del.

amuel Bing, March 27, 1935, at Cincinnati, Ohio.

rnold Kinnear Borden, June 22, 1950, at Washington, D. C.
‘enry Sherman Boutell, 2d, March 22, 1931, at London, England.
aynard Marshall Canfield, Sept. 3, 1929, near Grants, N. Mex.

sorge Thompson Carroll, Feb. 7, 1945, at Whitinsville, Mass.

nes Rosselle Carroll, March 14, 1952, at Pittsburgh, Pa.

ckett Coleman, April 29, 1952, in the Brazilian jungle.
ornton Coolidge, April 8, 1936, at Boston, Mass.

‘| Cutting Corson, Oct. 3, 1939, at Portland, Maine.

n Holland Demoss, Oct. 18, 1940, at La Jolla, Calif.

n William Dunlop, Jan. 14, 1946, at New York, N. Y.

jard Thomas Dunn, Jan. 13, 1949, at New York, N. Y.

rge Eaton, Oct. 23, 1952, at Urbana, Ill.

cis Huyck Eldridge, Aug. 3, 1949, at Albany, N. Y

on Corcoran Eustis, Aug. 13, 1944, im France.

Alexander Fisher, Sept. 20, 1932, at Tampa, Fla.

am Butler Fitzgerald, Aug. 1, 1951, at Boston, Mass.
Corby Fox, April 12, 1944, at Mexico City, D. F., Mexico.

‘ad Roberts Gaetan, May 5, 1942, at San Juan, Puerto Rico.

rinsburg, Oct. 8, 1952, at Boston, Mass.

e Greenslet, Feb. 20, 1953, at Buenos Aires, Argentina.

+h Bert Griffin, Jan. 3, 1951, at Chicago, Ill.

Strauss Gutterman, Dec. 2, 1949, at New York, N. Y.

od Hain, Sept. 19, 1947, at Warsaw, N.Y.

yland Harris, May 16, 1949, at Cambridge, Mass.
Jacob Hermann, May 30, 1939, at Newton, Mass.

Platt Hewlitt, Feb. 2, 1950, at Cambridge, Mass.

[ 1203 ]

‘

—— ~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1928

Robertson Honey, Jr., Oct. 12, 1937, at sea.

*Addison Armstrong Howe, May 8, 1948, at Indianapolis, Inq,
*Conrad Max Kennedy, Dec. 11, 1947, at Fredonia, Kans.

Kenneth James Kennedy, May 11, 1929, at Cambridge, Mass,
*Robert Keen Lamb, Aug. 25, 1952, at Boston, Mass.

Edwin Hyde Lambert, Oct. 29, 1947, at Tucson, Ariz.

Henry Daniel Lane, Feb. 9, 1941, at Dorchester, Mass.
*Raymond Forbes Leonard, Aug. 9, 1948, at Philadelphia, Pa.
*John James Liston, Jan. 22, 1952, at Waltham, Mass.

Donald Gooding McCloud, April 19, 1930, at Norwalk, Conn,

Jemuel Gates Marty, Jr., Nov. 27, 1929, at Florence, Italy.

William Harper Medders, Dec. 9, 1937, at Still Pond, Md.

Scudder Mekeel, July 23, 1947, near Lake Placid, N. Y.

Edward de Selding Melcher, Dec. 30, 1943, in North Africa.

Frank Raymond Moran, March 21, 1941, at Medford, Mass.

Donald Murchie,, June 6, 1945, at Medfield, Mass.

Francis Slocum Parks, Nov. 24, 1930, at New Haven, Conn.
Jerome Augustine Pendergast, May 15, 1933, at Norwood, Mas.
Philip Albright Reed, April 28, 1936, at New York, N. Y.
Alfred Seymour Reinhart, Oct. 26, 1931, at Boston, Mass.
*Howard Clark Relf, May 3, 1951, at St. Paul, Minn.

Arthur Welland Richardson, Feb. 7, 1946, at Tucson, Ariz.
Harry William Rowley, Aug. 28, 1937, at Provincetown, Mas.
Marion Dubois Seashore, Aug. 23, 1926, at Lobster Lake, Maine.
*Francis Charles Shaughnessy, April 10, 1947, at Philadelphia, Pa.
Jerome Simmons, March 6, 1930, at New York, N. Y.

Frank Penrose Sproul, Nov. 6, 1932, at Randolph, Mass.
*Ranald Macdonald Stearns, May 13, 1950, at New York, N. Y.

Allan Curtis Taylor, May 30, 1938, at Trudeau, N. Y.
William Jeremiah Taylor, Jr., July 11, 1934, at Malden, Mass.
*Donald Pitkin Tucker, July 24, 1952, at Providence, R. I.
Peter Williams Vaphiades, June 21, 1938, at Providence, R. I.
Lawrence Arthur Walsh, Aug. 28, 1945, at Boston, Mass,
*John Lewis Wells, Oct. 8, 1948, at Richmond, Va.

David Worcester, June 20, 1947, at Montreal, P. Q., Canada.
Lucius Paul Ziegler, May 30, 1930, at Washington, D. C.

 

a PO MEEORS

[ 1204 ]

Geographical Distribution

ALABAMA
Atmore: C. R. Peavy

ARIZONA
Phoenix: E. V. O'Malley

ARKANSAS
Fayetteville: J. T. Appleby

CALIFORNIA

Apple Valley: T. W. Duncan

Belvedere: M. B. Wells

Beverly Hills: J. W. Green, C. E. Henderson, F. W. Ifeld,
S. N. Sherman

Burbank: W. E. Disney

Burlingame: C. S. Postley

Chico: H. Willis

Davis: G. L. Stebbins, Jr.

Encinitas: A. 8S. Edmonds, Jr.

Fullerton: E. F. Zeller

Kentfield: J. B. Wheelwright

La Jolla: M. C. Sargent

Los Angeles: T. S. Brown, H. L Clarke, G. B. Haber, C.
Klapper, W. A. Lessa, L. VanD. Phelan, M. C. Ross, M. Z.
Silton, R. Simonds, T. Wood

McClellan: S. H. Frederick

Malibu: B. C. Schoenfeld

Oakland: W. E. G. Gallwey, C. H. Hartwig, J. H. MacCol-
lom, N. C. Norcross

Orinda: H. E. Rote

Palo Alto: J. H. Browne, Jr., T. A. Taylor

Pasadena: E. M. Cloran

Rancho Santa Fe: K. S. Walker

San Anselmo: J. H. Meigs

San Diego: J. F. Sinnott

San Francisco: L. L. Allen, W. C. Peet, Jr, J. C. Scudder

[ 1205 ]

