*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

ARVARD CLASS
OF 1929
nty-fifth Anniversary Report

 

CAMBRIDGE
Printed for the Class
1954

Regional Chairmen

Julius H. Appleton

Edwin C. Booth
Ernst J. von Briesen
Victor R. Cain
Charles S. Conklin

Guernsey Curran, Jr.

Julian de Bruyn Kops, Jr.

John deLaittre

Alfred T. Hartwell, Jr.
Hulburd Johnston
Walter R. Koch
Henry D. Lloyd, Jr.

Walter L. Molina

J. Archer O'Reilly, Jr.
Alfred J. Ostheimer, 3d
James L. Reid

Leonard N. Rhoades
Herbert W. Richards

G. Wynn Smith ~
Francis L. Spalding
Richard F. Stevens
Richard B. Thurber

Alfred G, Whitney .
W. Thacher Winslow

Harvard Class of 1929

Records of the Class

GEORGE PLIMPTON ADAMS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 309 Roat St., Ithaca, N. Y.

OFFIce AppRESS: Dept. of Economics, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.

porn: April 27, 1909, Berkeley, Calif. parenrs: George Plimpton Adams, ’04,
Mary Knowles Woodle.

PREPARED AT: Williams School, Berkeley, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cu7m laude, 1929; PH.D. (Univ. of
California at Berkeley), 1940.

marnieD: Evelyn Yonker, June 13, 1934, Philadelphia, Pa.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Edwin Adams, M.D., ’39.

occuPATION: Professor of economics, chairman of department, Cornell Uni-
versity.

OFFicEs HELD: Instructor in English, Robert College, Istanbul, Turkey, r929-
32; teaching assistant, University of California, 1936-38; staff economist,
Brookings Institution, Washington, D. C., 1938-40; member Economics
Department, since 1940, assistant director, Army Training Program,
1942-44, Cornell University; economist, State Department, Washington,
1944-46; president, Theta Chapter, Phi Beta Kappa, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Association of Uni-
versity Professors; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Wartime Price Control, Washington, 1942; Competitive Eco-
nomic Systems, New York, 1954.

I MAJORED in philosophy at Harvard. After graduating, I spent
a wonderful, lazy summer with my family on Lake Tahoe in the
Sierras, and then went to Turkey for three years as instructor in
English at Roberts College. The introduction was terrifying; my
first class comprised about fifteen boys averaging perhaps twelve
years of age, no one of whom knew one word of English, while I
of course was equally innocent of Turkish. Somehow I survived,
and somehow acquired a taste for teaching that I have never lost.
I acquired it the hard way. The mixture of over twenty different
nationalities did not always emulsify into a smooth and harmonious

[1]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

intrusions of administrators, and the eccentricities of colleagues.
We have nearly an acre of sandy soil into which my w ife and
I try to inject substance. Herbs, ‘vegetables, fruits, and flowers
do, ‘however, make their seasonal appearance. We have a peach
tree that needs grafting, a grape vine requiring discipline, a wine
cellar perennially needing replacement, and a house always de-
manding tinkering. In the woods and ficld about us we avidly
seek wild mushrooms and by now, I suppose, we have sampled
some fifty or sixty species. We have found mushrooms in every
month of the year but February, and the reason for that exception
is not the disappearance of fungi but the fact that ice-coated tree
trunks somehow exacerbate the marginal disutility of effort.
Politically, I usually — and reluctantly — vote Democratic, sim-
ply because I love Rome more than Caesar. Religion? Iam neither
impressed by any plausibility in theological assumption nor
tempted by the wishy-washiness of churchly social policy. I

suppose I am as sympathetic towards Epictetus as I am towards
anyone; except that I favor the flesh.

EVERETT ADDOMS

HOME appRess: 1151 Milwaukee Rd., Beloit, Wis.

oFFice appeess: Besly-Welles Corp. Beloit, Wis.

porn: March 19, 1906, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. parents: Everett Addoms, Emma
Louise Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1025-1929. DEGREE: A.B, 1929.

MapRieD: Katharine Fulton Beatty, Dec. 25, 1930, Hinsdale, Ill. CHILDREN:
Sarah Fulton, Nov. 11, 1931; Elizabeth Alden and Mary Alden (twins),
April 30, 1933; Samuel David, Oct. 10, 1939,

occupation: Vice-president in charge of sales, Besly-Welles Corporation,
cutting tools and machine tools.

orvices HELD: Former vice-president, Evans Association (advertising agency).

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago; Country Club of Beloit; Rotary
Club of Beloit, Beloit Association of Commerce.

LIKE many another undergraduate, I found that the irregular
hours of a creative literary man appeared a logical transition from
English A and an A.B. in English. So far as it is possible to derer-

mine, a thorough grounding in geomancy would have been equally
helpful to my actual career.

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Industrial advertising proved to have a total lack of writing in-
terest. The search for “le mot juste” was abandoned for the ab-
sorbing problem of how to bring goods to market. As one of half
a dozen vice-presidents in a Chicago industrial advertising agency,
I moved farther and farther into sales policy, sales training, and
the various facets of marketing. In spite of a total ignorance of
engineering, I gradually acquired the language of industrial prod-
ucts, from rust-resistant paints to machine tools, from road ma-
chinery to router bits.

After I had been sixteen years in industrial marketing, one
client suggested that I stop kibitzing and go to work. I am once
more a vice-president, this time in charge of sales with a company
making the world’s finest production grinders — fabulous machine
tools that not enough people know about — and high-speed cutting
tools. Throughout both careers it has been a continuing struggle
to recover the standard of living, established when I was a fresh-
man in James Smith Hall; and while never quite succeeding, I have
managed with the help of a charming wife to raise four children
and to pay to have their teeth straightened.

Aside from painting as a hobby, activities outside of business
are hardly worth noting, except a return to my youth with my
son Sam. Together, we are currently struggling with agricola non
est nauta — and with somewhat greater success than thirty years
ago — proof that there is progress. The studies at Harvard of
least use to a career have been among the most rewarding through-
out the quarter century. A bowing acquaintance with Descartes,
the enchantment of Keats’s “Endymion,” the salt of Kirsopp Lake’s
lectures on the Old Testament, have given savor to a life that has
yet to achieve greatness in honors or infamy.

SIDNEY ABRAHAM AISNER

HOME apprEss: 76 Old Farm Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1907, Revere, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob Abraham Aisner, Sadie
Solomon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, DEGREES: A.B., 1929(28); LL.B, 1931.

MARRIED: Esther Rosen, March 16, 1943, Boston, Mass. camp: James Eliot,
Nov. 12, 1946.

[5]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Jacob Aisner, School of Architecture, 1925-27;
Mark Aisner, °31.

occupation: Lawyer, first assistant attorney general, Commonwealth of
Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attorney general, 1942-44; special assistant to the
counsel to the House of Representatives, 1945~53; chairman, Massachu-
setts Emergency Housing Commission, 1948-53.

HAIG AJAMIAN

HOME ADDRESS: 137 E. 33rd St., New York 16, N.Y.

orice appress: Brooklyn College, Brooklyn 10, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Michael Harry Ajamian, Isgouhi
Coliapanian,

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.; Public Latin School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929, DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1929; 8B. (Columbia
Univ.), 1936; aM. (ibid.), 1941,

occupation: Assistant librarian in charge Periodicals & Documents Division,
Brooklyn College Library.

MEMBER oF: American Library Association; Association of College and Refer-
ence Librarians.

1 WAS in the U.S, Army from November 9, 1942, to September
26, 1945.

SAMUEL ALDERMAN

HOME AppRESS: 119 Forest St., Gloversville, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 15, 1905, Vilna, Russia. parents: Soloman Alderman, Golde
Tarshis.

PREPARED AT: Gloversville High School, Gloversville, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

MAYNARD WALTER ALLARD

HOME AppreEss: 113 Sheppard Ave., Braintree 84, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 209 Washington St. Boston 8, Mass,

BORN: Sept. 28, 1907, North Brookfield, Mass. parents: Walter Irwin Allard,
Eva Martha Robinson.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

[6]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

MaRRIED: Violet G, Bears, Feb. 21, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Maynard
David, Oct. 10, 1940; Susan, Feb. 9, 1943; Peter Douglas, Jan. 7, 1947;
Ralph Walter, Jan. 23, 1954.

occupation: State actuary, Massachusetts Savings Bank Life Insurance.

IN looking back over the past twenty-five years since graduation,
I find that my career has not been particularly spectacular but
it has been personally satisfactory in that I have acquired a com-
fortable home (with mortgage), a healthy and happy family, and
sufficient material possessions to provide pleasant living for all
of us.

My four children range in age from thirteen years down to
three weeks with two in the middle at eleven and seven (three
boys and a girl), so our interests vary from nursery rhymes to an
active participation in church, boy scout, and girl scout activities.
I have found little need for outside social and political activities
as the demands on my time made by my work and family have
lefe little available for them. For relaxation I find that an occa-
sional round of golf in the summer and skiing in the winter are
entirely adequate.

In my work I have progressed in twenty-one years with the
Massachusetts system of savings bank life insurance from a clerk
in the actuarial department to the position of actuary (since
February 1, 1952). To participate in the growth of such an or-
ganization from the relatively small size of fifteen million of
assets to well over one hundred million with nearly one-half a
billion of insurance in force, has been a rich and rewarding ex-
perience.

CLAUDE LeROY ALLEN, JR.

HOME appress: Hebron, Maine.

OFFICE appress: Hebron Academy, Hebron, Maine.

BORN; Jan. 21, 1906, Melrose, Mass, parents: Claude LeRoy Allen, Lovisa
A. Delamater.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; A.M. (Hon.) (Colby
Coll.), 1953.

MARRIED: Eleanor Davy, June 28, 1935, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN: Con-
stance D., Nov. 7, 1936; Claude LeRoy, 3d, June ro, 1940; Jane H., July
27, 1945.

[7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occuPATION: Headmaster, boys’ boarding school.

OFFICERS HELD: Member Executive Committee, New England College and
Secondary School Association, 1949-51; trustee, Maine Maritime Acad-
emy, since 1948; president, Harvard Club of Southern Maine, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Kiwanis; Harvard Club of Boston.

UPON graduation from College, not being too sure of my choice
of business or profession, I entered Harvard Law School with the
idea of eventually joining my Dad in the practice of law. This
idea was rather rudely shattered in June, 1931, when the dean and
faculty decided that I was the “one in three” not to return. In
retrospect I am grateful to the faculty for its decision which
served as the factor in getting me started in my work in the inde-
pendent school field —I also fee] that the type of mind training
received in the law school has been of considerable value to me as
a school administrator. I was fortunate in securing a position as a
member of the Deerfield Academy Faculty in the fall of 1931,
where I spent fourteen very pleasant years and gained a wonderful
training under Dr. Frank L. Boyden. The early years at Deerfield
for me involved the teaching of Latin and mathematics, and assist-
ing in the coaching of practically all sports. Over the years the
teaching and coaching were gradually dropped as I became more
and more involved in all kinds of administrative work. In the fall
of 1945, the Allen family left Deerfield and came to Hebron
where I had been appointed headmaster of what at the time was a
closed school. The past eight years have been busy ones but nev-
ertheless very gratifying as the school has moved ahead. We now
have a fine group of 175 boys from all over the country, and even
farther away.

Being a family man and a boarding school man for ,the past
twenty years has not left much time for the development of per-
sonal hobbies, but four years ago I fulfilled one childhood desire
when I acquired my first motorcycle; this has been followed by
others of increasing size—they are great for getting around a
school, and one can forget all office problems while attempting to
keep a machine upright on the back roads in Maine. The Allens
spend practically twelve months a year here in Hebron and would

always be very happy to see any classmates who live, or vacation,
in Maine.

[8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EVANS SEWALL ALLEN

HOME ADDRESS: 361 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 420 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 5, 1904, Nevada, Mo. parents: Sewall Additon Allen, Blanche
Vincent.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

OCCUPATION: Owner, Devon Service.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

GEORGE LOCKHART ALLEN

HOME aAppreEss: 118 School St, Manchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 Broad St. Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1905, Manchester, Mass. parents: George Lockhart Allen,
88, Florence Levers Hobbie. °

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

UNMARRIED.

occuPaATION: Shipbroker.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Salem Marine Society; Manchester
Yacht Club.

I HAVE lived in Manchester, Massachusetts, all my life. The
first year out of college | made my headquarters in Baltimore,
while selling incandescent light bulbs through four southern states.
The next three or four years I sold marine paint all along the
Atlantic coast. From that business I gravitated into the sale of
fishing trawlers, tugs, barges — commercial vessels of all types.
I own my own business and have continued in it to date.

JOHN THOMAS ALLEN

HOME ApDpREsS: 491 Montauk Ave., New London, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 808 Federal Bldg., Los Angeles 12, Calif.

BORN: May 5, 1908, New London, Conn. parents: James Thomas Littuer
Allen, Ellen Mullin.

PREPARED AT: Bulkeley High School, New London, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LL.B. 1932.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Lewis, March, 1944, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: John
Thomas, Jr., July 30, 1948; James Lewis, July 26, 1952.

[9]

an nina Seah rte, . ,
seme Oe ke eE eel,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occupation: Attorney in charge, Field Office, Civil Division, Department
of Justice.

OFFICES HELD: Representative, Connecticut General Assembly, 1935, 19373
deputy judge, 1937-39, senior judge, 1941-43, New London Municipal
Court; exalted ruler, New London Lodge of Elks, 1942-43.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Alumni Association; Harvard Law School Association;

Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks; American Legion, Connecti-
cut Bar Association,

AFTER my release from Harvard Law School in the depres-
sion year of 1932, I found that fledgling attorneys were worth
less than the proverbial dime a dozen. Since I was not a genius
nobody would pay me a living wage; and since I had no inde-
pendent resources to draw upon, I could not accept the privilege
of working on a quasi-gratuitous basis for one of the legal sweat-
shops in New York or Boston. Thus I was forced to hang a
shingle in my native town of New London, for there at least I
could live with Mother and eat with regularity. During the next
ten years I engaged in private practice — which, during the early
part of said period, was often so private that it concerned nobody
but myself. At the end of that time I was astonished to find my-
self in a state of solvency, probably because I knew considerably
less law than when I started and had increased my fees propor-
tionately —a stratagem I had learned from observing a former
vice-president of the American Bar Association.
Meanwhile, I had become a minor politician and served two
terms in the Connecticut legislature, between the farmers and
the deep blue sea. Inter alia, 1 sponsored a measure to reduce the
rate of interest on small loans — probably in self-defense — but
lost to a lobbyist who, I was informed, received about $15,000
for successfully opposing the bill in committee. (A similar bill
was enacted a few sessions later.) As a legislator, my compensa-
tion for the time involved was approximately $16.10 — which
points to the sort of moral generally overlooked in baccalaureate
addresses. However, my constituents were grateful and rewarded
me in the next election by choosing my opponent, thereby en-
abling me to resume remunerative employment.
During my struggles as a private practitioner, 1 managed to

garmer an appointment— or “plum” as it is more irreverently
dubbed —to the municipal court. I prefer to believe that I

[10]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

received this honor strictly on merit, although that is rather harsh
on the local Bar. As an arm of the law, I was badly mauled on
more than one occasion. In fact, I recall one Monday morning
when the weekend floaters from the “tank” were lined up in
smelly disarray for their customary lecture from the bench. On
the previous evening I had attended an Elks’ affair in a neighbor-
ing town. On the way back I had stopped with a small party
for a snack at a dine-and-dance resort. We had no sooner been
seated than from a table across the small floor a character who
was feeling no pain struggled to his feet, waved his arms in my
general direction, and yelled so everybody could hear, “Hi,
Judgie, old boy!” Although I had become hardened by that time,
the episode proved mildly embarrassing, so I pretended not to
notice and fortunately wasn’t bothered by my anonymous friend
for the rest of the evening. However, here I was on Monday
morning in the midst of more alcoholics, and perhaps it was my
experience of the previous night that spurred me to sermonizing
more than usual. Singling out one of the group whose clothing
was hopelessly disarrayed, whose hair was matted, and whose
nose was the color of an autumnal sunset, I began by making
some caustic remarks about his appearance and the evils of liquor
in general. Then I said, “By the way, do you mind telling me
where you were last night?” Whereupon my victim replied,
with a leer, “The same place as you were, Judge, don’t you re-
member?” Then and there I vowed to become strictly a counter-
puncher.

I served in the Navy for two years during the war but I did
nothing worth mentioning. However, about that time I did take
one step which was greatly to influence my future life. Having
lost my freedom of action in the Navy and learned how to take
orders, I decided that I was ripe for the sea of matrimony —
which was, in fact, the only sea I sailed on during my nautical
career. However, at times it made the North Atlantic patrol
_ seem rather puny. Speaking seriously, I suppose that marriage
made a man of me — indeed, I cannot think of anything which
more completely erases the bloom of youth.

After the latest war to end wars—I am excluding the Korean
conflict, which apparently is not designed to end anything — I
was faced with the choice of returning to private practice or

: [ar]

_: &
ae

aoe meee Mad ny

ut thee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

from center, strategically placed so as to avoid any obstruction
from the back of the silver-haired violinist who led the band.

Alas, this hope must die aborning, at least unless the good burgh-
ers of Boston will admit that sex is here to stay. |

Yes, I am looking forward to our Reunion. In fact, 1 may
even get there if my wife doesn’t read this first. In any event,
I shall forward a humble contribution — which I suspect is the

rimary reason for the whole shebang. But since it is for Har-
vard’s benefit, what better reason could there be?

To my Alma Mater I am deeply grateful for making me less
of an oaf than I would have been. Such a debt can in no measure

be repaid — it can only be acknowledged. It is my fervent hope

that Harvard will never cease to pursue the truth and to blow the
_ horns when it is found —no matter whose ears are offended.

SAMUEL SPRINGER ALLEN

HOME ADDRESS: 103 W. Sycamore, Robinson, Il.
orFice appress: Allen's Sanitarium, Robinson, IIL.

porn: May 6, 1908, Alton, Ill. parents: Arthur Woodson Allen, Ann Re
becca Springer.
PREPARED AT: Robinson High School, Robinson, Il

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: AB. 1929, MD. (Baylor Univ.), 1934+
MaRRIED: Martha Jane Williams, 1934, Dallas, Texas (died 1941); Bernice

L Quick, 1943, Robinson, Il. crip: Rebecca Ann, Oct. 1, 1934.
occupation: Physician and surgeon.

MEMBER OF: Phi Chi Medical Fraternity; American Medical Society.

1 APPRECIATED Harvard because I thought that above all
else it was truly American and there a young man learned to
equip himself and think. It used to be rugged — men actually
roughed it up in football and the other sports — occasionally a
boy took on too much beer— but it turned out some fellows
capable of holding their own in a field of competition.
From the bleacher seat I'm sitting in now, it looks kind of

sickening — a lot of pasty-faced, radical, non-God-fearing, ane-
mic youths, yelling about the rights of reds— freedom of the

rest of the world to enjoy the protection of our hard-earned
American way of life without respecting its flag, God, or stand-

ard of living—when the very pimple-faces yelling this rot

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

couldn’t live a half hour out in the sun on their own two feet
without red-blooded, God-fearing Americans protecting them.

Please! return Harvard to the “way of life” on which it was
founded: democracy, justice, liberty, strict adherence to decent
laws of social living. Don’t let a bunch of weak-kneed, yowling
rabble crack those ivy-covered walls of John Harvard that are
a symbol of a solid America.

** ABRAHAM MARTIN ALOFF
See page 1355

HOME aAppRESS: 85 Shore Drive, Winthrop 52, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: .148 State House, Boston 33, Mass.

BoRN: March 22, 1908, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: Samuel Aloff, Ida Plagoff.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930, DEGREES: A.B. 1929; S.M., 1930; LL.B. (Boston
Univ.) cum laude, 1951.

MarRiED: Sophie L. Staller, Dec. 20, 1942, Boston, Mass. cHmprEN: Ida
Jean, Oct. 9, 1944; Judith Eve, Dec. 26, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jacob Aloff, ’34.

occupation: Lawyer; examiner, Massachusetts Division of Civil Service.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Congregation Shara Tfilo, Roxbury, Mass.,
1940-425 member Board, Massachusetts State Examiners of Electricians,
since 1950.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers (junior member, 1932-
35, associate member, since 1935); Boston and Massachusetts Bar Asso-
ciations; Congregation Tifereth Israel, Winthrop, Mass.

PUBLicATIONS: Book reviews, The Military Engineer, Washington; article
abstracts, Public Personnel Review, Chicago; comment, Transactions

_ American Society of Civil Engineers, New York.

AFTER completing the civil engineering course at the Harvard
Engineering School, I spent a few months in building construction
and then joined the Massachusetts Division of Civil Service as a
junior examiner. I was fortunate enough to be able to serve my
apprenticeship under the late Percy A. Harrison, ’o08, and Leroy
P. Steele, ’21. Both had a broad-gauge appreciation of the entire
problem of civil service examining, plus a close technical know]-
edge of the fine points. I can only hope that some of this rubbed
off on me.

In 1942 my sedentary existence was abruptly changed to that
of a soldier. The stresses of war frequently uncover * previously
unsuspected talents and certainly did so in my case. After basic

[15]

wae 8 ees wea mE Sanu - .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

training at Fort McClellan, Alabama, I rose to staff sergeant before
going to Ordnance Officer Candidate School at Aberdeen Proving
Ground, Maryland. I was commissioned second lieutenant in
July, 1943. The Corps of Engineers was then canvassing for
officers with a civil engineering background. I therefore trans-
ferred to that branch, and after an indoctrination period at Fort
Belvoir, Virginia, joined the 34oth Engineer Construction Bat-
talion as a platoon commander. With this unit I took the Mac-
Arthur tour of the Pacific, starting with airport construction in
Australia and continuing with other engineer operations in New

Guinea, Morotai, and Luzon. In Luzon I transferred to the 1136th

Engineer Construction Group (an organization comparable to

regimental headquarters) as adjutant. Under this group was

carried out a major part of the engineering operations involved in

the clearing of Luzon north of the Manila area. The group partic-

jpated in the occupation of Japan in the fall of 1945. I returned

from Osaka early in 1946, with the rank of captain.

Some participation in court martial work during the war (not
as defendant) had caused me to suspect that the work of a lawyer
might prove to be congenial to me. I therefore entered Boston
University Law School in the fall of 1947 and emerged, after
four years of evening classes, with a degree cum laude. Several
Harvard men, older and younger, were among my law school
classmates. I passed the bar examination given the following
month.

With my wife and two daughters, I take frequent auto trips.
The children are at an age when observation is acute and com-
ments penetrating, and they are stimulating company. Mrs. Aloff

is the community leader of the family, being this year’s president
of the Winthrop Chapter of B'nai Brith.

JOSEPH MEYER ALPER

HOME appress: 440 West End Ave., New York 24, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1185 Park Ave. Now York 28, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 4, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Paul Alper, Rose Newfield.
PREPARED AT: Morris High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: 8.8, magna cum laude, 1929; M.D+
1933.

[16]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Muriel S. Zinovoy, Oct. 3, 1942, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Paul
Edward, May 5, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Physician, private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Adjunct physician, Medical Service, Montefiore Hospital,
New York; senior clinical assistant, Gastric Service, Mt. Sinai Hospital,
New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers in the field of endocrinology and gastroenter-

ology; series of publications on climatic physiology (co-author), dur-
ing the war.

IN the fall of 1929 I entered Harvard Medical School. I received
my degree in 1933 and following an internship at the Massachusetts
General Hospital I returned to New York and served a residency
at the Montefiore Hospital. I began the private practice of medi-
cine in New York in 1937. This was interrupted by the war
years which I spent doing research work in the field of climatic
physiology for the U.S. Army Signal Corps. I was married to
Muriel S. Zinovoy in 1942. I returned to New York and resumed
private practice late in 1945. We have one son, Paul Edward, who
was born on May 5, 1948. I am affiliated with Mount Sinai
Hospital and Montefiore Hospital, New York, and am kept quite
busy with my practice and some research work which I am doing
in my spare time.

GEORGE ALPERT

HOME ADDRESS: 217 Harvard St., Dorchester 24, Mass.

BORN: May 18, 1908, Boston, Mass. Parents: Louis Alpert, Lena Dalen,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.D. (Univ. of
Maryland), 1935.

OccUPATION: Physician.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

GEORGE ERNST ALTSTADT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 34354 Winslow St., Wayne, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 29500 Plymouth Rd., Livonia, Mich.

BORN: Aug, 28, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: George Ernst Alestade,
Anna Margaret Wiebener.

PREPARED AT; Evander Childs High School, New York, N. Y.

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, pecREE: $.B. (Coll. of the City of New York),
1940,
MARRIED! Mary Josephine McShane, Aug. 27, 1939, New York, N. Y.
occuPATION: Accountant in charge, Property Section, Ford Motor Com-
pany.
THE success of our Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report rests upon
the efforts of every member of the Class of 1929. With this
thought in mind I relate my personal experiences in the hope that
I might revive some of my college days’ associations. It is at times
of reunion that many pleasant and enjoyable events can be relived.
A cordial greeting to every member of the Class is extended at
this time.

I remember with great enthusiasm my freshman days at Har-
vard with the anticipation of graduation four years hence.
The untimely death of my father, a great admirer of the lofty and
high traditions of Harvard, at the conclusion of my freshman
year concluded my stay at Cambridge. This sudden termination
with both Harvard and with my classmates left me with a heart-
breaking disappointment which I must confess still lingers with
me to this day, and explains to a great degree my non-active par-
ticipation in Class activities.

Despite earlier setbacks I resolved to complete my college
education. In January, 1933, I enrolled at the College of the City
of New York with advanced standing. After seven years of night
instruction I received my S.B. degree in 1940. To the College of
the City of New York and to its faculty I owe a debt of gratitude
for their sincere assistance during years of privation and financial
difficulties.

As recorded in the previous Class Anniversary Report, I stated
that up to 1939 my activities were exclusively in the engineering
field, but personal events in the closing months of 1939 indicated
I was to devote all my efforts to accounting and business admin-
istration. My association with Sanderson-Porter Company, oper-
ators of an ordnance plant in Elwood, Illinois, terminated upon
my induction into the United States Navy on July 1, 1943. I
Temained in service for twenty-eight months as an aviation radar

technician, and on November 19, 1945, 1 was honorably dis-
charged from service and entered the employ of the Ford Motor
Company at Dearborn, Michigan. My present assignment. is

[18]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

supervisor of property accounting at the Central Parts Depot of
the Ford Motor Company at Livonia, Michigan. This is in brief
my personal account of events since my freshman days.

I believe that this Report would be more fruitful if each and
every member would express his views regarding world conditions
today. Do we appreciate the value of our heritage or are we
willing to lose it because we are swayed by the mouthpiece of
some disrupting force? This great nation of ours fought bravely
for the heritage which is ours. Any force whatsoever which tends
to change our mode of living should be dealt with severely. The
“isms” attempt to protect themselves under our standards of free-
dom. There is a limit to what freedom means. Any extension
beyond this limit will eliminate the benefits of this “initial free-

dom.” Despite the fact that the people of the United States enjoy

a high standard of living, together with the freedom of worship

and expression, there are countless numbers of people foolish

enough to think otherwise. Does this reflect traditional thinking
on the part of the individual? I believe not. What we need in this

country is rational individual thinking united with a unified de-
termination to preserve the things we experience and know to be
priceless. Classmates, many of you have members of your family
growing up in a sorry world — protect them by showing them
what this United States has preserved for them. For our own
protection let us be strong and kind, never ready to start a fight
but always certain to end it quickly.

Again, as before, I extend my personal greeting and wishes of
sratitude to both the university and its staff and to my classmates
vho made my college days at Harvard most enjoyable and un-
orgetable. God bless you all.

+ FRANCIS EDWIN BEATTY ANDERSON

RN: May 20, 1906, Hartford, Conn. parents: Edwin Gorsuch Anderson,
Mary Louise Beatty.

EPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Hyde Park, Mass.

SARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

sD: Jan. 1, 1946, Chicago, IIL.

NDERSON came to Harvard from the Univ ersity of Chicago,
d spent two years with our Class. While at Harvard he was

[19 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

a member of the Liberal Club. In 1930 he was a master in histor
at the Howe School, in Howe, Indiana. He was ill for several
years before his death, and the Secretary had received no infor-
mation from him after 1930. |

LEROY ANDERSON

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mills Music, Inc., 1619 Broadway, New York 19, N. Y.

BORN: June 29, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. paRENTS: Brewer Anton Anderson,
Anna Margaret Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1929; A.M.
1930.

marrieD: Eleanor Jane Firke, Oct. 31, 1942, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:

Jane Margareta, Dec. 17, 1944; Eric Russell, June 29, 1947; Rolf Fredric,
Oct. 28, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Russell Brewer Anderson, ’33.
,OCCUPATION: Music; composer, conductor.
MEMBER OF: American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers.

AFTER getting an A.M. in music the year following graduation,
I changed my field to Germanic languages and continued four
more years in the graduate school as a candidate for a Ph.D. degree.
In the meantime I played in orchestras in Boston and at the end
of four years, with a thesis still to be written, decided I preferred
music after all. I then became an arranger and orchestrator in
Boston and New York and eventually had two compositions, ‘‘Jazz
Pizzicato” and “Jazz Legato,” performed by the Boston Pops.
This led to their publication and the beginning of my present
work.

In World War II, I returned to languages. After being drafted
I was first sent to Iceland and worked as a translator. Then I
went to Officer Candidate School at Fort Monmouth and finished
the last two years of the war on the Scandinavian Desk of Military
Intelligence Service in Washington.

After the war I spent most of my time at composition, but also
did arranging and orchestrating for the Boston Pops until four
years ago, when I began recording with my own orchestra and
making occasional appearances as guest conductor. I was recalled
to active duty as a reserve officer during the Korean War. After
being assigned to Military Intelligence units at Fort Riley and

[20]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Fort Bragg, I eventually got my World War II job back in Wash-
ington. I am now living in a small town in western Connecticut.

ROBERT WILLIAM ANDERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 93 St. John Pl., New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 122 E, 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 11, 1906, Hardin, Ill. parents: William Thomas Anderson,
Anna Ringhausen.

PREPARED AT: Jersey Township High School, Jerseyville, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.B.A., 1932.

MARRIED: Ellen Shold, June 24, 1938, Boston, Mass.; Marjorie Knodel, April
10, 1941, New York, N. Y. .cuitpren: Peter Jon, March 29, 1942; Susan
Helen, Aug. 31, 1943; Jill Louise, March 1, 1947.

HARVARD RBOTHER: William Thomas Anderson, Jr., ’36.

OCCUPATION: Investment analyst, Vick Chemical Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of New Canaan.

AFTER getting my degree in 1929, I made the first of a long list
of mistakes: I started at Harvard Law on the theory that a business
man should be trained in law. After a while the idea dawned on
me that I could get the same mental gymnastics at the Business
School, plus some facts about the business world which might
just possibly be useful later on. I got the gymnastics, all right:
they nearly killed me. After the M.B.A. in June, 1932, I went to
work for the investment counsel firm of Loomis, Sayles & Com-
pany of Boston, doing security analysis. After about seven years
in that department, the firm sent me to its New York office to
work as a portfolio manager.

I acquired an apartment on Gramercy Park, and about a year
thereafter also acquired a wife. This was in 1941; some time later
we moved over to New Jersey so that we could start raising our
family in the country. Peter was born in 1942, and life hasn’t
been the same since. Meanwhile, in 1938, my brother and I had
started a small specialty contracting business in Worcester, Massa-
chusetts. In 1942 I left Loomis Sayles to take over the management
of this contracting business, moving my family to the lovely
village of Sterling. My checkered career as a contractor didn’t
last long, because in 1943 I joined the Navy and was sent to Los
Angeles to do naval officer procurement. For a few months it was
lonesome, but later my family came out to join me. I would have

[21 ]

eatin at

enn An anne nf Lad Steen Sb

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

been perfectly happy then except for the climate, which I con-
sider monotonous and sleepy. In 1944 I was sent out to New
Guinea and the Schouten Islands where I served without dis-
tinction for eighteen months as personnel officer at a small naval
base. I forgot to say that in 1943, during my tour of duty in Los
Angeles, our second child, a girl, was born.

The war over, I came home again late in 1945. I found myself
a new job as security analyst with the brokerage firm of Clark,
Dodge & Company, on Wall Street. A second daughter was born
in 1947. Late in 1948 I accepted an offer to become investment
manager (just another name for security analyst) for the Vick
Chemical Company and two affiliated companies. [ve held this
position ever since. In 1949 I moved from New Jersey to Con-
necticut, buying an old house gone to seed, with a romantic notion
of fixing it up with my own little hands. I am now serving three
concurrent forms of slavery: my job; my family; and this busted
house. Anyone want to hire a mason-painter-carpenter-paper-
hanger?

WILLIAM JOHN ANDERSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 355 Beacon St., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 25, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William John Anderson,
Ellen Louise Allen.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1927.

MARRIED: Bettina Blodgett, March 3, 1929 (divorced 1937); Helen White,
1938. CHILDREN: Edward Blodgett, Nov. 20, 1929; John W. Thibodeau
(stepchild), 1929 (m. Jane Wynn, June, 1953, Winter Park, Fla.);
Bettina, 1933.

HARVARD SON: Edward Blodgett Anderson, ’52.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel, president, Anderson and Millett, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Union
Boat Club.

FOR reasons that seem to defy analysis I regret to acknowledge
that I am one of the guilty who has contributed mightily to mak-
ing life miserable for a swell guy like Jack Hutchinson — many
apologies, Jack.

Like most of my classmates I’ve been drudging along these

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

many years, raising a family, doing my best to prepare three chil-
dren for some form of constructive adult life. My son Ted at-
tended Choate School and entered Harvard with the Class of
1952. At the end of his junior year his Air Corps National Guard
unit was called to active service. He was released in September,
1953, after two years’ service, about half of which was in Tripoli.
This assignment permitted him to visit many interesting places
on the European continent and the British Isles. He is now com-
pleting his senior year at Harvard and intends to enter law school
next fall.

My stepson John became a member of the family by merger
in 1938 at the age of nine. John prepared at Pomfret School,
entered Rollins College with the Class of 1953. His college career
was interrupted by activation of his Naval Reserve unit and fol-
lowing two years of service, chiefly at Pensacola, he re-entered
Rollins this January and hopes to graduate. John married Jane
Wynn, a classmate, in June, 1953, at the Rollins College Chapel.
Jane was raised in Honolulu and we think she’s a prized addition
to our family. My daughter, Tina, prepared at Beaver Country
Day School and attended Mount Holyoke College for two years
as a member of the Class of 1955. Tina is currently attending the
Katherine Gibbs School in Boston.

In 1930 I entered the investment counsel field and have been
working at it ever since. As anyone is aware who is familiar
with investment management problems, it can be a perplexing
occupation at times. Often one never knows for months or even
years the merit of his decisions. You just wait and brood. I
have found it a fascinating business, especially since the world
has become so overwhelmed with complexities of a political and
economic nature. In addition, it is no mean job to keep up with
the vast changes in many industries resulting from scientific and
technological advances.

While not having played an active role in politics I am a middle-
of-the-road Republican. In the absence of another war I believe
we have a monstrous problem for years to come simply to correct
in part the economic excesses into which we have been led for
a generation. Until recently, so many of our political leaders
have put intellectual honesty into the deep freeze that I some-
times wonder if the damage that has been wrought by improvi-

[23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

dent guidance can be remedied short of a century, if ever. If over
a long period we as a nation fail to regard seriously the signposts
of history, I believe that as a result of our vast national debt and
exorbitant taxes, we shall reduce our middle economic group to
a state of relative impotency. As we well know this vast group
has always been the strong force underlying all great nations
and with its debasement has come moral and economic ruin. For
the sake of our children and our grandchildren I deeply hope
that the philosophy of spend and elect will be abandoned for a
more sane and prudent philosophy.
Unfortunately, I have found little time for hobbies although

I have stuck closely to rowing over the years. Sculling in either
a single or double on the Charles at every opportunity has kept
me reasonably fit over the years. I am not alone in my apprecia-
tion of the Charles and the Union Boat Club. During the war,
because of family responsibilities, I could do no more than join
the State Guard although I have a very deep feeling of indebted-
ness to those who could do more. I extend all good wishes for
health and happiness to my classmates and their families,

WARREN WILCOX ANTHONY

HOME ADDRESS: 3338 E. Main Rd., Portsmouth, R.L
OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Michael’s School, Newport, R. I.
BORN: May 11, 1906, Portsmouth, R. IL. parents: Joseph Garfield Anthony,
Emma Louise Sherman.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: 8.M. cumt laude, 1929 (30).
marRiep: Thelma Marie Bradley, July 14, 1929, Charlestown, Mass. (div-
orced 1941); Ozora Blanche Betts, 1945, Portsmouth, R. I. (died 1948);
Muriel Childs Pierce, July 15, 1950, Portsmouth, R. I. cumpren: War-
ren, Jr., Sept. 15, 1930; Evelyn Louise, 1932 (died 1934); Barbara Anne,
April 24, 1934 (m. Paul R. Bruce, Feb. 5, 1953); Pauline, Oct. 19, 19353
David Garfield, 1939; Edythe-Louise Pierce, Dec. 23, 1952.
occupation: Teacher, head Mathematics Department and French Depart-
ment, Upper school, St. Michael’s School.
orrices HELD: Treasurer, Lions Club of Newport, R. 1, 1943-45.
MEMBER OF: Newport County Radio Club.

HAVING attended a radio school three nights a week during my
last year of college, and having obtained a commercial radio

{ 24]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

license, I searched in vain for two long years for a job connected
with radio. ‘There was not an opening anywhere during those
depression years. I had married in 1929, and now there was a son.
In desperation I took a job in a department store as stock boy. I
worked in that store for ten years not doing the type of work I
wanted. I had climbed to the elevated position of department
buyer in three years, the highest rung on the ladder in that par-
ticular store. This stupid business of buying and selling, putting
in fifty-one hours per week in a stuffy store for a ridiculously low
salary, ended in a break-down of my health. Spirit-breaking
marital trouble at the same time didn’t help any.

After obtaining a divorce, and after regaining health to a suffi-
cient degree, I obtained a position as instructor of mathematics
and Spanish at St. Michael’s Country Day School for Boys and
Girls. As I write this, I am in my thirteenth year at the same
school, and I love it. The Upper School Mathematics Department
and French Department consist of one faculty member — me. It
is a wonderful and needed school] (kindergarten through the ninth
grade), with a marvellous faculty and headmaster; yet, it is strug-
gling desperately to keep financially solvent. I receive many letters
which give me the impression that Harvard is on the brink of
financial ruin, but if I ever have a dollar left over, after taxes, I
figure it will stay nearer home where it is more urgently needed.

My interest in radio still persists in the form of my hobby,
amateur radio. I have been quite active on the air from my
station, WIBBN, since 1926. I am communications codrdinator
in this town for the local Civilian Defense organization. For
exercise and pleasant pastime, I golf. A couple of loving cups in
the sitting-room attest that I was fairly good on the links circa
1942. I have not travelled and do not crave to do so. I guess it is
not in the family blood. My direct paternal ancestors came to
Portsmouth in 1639, and every father’s son down to my father
has lived and died right here! I am a member of St. Paul’s Epis-
copal Church in Portsmouth, and have served on the vestry for
several years. For mental exercise in spare time I have written a
book entitled The Anthony System of Contract Bridge Bidding
(unpublished! ), and I have been trying to perfect a plan whereby
all peoples of the world could live in peace and harmony without
any money, I want to abolish money altogether. It is the source

[25]

=, eel ds 7 eaten aataenemnnatnttnattes,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

of most of the unhappiness in the world. I'll never perfect the
plan, however, because of imperfections in the characters of indi-
viduals. When and if all people become perfect in the way that
God wishes them to be, then my plan will work. In this matter I
feel that I am hundreds of years ahead of the times!

JOHN JOSEPH ANTONUCCIO

HOME ADDRESS: 236 Paris St., East Boston, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 10, 1907, Florence, Pa. Parents: John Antonuccio, Frances
Inzana.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGRFE: S.B., 1929.

occuPaTION: Mercantile business.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

ROBERTS RENGIER APPEL

HOME ADDRESS: 1003 Marietta Ave., Lancaster, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 N. Duke St., Lancaster, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 18, 1907, Lancaster, Pa. PARENTS: Thomas Roberts Appel, Eva
Teresa Rengier.

PREPARED aT: Lancaster High School, Lancaster, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929.

Marriep: Alice Edge, Aug. 19, 1926, Elkton, Md. cHitpreNn: Patience Edge,
Sept. 7, 1931 (m. Robert E. Levine, 1952); Thomas Roberts, 2d, Aug.
25, 1934; Penelope, 1940. GRaNpcHTLD: Andrew Levine, Oct. 12, 1952.

occupation: Lawyer, Appel, Ranck, Levy & Appel.

OFFices HELD: Member board of directors or board of trustees, Board of
National Missions, Evangelical and Reformed Church, Family and
Children’s Service, ¥.W.C.A., Community Chest, Community Church,
Lancaster Conference of Christians and Jews, Republican County Com-

mittee.
MEMBER OF: Hamilton Club; bar associations; American Law Institute;
Sphinx Club.

MY job is that of a country lawyer and it has been grand fun,
although my practice has developed along lines of being an office
rather than a trial lawyer. Being a trial lawyer is what, I suppose,
all lawyers look forward to in their teens, I am very proud of my
family, including my grandson, born October 12, 1952. Since my
daughter's mother and I had eloped while going to College, her

[26]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

elopement when a junior at Bryn Mawr with a senior at the
Wharton School followed a family tradition. Our son is at Trinity
College, having a fine time, and our once-filled house seems empty
with but Penny, aged thirteen, at home.

My main interest of a non-social nature (in which field I have
not fully appreciated that the pleasures of this world are deceitful)
has been to fight against prejudice. | am happy that my daughter
is raising her child in the faith of her husband. As chairman of the
Race Relations Committee of our denomination I have tried in a
broader sphere to oppose the feeling of prejudice in others. Other
than getting angry at myself, I have sufficiently matured to get
angry only at the proponents of Senator McCarthy.

JULIUS HENRY APPLETON

HOME ADDRESS: 334 Maple St., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1013 Third National Bank Bldg., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 8, 1907, Springfield, Mass. parents: Allen Lansing Appleton,
Lydia Dexter Owen.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: Louise Elizabeth Briggs, June 25, 1949, Bath, Maine. cHILDREN:
Allen Edmund, June 24, 1950; Stephen Briggs, May 24, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Owen Appleton, ’32 (deceased).

OccUPATION: Lawyer, partner, Allen, Yerrall, Appleton & Thompson.

orFices HELD: Director, Third National Bank & Trust Company of Spring-
field, since 1939, Holyoke Water Power Company, since 1943; trustee,
Springfield Institution for Saving, since 1946, City Library Association,
since 1945, Springfield Hospital, since 1948; trustee, since 1934, president
of the corporation, since 1941, Springfield College; director, since 1935,
president, 1941-43, trustee, Springfield Boys’ Club; member Advisory
Board, 1936-48, trustee, since 1948, Community Chest.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts, Hampden County Bar Associations;
Harvard Club of Springfield; Longmeadow Country Club; Colony
Club; Appalachian Mountain Club; Gladden Club; The Club; Reality
Club; Century Club.

TO write one’s autobiography of the last twenty-five years with-
out first seeing oneself in relation to the great social, economic,
and political changes ushered in so dramatically in the fall follow-
ing graduation is, perhaps, to do so without some perspective. A
searching look and it becomes immediately apparent how insigni-

[27]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ficant a role, if any, I have played in shaping the course of these
events — events which, in one way or another, have left and still
leave their impact on my thinking and mode of living, and seem
to call for periodic adjustments of both. I venture to say that I
am not alone among my classmates in this respect. At any rate,
whatever my relation to the great underlying movements of our
time may be, in common with others, but in my own way, I have
probably been working in pursuit of that elusive thing called
happiness.

Perhaps it was the heat — anyway a summer spent in the offices
of a big metropolitan law factory soon convinced me that practis-
ing law in a medium-sized city would be preferable. With a law
degree and license to practise in the courts of the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts obtained in 1933, my name shortly afterward
appeared on an office door in Springfield. It was under some
other names and separated from them by a line. My name has
remained on that door ever since for my association with the
other members of the firm has always been most congenial. In
1938 the line was removed.

For anyone interested in travelling I should like to issue a
caveat — don't enter the legal profession. While I did manage to
get to both San Francisco and Chicago to attend meetings of the
House of Delegates of the American Bar Association as a delegate
from the Massachusetts Bar Association, the usual distance is no
further than Boston or New York. From my observation business
offers almost unlimited scope in this regard.

While a lawyer’s talents may be appreciated in some fields out-
side the profession itself, they are of little value to the armed
services. My legal skills twice proved insufficient to counteract
defective vision in my attempts to don a uniform — once on my
own initiative and once at Uncle Sam’s invitation — during the
last world conflagration. Not having a family, however, I felt
constrained to do something more substantial toward the war
effort than acting as a government appeal agent and so wound up
drawing war contracts for the ordnance department.

My extra-curricular activities on behalf of charitable, educa-
tional, and other civic institutions early became somewhat heavy.
This may have come about partly through a process of uncon-
scious sublimation, for then I did not have the family responsibili-

[ 28 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ties of many of my contemporaries. These activities have not
lessened with the passage of time; in fact, if anything, they have
increased. Hlowever, I am now sceking to reverse the trend —
not because I haven't enjoyed the work or because it hasn’t been
richly rewarding in general satisfaction, but because I have taken
on a responsibility of an entirely different character.

In 1949 I became a benedict. My friends had called me incor-
rigible — and after twenty years they appeared to be right. It
may have been the wish to live longer, or the belief that nothing
is so fatal as changelessness in a changing world, or the desire to
save income taxes, or, more likely, the search for happiness — at
any rare | am happily married, blessed with a lovely wife and two
small boys, Allen and Stephen, who will be four and two years
old respectively in June, 1954. Based on twenty years of bachclor-
hood I quote with approval the old saying that “a bachelor’s life
is a splendid breakfast; a tolerably flat dinner; and a miscrable
supper.”

Recreations and diversion? I used to play considerable tennis,
even in a few tournaments, and also did some mountain climbing.
Now I find I am playing less tennis and more golf. The latter
game is a most aggravating one — every time I finish a round I
feel like playing a set of tennis to restore my morale which has
sunk to anew low. [like photography (though not to the extent
of a darkroom). Membership in some so-called literary-discussion
clubs provides a camaraderie that is both enjoyable and stimulat-
ing. But my present major responsibility is also my main diver-
sion — you guessed it — the family. Work plus play plus family
— the next twenty-five years look even busier. I’m looking for-
ward to them!

EDWARD LOUIS STOCK ARKEMA

HOME ADDRESS: 9342 S. Longwood Drive, Chicago, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 N. La Salle St., Chicago 2, Il.

Born: May 27, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Edward Arkema, Elsa Stock.

PREPARED AT: Harrison, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926. DEGREE: J.D. (De Paul Univ.), 1932.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Banser, July 22, 1933, Chicago, Hl. cHitpren: Edward
Louis Stock, Jr., Oct. 7, 1937; Paul H., Jan. 31, 1940; Alice E., Oct. 12,
1942; Daniel A., June 26, 1946.

[ 29 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Attorney, director, South Side Builders Club, Southwest
Surburban Builders Club, Ilinois Affiliated Builders, Tri-City Savings
and Loan Association, Hillcrest Rod and Gun Club.

MEMBER OF: Elks Lodge No. 1596, Chicago; Moose Lodge No. 3; Seratoma.

FOLLOWING graduation I attended the University of Chicago
and De Paul law schools, receiving my J.D. degree in 1932. I
followed thereafter the practice of law. Hobbies, family, and
travel followed years later, after I had become well establishd
in the competitive area of the City of Chicago. Hobbies may
be considered in the following categories: horseback riding; flying;
fishing in Canada, the Ozarks, Florida, Jackson Hole, Wyoming,
and other sundry places; hunting in Wyoming, Montana, and
Michigan for elk, deer, and bear. As attorney and director for
Hillcrest Rod and Gun Club, I have taken a sufficient interest
in bird hunting to acquire from Frankfort, Germany, a German
Drahthaar by the name of Felda. These hobbies have provided
relaxation against the strain and toil of the practice of law, pro-
viding a proper balance for a good way of life. My horse, Penny,
has also, at such times when I am not hunting or fishing, provided
sufficient exercise through the forest trails along the Des Plaines
River in the suburbs of Chicago.

I have now, together with my four children, acquired a fleet
of five boats for all forms of boating, water-skiing, fishing, and
travel. My devotion to the out-of-doors, family, and service
to home-building organizations in the Chicago area have been
such as to leave no time for political activity. I have been men-
tioned, however, several times recently for elevation to the Su-
perior Court bench of Cook County, and may yet be caught
unawares and find myself on the bench by the time I write an-
other one of these sketches. Up till then, however, I trust with
my hobbies aforesaid I shall enjoy a plesanr, independent, and
happy life.

FREDERIC KAPPELER ARNOLD

HOME appress: 167 Broad St., Plattsburg, N. Y.

OFFice appress: Plattsburg State Teachers College, Plattsburg, N.Y.

BORN: June 17, 1908, Tarrytown, N. Y, Paxents: John Barry Arnold,
Jessie Marie Kappeler.

[ 30]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; A.M., 1932; PH.D.. 1937.

MARRIED: Annick Tabouet, June 27, 1932, Sharon, Mass. cup: Frederic
Pierre, May 11, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Professor.

OFFICES HELD: President, Connecticut Chapter, American Association of

. Teachers of French, 1947-48.
MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association, American Association of Teach-

ers of French; American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portu-

guese. |
PUBLICATIONS: Book reviews for professional journals.

MY tone, like that of many others, having moved from the
tedious in the Decennial Report to the resigned in the Vicennial,
I should probably turn up now as a homely philosopher. Possibly
it is expected of me, but I do not wish at this late date to enter an
overcrowded profession.

Although one can hardly blame Jack Hutchinson for thinking
so, I really have no hesitation about writing compositions — in
fact I take particular pleasure in arranging words — but I need
some theme to write about, and there really is none since the last
Report. As for whimsy, I can’t seem to latch on to it in connec-
tion with a Twenty-fifth Anniversary, one in which I too am
involved. My hobby is profanity and my favorite book is Eric
Partridge’s Dictionary of Slang and Unconventional English.

Valete.

¢

ARSEN EDWARD ARTIN

HOME ADDRESS: 400 Rogers Ave., West Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: G. & C. Merriam Co., 47 Federal St., Springfield 2, Mass.

porN: Dec. 17, 1905, Springfield, Ill. parents: Arsen Sissak Artin, Alice
May Miller. :

PREPARED AT: Enfield High School, Enfield, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MmarRiED: Dorothy Leonard, Oct. 3, 1931, Springfield, Mass.

occupaTIon: Associate editor, Merriam-Webster dictionaries.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Modern Language Association; Linguistic
Society of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Gags and puns in various publications.

WITH the exception of two and a quarter years in the service,
1943 to 1945, I’ve done nothing but editorial work on dictionaries

[31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

since I got out of College, and don’t have too many outside inter-
ests. Now and then, however, I find a new hobby to ride — like
gag-writing. My interest in words led me to try my hand at
writing one-line gags and puns, and I sold a few hundred over a
space of some three years to various publications. But the game
was beset with certain vexations, and I have now largely aban-
doned it. My leading hobby at present is hi-fi— or, for better
accord with my present equipment, highish-fi. The twice-weekly
Boston Symphony broadcasts over WGBH —a station which,
after several discouraging initial failures, 1 am now able to receive
pretty dependably — must be tops in reproduced sound.

ELIOT HEATH ATKINSON

HOME appress: Skimhampton Road, Amagansett, Long Island, N. Y.

porn: Aug. 3, 1907, Mattapoisett, Mass. parents: Robert Whitman Atkin-
son, '91, Elizabeth Bispham Page.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MarRiED: Margaretha Jacoba VanLimburg Stirum, Oct. 23, 1943, New
York, N. Y. curpren: Elisa Rebecca, July 28, 1937 (adopted); Rachel,
Aug. 18, 1946 (died Sept. 14, 1951); Elizabeth Heath, Nov. 6, 19475
Joan Eliot, Sept. 12, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Greenleaf Atkinson, °32.

OCCUPATION: Artist, musician.

pusLications: The Bonacker (editor), collection of eastern Long Island
writing.
AFTER graduation I did a number of things, from being a har-
vest hand in the West to working in a lumber camp, being fire-
man on a freighter, working in an investment banking com-
pany, real estate business, and construction business, and finally
in 1939 I started the course of life I have been following ever
since — that of working and being an artist and musician. There
was an interruption of about three years (1942-1945) during
which time I was in a camouflage battalion which instead of
camouflaging put up thousands of rubber dummies of artillery,
tanks, jeeps, and so forth all over Europe. We went through the
Normandy, Northern France, Central Europe, Ardennes, and
Rhineland campaigns with dummies and sound effects. Our outfit
had about a thousand men, and during the real crossing of the

[32]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Rhine we staged a fake crossing in which we gave the illusion
of being a corps of 300,000.

A civilian again in September, 1945, I continued to work in
art and music. In recent years I have been doing more ceramics
than painting and have been playing the piano for many sorts
of occasions, sometimes alone and sometimes with other instru-
mentalists. I occasionally give a lecture on jazz with piano and
recordings for examples. To have tackled both art and music
after being ten years out of College was no doubt presumptuous,
bute I think I have proved at least that an “adult” may take up
such “follies” and learn enough to achicve something and even
a living. Though my wife may question what I mean by a living,
at Ieast she has taken up sculpture herself in the last few years —
though where she gets the time is a mystery. Meanwhile there’s
some sense to having one’s vocations coincide with one’s avoca-
tions, and I hope that the children find this life provides a stimu-
lating and interesting environment.

BENJAMIN JACOB ATLAS

HOME appress: 8420 Donnybrook Drive, Chevy Chase, Md.

orrice aporess: Albee Bldg, 1426 G St, N. W., Washington, D. C.

Born: Oct. 13, 1906; Niagara Falls, N. Y. parents: Abram M, Atlas, Mir-
iam Schwartz.

PREPARED AT: Niagara Falls High School, Niagara Falls, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(30).

maaniep; Afona Freeman, Aug. 4, 1941, Syracuse, N. Y. cumopren: David
Freeman, Aug. 13, 1946; Miriam Louise, Oct. 14, 1952.

occuPpaTION: Chief of Washington Bureau, Tide Magazine and The Bill-
board Magazine.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1940, vice-president, 1939, member board of di-
rectors, 1938, 1941-42, New York State Legislative Correspondents
Association.

MEMBER OF: National Press Club; Variety Club of Washington; Harvard
Club of Washington; New York State Legislative Correspondents
Alumni Association; White House Correspondents Association,

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in magazines and newspapers, including
New Republic, Nation, Everybody’s Digest, The Woman, North
American Newspaper Alliance, Washington Post, Washington Star, Syra-
cuse Herald-Journal, Herald-American, International Digest, Real Maga-
zine.

[33]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929.

of “St. Louis Blues” is as dissonant as ever, but the outpourings
gain in rhythm from Davy’s swaying alongside me on the piano
bench and Mimi’s occasional ballet on the keys. Best of all is
when Davy joins in “Take Back Your Gold” with the voice and
look of an angel just before the idea has come agleam in his eyes
for a surprise attack on my exposed flank by a murderous, sword-
wielding Captain Hook.

If millions have turned to painting, as I’ve done in the last
five years, I can argue that at least I’m not a Sunday painter —
I retreat to the basement easel every night I get the chance, which,
confidentially, isn’t as often as I'd like. (I’ve been studying at
American University, and one of my paintings presently hangs
in the Corcoran Gallery annual exhibit.) Davy independently
is absorbed in artwork, and I don’t mean the carvings on the
furniture. His medium is crayon. Our walls are alive with shin-
ing knights, princes, pirates, ships, castles, horsemen, thieves, and
rufians, Their effect is overpowering, even for Mimi, who
used to rush screaming at the sight of one explosive-looking
pirate; lately, she never fails to greet him with a smile that fills
the room with radiance. If shadows could always be so charm-
ingly dispelled in our world, we'd ask little else.

HYMAN ALEXANDER AUGUST

BoRN: Aug. 22, 1907, Northampton, Mass. PARENTS: Julius August, Minnie
August.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1931. DEGREE: $.B. IN MECH. ENG., 1931.

DIED: Jan. 20, 1944, Ogden, Utah.

AFTER one year in the College, August entered the Engineer-
ing School and graduated in 1931 with an S.B. In 1939 he re-
ported that he was practising law in Northampton, Massachu-
setts, and no word had been received from him since that time.

CHARLES FRANCIS AYERS

HOME appress: 5 Bay St., Wickford, R. L
OFFICE apprEss; Ayers-Hagan-Booth, Inc., 35 Westminster St., Providence,

[36]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

poan: Nov. 17, 1901, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Francis Ayers, Flora
MacDonald.

parparep AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, DEGREE: $.B., 1929 (28).

manniep: Florence MacFadyen, May 5, 1934, New York, N. Y. cuttpren:
Marcia and Robert (twins), March 11, 1936.

occuranon: Construction executive, Ayers-Hagen-Booth, Inc.; president
and treasurer, Allied Construction Company, Limited, St. John’s New-
foundland.

mMemara ov: Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Moles, New York; City Club,
Sc. John’s, Newfoundland.

UPON leaving Harvard, I went to work for Aberthaw Company
of Boston and stayed with them briefly until I became a victim
of the great depression in mid-1930. Undaunted, and completely
ignorant of the economic trend of the times in which unemploy-
mene bulked large, I caught on immediately with George A.
Fuller Company of New York and stayed with them for fifteen
years, years which have taken me all over North America and
parts of South America in connection with a wide variety of
construction projects, military and industrial.

The business of travelling — at the direction of someone else —
having become distasteful, I formed my own company in 1945, and
while I seem to be on the move as much as ever, I do it on my own
good time and inclination. Many of our contracts have been in
Newfoundland, Greenland, and Iceland, in addition to a number
along the Atlantic seaboard.

While at home I have cultivated the hobby of cabinet work in
fall and winter, and in summer have enjoyed sailing with the
twins around lower Narragansett Bay. We have spent the past
few summers, however, in Newfoundland, where we have an
old two-masted schooner which has provided some very satis-
factory cruising. Marcia and Robert respectively are ready this
fall for Wellesley and Harvard —I hope —so they will be em-
barking on a cycle which will culminate in their Twenty-fifth.

Since we have been asked to comment on politics, I feel con-
strained to mention a tendency in our government which has be-
come increasingly evident over the past ten years, namely, the
growth of power and influence of the various bureaus — Interior,
Agriculture, State, etc. These departments are headed by people
who are appointed and not elected, and with the contro] of the

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

spending of huge sums of money, may have an influence on gov-
ernment which some day may affect the basic constitutional provi-
sions. I hope I am wrong, but it seems that our government is
now these departments. So much for now.

WARREN DUNTON BABB

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Chestnut St., Salem, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1908, Lynn, Mass. parents: Ralph Warren Babb, Sadie
Frances Manion.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D..c.M. (McGill Univ.),
1936.

MarRieD: Evelyn Alberta Horsley, July 20, 1937, Montreal, P, Q., Canada.
cup: David Warren, April 12, 1941.

occupATION: Physician, internal medicine.

oFFices HELD: Librarian, 1940-42, 1952-54, Visiting physician, Salem Hospi-
tal Medical Staff; examiner, Draft Board, Selective Service, 1940-41;
internist, Medical Advisory Board, 1942.

MEMBER OF: Essex South District and Massachusetts Medical Societies;
American Medical Association; Montreal Medico-Chirurgical Society;
Phi Chi Medical Fraternity; McGill Graduates Society.

MY first two years after graduation were spent as a civil engineer,
senior aide, for Essex County, but this didn’t prove to be the
work I wanted for a lifetime, and so I spent the next five years
at McGill University, Faculty of Medicine. This was followed
by two years in residence at Salem Hospital. Late in 1938 I
opened my office in Salem for general practice but had limited
work to internal medicine by 1941. There was no hesitation on
the part of the Army in accepting my services in 1942, and for
over three years I was a battalion surgeon, learning much about
many phases of the military but gaining little in medicine. My
“guided tour” from North Africa to Italy, Southern France
through Alsace Lorraine into Germany and Austria, was worth
a fortune in many respects. On returning in 1946 | resumed prac-
tice of internal medicine in Salem.

Medical practice, with all the duties involved in being part of
the staff of a good hospital, means that spare time is almost a
minus quantity, but it is the work I should choose in preference
to any other. Although we have been part of the Tabernacle

[38]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Church family for some years now, it is seldom that I can join
in the service. In fact I seldom get a chance to sit by the fireside
at home. Perhaps my main hobby is medicine, but I do like to
do a bit of gardening whenever possible, and also take a roll
or two of color film occasionally.

+ THEQDORE KING BABCOCK

porn: Dec. 7, 1905, Waverley, Mass. parents: William Wallace Babcock,
Mabel King.

prepared At: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930, DEGREE: A.B, 1929(30).

MARRIED: Barbara Hitchcock, March 28, 1931, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Judith Ann, Dec. 27, 1934; William Wallace, Feb. 28, 1936.

Diep: June 16, 1942, Boston, Mass.

IN our Decennial Report Babcock reported that he was in the
real estate business, dealing with construction mortgages and
real estate investments. At that time he resided in Reading, Massa-
chusetts. The Secretary had received no further word from him.

ROGER DUSTIN BACON

HOME aporess: 155 Upham St., Melrose 76, Mass.

OFFIcE appREss: 67 Milk St., Boston 6, Mass.

BorN: June 9, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Newton Samuel Bacon,
"95; Anne Rogers Dustin.

prepared at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Mildred Frances Nash, April 18, 1936, Melrose, Mass. cHILp:
Elizabeth Dustin, Nov. 12, 1949.

occupation: Credit investigator, First National Bank of Boston.

FOLLOWING graduation I spent the summer of 1929 working
for a Boston brokerage house and in September I enrolled at
Harvard Business School for a year of study. In 1931 I was em-
ployed by Lever Brothers Company at their home office in Cam-
bridge as an accountant and continued in this capacity until the
fall of 1949 when their executive offices were moved to New
York City. During this time I completed a three-year evening
course at the Bentley School of Accounting & Finance and saw
service with the U.S. Army (1943-1945). Rather than give up

[ 39 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

our home and associations in New England and go to New York
with Lever Brothers, my wife and I decided it would be prefer-
able for me to seek other business connections here in Boston.
Shortly thereafter I was fortunate enough to join the staff of the
First National Bank of Boston, and we have never regretted our
decision. What a coincidence that almost twenty-five years after
graduation I should turn to money and banking, the subject in
which I majored at College! As for my family, my wife is the
girl I took to our Senior Spread, and our lives became complete
with the birth of our darling daughter four years ago. Needless
to say, she has become our chief interest and our days are filled
with happiness because of her.

GEORGE GUY BAILEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 153 Washington St. Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 412 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.

Born: March 2, 1907, Ipswich, Mass. parents: George Guy Bailey, Grace
Foster Damon.

PREPARED BY: Private tutor.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.M. cum laude, 1929; M.D. 1933.

MarrieD: Gretchen Lovell, Sept. 4, 1937, Ipswich, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan,
April 26, 1939; Charles Guy, July 9, 1941.

occuPATION: Orthopedic surgeon.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Cambridge, Waltham, and Middlesex South
District Medical Societies; American Medical Association; American
Academy of Orthopedics (fellow); Boston Orthopedic Club; Hospital
for Special Surgery Alumni Association of New York, Belmont Medi-
cal Club; Arlington-Lexington Medical Club.

PusLications: “Nerve Injuries in Supracondylar Fractures of Humerus in
Children.”

IN the fall of 1929 my medical career began at Harvard Medical
School, and here 1 became acquainted with more members of the
Harvard Class of 1929 than I had known in College. These four
years were crowded but thoroughly enjoyed. Then came the
struggle for internships, which resulted in a year of rotating at
St. Luke’s Hospital in New Bedford, followed by three years of
orthopedic specialization as resident surgeon at the Hospital for
Special Surgery (then known as the Hospital for Ruptured and
Crippled) in New York City, as assistant resident on the Fracture

[40]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Service at Boston City Hospital, and as a fellow on the Bone Joint
Service at the Lahey Clinic. In the fall of 1937, at the advanced
age of thirty years, I began the practice of orthopedic surgery at
412 Beacon Street, Boston.

Another notable event occurred one month previously —
Gretchen Lovell, a next-door neighbor in Ipswich, finally con-
sented to wed after a long and arduous, as well as ardorful
courtship lasting approximately ten years. We lived happily in a
little love nest on Park Drive for two years, when our daughter
Joan arrived, after which the nest became somewhat overcrowded
and we moved to Belmont. Charles arrived two years after Joan,
and this completed our family. During these early years of matri-
mony, a meager living was wrested from the practice of medicine,
and fortunately the income increased nearly as fast as the expenses.
The years from then until now have been primarily concerned
with the practice of bone and joint surgery, and an attempt to
devote as much time as possible to the family circle. Chief recrea-
tion is Harvard football, which the family attend en bloc at every
opportunity, with voices raised long and loud for the Crimson.
That about does it up to date.

+ GEORGE KENNEDY BAILEY

BorN: Nov. 15, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Harold Capron Bailey,
Sara Hamline Kennedy.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marRrieD: Marion Spelman Walker, Sept. 19, 1931, Purdys, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Hugh Kennedy, 1933; Sara Anne, 1937; Andrew Walker, 1939; Peter
Kennedy, 1942.

pep: July 10, 1951, Easton, Md.

wipow: Mrs. George K. Bailey, Jefferson Islands, Sherwood, Md.

AFTER leaving Harvard, Bailey took up the breeding of Aber-
deen-Angus cattle in Earleville, Maryland. In 1939 he was presi-
dent of the Maryland Aberdeen-Angus Breeders’ Association
and the Maryland Stockmen’s Association, as well as director
and member of the executive committee of the Baltimore Live-
stock Show. In 1948 he gave up his herd and bought two islands
in Chesapeake Bay. There he became a guide for fishermen as

[41]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

well as duck and pheasant hunters. While in the Jefferson Islands,
he was president of the Eastern Shore Aberdeen-Angus Associa-
tion and a member of the boards of Union Hospital in Elkton

and the Community Library in Cecilton, Maryland. He was sur-
vived by his wife and four children.

ROBESON BAILEY

HOME appress: Williamsburg, Mass.
oFFice appress: Williams House, Williamsburg, Mass.

BoRN: May 3, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Frank Marcellus Bailey, 96,
Katherine Robeson Bowen.

PREPARED AT: Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1025-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRieD: Hester Fay, Aug. 29, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Fay,
June 10, 1936; Katherine, March 2, 1938; John Lawrence, Nov. 17, 19423
Mark Robeson and Matthew Garfield (twins), June 27, 1944; Amanda,
April 3, 1949.

occupation: Innkeeper, co-proprietor (with wife), Williams House.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in English, Harvard College, 1930; instructor in
English, Harvard and Radcliffe Colleges, 1931-40, Smith College, 1940-
44; assistant professor of English, Smith College, 1944-49; associate
professor of English, director, Advanced Writing Program, University
of Oregon, 1949-51; lecturer in English, Tufts Summer School, 1952;
staff member, Bread Loaf School of English, 1953.

purLicaTions: From Fact to Fiction (with Edmund Ware); Techniques in
Article Writing; A Man and His Meals (with Fletcher Pratt), The

Book of the Short Story, enlarged, revised edition (with Henry S.
Canby); The Field and Stream Game Bag (editor); numerous con-

tributions to outdoor magazines, occasional book reviews in Saturday
Review.
A PRACTISING writer, now too busy to write, should find this
invitation to talk about himself a most enticing one. Somehow I
do not, possibly because I have so recently (1951) changed my
major interest and energies from a profession in which I had be-
come established to a business about which I knew nothing and on
which I am as yet unqualified to pose as any kind of authority.
People often ask me how I like the change from college teach-

ing to innkeeping. It is hard to say, and I can only quote Winston
Churchill’s remark about amateur painting: “It is not a question

of doing what one likes, but of liking what one docs.” I will

[42]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

- remark, however, that I once subscribed to the idea that the
college professor was the most underpaid and overworked mem-
ber of the community. After three years of this business I now
say that anyone at or above the rank of assistant professor, on
tenure in a good institution, is unquestionably the most under-
worked and overpaid member of the community. His payment
may not be in cash, but it is largely in time to himself, which he
may turn into cash by various ways if cash is what he wants.
College teaching, with the qualification expressed two sentences
above, is a perfectly wonderful, rich, and rewarding life.

Why, then, did I leave it? Because, although established in one
of the very best colleges in the country, an offer too good to re-
fuse came my way and I took it. The Golden West is golden, all
right, but some unhappy combinations tarnished the gold for us,
and we came back to New England and acquired the inn in the
village we had some years before chosen for, as we thought, the
rest of our days. The trouble in the West was, quite simply, hous-
ing. The job was superb, but the houses, for a family of eight,
were bad, and since we owned a fine house for our purpose which
we had been unable to sell, 1 sent the family home, and continued
alone in Oregon for the better part of two academic years, and
that is not a good way to raise a family. When I was unable to
find suitable academic employment within commuting distance
of our home, and when the local inn went on the market, I changed
professions, except for keeping my hand in, teaching at summer
schools.

Somebody once said that there were three things every man
believed in his heart he could do better than anybody else. I for-
get one of them, but two were manage an inn and edit a news-
paper. I’ve had some rather disillusioning experience about that
belief in my heart, but some shreds of illusion remain, and are
even beginning to come together in a tangible pattern, though
they were for a time blown quite asunder. Innkeeping does have
its compensations, especially for one with a large family, and if
ever I have any time again, I’m going to write about them. In
the meantime, you will doubtless find me doing business at the
same old stand for a good many years. I’m on the way to the
best small restaurant in western Massachusetts, and eventually
in New England (I hope, and am determined). And if you don’t

[ 43 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

think we have the best cocktails anywhere, just drop by and find
out!

My hobbies, shooting, fishing, tennis, gardening, remain my
favorite pastimes, but I am able to indulge them little. I always
manage a few days afield or in duck blinds with our classmate,
Mark Hopkins, however, and hope in the future to initiate my
three young sons into such mysteries as soon, in fact, as they
graduate from the slaughter of Indians and the tracking down
of bad hombres. (Sometimes I wonder if that time will ever
come! )

If anybody cares, my politics are independent. I often be-
come impatient with those members of both parties who appar-
ently are trying to push us back into the nineteenth century,
and I still think that our most important domestic issue is the
conservation of our natural resources. On that issue I do not
look with favor on the present administration. And more
strongly than ever I am for free speech, free thought, and every
other kind of decent human freedom. The creeping fear of honest
opinion and the expression of it, especially by teachers both in
our schools and colleges, distresses me far more than the creeping
socialism old-guard reactionaries profess to see ina T.V.A. Timid-
ity is abroad in the land, and it scares me.

FRANCIS ELLSWORTH BAKER

HOME appress; Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFIce aDpREss: 24 W, goth St, New York 18, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 17, 1906, Belfast, Maine. parents: Francis Ellsworth Baker,
Lily Alys Godfrey.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MARRIED: Viva Cynthia Bushway, Jan. 30, 1929, Boston, Mass. (divorced,
1946); Antoinette Louise Bartlett, Sept. 11, 1946, Baltimore, Mid. ctttp:
Francis Ellsworth, Jr, Dec. 20, 1929 (mM. Amory Winthrop, June 16,
1951). |

HARVARD 80N: Francis Ellsworth Baker, Jr, ’51, Business School, "ss.

OCCUPATION: President, director, Amold & Baker, Inc, insurance brokers.

oFFices HELD; General agent, associate general agent, National Life Insur-

ance Company, 1928-50, general manager, Life Department, Frank
B. Hall & Company, 1944-50,

[44]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Veterans Association, 7th Regi-
ment, New York; Cold Spring Harbor Rod and Gun Club.

FREQUENTLY I talk about myself on my own initiative and
really find much pleasure in it. It is a kind of hobby, as a matter
of fact. To be asked to do so, as in this instance, not once but
twice, is an irresistible invitation, but does tend to discomfort me.
Heretofore, only revenue agents and army induction authorities
have ever done such a thing. Other persons probably thought
they knew better but their anxiety, to some extent, was ill-founded
because, as late as it is, my whole life story is very short.

_ Women, work, and war comprise most of the story to date,
and it is difficult to say where one starts and another finishes. It
is quite confusing.

Take women, for example, a subject of increasing popularity
after reports trying to explain them were recently published.
Two wives in succession have made an immeasurable amount of
work for me and the first added an extra front to the war. Then
work, aside from being occasionally a happy refuge from women,
yielded a modest income which brought up more war —a seven-
year war with the tax man (F. Ellsworth Baker 17 Tax Court 1610
and Baker v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue 205 F 2d 369,
June 15, 1953, United States Court of Appeals 2nd Circuit. Tax-
payer finally victorious). The war, even in the Army Air Force,
caused me still more work but at stations surrounded by women.
Flying, literally, was then the only effective, if temporary, escape
from that predicament.

It seems to be assumed that, after so much time, anyone of in-
telligence and sobriety sufficient to receive and read the Class his-
tory form has certain convictions: social, political, and religious,
about each of which specific inquiry is made. It is a wonderful
idea, but living as a simple clam-digger here in Cold Spring Har-
bor, I do not have any except, of course, that clams are very tasty
both in and out of society. I still have hope of acquiring some
convictions, at least by way of a loan, because my son, for whom
I have the highest regard, has quite a number, and possibly a few
to spare, having been especially well educated in the Class of 1951.

No story of mine in the last twenty-five years has been con-
cluded without mention of insurance, however inappropriate the
time or however well covered any remaining audience, not with

[45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

the idea of selling any, be it understood, but exclusively for the
purpose of seizing every opportunity to promote the general wel-
fare. From my life insurance experience, I am very sure how all
this eventually will end but, frankly, I do not yet know why it
began. Perhaps some scholar, passing by, will enlighten me.

TALBOT BAKER

HOME ADDRESS: Forest Road, Millis, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: 12 Park Square Bldg. Boston 16, Mass.

BorN: May 29, 1907, Concord, Mass. parents: Alfred Talbot Baker, ’oz,
Helen Stevens Jordan,

prepareD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

marriED: Polly N. Beale, Nov. 11, 1931, Barnstable, Mass. CHILDREN: Nicho-
las Jordan, July 16, 1933; Talbot, Jr, Oct. 30, 1935; Benjamin Beale,
July 1, 1939; Hope Lincoln, March 30, 1944.

HARVARD SONS: Nicholas Jordan Baker, ’55; Talbot Baker, Jr. °57.

occupation: Travel agent, president, Chase Travel Associates.

orFices HELD: Messenger, Bookkeeping Department, New Business De-
partment, Old Colony Trust Company; general agent, New England
Mutual Life Insurance Company; salesman, partner, Travel Bureau,
Butterfield Travel Company; general travel salesman, American Ex-
press Company, Boston; chairman, Boy Scout Drive, War Produc-
tion Board, OPA, local ration board, local Red Cross War Fund; dis-
aster chairman, ist Motor Squadron, State Guard.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club; Beverly
Yacht Club; Buzzards Yacht Club; Delphic Club; Society Descendants
of Mayflower; Grange (national member).

UPON looking back and trying to pick the high spots, I find
none seems truly startling. The years have provided a full and
happy life—emphasis always on the start and growth of the
Baker family —result, all activity at the moment revolving
around principal interests and hobbies of its members.

The first years after College were spent in various capacities
as a member of the Old Colony Trust Company. Progress from
messenger on to New Business Department perhaps showed that
a career of banking was not in the cards, and the inherent love
of travel — new places and faces — won out. A leave of absence
to join the Cruise Department of Raymond-Whitcomb did it,
and except for one short interruption during “depression” when

[ 46 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a year was spent at life insurance, the travel business has been it
ever since. The last few years have been as president of Chase
Travel Associates in Boston, still, as the Twentieth Report stated,
in the Arcade of New England’s largest office building.

There are several rewards in this field of endeavor, besides its
being a fascinating, ever-changing business. Enjoying people
like the professional doctor or lawyer, I find it is a continuous
challenge to help in solving problems— never two alike, and
fortunately for the most part under happy auspices, though there
have been some tragic situations and emergencies to cope with as
well. Added to this, the travel as part of business and occasional
“bonus trips” keep building enthusiasms.

Family activity now seems generally centered — apart from
life in the country — in sailing and boats. During the war, when
active duty was impossible and the years were spent with the
War Production Board, local rationing board, etc., we kept
livestock, cows, turkeys, pigs—the works. But this was soon
abandoned — too confining, and every spare moment now is spent
at the Cape. For the Buzzards and Beverly Yacht Clubs there
have been many pleasant jobs, from commodore to “Pratt Boy”
and back again. Four years as secretary of the Southern Massa-
chusetts Yacht Racing Association helped to enlarge the horizon.
The boys, and I believe the daughter, have inherited this love,
for we are “boat poor,” still racing a Herreschoff 12, trying to
find more time for cruising, while watching Nick and Toby
branch out in the international “14” dinghy class.

In summarizing and accounting for the passing of time, I see
that the days whirl by; it is always a challenge to try and be in two
places at once — following some game, running a car pool, or
just doing chores. Summer turns the house into a second yacht
club, and always odd jobs, committees, or drives seem to turn
up. Now the Twenty-fifth— yes, perhaps there is nothing
startling to report, but there is the realization of how very lucky
one has been in having been allowed to carry on, trying to keep
up with the development of one’s family and all their many in-
terests.

[ 47 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PETER BALDWIN
OFFICE AppREss: Indamer Co, Ltd. 16 Old Custom House Rd., Bombay,
India.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1906, Mt. Kisco, N. Y. parents: Joseph Clark Baldwin, Jr.
Fanny Taylor.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

marrieD: Polly Potter, April 20, 1936, Augusta, Ga. cHitp: Polly Potter,
May 6, 1937.
occuPATION: Mercantile business.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

CHARLES BANCROFT

HOME AND OFFICE AbpRESS: Ferris Hill Road, New Canaan, Conn.

BorN: March 27, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Foster Bancroft,
Cornelia Herriman Dow.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930, DEGREE: S.B.y 1929(30).

MARRIED: Jane Cockburn Bancroft, Feb. 3, 1934, Knowlton, P. Q., Canada.
cuitpreN: Charles Foster, Jan. 8, 1935; Jane Cockburn, Dec. 30, 1935;
Nancy Herriman, Aug. 2, 1938; Christopher Marler, Feb. 17, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Charles Foster Bancroft, ’56,

OCCUPATION: Inventor.

IMMEDIATELY following my graduation from college, I trav-
elled for a bit and played with airplanes, acquiring pilot licenses
at home and in England. Then, having become convinced that a
lot of improvements were going to be needed before the airplane
became Everyman's vehicle, and being well equipped for such
work with an S.B. degree which Harvard had bestowed on me in
lieu of an A.B. degree and more Latin, I plunged into the task of
turning out a really good rotary engine. By 1942 the war, and
Commander Whittle, had terminated my activities in that direc-
tion and from then through 1945 I devoted my energies to keep-
ing naval carrier aircraft in the war as engineering officer for a
carrier aircraft service unit located in the San Francisco Bay area.
Since the war I have been living as quietly as four children will
permit in New Canaan, Connecticut, devoting my time, in des-
ultory fashion, to the improvement of small motors for outboard
engines and home garden equipment and to toying with an auto-

[ 48 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mobile suspension system supposed to make such vehicles auto-
matically bank into turns.

MILTON BAND

HOME aDoagess: 339 Puritan Rd., Swampscort, Mass.
orrice apparss: 113 State St. Boston 9, Mass.
porn: Feb. 18, 1909, East Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Band, Celia Solo-

mon.

pecparep at: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1025-1929. DEGREE: 8.B, cum laude, 1929; LL.B., 1932.

Marriep: Rowena Zacoventch, April 15, 1934, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan Toby, March 31, 1937; Amy Kay, Nov. 25, 1940.

occuPaTION: Lawyer, partner, Wyban Acceptance Company.

orricrs HELD: Chairman, War Finance Committee, Winthrop; former asso-
ciate director, Massachusettes War Finance Committee; former member
Winthrop Chapter, American Red Cross; former member Winthrop
District Commission, Bay Shore Council, Boy Scouts of America; former
president, Winthrop Zionist District, former treasurer, New England
Division, American Jewish Congress; clerk, attorney, Lord Beacons-
ficld Credit Union; trustee, Congregation Tifereth Isracl Building
Trust.

MeMBga oF: Winthrop Civic Orchestra; National Lawyers Guild, Harvard

Law School Association.

PRIOR to this publication, all I ever had published (outside of
legal briefs) was an essay I wrote as a junior in high school in 1924,
entitled “Who is an American,” for which the local American
Legion post gave me a first prize award of ten bucks. If the Le-
gion, or the various Philbricking Un-American committees should
reread the essay, I should probably be jailed as a dangerous sub-
versive, nunc pro tunc.

I was one of those nondescript commuters at college who
brought his lunch from home and ate it in the basement of the
Phillips Brooks House. Much of my school time was spent carry-
ing and sorting mail for Uncle Sam while getting enough money
together to pay the tuition fee. Now I find myself getting reac-
quainted with classmates I never knew at school.

My present avocation is sending out ten-dollar fees with Susan’s
applications for admission to various colleges. She graduates from
my old alma mater, Winthrop High School, this year. Already
she has done more travelling than her sedentary parents, having

[ 49 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

spent the past summer on a working tour in Israel. Trying to
stay with the kids, I resuscitated the old fiddle. Amy accompanies

on the piano when she has nothing better to do and feels she ought

to humor the old man. She promised to study the flute this year
because then she can join me in the community orchestra. Rowena
and I have nothing really to complain about. We'd hate to have
to repeat the heart throbs our kids are going through now. In
our own humble way, we try to make the world a more peaceful
place for kids to grow up in. It gives us pride and comfort to be
part of that great Harvard tradition which stands out like a beacon
of light against the black witch-hunting inquisitions trying to
plunge the world into oblivion.

GEORGE BRENNEMAN BARNER

HOME ADDRESS: 134 Porter St. Melrose 76, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 16 Court St., Boston 8, Mass.

Born: Dec. 20, 1908, Webster City, Iowa. parents: George Stewart Barner,
Romayne Hertzler Brenneman.

PREPARED AT: Webster City High School, Webster City, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: $B. 1930; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Vivianne Wentworth Eldridge, March 4, 1938, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Barry (George Barron St. Edmund), Dec. 7, 1938, Pamela
R, Jan. 13, 1940; Dean, April 20, 1946.

occupation: Lawyer; treasurer, Rushton-Carroll Company; vice-president,
Vanco Products, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Judge-advocate, Melrose (Mass.), B.P.O.E., 1940-50; trustee,
Harvard University Chapter, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 1942-48, Armstrong-
Hemenway Foundation, 1940-50; member Executive Committee, Mel-
rose (Mass.) Council of United Commercial Travelers, 1945-50, Quan-
napowitt Council, Boy Scouts of America, 1944; alderman, City of
Melrose, 1940-44; chief justice, moot trials, Harvard Law School, 1946-
48, director, Wingaersheek Improvement Association, Inc., 1951-543
president, Waterman Associates, Inc. 1952-53; commander, Massachu-
setts Commandery, Military Order of the Loyal Legion of United
States, 1953-54; member Standing Committee, Melrose (Mass.) Uni-
tarian Church, 1948-49, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Wyoming Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Boston Commandery, Sct.
Paul’s Chapter, R.A., Delta Theta Phi Legal Fraternity; Corinthian
Yacht Club, Marblehead, Mass; Pi Eta Associates; Oxford Society,
England; Aularian Association, England; Harvard Law School Asso-

ciation, Bar Association of the City of Boston, American Judicature
Society.

[50]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WHATEVER else can be said about a Class Report, the fact re-
mains that it is the record of a generation that has just passed.
In starting to write the obit of the last twenty-five years the
thought occurs to me that most of our Class will have lived
through three generations, the first two of which were alike in
their ups and downs and each inflicting on us a world war. To-
day’s transition period into the third generation is so much like
our last year in college that there is little hope that the pattern
will change.

Perhaps our reports should best avoid these depressing thoughts
and, like the sundial, record only the sunny hours. Of these I am
happy to say there have been many and, God willing, there should
be many more. Chief credit goes to an interesting and active
family which in itself would make the period covered by this re-
port a success — a good-looking wife who is also an artist, a pretty
daughter of fourteen who dances ballet, a rugged son of fifteen
who plays both the piano and hockey, and a smaller boy who
promises a great deal. Apart from talking about this family my
own hobbies include travel, philately, and the collecting of Early
American lithographs.

My remarks are somewhat more modest in mentioning my
legal career. In college I had no positive ideas about a career, and
my father, who was an attorney, insisted on his as a profession.
He passed away while I was doing graduate study in the Honours
School of Jurisprudence at Oxford University and a return to
America and the so-called salt mine began. Having majored in
French as an undergraduate and having some contact with Ger-
man through Pennsylvania-Dutch antecedents, I took my first job
with Campbell, Harding, Goodwin & Danforth on Wall Street, a
firm of lawyers which has a strong Swiss clientele. In due course
Vivianne and I returned to Boston (she was from Portsmouth,
New Hampshire) and I have operated from within a stone’s throw
of the Old State House ever since, always associated with other
Harvard attorneys, but practising individually. My present, and
pleasant, association is with seven other lawyers, the oldest of —
whom is ninety-five, and I happen to be the youngest. The pro-
fession itself has been rewarding chiefly in offering a great diversi-
fication of interests and the opportunity to travel. Aly program
now includes regular trips to Craig, Colorado; Salem, Alabama;

[51]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and Bussum, Holland, and I shall be interested in scheduling more.
Travel has enabled me to see George V at his Jubilee, George
VI at his coronation, Hitler at the height of his power, Vienna at
the time Dollfuss was assassinated, Spain on the eve of her revolu-
tion, Juliana in her summer garden at Hilversum, and Elizabeth IT
at her coronation. These are the highlights, with many, many
friends and not a little fun en route. Somewhere here I must
mention that we have a summer place at Wingaersheek Beach in
Gloucester, which happens to be the fastest-growing and finest
beach along this coast, and to prove that statement I offer my
classmates a swim there, whether or not you doubt my veracity.
I seem to have passed over my war record (What did you do
in the war, Daddy?). The U.S, Coast Guard during the war had
an auxiliary of temporary reserve members and our unit operated
from a Life Boat Station off Deer Island, checking ships in and
out of Boston Harbor. Time magazine once called us the “bald-
headed Spars” (see photo). My particular job was to board from
a picket boat vessels approaching the harbor and to seal their
radios as a security measure. It was a small contribution but,
under the circumstances, something. I only wish that your sons
and mine could fare so lightly, rather than be expected to give
up some of their best years in defense preparation, and who knows
what after that? This completes the circle and brings me back
to the subject of the State of the Union. Perhaps in our Fiftieth
we can afford to be optimistic, those who live to see the fourth
generation. |

JAMES MERRIAM BARNES

HOME AppRESS: §2 Chicago Blvd., Detroit 2, Mich.

OFFICE appress: Campbell, Ewald Co. General Motors Bldg. Detroit 2,
Mich.

Born: Dec. 31, 1906, Utica, N. Y. parents: James Phillips Barnes, Merriam
Ermhout. .

PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB. 1929(30).

MaRRiED; Florence Maiullo, Oct. 9, 1937, Detroit, Mich. crip: Antonia,
May 21, 1939.

occupation: Advertising account executive, Campbell, Ewald Company.

MemBeR: Detroit Institute of Arts Founders’ Society.

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WITH the receipt of “Goad No. 5” a few days ago, I realized
that I could no longer put off the writing of what will probably
be Jim Barnes's only published autobiography. My procrastination
has been due to two factors. First, having spent eight of the
past nine years in the direct mail advertising business, I suppose
I was eager to see what message the next card would bring. Sec-
ond, the Jim Barnes of 1954 does not bear too close a resemblance
to his 1929 namesake, and I found it difficult to go back in time
and look at my old self with any very great degree of pleasure.
At any rate, I sincerely want to be included in the Class Report;
so here goes with a rehash of those twenty-five years that have
passed so quickly.

Having been convinced by my father in February, 1929, that
I should rather spend three years in Europe learning languages
than to become more interested than I already was in an entic-
ing girl in New York, I sailed in August for France. My stated
purpose was to learn French, German, and Spanish in successive
years, and then enter the international banking business. After a
year in Grenoble, where I did learn French very thoroughly —
and improved my skiing techniques immeasurably — I came home
for a visit. During the summer of 1930 I convinced myself that
I wanted to teach history, and on the advice of Ed Whitney
went back to Paris to do a thesis at the Sorbonne. I stayed there,
with frequent visits to London, until August, 1932. By that
time, I was no longer financially able to live without working,
and came home. Net results were one historical thesis written
but not published or defended — and no degree.

Much to my surprise, I found that in 1932 no one was willing
to hire a bright young man of twenty-six who had no experience,
no demonstrable skills, and no technical education. Ph.D.’s were
happy to work as floor walkers at Macy’s, and nobody seemed
to want to hire me to teach anyone anything. I passed some
time as a house-to-house vacuum cleaner salesman, and wound
up with my parents in Detroit. There I ultimately found a job
with the J. L. Hudson Company — one of the fine department
stores of America. Because I had collected etchings while in
Europe and could tell one type of picture from another, I became
a sales clerk in the picture department for the princely sum of
$18.00 a week — and damned glad to get it.

[53]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

After several years which included a very complete merchan-
dising training course of two years’ duration, I became an assist-
ant buyer of carpets and linoleum and remained in the retail
field until 1941. On October g, 1937, I married Florence Tarquin
Maiullo of Detroit. She has borne with my eccentricities for all
the years since then. Since May, 1939, our daughter, ‘Toni, has
shared the burden with her. Without them life would have been
rather unrewarding. With them it has been, in spite of all the
troubles it has brought, a joyful and wonderful experience.

The war took me to Providence, Rhode Island, where I spent
several years in an essential job on a frozen salary — frozen too
soon. It seemed that I had helped to make half the Quonset huts
in the world. When I came back to Detroit with nothing to show
for these years but experience, and a renewed love for New
England, I had determined to establish myself in the automotive
field.

English A finally paid off when a letter got me a job as ac-
count executive in the direct mail advertising field. I drove
30,000 miles a year for eight years carrying the gospel of adver-
tising to automobile dealers who had more customers than they
had cars. But I did become entirely fascinated with automotive
advertising, and with the sales and management problems of
automobile dealers. Finally, in 1953, with another assist from
English A, I joined Campbell, Ewald Company. All the twenty-
five years that have elapsed since I left Harvard, and all the ex-
periences that I have had (both good and bad), seem now to have
been a continuing preparation for this association. I am a happy
man doing what I like to do ina company for which it’s a pleasure
to work. In directing the creation, sale, and production of all
local-level advertising for Chevrolet dealers and dealer groups
throughout the United States, I find my Harvard education is
proving its commercial worth at long last.

In the world that we inherited after graduation, it often seemed
that my liberal arts diploma was more a liability than asset. It had
culuvated my taste and appreciation of good things far beyond
my ability to provide. By great good fortune I married a woman
— of Etruscan-Roman descent — who had an education, Ameri-
can environment, and a European sojourn parallel to mine. Her
faith and friendship through the years have been my greatest

[54]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

strength. Our shared interest in music, art, theatre, literature,
color photography, gardening, fencing, and ceramics, which we
in turn share with diversified groups of friends, has kept our life
together a full and rewarding one. Our only child, Antonia, has
turned out to be a worthy child of the American Revolution —
Dutch of face, Latin in temperament, and a constant source of
satisfaction and wonderment to her doting father.

We three had planned to attend the Reunion to renew old
friendships and revisit the scenes of my youthful extravagances.
But the timing is just not right. We intend to move to surburban
Birmingham in the late spring, and though Harvard ’29 calls
urgently to my heart, responsibility and sober common sense
must keep me here. Florence and Toni are as disappointed as I
am, and join me in greetings herewith to all my friends of twenty-
five years ago.

NATHAN SPENCER BARNES

HOME ApprESS: Pasadena, Calif.

OFFICE aporFss: % Foreign Service Mail Room, Dept. of State, Washington
25, D.C,

Born: Nov. 12, 1907, Minneapolis, Minn. parents: Nathan Miller Barnes,
Ella May Spencer.

preparep at: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Ksenia Navrotsky, Aug. 12, 1945, Washington, D. C.

OCCUPATION: United States Foreign Service officer, Class III.

MY last twenty-five years have divided themselves rather neatly
into a sedentary half and a nomadic half. The first of these peri-
ods took place in Pasadena, California, and was ushered in by a
few months in the escrow department of a real estate firm and
out by a similar stretch as expediter for a shipbuilding company,
with most of the years occupied by a more or Jess judicious mix-
ture of investment markets, tennis, bridge, and other logical
divisions. Only a couple of trips to the east coast punctured the
routine, funds ebbed and flowed periodically, and the process
was not pleasant in itself, but the results could hardly be called
scintillating.

The last decade plus, in contrast, has meant constant motion

[55]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

with two years a maximum in any one place. During the war
I was a private in the Army for a short time, then in the Naval
Reserve. I went from lieutenant (junior grade) to lieutenant
commander, first at the Newport, Rhode Island, Torpedo Sta-
tion, then at the language school in Boulder, Colorado, and fi-
nally later in Washington, D. C. The Jatter stay was highlighted
by my first and only venture into matrimony, a move upon which
I have never stopped congratulating myself. Shortly after the
war I joined the Foreign Service Auxiliary, somewhat as an ex-
periment, and was sent to Moscow to do economic work. The
life appealed mightily, a transfer to the regular service was ef-
fected, and since then I have had several tours of duty: round-
ing out two years in the USSR; then a year in Washington in a
research capacity; two years in Tehran, Iran, and now on assign-
ment in Berlin, in charge of the division in the Office of the High
Commissioner for Germany which reports on developments in
East Germany. An interval of four months back in Iran last fall
prevented my getting in a rut. I have no regrets at being in this
service, and can highly recommend it for those liking variety.
One drawback, though, is the inconvenience afforded to re-
newing acquaintances on the banks of the Charles; we can only
hope for a lucky break in time for the Twenty-fifth next June.

PHILIP WILBUR BARNES

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 53 Centre St., Brookline, Mass.

BoRN: June 22, 1906, Brookline, Mass, Parents: Wilbur Emerson Barnes,
Barbara Pollard.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

BARNES has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1949.

‘rt JAMES KNOX BARRE

BORN: March 28, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Wade Edward Barre,
Lilian May Otterbacher.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1929(30).

[56]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Frances Geraldine Weber, August, 1935, Cleveland, Ohio. cut-
DREN: Two daughters.

pizp: Nov. 19, 19.46, Cleveland, Ohio.

wwow: Mrs. James K. Barre, 1089 Piermont Rd. South Euclid, Ohio.

WHILE at Harvard, Barre held the Thomas Hall, Bowditch, and
William Hilton Scholarships and was a member of the Dramatic
Club and the Circolo Italiano. In 1930 he became assistant buyer
with William Taylor & Son of Cleveland, He left to join Thomp-
son Products, also of Cleveland, in 1934; there he was engaged in
selling. At the time of his death he was directing a display of
aircraft parts at the national air show in his native city. His wife
and two daughters survived him.

RALPH ALLEN BARROWS

HOME ApprEss: 4636 Main St., Downers Grove, Ill.

oFFice appress: Western Electric Co., Hawthorne Station, Chicago 23, Ill.

Born: Nov. 9, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: George Allen Barrows, Bessie
Foss Hill.

paepareD at: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.; Public Latin School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

marrgiep: Ethelda M. Merrow, Aug. 8, 1931, Wakefield, Mass. (divorced
1946); Pauline C, Gray, Nov. 19, 1946, New York, N. Y. cHILpREN:
Deborah Allen, July 24, 1937; Sarah M., Sept. 1, 1941; William Carey,
Dec. 14, 1948.

occuPaTION: Mechanical engineer, telephone apparatus and equipment
manufacture,

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, J. Sterling Morton High School and Junior Col-
lege, 1952-$3; instructor, 1949-53, head instructor, 1952-53, Hawthorne
Evening School, Cicero, Ill.; corporator, first treasurer, Massachusetts
Model Railroad Society.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Model Railroad Society; Hawthorne Camera
Club; Hawthorne Science Club; Hawthorne Coin Club; M.LT. Club
of Chicago; Unity Club. ,

HAVING a good breakfast and a short Episcopal sermon under

my belt (both incidentally very much to my satisfaction), I re-

read John Hutchinson’s latest goad and sat down to reflect on

twenty-five years past. Bill, now five and my pride and joy,
hammered my thumb today while Mom was taking movies of

[57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

our joint efforts to build bird houses. But that is this end of the
sto

1a 1929 I weighed 155 pounds and with no effort on my part
still do. I had no ulcers then, have no ulcers now. Having
weathered the years of momentous effort and scanty return con-
ducting my small manufacturing enterprise, | found myself in
1943, as a result of marital difficulties, classed as a single man with
dependents and at age thirty-seven was declared physically fit
and inducted into Uncle Sam’s army as a private. The Air Corps
at Miami Beach would have none of my old age so I was trans-
ferred to a Special Engineer Detachment, spent four semesters at
M.LT., and then went on to Oak Ridge, Tennessee, to do me-
chanical engineering for the Tennessee Eastman Corporation, a
division of Eastman Kodak Company. All this was in uniform at
fifty dollars a month, but the work was intensely interesting and
in retrospect an experience I would not have missed. In 1945 I
was discharged from the Army, for age not points, and returned
to my desk in Oak Ridge to continue the work (this time for
adequate remuneration). Early in 1947 it was decided that the
purpose for which the T.E.C. plant was built had been accom-
plished and it was closed, save for a very small development
group. Faced with leaving Oak Ridge, I considered Cincinnati,
Chicago, Rochester, and Schenectady as possibilities, settled on
Rochester as the best, only to find a mild local recession. So I
came on to Chicago to join the manufacturing engineering group
at Western Electric Company.

Since coming to the Middle West I believe I can say I have
never been busier. I tackled a major house remodelling program
and with Bill’s arrival came colored slides and movies. Teaching
evening school came next and while I have enjoyed the varying
activities | am more often faced with the decision of which to do
rather than what. Our highlight each year is our summer trip to
New England to see old friends and places, get in, on, and around
the ocean, and eat as much sea food as possible. And for the next

twenty-five years my ambitions can be put rather simply — to
continue in health and happiness.

[ 58]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD TOTTERSON BARTLETT, Il

HOME ADDRESS: 2572 Stratford Rd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

orFice appress: Ninth and Euclid Avenue, Cleveland 1, Ohio.

BorN: April 2, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: George Griffiths Bartlett,
’95, Cecilia Helen Neall.

preparep at: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.; Phillips
Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

Marriep: Florence Creech, Sept. 10, 1929, Cleveland, Ohio. cuttpren: Ce-
cilia Neall and Elizabeth Creech (twins), July 17, 1931; Edward Tot-
terson, 3d, April 15, 1938.

occupATION: Vice-President, Cleveland Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, president, Family Service Association of Cleveland,
Cleveland Chapter of Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation; trustee,
Fenn College; trustee, treasurer, Holden Arboretum.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cleveland, Union Club; Kirtland Country
Club; Tavern Club.

AS I review what was recorded in the Vicennial Report, I see no
reason not to repeat portions of that sketch and then try to bring
it up to date, Here goes: “After majoring in the classics, I sud-
denly found myself doing accounting work for Firestone Tire &
Rubber Company, at Akron, where I stayed from graduation un-
til the spring of 1933, with brief time out to get married in Sep-
tember, 1929. For a year (1933-1934) I worked for Percy Brown
in the Cleveland office of Hornblower & Weeks. Since 1934 I
have been with the Cleveland Trust Company, in various capa-
cities in the Investment and Personal Trust departments. The not
so brief interlude with Uncle Sam was spent mostly (i.e. three
years plus) in England and France doing statistical work in the
Supply Headquarters. Although a Philadelphian by birth, my
roots are now deep in Cleveland, my wife’s native town and a
grand place to live. My twin daughters head for college in 1949
— somewhere in the East, I hope.”

Well, the girls did go to Mt. Vernon Junior College at Wash-
ington, D.C., and graduated in 1951. That fall they started a
secretarial course and the following March found themselves jobs
as secretaries. Their business careers were briefly interrupted for
volunteer duty at Taft-for-President Headquarters at the Repub-
lican Convention in Chicago. After that noble effort they re-
turned to the work-a-day world and joined the family team in

[59]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

working for Ike. The captain of the team, incidentally, is their
mother who was and is an indefatigable worker in local Repub-
lican groups. As this is written the twins are enjoying a holiday
in Europe. The son and heir, aged fifteen, has just finished ninth
grade at Hawken School and goes now to Andover, Class of ’56.
He has also just returned from a mountain climbing trip in Wyo-
ming under the leadership of H. Adams Carter, Class of ’36.

As for the old man himself, there is still much puttering about
house and yard; tennis has been dropped in favor of golf; fishing
trips to Canada are still too infrequent; and I have given up trying
to kecp up with the children. Since I hardly ever see a classmate,
I'm going to have a lot of ground to cover at the Twenty-fifth.

CLAY BARTLETT

HOME appress: Manchester, Vt.
Born: Nov. 21, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Frederic Clay Bartlett, Dora

Tripp.
PREPARED AT: Lake Placid School, Lake Placid Club, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: §.B. IN ARCH. (Armour Inst. of Tech-

nology), 1934; 4M. (Hon.) (Colby Coll.).
Marriep: Elisabeth West, Dorset, Vt. CHILDREN: Frederic Clay, Jr.; Clay S;

Helen E.

occupation; Artist,

BARTLETT has been on a lengthy trip to the West Coast and
wires us that his elder son, now adopted and named Eric Went-
worth, is a senior at Harvard. Batlett continues to be represented
in foreign and national art exhibits. He adds that he plans to
marry Helen F. Power in April, 1954, in Las Vegas, Nevada, and
that he will make his home near Chicago. (Ed. note.)

EDWARD OSBORNE BASSETT

HOME appress: 8449 Woodcliff Ct, Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of Commerce, Washington, D. C.

BORN: Oct, 5, 1908, Beloit, Wis. parents: Elmer Ensign Bassett, Ethel
Juanita West.

PREPARED AT: Davenport High School, Davenport, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929,

[ 60 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

maggie: Esmene J. Bontempo, 1936, New York, N. Y, cuvpren: Joyce A,
1931; David W’, rog4.
occupation: Government service.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

CHARLES THEODORE RUSSELL BATES

wom apoesss: 28; N. Scone Ave, Tucson, Anz.

orrug apvoasss: P, O. Box isto, Tucson, Ariz,

suan: July 24 1907, Wilmington, Del. panents: Daniel Moore Bates,
Bertha Corwa Day.

puspansp at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. Decne: as, (Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1929.

maaaizo: Lucille Alberta Weeks, Dec. 16, 1937, Las Vegas, Nev. critp:
Robert Little (adopted), Nov. 8, 1930 (Ma. Mary Louise Moore, Nov,
30, 1949). ceaxpcHap Daniel Muore Bates, Oct. 2, 1951,

oucupaTion; Cerufied public accountant.

mMemMare of: Old Pucblo Club; Tucson Country Club; Saint Anthony of
New York, Delaware Society of Colonial Wars.

+ BRUCE HILTON BEAL

poan; Nov. 17, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parznrs: Henry Williamson Beal,
97, Betsy Hilron Roper.

parpaaep at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLELRE: 192§-1919, DEGREE: AB. 1929.

marmisp: Dorothy Talcott, June 14, 1930, Groton, Conn, cHitoren;: Bruce
Talcott, Oct. 10, 1931; Stuart Currier, Nov, 9, 1933.

HARVARD SON: Bruce Talcort Beal, ‘54.

pio: Nov. 26, 1953, Hartford, Conn.

wmwow: Mrs. Broce H. Beal, Talcottville, Conn.

AFTER leaving Harvard, Beal joined Hayden, Stone & Com-
pany, Boston brokers, where he remained until 1931. He then
moved to Hartford where he became manager of the stock
trading department of Kennedy-Peterson, Inc. During World
War II he served for two years with the 2oth Air Force in India,
China, and the South Pacific, he was a technical sergeant and
armorer-gunner on 2 B-29 and flew over forty combat missions.
He afterward resumed his position as security trader with Ken-
nedy-Peterson, Inc., a firm with which he was associated for over
twenty years. He served as deacon of the Talcottville Congrega-

[61]

cit ne UO on st SRN RSAC laaciteia tt,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

tional Church and chairman of its Board of Finance as well as
president of the Hartford Security Brokerage Association. His
wife and sons survived him.

DONALD MARCY BEALS

HOME ADDRESS: 1095 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

BORN: July 16, 1906, Greenwich, Conn. parents: John David Beals, Mary
Helen Nicholson.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Frances Lord Seymour, Sept. 14, 1929, Cedarhurst, Long Island,
N. Y. (divorced 1934).

occupation: Retired treasurer, publishing house.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Dial Press, Inc. 1932-35.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Players Club, Society of May-
flower Descendants; Society of the War of 1812.

THE Sargent proofs have just arrived. I hardly think this pro-
duction is as diplomatic as John Singer’s would have been. This
leaves me in a slight quandary as to whether to engage a substi-
tute from Hollywood or even the Powers Agency, or just do
nothing about it. Insomuch as I have long subscribed to the motto
“when in doubt do nothing,” I probably shall do nothing about
it, As you read below, if you are bored enough to do so, you will
glean the accuracy of my previous statement; or, for that matter,
a swift perusal of my activities as set forth in the Senior Album
should provide equal verification.

After graduation the first startling thing I did was to get mar-
ried. The next was to go to Harvard Law School. I resigned
from both these situations, so the score again is zero. Next I be-
came an officer and the last angel in a publishing company. This
proved too expensive. Recalling President Lowell’s advice at the
inception of the freshman class — that if any of the bright young
men before him believed that by graduating from the College he
could necessarily earn one more cent in the business world then
he could by entering it then and there, he would gladly see that
his matriculation fee was refunded —I decided to resign from the
publishing company, too.

Since then I have had no offers of the presidency from any of
our larger corporations or, for that matter, from any of our small-

[ 62 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

est. Next the draft board turned me down, saying it wasn’t worth
the government's time to waste any money on one whose days
were obviously drawing to a close. I was quite surprised. Ten
years later I did have to go to a hospital but hit on an entirely
different diagnosis and consented to an operation only because
the doctors assured me that without it even the slightest convivi-
ality would be prohibited. I don’t feel much worse than before.

Forgetfulness, not modesty, almost caused me to omit the fact
that every two years since leaving Law School I have served on a
jury. The one advantage to this career is that I am immune to the
dangers of retirement presented to the “Man of Affairs” who gen-
erally from sheer boredom retires from life about the same time as
from his career. If this philosophy infuriates some of you even
to contemplate dropping a touch of arsenic in my martini next
spring when we meet, I again remind you “when in doubt do
nothing.”

HUBERT PARK BECK

HOME ADDRESS: % Mrs. Charles H. Fahs, 523 W. 121st St, New York 27,

“NY.”

OFFICE ADDRESS: American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon (tempo-
rary).

- BORN: "Dec. 26, 1907, Fort Wayne, Ind, parents: Charles Martin Beck,
Anna Rhodortha Bower.

PREPARED AT: South Side High School, Fort Wayne, Ind. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; A.M. (Univ. of Chicago),
1931; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1945.

MARRIED: Dorothy Irene Fahs, Aug. 20, 1930, Chicago, Ill. comp: Brenda
Eleanor, 1940.

occuPATION: Education, present appointment at American University of
Beirut,

OFFICES HELD: Graduate assistant, Teachers College, 1934, 1935, research
assistant, Lincoln School and Teachers College, 1934-36, president,
Student Council, Teachers College, 1935-36, Columbia University;
head, Department of Education and Psychology, founder, Children’s
School, Limestone College, Gaffney, S. C., 1936-38; assistant director,
General College, 1938-39, instructor, College of Education, 1938-41,
University of Minnesota; head, Department of Education and Psychol-
ogy, Rhode Island State College, Kingston, R. I, 1941-45; analyst,
Personnel Research, American Type Founders, Elizabeth, N. J., 1945;
research supervisor, statistical analyst, statistical supervisor, 1945-47,

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

part-time consultant, 1947-48, Pan-American World Airways, New
York; instructor, assistant professor of education, supervisor of theses
and coérdinator of research, School of Education, secretary, Education
faculty, representative on Committee on Research and Evaluation and
Committee on Coordination of Teacher Education, chairman, Student
Faculty Committee for Celebration of John Dewey’s Ninetieth Birth-
day, City College, New York; member board of directors, American
Student Abroad, Inc.

MEMBER OF; A.E.R.A.; N.SS.E.; National Council on Measurements Used
in Education; New York Society for the Study of Education; John
Dewey Society; New York Society for the Experimental Study of
Education; N.S.C.T.E.; Society for the Advancement of Education;
AA.UB.; American Education Fellowship; N.E.A. (life member);
American Psychology Association; Eastern Psychology Association;
Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues; Phi Delta Kappa,
Kappa Delta Pi; Xi Alpha Pi; American Civil Liberties Union; Citizens
Union; Public Education Association.

pusiications: Men Who Control Our Universities, 1947; Easy Steps to
Touch Typewriting, contributions to Educational Yearbook, Social
Studies, Minnesota Journal of Education, North Dakota Teacher.

DURING World War II, Beck was chief of a Training Division
in South Kingston, Rhode Island; chief examiner for Rhode Is-
land, Screening Armed Forces Pilot Training Program; and
instructor, Army Specialized Training Program. He served also
as a personnel analyst in a war plant. In the summer of 1949 he
was leader of the World Study Tour to Europe, and in the sum-
mer of 1951 led the National Education Association tour to Eu-
rope. He has also travelled in Turkey, Bermuda, and Canada
and is at present at the American University of Beirut under a
Point 4 appointment from September, 1953, to June, 1954.

The above information is taken from Who's Who in American
Education (1951-1952).

EDWIN LAWRENCE BECKWITH

HOME appress: 19 Dartmouth St. West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE appress: 81 Apsley St., Hudson, Mass.

BORN: July 27, 1905, Wollaston, Mass. parents: Harry Havelock Beckwith,
Isabelle Stanislaw Doris.

PREPARED At: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

margiep: Dorothy Quincy Nourse, Oct. 20, 1928, Dedham, Mass, (div-

[ 64]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orced 1942); Jessica Victoria Gardner, July 8, 1945. CHILDREN: Dorothy
Quincy, Jan. 2, 1930; Harry Lawrence, May 10, 1933; Richard Adams,
May 5, 1936; Edwin Lawrence, Jr., Dec. 5, 1952.

HARVARD SON: Harry Lawrence Beckwith, 55.

OccUPATION: Manufacturer, research, Victory Plastics Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Army Emergency Relief, 1944-45; vice-chairman,
National Bible Week Association; trustee, Longy School of Music.
MEMBER OF: Society of Plastic Industries; American Society of Tool En-
gineers,; Newcomen Society; Quartermaster Association, Army Ord-
nance Association; Algonquin Club; Brae Burn Country Club, Dedham

Country & Polo Club.

MY private life began following make-up exams in September,
1928, which restored me to good standing as a senior. I took a
leave of absence for research in the field of fine arts. This is still
going on, the leave of absence, not the research. On the contrary,
by marrying on October zoth of that year, I transferred my con-
centration to the field of domestic relations. Then, to further
confuse the issue, I removed with my bride to Paris, France, where
I continued, at that time, my chosen profession of painting. After
the usual collection of vicissitudes and peregrinations, we re-
turned to this country in time for my oldest to celebrate her
zeroth birthday in Wyman House, Cambridge. The anticipated
return to Paris finally was called off the next summer, and the
apartment sublet. I have been trying vainly to get back ever since.

In October, 1931, I forsook my “calling,” and entered the fam-
ily manufacturing business. The next few years were occupied
with the “nose to the grindstone” process, from which I even-
tually emerged as director of research. In the meantime son Henry
was born, and three years later son Richard. I found time to buy
and use a cruising boat and play a few golf tournaments, all of
which worked out very pleasantly.

Then, in 1938 I began research on ordnance items for the gov-
ernment. This led in 1941 to the establishing of a subsidiary com-
pany, the “Victory Plastics Company,” and the purchase of a
new plant that summer. During the war years, I was busy making
scabbards, shell fuses, ogives, clay targets, land mines, and various
other items for the armed forces.

I married again shortly before the end of the war and at that
time moved to our present home. The eight or nine years since
the war have been largely taken up with the conversion of the

[ 65 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

business to peacetime basis, also with government and industrial
research, We have been fortunate in having been given the op-
portunity to develop the land mine program, plastic armor and
body armor in particular for the government. We have also been
involved with the development of proprietary products in the
juvenile and institutional fields, and in the establishing of our
own lines of plastic and nylon rainwear.

I rarely paint, being more satisfied to collect the works of peo-
ple who can. I make an effort to restore antique furniture, collect
a little silver and porcelain, play enough golf to amuse myself,
enjoy all my children from Dottie who is at M.I-T., Harry who is
in Harvard, Dick who is in Milton, to “Mr. Chips,” whom we
welcomed into the family last December, and who has adroitly
re-educated me to customs and doings which I thought I had long
since outgrown. Jessica and I are enjoying the whole show tre-
mendously. We see numerous classmates and their wives, and be-
tween family, sociability, and business, we manage to keep our-
selves a little too busy, a little too broke, and entirely happy.

ts NORMAN JACOB BEISEL, JR.

BORN: July 22, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Norman Jacob Beisel, Elsie
Veitinghoff.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B, 1929(30).

piED: June 21, 1933, Philadelphia, Pa.

FOR three years after his graduation, Beisel was with E. J. Kitch-
ing & Company, stock brokers in Boston, and then with the firm

of Hill & Suender, contracting engineers in Pottsville, Pennsy]-
vania. He died as a result of an automobile accident.

BERTRAND FAUGERES BELL

HOME appress: Bedford, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 4, 1906, Scarsdale, N. Y. parents: Bertrand Faugéres Bell,
Beatrice Stafford Boggs.
prePareD at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

[ 66 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.
MARRIED: Helen Talmadge Runkle, June 1, 1929, New York, N. Y. cupren:
Two.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

MARCUS LAFAYETTE BELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 200 E. 66th St., New York 21, N. Y.; 2480 16th St, N. W.
Washington 9, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 210 Main St., Hackensack, N. J.

BORN: July 30, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Marcus Lafayette Bell, Ruth Van
Doren Bogue.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929 (30).

MARRIED: Alison Adams Grubb, Aug. 31, 1950, New York, N. Y¥.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Bogue Bell, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, Peoples Trust Company of Bergen
- County.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1949-53, trustee, since 1947, Allen-Stevenson School,
New York; assistant treasurer, National Organization for Public Health
Nursing, New York, 193 7-42.

AS previous Class histories will show, I became employed in 1930
at the Marine Midland Trust Company of New York, and with
the exception of war service from 1942 to 1945, remained con-
tinuously in its employ until I resigned in 1951. My activities
there had to do primarily with credits, related commercial bank-
ing functions, and business development. And, as assistant vice-
president, I spent my last four years with Marine Midland as
officer in charge of one of its downtown: New York branches.
After leaving the bank I devoted much time to study and re-
search in matters pertaining to business and transportation and
have done some guest speaking on banking and credit matters at
the American University, Washington, D. C. Recently I have
became associated with the Peoples Trust Company of Bergen
County at Hackensack, New Jersey, as an assistant vice-president,
with responsibilities in connection with commercial loans and
credits,

My war duties were primarily of an intelligence and security
character, my last rank being lieutenant commander, U. S. Naval
Reserve.

[ 67 ]

anAla eset i ON eae tied,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

LOUIS BURTON BENJAMIN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 55 Front St. Weymouth, Mass.

BORN: June 14, 1907, Boston, Mass, parents: Aubrey Weldon Benjamin,
Mabel Crane.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1929; M.D. 1933.

MaRRIED: Constance Potter, Sept. 12, 1931, Derry, N. H. cuiwpren: Weldon
Potter, May 4, 1933; Constance Mabel, March 7, 1942; Janice Louise,
Dec. 28, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Aubrey Crane Benjamin, ’18, M.D, ’21,

occupation: Obstetrics and gynecology.

OFFICES HELD: Member staff, South Shore Hospital, South Weymouth.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society,
New England Obstetrical and Gynecological Society; Old Colony
Medical Club; International College of Surgeons (associate fellow);
American Legion; Scituate Harbor Yacht Club; Military Order of
the Purple Heart; Masons; Odd Fellows.

FOLLOWING graduation from college, I graduated from Har-
vard Medical School and interned at the Newton (Mass.) Hospi-
tal, then established practice in Weymouth, Massachusetts, where
I still reside and practise. My summers are spent at Scituate,
Massachusetts, There was an interlude of four years spent in the
US. Navy from 1941 to 1945 with service in the South Pacific
area, the result of which were a Purple Heart and retirement from
the Navy because of physical disability in 1945. |

My oldest child, a son, graduated in June, 1952, from Kent
School where he was varsity fullback and a good crewman. He
did not apply for Harvard, but finished his freshman year at St.
Lawrence University this past June. My second child, “Connie,”
aged eleven years, has just entered the seventh grade and prom-
ises to be “the brain” in the family, being an A student. The third
youngster, Janice, aged eight, is an average student, an excellent
ballerina, and a terrific swimmer. She has been swimming since
the age of three years; at present she swims for the Scituate Har-
bor Yacht Club and has not been beaten in the past two years,
swimming against some excellent teams such as the Corinthian
Yacht Club’s team at Marblehead,

My wife Constance has been my mainstay through the ups and
downs of life, and on September 12, 1953, we completed twenty-
two years of happy married life. Aside from my wife and family

[ 68 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and the care of my patients, I am afraid I have not too many in-
terests in life.

FRANK P. BENNETT, III

HOME AppREss: Manley Street, Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 286 Congress St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: June 24, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Edward Howard Bennett,
Edna Louise Nourse.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MARRIED; Martha Price, March 26, 1927. CHILDREN: E. Howard, Dec. 5,
1927 (2m. Phyllis Jenner); Daniel Clark, Nov. 9, 1931 (7. Dorothy Mas-
terson, June, 1952); Frank P., May 26, 1936. GRANDCHILDREN: Three.

_ HARVARD SON: Daniel Clark Bennett, ’53.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Howard Bennett, Jr., 37.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, business manager, Frank P. Bennett & Company,
Inc., publishers of America’s Textile Reporter and The United States
Investor.

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club, Marblehead; Poinsett Club, Greenville,

§&C

PHILIP BARBOUR BENNETT

HOME ADDREsS: 870 Pleasant St., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 281 Lincoln St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 29, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Harold Whitman Bennett,
’os5, Lillian Mitchell Barbour...

"PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country Day School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1920.

MARRIED: Alice Delerma Mann, Sept. 23, 1933, Everett, Mass. cuitp: Peter
Mann, Aug. 5, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Holland Bennett, ’32.

OCCUPATION: Business manager, Worcester Hahnemann Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Hospital Accountants; American
Hospital Association; Massachusetts Hospital Association.

ANSGAR RANDOLPH BERGE

HOME appress: 65 Mill St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 Pearl St., Boston 6, Mass.

BORN: July 17, 1907, Inwood, Iowa, Parents: Oluf Abrahamson Lauritz
Berge, Thilda Randine Fladager, —

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: SB. cum laude, 1929; LL.B. (Yale
Univ.), 1935.

MarrieD: Dorothy Mary Carney, March 2, 1932, Petersburg, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Naney Ann Kathryn Elizabeth, Feb. 25, 1933; Thomas Arne and Peter
Ansgar (twins), July 20, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Secretary, assistant counsel, assistant federal reserve agent,
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Washington State Bar Association;
Boston Bar Association; Norfolk County Bar Association, Stoughton
Fish & Game Club,

PUBLICATIONS: Several case notes, Yale Law Journal, 1934-35.

NOT so many years ago, twenty-seven in fact, I spent a delight-
ful summer in Skagway, Alaska, working somewhat intermittently
for a short line railroad that ran from tide water into the interior
of Canada. In that once populous mining camp the old sour-
doughs described dramatic scenes of the turbulent days of the
gold rush in 1898, some twenty-five or thirty years earlier. 1898?
Twenty-five or thirty years ago? It might just as well have been
twenty-five million years ago. Twenty-five years were geologic.
They went back to a time to which the memory of man runneth
not. They were totally incomprehensible.

But today, twenty-five years since that June day in Cambridge
when life was sweet, every girl glamorous and bewitching, and
the future held nothing but exciting promise — twenty-five years
ago seems a mere pause in the day, a fleeting moment. How can
anyone attribute significance to the moment that has just now
passed by? And, as in the case of the last moment, so now does
that past quarter century seem to me. Editorial insistence, how-
ever, requires some response in trying to give some content to
those flying moments of the two and a half decades since 1929.

Briefly put, and I can think of no good reason why it should
not be briefly put, this individual in carrying out his share of the
family’s responsibilities has worked at various tasks to obtain food,
clothing, and shelter, and to provide the other thousand and one.
things society today ordains essential for civilized living. Hlow
he has done this is immaterial, but if record there must be, then
let it be said that it was done by devoting the major part of his
time and effort in furthering in modest measure, first, the means
of communication through the telephone company, then, the re-

[70]

een nnncin anc c cn cece ee EE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

duction of friction of individuals in units or combinations with
society through the later training and practice of law; and most
recently of functioning of the economic complex through service
with a component part of the credit mechanism of the nation.

In truth, however, these past twenty-five years of life have
added up to more than the mere satisfaction of those basic wants.
In the higher and more qualitative sense, they have brought the
joys of family and friends, the encouragement that comes from
those one respects, and the sense of satisfaction that arises out of
the seeking, if not achieving, of modest goals. May the next
twenty-five years be equally blessed. So much for a generalized
statement of my life this part quarter century. Now for a few
specific details.

My old love of books continues unabated, as does my love of
the outdoors. In recent years my interest in accounts of the open-
ing of the American West has deepened to the point where I
prefer them to most other books. Illustrative of these joint in-
terests, I even have ambitions of retracing the route of the old
Oregon Trail, perhaps in successive vacations, in company with
my wife and stalwart twin sons, Peter and Thomas, now aged
fourteen. At the moment we doubtless would settle for an out-
board motor trip up the Missouri River, from, say, Mandan to
the mouth of the Yellowstone, or a repeat of one of our several
camping experiences in the beautiful Green Mountains of Ver-
mont, White Mountains of New Hampshire, or Berkshire Hills
of our own Commonwealth.

Travel by automobile is always a joy and, under ordinary cir-
cumstances, the longer the drive the better. The mental refresh-
ment arising out of the sight of new places more than compen-
sates for the physical fatigue so that the net result is a positive
gain. While another coast-to-coast journey would be most pleas-
ant, we find the same kind of enjoyment compressed in a shorter
period of time, in driving about the Northeast, such as our trips
to and from Saratoga Springs with our daughter, Nancy, now a
junior at Skidmore. She enjoys the returns to college in the fall
and the return home at holiday and vacation times. We in turn
enjoy her enjoyment and, in addition, the drive through the quiet,
lovely New England hills and the sedate Grandma Moses country
~ of New York State. It all works out beautifully.

C71]

ae ee nT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

My political views are not profound. They are simple in theory
and application. I look for the best man and in a surprising num-
ber of cases he turns out to be a follower of Abe Lincoln’s party.
Since June, 1929, the number of times someone else’s best man
Won out over mine is surprising, but every road has its turning,
be it ever so light. Neither have I any significant suggestions to
offer for improvement in our society. Many years ago I read
Bertrand Russell’s work on Freedom vs. Organization, 1814-1914,
and found it fascinating. This is coupled in my mind with the
Education of Henry Adams, and above all with my great favorite,
Henry David Thoreau. There are unquestionably many others,
but these come first to mind. What they all have in common is
a conviction that our culture can remain vital and vigorous only
by retaining individuality and by resisting incessant and insistent
grouping and organization. If I have a philosophy, that notion
is basic to it. Individualism and toleration are its essentials. I can
conclude no better than to quote the words of Thackeray in
Henry Esmond:

“I am Diogenes,” says Esmond, laughing, “that is taken up for a ride
in Alexander’s chariot. I have no desire to vanquish Darius or to tame
Bucephalus. I do not want what you want, a great name or a high place:
to have them would bring me no pleasure. But my moderation is taste, not
virtue: and I know that what I do want is as vain as that which you long
after. Do not grudge me my vanity, if I allow yours; or rather, let us laugh
at both indifferently, and at ourselves, and at each other.”

HAROLD BERLINER

HOME Appress; 8 Bainbridge Rd., Worcester, Mass.

orFice appress: J.C, Maclnnes Co., Worcester, Mass.

Bogn: Dec, 29, 1908, Boston, Mass, parents: Louis Berliner, Sara Richards,

PREPARED AT; Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: A.B., 1929,

MargiepD: Helen Morse, March 3, 1935, Brookline, Mass. Hlelen Alice
Stover, Feb, 6, 1947, Boston, Mass, cuiup: Robert Louis, Sept. 23, 1948.

HARVARD BrorHER: Milton Richard Berliner, ‘28.

occupation: Buyer of children’s shoes for department store,

EXCEPT for my naval experiences from 1942 to 1945, and dur-
ing 1951-1952, there is little to report.

[72]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ISAAC BERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 186 South St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 88 St. Stephen St., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: June 22, 1908, Boston, Mass, parents: Samuel Berman, Edith Kritch-
man.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
1936.

' MARRIED: Golde Cohen, Oct. 11, 1936, Wilmington, Mass. cuitpren: Robert
Allen, Dec. 17, 1937; Stephen Samuel, May 10, 1943.

occupation: Owner, Alles Corporation, distributors of industrial stapling
equipment and shipping room specialties.

MY past twenty years might most aptly be divided into two
phases, the premarital and the postmarital.

Phase one, totalling eight years, was free from any real re-
sponsibilities; full, in retrospect, of many changes in attitudes,
philosophy of life, economic endeavors, places of residence; a
period that I can recall hazily but nostalgically — even though
at the time it was a bit rough. In more or less chronological
order from graduation day on, I served in the following capaci-
ties: bell hop, A & P store manager, magazine salesman, printing
salesman, publisher of a class weekly newspaper, library book
salesman, deck hand on tramp steamer to Europe, telephone di-
rectory salesman. Mix the foregoing up with a year’s residence
in California, much travel in the U. S., and several periods of un-
employment, and you have the conglomerate picture of my eight
premarital years — good years? Certainly care-free!

The postmarital phase has been one full of hard work and re-
sponsibilities compensated by the rich satisfaction of pleasures
derived from my wife and two sons. The early part of this period
found me making my last change of employment from salesman
for a national stapling machine manufacturer to a business of my
own, Alles Corporation, distributors of stapling equipment and
shipping room specialties. In the past eleven years, it has grown,
so that currently there are branch offices in St. Petersburg (Flor-
ida), Chicago (Illinois), and Springfield (Massachusetts), with
headquarters in Boston. I followed a plan suggested in a maga-
zine article by a successful small business man — namely to Or-
ganize, Deputize, Supervise. Only very recently have I been able

[73]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 |

to reach stage three, thereby divorcing myself at last from the
many exhaustive details involved in the first two stages. The fore-
going operation prevented most outside activities, since any spare
time was devoted to a family in growth.

My hobbies, at least until very recently, have been in phys-
ically active fields, since they coincided with those engaged in by
my two athletic offspring, namely, football, baseball, tennis,
bicycling, hiking. Nature will soon compel a change to... ?
My fervent belief in God leads me to daily prayer and helps give |
support, meaning, and direction to my current way of life, which
is based on the rabbinic interpretations of the Old Testament.
My prayer is that our offspring will be privileged, if only by a
miracle of God, to live their lives in a period devoid of war, hot
or cold, and one in which the progress of human spiritual growth
will keep pace with that of scientific research and knowledge.

GILBERT COPELAND BEST

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: 2408 Eighth St., Boulder, Calif.

BoRN: July 4, 1905, Flatbush, N, Y, parents: Alfred Magelton Best, Con-
stance Copeland. ,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

BEST has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1942.

JAMES FRANK BEST, JR.

HOME appREss: Hotel St. George, Brooklyn 1, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 101 Willoughby St., Brooklyn 1, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec, 3, 1907, Stanhope, N. J. parents: James Frank Best, Gilbretta
Davis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1920.
occupation: Accountant, New York Telephone Company.
MEMBER OF; Telephone Pioneers of America,

DURING World War Il, I served in the Army of the United
States from March 18, 1942, to May 7, 1946, holding all grades
from second lieutenant through lieutenant colonel. My stations
were at the War Department, Washington, D.C., and at Head-
quarters, European Theatre of Operations, London and Paris.
I received the Bronze Star Medal, American Theatre Medal, Euro-

174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pean Theatre Medal with one campaign star, Victory Medal, and
New York State Conspicuous Service Cross.

JOHN WARREN BETHELL

HOME AND OFFicE appreEss: Grove Street, South Essex, Mass.

BORN: June 13, 1906, Montclair, N. J. parents: Union Noble Bethell, Donna
Isabel Brink.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1930.

MarriED: Elizabeth Torrey Johnson, June 20, 1931, Beverly, Mass. cuitpren;

_ John Torrey, Aug. 1, 1932; Deborah, March 17, 1935; Thomas Noble,
Feb. 8, 1939.

HARVARD SON: John Torrey Bethell, ’54.

occupation: Architect, self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Shore Country Day School, Beverly; director, North
Shore Children’s Friend Society, Salem, member, Finance Committee,
Town of Essex; chairman, Republican Finance Committee, Essex; mem-
ber Scholarship Committee, Harvard Club of North Shore; member
board of governors, Gore Place, Waltham; chairman for North Shore,
Boston Community Fund; secretary and director, United Bond and
Realty Company, Montclair, N. J., Beverly Hospital, Beverly, Mass.,
now.

MEMBER OF: Essex Country Club; Manchester Yacht Club; Castle Hill
Foundation; Friends of the Boston Symphony.

THIS morning’s mail brought that wonderful, heart-breaking,
grovelling “Goad No. 5”; I can resist no longer, so here it is. The
fact that I’ve waited so long, in spite of threats, cajolery, plead-
ings, and tears to turn out the definitive biography, makes me
suspect that subconsciously I’ve been waiting for something to
happen to add spice to what must otherwise be the dullest Class
Life in the book. Nothing has. So for rich, beautiful prose or
a Horatio Alger story turn elsewhere; this is the Saga of the Little
Man.

After leaving Cambridge and getting a job with the Theatre
Guild in New York, my first and biggest break came when Miss
Dream Princess of 1930 (Elizabeth Johnson, Vassar ’29) said
“Yes” in the Holland Tunnel. She was playing with Judith An-
derson at the time, so our whirlwind Times Square courtship was
climaxed with the performance of the Ceremony of the Ring in
the alley of the Ethel Barryinore Theatre. We were married in

[75]

sentence eat aaa taal,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Beverly, Massachusetts, and forsaking the theatre, became subur-
banites in Montclair, New Jersey, where Elizabeth went into
production and I went into banking.

It soon became apparent that while married life was definitely
our dish, banking and suburbia were not, so we scrapped every-
thing except our first-born child and moved to South Essex, Mas-
sachusetts, where we acquired a seventeenth-century house, too
much land, and an interest in a woolen mill. Although we are no
longer connected with the mill, we still love the land, with its
rolling fields, pine woods, and great outcroppings of ledge. The
old saltbox house we restored and enlarged; in May, 1948, it
burned almost to the ground and we restored it again. It con-
tinues to be home to us, and will always welcome any ’29-ers who
may be in the neighborhood and friendly.

The design and construction of buildings — particularly houses
—having been my love since the age of twelve, I finally turned
to this work in a serious way in 1935. Lacking formal training
in the field, I began educating myself at Hardway University,
and for the past eighteen years have worked like a plastic surgeon
with the itch on the face of the North Shore, restoring old houses,
building new ones, enlarging small ones, shrinking big ones. In
addition to houses, my heavy hand has fallen on all sorts of build-
ings, from schools and hospitals to law offices, shops, and stores.
I've yet to build a Taj Mahal or cause Frank Lloyd Wright to
fear for his laurels, but neither have I yet defaced this stern and
rockbound coast. I've met and come to know all sorts of people
— most of whom are still my very good friends — and loved
every minute and every dollar of it. Let others better qualified
than I re-shape the world; I'll stick to my little Illyrian village.

“But what do you do in the country?” is a question we are
often asked. Our children have occupied a major part of our

time and interest, very rewardingly, John graduates from Har-
vard in 54, Deborah from Vassar and Tom from Andover in ’57,
and we are very proud of all three of them. While they have
been growing up we have somehow found time to make a few
very good friends, to read, see some good plays, take a few short
but pleasant trips — and there is always work to be done on the
place. Thanks to the completion of Route 128 we are now less
than an hour from Boston by car which makes it easier for us to

[76]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

participate in the life of the Greater Boston area by working, as
we always have, on various charitable, educational, and political
committees.

Our bucolic existence was, like many others, interrupted by the
war. Being married and the father of three, I waited to be drafted
and was. While I was progressing from a twenty-one-dollar-a-
month private through various grades, ranks, and everything the
Air Corps could think of to keep me out of actual combat, Eliz-
abeth was keeping things going at home. Gas rationing made it
impossible to get the children to school in Beverly, so she rented
various houses in Beverly for the winters, returning to South
Essex in the summers. Following V-J Day, I was sent home from
Okinawa to pick up the broken threads, which I did by taking
off the pretty silver bars and going to work on State Street with
Lincoln Boyden, solving the architectural problems of the east-
ern seaboard. This very pleasant association lasted until the
spring of 1948 when I moved my pencils and erasers to South
Essex, where I have been located ever since, busy as two bees and
twice as happy.

Having long dreaded the time when the children would be
away at school and college and the house suddenly grown far too
big, we are amazed to find that time does not hang heavy, even
without the television none of us wants or cares about. Birthdays
come oftener than they used to, and the days between them are
all too short for accomplishing all the things that need to be done.
Now that sitters no longer control our lives we find it possible
to get to the theatre a little more often, and we think it would
be pleasant to visit Bermuda or even Charleston again before they
bring on the wheel-chairs. Of course, Outer Mongolia would be
fun, but one must be realistic.

ALBERT SMITH BIGELOW

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Beekman PI., New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: May 1, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Albert Francis Bigelow, ’03,
Gwladys Williams.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(31).

MARRIED: Josephine N. Rotch, June 21, 1929, Old Lyme, Conn. (died Dec.

C77]

misinoseate emer

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

10, 1929); Sylvia Weld, Sept. 10, 1931, Wareham, Mass, cenupren: Lisa
Barclay, Aug. 27, 1932 (m. Loyall H. Edge, June 15, 1951); Kate Len-
thall, March 29, 1935; Mary deFord, Sept. 20, 1946 (died April 25, 1947).
GRANDCHILDREN: Walter E. Edge, zd, Jan. 20, 1952; Albert S. B. Edge,
April 17, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Hugh Williams Bigelow, ’29.

occuPATION: Artist.

OFFICES HELD: Afassachusetts state chairman, American Veterans Committee,
1946; chairman, Emergency Housing Commission, Mfass., 1947, Massa-
chusetts State Housing Board, 1948; president, Big Brother Association
of Boston, 1949-0; member Planning Board, Town of Milton, Mass.,
1948-52; member, chairman, Parish Committee, First Parish Church
(Unitarian), Milton, 1950-52; director, Unitarian Service Committee,
Inc., since 1949.

MY quarter century has included a lot of change and variety.
I've had more than fifteen “permanent” homes; two of them I
designed. Occupations have been: architect, farmer, naval officer,
newspaperman, government official, artist. With some intensity,
I've sampled almost one hundred outside interests. I no longer
smoke or drink. That sounds confusing. On the contrary, a pian
seems to have been working. I have been constantly redirected to
painting. And the core of this plan has been a full and happy
family life. It’s been an absorbingly interesting and deeply satis-
fying twenty-five years. My work — painting — includes all
kinds of subjects as well as portraits and landscapes. It is not
“modern” in style. It is, rather, a revolt against the superficiality,
artificiality, and mannerisms of the academic “moderns” and “dis-
tractionists.” I feel that painting, like most human endeavor, has
produced few greats. Among a dozen at most —none living —
my big three are Rembrandt, Greco, Goya. My work includes
much experiment and rediscovery in the technique of painting.
I cherish two noble classmates among my patrons. Bill King and
Johnny Valentine both recklessly commissioned portraits of their
children; paid for them too.

Outside interests have been reduced to sailing, canoeing, camp-
ing, cooking, theatre, farming, hockey (now spectator only), and
the Unitarian Service Committee. I travel and speak frequently
to interest others in this small but effective organization. My al-
ready rich family life has been expanded during the past three
years by a son-in-law and two grandsons. And just before Christ-
mas we announced our other daughter's engagement to Nicholas

[78]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Benton, Class of ’51. Enjoyment of my immediate, my twin’s,
and other family cuts short time for friends.

Social, political, and religious convictions seem to me insepara-
ble. This is to say that the means are the ends. This produces a
condition free from violence and coercion. It creates equal op-
portunities for freedom, and responsibility. It requires a continu-
ing revolution — Gandhi’s kind of revolution. It has been my ex-
perience that man does best if let alone on a small, intimate, volun-
tary scale; that his love for his neighbor needs a specific — not
general — neighborhood. Therefore I distrust the large, the re-
mote, the individually irresponsible. I expect that the next twenty-
five years will be a mounting crisis. Perhaps our conventional and
convenient morality will suffice. But I have a suspicion that our
comfort and complacency are nearing an end . . . unless we can,
with crusading spirit, make the necessary sacrifices fully to share
our riches and our freedom, wholeheartedly to care for our broth-
ers and our resources, and completely to realize that we do not
know all the answers.

HUGH WILLIAMS BIGELOW —

HOME ADDRESS: 52 Appletree Drive, Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 W. ssth St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: May 1, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Albert Francis Bigelow, ’o3,
Gwladys Williams.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MARRIED: Ruth Draja Fogg, 1932, Paris, France ‘(divorced 1942); Kayo
Fukuhara, Aug. 25, 1942, Buffalo, N. Y. cur~pren: Albert F., 2d, July
17, 1946; Hugh Williams, Jr., Sept. 25, 1947.

_ HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Smith Bigelow, ’29.

occuPATION: Managing director, Dale Carnegie Courses in New York, public
speaking and human relations training.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

HAVING discovered that my great genius had not received its
due recognition in the United States, I journeyed to Europe
shortly after College, where I studied sculpture at the Ecole des
Beaux Arts in Paris. Recognition of my great talents, however,
was about the same as it had been in America and I distinctly re-
member one day when the F rench students were pouring ques-

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

tions at me about America and myself. At one point I stated
proudly that I had been educated at Harvard University. The art
students looked at one another in amazement — then asked me,
“What's that?”

Despite this shock to my ego, I stayed on until 1934 when I
returned to the United States. I then went to work for Time
magazine — actually for Life magazine, which was in its forma-
tive days. I went from Life to Look —no pun intended — and
then to department store work, where my genius was being re-
warded by the unappreciative world to the tune of $17 a week.
To comfort myself I used to dwell on the fact that Rembrandt
had a hard time too. Incidentally, I was very thankful to have
any job at all. I exchanged my §17-a-week job for one which
paid $19 — per month—the U.S, Army. I spent four years in
the Army. After the war I went back to the magazine and pub-
lishing field and was with Vogue for six years. At this time too I
became an instructor for the Dale Carnegie Courses and I am
now in charge of this work in New York.

I think I am a very fortunate person. I have made many mis-
takes in my life and have taken a long time to discover what I
am best suited to do, but in having found it, I am happy. Thomas
Carlyle expressed very well what I feel when he said, “Blessed
is he who has found his work. Let him seek no further blessed-
ness.” I must confess, however, that I feel somewhat guilty that
so many years of my life have slipped by and that I have not
managed to help make the world a better place to live in. I
console myself now that in a small way I am in a position to help
people better to know themselves and to get on with their fellow
men. Best of all, maybe I'll learn a little about all this myself!

JOHN CLIFFORD BILLMAN

HOME apprEss: 48 Brantford Pl., Buffalo, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 202 Pearl St. Buffalo 2, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1907, Landisburg, Pa, parents: Aaron Henry Billman,
Lucy K. Rice.

PREPARED AT: Carlisle High School, Carlisle, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929,

MakrieD; Lilyan Fenstermacher, Oct, 2, 1932, Brooklyn, N. Y.

[ 80 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Owner, J. C. Billman and Company, stationery and office
equipment retail business.

SINCE graduation from College, I have been in the same general
type of work pretty much all of the time — selling office equip-
ment and stationery. I have become very interested in farming —
the “non-gentlemanly” type — and I spend a good deal of time
on my lakeshore farm which is about fifty miles north of here.
In addition, I have been studying law — I should be ready for the
Bar examination in another year—and when there is any time
available, I spend it taking care of my business. While the type
of life I lead probably seems sort of “stick-in-the-mud-ish” to
most of you, I find it entirely satisfying. In fact, as I look back
over the years since I left school, the pattern is pretty consistent
and there is little I should change including the trials and frustra-
tions of the depression years. I work enough to make the money
necessary to do what I want—and then enjoy the type of life
I have chosen.

WHEELOCK HAYWARD BINGHAM

HOME AppRESS: 840 Seabury Rd., San Mateo, Calif.

OFFICE ADpREss: Macy’s New York, Herald Square, New York 1, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 28, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: George Mears Bingham, Lilla
Harding Mackay.

PREPARED AT: Huntington Preparatory School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

MARRIED: Evelyn Feakes, May 25, 1934, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Whee-
lock Richard, Dec. 17, 1935; Betsy, Dec. 11, 1937.

OCCUPATION: President, Macy’s New York.

oFFices HELD: Director, R. H. Macy & Company, Macy’s San Francisco,
Bank of America, Flavor True Foods, Inc., Protestant Episcopal Church
in Diocese of California, member Navy Ship’s Store Advisory Commit-
tee; member Naval Air Reserve Advisory Council; trustee, Community
Service Society of New York; member Chapter, Grace Cathedral.

MEMBER OF: Kane Lodge No. 454, A.F. & A.M., New York; Harvard Club of
New York; Pacific-Union Club, San Francisco; Harvard Club of San
Francisco; Burlingame Country Club, Calif.; Blind Brook Club, Port
Chester, N. Y.

I LEFT College in 1926 to go to work for Macy’s in New York
for the summer. I have been with Macy’s ever since. In 1945 I

[ 81 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

became president of Macy’s San Francisco, and in 1952 returned
to New York as president of Macy’s New York.

In the interim, during World War II, I served for three years
in the Navy — first as a » lieutenant, and finally as a captain in the
Supply Corps. Almost my entire service was in Naval Aviation
in Philadelphia, Washington, and the Pacific. Towards the end of
the war, I was ordered to Washington to reorganize the operations
of the Navy Ship’s Service Stores. I was awarded the Navy Le-
gion of Merit.

Over the years I have travelled in this country, in the Pacific,
and in Europe. I have been active in many charitable and civic
organizations — especially in San Francisco. One of my very spe-
cial interests was a farm in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, which I
owned before the war. After having lived most of my life in
New England, New York, and incidentally Pennsylvania, I be-
came a “native” Californian in 1945. I hope to return there some
day when I retire from the “Rag Business.”

In 1934 I married Evelyn Feakes of Newton, Massachusetts.
Ever since, we have had an especially happy and full life together.
We have two children — a son Dick, who graduated from Mid-
dlesex in Concord, Massachusetts, in 1953, and who is currently a
freshman in Stanford University and a member of the NROTC,
and our daughter Betsy is a junior at the Spence School in New

York, from which she also hopes to be accepted at Stanford in
another year.

JOHN REGINALD BIRD

HOME appress; “Fourstairs,” RFD. 1, Vienna, Va.

OFFicE apprEss: Research and Development Division, Office of Chief of
Ordnance, Washington, D.C.

Born: June 21, 1906, Hingham, Mass. Parents: Reginald W. Bird, Violet
Dean Gooderham.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: $.B., 1929,

MagrieD: Mary Emery, Oct. 29, 1940, Southboro, Mass, cHitpren: Natalie
Dean, Aug. 8, 1941; William Emery, July 13, 1944; James Bowditch,
April 29, 1948.

occupation: Equipment specialist, Research and Development. Division,
Office of Chief of Ordnance.

[ 82 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Post Products, Inc., Auburndale, Mass., 1948-
51, Plastolith Company, Boston, 1938-41; treasurer, Drumex, Inc., Bos-
ton, 1947-48, Power Research Corporation, Boston, 1934-41; director,
The Flntkote Company, New York, 1936-41; consultant, equipment
specialist, Army Ordnance, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

AFTER graduation I joined first the Byrd Antarctic Expedition
in the Antarctic. The following winter I entered the Business
School, stayed a year, and then joined Bob Leeson, °29, as an
apprentice in Universal Winding Company, Providence. In 1934
I started a small experimental machinery company developing
equipment for internal combustion engines, I served as fire arms
editor of The Sportsman magazine from 1932 to 1935, as vice-
president of the Plastolith Company (1938-1941), and as director
of the Flintkote Company (1936-1941).

In 1940 I married Mary Emery and we have three dandy kids.
I received greetings from the President in 1941 and served as a
second lieutenant, later lieutenant colonel, until the spring of 1946,
most of the time as chief, Special Weapons Branch, in the Re-
search and Development Division of Ordnance. I received the
Legion of Merit.

With Bill Clark, ’23, and several others, I organized Drumex,
Inc., when the war was over. We constructed a plant in Houston,
Texas. I sold my interest in the company in 1948. I joined Jack
Post, ’30, and Bill Clark in Post Products, Inc., now located in
Auburndale, Massachusetts, manufacturers’ agents, distributors,
and contractors in the field of interesting modern construction
material and engineering systems. In 1951, after the start of the
Korean conflict, I was again tagged by the Army. I received
active duty orders to report to R. and D. Division of Ordnance in
Washington. I agreed to take a leave of absence from business
to go to Washington as civilian consultant rather than in uniform
and am still down there helping to concoct new and diabolical
ways to kill people.

I am living with the family in an old house in the country with
all the charm and inconvenience thereof, and we all love the
rural life. Plans for the future are indefinite.

[ 83]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ROBERT OGDEN BISHOP

HOME appress: Armonk Road, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 63 Wall St, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Francis Cunningham
Bishop, ‘94, Sophia Gertrude Pell.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

margiep: Lillian Gertrude Surles, April 24, 1943, Petersburgh, Va. cHiL-
DREN: Melissa Pell, March 16, 1949; Susan Duane, April 2, 1952.

occupation: Member New York Stock Exchange, associate broker, De-
Coppet & Doremus.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. Mark’s Church, Mt. Kisco, trustee, Cisqua
School, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

MEMBER OF; Racquet & Tennis Club, New York.

ON graduating from College I entered Columbia Law School
where I spent two interesting but not very happy years. In 1932
I became employed by the Manufacturers Trust Company, for
which institution I worked as an employee in the Trust Depart-
ment and then in the promotional end for about six years. In 1938
I became a partner in the old and established firm of DeHaven &
Townsend. In June, 1939, sponsored by our classmate, Arthur
McGeoch, I became a member of the New York Stock Exchange
and associated with the firm of DeCoppet & Doremus where,
with the exception of five war years, I have happily been ever
since,

When I was on active duty in Petersburgh, Virginia, in 1943 I
met my wife, who was an anesthetist in a hospital, and we were
married on April 24 of that year. Our first child did not arrive
until March, 1949, and our second in April, 1952. While many of
my classmates are worried about their grandchildren, I am deeply
absorbed in bringing up my two very young little girls. Their
happiness and well-being are by far the most important things in
our lives.

In 1941 1 became a member of the First Troup, Philadelphia
City Cavalry, which was federalized on February 15, 1941. After
training at Indiantown Gap, we went on southern maneuvers and
pretty well proved to the powers that were that horse cavalry
was a bit inadequate to cope with tanks, etc. In 1942 1 was sent
to Quartermaster Officer Candidate School, where after being

commissioned, I taught for a while and then in 1943 was sent over-

[84]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

seas to the European Theatre. I spent two years as assistant base
quartermaster in Iceland. I returned home in command of a serv-
ice company in September, 1945; and was finally discharged as
captain, Quartermaster Corps, in January, 1946.

I have tried to take an active interest in my church at home.
My life has been centered around my family and the preservation
and maintenance of a happy family atmosphere. I have always
_been a Republican and am looking to the future with faith in the

destiny of our democracy and the hope of peace in the world.

WILBERT ARTHUR BISHOP, JR.

HOME apprEss: 18 Washington Sq., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 Central Ave., Lynn, Mass.

BoRN: May 27, 1906, Rowley, Mass. PARENTS: Wilbert Arthur Bishop, ’os,
Lillian Cook.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.), 1933.

marRiED: Lennox Charlotte Fraser, May 25, 1945, Cincinnati, Ohio.

occupation: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Oxford Club, Lynn; Putnam’s Pups (literary club), Salem;
Lynn and Massachusetts Bar Associations.

ALAN RUSSELL BLACKBURN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS; 323 Saddler Rd., Bay Village, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 442 The Arcade, Cleveland, Ohio,

BoRN: Aug. 13, 1907, San Francisco, Calif. PARENTS: Alan Russell Black-
burn, Josephine Eckler.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Janette Emerson, Nov. 26, 1937, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, branch manager, Midwest representative, Tam-
blyn & Brown, Inc., public relations and fund raising.

OFFICE HELD: Trustee, Bay Methodist Church.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cleveland; Mid-Day Club; Churchmen’s
League; Cleveland Chamber of Commerce.

PuBLications: “The Army Blind in the United States” (Chapter 18), Blind-
ness, edited by Zahl, Princeton University Press, 1950; Vocational Train-
ing and Guidance Program (for the blind), Edwin Gould Printery,
New York, 1943.

[85 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ON the day of graduation in 1929, as I was packing my stuff into
my car, my former headmaster appeared and offered me a job as
executive secretary of Hackley’s campaign for new buildings.
This launched me on a career of public relations and fund raising
which has remained the core of my vocational life up to now, and
undoubtedly will beyond. For me the period right after college
was hectic with business. I operated my own letter shop while
keeping up the Hackley job, and did some ghost writing on mod-
erm architecture — all in the atmosphere of New York City of
the late twenties and early thirties. As the depression deepened,
I faced the choice of carrying on the letter business or taking an
attractive offer as executive director of the Museum of Modern
Art. I chose the latter and spent three years in this job, a fascinat-
ing and satisfying one that appealed to my interest in art — a life-
long (so far) hobby.

Following the museum, I travelled for several years to satisfy a
wanderlust and interest in seeing people and places. I met my
wife-to-be in 1935 in the Western Reserve town of New London,
Ohio, and married her in 1937. We lived in the middle of Man-
hattan for several years, then in Scarsdale, New York. During this
time I worked for the Lighthouse for the Blind (director of social
welfare) and the New York Institute for the Blind (research and
public relations). During this period my wife and I were mem-
bers of Dr. Ralph Sockman’s Christ Church (Methodist). Under
his inspiration, I experienced a reawakening of things cultural
which I have pursued ever since with great pleasure.

War II placed me as director of training at the U.S. Army’s Old
Farms Convalescent Hospital (special) as captain in the Medical
Corps; there my wife and I were privileged to spend three and a
half years. This was a tremendous experience, not only for my
wife and me, but for everyone who lived those war years in close
daily contact with the men who helped fight the war and then
faced and won another fight to conquer their war-caused blind-
ness. Following the war I joined the firm of Tamblyn & Brown,
Inc., public relations and fund raising consultants, and now man-
age their Cleveland office. My wife and I live in one of Cleve-

land’s western suburbs by the shore of Lake Erie in a home par-
tially surrounded by a small wood,

If being happy is the point of living, we're living. My job is
[ 86 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

full of variety and gives a good deal of opportunity for creative
activity. Since we are both Republicans and live in the heart of
industrial America, we have a sense of prosperity and well-being
in a sound political environment. We have ample chance to en-
joy the arts without the floss of New York, its congestion, ‘and
estrangement from the grass roots. The dreams of youth have
not lost their gleam, but life is mellow, practical, enjoyable. We
are not so foolish as to think the Bomb could not end all this, but
in the meantime each living hour is to be savored.

HARRY ANDREW BLACKMUN

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Skyline Drive, Sunny Slopes, Route 2, Rochester, Minn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.
BORN: Nov. 12, 1908, Nashville, Ill. parents: Corwin Manning Blackmun,
Theo Huegely Reuter.
PREPARED AT: Mechanic Arts High School, St. Paul, Minn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1929; LLB.
1932.
marrieD: Dorothy E. Clark, June 21, 1941, St. Paul, Minn. CHILDREN: Nancy
Clark, July 8, 1943; Sally Ann, July 7, 1947; Susan Manning, July 1,
1949.
occuPaTION: Member of Section of Administration and Counsel, Mayo
Clinic. "
OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, member Board of Members, Mayo Asso-
ciation, since 1953; director, Rochester Airport Company, since 1952,
_ Rotary Club of Rochester, 1953-54; past president, Harvard Club of
Minnesota; past chairman, Administrative Law Section, Hennepin
County (Minn.) Bar Association; instructor, member corporation, St.
Paul (Minn.) College of Law, 1935-41; instructor in wills and adminis-
tration, Law School, University of Minnesota, 1948-49. _
MEMBER OF: Minneapolis Club; University Club, Rochester, Minn.; Phi
Beta Kappa; Lambda Chi Alpha; American Bar Association; Minnesota
State Bar Association; Olmsted County (Minn,.) and Third Judicial
District (Minn.) Bar Associations; Rochester Art Center; Symphony
at Rochester, Inc.
PUBLICATIONS: “The Marital Deduction and Its Use in Minnesota,” Afinne-
sota Law Review, December, 1951; “The Physician and His Estate,”
Minnesota Medicine (in press).

FROM a professional point of view, the most interesting thing
that has happened to me is my metamorphosis from pressure law-

[ 87 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

practice to total immersion in the problems of the medical pro-

fession.

After graduating from Law School, I was fortunate enough to
have an excellent apprenticeship period as clerk to the Honorable
John B. Sanborn, Judge of the United States Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit. In January, 1934, I began my association
with the large law office (by Midwestern standards) in Minne-
apolis, now known as Dorsey, Colman, Barker, Scott & Barber.
I remained there until late 1950, specializing initially in tax law
and subsequently, as a partner, assuming responsibility for those
phases of the firm’s practice dealing with wills and administration,
trusts, probate and estate planning. That period was a very busy
one, and I enjoyed both the satisfaction of modest success in that
field and the worries always attendant upon client care. |

In late 1950, I succumbed to the blandishments of another pro-
fession and, after a bit of a struggle, deserted the pure practice of
law and my partners (who, incidentally, still think I am crazy)
to go to the Mayo Clinic at Rochester, Minnesota, as one of its
administrative officers. To one who has been used to pure legal
practice, this association with the medical profession generally
and several hundred physicians in particular has been a refreshing
and, on occasion, an amazing and sometimes frustrating experi-

ence. Perhaps I have always had a soft spot for medicine as well
as for law or perhaps I still have some elements of idealism, but
there has been satisfaction and reward in the association with an
institution which is fundamentally eleemosynary in character and
where one’s contacts with people of all kinds are apparently un-
limited. The medical profession has its problems, the like of which
I have never before appreciated, and the present time is an inter-
esting one in which to work closely with it. Being the sole lawyer
with several hundred M.D.’s is never a dull life.

Just before coming to Rochester, we were completing the
building of our home in Minneapolis so we had to do it all over
again. Constructing two homes in two years is a bit hard on the
nerves in these days of high prices.

My family is all women, and sometimes I feel as if I have more
than I know what to do with. I am, therefore, amused when I am
asked to contribute to the Class of 1929 Scholarship Fund for sons
of 1929. We have been able to travel around this country a bit,

[ 88 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spent a few weeks in Haiti in 1947, and do our best to get to
Florida early each spring. Minnesota, to me, has always been a
very interesting political state with leanings generally to the so-
called liberal side. I have never participated actively in this game
but have enjoyed silent participation in a small way.

JOHN JORDAN BLACKWELDER

HOME aporess: 131 Riverside Drive, New York 24, N. Y.

orricg aporess: 14 VV, goth Sc. New York, N. Y.

porn: April 18, 1905, Bedford, Pa. parents: Luther Daniel Blackwelder,
Margaret Shuck Jones.

prepareD at: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MaraieD: Mary Estelle Fonner, June 5, 1937, Mercersburg, Pa. cup: Alice
Margaret, June 9, 1944.

occupation: Special assistant, Field Program Department, National Associa-
tion of Manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: Ramakrishna-Vivekananda Center, New York.

PuBLicaTions: “Three Crossings of the Juniata,” “Heroes of the Forbes
Expedition.”

IT would be illuminating — though not flattering —to have a

statistical graph of what percentage of alumni “autobiographies,”

year in and year out, have alluded to English A. No other course,

compulsory or elective, in the history of American education has

been so immortalized. But since most of these allusions tend to

the facetious, sometimes the raucous, I should prefer to throw my

modest weight to tip the scales on the other side. |

For this purpose it would be better to have a list of best sellers

beneath my name — at the minimum, some weighty tome sagging

in the Widener stacks. I have neither. But my livelihood, such as

it has been, has been mostly from writing, such as it has been.

I would be a chump, indeed, not to raise my baritone in a paean

of indebtedness both to a course in English composition at Mer-

cersburg (Archibald Rutledge) and to English A (Messrs. Code

and Jacobs). Perhaps no fields of golden wheat sprang overnight

out of those clods of red-bound text and baby-blue composition

books. On the contrary, it was for teacher and student plowing

of the roughest sort. I suspect my own furrows were among the

Worst.

[ 89 ] .

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

Looking back over the fleeing decades, I suppose the other
course I got the most out of during my unfortunately cut-short
years as an undergraduate was another freshman hors d’oeuvre,
Philosophy A (after a football defeat Professor Ralph Barton
Perry read us consolations from Marcus Aurelius). It was not
that I was any great shakes that timid first year in “the attempt
through reason to arrive at ultimate reality” or “to see life steadily
and to see it whole” (Matthew Arnold via Philosophy A). But
we were in eye-drop fashion permitted to glimpse the great early
Western philosophers in capsule snapshots, and in later years I
projected this microfilming beyond “From Thales to Democritus.”

In Cambridge, too, I sat in on a few of Professor Hocking’s
lectures, and ] have never quite shaken off those cooling early
dips into the Fast. Successively I have swum the choppy channels

from Plato through Transcendentalism and various side-eddies
back to the early well-springs of Vedantism.

Thus while my debt to Harvard was short, measured 1 in semes-
ters, it “paid off” almost from the first “paid to the Bursar” checks
from my father. I never expect a hall to be dedicated to my
memory, a fellowship to bear my name, or a doorplate to com-
memorate my living in Persis Smith. Fruitage, such as it has been,
has been internal. And if I had the choice — you can smile — I
don’t —I, like many another, would not wish it otherwise.

What has happened to me in the intervening “vale of tears’’?
I suppose a few hundred thousand words of newspaper columns
long since gone up in incinerator smoke, a few booklets, a few
articles long since compressed with stout baling wire and sold for
waste, a few friends who will remember me, a few friends I shall
never forget, dollars spent, dollars saved, a wife and daughter, a
generation and a half older in years but unnoticeably so in wis-
dom. It’s the story, with suitable variations, which could pretty
well be multiplied by whatever number of the Class of 1929 is
still alive. A far cry below what we might have been, a far cry
above what we might have been.

And where am I now? In public relations work, writing letters,
or pamphlets, or copy for this or that, occasionally travelling out
over the country, the rest of the time living where I would rather
live than any other place in the U.S.A., in New York.

Hobbies? The simplest ones of walking and reading. Travel?

; [90 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In every state in the U.S.A. one time or another, a little in Canada
and Mexico, nowhere else. Pipedreams? A cottage by the ocean;
a few years in India, preferably employed (Friends, Romans, and
Classmates with connections in the Orient, lend me an ear). Aver-
sions? adding, multiplying, dividing long columns of figures with-
out an adding machine; travelling for the sake of travelling; spic-
span bars, modern and bnght with chrome, neon lights, and crim-
son-cushioned seats.

ALFRED ROBERT BLOCH

HOME appress: 421 Litchfield St., Torrington, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 204 Lafayette St., New York 12, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 19, 1898, Torrington, Conn, parents: Albert Bloch, Pauline
Freiheit.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

UNMARRIED.

OccuPATION: Machinist, Parkchester Machine Corporation.

SINCE leaving Harvard I have had a variety of jobs and experi-
ences, all without being married in the meantime. Through it
all I have been an industrial serf, reporting on time to the same
place of work and taking orders, doing work which won't add
up to any great wealth or fame. No, it is not boring. Here and
there I have picked up a few odd bits of information, a fund that
is pitifully small.

The year I left Cambridge saw me in California where life is
supposed to be better for Joe Yokel. After banging about the
southern part of the state on several run-of-the-mill jobs with
payless intervals liberally sprinkled between, it gradually became
apparent to me that the better life just naturally gravitates to
better people or those who pay their taxes. Better is something
you can wrangle with a long time. It must have been a field-day
for promoters and all others who are able to take advantage of
the presence of numbers. If this was true then, how much more
so today, what with the hordes that have poured into the state
since. Six months in that bunko steerers’ paradise were enough to
last me a lifetime. I have only the warmest feelings for that
pseudo-sovereign state. That is the extent of my travelling.

Cor]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I seem to have made a hobby of maintenance on my mother’s
large two-family house, for nearly every weekend I am doing
something on it. Since I do most of the actual work that comes
up, and since I am not an expert in any one of the crafts employed
in upkeep, it does take me longer to finish any given job. One
eventually learns that practically any new task needing to be done
on a house takes five to ten times longer to complete than one
thinks at first glance on reaching for a pipe wrench or whatever.
Or maybe I am a poor guesser. Along with house repairs I also
plant a backyard garden, which in addition to the pleasure it gives
in watching things grow, also yields some fruit, cut flowers, and
vegetables, the quality of which is commensurate with the limited
time a weekend gardener can spare.

Politically I hold with Ike and his team for whom I voted. A
man of his caliber has been long overdue in the White House. His
rude, flagrantly partisan predecessor was beyond his depth. If
only the evil that men do would depart from the scene with them!
In time the ever-growing number of property owners should bar
permanently the reappearance of the small bore machine product
from the highest office in the land. The labor leaders have as-
sumed a power that is being abused, It is time for a dehorning.
These presumptuous gimme pigs are taking credit for having cre-
ated the American workman's standard of living. They are in-
capable of realizing, as Mr. J. B. Conant pointed out, that any
betterment in human conditions comes only at its appointed time.
If Joe Yokel lives better, it is in spite of the labor gorillas who
have added plenty to our cost of living with their incessant post-
war strikes,

While the design for a perfect government may be at hand, the
motive power for the decent functioning of the plan is lacking;
that is, the character of the mass-man is not equal to the responsi-
bilities that a truly civilized state would impose. In the meantime
George will do it after a fashion. George knows that as long as
Joe Yokel continues to litter all public places and to stay away
from the polls in droves that he is in no danger of being replaced
by a decent man. I don’t have enough energy nor the fanatical
zeal to be an active crusader for the advancement of the causes

in which I am interested.

[92]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ERNEST RICHARD BLONDIS

HOME apoaEss: 1009 Porter St., Lemont, Ill.

OFFICE apoRrEss: 201 Stephen Sc. Lemont, Ill.

porn: March 9, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Harry Leonard Blondis,
Sara Resnick.

prepareD AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. miagna cum laude, 1929; M.D.
(Western Reserve Univ.), 1933.

margiep: Mary Claire Steffen, Oct. 14, 1935, Calonell, Idaho, cHitpren;
Mary Scephanie, Sept. 13, 1936; Sara Alice, Aug. 3, 1939; Ernest Rich-
ard, Jr. Nov. 5, 1940; Robert Henry, July 31, 1943; Thomas Anthony,
Aug. 9 1948; Margaret Anne, June 11, 1951.

occupation: Physician, surgeon.

orrices HELD: Member staff, Sc. Joseph's Hospital, Joliet, Silver Cross Hos-
pital, Joliet, director, Brad-Foote Gear Works, Inc., vice-president,
Lemont Realty Company; medical director, American Gear Company
and Globe Oil Company, Fournier Institute; medical adviser, chair-
man, Medical Advisory Committee, Selective Service, Board 112, Cook
County.

MEMBER OF: International College of Surgeons (associate), American Acad-
emy of General Practice, American Medical Association (fellow);
American Legion; qo-and-8 Society; Chicago Harvard Club; Glen
Eagles Country Club; Palos Trap and Gun Club; Chamber of Com-

merce, Lemont.

I HAVE practised medicine and surgery for twenty years in
Lemont, Illinois, except for two years I spent in the Medical
Corps, as a medical officer and captain, U.S. Army, during World
War II. Today I have a satisfactory practice, do a moderate
amount of general surgery, have attained an associate standing in
the International College of Surgeons, and also belong to the
American Academy of General Practice. I work at least twelve
hours a day, five days a week.

I have a lovely wife and six wonderful children, ranging from
a dignified miss of seventeen, in her last year of high school, to a
little minx of two and a half years. Being a doctor, I was able to
arrange to have three sons and three daughters. My oldest son is
thirteen years and won seven out of nine games he pitched for the
Little League Baseball Series this year. As a doctor, I don’t have
enough time to spend with my really outstanding family. I have
made some business investments, and if the Lord and the Repub-

[93]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

lican Party hold out, some day | may not have to work five days
a weck, twelve hours a day,

I still play the violin, but confess that I play golf more often.
While I was in the Army in World War II I became in a small
way a shooter, and now among other things shoot pheasants and
skeet. I intend to go on practising medicine and surgery indefi-
nitely, I hope; if my life has taught me any pearls of wisdom, it
is that if you work hard for many years, and give yourself one hun-
dred per cent to your work, you will go on doing it.

HARRY AARON BLOOM

HOME ADDRESS; 12 Kilsyth Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

orFice appress: Robert M. Bent Co., Inc., 330 Congress St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1908, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Jacob Morris Bloom, Frieda
Kravitz.

PREPARED AT: Boston English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928, DEGREE: PH.G. (Boston Coll. of Pharmacy),
1932.

MARRIED: Amy Burnes, June 3, 1934, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: James
Alan, June 3, 1936; Daniel Charles, Dec. 12, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Bloom, ’40.

occupation: Assistant treasurer, Robert M. Bent Company, Inc.; partner,
Chestnut Hill Finance Company, Brookline; partner, Bloom Waste
Company, Brookline.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Congress Associates, Boston; chairman, Troop Com-
mittee, Boy Scout Troop 33 Runkle School, Brookline; past President,
Brotherhood, Temple B'nai Moshe, Brighton, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Temple, Brotherhood, Temple Beth Zion, Brookline.

AFTER having successfully completed one year at M.I-T. I trans-
ferred to Harvard where I did likewise. It was during my second
year at the institution that my crystal ball revealed to me twenty-
five years in advance, before it became apparent to Samuel Gold-
wyn, that movies are better than ever. Thus I spent two or three
days a week seeing two movies a day. It was not long before I
was strongly urged by the dean to seek a change in my Alma
Mater. For a while my school was the College of Hard Knocks.
My school colors had changed from the warm crimson to the cold
black and blue. In 1932 I graduated from the Boston School of
Pharmacy, passed the state board examination, and bought the
Aberdeen Pharmacy in Brighton which I operated until 1945.

[94]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Opportunity knocked, and I changed to the wool business, en-
gaging in a small finance business in my spare time. Four of our
classmates are part of a nine-member social and finance club called
the Congress Associates, which meets monthly.

All I can say is that I am solidly behind President Pusey in his
stand against government interference in academic freedom. The
Board of Overseers and the student body are 99.9% true Amer-
icans and can easily overcome and weed out any pink that
threatens our American way of life.

ALLAN ELLIA BLOOMBERG

HOME AND OFFICE aporess: 4 E. 88th St. New York 28, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 7, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Senior 5. Bloomberg, Sadie
Klebansky.

PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: 8.8. cum laude, 1929; M.D., 1933.

MARRIED: Sue Herts, Nov. 23, 1939, New York, N. Y. cHiLpREN; Jon Jeremy,
Dee. 19, 1944; Paul Ellia, July 6, 1946; Seth Allan, July 26, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Wilfred Bloomberg, ’24, M.D. ‘28.

OCCUPATION; Surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American College of
Chest Physicians (fellow); National Tuberculosis Association; Amer-
ican Trudeau Society (fellow); New York Academy of Medicine
(fellow); New York Society for Thoracic Disease, American Medical
Association; American Board of Surgery; Board for Thoracic Surgery;
Phi Delta Epsilon Fraternity.

pusLicaTions: “Results of Revision Operation,” Quarterly Bulletin, Sea
View Hospital, 1939; “Primary Bronchogenic Leiomyoma,” Diseases of
the Chest, 1951; “Auricular Thrombosis, Mitral Commissurotomy &
Aortic Embolectomy,” Journal of the American Medical Association,
1952; “The Organization of a Cardiovascular Surgical Program,” 19533
“An Appraisal of the Surgical Treatment of Mitral Stenosis,” Aznals
of Surgery, 1953.

FOLLOWING Medical School I came to New York where I

spent three years on the general surgical service at French Hos-

pital, ending my term as house surgeon. This three-year stretch
was interrupted by two trips to the Scandinavian countries as
medical officer on a boat. Then followed two years as resident
in thoracic surgery at Sea View Hospital, also in New York.
Practising surgery in New York from February, 1938, to June,

[95]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

1943, Was an increasingly interesting and profitable experience.
During that period Sue and I were married. I joined the Army
in June, 1943, and was attached to Air Force hospital bases in
Atlantic City (New Jersey), Geneva (Nebraska), and Pueblo
(Colorado). During this phase of our Army experience Sue was
with me and we were able to travel extensively throughout the
country. ° |
In February, 1944, I was transferred to the gth Auxiliary Surgi-
cal Group in Atlanta. In April of that year we landed in England
and spent several months at the Shakespeare Theatre at Stratford-
on-Avon. My principal duty with the 4th Aux. was as chief of a
thoracic surgical unit. We toured all of Normandy, France,
Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, Austria, and Czechoslovakia
and J am familiar with every field in all those countries. Our team
was attached to platoons of field hospitals, obviously. I spent one
unhappy day in quest of an S.S. division before being recaptured.
I was on my way to Okinawa when V-J Day occurred and as our
ship had not passed through the canal we were rerouted to Boston.
I managed to get home well before most of the rest of my outfit.
We were credited with all the European battle ribbons, except
Southern France and Italy, and in addition I picked up a Bronze
Star and a Presidential Unit Citation. |
In order to make myself readily available for the expected birth

of our second son, I deferred entry into practice and instead
spent a profitable year with A. P. Stout at Presbyterian Hospital
in New York in surgical pathology. 1 came back again to the
private practice of surgery. There were some residential moves,
ultimately ending in Dobbs Ferry, New York. I have staff ap-
pointments and services at Sea View Hospital, Montefiore Hos-
pital, Beth Israel Hospital, Beth David Hospital, Flower-Fifth
Avenue Hospital, and City Hospital. I have been an instructor
in thoracic surgery at New York Medical College. My profes-
sional activities have been centered in thoracic and cardio-vascular
surgery. My research activities, which have become increasingly
important to me, are confined primarily to the cardio-vascular
surgical field. My interests, outside of family and work, are

bridge, dancing, people, an occasional round of golf, and growing |
miniature trees.

[96]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID BLUE

HOME ADDRESS: 276 S. Stanwood Rd., Columbus 9, Ohio.

BorN: Dec. 11, 1908, Cincinnati, Ohio, PARENTs: William Blusinsky, Pearl
Glaser.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Magda Blue. cHILpreN: Peter, 1942; Amy, 1943; Vida, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Mercantile Business.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

STEWART BOAL

HOME ADDRESS: 701 Sheridan Rd., Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 E. Kinzie St., Chicago 11, Ill.

- BorN: Feb. 21, 1908, Winnetka, Ill. parents: Ayres Boal, ’oo, Lesley Stew-
art Johnson.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Iil.; Ecole
Nouvelle, Lausanne, Switzerland. ;

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1929(30).

MARRIED: Susan Rankin Ballard, April 20, 1938, Winnetka, Il. cHupren:
Stewart, Jr., 1942; Ellis Ballard, 1944; Nina Duryee, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Boal, ’31.

occuPATION: President and director, Randolph Laboratories, Inc., manu-
facturers of portable carbone dioxide and other fire fighting equipment.

OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Committee, director, Hadley School for
the Blind, North Shore Chapter of United World Federalists, Planned
Parenthood Association of Chicago, secretary, director, Longmeadow
Hunt Club; director, Snow Chase Club, Middlefork Club; Republican
precinct captain, rith District of Winnetka.

MEMBER OF: Saddle and Cycle Club; University Club of Chicago; Harvard
Club of New York; Longmeadow Hunt Club; Snow Chase Club;
Middlefork Club; Association of Compressed Gas Manufacturers; Metal-
lurgical Society of Chicago.

VERY pleasant Episcopalian progressive Republican life: happy
family, and congenial business built on the theory of individual
enterprise and the reasonable rights of labor.

+ HENRY ADOLPH BOECKELER

BORN: Dec. 21, 1907, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Henry Adolph Boeckeler,
Elizabeth Clark. .
PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville High School.

[97 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928,
MARRIED: Mary K. Hyde. cuttp: Abby A. 1946.
pie: Sept. 6, 1953, Tucson, Ariz.

IN 1939 Boeckeler was engaged in the investment business in
Tucson, Arizona. In 1946 he reported that he was active during
World War I in manufacturing aircraft and radar parts. He was
associated with the Boeckeler Instrument Company in Tucson,
where he was a member of the Old Pueblo Club.

RICHARD BOONISAR

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Elmwood Rd. Wellesley 81, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Court St. Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 27, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George Boonisar, Sadie
Khoury.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MarriED: Barbara Manson, June 16, 1937, West Medford, Mass, CHILDREN:
Richard M., March 13, 1939; Philip L., March 15, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to the president, treasurer, Sheraton Corporation of
America (hotel chain).

MEMBER OF: National Association of Security Dealers.

THE more I think about the past twenty-five years, the more I
realize how good life has been to me and how thankful I should
be for my blessings. My first good break was somehow getting
admitted to Harvard with a scholarship. Even though I was never
financially able to live at the College or to participate much in
College social life, getting a degree was an important milestone.

I got a job after graduation as a statistician with a large invest-
ment banking house. During the next five years I changed jobs
three times as the financial world and its values crashed all around
me, Fortunately I was able to acquire a general and wide experi-
ence in finance and make many personal contacts. By nature I
am independent and this experience gave me enough self-confi-
dence to feel that I could always make a living on my own in
finance. During this period 1 became convinced that there was a
direct relationship between making or having a lot of money and
happiness, and 1 am even more convinced of this fact today.

The second good break and the happiest event in my life was
getting married in 1937 to Barbara Manson, whom I first met at an

[98]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

office ski party in 1932. We have two fine boys, ages eight and
fifteen, and life together has been happy and varied. Our needs
are simple and we try not to succumb to the frustrations of “keep-
ing up with the Joneses.” We are all so derned healthy that I have
never been able to find enough medical deductions on my income
tax to cover the five per cent limitation, thank heavens.

Early in 1942 I was commissioned a first lieutenant in the U.S.
Air Force and spent four years in the service, overseas as an in-
telligence officer and doing procurement work in the United
States. I was released in 1946 as a major in the Air Force Reserves.
I would not have missed this war experience. It gave us all a
chance to broaden our experience and to meet new friends. In
1946 I organized my own securities business and was making good
progress when again I was recalled involuntarily to active duty
in 1951 with the Air Force as a staff procurement officer and re-
leased in January, 1953, after twenty-one months of service. My
business had naturally suffered as a result of this interruption, so
I accepted a position as assistant to the treasurer of Sheraton Cor-
poration, the hotel chain with whom I hope to stay for a while.
We are all looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion!

ALBERT WASHINGTON BOOTH

HOME appRESs: 162 Bryant Ave., Springfield, N. J.

OFFICE appREss: Pingry School, Parker Road, Elizabeth, N. J.

BORN: Feb. 20, 1905, Dover, N. H. parents: Oswald Booth, Jane Elizabeth
Brocklehurst.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MaRRIED: Laura A. Aman, Dec. 23, 1938, Maplewood, N. J. curren:
Jane C., 1940; Barbara P., 1942; Merriam A., 1945.

occupation: Instructor in English and Latin.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

EDWIN CARROLL BOOTH

HOME ADDRESS: 71 Jefferson Ave., Short Hills, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 161 E. 42nd St., New York, N. Y,

BORN: May 28, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Edwin Lester Booth, Mar-
garet Josephine Smith.

[99]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: SB. 1929.

marrigD: Barbara Beresford, May 31, 1935, Short Hills, N. J. cHmpren:
Barbara Gail, Nov. 16, 1936; Joan Hawthorne, Jan. 14, 1939.

occupation: Vice-president, North American Reinsurance Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Short Hills Club; Uptown Club, New York.

I STARTED out in 1929 without a nickel and now, thanks to my
Harvard education, I have a nickel. I am still working for the
same crowd — the wife and the kids.

ROBERT HOWE BOOTH

HOME apprEss: Old Concord Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

porn: April 16, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Stone Booth,
Leonora Howe.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.B.A.. 1931,

marriep: Alice Vose Burrage, June 3, 1937, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN: Anne,

_ April 11, 19423 Jennifer, April 29, 1943; William N. March 29, 1949.
occuPATION: Financial adviser, trustee, Hale & Dorr, law partnership.

OFFICES HELD: Financial analyst, Gregg Storer & Company, Boston, 1933-373
assistant financial editor, columnist, Boston Evening Transcript, 1937-41;
financial consultant, associate, William H. Coburn & Company, Boston,
1941-52; associate member, Hale & Dorr, since 1952; budget commis-
sioner, Peterborough, N. H., 1933-49; member Adams Playground Com-
mittee, Peterborough, 1933-43; member Republican Town Committee,
Peterborough, 1935-37; representative, Town Committee, Lincoln, 1937-
4o; town chairman, 1941-42, district chairman, 1942-45, regional chair-
man, 1945-47, Massachusetts State Republican Finance Committee;
civil defense director, Lincoln, 1950-52, deputy chief, Auxiliary Police,
1942-46, member Special Police, since 1942; district chairman, Com-
munity Fund, 1943-45; chairman, American Cancer Society, Lincoln,
1945-50; director, Brooks School of Concord, 1945-31, Dover Green
Water Company, 1952; president, Concord River Improvement Associa-
tion; assistant treasurer, Old South Association.

MEMBER OF: Aztec Society (honorary military).

PuBLicaTIONs: Daily financial column, Boston Evening Transcript, about
two years.

ALL I want is to hear from a classmate with a coupla-hundred

grand to blow who will help me exploit my gas mine in Texas.

Irs a fifty-fifry split on the profits. On this basis he'll shortly
have a tax-free income of $246,375.11, and a more or less modest

{ 100 ]

- 2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and useless taxable balance of $666,125 in addition for spending
money. Step up boys, it’s rare — and no women. Alongside of
this, my varied personal experiences these last many years pale to
insignificance. Politically I can’t say I go for the egg-head’s
philosophy that it is harmless to tolerate a few Reds and fellow-
travellers. The way Fair Harvard (she looks a bit sun-burned to
me) has failed to look after her own Red mess makes me think
all too many of us have lost sight of the pervasive cancer spawned
and fostered by the New Deal delusion. The ladies tell me there
is no such thing as being a little bit pregnant. ,

As for the home life; we are slaves to “simple” country living —
the steers are in the garden, the hens won't lay, etc. — one crisis
after another. Land is poor. I’m too busy to rest and cogitate
and only my friends seem to find time to have the fun of fishing
in my ponds. Regularly we feed seven mouths and frequently
their friends. You should see the drink bill. Cassius has that lean
- and hungry look.

RICHARD BORWICK )

‘HOME appRESS: 5208 Chandler St., Bethesda, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS; 1000 Vermont Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BoRN: Aug. 15, 1908, Kovno, Russia, PARENTS: Abram Solomon Borwick,
Phyllis Gould.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

MarRiED: Lilian Fine, June 22, 1938, New York, N. Y. cup: Anthony
Stephen, Oct. 22, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Public relations, partner, A. G. Newmyer & Associates.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Sullivan County (N. Y.) Broadcasting Corporation;
member, Longfellow School Executive Committee.

MEMBER OF: National Press Club, Washington; Harvard Club of Wash-
ington,

AS an ex-reporter, this ought to be easy. But it isn’t. Firstly,

the Report Committee did not fix an absolute deadline, without

which professional work habits of a lifetime rebel. Secondly, we

were given too much time to reflect. I reflected and reflection

soon turned to introspection — scarcely an appropriate mood for

Harvard anniversary festivities. Thirdly, I have not reached the

[ ror ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

age where my reminiscences interest me. Fourthly, my activities
are insufficiently conspicuous or dramatic to claim classmates’
attention.

’ Nonetheless, one should occasionally take time to sum up one’s
life. For the first fifteen years after graduation, I engaged in
nearly every phase of newspaper and magazine publishing in
New York, Philadelphia, and Washington. Perhaps without
profit to the reader, I was at various times a columnist, Washing-
ton reporter, business and trade writer, financial editor and at
other times advertising solicitor, advertising copywriter, sales pro-
motion and publicity director.

More than ten years ago, I entered the public relations field in
Washington, where the mutations of politics intrude themselves
non-gently in people’s attitudes toward business, I am now ac-
count executive on Standard Oil Company and General Foods.
It has been said that public relations is one of the most challenging
tasks facing statesmen and chorus girls, politicians and business -
managements, saints and labor leaders. (Adv.) But the art is still
in its infancy. It still needs a philosophy, a methodology, a more
comprehensive psychological and scientific base. Those of us in
this craft seldom succeed in illuminating the obscure; occasionally
we elucidate the obvious; most often we obscure the lucid.

Maybe a new generation of Harvard graduates possessing im-
mense knowledge of economics and politics as well as gifts of
sensitivity to art, music, literature, philosophical power, and sci-
entific intuition will eventually do a better job of transmitting
ideas, beliefs, and concepts to Americans and the rest of the world.

Politics: My sole effort in Big Time politics was during the
1952 campaign when I served a presidential aspirant as speech
writer, public relations, adviser, friend, and confidant — of course
pro bon publico and anonymously — with due regard to business
clients’ sensitivities. Can anyone use a presidential nomination
acceptance speech, which in view of extreme partisanship ex-

pected of a candidate may be just as timely in 1956 and 1960? I

also have a list of potential cabinet officers. This, however, may

need some revision. —

My contribution to the war effort was on my back in blood
donor centers, the Army being disinterested in my myopia, al-
though they did allow me to serve for one day, spent with not

[ 102 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

much damage to the enemy, in picking up cigarette butts around
the post.

Family and other miscellanea: A decade and a half ago, I mar-
ried the most charming girl I have met; Lilian is still the most
vivacious, gayest friend and companion who together with son
Tony induces a calm, suburban outlook. Travels: I went to_
Mexico in 1947 and 1951, and to Europe in 1953.

PETER JOHN WHITE BOVE

HOME AppREss: 52 Carolin Rd., Upper Montclair, N. J.
_ OFFICE ADDRESS: 540 Broad St., Newark, N. J. .
BORN: June 29, 1907, Cervinara, Italy. parents: John S. Bove, Josephine
White Miele. Fe

PREPARED AT: Schenectady High School, Schenectady, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MarRIED: Beryl Robinson Even, May 23, 1936, Montclair, N. J. CHILDREN:
Roger Even, May 24, 1938; Gertrude Maud, June 12, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Claude Jean Bove, 735.

occuPaTIoN: Head of sales training, New Jersey Bell Telephone Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Sales Executives Club of Northern New Jer-
sey; member Board of Trustees, Family and Children’s Society, Mont-
clair.

MEMBER OF: Newark Athletic Club; Harvard Club of New Jersey; Sales
Executives Club of Northern New Jersey; Lake Valhalla Club; Family
and Children’s Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to: Sales Management Magazine, Eastern Un-
derwriter, Industrial Distribution, and others.

AFTER graduation | joined the New Jersey Bell Telephone
Company, driven by a conviction that the telephone was here to
stay. Today I am more convinced than ever. Training salesmen
is my primary job. Whether the new salesmen sells teletype-
writers, switchboards, radio systems, or any of 4oo other items he
is subjected to intensive training over a period of several years
before he is regarded as proficient. It’s fascinating to watch a new
man develop from a homespun character to the finished product
that represents the Telephone Company in the business world.

My sales training activity, however, has been extended into
many segments of industry, ranging from abrasives and beauty
supplies to hack saws and real estate. I’m kept very busy in my
Spare time teaching sales courses to Chamber of Commerce gather-

[ 103 ]

psn TAO i eR yf ip lanl

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

BENJAMIN BOWERING, JR.

HOME apoREss: 65 Manhattan Ave. Tuckahoe 7, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 800, 80 Center St, New York 13, N. Y.

porN: Dec. 21, 1902, Glace Bay, N.S. Canada. parents: Henry J. Bower-
ing, Julia French.

PREPARED AT: Nfethodist College, St. John’s, Newfoundland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. 1929; pIPL. (New York School of
Social Work), 1937.

marriep: Margaret A. Ralph, July 30, 1933, Phoenicia, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Jean L., March 16, 1939; Prudence A., Sept. 4, 1942.

occupaTION: Administrative assistant to district director, New York District
Office, New York State Division of Parole.

MY two years at Harvard were spent mostly in philosophy and
psychology classes, as I had intended to enter the ministry. Be- |
fore the 1929 Commencement, having finished classes in the fall
of 1928, I went to work for the YMCA in Boston, while trying
to decide whether to enter theological school or strike out in an-
other field. This was followed by two excursions into selling
jobs, and finally on the advice of a social worker, I came to New
York to the New York School of Social Work to study for work
in that field. This was in the summer of 1930. After completing
the two-year course in the spring of 1932 and becoming a United
States citizen, I broke into work with juvenile delinquents
through the New York State Training School for Boys. It was
an easy step in 1934 to the State Division of Parole which works
with adults who have served reformatory or prison sentences. I
am still there. This work is in the Classified Civil Service of New
York State with all the benefits and drawbacks of this type of em-
ployment.

Looking back, in social thinking I have been influenced by
such men as Dr. Richard Cabot, theologically by Kirsopp Lake,
philosophically by Alfred Whitehead and others. Such orienta-
tion has its limitations on occasion, unless one finds others speak-
ing the same language. Sporadic poor health, which delayed my
graduation from Harvard, has from time to time limited other
activities and perhaps has played a part in restricting any desire
to move around in my field of work.

As might be expected, I married a social worker, a Barnard Col-
lege graduate to whom I owe much, particularly to her liberal

[ 106 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spirit. We were able to make a vacation trip to France and Eng-
land in 1935, and again gave some time to observation of social
and penal institutions of both countries. Travel in the United
States which our children need, has been offset by the attraction
of a summer cottage on Lake Ontario, in the section known as
“Fisherman’s Paradise.” Despite having been raised where “men
go down to the sea, in ships,” I prefer fresh water for swimming.

We participate in community activities, and are members of the
local community church (Methodist). The adult groups of the
church organized for study of present-day problems offer a great
appeal. We collect for “worthy” causes, participate in and hold
office in the P.T.A., the Girl Scouts, etc.

I have supported national and state organizations concerned
with the improvement of the Merit (Civil Service) System and
the work of probation and parole. However, with two girls ap-
proaching college age, colleges for women tend to loom larger
and larger on the horizon. Politically, while I am a nominal
Democrat, the rules of my employment curtail such things as
office-holding in political organizations for obvious reasons. My
British heritage tends to give me patience with aspects of the Wel-
fare State and some modified form of socialist probably is my
true designation. —

JUSTIN DEWITT BOWERSOCK, Il

HOME ADpRESS: 524 Herbert Springs Rd., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ApprEss: Union Trust Co., 15th and H Streets, Washington 5, D. C.

BORN: Dec. 27, 1907, Kansas City, Mo. Parents: Justin Dewitt Bowersock,
’92, LLB., ’96, Frances Matteson.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Betty Bruce VanAntwerp, Oct. 25, 1930, Louisville, Ky. CHILDREN:
Justin Dewitt, qth, March 27, 1933 (died 1950); Chiles VanAntwerp,
June 24, 1937; Caroline and Frances (twins), March 16, 1943.

occuraTion: Commercial banking, executive vice-president, director, mem-
ber Executive Committee, Union Trust Company of the District of
Columbia.

MEMBER OF; Chevy Chase Club; Metropolitan Club, Washington, D. C.;
Army and Navy Club, Washington, D, C.; Kansas City Country Club;
River Club, Kansas City; Conquistadores del Cielo.

PUBLICATIONS: Few papers on banking.

[ 107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

THE commercial banking business in 1929 held out a promise
which was not fulfilled by the events of 1933. The bank in which
I was taking my training closed in the moratorium of 1933 and
did not reopen till late the same year. This second start was more
successful and I plodded my way through the various junior posi-
tions, finally achieving a vice-presidency in 1946. There was a
short interruption in 1944-45-46, during which period I con-
tributed to the Navy’s problem of supplying shore-based forces
on Okinawa and, like so many of my then associates, contributed
almost nothing to the war effort itself.

In any event, I returned to my home, Kansas City, Missouri,
and rejoined the bank. By late 1948 I realized that further prog-
ress there, if in fact there was any at all in store, involved more
patience than my pocketbook and growing family could afford.
Therefore, in the spring of 1949, I accepted my present job here
in the District of Columbia, with to date nothing but the happiest
consequences,

Except for an interest in tennis, which has dwindled as my
waistline has increased, my chief hobby is boating. Since our
yard runs down to the shore of the Potomac, I am able to keep
our small cruiser at our own dock. And to you who sneer at
stinkpots and remain loyal only to the sail let me add that I agree,
but that the Potomac River is adapted exclusively to power boats
—having strong tides, no wind, an uncertain depth, and oc-
casionally a slight odor. And lest this sketch drag on until it has
acquired some of the same odor, I shall close and let it stand as is.

ALFRED LESTER BOWES

HOME AppRESS: 640 Riverside Drive, Fairfield, Conn.

orFice appress; McKinley School, Knapps Highway, Bridgeport 5, Conn,

BORN: Oct. 30, 1906, Somerville, Mass, parents: Frank Bowes, Mary Eliza-
beth King.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass. ;

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; AM. (Yale Univ.), 1948.

MARRIED: Irma Renee Bontempo, June 30, 1935, New York, N. Y. cui_pren:
Harold Frederick, June 19, 1937, Malcolm Edgar, Nov. 1, 1938; Alfred
Lester, Jr, May 10, 1940; Janet Elizabeth, Jan. 22, 1944.

occupation: Educational administration, principal, elementary school,

[ 108 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Connecticut Education Association; National Education Associa-
tion; Department of Elementary School Principals (N.E.A.).

PROFESSOR DEMOS should not have queried concerning the
comparative value of the pig contented in the trough and Soc-
rates drinking the hemlock. Attempted solution of this and simi-
lar issues got me down in our junior year. Recuperation was
sufficiently speedy to permit graduation with the Class, and I
settled down to the normal, commonplace life that Teddy Roose-
velt referred to when genius is not involved. Two and a half
years of security analysis in New York ended when I returned
to Harvard for graduate study in September, 1932. Writing
clients whether to buy, sell, or hold a stock or bond and answering
phone calls by persons seeking the fast dollar did not seem a
sound basis for permanent satisfaction; and hearing the social
gospel of John Haines Holmes, Dr. Fosdick, and Normon Thomas
convinced me that I was unlikely to repay my debt to society in
security analysis. Accordingly I again sought entrance into the
field of education — and soon acquired a different kind of debt.

Fifteen years of secondary English teaching were not unre-
warding, and now I find myself kept out of most mischicf by a
school of some 800 youngsters, ranging from kindergarten to
junior high school age. Anglo-Saxon spiked my A.M. at Harvard,
but Yale some years later accommodated in the field of educa-
tion. At reunion time I recall with pride the soul-searching, the
individualism, the inquiring mind that Harvard can foster in her
students. I trust that Harvard can continue uninterrupted the
leader in liberalism, the institution where no facts, no views —
fairly, adequately, sincerely, objectively presented — are alien to
curriculum.

Hobbies? Classical records, chess with my youngsters, camping
in the Maine backwoods. Perhaps my biggest diversion and thrill
came from working with Mal and Al in pitching, helping them
to become the top pitchers on their Little League teams. An ex-
tremely happy and fortunate home situation up to the present has
naturally centered most of my interests around the family. My
chief concern now is to provide something in the way of higher
education for my four kids.

Social convictions? Despite scientific and material progress and
despite twenty-five years of some 700 Harvard ’29-ers loose in the

[ 109 ]

oe cehaysiga sen ie CONES Aa

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929.

world, there is still, I note, quite a little ignorance and supersti-
tion, dishonesty, greed, and corruption, as well as anti-democratic
influence, in our land. Our civilization has taken a terrific and
pathetic beating since last we gathered in academic halls; here is
hoping that she will fare better during our next quarter-century.

ROBERT BONNER BOWLER

HOME AND OFFICE ADpRESS: Hillside Farms, Summer Street, Plymouth, Mass.

BORN: May 24, 1906, Denver, Colo. parents: Robert Bonner Bowler, ’o2,
Charlotte Everett Miller. °

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929(30).

marrigp: Winifred Eagleston, Jan. 3, 1930, Boston, Mass.; Anna Christina
Watson, Aug. 31, 1934, Providence, R. I. caupren: Jane, Feb. 25, 1936;
Robert Bonner, 3d, Sept. 12, 1939.

occupation: Dairy and poultry farmer; local representative, Eastern States
Farmers Exchange, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Plymouth School Committee, since 19525 member,
Plymouth Zoning Board of Appeals, 1951-52; member 1948-51, chair-
man, 1950-51, Plymouth Finance Committee; trustee, Plymouth County
Aid to Agriculture, since 1952; community chairman, Agriculture Con-
servation Program, 1952-54; vice-president, Massachusetts Selective

Breeding Association, 1949; local 4-H Dairy leader, since 1949; secre-
tary-treasurer, Eastern Massachusetts Ayrshire Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years of backward thinking is like taking a stone
wall apart stone by stone, Many satisfactory accomplishments
are found but much left undone and many stones you would like
to leave where they are — others you are glad to remove. '
- There were twelve years of working for several large business
firms (ten years for the B.B. Chemical Company, subsidiary of the
United Shoe Machinery Company) and living in the suburbs, for
Boston was fun and rewarding but hardly fulfilling. In 1941 we
literally took the bull by the horns and moved to Plymouth to my
wife’s old family homestead and farm. After purchasing a larger
farm nearby, we started in dairy and poultry operations on nearly
two hundred acres of land in various conditions of fertility.

Our purebred Ayrshire herd, established in 1942, has been an
increasing satisfaction and hobby, although the biggest responsi-
bility and the most difficult of our operations. However we have
had the real pleasure of seeing it grow to one of the highest-rated

[ 110}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

small herds in the country in 1953. The children have been very
active in 4-H dairy work since they were ten years old and have
increasingly benefited in having a real lesson in responsibility in
owning and showing their own string of cattle at the various fairs
in the state. They have usually brought home more than their
share of blue ribbons.

The development of the poultry plant has given us its share of
set-backs but nevertheless has grown to over four thousand birds
producing hatching eggs which are shipped all over the country.
We have been fortunate in slowly acquiring by long trial and er-
ror good loyal farm labor but the constant supervision they re-
quire and the thinking that must be done for them is a never-
ending trial. However, we have the real satisfaction of running ~
our own show and being our own bosses and when things go well
there is no greater happiness than producing and watching both
crops and animals grow and improve from year to year. Finan-
cially we never really appear to get ahead and our debts seem to
grow with the years but our deep freeze is always full of a great
variety and provides a high percentage of the food for all the
farm families. :

I am increasingly concerned with the fact that although the
average farmer’s efficiency has increased by leaps and bounds
since the war, at present he is still receiving less than fifty per-
cent of the consumer’s dollar and must work harder and longer
for it than anyone else involved. He takes the greatest risk in pro-
ducing our food and has the greatest investment in proportion to
his income. He has had to face increasing public disfavor be-
cause of the cost of the continually mounting surpluses, but in my
humble opinion the government support program has been much
more of a subsidy for labor and industry than for the farmer. All
-but the farmer add their normal and increasing share to the food
dollar. His increasing efficiency rarely increases his income for
any length of time, for competition soon forces the price down
and only the public benefits by lower food prices.

As local representative for the Eastern States Farmers’ Ex-
change (a farmers’ codperative), I have had a wonderful oppor-
tunity to work with and in a small way help the farmers in my
area. We handle a carload of feed every week plus fertilizer, seed,
spray, and dust, in fact a myriad of supplies for the farmer and

[ 111 ]

Map at REO NON,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

the country families. Our little warehouse is a very busy place
for all the family in spring and summer. In the life of the com-
munity, county, and state I have held various and sundry posi-
tions, many connected with my work, others of a political nature.
I am now a member of the School Committee, having been
elected in 1952.

All of these commitments keep one from ever being bored and,
although we are too tied down to travel or get away for more than
a day or so, it is always stimulating and the feeling of accomplish-
ment is great. My wife and children have been a constant inspira-
tion and have been my partners. In fact, without my wife’s help
this would never have been written. An occasional day on the
tractor, plowing or mowing or towing the hay baler, are still the
most renewing and satisfying experiences I can find.

CLARENCE WILLIAM BOYD

HOME appress: Old Connecticut Path, Cochituate, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Houlton High School, Houlton, Maine.

gorn: April 6, 1906, Dexter, Maine. parents: William Knon Boyd, Kath-
erine Elizabeth Canty.

PREPARED AT: N. H., Fay School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1920.

occupation: French teacher, Houlton High School.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

OLIVER WRYGHT BOYD

HOME apprEss: Dearborn, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: _KFEQ Inc., KFEQ Bldg, St. Joseph, Mo.

BORN: Jan, 18, 1907, Dearborn, Mo. parents: William Oliver Boyd, Wil-
muth Clouser.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, St. Joseph, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 8.8., 1929.

marriep: Marie Seckel, Jan. 18, 1932, Troy, Kansas. cuitp: Olivia Suzanne,
Jan. 23, 1947.

HaRvaRD BroTHER: William Clouser Boyd, ’25.

occuPaTioN: Radio and television engineer.

I HAVE been rather busy lately. After twenty-three years of
farming (which I still carry on in my spare time) I took a sudden

[112]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

interest in radio and television. I quickly found that this was too
deep a subject to be picked up casually, so I enrolled at Central
Technical Institute in Kansas City (one of the best in the busi-
ness) from which I graduated last November. I am now em-
ployed by KFEQ Inc., in St. Joseph, Missouri, as radio and tele-
vision engineer.

WARREN BALL BRADBURY

HOME apDpREss: Butternut Hollow Road, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 219 E, 44th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1906, North Bay, N. Y. PARENTS: Marion Earl Bradbury,
Anne Augusta Smith.

PREPARED AT: Trenton High School, Trenton, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-30, 1931-32.

MARRIED: Mary Elizabeth Brennemann, Oct. 18, 1930, Boston, Mass. cHiL-
DREN: Warren Ball, Jr., March 21, 1934; Mary Elizabeth, Oct. 20, 1935;
Deborah Anne, Nov. 23, 1936; John Daniels, April 9, 1941.

HARVARD SON: Warren Ball Bradbury, Jr., ’56.

OccUPATION: Partner, W. B. Bradbury Company, publishers representatives.

OFFICES HELD: Representative, Town Meeting, Greenwich, since 1952; chair-
man, Greenwich Academy Mid-Century Fund, 1950-53; trustee, Green-
wich Academy, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Beach Club, Greenwich.

HAVING received Goad No. 3, and feeling thoroughly
ashamed of myself, I take pen in hand. I have dictated thousands
of business letters, but this is much tougher, although all com-
munications from John Hutchinson say it isn’t.

Although still lacking a half-course for my degree at the Col-
lege where I had been floundering in the pre-medical field of
bio-chemistry, I was accepted at the Harvard Business School
and spent one year there. Just to show how much we had learned
at the Business School about evaluating general business conditions,
Madison Sayles, ’27, who was then an assistant dean at the Busi-
ness School, and I set up our own business in New York in the
depths of the depression, 1932. Maddy was still a bachelor, but
I had a wife, and the three of us starved for a year, but gradually
the food became more plentiful and of better quality, and we cut
our working day from twenty hours to a measly fourteen. We
have had our ups and downs since, but the food is still plentiful

[113]

mm ipa Penne Nn Rab Sei cael |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

even though the richness of the fare goes up and down still.
Things improved sufficiently after the first year so that Maddy
took unto himself a fine wife also. We have always regarded it
as a good omen that our wives’ birthdays fall on the same day.

We have lately started a publishing business called Bradbury,
Sayles, O’Neill Company, Inc., which is also keeping us busy.
We are publishing yearbooks for colleges and high schools, as
well as trying our hand at a few other titles. It has always seemed
to me that if one should get mixed up in scandal, it would look
better in the papers to be described as “playboy publisher” rather
than “playboy plumber.”

My family life has been all ups, no downs. I latched onto my
wife while still in the Business School and still feel this is the
most fortunate decision I have ever made. Of children, we have
enough. We had originally planned to have six, but after our last
arrived we decided that four was enough. Our elder son, Warren,
Jr., is a sophomore at Harvard. From him I gleaned the following
facts about Harvard College of today: (1) the Class of 1956 is
worked much harder than the Class of 1929; (2) Harvard foot-
ball since World War II has not been too good, but you should
see the freshman team coming up! (3) the “Gentleman’s C” has
now become the “Gentleman’s B—,” probably because of the
local draft boards breathing hotly down the boys’ necks; (4) Rad-
cliffe girls still don’t measure up.

Our elder daughter, Betsy, is a freshman at Wellesley. Debbie
will go to college next fall. Our youngest, Johnny, will go off to
prep school in two years and then on to Harvard, we hope.
They are all strong Harvard rooters in an area heavily populated
by Yalies. There were a number of times when I had a lot of ex-
plaining to do as to why Harvard football teams lost pretty con-
sistently, but their heads were held high after the sterling 1953
performance in the Yale Bowl.

Twenty years of commuting on the New Haven have kept me
pretty well informed as to current events. I read the New York
Times for forty-five minutes in the morning, and the World Tele-
gram for forty-five minutes in the evening. I am still a Black
Republican (not an isolationist) who feels that this country could
benefit a great deal by going back to first principles, Enough of

that! Having arrived at the ages when periodic check-ups are

[114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

considered wise, Maddy and I have finally found a gem of a doctor
who strongly urges all men in their late forties to have a couple
of cocktails before dinner for purposes of relaxing tension and
prolonging life. ( He did nor mention how strong these cocktails
should be.) By following this prescription conscientiously, I now
look forward to another forty-seven years. ‘The first forty-seven
years have been wonderful. Let us hope that the next forty-seven
are as good!

+ PAUL CONROY BRADLEY

BORN: Sept. 15, 1905, Jacksonville, Fla, parents: Isaac George Bradley,
Esther Marie Conroy.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

DIED: Dec. 29, 1930, New York, N. Y.

BRADLEY'’S brief business career was with the Treasury De-
partment of the American Telephone & Telegraph Company in
New York City.

WILLIS TUCKER BRADLEY

HOME ADpDRESS: 135 Ivy St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Massachusetts College of Pharmacy, Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: March 28, 1907, Albany, N. Y. Parents: Theodore James Bradley,
Anna Raymond Peck.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929} A.M. 1933.

MarRieD: Myra Fuller LeSourd, Sept. 18, 1937, South Bristol, Maine. cuit-
DREN: Georgia LeSourd, May 24, 1940; Joseph LeSourd, June 7, 1941;
Robert LeSourd, July 1, 1946; Anne LeSourd, March 24, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Bradley, °37.

OCCUPATION: Instructor in languages and history, Massachusetts College of
Pharmacy.

OFFICES HELD: Acting secretary, Committee on the Use of English by Har-
vard Students, 1937-38; secretary, 1937-38, chairman, 1938-39, Historical
Section, American Pharmaceutical Association; president, Brookline
Music Association, since 1939; faculty adviser, Alpha Chapter, Rho Pi
Phi Fraternity, since 1937.

MEMBER OF: Rho Chi Society; Harvard Faculty Club; Massachusetts Col-
lege of Pharmacy Alumni Association (honorary); Vermont Phar-
maceutical Association (honorary).

[3115]

micas ns chinatHOAN alin s

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
puBLicaTions: Textbook on pharmaceutical calculations; number of articles
on topics in history of medicine.

FROM 1929 to 1937 I taught English composition at Harvard.
Since 1932 I have enjoyed offering a variety of courses at the
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy — English grammar, history
of English literature, history of the medical sciences, public speak-
ing, French, scientific German, parliamentary procedure, phi-
losophy of science. For several years, beginning in my under-
graduate days, I edited The Apothecary, a New England trade
journal,

I have had many hobbies, favoring now one, now another:
music making (I used to conduct a community orchestra — its
big moment back in 1941 was a concert version of Boris Godou- .
nov, with the Cecilia Society chorus assisting, in Jordan Hall);
mathematical astronomy (in a small way) and cosmogony; the
Japanese language; Chinese cooking; devising jokes suitable for
a fraternity smoker; miscellaneous arts and crafts (I put 100,000
knots into a Senna-type rug and abandoned the project half fin-
ished); science fiction; growing weeds in a small vegetable garden
(all I have to do is weed out the vegetables). In fact, hobbies are
scattered all over my place. I collect them. John Hutchinson’s
engaging goads (I have a complete set, of course) have compelled
me to look for a pattern in all this. I can’t find one, and ’m going
to stop looking. I’m much more interested in looking for some-
thing I have often heard called “the pattern of world events.”
I can’t find that, either.

The goading, however, has led to a startling realization. I was
reared on the Arabian Nights, Wizard of Oz, G. A. Henty, the
Rover Boys and Tom Swift series, Sax Rohmer, and Edgar Rice
Burroughs — and I fully expected to follow a career packed with
fantastic adventures and heroic accomplishments. Nothing of the
sort happened. I traded them all gladly for a wonderful wife,
four wonderful children, and a wonderful home (the original
Cottage Farm, built by Amos Lawrence in 1850). We used
to travel quite a bit, but now we rarely stray far from our
comfortable twenty-one-room cottage. The nearest thing to the
kind of adventure I once dreamed of has been the amazing fun of
completing a faithful translation of what I believe to be Jules
Verne’s masterpiece: Journey to the Center of the Earth. My

[116]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sons could not stomach the free and silly adaptation made for
.British schoolboys nearly a hundred years ago. Now, alas, I must
return to my massive study of the development of Common
Parliamentary Law in America. I had put it temporarily in a dark
corner beside my oriental rug.

HENRY BOWEN BRAINERD

HOME apprEss: 10 Upland Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Instrumentation Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 8, 1907, Wellesley, Mass. parents: William Hungerford Brain-
erd, Mary Bowen,

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Nanette Tarbox Beals, Nov. 12, 1943, New York, N. Y. cHILpRen:
Timothy Dewey, Oct. 14, 1946; Richmond Tarbox, Nov, 18, 1947;
Jessie Bowen, July 13, 1952.

occuPATION: Military research in instrument engineering, D.LC. staff mem-
ber.

OFFICES HELD: Chief engineer, 1941-51, vice-president, 1951-53, executive
vice-president, since 1953, director, since 1941, New England Electric
Railway Historical Society; president, Boston Chapter, 1939-50, na-
tional president, 1941-43, chairman, Convention Committee, 1940, 1947,
director, since 1940, National Railway Historical Society; member Cor-
poration, Boston Floating Hospital, since 1941; member Town Meeting,
Town of Wellesley, since 1953; engineering consultant, Conference of
Railway Museum Sponsors, since 1953; member Executive Board, Wel-
lesley Hills Chapter, Unitarian Laymen’s League, since 1953; numerous
positions, fund campaigns, Red Cross and Community Fund, since 1946;
member Boston Section, Membership Committee, Institute of Radio En-
gineers, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: New England Electric Railway Historical Society; National
Railway Historical Society; Institute of Radio Engineers; Unitarian Lay-
men’s League.

PUBLICATIONS: The Effect of Component Uncertainties on System Output,
pamphlet, 1951; Probability for Instrument Engineering Applications,
pamphlet, and chapter in Instrument Engineering by Draper, McKay,
and Lees, 1952; various articles on electric railway history.

WHERE does one start writing about twenty-five years? Or
for that matter, what happened to them and where did they go?
The first half were engulfed in the depression. I had at least four
occupations — photography, architecture, selling, and inventing

[117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

—all of which taught me a lot, and none of which earned me a
living. Also I got around this country quite a bit; at one time I.

firured I had driven a car in thirty-four states besides Canada,
Mexico, and the District of Columbia.

So, along came the war, and with it I found my place in mili-
tary electronics engineering. 1 worked first for the government,
then for Western Electric, and the last year of the war at Har-
vard’s Electro-Acoustic Laboratory. The nearest I came to mili-
tary service was a few days as a patient in an Army hospital,
following a test explosion. Soon after the war I joined the staff
of the Instrumentation Laboratory at M.I-T. I am still there, still
doing engineering research on military projects; my work deals
with theory and includes a good deal of technical writing. By
now I have achieved that degree of success where two or three of
the lesser Who’s Whos have asked for my biography.

In 1943 in New York, I married a lively brunette named
Nanette Tarbox Beals. Since she had a far better apartment than
we could have found elsewhere, I moved in with her, quipping,
“She took my name; I took her address.” Also included was a
black cat named Toby; by now, at the age of thirteen, he has a
status resembling Nana’s in Peter Pan. My wife also revived my
taste for the theatre, which had lapsed during the depression.
When I came to Harvard a year later, we found an apartment in
the Back Bay. Then at my mother’s death a few months later, we
moved into the family place in Wellesley. We have found that
the extra space of a house of the early 1900’s comes in very handy
with a family of three children. 1 suppose it is only natural for
a father to boast of his offspring, particularly when he got a late
start and feels he has to catch up. Anyhow I will say that I’ve
never seen a youngster with as many smiles as our year-and-a-half-
old daughter, Jessie. Also—to get away from my own opinion
— many friends have commented on how good looking she is and
how really pretty she will grow up to be, Of the two boys, Tim,
seven, takes after me in appearance and tastes, but I think he is
somewhat brighter than I was. It’s too soon to tell if he has any
real talent, but he has a strong leaning toward both art and tech-
nology. Richie, six, is a brunette like his mother. He is above
average all around, has a personality that helps him to make
friends easily, and shows more than a little skill at clowning.

[118]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A couple of years ago we joined the Unitarian Church. In this
I feel I am not a convert; rather I have joined the fellowship of
those who share beliefs I have long held. In the matter of service
to the community, I have been active in both the Community
Fund and the Red Cross campaigns every year since the war. I
have gone into local politics to the extent of running twice for
Town Meeting member and getting elected on the second try. In
national politics I always felt that what Roosevelt did to dis-
courage men of initiative and ability helped to prolong the depres-
sion and outweighed everything constructive that he did for the
underprivileged. Since I was just too young to vote for Hoover
in 1928, the election of Eisenhower gave me my first experience
of supporting the winning side.

Another activity that has become 1 important to me is the history
of the trolley car. This was a casual hobby in my undergraduate
days; by now it is my principal avocation, and one that I consider
very much worthwhile. In this field I give an occasional lecture,
write a semi-occasional article, and devote as much time as pos-
sible to the involved and demanding affairs of the New England
Electric Railway Historical Society and its Seashore Electric
Railway, “the original museum of trolley cars,” at Kennebunk-
port, Maine. This museum is preserving over thirty trolley cars
of ages from 1879 to 1931 that formerly ran in nine states from
Maine to Colorado. There is a strong representation of recent
Harvard classes among its most active workers, many of them re-
cruited by a talk I gave a few years ago at the Cambridge Center
for Adult Education. We hope it will be no more than a couple
of years until we can offer a ride on one of the open trolleys that
used to take Harvard rooters to the Yale Bowl. Meanwhile, if
you feel like spending a weekend painting a car or laying track,
you will find yourself welcome at Kennebunkport.

HERMAN BRANDMILLER, it

HOME ADDRESS: 202 Sunset Hills Ave., S. W., Grand Rapids 4, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 300 Association of Commerce Bldg., Grand Rapids 2, Mich.

BORN: July 24, 1907, Youngstown, Ohio. parents: Herman Brandmiller, Jr.,
’02, A.M,, 03, LL.B. 05, Maude Ethel Miller.

PREPARED AT: South High School, Youngstown, Ohio,

[119]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.
marrigD: Elsie Annetta Parsons, Oct. 18, 1930, Belleville, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Daughter, 1946 (died 1946); Stanley Theodore, Feb. 14, 1944 (adopted);
Robert Charles, June 7, 1945 (adopted).
OCCUPATION: Scout executive, Grand Valley Council, Boy Scouts of America.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Group Work Section, Grand Rapids Council So-
cial Agencies, 1951-54, Standards Committee, Michigan Section, Amer-
ican Camping Association, 1952-53.
MEMBER OF: Lions Club; American Legion; American Camping Association.
AS we wrote for the Vicennial Report we have been in Boy
Scout Work since 1930. I served as field scout executive at
Youngstown, Ohio, from 1930 to 1933. In November, 1933, I
transferred to Sterling, Illinois, and then went to Rockford, Illi-
nois, in March, 1935, as assistant scout executive. In September,
1936, I was transferred to Danville, Illinois, as scout executive and
then in September, 1941, to Appleton, Wisconsin, also as scout ex-
ecutive. While in Appleton I was drafted and spent over two years
in the Air Force. I came within fifteen minutes of going overseas,
but it was discovered at the last minute that I was too old for
overseas service in that particular shipment, so I spent my entire |
period of military service in the United States. I served at Jeffer-
son Barracks, Missouri; San Antonio, Texas; Altus, Oklahoma;
Abilene, Texas; and Durham, North Carolina. I ended up as a
“buck sergeant” in Information and Education. Following my
discharge, 1 returned to Appleton, Wisconsin, where I again
served as scout executive. I was promoted to the executiveship of
the Grand Valley Council, Boy Scouts of America, at Grand
Rapids, Michigan, in January, 1949. I hope to stay here the rest
of my life.

I was married in the fall of 1930 to Elsie A. Parsons of Belle-
ville, Ohio. We had no children until the summer of 1946, only
to lose a baby daughter shortly after birth. Since then we have
adopted two boys.

One of my main hobbies has always been gardening, so when
the vacant lot next to our home in town was sold and we
no longer had a large garden space, we started looking for a new
place with adequate room for flowers and vegetables. We have
it! It is a sixty-five-acre farm five miles west of Grand Rapids.
Now there is plenty of room for flowers, shrubs, and vegetables,
plus everything else that goes with farming. We have thirty-five

[ 120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

acres in apples, five acres in peaches, and the rest in corn, oats,
wheat, and clover. In the past three years we have learned that
once the mortgage is paid a farmer can just a little more than
break even without resorting to government doles, subsidy pay-
ments, and handouts for good farming practices. My neighbors
say I’m crazy for not taking government payments for fertilizing,
liming, and mulching the orchard, but I agree with Secretary of
Agriculture Benson’s ideas for returning our nation’s economy to
a sound basis. Let the law of supply and demand take effect once
more. |

Two years ago during vacation time we remodelled a hay barn
into a refrigerated storage building, so I am now in the wholesale
apple business as a sideline. This week (February 7) we move
out the last of a 6,ooo-bushel apple crop. Now we have to start
all over again with tree pruning and dormant spraying, so there
is never a spare or dull moment when one has only the early
morning hours and weekends for the farm. Speaking of early
morning hours—my wife always wanted an asparagus patch,
now we have it, and from the end of April to the end of June
you'll find us picking from seventy to ninety pounds of asparagus
every morning about five o’clock. We keep a flock of 150 hens
and this year bought our baby chicks early in January to cash in
on the high summer egg prices. Each summer we have a couple
of pigs which we have butchered in December. You can’t beat
home-smoked hams and bacon. We have one oil well on the farm,
but don’t get the oil rights until the mortgage is paid. However,
we do have the gas from the well, which is a big item when it
comes to balancing the family budget.

I have been active in the Michigan section of the American
Camping Association and before we moved to the country served
as a camp visitor and consultant in western Michigan. Our Scout
Council operates two summer camps and three weekend camp
sites so I keep up to date on the latest trends in camping as “camp
executive,” although I am no longer a resident director. Early
morning hours and weekends on the farm keep me in close con-
tact with nature and I don’t miss the camping and other outdoor
activities of former years.

[ raz ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

CORWIN HAMILTON von BRECHT

HOME ADDRESS: 7547 Washington Ave., University City 5, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1010 Pine St, St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1906, St. Louis, Afo. parents: Frank A. von Brecht, Flavia
C. Lynch.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: $.B., 1929(30).

marriep: Mary Ellen Niedringhaus, Dec. 29, 1945, St. Louis, Mo. CHILDREN:
Richard Corwin, April 8, 1948; James Leyden, Aug. 25, 1950; John
Hamilton, Feb. 7, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Forrest Godfrey von Brecht, 35.

occupation: Inventory and cost engineer, Southwestern Bell Telephone
Company.

MEMBER: Afissouri Professional Engineers.

AFTER graduating from Harvard in 1929, I joined the South-
western Bell Telephone Company and have been with them ever
since except for a four-year stint as a captain in the Army Signal
Corps, with which group I spent time in Australia, New Guinea,
Moratai, Philippines, and Japan.

NATHANIEL PRESTON BREED

HOME apprEss: 80 Stone Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 36 Temple Pl. Boston 5, Mass.

BORN: April 24, 1908, Lynn, Mass. parents: Nathaniel Pope Breed, ’98,
M.D, ‘or, Effie Young Thomson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREES: AB. 1929; M.B.A, magna cum laude,
1932,

MARRIED: Elaine Silsby Cammett, Nov. 13, 1936, Bronxville, N. Y. cHm-
DREN: Nathaniel Preston, Jr, Sept. 26, 1937; Elizabeth Pope, Oct. 13,
1940.

occupation: Treasurer, Provident Institution for Savings in the Town of
Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to treasurer, 1937-42, business manager, Radio Re-
search Laboratory, 1942-46, assistant to administrative vice-president,
1946-48, Harvard University, treasurer, Factory Mutual Engineering
Division, 1948-49; president, treasurer, The Whitney Company, 1938-
40, president, director, Rosa Run Company, since 1947; director,
1944-49, member at large, since 1950, Cambridge campaign chairman,
1947, Cambridge Community Federation, director, Conveyancers
Realty Company, since 1940, Boston Real Estate Board, since 1950;
north central metropolitan chairman, UCS Campaign, 1952.

[122]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Skating Club of Boston; Cambridge Skating Club; Belmont
Tennis Club; Cambridge Dramatic Club; Sons of the American Revo-
lution; Boston Club; Harvard Business School Association, formerly:

- Squadron A Ex-Members Association; Harvard Club of New York;

Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Yacht Club; Belmont Badminton
Club; Weston Golf Club.

HIGH spots? Well, there was the postgraduation trip to Europe
with Claude Allen, where we saw Pete Todd, Johnny Filoon,
George Whitney, et al., in various strange places. I climbed up
the Swiss side of the Matterhorn, slid down the Italian. I made
radio tubes for Raytheon — briefly. I tutored some nice North
Shore kids. I went back to the Business School with dramatic
improvement in grades under the spur of the depression. I had a
summer job at Consolidated Gas Company of Baltimore. My
career began with Irving Trust Company, New York. It was a
swell life for a bachelor! There was squash at the Harvard Club;
riding and rifle shooting at Squadron A; ushering at St. Barthol-
omew’s; night school three years at New York University getting
some trust and real estate law. I taught mathematics at Mechanics
Institute night school on West 44th Street. I was Republican
political captain in the Tenth Assembly District, and helped elect
Attorney General Herbert Brownell to the New York Assembly.
I spent weekends in Jersey, Long Island, Westchester, Connecti-
cut, and Rhode Island. I met and married Elaine who was then
writing publicity for the Ritz Carlton Hotel, an account of
J. Walter Thompson Company. |
I returned to Cambridge as assistant to the treasurer of Harvard
Henry L. Shattuck, then William H. Claflin, Jr.), concerned
vith real estate, mortgages, stocks, bonds, wills, and trusts; also
vith iron mine (I still run it if anyone wants some thirty-five per
ent ore), apple orchard, coal mine (they initiate you by wiping
miner’s glove across your face), theatres (the Pittsburgh theatre
sof collapsed from snow weight —no one killed, but it was a

g job to rebuild): all the residual estate problems of Harvard's

nefactors. I played squash in the “C” league for the Harvard
ub. :

My war service was as business manager of the Radio Research
boratory for M.I.T. and Harvard doing secret research on
nming and confusion of German and Jap radar. I flew to Eng-

[123]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

land in September, 1943, to help set up the American British Lab-
oratory of Division 15 in Malvern and London. I am very proud
of the Office of Scientific Research and Development citation and
joint War-Navy Department certificate of appreciation.

I was Community Fund chairman for the City of Cambridge
(raised $219,000). I did a short tour as assistant to the vice-presi-
dent of Harvard, Edward Reynolds. I made a trip west to Broad-
moor at Colorado Springs where I passed my first figure skating
test — establishing a major hobby. I had a short tour as treasurer,
Factory Mutual Engineering Division. I became vice-treasurer,
later treasurer, of the Provident Institution for Savings, Boston,
oldest chartered savings bank in the United States and second
largest in New England. Investments in mortgages in eighteen
states get me across the country once in a while. I have called on
Sid Johnson in Florida and Ben Dorman in California.

I was chairman of the North and Central Metropolitan Divi-
sions, 1953 Community Fund Drive (raised $996,000). I have
passed the Fourth Figure Test and Silver Dance Test as a figure
skater. Further involvements include being secretary of the
Cambridge Skating Club, United States Figure Skating Associa-
tion judge of various tests and competitions, making annual trips
to summer skating sessions at Lake Placid, and hopefully compet-
ing each year in the New England and eastern United States
championships. I have a little silver, a lot of medals, and friends
all over the country to show for my hobby. |

I am active on the Boston Real Estate Board and mortgage
committees of state and national savings bank associations and
Mortgage Bankers Association of America. My son Nat is now
at Middlesex and will soon beat me at tennis. My daughter Fliza-
beth is already a better rider. Elaine has taken up real estate
brokerage in Belmont for Hunneman & Company with just
wonderful results (adv.), Clip, the Labrador, still guards our big
house at 80 Stone Road, Belmont. We have lots of guest room
and facilities in good condition for ping-pong, badminton, tennis
(bangboard), horseshoes, bag punching, tether ball, basketball,
croquet, football, and softball. Classmates are always welcome.
Our accomplishments are too modest for Who’s Who and we
have certainly not become wealthy, but we remain young in

spirit and are quite happy.
[124]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

P. S. At the New England Figure Skating Championships held
in New Haven on January 24, my partner and I won the dance
championship.

“KELTON AUGUSTUS BREIL

BORN: Sept. 9, 1904, Raynham, Mass. Parents: August Wilhelm Breil,
Clemintina Clinch.

- PREPARED AT: Sumner High School, Holbrook, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929} LL.B., 1934(35).

marRIED: Adeline Dorothy Mills, Sept. 4, 1937; Brockton, Mass. CHILD:
Priscilla. .

piep: Aug. 28, 1948, Boston, Mass.

AFTER a year at Brown University, Breil joined our Class in
1926. He was a member of the basketball and track squads while
in college. In 1930 he was an instructor at Friends’ Academy in
Locust Valley, Long Island. The following year he entered the
Harvard Law School, from which he graduated in 1935. Four
years later he reported his occupation as tool-maker in Brockton,
Massachusetts. During World War II he served as a production
engineer at the Watertown arsenal, and in 1946 he was in the
real estate and insurance business. At the time of his death he was
a member of the Boston and Newton Real Estate Boards and the
Boston Apartment House Association. His wife and daughter
survived him.

BENJAMIN EVERETT BREITENKAMP

HOME ADDRESS: 637 40th St., Des Moines 12, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 112 11th St., Des Moines, Iowa.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1899, Webster City, Iowa. parents:; Henry John Breiten-
kamp, Gretchen Maminga.

PREPARED AT: Webster City High School, Webster City, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB. cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Bernice Sheldon, Sept. 25, 1931, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Jeanine,
March 26, 1936.

occupation; Government accountant,

[125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

HARRY BRENNER

HOME ADDRESS: 825 Afain St, Walpole, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 681 Washington St, Norwood, Mass,

porn: March 28, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Joel Brenner, Rose
Rotenberg.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass. ;

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B. midgna cum laude, 1929; M.D.
(Tufts Coll.), 1933.

aarrieD: Aferna Gruber, June 30, 1935, Worcester, Mass. cHTLpREN: Paula
Louise, Oct. 1, 1944; Joel Benton, Dec. 1, 1949.

occuPATION: Obstetrician, gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Medical Staff, chairman, Obstetrical Committee,
Norwood Hospital.
MEMBER OF: Afassachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association.
GRADUATION in 1929 had its assortment of student excite-
ments (Phi Beta Kappa and magna cum laude) and of disappoint-
ments (chief amongst these the fact that Harvard Medical School
apparently had no place for me on its student roster). At the time
these items seemed of vital importance; but looking back over the
quarter-century that has slipped by me, the excitements seem less
stimulating and disappointments less depressing. |

Tufts Medical School was interested — and my years as a med-

ical student (very pleasant ones with studies running a poor sec-
ond to contract bridge) passed rapidly as well as effortlessly —
with top rank in the class as a reward and the opportunity to test
my oratorical qualities as valedictorian as the final act. |

It was during some cramming for a pharmacology exam with
my bridge buddies that I met the dark-haired talented little
pianist who three years later helped me transform a two-week
vacation from my second internship into a honeymoon in New
Hampshire’s White Mountains. Merna disrupted the cramming
that night, and my thoughts on many subsequent ones, till we
decided to mesh our converging paths,

After two and a half years of internships, and after becoming
the proud possessors of a new Ford, plus some second-hand in-
struments and furniture, we invaded Walpole (a lovely town of
8,000 population about a half-hour southwest of Boston) where,
after six months of very doubtful status, my talents as a general
practitioner of medicine were recognized and accepted. During
that period of doubt, the cupboard was kept from being bare by

[ 126 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Merna’ s heroic daily travels in a broken-down Plymouth (with a
straining maximum speed of thirty-five miles per hour) to
Worcester where she taught a number of perspiring and aspiring
young pianists.

Obstetrics being the only medical item which failed to make
the air blue when the phone rang nights, I concluded after four-
teen years of general practice (and after many nights of indeci-
sion and doubt) to make the plunge, left for a residency in ob-
stetrics-gynecology, and now can be usually found at the Nor-
wood Hospital (at almost any time —day and night) happy in
my midwifery.

Children came late — Paula is now nine years of age and Joel
is almost four. Paula’s I.Q. (168) has presented some problems in
schooling and some debate at home with Merna holding the fort
for “private” and me holding forth for “public.” Well, you know
who won out — Paula is to attend Beaver Country Day School
in Brookline this fall. We think they’re nice youngsters. Paula’s
ambition is to be a pianist like Mummy — “only better”; and Joel,
interested in following in Daddy’s footsteps, is determined to
start his apprenticeship early. Keeping my instruments out of his
grasp keeps me alert and maintains my ingenuity at its peak. One
of my psychiatrist friends has remarked that if one raises one’s
children well enough so that they are capable of being helped
(reached) by psychoanalytic therapy, then one has been a suc-
cess as a parent. With that as a standard I believe we have done
a creditable job. |

Add one English setter (Dover) and a hamster (Hamlet) and
the family is complete. Throw in a ranch house for comfortable
modern living and you have the major part of the picture.

GEORGE WASHINGTON WALES BREWSTER —

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Sargent Crossway, Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 101 Newbury St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 1, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George Washington Wales
_ Brewster, ’89, Ellen McKenzie Hodge.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1929(30); M. ARCH, 1936.
MARRIED: Joan Ryerson, May 28, 1938, Lake Forest, Ill. cimpren: George

[127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Washington Wales, 3d, April 3, 1941; Galen, Dec. 31, 1942; Donald
Ryerson, June 6, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Ledyard Brewster, '27, LL.B., '30; | Henry Hodge
Brewster, Mp. '38.

occupation: Architect.

oFFIcEs HELD: Member Brookline Building Commission and Planning Board,
member Vestry, Emmanuel Church, Boston; president, Gore Place So-
ciety, Waltham; chairman, Board, Spencer-Kennedy Laboratories, Inc.,
Cambridge.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Boston Society of Archi-
tects; The Country Club, Brookline; Somerset Club, Boston; Beverly
Yacht Club, Marion, Mass.

PUBLICATIONS: Photos and articles in two books and occasionally in maga-
zines showing contemporary buildings.

SHORTLY after getting my architectural degree I opened an
office in Boston and with the exception of four years in the Navy,
have been practising here ever since. The ups and downs of this
career have proved more extreme than I anticipated, and it still
seems next to impossible to adjust to not having enough work or
having too much. My greatest interest is of course design. Some
people tell me what I do is classic and traditional, but I think it
is contemporary. Concurrently with my architectural career I
have entered into some investment and business activity, the most
important of which is an electronics company in Cambridge,
where I am chairman of the board and chief stockholder.

My wife and I live near town in a long, one-story house which
I remodelled out of a big Victorian dwelling. Our three boys
are red-head, brunette, and blond, and in no way resemble each
other or us. Our travels are mostly to the Mid-west and last sum-
mer — the first away from the children — we went to Europe. I
have a little yaw] called Hosanna based at Marion but I think our
hobbies would be more accurately described as contemporary
American art, of which we have a number of paintings, and music
— we are supporters of the Boston Symphony and other smaller
local musical groups.

My years in the Navy were spent in the First District. I would
be very much surprised if I ever ran for political office but I have
not refused appointments in the community, professional societies,
and church. 1 would say that I am conservative by nature, liberal
by conviction, that I believe in the preservation of standards, the
dignity of the individual, and the importance of ideas.

[128]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THEODORE OTIS BREWSTER

HOME ADDRESS: 838 High St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ellis Tavern, Westwood, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1905, Dedham, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin Emmons Brew-
ster, Grace Barnard.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 5.B., 1929.

marrieD: Mary Emerson Young, June 16, 1934, Cambridge, Mass. cut-
DREN: Stephen Young, March 23, 1936; Rosalie, May 27, 1939; Lucy
Young, June 27, 1941; Benjamin Otis, Sept. 28, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Brewster, ’26.

occupation: Proprietor, Ellis Tavern Foods, county grocery store; real
estate broker.

OFFICES HELD: Salesman, American Airlines, Inc., 1937-45.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Rotary Club; Dedham Historical Society.

EVEN before Commencement in 1929, Marine Corps Reserve
Flight Training had me on tenterhooks, along with several Har-
vard contemporaries — mostly now deceased — and for the next
two years I was a pretty busy and gay young blade, progressing
through elimination training at Squantum, nine months at Pensa-
cola, and one year with the Marine aircraft squadrons at Quantico.
Those were thrilling days, and sometimes nights, and the associa-
tions were really something. You had to have a college sheepskin
before starting them and there were topnotch Americans present
from all sections of the country.

I discovered the depression in the summer of 1931 upon re-
turning to civilian life thoroughly prepared for the next world-
shooting fracas. Luckily Bob Gierasch’s Dad gave me desk space
and I was off on a spell of “selling” insurance — perhaps some of
you never knew; to many, however, “Thanks!” ‘This venture was
successful enough to permit me to settle down with my “still
lucky” bride whose air-mindedness approved of continued Re-
serve activities at Squantum (Secnav Commendation) and a shift
of jobs to Bill Bump’s department of American Airlines, Inc., in
1937. Bill was lucky though because Semper Fideles (educated
people are supposed to know some Latin) demanded my presence
in December, 1940, just as we were both sighting in on the presi-
dent’s job. At least he made me an admiral — only Marine ever
to make it too, as far as I know.

Pensacola took us — family too — to her bosom until Septem-

[ 129 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ber, 1942, when we trekked by house trailer to San Diego only
to separate for two years. My family returned to Dedham and I
went to the Pacific where I helped pick up the mess at Midway
Island, then was one of two Marine aviators present at Tarawa,
both reservists from Boston. I worked out my two years overseas
here, and making the grade on the early-in early-out idea. I was
soon back in the handy lap of the only Bump on American Air-
lines; but having learned the joys of solitude and the oppression
of large organizations, I soon became a small business man in real
estate. This business soon landed me in my present position as |
proprietor of a small country store of mostly groceries with a
little real estate to stall off the cobwebs and the sheriff. It seems,
at this point, that the bride must have got all the promotions, be-
cause her generalship keeps all six of us pretty much “on the
target.”

ERNST JACOB von BRIESEN

HOME abprEss: 1019 E. Sylvan Ave. Milwaukee 11, Wis.
OFFICE ADDRESS: von Briesen & von Briesen, 135 W. Wells St., Milwaukee
3, Wis.
BORN: June 29, 1907, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Ernst von Briesen, L1-..,
‘03, Camilla Bickler.
PREPARED AT: Shorewood High School, Shorewood, Wis.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. 1929; LL.B, (Univ. of Wiscon-
sin), 1932.
markiep: Elsa Kronshage, Sept. 10, 1938, Milwaukee, Wis, CHILDREN: Ernst
Theodore (Ted), May 5, 1943; Elsa Christine (Christie), Jan. 28, 1947;
Jon Andrew, June 2, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Eberhard von Briesen, ’35.
occuPATION: Lawyer.
orFices HELD: Director, since 1949, president, since 1943, American Mutual
Fire Insurance Company of Milwaukee; director, Lutheran Mutual
Life Insurance Company of Waverly, lowa, since 1939; director, since
1943, president, since 1953, North Shore Savings & Loan Association,
Shorewood; director, treasurer, City Club of Milwaukee, since 1953;
trustee, president, Divinity Evangelical Lutheran Church, Milwaukee,
several years.
MeMseR or: Divinity Evangelical Lutheran Church, City Club of Mil-
waukee, Harvard Club of Milwaukee; Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and
American Bar Associations; Phi Delta Phi Legal Fraternity.

COLLEGE was fallowed by three pleasant years at the Univer-
[130]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sity of Wisconsin Law School in beautiful Madison, Wisconsin.
Summers were spent as an apprentice in my father’s law office.
I was admitted to the Wisconsin Bar in 1932 and immediately
joined my father in a busy and interesting practice in Milwaukee.
In June, 1935, I attended my brother’s Commencement and, inci-
dentally, our Sixth Reunion. This was followed by a two-and-a-
half-month trip to Europe with my sister, my brother, and a
cousin. Our own Ford took us from Ireland to Danzig and
Vienna. It was a never-to-be-forgotten adventure. In July, 1938,
my brother joined us in the practice of law.

Marriage in September, 1938, was the next important event.

Soon after our first child was born and on my thirty-sixth birth-
day I reported for active duty as a lieutenant (junior grade) at the
Naval Training School (indoctrination), Quonset Point, Rhode
Island. Indoctrination completed, I was assigned to the Radio
Test unit at the new Naval Air Test Center, Patuxent River,
Maryland, to do administrative work. I was a lone lawyer among
electronics and aviation experts. Electronics Test Division, as we
were soon known, tested and installed all newly designed and
developed airborne electronic equipment. I soon got to know
every type of plane the Navy had — we used them all, and I also
- got acquainted with radio, radar, and many other electrical “gad-
gets.” During the last fifteen months of my service I spent at
least one day a week at the Navy Department, Bureau of Aero-
nautics, in Washington, D.C., as liaison man in the electronic sec-
tion.
Generally, one day of bureaucracy was enough for me and I
was glad to return to the wilds of southern Maryland. That was
especially true after March, 1945, when my family joined me in
a cottage on the lower Potomac. Life was somewhat primitive
there, but very pleasant. My closest call in two and a half years
of “active” duty was an unpleasant case of ptomaine poisoning.

My father died soon after I joined the Navy, but fortunately
my brother was able to return to the office at the time so I had a
practice to return to in January, 1946. Life soon returned to its
Civilian pattern — we moved back into our own home, we ac-
quired a new office, and the clients came back with their many
different and often odd problems. “My daughter’s fiancé hasn’t
called in six weeks — is it legal for her to go out with someone

[131 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

else?” The fee for the answer to that didn’t help to swell our
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reunion Fund.

I was barely out of uniform when I was elected president of
the Harvard Club of Milwaukee at a meeting at which the only
other item of business was a confirmation of what was to me a
long forgotten (about 1941) invitation to hold the next (1947)
meeting of the Associated Harvard Clubs in Milwaukee. For a
while I was tempted to return to the Navy, but after our commit-
tees began to function I decided not to miss the meeting and Vr m
glad I didn’t.

The winter of 1937 was the winter of the big snow in Mil-
waukee. Due to careful advance computation, our daughter (Elsa
Christine) was born in a hospital the day before the great blizzard.
Few babies and their mothers were snowbound in more sensible
spots. Perhaps Math. A was of some value at that. In 1949 we
completed our family by adding Jon Andrew. Then we bought |
a larger house in which we are now very comfortable and happy.

I enjoy the practice of law with my brother, Ralph, ’35, and
our Harvard and non-Harvard associates. Our dealings are pri-
marily with individuals — many of whom were my father’s clients
and a few of whom were clients of my grandfather, the first
Ernst von Briesen to practise law in Wisconsin. It is seldom a
really exciting or spectacular practice, but it is mighty interesting.
I have no hobbies that I practise intensely, but I enjoy working
around our home and yard since I’ve given up tennis. I’m active
in my church — that, my practice, my home and family, an oc-
casional vacation, and my active participation in the organizations
in which I am a director or officer keep me well occupied.

HENRY MORTON BRINCKERHOFF, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1917 Trevilian Way, Louisville 5, Ky.

OFFICE appress: 310 W. Liberty St., Louisville 2, Ky.

BoRN: Dec. 15, 1904, Chicago, Ill. parents: Henry Morton Brinckerhoff,
Florence Louise Fay.

peepanen ar: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: BBS. (Babson Inst.), 1928.

Markirp: Margaret Elizabeth Glass, Aug. 27, 1928, Louisville, Ky. cHIL-
prEN; Elizabeth Fay, June 1, 1929 (m. Harry Thomas, Jr.); Henry
Morton, 3d, May 14, 1932; Mary Louise, Oct. 6, 1936. GRANDCHILDREN:

[132]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Margaret (Peggy) Thomas; Stephen Brinckerhoff Thomas; Susan Fay
Thomas, August, 1953.

occuPATION: Insurance agent, The Wall Agency.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive committee, New Jersey Retail Merchants
Association, 1932-35; adjustment manager, buyer, Hahn and Company,
Newark, N. J., 1928-30; merchandise manager, store manager, B. Alt-
man and Company, New York, 1930-34; assistant general merchandise
manager, Stern Brothers, 1934-35; president, Brinckerhoff, Inc., Louis-
ville, 1938-40, North American Coal Sales, 1940-42, Dads Club, Louis-
ville Male High School, secretary, treasurer, Princeton Alumni Asso-
ciation, Ky., 1937-39; metal inventory comptroller, market research
director, manager of sales statistics, district sales manager, division sales
manager, assistant general sales manager, Reynolds Metals Company,
1942-47; den father, Cub Scouts; vice-president, Kentucky and Indiana,
member National Committee, Amateur Athletic Union of U. S.; vice-
president, director, Louisville Boat Club, Lakeside Club; chairman,
Community Chest Drive, Red Cross Drive, Girl Scouts Drive; meet
director, Kentucky Swimming and Diving Championships, 1951, Lake-
side Club, 1945-50.

puBLicaTions: Articles in The Reynolds Reporter and The Highlander,
Louisville; contributions to Louisville Courier Journal.

MY career history is fairly well detailed under “Offices Held”
and “Member of.” My family has always been my biggest in-
terest. My wife is more beautiful than when we were married
over twenty-five years ago, and looks little older. She carries,
with distinction, 116 well-distributed pounds of charm, codpera-
tive magic, spectacular patience, effective and limitless wife-and-
mother-wisdom, all amazingly assembled in a five-foot-four frame
of undeniable excellence. Since I rate her God’s most intriguing
creation to date (even including our grandchildren) I am fre-
quently impressed by her unaffected, friendly acceptance of her-
self and our family even when her characteristic crisis-response
of serenity and inventive genius has thwarted an impending dis-
aster. Her Junior League membership never bothered her either.
Also she has no gray hair and takes care of all our tax returns on
the clerical side.

Since the foregoing understatements about my wife may, in
rare instances, provoke thoughts or emotions unbecoming to
Harvard men (or anyone else), I must here (in fairness to those
rare few) say that my real purpose has been to establish a parental
heritage of credible and sufficient stature which suggests that the
accomplishments of our progeny are comfortably in keeping

[133]

pig = OES OF a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

with our family tradition. All three of our children have con-
tributed to a continuous stream of class, club, fraternity, sorority,
and student council presidencies, team captaincies, National
Honor Society awards, cum laude’s, and the like. Son Hank re-
ceived the Yale Award in his class of 248 at Louisville Male High
School as the boy most outstanding in leadership, character,
scholarship, and athletics. He received the Literary Prize for the
best “fiction” (no snide asides about Dad, please), the Alumni
Association Basketball Medal, and the Alumm Association Medal
for Best All-around Athlete. He received all-state rating in foot-
ball and basketball (he was captain of the team) and graduated
cum laude.

Betts at Atherton and Mary Lou at Kentucky Home have both
been honor students, team captains: Betts in soccer and basket-
ball, Mary Lou in field hockey and swimming. Both have been
class, sorority, and student council presidents. Mary Lou holds
the Kentucky State record for the Women’s Open 100-meter
Backstroke and the 240-yard Individual Medley. She won the
Senior Women’s Cross River (Ohio—two-thirds of a mile)
Swim at the age of eleven.

Hobby-wise I work with wife and children in their activities:
coached Lakeside Swim Team three years, addressed the State
High School Football Champs Dinner (Male High), am active
in Dads Club and Scouts. My work has taken me into all prin-
cipal U. S. cities in thirty-eight states. Last year I took a leave
of absence and sailed 43,753 miles on the Great Lakes. The doctor
says I'm in the condition of a healthy man of twenty-eight.

WILLIAM HENRY BRINE, JR. — -

HOME appress: 16 Pickwick Rd., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 93 Franklin St., Boston ro, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 30, 1904, Arlington, Mass, parents: William Henry Brine,
Elizabeth Agnes Walsh,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(30),

Marnipp: Marianne Healy, April 23, 1930, Detroit, Mich. cuitpren: Wil-
liam Henry, 3d, Feb. 11, 19313 Mary Elizabeth, Aug. 5, 1932; Christo-
pher, Aug. 15, 1933 (died Feb, 1, 1934); Barbara T., Oct. 19, 19343

[134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Benedict, Sept. 23, 1941 (died Sept. 26, 1941); Peter J., March 23, 1943;
Christina, June 18, 1944.

OCCUPATION: President, W. H. Brine Company, athletic goods.

MEMBER OF: Brae Burn Country Club; Longwood Cricket Club; Corin-
thian Yacht Club; Boston Executive Association.

SINCE my husband received the first request to write a short
biography for the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report, I have tried
at various intervals to get him to comply. Every time the mail-
man left a notice that his had not yet been received, I would
gently (at first) advise him to “do it now and get it over with.”
As the reminders became more desperate in tone (one, addressed
to the wives, suggested that a rolling pin might do the trick), I
hounded him, but still nothing was done. The last letter, from the
Report chairman, John W. Hutchinson, really decided me. It
was a touching appeal that I couldn’t overlook (though Bud
did! ); so I am taking matters into my own hands, and am writing
his biography for him.

After re-reading his Vicennial one, I find that it could almost
be copied word for word, because very little change has taken
place in his life since 1949. He is still “happily married to the
same wife (!),” has the same number of children, lives in the same
house, works in the same store, and his “chief occupation is to
clothe, feed, and educate” his family. Of course our eldest son,
Lieutenant (junior grade) William Henry Brine, 3d, who will
have finished his two years of post-college Navy duty when this
is published, would hardly agree that his father need any longer
support him. Perhaps the same could be said of our oldest daugh-
ter, Mary Elizabeth. She has started what we hope will be a
‘thriving dress designing business. However Barbara, our second
daughter, is still attending Manhattanville College, with Peter and
Christina having many more years ahead to reach that point. So
I think I can say that my husband’s chief occupation is to earn
enough to keep us all going!

He is a little older, naturally, a little wiser, I hope, and he has
gone a long way, I think, toward achieving his ultimate goal,
which is of course to get himself into Heaven, and to help us get
there too! This is a wonderful opportunity for me publicly to
acknowledge that I am still “happily married” to the same hus-
band. He has been a very good, kind, generous, loving one; I am

[135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

extremely fortunate (in spite of the fact that he procrastinates)
to have been by his side for almost twenty-five years — a quarter
of a century — and neither of us feels old at all!

This is not a very satisfactory report, but it’s probably better
than none at all. Bud does not know that I’ve carried out my
threat to write it if he didn’t. He will certainly be surprised
when he sees this. Now to get him to have his picture taken!

RALPH LESTER BRITTAIN

HOME ADDRESS: 566 Eliot St. Milcon, Mass.

porN: Sept, 22, 1907, Alattapan, Mass. parents: Robert Oscar Brittain, Leha
Genevieve Meek.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927,

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

WALTER PRIEST BROCKWAY

HOME AND OFFICE appREss: Hebron, N. H.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1903, Yonkers, N. Y. parents: Walter Belding Brockway,
Elizabeth Eliza Priest.

PREPARED aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; S.T.B., 1032.

Marriep: Eleanor Duncan, June 13, 1931, Concord, N. H. cuitpren: Dun-
can, July 23, 1932; Barbara, Aug. 22, 1934; Alan Priest, Aug. 21, 19365
Gerry, April 21, 1942.

HARVARD soN: Duncan Brockway, Divinity School, ’56,

occupation: Life minister to town and country churches of New Hamp-
shire (Congregational-Christian); at present, pastor, Union Congrega-*
tional Church, Hebron.

Member oF; Grange; John Frederick Oberlin Fellowship; Fellowship of
Reconciliation, New Hampshire Historical Society.

PHILIP MORTON BRODY

HOME AND OFFice ADDRESS: 170 Boulevard, Scarsdale, N. Y.

Born: April 22, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Joseph M. Brody, Rose
Wimpie.

prepareD at: Cheshire Academy, Cheshire, Conn.
VEARS IN COLLEGE; 1925-1929. DEGREE: $.8., 1929,

[136]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrigeD: Marian Rich Isaacs, Dec. 23, 1942, Los Angeles, Calif. cumpren:
Antonia Rose, Nov. 22, 1943; Jennie Rich, March 30, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alton Alexander Brody, Sp.

OCCUPATION: Artist-designer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Arthor Manor Association, 1953-55; member,
Scarsdale Safety Council, 1953-55; zone warden, Civilian Defense.
MEMBER OF: Industrial Designers Institute, Town Club, Scarsdale; Scars-
dale Art Association; Guild of Westchester Artists; Harvard Club of

New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to trade magazines.

TAKE equal portions of my decennial and vicennial reports, add
a like portion of the experience gained in living in our day and
age, the zest of two growing children, and the yeast of a wife
with a career and belief in her husband’s career, mix well, and the
end result should be a pretty good dish.

In 1949, after a long and diligent search for a home, we moved
to Scarsdale. Here we found good schools, and a community
spirit and independence of thought, plus a liberalism unusual in
this period. Let it suffice that we like our life here.

Professionally, my background, training, and experience have
focused on the field of industrial design for wallpaper, carpet, up-
holstery, and drapery. My feeling that art, to be truly enduring,
must be an integral part of our daily existence has found a form.
Even as we influence our surroundings, our surroundings influ-
ence us.

WILLIAM LORD BROOKFIELD -

HOME ApprEss: E. Middle Patent Road, Bedford, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 160 Front St., New York 38, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 8, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Morgan Brookfield,
*93, Louise Lord.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Louise Colburn Parker, June 14, 1929, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1942); Phyllis McElhone, Nov. 15, 1946, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
William Lord, Jr. Oct. 5, 1932; Christopher Morgan, June 12, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Assistant secretary, New Jersey Zinc Company.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant colonel, General Staff Corps, U. S. Army Re-
serve; officer, New Jersey Zinc Sales Company, New Jersey Zinc Com-
pany (of Pennsylvania), New Jersey Zinc Explorations Company,
New Jersey Zinc Exploration (Canada), Limited, Palmer Land Com-

[ 137 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

panv, Palmer Water Company, Palmerton Disposal Company, Frank-
lin Water Company, Empire Zinc Company, Mineral Point Zinc Com-
pany, Bertha Mineral Company, Smith Valley Realry Corporation,
Franklin Hospital; trustee, American Savings Bank, 1938; director,
New York City, Squadron “A” Association; treasurer, Rye Village
Republican Committee, 1938-42.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Downtown Association; Round
Hill Club, Greenwich; Society of the Mayflower Descendants; Society
of Colonial Wars; Squadron “A” Association.

IN my senior year at College I had five ambitions: to marry, to
have a son, to own a house in the country, to be an executive in
some well-known corporation, and to be a major in the Army
Reserve Corps. Eventually I realized all five, but was not at all
pleased. I wanted a higher reserve rank, I wanted to become an
officer in a corporation, I didn’t like my house, and I wanted an-
other son. So I have come to the conclusion that it 1s a wise man
who knows what he wants at any given time in his life.

The older I get the less interested I am in relating the story of
my own smal] affairs and the more interested I am in reading and
hearing about what others are doing or have done. I think most
people would rather talk about their son’s experience in Korea
than they would about the leaves they raked last week, the num-
ber of screens they have to put up before summer comes, or the
deal they made at the office. Of course, one can always fall back
on his golf scores as a scintillating piece of conversation.

Besides keeping the tax collector from taking over my house
and struggling to obtain the wherewithal to buy gasoline, commu-
tation tickets, lunches, and an occasional present for my wife, I
still have the major job of putting my second son through school
and college, Perhaps when that is finished I can afford to make a
down-payment on a cemetery lot unless inflation and the Demo- -
crats make that impossible. If that is the case, I shall request that
my ashes be placed in any handy old coffee tin.

ALBERT LEWIS BROWN

HOME Aporess: 24 Jackson St, New Rochelle, N. Y.
Bors: June 19, 1945, Northeast Harbor, Maine. parents:. Joseph Warren
Brown, Julia Ann Murphy.

[138]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 192§~1929. DEGREE: AB., 1929.
MARRIED: June Bazell Austin, April 7, 1947, Melbourne, Australia. cup:

Austin Hill, Nov. 28, 1948.
OccUPATION: Master mariner.
MIDSUMMER of the Golden Year found me on Wicky-Wacky
Beach at Honolulu as a result of listening to a couple of hand-
shaking Californians, the Grimm brothers, who fast talked me |
onto a broken-down, beat-up freighter bound for the Pacific.
By then, the scent of frangipani was too intoxicating for a boy
from the Maine Coast to retreat, so I began a voyage lasting twenty
years before and after the mast which took me all over hell. If
the devil was my pilot, he sure didn’t hand over much gold.
Those of you who enjoyed the war principally because it got you
away from your wives will understand.

The war caught me as radio operator on a rusty tub with a
Javanese crew lying at Manila. To get away from Corregidor, I
sailed with the Asiatic Fleet while it was still afloat. I was recom-
mended for a commission as an interpreter. I am the only person
in the world who speaks Malay with a Down East accent. How-
ever, by this time I was sick of the military mind, so, when my
interviewer announced in a self-important, Annapolis voice that
he represented the Naval Intelligence, I told him it was impos-
sible as those two words just don’t go together. Thereafter, I
sailed as navigator on merchant ships, rising to the rank of master.

A Harvard “Roads” Scholar was inevitably bound to find a
safe anchorage in the land where “Waltzing Mathilda” is the
them song of a grand people. For your advice and information,
the State of Victoria produces the finest race horses, beer, and
women in the world. I concentrated on the last with slight dis-
tribution on the other two. I surely do feel sorry for you fellows
who married Wellesley women. We have a wiry youngster who
is naturally called Aussie, a real grandson of Gallipoli, who I hope
will go to Cambridge — England, that is.

Probably a better history could be furnished by enclosing pic-
tures of my tattooing, fore and aft, but that isn’t decently pos-
sible. I have no claim to glory but hope to reach the Happy Isles,
even if it be by way of outer space. At least I’ve had experience
in covering distances.

[139]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

CLARENCE EDWIN BROWN

HOME AppRESS: 9 Wright St. Arlington 74, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 218 Auburn St, Cambridge 39, Mass.

BorN: March 23, 1904, Dalton, Ky. PARENTS: Benjamin Green Brown, Laura
Daves.

PREPARED AT: Madisonville High School, Madisonville, Ky.,; Cambridge High
and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1928-1931.

marriep: Mary McInerney, May 11, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Barbara Ann, Feb. 26, 1934; Susan Jane, Dec. 10, 1936; Paul Daves,
May 14, 1938.

occupation: President, Rushton-Carroll Company, Inc.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Supplies Committee, Class of 1929 Twenty-fifth
Reunion.

MEMBER OF: Boston Instrument Society; American Society of Heating and
Ventilating Engineers; Harvard Club of Boston; S.A.E. Alumni So-
ciety; Boys’ Clubs Associates, Arlington.

DUDLEY Dorr said at one of our local reunions that it was diffi-
cult for him to make most people understand how he prepared
himself for banking by going to the Harvard Engineering School.
However, he knew that I should be one person who could under-
stand this perfectly because in College my field was philosophy
and now I am an engineer.

Goaded by John Hutchinson into assuming the detached and
unaccustomed perspective of an autobiographer, I find myself at
a loss to explain why my career has taken the particular course
which it has; it “just growed” — whelped, perhaps, out of De-
pression by Happenstance. Actually, I have enjoyed and still am
enjoying life very much. While I do not always make as much
money as I should like, May and I find that having Barbara, Susan,
and Paul all growing into adulthood makes for a very full life and,
of course, we love all of it. We occasionally get together with
the Bill Whitmores and reminisce, comparing phases of today’s
living with the days of the Lowells— A. Lawrence and Johnnie.

Paul has revived my lagging interest in fishing (as well as
magic) and we usually manage to get a few good bass at Lake
Squam each summer, as well as try to get stripers at the Cape
sometimes, I also still play a little bridge when there is time and
T have built up quite a collection of color slides — mostly portraits
of my daughters, with a few landscapes here and there when the

[ 140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

clouds are right. I have had fun helping George Barner with his
Costumes and Insignia Committee for our T'wenty-fifth Reunion.
I hope all of you like the mementos (especially those on Pops
Night). All of your committee worked hard on these, but Dave
Warsowe deserves our especial thanks for a lot of hard work and
a very fine job. Dave says he will come up with some real wows
on our Fiftieth; something for great-great grandchildren and all.

EDWARD JAMES BROWN

HOME ApprEss: 65 Central Park, W., New York 23, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESs: 100 W, 34th St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 9, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: George Brown, Elizabeth
Goldberg.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE; A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

MARRIED: Janet Louise Gruenebaum, Feb. 27, 1937, Cincinnati, Ohio.
CHILDREN: Barbara Ann, Nov. 8, 1941; Patricia Bette, May 18, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Barton Brown, ’25, A.M., '26, PH.D., ’29.

occupation: General merchandise manager, Saks & Company, 34th Street.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Merchandise Division, 1949-52, member Board of
Directors, National Retail Dry Goods Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of New York.

LIFE since graduation has slipped by with few eventful high-
lights. I went on to the Business School and received my M.B.A.
in 1931. I went into the retail business and have remained in it
ever since.

I moved from buyer to divisional merchandise manager. In the
intervening years I became assistant to the president of Gimbel’s,
Pittsburgh, then returned to New York as divisional merchandise
manager at Arnold Constable. Subsequently I joined Saks-34th
and later became general merchandise manager, a position I have
held for over five years.

I have been blessed with a good wife and two beautiful, talented,
and sweet daughters. Life has been good to me; we are all healthy
and quite normal. Hobbies? Golf and fishing. The rest would
be scarcely interesting.

[ 141]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

RUDOLPH BRUCE

HOME ADDRESS: Plain Road, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 250 Stuart St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Oct. §, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: William G. Preuss, Elsa Blum-
berg.

PREPARED AT: Jamaica Plain High School, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B, 1929; M.B.Awy 1931+

MARRIED: Margaret E. O'Neil, April 9, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Robert Barry, June 30, 1940; Douglas Scott, Jan. 19, 1942.

occupation: Advertising manager, New England Coke Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1950-51, treasurer, 1951-52, president, 1952-53, di-
Fector, 1953-54, Radio and Television Advertising Executives Club of
New England, Inc.; director, Advertising Club of Boston, Inc., 1953-55.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club in Concord; Vokes Players, Inc., Wayland.

BROTHER, could you spare a dime back in 1931 when the Har-
vard Business School cast me out on troubled waters with a bright
M.B.A.? There was no worrying about tax returns in those good
old days. Experience was what our hard-headed business men in-
sisted on, so I got experience —in fact a wonderful experience.
I worked my way to Europe on an American freighter washing
dishes and polishing brass. (My wife says that wasn’t a very
lasting experience —I dunno!)

When I arrived in Rotterdam, my good American shipmates
advised me to follow their example by staying with a buxom
Dutch girl, complete with free room and board. But I had a Har-
vard education. I wanted to see what was so c’est si bon about
Pigalle, so I passed up the “low” lands and toured Belgium and
France. My business school training came in handy because,
when I reached Paris, the first thing I did was to get my return
ticket. That is what is known as setting up a capital reserve. My
trip back to the States was a luxury. The ship’s officers had dis-
covered I was a contract player of some note— and when the
captain wasn’t taking over the bridge, I was taking over his bridge
for him. Of course, 1 was kept too busy instructing him in the
fine points of the game to bother much with dishes, etc.

Back home in Boston, I did sales promotion work and, at one
time, was New England correspondent and representative for a
half a dozen film trade papers. This was not too remunerative,
but fortunate, as it allowed me to be master of my own time.

[142]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hence, when the Boston Traveler \aunched a rebus puzzle con-
test, I was able to dive into it up to my ears. Just about this time
too, I made the acquaintance of a fabulous Peggy O’Neil. After
months of elimination rounds, we found ourselves among nine
contestants for top prizes and involved in a most gruelling twelve-
hour exam with proctors at both elbows. We came in first and
second, pooled our $12,000, and got married. Then for more than
six months we meandered, leisurely and without benefit of Cook’s
Tours, through Belgium, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Norway,
Scotland, England, France, Switzerland, Austria, Hungary, Italy,
Greece, Turkey, Lebanon, Syria, Palestine, and Egypt. My
French, German, and Italian really came in handy and convinced
me that a liberal education is a great thing.

We had to get back in time for the Harvard football season.
Shortly after our return, I found luck was still with me when I
came out with second prize in the Boston Globe Historical Con-
test. Soon after that I became advertising manager of the
Waltham Watch Company where I turned out all the adver-
tising, including national, without the help of any advertising
agency. I quit after eight years of valuable experience when the
Waltham management decided to move sales and advertising to
New York. I had seen enough of the world by then to realize
that New England was a fine place in which to keep our stakes;
a good thing, too, for a year and a half later the company went
into bankruptcy.

Since 1946, when I resigned from Waltham, I have been putting
my experience to work as advertising manager of New England
Coke Company, a subsidiary of Eastern Gas and Fuel Associates,

and taking a more prominent part in advertising activities.

I have not had much luck contesting recently except for

. winning a prize in Kimberly Clark’s “Let’s Swap Ideas” contest.
Then, to cap it all, my prize-winning advertising idea headed the
list of the ten best out of 1,400 advertising ideas submitted in the
last two years by advertising executives from all over the country.

I have been practising the art of living in Wayland with my
pretty and talented wife (she’s secretary of the Massachusetts
League of Women Voters), plus training two sons, thirteen and
twelve, for the Harvard football team.

Hobbies are: season tickets for the Harvard games since 1937,

[ 143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

contests; bridge has degenerated to Samba (pretty depressing
when I recall I was runner-up in a New England contract bridge
tournament one year and a Harvard Club tournament winner an-
other year). Then there are the original Christmas cards in which
we do our damnedest to kid the red pants off Santa Claus (wanna
be put on our list?), weekends and vacations in Provincetown,
and an interesting variety of Little Theatre rdles now and then.
Well, you can’t say it hasn’t been fun so far and, if I had it to
do over again, I expect I should do it the same way — although
occasionally I wonder about those “low” lands of Holland!
I think McCarthy ts our greatest menace. I think Ike and Ste-
venson are great men. I vote mostly Republican but quite often
Democratic.

LYNWOOD SILVESTER BRYANT

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Lawson Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 8, 1908, Keene, N. H. parents: Royal Varnum Bryant, Mary
Jane Bradbury.

PREPARED AT: Mt. Hermon School, Mt. Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1929; A.M., 1938.

MARRIED: Louise Snelling Graham, Sept. 5, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Peter Graham, March q, 1942; Susan Pickett, April 16, 1945; Emily
Shaw, March 8, 1948.

occupation: Associate professor of English and history, Massachusetts In-
sutute of Technology,

I] HAVE spent these twenty-five years teaching, without any in-
terruption to speak of, for the first eight years mostly at the
Roxbury Latin School, and for the last seventeen mostly at M.L.T.
For eight or ten years I was also a part-time graduate student in
education and American civilization at Harvard, and hung around
Widener a good deal. In 1939 I married Louise Graham, Rad-
cliffe ’34. I remained an involuntary civilian throughout the war,
but worked on various projects of military importance around
MALT.

Teaching the humanities to M.LT. undergraduates is my pri-
mary interest, on which I spend perhaps half my time. The rest
goes into two time-consuming sidelines: arguing about education,

[ 144]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

especially engineering education, and proposals for improving it;
and writing and editing technical publications, mostly at M.LT.,
but occasionally for industry or government agencies.

My intellectual interests are in American history, technology,
and educational theory. I like the United States and enjoy read-
ing about it and looking at various parts of it. My political bias
is New Dealish. The specter of creeping socialism does not keep
me awake nights. I think we are doing all right in this country.
I am concerned about the threat to civil liberties from the Mc-
Carthy type of corruptions, but I think we'll get over it. My
educational opinions are also progressive, if you want a bad word
for it. I believe for example, that knowledge does not have to be
useless to be good for educational purposes, that for many students
the material of science and technology makes a better vehicle for
an undergraduate education than the more orthodox verbal cur-
riculum, and that education takes place only when a student under-
takes some sort of inquiry under his own power.

In my family life I have been very lucky. We live a normal
suburban life in Winchester with three children, all healthy and
happy. Town affairs are in good hands (Phil Wadsworth, mod-
erator, and Don Greer, chairman of the Board of Selectmen) and
I can safely neglect my civic responsibilities. For hobbies I can -
list only puttering around the house and occasional home-made
music. Last year we bought a summer place in New Hampshire,
which more than doubles the opportunities for puttering, and
which has given me a new interest in fish and animals and trees
and mountains.

SCOTT WALTER BURBANK

HOME AppREss: 76 Osgood St., Gardner, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: c/o Henry Gogert, 260 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 15, 1907, Gardner, Mass. PARENTS: Daniel Nathan Burbank,
Blanche Holt.

PREPARED AT: Gardner High School, Gardner, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

MarrigD: Elizabeth Munro, July 24, 1941, Gardner, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Entertainer.

AFTER graduating from Harvard College in 1929, I entered the
[ 145 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, graduating
from there in 1931. During the time I was in college and gradu-
ate school I played with many orchestras and bands around Bos-
ton, expecting to give up this type of work after graduation.
However, in 1931 the offers to stay in music were more lucrative
than those from other fields of business, so I decided to remain
in music for a while. One offer lead to another and I ami still in
show business.

For a number of years I played and travelled with quite a few
orchestras, including those of: Buddy Rogers, Meyer Davis, Ruby
Newman, Jacques Renard, MacNamara’s Band, Leo Reisman,
Horace Heidt, Jimmy Lanin, Alex Hyde, and Joe Moss.

By then I had developed some specialty numbers, so I got a
good agent and branched out by myself as a feature act. Then I
played many night clubs, theatres, expositions, fairs, and conven-
tions. My travels took me abroad five times, as well as to most
of the cities in this country and Canada many times. I played
from the “Cirkus Revue” in Stockholm, Sweden, to the Roxy
Theatre and Ed Sullivan’s television show, “Toast of the Town,”
in New York City; from the Roosevelt Hotel in New Orleans to
the Great Central Canada Fxhibition in Ottawa, Canada; and
most of the intermediate points.

Of course every kind of life has its advantages and disadvan-
tages. Show business is a hard life for the tension is high and the
long trips, many times with little sleep, gruelling. There was
litle opportunity to join organizations or attend their meetings.
Even trying to keep a garden in shape was almost impossible.
This bothered my wife, who has made most of the trips with me.
Yet, I have always enjoyed playing and travelling; it is a fascinat-
ing, stimulating business. Show business has gone through many
drastic changes in the last few years; it is unpredictable but defi-
nitely not boring.

My hobby is writing unpublished detective stories. There again
I have not been able to devote the time to get them into marketa-
ble condition. But dashing off this sort of thing provides a certain
relaxation that one needs in this type of life. My wife and I both
enjoy archery, though neither of us could knock an apple off
William Tell’s head at the moment. We are both Republicans,

and every now and then, when the opportunity presents itself,

[146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

attend the Congregational Church in Gardner, where the minister
knows us but is always surprised to see us.

I am trying to arrange my schedule to allow me to come to
the “T'wenty-fifth Reunion; would love to see and talk with the
gang. If I cannot make it, Pll be with you in spirit.

RICHARD WILCOX BURGEVIN

HOME ADDRESS: 77 Sargent Crossway, Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1906, Kingston, N. Y. parents: George Burgevin, Mabel
Beatrice Hanor. —

PREPARED AT: Kingston High School, Kingston, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRRIED: Eleanore Campbell Edwards, July 27, 1946, Charlottesville, Va.
cHitp: William H., 3d, April 28, 1938 (stepchild).

occuPATION: Institutional sales, Kidder, Peabody & Company, investment
business.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline; Union Boat Club; Harvard
Musical Association.

PROBABLY most of us have had the same reaction as I in trying

to write this Report. I started it several weeks ago, then achieved

peace of mind for five minutes by assuring myself that I would

ignore the whole thing. Then the pressure really mounted. I am,

I believe, by now a New Englander, and firmly expect Boston
will be my home the rest of my life. I am happily employed at
Kidder, Peabody & Company, where I have been for the past two
years, and am primarily concerned with institutional sales. As
this involves a great deal of service activity, a certain amount of
original securities research work must be accomplished. The
combination is a stimulating one. My spare time has been in
recent years occupied variously in the “do it yourself” program
of household activities — chores which produce high satisfaction.

I actually enj oy gardening, at least to the extent of caring for the
roses. For the past couple of years I have found time to enjoy
curling during the winter months. To my surprise I find that
I am an enthusiastic golfer, having never hit a ball before June,
1953. My most rewarding pleasure is derived from the compan-
ionship of my wife and our sixteen-year-old son, who unfortu-
nately is only at home for holidays.

[147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I came to Kidder, Peabody & Company after approximately
six years with H. P. Nichols, Inc., where I was principally on the
other side of the fence from my present activities. While there,
I had the rather unusual opportunity of creating almost single
handedly an open-end investment trust. The war years spent in
the Navy seem more and more remote, and I am pleased to be
placed on the retired list. The period from graduation to War II
was spent in learning some of the elements of the securities busi-
ness, and how to sell, most of which time was spent in Boston.
The life that has followed graduation is a far cry from the direc-
tion I intended when I entered Harvard. Until just before gradu-
ation I thought I was going into the ministry, and I have never
ceased to be grateful that I changed the basic direction of my life,
without impairing my faith in the Nicene Creed. It is amusing
to recall the halcyon days of 1929, when most of us were of the
opinion that we would work like hell until we were thirty, and
then retire to a life of pleasure. The older I become, the more
interesting I find business, and the surer I am that I have no de-
sire to retire, even though vacations as such, are more fun than
ever,

To me, it has been a tremendous satisfaction to have our country
and our affairs in the hands of able and honest-thinking people,
who fee] a true social responsibility. This is a welcome change
from the social-reform-for-political-expediency policy that pre-
vailed for so many years. The associations I have and the friends
I have made, both business and social, provide continually deep-

ening pleasure.

MIRON BURGIN

HOME ADDRESS: 4335 36th St., S., Fairlington, Arlington, Va.
OFFicE appREss: Commerce Bldg., Room 1522, Washington, D, C.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1900, Warsaw, Poland, parents: Morris Burgin, Ronia
Kirzowski.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: 8.B., 1929; PH.D., 1941.
occupation: Research.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary's files.

[ 148 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT MAXWELL BURLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 61 Main St., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Baird Associates, Cambridge 38, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 11, 1907, Brookline, Mass. parents: Harry Benjamin Burley,
Adelaide Louise Wells.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Florence Schwenke, Jan. 4, 1934, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Michael Philip, April 26, 1935; Sarah Page, April 14, 1937; Belinda
Wells, July 24, 1941; Juliet Elizabeth, Feb. 18, 1948; Thomas Cilley,
March 3, 1951.

HARVARD SON: Michael Philip Burley, ’57.

occupaTioN: Member Research Staff, Baird Associates, optical engineering
and manufacture.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; Optical Society; Institute of
Navigation.

BY a chance decision I became involved in military work not long °
after graduation. After two preliminary brushes with the cold
business world of the early thirties during which I collected a
wife and one child, a pair of opportunities emerged in 1936, one
of which held the glamor of aviation. Falling for this, I soon
learned that airplanes were mostly for shooting; and so, long
before any inkling of war, I found myself in military work. It
seemed a respectable occupation, equipping Naval aircraft against
a hypothetical enemy — nobody in particular in mind — and the
atmosphere in the O Clubs was most congenial. Remuneration
was modest, for the Navy’s allotment for development was meager
and pocketbooks were buttoned when the Bendix boys came up
the stairs of the old Navy Department building. As threats of
war grew the pace speeded and, when it suddenly hit, I found
myself in the middle of a torrent of activity, project engineer on
a computing gunsight which had to be mass-produced right away.
The low point of my career came soon after, when the gunsights
didn’t work, I recall vividly the still assembly line, idle machines,
boxes full of parts made on expensive special tools; and being
summoned, unshaven after toiling all night, to appear before a
gathering of Navy braid to consider abandoning the project.
Somehow the things were gotten to work. Many ended up war
surplus.

Through the war years one of the children required a warm

[ 149 ]

a= stab Oi neka sian ty sip NRbe ent aeaR

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

climate, meaning winters in the South for the family while I took
comfort at the hearth of the Phil Rounds’ in New York. So after-
ward we struck out for southern California and Convair. My
family has mixed recollections of this sojourn. Housing was al-
most impossible to rent, foolhardy to buy at the inflated prices,
so we existed for six months in motels. For my wife, who was
beginning to yearn for a settled home-life, it was a little hard
when the motels made us move every six days so they could
charge the OPA maximum daily rate instead of the weekly rate.
Hearing us read the vacancy signs in hunting motels, our young-
est began saying “no baconcy,” which became a sort of family
slogan. But the three children were full of ““Heigh-Ho Silver”
(we had easily talked up the West) and were as happy living this
way as in a “Spanish style” house we later managed to rent. They
rode their horses western style, and brought back east fond mem-
~ ories. We brought back another daughter, born in La Jolla, Cali-
fornia.
One of the possessions that got moved from motel to motel was
a calendar of Samuel Chamberlain’s pictures of New England
houses and churches. We are now living in a house built about
1819. It is good to be back in New England, to see often my
parents in Brookline, and familiar faces at football games and
Class gatherings. Engaged in research and development in optics
with Baird Associates, I find it is most pleasant to work in familiar
and congenial surroundings near the Square. As a special student
auditing a course in semiconductors last year, I found it seemed
like old times to be trudging the paths of the Yard — though
having to step aside now and then for Radcliffe girls. This year,
a son at school a few blocks away is going through the stress of
midyears. I still can’t believe it!

HARRY GEORGE BURNETT

HOME Appress: 16 Windsor Rd., Somerville 44, Mass.
OFFICE appRess: 100 Endicott Sc., Danvers, Mass,
Born; May 31, 1907, Somerville, Mass, parents: Harry Bertie Burnett,
Louise Anna Horrer.
PREPARFD AT; Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass,

[150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

UNMARRIED. a

occupaTIoN: Director of advertising and sales promotion, CBS-Hytron,
manufacture of electronic tubes and semiconductors.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical articles in electronic magazines.

CAN it be true? Have I already spent twenty-five of life’s pre-
cious counters since President Lowell graciously admitted me to
the society of educated men in June of 1929? This Report forces
me to face up to it... frightening and unwelcome as the
thought may be. I am, Heaven forbid, “an old grad.” |
And what has happened to me since 1929? Time and again I
have escaped (or missed) becoming a benedict... and time
grows shorter. I have travelled but little — only the usual busi-
ness trips to New York, Washington, Chicago. “An essential man
in a key industry,” I experienced no Great Adventure during the
total confusion of 1941-1945. But I have been lucky too. I have
always liked to work with words. That is why I particularly en-
joyed my stints with Perry, Lowes, and Kittredge. I started right
— in advertising in the summer of 1929. But then I wandered
aimlessly and unhappily at tangents through: graduate courses in
business administration at Harvard and Boston University, in-
vestment banking, the great depression, and civil service. At last,
in 1941, my luck changed and I turned back to advertising again. —
Combining my old love for words with a life-long hobby of
amateur radio, I became assistant advertising and sales manager
of Hytron Corporation, a small manufacturer of radio tubes in
old Salem, Massachusetts. The company grew with electronics.
Now CBS-Hytron, a division of Columbia Broadcasting System,
Inc., it employs over 6,000 and operates plants in five cities. Be-
ing a part of that growth has been fun. My work is varied, always
hectic, never dull. It embraces, in a never-ending series of mental
gymnastics: advertising, sales promotion, publicity, and techni-
cal information. Hardly the romantic concept of advertising I
dreamed about in College, my taskmaster does offer the heady
satisfaction of creative accomplishment. Creative ideas, written
words are wondrous powerful things. I have enjoyed being in
the thick of electronics’ lusty growth — during the war and dur-
ing the radio and the television booms that followed. More re-
cently, I have experienced the thrill of introducing exciting new

[151]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

products: transistors and color television picture tubes, both of
which will have profound effects upon the lives of all of us.

Hobbies? Mine have been those close to my vocation. Ama-
reur radio, high-fidelity sound reproduction, reading, and photog-
raphy help fill my fewer and fewer spare hours. Not quite what
I planned them to be, these last twenty-five years, but on the
whole they have been satisfying ones. Yes, and they have been
made richer not so much by what I learned at Harvard, but b
how I learned to think at Harvard. For that gift, I shall always
be grateful.

GEORGE NEAL BURNS

HOME ADDRESS: 1116 Bourbon St. New Orleans, La.

oFFice appress: Chase Bag Co., North Dorgenois and Industrial Canal, New
Orleans, La.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1905, Watertown, N. Y. PARENTS: Celestin Cormac Burns
Elizabeth Jane Maloney.

prepaRED aT: Carlton Academy, Summit, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Florence Barthman, Oct. 27, 1936, Chicago, Ill. (divorced 1949);
Shirley Hogan, May, 1953, Chicago, Il. camp: Judith Grant, Oct. 8,

1940.
occupaTion: Regional sales manager, Paper Bag Division, Chase Bag Com-

pany.

orFices HELD: Vice-president, Harvard Club of Chicago, 1953; member Ad-
visory Committee, Paper Bag Division, War Production Board, 1943-
45; member Technical Committee, PS.3.M.A., 1943-44.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club, Chicago; New Orleans Lawn
Tennis Club; Sports Car Club of America.

IT’S reasonable to expect that with a five-year span between auto-
biographies, something pretty startling should have occurred in
one’s life, which merits recording. Geographically and biologi-
cally, there have been a few innovations of possible interest.

First, the locale of my business activities has changed from
Chicago to New Orleans. Fortunately, I don’t mind travelling,
since my job calls for conveyance by almost every type of vehi-
cle, except dogsled, from San Antonio, Texas, to Savannah,
Georgia, and points in between. My spare moments are spent in
organizing a canonization for the inventor of air-conditioning
units. Second in sequence, but with no remote connection to

[152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

climatic control, is my recent and personally surprising anticipa-
tion of fatherhood. Our medico predicts twins in March, but
press requirements prohibit recording here the conclusive flash
regarding number or gender. I'll be pleased to answer a variety
of questions at the Reunion.

As for lighter sports, I still stumble around the tennis court,
preferably with opponents of my own vintage or even older.
Occasional participation in some of the less serious activities of
the Sports Car Club of America help me to retain a synthetic spirit
of daring-do and my membership card. My interest has grown in
direct ratio to the increased horsepower of the various vehicles
I have driven from M.G. to Simca to Jaguar. I recommend such
a hobby as a restorer of juvenile enthusiasm and a reasonable sub-
stitute for moribund hot-rod ambitions.

Time is presumed to emphasize the pleasurable and distribute
a comfortable haze over the less satisfactory events in one’s past.
Whatever mellowing change may have been worked by the pass-
ing of twenty-five years, I wouldn’t exchange my life at Harvard
for all the delights of a fairly eventful existence. Here’s to our
Fiftieth!

JOSEPH HARRISON BURNS

HOME ADDRESS: 222-07 141St Rd., Laurelton 13, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Collegiate Pennant Co., Inc., 49 Murray St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: March 29, 1905, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Harry M. Melnik, Kath-
erine Rubinow.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: S.B. IN E. COM, ENG. 1929; LL.B. (St.
Lawrence Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Irene J. Checkver, June 15, 1930, Beachmont, Mass, CHILDREN:
Harriet Millicent, Jan. 1, 1934; Anita Ruth, April 18, 1938,

OccuPATION: Teacher, Brooklyn Technical High School; president, Col-
legiate Pennant Company, Inc.

MEMBER oF: Advertising Club of New York; Professional Engineers So-

ciety.
I WAS one of those “self-made” men who worked his way
through College. This included working part-time during the
school year and all summer, studying enough to earn several
scholarships, and borrowing the rest from the school to see me

[ 153 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

through. This is one way of getting an education. People say
it builds character — personally I feel it looks good on the other
fellow —I would much rather have had the governor foot the
bills.

My first job after graduation was with the Union Switch and
Signal Company of Pittsburgh as an apprentice electrical engineer.
A year later I accepted a provisional appointment with the City
of New York as a junior engineer with the Signal Division, for the
Independent Subway System under construction at that time.
Exactly one week after I reported on my new job, I took a leave
of absence to get married. The examination for my permanent
appointment was scheduled for the middle of the same week.
The first three days of my honeymoon were spent cramming for
the exam. On Wednesday, with the exam out of the way, we
left New York to spend the remainder of our honeymoon at
the seashore. _

In 1931 I enrolled at Brooklyn Law School, hoping to combine
the law with my engineering training and become a patent attor-
ney. The idea was sound, but I had not anticipated the problem
of supporting a family while breaking into a new field. I gradu-
ated in 1934 and took the New York Bar exam shortly after, and
was finally admitted to the Bar that fall. Meanwhile I had been
working gratis for a patent attorney, to obtain the necessary ex-
perience to qualify for the examination. In 1935, I took the Patent
Office exam and became a full-fledged patent attorney. Now the
fun began. With the depression in full swing, no one seemed
anxious to employ a budding patent attorney at a salary sufficient
to support a family of three,

Progress was slow in the engineering field, so I took a couple of
courses in pedagogy and in 1937 I accepted a temporary appoint-
ment as instructor in machine design at Brooklyn Technical High
School, and in addition taught at night to augment my income.
Anita came along in 1938, and my brother and I set up a little
business selling T-shirts and pennants to colleges. We had student
representatives on the college campuses, selling directly to the
fraternities. When the war came along it was difficult to replace
the men who entered the armed services. As an alternative we
switched to selling directly to the bookstores. My business has

expanded with the years, and has proved interesting, challenging,

[154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and fruitful. My engineering background has been especially
valuable in solving many of the technical problems in the daily
course of our business, which is primarily silk-screen printing.
My wife is an officer of the company and runs the business while
I am at school. I am still active in sports — tennis, swimming, and
skating, and the indoor sport of contract bridge.

My elder daughter was recently engaged and expects to be
married next fall. She is now in her junior year at college, major-
ing in education. The younger is a junior in high school. Al-
though my daughters often accuse me of being “old fashioned,”
I do not feel half as old as the Class of 1904 appeared to me at
Commencement twenty-five years ago.

SAMUEL CAMPBELL BURNS

HOME apprEss: 40 Old Orchard Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Pearson Co., Inc., 15 Boylston Pl., Brookline, Mass.

BorN: April 26, 1905, Boston, Mass. Parents: John Burns, Elizabeth
Blakely.

PREPARED AT: Ringe Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips Acad-
emy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1925-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1929 (30).

MARRIED: Eunice Langshaw, May 16, 1940, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN:
Mary (stepchild); Walter (stepchild); Elizabeth (stepchild); Gardner
Bullard (stepchild). GRANDCHILDREN; Two step-grandchildren.

OCCUPATION: Contracting-superintendent, railroad construction, Portsmouth
Air Base.

MEMBER OF: Charles River Country Club.

TWENTY-NINE years ago, when my freshman adviser allowed
me to sign up for such courses as Math. C, History 1, and astron-
omy, three C’s and a D seemed like a formidable achievement.
Since graduation I have worked as a tutor, salesman, industrial
engineer, personnel director, and railroad construction superin-
tendent. Along with having many frolicsome experiences and
a few dreadful crises along the way, I generally made the three
C’s and a D, sometimes with a little to spare. There has been no
noticeable change since, except for one important variation from
the norm. That was the acquisition of a Group 1 wife and family.

C155 ]

me 9A RE HES nian ea ni ithaniatarcibediie,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

HARRY WILLIAM BURRUSS

HOME ADDRESS: 913 S. Third St, Hamilton, Mont.

OFFIcE appREsS: U.S. Public Health Service, Hamilton, Mont.

BoRN: Oct. 18, 1904, Aberdeen, Md. parents: Harry William Burruss, Mary
Schey.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MARRIED: Virginia C, Burruss, CHILDREN: Charles C., 1934; Thomas H., 1944.
OCCUPATION: Research.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

ERNEST BROOKS BURTON

HOME AppRESS: Meadow Farm Road, East Islip, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 267 Fifth Ave., New York 10, N. Y.

BoRN: May 2, 1906, Hewlett, Long Island, N. Y. parents: John Howes
Burton, ’90, Marie Douglas Brooks.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MARRIED: Eleanor Degener, Jan. 21, 1938; Lucy F. Falkines.

HARVARD BROTHER: Howes Burton, °26.

occupaTioN: President, Burgill Company, Inc, specialty manufacturers;
treasurer, Orient and Overseas Company, Inc., import and export; ex-
ecutive, Burton Fifth Avenue, real estate. .

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York; River Club of New
York.

PASQUALE CONRAD CAIA

HOME appress: 18 Ledyard St., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3098 Main St., Springfield 7, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 26, 1907, Naples, Italy. paren1s: Vincent Caia, Carmela Var-
riale.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1934.

magriep: Louise Ada Caia, Nov. 28, 1942, Springfield, Mass.

occupation: Physician, general practice, ,

oFFicks HELD: Examining physician, Local Draft Board 140, Springfield,
medical adviser, Local Board 78, Springfield; attending physician,
Hampden County Training School for Boys; medical examiner, two
Canadian insurance companies, several local societies.

MrMerR op: Springfield Lodge, Sons of Italy, Hampden County Medical

[156]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Society; Massachusetts Medical Society; Mercy Hospital Medical staff,
since 1939.
IN 1938, after two years of internship in Holyoke and Spring-
field, Massachusetts, hospitals, I finally buckled down to the not
inconsiderable business of building a medical practice. Every be-
ginning is proverbially difficult and mine was no exception; suf-
fice it to say that in 1942, after the usual “blood, sweat, and tears,”
I finally was able to marry and enjoy a more contented life.
The main compensations derived from my professional and

personal life have been a deep satisfaction in being able to help
the sick and unfortunate and thankfulness for having made a wise
and happy choice of marriage partner. My medical practice has
been a rather monopolizing and often hard taskmaster, but never-
theless I have found a certain surcease in yielding to an insistent
creative urge and succeeded in completing some paintings which
others were kind enough to judge creditable notwithstanding the
fact that, like the more illustrious Sir Winston, I am entirely self-
taught and actually “stumbled” on this latent “spark” at the hoary
age of thirty-seven! With the reflection that mine is an ancestry
peculiarly prone to the fine arts, it should be no surprise to have
unearthed this unexpected quality in an otherwise scientific make-
up. Nor do I scorn the other Muses, but listen raptly to the
music of the masters, of whom I have a noble selection. Further-
more, I find a certain therapeutic value in listening to these master-
pieces at the end of a long and harassed day — surely they were
divinely inspired to thus “soothe the savage beast’!

A certain wanderlust shared also by my spouse has taken us to
many places: Washington, Montreal, Quebec, Miami, Charles-
ton, Havana, to mention an outstanding few. As yet we have not
traversed either inter-continental ocean, but a smoldering desire
to see Italy, Jand of my forebears and of the matchless past, leaves
me no peace. I may some day succumb to its lure and go there,
hoping to drink my fill at the shrines of its past and present great-
ness. |

In retrospect, and as I approach the twilight years, I am grate-
ful that I still enjoy robust health despite earlier hardships and
those of an ever-expanding and demanding medical practice. The
keynote of my present-day philosophy, then, is that of gratitude
for many blessings and opportunities enjoyed now and in the past.

[157 ]

macy on etasti ATOMEE SLOG Raise celles,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

And through it all, the unmistakable thread of the Great Weaver
designing the tapestry of our human destinies gives meaning and
direction to an otherwise inexplicable and pointless existence on
the “earthly orb”! To this infinite and omnipotent power, I
have learned to turn and pray for enlightenment in the practice
of the healing art and for the peace of soul only He can give.

VICTOR ROCKWOOD CAIN

HOME ADDRESS: Stevenson, Md.
OFFICE appress: Richleigh School, Reisterstown, Md.

BoRN: Aug. 13, 1903, Yarmouth, N. S., Canada. parents: George Hogarth
Cain, Mildred Knight Parker.

preparED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.,; Cambridge High and
Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1927. DEGREE: B.A, (Acadia Univ. ), 1930.
marriep: Margaret Elizabeth Goudey, July 9, 1932, Yarmouth, N. S.,

Canada, cHmLpreN: Christopher Carroll, April 19, 1936; Scott Hogarth,
Dec. 7, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carroll Marston Cain, ’31.

occupation: Headmaster, Hannah More Academy, Reisterstown, Richleigh
Primary School.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant headmaster, Calvert School, Baltimore, 1939-51;
headmaster, Hannah More Academy, Richleigh Primary School, since
1951.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Maryland; St. Andrew’s Society; Green
Spring Valley Hunt Club.

AT the close of my sophomore year, upon advice of supposedly
sound counsel, I gave up the idea of further college and went to
work. One year of various jobs served to re-orient my thinking,
so with meagre funds I entered Acadia University, Wolfville,
Nova Scotia, from which I graduated in 1930 with a signed con-
tract to teach at St. Paul’s School, Garden City, New York.

Seven years at St. Paul’s, six of them at depression salaries,
finally overtaxed a feverish loyalty and we (I had acquired a wife
and small son) moved south to Baltimore, rented our first real
home, and I began fourteen delightful, gratifying years with Cal-
vert, an elementary, coeducational, country day school, At the
end of my second year I was appointed assistant-headmaster and
continued as such until June of 1951. In the course of these years

[158]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

we had acquired a second son, our “dream house” in the Green

Spring Valley, and a host of friends.

In June of 1951 I was appointed headmaster of nearby Hannah
More Academy, the school for girls of the Protestant Episcopal
Diocese of Maryland and the oldest such school in this country,
with a record of 122 years of continuous operation. The school
had suffered many of the ravages of age and of late had enjoyed
relatively small doses of rejuvenation. Considerable emphasis on
the latter for two and a half years finds the school quite reorgan-
ized, thoroughly renovated, and offering a unique contribution
to the field of secondary education for girls. A “spare” building
on the premises suggested expansion, so we opened a coeduca-
tional, primary, country day school as an adjunct of the older
school. We now have a rapidly growing Richleigh School with
a fine new wing of classrooms already bulging at the seams for the
coming year. Asa Lay-Reader I supplement the duties of the regu-
lar chaplain by conducting the full Morning Prayer service with
sermon three Sundays each month in St. Michael’s Chapel on the
school grounds. What a far cry from the predictions and scholarly
counsel of 1927!

I ride, golf, play tennis, putter about a well-equipped wood-
working shop at home as time permits and the spirit moves, in-
dulge in all the social vices including local politics and the usual
run of civic affairs. I still operate a very “choosy,” very small,
summer camp (non-profit) for a few lads who love sailing and
the gentle art of angling in virgin country, Nova Scotia. This
serves as well to keep the family intact through each summer and
still have fun in the midst of a codperative venture in something
purposeful. | :

My chief personal concern is for the future of my two sons
whose accomplishments will determine the size of my footprints
on the sands of time. Professionally I seek new ways and means
of educating the young to cope with the increasing complexities
of twentieth-century living and perhaps add some small encour-
agement toward a more Christian Christianity.

PS. In what I’ve said and what you’ve read
A change there ought to be —
For ev’ry time there’s “I,” instead
There really should be “We.”

[159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

For none of what makes up this “Life”
Would ever truly be —

Had I not found the perfect mate

Who makes the “I” mean “We.”

COLIN LEITER CAMPBELL

HOME ADDRESS: 1350 Astor St., Chicago 1o, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 208 S. LaSalle St., Suite 966, Chicago, IL.

BorN: March 15, 1907, London, England. parents: Colin Powys Campbell,
Nancy Leiter.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

marriep: Elizabeth Cook, Dec. 5, 1932, Tulsa, Okla. (divorced 1938). CHIL-
DREN: Alison, Sept. 28, 1933; Juliet, Sept. 28, 1934. .

occupation: Real Estate; Ralph W. Applegate & Company.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JOSEPH LAWRENCE CAMPBELL

HOME ADDRESS: 4633 Montview Blvd., Denver 7, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 806 Republic Bldg., Denver, Colo.

Born: April 6, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTs: Peter Campbell, Mary Edna
Clark.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D., 1933.

marrigD: Elizabeth Maude McKeen, Oct. 14, 1936, Denver, Colo. CHILDREN:
Alison Lynn, April 25, 1939; Peter McKeen, June 10, 1941; Martha
Elizabeth, Sept. 1, 1942; Janet, April 9, 1946; Mary Carol, Jan. 8, 1950.

OccuPATION: Anaesthesiologist.

OFFICES HELD: President, Colorado Society of Anaesthesiologists, 1947-48;
associate clinical professor of anaesthesiology, Colorado School of
Medicine, since 1947; trustee, Colorado Blue Shield Corporation, since
1950; secretary, Board of Supervisors, since 1952, member various
committees, Colorado Medical Society.

MEMBER OF: Mariner's Lodge, AF. & A.M. Cotuit, Mass.

AFTER finishing College I spent the next four years across the
river at the Harvard Medical School. While there I’m afraid that
the sole distinction I earned stemmed from the circumstance that
I was the only medical student requested by the Dean’s Office to
desist from brewing beer in the dormitory bathtubs. I did have
the satisfaction of being told that the objection arose not from

[ 160 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the quality of my beer but from the quantity. The knowledge I
gained at Vanderbilt Hall stood me in good stead, for years later
I found that I could turn out a tolerable and potent brew in a
South Pacific jungle with the aid of a little yeast and a lot of
dried apricots, prunes, and raisins. Following graduation from
Harvard Medical School I spent the next eighteen months in an
internship at the Springfield Hospital, Springfield, Massachusetts.

Then, at the worst of the depression, I entered general practice
in Springfield and was quite surprised to find that I could earn a
meagre livelihood in the practice of medicine. While in general
practice I developed an interest in anesthesiology, a subject rela-
tively new as practised today, and to further my interest and
knowledge I gave up general practice in 1938 and went back to
the Massachusetts General Hospital for two years’ residency. In
1940 I moved to Denver where I have remained in practice, with
a four-year hiatus occasioned by the war. I spent nearly four
years in the Army Medical Corps and returned to private practice
with a bad case of “jungle rot,” totally demoralized and woefully
poverty-stricken. I have recovered from the “jungle rot” and
the demoralization and I am almost reconciled to the poverty.

I don’t believe I have any hobbies; I’m sure the pursuit of a
hobby demands more time and money than I have to spare. I do
have a few serious interests that are almost hobbies. These include
collecting oriental rugs and studying them as well as other aspects
of oriental art. I collect guns and spend a few hours on the range
firing them. I wonder if any of my classmates has ever fired a
wheel-lock or a flint-lock. Music is another interest and I manage
to spent quite a few hours at the concert hall or listening to my
collections of recordings. Perhaps one of these days I may learn
to play some instrument, my sole effort so far being in learning
to struggle through “The Campbells are Coming” on the Highland
bagpipes. Most of my time is devoted to the practice of medicine
and in trying to keep the wolf from the door. I take an interest
in medical society affairs and most of the time hold one or two
key positions in one of the societies to which I belong.

I guess my family is my only real hobby. I have five children,
four girls and one boy, and trying to support them and maintain
a home for them keeps one busy — and happy.

[ 161 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

WALTER LOWRIE CAMPBELL

HOME appREss: Norfolk, Conn.

OFFICE appress: American Embassy, Damascus, Syria.

Borx: July 31, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Allan Reuben Campbell,
"99, Gertrude Helen DuBois.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930, DEGREE. AB, 1929(30).

marrieD: Rosemary Gaines, March 5, 1932, Harrison, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Ann Patricia, Oct. 7, 1932; Tamsen Lowrie, Dec. 27, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Coert Campbell, ’33.

occupation: Foreign Service, Department of State.

AFTER leaving college well supplied with knowledge on the
early French poets and Hammurabi’s code of laws, but without
the qualifications that employers appeared to be seeking, such as
the ability to run a turret lathe or interpret governmental tax
regulations, I drifted into teaching. I taught for two years at the
Morristown School in New Jersey, at which point Old Man De-
pression threw the school into receivership. For the next few
years I ran through the usual series of depression jobs, which ended
in most cases with the company collapsing underneath me. I was
successively (but not too successfully) bookkeeper, bill collector,
ditch digger, tractor driver, and salesman. Finally, in 1938 I joined
with three other ex-teachers in running a boys’ preparatory school
at Norfolk, Connecticut. We operated on the proverbial shoe-
string for about four years when it became apparent that the war
situation would make it impossible to continue.
I then braced the State Department for an overseas job. Prob-
“ably as a result of my solid grounding in early French poetry, I
was sent to Cairo as an economic analyst in the spring of 1943.
When I arrived in Cairo nobody seemed much interested in hav-
ing any economics analyzed, so I took on the job of handling,
trans-shipping, and delivering to consignee governments all non-
military Lend-Lease shipments for the Middle East. In this job
I covered the area fairly thoroughly from Addis Ababa to Bagh-
dad, picking up a fair amount of area knowledge in the process.
I returned to the States in the summer of 1945 when wartime
activity was tapering off, and was reassigned by the State Depart-
ment to Damascus as assistant commercial attaché. After some-
thing over a year at this post, I returned to Washington at the

[ 162]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

end of 1946. For the next six years I shuffled papers in Washing-
ton at various desk jobs, meanwhile trying to wangle another
Middle East field assignment. I finally made it, and arrived in
Damascus for the second time in October, 1952, assigned to the
Embassy as economic attaché. Since the normal tour of foreign
duty is two years, it appears probable, unfortunately, that I shall
not be able to get to the Reunion. Although my wife is in
Damascus with me, the rest of my family is somewhat scattered.
My elder daughter has just finished her junior college year in
Paris and will be returning to the States after a tour of Europe,
for her senior year at Smith. My younger daughter is in boarding
school in Beirut, since Damascus has no adequate educational fa-
cilities.
The Arabs have a proverb to the effect that “he who drinks of
' the Nile will return again.” We emphatically do not recommend
any literal testing of this saying, since it is probable that he who
drinks of the Nile will not be in any condition to do much of
anything. It is true, however, that this part of the world does
have a certain fascination which grows on one the longer one is
here. Arab hospitality is traditionally among the finest in the
world. As the cradle of civilization the area drips with history,
and as a key strategic area it is of course receiving close attention
from all sides in the present conditions of cold war tensions. You
really feel as if you had a front seat at the show, all the while keep-
ing an eye on the nearest exit in case the roof falls in.
Since I am not a joiner, and since what writing I have done has
been in connection with my job rather than for publication, I
have nothing to report in those fields. I have from time to time
given some thought to writing an analysis of the factors behind
the confusing and rapid changes which have recently been taking
place in the Near East political field, but have so far done nothing
about it except to pick Whose Coup as a tentative title, All the
old jokes about the number of revolutions per minute in South
America now appear particularly pertinent to this area. On
balance, however, despite political instability, dysentery, tape-
worms, bombings, and similar occupational hazards, we prefer life
in Syria to Washington. Will be glad to see any classmates pass-
ing through.

[ 163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

BRADFORD CANNON

HOME appRESS: Weston Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 330 Dartmouth St, Boston 16, Mass.

sorN: Dec. 2, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Bradford Cannon,
"96, M.D. ‘oo, Cornelia James.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: SB. 1929; M.D. 1933.

marriep: Ellen DeNormandie, June 25, 1938, Lincoln, Mass, CHILDREN:
Walter Bradford, 2d, July 6, 1940; Philip Yardley and Robert Laurent
(twins), Sept. 22, 1941; Sarah, July 27, 1943; Woodward, Nov. 11, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Plastic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical associate in surgery, Harvard Medical School; chief,
Plastic Clinic, Massachusetts General Hospital; secretary-treasurer,
American Board of Plastic Surgery; senior consultant in plastic surgery,
Crippled Children’s Program, Commonwealth of Massachusetts; con-
sultant to Veterans Administration; member Committee on Graduate
Training, American College of Surgeons; lieutenant colonel, U. S. —
Army; former chief of plastic surgery, Valley Forge General Hospital,
Phoenixville, Pa.

MEMBER OF: American Surgical Association; American Association of
Plastic Surgeons, Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery; Society
of University Surgeons; American College of Surgeons; International
Society of Surgeons; American Board of Surgery (diplomate); Ameri-
can Board of Plastic Surgery (diplomate); Legion of Merit.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in professional journals on plastic and reconstruc-

tive surgery.

MY decision to enter medical school was prompted by uncer-
tainty about the direction my life should take. An opportunity
to teach chemistry at Robert College in Constantinople was not
accepted because it involved a three-year commitment. The medi-
cal course seemed to offer a very broad experience in science
which was my major interest. When I was accepted in the Class
of 1933 at the Harvard Medical School the need for making a
decision was postponed indefinitely.

My first contact with medical problems was in the summer of
1929 when several research projects in physiology were begun.
These were completed and reported before graduation in June,
1933. Somehow there was not the same appeal in the laboratory
as there was in the care of patients. A career in surgery was ap-
pealing to me, as it was to a majority of my classmates. It is

really less glamorous than the medical student thinks, but in my
case it was a wise decision.

[ 164]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For one born and brought up in Cambridge, who had spent
eight years studying at Harvard, to go “way out” to St. Louis
for surgical training was most unorthodox. However, when my
application for an internship at Barnes Hospital was approved, I
accepted eagerly and started in July, 1933. The years that fol-
lowed were years of continued study, new experiences, and in-
creasing responsibility. Many lifetime friendships among my
surgical colleagues were established. The several years in St.
Louis were some of the most profitable and happiest of my life.

During my fifth year in St. Louis two important events oc-
curred. The first was my meeting Ellen DeNormandie, which
was followed by a whirlwind courtship during a Christmas vaca-
tion in Cambridge. The second followed the first when I decided
to turn my major interest from general surgery to plastic surgery.
The selection of plastic surgery was logical because of my very
stimulating experiences with the renowned group in St. Louis
and the opportunity of becoming associated with it.

On my return to Boston in 1940, I was appointed a member of
the staff of the Massachusetts General Hospital and of other hospi-
tals in the greater Boston area. I was soon put in charge of plastic
surgery at the Massachusetts General Hospital, and in 1942 was
called upon to care for a number of the severely burned from
the Boston night club fire. My induction into the Army was de-
layed to complete this service, but in April, 1943, I received my
commission. Mine is perhaps the unique distinction of being sent
to one station, staying there for four years, and being discharged
from the same station, Valley Forge General Hospital.

It was to this hospital that many casualties with the most com-
plex problems of surgical reconstruction were sent. Over 15,000
operations were done by our group during those four years with-
out a single death. For my part in the endeavor I was awarded
the Legion of Merit. At the end of the war, a number of us were
asked by the surgeon general to serve indefinitely : and to continue
the care of these patients, an obligation which we were happy to
assume. After my discharge in the spring of 1947, I continued
to visit Valley Forge as a consultant for a number of years and
even today care for some of these patients at the Boston Veterans
Hospitals.

The last seven years have been devoted to my practice, to teach-

[ 165 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ing and to research. As one progresses in his profession, adminis-

trative responsibilities increase, I have been fortunate in having

few to divert me from my principal interests, and those have
roven stimulating rather than a burden.

Rural life in Lincoln permits a full opportunity to enjoy the
outdoors. Animal husbandry, 4-H clubs, snow-plowing, cutting
of firewood are all part of our lives in this pleasant community.
My workshop is both a practical and an instructive diversion to
the whole family.

Professional meetings have provided an excuse for many family
expeditions. We are familiar with most of the camp sites between
Cape Breton and San Diego. Perhaps my four sons will follow
their father’s and grandfathers’ footsteps at Harvard.

HAROLD CANTOR

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 107 Reynolds St., New Bedford, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 28, 1908, New Bedford, Mass. parents: David Cantor, Fanny
Genensky. .

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1934.
occupation: Medicine.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

ANTONIO PASQUALE CAPRIO, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 253 Revere St., Revere 51, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1908, Revere, Mass. parents: Antonio Pasquale Caprio, Celia
Luciano.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.
OCCUPATION: Journalism.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

PAUL CAPRON, JR.

HOME aporess: 23 W. Eighth St., New York 11, N.Y.

orrice appaess: Information Section, Hq. Eighth U, §. Army, APO 301,
San Francisco, Calif,

[ 166}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: Feb. 21, 1909, Annapolis, Md. parents: Paul Capron, ’96, Lina Waldo
Martin.

PREPARED AT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

marriED: Marguerite Alice Gillespie, Oct. 26, 1929, Brewster, N. Y. (di- .
vorced 1932); Amy Porter, 1934, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1938);
Jill Stern, 1942 (divorced 1951); Catherine Arrighi (Watson), 1952.
CHILDREN: Anne Hathaway, Sept. 29, 1930; Marion Porter, Feb. 9, 1935;
Paul, 3d, Jan. 6, 1938; Janet Stern, Oct. 19, 1947. .

HARVARD BROTHER: John Martin Capron, ’34, LL.B., 37.

occuPATION: Major, Artillery, Army of the United States.

MEMBER OF: Headquarters, 8th Army, Officers’ Open Mess.

AFTER leaving College right after the 1927 Christmas holidays,

I tried to enter the Naval Academy, but the Navy established to

its satisfaction and my disappointment that I was nearsighted, so
I wound up at West Point, entering with the class of 1932. I
resigned, married, and went to work for the New York Evening
Journal more or less simultaneously about a week after the stock
market crash of 1929. After three years on the Journal, I went to
the Washington Herald, thence back to New York as an assistant
news editor for Universal Service, the old Hearst morning wire
service, now a part of International News Service. My next stop
was San Francisco, where I managed the Universal Service Bu-
reau for two years. After that I was in Boston (Boston Amer-
ican), New York for a short spell, and then on the Washington
Herald again.

In 1938 I went to work for a classmate, Lincoln O’Brien, on
the old Boston Evening Transcript, where I wrote a more-or-less
daily column called “The Rambler” and reasoned as gently as my
temperament would allow with the specialists who ran our fea-
ture departments. Later I was one of the three characters who
wrote and pieced together daily an experimental page-one sum-
mary of the day’s news called “Newscope.”

In 1939 I joined Boston’s “First Corps of Cadets,” officially the
211th Coast Artillery Regiment (Antiaircraft), making the 1940
‘irst Army maneuvers as a private first class. In September the
egiment was called into federal service, and I was promoted to
-orporal, finding myself, because of the paucity of commissioned
officers at that stage of our national defense development, acting
ange officer. The regiment went to Camp Hulen, Texas, to train

[ 167 ]

Sia 2 torn OnE i eticmaelh,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

— one of the few spots in North America where a man can stand
up to the seat of his breeches in mud and have dust blowing in
his face. In June, now a line or “buck” sergeant, I went to the
first Coast Artillery Officers’ Candidate School at Fort Monroe,
Virginia, having been commissioned second lieutenant in October,
1g9g1. There followed the Carolina maneuvers and Pearl Harbor,
then a winter under canvas in the vicinity of the Philadelphia
Navy Yard with the 76th Coast Artillery Regiment (Antiair-
craft).

We were still shivering with the memory of that winter when
we began shivering even harder with dengue fever and malaria
in the South Pacific. I spent a little more than three years in those
parts during World War II, travelling by infrequent jumps from
the New Hebrides through the Solomons to the Admiralty Is-
lands, New Guinea, and the Philippines. A few days after V-J
Day, I went home by air and, convinced there would be no more
shooting wars within my active lifetime, got out of the Army
and back into the newspaper business. This time my employer
was the Philadelphia Record. 1 spent about a year on the paper,
then another year and a half as news director and general liaison
man at the Record’s radio station, WCAU.

In the spring of 1948 I bought a county newspaper, a weekly,
and a 11o-acre dairy farm in Bel Air, Maryland, combining news-
paper work with agriculture for the next three years and for once
getting almost half enough time and opportunity for my favorite
avocation — letting a horse carry me across country. Meanwhile,
the Korean crisis dispelled my illusions of permanent peace, and
in the summer of 1951 I sold the newspaper and farm, and re-
turned to the Army, where I’ve been ever since: for a year on
detail to the Chemical Corps as a technical information officer,
then for eight months as executive officer of the 35th Antiaircraft
Artillery Gun Battalion at Fort George G. Meade, Maryland, and
since then, in Korea as a public information officer in Eighth
Army Headquarters. Last summer I had charge of public infor-
mation activities at “Operation Big Switch,” the prisoner of war
exchange which followed the signing of the Korean Armistice.

Since then I have been chief of the operations division of the
Public Information Office, Headquarters, Eighth United States
Army.

[ 168 ]

2 5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

World War II record: I served as battery officer, battery com-
mander, and battalion staff officer in antiaircraft artillery in the
Southwest Pacific; served as assistant G-3 (operations and train-
ing officer), Headquarters, 1q4th Antiaircraft Command, in New
Guinea and the Philippines.

Decorations and service medals: I have received the Bronze
Star, Army Commendation Ribbon, American Defense Service
Medal, American Theatre Service Medal, Asiatic-Pacific Service
Medal with three battle stars, World War II Victory Medal,
Army Reserve Ribbon, National Defense Service Medal, Korean
Service Medal with one battle star, Philippine Liberation Ribbon,
Philippine Independence Ribbon, United Nations Service Medal,
Philippine Presidential Distinguished Unit Citation, Korean Presi-
dential Distinguished Unit Citation.

WINSLOW CARLTON

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Gracie Sq., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 27, 1907, London, England. parents: Newcomb Carlton, A.M.
(Hon.), ’17, Josephine Winslow.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1025-1929. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1929.

marRIED: Margaret M. Gillies, Jan. 18, 1935, Washington, D. C. cHILDREN:
Mary Mildred, Feb. 6, 1938; Ann Winslow, June 11, 1940; Rhona New-
comb, Jan. 16, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clifford Warren Smith (half-brother), Sp. (deceased).

occuPATION: Executive, consultant, Group Health Insurance, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, board, since 1945, executive director, 1938-45,
Group Health Insurance, Inc.; chairman, board, Group Health Dental
Insurance, Inc. since 1953; president, Foundation for Codperative
Housing, F.C.H. Company, Inc., since 1952; general partner, A. W.
Jones and Company, since 1949; president, since 1953; director, 1943-
53, Henry Street Settlement; director, Public Health Research Insti-
tute of the City of New York, Inc., since 1951, National Committee
for Resettlement of Foreign Physicians, since 1953, Medical Adminis-

_ tration Service, Inc., 1945-49, Codperative Health Federation of
America, 1946-50, Spanish Child Welfare Association, 1937-39, Division
_ of Self-Help Coéperative Service, California State Emergency Relief
Administration, 1934-36; secretary, Organizing Committee, Board of
Directors, Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York, 1944-45; trus-
tee, instructor, Rochdale Codperative Institute, 1937-39; field represen-
tative, Bureau of Self-Help Codperatives, Federal Emergency Relief

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Administration, 1933-34; staff member, Emergency Exchange Associa-
tion, 1932-33.

MEMBER OF: Century Association; Harvard Club of New York; Heights
Casino, Brooklyn; Woods Hole Golf Club; American Public Health
Association (fellow); Beta Gamma Sigma, Columbia University; Citi-
zens Conference on International Economic Union; Codperative
Health Federation of America; Grand Jury Association of New York;
Museum of Modern Art, Junior Council, Associates of the Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institution.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on codperatives and health insurance.

AFTER trying a somewhat dilettantish hand at things of the
mind and spirit the year following graduation, I enrolled in the
Business School at Columbia for what amounted to a general
course in contemporary society. By October, 1932, I was impa-
tient of academics and started looking for a job. Some of the
Class will recall that the economy was laboring under certain dif-
ficulties at that time: my job turned out to be a voluntary one
with an outfit in New York City called the Emergency Exchange
Association. The purpose was to assist employable but un-
employed people to organize coéperative units for bartering
goods and services. Our chief accomplishment was to per-
suade Senator Wagner and President-elect Roosevelt to in-
clude aid for “self-help codperatives” in the Federal Relief Act
of 1933. What was really important to me about the E.E.A. was
that 1 there met Margaret Gillies who had recently returned to
this country after several years in Britain. She was an expert in
business machine systems — she had installed the I.B.M. system
for the Irish Sweepstakes among other jobs — and I soon became
ardently interested in Mr. Hollerith’s invention.

When the Federal Relief Administration got organized, Miss
Gillies was asked to head up the self-help codperative section. I
was invited to go along as her assistant. I jumped at the chance
and almost at once found myself visiting self-help units from New
York to California. It was impressive experience. Here were
thousands of American families, destitute, often hungry, without
immediate hope of normal employment —classic material for
despair and apathy, or for hate and fanatical action; instead, they
undertook through voluntary association to re-build their lives
and hopes by their own ingenuity and hard work.

The greatest concentration of these self-help units lay in Cali-

[170]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fornia, and Miss Gillies sent me there early in the spring of 1934
to serve as director of the State’s Division of Self-help Coépera-
tive Service. The two years of that job were a mishmash of pro-
duction engineering, business administration, staff organization,
and practical politics. My program became a casualty of the in-
ternecine war that rocked the Democratic party in California at
that time, and I quit in the spring of 1936. But it didn’t seem to
matter very much. The year before I had performed the classic
American act, though in reverse, and married my boss. Miss
Gillies was now Mrs. Carlton.

After a year in Europe studying codperatives and writing ‘about
what we had seen, we met a group of laymen and doctors in New
York who had ideas for a codperative health plan. They needed
someone who could volunteer part of his time to pull their ideas
together and get a plan into operation. It seemed well worth a
try. By the beginning of 1938, it had turned into a full-time job,
and on April 1st, ten families paid in their first quarter’s dues and
eight doctors stood ready to serve them. That was the beginning
of what is now Group Health Insurance, Inc., and somewhat in-
directly, the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York.

It also committed me to voluntary health insurance as a career.
For five or six years, it looked like a purely gratuitous business
as far as 1 was concerned. There were weeks when on Monday
there was not enough money to meet Friday’s payroll, months
when our slender supply of doctors was threatened by an adverse
ruling from a medical society, and many months when no new
subscribers were “sold.” Anyone who has been through the ex-
perience of starting a new business, in a new field knows what it
was like. In the end, we pulled through, thanks to many helping
hands — friends who contributed cash, others who gave time and
work, employees who served beyond the call of duty, and the
support of several foundations, chiefly the Rockefeller Founda-
tion. An observer might have thought that we were out to save
the world; all we were really doing was trying to establish a
simple principle often demonstrated before in other parts of the.
world but new here, that at least certain medical care costs are
susceptible to insurance coverage. Now that some seventy million
Americans have medical-surgica] insurance, it seems too obvious
to mention. But it was not then.

[3x71]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

attributes the talent to her genes); Rhona (Class IV) has the
makings of a sound general practitioner. At times, Margaret and
] are proud and grateful; at other times, we wonder, as they grow
larger and more powerful in voice and opinion, how under heaven
such creatures could have issued from such orderly, gentle, and
reasonable people as ourselves. For either mood, however, they
are enlivening and in a fishwifely sort of way we get along to-
gether pretty well. Twice we have taken summer-long automo-
bile trips together—in 1950 through Europe and Britain, last
summer across this country and back — and we remain friends.

I still enjoy playing Grade B tennis, even singles on occasion,
and don’t much mind being beaten by Youngman. We continue
to spend summers at Woods Hole, where one of the high points
is the Fourth of July weekend visit of Gordon and Elise Huggins.
On such occasions, Margaret and I dare play bridge. Otherwise
our social intercourse is confined to conversation. Like most New
Yorkers, our acquaintance is wide and we see our friends, particu-
larly those who live in out-of-the-way places like Boston and
Westchester, too seldom. If Dante were writing today, he would
surely describe an outer circle of Inferno populated by urbanites
who are forced forever to keep afloat in a rapidly moving stream
full of eccentric currents and aberrant whirlpools, now jostling
this group of fellow human beings, now that, but being joined
to none and eternally arriving nowhere in particular. Margaret
and I sometimes think we can hear the rushing waters; whether
we ever fall in depends on lines of thought and action which
we have not quite formulated yet. When we do, we'll be glad
to report — say at the Fiftieth Reunion.

CARTER CURTIS BEGGS CARNEGIE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1260 N. Lake Way, Palm Beach, Fla.
BORN: Sept. 22, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Thomas Morrison Carnegie,
Virginia Beggs.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927,
MarRiED: Polly Carnegie. cuito: Henry C,, 1935.
occupation: President, General Tung Oil Corporation, oil production.

MY war service was as a lieutenant (junior grade) in the U.S.

[174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Coast Guard Reserve. I was thoroughly disappointed in the
leadership afforded Harvard under Conant and am disgusted by
the attitudes expressed to date by Pusey. My continuing interest
is the restoration of representative constitutional government in
the United States and the concomitant rejection of the theory of
inherent dictatorial power residing in the office of the chief
executive.

+ ISHAM CARPENTER

BORN: Sept. 8, 1907, Lake Forrest, Ill. parents: George Albert Carpenter,
’88, Harriet Isham.

PREPARED aT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

DIED: Sept. 10, 1926, Chicago, Ill.

RUSSELL CARL CARPENTER

HOME appress: 107 Myrtle Sc, Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1907, Attleboro, Mass. parents: A. Howard Carpenter,
Christine Gustafson.

PREPARED AT: Attleboro High School, Attleboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 8.B, 1929.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Arrtist-designer.

THOUGH born of normal parents, at the age of consent I mi-
grated from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to the State
(and city) of New York, where I Janguished in a state of single
blessedness for approximately twenty-three years — with the ex-
ception of five Army years (Intelligence), one California year,
and a couple of French years. The year 1952 brought me back
to my senses and the Commonwealth — specifically to Beacon
Hill — where I shall be glad to bore you with further details, if
you care to call Capitol 7-5 149.

FRANK DENIS CARROLL

HOME ADpREss: Warriston Lane, Rye, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Eye Institute, 635 W. 165th St. New York 32, N. Y.;
66 Milton Rd., Rye, N. Y.

C175]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
BorN: March 4, 1907, New Bedford, Mass. parents: John Carroll, Mar-
garet Leahy.
PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, DEGREES: AB. 1929; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1932.
marRiED: Harriette C. Conlin, 1942, Omaha, Nebr. (died 1952.) CHILD:
Anne C,, Feb, 22, 1945.
occupation: Ophthalmologist.

MEMBER OF: Numerous medical societies; Apawamis Club; Manursing
Island Beach Club, Rye, N. Y.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous contributions to medical journals.

WILLIAM SIMPSON CARROLL

HOME ADDRESS: 18 F. Woodbine St., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

oFFIce apprEss: Hotel Washington Bldg. Washington, D. C.

sorN: Feb. 28, 1907, Washington, D. C. parents: William Simpson Car-
roll, Maud Clifton Bremer.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.,; Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB. 1929.

marRiED: Mary Sybil Bowyer, April 14, 1936, Washington, D. C.

OCCUPATION: Investments.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club, Washington, D. C.,; Washington Gun Club;
Argyle Country Club.

FOR nineteen years after the minor miracle that was my gradua-
tion I was engaged in flying divers types of obsolescent aircraft
for the Navy and CAA; as a pilot and flight instructor for the
former, and an aeronautical inspector in the latter bureaucratic
bureau, Not being identified as one of the Wright brothers, I
found my career prosaic in the extreme. My basic qualifications
were sound, however, embodying the necessary strong back and
weak mind.

In 1949 for lack of a better idea I decided to employ myself,
and so landed with a tiny splash in the investment business. After
the first week on my own I permanently gave up all ideas of mak-
ing the yacht class, and settled quietly down in the upper middle
rowboat group. However, I do have a pair of water wings stashed -
away — just in case. If the worst should occur I suppose one
could do as the Frenchman who recently constructed a home-
made electric chair, strapped himself in, and pulled the switch.

During the war (WW 2) I was a plank owner of the USS
Hornet, in which carrier I served as flight officer for over a year,

[176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

barging around the Central Pacific. The ship was awarded a
Presidential Unit Citation and one of the many ribbons emanating
therefrom rubbed off on me. I also served at Naval air stations
in California and the Hawaiian Islands. During the latter duty I
saw a good bit of McGeoch, who was advising the commander
of Naval aircraft in the Pacific. We drank some Dr. Pepper to-
gether at sundry officer clubs and he took some of my marbles
away from me in a few harsh poker games. At present I have the
rank of commander in the Naval Air Reserve and am not holding
my breath until I make fleet admiral.

In the past few years I have seen Pen Barnes, Hartwell, and
Fitzhugh in California, Galland in Spokane, Osborne in Panama,
and H. Lewis at Gulfstream Park. I entered a slight wager on one
of his nags there last winter, but for his sake won’t say what hap-
pened. I took my wife to the Bowl on November 21, where she
witnessed her first Harvard victory. This indirectly added to my
stature in her eyes, for after some previous Yale and Princeton
defeats as well as the slaughters of Charlottesville and Stanford
which we witnessed, I have had to keep pretty quiet around the
house for a long time on the subject of Harvard football.

My hobbies consist mostly of golf, trapshooting, and belabor-
ing the New Deal. For the past four months I have, without the
slightest excuse for doing so, ignored all the goads, urgents, and
double pleases dispatched by our long-suffering Report chairman.
I have not seen Hutchinson since graduation, so I don’t know the
present status of his hirsute adornment, but feel certain that
putter-offers like myself don’t help the situation. Abject apologies
and Merry Christmas, Jack. As to my politics, I am a registered
Democrat who hasn’t voted that way since 1936. I guess that
makes me a sort of mugwump in reverse — with a vengeance.

JAMES RICHARD CARTER, II

HOME apprREss: The Peacock House, Amherst, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nashua Corp., Nashua, N. H.

BORN; July 14, 1907. PARENTS: Hubert Lazell Carter, ’98, Edith Harriet
Adams.

PREPARED aT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.

[177 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MarRieD: Juliet Greene, Nov. 8, 1930, Boston, Mass, (divorced 1952).
CHILDREN: Anne, Oct. 31, 1934; James Richard, 3d, Aug. 15, 19qo.
HARVARD BROTHER: Hubert Adams Carter, ’36.
occuPATION: Vice-president in charge of sales, director, Nashua Corpora-
tion, paper converters.
IN the middle of my senior year the results of procrastination
finally caught up with me. The end of College was in sight, and
I had not yet begun to learn really the language of my chosen
history and literature field — Russian. Hence in early 1929 I left
for eight months’ study of the language in Russia. I returned to
College in the fall with a knowledge of Russian but with no im-
provement in my unstudious ways of procrastination. A first lost,
then delayed replacement thesis led to the termination of my pro-
bation without a degree in the spring of 1930.

My first job venture was in the financial world as a stock
broker. I embarked on this with considerable misgiving. Time
proved me right, I was not emotionally suited to this type of en-
deavor. My emotions rode with the ticker, and inasmuch as it
rode mostly steadily downward I got out, just in time, in the
summer of 1932. Jobs to my inclination were then all but non-
existent. I had by then learned that my major interest was in the
field of industria] distribution. Consequently I enrolled for a year
of specialized and intensive study in the field of marketing at the
Harvard Business School.

The end of this last academic year saw the birth of the National
Recovery Administration. The growth and development of the
N.R.A. inspired me with an evangelical zeal, Naively I felt that
this was a major approach to solving many of our economic ills.
Asa result I secured a job as assistant to the head of the American
Paper and Pulp Association where I dealt with code work and
commuted regularly between New York and Washington. At the
end of a year, in the fall of 1934, I left to join my present com-
pany, the Nashua Corporation of Nashua, New Hampshire, as a
code expert. Except for the war years I have been with them ever
since. My duties have always been in the distribution or sales end
of the business. We are paper converters specializing in the manu-

facture of packaging papers. Inasmuch as I have eight sales divi-
sions under my direction my job never lacks for scope and in-
terest.

[178]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The major part of the war years were spent in the Army Air
Force. I consider myself fortunate that all of my duty was over-

_ seas in the European Theatre. I was also lucky in that all of my
assignments were interesting and absorbing, falling either in the
field of invasion planning or Intelligence.

After having knocked around in several different houses and
locations since the war, I have finally settled down in an old house
in the country near the delightful colonial town of Amherst, New
Hampshire. This is only twelve miles from my mill and affords.
traffic-free commuting. This location gives me good opportunity
to pursue my three main outdoor interests of gardening, bird
shooting, and fishing.

JOHN MacDOUGALL CASE

HOME appress: Meads Point, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fairchild Camera & Instrument Co., Syosset, Long Island,
N. Y.

BorN: April 3, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Jay Case, Sheila
Mary Adelaide McDougall.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MaRRIED: Katherine M. Milligan, Jan. 7, 1933, Darien, Conn. (divorced,
1946); Fanny Moore Denison, Aug. 3, 1947, Big Horn, Wyo. CHILDREN:
Sheila McDougall, Nov. 27, 1933 (#. Kent Hill, Oct. 2, 1951); Colin
Jay, April 2, 1949. GRANDCHILD: Richard Rodney Hill, Aug. 24, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Fairchild Camera & Instrument Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Acragage Corporation, since 1950, Indian Harbor
Yacht Club, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: New York Yacht Club; Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club;
Beach Club of Greenwich, Conn.; Harvard Club of New York; Adver-
tising Club of New York; Sales Executives Club of New York; St.
Croix (V.I.) Yacht Club.

SEE the Twentieth Anniversary Report of the Class. Since then
I worked up to district manager for International Business Ma-
chines of New York metropolitan district, with way stations as
manager in White Plains and special representative for banks,
covering the entire United States (good territory). Then I left
on February 1, 1953, to join Fairchild Camera & Instrument Cor-
poration as vice-president for marketing. The corporation manu-
factures military and commercial cameras, precision potentio-

[179]

‘

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

meters, home power tools, and electronic-mechanical engravers.
Since returning east I have taken up boating. It is a wonderful

hobby, but very hard on your golf — and pocketbook. I plan to
attend the Twenty-fifth.

ANTHONY DREXEL CASSATT

HOME appRESS: 375 Park Ave, New York 22, N.Y.
"OFFICE ADDRESS: 70 Pine St, New York 5, N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 13, 1906, Rosemont, Pa. parents: Robert Kelso Cassatt, ’95,
Amanda Drexel Fell.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Middletown, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

marriep: Madeleine Cochrane, Nov. 15, 1930, Rosemont, Pa. cHitp: Minnie
Fell, Oct. 15, 1931 (7. Daniel Willis James, Nov. 25, 1953).

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Johnston Cassatt, ’27.

occupaTIoN: Partner, Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane, investment
banking and brokerage firm.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Racquet Club, New York Racquet and Tennis
Club; The Links.

HAVING left Harvard to go to work I have done little else since
except for occasional, rather extensive tours around Europe. I

am a staunch Constitutionalist and an inveterate foe of Com-
munism.

FRANK CASTLEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 20019 Renfrew St., Detroit 21, Mich.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 210 First St., Detroit 26, Mich.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1907, Everett, Mass. parents: Samuel Castleman, Rose
Michaelson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarrieD: Eleanor Solovich, June 19, 1937, Detroit, Mich. cuitpren: Don
Richard, July 6, 1939; Judith Ann, Sept. 9, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Benjamin Castleman, ’27; Eli Bernard Castleman, ’31.

occupation: General manager, Wolverine Textile Company, textiles and
textile waste.

SEVEN years after graduation I came to Detroit to start a busi-
hess venture with my brother, Class of 1931. We have been fairly
successful but at times the going has been tough in this area. Most

{ 180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of my leisure time is taken up with my family and home. I have
taken several vacations around Boston at which time I have had
an opportunity to meet many of my classmates.

’ CALEB CAUMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1349 Lexington Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1133 Broadway, New York 10, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1909, Boston, Mass, parents: Myer Cauman, Annie Wald-
"stein.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1920.

MARRIED: Rebecca Lowenstein, Feb. 16, 1942, Columbia, S. C. cHttpren;:
-Anne, Nov. 16, 1946; Richard, Jan. 4, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Cauman, ’30, A.M, 38.

occuPATION: Owner, Display Division Company.

MEMBER OF: Reserve Officers Association.

IN our Tenth Anniversary issue, I said my life since leaving school
had been quiet and uneventful. I now can say that the last fif-
teen years have been quiet and eventful. The most important
change, a common one, I married a beautiful (that’s for her bene-
fit) girl. We have been happily married for twelve years and
have two very nice postwar children: Anne is seven and Dick
is five; we trust they will follow their parents to school. |

In business, I made an important-to-myself change six years
ago, when I established my own company, designing, contracting
fabrication, and selling metal merchandising racks. It has been a
pleasant and rewarding experience.

Travel: not much until the Army took me around the world
and into some fantastic places. I saw whales spouting in the An-
tarctic; fished for shark in the Indian Ocean (and brought up
bottles of beer that I had thoughtfully tied to the lines); ran into
leeches, leopards, panthers, sambur deer, cobras, and kraits occa-
sionally, and mosquitoes and water buffalo frequently in India,
Burma, and China. Incidentally I met George Weller at the Kun-
ming airport and flew back with him to Chabua, Assam, “over the
Hump” route, one of the few times I have run into classmates ex-
cept for local reunions.

Hobbies are tennis, squash racquets, painting, and drawing.
Possibly I can enter a couple of my war paintings in our Class

[ 18: ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

exhibit. War record: I was drafted in 1941, eventually commis-
sioned a second lieutenant in the infantry in 1942, and went
overseas in 1943 as a company commander of a truck company
operating on the Burma Road and the then-to-be-built Stillwell
Road. I hold a reserve commission as a lieutenant colonel. My
overseas experiences impressed me. The evidence convinced me
we have the finest country in the world, that Americans are the
most decent and generous people, and that we should not be em-
barassed to make loyalty, patriotism, and civic responsibility a
fighting cause. From what I read and hear, I guess that makes me
a jingo,

I am, as always, a liberal Republican, and am happy to have
helped vote in the present administration. I believe in a decent .
social welfare program governed by practical reality, hard-headed
common sense, and sound economic policy. I am grateful, as ever,
to Harvard and glad to see her sound, liberal education policies
continued under President Pusey.

FREDERIC IRVING CHACE

HOME AppRess: Greenwich Towers, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 E, 42nd St, New York 17, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 4, 1907, Brookline, Mass. parents: Frederic Irving Chace,
Eunice Mayo Woods.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

MarRiep: Judith Lapham Mygatt, Oct. 31, 1942, New Canaan, Conn.
(divorced 1949); Katharine Hughston Innerarity, Feb. 5, 1953, Green-
wich, Conn. cHmpren: Judith, Sept. 22, 1943; Frederic Irving, Jr.,
Jan. 1, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Assistant, Executive Division, Foreign Operations, Texas Com-

any. .
satnoee or: Harvard Club of New York; Greenwich Country Club.
LIFE in September, 1953, is fun, much more than it has been dur-
ing the years since 1929. My bride of seven months is responsible.
The past twenty-four years of my life have resembled the situa-
tion which confronted the frog in the well. For each three feet
he jumped he fell back two— but reached his goal eventually.
There are still several jumps to be made before I’m as successful
as the frog — but there’s progress.

{ 182]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I graduated from Harvard Business School in 1931 after two en-
joyable years. My only claim to fame there was to be known as
“Chace of Chase Hall.” The First National Bank of Boston con-
sented to give me a thorough workout in the “Units Proof,” a
division which checked tellers’ errors, during the summer of 1930.
This was supposed to be preparatory to acquiring a regular job in
the credit department after graduation. Few men who were job-
seeking in 1931 need a reminder that banks were not receptive to
new employees at that time, and that included me.

Until April of 1933 I haunted prospective investors to sell them
bank stocks and other unlisted securities. My first connection was
with a bucket shop which cost my few friends and other unwilling
investors the money they put up to acquire securities. It was not

pleasant and rather naive of me not to recognize what the firm
was doing. I was at the bottom of the well. Subsequent connec-
tions were with reputable houses but outside of a thirty-dollar
commission paid in cash the day before the bank holiday, money
was abstract. However, that thirty dollars made me affluent for a
few days.

Deciding that the oil business should survive the depression, I
_ canvassed the major company offices in Boston and got a job
with Texaco. For several years I learned how to sell gasoline, then
how to teach others to sell it. Recently, I received a twenty-year
pin from Texaco, so I guess I was right that the oil business could
survive the depression.

During those twenty years I held most of the minor jobs i in the
Sales Division of the Texas Company in New England and was
transferred to New York in the fall of 1945. Foreign Operations
have proved to be fascinating, including the broad aspects of pro-
ducing, refining, transportation, and marketing — largely in the
Western Hemisphere. The trips involved and the wide diversity
of problems are thoroughly intriguing.

On the personal side, I almost died of phlebitis in 1935, but re-
covered sufficiently to learn to play a poor but enjoyable game of
golf; tennis and squash had to be given up. Being naturally lazy,
this has not been too much of a handicap.

I married Judith Mygatt in 1942 and we had two children, Judy,
Jr., and Ricky. They are handsome and intelligent children who
now live with their mother and stepfather i in Arizona, which jis

[ 183 ]

anata: put 83? : Phat elds iene hinapesinticescacillalh,

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

too far away. That situation developed several years after Judy
and I were divorced in 1949, when, by mutual agreement, we de-
cided that living apart would be more enjoyable than living to-
gether.

Several bachelor years passed and at a Halloween dance given
by the Junior League in New York last year I met Kay. She had
resumed her maiden name of Innerarity and I had a deuce of a
time learning that name. However, I concentrated and persuaded
her by January of this year that our respective lives would be more
fun if spent together. We were married in Greenwich, Connecti-
cut, had a happy wedding trip in the Caribbean, and returned ~
with only the regret that we had not met sooner. Now, Kay and
I are going to move into our recently acquired house in Indian
Harbor, Greenwich, where our elkhound will have to be re-
strained from chasing the ducks and an occasional fox. We don’t
have a well, but there are frogs in the pond.

DEAN CHAMBERLIN

HOME ADDRESS: 259 Clayton Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: g Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

BorN: Feb. 3, 1907, Concord, Mass. parents: Theodore Chamberlin, ’g1,
Anne Locke Bixby.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: 5.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1932.

marrieD: Wenonah E, Sibley, Nov. 19, 1937, Lexington, Mass. CHILD:
Martha Dean, June 8, 1940.

OccUPATION: Budget, circulation, market research matters, Time, Inc., pub-
lishing; certified public accountant.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club, American Institute of Accoun-
tants, American Marketing Association, Harvard Club of New York;
Urban League of Westchester.

THE past twenty-five years have gone all too fast! I hope to have
a chance to witness the next twenty-five, and that during this
period as much social progress will be made again as has taken
place since 1929 —a period in which we have seen a better life
brought to millions in the United States. We must move forward
with social progress and not let up on the age-long struggle for
freedom, equal opportunity, security, and decency.

My business career has not been spectacular, but I have found it

[ 184 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

both interesting and rewarding. After a year in New York with
W. R. Grace & Company, two years at the Harvard Business
School (M.B.A., ’32), followed by an unsuccessful attempt to en-
ter the Foreign Service and several odd jobs, I concluded that work
relating to accounting and statistics was probably what I wanted.
This turned out to be a happy decision. In September, 1933, I
joined the staff of Lybrand, Ross Brothers & Montgomery, audi-
tors and accountants, as a junior accountant. Thanks to the ex-
cellent training the leading public accounting firms offer and the
fact that I had become a CPA (New York State, 1936), I landed
a job in February, 1937, at Time, Inc., as a financial assistant to
the publisher of Life magazine doing budget, cost analysis, con-
tract, and other administrative work for the then new magazine
(Life started in November, 1936). The fabulous success of the
magazine took everyone by surprise, and trying to keep abreast
with all its growing pains kept me busier for a period of five years
than I ever want to be again, stimulating as the work was.

My hectic days on Life ended in June, 1942, after I had applied
for and received a commission in the Air Force as a first lieuten-
ant. I served first as an administrative officer with the Technical
Training Command in the United States and became a statistical
control officer while in Hawaii. I was separated as a major, and
upon returning to Time, Inc., from the service in February, 1946,
I became first business manager of the newly created Time-Life
International Division of Time, Life, and Fortune. By Reunion
time I expect to be out of publishing and possibly in business for
myself.

Aside from the fact that I was separated from my family for
long periods of time, I consider my time in the service to have
been one of those periods in my life that meant the most to me.
Up to 1942 I had been so busy, either studying or on a treadmill
trying to find enough time to get my job done, that I scarcely
had a chance to see the world around me. The Air Force (which,
by the way, generally gave me assignments where my civilian ex-
perience was useful) changed all that, quickly and thoroughly.
In the first place, the pace of work was generally more relaxed.
And in the second place, courtesy of Uncle Sam, I had an oppor-
tunity to see many different places and all kinds of people. Some
of the places in the United States in which I stayed from a month

[ 185 ]

poo eatin a ea i a lil,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

to nine months included Scott Field (Illinois), Cambridge (Mas-
sachusetts), Aliami (Florida), Newport (Rhode Island), Mobile
(Alabama), and Dayton (Ohio). After leaving the Continental
U. S., I spent fifteen months in Hawaii and five months on Guam.
Before returning to the States, I was fortunate to get to Japan and
have a chance to see Tokyo and its environs. (One year later I
was half-way around the world in Berlin on business for Time,
Inc. The destruction in these two great cities was beyond com-
prehension without seeing them, and I could not help thinking how
lucky we have been here in the U. S.)

The above experiences have been mentioned because they
brought me in direct contact with associates who had many dif-
ferent attitudes, opinions, and personal philosophies from those
to which I had been accustomed. For the first time I really became
aware of how deep-seated and vicious were the prejudices against
the Negroes, Jews, Asiatics, and other minority groups. As a re-
sult, I took a course in race relations at the University of Hawaii
when I was stationed in Honolulu and my wife and I now devote
a major part of our spare time to the subject of race relations.
Winnie has been for many years a most active worker for the
United Negro College Fund. 1 have been treasurer and president
of the Urban League of Westchester, and contribute to and
strongly believe in the work of the NAACP. Our daughter,
Martha (aged thirteen), went to an interracial camp last summer.
She felt it was one of the best summers she ever had.

Politically we are ardent Democrats, though both Winnie and
I come from families which have always been and probably al-
ways will be Republican. We believe that, though both of the
major parties have their liberal and conservative wings, the Demo-
crats are the ones we must continue to look to for basic reforms
of a helpful and humanitarian nature. To us the Republican Party
seems to be influenced too much still by that group of business
leaders which does not yet recognize that times have changed
permanently, and that modern business has responsibilities as well

as rights and privileges.

We have been fairly active as a family in local civic and church
affairs. We have found Scarsdale (where we have lived since
1945) a most satsifactory place in which to live. The combina-
tion of working in New York and living in the suburbs seems to

[ 186}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

suit us very well, for the “Big City” seems to get more and more
of a hold on us. And, finally, at this time when fear seems to be
playing such an important part in our lives, it is exhilarating to
see Harvard continue to hold to the ideals of freedom of inquiry
and thought and action. It makes me glad I went to Harvard.

RICHARD HENRY CHAPMAN §-

HOME ADDRESS: 1509 Park Ave., Baltimore 17, Md.

BORN: Aug. 29, 1908, Leominster, Mass. parents: William Henry Chap-
man, Emma Mathilda Chapman.

PREPARED AT: Leominster High School, Leominster, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1920.

UNMARRIED, .

occuPATION: Administrative clerk, Washington District, Corps of En-
gineers, Department of the Army.

MEMBER: Society for the Advancement of Management; American Society

for Public Administration; Civil Service Assembly of the United

States and Canada; American Political Science Association; American
Sociological Society; American Anthropological Society; Society for
Applied Anthropology; Maryland Historical Society; Y.M.C.A., Wash-
ington, D. C.

—

DURING the rather sad depression days beginning in 1929, I
worked in the landscape gardening business in Washington, D. C.
(1930 and 1931), and then Baltimore (from 1932). I remained in
this business until drafted into the Army in 1942. The three and
a half years in the Army were all spent in continental United
States: one year in the Army Engineers and two and a half years
teaching basic training in one of the adjutant general’s special
training centers for illiterate soldiers.

After the end of World War II, I went back to school for
four semesters — studying public administration at the Graduate
School of Public Affairs, American University, Washington, D. C.
Ever since then I have been working with the federal government:
three and a half years with the Bureau of Old Age and Survivors
Insurance, Social Security Administration, two and a half years
with the Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, working
in the field of research administration. My free time is largely
taken up with my interests in 1) outdoor life; 2) professional or-
ganizations, 3) social science research in business and public

[ 187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

administration, social psychology, social anthropology, sociologi-
cal theory, and urban sociology. For the past eleven years I have
been either in the Army or in government service, and therefore
unable to participate actively in political campaigns or in lobby-
ing for liberal legislation as I formerly did.

JEAN FREDERICK CHARTKOFF

HOME ADDRESS: 6314 Aberdeen Ave., Dallas, Texas.

OFFICE apprEss: Sanger Brothers, Dallas, Texas.

BORN: March 29, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Nathan Chartkoff, Olga
Yanko.

prepareD: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrieD: Wilma D. Notkins, May 2, 1936, New Haven, Conn. CHILDREN:
Michael Matthew, Jan. 30, 1937; Joseph Louis, April 10, 1942.

occupation: Retailer, merchandise manager, Sanger Brothers.

OFFICES HELD: Justice of the peace, Avon, Conn. 1950-51; chairman, local
affiliate, Governor's Committee on Education, Conn., member local
affiliate, CED. (BER.C, Dallas); president, Parent-Teachers Associa-
tion, Avon, Conn, 1950-51.

ARTHUR CARLTON CHASE

HOME abprEss: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

BORN: July 2, 1908, Ware, Mass. parents: Arthur Chase, Alice Jacobson
Rondthaler.

PREPARED AT: Ware High School, Ware, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: aB. cum laude, 1929, A.M. (Yale
Univ.), 1938,

marriep: Alice Ann Anderson, Feb. 17, 1942, Kenosha, Wis. cHILDREN: Ann
Carlton, Sept. 8, 1947; Janet Elizabeth, Jan. 24, 1949; Edward Lance,
April 11, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Rondthaler Chase, ’23; Richard Davis Chase, ’32.

occupation: Director of studies, assistant headmaster, head of English De-
partment, Berkshire School,

oFrices HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of New Mexico, 1934-37; trustee,
Barrington School, 1949-52; mstructor, committee chairman, Red Cross,

MEMEER oF: Branford Yacht Club.

THINKING back to my first teaching job at Los Alamos Ranch,
Otowi, New Mexico, I see haunting pictures of those mesas and
canyons before the Atom Bomb Project transformed the land.

{ 188 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Those were the days— when going to town of a weekend, we
took our horses across the Rio Grande just above the riffle at
Buckman and then rode on to Santa Fe along the Denver and Rio
Grande narrow gauge right of way. Those were the days—
when as juez des elecciones for that far-spreading precinct in
Sandoval County I could drum up no more than twenty-five
voters, and most of the votes cast at the Los Alamos ‘Trading Post
were for that comparative newcomer, FDR.

Eight years of work on the Los Alamos mesa gave me a last-
ing friendship for our Indian and Spanish neighbors, a taste for
cliff-climbing, and a layman’s interest in archeology. The count-
less cliff dwellings and pueblo ruins in that area give the amateur
digging and sifting to his heart’s content. During vacations I
either explored the Rainbow Bridge and Navajo Mountain sec-
tion of the Navajo Reservation or managed a sixty-five-horse
pack train through the unfenced range of the Jemez and Sangre
de Cristo Mountains. The purchase of Los Alamos for the war-
time Manhattan Project brought that chapter to a sudden close.

It took a war to interrupt the even tenor of schoolmastering.
My bride of a few months, whom I had first met when she was
visiting in Santa Fe, suddenly became a Navy wife, trudging pa-
tiently from apartment to furnished room for the duration. After
some anti-submarine patrol out of Boston, I settled down to
operations duty, first at East Boston and finally at Cincpac fleet
operations staff at Pearl and Guam. My province was the de-
ployment of LST’s and LSM’s. Thank heavens, the plans that
we had been working on during the last four months of the war
never got beyond the paper and rehearsal stage. My wife met me
at San Francisco, and we took a long-anticipated, leisurely motor
trip through the Santa Fe country to Mexico — Guadalajara,
Morelos, and Mexico City — then back to Chicago and Kenosha,
Wisconsin, via New Orleans: Growing family responsibilities
have made this our last prolonged excursion.

A wire from Dean Hanford at Harvard suggested that I could
be of service at University 4 while I was getting back into the
swing of civilian life. This invitation resulted in our spending
the winter of 1946 back in Harvard surroundings. It gave me a
chance to see the many wonderful changes since 1929.

But the pull of country life in general, and the Berkshire Hills

[ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

in particular, took me back to Sheffield and to school work as
director of studies and assistant headmaster at the Berkshire
School. Here between teaching and administrative duties, and
our family of Ann, Janet, and Eddie, we have had our hands
full. When I begin to enumerate my hobbies and my ties to the
town of Sheffield I wonder whether I’m giving enough time and
thought to the teaching of English. Choir and occasional or-
chestra work keep me in touch with music. There’s even a pro-
gram of southwestern ballads forthcoming when an audience can
be begged or bribed. My ski tow on the lower slopes of Mt.
Everett keeps me close to downhill and slalom coaching and gives
me an excuse for training a Ski Patrol. The first bright days of
spring will see the tapping of three hundred maples, and a
cloud of steam above the sugar house. In the summer fishing,
gardening (vegetables and roses), and bee-keeping fill the spare
hours. And a day seldom passes without a set or two of tennis.
I still do a little wood carving and cabinet work, and enjoy carv- _
ing the fireplace supply out of the wood lot with my chainsaw.
My wife is my favorite partner for an occasional bout of duplicate.

I've rambled too long. There’s a pile of midyears’ bluebooks
staring me in the face. I'll go back to the struggle of teaching
the young idea to read with pleasure and understanding, and to
write with clarity, and — well —all this and heaven too.

WILBUR ELBRIDGE CHEEVER

HOME appress: 268 Bedford St., Lexington 73, Mass.
BORN: July 13, 1904, Worcester, Mass. parents: George Ward Cheever,
Ethel Mae Turner.
PREPARED AT: West Boylston High School, West Boylston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; A.M., 1933-
Marriep: Edith Mae Banning, June 26, 1931, Glendale, Calif. CHILDREN:
Edith Hale, March 28, 1934; Wilbur Daniel, May 12, 1936; David Wil-
liam, June 13, 1938.
occupation: Teacher, head of English Department, Lexington (Massa-
chusetts) High School.
orrices HELD: President, Teachers’ Association, Wareham, 1936-37, Barn-
stable, 1940-41, Lexington, 1950-51; member Steering Committee, New
England School Development Council, 1947-50, member Red Feather
Lexington Town Committee, 1948; Boston delegate, Ginn & Company

[190]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Sales Conference, Columbus, Ohio, 1949; deacon, Hancock Congrega-
tional Church of Lexington.
MEMBER OF: Friday Evening Club of Boston; Hancock Church Men’s Club.
PUBLICATIONS: English for Every Use, with William Tanner, four-book
basal English textbook, Ginn & Company, 1947.

ON graduating in 1929, I went to work for the Bethlehem Steel
Company, taking the training course in plant management. After
three months in a steel town I decided —as I all along knew I
should — to make teaching my profession. Accordingly, I went
to Arizona in the fall of 1929 to teach at the Palo Verde Ranch
School, where I remained for three years. While in the West I
married Edith Banning, whom I had known in high school in the
East. Together we came back to Harvard for a year of graduate
study, and I received an A. M. in 1933.

In April of that depression year I was proud to be regarded as

“the man who has already landed a job,” this time as head of the
English Department at Wareham High School. Four years later
I went still farther down the Cape and stayed at Barnstable High
School in Hyannis as head of the English Department until 1945.
‘These were among the best years I can recall. Our three children
— Edith, Wilbur, and David — came along in quick succession;
and we had eight very happy years helping them get a good start.
During the war, since Uncle Sam thought my dependency allow-
ance would be rather high for any military service I could render,
in my “spare time” I ran a market garden, gave refresher courses
for Air Cadets at Camp Edwards, taught naturalization courses,
and worked at the local air defense center.

In 1945 I went as head of the English Department to Kimball
Union Academy in Meriden, New Hampshire. There I found time
to write a series of four English textbooks as co-author with Wil-
liam Tanner. Working on these textbooks proved to be time very
profitably spent, for the royalties ever since 1947 have enabled
me to provide for the college education of my three children and
have allowed me to follow my own hobbies — camping, garden-
ing, cabinet-making — in the summer instead of taking a job.

After the itinerant years down to 1947, I came to Lexington as
head of English in the junior and senior high schools — and here
I hope to stay. To many classmates who have achieved wealth
and fame, this may seem a small ambition; but to me this life is

[19]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

full of satisfactions. I see my own children grow up, go off to
college, and do creditably. Every year I see a class of seniors
graduate, secure in the know ledge that they are ready to do the
job in college studies or business offices. 1 have time to follow
my own interests, read a little, and take part in community af-
fairs.

I begin to understand the Chinese sage who said, “He has lived
who has begotten a child, written a book, and builded a house.”
Well, I have got as far as building a garage — and one of these
years I'll take a sabbatical and build the house.

GROVER ARVEL CHENOWETH

HOME ADDRESS; 63 Holden St, Holden, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 New Bond St., Worcester 6, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 16, 1907, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Grover Albert Chenoweth,
Sena Victoria Tibbs.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN. Cum laude, 1929.

marriep: Elizabeth Brooks Ohm, June 28, 1930, Marblehead, Mass. CHILD:
Sally Ann, July 3, 1935.

occuPATION: Supervisor of training, Norton Company, abrasives and grind-
ing machines.

oFFices HELD: Officer, Morning Star Lodge, AF. & A.M., 32° Mason,
director, Chaffin’s Men’s Club, Inc.; chairman, Standing Committee,
deacon, Chestnut Street Congregational Church; sector warden, ARP.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Training Directors; Massachusetts Asso-
ciation of Training Directors; Tau Beta Pi, Norco Club; Norco Sports-
men’s Club; Ushers Association of Worcester; Harvard Club of
Worcester; Chestnut Street Men’s Club.

UPON graduation from the Engineering School in 1929 as a
mechanical engineer, I was employed with the Norton Company,
and have been with them since then. As one might expect, ]
have been concerned with just about everything except mechani-
cal engineering. In spite of this, however, my Harvard training
has asserted itself until I find that I can now drink Bourbon, Rye,
and Tom Collinses all in the same evening and still show up at
work on time the following day. (That’s a boast, Son.) Since
I now have a private office, a leather swivel chair, and a good-
looking secretary, it is quite evident that I have succeeded in life,
there being other important phases of life besides remuneration.

[ 192]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My chief hobby is fishing and explaining why I brought none
home. In this my education leaves much to be desired, since I
have never been able to convince my wife that there was a very
good reason why the fish didn’t bite. Just between you and me,
why any self-respecting fish should attempt to eat the miscel-
Janeous assortment of tin and feathers we purists toss at them is
beyond my comprehension. In spite of this, one occasionally
does, either from lack of intelligence or simply to vary his dull
routine by taking a sporting chance.

In addition to fresh-water fishing, I have been more recently
engaged in scientific research concerning the degree of intelli-
gence of salt-water fish with respect to mistaking various com-
binations of tin, lead, and feathers for edible morsels. So far their
adeptness at distinguishing such phony morsels far exceeds my
ability to deceive them. In other words, “I still don’t get no fish.”

Outside of working hours and fishing, I spend most of my other
waking hours puttering around a one-half-acre lawn and engaging
in a number of church, lodge, and social activities.

Since our Twentieth Anniversary Report was issued, I have
attended the seventeenth session of the Advanced Management
Program at the Harvard Business School (1950). It was there that
I really made good on the liquid boast above. Incidentally, of
course, I learned a great deal about what not to do if one expects
to be a good manager.

My daughter is now a sophomore at Smith College, North-
hampton, Massachusetts, and this of course raises a serious question
as to how I can finance her college career in the style to which
she would like to be accustomed and at the same time support
this Twenty-fifth Reunion as I properly should. However, there
will be a way.

I have been in so many jobs around the Norton Company that
they finally took advantage of my experience by giving me a
great chance to show off every day to the neophytes, hence, my
new title of Supervisor of Factory Training. I am responsible for
all training except sales; I am understudying in sales training.

The tornado of June 9 raised the very devil with my neighbor-
hood but I was very fortunate. Outside of losing some twenty
shade trees and minor damage to the house, I escaped unharmed.
My home was four houses removed from the path of complete

[ 193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

destruction. I stopped my car just twenty feet ahead of the first
large tree to fall in front of me.

Anyway, I am still enjoying life and although I may never be
rich, I shall certainly enjoy this one-way trip which ever ap-
proaches the boundless realm of eternity. My sincere wish is that
every one of my classmates finds it possible to get at least as much
fun out of life as I have. My one bit of advice to do so is to con-
centrate on helping someone else enjoy his life.

FREDERICK RICHMOND CHEVALIER

HOME appreEss: Overbrook Lane, Darien, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

porN: Aug. 14, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Arthur Chevalier,
Bertha Plimpton Richmond.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marriep: Doris Dilworth, Nov. 27, 1937, Brooklyn, N. Y. cuttpren: Nancy,
June 23, 1942; Susan, Sept. 29, 1945; Lorraine, Feb. 1, 1949.

occupation: Insurance salesman, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company.
OFFICES HELD: Chess editor, Christian Science Monitor, since 1929.

1 HOPE to live to retirement without being dependent on my
daughters’ husbands, if any — in spite of the rigors of commut-
ing from Fairfield County to New York and in spite of the ques-
tionable privilege of paying New York’s non-resident income

tax — much of which goes to run New York’s mental institutions
to which non-residents are not admitted!

HENRY HONG CHUNG

HOME aporess: 1045 15th Ave., Honolulu, Hawaii.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1365 Nuuanu Ave., Honolulu, Hawaii.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1905, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Chung Kun Ai, Chung
Siu Shee.

PREPARED AT: Punahou, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 8.B. IN C.E., 1929.

Maxeep: Lillian Lee, Nov. 11, 1930, Honolulu, Hawaii, cu~pren: Barry
Jun Chun, 1931; Lillian Kam Lee, 1938, George, 1941; Richard, 1943-

HARVARD son: Barry Jun Chun Chung, ’52.

occupation: Civil Engineer.

[ 194]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOOKING back, I cannot say that I have set the world on fire
. or established a place in the sun. However, I feel justly rewarded
with a most intelligent and understanding wife, through thick and
thin, and a lovely family of four (three sons, one daughter). When
Barry, our oldest son, graduated from Harvard in 1952, we became
the first father and son of Chinese ancestry to have passed through
the ivy halls of Harvard. We feel a bit proud of that accomplish-
ment and hope in eleven years to have the first all Harvard family
in Hawaii.

Even though I was one of ten million men and women in uni-
form during the war, I feel very honored to have had the privilege
to serve our country. Shortly after Pearl Harbor (a few miles
from my home), I was called into active duty with the 65th Com-
bat Engineers, 25th Infantry Division, which incidentally was the
first division to leave Hawaii for Guadalcanal in 1942 under Gen-
eral J. Lawton Collins. The division went through two campaigns
in the South Pacific, namely Guadalcanal and New Georgia cam-
paigns, and later one in the Philippines. I attained the rank of
major while serving under General Harmon and Admiral “Bull”
Halsey. Shortly after V-J Day, I returned to civilian life, which
has up to this date been very ordinary.

ALBERT GOODWILL CHURCHILL

HOME ADDRESS: 455 Wildwood Ave., Piedmont 2, Calif. :

OFFICE appREss: Hager Sash and Door Co., 1290 Cedar St., Berkeley 2, Calif.

BoRN: March 21, 1907, Chicago, Il]. parents: Durand Churchill, Marian
Alice Conley.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1929 (30).

MaRRIED: Tayloe Alice Hannaford, June 30, 1939, St. Paul, Minn. CHILDREN:
Creighton Hannaford, Jan. 6, 1945; Gordon Hannaford, June 29, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Creighton Marcellus Churchill, ’29 (deceased).

occuPATION: President, Churchill Properties Company; partner, manager,
Hager Sash and Door Company.

ON contemplating the opportunity here afforded of writing an
informal account of one’s conclusions and convictions after a
quarter century of change, I find it too difficult to resolve
the decades into an open letter, or a narrative. It requires a more

[ 195 ]

nett hte HE

nai aaa adc sie. igleai

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

specialized skill than I possess to handle it without confusion, or
a rambling airiness, long on detail and short of point. .

I am hopeful others will not suffer this cramp, and can elicit
from their cwenty-five years of travel autobiographies that will
both stimulate and bemuse.

+ CREIGHTON MARCELLUS CHURCHILL

porN: March 21, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Durand Churchill, Marian
Alice Conley.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.

aarriep: Clotilde Irvine, Nov. 14, 1936, St. Paul, Minn. cyto: Olivia Ann,
March 4, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Goodwill Churchill, ’29.

pieD: Nov. 3, 1940, Huron, S. Dak.

CHURCHILL had been successively an owner in the real estate
and finance business, associated with an advertising agency, part-
‘owner and jobber in the building materials business, and had
served as vice-president and director of F. I. Products Company,
Fir-Tex of Minnesota, Builders Service Stores, and Churchill
Properties, Inc. He later was engaged as a jobber in St. Paul.
He died while on a hunting trip in South Dakota. He was sur-
vived by his wife.

SAMUEL CIKINS

HOME appress: 141 Plymouth Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 114 State St., Boston 9, Mass.
Borx: July 13, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Cikins, Lillian
Freedman.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: A.B. 1929.
margieD: Florence Barrish, Aug. 23, 1936, Brookline, Mass. (died April 7,
1951); Mildred Nisson Tumaroff, April 17, 1952. citLoreN: Phyllis Sara
Tumaroff, Feb. 1, 1933 (stepchild), Ann Elizabeth, June ry 1938;
Arthur Joseph, May 8, 1940.
OccUPATION: Insurance broker, Samuel Cikins Insurance Agency.
orrices He1p: General agent, brokerage manager, Croftsman Insurance Com-
pany; president, Brotherhood, 1940-44, vice-president, 1943-44, Temple
Israel, Waterbury, Conn.

[ 196 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MEMBER OF: Germania Lodge, Masons; Knights of Pythias; B’nai B'rith,
Temple Israel; Zionist Organization.
UNABLE to continue my academic career for lack of necessary
funds, I decided to seek fame and fortune with one of the larger
chain-store outfits in Yonkers, New York, immediately after
Commencement in 1929. After two years of hard and intensive
work, I found that the chain-store business did not offer all I had
anticipated. On returning to Boston in the fall of 1932, I became
interested in installment buying, which was growing by leaps and
bounds and became affiliated with a large jewelry chain, as assist-
ant credit manager. After working at this position for three
years, I came to the conclusion that my proper niche in the busi-
ness world could only be attained through the insurance business.
I took an office account debit with the’ Metropolitan Life in
1935, and was appointed assistant manager within the year. In
February of 1937 I was transferred to Waterbury, Connecticut,
which today I look upon as a second home. Despite long hours
and hard work, many promises made to me never materialized,
and I submitted my resignation in May of 1946. I began to spe-
cialize in accident and health insurance, covering the state of Con-
necticut ‘for several insurance companies. I returned to Boston in
August of 1947 to become general agent for Continental Casualty
and Craftsman Insurance Company. Since 1947 my office has
been located at 114 State Street, where under the name of Samuel
Cikins Insurance Agency, I have been able to develop this business
to the point where we can offer coverage of every description.
The years have not been easy; there has never been time for
hobbies. Yet I have learned, from many bitter experiences, that
with faith in God and the will to look on the brighter side of
things, there is much that life has to offer.

EDWARD THEODORE CLAPP

HOME ADDRESS: §53 Main St., Portland, Conn.

OFFICE ApprEss: First Congregational Church, Portland, Conn.

BorN: Aug. 11, 1907, Springfield, Mass. parents: John Theodore Clapp,
Mary Ella Payne. |

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass,

[ 197 ]

hice ntit cor at
wcitte caslineantRinstictass booth,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1929; A.M 19315
STB. 1934,

McaRRIED: Ruth Elinore Caswell, Sept. 12, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Stephen Caswell, Dec. 25, 1938; David Payne, April 11, 1942; Nancy
Ehzabeth, May 21, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Pastor, clergyman, Congregational Church.

OFFICES HELD: President, Greater Middletown Council of Churches, 1944-46;
dean, Horace Bushnell Summer Youth Conference, 1952, 1953.

IT AM still at work on what for me is the greatest job on earth:
helping people to achieve and maintain a right relationship with
God their creator. This three-fold task of pastor-prophet-priest
is one of endless variety, and though it has its share of drudgery
(what worthwhile calling doesn’t?), its high moments more than
compensate for the low ones. As pastor, I am working with in-
dividuals and families — counselling, guiding, going with them
through all the experiences of life. “AS prophet I am seeking to
put the events of our daily life in the framework of eternity. I
believe in preaching as the supreme way of thus bringing the
living word of God to Man, and though I do not always succeed
in rising to that height, it is a challenge that never grows stale.
As priest, I lead the people in worship, and I believe that God
and man do meet in the hour of corporate worship on Sunday
as at no other time. It is a thrilling experience.

To be sure there are times when our hearts are not all of one
accord, Usually such differences of opinion arise in relation to
the commandment “Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself” as
applied to Fair Employment Practices, treatment of minority
groups, Point 4, Christian missions, restrictive housing covenants,
the war question, and the like. Over the years I have learned
the practical difficulties that stand in the way of the Christian
solution to these problems but I continue to have faith that the
law of love will finally prove to be the one practical and realistic
way out of our difficulties. So I continue to sow the seed.

Nor have I regretted changing over from music to the minis-
try. The latter utilizes not only what musical abilities I have, but
also whatever other talents 1 have, and has developed some that
I never knew I had. At the moment our choir is beginning re-
hearsals for the Bach “St. Matthew Passion” in service-length

form. This Lenten series, begun in 1947, has marked the culmina-

(198 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion of my efforts to bring the experience of great choral music
to the churches I might serve, as part-payment of the debt I owe to
the musical training and experiences I received at Harvard. This
will be the second performance of the “St. Matthew Passion;” we
have also sung abridged versions of Handel’s “Messiah,” Brahms’
“Requiem” (twice), and Mendelssohn’s “Elijah” (twice). More-
over, it is not only a musical event, but also a very practical in-
terfaith project, since singers of several different churches, includ-
ing the Roman Catholic, unite in chorus under a talented Ortho-
dox Jew as director.

The privilege of working with youth, especially in summer
conferences, as I have been able to do a dozen or more times, is
another one of the rewards of the ministry. And almost every
minister has the opportunity, some time during his life, to “build
a church.” Our people are engaged at the present time in a build-
ing expansion program. Granted the financial reward is not as
great as in some other walks of life (I must admit to the dubious
distinction of always filing a zero income tax return), the re-
wards in terms of the life abundant are rich beyond measure.

One other item needs to be introduced to complete the picture
— my, family. More than in any other profession, the minister’s
family has to share in his work, live in a goldfish bowl with him,
exemplify all the virtues he preaches about. Well, no family
is that perfect, but I submit that my wife and family come as
close to the ideal as any family could. Nor are the youngsters
plaster saints, just good healthy American kids. Steve is finishing
up work on his Eagle Scout award and is getting in condition
for spring track. Dave is a first-rate Little League pitcher, and
a trumpet player in the school band. Both boys are struggling
pianists and unusually enthusiastic bird lovers. Nancy at six years
is the life of the party wherever she is. I am proud of them, but
all the credit goes to their mother, who is a wonderful woman,
both as head of a hectic parsonage household, and ex-officio head
of the distaff parish, “all things to all women” (far harder than
my job of being “all things to all men”). My one regret is that
I cannot do for my family as others do for theirs; but there are

‘compensations even here. The minister’s family belongs to the
whole parish, and if they do feel the weight of that responsibility

[ 199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

they also reap the benefit of friendly interest that expresses itself
in a hundred different ways.

So we feel ourselves a part of a “beloved community,” in Josiah
Royce’s phrase; a community that is not only horizontal in plane,
but also vertical; a community which unites past, present, and
future in a dwelling place not of this world only, but also of eter-
nity under God revealed supremely in Jesus Christ.

ARTHUR AUGUSTUS CLARK

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Sunset Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 Park St., Boston 8, Mass.

sorn: Dec. 19, 1907, Beverly, Mass. parents: Frederick Augustus Clark,
Marguerite Joscelyn.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Ruth Whittemore, Aug. 17, 1934, Ithaca, N. Y.

occupation: Editor, Educational Department, Houghton Mifflin Company.

MEMBER OF: New England Educational Salesmen’s Association (honorary);
Book Builders of Boston; Boston Mineral Club; Audubon Society;
American Association of School Administration; Nehoiden Golf Club,
Miscellany Club.

MY life has been a happy and busy one. Probably like many of
my classmates, I have been so involved in the details of every-day
living that my life has little about it that would interest many
of the Class. Since 1929 I have been with the same publishing
company, and I have greatly enjoyed the work. Life has dealt
kindly with me as I hope it has with most of our Class.

FORRESTER ANDREW CLARK

HOME ADDRESS: 292 Bridge St., Hamilton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 State St., Boston 9, Mass.
Born: Feb. 20, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: John Dudley Clark, ’03,
Cornelia Thayer Andrew,
PREPARED AT: St, Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
Y¥BARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1920, DEGREE: A.B. 1929,
Magwiep: Katharine Lee Burrage, June 27, 1931, Beverly Farms, Mass.
cuitozen; Cornelia Lee, May 28, 1933; Forrester Andrew, Jr., Nov. 30,
1934, Russell Burrage, Dec. 3, 1937; Christopher T., April 3, 1940;

[ 200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Robert Lee, Jan. 19, 1943; Katharine B., April 1, 1948; Elizabeth A.,
Sept. 19, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Dudley Clark, Jr., °27; George Oliver Clark, 2d,
*31; Nathaniel Thayer Clark, ’35.

occuPaATION: Partner, H. C. Wainwright & Company, investment bankers.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Greater Boston Red Feather Campaign, 1951;
director, Brown Bag Filling Machine Company, L. B. Goodspeed,
Community Motor Sales, Inc.,; president and director, Dealer Accept-
ance Corporation, Merritt Petroleum Company, Clark & White, Inc.,
Walsh Body & Trailer Company, Wheeler Reflector Company; trustee
and vice-president, Boys’ Clubs of Boston; trustee, Beverly Hospital,
Shore Country Day School (Beverly), United Community services,
chairman of board and director, Hoover Motors, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club; Somerset Club; Union Boat Club; Harvard
Club of Boston, Harvard Club of New York; 32nd degree Mason.

THE Class of 1929 was the “Bull Market Class” if there ever was
one, but in retrospect, I should never advise any of my good friends
to enter the investment business at a similar time in our country’s
economy. That, however, was my fate and for three long years
I struggled to keep my head above water until President Roose-
velt was elected and we embarked on the long road of unbalanced
budgets and a long period of Democratic presidents. Being a
staunch Republican, I never was right until 1952 when President
Ike was elected.

I was married in 1931 and by 1933, at the bottom of the depres-
sion, my total net worth was a wife and a beautiful young daugh-
ter who looked just like her father.

I have always had a very happy philosophy on life which is —
when a problem arises, get all the facts possible and if you can do
something about it, do it and don’t worry. If, on the other hand,
there is nothing you can do about it — then there is no good in
worrying. With that philosophy I decided that the best solution
was to have a large family and to find some way to support it.
The net result so far as the family is concerned is a respectable
family of seven children — so far.

To finance the above project, in the thirties, in addition to my
investment business, picked up— by persuading the banks to
extend them a line of credit — three automobile agencies, a truck
and trailer business, a fish company, an oil company, a restaurant,
and a finance company. By having the business cycle favorable
and by having been smart enough — or lucky enough — to get

{ 201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

the right men to run them, they all prospered and so far I have

been able to give my family three meals a day and a good educa-

tion.

My army career started i in 1942 when I was an aide to the com-
manding general of the First Service Command. By the fall I
discovered that General Wogan, who was polo coach at Harvard
in 1928, was to command the 13th Armored Division. I joined
the Division Artillery of the 13th and was fortunate enough to .
be given command of one of the armored artillery battalions just
before the division left for the European Theatre in 1944. We
had an exciting and eventful six months of action in Germany and
when the war ended we felt we wouldn’t have missed it for any-
thing but wouldn’t particularly like to do it again.

After the war I returned to my ever-increasing family and
bought a fairly large farm outside of Boston. A number of my
friends returning to civilian life had no place to live, so I rebuilt
nine farm houses and am now a landlord with forty-odd children
on the place and innumerable cats, dogs, pigeons, cows, pigs, chick-
ens, sheep, horses, etc.

I have to work fairly hard during the week to support what I
have undertaken, but I spend every weekend with my family and
friends riding, skiing, playing golf and tennis, and working on the
farm, with the result that often I look forward to going to work
Monday in order to recover from the weekend.

Having a fairly healthy physique and finding it hard to say
“no” — as I ama salesman myself —I have found, in looking back,
that since the war I have spent quite a lot of time on non-profitable
projects from a financial angle, but highly profitable from every
other. These projects have included running the United Nation’s
Appeal for Children Campaign in Massachusetts in 1947, the
Massachusetts Republican Finance Campaign in 1948, the Greater
Boston Red Feather Drive in 1951, and the Eisenhower for Presi-
dent Campaign in Massachusetts in 1952.

In addition, I have been busy with the Boys’ Clubs of Boston,
the schools which my many children attend, and in the Harvard
Club of Boston Schools Committee, trying to sell our college to
boys who are the type who want to give as much to Harvard
College as they expect to get out of it, and incidentally, who

might have well-developed bodies as well as brains.

{202 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

' Summing it all up, I manage to keep myself both busy and
happy with the biggest asset anyone can have —a wonderful big
family — and the conviction that we live in the best country in
the world, with a future that unquestionably will have a lot of

roblems, but my guess is they all can be solved if we go about

it in the right way.

+ GEORGE CRAWFORD CLARK, JR.

Born: April 11, 1907, PARENTS: George Crawford Clark, ’o1, Gertrude Sard,
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

Marnie: Lily D. Cushing, Aug. 17, 1929, Newport, R. I.

piED: July 6, 1932, Southampton, Long Island, N. Y.

AFTER Clark left college he was associated with the firm of
Clark, Dodge & Company in New York City, a firm in which his
father was a partner. He died of injuries received j in an automo-

bile accident.

WILLIAM EDWIN CLARK

HOME apprEss: Bramhall Field, Falmouth Foreside, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bancroft & Martin Rolling Mills Co., Portland, Maine.

BORN: July 9, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: William Eaton Clark, Mabel
Towle.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.
MARRIED: Elinor Reed, Sept. 7, 1929, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan,

Aug. 22, 1930; William Eaton, 2d, June 24, 1932; Elinor, 1942; Sarah R.,
1946.

OCCUPATION: President, Bancroft & Martin Rolling Mills Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Maine Branch, vice-chairman, New England Coun-
cil, United World Federalists; chairman, Portland Dis. Committee;
member Pine Tree Council, Boy Scouts of America; vice-president,
director, W. E. Clark & Company, Inc.; director, New England Bolt

Company, Inc.
MEMBER OF: Cumberland Club; Portland Yacht Club; Portland Country Club.

AFTER years of being too wrapped up in family and business
affairs to pay any serious attention to what was developing in
the world outside, I was suddenly awakened a few years ago when

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

my daughter, Joan, retumed home from school for vacation,
president of her school chapter of Student Federalists. She went
to work on me and, in spite of my valiant attempt at rationalism
and evasion, forced me to admit that world affairs were in an
awful mess due to impractical and unrealistic U. S. foreign policy,
and that before long, if somebody didn’t do something about it,
our home and business might be levelled to the ground and the
whole family poisoned or vaporized. At “Nonie’s” suggestion,
my wife and I investigated thoroughly and then joined United
World Federalists to work for strong lasting peace through
limited federal world government. We may now conservatively
be classed as utter fanatics, seizing without shame any opportunity
to proselytize, as you may have already noticed. I fee] that I have
been building heretofore without making sure that my foundation
is secure and that until war is eliminated there can be no degree
of permanence to any business, family, or other achievement. |
am working as chairman of the United World Federalists of
Maine to try to secure that foundation.

GEORGE JOSEPH CLEARY

HOME ADDRESS: 18 Paul St., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 9, Mass. .
Bors: Oct. 29, 1908, Naugatuck, Conn. parents: Robert Cleary, Jane
O'Loughlin.
PREPARED AT: Naugatuck High School, Naugatuck, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB. 1929.
maggiep: Dorothy D. Donovan, Aug. 2, 1937, Rochester, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Michaela, May 12, 1938, G. Brian, April 28, 1940, Brendan O’L., Sept.
2, 1941. .
HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Vincent Cleary, ’15.
occuPATION: Superintendent of underwriting, risk selection and department
administration, A-tna Casualty and Surety Company.
orFices HELD: Vice-chairman, Young Men’s Council, Rochester Chamber
of Commerce, 1933-37; lieutenant, Newton Auxiliary Police, 1951;
director, Underwriters Board of Rochester, 1939-43, Newton Taxpayers
Association, 1953, Sacred Heart Men’s Club, 1953; director, 1952, secre-
tary, 1953, Newton East Little League.
MEMeER oF: Men’s Club; Holy Name Society; Sacred Heart Parish.

THE more I consider Cleary’s case, the more I am convinced
that he is rather proud of Harvard and glad of his onetime contact

{ 204]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with it. Perhaps it was his background —a childhood perilously
close to New Haven; perhaps it was the memory of an older
brother (’15) carefully watching for sticky fingers on the Album
— but more likely it was a courageous parental pride that sent
him from Connecticut to Cambridge. In any case, he went. Now,
he says, he wishes he had been older. In an almost pedantic way
he complains that “sixteen is too early.” To me that is just his way
of explaining the almost total lack of major sparkle in his four-
year stay. He talks often of his friends, the color of the times,
of “working his way,” the incidents of the days — always they
are rather detached stories of little things and of reflected im-
portance only. That was why, he told me, it would be so difficult
for him to tell the story of the years after Harvard. He com-
plained that it would be just more of the same. (“Still too young?”
I wondered.) As we went over the meager facts and I filled in
here and there, I was inclined to agree. The pattern is like that
— one employer, one party, one church, one bank.

Because a teacher somewhere had written on a board “Per
asperam ad astra” he took himself to Etna in 1929 and set out on
the long climb, only occasionally stopping to catch a breath and
mutter “Excelsior.” For years and years he moved across the
plains of Rochester, leaving no mark except perhaps a willing
smile on the faces of a few he passed. But as he went he found
new friends, loved his work, had simple fun, and encountered an-
other who was willing to throw in her lot and join him on his
journey.

Had it not been for Hitler and the others, things might have
gone along like this ad infinitum. But a commission in the Navy
and a two year excursion into war turned him loose. No shot was
fired; he stole no secrets; but the mighty turned at his approach.
Consider: he was sworn in— the invasion of Normandy was
mounted at once. He moved to Brazil—she joined the Allies.
His orders said “England” — Germany capitulated; then, turning
westward, he crossed the Mississippi— need I say more? Not
until his typing reached a solid forty-five per minute did Mac-
Arthur board the Missouri.

With the question of who won the war thus resolved he came
back to home and A¢tna, with the rather sobering thought that
things would never be the same, now that FDR was gone. But

[ 205 |

ses Ses POAT PE NLL AREAS INE IR lel

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Dottie was able quickly to reassure him. Reorientation was
prompt: — she merely pointed to three newly galloping Gaels —
Michaela, Brian, and Brendan—and clearly implied that there
was work to be done. Back to Boston he went then, moving into
the minor foothills on his way to the damnably distant stars, and
a new era opened. He likes to call it the age of Rediscovery.
Boston, you see, has always fascinated him, and now he found new
contact with Harvard — the part at least that lies seaward across
the Charles. I know he has been delighted to be a part of the build-
ing of the Twenty-fifth, even though he grumbles and looks to
himself as something of a martyr to the Class. Deep down, I think,
he feels that he owes more, much more, to Harvard. :
His life has been a monotone without monotony, singularly
and blessedly free from disaster. (“Nothing that Quigley couldn’t
fix!”) He has blindly held to an uninformed reaction against re-
action. He has caused no Causes; for twenty-odd years he has
spent his days in planning conservation for the conservative. And
in this day of looking at himself as a frustrated architect, an un-
born engineer, or a would-have-been lawyer, he finds a satisfac-
tion and he carries a hope. I know this — for I have been vari-
ously described as his overweening best friend or his bitterest,
worst enemy. |

TIMOTHY CLEARY

HOME appress: P. O. Box 37, Pinebluff, N. C.

OFFice appress: Seventh Army, U.S. Army, Germany.

BORN: July 1, 1908, Ayer, Mass. Parents: Timothy Cleary, Katherine
McGurn.

prepare aT: Ayer High Schol, Ayer, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. 1929; AM. (New York Univ.),
1932.

Margie: Victoria Boullt Mulliken, June 30, 1934, Leonia, N. J. cur~pren:
Shaun, March 24, 1936; Judith, June 26, 1937; Timothy Michael, Oct. 2,
1945.

OCCUPATION: Major, U.S. Army.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of North Carolina.

IN twenty-five years these things have been learned; that North
Carolina is a better place than New England, that hill-billy music

[ 206 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT .

is refreshing, that Europeans are generally dull except when re-
garding quizzically some new American idea, and that my wife
can raise a family better alone than we both could together.

When I made the Twentieth Reunion it was my only visit to
New England in the past fourteen years.. We discovered the
sandhills of North Carolina just before World War II; my elder
son entered first grade when the war began and graduated from
high school in 1953 — every day of his schooling was in the vil-
lage of Aberdeen, North Carolina, and he attended both school
houses there in succession. My “Yankee” friends have asked me
in horror sometimes what I was doing about my son’s education.
Let me assure them that he passed the open competitive examina-
tion for appointment to the U. S. Merchant Marine Academy,
and he is now completing his first year at King’s Point, New York,
as a cadet-midshipman. I write this in December and assume that
Dick O’Connell will not sever his connections with that institu-
tion prior to publication of this Report next spring.

Army life is supposed to be no good for families because they
get moved around too much. I am completing my third long
tour in Europe; one early in the war, another 1945-1948, and
this one 1951-1954. Arrival home by June to see you all is too
early: Uncle Sam says September. With the exception of two
years in Bavaria (no school!) my family has lived continuously
in Pinebluff since 1942. I get home from overseas very seldom,
but my wife spent the summer here with me in 1952; and just
last week she left for home after a flying autumnal six weeks in
Europe. These visits have given us a chance to visit countries and
places we missed when the whole family was here after the war.

I guess my respect for Carolinian education and my ability to
maintain a permanent United States household while serving
overseas are due entirely to my wife. That gal plays heavily on
the church guild, Red Cross, TB Seal, and PTA circuits; a year
ago she dabbled into politics and was elected town commissioner
of Pinebluff. (I know it was a strain with her New Hampshire-
Republican heritage to enter a North Carolina primary, but she
shrugged it off.) Now with no pre-school children around the
house, she has taken up substitute teaching in the Aberdeen High
School. I am sure her twenty-fifth report next year (Rutgers
"30) will read much better than this one. I repeat my invitation

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

to all who travel through Carolina to Florida, or who get to the
Southern Pines — Pinehurst Resort Area. We live five miles away,
and the Pinebluff page in the local phone directory shows my
name. Stop down around by,

WILLIAM HAROLD CLEAVER

HOME ADDRESS: 553 S. Eagle Rd., Havertown, Pa.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Provident Trust Co. of Philadelphia, 17th and Chestnut '
Streets, Philadelphia 3, Pa.

BORN: April 9, 1906. PARENTS: Irvin Ray Cleaver, Ethel Hart Perdue.

PREPARED AT: George School, George School, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1929; A.M. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1932.

MARRIED: Louise Irene Fisher, Feb. 1, 1936, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Tax administrator, Provident Trust Company of Philadelphia.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Bank and Trust Company Tax Association
of Philadelphia.

TO get in the proper mood for this review, I started leafing
through the 1929 Class Album and was brought up sharply by
noting a message to the Class from Franklin D. Roosevelt, Chief
Marshal of the 1929 Commencement. It has been a long time
after all, and I hope the trend of the past twenty-odd years to-
ward a centralized and socialized state has at last been halted.

The first summer after graduation I had the opportunity to
See America First with classmates Hos Norris and Steve Phillips,
together with two other graduates, visiting most of the national
parks of this country and Canada. The next summer, after a year
of teaching history at Blair Academy, I was fortunate enough to
see most of Europe before the rise of Hitler put a blight on Ger-
many. I continued teaching for two more years, one at Blair
Academy and the other at Belmont Hill School, then came back
to Philadelphia to get an A.M. in history at the University of
Pennsylvania, Having thus prepared for further teaching, I
promptly gave up the whole idea, and eventually arrived in my

present ficld of taxation. One happy result of my return to Phila-

delphia was that I met and married Louise in 1936.

Through the courtesy of the U.S. Army, I resumed my travels

[ 208 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in 1943, touring North Africa from Casa Blanca to Tunis and
Italy from Naples to Florence. Our section of the Replacement
and Training Command, MTOUSA, analyzed losses and estimated
future replacement requirements of all combat and service units
in the Mediterranean Theatre, but my wife somehow got the im-
pression that Army life was just a succession of sightseeing tours
and Rest Camps!

Since my return to civilian status our lives have settled into a
pleasant routine of suburban living. It is true the income tax
period from January 1 to March 15 is a bit hectic, but during the
rest of the year we revel in gardening, music, reading, and doing
the thousand and one things that are constantly needed to im-
prove and keep up a home.

+t NATHANIEL STONE CLIFFORD

Born: Aug. 3, 1906, Milton, Mass. parents: Charles Parsons Clifford, ’o3,
Edith Grinnel Stone.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MARRIED: Jeanette Hume, May 28, 1931, Washington, D. C. CHILDREN:
Nathaniel Stone, Jr., April 25,,1932; Elizabeth Hume, June 26, 1937.

piep: Aug. 5, 1943, Guadalcanal Area.

WHILE at Harvard, Clifford was on the All Dormitory Foot-
ball Team and the Hockey Squad. When he left, he spent two |
years on active duty with the U. S. Marine Corps Reserve Avi-
ation in Florida and Virginia. He then worked in the United
American Soda Fountain Company for a year, and in the Flint-
kote Company of Boston, also for a year. In the next eight years
he was associated with the Florence Stove Company of Gardner,
Massachusetts.

In 1941 he entered the U. S. Marine Corps. He served at the
Naval Air Station in Squantum, the Marine Barracks in Quantico,
and the Naval Air Station in San Diego. He was in Honolulu in
Februry, 1943, when he was sent to the Guadalcanal area, where
he was killed in an airplane accident. He was survived by his
wife and two children.

[ 209 ]

st ON man’ AD RI Ra tc hada,

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

HENRY IVES COBB, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Sarles Street, Mount Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 63 Wall Se, New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 7, 1907, Paris, France. PARENTS: Henry Ives Cobb, ’o4, Carolyn
Satterlee Postlethwaite.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B, ragna cum laude, 1929; C.P.A.
(New York), 1934.

MARRIED: Evelyn Whitehouse, Nov. 11, 1933, Mount Kisco, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Sheila, April 1, 1939; John Whitehouse, Aug. 31, 1944; Victoria, July 10,
1948,

occupation: Parmer, De Coppet & Doremus, odd-lot dealers on New York
Stock Exchange.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Five Points House, New York, since 1951; governor,
Association of Stock Exchange Firms, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Instirute of Accountants; Harvard
Club of New York; Racquet & Tennis Club of New York.

FOUR years’ practice of public accounting, four years’ active
duty in the Navy, and seventeen years in Wall Street account for
twenty-five years. Otherwise it is a story common to many of
our contemporaries: start out with no capital, and no dependents,
work pretty hard, earn what used to be quite a lot of money, pay
most of it out in taxes and the rest in keeping up with the Joneses,
end up with several dependents and hardly any capital.

Public accounting was hard and interesting work and a fine
introduction to the business world and to dealing with people.
Naval service, including a year in the Philippines, was a mixture
of hard work, no work, boredom, danger, frustration, and further
experience in dealing with people. Wall Street has been a com-
bination of both, minus danger (so far) and plus profit (so far).

Slowly throughout the twenty-five years I have acquired an
interest in philosophy, theology, parapsychology, and ornithol-
ogy. From contemplating the deficiencies in my own education,
at least what seem to me to be deficiencies, I have acquired an in-
terest in theories of education. These acquisitions, however, have
been wholly as an amateur and dilettante. There seems to have
been little time, aside from “getting and spending,” for an or-

ganized and more professional attack on these more interesting
and important subjects— assuming, of course, that we know

[210]

¢ 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

what Is ‘important, which may be the most violent of all modern
assumptions.

Also slowly but inexorably I have swung farther and farther
to the right in my political thinking and have arrived at a position
considered by my friends to be slightly to the right of Louis XIV.
Having to take the stand that most of my friends are out of step
in the parade has been painful and accompanied by much soul-
searching and researching. What makes some Harvard graduates
violently liberal internationalists and others violently conservative
nationalists is in itself a fit subject for research and prayerful
study.

Active duty in a combat zone has not decreased my pre-war
pacifism. Participation in a victorious war for the Four Freedoms
has not decreased my pre-war isolationism. Observation of the
practical workings of National Socialism, Soviet Socialism, and
Fabian Socialism has not decreased my liking for Capitalism. The
fruits of modern progress, scientism, and agnostic humanism which
have been ripening these past fifty to two hundred years seem
bitter compared to those older ones of Christianity. -

Our generation upbraided its predecessor for getting us into
a world war, losing the peace, and plunging us into a depression.
We have duplicated the job in our twenty-five years, minus the
depression (at present writing) but plus perhaps a third world war
to make up for it. This raises again the question of education —
; how does one generation go about learning from another?

A. BENJAMIN COHEN

HOME ADDRESS: 1726 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton 35, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: July 28, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: William Cohen, Tillie Gorfinkle.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1932.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

’ OFFICES HELD: Assistant attorney general, Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
1944.

MEMBER OF: Newton Squash and Tennis Club; New Century Club; Boston
Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association.

[2tr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929. °

HAROLD WILLIAM COHEN

HOME ApprEss: Tupelo Road, Swampscott, Mass.

OFFIcE appreEss: Millyard at Stark Street, Manchester, N. H.

BorN: Nov. 9, 1906, Lynn, Mass. parents: Simon Cohen, Ida Ruth Canter.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Kay Sugerman, Aug. 16, 1932, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: David
Theodore, March 9, 1936; Robert Joshua, March 24, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Cohen, ’31 (deceased).

occuPaTION: Shoe manufacturing executive: general manager of Buskens,
Inc. (Manchester), Bee Bee Shoe Company (Manchester), Marilyn
Sandal Corporation (Stoneham, Massachusetts), Maribelle Shoe Com-
pany (Lowell, Massachusetts).

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Temple Sinai, Swampscott, 1953-54; treas-
urer, New England Region, National Federation of Jewish Men’s Clubs,
1949-54; director, Jewish Community Federation of Greater Lynn,
1953-54, Lynn Hebrew School, 1953-54; co-chairman, Employees Divi-
sion, Manchester (N. H.) Community Fund, 1951, 1952; president,
Stoneham Rotary Club, 1939; secretary, Camp Pembroke, Pembroke,
Mass., 1939-54; chairman, United Jewish Appeal, Manchester, 1946.

MEMBER OF: 210 Associates, Inc.; Zionist Organization of America; Jewish
Publication Society; Lynn Jewish Community Center.

AFTER graduation I joined two of my brothers who were run-
ning a shoe factory in Lynn, Massachusetts. This year marks the
twenty-fifth year of our association. We now have a branded
casual line of women’s shoes called “Buskens.” In addition to
owning several patents streamlining the manufacture of our
product, I was instrumental in setting up in 1943 a pension plan
for our entire organization, the first established in the New Eng-
land shoe industry. Shoe manufacturing is an overproduced and
highly competitive business. In spite of the hard work and Jong
hours, I have found time for civic, charitable, and religious
activities which have been a great source of satisfaction to me.

Apart from reading and going to the theatre, my main diver-
sion is gardening. The grounds of my home have many out-
croppings of rocks. I have established several rock gardens, grow-
ing most of the perennials from seed. Some day I hope to build
a greenhouse attached to the house and take life a little easier.

[ 212 ]

'  2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOUIS COHEN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 257 Paulison Ave., Passaic, N. J.

BORN: May 13, 1907, Passaic, N. J. parents: Samuel Cohen, Luba Goldman,

PREPARED AT: Passaic High School, Passaic, N, J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; AM. (Univ. of Alabama),
1931; M.D. (Chicago Univ.), 1933.

mMarRRiED: Deborah Blanche Levy, June 3, 1931, Tampa, Fla. ciipren:
Richard Henry, Feb. 19, 1938; Alan Aaron, March 3, 1940, > Janet Ruth,
April 8, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Physician, private practice.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Passaic County Medical Asso-

- ciation; American Heart Association; New Jersey Heart Association,
Academy of Medicine of New Jersey, American Academy of General
Practice; American College of Cardiology.

IN 1929 I went to medical school to become a psychiatrist. In
1933 after the first two years at the University of Alabama,
I was graduated from Rush Medical School convinced that J
should become a great psychiatrist. After a two-year internship
and residency at the Cook County Hospital in Chicago, I had
shifted my interest and training to pathology, but still dreamed
of becoming a psychiatrist. It wasn’t, however, until after a brief
stint as pathologist in 1936 and after I had become a general prac-
titioner in my home town of Passaic, New Jersey, in 1937, that
I realized that becoming a psychiatrist was only a dream. Subse-
quently, I have learned that more psychiatry is practised by a
sympathetic, conscientious general practitioner in his everyday
practice than on all the couches in the country. There is less
division between mind and body than all the high fees make it
out to be.

The practice of medicine for me has been all-absorbing. Per-
haps, more truthfully I should say almost all-absorbing. I did
find time in 1931, while still in medical school, to woo and win
a wife, Deborah Blanche Levy of Winter Haven, Florida, and
to have three offspring, Richard in 1938, Alan in 1940, and Janet
in 1943. To participate in the rearing of such a lovely family and
to be fortunate enough to have as a vocation work that not only
interests and fascinates but stimulates and inspires me, has made
the years pass all too quickly.

In 1941, when the Army rejected my application for a com-

[213]

Sa fy narerein. ETLET Ter raid all ana hadsaneet sar enletenincsemenieiesesaaaetsnabanil

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

mission because of a major physical defect, I began postgraduate
work in internal medicine, especially cardiology. I have often
felt that my health would have been better served by military
life than by the hectic, busy years of civilian practice during -
wartime. I am sure, however, that in no other way would I
have been benefited. Those were busy but satisfying years, medi-
cally speaking.

My social, political, and religious convictions, along with hob-
bies and other pursuits that constitute our daily lives and our
culture, have all been shaped and given meaning and values en- —
tirely by my medical practice. It has been my good fortune to
practise in a metropolitan, industrial community, populated by °
people of all social and economic levels, of a wide variety of
religious and cultural backgrounds, and varying degrees of edu- |
cation and training. Out of necessity it has been my privilege to
deal with these people and to observe them stripped of all the
superficialities of social behavior and surface appearances, and
to detect their basic similarities rather than their differences as
human beings. It has been inevitable that all my convictions
should be naturalistic and humanistic in their view-point and
purposes, rather than based on the supernatural or material.

Politically, I feel that people are better served by the liberal
democratic principles of the party of Jefferson, Roosevelt, and
Truman than by the Republican party that basically serves only
privileged groups.

As to religion, although I was raised very liberally in the
traditions and culture of the Hebrew faith, I have become more
interested in man’s relationship to man than in man’s relationship
to a supernatural. 1 have become convinced that the traditional
ritualistic religions of the world, in stressing the differences be-
tween people, have failed as an ethical, moral, or philosophical
way of a practical life. Spiritual as well as material values can
better be served by a healthier regard of man for man, and a full
acceptance of the responsibilities of one’s actions toward his
fellow human being. Ethical behavior should carry its own re-
ward without any heavenly compensations. I feel strongly that
the future of religions as a working way of life lies in a humanistic
approach,

My social Jife receives full gratification in my spending time

[214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

exchanging views and ideas with friends, or in attending the
theatre, concerts, lectures, sporting events, or in general being
a spectator rather than an active participant in most activities. ]
have become a great respecter of the talents of others and greatly
appreciate their sharing them with me.

SUMNER COHEN

HOME ApprEss: 99 Welland Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1609 Hancock St., Quincy 69, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Cohen, Martha B.
Reinherz.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 19293; M.B.A., 1931.

MarRIED: Sophia Gertrude Saiger, Jan. 1, 1934, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Martha Reinherz, April 22, 1938; Anne Esther, April 14, 1943.

OccUPATION: Executive, Kincaide Furniture Corporation, retail furniture
(general management, purchasing, sales, credit).

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, treasurer, Kincaide Furniture ‘Corporation,

- since 1932; treasurer, South Shore Storage Warehouse, Inc. since 1937;

chairman, U.S.O., Quincy, 1941-47, simce 1950; director, YMCA,
Quincy, since 1948; secretary, Congress Associates, since 1953; former
member, Town Meeting, Brookline; former vice-president, Council
Social Agencies, Quincy, Zionist Organization of America in Quincy;
former chairman, Edward Devotion School Improvement Association,
A.D.L. Committee, B’nai B’rith, Quincy Church Attendance Council;
former president, Probus Club, former member board of directors,
Armstrong Hemingway Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Quincy Rotary Club; Probus Club; Shawmut Lodge, AF. &
A.M.; B’nai B’rith; Z.0.A.; N.A.A.C.P.; Brookline Council for Better
Schools.

PSYCHIATRICALLY speaking, I had the cold in order to stay
home and write “The Class Life of ——” and thus rid myself of
the guilt complexes that have risen with increasing intensity with
each “Goad” from Johnny Hutchinson. In any event, here I
am, enjoying a cold and thinking back twenty-five years.

The decision upon graduation from College to enter the Busi-
ness School seemed at the time to be a good one. After all, every-
one was making millions in the stock market, and where else
could one better learn the secret of this success but in those
comparatively new buildings on the other side of the river. We

[215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

were enrolled less than a month, when came that black Friday
in October, 1929, that ushered in the depression. We spent the
next two years in Cambridge concluding in consecutive monthly
reports, backed by formidable statistics, that the depression was
over; and each month we showed that the worsening business
picture was getting alarmingly better.

Backed with this questionable optimism, I went into the retail
furniture business in Quincy, in May, 1932. One thing can be
said of 1932 —“Things could never be worse” — and actually
they haven’t been.

In the summer of 1927, during the six-weeks R.O.T.C. en-
campment at Fort Ethan Allen, Vermont, I met Sophia Saiger
from Burlington, Vermont. Sophia had just finished her fresh-
man year at Radcliffe. So, we were able to continue our turbu-
lent romance back in Cambridge. We were married on January
1, 1934, proving that a Harvard man can marry a Radcliffe girl.
We now have two daughters, aged sixteen and eleven years,
whom we think — but that is a much longer story. Since I started
in the retail furniture business in Quincy, Sophia and I decided
to move there, and lived there for about ten years. It was there
I became quite active in civic affairs, was elected as a Town Meet-
ing member to the town government. Brookline is the town
most of you have read about in a national magazine lately. Here
is where the battle of “cursive versus manuscript” writing is being
waged. Our classmates are in the thick of it with Ed Dane as a
selectman, Carl Seltzer as a member of the School Committee,
and Joe Robinson as a candidate for School Committee.

For somewhat more than fifteen years I have been able to keep
close contact with several of our classmates through the Congress
Associates, which is a fancy name for a “poker-saving-and-invest-
ment club” that meets once a month rain or shine. Al Kaufman,
Murray Corman, and Harold Goldstein are those of our Class

who are members at the moment. Age is playing its part, how-
ever, even in this club. There was the day when we would play
poker till three or four o’clock in the morning. Now, it’s more
often than not that the monthly poker club doesn’t even open
the deck.
For hobbies, the one I really enjoy most is fishing. Whether
for salmon or squaretails, blues or flounders, there is, for me,

, [ 216 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nothing more relaxing than sitting in the sun or wading in a
brook with a congenial companion and a whole day to fish. Most
of my leisure in the past few years has been spent in getting to
know myself and my family better. Having the rich experiences
that come from understanding and appreciation of those close
to you is a goal that requires, I think, some effort. But it sure is
fun.

My two daughters have considered me “ancient history” for
several years. The fact that I went to College during the time that
is written about in history books certainly dates me. My only
consolation is that when my children see how old the rest of you
guys look, they'll realize how young I really am.

WALLACE M. COHEN

HOME ADDRESS: 6302 Oakridge Ave., Chevy Chase, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Landis, Cohen, Rubin & Schwartz, 1832 Jefferson Pl., N. W.,
Washington 6, D. C.

BorN: July 11, 1908, Norton, Va. parents: Jacob Edward Cohen, Annie
Hyman.

PREPARED AT: Lake Forest Academy, Lake Forest, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929, DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Sylvia J. Stone, Sept. 7, 1932, Brookline, Mass. cuipren: Anne
Ellen, July 7, 1933; Edward Stone, Dec. 22, 1937; David William,
June 2, 1943. °

HARVARD BROTHER: William Byron Cohen, Law School, 1933-34.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

I PRACTISED law in Boston from 1932 to 1938. I was in govern-
ment service in Washington in various departments of the gov-
ernment from 1938 to-1945. I have been in the practice of law in
Washington, D. C., since 1945. I am active in many community
and political enterprises. I am happily and contentedly engrossed
with a wonderful wife and three splendid youngsters.

SIGMUND LEOPOLD COHN

HOME appress: Horn Lake, Miss.; P. O. Box 784, Memphis, Tenn. (mailing
address).
OFFICE ADDRESS: 88 S, Front St., Memphis, Tenn.

[217]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

sorn: April 2, 1908, Memphis, Tenn, parents: Robert Cohn, Alma I.
Newburger.

PREPARED aT: Germantown High School, Germantown, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: SB. 1929.

MaRRIED: Sophie Lubben, Nov. 22, 1934, Panama City, Fla. cuitp: Robert
Martin, Dec. 9, 1940.

occupation: S, L. Cohn and Company, cotton business.

MEMBER OF: Cesac Club.

AS both sides of the family were in the cotton business, it never
occurred to anyone that I might do anything else, nor to me.
February, 1929, found me serving my uncle’s firm of Samuel
Newburger and Company as office boy. It was a cotton futures
business — at first very interesting and then very monotonous to
the office boy. During those early days of 1929 midnight often
found the office boy still on the floor of the exchange getting
contracts signed. Despite that, I still recall those eight months
spent in New York with a great deal of pleasure. Either my
uncles wanted to get rid of what they considered an obligation
just as soon as possible or my fame as office boy spread fast.
Whichever the case may have been, my father’s brother, Ernst
Cohn, then running a large cotton business in Bremen, Germany,
wrote me he would like me to learn the cotton business under
him. This was all the excuse I needed to leave the futures busi-
ness and go to Bremen, where I remained for nearly two years
and where I met my wife.

That time spent in Bremen is also a very pleasant memory and
was a very valuable experience. From 1931 until 1946 I went
from one job to another, buying, selling, classing, and shipping
cotton in Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Texas, and
Tennessee. I was turned down for military service because of
deafness. I served in civilian defense and Red Cross work and
helped guard the docks of New Orleans with the Coast Guard
Volunteers. That was night duty — midnight to six, and my
feet hurt every time I think of it.

In 1946 I went into business for myself, the cotton business in
which I am still active. Now in addition to buying and selling
cotton, I am also raising a little. I bought a farm just two years
ago, four miles south of Memphis, a hundred yards south of the
Tennessee line in Mississippi. After much delay we are finally

{218 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

living on the farm, raising cotton, Aberdeen Angus cattle, and
fish that I can catch. I am trying to raise my boy mot to be a
cotton man, but to be a doctor or a farmer. Cotton seems to be
in his blood though, because he would rather work at the office
on Saturday than play baseball, But we have agreed on one
thing — he is going to Harvard if he can get in there.

I. VERNON PAUL COLE

HOME ADDRESS: 1510 75th St., Des Moines, Iowa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Paramount Bldg., Des Moines 9, Iowa.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1905, Fayetteville, Ark. PARENTS: Guy Otha Cole, Ollie
Ethel Hudgens.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Tulsa, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrigpD: Alice Colvin, Feb. 19, 1938, St. Louis, Mo.; Valjean McCrary,

"1944, Lulsa, Okla. cup: Donald Eugene, Aug. 27, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Owner and president, Solar Transport Company, I. V. Cole
Company.

MEMBER OF: Benevolent Order of Elks.

MORTON COLE

HOME ApprEss: 171 Main St., Hingham, Mass.
OFFICE ADpREsS: 81 Arlington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1906, Hingham, Mass, parents: George Albert Cole, Mary
Elizabeth Wood.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Sweetser Harrington, Sept. 6, 1941, Durham, Maine.
CHILDREN: Mary Deborah, Nov. 18, 1943; Susan Stubbs, Nov. 13, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Albert Cole, Jr., 38.

OccuUPATION: Paine Furniture Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, School Board, Auburn, Maine, 1945-46.

MEMBER OF: A.F. & A.M.

LAST summer we moved to Hingham and I am with the Paine
Furniture Company in Boston. We are looking forward to plenty
of sailing, swimming, gardening, and so on. Previously, we have
made many moves and now hope to be doing less business with
moving and trucking companies.

After three years in New York City from 1929 to 1932, I was

[ 219]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

with the Singer Sewing Machine Company for six years. Then,
until 1952, I was in textile manufacturing, topping it off with last
year in the textile division of the O.P.S.
I was married in Maine in 1941 and we lived in Auburn, Maine,
for about five years. Later, Clinton, New York, was our home
for about four years.

JOSEPH GRISWOLD COLEMAN, III

HOME ADDRESS: 938 Spruce St., Berkeley 7, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 343 Sansome St., San Francisco, Calif.

BoRN: Dec. 15, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Joseph Griswold Coleman, Jr.,
03, Agnes Almy.

prePareED aT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB., 1929.

marrieD: Gertrude Bolton, Aug. 28, 1943, San Francisco, Calif. CHILDREN:
Joseph Bolton, Oct. 7, 1944; Jonathan Almy, April 24, 19475, Peter
Cobb, Sept. 10, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Cobb Coleman, 735 (deceased).

occupation: Assistant salary administrator, Crown Zellerbach Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Crown Zellerbach Club,

THE résumé of my life since graduation differs little from para-
graph one, page seventy-four, of the Twentieth Anniversary Re-
port. We have three boys instead of two, a somewhat larger in-
adequate income, a smaller mortgage, and, with luck, only seven-
teen more years of slowly diminishing parental anxiety. Now
that we know where babies come from, we do not anticipate any
further additions and I am reconciled to an incomplete education
without a daughter with whom to flirt.

As to work, I am approaching “the point of no return” where
reckless fantasies crumble against the predominant reality of a
dependant family, my devotion thereto, and the tell-tale reflection
of the morning mirror. After seven years with “Crown,” I find
myself responsible for the administration and control of salaries
paid to all paper mill, converting plant, logging, metropolitan, and
outside sales office staffs. Briefly, this means the development and
maintenance of job evaluation plans (ever try to catch a greased
pig?), the conduct of area salary and cost of living surveys, the
approval of individual salary adjustments, and, in inflationary
times, the recommendation of general economic increases. The

[ 220 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

highlight of the past year was a plane and boat trip to coastal
British Columbia where, at the invitation of a Canadian company,
I spent a rewarding month assisting in the development of a salary
lan.
J During such trips away from home, my wife struggles alone
with the problems of domestication, growth, and maintenance of
our three “wild” men. “Joe,” the oldest, is a tall, handsome boy
who does well in school and is a natural at games and sports.
“Docky,” the second in line, is a sturdy, happy-go-lucky blond
who, at the moment, fluctuates between loving docility and the -
beginning struggle for independence characterized by disobe-
dience, fisticuffs, and tears. “Peeper” is the imp, the tease, who
tells amazing stories with elaborate, wide-eyed gesticulations and
is undaunted by his older brothers. Naturally, our fervent hope
is that the boys will live to fulfillment, that the uneasy world we
know will not blow up in their innocent, unsuspecting faces.
When not working or on family missions, I spend a good deal of
time remodelling the house, cleaning up the yard and basement,
reading, and doing nothing gracefully. I am sure we all have a
small beachhead of convictions or attitudes that we call our philos-
ophy of life. For my part, I believe that the intensification of
human life by mutual kindness, understanding, and helpfulness
is the primary objective. Only as individual lives become health-
ier, happier, more understanding and secure, it seems to me, will
there be generated the degree of affection and trust needed to
establish a peaceful world. Aside from the orbit of our personal
lives, I think we as individuals and collectively as a nation can con-
tribute substantially to this objective by encouraging favorable
domestic enterprise and legislation and by so allying ourselves
with other friendly or potentially friendly nations that together
we may proceed from a position of strength to help intensify the
lives of all.

LUCIEN RAYMOND COLLART

HOME aApprEss: 1000 First Ave., Spring Lake, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 19 E, 47th St., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: March 6, 1908, Brussels, Belgium. PARENTs: Oliver Fikler Collart,
Maria Collart.

[ 221 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: St. Ann’s Academy, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

marrirp: Helena C. Kessler, June 15, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Lucien Raymond, Jr, Aug. 5, 1938; Marie L., 1939; Michael J., 1942;
Jacqueline, 1947.

occupation: Manufacturing, secretary-treasurer, E, W, Bliss Company.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

CHARLES TERRY COLLENS

HOME appRESS: 190 Dudley Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 35 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1907, Newton, Mass. parents: Charles Collens, Margaret
Winsor.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(28).

marrieD: Eleanor Standish Perkins, March 9, 1929, Brookline, Mass. (died
Aug. 3, 1936); Ruth Sturges Teel, Sept. 9, 1937, Reading, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: Charles, 2d, Oct. 5, 1933 (died Dec. 28, 1933); Priscilla S. (step-
child), March, 1927 (mm. Lt. Comdr. David E. Parker, July, 1947);
Shirlee N. (stepchild), May, 1928 (7, William Bommer, May, 1949);
J. Richardson (stepchild), June, 1929 (. Evelyn Magyar, November,
1951). GRANDCHILDREN: Cheryl S, Parker, August, 1949; Ruth S. Bommer,
July, 1951; Ann E. Bommer, May, 1953; Susan Parker, March 23, 1954.

occupation: Managing partner, Mixter & Company, investment brokers.

MEMBER OF: Association of Harvard Class Secretaries; Boston Panel, Arbi-
tration Committee of New York Stock Exchange; Bakers Dozen.

IN trying to equal the well-written samples of life stories which
were enclosed with the questionnaire, I must have started this
ten times. I feel it distinctly unfair to expect stockbrokers to
match the trained legal and advertising mind in writing copy.
But as the deadline is near, I must rely on my own simple phra-
seology to rehearse the span of my postgraduate life from this
twenty-fifth abutment.

Directly upon obtaining those seventeen and a half credits, I
canvassed the sacred halls of Boston’s leading houses, but the
stuffy atmosphere and reception turned me towards the greater
glamour of a brokerage house. Chandler Hovey thought he saw
in me the qualities of another Diamond Jim Brady. I thought so,
too. After all, I had majored in Romance languages. I rode over

[ 222 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the roaring markets on the tail of The Bull, as a clerk of the trade.
My transfer to The Bear was quick and my hold precarious, but
the storm subsided and I was admitted to membership in the firm
in 1935. It seemed like a great honor, but I wonder now if my
elevation then wasn’t to relieve any of my senior partners of the
requirement to come in Saturdays. At least, that cannot be so
today. | _

My feet have had contact with the same desk ever since. A
three-year tour of the Atlantic seaboard as a Naval Intelligence
officer during the war is the one variation. Our office is small,
as we have no salesmen. With no pressure to move inventory from
our shelves, we concentrate on service into the various security
markets to win us more friends without influencing too many
people. On such a basis, I have given up my grandiose ideas of
making millions. I content myself with the easy business hours,
a very congenial group of partners, and a few idle hopes of a
violently active bull market just once again.

The course of my extra-curricular activities follows closely the
advance of the years. Amateur theatrics gave way to tennis, then
golf, and now dry fly fishing. However, our main diversion lies
in our farm in New Hampshire. Maintenance of a two-hundred-
year-old house and barn keeps us busy. We attend country auc-
tions to augment our small collection of eighteenth-century
Americana, and are becoming expert with the hoe in our flower
and vegetable gardens, with a few ribbons from the County Fair
to prove it. Most of all, we simply relax in this haven from all
pressure.

Not of a gregarious nature, I have shunned civic, fraternal, and
political activities, but always get caught with a canvassing job
on all charity drives. I feel that my job as Secretary of this Class
makes up for this deficiency. Despite the time and effort re-
quired, I have made some valued friendships and a host of ac-
quaintances. It has been a most rewarding experience.

Having reached the status of a three-time grandfather, my
family, naturally, has become a large factor. The death of my
first wife from acute osteomyelitis followed closely the loss of
our only child at the age of three months. I tried living a bachel-
or’s existence with the aid of a gentleman’s gentleman, only to
meet, fall permanently in love with, and marry Ruth. The transi-

[ 223]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

tion from a childless state to fatherhood was both sudden and in-
teresting. Our three children were late for our wedding. It was
fun to grow up with them. I teased them unmercifully. But we
gave them an education and launched them with an ability to earn
their own living. My hopes that this capacity would support me
in my old age didn’t last long. Our eldest married a Royal Naval
Officer and is now temporarily settled in Germany where David is
a member of the C-in-C’s Secretariat at headquarters of the British
Occupation Forces. We had a wonderful visit there last spring,
rekindled our longing for our first granddaughter, Cheryl, and
returned after six weeks with many interesting memories and one
five-dollar bill left. Our other daughter married Bill Bommer.
As plant manager of the Acushnet Process Company of New
Bedford, I had hoped he would provide me with free golf balls,
but am more pleased with the addition of two more granddaugh-
ters, Ruth and Ann. A spinal fusion on our son eliminated his
hopes for further development of his athletic ability towards a
career. But his hospitalization had its happy side, as he subse-
quently married one of the student nurses, and Evelyn now keeps
apartment for him on the Hill, while he tries to keep the National
Shawmut Bank solvent through their credit department. So,
though the fledglings are off and only our Scotty remains, the hall
closet is filling up again with toys, and the sound of visiting little
feet around the house accentuates our biggest interest — the

family.

PAUL GERARD COLLINS

HOME appress: 627 LaGrange St., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 137 Canal St., Nashua, N. H.

BORN: June 8, 1908, Boston, Mass. Parents: Joseph P. Collins, Elizabeth
Norton.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 8.B. IN CIVIL ENG., 1929.

MaRrRiepD: Mary Louise O'Day, May 31, 1931, Cambridge, Mass, CHILDREN:
Pauline M., July 6, 1932; David L, June 25, 1936; Arnold G., Jan 7,
1938; Philip, Sept. 9, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Chief accountant, Sanders Associates, Inc., electronics firm.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants; Amer-
ican Institute of Accountants.

[224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduating with a Bachelor of Science degree in en-
gineering, I went to work for George B.H. Macomber Company,
and worked on such well-known buildings as the Gardner House
(the Nurses’ Home of the Children’s Hospital) and the Para-
mount Theatre. However, with the depression and its subse-
quent difficulties, construction was at a minimum, and I didn’t
stay with it too long.

On May, 1931, I was married to Louise O'Day of Brookline.

My first child came on July 6, 1932, and was a healthy girl; we
named her Pauline. She was followed almost four years later
by my first son, David, who arrived June 25, 1936. A second
son arrived on the seventh of January, 1938, and he was named
Arnold.
In 1940, after having studied in the Bentley School of Ac-
countancy at night, I went to work for the U.S. Government on
the Bureau of Internal Revenue. I passed my certified public
accountant examination on the first try and received my certificate
four years later. In 1944 I joined the staff and worked nine years
for Lybrand, Ross Brothers, and Montgomery, and achieved
the rank of senior accountant. In 1949 I was blessed with a third
son, who was named Philip. Three years later a desire to get into
private industry led me to accept a position as chief accountant
for Sanders Associates, Inc., of Nashua, New Hampshire. I am
commuting every day —a trip of forty-four miles—and thus
get my only chance to drive my new Pontiac, since my sons
have it the rest of the time. |

Golf gives me a great deal of pleasure, although my seven-
teen-year-old son outdrives me forty yards off the tee. However,
I get my greatest enjoyment when I arrive at the green in two
and he in four. In my deams I’ve often gazed into my crystal
ball and seen myself basking in the sun or walking down the soft
green fairways of Coral Gables Country Club in Florida. But
this will probably be by the time I reach my Fiftieth Anniversary
of the Harvard Class of 1929.

[225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

EDWARD AARON COLPAK

HOME ADDRESS: 192 Cotton St., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 786 Washington St., Boston 11, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 27, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Isadore J. Colpak, Ethel Lear
Scovell.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

MARRIED: Sylvia M. Solomont, July 10, 1934, New London, Conn. cuttp:
Jill Amy, Sept. 12, 1943.

occupation: Sales and advertising manager, Constantine Dress Company,
dress manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Massachusetts Realty Commercial Company.

A MIXTURE of hard work and quiet leisure best describes my
life since College. After graduation I attended the Harvard Busi-
ness Schoo! where I majored in banking. I had intended making
a career in this field, but a combination of circumstances forced
me to change my plans and I entered the dress manufacturing
business instead. This year makes my twenty-third still in the
same industry, the last twenty with one firm. I have had a hand
in every phase of the management, though my efforts have been
concentrated primarily in selling and sales promotion. This fact
seems rather amusing to me now as I recall one of those typical
“bull sessions” that I participated in with some of the boys at
the Business School, when it was generally agreed that one field
I was not suited for was selling. Now I wonder, were those boys
just poor prognosticators, or could I have accomplished more
in some other branch of business.

My work keeps me on the go so much of the time that I am
only too content to spend most of my spare moments at home
with my family. Puttering about the house and gardens, to-
gether with occasional dieting, has tended to keep my waistline
within reasonable proportions, though most of the boys that I
bump into for the first time in many years kindly note the change
that some additional pounds have made since my “skinny” under-
graduate days. A winter vacation in sunny Florida and a summer
vacation on lovely Nantucket Island, interspersed with occa-
sional trips to the Big City to take in shows, add a bit of variety
to our otherwise quiet life.

The past twenty-five years have truly been hectic ones for the

[ 226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

world in which we live. Yet, with all the early trials and tribula-
tions, I believe that these years have been very kind to me. I only
hope that the next twenty-five may prove as pleasant and re-
warding though more peaceful.

IRVING ABRAHAM COLPAK

BORN: June 25, 1907, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Morris Colpak,
Anna Goldbrand.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

DIED: June 28, 1928, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YALE FORSYTH COMBS

HOME ADDRESS: 218 E. Third St., Mt. Vernon, Ind.

BORN: June 6, 1907, Carthage, Ill. parenrs: Edwin Scott Combs, Luella
Worrell.

PREPARED AT: Carthage High School, Carthage, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Fanny Syme, Oct. 6, 1934, Oak Park, Ill. copren; Richard
Forsyth, Sept. 21, 1943; Cynthia Syme, June 30, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Worrell Van Antwerp Combs, ’27.

occuPATION: Manager and vice-president of a corn mill.

JOHN DUNBAR COMINS

HOME apnrEss: Deerfield, Mass.

OFFIcE Appress: U, S. Post Office Dept., Deerfield, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1905, Worcester, Mass. parents: Arthur Clark Comins,
Margaret Belle Lake.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MarriED: Mary C. Kneeland, January, 1937. cHILD: Suzanne, Sept. 29, 1937.

CHARLES SCHMIDLAPP CONKLIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1063 Peachtree Battle Ave., N. W., Atlanta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Atlanta, Atlanta, Ga.

BoRN: April 30, 1907, Pasadena, Calif, parents: William Henry Conklin,
lola Schmidlapp.

[ 227]

HARVARD CLASS OF 192 9
PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; LL.B. (Atlanta Law School),
1934-

marriep: Afargarett Barnum, Sept. 15, 1930, Eagle Lake, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Charles Schmidlapp, Jr., Sept. 9, 1936; Joy Barnum, Aug. 23, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Second vice-president, First National Bank of Atlanta.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, board, Bank of Jonesboro, Ga.; director, Buford
Commercial Bank, Ga. National Association of Bank Auditors and
Compuollers, 1950-52; president, director, Southern Fund, Inc.; chair-
man, Commercial Operations Commission, since 1952, Country Bank
Operations Committee, 1952-53; member, Bank Management Commis-
sion, 1949-52; president, Atlanta Conference, National Association of
Bank Auditors and Comptrollers, 1945, Harvard Club of Atlanta, 1935-
37, Atlanta Exchange Club, 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Bankers Association, Georgia Bankers Association;
Harvard Club of Atlanta; Atlanta Exchange Club; Piedmont Driving
Club; Capital City Club; Allatoona Yacht Club; Atlanta Art Associa-
tion.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in Banking, National Auditgram, other banking
publications.

GO South young man! A quarter of a century ago I accepted the
challenge and started my apprenticeship in my chosen vocation
of banking—in Atlanta, the financial center, cross-roads and
hub of the South. A year later I persuaded “the fairest of all”
to let me transplant her from the cold austerity of Massachusetts
to the warm hospitality of the South. Together we have soaked
up as much of the friendliness of our environment as possible in
spite of temptations that might have led to more abundant living
in other places.

Now I ask myself the question: Around what, during the past
twenty-five years, has my life centered? First, there is my family.
Chuck, now seventeen, is back at school in Atlanta after spend-
ing two years at school in Concord, Massachusetts, and one in
Asheville, North Carolina. He is achieving some measure of suc-
cess in learning the requirements for a full life among his many
friends. At the moment, to be sure, it isa confused pattern of pin-
bottom trousers, dual exhausts, hollywood mufflers, managing the
football team, radios, phonograph records, water skiing, dates

and endless telephone calls. We remain on the fringe — parents
tolerated as a sort of necessary evil.
Joy, eight years of age, is everything that her name implies.

She swims and dives like a duck. Her slogan could be — “I can

[ 228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

do anything you can do — better!” Pretty as a Georgia Peach —
what she won’t do to the males, especially the “Yankee” breed,
won’t be worth mentioning!

During the war our family was enlarged by the temporary ad-
dition of two English refugee brothers, one younger and the other
older than Chuck. Among the three of them, there was never
a dull moment at the Conklin household, but it was an experience
we were glad to have had.

Home, garden, and livestock have provided a fair share of put-
tering over the years. Roses, gardenias, and an occasional orchid
in the house, is all the agronomy left in me after five years of
rather close contact with and interest in a one-hundred-acre farm.
The venture into farming came about through the “Callaway
Plan,” a plan to improve farming in Georgia by demonstration.
It was a somewhat expensive but a thoroughly enjoyable educa-
tion for me. At home we have had goats, rabbits, hamsters, chick-
ens, ducks, birds, dogs, cats, monkeys, turtles, and of course we
had cows on the farm. Now we are down to one dog, a white
Samoyed, and one cat, plain and black.

Banking has been both my vocation and, in some measure, my
avocation. The early thirties were years of considerable drudgery
but always the challenge of a growing business in a growing city in

a growing section of a growing country. The law which I studied
at night during those years contributed only to my general fund
of knowledge. From January, 1944, until September, 1952, I was
auditor of the First National Bank of Atlanta. My special field
in the banking business has largely been taxes, accounting, auditing,
systems, and methods. I have taken interest and part in various
national and local organizations concerned with these specialized
fields and my life has been enriched by associations and friend-
ships with other bankers throughout the country who have similar
interests.

About politics, I am schizophrenic. Where in Georgia
can you find better men representing a better party than Senator
Walter George, Senator Dick Russell, Representative Carl Vin-
son, and Governor Herman Talmadge; and yet the national lead-
ers and administration of the party with which they are associated
carried us to the brink of disaster.

We have enjoyed our vacations in the Georgia mountains, on

[229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Georgia beaches, in Cuba, Florida, Mexico, California, and the
West, interspersed with occasional visits to a family place in the
Adirondack Mountains of northern New York. Transportation
has usually been by car, including a memorable trip to the World’s
Fair in Chicago in an Austin. In 1952, the whole family, including
the dog, took our small cruiser for about three hundred miles
down the Tennessee River. Now we keep our boat on Allatoona
Lake about thirty miles from home and enjoy it on weekends.

A contact with Harvard that has given me much satisfaction
during the past ten or twelve years is the interviewing of appli-
cants for the Harvard Freshman Admissions and Scholarships
Committee. Some promising young men have gone from At-
lanta to Harvard and some are coming back to help Atlanta achieve
_its rightful destiny.

In twenty-five years I have not spent as much time in looking
back as I have since I started to write this report. I find in these
reminiscences much that is pleasant to recall but I still flatter my-
self that I am young enough to prefer to look ahead, so — here’s
to our “Fiftieth!”

JOHN PHILIP COOKE

HOME appress: 6028 S. Dorchester Ave., Chicago 37, Ill.

BorN: April 22, 1907, Johnstown, Pa, parents: David DeWitt Cooke,
Roberta Day Moberley.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. summa cum laude, 1929; A.My
1930; PH.D. (Univ. of Chicago), 1935.

OccuPATION: Research. .

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association; Phi Beta Kappa.

PusLications: Articles on Latin poets, book reviews, in Classical Philology.

MILTON URIS COPLAND

HOME apprEss: 277 West End Ave., New York 23, N. Y.
OFFICz ADDRESS: §75 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.
Born: Feb, 26, 1909, Brooklyn, N, Y. parents: Alfred William Copland,
Helen Fanny Uris.
PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: 8.8, Cttm72 laude, 1929; LL.B 1932+

[ 230]

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Anne Lichtig, 1942, New York, N. Y. (died 1949); Helen Weiner,
195t, New York, N. Y. cuiwpren: Nancy, Aug. 15, 1943; Ronda Terry,
April 23, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Uris Copland, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Executive, Uris Brothers, builders.

OFFICES HELD: President, St. Moritz Hotel Corporation, Copland Meter
Corporation, Shipstead’s, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

THE year 1932 did not offer a very rosy prospect to a fledgling
attorney. However, experience was the great objective and I
seized an opportunity at twenty-five dollars per to start my career.
After a couple of years in practice, I chanced to meet an elderly
lady in the corridor outside my office. The result of our conver-
sations was that she wanted me to take on a patent suit she had
already started against the United States Steel Corporation, J. P.
Morgan, et al. The amount of damages she claimed was §125,-
000,000. I turned the case down and have been handling smaller
ones ever since. | |

I was completely sold on FDR and think he helped immeasur-
ably in putting and keeping the country on its feet through the
critical thirties. When World War II caught up to us, having no
qualifications that the services were in desperate need of, I enlisted
in the Army. Travel may broaden, but the Army offered a per-
spective that I had to experience to appreciate. For the record I
wish to state that “Mil. Sci. I’ was of no help whatsoever. I
wonder what did become of those French ’75s we practised open-
ing and closing.

Early in 1946, with some qualms, I joined a fine old law firm
and later was admitted to partnership. Recently an opportunity
presented itself to associate myself with a very enterprising build-
ing and real estate firm of Boston and Philadelphia. I took the
long step out of the law and personally am very happy about it.

As for hobbies, I joined the Fencers’ Club after Law School
and was active for a time. While, as Christopher Morley so co-
gently put it, “a man is a remarkable aggregation of portable
plumbing,” this aggregation is now seeking the less strenuous pur-
suits, preferably a slow foresome or croquet.

I have had the pleasure rather frequently of meeting members
of our Class, usually brother attorneys. Some seem to be lacking
in school spirit without a winning football team to cheer about.

[ 231 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

For myself I am very much heartened by Harvard’s continuing
and progressive leadership in liberal education.

.

ROGER BEECHER COREY

HOME AND OFFICE AppREsS: 181 Lexington St. Waverly 79, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1908, Belmont, Mass, parents: Fred Augusta Corey, Melissa
Ada Ryan.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass. -
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.
UNMARRIED.

occuPATIoN: Commercial photographer, self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Former director, Federated Cycle Clubs of New England,
Eastern Inter Club Ski League; founder, Wheelmen and the Wildcats.
MEMBER OF: Olympic Skating Club; Boston Wheelmen; Bay State Skating

Club; Wildcat Ski Club of Boston.

puBLicaTions: New England Cycling News, 1934-38.

COMPLETING a “Class life” is more difficult than filing an
application for a job. However, here goes for Hutch. I took out
my Decennial Report and that practically covers the works. My
career history is not one to boast about. Upon graduation I had
hoped to get a training at our Business School. However, the
death of my father in late 1929 prevented this. My first job was
with the Lincoln Stores—a chain retail outfit — first at Cam-
bridge, then at Quincy, Massachusetts. Unable and unwilling to
take a transfer out of state, I Jeft the firm.

My next work was in Jordan Marsh’s (Boston) Sports Depart-
ment where I managed the ski and golf departments. My Army
service terminated this work and as a civilian I worked with a
ski-club friend and war supply sergeant (H. Palmer) in building
a chain of retail hardware stores.

Your Report chairman wants to know about my family —I
have a friend, two cats, a dog. Two parakeets passed away from
causes unknown. A bachelor does not speak of his children —
nor will I. To complete the story of my career, my present
business is taking photos. When you speak of travels, you usually
mean they amount to considerable expense, Mine did not, I
travelled cross-country to Colorado, to the east coast’s Newport

News, via one of the Queens to Italy, plus plenty of hoofing on

[ 232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

both native and foreign soils. You speak of travels. All I have
done is to get to sports contests and those travels were provided

by the Army — to Colorado, then Italy, and home. At my age,
forty-six, I find my hobbies necessarily are conservative: no
more racing, in fact practically no more participating in sports.

Now it says, how about my war record. I could write a book
about that. At times it was difficult, however, I have always
valued the experience. A year before I enlisted, I had signed up
with the Ski Troops. At least I could tell the inductors where I
wanted to go. My pre-combat training was at Camp Hale, Colo-
rado, altitude 9,500 feet. Imagine working over a year there,
only to be transferred to the heat, sand, and later mud of Texas.
Overseas in Italy was easier — except for the bullets. As a sniper,
though still a staff sergeant, I had little time to myself. When
the war ceased a call for men with photo experience caused me
to join the Signal Corps Photo Unit. This unit made the United
States and with the truce I calmly came home.

~ MAURICE CORMAN

HOME apprEss: 54 Hallwood Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dudley Wood Products, Inc., Dorchester 21, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1910, Boston, Mass. ParENts: Hyman Corman, Pauline
Epstein.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929} LL.B., 1932.

MarRRiED: Alice Halpern, Nov. 28, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Charles

Henry, Oct. 9, 1944 (adopted); Jeffrey Stuart, April 17, 1948 (adopted).

occuPATION: Partner, general manager, woodworking factory.

AFTER graduation I entered the Law School whence I was duly
graduated in 1932. That was the year Roosevelt was elected and
my Law School class moved en masse to Washington — that is
everybody except me. I stayed around Boston watching the
banks close, and trying to start a law practice in the lush years
of 1932 and 1933. Eventually I ended up in the City of Boston
Law Department. I was attached to the Tax Division. The cases
I handled sometimes involve millions of dollars. In lieu of com-
mensurate fees, however, I received numerous five-dollar raises
and even more numerous pats on the back,

[ 233 ]

mecha 0 na anamiaianancanncnan esa nit,

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

In 1935 I married Alice Halpern who was a highly successful
Boston fashion illustrator. Between us we were able to rent a
fine “studio” apartment, complete with slanting walls, which we
duly furnished with a large oriental rug, a bridge set, and a pair
of twin beds.

At the outbreak of the war I applied for commissions in the
Army and Navy. After the exercise of considerable pull, the
Army let me fill out an application for a commission for a job
described to me as “liaison work in occupied territories” which,
I was given to understand, involved some brushing up on my
French and German, and some parachute training. Nothing came
of this application either and, frankly, I didn’t push it too hard.
The selective service finally got around to drafting me, but I
was turned down by the medics at the induction center.

In the meantime I had started a small woodworking business
which was prospering in spite of the part-time supervision I was
giving it. It soon reached the point where I had to give up my
job at the Law Department, and spend my full-time in the wood-
working business, and there I am to this day.

In October, 1944, we adopted our first son, Chuck. In 1948 we
adopted our second, Jeff. In general I’ve devoted most of my
effort since we adopted the boys to providing a good life for
my family. Unfortunately I don’t have the strength of character
to regard that obligation as properly discharged by providing
food and shelter and an abundance of spiritual values. It has been
somewhat of a strain to bring my ideas of the good life and my
income into balance. Nor did I ease the situation any by emulat-
ing Mr. Blandings and building our dream house two years ago.
But I find, as I grow older, that I seem to become more and more
of an optimist, and so all I have to do to solve any problems I
may have is simply to live long enough.

++ JOSEPH POTTER COTTON, JR.

BoRN: Oct. 9, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Joseph Potter Cotton, ’96,
Jessie Isabel Child.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB, Cum laude, 1929; LL.B 1933.

[ 234)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriED: Ella King Poe, July 2, 1932, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. ciitp: Joseph
- Potter, 3d, Dec. 15, 1934. .
DIED: Jan. 5, 1945, Rome, Italy.

DURING his years at Harvard, Cotton was on the Polo Team and
captain of the Freshman Team. In 1930 he was assistant secretary
of the American Delegation at the London Naval Conference. He
received an LL.B. from Harvard Law School in 1933, and for
three years was an attorney for the Reconstruction Finance Cor-
poration. From 1938 to 1939 he was assistant to the vice-chair-
man of the International Refugee Committee, and in 1939 he was
also associated with the law firm of Wright, Zachry & Parlin in
New York. He was later assistant to the Secretary of the Treas-
ury and a member of the legal staff of the War Production Board.

In 1942 he left government service to join the Army. He was
assigned to the Intelligence branch of the service, and participated
in the North African and Italian campaigns. Wounded during
_ the Rome offensive action, he received the Purple Heart. He
served in the civil affairs section of the Air Force headquarters
until his death. He attained the rank of captain. His wife sur-
vived him.

RAYMOND FINLEY COURTNEY

HOME apprEss: 1424 N. Elwood Ave., Tulsa, Okla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Grosvenor Sq., London, W. 1, England, .

BoRN: Oct. 20, 1908, Richview, Ill. parents: Raymond Courmey, Jennie
Florence White.

PREPARED AT: Tulsa High School, Tulsa, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1929; M.B.A.
1932.

MARRIED: Mary Catherine Sloan (Corbett), Sept. 22, 1951, Tulsa, Okla.
CHILD: James Sloan Corbett, June 4, 1940 (stepchild).

OCCUPATION: United States Foreign Service, first Secretary, American Em-
bassy, London.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Oklahoma and London; St. James’s Club;
Hurlingham Club; United Hunts Clubs, London.

AFTER graduation I did some study in Europe and travelled in
the Far East. I went to the Business School, did banking in Okla-
homa, and was in the chemicals business in Delaware. During the
war I was in the Navy, chiefly with the amphibious forces in

[ 235]

~iste eihIO k mene Ate aes .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Europe and the Mediterranean, concluding with an assignment
as naval attaché in Denmark. Since then I have been with the
State Department and Foreign Service in Bulgaria and London,
the rigors and interest of this occupation are now happily shared
by my family.

RICHARD BORDEN COVEL

HOME ADpRESS: 740 Breeze St., Craig, Colo.

orFice appress: P, O. Box 757, Craig, Colo.

BoRN: Feb, 27, 1907, Brookline, Mass, pareNts: Borden Covel, ’o2, Alice
May Kuhn.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MarrizD: Virginia B. Mayes, Feb. 25, 1950, Rawlins, Wyo. cH: Norris
Mayes, June 29, 1941 (stepdaughter).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Edmonson Covel, ’32; Peter Covel, ’39.

occupaTion: Field and corrosion engineer, Pipe Line Department, Utah Oil
Refining Company.

OFFICES HELD: Major (reserves), U.S. Army. .

MEMBER OF: National Association of Corrosion Engineers.

THIS is easy. There is very little to say. From 1929, thereabouts,
to 1945, life and things angled off in many directions (which in-
cluded World War II), but stopped ricocheting once I got to
work here in the Rocky Mountains. Colorado’s largest oil field was
hitting its stride when I signed on with the Utah Oil Refining
Company’s Pipe Line Department after the war. It’s been a plain
sort of living, with many compensations. Virginia Mayes and I
were married in 1950, when for me life enlarged immensely. I
was called back into service as a reservist in 1951, and was dis-
charged again last Christmas.

Last time we were in Boston, it seemed that we ate clams,
swordfish, lobster, and oysters morning to night. Since it was
during a Christmas holiday, a visit to Cambridge meant many
fond memories, but of course there were only lonely streets
around the Yard. We did find an old friend, James Corcoran, at
2 Holyoke Place.

Pipe lining is the most interesting work I’ve ever done (with
the possible exception of the few short times I had a unit during
the war). Our company’s lines lie irregularly over Wyoming,

[ 236 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Utah, and Colorado, in one location going almost into Jackson
Hole, enter Salt Lake City, adjoin the Platte River country around
Fort Laramie, and cross the Continental Divide in Colorado. The
topography is something, fishing fine; and from May to Novem-
ber the season is a perfect thing. The Yampa, Snake, Green, and
the Sweetwater are rivers; Rabbit Ears, Beaver Hill, and North
Park are names of passes.

We own a fine young Kerry Blue which we plan will spread
her strain in these mountains, and we look for a ranch and more
animals to cross our path before retirement.

WILLIAM BRYCE COWEN

HOME AppREss: Bare Hill Road, Topsfield, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1906, Salem, Mass. parents: William Bryce Cowen, ’ gl,
Abigail Redman Annable. .

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).

OCCUPATION: Free-lance stage director, theatre business.

I’VE been in the theatre, in varying capacities, for more than
twenty years, less four and a half in the Army. Since 1951 I have
been gradually moving permanently back to New England and
I like it. My avocation is truck farming and I’m trying organi-
culture. Of course, I’m a Republican.

ELI LESTER CRAMER

HOME apprEss: 19 Lincoln Ave., Norwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Shetucket St., Norwich, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1909, Norwich, Conn, Parents: Isaac Cramer, Esther Mar-
kow.

PREPARED AT: Norwich Free Academy, Norwich, Conn. _

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cunt laude, 1929; LLB., 1939.

MaRRIED: Dorothy N. Pasnik, June 25, 1933, Norwich, Conn. cuitp: Allan
Pasnik, March 8, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, B'nai B'rith, 1939-40, Beth-Jacob Synagogue, 1947-
52; City Clerk of Norwich, 1946-48; Cubmaster, Boy Scouts, 1947-
51; treasurer, U. S. Jewish Appeal, 1949-52; director, Community
Chest, 1951-53; vice-president, United Synagogue of Connecticut, since

1953.
[ 237]

Bian. EES TT aonb ea alts acaea lie inaacinie niall,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MEMBER OF: Connecticut State Bar Association; New London County
Bar Association; Elks; B'nai B'rith; Harvard Club of Connecticut;
Shennecossett Country Club.

AFTER graduation I spent a pleasant year learning about high
finance at the Harvard Business School and watching the depres-
sion creep upon us, in spite of the prevailing optimism that there
was only a temporary recession and stocks would be higher in
six months than ever before. I left Cambridge in 1930 to teach
the joys of Dickens and Shakespeare to eager boys and girls at
the Norwich Free Academy in my home town, and then went
back to school to get a law degree.

I am now practising law in association with a staunch Yale
man, who incidentally got enough aroused when I showed him
the Robertson, Jr., letters to write a strong letter in opposition.
For a while I sat in the midst of a heated correspondence, but I
think Yale came out on top this time.

I am active in the usual run of small-town communal, political,
and religious activities and have experienced the burdens of hold-
ing a variety of offices. I play a little golf and bridge, read quite
a bit. In politics I am a Roosevelt Democrat, have run for office
successfully at various times, led the ticket once, and have been
beaten a couple of times. I usually get busy in the election cam-
paigns, and probably will be active in the state and congressional
election come next Novmber.

My son is a high school senior and has an application at Har-
vard, so that it’s possible he may be Class of ’58. At times I think
a smaller school would be better than the Harvard of ’29, but the
House Plan seems to have redeemed in part the bigness of the
school. As I look back, I think Harvard from 1925 to 1929 was
a big place, where the average student got to know the graduate
student correcting English A themes and running the lab in
chemistry better than he ever knew the professors. The strong
personalities like Kittredge could carry over their enthusiasm
to the large lecture courses, but many of the professors were
shadowy figures who didn’t speak loud enough to be heard in the
back seats, There were too many lecture courses with two or
three hundred in a room, But how else could the school handle

such large classes?

[238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Professor Irving Babbitt seems the most impressive teacher ]
had — in a graduate course in Comparative Lit (open to seniors).
And from this late stage isn’t the humanistic philosophy of firm
critical standards of judgment something that should be still
pretty important in our scheme of thinking?

GEORGE SAMSON CRANDALL

HOME ApDpRESS: 68 Curtis Ave., Woodbury, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Research and Development Dept., Socony-Vacuum Oil Co.,
Paulsboro, N. J.

BORN: July 27, 1908, Windsor, Vt. Parents: Henry L. Crandall, Myrta
Letitia Lobdell.

PREPARED AT: Woodstock High School, Woodstock, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: $.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Dorothy Louise Hayes, July 19, 1935, Winchester, Mass, cHm-
DREN: Lovell George, April 6, 1938; Glen Douglas, Sept. 13, 1941;
Roderick Lobdell, Sept. 10, 1945; Alice Patricia, Feb. 24, 1950.

occuPATION: Documentarian in research and development laboratories,
Socony-Vacuum Oil Company.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, Presbyterian Church at Woodbury, 1941-49; senior
Den Dad, Cub Pack 236, Woodbury, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Sketch Club Players, Woodbury;
Belles and Beaux.

PUBLICATIONS: Several patents o on diesel fuel compositions; “Improvement of
Ignition Quality of Diesel Fuels,” Journal of Institute of Petroleum;
two papers on use IBM machines before American Chemical Society,

- 1947, and World Petroleum Congress, 1950.

I WENT from Harvard to M.L.T. on an API fellowship, working
part-time toward my doctorate. Before my work was completed,
I was offered a job with Houdry Process Corporation, and in the
winter of 1932-1933 one didn’t hesitate — one grabbed if a job
was available. In the fall of 1933 I transferred to Socony-Vacuum
Oil Company and here I still am. I hope I continue to enjoy my
work because I am now caught in the net of seniority.

For some thirteen years I was a bench chemist, improvement
of the ignition quality of diesel fuels being my primary interest.
I am now what might be called a white-collar (clean hands) or
ivory-tower chemist, in that my work is with literature. I pre-
digest the tons of literature and via IBM punched cards make it
more assimilable by the bench chemists. My position is head

[ 239 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

of Technical Information Services at Socony-Vacuum Labora-
tories.

In 1938 I married Dorothy Hayes, whom I met at the North
Congregational Church up the avenue aways from the College,
which proves the lasting values to be derived from attending
church in one’s student days. We are still married these many
years later and have been fruitful to the extent of three sons and
one daughter. I can now swap shoes with my oldest son — but
not for long, thus continuing the fine Harvard tradition of sending
there sons who are larger than their fathers — that is, of course,
if they make the grade. What do our children do to while away
their time — aside from fight, that is? The oldest is an HO gauge
engineer. The twelve-year-old paints in oils—to the confusion
of his parents. The eight-year-old — well, he reads comics and
climbs trees. Our four-year-old daughter has decided to become
a Cub Scout and attends her mother’s (and brother’s) den.

One is supposed to have hobbies to take up one’s quiet time after
work. I’m yet to find that quiet time but do manage to fight off
the kids long enough to work in a couple of hobbies. Some years
ago my wife and I together with a small group of “dedicated”
souls persuaded an ex-Denverite to start square dancing in this
area. Now, nine years later, we still square dance (western style)
—some. I give the rest of my available time to Woodbury’s Little
Theatre — known as the Sketch Club Players — not as an actor
(I leave that to my wife) but as a set builder — slave work but
necessary.

One must give some of one’s time to the community if for no
better reason than an atonement for increasing the community by
four noisy children. So, I have served my church as a deacon for
some nine years, and have worked with the Cub Scouts since 1948.
Politically we are both rabid non-partisans. This is in brief my
twenty-five years since Harvard and to prove my advancing years
— it doesn’t seem so long.

RICHARDS HENRY CRAWFORD

HOME appress: R. D. 2, Box 739, Lancaster, Pa,

OFFice appress: Armstrong Cork Co., Lancaster, Pa,

oan: March 13, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Joseph Smith Ronald Craw-
ford, Margaret L. Calvin Johnstone.

[ 240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY. REPORT

PREPARED AT: Rayen High School, Youngstown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marriep: Irene Alice Fischer, Jan. 30, 1937, New Cumberland, W. Va,
CHILDREN: Richards Henry, Jr., March 15, 1939; Joseph Bruce, Jan. 109,

1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Johnstone Crawford, ’25.

OccUPATION: Industrial engineer: division chief industrial engineer, Floor
Parts, Armstrong Cork Company.

AFTER a year at Harvard Law, terminated by an apparent con-
spiracy between Professors Maguire and Sayre and the Great
Depression, several years of miscellaneous and minor odd jobs with
liberal stretches “at leisure,” 1933 began a year as cashier in a
brokerage office in Youngstown. I won’t mention the firm — the
should be just as ashamed of the salary as I was. ‘Then, purely by
accident and strictly without qualification I fell into the Indus-
trial Engineering Department at Republic Steel Corporation,
Youngstown, in a “temporary” job. In 1937, I was transferred to
Gadsden, Alabama. In 1941, just as the southern accent began to
sound natural, I was transferred again to Chicago (in midwinter
yet! ), and then had to learn the Swedish accent. This hardly had
time to sink in, when I finally relinquished my “temporary” job,
late in 1942, and came to Lancaster to learn from the Pennsylvania
Dutch how to “cross the street over” and “outen the light.”

Having been with Armstrong for eleven years, I am beginning
to think this isn’t a “temporary job,” and that suits me. I bought a
house in the country a year ago (in Lancaster, that means a ten-
minute drive from the office) and enjoy watching the pheasants
stroll across my yard on their way to breakfast. Meanwhile, my
spare time is mostly devoted to miscellaneous items of masonry,
carpentry, and decorating — and I have the callouses to prove it.
But I'd have an awful time making a living at any of those pur-
suits, if paid on a piecework basis.

Up until 1932, I considered myself a Republican who always
split the ticket if a good Democrat showed up. I had sense enough
to vote consistently against FDR and his Harvard Liberal Club
coterie. Now I’m willing to give Ike plenty of time to clean
up the stink, but have my doubts that we'll ever regain all of the
ground lost to creeping Socialism. But my pet gripe is the thought
that my sons will have to go into military service because a couple

[ 241 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

of meatheads hadn’t the guts to call a spade a spade in dealing with
some perverted bandits. Who ever heard of making a deal with a
mad dog? I’m fed up with weasel words in international relations,

AMBROSE CRAY

HOME appress: 1 Highland Ave., Cohasset, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cray of Boston, Newton 58, Mass.

BORN: July 4, 1907, Boston, Mass, parents: John Charles Cray, Elizabeth
Langforth Moriarty.

PREPARED AT: Newton Classical High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; M.B.A41931.

MARRIED: Phyllis Deaderick Meem, Feb. 24, 1945, Lexington, Va.

occupation: President, Cray of Boston, manufacturing fireplace equipment.
OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Committee, Board of Directors, Cohasset

Community Center; member Executive Committee, Taxpayers’ Asso-
ciation,

MEMBER OF: Cohasset Golf Club; Cohasset Historical Society.

OUR spare time and extra (?) cash are spent in restoring our
1784 Colonial. It is, at times, exasperating and frustrating, but
we Jove it. It was rather a shock to my Virginia-born wife to
discover that we northerners actually work with our hands. In
fact, one time when I had a load of cow manure delivered and
spent the next two weeks spreading it, she remarked, “you are the
only white man I ever knew who shovelled manure.” However,
I am glad to admit that she has done far more than her share of
manual labor in the restoration of “Lilac Ledge,” and bit-by-bit
we are getting there.
We manage to escape once a year to my wife’s old home in
Virginia for complete rest and relaxation. I find Virginia and
Virginians delightful and admirable. In fact I almost said prefer-
able, but that would be treasonable! However, I heartily recom-

mend an annual trip to Virginia (or any other place) for all
Bostonians as an antidote for our cursed provincialism.

GEORGE GLOVER CROCKER

HOME AppREss: 338 Jerusalem Rd., Cohasset, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESs: 191 Dexter Ave., Watertown 42, Mass.

BORN: May 21, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: George Glover Crocker, 9%
Julia Hurd Hutchins.

[ 242}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928,

-MarRiED: Marie Davenport Brown, Jan. 24, 1930, Boston, Mass. cumpren:
George Glover, Oct. 14, 1930; Elizabeth, Aug. 3, 1933; Davenport
Brown, Nov. 27, 1936.

HARVARD SON: George Glover Crocker, §3.

HARVARD BROTHER: Julian Crocker, ’44.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, treasurer, director, Sandell Manufacturing
Company, Inc., general manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Member Corporation, Waverly School; trustee, Home for
Aged Women.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Cohasset Yacht Club; Scituate Yacht Club,
Massachusetts Charitable Society; Society of Colonial Wars, Veterans
Association, First Corps Cadets, Eastern Yacht Club.

TEN years in the trust department of a Boston bank, working up
to assistant trust officer, finally built up enough pressure so that
I broke away and bought into a small factory. I soon found out
that we had an unworkable manufacturing process. The war
promptly wiped out our market also. A fortunate government
research project carried us through. I thought the research valu-
able enough to outweigh an eyesight-limited service job so my di-
rect war effort was only in the First Motor Squadron, Massachu-
setts State Guard.

Through the postwar period we have proved that our product
can be both manufactured and sold. The combinations of variety
and drudgery, routine and responsibility, planning and perform-
ance, have suited me to a “T.”
| [have always enjoyed working with my hands, so a large part
of my spare time has been spent on household or boat repairs and
improvements. As all three children seem to have inherited this
characteristic, most projects have assumed a family quality. One
or more of us are now qualified in sewing, masonry, iron work,
carpentry, upholstering, plumbing, electricity, etc. The word
boat, slipping in once above, does not give the true picture of our
basic family sport. Sailing, both racing and cruising, has been the
only really active sport throughout the entire twenty-five years.
Bridge, about two evenings a week, and a small amount of pasture
skiing pretty well fill out the picture.

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

HENRY GREENE CROSBY

HOME ADDRESS: goo S. Burnside Ave. Apt. 10, Parklabrea, Los Angeles,
Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sears Roebuck & Co, Vermont at Slauson, Los Angeles,
Calif.

Born: March 2, 1905, West Medford, Mass. parents: William Edgar Crosby,
Grace Greene.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MARRIED: Eleanor Hartwell, Nov. 8, 1927, West Newton, Mass. (divorced
1942); Marjorie J. McCurnin, 1943, Alameda, Calif. CHILDREN: Swan
Hartwell, Jan. 28, 1929; Joan, June 3, 1931.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Edgar Crosby, Jr. ’24; Wilson Hill Crosby,

,
32.

occupaTion: Manager of radio and television, merchandising and sales man-
agement, Sears Roebuck & Company.

AFTER leaving College, I took a position with Stark Tool Com-
pany in Waltham, Massachusetts, and remained with it for about
two years. I then went to a position with Kendall Mills in Wal-
pole where I trained as a production manager and later worked
at their Slatersville plant for about three years. The opportunity
then arose for me to go with a large wholesale coal company in
New York City where I first acquired a taste for selling. I re-
mained with this company until 1942, at which time I entered the
Navy as a lieutenant.

I indoctrinated at Quonset Point, Rhode Island, and following
indoctrination I entered the School of Air Combat Intelligence
and served aboard the Yorktown with Air Group I in the Pacific
from August, 1943, to August, 1944. Then I went to Lee Field,
St. Augustine, Florida, where I was an instructor from October,
1944, to May, 1945. I was then ordered aboard the Wasp as air
combat intelligence officer and returned to Boston in October,
1945. Looking back on my war experiences, I would not have
missed them but would not want to go through them again. I ac-
cumulated the average awards that most men who saw action ob-
tained — namely, Personal Commendation, Presidential Unit Cita-
tion, Navy Unit Commendation, and a few combat stars.

After my discharge from the Navy, a close friend and executive
of Sears, Roebuck & Company impressed me with the greatness
of this organization and I became associated with it in Boston in

[ 244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

December, 1945. I transferred to the West Coast Sears Group in
December, 1952. The magnitude of this organization has never
ceased to amaze me and I am looking forward to a long career with

it.

KENNETH CROTTY

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Greason Rd., Framingham Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 259 Washington St., Boston 8, Mass.

BorN: March 3, 1908, Framingham, Mass. parents: William Lawrence
Crotty, Teresa Kiley.

PREPARED AT: Goddard Seminary, Barre, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MaRRIED: Katherine Boland, August, 1938, Framingham, Mass. cHILDREN:
Kevin, Sept. 2, 1940; Shaun, Sept. 6, 1944; Deirdre, Jan. 13, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Staff reporter, Boston Post.

OFFICES HELD: President, Civic League Players, Framingham, 1947-49.

MEMBER OF: Little Theatre Group of America; Veterans of Foreign Wars;
American Legion; St. Bridget’s (Framingham) Holy Name Society;
Civic League Players of Framingham, Firsters Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Two one-act plays, “Escape by Moonlight” and “We Were
Walking Down Tremont Street”; articles in Our Navy, Catholic
Boy, Sporting News, Yachting, igth Hole, and others.

SOME of the details are a trifle fuzzy now, but as I remember
it, A. Lawrence Lowell had no sooner tucked the sheepskin into
my vestkit pocket that dazzling June morning in 1929, than a
regiment of Boston stockbrokers, cackling like Rhode Island Reds
and waving application blanks all over Harvard Yard, descended
upon me. Someone — I later discovered it was Jackson and Curtis
— offered me a job running errands wth the chance of learning
how to make a million bucks on the side. The weekly stipend was
$9.25 and if you worked past six o’clock in the evening you got an
extra thirty-five cents for supper and twenty-five cents for each
additional hour worked. In less time than it takes to write it, I
learned how easy it was to open the doors at 10 Post Office
Square. All you had to do was scamper past a pair of never-
failing electric eyes. It was all so very electronic, even back in
the dark ages. I was starry-eyed about the future until one day
I found at least three of. the senior partners at J. & C. were de-

[245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

pressed because their annual incomes weren’t in excess of
$100,00. ’

After that I served briefly but with distinction, I assure you,
as a physicist for the Dennison Manufacturing Company, a box
designer for Hinde-Dauch, a bus boy for the Waldorf (not the
Astoria), a salesman for a shoe polish concern, and a journey-
man outfielder for the Worcester Club in the old New England
League. In 1934, Mfammon stopped beckoning, and I went to
New Bedford as a reporter for the local Standard Times. After a
series of stops at the Providence Journal, American Optical Com-
pany, and Yankee Network, I finally arrived at the Boston Post
on May 1, 1948. Here I have remained ever since.

With Boston as a base, I have had an opportunity to chat with
such widely divergent characters as the Aga Khan on the Riviera,
Lucky Luciano in Naples, and ex-mayor O’Dwyer in Mexico
City. I have covered hurricanes in Miami, a tornado in Worcester.
One day last year I had lunch with Admiral Carney, then NATO
chief, while we were incarcerated in a submarine perched at the
bottom of the Mediterranean. What I’m trying to say is that
some of these things have been spectacular, some have been a little
wearing, and some plain tiresome.

During the war years I got tied up with the Navy for fifty-
four months, winding up as the constantly bedeviled officer in
charge of the Pacific edition of Navy News. Along the way I
have picked up a wife and three children. We live in a small
ranch-style brick house not far from the Worcester Turnpike in
Framingham Center. If I ever get my feet solidly back on a job
that leaves my evenings free, I'd like to try my hand again at
acting in and directing a few amateur plays.

JOHN EVERETT CROUSE

HOME ADDRESS: 200 S. James Rd., Columbus, Ohio.

oFrice appkess: Hartford Empire Co., Division of Emhart Manufacturing
Co., Columbus, Ohio.

BORN: “April 26, 1907, Boston, Mass, parents: Owen Walton Crouse,
Euphemia MacLeod Campbell.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 8.3. IN E.£., 1929.

[ 246 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Ruth Lillian Smith, Sept. 27, 1934, Manchester, Conn. cuipren:
John Owen, Nov. 27, 1935; Leslie Ann, Jan. 11, 1938; Carolyn Ruth,
March 16, 1945.

occuPATION: Domestic sales manager, Hartford Empire Company.

MEMBER OF: Professional Engineers, State of Connecticut, Humboldt Lodge
476, F. & A.M., Columbus; Aladdin Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S.; Officers’
Club, Columbus General Depot, U.S. Army.

THE engineering group of the Class of 1929 was a very small
segment of the entire body. Of the twenty-four students receiv-
ing the degree of S.B. in engineering, yours truly was very happy
and proud to be one of them.

The company that I am associated with has done much for the
welfare of the country. Almost every bottle and glass container
that is used today is made on equipment designed and manufac-
tured by this company, the manufacturers and licensors of glass
machinery. Glass making is still an art and a fascinating one. Per-
haps that is why I have spent most of my time since graduation in
this field.

My hobbies are photography and fishing. Golf used to be one
also until a ruptured vertebral disc followed by surgery put me on
the inactive list.

The biggest thrill in our lives came last summer at Lake Hough-
ton, Michigan, where we have been spending our vacations.
Daughter Leslie, who was stricken with polio a few years back,
swam from the west shore to a point two miles distant. Next year
she thinks she will make it both ways. While in Michigan I was
selected from the visiting firemen to be inducted into the Chippewa
Indian Tribe. New name is Na-Qua-Geshik — meaning “Noon
Day.” Since being a member, I have had several requests to take

back a few games, chiefly golf.

JOSEPH STANLEY CUNNINGHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 6021 Benjamin St., New Orleans, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1025 Dryades St., New Orleans, La.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1907, Mamaroneck, N. Y. PARENTS: Stanley Cunningham,
’o1, Esther Lowell Burnett.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

[ 247]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MARRIED: Sylvia Levert, July 24, 1947, New Orleans, La. cuitpren: Jane,
April 21, 1950; Sylvia, March 14, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Crehore Cunningham, ’32.

occupation: Manager, L. K. Burton & Co., exporting firm.

oFFIcEs HELD: Director, Eastern Aerial Surveys, Inc., Boston; director, vice-
president, Delta Automotive Distributors, Inc. New Orleans; colonel,
U.S. Air Force Reserve.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Photogrammetry; France Amerique de la
Louisianne; International House, New Orleans; New Orleans Country
Club.

I AM writing this report from my hospital bed, after having just
recovered from a carving job from top to bottom of my stomach.
I have always been considered pretty healthy all my life and now,
at forty-six, I have found my insides to be in A-1 perfect condi-
tion after being “explored.” This was done to find a possible
tumor causing symptoms of illness which I know now were merely
from nervous fatigue and very temporary. I started in this vein
to prove that now I know I am very lucky, twenty-five years out
of College, to be in nearly as good shape as I was in College —
only slightly slower on the draw. Most people don’t have the
advantage of knowing this about themselves as well as I, but I
have been opened up, completely examined, and put back to-
gether. "

Between 1929 and 1940 I worked for the Burnett’s Vanilla Com-
pany in Boston —a family concern —and lived, at intervals, in
Boston, Minneapolis (for a couple of years), Detroit (couple of
years), and even New Haven for nearly a year. In 1937 I had
joined the Massachusetts Air National Guard and in October,
1940, we were called to active duty. Three years later I was
shipped overseas (in September, 1943). I spent a few months in
North Africa developing better techniques for high-stake poker
games and then was assigned as a squadron commanding officer in
Foggia, Italy, flying B-17’s for fifty-four missions over Germany,
Austria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Rumania, France, Italy, etc.
After a year of this I was transferred to Bari, Italy, to the Fif-
teenth Air Force Service Command. Here I was able to enjoy
the war a while because I lived well and had an opportunity to
travel over most of Furope and the Near East. Because I was
shipped over on a Liberty Ship and did not want to return the
same way, I decided not to budge from Italy until I could fly home.

[ 248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Finally General Mollison asked me if I would fly his plush B17
back. I accepted the chance and arrived home in September, 1945.

At the end of 1945 or early in 1946 I separated from active
service and took a step which was destined to change my life con-
siderably. I came to New Orleans on my terminal leave for about
two months of hunting, fishing, etc. During my stay here I was
captivated by a charming Louisiana Tech country girl. My time
as a free-lance operator was then becoming short, because one and
a half years later I took the plunge into matrimony, following at
long last a move that most of my classmates had taken considerably
sooner. .

Early in 1946 I returned to the Burnett’s Vanilla Company in
Boston. However, in May, 1946, they sold out to American Home
Products Corporation and the complete former Burnett organiza-
tion was given the gate. At that time, with a partner, I organized
a firm called Eastern Aerial Surveys, Inc. Our function was to do
small to medium-size aerial photo-mapping jobs. The company
met with moderate success. At the same time I kept my connec-
tion with the Air Force by helping to reorganize the Massachu-
setts Air National Guard. | was given the duty of commanding
officer of the 1o2nd Fighter Group.

In July, 1947, I was married. At that time our mapping business
was making only enough to properly support one partner. I there-
fore acceded to my wife’s wishes to live in New Orleans, and
accepted a position in this city in the business of exporting spare
parts and supplies for automobiles, trucks, and tractors. My job
calls for about six to eight weeks per year of travel in Latin
American countries, thus satisfying my appetite for travel. About
three years later my wife and I took together another step which
also changed our lives a lot. In May, 1950, we adopted a baby girl,

Jane, aged five weeks. In July, 1952, we followed by adopting
another baby girl, Sylvia, aged four months. One was bald and the
other dark-haired on arrival, but now I am surrounded by two
beautiful young blondes as well as my brunette wife. I find these
are getting to be more and more my hobby, replacing most others,
even though we are approximately one generation behind most of
my classmates.

[ 249 ]

Lys hie. “ical = ne Nas ishatatali dls,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

GUERNSEY CURRAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 303 Ridge View Drive, Palm Beach, Fla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 52 Wall St. New York 5, N.Y. .

BORN: Sept. 21, 1905, Babylon, N. Y. Parents: Guernsey Curran, Marie
Burr Harmon.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1928.
MARRIED: Florence Kip Clarke, May 15, 1928, New York, N. Y. cHixp:

Guernsey, 3d, Jan. 15, 1931 (a. Marylyn Haswell, Jan. 24, 1953).
GRANDCHILD: Howell, Nov. 6, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Wallace Lincoln Pierce (half-brother), 734.

occuPaTion: Stock broker, limited partner, D. H. Ellis and Company.

MEMBER OF: St. Nicholas Club, New York; Harvard Club of New York;
Gulf Stream Golf Club, Everglades; Sons of the Revolution, Palm Beach;
St. Nicholas Club, Palm Beach; Wars of 1812, Palm Beach; Colonial
Wars, Palm Beach; B.P.O.E., ROA.

IN looking at. this affair abstractly, it occurs that the pronoun /
must be used far more frequently than is wont. On the other
hand “we” reminds one too much of a man and an airplane.

In any case, I left Harvard in March, 1928, and was married
in May of that year. My wife and I went for a short honeymoon
abroad, staying a couple of weeks in London, and a couple more
with friends around Wimbledon and Ascot. Then we went to
Venice and the Lido for another month, coming back to Paris in
early August, sailing home in the middle of September. We set-
tled down at 1016 Fifth Avenue and I went to work as a runner
for the Kenzel Corporation to learn the insurance business. Over
a period of years I held various offices and finally became presi-
dent of the firm.

In 1932 we left New York to live in Rumson, New Jersey, and
I took up the abominable life of a commuter. Life rolled along:
we had a kennel and raised setters for the field and bench, and
we boated, fished, and gunned in season. In 1934 I left the Kenzel
Corporation and retired to the life of a country squire. Then,
in the fall of 1935, we decided to spend the winter in Palm
Beach for a change. By the spring of 1936 we were in love with

the place and decided to buy property and build, which we did
and we are still in that house. We haven’t been north in years
and I can assure you the summers here are not as hot as I have

[250]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
seen in Rumson, New York, or Cambridge, and we always have .
a breeze.
In 1938 I became an amateur radio operator. I detest “hamming”
as such, but found a great deal of pleasure in chatting with people
well known to me. In 1940 this more or less led to my becoming
associated with the Signal Corps, Fourth Corps Area, whch no
longer exists. In 1940 and 1941 I instructed on the air in Army
phonetics and the operational procedure. In January, 1942, |
was detached to form a Signal Battalion in the Florida State
Guard. I completed this task on July 1 and got three weeks’
leave; on July 20 I collapsed with polio and two days later my
orders for overseas duty came through. By August, 1943, I got
so I could walk a little, so I volunteered to serve four hours a
day in the radio shop at the Captain of the Port, U.S. Coast
Guard. My wife could drive me right to the door and there I
was. Later I improved enough to join the Coast Guard Tempor-
ary Reserve as an RT ic and in May, 1944, I became supervisor
of communications of the entire section. That September I was
advised to try for a right-arm rate, so I took the exam for chief
boatswain’s mate and earned that rate on October 1. On the fif-
teenth manning requirements for Pacific duty made a dent in our
officer personnel and I was advanced to executive officer of the
section, so my change to a line rate paid off. Then, the day after
Christmas that year, I took over command and remained com-
manding officer until we closed shop in June, 1945, by which time
I had made ensign. I had injured my shoulder severely on an
S&R action at sea and was kept on active service until the naval
hospital discharged me in November.
As I had had no leave in two years, I sure looked forward to
a long rest. No such luck; I was called down to District in Janu-
ary, 1946, and, after a harangue, finally was coerced into taking
on the job of district communications officer for the Auxiliary,
Seventh Coast Guard District, on the staff of the commodore.
Everything was shot and had to be reformed with new direc-
tives, etc., and the district, though interesting, is rather large —
consisting of South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Puerto Rico, and
the Virgin Isles. So I went to work. In the middle of 1947 they
needed an operations officer so I grabbed an old CG pal of
mine and impressed him into my job and I took on operations.

[251]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

To make it short, in 1948 they needed a training manual, so I
took on the job of district training officer; in 1949 I was made
district vice-commodore, Command East; and in 1950 I became
commodore. In i951 I retired from the Coast Guard (except as
a reserve officer on inactive status so I could keep up with ROA),
and that is about it.

It is our intention to sell out in Palm Beach and move out into
the farmlands to the West. We have a small farmhouse on fif-
teen acres about ten miles out and plan to build a sturdy house
on the east ten as soon as we sell in Palm Beach. It is really
wonderful out there, cool and quiet, and our neighbor has eighty
head of prize Brahmas which are a joy to watch and listen to as
they return from grazing as the sun begins to set.

Our son got hitched in January, 1953, graduated as a fuel re-
sources engineer from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in June,
and in November begot a son. So we are alone and in not too
good health, so the quiet and freshness of the country looks
mighty good to us. As I wrote Terry I have been rather danger-
ously ill for several months, but hope I am on the mend now.
However, if this precludes my attending the Reunion, please give
my best to the football crowd and all the others I enjoyed know-
ing. Incidentally, I presume most of our guys have sons in the
service. Mine is a second lieutenant, U.S. Air Force Reserve, on
active duty stationed at MIT for advanced study in the field
of paleontology in which he majored at RPI. By the way, since
my office address is listed, it might be well to mention that in
1945 I became a special partner of D. H. Ellis and Company, 52
Wall Street, and I am still a member of that firm.

J. MORTON CURRAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 340 E. 72nd St., New York 21, N. Y. °

orrice appress: 40 Worth St., New York 13, N, Y.

BorN: June 16, 1907, Montclair, N. J. parents: James Morton Curran,
Constance Ivory Griffin.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

Maxziep: Grace Tingue, May 23, 1942, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Polly
Tingue Park (stepchild), 1931 (2. Daniel Dyer, June 13, 1953).

[252]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Manufacture and sales of heavy cotton fabrics, Morton Curran
& Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Industry Textile Committee, Office of Price Ad-
ministration, 1942-45; director, Textile Section, New York Board of
Trade, A. S. Barnes & Company; president, director, Morton Curran &
Company, Inc.; president, treasurer, North Georgia Mill Company;
president, director, member Executive Committee, Summerville Manu-
facturing Company; Class secretary, 1925 Andover; member Board,

- - Class Secretaries Association of Andover.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Society of Colonial Wars.; Leash

- Club; Merchants Club; Arkwright Club; Society of Lees of Virginia;
Edgartown Reading Room, Martha’s Vineyard; Edgartown Yacht Club,
Martha’s Vineyard.

I WAS a bachelor until married in 1942. At one time or another
I have been director and member of the executive and finance
committees of three cotton mills in the South. I worked for my
father’s firm, Curran & Berry, until 1951. I started my own textile
sales organization of Morton Curran & Company on April 2nd
of that year. I like skiing, tennis, bridge, and backgammon. I par-
ticularly enjoy running into old classmates all over the country
and usually find something to reminisce over. I was originally
what I understood was a liberal but as a result of what I considered
-un-liberal “liberal” points of view, became a conservative. I lean
strongly toward the Republican party, but at times and in places
vary from that according to the candidate and the platform.
My war record consists entirely of chancing draft and refusing
a fairly decent commission while getting out cotton duck pro-
‘duction for the Army and Navy from several mills at specific re-
quest of top textile procurement officers of the Quartermaster
Corps in Washington — which brings me up to date; I am looking
forward with great anticipation to our Twenty-fifth Anniversary
Reunion.

ALLEN DALE CURRIER

HOME ADDREss: 135 Sherman Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 27 Garrison St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Oct, 21, 1893, Everett, Mass. PARENTS: Stephen Cilley Currier, Mary
Ellen Evans. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.Ay 1930.

MarrigD; Marion Elizabeth Phillips, June 3, 1915, Malden, Mass. CHILDREN:

[ 253 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Madelyn Irene, June 24, 1916 (m. Elmer Seaver Forsythe, Sept. 13,
1935); Thelma Lois, Aug. 17, 1926 (mm. Charles Pierce Drake, May 17,
1945). GRANDCHILDREN: Virginia Anne Forsythe, Aug. 30, 19383 Allen
Dale Forsythe, April 5, 1942; Nancy Elizabeth Forsythe, Dec. 11, 19473
Lois Anne Drake, Dec. 28, 1947; Cynthia Susan Drake, April 23, 19503
Robert Currier Drake, April 24, 1953.

occupation: Professor of applied art, chairman, Department of Applied
Art, College of Practical Arts and Letters, Boston University.

OFFicEs HELD: Director, Alandale Studios, Boston, 1918-30; director, 1930-453
director emeritus, since 1945, Swain School of Design, New Bedford,
Mass.; president, Board of Commerce, Sharon, Mass., 1944-45.

MEMBER OF: Phi Gamma Mu.

puBLicaTions: One three-act play, “Tolerance,” originally produced at
Friend’s Academy, New Bedford, Mass.

PRIOR to graduating from Harvard I founded the Alandale
Studios of Boston. This school was devoted exclusively to the
teaching of fine and applied art and was operated solely as an
evening school. In the early spring of 1930 I received the ap-
pointment of director of the Swain School of Design located in
New Bedford, Massachusetts. The school is one of the older
schools in New England (founded in 1892), operating as a
school of art. Income from an original endowment given by
William Swain of Nantucket is the chief source of financial re-
muneration supporting the school.

Early in the year 1932 I was appointed chairman of the ad-
visory board at Boston University, College of Practical Arts and
Letters, and in 1945 resigned as director of the Swain School of
Design to become chairman of the Department of Applied Art
at Boston University. Two years later I was elevated to the rank
of full professor. My military service was limited to the U.S.
Coast Guard (T.R.), as a yeoman second class.

My hobbies include photography, theatre, and gardening.
Although I am registered as a Republican, I carefully weigh the
experience and capabilities of all political candidates before cast-
ing my ballot. Regarding the subject of religion, I am a member
of the Congregationalists. During the years my travelling has
been restricted to this country, Canada, and Mexico. The major
reason for most of my travelling has been for the purpose of

producing motion pictures and slides for education and enter-
tainment.

[254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALLERTON CUSHMAN

HOME ADDRESS: Eureka Ranch, Bonita, Ariz.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 705 Lamar Blvd., Austin, Texas.

BoRN: Aug. 27, 1907, Fort Ethan Allen, Vt. Parents: Guy Cushman,
Eleanor Forrester Parker.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Louisa Bushnell, March 30, 1935, New York, N. Y. (divorced,
1942); Renée S, Donnet, 1950, Lordsburg, N. Mex. cHmpren: Allerton,
Jr., Aug. 29, 1936; Tudor Thompson, Sept. 3, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Orchem Corporation, oil field chemicals. »

MEMBER OF: Phoenix Country Club; Saddle & Sirloin Club.

THE education of Allerton Cushman prepared him — he thought
—for more intellectual aspects of steel making than shovelling
sand in the foundry. But after the stock market crash of October,
1929, the rate of operations of the Armco rolling mill at Middle-
town, Ohio, dropped from eighty-five per cent of capacity — in
those days a creditable figure — to about twenty per cent, and a
rapid rise to a vice-presidency seemed permanently sidetracked in
favor of further toil with the shovel. So I left the steel business
and went to New York. Events over which I had no control thus
began to disrupt the smooth pattern of life — and I am not sorry.
The next ten years were spent in working in Wall Street and
in getting married and siring a boy and a girl, Allerton, Jr., and
Tudor Cushman. But on November 25, 1940, I left the pleasant
—and profitable — confines of Morgan Stanley & Company to
proceed, as a lieutenant, to the Field Artillery School at Fort Sill,
Oklahoma.
- Part of my class was assigned to a course in horse-drawn artil-
lery! We all joined the Field Artillery School Hunt and on Sun-
day mornings, mounted on splendid government remount hunters,
galloped over the Oklahoma hills and prairies in pursuit of the
wily coyote. On the artillery range we fired carefully graded
problems with the French 75-mm; it was over a year before we
even saw the “new” ros-mm howitzer. In our classrooms we
learned certain principles of direct-fire gunnery, Our manual spoke
of the correct aim when the target was moving “at a walk, trot
or gallop!”

[255]

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

A few months before, when the panzers were streaming across
France, I had written an article on anti-tank gunnery. It appeared
in the Field Artillery Journal while I was still a student at Fort
Sill and I became an “expert” in that field and specialized in it
throughout the war. I participated in all phases of what soon grew
to be the tank destroyer branch of the army, including the origi-
nation of tactical doctrine and the design of matériel. In as much
as the TD’s had been expanded into our main anti-tank arm with-
out any actual experience in the highly mobile tactics envisaged,
the commanding general was most anxious to get firsthand infor-_
mation of combat results. I was sent on this mission to North
Africa in November, 1942. A number of basic changes were made

in tank destroyer doctrine along the lines suggested in my reports.
For combat service during the Tunisian campaign, I got the Silver
Star medal.

Upon returning to the United States I served at Headquarters,
Army Ground Forces, and while on this staff I had the most in-
teresting job of working with the automobile industry and incor-
porating in the design of new tanks and tank destroyers the infor-
mation learned in combat.

During the last two years of the war came the part which I
enjoyed the most, for I commanded and trained the 671st Tank
Destroyer Battalion and then took it to the Pacific.

After the war I returned to Morgan Stanley, but the lure of the
open spaces had got me. After one year in New York I took my
eleven-year-old son (there had been a divorce in the family in
1942) and we went to Texas where I became a partner in the in-
vestment banking firm of Rowles, Winston & Company. Along in
1950 I remarried. My bride, Renee S. Donnet, is a French lady
who plays the piano superbly. She also runs a 3,000-head cattle
ranch in southeastern Arizona and her favorite author is Sir James
Jeans.

The only trouble with this match is that I am still immersed in
a business in Texas and it’s a long commute between Bonita, Ari-
zona, and Austin, Texas. In that delightful college town is located
the office and laboratory of Orchem Corporation, which a well-
known petroleum engineer and I started a few years ago to pioneer

in the use of surface active chemicals for the extraction of oil by
secondary recovery methods, This vast distance between my home

[256 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and office, together with the GI Bill, have combined to make me
into a pilot. I enjoy flying immensely.

In looking over this questionnaire I find five lines on which to
list one’s publications with the notation: “If the list is a long one,
include principal works only.” I guess I’m letting Harvard down
for there are no principal works by Cushman, only one poem
published by the Saturday Evening Post and a little piece in the
New Yorker. But there’s lots of time before our next Class book

!
app¢ears-

HENRY HARRINGTON CUTLER

HOME AppREss: 5 Shelley Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: go Grays Hall, Cambridge, Mass.
BORN: Nov. 30, 1908, St. Paul, Minn. parents: William Washburn Cutler,

’94, Martha Carter.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; M.B.A.

cum laude, 1931.
MARRIED: Aina S. Swan, Aug. 26, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cHiLpREN: Martha
Anne, Nov. 21, 1948; Lucy Jane, Jan. 13, 19§2.
HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Hutchins Cutler, '25, A.M., ’26, PH.D., ’30.
OCCUPATION: Assistant to administrative vice-president, Harvard University.
MEMBER OF: Nuttall Ornithological Club.

REVIEWING my life with this Class autobiography in mind, I
find nothing outstanding to write about and very little that might
be of interest to classmates. This doesn’t mean that life has not
been interesting and enjoyable to me.

Apparently four years in College followed by two in the Bust-
ness School left me in a rut, as I have been connected with Har-
vard ever since. Before receiving my M.B.A., I started working
in the Harvard Treasurer’s Office, first as statistician, later as as-
sistant to the treasurer. In 1948, I moved back across the Charles
River to Cambridge as an assistant to the administrative vice-presi-
dent with my office at 4o Grays Hall. My present work is con-
cerned mainly with real estate and insurance. While there are
undoubtedly more remunerative employments than those classified
by the Alumni Records Office as “Ed. Adm.,” there are still many
advantages to working for Harvard. Not only has the work been
interesting and varied but it has permitted me to keep in touch

[257]

pi: Nat eaeagh “seit noe NTN an ima encemsnasbeilil

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
with various university activities, including football games. I have
watched each year with interest the Twenty-fifth Reunion Class
and have been impressed — as many of my classmates probably
have — with the increasingly youthful appearance of the successive
Twenty-fifth Classes. I expect to be even more impressed in this
respect, come June, 1954.

It took me some time after graduation to attain marital status
and almost an equal length of time for a further enlargement of
my family. When I hear classmates talk of their children entering
Harvard, I wonder if I am with the right Class, as I am now talking
kindergarten. We now have two daughters, aged five and two,
respectively. After nine years of relatively quiet married life, the
arrival of two daughters constitutes quite a revolution in one’s
way of living. Life now is rather hectic at times but never dull
or uninteresting.

I seem to have steered pretty clear of most of the usual forms
of recreation such as golf and bridge (and even television) and,
outside of my family, my main recreation is an interest in orni-
thology.

JOSEPH GEORGE CUTLER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 3 Winter St., Salem, Mass.

BoRN: March 15, 1907, Chelsea, Mass, PARENTS: Hyman Cutler, Bessie Cut-
ler.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: aB. cum laude, 1929; M.D. (Johns
Hopkins Univ.), 1933.

mMarRieD: Deborah Willard Roud, June 10, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Constance Willard, March 19, 1942; Elizabeth Ann, Dec. 13, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Staff member, Salem Hospital, Children’s Medical Center,
Boston, North Shore Babies’ Hospital, Salem.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association, New England Pediatric So-
clety.

TWENTY-FIVE years after having been furnished with the

tools to seek a finer, richer life, I still find myself quite bewildered

and confused. A serious depression and lengthy military service

have also added their measure of frustration. However, even

though faltering, progress of a sort has been made.

[258]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Graduation was followed by opportunities to attend a good
medical school, to partake of excellent hospital training, and to
absorb inspired instruction in the field of pediatrics. It then
seemed all too soon that I was cut adrift to cope with the uncer-
tainties of private practice. In the late thirties I was preoccupied
with a strange optimism. I was fortified by a happy marriage,
good credit, and paid bills. This state of contentment was not
meant to be, for in 1941 1 received my “greetings” from the
Army. It was a five-year stretch of which a half was spent in
Hawaii. The nostalgic charm of those “Islands” will not rub off
for a long time.

The readjustment to civilian life and postwar “normalcy” was
not easy. There is questionable palatability in inflation, atomic
unrest, and the agonies of more war. In 1952, because I felt that
I was no longer the master of my practice, I took a year off. It
was an interlude well spent in cardiovascular research. My rest-
lessness is quenched for the time being — but soon, I promise,
I shall be searching for more tools.

HARTLEY COBB CUTTER

HOME AppRESS: 20 Homer Circle, Medford 55, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Pemberton Sq., Boston 8, Mass.; 22 High St. Medford
55, Mass.

BoRN: March 28, 1907, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Cutter, Edith Cobb.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 19293 LL.B., 1932.

MarRiED: Freda Lurinsky, Dec. 26, 1933, Brookline, Mass. cumpren: Philip
David, Jan. 13, 1936; Edward J., Dec. 13, 1938.

HARVARD SON: Philip David Cutter, ’57. .

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, transportation and utility consultant, Cutter, Zam-
parelli & McCarthy.

OFFICES HELD: Editor-in-chief, Massachusetts Law Society Journal, 1947-50;
associate editor, Massachusetts Bar Association Law Quarterly, since
1950,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Law School Association; Massachusetts Bar Associa-
tion; Boston Bar Association; New Century Club; Foreign Commerce
Club; New England Traffic Club.

FOLLOWING my graduation from College I enrolled at the
Harvard Law School for a three-year stretch of hard labor. In

[259]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

1932 I received my LL.B. degree from the Law School and com-
menced the arduous task of a law practice in Boston. Not having
the benefit of a father or father-in-law who had an established
law practice or a lucrative business, I struggled along as well as any
young lawyer does who is not willing to sacrifice ideals. In 1943
the offer of a government position was too tempting to ignore.
I moved my family to Washington, D. C., where I remained until
1947. Income was regular though not high and allowed for minor
luxuries. Living was fairly easy and the work tremendously
fascinating. I had the privilege of representing the government
in some seventy-five cases and hearings before state and federal
utility and transportation regulatory agencies,

In 1947 I returned to the practice of law i in Boston. My position
with the Lew Quarterly has brought me into intimate contact with
leading lawyers and judges. On many occasions judges of the
Massachusetts Superior Court have honored me by appointing me
to hear and decide cases as a master. Thus my experience as a
lawyer has been augmented by the experience of hearing and de-
ciding cases as well as trying them myself. My most recent joy
came in May, 1953, when my son Philip was admitted to Har-
vard. He is now a member of the Class of 1957. He also has the
honor to be a member of the famed Harvard Band. I hope that he
will do better than I did at College and will make a worthy mem-
ber of the medical profession to which he aspires. My son Ed-
ward, now fourteen, is a good student at Medford (Massachusetts)
High School and a member of the high school band. I hope to see
him at Harvard in three years and a member of the Harvard Band.
I did not meet my wife until I was at the Law School. Had I met
her sooner I should have been a better man for it. It is trite but
true that a man owes his success to his wife. I am thankful for her
encouragement through turbulent years and for her making it
possible for me to have a Harvard son. °

ABEL CUTTING

HOME appress: Old Lancaster Road, Sudbury, Mass.

orrice aporess: Sudbury Nurseries, Inc., South Sudbury, Mass,

BORN: Sept. 24, 1907, Sudbury, Mass. parents: George Frank Cutting, Mat- ~
tie Blanche Bent.

[ 260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Gertrude A. Mead, Dec. 6. 1938, Townsend, Mass. CHILDREN:
Frank J.. April 28, 1940; Lucius P., June 10, 1943; John C., June 18,
1946; Louise D., May 8, 1949.

occupation: Owner, Sudbury Nurseries, Inc.

GROWING trees always had seemed an attractive occupa-
tion to me; shortly after leaving College I went to work as a
salesman for a nursery, and in a couple of years started my own
company. Our nursery is a middle-sized outfit, which takes
more of my time for executive duties than I should like to have
it. I think I thrive on physical work, or at least I like to think
I do.

After fooling around, if you want to call it that, for about ten
years, I was undeservedly fortunate in marrying exactly the right
girl. Children, as planned and listed above, are only among the
many items that bear this out.

We live in a rather unusual place, on part of the old Cutting

farm in Sudbury. Our house is really composed of two houses,
one of which we call a play house, the other a dormitory, these
are joined by a curved connection, open on one side in the sum-
mer. This is on a terrace with a swimming pool, and overlooks
quite a large pond we made by damming a brook through a
swamp. It’s a swell setting for raising kids, and for other kids to
come to visit us. It sounds big and expensive? It wasn’t. Another
company we formed a few years ago plans to build similar layouts
with the pool, garden, and several acres of land to sell for some-
thing under $20,000.

Building houses is our main hobby. Shortly after the war, we
felt that young married couples with small children were having
terrible housing problems. We have tried to start a sort of Uto-
pian housing community for such families. We only rent our
small houses, which are attached and in groups of five, to people
with one or two children under three. The two operating groups
are arranged around large sand play yards, and have other large
grass and dirt play areas. Everybody has a big vegetable garden,
and we provide strawberry beds, asparagus beds, guest room privi-
eges (for grandparents’ visits), etc. There shouldn’t be any need
‘or baby sitters. There will be, I hope, a big swimming pool (these

[ 261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

folks all are welcomed to our pool now), athletic fields, orchards,
winter-sport grounds, and scores of other features. We get to-
gether once in a while for a big dinner, and before I was sick, quite
often for low-cost poker. The rent is low, gauged to the income
of average young families.

Checking into why Utopian ideas eventually fail has not been
carried out as far as it should have been. However, I have ob-
served that many of these undertakings were built around the
sexual prowess of the male leader. Well, attractive as such a propo-
sition might have been at one time, that’s long ago, Horace; but
it seems to me that a proposition like we are trying to carry out
is much sounder, being obviously based on the potency of all the
residents. Not that our houses “seethe with amorous activity” to
quote Lucius Beebe, but we have no divorces yet to cope with.
As I write this, one family has just had twins. Eventually we might
have fifty houses on the land we have available (allowing for about
two acres per house) and a meeting house for any number of
purposes. I like to talk and write about this project, you can
damn well see, which is only now well along in the experimental
stage. I am glad to show it to interested people, even Dartmouth
men, if they'll call me ahead.

To sum this up quickly, the only satisfactory day Pve ever
had in politics was last November 4, 1952, which I enjoyed
completely, although being in the hospital awaiting an operation
for cancer. Our completely disorganized social life is what we are
suited for. Precarious as my health obviously is, I still sort of feel
on the verge of things; and having three active young sons, inter-
ested in our activities, rather erases time limits.

MARK STEWART DALIN

HOME AppRESS: 1018 Dundee Rd., Northbrook, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 511 S, Paulina St., Chicago 7, Il.

Born: Feb. 6, 1909, Charleston, S, C. parents: Arthur David Dalin, Eva
Waldstein.

preparep AT: North High School, Worcester, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 8.B., 1929.

Makgiep: Jill Frances Jett, Nov. 22, 1940, Paris, Mo. cHitpreN: Donna Lee
(adopted), Feb. 13, 1943 (died Dec. 1, 1943); Mark Stewart, Jr., Oct.
23, 1947 (adopted); Mary Ann, June 10, 1950 (adopted).

{ 262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: George Abbe Dalin, ’28. .

occuPATION: Divisional merchandise manager, Aldens, Inc., mail order
and retail stores.

OFFICES HELD: President, Buyers Committee. L. Bamberger and Company,
1938-39; member board, Riverside Church Guild, New York, 1934-36,
co-chairman, furniture industry, J. D. C. Division, Jewish Charities,
1947-53; Vice-president, 1952, president, 1953, Aldens Executive Club;
district chairman, Community Fund, Boy Scouts, Red Cross,

MEMBER OF: Tau Epsilon Phi Fraternity; Berkeley Tennis Club, Dearborn
Club; Shore Club; Harvard Club; Housewares Club; Chicago Carpet
Club; Furniture Club of America,

PuBLICATIONS: Articles on furniture and merchandising for trade publica-
tions; lecture series articles on fashion merchandising for School of
Business, Northwestern University.

R. H. MACY?’S training squad was the first stop right after gradu-

ation. The furniture department looked inviting so there | stayed.

on various jobs, including buying nursery and juvenile furniture
for Macy’s and its Newark store, L. Bamberger and Company. In

1936 I was moved over to Bamberger’s to do full-time work there

buying case goods, Shortly after graduation Father died; Mother

and my two sisters joined my brother and me in New York. In

1939 I became associated with Montgomery Ward in Chicago,

where I bought furniture for a while, then became supervisor

over several departments. Shortly after moving to Chicago I had

Mother and my sisters come out to join me. By that time I had

met my future wife. We were married in 1940. In 1943 we

adopted our first Cradle baby, Donna Lee.

Early in 1943 I enlisted in the U.S. Naval Reserve. After being
assigned to the Babson Supply School Training Course, I was
successful in obtaining overseas duty. We lost our little girl that
winter while I was at Pearl Harbor. Mrs. Dalin went overseas to
Africa in a few months with.the American Red Cross. We both
returned to Chicago after the war. I rejoined Ward’s and we
moved to the suburbs and adopted another Cradle baby, Mike,
in 1947. I left Ward’s in 1948 to go into furniture sales for myself.
Within six months I received an offer to join another mail order
company, Aldens, Inc., which I accepted in August, 1948; I am
still employed by this company. - |

Jill and I augmented our little family with a girl, Mary Ann,
also from the Cradle, in 1950. We needed larger quarters so we
moved to Northbrook, Illinois, about twenty miles north of Chi-

[ 263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

- cago. This is a small, charming community of about six thousand.
We garden, paint, swim, skate, and relax. Since we found a big
power mower combination unit, I have had enough time weekends
for some tennis and in the winter play squash racquets. Shore
Club dances, P.T.A. meetings, attending village board meetings,
garden club nights, bridge sessions, trying to be a handyman —
all these make off with the days and evenings so rapidly that time

seems to run. We enjoy it all, and our children have made our

lives full and fruitful. The years grow richer, more inviting, and
in a sense more challenging.

STEPHEN FRINK DANA, II

HOME ADDRESS: 3536 Biddle St., Cincinnati 20, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: §648 Vine St., Cincinnati 16, Ohio.
BORN: May 27, 1905, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: George Frink Dana,
Clarissa Halstead.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.
makriED: Emily Chapin Hawley, June 22, 1935, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Emilie Hawley, Feb. 18, 1936; Stephen Frink, 3d, May 16, 1939.
occuPaTIoN: President, Peerless Foundry Company, producers of gray iron
and semi-steel castings.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Calvary Episcopal Church; trustee, Cincinnati
Musical Festival Endowment Fund; chairman, Cost Group, Southern
Ohio Branch, Grey Iron Founders Society.

MEMBER oF: Cincinnati Country Club; Historical and Philosophical Society
of Ohio; Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Cincinnati Musical Festival
Association.

I LEFT Cambridge in 1928 to catch the sun in Arizona. That I
succeeded in doing, but my sheep’s-skin dried upon the banks of
the Charles. I have one daughter who is a freshman at Wheaton
College (Massachusetts, of course) and a son who is a freshman
at Walnut Hills High School in Cincinnati.

I have been interested for some time in teaching children in reli-
gious education. It has been most gratifying to see how they have
developed. One of my pupils went to Alaska this summer to do
missionary work and has stayed on for one year to help in a hos-
pital. May I thank my classmates who have done and are still
doing such a grand job to make this Twenty-fifth Anniversary
Reunion possible.

[ 264 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD DANE

HOME ADDRESS: 360 Heath St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1341 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1907, Brookline, Mass. parents: Ernest Blaney Dane, ’92,
Helen Folsom Pratt.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREES: S.B. 1929(30); D.A.o. (Staley Coll.),
1951.

MARRIED: Jane Estabrook Ewell, Feb. 9, 1935, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Edward Nathan, Oct. 16, 1935; Peter, July 22, 1938, Herbert Pratt,
July 12, 1943.

HARVARD SON: Edward Nathan Dane, ’57.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ernest Blaney Dane, Jr., °27, A.M., 28, S.D., 36.

OccUPATION: President, Brookline Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Company, Tampa
Electric Company, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company,
chairman, since 1952, member, 1940-51, Brookline Board of Selectmen,
chairman, Brookline Civil Defense, 1953, Brookline Branch American
Red Cross, since 1951, Brookline Committee on Public Safety, 1942-44;
member, Brookline Committee on Planting Trees, since 1942; member
Trustees of Walnut Hills Cemetery, since 1952; commodore, Eastern
Yacht Club, Marblehead, 1950-52; honorary president, Monhegan Steam
Bath & Social Club.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline; Eastern Yacht Club; Tennis
and Racquet Club, Boston; Brookline Kiwanis Club; Motormaulers.

SINCE graduation (actually in 1930 after I attained the “dis-
tinction” of being OCC for one year), my main business interest
has been banking. I worked in every department of the Brookline
Trust Company, Brookline, Massachusetts, until I became presi-
dent in 1942 on the death of my father whom I succeeded in this
position.

Being a local banker and the descendant of a father who had
great interest in local municipal functions, it is small wonder I
soon found myself involved as a Town Meeting member and from
1940 a member of the Board of Selectmen. To this can be added
membership on the Committee on Planting Trees and recently as
a trustee of the Walnut Hills Cemetery (the latter partially as it
appears, a semi-guarantee for longevity). During the early World
War II days, the job of treasurer of the local branch of the Red
Cross led into liaison work with the Committee on Public Safety
(Civil Defense) which resulted in assuming chairmanship (C.D.)

[ 265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

some time later. This and other duties were terminated for a time
while I attempted to be “an officer and gentleman” in the U. S.
Naval Reserve. Before donning my sailor’s suit, I had managed to
be elected as a director of the Boston Safe Deposit and ‘Trust Com-
pany, Boston; the Tampa Electric Company, Boston and Florida,
and the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, plus
many charitable and non-paying positions.

For two or three years I was president of an infants’ underwear
manufacturing company which was sold just after the war.

My two years’ active duty in the Naval Reserve started in Janu-
ary, 1944, at which time I was considered too old to go to sea.
So after two months indoctrination at Fort Schuyler, The Bronx,
two more at the General Ordnance School, Naval Gun Factory,
Washington, D. C., I received the high-sounding billet of Sub-
section Chief-in-Charge of Defense Aid and Lend-Lease Contracts,
Financial Division, BuOrd. This, after the Navy had spent two
soul-shaking months teaching me about every rifle, torpedo, bomb,
missile, rocket, and the arts of gunfire of which that arm of our
defense set-up knew! No sooner had I been assigned a desk when
I started agitating for a better billet. Six months later came my
orders to go to Hawaii in the Base Planning Division, Advanced
Base Section, Com. Serv. Pac. This job in planning all the bases to
come, from the Navy standpoint, was very interesting and no
doubt had a hand in providing needed gear for some of my class-
mates who served in these bases from Okinawa to Tokyo. I left
the “rock” on the 327’ Coast Guard Cutter U.S.C.G.C. Ingham
on December 13, 1945, for a delightful non-duty twenty-one day
cruise through the canal to New York.

After separation from active to inactive duty, I took up most of
the strings dropped two years before and have been at it ever
since. So much for business and military service .

Family-wise, I married Jane E. Ewell of Worcester, Massachu-
setts, on February 9, 1935, from which union there have resulted
three sons aged (by the time of this Report) eighteen, fifteen,
and ten. The oldest, Edward N., is a freshman in the Class of

1957; the second, Peter, is currently at the Dublin School, Dublin,
New Hampshire; and the youngest, Herbert Pratt, is at school in
Brookline. We reside in the house which saw my birth and have
other houses in Rowley, Massachusetts, and Center Harbor, New

[ 266 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hampshire. All of these activities and taxes keep me broke —
but that is life!

From 1934 to 1952 my main hobby and sport was yachting,
mostly from Marblehead, Massachusetts. This interest and my
membership in the Eastern Yacht Club, resulted in my holding
various positions in that club up to being commodore in 1950,
1951, and 1952. It is a relief to be just a member again even in my
present position of “being on the beach.” —

Until my marriage, my winter activity, outside of work, was
devoted to skiing every weekend in New Hampshire. This sport
was not for my wife, and just what has happened to the many

weekends from September to. June ever since is a mystery ex-
cept for some beagling, weekend trips here and there, or an oc-
casional winter vacation in Bermuda, Haiti, California, and so on.
n recent years a neighbor and good friend has been engaged with
ne in boat building exercise starting with a pram-kit and working
p to the major undertaking of constructing a nineteen-foot two- |
an sailing canoe. The pram was beautiful even though rather
orced” in some sections as we knew more than the directions
id only worked evenings. The sailing canoe has been a long
‘ojyect with only occasional Saturday mornings being spent on
and various troubles of all kinds.
1 have seen a good deal of the local classmates throughout the

ars and am looking forward to meeting the rest at this Reunion.
you have trouble with the transportation system — see Dick

Bevin or myself.

JOHN LAWRENCE DANE.

: ADDRESS; 40 Stanton Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.
E ADDRESS: 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

Feb. 14, 1906, Orange, N. J. Parents: Herbert E. Dane, Florence G.
.mes.
2ED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.
cD: Esther Jarvis Wise, Feb. 17, 1934, Brookline, Mass. cuiLp: John
wrence, Jr., Dec. 3, 1941.

tion: Corporate fiduciary, administrative assistant, account manage
nt, Old Colony Trust Company.

HELD: Chairman, Public Speaking Club, Boston Chapter, 1942, dis-
t chairman, Public Speaking and Debate, 1943, American Institute

[ 267 ]

miata 980

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

of Banking; president, Rust Island Associates, West Gloucester, Mass.,
1952; president, Brotherhood, 1950-51, deacon, treasurer (now), Har-
vard Congregational Church, Brookline.

MEMBER OF: Boston Chapter, American Institute of Banking; Rust Island
Associates; Harvard Congregational Church Brotherhood.

FORTUNATELY my business and outside activities have not
required that I spend too great a proportion of time away from
home. Consequently I have been able to enjoy the good company
of my wife —a cousin, incidentally, of Gordon Leach of our
Class and of Bart Leach of the Class of 1921. Since 1941 I have
had the added pleasure of my son’s company — not so much for
the first year or so— but from 1946 when we built a small house
in West Gloucester. He and I have gone swimming, clamming,
fishing, and boating together. The pleasant outdoor activities of
summer have blended nicely with the urban life of a Brookline
apartment-dweller during the school months. During these months
my wife seems to find time for home, community, church, school,
and — thank heaven — for some fun too. I join in.

As for hobbies, other than occasional golf and fishing, I like to
putter around our place at West Gloucester and in addition try to
grow a few flowers among the rocks. My war record is nil, since
old age intervened (then aged thirty-eight), so I air-raided as a
warden. Aly religious convictions are, I think, strong, although
not particularly denominational in their direction. Politically —
local, national, and international — I am strongly in favor of seeing
a bit of religion added to the brew. Our president is doing this
and the resulting flavor is wholesome. That last sounds kind of
old-fashioned and a bit “fuzzy,” but I guess that’s my feeling. In
fact, I’m so old-fashioned that I believe an occasional “no” to one’s
children is actually not harmful to the child.

ELIOT HOWARD DANIEL

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 4711 Balboa Ave. Encino, Calif.

oan: Jan. 7, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Max Aaron Daniel, Amelia Le-
vine,

PREPARED at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1929(30).

marwep: Evelyn Langfeldt, Dec. 19, 1941, Las Vegas, Nev. CHILDREN:
Linda Karola, June 22, 1946, Deborah Ann, June 11, 1947.

[ 268 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Composer, conductor, vocal director.
PUBLICATIONS: Songs— “Lavender Blue,” “Blue Shadows on the Trail,”
“I Love Lucy,” “Never,” “Old Sow Song,” “Chopsticks.”

ERIC WILLIAM DANIELSON

HOME ADDRESS: 7 Fiske Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 340 Washington St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 29, 1907, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Emil Otto Julius Danielson.

Alma Emelia Oden.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

marrigeD: Alice D. Johnson, March 11, 1939, Belmont, Mass. CHILDREN:
Barbara Nancy, Sept. 9, 1944; Eric William, May 25, 1940.

OCCUPATION: General manager, Scott & Company, Ltd., men’s manufacturing

retail clothiers.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Swedish Charitable Society; Boston Executive

_ Association.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Wellesley Country Club.
UPON graduation from the Harvard Business School, I went to
work for Scott & Company, Ltd., manufacturing retailers of men’s
clothing. I have been there ever since. 1 enjoy seeing the United
States and playing golf. After having suffered on the losing side
through many football seasons and political campaigns, I find the
most recent result has been a pleasant change of pace.

CHARLES DANZIG

HOME ApprEss: 67 S, Munn Ave., East Orange, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Riker, Emery & Danzig, 744 Broad St., Newark, N. J.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1905, Russia. PARENTS: Harry Danzig, Rebecca Fridland.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Newark, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREES: S.B. summa cum laude, 1929; LL.B.
1932.

MarRIED: Sydney Jean Baskin, Dec. 1, 1935, Adams, Mass,

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Law School Association of New Jersey.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Essex County Bar Association;
Down Town Club; Harvard Law School Association of New Jersey;

Mountain Ridge Country Club.

AFTER my graduation from Harvard Law School in 1932, !
yecame associated with the law firm of Hood, Lafferty & Camp-

[ 269 ]

inn A tela,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

bell, and became a partner in 1940. The firm name has since been
changed to Riker, Emery & Danzig. Asa busy lawyer, I find that
my professional duties absorb most of my time. My spare mo-
ments, however, are devoted to maintaining a respectable game of
golf.

ROBERT CROLY DARLING

HOME ApprEss: 157 Glenwood Ave., Leonia, N. J.

OFFICE appRESS: College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University,
630 W. 168th St. New York 32, N.Y.

BorN: March 17, 1908, Syracuse, N. Y. parents: Clarence Winfield Darling,
Elizabeth Rowena Croly.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. summa cum laude, 19293 M.D.
magna cum laude, 1934.

marrieD: Esther Hill, June 17, 1938, Wellesley Hills, Mass. cHmLpREN: Nancy
Elizabeth, Sept. 26, 1941; Thomas Robert, Sept. 4, 1945.

occuPATION: Professor of physical medicine and rehabilitation, College of
Physicians and Surgeons; clinical teaching and research.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Medical Board, Institute for the Crippled & Dis-
abled; member Orthopedic Adv. Committee, City of New York De-
partment of Health; chairman, Committee on Education, American
Congress of Physical Medicine; district chairman, Health and Safety
Committee, North Bergen County Council Boy Scouts of America
(N. J.); member Mayor's Committee on Safety, Leonia.

PUBLICATIONS: Thirty-five to forty articles in medical and physiological
literature.

ALTHOUGH opportunism dictated many of the moves in my
career, it would appear in retrospect that I was always uncon-
sciously trying to combine a life of practical service as a physician
with some elements of basic science for which the College sup-
plied my initial groundwork. An offer of a year’s travelling fel-
lowship in Europe after college Commencement easily tempted me
to delay starting medical school. The experience of this year
served ideally to supplement the liberal phases of my education,
which may have been somewhat submerged by the science cur-
riculum and part-time jobs during college. At last, by 1934, I had
my medical degree and was beginning my specialized education.
After eight years in Boston and Cambridge, I chose to step a
few miles out of New England for internship at Presbyterian Elos- _

[270 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pital in New York. After two years of this purely clinical training,
the laboratory tempted me back so I spent one more year at this
hospital and two years at the Columbia Research Service at Gold-
water Memorial Hospital, Welfare Island, combining clinical serv-
ice and laboratory research, |

In 1940 I sought more concentrated experience in laboratory
techniques — of course at Harvard, but this time in the Business
School at the Fatigue Laboratory. Planning one or at most two
years in this activity, I spent nearly six!’ Needless to say, World
War II had something to do with this decision. Uncle Sam ap-
parently decided that our studies of the practical sciences of nu-
- trition, clothes, and climate were of sufficient value to hold me on
this job. Although not officially a soldier, I spent a fair share of
my time in “fatigues” on various military t tests in a the United States
and Canada.

- At the end of the war 11 was fortunate to > have the training dee
sired. by Columbia University to promote the research program
under the Bernard Baruch Gift for Physical Medicine. Thus I
returned to the fold of clinical medicine. Although at the start
concerned only with the research phase of this new specialty of
physical medicine, I soon became enthused and acquired experi-
ence in its clinical practice. With increasing emphasis on rehabili-
tation efforts for the chronically disabled, the specialty of-
fered a stimulating challenge, especially since more and more
patients were being saved from acute illness and were requiring
help to live with their residual disabilities. As my clinical interest
increased, so did the program at Columbia, so that in 1952 a sepa-
rate Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation was set
up. We are fortunate in having a program of balanced teaching,
research, and patient service. My job as administrator is so per-
sonally satisfying that I sometimes forget the economic limitations
of a professor’s salary!

Nine years after college may seem too late to get married, but
to my bride and me it seemed a courageous move at a time of in-
complete training and threatening war. Fortunately, inflation was
delayed a few years and so were children, so we had a less hectic
struggle than many others. Our two children, now eight and
twelve, somewhat younger than those of many classmates, do
their best to keep us younger than our calendar ages —I hope.

[271]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Living in a town of only 7,000 population (although Jess than
five miles from New York), we have many of the advantages of
semi-rural life, plus some of the provincialisms of a small town.
It is a “busy” town, with community enterprises which could
keep one busy full-time. I have time for only a few — Boy Scout
District Committee work, Town Safety Committee, and some
church activity. Although not a possessor of a green thumb, I
try to keep a small garden plot going. Practically every summer
we get back to New England for three or four weeks on Lake
Winnipesaukee. My hobbies are fishing and stamp collecting.

In this strict Republican area of my home, I am probably con-
sidered a radical; in university circles and in New York, I might
be considered rather a Tory. In other words, I am not politically
labelled.

Writing: this brief review causes nostalgic feelings about col-
lege experiences and personal contacts. Although I regret lack
of contacts with classmates over the years, it is a common experi-
ence of those in medicine. Either doctors are basically deficient
in general interests and feelings of friendship — or else they just
don’t have time and energy outside their professional responsibili-
ties.

WILLIAM LOWELL DARLING

LAST KNOWN appreEss: McGowans Radio and Refrigerator Co., 23 W. Sixth
St. St. Paul, Minn.

Boan; Nov. 15, 1904, Evanston, Ill. parents: William LaFayette Darling,
Alice Bevans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. A.B. 1929(30).

MARRIED: Doris Kincaide, Sept. 30, 1930, Cohasset, Mass, CHILDREN: Roger
Kincaide, April 7, 1935; William Gridley, Aug. 21, 1938.

DARLING has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
195}.

DAVID MYERS DAVIS

HOME AppRess: 431 E. 2oth St. New York 10, N. Y.
OFFICE Appress: 22 W. 48th St., New York 36, N. Y.
BoRN: March 10, 1908, Boston, Mass, parents: Abram Davis, Rose Sylvia

Myers.
[272 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y. _
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; S.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1932.
MARRIED: Stella Massingham, May 16, 1946, New York, N. Y.
occuPATION: Executive director, Foundation for Youth and Student Affairs,
WHAT with a depression and a war it has been a busy twenty-
five years; I am astonished to stop and realize that it is twenty-five
years. I have done war service, run a business, engaged in numer-
ous “do-good” occupations — and am still doing the latter, running
a foundation which gives money to youth or student organizations
throughout the world for projects which it believes will advance
international codperation among youth, develop youth leader-
ship, and so on, I like to travel and have done a great deal of the
same over a large portion of the globe. I have picked up in the
course of these travels a wide assortment of items including a New
Zealand wife, a good knowledge of French, and a large collection
of friends around the world. Languages are my chief hobby and
I seem to do quite well at learning and forgetting them. Public
speaking has been another hobby in the past — in political cam-
paigns, and so on, but I have not done any of that lately.

+k EDGAR JACOBS DAVIS

BoRN: April 21, 1908, Haverhill, Mass, parents: Herman Franklin Davis,
Harriet Daniels Jacobs. ,

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass. |

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

DIED: Jan. 2, 1949, Merrimac, Mass.

FOR two years after receiving his A.B., Edgar Davis studied 2 at
the Harvard Law School. In 1934 he was admitted to the Massa-
chusetts Bar. He then entered the practice of law and also joined
his father in the hardware business in Merrimac. He served as
superintendent and member of the religious education and stand-
ing committees of the Pilgrim Congregational Church in Merri-
mac. In addition he was a lecturer and member in the Merrimac
>omona Grange, a member of the Essex County Pomona Grange,
reasurer of the Merrimac Town Improvement Society, and in the
30y Scouts had served as troop chairman, district commissioner,
nd member of the executive board of the Lone Tree Council.

[273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

GOODE PASCHALL DAVIS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 130 Lilac Drive, Santa Barbara, Calif.

BorN: Nov. 8, 1906, Havana, Cuba. parents: Norman Hezekiah Davis,
Mackie Paschall.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

marrigp: Martha Overton Dickinson, June 15, 1929, Nashville, Tenn. cx-
DREN: Goode Paschall, Jr. (Sandy), March 6, 1930; Elisabeth Overton,
March 26, 1932; Helen Trenholm, March 14, 1938.

HARVARD SON: Goode Paschall Davis, Jr. ’52.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Maclin Paschall Davis, ’21; Norman Paschall Davis, ’ 223
John Paschall Davis, ’30, LLB, ’33.

occupation; Portrait painter.

MEMBER OF: Artists Equity Association; Century Association, New York,
Delphic Club.

I LEFT Cambridge three days before graduation ceremonies in
order to attend my wedding in Nashville, Tennessee. ‘Iwo months
later my bride and I were established in Paris with the intent to
pursue my studies in the art of painting. We remained in France
for almost a year, at the end of which time we produced ason who
is probably the Class baby. For twelve years thereafter we moved
from place to place, within one hundred miles of New York City:
New York, Woodstock (artist colony), Long Island (three years),
and Salisbury, Connecticut (four years). Then came the war to
which I volunteered my services in the Combat Intelligence of the
Air Corps, as a second lieutenant. Two and a half years were
spent overseas, as a captain in the Ninth Bomber Command for
one and a half years. The last year was with IX Troop Carrier
Command, which landed gliders and paratroopers of the 82nd
and roist paratroop divisions on D-Day and thereafter.

In 1945 after the end of the war we moved to Santa Barbara,
California, where we built a modern home in a gorgeous setting.
Although this is still our official residence, I have been away for
most of the past three years, painting portraits in various cities of
the United States. My son is now in Korea with the rst Marine
Division.

[ 274]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HASSOLDT DAVIS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 226 Fifth Ave., New York 1, N. Y. '

BORN: July 3, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Albert Milton Davis, Lucille
Hassoldt.

PREPARED AT: Stone’s School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MARRIED: Jimm Squires; Ruth Staudinger, divorced.

OccUPATION: Explorer; writer.

MEMBER OF: Explorers Club; Ends of the Earth Club; Royal Geographical
Society of Australia, _

PUBLICATIONS: Thirteen books, published in America, England, Sweden,
France, and Egypt; latest, The Jungle a and the Damned (vale of French
Guiana expedition).

THE following information about Davis is found in Who's Who

in America, volume 27. After leaving Harvard Davis spent a year

among the South Pacific Islands. He later worked with Andre

Roosevelt on a moving picture of Bali called “Goona-Goona,” and

subsequently returned to the South Seas for two more years. In

1939 he was a writer and photographer with the Denis-Roosevelt

Asiatic Expedition, travelling by the Burma Road into China and.

later visiting the Kingdom of Nepal where he collected ethno-

logical data and took extensive photographs. He led an expedition
in 1947-1948, which was sponsored by. UNESCO and the French
government, to explore the Tumac Humac Mountains of French

Guiana and to photograph nomadic Indians. In 1941 he joined

the Free French Forces and served in the campaigns of .Tchad,
Libya, Tunisia, Italy, France, and Indo-China; he was twice
awarded the Croix de Guerre. He is the author of Islands Under
the Wind (1933), Save Me the Sun (1939), Land of the Eye
(1940), Nepal, Land of Mystery (1942), The Fighting Family
Paux (1943), Half Past When (1945), and Feu d’ Afrique (1946).

Davis adds this to the above data: My latest expedition was to
the Ivory Coast of French West Africa in search-of a Sorcerer’ S
Village (see film of the same name, or book of the same name to
be published this coming October). Currently I am commuting
between Paris and Marrakesh, to traffic in literature and (what-
not!). Last year the French made me chevalier de la Legion
a’Honneur,

(275 ]

Patan AS sabe:
Fe Pin ah 8 et pitta

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

ROBERT GORHAM DAVIS

HOME ADDRESS: 96 Maynard Rd., Northampton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of English, Smith College, Northampton, Mass.

BORN: June 8, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Burlingame Davis,
Mary Becket Millett.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929(30); A.M., 1930.

MARRIED: Frances Hope Hale. cuitpren: Claudia Coburn, Feb. 11, 1933;
Stephen Hale, Sept. 5, 1941; Lydia Brooks, July 15, 1947.-

occupation: Professor of English language and literature, Smith College.

oFFices HELD: Member Executive Committee, Committee for Cultural
Freedom,

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; Americans for Democratic
Action; American Civil Liberties Union.

PuBLIcaTiIONs: Ten Modern Masters (editor), Harcourt Brace and Co.;
Humpbry Clinker (editor), Rinehart and Co.; frequent contributions
to New York Book Review, Partisan Review, Commentary, New
Leader, United States Quarterly Book Review, etc.; short stories, The
New Yorker; short stories and articles in textbooks and anthologies.

] HAVE taught for twenty-four of the twenty-five years since I
graduated from College. three years at Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute, ten years at Harvard, eleven years at Smith. I hope to
teach for twenty more. Teaching is exciting, because to keep on
teaching effectively it is necessary to keep on learning, opening
up new vistas for oneself. And there is the constant struggle to
reconcile what books teach indirectly with what life teaches di-
rectly. By “life” I mean family life, social life, life in the cosmos.

Both in my teaching and my writing | am concerned with the

relations between the disciplines, relations between imaginative
literature, philosophy, politics, and religion. I teach an interde-
partmental course on metaphor, symbol, and myth, which deals
with the forms of imaginative association common to poetry,
magic, myth, dreams, the unconscious, and the thinking of primi-
tive men and children. It also treats the role of fictions of various
kinds in social and intellectual activity.

Like the rest of the Class of 1929, I am of the generation which
went to school during the individualistic twenties, and then had
to come to terms with the world during the socially-minded thir-
ties, the period of the depression, and the rise of Hitler. As in
some ways a typical — or symptomatic — member of the genera-

[ 276 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion which suddenly found itself on trial during the late forties

and early fifties, I had to decide whether, considering all that we

know now of the communist movement, one should be silent

about it, give it the protection of retrospective secrecy. I decided

that it should not have this protection, that public candor about

the relations of past and present best served the interests of democ-

racy and of higher education. I do not regret this decision, though
I regret some of its consequences. And I wish that those under-
taking these investigations of the past were more serious about the
future, had less partisan motives, were better informed about what
they purported to be studying, and showed by their practices
that they knew what democracy, what liberty under the law,
really mean.

I have spoken of my intellectual and social concerns, but like
most people I have found some of my richest pleasure in travel,
friendship, summer vacations, usually on Cape Cod, and the com-
plex demands and wonders of family life with three widely
spaced, very different children and a wife whose creative interests
are wider than my own.

ROBERT LORD DEBEVOISE

HOME appreEss: Williamstown, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 74 20th St., Brooklyn 32, N. Y.

BoRN: July 26, 1907, Easthampton, Long Island, N. Y. parents: George
Debevoise, Jessie Lord.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MARRIED: Betsy Hart Doughty, Feb. 24, 1939, Williamstown, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Douglass Debevoise, ’26.

OccUPATION: Salesman, Debevoise Company, manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Republican Committee, Williamstown; vice-presi-
dent, Welfare Association, Williamstown; vestryman, St. John’s Epis-
copal Church, Williamstown; member, Finance Committee, Williams-

' town.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Century Association of New

York: Squadron “A” Association; Taconic Golf Club; Faculty Club of
Williams College.

AFTER twenty-five years, one becomes peculiarly reticent about
alking of one’s activities during that period unless one has con-
irmed or is entirely without inhibitions. Although I am living in

[277 ]

“sr hsaa aas  atlnceitn AO lataN ea lh,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

almost complete content, I find I have few of the things which so
many people count as essential, Neither social position, nor
worldly goods, nor importance in either the financial, industrial,
or political world seem to count as much as maybe they should.
If I had had the influence of four years of Harvard life instead of
two, I might well feel different. But my ambitions are limited
just to continuing an extremely happy married life in a small
college town with a fine trout stream, a championship golf course,
and the usual civic activities. To maintain the moderate standard
of living necessary, I have been forced to return to business and
am travelling away from home more than I should like. This I
hope will change in the near future, when I trust that those among
my classmates who come to the Berkshires will drop in. I find
myself impressed with the fact that Harvard University, under its
new president, appears to be headed toward an era of vision
guided by a man of great wisdom and capability. There seems to
be little doubt that Mr. Pusey is dedicated to the task ahead and
will be president in fact as well as in name.

JULIAN ve BRUYN KOPS, JR.

HOME appress: 3 Forrer Blyd., Dayton 9, Ohio,

OFFICE AppRESS: 25 N. Main St, Dayton 1, Ohio.

BoRN: Nov. 8, 1908, Savannah, Ga. parents: Julian de Bruyn Kops, May
Bancroft Woodberry.

PREPARED AT: Savannah High School, Savannah, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LLB., 1932.

MarrieD: Mary Virginia Thompson, July 1, 1939, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN:
Julianna, July 1, 1940; Virginia, Jan. 31, 1942; Julian, 3d, July 28, 1945.

occupation: Lawyer, counsel for The Dayton Power and Light Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Standing Committee, 1952-53, secretary, since
1953, member of Council, Section of Public Utiliry Law, American
Bar Association; chairman, American Citizenship Committee, 1953-54,
Dayton Bar Association, vice-president, 1951-52, president, 1952-53,
St. Paul’s Club, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Dayton.

MEMBER oF: American Bar Association; Ohio State Bar Association; Day-
ton Bar Association; Engineers’ Club, Dayton.

PUBLICATIONS: 1952 Report of Standing Committee, Section of Public Utility
Law, American Bar Association (editor).

AFTER graduation from Law School in 1932 I was admitted to
practice in Maryland. I practised in Baltimore, associated with

[278]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

William Pepper Constable, one of Baltimore’s most distinguished |
lawyers, for about a year. Then, attracted by the opportunity to
learn administrative law, I worked as an attorney in the Adminis-
trative Enforcement Section of the Agricultural Adjustment Ad-
ministration. After about a year, I transferred to the General
Counsel’s Office of the Treasury Department for about three
months, during which time my principal effort was preparation
of the basic report which recommended the publication by the
federal government of a register of all administrative orders of the
various agencies of the government having the force of law. Un-
fortunately, those who presented it to the President weren’t able
to convince him of the need for such a publication. (I am putting
the President’s attitude too charitably, I am sure, because subse-
quent events have convinced me that the President actually cared
very little about the effect on the individual citizen of the tre-
mendous forces of government which he unleashed from time to
time by his executive decrees, and the power which he so lavishly
delegated and permitted to be sub-delegated.) Fortunately, the
subsequent decision of the Supreme Court blasting the govern-
ment for indicting and trying a man for violation of an adminis-
trative agency’s order that had been revoked, but neither of which
had been published so as to be generally available to the public,
caused a quick reversal of the President’s decision, and publication
of the Federal Register was instituted shortly thereafter.
Early in 1935 I returned to Baltimore, associated with the firm
‘then known as Marbury, Gosnell & Williams (now Piper and
Marbury), and practised there until World War II. In December,

1941, I-was called to active duty with the Army as a first lieutenant
and was assigned as liaison officer from the commanding general
(whom I never saw) of the then Third Corps Area to the Balti-
more Filter Center of the First Interceptor Command. There I
spent five months of twelve hours per day, seven days per week of
doing nothing but watching volunteers mark on a large map of
the area the traces of aircraft passing through, if seen by the
spotters.

Then I was transferred to the Judge Advocate’s Office at
Wright Field, near Dayton, Ohio, then known as the Materiel
Command. Here I stayed for four years and had very interesting
work involving some of the multitudinous legal problems, mostly

[279 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

from a tax point of view, of the vast procurement program of the
Army Air Force. On leaving the Army, I decided to locate
permanently in Dayton, and became counsel for The Dayton
Power and Light Company, where I have been ever since. The
work is most stimulating and interesting.

Shortly before the war, in July, 1939, I married a lovely girl
from Baltimore — Mary Virginia Thompson (Smith 35). We
have been happily married ever since, through the good as well as
the not so good. Our children (three) are progressing satisfac-
torily; each has some good and some bad (mostly good) points.
The girls say they want to go to Smith, and the boy says he wants
to go to Harvard, provided they will let him experiment in ani-
mating with motors the various zodlogical specimens, including
skeletons, at the Agassiz Museum.

JOSEPH ARCANGEL DEGUGLIELMO

HOME AppRrEss: 24 Arlington St. Cambridge go, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1430 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 10, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Austin DeGuglielmo,
Mary Grosso.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1933.

Marriep: Angelo Ferraro, Sept. 7, 1933, West Orange, N. J. camp: Claire
Elizabeth, Sept. 22, 1939.

occupation: Lawyer,

orFices HELD: Mayor of Cambridge, 1952-53; city councillor, Cambridge,
since 1945; president, Cambridge Bar Association, 1951; grand consul,
Alpha Phi Delca Fraternity, 1940~47; chairman, Price Control Panel,
War Price and Ration Board, 1942-43; national secretary, Alpha Phi
Delta Fraternity, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Draft Board No. 43; Amvets; Elks, B.P.O.E.; Cambridge and
Massachusetts Bar Associations, American Legion; Woodland Golf
Club; Knights of Columbus; Sons of Italy.

GRADUATION came and an idealist went forth into the world
convinced of the proposition that mankind would immediately
recognize his genius and sing praises of hallelujah. However, old
man depression and non-existent clients soon disillusioned him. So,
in the parlance of the courts, we hustled and finally the most wel-
come of apparitions to all lawyers, clients gradually made their
appearances so that the DeGugs started to live adequately and

[ 280 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

comfortably. Then, as in the lives of all my classmates the mus-
tached monster of Germany made his appearance, and the United
States among others decided to teach him a lesson. We went to
war. I indulged in the usual patriotic endeavors of citizens —
bond drives, Draft Board, Rationing Board. The war continued
poorly for us. So, finally, in desperation the United States Army
which had turned down my many attempts to volunteer as a com-
missioned officer, drafted me as a buck private. After an exten-
sive training period and solely as the result of exceptional military
ability, 1 was promoted to P.F.C. However, neither the training
nor the promotion had any appreciable effect upon the conduct
of the war. Things were still bad. About this time during my
military adventure, I had an argument with a tree with the usual
result. The tree won, and my head lost. So they fired me from
the Army. They gave me some mumbo jumbo about honorable
discharge and appreciation for services, etc. It may be only coin-
cidental but from that time on, the Army, Navy, Air Force, and
Marines were victorious, and we won the war.

On the personal side, I returned to Cambridge, Massachusetts,
and endeavored to build up my law practice — results, good. I
then decided to try my wings in the field of local politics — re-
sults, perfect. In 1945, I decided that Cambridge needed me as one
of its councillors. Curiously, the electorate agreed with me, and
I have been elected and re-elected every two years since. At the
time of this writing I am mayor of Cambridge and will be until
January 4, 1954. On the personal side, I am watching with con-
siderable interest the gradual evolution of a baby to young woman-
hood. She is now struggling, impatiently at times, with the in-
tricacies of high school in preparation, we think, for Cornell. My
wife and I look forward anxiously to the time when we may

recapture for a short space of time our youth through her.

+ LEONARD JOHANNES pve GROOT

BORN: Dec, 16, 1907, Amsterdam, Holland. parents: Johannes Willem de
Groot, Leonarda Johanna de Zwaan.

PREPARED AT: Freies Gymnasium, Berne, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

ED: March 10, 1944, Japan.

[ 281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

WHEN he left Harvard, de Groot returned to his native Jand to
enter military service. When he had spent a year in the army, he
taught in student regiments of several private schools in Switzer-
land. He later joined the K.P.M. in Holland and spent one year
at Amsterdam in the central office of the company, and one year
in Singapore; he was afterwards with K.P.M. in Batavia, Nether-
lands East Indies. During World War II he held the rank of major
in the Netherlands army. Taken prisoner by the Japanese, he died
in a prison camp.

JOHN peLAITTRE

HOME ADDRESS: 520 W. Ferndale Rd., Wayzata, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Farmers and Mechanics Savings Bank of Minneapolis,
Minneapolis, Minn.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1907, Minneapolis, Minn, parents: Karl DeLaittre, ’97,
Rosamond Kimball Little.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B. 1933.

MargieD: Carolyn Erminger, April 30, 1934, Chicago, Ill, cumpren: Corinne,
Feb. 5, 1937; Carolyn, April 23, 1941; Lila, June 27, 1947.

occupation: Vice-president, trustee, Farmers and Mechanics Savings Bank
of Minneapolis, mutual savings bank.

oFFices HELD: Director, Western Oil and Fuel Company, Great Northern
Insurance Company, Minnesota Historical Society, War Chest of Min-
neapolis, 1944-45, Berry and Company; member, Advisory Committee,
Northwestern National Life Insurance Company; secretary-treasurer,
Mutual Securities Company and Lamoine Company; treasurer, Bodel
Corporation, Social Settlements Association of Minneapolis, Minnesota
Institute of Governmental Research; member, Council of Administra-
tion, National Association of Mutual Savings Banks; chairman, Min-
neapolis Chapter, 1949-51, special assistant to vice-chairman foreign
operation, 1943, American Red Cross; president, Pillsbury Settlement
House, 1942, Legal Aid Society of Minneapolis, 1952-54; trustee, Lake-
wood Cemetery Association, Northrop Collegiate School.

MEMBER OF; Minneapolis Club, Woodhill Country Club, Kitchi Gammi
Club; Beaver Bay Club; Skylight Club; Succor, Inc.

HAVING been sufficiently “goaded,” and the golfing and sailing
season now being ended here in Minnesota, I shall try to recon-
struct my past two and a half years. (The first, tenth, and twen-
ticth Anniversary Reports of our Class tell most of the story!)

[ 282 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As years go on, I find that some of my most vivid impressions
were gained in travelling around the world in 1929-1930 with
classmate Ernest Stent of San Francisco. It is amazing to realize
what great events have occurred since then in places we visited
like Japan, Korea, China, the Philippines, Java, the Malay, and
India. Even the Mount Everest we gazed at early on several morn-
ings has now been climbed. In the following spring of 1930 when
Sam Manierre and I motored in Italy with our roommate, Joe
Cotton, little did we realize that Joe would return to those shores
fifteen years later to die in World War II.

No vivid memories remain, however, of my excursions in con-
tracts, torts, and real property at the Harvard Law School during
the years 1930 to 1933. Practice of the law as an associate of one
of the leading firms in Minneapolis eventually led to my shifting
in 1940 to the Farmers and Mechanics Savings Bank of Minne-
apolis, which is exclusively a savings institution, and of which I am
now vice-president. My work in particular has been along such
diverse lines as public relations and thrift advertising on the one
hand, and mortgage investments on the other hand. It is fascinat-
ing to be at the focal point of the flow of savings from the pockets
of the thrifty into the loans on the good American homes of those
who could not otherwise afford to own their homes.

Like most bankers, I seem to have run the gamut of civic “jobs,”
pro bono publico, and each one adds a few grey hairs. Bringing
up three lively daughters here on the shores of Lake Minnetonka,
where only Indians roamed a hundred years ago, has not only
produced some more grey hairs but also has kept my wife and
myself constantly amused at our more modern “braves.” Our
greatest joy has been travelling as a family to such places as the
Canadian Rockies, California, Cape Cod, and particularly to a
club we joined about seventy miles northeast of Mexico City. In
the summer of 1953 we spent several weeks in Scandinavia; pri-
marily, I went to study the remarkable system of savings banks
which the Scandinavian people have filled with the fruit of their
thriftiness. But we also saw much of the country which stretches
from the golden fields of Denmark to the iron mines of Sweden
north of the Arctic Circle and, especially, from the islands of the
Baltic to the magnificent fjords of western Norway.

[ 283 ]

ai natn ER in Ange Si is .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

CARLOS BUCKLEY pet SOLAR

HOME ADDRESS: Valle Riestra No 156, San Isidro (Lima), Peru.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peruvian Pacific Petroleum Co., Colmena 757, Lima, Peru.

BORN: June 15, 1906, Lima, Peru. parents: P. Grimaldo del Solar, Julia
Buckley.

PREPARED AT: Peekskill Military Academy, Peekskill, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Lucy Simpson, Dec. 16, 1937, Lima, Peru. cHmpREN: Sylvia,
Dec. 6, 1938; Carlos, July 25, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, manager of operations, Peruvian Pacific Petro-
leum Company (subsidiary of Cities Service Company).

OFFICES HELD: Assistant geologist, 1929-33, chief government geologist, 1933-
4o, Peruvian representative, 1952-53, Cities Service Company; chief
geologist, Banco Minero del Peru, 1940-47; general manager, director,
LASA, 1947-52; assistant professor of structural geology and economic
geology, since 1942, director, School of Geology, since 1950, Univer-
sity of San Marcos; Peruvian correspondent, Engineering and Mining
Journal, 1941-52.

MEMBER OF: Club Nacional de Lima; Sociedad Nacional de Ingenieros;
Sociedad Geologica del Peru; Country Club de Lima; Socieda Nacional
de Mineria y Petroleo.

PUBLICATIONS: Many articles in the following: Boletin de la Sociedad
Geologica del Peru, Boletin de la Sociedad de Ingenieros del Peru,
Boletin del Ministerio de Fomento, Boletin del Cuerpo de Ingenieros
de Minas, La Prensa, Engineering and Mining Journal.

HARDLY aware that twenty-five years have gone by since the
unforgettable and cherished bull sessions at Straus Hall, I find my-
self concerned with varied feelings, of sorrow for the unavoid-
able damage of the tooth of time, and of thankfulness for a life
happily and contentedly spent. Well do I realize that absolute
contentment is not of this world, and that our then positive solu-
tions of all problems, political, social, and moral, have been diluted
into uncertainties of doubtful diagnosis. But one thing I have
learned: to compromise on the results of things ambitioned and
expect not perfection. As someone said, “Success depends on
three things: who says it, what he says, how he says it; and what
he says is the least important.”

After taking a stab at oil geology with the Cities Service Com-
pany during the thirties and spending a few years in Europe, I
decided to come home and switch to mining. A lot of very hard
work — travelling in the Andes where altitudes of 15,000 feet are

[ 284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

considered “below,” first as chief government geologist and later
as chief geologist of the Banco Minero and as a private consultant
— tired me out after twenty years. So I decided to invest my
savings in the ceramics industry. Although not unsuccessful, the
venture convinced me that I was a better geologist than a brick-
maker. In 1952 a new oil law attracted many foreign companies to
Peru. My old friends, the Cities Service Company, contacted me
and a subsidiary, Peruvian Pacific Petroleum Company, was
formed; so I am back in the oil business with the hope that I stay
in it for good. We shall start drilling on the coast in February
and have filed claims in the jungle region totaling two and a half
million acres. That is “head hunter” country and I am informed
that they have a decided preference for bald heads, which they
reduce to the size of a wrinkled alligator pear. The boys from
Straus Hall know all about this jungle from my narratives.

Lucy, the girl I married in 1937, Sylvia, fifteen, and Carlitos,
thirteen and a half, make up the entire family. They all speak
English well. We live a very happy life in our home in Lima and
travel often. We have been in the States three times since 1947,
and expect to go again this June. My hobbies have varied from
snooker to bridge, golf, badminton, and motoring. The children
have the usual interests of their age, and now that Sylvia is fifteen,
I am beginning to collect recipes to keep the wolves away.
Carlitos, who is a genius at inventing amazing mechanical con-
traptions intended to destroy the house and break our necks, is
also a matter of concern. An additional member of the family is
“Pancha,” a three-and-a-half-month-old boxer given to us re-
cently. She is very cute, but gobbles up food like a Percheron
horse and will very likely eat us out of the house. We'll see.

EDWARD URBAN DENISON

HOME appREss: 5815 Chevy Chase Pky., Washington 15, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Navy Department, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1906, Winter Haven, Fla. parents: Irving Ingersoll Denison,
Agnes Garvey. |

PREPARED AT: McKinley Technical High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; M.B.A, 1931; LL.B. (George-
town Univ.), 1951.

MARRIED: Doreen Hargreaves, July 17, 1943, Montreal, P. Q., Canada. cniL-

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

DREN: Patricia Doreen, Sept. 15, 1945; Maureen Agnes, March 4, 1947;
Edward Alson, March 28, 1951; Elizabeth Ann, Sept. 29, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alson George Denison, '26.

OCCUPATION: Negotiating contracts for Navy Department.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Harvard Club of Washington, D. C., 1941-42;
president, Harvard Business School Club of Washington, D. C., 1942-43.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.; Harvard Business School
Club of Washington, D. C; Gamma Eta Gamma Law Fraternity,
Congressional Country Club; Denison Society; Bar of the District of

Columbia.

MY early resolve to remain in my home town has been the most
influential factor shaping my destiny. Two years of starvation pay
with a public utility in Washington, D. C., immediately upon
leaving Harvard in the dismal year of 1931, conditioned me for
my career and enabled me to make the transit from the Business
School to the federal government service with less difficulty than
many would imagine. But there is a difference in being in on the
organization and administration of the emergency agencies and
the routines of the established government departments, practi-
cally all of my activities being with the former, affording a variety
of experience not usually encountered here. The current shrink-
age of the federal government by the Republicans possibly will
alter that situation, but in our disturbed times of depressions and
wars the future is too obscure to attempt a forecast.

Through it all I have retained my conservative nature and have
clung to fundamental basic teachings in spite of the ‘““New Deal.”
As a resident of the District of Columbia I have been able to be
independent of political parties, never having voted, a situation
which can be a hindrance, too; however, it gives me considerable
personal satisfaction in calling the shots as I see them without
party influences but with an on-the-spot insight into events of na-
tional significance.

Once having made the break with the telephone company, I
stayed on the executive staff of the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board until we began to forget our domestic home mortgage difh-
culties because the onset of inflation, due to the start of the Euro-
pean war, wiped out the home loan emergency.

It was in 1940 that I shifted to a different kind of emergency
agency when I joined the staff of the Advisory Commission to the
Council for National Defense. That was a more exciting assign-

[ 286 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ment, helping to manage the nation’s transition to war production.
Just about when that job was well along came the attack on Pearl
Harbor so I joined the Navy and became fire control division offi-
cer of the battleship U.S.S. Texas, being at Omaha Beachhead of
Normandy at H-hour on D-day, remained there for ten days sup-
porting the invasion, then shelled Cherbourg; the ship was hit
twice by the responding shore batteries. After repairs and burial
we went to the Mediterranean and shelled Cap San Tropez in sup-
port of the southern France invasion. Although I went through |
the invasions without being hit by shellfire, in a sense I was a war
casualty. A British mission brought to Washington a certain
Doreen Hargreaves of Montreal. We now have three girls and a
boy on whom I center my pride.

After World War II, I helped to liquidate some of the vast
holdings of the government, accumulated for war production and
mobilization purposes. No sooner was that accomplished than the
Korean war came along but with my newly acquired family obli- -
gations and advanced age for combat, I decided to tackle the forces
of inflation by attempting to hold the price line in the Office of
Price Stabilization in. Washington. That was fun, too. More
recently I have been negotiating contracts for the Navy, as a
civilian. In the meantime I have not neglected my education.
While getting my start in a family way, I filled in the spare time
by studying the law, which is quite an experience itself with kids
hanging around your neck while you try to read a case. I got my
LL.B. from Georgetown University and became a member of the
Bar of the District of Columbia in 1951, thereby proving to myself
at least that you can teach an old sea dog new tricks. Also I be-
came a fraternity man by joining Gamma Eta Gamma Law Fra-
ternity. Harvard has not been entirely neglected, though, as I have
been active in the Washington, D. C., Harvard Club as vice-presi-
dent and in the Harvard Business School Club as president.

JAMES DENORMANDIE

HOME appress: Trapelo Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Sudbury Road, Concord, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 10, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Laurent DeNormandie,
’98, Alice Woodward Brown.

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Martha Boyd Prouty, Oct. 9, 1943. CHILDREN: Robert Laurent, 2d,
Oct. 20, 1944; Alice, March 29, 1946; Philip Yardley, Oct. 15, 19473
Newton Prouty, Oct. 23, 1951.

occupation: Partner, DeNormandie & Verrill (retail dairy); owner, dairy
farm (Guernsey cattle).

OFFICES HELD: Director, Division of Livestock Disease Control, Massachu-
setts Department of Agriculture, 1940-44; member, Lincoln School
Committee, 1934-44; member, Lincoln School Planning and Building
Committees, 1944-53; president, Massachusetts Selective Breeding Asso-
ciation, 1950-51, Massachusetts Guernsey Breeders’ Association, 1944-
48; member, Lincoln Board of Appeals, 1936-53.

I HAVE stayed pretty close to dairy farming, the milk business,
and town activities. It has been rewarding to work with success-
ful farm coéperatives, especially in helping to develop the arti-
ficial breeding program in dairy herds. Today bulls of superior
quality are available to improve these herds everywhere. There
have been real satisfactions realized in working for a united prot-
estant church in our community and in helping to develop a well
equipped public school with high educational standards. I should
like to do more in politics and still hope that I may be able. I am
grateful for a happy family. My only complaint concerns the
fast pace of our lives; in spite of this ] am fortunate to have my
headquarters at home, so that I see a lot of my family.

Since I wrote the above, our farm and many of our cattle have
been destroyed by fire. While this has been a major disaster to us,
we are taking the opportunity to look critically at our activities.

++ LINCOLN CHADBOURNE DENTON

BorN: March 22, 1908, Painesdale, Mich. parents: Frederick Warner Den-
ton, Hannah Lincoln Chadbourne.

Preparep at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1920.

piep: Sept. 14, 1935, Mt. Beacon, N. Y.

DENTON became a sculptor after leaving college. At the time
of his death he was a lieutenant, junior grade, in the U. S. Naval
Reserve. He was flying on training duty over the Catskill Moun-
tains when he met his death in a plane crash. He was unmarried.

[ 288 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM ALFRED DrSAUTELLE

HOME ADDRESS: 4106 Tazewell Pike, Knoxville 18, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 531 S. Gay St., Knoxville 2, Tenn.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1907, LaCrosse, Wis. PARENT: William Thomas DeSautelle,
Elizabeth Louise Herrington.

PREPARED AT: Knoxville High School, Knoxville, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: S.B., 1929; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1933.

MARRIED: Lelia Caroline Seim, Sept. 19, 1942, Phoenix, Ariz,

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Knoxville Academy of Medicine; U. S. Coast Guard Auxiliary.

FOUR years after graduation from Harvard, I received an M.D.
degree from Johns Hopkins University, and then spent the next
six years in hospital service in Baltimore, Maryland, with one year
at Church Home Hospital, and five years at Baltimore City hos-
pitals. In 1940 I began the private practice of internal medicine
in partnership with my father in Knoxville, Tennessee. From
April, 1942, to April, 1946, I was in the Medical Corps of the
Army of the United States, serving two years in the western
United States and two years in Italy. Since discharge from the
Army, I have resumed the private practice of medicine in partner-
ship with my father. My hobbies include boating and fishing on
nearby TVA lakes, and attending local football games.

VICTOR FRANCIS DESMET

HOME ADDRESS: 324 Broadway, Paterson, N. J.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1904, Paterson, N. J. PARENTS: Francis Desmet, Rose Fischer.

PREPARED AT: Paterson High School, Paterson, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1933. .

marrigpD: Marie E. Dunkel, June 6, 1936, Paterson, N. J. crum~pren: Lenora
M., 1940; Nancy L., 1945.

occupation: Medicine.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

EDWIN PALFREY DEWING

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Colonial Green, Loudonville, N. Y.

BORN: June 5, 1906, Cumberland, Md. parents: Henry Franklin Coolidge
Dewing, '04, Carolyn Louise Thompson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MarrieD: Frances Dickerman Fletcher, Jan. 20, 1932, Overbrook, Pa. cuitp:
Edwin Palfrey, Jr, Feb. 22, 1934. cranpcHiLp: Edwin Palfrey, 3d, Oct.

27s 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Franklin Coolidge Dewing, Jr. 32.

OCCUPATION: President, Ed Dewing, Inc. wholesale seafood broker.

OFFICES HELD: President, Capitol District Fish Dealers Association, 1937-48,
Harvard Association of Eastern New York, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Schuyler Meadows Club; Wolferts Roost Country Club; Har-
vard Association of Eastern New York; National Fisheries Institute.

I HAVE very little to add to the Vicennial Report. I am still
pursuing the mackerel, haddock, and codfish. I have formed my
own company, Ed Dewing, Inc., which distributes fish and sea-
food in eastern and central New York. I have been most interested
in the Harvard Association of Eastern New York and served as
president of this group from 1952 to 1953. My principal interests
are still golf and cards and Sports. I see four or five Harvard games
each year.

+ SMITH OWEN DEXTER, JR.

BorN: Dec. 22, 1906, Germantown, Pa. parents: Smith Owen Dexter,
Helen Denison.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D., 1933.

pep: Nov. 25, 1939, Annapolis, Md.

AFTER obtaining an M.D. at the Harvard Medical School, Dexter
served as an intern for two years at the Boston City Hospital. He
then worked for a year in the Hygiene Department at Harvard,
at the same time doing research work at the Thorndike Memorial
Laboratory of the Boston City Hospital. The following year he
devoted all his time to this research, and then became assistant
resident at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research in New

[ 290 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

York City. He held this position at the time of his death. He was
a member of the American and Massachusetts Medical Societies
the Harvard Club of Boston, and the Longwood Cricket Club.

9

WILLIAM GORDON DIKE

HOME ADDRESS: 2122 Bayou Rd., New Orleans, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Sugar Refining Co. New Orleans, La.

BoRN: April 22, 1907, Washington, D, C, parents: Paul Harrison Dike,
Grace Gordon Gulick.

PREPARED AT: Burlington High School, Burlington, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

MARRIED: Hazel M. Smith, June 4, 1932, Greenfield, Mass. cumpreN: Gor-
don Carroll,, May 1, 1933; Susan Lincoln, Sept. 14, 1947; Douglas
Gulick, Feb. 4, 1950.

OccUPATION: Foreman, Small Packaging Department, American Sugar Re-
fining Company.

MEMBER OF: Merryall Center, New Milford, Conn.; Sherman Players,
Sherman, Conn.

WILLIAM ALBERT DIMARZIO

HOME ADpDRESS: 6 off Crescent St., North Plymouth, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Court St., Plymouth, Mass.

porN: March 3, 1908, Milford, Mass. parents: Joseph Di Marzio, Margher-
ita De Palma.

>REPARED AT: Kingston High School, Kingston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926. DEGREE: LL.B, (Northeastern Univ.), 1941.
7N MARRIED.

CCUPATION: Insurance broker; lawyer.

1EMBER OF: Plymouth Bar Association; Plymouth County Bar Association;
Massachusetts Bar Association; American Bar Association.

DID not attend College after the first year. I intended to go
ack, but never got around to doing so. I finally settled for a law
egree at Northeastern University School of Law. I have been in
ie general insurance business since 1934 and in 1945 started to
igage actively in the practice of law in addition to carrying on
ith the insurance business.
Up to this point in my life I have done very little travelling,
cept for short vacation trips. My main hobby appears to be
ark, with an occasional evening at a show or play thrown in. |

[291]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

have not played golf for several years, but am looking forward
to again engaging in flubbing around a course. My religion is
Catholic. I am still unmarried.

ISRAEL AARON DINERMAN

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Church Street, Canaan, N. H.

BorN: Feb. 1, 1908, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Dinerman, Ida Newburgh.

PREPARED aT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. Cu? laude, 1929; M.D. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1934.

MarrigeD: Evelyn A. Larsen, June 1, 1934, Chicago, Il. (died Jan. 31, 1940);
Mary C. Wendelstadt, April 17, 1942, Canaan, N. H. cHItpren: Rosalie
Ann, March 14, 1935; Judith Ellen, April 5, 1938.

OccUPATION: Physician, general practice.

OFFICES HELD: President, Day Hospital, Lebanon, N. H., 1948, County
Medical Society, 1950, New Hampshire Academy of General Practice,
1953, Crystal Lake Water Company, Canaan, since 1950; deputy
medical referee, Grafton County, since 1947; member Committee of
Rural Health, New Hampshire State Medical Society.

MEMBER OF: Grafton County and New Hampshire State Medical Societies;
American Medical Association, American Academy of General Prac-
tice; American College of Chest Physicians, New Hampshire Heart
Association; American Heart Association, Alpha Omega Alpha,
Masons; Lions.

AFTER 1929 I spent five years at the University of Chicago
Medical School — as student and later as intern in Billings Hos-
pital. Near the end of my internship I married a Chicagoan,
Evelyn Larsen, whom I met in Occupational Therapy at the hos-
pital. After an inauspicious start at practice in Gilman, Vermont
— I settled down as medical officer at the Civilian Conservation
Corps camp in North Woodstock, New Hampshire. Here I saved
as much of my salary as possible and in February, 1937, I moved
to Canaan, New Hampshire, where I have been ever since. I serve
as general practitioner to a scattered, rural area and have been
busy and in general quite contented.

In 1940 my wife died and two years later 1 married a Canaan
girl, Mary C. Wendelstadt, who has been a big help in rearing my
two daughters, and also in my professional life. Rosalie, my
eldest, has just enrolled in nursing school, while Judy, the younger,
is in the second year of high school.

[292]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I saw no war service for I was deferred as being essential to the
needs of my community. Formal] religion never meant much to
me, and as I grow older it means even less. As a physician I have
also observed how little religion means to most people even in
times of stress. As for the political world —I am distressed by the
struggles and wars. I firmly believe in our democracy and all that
it implies. Some day I hope the world will learn to live in peace.
One-half only of the effort and money that is now wasted in war,
if turned to peace, would produce marvelous advances.

Medicine attracted me originally by being both a profession
of science (though rather inexact) and of service. It has fulfilled
my hopes and has given a life of satisfaction. At times the service
seems paramount —though I know that without modern-day
scientific medicine we should be rendering a poor type of medical
care. However, with science alone — we render a peculiarly im-
personal type of medical care which though effective, leaves
people discontented. A blending of both elements is necessary.
Just what type of medicine will prevail in the future is a question
that I cannot answer. I think it will not be very greatly different
from our present set-up, but I think it will be decided by the
people rather than by the medical profession.

Medicine has been and is both my vocation and avocation.
However, photography —in a limited, amateurish way —has been
a source of enjoyment to me.

JOSEPH DOLLIN

HOME ADDRESS: 98-120 Queens Blvd., Rego Park 74, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100-11 67th Rd., Forest Hills 75, N. Y. .

BORN: April 13, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Max Dollin, Anne Kaplan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D. (Washington Univ.),
1933.

MARRIED: Rose Deutsch, 1933, New York, N. Y. curtpren: Marcia Sue,
Dec. 6, 1937; June Barbara, June 13, 1942; James Andrew, Sept. 26,
1950.

OccuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, B’ndi Zion.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Queens County Medical So-

[ 293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ciety; American Public Health Association, New York Public Health
Association; Forest Hills Physicians Club.

pustications: “Treatment of Multiple Verrucae with Auriomycin,” New
York State Journal, 1950.

AFTER I obtained my medical degree from Washington Univer-
sity in St. Louis, Missouri, I spent two years at the Brooklyn
Jewish Hospital in pediatrics. I met my wife at the hospital — she
was a student nurse. We were married in 1933. The following
two years were spent at the Brooklyn Hebrew Orphan Asylum
where I served as resident physician. In 1937, I began to practise
pediatrics and internal medicine in Forest Hills, New York, and
have been there ever since.

My first child was born in 1937 and will enter Queens College
this fall. In 1942, our second daughter arrived, and finally a son
in 1950. My travels have been limited to summer vacations, mostly

in Afaine and the Adirondacks. Every winter I promise myself
and family a winter vacation in the South, but professional obliga-
tions repeatedly force postponements. I have no hobby in particu-
lar, but play cards occasionally, and my violin now and then. I
have taken many golf lessons but have never been on a golf course.
Books, plays, and mostly, I suppose, medical meetings are my chief
hobbies. Politically I have voted for Roosevelt, Wallace, Truman,
and Stevenson —so I guess my leanings are to the left of the
middle and violently anti-McCarthy. As we move slowly but
steadily to the left and Russia, perhaps more slowly, to the right,
in this atomic age, a common meeting ground will eventually
obtain, and then there will really be peace and real democracy for
the peoples of the whole world.

GEORGE EVERETT DONAGHY

OFFICE ADDRESS: Faulkner Hospital, Jamaica Plain 30, Mass,

Born: Nov. 16, 1906, Stow, Mass, Parents: William Donaghy, May Jean
Mclntosh.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929, DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1934.

MagRieD: Jean Wotherspoon Horn, Oct. 16, 1937, Southboro, Mass. CHILD:
Anthony Craig, Nov. 5, 1946.

HARVARD BroTHeR: William Daniel Harrison Donaghy, ’22.

[ 294 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Physician, chief, Department of Anesthesiology, Faulkner Hos-

ital,

orriers HELD: Associate anesthetist, Massachusetts General Hospital, 1946-
53; instructor in anesthesia, Harvard Medical School, 1946-53; surgeon,
Division Artillery, 26th Division, Massachusetts National Guard, since
1946; health and safety officer, Quannapowit Council, Boy Scouts of
America, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; Suffolk District Medical So-
ciety; American Society of Anesthesiologists,; American Board of Anes-
thesiology; New England Society of Anesthesiologists; Staff, Faulkner
Hospital; Caleb Butler Lodge, AF. & A.M., Ayer, Mass.,; National
Guard Association of Massachusetts; National Guard Association of the
U. S.; 2nd Auxiliary Surgical Group. |

PUBLICATIONS: Few articles on anesthesiology.

AS the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of graduation approaches I am
happy to be able to answer “here” at the roll call. Much has hap-
pened to me as it surely must have to everyone else in the Class
in the interval since the last report, q.v. I have had a surgical
experience of my own, later followed by a trip to England, Scot-
land, and France combining business with convalescence. This
was indeed a memorable trip. |

Lately I have resigned from the Department of Anesthesia,
Massachusetts General Hospital, and the Harvard Medical School
to assume the directorship of the Department of Anesthesia at the
Faulkner Hospital. This change of hospital appointment has
necessitated moving my residence from Wakefield to Westwood,
Massachusetts, which I am doing now. My personal and private
life is quite simple and unexciting. Politically I can best be de-
scribed as pro-Eisenhower. In religion I am non-denominational
Protestant. I read when possible Time, Life, The Christian Science
Monitor, and Kinsey. For home entertainment I enjoy watching
sports on TV. My hobbies include attending the National Guard
meetings, and helping my son learn to play football and baseball.

I am particularly proud of my Alma Mater for standing firm in
the face of the current cowardly criticisms by the local and
national carpers, who would, if they could, proscribe our entire
University. Veritas prevalebit!

[295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

FRANCIS DONALDSON, JR.

HOME AppREss: 2309 N. B St., Tampa, Fla.

BoRN: Nov. 5, 1906, Davenport, lowa. PaRENTs: Francis Donaldson, Anne
Harvey Talbot.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: $.B., 1929; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ethelbert Talbot Donaldson, °32.

occupation: Herpetologist.

+ WILLIAM HAROLD DONEHUVE

BorN: Oct. 12, 1907, Lowell, Mass. parents: George Hancock Donehue,
Florence Ella Le Clair.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

piep: Feb, 10, 1936, Lowell, Mass.

IN the year after Donehue left Harvard he was a bank clerk with
the Corporation Trust Company and was living in Jersey City,
New Jersey. Later he was associated with the New England
Power Company in his native city.

BENJAMIN HALLOWELL DORMAN

HOME Appress: 10831 Wilkins Ave, Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8480 Beverly Blvd., Los Angeles 54, Calif.

BorN: May 15, 1906, Lynn, Mass. parents: William Edwin Dorman, ’98,
Estelle Elizabeth Herrick.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.B.A., 19313 LL.B. (North-
eastern Univ.), 1938.

marriep: Alice G, Merrill, Aug. 10, 1935, Lynn, Mass. cHILpREN: Benjamin
Hallowell, Jr., Jan. 2, 1938; Merrill Herrick, April 23, 1941.

occupation: Lawyer, assistant general counsel, Rexall Drug Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Andover Club of South-
ern California, American Society of Corporate Secretaries; American
and Los Angeles Bar Associations.

AFTER a pleasant summer in the brokerage office that Terry
Collens is now running, I entered Harvard Business School. This
was two weeks before the crash that signalled the end of the era
that had made this seem a most logical step. When I graduated

[ 296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

two years later, the step seemed considerably less logical and,
after a series of depression-born “temporary jobs,” all of which
seemed to have a legal tinge to them, I bowed to the inevitable
and spent the evenings of four long years obtaining an LL.B.
degree at Northeastern University. This proved to be a better
investment of time and effort, since less than two years after being
admitted to the Massachusetts Bar I had an opportunity to join
the Legal Department of United Drug Company (now known as
Rexall Drug Company), an old Boston concern — manufacturers
of the well-known “Rexall” products. That this opportunity con-
tained considerably more than was originally bargained for can
be gathered from the fact that I still perform pretty much the
same work for the same concern but in a headquarters removed
some 3,000 miles west to Los Angeles, California. Inasmuch as
the transformation from New Englander to Californian is prob-
ably the most significant (albeit pretty involuntary) occurrence
in an otherwise rather colorless career, perhaps a few details in
the telling will be pardoned — or at least tolerated — as “typically
Californian.”

The move to California was made immediately after the end of
World War II, one of the advantages being (we were told) that
homes would be plentiful and reasonably priced owing to the
anticipated postwar decline in Los Angeles’ war-swollen industry.
Nothing of the kind took place and the more than one hundred
Rexall families who converged here practically simultaneously by
plane, train, and car had to scramble to find and finance homes
approximating those left behind. Then came the problem of Cali-
fornia bar exams, admission “on motion” by reciprocity with sister
states which were washed out in the flood of immigration into
California in the mid-thirties.

For these and other reasons, it took most of us some time to
adjust to California living and to some of us more dedicated New
Englanders it seemed for a Jong time that the adjustment might
never be accomplished. However, by a slow process which can
perhaps be best described as a gradual seduction by climatic and
other factors that add up to easy and pleasant living, we became,
almost in spite of ourselves, confirmed Californians. There is a
saying out here that it takes “one trip back East” to make a “trans-
plant” into a “native.” In my case it took many more than one,

[ 297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

but there appears to be a point at which even the most ardent
New Englander succumbs. |
As Rexall is a national concern, my work out here is pretty
much the same as it would be had we remained in Boston. The
operation of our various divisions involves the manufacturing,
wholesaling, and retailing of drugs and medicines of all types as
well as most of the other products found in that modern emporium
euphemistically known as a “drugstore.” Hence, the legal prob-
lems we meet cover about as wide and interesting a field as one
could possibly ask for. There is nothing if not variety in my
work — an element which I hope will continue. Another most
welcome phase of my work is the opportunity it affords to make
occasional trips “back East” — particularly those that chance to
permit a Saturday afternoon in the Stadium or a ’29 get-together
of some sort.

My family is all that a man could ask for. Blessed with a wife
whose abilities as a homemaker are exceptional, the very smooth-
ness of her operation tends to insure the fact that her efforts will
never be fully appreciated. I shudder to think what might have
happened had she become too discouraged during our depression-
long engagement. Our elder son, Ben, Jr., is struggling with the
Upper Middle year at Phillips Academy, Andover — his first
away from home. He is finding quite a spread between the
scholastic standards of Andover and the Los Angeles public
schools —a gap only partially bridged by a session at summer
school. From all reports he is greatly enjoying his stay in the
land of his forbears— particularly the recent holidays with
relatives and friends in Arlington, Winchester, Swampscott, and
Marblehead — but to date there is no indication of a desire for
permanent relocation. Merrill, our younger boy, is growing fast
and enjoying to the full his temporary status as the sole center of
attraction. He is in the first year of junior high school and
presently undecided whether to follow his brother east to school
or to head for nearby U.C.L.A., so he can “come home for lunch.”

Our travels have been confined to continental U.S.A. except
for one quick excursion to beautiful Victoria, British Columbia,
while on a vacation trip to the Pacific Northwest. Other auto
trips to various points in California and Arizona have given us

some inkling of the tremendously varied and fascinating country

[ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to be found in these western states and we have plans to visit them
all when time permits. I also cherish the desire to drive across the
country some day but the lure of covering the same distance in
less than eight hours by DC-7 appears to be a much more intri-
guing alternative to the rest of the family.

Flower growing is my principal hobby, the local golf clubs
having turned out to be far too expensive. By way of consolation,
however, I have found that the “green thumb” involuntarily ac-
quired as a boy in my father’s vegetable garden in New England
works equally well on flowers in California. But perhaps I should
admit, at the risk of overdoing this California “booster” business,
that with a little water and almost no encouragement every con-
ceivable species of plant will produce in profusion here. We

specialize in roses and camellias which insure a house full of
blooms around the calendar.

Another hobby and one which I should very much like to be
able to indulge in more frequently is extending western hospitality
to eastern friends — particularly those of 1929 — and I am cur-
rently trying to figure out some way to get across subtly to our
many good friends who dwell east of the Hudson that all is not
desert waste and Indian country west of the Mississippi and that
there are things to see and fun to be had in the “Far West.” We
have had delightful but all too brief visits from Phil and Ibby
Wadsworth, Arch and Maggie O'Reilly; and Pres Breed and

Gordie Leach have stopped momentarily on quick trips through.
I wish a few more of you would take a jaunt out this way.

DUDLEY HUNTINGTON DORR, JR.

HOME appreEss: Barnes Court, Lancaster, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 79 High St. Clinton, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1906, East Boston, Mass. parents: Dudley Huntington Dorr,
’07, Helen Comey Gibson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, 1930-1933.

AARRIED: Mary Howard Murdoch, Feb. 15, 1935, Brockton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Dudley A., Jan. 30, 1937; Judith M., Dec. 3, 1939; Carolyn, Dec. 4, 19413
John H., Sept, 22, 1944.

‘ARVARD BROTHER: Richard Gibson Dorr, ’36, Lu.B., ’39.

CCUPATION: Vice-president, Clinton Trust Company.

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Red Cross Chapter, Salvation Army Service Unit,
Town Charitable Fund; secretary-treasurer, Fireman’s Muster Associa-
tion; chairman, Lancaster Unitarian Church; organist, Masonic Lodge;
clerk, Lancaster Fire Department; auditor, constable, Town of Lancas-
ter; member Board of Governors, New England Chapter, Robert Morris

Association.
MEMBER OF: Trinity Lodge, Masons, Clinton; Middlesex Club; Descendants

of Colonial Clergy.

IN March of 1929 I found myself working as a mechanic with
Nash Motors in Kenosha, Wisconsin, and for fourteen months of
the next two years, I learned the ins and outs of an automobile
and its manufacture. In these years of the Great Depression my
brother-in-law and I tried a new garage in my home town with
only fair success. Then I tried again to get an engineering degree,
but discovered that it wouldn’t take effect. In 1934 an opening
as a possible real estate manager in the local bank seemed quite a
break, and after due indoctrination as a lowly bank clerk, the job
became mine. After twenty years, I look back on the past and
find that perhaps I was quite lucky, because the security and
benefits I now enjoy seem wonderful. As I advanced, local serv-
ices demanded [ become their treasury agent, others thought I
would be a good clerk, and there, I believe, I found my public
niche.

During a great deal of this time, I was a member of the local
fire department and as a “Spark” and through my enjoyment of
motor vehicles, I soon became one of the elder firemen. My fairly
recent retirement, because of my inability to crawl out of bed on
night alarms, has not reduced the “spark,” because I still answer
the alarms, but in my own car. These contacts have kept me on
the job as secretary-treasurer of a county fireman’s muster asso-
ciation for the past eight years, and believe me, it’s a lot of fun.
Socially, things are rather quiet, for I am not too much of a
joiner. My children are just starting to get the so-called higher
education. My attempts to help them are rather futile, but these
attempts recall many of my early battles with Latin, algebra, etc.
lam nota good teacher, but I try.

Now better contacts with the banking fraternity begin to take
effect, and “shop talk” extends itself from the town to the state,
and sometimes New England. I should like to do more to extend
my present occupational limits, but it is hard to rid one’s self of

[ 300 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the soft shell of so many years in the same “town.” Life has been
gracious, and for the most part I think I am quite happy.

My eldest son is at present a member of the Class of ’s5¢5
at Governor Dummer Academy in South Byficld, Massachusetts.
I hope he will be a member of the Class of ’59 at Harvard, but at
this date, he is undecided.

RUSSELL HIGGINSON DORR

HOME ADDRESS: 3927 Idaho Ave. N.W., Washington, D. C,

oFFice aporess: 1818 EI St., Washington, D. C,

BoRN: Jan. 17, 1907, New York, N, Y. parents: Goldthwaite Higginson Dorr,
"97. Virginia Elbert.

PrePARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB, 19:9; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),

1932.

marrigp: Ruth E. Miller, June 23, 1930, Dedham, Mass. cititpren: Gold-
thwaite Higginson, 3d, Jan. 11, 1932, Virginia Carden, June 10, 1937.

HARVARD SON: Goldthwaite Higginson Dorr, 3d, ‘56.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Van Nostrand Dorr, 2d, °32.

OCCUPATION: International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

OFFICES HELD: Afember, Committee on Srate Legislation, 1938-40, Admissions
Committee, 1941, Association of the Bar, City of New York.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar, City of New York; Association of Ex-
Members of Squadron A, Union Interallie, Paris; Deniz (Yacht) Club,
Moda, Istanbul, Turkey.

AS I now remember it, 1954, from the vantage point of 1929,
looked only a little less remote than 1066 or 1492, and twenty-five
years a block of time roughly comparable to the age of the Great
Pyramid. Now 1954 is here and those twenty-five years are a
handful of yesterdays. But what a twenty-five years it has been!
From the “Era of Wonderful Nonsense” to the Age of the Hydro-
gen Bomb! The Great Depression, the New Deal, World War II,
the Cold War, the not so cold war. The Class of 1929 has seen
them all. Some of us have held a steady course through shifting
winds and weather. Others, like myself, have not resisted the
temptation offered by favoring gales, to wear ship and explore
coasts lying well out of our great circle. The only real regret of
any of us I think, is that twenty-five years is such a short time.
How have I spent mine? As a Wall Street lawyer, a wartime
intelligence officer, and a diplomat-banker-administrator. There

[ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

produce the stubborn unreasonableness of “old stone bottom”
Molotov and the ethereal loveliness and grace of Ulanova as
“Giselle.”

By 1948, it was obvious that U. S. assistance rather than German
reparations would be needed to put Europe on her feet again. It
would have been sensible from a personal point of view to have
retumed to law practice at this point. Instead, I went to Turkey
as chief of the ECA there (again with the rank of minister) and
began the most interesting and fruitful years I have enjoyed. It is
hard for those who know Turkey to speak of her in measured
terms, and I am no exception. The people are solid; the country
has an enormously varied, and often breath-taking beauty; the
mingling of old and new cultures is fascinating. It was my priv-
ilege to have charge of working out with the Turks and
administering a $360,000,000 development program which in
three and a half years turned the country from a food importer

in poor years to the fourth largest wheat exporter in the world;
which tripled cotton, doubled sugar and copper, increased iron
and cement eighty percent and coal seventy percent, helped build
2,000 miles of roads, and assisted the Turks to create a remarkably
expanding and vigorous economy to back up their large and
resolute armed forces. For all of us connected with the program
there was the excitement and satisfaction of helping to strengthen
one of our country’s staunchest and most redoubtable allies.
While in Turkey my wife and I also enjoyed the particular
gratification of being personally attacked by Moscow radio for
our work, and my wife’s activities in stimulating the teaching
of nursing to Turkish women were effective enough to cause the
Russian Embassy in Ankara to circulate stories that she was not
my wife at all but an American agent sent to organize the Turkish
women. Getting around the country to see how the program was
going was a must. My wife and I travelled over most of the
thousand-mile length and three-hundred mile breadth of Turkey,
from the Bulgarian to the Russian border, from the Black Sea to
the Mediterranean. We went down into coal mines, visited vil-
lages, inspected vocational schools, model and not so model farms,
irrigation, industrial and power projects, and generally learned to
know the country. Saturday Evening Post nonsense to the con-
trary notwithstanding, the Mission worked like hell, usually

[ 304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nearer ten than eight hours, and you would find someone in the
office on Sundays more often than not. But few of us would
have missed a moment of it.

In May of 1952 we said farewell to Turkey and moved to Paris
where I became general counsel to the United States NATO am-
bassador, William H. Draper, and helped to wrestle with the
problems of the NATO alliance. The interest of this work, the
opportunity on weekend trips to indulge a taste for Gothic and
Romanesque architecture, Christmas skiing at Arosa, seeing my
wife win an honorable mention at the Beaux Arts Salon d’Ete,
were highlights of an unforgettable year.

Since June, 1953, I have been a member of the staff of the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development with respon-
sibility for operations in Japan. Work in the bank is as interesting
as I had hoped it would be. My wife and I are glad to settle down
in our country again after all our wanderings (though as I write
this I’ve just returned from a six weeks’ trip to Japan). Washing-
ton is pleasant in itself and as a crossroads where we can meet
good friends from this country and all over the world, and our
children seem to enjoy having a place to bring their friends
during vacation time, and even having us around for a change.

DANA MORTON DOTEN

HOME apprEss: 25 Oxford St., Winchester, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1908, Boston, Mass, parents: Carroll Warren Doten, Car-
rie Mitchell.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Janice Goodrich, 1930 (died 1934); Margaret Stone, 1937, Mont-
pelier, Vt. CHILDREN: Elaine, 1932; Nancy, 1933; Eric Stone, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

*k WILLIAM MOODY DOW

BoRN: April 15, 1907, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Moses Hoyt Dow, Mary
Jane O’Brien.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, 1930-1931.

pie; Sept. 18, 1952, Napa, Calif.

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

AFTER leaving college, Dow spent his life in the Maritime Service
as a radio operator. He travelled extensively, and was engaged in
“boating and building.”

MARK GERALD DOWLING

HOME ADDRESS: 343 Sound Beach Ave., Old Greenwich, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: John Joseph Dowling, Mar-
garet Marcella Pugh.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927,

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

WILLIAM EDWARD DOWNEY

HOME AbprEss: 84 Irving St.. West Somerville, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 101 Indiana Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1901, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Dennis James Downey,
Mary A. Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: A.B. 1929; G.P.A, (New York State),

1938.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Comptroller, Office of Alien Property, Department of Justice.
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants.

SOON after graduation in 1929 I obtained a position with Price,
Waterhouse & Company, certified public accountants, in New
York. Having majored in English literature as an undergraduate,
I was hardly qualified to do accounting work, but I took some
evening courses in accounting and taxation at New York Univer-
sity, studied at home in my spare time, and after a spell, was able
to distinguish between a debit and a credit.

During the years 1934 to 1939 I spent a great deal of time in
Venezuela, Colombia, and the West Indies for Price, Waterhouse,
auditing the books of oil companies. The work itself was not
only very interesting in that it enabled me to find out how oil was
produced and refined, but it also gave me the opportunity of

[ 306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

seeing and meeting people in other countries both in the cities
and rural areas and getting to know what they talked about and
thought about, in short, what made them tick. It was a most
broadening and enlightening experience and gave me enough
material to write a book, except that I am afraid no one would
ever read it.

I resigned from Price, Waterhouse & Company in 1940 to
accept a position as administrative assistant to the comptroller of
the City of New York. Two years of that was enough — in fact
more than enough for reasons best left unsaid. In the fall of 1942
I became chief accountant for an engineering firm in New York.
It proved to be a short-lived venture for the owner died in 1944
and the firm was dissolved shortly thereafter.

About that time the affairs of the Alicn Property Custodian
were moved from Chicago to 120 Broadway in New York, the
building in which my engineering firm was located. Hearing that
the position of comptroller was open, I walked into their office
one day, was hired, and have been with the agency ever since.
Recently the office was moved to Washington to effect certain
economies in operation.

Nowhere in this narrative have I mentioned romance or matri-
mony. While there has been none of the latter, there has been
some of the former which, but for certain obstacles, might have
terminated in the latter. I have not given up, however, for after
all, 1 am out of college only twenty-five years.

JOHN WARD DOWNING

HOME ADDRESS: 72 Concord St., Newton Lower Falls 62, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Telechron Dept., General Electric Co., Ashland, Mass.

BoRN: March 18, 1907, Newport, R. Il. parents: Benjamin Franklin Down-
ing, Martha Newhall Ward.

PREPARED aT: Rogers High School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.

MARRIED: Esther A. Wilkins, May 6, 1931, Hampton, N. H. cuitpren: John
Ward, Jr., Feb. 21, 1932; Peter Wilkins, May 8, 1936; Carol, Oct. 25,
1938; Kenneth, 1940; Alan, 1946.

HARVARD SON: John Ward Downing, Jr., ’54.

OccUPATION: Supervisor, business services, Telechron Department, General
Electric Company.

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

FROM 1930 to 1944 I was with Sears Roebuck and Company’s
Boston Mail Order Division. Then I spent two years with Holtzer
Cabot Electric Company and four years as office manager for
Manning, Maxwell & Moore. The last four years I have been
associated with Telechron (manufacturers of Telechron electric
clocks, motors, and timers) as supervisor of business services.
Practically all of my business activity has been in the field of office
management and systems. John, Jr., °54, is majoring in social rela-
tions and, of course, graduates in June.

HARRY MICHAEL DRACOS

HOME ADDRESS: 57 Wallbrook Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: 71 W. 23rd St., New York 10, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1906, Arcadia, Greece. PARENTS: Michael Theodore Dracos,
Angelica Rhodes.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1932.

marrieD: Helen C, Douropulos, Aug. 15, 1935, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Alexandra (“Sandy”), May 23, 1939; Theodore Michael (“Ted”), June

39, 1945.
occupation: Lawyer; vice-president, general counsel, secretary, director,
Liggett Drug Company, Inc.

WHEN the stock market heard I had just finished the Harvard
Law School, it promptly kerplunked to its all-time low mark.
After the parental subsidy had been extended for the Nth last
time, and chances for a job had reached the lowest level, I was
congratulated by a small Boston law firm as the successful contest-
ant — being assured that at least dozens of my classmates and
hoards of other recently admitted members of the bar had partici-
pated in the contest — for a ten ($10) per week position. I re-
mained in Boston till 1942, practising law — Le. looking for clients
to supplement the aforesaid subsidy. In the meantime, in 1935
and 1939, I had made the first and second of my three best life-
long investments — Helen and “Sandy” — and the _ Pressure for
fee-paying clients increased, I then concentrated on “getting” one
big client, and abandoning the illusive “many.”

In June, 1942, I landed the biggest client of all — Uncle Sam —
and [ joined the legal staff of the Federal Security Agency in

[ 308 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Washington. While I was waiting (in vain) for Uncle Sam’s
“Greetings” to change my civilian status, the Rexall Drug Com-
pany decided in March, 1944, to ask me to become a member of
its legal staff in Boston; and I there joined classmate Ben Dorman
(see Supra). I was diligently acquiring the corporate point of
view and shedding the New Deal jurisprudence, and I had just
made my third—and what appears to be the last — life-long
investment, in “Ted,” when in November, 1945, Rexall decided
to move its “World” headquarters out west to Los Angeles. I
was then assigned to take charge of the legal affairs of Rexall’s
chain-store subsidiary, Liggett Drug Company, Inc., in New
York. There I have been squandering whatever little legal wisdom
I may have retained, while continuing the gradual transformation
from lawyer to business executive — becoming successively and
accumulatively director, secretary, and vice-president of Liggett.
We were confined to the so-called “Magic Island,” Manhattan,
until 1951, when we finally managed to escape to Scarsdale, an
appealing suburb of New York, where we have been able to
lessen the nostalgia for the suburbs of Boston.

WILLIAM RAYMOND DRIVER, JR.

HOME aAppRESS: Bush Avenue, Greenwich, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Wall St., New York 15, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov, 5, 1907, Germantown, Pa. parents: William Raymond Driver,
"94, Mary Swift.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A. cum laude, 1933-

MarriED: Charlotte I. Noyes, April 9, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Sarah Jackson, Jan. 9, 1938; William Raymond, 3d, May 31, 19393

Dorothy Quincy, Sept. 5, 1942; Mary Swift, Nov. 5, 1944; Emily
Noyes, March 4, 1950.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, Bank of the Manhattan Company.
OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1949, chairman, Budget Committee, 1949, 1959

Greenwich Community Chest; member corporation, Greenwich Hos-
pital Association.

MEMBER OF: Field Club of Greenwich; Beach Club, Greenwich.

FOLLOWING our graduation, my plans were changed by a siege
of eye trouble, so that instead of Harvard Business School that
fall, I had a most interesting period of travel in Europe, work on

[ 309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

a cattle ranch in Colorado, and then work in a Denver bank. In
the fall of 1931, however, I did start the Business School course
and upon graduation, re-entered the banking business, this time in
New York City. The Bank Holiday was barely over and the busi-
ness world hardly in a robust mood. In fact, a year later, I had an
opportunity to join the paper industry in its efforts to operate
under the N.R.A. After about two years of very interesting work
in this field, I joined the Bank of the Manhattan Company where
I have been ever since, except for a tour of duty in the Army.

The military services took a jaundiced view of my eye tests,
but I was welcomed through the draft. After my basic training,
however, they weren't quite sure they still wanted me, after what
seemed like an interminable period, they finally let me enter Offi-
cers’ Candidate School and upon graduation from there, I was
assigned to the Control Division, Army Service Forces, in Wash-
ington. In October, 1945, I was discharged as a captain and re-
turned to civilian life and the banking world.

My wife and I, and our five children, live in Greenwich, Con-
necticut, where we have the normal community activities such as
Community Chest, schools, etc. The commuting life is active and,
judging from the way the suburban areas are growing, I think ir
is going to be increasingly arduous to find any semblance of
country life. I find the banking business to be never dull and, in
fact, very stimulating. It seems that the public generally also is
ranking our profession somewhat less near the “doghouse.”

EDWARD DUBIEL

HOME ADDRESS: 137 High St., Wareham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wareham High School, Wareham, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 28, 1907, New Bedford, Mass. PARENTS: John Dubiel, Mary
Twarog.

PREPARED AT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: 8.3., 1929; a.M. (Yale Univ.), 1933+

MARRIED: Frances Sinclair Holmes, June 24, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:

Jeffrey Holmes, July 4, 1944; Jonathan Gale, Aug. 6, 1947.
HARVARD BROTHER: Emile Charles Dubiel, 737.

occupation: Instructor in chemistry and physics, assistant principal, assistant
to superintendent (summer), Wareham High School.

[ 310 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, Wareham Teachers Association, 1935-36; gas de-
contamination officer, World War II, acting superintendent of schools,
“Wareham, 1951-52; science director, Wareham Schools, 1933-53; di-
rector, Harvard Club of New Bedford, Mass., 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Bedford, Mass., Wareham Community
Associates; Massachusetts Teachers Federation; National Education Asso-

ciation.

ALEXANDER MUIR DUFFIELD

HOME appREss: Box 69, Route 2, Rochester, Mich.
BORN: Sept. 8, 1906, Detroit, Mich. parents: Francis Pitts Dufficld, ‘96,

Helen Kerr Muir.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192 §-1929.
maraieD: Margaret Louise Bryant, March 17, 1937, Detroit, Mich. cHiL-
pREN; Alexander Muir, Jr, April t2, 1938, Frances Bryant, Feb. 10,

1940; Carrie, Feb. 14, 1947.

IN the extraordinary years since I left Harvard I’ve led an extraor-
dinarily placid and uneventful life. We live in the country — my
wife, my three children, and I — with five horses, three dogs, two
cats, and a cow. I'm a contented and very fortunate man.

EDWARD JOSEPH DUFFY

HOME appress: Old Chester Road, Essex Fells, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 111 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 4, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents Edward Joseph Duffy, Lillian
E. Poole.

PREPARED AT: Afontclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

marriep: Janet Baker Geddes, Jan. 20, 1931, Montclair, N. J. cuipren: Ed-
ward Joseph, 3d, Oct. 6, 1931; Michael, April 13, 1933; Angela, March 26,
1935; Janet Josephine, March 19, 1937; John P., Feb. 13, 1941; Daniel,
March 15, 1945; Sharon Elizabeth, Dec. 10, 1947.

occupation: Stockbroker, member New York Stock Exchange, partner,
Edward J. Duffy and Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Fssex County (N. J.) Republican Committee, since
1939; president, 1947-48, trustee, 1944-50, West Essex Community Chest,
president, 1951-53, member, 1950-53, Essex Fells Board of Education,
director, J. H. Bunnell and Company, New York; president, director,

[31r ]

ahi

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Fells Ridge Orange, Inc.; president, Mercier Club, 1947-50; secretary,
Essex Fells Country Club, 138-42.

MEMBER OF: Fells Brook Club.

I HAD a wonderful business opportunity offered to me in 1929,

to become a partner in the firm and a member of the New York

Stock Exchange. August 1st found me with a firm grasp on that

opportunity which perhaps knocked only once but what a

knock! However, I’m still at it and there’s a good deal of satis-

faction in knowing that despite all the belting around Mr. R.

reserved for the Wall Street community, I have all my teeth and

hair and the hide toughened up with not too many visible scars.

The family, started away back under President Hoover, grew

and grew. The family grew, the kids grew, the house grew, the
number of cars grew, and bills grew more. But the returns from
their mother’s affection and my worries grew the most and we
are blessed with a wonderful group, from Ed at twenty-two
away with the Army, to Sharon, six, half-way through kinder-
garten.

I have always rooted for Harvard in everything except, I must
confess, in these past four years when Ed played on the Princeton
hockey teams. And when he finished up in 1953, Mike — now a
Junior at Princeton — was elevated to hockey manager, so I’ve
at least two more years to root not for Princeton but for him and
his. I’m still trying to convince the remaining two boys that New
England is great country and Harvard the greatest College, but
they say New Jersey isn’t called the Garden State for nothing.
And with those four long years at prep school behind them and
military service ahead, they want to be as near home as they can
be, especially after they’ve gotten their automobile driver's
licenses.

Maybe they come by it naturally, since our own outside inter-
ests have been very local. Clubs, charities, politics are all served
right here in Essex County. Excepting vacations at Cape Cod,
Bermuda, Florida — sometimes by ourselves and sometimes with
the four older ones — we have worked and played in our own
backyard. Oh, we do read the New York papers and current
magazines, so are not completely uninformed as to the wonders
outside.

Well, to sum it up, life these twenty-five years has been no pipe

[312]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dream for us. It has been earnest but it has been good. We've
enjoyed the best of everything just enough of the time to keep us
looking forward. We've weathered some pretty rugged storms
and we’ve kept the faith. We’re intensely loyal and patriotic and
we hope the kids will always be.

PAUL CLARE DUGGAN

HOME ADDRESS: 136 Congress St., Milford, Mass.

OFFICE appDRESS: Whitin Machine Works, Whitinsville, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1906, Milford, Mass. parents: John Joseph Duggan, Cather-
ine Veronica Carroll.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MarRieD: Agnes L. Crane, July 6, 1946, Milford, Mass. cHiLp: Paula Carroll,

Dec. 22, 1947.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Carroll John Duggan, 713; Edward Wilfred Duggan, ’17

(deceased).
OccUPATION: Production supervisor, Whitin Machine Works, textile ma-

chinery manufacturing.
MEMBER OF: Milford Country Club; American Legion.

AFTER two years with the Warren Telechron Company I joined
up with the Unionville Woolen Mill, a family enterprise in Frank-
lin, Massachusetts, eventually becoming superintendent. Part of
1934 was spent travelling in Europe, mostly in Italy, and my gen-
erally pleasant routine at the mill was otherwise unbroken until I
was called into the service early in 1942.

Life in the Air Force could be mad, baffling, grim, gay, and re-
warding, but certainly never dull. I rose through the ranks, serv-
ng overseas as captain in the 2oth Air Force, mostly on Guam in
he Marianas. While travelling in the States between posts I had
he pleasure of seeing such good friends and eminent ’29-ers as
Archie O’Reilly in St. Louis, Bud Bowersock in Kansas City (and
ater in Guam), Nick Saum in Chicago, and Ed Fitzhugh in Boise,
daho. I had the good fortune to be stationed several months at
owen Field, Boise, and recall with great pleasure my frequent
sits at the hospitable Fitzhugh home.

Agnes and I were married July 6, 1946, shortly after my leaving
¢ service. Our daughter Paula is our pride, delight, and joy.
ike many another, after the war I did not return to my previous

[ 313]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occupation, becoming instead a claims examiner for the War
Assets Administration, Boston. In 1948 I returned to the textile
field, joining the Whitin Machine Works, Whitinsville, Massachu-
setts, makers of textile machinery in general use throughout the
world. I am presently supervisor in the production department at
the company’s main plant at Whitinsville.

For relaxation I play a little golf, having compromised with
Father Time on the squash I used to enjoy at the Harvard Club.
Puttering around the house comes next as I enjoy the illusion that
I can fix anything. My blessings are many, and gripes few. My
pet peeves are: mistaken “liberalism” that condones communist-
coddling, slow half-backs, and ball-point pens.

CHARLES WARNER DUHIG

HOME AppREss: 23 Pine Wood Rd., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brandeis University, Waltham 54, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1905, West Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Richard
Duhig, Nellie Lillian Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; A.M., 1932.

marriep: Ruth Howlett, June 23, 1934, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Eliza-
beth, Aug. 27, 1937; John Howlett, Nov. 1, 1939.

occupation: Director of Student Personnel, Brandeis University.

OFFICES HELD: Former vice-president, former member Executive Board, Cam-
bridge Council, Boy Scouts of America; former member, Board of
Directors, Cambridge TB and Health Association; present treasurer,
First Parish in Needham.

MEMBER oF: American Historical Association; Mediaeval Academy of
America; National Association of Student Personnel Administrators.

OUR first year out of College I spent teaching history in a small
private school in the Berkshire Hills. In September, 1930, I re-
turned to Harvard Yard where I spent twenty happy years. My
first goal was a doctorate in European history. The accounts of
what the great depression did to classmates in law and business
have always amused me. There was no market for the scholar in
the middle thirties. I gladly accepted Dean Hanford’s offer of a
place on his staff, and have been more than grateful to him for his
exemplary training in academic administration. A series of posts
kept me inside University Hall until 1950. Training future officers
for the Navy was our main occupation during the war, but the

[314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

quick readjustment and tremendous drive of the returning veterans
was more exciting. Whatever their faults may be, young Ameri-
cans are a flexible, energetic, and competent lot.

In the summer of 1950 I accepted my present post at Brandeis
University which had just completed two years of instruction.
The advantages were great, the disadvantage small. The lure was
both the newness of the school and the tremendous courage of a
small group of Jewish leaders who wished to develop a first-class
non-sectarian university as the gift of the American Jewish com-
munity to our country and its culture. The disadvantage was that
for the first time since I was a boy (I discount one year of paper
grading at Radcliffe as a wild adventure of a misspent youth) 1
would be involved with the education of the female. The thrill of
new and greater responsibility obscured the pitfall for about a
month. The next three months I do not recall. After three years
of “Oh, Mr. Duhig, I have a terrible problem; my boy friend has
had his appendix out, and won't be able to go to the dance, and I
can’t possibly study for my exams,” I can say quite honestly that
I have not told one of these young ladies what she really should
do. Actually my work is tremendously rewarding. I am never
bored, and the combined company of youth and scholars at a
tremendously vibrant, young school is a most fortunate situation
in middle life.

It always pleased me to read in our Class Reports that so many
of us are married to the best girl in the world and have such re-
markable children. I am most happy to be a life member of this
group which defies the sociologists and the writers for Sunday
supplements. ,

Our diversions are not unusual: home, church, good friends, an
occasional short trip. Like the late George Saintsbury, we read
too much. Until three years ago, I sang the music which “Doc”
and “Woody” had taught us in Sever 11. When my voice gave
out I simply quit, without subsequent regret. I find it quite as
rewarding to listen to others.

I still have tremendous faith in my fellow man, faith that there is
more basic good than evil, that life is most worthwhile and capable
of improvement, and that Harvard College was the best possible
place in which to lay the foundations for one’s career twenty-five
years ago.

[315]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

THOMAS EDWIN DUNN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 257 Pleasant St., East Walpole, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Watertown Arsenal, Watertown, Mass.

BORN: June 14, 1908, Pittsfield, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Edwin Dunn, Lena
Augusta Stapleton.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Bridgeport, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: $.B., 1929; M.B.A. cum laude, 1933.

marrieD: Vivian Frances Martin, Feb. 16, 1942, Fairfield, Conn. CHILDREN:
Thomas Edwin, 3d, May 9, 1944; Karen Elizabeth, Feb. 4, 1946; Mary
Louise, Jan. 16, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Thomas Dunn, ’28, Lu.B., °31.

occuPaTIoN: Foundry supervisor.

MEMBER OF; American Metal Society.

PHILIP IVES DUNNE

HOME ADpRESS: 24708 Pacific Coast Highway, Malibu, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Box goo, Beverly Hills, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 11, 1908, New York, N. Y. Parents: Finley Peter Dunne, Mar-
garet Ives Abbott.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

markiep: Amanda Duff, July 15, 1939, Virginia City, Nev. CHILDREN:
Miranda, Dec. 19, 1947; Philippa, Jan. 13, 1951; Jessica, Dec. 17, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Finley Peter Dunne, Jr. 25; David Leonard Dunne, °33.

oocuPATION: Writer-producer, 20th Century-Fox Film Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Screen Writers Guild, Authors’ League of
America; vice-chairman, Democratic State Central Committee of Cali-
fornia; governor, Motion Picture Academy of Arts and Sciences.

MEMBER OF: Americans for Democratic Action; Committee for an Effective
Congress; United World Federalists.

PUBLICATIONS: Many screen plays, including “How Green Was My Valley,”
“Pinky,” and “The Robe”; short stories for New Yorker and other
magazines.

SHORTLY after I left Harvard, I found myself in the motion

picture business and have been there ever since, most of the time

under contract to 20th Century-Fox Studios, where I am now a

writer-producer. Making pictures is very hard work, but I find

it rewarding, especially when the public and the critics are
gracious enough to like one of our efforts. During the war, I was
in charge of film production for the Overseas Branch of the
Office of War Information. Propaganda is supposed to be a dirty

[ 316]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

word, but that’s what we made. My boss was a distinguished
fellow Harvard man, Robert E. Sherwood.

Five years ago my wife and I built a modern house on a point:
of land jutting into the Pacific, and there we live with three small
daughters and assorted horses, dogs, cats, coyotes, gophers, eagles,
mountain lions, rattlesnakes, and other aboriginal denizens of the
area. We do considerable fishing — marlin can be found not far
away — and the best surfing this side of Waikiki is just outside
our door. We haven’t been inside a night club in five years.

I have done a great deal of travelling, both for the studio and
for pleasure, and in the past six years I have been to Europe
(twice), to China (just before the Communists moved in), to
Hawaii, Mexico, and Argentina. Next year we hope to go to
Africa and do some hunting with a camera.

In politics, I am a liberal (though I dislike the word), and a
profound believer in international coéperation. I am distressed,
as | expect many of my classmates are, by the present psychosis
in our national life which manifests itself in distrust of both our
allies and the good sense of the American people. I reject the
notion that our entire way of life must be discarded because a
few idiots in our midst have allowed themselves to be bamboozled
into accepting Communism. The Constitution was good enough
for my Irish and Yankee grandfathers and, McCarthy and Com-
pany to the contrary notwithstanding, it’s good enough for me.
I am proud that Harvard, under the leadership of Drs. Conant
and Pusey, has been out in front in this battle for freedom of the
mind. I hope it always stays there.

If I have any regrets over the past twenty-five years they are
that I have seen so little of my classmates. Perhaps this book and
a favoring Pacific tide will bring some to our door.

CLARENCE WESLEY DUPERTUIS

HOME ADDRESS: 330 Bell St., Chagrin Falls, Ohio.
OFFICE appREss: Western Reserve University, School of Medicine, Cleveland
6, Ohio,
BORN: June 2, 1907, Yacolt, Wash. Parents: Samuel Dupertuis, Myra Ella
inney. . .
PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

[317]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: S.B. 1929; A.M., 1931; PH.D., 1940.
marrieD: Helen Elizabeth Stimson, Nov. 17, 1934, West Quincy, Mass,
CHILDREN: William Stimson, Aug. 9, 1942; Lucy Gwyn, Nov. 16, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Milton Dupertuis, ’28, M.D., °32.

occupation: Associate professor of clinical anthropology, Western Reserve
University, School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Committee, 1946-48, vice-president, r950-
sz, American Association of Physical Anthropologists.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Physical Anthropologists; American
Anthropological Association (formerly); Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: “Human Constitution in Clinical Medicine,” with George
Draper and J. L. Caughey, Jr.; Age Changes and Selective Survival
in Irish Males, with E. A. Hooton; Atlas of the Young Male Adult
(in press), with W. H. Sheldon; monograph on races of Ireland (in
press), with Earnest A. Hooton.

AFTER graduation I worked in Boston for a year and then re-
- turned to Harvard in September, 1930, as a graduate student in
anthropology. It was fun going back to school again, especially
since I had at last discovered the type of work I really liked and
for which I had some aptitude. My main interest was physical
anthropology. Consequently I worked as much as possible with
Professor Hooton.

At the end of my first year in anthropology I received the
A.M. degree. The next two months were spent in Oklahoma with
a group of graduate students studying race mixture among the
Seminole Indians. As I recall none of us learned very much that
summer but we had a fine time and I learned to play bridge.

After two more years of very enjoyable work in the Anthro-
pology Department, I pasesd the general oral examinations for the
Doctor’s degree. That was in the spring of 1933, the year the
Century of Progress Exposition opened in Chicago.

The Anthropology Department had been asked to participate
in the Chicago World’s Fair and I was delegated to direct the
activities of a Laboratory for the Measurement of Man. This
exhibit was located in the Hall of Social Science. Here with the
aid of a few assistants I tried to show the visitors how a racial
study is conducted. This included all the steps from the original
taking of the measurements to the final statistical analysis of the
data calculated by means of the Hollerith tabulating machines lent
by the International Business Machines Company. During the
two seasons that the Fair operated I measured over 6,000 visitors

[ 318 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as part of the demonstration. As it turned out, this was the largest

sample of American people that had ever been measured (it may

still be), but for one reason and another I never got around to

writing up the results and publishing them. Perhaps I shall do it
et. Only this year got the stuff out again and dusted it off.

While I was working in Chicago that summer of 1933, the
Anthropology Department back at Harvard had thought up an-
other job for me. This time I was asked to go to Ireland to make
a racial study of the Irish people. After due preparation I sailed
for Dublin, Ireland, in December, 1933, to begin a job which was
to keep me busy for the next two and a half years. Six months of
this time, however, were devoted to the second season of the
Century of Progress Exhibition in Chicago.

From January to June, 1934, I went about measuring a sample
of the male population in all parts of Ireland. By the time I had
returned to Chicago for the second season of the fair I had meas-
ured over 2,000 men in central Ireland and had only just begun.
During my sojourn in the States I became engaged to Helen
Stimson from Terre Haute, Indiana, and by November we were
married and had sailed off to Ireland to finish the project I had
started. We spent the next year and a half of our honeymoon
measuring Irish heads.

From January, 1935, to June, 1936, we travelled the length and
breadth of Ireland, obtaining measurements and observations on a
representative sample of men from all parts of Ireland. We meas-
ured men of all ages and men from all stations of life from turf
cutters to peers of Ireland. We worked in many strange places
and sometimes under difficult conditions. By the end of twenty-
two months of hard work I had measured and observed over 10,000
men. We had travelled in all the thirty-two counties of Ireland
and in all parts of every county. By the time we drove back to
Dublin for the last time we had covered some 45,000 miles in a
country 300 miles long by 150 miles broad. During that period
we worked in some 426 towns and villages and stayed in over
sixty different hotels and private homes.

The statistical analysis of the Irish Survey data was done at
Harvard, but considerable delay in the publishing of this material
resulted from the necessity of laying aside for several years all
research other than that required for military purposes. The first

[319]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

publication based on this study was entitled Age Changes and
Selective Survival in Irish Males, This study appeared in 1951 and
was under the joint authorship of Professor E. A. Hooton and
myself. The main report, which ts now in press, is due to appear
in 1954. It will be published as a paper of the Peabody Museum
by the Harvard University Press and will also be under joint
authorship.

Upon our return from Ireland in June, 1936, my wife and I
began work in the statistical laboratory of the Anthropology
Department at Harvard, analyzing the data I had collected at
the Century of Progress in Chicago. During the fall a new posi-
tion opened up for me and in December we moved to New York
where I took up my duties as clinical anthropologist in the Con-
stitution Clinic of the Presbyterian Hospital under the director-
ship of Dr. George Draper (’03).

Thus began a new phase of my life. This new phase has con-
tinued now for almost twenty years and I hope will continue for
the rest of my days. As a clinical anthropologist my interests
shifted from academic anthropology to a consideration of the
relationship between physical anthropology and the science
of medicine. The constitutionalist seeks to observe and describe
individual differences in human beings and to define the role
played by the host factor in the development of disease. For the
past seventeen years I have been doing research on the relation-
ship between physique and disease susceptibility, trying to dis-
cover what kinds of people develop certain diseases. During most
of this time I have been a student of Dr. William H. Sheldon’s
somatotyping technique and have used his methods in my research.
For many years I have worked closely with Sheldon and have
assisted him in many of his publications. The latest addition to
his series of books is now in press and I have the honor to be
senior collaborator for this publication.

During the ten years I worked with Dr. Draper we published a
number of articles in scientific journals on such subjects as polio,
diabetes, peptic ulcer, etc. The culmination of our work at the
Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center came in the publication of
Constitution in Clinical Medicine, which was a joint effort of Dr.
Draper, Dr. J. L. Caughey, Jr. (25, M.D., 30), and me.

When Dr. Draper retired in 1946, I stayed on at the Columbia

[ 320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

College of Physicians and Surgeons and Presbyterian Hospital
for two more years. Dr. Sheldon was the director of the Consti-
tution Clinic during this period. In the meanwhile Dr. Caughey
had moved to Cleveland to become assistant dean at the Western
Reserve University School of Medicine. Since he wished to carry
on constitutional studies there he invited me to join him as asso-
ciate professor of clinical anthropology on the staff of the
Medical School. Since my arrival in Cleveland in July, 1948, I
have carried on a teaching and research program in the study of
human constitution at the School of Medicine and the university
hospitals.

This, in brief, is the history of my career since 1929. It has been
an enjoyable life and one for which I do not hold many regrets.
Although the pursuit of research and teaching does not reward
one financially to the extent of certain other professions and
business, still I have found my work has been exceedingly inter-
esting and I feel that I have been able to make some small contri-
bution to the advancement of knowledge concerning mankind.
I was particularly fortunate in marrying a girl who turned out to
be not only a devoted wife but a collaborator in my scientific
pursuits as well. We have two children: Bill who is now eleven
years old, and Lucy who is almost eight. They are both fine
children and doing well in school. Bull seems to have his mind set
on going to Harvard and Lucy thinks she’d like to attend Rad-
cliffe. We shall be happy if these plans mature because we are
convinced that these two schools offer the best in educational
facilities in America today. I firmly believe that it was the most
important decision in my life when I decided to go to Harvard.

RALPH EVERETT DURKEE, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 N. Beacon St., Hartford 5, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1907, Taunton, Mass. PARENTS: Ralph Everett Durkee, Mynnee
Alice Lincoln.

PREPARED AT: Greenfield High School, Greenfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.v. cum laude,
1936.

mMarriep: Vera Millicent Daye, Aug. 4, 1940, Warrenville, Conn. CHILDREN:
Donald Alan, May 14, 1942; Leslie Anne, Feb. 26, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Lincoln Durkee, ’30.

[ 321]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Associate, Medical Staff, Hartford Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Connecticut Medical Associa~
tion; Hartford County and City Medical Societies, American College
of Physicians (fellow); Alpha Omega Alpha Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Few articles for medical journals.

AFTER graduation from College, I found myself in debt and yet
wanting a medical education. As a means to this end I taught
school for three years—the first year at Middlesex School in
Concord, Massachusetts, and the second and third at Lawrence-
ville School, Lawrenceville, New Jersey. In the fall of 1932 I
entered Harvard Medical School and graduated in 1936. ‘There-
after I served two years of internship and residency at the Hart-
ford Hospital. Here I made the acquaintance of Dr. Orin R.
Witter with whom I became associated in the practice of medi-
cine in Hartford in 1938. It is my one regret that financial limita-
tions dictated that my formal education should stop at this point.
On August 4, 1940, I married Miss Vera M. Daye with whom
I became acquainted during medical school years. We have two
lovely children —a boy, Donald, aged eleven, and a girl, Leslie,
aged eight. In May, 1943, I joined the United States Public Health
Service serving the U. S. Coast Guard in World War II. In May
of 1946 I was discharged from the U.S.P.H.S. and returned to the
private practice of internal medicine at Hartford where I am an
associate in medicine on the staff of the Hartford Hospital.

EDWARD CHARLES DURKIN

HOME AppREss: 405 Berkley Rd., Haverford, Pa,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 34 W. Montgomery Ave., Ardmore, Pa.

BORN: June 27, 1905, West Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Timothy Aloysius Dur-
kin, Katharine M. Keenan.

PREPARED AT: Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, Pa. :

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: 8.B., 1929, M.D. (Univ. of Pennsy]-
vania), 1936,

marrigeD: Thelma Eloise Ligon, Aug. 4, 1937, New Orleans, La, cHiLprEeN:
Ligon, June 7, 1938 (daughter); Keenan, Jan. 6, 1944 (daughter); Wil-
liam, April 3, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Timothy Aloysius Durkin, Jr., ’24; John Keenan Dur-
kin, ’2

occuPATION: Physician, private practice.

[ 322 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Montgomery County Medical Society; District of Columbia
Medical Society.

AFTER graduation I worked for E. I. duPont de Nemours as a
chemist. Shortly thereafter I entered the University of Pennsy]-
vania Medical School from which I received an M.D. in 1936. [in-
terned at Charity Hospital, New Orleans, and the Pennsylvania
Hospital, Philadelphia, and also did some graduate work at the
University of Pennsylvania Graduate Hospital. Subsequently I
returned to Louisiana, where I served as resident at the Lady of
the Lake in Baton Rouge, the French Hospital of New Orleans,
and the Charity Hospital of Louisiana at Lafayette.

I married Thelma Ligon while in Louisiana in 1938. In 1942 I
entered the Navy Medical Corps as a lieutenant (senior grade).
I was soon back in civilian life (medical survey). Thereupon I
took up duties as admission officer of the city hospital of Wash-
ington, D. C. (Gallinger), and entered private practice in that
city. When my brother, Dr. John Durkin, received his discharge
in 1946 from the Navy Medical Corps, and resumed practice on
the “Main Line” of Philadelphia, I returned to become associated
with him in the practice of internal medicine. Like so many
others, I have found medicine an absorbing occupation although
not the most remunerative. My family of two girls and a boy are
sufficient to fill all leisure time.

LAWRENCE ANGUS DUROCHER

HOME AppRESS: 149 Washington St. Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 157 Huntington Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: April 20, 1905, Newton, Mass. parents: Joseph Patrick Durocher,
Florence A. MacLean.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.

MaRRieD: Margaret M. O'Brien, Oct. 12, 1936, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Nancy Marie, March 28, 1938; Lawrence A., April 29, 1940.

occupation: Branch manager, American Pamcor, Inc., subsidiary of Air-
craft-Marine Products, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, Belmont Police Gun Club, Inc.; secretary, New
England Police Revolver League, Inc.

GOD has been good to me and mine. A childhood that was as
happy as any boy could hope for, guided by exceptionally fine

[ 323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

parents, gave me an early appreciation of life that has deepened
through the years. The business world was in an ugly mood in
those early ’30’s, but we who started work in that period had an
advantage over those who started before us. We had not known
the “plush” years. The difficulty to us was normal. We knew no
losses — merely the gains we did make. They were not rapid but
they were steady.

Perhaps the times delayed me — perhaps I was just bashful. In
any event I did not marry until 1936. I was one of those (many,
I hope) men who were fortunate to take for a companion a girl
who has made life a continuing job. We have two lovely chil-
dren (assorted, ladies first) who, thank God, have grown well
and honorably. They fostered my thought that “children are a
swell invention.” It has been fun watching them grow.

My political reactions are, perhaps, too American. I register
my likes and dislikes with my vote but fail to follow it up with
other actions. I believe the salaries of public officials should be
increased according to the ability of the man — say his average
earnings over the last three or five years (based on figures re-
ported to the Internal Revenue Bureau). Many cities and states
could pay ten times the present amount for efficient administra-
tion and reap tremendous profits. Perhaps some such plan would
attract men of such good quality that the high offices of this land
would again demand the respect that belongs to them. However,
we know there are always some good and honest men in office
who, together with us the public who refuse to be pushed too far,
will guard and preserve our way of life. The evils that arise make
us appreciate all the more the good that surrounds us, the friends
we meet, the privileges we enjoy, our families who give to us
that great need in life — love, and last, the freedom of expressing
our religious convictions in the holy sacrifice of the Mass or in
whatever manner one wishes. God has been good to me and mine.

MAHLON TRACY EASTON

HOME appress: 30 Ardsmoor Rd., Melrose 76, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; 1180 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass,

BORN: June 10, 1907, Rockland, Mass. parents: Elwood Tracy Easton, M.D.,
’99, Sarah Lilla Blaisdell.

[ 324 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1933.

MARRIED: Pauline Hall Thacher, Nov. 14, 1931, Nashua, N. H. currpren:
Barbara Hall, Dec. 28, 1933 (m2. Richard Woodland, June 16, 1951);
Alan Tracy, Oct. 13, 1939 (died Oct. 13, 1939); Janet Loring, May 6,
1941 (died Feb. 19, 1942); David Tracy, July 13, 1943.

OccUPATION: Physician, ophthalmologist.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical assistant, 1936-40, assistant surgeon, 1940-53, associate
surgeon, since 1953, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary; consulting
ophthalmologist, Massachusetts General Hospital, since 1940, Boston
Psychopathic Hospital, since 1938, Nantucket Cottage Hospital, since
1945, Washingtonian Hospital, 1940-33; ophthalmologist, 1938-53, con-
sulting ophthalmologist, since 1953, Melrose Hospital; assistant in oph-
thalmology, 1936-46, instructor in ophthalmology, since 1946, Harvard
Medical School, Tufts College Medical School; reporter, New England
Ophthalmological Society, 1946-48.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology;
New England Ophthalmological Society; American Medical Associa-
tion; East Middlesex District Medical Society; Harvard Club of Boston;
Orleans Yacht Club.

BACK in College days I firmly believed that one should choose
one’s life work without undue influence from parents and family
tradition, irrespective of compensation, etc., that the performance
of it should bring an inner satisfaction as well as enjoyment. My
parents and friends took it for granted from the start that I would
be a physician like my father, but I kept them in suspense. In
College I enjoyed chemistry very much, as well as the biological
sciences, and remember Chemistry 5 with pleasure. However,
Chem. 5 made me realize that I was not one to be confined to a
chemistry research laboratory and that a medical career was my
preference. In medical school I kept an open mind until I had
“sampled” all fields of medicine and their specialties before I de-
cided to embark on the career of ophthalmology. After a general
type of internship and then training in ophthalmology by a resi-
dence at the Massachusetts Eye and Far Infirmary, I hung out my
shingle in 1936, with an office in association with my father in
Boston.

Building a specialty practice in a large city is often slow, and
therefore I shortly took advantage of an opportunity to have a
part-time office in a suburb of Boston, Melrose, where I thought
I should be quite happy to establish my home also. About 1943
I found there were not enough hours in the day and night to

[ 325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

spread myself between the two offices, so after the death of my
father, I limited my work entirely to the Boston office. My pri-
mary hospital appointment has been at the Massachusetts Eye and
Ear Infirmary, confining the rest of my hospital work to consult-
ing for the most part. Teaching ophthalmology to Harvard and
Tufts medical students has been pleasant and stimulating through
the years. While I have presented some papers in my field during
this time, I have become convinced that I was never meant to be
a writer or a pure research man.

I married in 1931 while I was still a medical. student, which is
done much more commonly now than in those days. My first
child, Barbara, was born in 1933, and in 1951 definitely decided
on her career — marriage. With our blessing she married Richard
Woodland who is still in the Air Force. My son, David, a very
lively and real boy, is now almost eleven. He has recently stimu-
lated me to get out my clarinet again, as he is showing promise
of becoming a trumpet player. My recreation by preference has
been travelling whenever possible, but it has been limited by rais-
ing a family and having a practice. Most of the summers have
been spent on Cape Cod, and some years ago we bought an old
house in Orleans, built in 1789. My wife has enjoyed restoring it,
providing it with modern facilities, furnishing it with antiques,
etc. I have made it a base at which to relax weekends and on
vacations, and to go after striped bass, bluefish, and other local
fish.

DAVID FORRESTER EDGAR

LAST KNOWN ADpRESS: 7 Impasse du Rouet, Paris 14, France.

BoRN: Jan, 6, 1907, Albemarle Co., Va. parents: Charles Edgar, Gertrude
Pomeroy.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Bradbury Underwood, June 18, 1928, Winchester,
Mass. (divorced 1938).

EDGAR has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since
1953.

[ 326 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEOFFREY EDSALL

HOME ADDRESS: 5604 Brite Drive, Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Army Medical Service Graduate School, Walter Reed AMC,
Washington 12, D. C.

BoRN: Jan. 28, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: David Linn Edsall, Margaret
Harding Tileston.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: M.D., 1934.

marrieD: Helen Sue Fogle (Cook), Aug. 13, 1935, Greensboro, Vt, cHILp:
Richard Anthony (Cook) Jan. 14, 1932 (stepchild).

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Tileston Edsall, '23, m.p., ’28; Richard Linn Edsall,
26,

occuPATION: Physician — director, Immunology Division, Army Medical
Service Graduate School.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1947~48, vice-chairman, 1949, chairman, 1950, Labo-
ratory Section, member various committees, American Public Health
Association; president, Northeast Branch, Society of American Bac-
teriologists, 1950, American Association of Immunologists, 1950-51;
chairman, Executive Committee, Federation of American Societies for
Experimental Biology, 1951; editor-in-chief, Journal of lnmunology,
since 1949; member, Judging Committee, George Westinghouse-Ameri-
can Academy of Arts and Sciences Science Writing Awards, 1951-53;
member, Sub-committee on Blood, Office of Defense Mobilization,
19§1~§2; director, Commission on Immunization, Armed Forces Epi-
demiological Board, since 1952; special consultant, World Health Organ-
ization, 1953; delegate, U. S. Pharmacopoeial Convention, 1950; instruc-
tor in bacteriology and immunology, Harvard Medical and Public
Health Schools, 1940-46; assistant professor of microbiology, 1947-49,
visiting lecturer, since 1949, Harvard School of Public Health.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Washington Academy of Medicine; American Academy of Arts and
Sciences; American Association of Immunologists; Society of American
Bacteriologists; Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine; Con-
ference of State and Provincial Public Health Laboratory Directors;
American Association for the Advancement of Science; Delta Omega.

PUBLICATIONS: Thirty-five to forty papers on scientific subjects in various
periodicals or as sections of books.

THE incomparable personality and teaching of Professor Hans
Zinsser stirred up an interest in infectious diseases that has never
palled since, and has brought me into the company of some of
the finest people alive, from all parts of the world. I interned
at the Massachusetts General Hospital, spent three years in re-
search fellowships, and then went to the Massachusetts Antitoxin

[ 327 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and Vaccine Laboratory as assistant director, becoming director
in 1942. The work ostensibly involved production, development,
and testing of serums, vaccines, and antitoxins; actually it involved
much collaboration with medical laboratories around Boston,
clinical consultation around the state, and considerable experi-
ence in how a state government works. The professional activities
of the laboratory ranged all the way from developing an improved
Schick test preparation to organizing a statewide blood program.
Meanwhile part-time teaching at the Harvard School of Public
Health kept my brains from ossifying.

In 1949 I became editor of the Journal of Immunology — the
principal journal in my field — and also went to the Boston Uni-
versity School of Medicine for a most delightful two years as pro-
fessor of microbiology. The Korean “episode,” however, trans-
planted me to Washington in 1951, when I went to the Army
Medical School to work on immunological problems. Going at
first on loan from the Boston University School of Medicine, I
settled permanently in 1952 and am now a thoroughly acclimated
Marylander. The change has been gratifying in many ways.
Washington has the reputation of being hectic; but we are awak-
ened by no noise except birds (the cardinals can make an awful
racket in the morning); we look out on green woods with scarcely
a house in sight, yet I am only fifteen minutes’ easy drive from
work. And Washington is a beautiful, spacious, and restful city;
I commend it to anyone who does not yet know it well. My work
has kept me hopping — to western Europe in 1951, the Near East
in 1952, and Yugoslavia last month. Infectious disease problems
are world-wide, and one sometimes chases a long way to find
their solution. One of the rewards of the chase is the people one
meets. English, French, Egyptian, Israeli, Yugoslav, and others
all laugh in much the same way (although perhaps not at the same
things) as we do; they are all susceptible to the same diseases as
we are, and they all in the long run want to reach pretty much
the same goals that we aim for. Hence the similarities between
us and them are usually much greater than the differences.

By marriage in 1935 I acquired a wife who has taught me to
appreciate human beings as much as bacteria, and a son who has
taught me to be humble in the face of the profound instinctive
wisdom of youth. He is now in college in Maine, and remains

[ 328 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the staunchest New Englander in the family. We have a Great
Dane pup for laughter, a convertible for escape from low ceilings,
and a collection of records that still grows but never fast enough.
We once went broke trying to keep up a boat, but still dream of
trying again. I have long since ceased to try to play the piano,
which others (notably my wife) can play so well, so I console
myself instead with such concealed weapons as the harmonica.

Working for Uncle Sam has its headaches, some of which are
named Joe. However, it also has its compensations, not the least
of which is the remarkably able and devored group of people
whom one finds in the same boat. And despite the incredible
complexity and cumbersomeness of government operation, one
can actually accomplish a good deal. Come down some time and
let me show you.

ROBERT ROBINSON EHRLICII

HOME apprEss: 95 Abbott St. Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 541 Main St. Holyoke, Mass.

BORN: May 3, 1908, Springfield, Mass. parents: Abraham Abbe Ehrlich, Ida
Robinson.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; M.B.A.
cum laude, 1931.

MarRRigD: Frances R. Lantor, Aug. 8, 1937, Portchester, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Susan L. Dec. 6, t940; John L., March 2, 1943; Steven E., Feb. 5, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Melville Ehrlich, °25, LB. °28.

occupation: Partner and general manager, The Tracies Company, manu-
facturers of children’s playthings.

OFFicks HELD: Assistant director, Field Division, N.L.R.B.; director of in-
vestigations, OPA 1935-47; member board of directors, Jewish Com-
munity Center, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Frederick Harris PTA; Forest Park Junior High PTA; Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union, Hampden County; Springfield Civic So-
ciety; Springfield Jewish Community Center.

WITH the submission of this document, I join the ranks of those

venerable Twenty-fifth Reunion pilgrims, whom I regarded with

awe only yesterday. I look forward to the Reunion this spring,
but have the uneasy (and optimistic) feeling that some kindly
usher will tap me on the shoulder and say “You're in the wrong
generation here, son. Come back in about 1975 when you are all

[ 329 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

grown up.” I am pleased to be able to report a few beginnings
toward that goal:

(1) Having married and, over a leisurely period, acquired three
children, I have gone through the process of discovering that the
family constellation is a complex and mysterious world unrelated
to prior knowledge and experience. In some elementary ways,
however, I am beginning to understand some of the more obvious
laws of family life. This my wife will be delighted to know.

(2) The sixth year of the third phase of my postgraduate career,
the business of manufacturing children’s playthings, is coming to
a close, with a good measure of satisfactory development behind
and much more needed ahead before my Dun and Bradstreet
rating is securely afloat in a sea of solvency. With more con-
sideration than you should expect if you are still reading this, I
will spare you the details of the first phase of my career, whose
theme was how I outwitted, or maybe just out-waited, the great
depression, and of the second phase, which covered twelve years in
the government. My present activity has the feeling of perma-
nence.

(3) Spare time activities have been growing in number, and if
the rate of growth does not level off I will have to give up either
family life or business, and maybe both. I like golf and chess but
must devote more time to them if I am ever to develop passable
competence at them. A couple of music (appreciation) courses
and a ceramics course take their toll of evenings each week, and
some of the rest go to PTA, ACLU, and Community Center.
Finally, I like to read, both fiction and more directly instructive
matter, and this I do mostly in a daily compromise with sleep.
Having discovered that life is most satisfying when one is ac-
quiring knowledge or skill in some new field, it is pleasant to
admit to a happy condition of extensive ignorance that guarantees
the continuous presence of fresh subject matter.

BRANDON EISENMANN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O, Box 1083, Panama City, Panama.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1908, Panama. PaReNTs: Gustave Eisenmann, Ethel Esther
Brandon. ,

PrepareD at: Rutgers Preparatory School, New Brunswick, N. J.

[ 330]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.
marRiED: Mercédes Cecilia Castellano, May 1, 1936, Cristobal, Canal Zone.
occupation: Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

FRANK HOLTON ELBERFELD

HOME AppREss: 124 S. Central Ave., Ramsey, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 William St., New York, N. Y.

BorN: March 8, 1905, Danvers, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Louis Elberfeld,
Isobel Holton.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. in E.ENG. cum laude, 1929.

MarRRIED: Gertrude Olive Bailey, Oct. 28, 1930, East Boston, Mass. cuixp:
Joan Elizabeth, Jan. 10, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Elberfeld, ’26, s.mM. in MECH.ENG., ’29.

occuPATION: Circuit layout engineering, Transmission Department, Ameri-
can Telephone and Telegraph Company.

ON July 8, 1929, I went to New York City for my initial training
with the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. After
three weeks of class room work, learning a little about telephone
circuits and the organization of the company, I spent several
weeks with open wire —cable placing, splicing, and testing —
and duct lowering outfits, to learn a bit about the outside plant
end of the business. At the end of this training I was assigned to
the testroom in Boston.

On October 28, 1930, I married Gertrude Olive Bailey of East
Boston, Massachusetts. After a tour of Maine and New Hamp-
shire we returned to a small apartment in Malden, Massachusetts,
where we lived until the telephone company decided there were
too many on its payroll. We moved back. to East Boston and
shortly after I went back to work again for the telephone com-
pany. |

In 1933 I was assigned to a pole line inspection crew of three
men. Since the pole lines didn’t follow roads we walked and after
getting over sunburn, and creosote burn, and getting used to hav-
ing poison ivy, I enjoyed the opportunity to see much of New
York, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New Jer-
sey. As we moved from town to town my wife came out with

[331]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

me for a few weeks at a time and we saw the surrounding scenic
and historic sites.

After a year of this work I went back to the testroom in Boston
and in 1937 was transferred to the district office in Boston as an
engineer. A part of my time on this assignment also got me out
in the open surveying high tension crossings on open wire and
aerial cable lines and electrolysis testing on underground cables
together with many other jobs of a similar nature.

After my assignment on pole line inspection ended, we moved
to Malden again and remained there until 1937, when we moved
to Medford because we found the apartment a little inconvenient
for taking care of our daughter, Joan Elizabeth. We moved again
in 1943, this time to Reading, Massachusetts.

On March 1, 1946, I was transferred to New York City, to
work on equipment engineering in the division office. In June I
moved the family to Ramsey, New Jersey, where we are still
living. On November 1, 1952, I was transferred to the Eastern
Area Transmission Department to work on circuit layout en-
gineering.

+ WILLIAM LUKENS ELKINS

BoRN: May 8, 1906, Abington, Pa. parents: William McIntire Elkins, ’o5,
Elizabeth Tuckerman.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1025-1929. DEGREE: A.B, 1929(30).

MargieD: Eloise R. Weld, June 23, 1931, Boston, Mass.

piep: Sept. 3, 1933, Penllyn, Pa.

AFTER graduating Elkins joined his father in the investment
banking business of Elkins, Morris & Company of Philadelphia,
in which he remained until his death.

JOHN NOWLAND ELLIOTT

HOME appress: 2108 Kenilworth Ave. Wilmette, Ill.

Ovrice, appaess: 208 W. Washington St. Chicago 6, Il. .

Born: April 24, 1908, Madison, Wis. parents: Edward Charles Elliott, Eliza-
beth L Nowland. .

parpanep at: Jefferson High School, Lafayette, Ind.

[ 332 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrieD: Margaret A. Olsen, June 25, 1938, Des Moines, Iowa. cHILpREN:
Edward Martin, April 26, 1940; Joanne, May 21, 1942.

occupation: Telephone engineer, Business Research Department, Illinois
Bell Telephone Company.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices, Kiwanis, Community Fund, Red Cross,

AFTER several pleasant years of bachelorhood (spent in the finest
of all cities, Chicago!), extending into that unpleasant period
known as the great depression, I met and wed a graduate of a
female institution not far from Cambridge. We are happily set-
tled in a suburban town on Lake Michigan. There are now two
fine children in their ‘teens, and, I suppose, like nearly all of you
who may look at this, we are counting away the few short years
we shall have them with us. I spend five or six days each week
commuting to the city (sounds dull, but it’s bread and butter).
Every two or three years we pack off to the Rockies for a vaca-
tion of riding, fishing, and hiking — really far away (not dull at
all; I tell my “‘easterner” friends more of them should try this!).
My social, political, religious, etc., convictions: once a week
(Saturday night preferably) a good mixed party; once a month,
at least, away from home with “the boys” for poker or bridge;
martinis five to one and lots of ice. Middle-Westerners excepted,
most people are provincial, should see more parts of the U. S. A.
Increase your church pledge; seriously, it will help get you to
heaven. Work hard for Ike in ’54 (brother — he needs it!).

STANLEY WARREN ELLIS

HOME ADDRESS: 1615 Beacon St., Waban, Mass.

BORN: May 10, 1908, Monson, Mass. parents: Frederick W. Ellis, M.p., ’80,
Martha Alvord.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; A.M., 1930; B.D. (Episcopal
Theological School), 1935.

MARRIED: Frances Brown, 1935, Boston, Mass. cuttpren: Christopher Fred-
erick, 1936; Michael Warren, 1937; Judith Anne, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Laurence Brewster Ellis, ’22, M.p., ’26.

OCCUPATION: Episcopal clergyman.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant, St. Paul’s Cathedral, Boston, 1935-37; rector, Church
of the Good Shepherd, Waban, Mass., since 1937.

[ 333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

GERALD FRANK ELSE

HOME ADDRESS: 103 Grove St., Iowa City, Iowa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 112 Schaeffer Hall, State University of Iowa, Iowa City,
Iowa.
BORN: July 1, 1908, Redfield, S, Dak. parents: Frank Marston Else, Minnie
Marylouise Beckman.
PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Lincoln, Nebr.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1929; A.M,,
19323 PH.D. 1934.
MARRIED: Martha Post Wight, June 15, 1939, Newton Center, Mass. cnit-
DREN: Martha Susan, Oct. 9, 1942; Stephen Wight, May 13, 1948.
occuPATION: Head, Department of Classics, State University of Iowa.
OFFICES HELD: Member executive committee, Classical Association of the
Middle West and South, 1949-52; president, Alpha Chapter of Iowa, Phi
Beta Kappa, 1948-49, Iowa Society, Archaeological Institute of America,
1948-51, 1952-53, lowa Foreign Language Association, 1952-53; director,
American Philological Association, since 1953; editor, Jowa Studies in
Classical Philology, since 1947.
MEMBER OF; Phi Beta Kappa; American Philological Association; Classical
Association of the Middle West and South; The Classical Association

(Great Britain); Archaeological Institute of America; Know-nothing
Club, Iowa City.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles and reviews in classical periodicals.

FIFTEEN years ago, when I wrote myself up for the Decennial
Report, the pen rattled away as fluently as if I were writing a
novel. This time autobiography seems harder: is it because I’m
older and find everything less interesting, or because nothing
much has happened to me?

After a year in Europe on a travelling fellowship (1929-1930),
college merged into graduate school and graduate work into
teaching. I was a full-fledged professor in my first full year of
teaching (1934-1935), at the Cambridge Junior College, but re-
lapsed the following year into the status of an instructor at Har-
vard. In 1936 I became a resident tutor in Winthrop House; in
1938 I replaced Halfdan Gregersen as senior tutor. That was the
Golden Age when we had table service in the house dining halls
and ate off real plates. The fabulous Mrs. De (De Pinto) was our
hostess, and Dr. Ferry was house master-—the only one of the
original crew, I believe, who 1 is still a master.

Life in those days was very full of house admissions, plays,
dances, senior Common Room activities, and an occasional flurry

[ 334 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of disciplinary work — as when a late party in a student’s room
ended with most of the furniture being tossed out the window.
For several years Winthrop House was the scene of the famous
Water Fights, an annual festival which descended on us (I mean
literally: crews with water-filled bags stationed themselves on
the roof of Gore Hall and let the inmates have it when they went
in or out the doors) every spring. For some reason the senior
tutor never quite got hit; and after a Demosthenic oration which I
seem to remember making in the courtyard of Gore, to a tense
audience of Winthropites on the roof and Cambridge urchins
perched on the gates toward the river, things tapered off. :

In 1939 Winthrop Hlouse did the unconventional thing by
allowing its senior tutor to marry and to bring his bride to live in
the house. I recall many evenings when the boys came in for get-
togethers (more milk drunk than beer: it was a sober period); a
house conference course taught by Douglas Bush and me, some
jitters over the broad jokes in a home-made house play; and a
host of friendships that have been scattered by time. Also, our
daughter, Martha Susan, now eleven, was a Winthrop House girl
before coeducation was quite so prominent in the Harvard way
of life.

My other home in the University was the Classics Department.
It was a kind of second family to me, with E. K, Rand, C. B.
Gulick, and Carl Jackson as kindly as fathers, John Finley and
many more as brothers, and dozens of tutees and students as sons.

In 1943 I went off to war, and except for two short periods of
family life in Washington, my wife settled down to being a war
widow in her home town — Newton Center — with excursions
to the Pudding in its war-time capacity as an officers’ club. I was
overseas with OSS for a total of eighteen months, in Egypt,
Greece, Italy, and West Africa; but I did not personally live
the life of a spy, met no Mata Haris, and got into no big poker
games. My commission was in the Marine Corps, which was a
lirtle quaint in the Mediterranean and Middle East Theatres and
a little conspicuous for a man who was supposed to be in a con-
fidential line of work. .

At the end of the war I had no doubr thar neither the military
nor the governmental life was for me. In February, 1943, I had
been appointed to my present post as head of the Department

[ 335 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

of Classics at the State University of Iowa, so that for two and
a half years I had been in the anomalous situation of being on
leave of absence from a job I had not yet held. Since 1945 life
has not presented much in the way of spectacular variation —
except the precarious arrival of our son Stephen, who had to
undergo surgery at the age of one month and the weight of five
pounds. In addition to serving as head of the Classics Depart-
ment, I am active in the faculty and other committees, editing
for scholarly journals, teaching, and the guidance of undergrad-
uate and graduate students. I have been moderately active in
classical and archaeological societies, and have my share of the
missionary zeal which afflicts all classicists in these unclassical
times. A book on Aristotle’s Poetics which has been brewing for
some years is now approaching (I hope) the penultimate stage.
I am still a voting Democrat, and the advent of Ike and Adlai
did nothing to make me change my mind. : Life in a midwestern
town, in academic surroundings and busy with teaching and
scholarship, seems to me as close an approximation to the Good
Life as the ordinary mortal could expect. Beatus ille qui procul
negotis ...

WILLIAM TEMPLE EMMET

HOME AppRESS: 65 Ramble Lane, Levittown, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Jan. 19, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: William Temple Emmet,
Cornelia Zabriskie.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MarRigD: Lily Cushing, May 2, 1932, New York, N. Y. (divorced, 1945)5
Jean Reeder, June 20, 1946, Columbus, Ohio. cuitpREeN: Lily, March 20,
1933 (m. Anthony West, December, 1952); Alexandra, April 24, 1936s
William Temple, Jr., Feb. 9, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Stockton Emmet, ’19.

occupATION: Account manager, de Vegh and Company.

SINCE graduation I have spent three-fifths of my time in and
around Wall Street, New York City (that is, working time)
and two-fifths of my working time doing odd and extraneous
jobs such as working in Washington, fighting wars (largely be-
hind desks), selling books and doing mild editorial work for a

[ 336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

publisher, and for a period of almost one year, trying to sell
eyesight to factory workers. Such then is my business career. I
find as I grow older that I have developed a desire for more
knowledge than I now possess and have accordingly taken to
night school with the avowed intention of earning a Master’s
degree in economics.

As for politics, my convictions and the election results never
agree. So many times has this proved true that I recommend
that anyone desirous of knowing the result of the next presiden-
tial election take the trouble to look me up in the summer of

1956.

+ ELBRIDGE GERRY EMMONS, JR.

BORN: June 30, 1906, Nahant, Mass. parents: Elbridge Gerry Emmons,
Laura Mary Steele.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926,

piep: Nov. 19, 1931, Glendale, Mass.

EMMONS was an invalid for some time before his death. He was
with our Class for only one year.

ALFRED EDWARD ERICKSON

HOME appress: Fuller Apts., South Walpole, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: A. E, Erickson Co., 944 Main St., Walpole, Mass.

BORN: July 17, 1906, Plymouth, Mass. parents: August Erickson, Hannah
Caroline Anderson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MarRiED: Harriet E, Erickson.

occupaTION: Mercantile business.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files,

+ JAMES JOSEPH FAGGIANO
BorN: April 5, 1907, Naples, Italy. parenrs: Giovanni Faggiano, Marghe-
rita Ciardiello.
PREPARED AT: Methuen High School, Methuen, Mass.

. [ 337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrigp: Mary A. Comparone, April 6, 1932, Lawrence, Mass. cimp:
Mary Anne, Oct. 9, 1938. -

pep: Dec. 30, 1953, Boston, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. James J. Faggiano, 8; Elm St. Andover, Mass.

AFTER leaving Harvard, Faggiano entered the investment bank-
ing business in which he remained until his death. He first spent
five years with Estabrook and Company, Boston. “Disillusionment
and a try at broadening my financial background followed,” he
writes in the questionnaire he returned for this Report, “with a
tour of duty for three years at Barron’s Financial Weekly and the
old Boston News Bureau. From there came a call to greener fields
in the investment trust area with General Capital Corporation,
and thence to the personal trust business where I have been for the
last half of my business career since College.”

At the time of his death, Faggiano was assistant vice-president
in the Investment Analysis Section, Personal Trust Division, Old
Colony Trust Company (Boston). He had joined this company in
1940. He also served as the secretary-treasurer of the Boston
Security Analysts Society, corporator of the Community Savings
Bank (Lawrence, Massachusetts), and director of several corpora-
tions. He was the author of “Investment Trends in (College and
University) Endowment Funds,” published in 1948. His wife and
daughter survived him.

JOHN KING FAIRBANK

HOME appress: 41 Winthrop St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: 127 Littauer Center, Harvard University, Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: May 24, 1907, Huron, §. Dak. Parents: Arthur Boyce Fairbank,
Lorena C. V. King.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H. :

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1929; B.LITT.
(Univ. of Oxford), 1931; pR.PHIL. (ibid.), 1936.

margiep: Wilma Denio Cannon, June 29, 1932, Peiping, China. CHILDREN:
Laura King, Aug. 6, 1949; Holly, Sept. 2, 1953.

occupaTION: Professor of History, Harvard University.

OFFICES HELD: Codrdinator of Information, Office of Strategic Services, 1941-
433 special assistant to U. S. Ambassador, Chungking, 1942-43; acting
director, U. S. Office of War Information, 1944-45; director, U. S. In-
formation Service, China Division, 1946; vice-president, Far Eastern

[ 338 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Association, 1950-51; associate chairman, Harvard Faculty Committee
on International and Regional Studies, since 1946...
MEMBER OF: University of Wisconsin Chapter, Beta Theta Pi; Phi Beta
. Kappa; Signet; Council on Foreign Relations; Institute of Pacific Rela-
tions.
PUBLICATIONS: The United States and China, 1948; Next Step in Asia (with
_ others), 1949; Modern China: A Bibliographical Guide (with K. C. Liu);
1950; A Documentary History of Chinese Communism (with others),
1952; Trade and Diplomacy on the China Coast, 1953; China’s Response
to the West (with S. Y. Teng), 1954.

é

MY twenty-five years as a China specialist have given me a firm
grasp on the gap between ideal and actuality. In this period the
American befuddlement about Asia created a public demand for
soothsayers known as “Far Eastern experts,’ > who in a few well-
‘chosen words could make up for our public ignorance... Re-
cently, since China went communist, I have noticed some falling
off in this demand. All kinds of Americans are now learning about
peasant Asia by actual contact, and pretty soon the “Far Fastern
expert > should be extinct. 4

I suppose I went to China because I came from South Dakota.
I had missionaries among my ancestors; China is also a rich field
for academic enterprise. I first went to Oxford in 1929, Balliol
College, and began doing research in the British Foreign Office
archives in London, taking a train in the chill morning mist and —
getting back in the damp dark of evening so as to sleep “within
two miles” of the center of town. I began looking at Chinese
characters and propositioned the Rhodes Trust to let me spend
the third year of my scholarship in Peking. In February, 1932, I
arrived off Shanghai on a German freighter loaded with ammuni-
tion and watched the Japanese Navy shell the Woosung forts as
part of their current undeclared war — they stopped long enough
for us to pass up the river.

In Peking I married Wilma Cannon (daughter of Walter B.
Cannon, ’96), whom I had met on St. Valentine’s Day, 1929. We
lived in Peking (Peiping) four years very happily, without much
income but with five servants, horses to ride, expeditions into the
countryside, and trips to other provinces. We found speaking
mandarin Chinese not difficult, after a certain point — and since
we didn’t want to be philosophical. Extraterritoriality still made
the foreigner a privileged character, probably something like be-

[ 339 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ing an officer in the Army or a party member in Russia. This
period in China was the Indian summer of the old imperialist
system, now defunct.

I started teaching in the History Department at Harvard in
1936, having got my degree at Oxford, and spent five years learn-
ing the trade — lectures (have to be organized and audible), tuto-
rial (get the boys to work out on each other), seminars (what do
Chinese documents probably mean?), reading books (fast or
slow), studying languages (I began Japanese five times and each
time it got easier), building up the library, trying to keep up with
the building up of the library, research and writing, and so on.

We have enjoyed living in a house owned by Harvard (where
G. Washington would certainly not have slept) across from
Lowell House and the Indoor Athletic Building, from which we
literally draw steam. Our two daughters are each more charming
than the other. My wife, with fascinating unpredictability, has
carried through a number of projects in fine arts, Chinese archae-
ology, broadcasting, and various things, and wound up five years
of wartime service in the State Department as the first cultural
attaché of our embassy in Chungking and Nanking. Our govern-
ment service began suddenly in August, 1941, when Colonel
Donovan was first mobilizing professors. All the China special-
ists, among others, turned up in Washington. For a time I had
the then-supposed honor of being attached to the White House

staff, sort of on the penumbra, and found it both confusing and
unplannable. History in the present seemed to be always changing
unexpectedly, out of control, whereas history in the past doesn’t
change except as you work on it and understand it.

I spent two terms in China during the war, the second in charge
of an information program with centers in ten cities, which would
still be a fine thing if it hadn’t been for the Chinese communist
revolution. Since then various characters have been asking me
why I let it happen. (What was my real motive? etc.) Nationalist
China, in retrospect, seems to have been like a sick patient — to
hide the gravity of the illness would leave people unwarned, to
announce it was demoralizing. Most of us in the China business,
I think, were over-optimistic and under-informed about the com-
munists, the same as the American public in general; but, given

our own distance and demobilization and the problems Chiang

[ 340 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Kai-shek was engulfed in, I still doubt that we could have saved
his situation, even if we had fought a major war in China. So I
sympathize with my friends who have been kicked around as

scapegoats.
Going through my mail after getting back from China in 1944,

I found I had a permanency at Harvard. The last eight years I

have been running an “area study” program on China, training

graduate specialists by using all the academic approaches. As a
people, I think we are responding a little more constructively to
our Asian problems and may be able to meet them without com-
plete disaster. But if so, it will be a near miss. The more I see
of modern life and the tensions thrust upon us as social animals,
the more surprised I am that civilization survives.

_ A good deal of my research effort has been collaborative and
bibliographical, since the China field seems to be in a stage calling
for such work. With others, I have done several volumes of bibli-
ographies, three of documentary studies, and only a couple by
myself alone. I still think that what this country needs is a good
course in Far Eastern history, and Harvard is where it ought to

come from.

ALONZO STEARNS FARNHAM

(OME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Route 7, Gaylordsville, Conn.
orN: March 24, 1905, Springfield, Ill. parents: Fred Alonzo Farnham,

Delia Stearns Bushnell.
REPARED AT: East St. Louis High School, East St. Louis, Ill.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. 1929. .
ArRieD: Geraldine McCaskey, June 22, 1940, Gaylordsville, Conn. (di-
vorced 1953). CHILDREN: Fred Alonzo, June 21, 1941; Alan Stearns, July

2, 1942.
CUPATION: Owner, operator, The Basket Shop.

FICES HELD: Trustee, Methodist Episcopal Church, since 1946; chief, Volun-

teer Fire Department, 1947-48.
‘MBER OF: Orienta Beach Club, Mamaroneck, N.Y.; Harvard Club of

New York, 1930-43.
‘TER graduation my well planned business career was radi-
ly altered by the sudden death of my father in September,
9. Everything went out to sea in the October crash, but I was
ky enough to land a clerical job with the newly formed Gen-

[ 341 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

eral Foods Corporation in November. After six months I was
made a member of a crew assigned to the test selling of the new
and unknown Birdseye Frosted Foods, in Springfield, Massachu-
setts. In May, 1931, we moved to Boston and started commercial
sales expansion throughout New England. A year later I was sent
to New York to open the metropolitan and suburban area, as
district manager. As production permitted we expanded to all
major cities and eventually blanketed the entire country, and I
became assistant sales manager.

By the time the war started in 1941 we had become “big busi-
ness.” The up-hill struggle and pioneering were over and the fun
went out of the job when regimentation and politics became the
order of the day. P'm a poor politician and never have liked or
understood the machinations of a big corporation, so in 1947 I
resigned my position as merchandising manager, and started over
in my own business. To go back a way, I had purchased land in
Gaylordsville, Connecticut, in 1936, where I built a weekend re-
treat where I could regain my health after the weekly social ac-
tivities of a bachelor in Westchester County. In 1940 I married
and started a family, living in Mount Kisco and Larchmont during
the war years. With the end of the war we built a year-round
home in Gaylordsville, but the happy family life and my business
troubles both exploded at the same time and I separated from
both with mutual regrets all around.

I had a chance to buy this local business, which had proved
highly profitable to the founder, so plunged into a deep debt and
bought it out. I cater to summer-transient trade and specialize in
gifts, souvenirs, and custom crafts— weaving, basketry, wood
products, maple syrup, honey, and so on. For seven years there
have been no hobbies, no vacations, no let-up. It’s a seven-day-
week proposition, but by working two years every year I hope
to get through that much sooner, and if things continue it won't
be too long before I can stick my neck out to see what’s been
going on all these years while I have been submerged. Hard, un-
ending work was the best thing for my unhappy state and in the
end will pay dividends. At that I would not trade my own busi-
ness for the best paid executive job in the country’s largest corpo-

ration. I don’t have to commute, and if I want to lock the door
and go fishing, I’m the boss. I have missed keeping in touch with

[ 342 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

classmates —- both Harvard and Wellesley, but in about four more
years I’m going to be ringing door bells from coast to coast and
asking, “Remember me?”

FREDERICK EDWARD FARNSWORTH

HOME ADDRESS: Y% Department of State, Washington 25, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United States Embassy, Ottawa, Ont., Canada.

BoRN: March 8, 1906, Colorado Springs, Colo. parents: Charles Farns-
worth, Edith Winslow.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Frances Robine Webb, Jan. 16, 1932, Colorado Springs, Colo.
CHILDREN: Frederick Francis, June 6, 1933; Charles Edward, July 31,
1938; Robert Webb, Nov. 24, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Foreign Service officer.

IN the year following graduation I tried to follow the career of
anthropologist for which I had studied. I found there was no
money in the business, or, at least, I didn’t see how to make money
at it. I spent the next year studying for the Foreign Service and
in December, 1931, received my appointment. Since then I have
travelled around the world serving at Ciudad Juarez, Palermo,
Istanbul, Singapore, Montreal, Cairo, Shanghai, Jakarta, and,
presently, at Ottawa.

WILLIAM ROBERT FAULKNER

HOME apprEss: 60 Buckland St., Palmer, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 425 Main St., Palmer, Mass.

BORN: Dec, 26, 1904, Palmer, Mass. parents: Robert E, Faulkner, Nina L.
Whitcomb,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MARRIED: Virginia A. Stone, June 23, 1934, Ashland, Mass. cuitpren: Rob-
ert Gordon, June 3, 1935; William Robert, Jr.. March 16, 1940; Phyllis
Anne, Sept. 10, 1944; Carol, Sept. 4, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Robert Gordon Faulkner, ’57.

OccuPaATION: President, treasurer, Faulkner Hardware Company.

MEMBER OF: Washington Council, R.A.M.; Connecticut Valley Consistory,
S.P.R.S.; Milha Temple, A-A.O.N.M.S.

[ 343 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

TWENTY-FIVE years have passed very quickly. The pursuit of
prosperity in business and happiness in married life has proved to
be a full-time job.

WILLIAM FAVERSHAM, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Glenview, Ky.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1908 Howard St. Louisville, Ky.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: William Faversham, Julie

eran at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

MarRiED: Sarah Q. Shaw, June 25, 1928, Concord, Mass. cutLpren: Julie Opp,
Aug. 13, 1930 (m. James G, Wynn, Dec. 28, 1950); William Anthony,
May 9, 1933 (died June, 1938); Philip, March 19, 1938; William Quinan,
Aug. 6, 1945.

occupation: Sales manager, Monopoly Region, Brown-Forman Distillers
Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member Louisville Sales Executive Council; member, Industry
Advisory Committee, Industry Arrangements Committee, National
Alcoholic Beverage Control Association.

I DID not return to College for sophomore year. I went on the
stage and from September, 1926, through February, 1928, was
with the Repertory Theatre in Boston, or the Provincetown Play-
ers, on Cape Cod. In March, 1928, I replaced Henry Hull in “The
Ivory Door” on Broadway. I was married in June, 1928, to Sally
Shaw of Concord, Massachusetts, and stayed on stage until July,
1929. In September, 1929, I went to work in an investment coun-
sel firm in Boston, and was connected with investment counsel
firms and/or New York Stock Exchange firms until going into
the Army Air Force in April, 1952. From 1929 until I went into
the service I lived in Concord, Massachusetts. I took part in
amateur theatricals with The Concord Players. In sports, I played
a great deal of badminton, winning several titles in Eastern United
States tournaments. I visited various parts of the country, playing
in sectional and national tournaments, One weck before reporting
to duty I was defeated in the final of the National Doubles Cham-
pionship. I also played a great deal of golf in and around Boston
and other parts of New England.

After I joined Headquarters, Army Air Force Training Com-

[ 344 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mand, in Washington, D. C., as second lieutenant, Headquarters
was moved to Fort Worth, Texas. I took my wife, daughter, and
son to Fort Worth. I was stationed there until January 1, 1945.
After I received orders for overseas duty in December, 1944,
orders were cancelled and I was transferred to Headquarters,
Army Air Force Personnel District Command, Atlantic City,
New Jersey. I was stationed there three months and then this
Headquarters was moved to Louisville, Kentucky. I was pro-
moted to the grade of colonel in June, 1945. I remained on active
duty in Louisville until April, 1946. After being relieved from
active duty, I went to work for Trubee Davison, president of the
Air Power League, with headquarters in New York City.

I left this association in October, 1946, to become personnel
manager for a retail clothing store in Louisville, Kentucky. In
February, 1947, I joined the sales department of Brown-Forman
Distillers Corporation, manufacturers of Old Forrester bonded
bourbon, Early Times straight bourbon, and King blended whisky,
in Louisville. I worked in Texas and Tennessee before being made
Arkansas state manager, then Kentucky state manager, then admin-
istrative assistant to the vice-president in charge of sales for seven-
teen midwest and southern states and also in charge of all export
sales. In May, 1953, I was promoted to sales manager for seven-
teen monopoly states. These states range from Maine to Wash-
ington, from Michigan to Alabama. Monopoly states are those
where the state purchases the liquor, in contrast to open states
where distribution is effected by wholesalers. This job, it is easy
to see, keeps me travelling a great deal of the time. I make my
headquarters in Louisville and my home in Glenview, Kentucky,
which is about ten miles from my office. My only daughter is
married and lives in Louisville. Her husband is in the advertising
business. My two sons, now sixteen and eight, live with us and
go to school in Louisville.

FREDERIC LUTHER FELTON

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Croton St., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 516 E. Second St., South Boston 27, Mass.

BORN: June 10, 1907, West Newton, Mass, parents: Herbert Luther Felton,
Anna Banks West.

[ 345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

aarrieD: Kathryn Wells, April 26, 1930, Wellesley, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan
Wells, May 31, 1932 (m. Gorham L. Cross, Jr., Sept. 13, 1952); Frederic
Luther, Jr. Nov. 4, 1934; John West, Dec. 5, 1937.

occupation: President, treasurer, Felton & Son, Inc., distilling.

OFFICES HELD: President, American Ordnance Association, Yankee Post, 1948,
Fessenden Alumni Association, 1948-49; director, Distilled Spirits Insti-
tute, Washington, D.C, since 1940; vice-chairman, Fessenden School
Development Fund, 1953; permanent class secretary, Noble and Green-
ough School Graduates Association.

MEMBER OF: Boothbay Harbor Yacht Club; Newcomen Society of England,
Boston Chamber of Commerce; Wellesley Country Club, Harvard Clubs
of Boston and New York, Wellesley Lodge, AF. & A.M.

AFTER a long, steady look back to 1929 for the purpose of these
memoirs, what I saw made me regret my lack of narrative vigor.
For me, they were twenty-five good years: they hurt me little —
and gave and taught me much. I should like to do them justice in
retrospect.

In our graduating year, there appeared to be unlimited amounts
of money to be made in the investment field.. 1 went to work for
White, Weld & Company in Boston and succeeded because I sur-
vived the shock that stocks go down as well as up — and down
more quickly than up!

In the fall of 1933, when repeal of prohibition was a certainty,
it was logical (now that I review it) that the fifth generation of
Feltons be tapped for energy in the family business. What I
thought would be but a part-time responsibility became a full-
time assignment. The switch from stocks and bonds to staves
and bungs was a challenge. Advertising and sales promotion were .
highly competitive in the industry. There was a great “thirst” to
educate — a tradition to maintain — and Uncle Sam to obey. The
combination made for an extremely interesting job: but the
activity was all “output” —I had little time for much else.

Because our organization is the standard, three-legged stool of
production-selling-and-accounting, the promotion pace established
during the five years following repeal was throwing us off balance.
Our set-up had to be righted. With this equilibrium in mind, a

little research readily gave me the clue that a specialty item such
as New England rum could not be profitably marketed by itself.

[ 346 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

At the time the Fleischmann Distilling Corporation had only gin
and Black & White scotch to sell. It became a “natural” for them
to take on the distribution of our product on an exclusive and
national basis. This arrangement was promulgated in 1939, and
has been mutually beneficial ever since.

With distribution problems removed from my desk and time-
consuming business trips considerably curtailed, it appeared I
should now have time for “input” activity. I was interested in
photography, piano, golf, and skiing, so devised a program of
study and practice to perfect each. The perfection to which I
aspired was not attained. My luxury schedule was abruptly ended
when I was called to active duty in the spring of 1942.

Fortunately, I had kept up my Army Reserve work, and I re-
ported for duty as a captain in the Ordnance Department, in
charge of procurement of all ammunition items in the Boston
District. I received a promotion in the spring of 1943, and a
second promotion in the summer of 1945 — taking over the duties
of an executive officer. When relieved from active duty in 1946,
I returned to my desk at Felton & Son, Inc. |

This begins to sound like a one-man show. I am going to inter-
rupt — not only because, as such, it would probably not be worth
_attending — but rather to explain why it is not. My family play
a very important part: definitely an impetus in the years I have
just covered, and now a constant source of pride and joy. A salute
to my wife, daughter, and two sons! Joan was married in the fall
of 1952, and the father-of-the-bride has fully recuperated. Fred
graduated from Andover last year and John is a student at Noble
and Greenough, Class of 1955. Both boys are presently serving
me a rich, mince pie of athletic Americana: the elder with wres-
tling, golf, and football, and the younger — soccer, hockey, and
baseball. It’s a delectable dish which I digest with a substantial
covering of accident insurance.

In the spring of 1948, prompted by a discerning maternal in-
stinct, Kathryn proposed a family camping trip. The plumage of
our young fledglings would soon be fully developed and now,
if ever, was the time. I saw the light and glowed with enthusiasm.
That spring we planned and prepared for three months of sum-
‘mer camping in national and state parks— west to Arizona —
north to Glacier in Montana — and return. In a large car with a

[ 347 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

four-by-six-foot trailer, two tents, sleeping bags, air mattresses,
and a small, two-burner gasoline sfove, we five had a delightful
experience. Each now cherishes his own recollections: and, ez
masse, “the summer we camped” is the sesame to a convivial pow-
wow.

The trip had its adverse repercussions, however. The next two
or three summers lacked an essential salt. It was not until I bought
a piece of land on the Maine Coast (at Newagen — not far from
Boothbay Harbor) that the situation corrected itself. I planned
and built a hold on this land with the help of a local lobsterman
whose native “know-how” sustained and nourished my endeavors.
Since its conception “Toe Hold” has been a happy family summer
retreat for rest and recreation; and an escape-haven on weekends
each spring and fall, when wood-splitting substitutes quite satis-
factorily for golf, if the weather gets too cold or blustery.

In 1949 I had the job of putting our Twentieth Class Reunion
together. Ably assisted in every direction, it was indeed a happy
undertaking. The mention of it quickens my pulse for the work
ahead on our Twenty-fifth. Kathryn and I had the pleasure of
observing at the Twenty-fifth Reunion of the Class of 1928, and
will devote much of our time and energy between now and June
to help make 1929's Twenty-fifth not only a memorable one — but
a worthy harbinger of our Fiftieth!

EDWARD FRANCIS FENN

HOME apprEss: 6 Lancaster Rd., Gorham, N. H.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Brown Co., Berlin, N. H.

BoRN: April 4, 1907, Oklahoma City, Okla. parents: Edward Lincoln Fenn,
Mabel Deming.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

mMarrieD: Helen C. Marshall, June 13, 1931, Somerville, Mass. CHILDREN:
Lincoln Marshall, June 8, 1932; Barbara Jean, Oct. 26, 1933; Diana
Catharine, May 6, 1937; Louise Marie, July 31, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Augustus Hall Fenn, Graduate School, 1940-41,

occupation: Research chemist, Brown Company, pulp and paper chemical

company.
PuBuications: U. S. Patent 2,484,402 (with another).

I HAVE been living in the area north of the White Mountains for
[ 348 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nearly twenty-five years, now that you mention it. It is truly a
- beautiful country even though rugged in winter. I have kept up
an interest in the mountains and forests in this area and truly de-
rive strength and inspiration from them.

I am a research chemist working on development of new prod-
ucts and improvement of existing ones for the Brown Company.
My special interests are in radioactivity and electro-chemistry.

I have taken an active interest in the affairs of the community,
serving on the local school board and as a member of Rotary Club,
and a leader in the Great Books organization. I expect that the
raising of four children is my most important contribution to soci-
ety. My boy, Lincoln, is graduating this June from the University
of New Hampshire, and my oldest daughter will graduate a year
from now. I also have rwo daughters in the local high school. I
have kept up an active interest in music which I obtained at Har-
vard primarily from the Boston Symphony Orchestra. I have also
kept up an interest in chess both locally and nationally, by cor-
respondence. I have followed Harvard activities with great inter-
est since graduation with the help of the Bulletin and occasional
trips to musical and athletic events.

SYDNEY WATTS FENOLLOSA

HOME apprEss: 3 Normandy Rd., Bronxville 8, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 34 Hubert St., New York 13, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1907, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Sydney Kinsman Fenollosa,
’95, Lydia Emily Watts.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1927.

MARRIED: Marjorie McLaughlin, Oct. 26, 1929, New York, N. Y.; Geraldine
Samson, March 16, 1935, Waterbury, Conn. cuiLp: Susan, Jan. 23, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Manuel Fenollosa, ’33.

OCCUPATION: President and director, General Offset Company, Inc., offset
lithography.

OFFICES HELD: President, director, General Offset Company, Inc., since 1936;
director, Metropolitan Lithographers Association, 1950-53, Candlewood
Isle Association, 1949-52.

MEMBER OF: Sales Executive Club of New York.

BRIEF excursions into half a dozen unrelated and futile fields
brought me to the lithographic industry in 1932. Selling, estimat-

[ 349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ing, and office managing for the next four years prepared me to
acquire a half interest in the very small and shaky General Offset
Company, Inc. We bulled it through somehow but vacations were
scarce in the early years. When we could, we’d go back to Suna-
pee, New Hampshire, where at the age of four Susie learned
mountain climbing — Kearsarge! New Hampshire was too far
away for weekend commuting so we got ourselves a place on
Candlewood Isle, Connecticut, where we’ve had the most wonder-
ful family summers for the past ten years. After six years of
swimming, canoeing, etc., summer camp seemed the next
step for Susie. What a flop! As a first year camper, she wasted
two weeks waiting for a swimming test to permit her to get into
a canoe —and she'd been handling one alone the past summer.
And she couldn’t make the mountain trips she’d made four or
five years earlier! The camp, you see, was at Sunapee. (Camp
directors, please note: Susie never wanted any part of a camp
again. )

“Wandering back to business: I like | it. Johnson O’Connor
(Stevens Institute Aptitude Testing) said I would, way back in
1930. It can always be better (who’s satisfied?) but we are now
pretty well known around town, particularly among the pub-
lishers, and enjoy a nice reputation, I have a swell team working
with me.

My wife has been active for years in the local Girl Scout pro-
gram, so I am pretty well indoctrinated myself. Susie is too. It’s
a fine activity but here, at least, is in crying need of adult leader-
ship. War service — none; I guess the Draft Board was afraid of
the name — never got it. My hobbies are home, bridge, Candle-
wood, and dry martinis. Politics: I chose to live in Bronxville,
didn’t I? Religion: I go to church only occasionally, now here,
now there, but subscribe sincerely to the basic principles.

CHARLES FOSS FERGUSON

HOME ADpRESS: 177 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass,

orrice appress: Children’s Medical Center, 300 Longwood Ave., Boston,
Mass.

Born: Feb, 4, 1909, Marblehead, Mass. parents: Thomas Edward Ferguson,
Jennie Paine Foss.

[350]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. \

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1929; M.D., 1933.

MARRIED: Elsa Louise Knutson, June 16, 1938, Cambridge, Mass.

. HARVARD BROTHERS: John Humphrey Ferguson, ’36; Norman Augustus Fergu-
son, °36.

occupPaTION: Surgeon, otolaryngologist.

OFFICES HELD: Otolaryngologist, Children’s Medical Center of Boston; con-
sultant in otolaryngology, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, New England
Hospital, Boston Lying-in Hospital, Boston Nursery for Blind Babies;
assistant in otology, Harvard Medical School; Secretary, 1941-51, presi-
dent, 1951-52, Children’s Hospital Alumni Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Museum of Science of Boston; Audu-
bon Society; Massachusetts Horticultural Society; Massachusetts Medi-
cal Society; American Medical Association; New England Pediatric
Society; New England Otolaryngological Society; American College of
Surgeons (fellow); American Academy of Ophthalmology and Oto-
laryngology; American Laryngological, Rhinological & Otological
Society; American Broncho-Esophagological Society; American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science; American Board of Otolaryn-
gology (diplomate); Pan American Congress of Otolarnygology and

' Broncho-Esophagology (delegate).

PUBLICATIONS: Several scientific articles on ear, nose, and throat problems,

various medical journals.

HARDLY had the climax of Commencement faded when deep
rumblings from the economic world in the fall of 1929 indicated
that the graduates of our year were to face a new era — for better
or worse. Life was never to be the same again. Several of us,
including myself, were given opportunities (fortunately or other-
wise) to hibernate during the next four years of depression still
under the protecting guidance of our Alma Mater. My following
four years of concentrated graduate study were spent more or
_ less in seclusion and contemplation at the Harvard Medical School
and its affiliated hospitals. In 1933 I received the long-awaited
M.D. degree — one of the last to be signed by the late, highly
esteemed A. Lawrence Lowell.

For the next five years following my second official Harvard
Commencement I climbed, rung by rung, the time-honored ladder
of prescribed medical training from internship through senior
residencies. The first year was spent at the Boston City Hospital,
and the next four and a half years in work in pathology, general
surgery, and ear, nose, and throat surgery at the Children’s Hos-
pital in Boston — the oldest general hospital for children in the

[351]

= hha ARN NNN aE Rad MasetLial,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

country. Twenty years later finds me still at this same institution,
now the Children’s Medical Center of Boston, as a member of the
full-time surgical staff, combining private practice, research, and
teaching both at the hospital and at the Harvard Medical School. °
I have limited my specialty to ear, nose, and throat problems of
infancy and childhood, and find this type of work most realistic
and gratifying as well. By the diagnosis and correction of con-
genital defects early in life, by the rehabilitation of the hard-of-
hearing youngster before improper speech has been too firmly
established, and by the prompt and adequate treatment of other-
wise unrecognized and disabling conditions, many young citizens
of the future are restored to their rightful and useful places in
society, thereby facing normally adjusted lives honestly due them.

This work has led to membership in the various national and
international organizations of my specialty listed above, and in
the spring of 1954 I expect to present as a delegate to the
Pan-American Congress of Otolaryngology and Broncho-Esoph-
agology in Mexico City an exhibit on “Bronchography in Infants
and Children.”

The year 1938 marked a milestone in my own career, as well
as the beginning of a new era in medicine. In June I was married
at the Harvard Memorial Church, and shortly thereafter began
the private practice of medicine. Little did J realize at the time
that a new day in medicine was at hand, and that so much of my
previous teaching and experience was to become so rapidly out-
moded that I should have to begin the study of medicine anew.
The advent of sulfanilamide in 1937, followed in rapid succession
by other similar derivatives and the various antibiotics, signalled
one of the greatest changes medicine has ever undergone, and
influenced more than any other field my chosen specialty of
otolaryngology.

Attendance at medical meetings from one end of the country
to the other has enhanced my hobby of travel, and by combining
business with pleasure has given me an excellent opportunity to
develop another of my hobbies — color photography. In future
years my wife and I hope that international meetings will give a
further impetus for more trips afield, with additional pictures
from foreign shores. Music is another hobby, and although I
participate mainly as an auditor, my Hammond organ does ac-

[ 352 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tively provide many evenings of relaxation for my own entertain-
ment on a most unprofessional basis. Three years ago we pur-
chased a year-round house on the south shore of Cape Cod, over-
looking East Bay in Osterville. This gives us a much-needed
change from the city in the summer, and in the winter on many
weekends a retreat from the telephone. Cape Cod fishing and
oystering are very enticing during the colder seasons, while in
the summer the warm waters, the sandy beaches, and excellent
boating and sailing make the land a veritable vacationist’s paradise.

ARTHUR ALFRED FERRETTI

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Come St., Manchester, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1157 Elm St., Manchester, N. H.

BORN: Dec, 12, 1906, Manchester, N. H. parents: Joseph Ferretti, Rosa
Bruno.

PREPARED AT: Holderness School, Plymouth, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Patricia C. Blakey, July 30, 1942, Manchester, N. H.

occupation: General manager, J. Ferretti, Inc., food promotion.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, J. Ferretti, Inc., Frosted Foods, Inc., Institu-
tional Foods, Inc., Southern Dist. Company, Walnut Investment, Inc.,
Filbert Investment, Inc.; treasurer, Acorn Investment Company, Inc.,
Radio Cabs, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Industrial Grocers of New Hampshire, Associated Grocers;
Frozen Food Research; Rotary Club; Turtle Club; Harvard Club of
New Hampshire. —

EVER since leaving school, I have entertained myself with food,
in all of its ramifications — raising, packing, processing, distrib-
uting, and merchandising. Together with my associates, I started
a series of companies, which due to their original nature appeared
“nutty” and were so named. I had almost lost all of my contacts
with the Class of 1929 in my various endeavors, until I had the
good fortune of seeing and witnessing the outstanding work of
Dr. Harold D. Levine.

THEODORE PARKER FERRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 233 Clarendon St., Boston 16, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Trinity Church, Copley Square, Boston 16, Mass.

[ 353 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Born: Dec. 23, 1908, Port Chester, N. Y. PARENTS: Walter Andrew Ferris,
Eva Rebecca Parker.

PREPARED AT: Port Chester High School, Port Chester, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; B.D. (General
Theological Seminary), 1933; p.p. (Rollins Coll.), 1944.

occupation: Rector, Trinity Church.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Boston Symphony Orchestra, since 1950, St. Mark’s
School, General Theological Seminary (New York); member Corpora-
tion of ALLT., since 1953; delegate, Protestant Episcopal Chuch, First
Assembly, World Council of Churches, Amsterdam, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club.

pusLications: This Created World, Harpers, Go Tell the People, Scribners,
This is the Day, Wilcox and Follett; The Story of Jesus, Oxford Uni-
versity Press; “Exposition of the Acts of the Apostles,” Imterpreter’s
Bible, Abingdon-Cokesbury.

WHEN I left Harvard, I went to the General Theological Semi-
nary in New York to begin my preparation for the ministry. I
stayed there for eight years, four years as a student and four years
as fellow and tutor. People often ask ministers what made them
go into the ministry in the first place. It is not an easy question to
answer. In fact, in my own case, I often wonder if I knew at the
time exactly why I wanted to do it. I had been born and brought
up in the church and felt in some strange, rather vague way that I
wanted to spend my life in its service. Through the years those
inarticulate desires have been confirmed over and over again. In
the light of what I now know about the church, even about its
weaknesses and failures, I should never make any other choice.
I have no family, no career as careers are usually thought of, no
money except what I earn, the salary that pays my living, but I
have hundreds of human relationships with people of every walk
of life, of every age, and every sort of temperament and disposi-
tion.

Religious stock was considerably below par in 1929 and the
church’s influence and prestige was at one of its lowest ebbs. A
good many things have happened since then and people are be-
ginning to see that the religious interpretation of life is one not
easily set completely aside. My life up to this point has been to
try to make that interpretation as plain as I can in sermons, books,
addresses, lectures, and classes, and to win people to the accept-
ance of it. I hope that I shall have the wits and strength to con-
tinue in the same for some time to come.

[354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT FIELDS

HOME aApprEssS: 4 Bellingham Pl., Boston 14, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 Pemberton Sq., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1907, Huntington, W. Va. parents: Joseph Samuel Fields,
Ella Fields.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(31).

MARRIED: Lucille L. Sheehan, Sept. 3, 1935, New Ipswich, N. H.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

FIELDS adds nothing to these statistics.

JOHN WHIPPLE FILOON

HOME ADDREsS: 35 Fairview Ave., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 280 N. Warren Ave., Brockton, Mass.

BORN: June 13, 1906, Newton, Mass. parents: Fred Williams Filoon, Mary
Helen Whipple.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: §.B., 1920.

mMarrieD: Ruth Marden, Oct. 7, 1933, West Medford, Mass. cHitpReN: John
Whipple, Jr. Oct. 7, 1936; Margaret, Feb. 27, 1938, Fred Marden,
March 20, 1942.

occupation: President, V. & F. W. Filoon Company, leather manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Brockton National Bank; trustee, People’s
Savings Bank; treasurer, Satucket Trust, Thorny Lea Golf Club; direc-
tor, Hyannisport Golf Club, Brockton Chamber of Commerce, 1942-53;
president, Brockton Chamber of Commerce, 1945-46; member, 1946-54,
chairman, 1951-54, Brockton Park Commission; member Brockton Play-
ground Commission, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Thorny Lea Golf Club; Hyannisport Golf Club; Harvard Club
of Boston; Paul Revere Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Satucket Royal Arch
Chapter; Kittansett Golf Club.

SINCE graduation in 1929 I have been living in Brockton, Massa-
chusetts, which has always been my home. After a year at Har-
vard Business School I felt it was high time for me to go to work:
first, because there was a place for me in the family business and
secondly, because I had met my wife-to-be and had definite ideas
of marriage and settling down. In those early depression days,
however, the latter was not an easy objective because even if one
had a job, a living wage (that is, for two) was something else
again and three years were to pass before it was possible to get

[355]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

married and start a home. In the years since then Ruth and I have

been blessed with three children, boy — girl — boy, and our lives

pretty much revolve around them. Their school activities are
our particular interest and we spend most of our vacations to-
gether.

My business, over the years, has given me an opportunity to
do considerable travelling in the eastern half of the country, con-
sequently I have had an opportunity to broaden my friendships
and enjoy life in many other communities. As to leisure time,
since Cape Cod is close by we spend our summer vacations there
—the past three years at Hyannisport which we all enjoy im-
mensely. My hobby is and always has been golf and the rest of
the family have to grin and bear it. I am very tolerant, however,
of the fact that the others enjoy such things as tennis, sailing, foot-
ball, and baseball which I also like but follow merely as a spectator.

During the war years my activities were confined to civilian
agencies, first WPB and then OPA on which I worked in Wash-
ington. When at home I served on the local ration board as an
original member from 1941 until its termination in 1946. Politi-
cally I am a Republican although I have at times voted for a

Democrat for state or local office if I thought he was the best
choice. Nationally I had a long wait between Hoover and Eisen-
hower before voting for a winner. I am mildly interested in
politics and am convinced we must take an interest in getting good
candidates into office or we'll get what we deserve. It’s a pretty
professional calling nowadays and amateur business men running
for office don’t stand much of a chance. I tried it once, locally,
at the insistence of some friends and against my better judgment.
I lost the office I went after by the narrowest of margins (one
that required a recount), but I think I learned something, namely,
that there are qualified and able people who have the time and
inclination to enter politics and run for public office. These are
the ones who deserve the active support of people who do not
have the time to do it themselves.

Finally, 1 am looking forward to my Twenty-fifth and so is
my family. It really doesn’t seem such a long time out. Memories
of College are still fresh in my mind, although a lot of water has
gone over the dam.

[356]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN RUDOLPH FINCH

HOME apprEss: P.O. Box 206, Lake George, N. Y.

BoRN: March 2, 1909, Bowling Green, Ohio. parents: Carl Delmar Finch,
Anna Rudolph.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MARRIED: Hazel Adams, March 18, 1932, Columbus, Ohio.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

WILLIAM FINKELSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Woodlawn Terr., Waterbury 14, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 103 N. Main St., Waterbury, Conn.

BORN: Dec. 15, 1908, Waterbury, Conn. Parents: Louis Finkelstein, Mary
Syder.

PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.D., 1934.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Governors, New Haven County Medical
Association, 1948-53; member House of Delegates, Connecticut State
Medical Association, 1948-53; president, St. Mary’s Hospital Staff, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Waterbury Medical Association; New Haven County Medical
Association; Connecticut State Medical Association; American Medical
Association; American Heart Association; American College of Physi-
cians; American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); Alumni Asso-
ciation of Mt. Sinai Hospital; Alumni Association of Montefiore Hospi-
tal; Harvard Medical School Alumni Association; Associates of Yale
Medical Library; Phi Beta Kappa; Alpha Omega Alpha; Harvard Club
of Connecticut; Zionist Organization of America.

PUBLICATIONS: ‘“Periarteritis Nodosa”; “The Present Status of Treatment of
Hyperthyroidism”, “The Physician and the Druggist”; “The Medical
Management of the Cancer Patient.”

FOLLOWING graduation from College I spent one year teach-
ing; in doing so I established some sort of record as I was the first
and to date the only male member of the faculty of an excellent
and well-known New England preparatory school for girls. In
1930 I entered Harvard Medical School and since then the field of
medicine has been my chief concern. Just prior to Commencement
in 1934 I first became aware of an illness which has affected my
career in two ways. On two occasions, once immediately follow-
ing my graduation and once during the strain of practice in the

[ 357]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Would I do it all over again? Most of it undoubtedly: espe-
cially Harvard College, Harvard Medical School, and my medical
career. Had personal circumstances permitted the extra expendi-
ture of energy I know I should have preferred to have devoted
more time and energy to civic and community affairs.

HARVEY FIRGER

HOME ADDRESS: 95 Fuller St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Roxbury Memorial High School for Boys, Boston, Mass.
BORN: July 19, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Morris Firger, Rose Fryhon.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; ED.M. (Boston Teachers

Coll.), 1933.

marRIED: Ella Wurf, Aug. 20, 1933, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN:, Barbara Ann,
June 8, 1940; Robert Alexander, May 27, 1947.

occuraTIon: Teacher of biology and health education.

OFFICES HELD: District chief air raid warden, Boston, member Committee of
Public Safety, 1941-44; member Committee to Revise Course of Study
in Health Education, Boston School Department; recipient, Distin-
guished Service Award, American Cancer Society, 1952.

MEMBER OF: New England Biology Association; B’nai B’rith; Temple Mish-
kan Tefilah Brotherhood; AF.L. 711 R.C.LA.; American Cancer Society
(honorary).

PUBLICATIONS: Course of study on cancer education for use in Massachusetts
secondary schools, co-author.

AFTER being out of Harvard for almost twenty-five years I can
report that I am still engaged in the teaching “profession,” to wit
—a public high school teacher. For twenty years I was interested
In transmitting the various aspects of our biological universe to
our youth. More recently, I have been imparting what I like to
call the three healths to these same youths: namely, health of body,
mind, and emotions. I find this a far more gratifying pursuit. |
feel that in these troublous times it is important for our youth to
have a proper regard for themselves and the world about them.

I have been married to the same wife, a truly wonderful person,
for twenty years. My daughter, whose birth dates from the start
of the second World War, is a charming young lady with a per-
sonality and a mind of her own. My son is a postwar product who
gives every promise of coping with our present-day technological

[ 360 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

era. He is blessed with a unique and abounding intellectual curi-
osity.

I am so occupied with making a living for my family, I do not
have the time to acquire hobbies except an abounding interest in
what makes young people tick.

EUGENE LOUIS FISHER

HOME AppRESS: 3295 N. Marengo Ave. Altadena, Calif.

BORN: June 3, 1907, Boston, Mass, parents: Joseph Fisher, Hilda Rosen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1936.

marrieD: Alice Wasserman; Lillian Ruth Fisher.

occuPATION: Chemist.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

WILLIAM FRANCIS FrrzGERALD

HOME ADDRESS: 93 Greenridge Ave. White Plains, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 550 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 7, 1906, Cambridge, Mass, parents: William Francis FitzGerald,
Anastasia Teresa Shea.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MarrieD: Patricia Dorothea Higgins, May 1, 1940, New York, N. Y. cuiL-
DREN: Daniel Patrick, March 17, 1941; Ann Theresa, April 24, 1942;
Mary Barbara, March 15, 1947; Margaret Mary, Oct. 17, 1950; Janet
Marie, March 5, 1952.

OccuPATION: President, FitzGerald Associates, Inc., mortgage banking.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York.

SINCE leaving College I have spent most of my career in the
field of finance and public relations. My outside activities have,
in large part, been in the field of human relations. For many years
I served on the board of directors of various welfare, religious,
and civic organizations, and devoted a large amount of time to
the problem of treatment and care of juvenile delinquents. I have
served as an officer of a bank, president of a large trade association,
and as chairman of a New York City committee which mediated
approximately 1,000 labor disputes during the war.

[ 361 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

A rather serious injury for which I was operated on in late
1941 prevented my serving in the Armed Services. I spent the
better part of two years on crutches and during that time I served
as chairman of the Impartial Grievance Committee for the City of
New York, mediating the problems of sixteen different labor or-
ganizations.

I cry to spend as much time as I can with my wife, one son, and
four daughters. We try to do as many things together as it is pos-
sible to do with a large family of varying ages.

To sum up since leaving College, I have made more friends than
money; have acquired more children than honors; have changed
my job more than my convictions; I am an independent i in politics
and a Roman Catholic in my religious beliefs. Alchough my wife
and IJ are still interested in all types of sports, we find that we have
less me to give to these hobbies as the years pass and the chil-
dren’s interests multiply.

All in all, it has been a good twenty-five years. I am very glad
that I went to Harvard, and I am looking forward to renewing old
acquaintances and friendships in June of 1954.

EDWARD FULLER FITZHUGH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2256 N, St. James Pkwy. Cleveland Heights, Ohio.
OFFice ADDRESS: Republic Steel Corp., Republic Bldg. Cleveland 1, Ohio.

Born: March 3, 1907, Butte, Mont. parents: Edward Fuller Fitzhugh, ’91,
Mabel Myer.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(36).

Markiep: Helen Antoinette Vassau, Aug. 17, 1942, Minneapolis, Minn. CHIL-
pren: Anne Carroll, May 19, 1946, William Edward, Sept. 8, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Mining, chief geologist, Republic Steel Corporation.

MEMBER of: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers;
Geological Society of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Treasures in the Earth, 1936, Mineral Resources of the United
States (co-author), 1948; various articles in technical and trade publica-
tions,

MY past twenty-five years shape up as a blend of confusions, fun,

frustrations, happiness, wrath, hopes, pressures, flops, and achieve-
ments — much as with the other classmates whom I see all too
seldom. Having reluctantly got around to this enforced inven-

[ 342 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tory, I can smile rather comfortably at the way the balance tilts
when everything is weighed. We have good fun together as a.
family; my niche in the world of business brings a fair share of
satisfactions; and I may be learning gradually better to distin-
guish between those things that should be endured with patience
and those worth trying to change.

Most mining geologists of our vintage have had a number of
" jobs and have travelled some trails that few others tread. I am no
exception. After the exodus in 1929 I worked for St. Joe Lead,
first in this country, then for a couple of years in Argentina. (If
the rise of Peron was foreshadowed, we could not see it then.)
‘The balance of the thirties revolved around gold mining — geol-
ogy, engineering, managing, and consulting — mostly in the north-
western states. Opening and running a gold mine for a couple of
years near the crest of the Bitterroot Mountains made me a
thoroughly unorthodox skier. The sitz can be quite sound form
as when you are alone, three miles from an open road, and thirty
miles from an ambulance. More recently and in more civilized
surroundings, I have found this habit hard to break.

A stretch with the Union Pacific Railroad followed, when I
looked into their mineral holdings and other western mineral re-
sources. In time, the constant travel began to pall, and anyway it
was then that I met Helen. So I quit the railroad, and we were
married. We spent the ensuing years of war pressure in Wash-
ington where I had a rather fancy-sounding title in the strategic
mineral program, At the time, circumventing bureaucratic
squabbles (and occasionally participating in a good, rough one)
seemed to be my principal occupation. I admit freely to being a
spy and traitor against the fellows who wanted to sneak govern-
ment into fields where industry was doing a creditable job. Then,
lo and behold, our war mineral development not only got a vari-
ety of badly needed metals at a critical time, but has led to enough
new tax money to make it, in retrospect, a distinctly profitable
investment of the funds. Meanwhile, a canoe at the Sycamore
Island Club and a chance for a bass in the Potomac were our
pleasure on many evenings and Sundays.

After Washington we went to Minneapolis, where I set up a
U.S. Bureau of Mines office for the north central states. . I began
to learn the peculiarities of iron mining; fussed around with some

[ 363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

deposits of rare and unusual things, like beryllium and niobium,

in the Black Hills; scotched once and for all, I hope, a fiction that

the nation’s manganese needs could be filled in South Dakota; and,

incidentally, tried to help out numerous farmers thereabout whose

crops the pheasants were threatening. Holding a seat on a com-

mittee concerned with development of the Missouri Basin crystal-

lized my conviction that most big dams are ridiculous for flood

and erosion control. The smaller-scale, upstream developments,
like the pristine protection of the beaver dams, are the sound ap-

proach to most land conservation and restoration. (I have other

phobias. This is one I grow vehement about.)

For the past seven years I have been in my present job with
Republic Steel, concerned with exploration for ores and fluxes in
new deposits and producing mines. Until 1952 my office was in
northern New York, and we revelled in the life of a small village
— Westport-on-Lake Champlain. True, I was away a lot — Lab-
rador, the South Pacific, West Africa, Mexico, and less remote
points — and before the son and heir was born Helen and Anne
accompanied me for several months in Venezuela. Moving about
like this we have quite a range of widely scattered friends, a color
photograph collection that partially makes up in variety for the
photographer’s lack of skill, and a feeling that our roots are not
well set in any spot. Maybe they will cling and expand in the
Cleveland soil.

Perhaps I can blame Republic’s ore reserves, which have multi-
plied several times in the past few years, that I now feel a bit short
on my quota of fishing. The trout in Labrador were memorable,
so were the “Loche” and “Poit,” as the native boatmen called
them, on the reefs of New Caledonia. There is a ray of hope that
a Peruvian tarpon may cure my yearning between now and the
Reunion.

LESLIE FLAKSMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1005 Stadelman Ave., Akron 20, Ohio,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 220 S, Balch St., Akron 2, Ohio,

BORN: May 21, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Jacob I. Flaksman, Bessie
Torf.

PREPARED at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

[ 364 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrigp: Alice B. Miller, July 29, 1936, Vienna, Austria. critpren: Michael
A., May 3, 1946; Richard J., Aug. 29, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Executive director, Akron Jewish Center, social group work.

OFFICES HELD: President, East Central Chapter, National Association of Jew-
ish Center Workers, 1952-54, Akron Chapter, American Association of
Group Workers, 1949-50; chairman, Group Work Staff Section, Akron
Council of Social Agencies, 1946-47; member, Executive Committee,
National Association of Jewish Center Workers, 1939-41, 1945-47,
1952-54.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Jewish Center Workers; American
Association of Group Workers; B'nai B'rith; Boston Hebrew Teachers —
College Alumni; National Conference for Jewish Communal Welfare,
Jewish War Veterans, Akron Social Workers Group; Akron Harvard

_ Club; Harvard Varsity Club.

puBLicaTions: “Youth’s Sabbath Eve,” “Youth and their Disturbances —
From All Corners,” “Jewish Sport in Palestine,” “The Juvenile Work.
ers,” “Youth Bodies in Palestine,” Palestine Review, Jerusalem, 1936,
1937, 1938; “Hiking with the Palestine Scouts,” 1937, “Sabbath Visits
in Jerusalem,” 1936, The Young Judean, New York; “Kol Kidei in the
Mediterranean,” The Jewish Advocate, 1936, Conrmrunity Review, New
York, 1940; “Sanctuary in Palestine,” 1937, “Bonds of Youth,” 1938,
The Leader, New York; “Awards,” 1935, “Recreation in Jerusalem,”
1938, The Jewish Center, New York; “Jewish Youth Movement in
Palestine,” The Jewish Social Service Quarterly, 1937; “Aspect of Jew-
ish Youth Education,” 1940, “National Jewish Youth Organizations,”
1940, Jewish Education, New York.

STARTING out to be a lawyer after graduation in 1929, I find
myself now in the social service field. It happened this way: after
I received my sheepskin, I was awarded a scholarship to the Har-
vard Law School upon the recommendation of Leverett Salton-
stall, now senator from Massachusetts. While I was studying at
Harvard Law School a part-time position as social, athletic, and
religious director opened up at the Home for Jewish Children in
Boston. The incumbent was a senior law school student who was
preparing for his examination and asked me to substitute for him.
After working with the children a short time, I realized that this
was my field and not law. Looking around for a school for social
work, I found the only one in Boston was Simmons College and
enrolled therein in 1930, being the only male student to attend.

After a year of study the Simmons College Board of Trustees

decided that their charter did not allow them to award a degree

to a “mere man,” and so I had to be satisfied with a certificate.

[ 365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

our summers at Martha’s Vineyard or the Cape where we often
meet some of our classmates. Music plays a prominent part in our
life, and several years ago after hearing Feuermann play, I decided
to study the cello. The elder son plays the piano and insists upon
becoming a composer as well as a doctor. That about sums up the

saga and I hope to be around to write another one on the occasion
of our Fiftieth.

THOMAS EDMUND FLANAGAN ~

HOME appress: 3 Rue Cothenet, Paris, France.

oFFick appress: Office of Special Representatives, ECA, Paris, France.

BORN: Aug. 7, 1907, Fall River, Mass. parents: Thomas Edmund Flana-
gan, Lillian Butler.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

margieD: Lilian Hasbrouck, April 14, 1934, New York, N. Y. cup: Kath-
erine, Feb. 9, 1936.

occupation: Government service.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

MANLY FLEISCHMANN

HOME AppRESS: 48 Oakland Pl., Buffalo 22, N. Y.
OFFice appresses: Fleischmann, Augspurger & Campbell, 966 Ellicott Square
Bldg. Buffalo 3, N. Y.; Fleischmann, Stokes & Hitchcock, 60 Broadway,
New York 4, N. Y.
BORN: July 15, 1908, Hamburg, N. Y. parents: Simon Fleischmann, Laura
Justice.
PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; LLB. (Univ. of Buffalo),
1933.
masneo: Lois Marseilles, Aug. 26, 1933, Buffalo, N. Y.. cio: Alison J,,
Dec. 14, 1937.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Edwin Fleischmann, ’20, 8.8., '22; Adelbert Fleischmann,
LLB., "37.

OccUPATION; Lawyer.

orrices HELD: Assistant general counsel, War Production Board, 1941-433
Lieutenant, U. S. Navy (OSS), 1943-1945, general counsel, Foreign
Liquidation Commission, 1945-45; general counsel, 1950-51, Administra-
tor, 1951, National Production Authority, Defense Production Admin-
trator, 1951-52; director, Equitable Life Assurance Socicty, Sidney

[ 368 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Blumenthal & Company, Inc., Kellogg Petroleum Products, Inc., Public
Administration Clearing House; president, Buffalo Council on World
Affairs, 1949-50; lecturer on international law, University of Buffalo,
1949-50; vice-president, Harvard Alumni Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Buffalo Club; American Bar Asso-
ciation; American Law Institute; American Legion; Thursday Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in legal and professional journals, latest:
“Trails through the Washington Jungle,” University of Buffalo Law
Review, 1953.

MY crystal ball was more than a little clouded on the day in 1939
when I wrote for our Tenth Report that “I am practising law in
Buffalo, New York, and growing old gracefully.” Since that time
I have practised a little law to be sure, but most of my life has been
devoted to activities of a more strenuous (and more interesting)
nature. As with others of our Class and generation, participation
of one kind or another in two wars in a period of ten years over-
shadows everything that has happened to me before or since.

I spent World War II alternately in the jungles of Washington
and Burma — first in the War Production Board and then in the
Navy and Office of Strategic Services. My tour of duty in the
Far East developed an interest in that part of the world which I
have never lost. There followed four years of law practice again
— the varied kind that you get in a city like Buffalo. Just when
I had begun to think that perhaps I would grow old gracefully
after all, it was June, 1950, and the Korean War was under way.

I was immediately asked to head a government mission to Indo-
nesia, and spent the summer of 1950 in Washington preparing for
that assignment. At the last moment my orders were cancelled by
higher authority and I found myself installed in the newly-formed
National Production Authority. The next two years in the NPA
and later in the Defense Production Administration were at once
the most difficult and rewarding of my life. It was a happy privi-
lege for me to be associated in that work with two of our class-
mates, Jim King and Franz Stone, whose services to their country
in both wars have been of the first order.

Still, Washington is a good place to get out of, and I resigned
in June, 1952, returning to private practice in New York and
Buffalo. I no longer have any notion, however, that this relaxing
interlude will be permanent. The world being as it is, it seems
probable to me that wars and threats of war will be our lot for

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

many years to come. I should like to return to public work some
time in the future, and try for once to wage peace instead of war,
try to contribute something to the building of an international
system of law and order which might one day insure the perma-
nent peace of the world.

HORACE RODMAN FLETCHER

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Riverside Ave, West Concord, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Reformatory, West Concord, Mass.

porN: April 18, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Herbert Orcult Fletcher.
Elvira Isadore Hirtle.

PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

marrieD: Olive Helen Willett, June 18, 1931, Taunton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Patricia Joan, Feb. 11, 1932, Horace Alden, Aug. 6, 1934.

occupation: Head admunistrative clerk, Massachusetts Reformatory.

OFFICES HELD: Afember Concord School Committee, 1945-513; associate mem-
ber, Concord Board of Appeals, since 1948; past grand master, past
district deputy grand master, Odd Fellows; director, Refugee Classifica-
tion for Concord Civilian Defense, since 1952; chief petty officer, U. S.
Coast Guard Temporary Reserve, notary public; special state police
officer; special Concord police officer; member Vestry, Trinity Episco-
pal Church, Concord, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Central Massachusetts Police Association.

LOOKING back from this point I find much of my life history
seems to revolve around the glaring omission above of a degree
from Harvard, although I came close enough — wearing the cap
and gown with the rest of the seniors in the last few rosy weeks.
Then came a mutual misunderstanding between myself and the au-
thorities of the great institution of learning which, briefly, resulted
in their refusal to grant me a degree at the appointed time and
mine to return for it later, Outside of the occasional embarrass-
ment of trying to explain this highly unusual situation, I find my-
self more and more inclined to enjoy my unique position. One
must have compensation!

Today I should have been termed a “crazy, mixed-up kid” and
perhaps for all time, by some, the “bum of distinction.” Suffice
it to say that I still believe a degree would have been of litrle use
tome. My courses were, if anything, more mixed up than I was
— leading nowhere in particular. I was glad to sce Harvard recog-

[ 370]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nize and take steps soon afterward to avoid repetitions of my
experience and in my six years on the Concord School Commit-
tee I tried to exert my feeble influence towards a better charting
of the course on lower educational levels. The fact that my son
is a sophomore at Syracuse University reflects no bitterness on my
part. It was his own choice and I rejoice in the fact that he is,
like many more of our young people today, so much better bal-
anced than many of us were. I am proud too of my daughter who
is bravely and persistently facing up to the problems of the business
world after earning her ¢ own way for the necessary training at her
own insistence.

As I indicated in a previous Class Report, and as might be ex-
pected with my philosophy of things, I rejected the killing pace of
ordinary business and gravitated into a surprisingly happy spot,
in jail! Here, it is true, is life in the raw, but close to the basic
little things of such great importance. The frequent frustrations
of even the so-called experts in the field tend only to strengthen
my belief that we have all strayed dangerously far from life’s
elements. I have no publications as yet, being too actively in-
volved with people and things to write or even read much about
them. My bank account is not impressive but, thanks to my good
wife’s loyal assistance, there is not much wrong with my credit
rating. The association with friends, the lack of any known per-
sonal enemy, a happy home still blessed with the presence of my
parents, good health, a strong belief in God, enjoyment of a job
to do, a full appreciation of the wonders of nature — the sea,
mountains, the air we breath, and even a glass of water. All these
I have and I hope you do too, for most cannot be purchased with
money or legislated by either political party. Lest some may think
I have become a completely reformed crackpot, may I also add
that I still like many man-made things —a cup of spirits, shall
we say?

Harvard may be said to have been to me as is a stretcher to a
new and shiny shoe. That shoe may have become scuffed and
even split in places, but all-in-all a much better and far more com-
fortable fit. Some of the ones she managed to polish and preserve
may still be sitting on the shelf, for all I know, unsold and prob-
ably, by this time, slightly outmoded. Compensations again? Pos-
sibly, but what about the mark for adjustment?

[371]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JAMES CAREY THOMAS FLEXNER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 192 E. 75th St. New York 21, N. Y.

porN: Jan. 13, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Simon Flexner, Helen
Whitall Thomas.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers College, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 8.8. magna cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Agnes Durant Halsey, Aug. 31, 1938 Chocorua, N. H.; Beatrice
Hudson, 1950, New York, N. Y. cyto: Helen Hudson, Aug. 2, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Welch Flexner, ’26.

occupation: Author.

MEMBER OF: Authors League of America; PEN. Club; Society of American
Historians, Society for American Studies.

puBLICATIONS: Books: Doctors on Horseback, 1937; America’s Old Masters,
1939; William Henry Welch (with Simon Flexner), 1941; Steamboats
Come True, 1944; American Painting: First Flowers of Our Wilderness,
1947; Jobn Singleton Copley, 1948, A Short History of American Paint-
ing (also published as the Pocket History of American Painting), 1950;
The Traitor and the Spy: Benedict Arnold and John André, 1953;
also poems, stories, articles, reviews in periodicals; representations in
six anthologies; books published abroad.

WHEN I was a small child, I determined to become a writer, an
ambition from which I never deviated. I majored in English when
in college and after graduation became a reporter on the New
York Herald Tribune. Next, in order to have more time for writ-
ing, | accepted a part-time job as executive secretary of the Noise
Abatement Commission of the New York City Department of
Health. A year and a half spent abroad, during which I wrote for
the British press, completed what might be called my apprentice-
ship.

Getting a book completed and published proved a discouraging
and time-consuming task, but when I was twenty-nine the Viking
Press published my Doctors on Horseback. Since this volume was
well accepted and proved to be a best seller, the road was opened
to me, and I have been proceeding down it ever since. I have
received awards: a Library of Congress Grant-in-aid for Studies
in the History of American Civilization, the Life in America
Prize, and only this year a Guggenheim Fellowship to enable me
to complete the second volume of the many-volumed history of
American painting which I started with First Flowers of Our
Wilderness. Im 1952 1 delivered a series of Lowell Lectures.

(372)

- 2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It has not been as remunerative a life as writing advertising
copy would be, but I have been kept busy, doing what I always
wanted todo. |

WALLACE NEWTON FLINT

HOME ADDRESS: 4524 32nd Rd., N., Arlington, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 726 Jackson Pl., N. W., Washington 6, D. C.

BoRN: Feb. 18, 1908, Brockton, Mass. PaRENTs: Anson Rufus Flint, Annie
M. Scarlett.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1929; MB.A. cum

laude, 1932.

marrigp: Florence V. Panter, July 6, 1938, New York, N. Y. cmp: Robert
Wallace, July 16, 1943.

occuPATION: Assistant treasurer, director of operating services, National
Association of Food Chains.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, treasurer, vice-president, president, Harvard Busi-
ness School Club of Washington, 1937-40; secretary, Controllers
Conference, National Association of Food Chains.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of Washington; Washington
Golf and Country Club; American Trade Association Executives.
pusLicaTions: Bulletin of National Association of Food Chains (associate
editor); series of reports on operations of food chains, including
“Store Equipment,” “Personnel,” “Produce,” “Warehousing and De-

livery,” and “Controllership” (editor).

IN 1929 I was convinced that law was the field for me to display
what I laughingly referred to as my talents. Continuing in the
Harvard habit I enrolled at Law Schoo] in Cambridge. Things
went reasonably well until after Christmas when the bulletin
board in Perkins Hall featured a notice from a Newark law firm
soliciting the services of two graduates — at $15.00 per week (no
charge for desk!). The notice went on to explain that Newark
didn’t pay high salaries to beginning lawyers. The power of this
understatement led me to register at once at Harvard Business
School, It also led me to pick up several odd jobs and to relax
in my pursuit of Blackstone. Three months later my attention
was directed to the fact that I had to pass at Law School in order
to be admitted to Business School; solution: drop jobs, begin
study; result: pass; addendum: when I graduated from the Busi-

[ 373 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 -

ness School in 1932 I got a job at $14.50 a week. I wondered ar
the time what they were paying lawyers in Newark that season.

So I went to the Harvard Business School, a fine institution and
much favored by Harvard College men. Here I renewed my ac-
quaintance with Weld Boathouse wherries but found the Charles
too cold and retreated to the squash courts. I’ve since retreated
from the squash courts. The summer of 1932 was a time when
most B-School men, and presumably others, looked first for a
position, then for a job. I got a job — first as salesman then as
trainee clerk in a food chain which led in what then seemed an
unreasonable period of time to a store managership with many of
the practical problems of those hard times to deal with first hand.

Other twenty-niners will remember the NRA and its ‘‘codes.”
This development brought me to Washington, not with the gov-
ernment, but with the newly formed National Association of
Food Chains, an association of food chains in the United States
and Canada. What a trade association does depends on whom
you listen to — even for the same association. It is, however, tre-
mendously interesting and varied work, and you meet a lot of
people whose success you can see was no accident. And you find
that many of them are Harvard men. In addition to many Wash-
ington contacts with government agencies I work with food chain
executives in the fields of personnel, store operations, finance and
control, and warehousing. It is a stimulating and rewarding ex-
perience to work with the best thinkers in the industry.

In 1937 I met and in 1938 married Florence Panter, the very
attractive daughter of a Nebraska physician and surgeon. We
went to Europe and then resolved to live in a garret and save for
another trip. Instead we have bought a home and now look at
travel catalogues —looking forward to the time when son Bob
will be able to appreciate the trip fully. Then we shall all go.

After weighing pros and cons we decided against a “summer
place” in favor of the interesting problem of deciding each year
where to go and what to do on vacations. After the war we first
tried Florida, liked it so well we went again and even bought
some property on one of those glamorous Gulf Coast islands.
Then to satisfy my long latent desire to play cowboy again, we
went to a Colorado dude ranch complete with scenery, horses,

and character. Bob, then six, rode well, as did Florence, so we

[374]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have been back twice and regard other vacations as somewhat
lacking.

A three-and-one-half-year tour in the Army as an officer in
the Quartermaster Corps added many valuable and varied experi-
ences from checking procurement plans to the disposal of sur-
pluses. I served as captain, major, and lieutenant colonel and was
gratified to be awarded the Legion of Merit upon discharge in
1945.

Although bread-winning labors take up the major part of my
time, I find an opportunity to play a little social golf and help
occasionally with Bob’s Cub Scouts. Florence was Den Mother
for a year and we had a weekly invasion of from eight to twelve
youngsters. Anyone could understand why they won the Pack
football championship! Politically I am to the right of center al-
though hard-boiled conservatives might think not far enough
right. I have little use for Communists or Communist sympathiz-
ers anywhere and none for them in government. I believe in the
profit-incentive system as one of the keys to the progressive pros-
perity of America and emphasized this in teaching as an associate
professor at the George Washington University.

CHARLES CAIRNS FLORA

HOME aAppRESS: 40 Marion Rd., Watertown 72, Mass.

oFrFice aporess: 175 Berkeley St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Paxson Flora, Margaret
Ann Cairns,

prepared At: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: 8.B., 1929; A.M., 1930.

Marrizp: Dorothy J. Morrison, May 28, 1944, Washington, D. C. cyipren:
Norman Morrison, Jan. 13, 1945; Janet Morrison, April 1, 1946; Kenneth
Charles, Feb. 27, 1950; Rodney Keith, Nov. 17, 1952.

oocupaTion: Casualty insurance underwriter, staff assistant to head, Business
Lines Underwriting Department, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1848-49, vice-president, 1949-50, president, 1950-51,
Phillips Club, Watertown.

MEMBER OF: United States Naval Institute; Phillips Club.

WHEN I received my A.M. in 1930, I had bright dreams of a
career in municipal research work, but economics dictated other-
wise — municipal budgets for such things were being trimmed to
the bone and there were no jobs —so I took a “temporary” job

[375]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

teaching mathematics at the Franklin Union Technical Institute

in Boston. I stayed there until 1935 and might have been there

yet had I not decided that secondary school teaching was not the
life for me.

So, I looked around and finally entered the Underwriting De-
partment of Liberty Mutual Insurance Company in Boston. Ex-
cept for a gap of four years of active duty with the Navy from
1942 to 1946, I have been there ever since and now am staff as-
sistant to the head of the department, a fascinating and satisfying
assignment since it involves little routine, which I abhor, and much
variety because one never knows what novel problem will next
drop into his lap.

My war service, oddly enough, was in line with my civilian
experience as I was assigned “for the duration” to the Insurance
Division, Office of Procurement and Material, Navy Department,
ending up with the rank of lieutenant commander, U.S. Naval
Reserve. I am proud of having been a cog, however small, in the
finest navy in the world, and extremely grateful to that navy for
the wonderful Navy Nurse Corps ensign from Michigan who be-
came my wife and who has most cheerfully and helpfully shared
my life for nearly ten years now.

A family of four healthy, lively, young children gives us little
time either for introspection or outside activities. However, we
do manage some reading, get in an occasional movie, and find
raising our family intensely interesting, if sometimes a bit frus-
trating. My church activities comprise being a deacon and assist-
ant superintendent of the Church School at the Phillips Congre-
gational Church in Watertown. In addition, I have been elected
a Town Meeting member for two successive terms and have re-
cently been appointed to a three-year term on the Watertown
Finance Committee.

Politically, I am a Republican and a pre-convention Eisenhower
man. Firmly convinced that democracy in the historical Amer-
ican tradition is the only satisfactory way of life for free men, I
hope and trust that the innate good sense of our people will bring
the realization that intolerance and suspicion are not the way to
freedom and that we must be eternally watchful that dictator-
ship, totalitarianism, and authoritarianism, whether of the left or
the right, do not supplant liberty under law.

[ 376]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN TAYLOR FLOYD, JR.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 Franklin St., Worcester 8, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1907, Brookline, Mass, parents: John Taylor Floyd, ’o2, Ethel
Redding.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MARRIED: Barbara Mackenzie Vivian, Aug. 15, 1936, Niantic, Conn. cuit-
DREN: Diane Vernon, Oct. 28, 1938; Douglas MacK., 1942.

occuPATION: Manager, Transportation Bureau, Worcester Chamber of Com-
merce.

IN spite of many excursions to different states and countries while
working in the field of transportation, the final destination ap-
pears to be way out west in Worcester, just forty miles from Har-
vard Square, since I have remained with the Worcester Chamber
of Commerce for eight years.

My life’s work has been in the line of endeavor for which I
prepared in College, namely economics, special field transporta-
tion economics. Starting with the Boston and Albany Railroad on
night work while still in College, I graduated into regular em-
ployment with this railroad, in the General Freight Office, Foreign
Freight Office, and Freight Traffic Manager offices, all in Boston.
Later I was chief clerk in the New England office of the Missouri-
Kansas-Texas Railroad.

Through the good offices of the Alumni Placement Bureau, I
next found myself in charge of transportation for the Lighting
Division of Sylvania Electric at Salem. Then I went on to New
York City for work with the consulting engineering firms of R.
A. Lasley, Inc., and Stevenson, Jordan & Harrison. Next it was
La Guardia Field as assistant to the superintendent of maintenance
of American Export Airlines. Stull up in the air, we next found
ourselves in Latin America, as I was trafic manager for TACA
Airways.

On the way back to Massachusetts, there was a short period on
the engineering staff of the Western Electric Company at
Kearney, New Jersey, on production of transportation communi-
cations equipment. Finally I have come to rest in Worcester
where I have served for some years as manager of the Transporta-
tion Bureau of the Worcester Chamber of Commerce.

[ 377 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

WALTER FREDERICK FOGG

HOME ADDRESS: 55 Oak St., Woodlands, White Plains, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREsS: Board of Education, Scarsdale, N. Y.

BORN: May 1, 1909, Lynnbrook, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Chester Leroy
Fogg, Dora Dean Burnup.

PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; A.M. (New York Univ.),
1940.

MARRIED: Katherine C. Devlin, June 26, 1936, Medford, Mass.

occtpaTion: Dean of boys, Scarsdale High School, temporary acting-princi-
pal, Edgewood School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Teachers’ Association, Lexington, Mass. 1935;
member, Executive Committee, Teachers’ Association, Scarsdale, 1940;
member, Membership Committee, White Plains University Club, 1948.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; New York State Teachers
Association; Westchester County Teachers Association; Westchester
Elementary Principals’ Association; Association for Childhood Educa-
tion International; Scarsdale Teachers’ Association; Maine Society of
New York; Lincoln County (Maine) Fish and Game; White Plains

University Club; Woodlands Tax Association, White Plains Dance
Club; International Council for the Improvement of Reading.

PUBLicATIONS: “Planning a Junior High School,” American School and Uni-

versity, 1953; “Subject or Project,” School and Society, 1940.

I ENTERED the field of education, via Thayer Academy, right
after graduation, and have been in it ever since, except for a three-
year hiatus during which Uncle Sam seemed to need me more
than the kids did. From Thayer I went to Lexington High, and
from there to Scarsdale, New York, where I have been since
1937. Since 1946 I have combined guidance and administration as
dean of boys and this year have a temporary assignment pinch-
hitting as the principal of an elementary school. I am also as-
sisting in the planning of a junior high school soon to be built.
Three years in the Army included training and supervising
radio and radar instructors, Officer Candidate School, at Camp
Lee, Virginia, six months as depot supply officer at the Schenec-
tady Depot, and various duties with G-4 at Western Pacific Base
Command on Saipan and Guam. As my New England friends
say when they visit New York, it was a nice place to visit, but
1 wouldn’t want to live there!
My chief interest at present outside of my work is in restoring
an old colonial house in Jefferson, Maine. By some strange coin-

[378]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cidence the house is situated on a large lake where the fishing is
pretty fair. I estimate it will take about fifty more years to finish
the house, and in the meantime I shall have boated 7,572 bass.
My wife, bless her, is now a tolerable fisherman herself.

Anyone who has the temerity these days to put in writing his
“social, religious, and political convictions” is either crazy or
doesn’t read the papers. Here are mine, anyway, and I'll be brief:

Social: Woman’s work is never done.
Religious: Do unto others ..
Political: If you can’t beat ’em, join ’em.

THADDEUS TALBURT FOLEY

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: El Fureidis Estates, 63:1 La Parra Grande Lane,
Santa Barbara, Calif. .

BORN: Feb. 21, 1907, Paris, Ill. parents: Thomas Albert Foley, Jessie
Trogdon.

PREPARED AT: Paris High School, Paris, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1929; A.M. (Univ. of
Michigan), 1930.

MARRIED: Jean Churchill, April 1, 1948, Elkton, Md.

OCCUPATION: Semi-retired.

MEMBER OF: Les Voyageurs Society, University of Michigan; Harvard Club
of Los Angeles; Jonathan Club, Los Angeles; Chi Phi Fraternity.

SINCE school I have followed first one and then another course
— all of consuming interest at the time but of none now except for
my present project, the promotion of a twenty-seven-acre sub-
division in Montecito, which I own.

HAROLD FREEZE FOLLAND

HOME ADpRESS: 1571 Harvard Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah.

OFFICE ADpDREss: University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah.

BORN: Oct, 1, 1906, Salt Lake City, Utah. parents: William Henry Folland,
Grace Tuckett Freeze.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Salt Lake City, Utah.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1929; a.M.,
1934; PH.D. 1940.

[ 379]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

marrieD: Helen Budge, 1946. cxitp: Gerald Budge, June 4, 1947.

occuPATION: Professor of English.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Theta Alpha Phi; Modern Language Associa-
ton; Harvard Musical Association, 193 3-38.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles; editor, Utah Humanities Review.

AFTER a year of travel by motorcycle in Europe as a Sheldon
Travelling Fellow, I returned to Harvard as instructor in English
and tutor in the Division of Modern Languages, posts at which I
worked while I was completing study for graduate degrees and
otherwise continuing my education. Having come to regard my-
self as a naturalized easterner, I was a little surprised to learn that |
. an invitation to return to Utah and settle down as a professor at
the state university looked very attractive. In 1938 I returned
home to the mountains that I belong to, and to a stimulating and
congenial group of colleagues with whom I have worked very
happily, teaching freshman composition (as we all do), the his-
tory of the English novel and drama, and occasional specialized
seminars for graduates. |

In 1943, the draft board judged me indispensable to the national
war effort and delivered me to the rigors of basic training, whence
I was transferred to the school of aerial photography at Lowry
Field, Colorado. There I ended up teaching camera mechanics
and basic electrical theory. But having started to study Japanese
in off hours in order to stave off the effects of acute boredom, I
soon found myself transferred to the Army Intelligence Japanese
Language program at Ann Arbor, Michigan. After a year of in-
tensive study there, another spell of Basic in Alabama, and a year
of specialized training in Military Japanese at Fort Snelling,
Minnesota, I was finally commissioned and sent to Washington,
D.C., to work on curricula for Army courses in Japanese.

After peace broke out, I returned to the greatly enlarged Uni-
versity of Utah to resume my work, and to take part in some new
interdepartmental courses. I married an excellent pianist and music
theorist, Helen Budge, a westerner who had for some time been
on the faculty of Queens College, New York. We have one son,
aged six, who with his interest in reading and music provides good
company for us. My wife teaches harmony at the University and
performs frequently with chamber music groups, I devote what -
time is left from teaching, studying, and serving on the ever more

[ 380 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

numerous committees, to learning more about music, acting in the
University Theatre, and occasionally performing as narrator or
reader with the Utah Symphony Orchestra. I find that all this
makes a full and satisfying life.

. MITCHELL DAVIS FOLLANSBEE, JR.

HOME ADDREsS: 939 Madison Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Waldorf-Astoria, 301 Park Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BorN: March 6, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Mitchell Davis Follansbee, Julia
McConnell.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MmarRiED: Rhoda Pratt, Feb. 2, 1950, New York, N. Y. cuit: Benjamin
Button, Aug. 14, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Rogers Follansbee, ’30

occupation: Assistant food purchasing agent for Hilton Hotels in New
York City (The Waldorf-Astoria, The Plaza, and The Hotel Roosevelt).

THOUGH I was mostly gainfully employed during the years
from 1929 to 1942, I feel now that those years were largely un-
productive. During the war while with the American Field Serv-
ice in various parts of Africa, the Middle East, and Italy, I decided
that my future lay in caravansary. With my Harvard education
and my Chicago background I expected to rise quickly to the top.

As it turned out, I presently work in the third basement of one
of the Hilton hotels in New York buying the food to feed the
hordes who frequent the Waldorf-Astoria, The Roosevelt, and
The Plaza. With a nine-to-twelve-hour day, I am quite rapidly
making up for my less productive years. I may get out of the
basement yet — if not to the top.

My wife Rho and I live quietly on upper Madison Avenue with
Benjie Button, who repeats almost everything that we say and in-
vents a lot of expressions of his own. At breakfast Benjie will say,
“Have a martini pot,” an idea he has dreamed up on his own. I
don’t fall for that, but before dinner when all the items from
caviar to venison — items to numerous to mention — have been
ordered, and Benjie says, “Have a quick whiskey,” I mostly acqui-
esce. We have a good many friends, whom we see as frequently
as possible. And that’s about it.

[ 381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

FRANK PRESTON FORBES

HOME ADDRESS: 201 Noland St., Falls Church, Va.
OFFicE appress: U. S. Dept. of Commerce, Washington 25, D. C.
Born: April 22, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: Frank G. Forbes, Carolin
Deborah Gee.
PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1929.
MARRIED: Rosalie Budinger, Jan. 5, 1935, Wilmette, Ill. cumpren: David
Preston, Oct. 29, 1944; Mary-Deborah, Sept. 3, 1947.
occupation: Director, International Trade Development Division, Office of
International Trade, U. S. Department of Commerce.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Harvard Club of Washing-
ton, D. C. .
PusLications: “Export Insurance Act of 1946,” “Expanding U. S. Imports,”
“Capital or Chaos,” “World Markets for Small Business,” “American
Small Business and Foreign Trade,” “Preparing Small Business for Post

War,” “Trade Joins Forces,” “The British Industries Fair — Dollars
for Defense.”

AFTER a year at Harvard Law School and another year and a
half at the University of Chicago Law School, a depression in-
come, and possibly a slackening of j interest, persuaded me to aban-
don the law as a profession. I entered the Bureau of Foreign and
Domestic Commerce, U.S. Department of Commerce in 1934, in
whose Chicago office I was in charge of the Domestic Commerce
Section until 1942. Called to Washington at that time as assistant
to the chief of the bureau’s Small Business Unit, I stayed in that
position for some months, until I joined the staff of the U-S.
Senate Small Business Committee as an economist. I later became
staff director of this committee’s Foreign Trade Sub-Committee.
Later I was appointed staff director of the full committee. In
1947, I returned to the Department of Commerce where I am now
director of the International Trade Development Division, which
includes among its responsibilities services to the international
business community with respect to such special marketing media
as foreign-trade zones and fairs and exhibitions. The division also
is concerned with the international protection of industrial prop-
erty rights, such as patents, trade-marks, and copyrights, and man-
ages the technical assistance program in the field of marketing
and distribution. I have headed special marketing missions visiting
most of the countries of Western Europe on four occasions, and

[ 382 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

find most satisfaction in my job in the opportunities it presents
for the stimulation of increased import trade.

During the early part of World War II, I busted physical exam-
inations for — seriatim — the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and the
draft. In 1935 I married Rosalie Budinger of Wilmette, Illinois.
We now have a boy and girl, and have settled in Falls Church,
Virginia, where we are very happily getting used to being Yankee-
Virginians. My hobbies are carpentry, furniture refinishing, rose
growing, and, increasingly, just sitting — also detective stories.

EDWIN CARL FORS

HOME ADDRESS: 8522 Hazelwood Drive, Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE ADpREss: U. S, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington,
D,. C.

BORN: Dec. 24, 1907, Boston, Mass, parents: Carl Ferdinand Fors, Martha
Blom.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

mMarrigD: Blanche Snowbarger, Oct. 31, 1942, Washington, D. C.

occupation: Corporation accountant, U. S. Government.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants; Harvard Club of Wash-
ington; West Roxbury Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

AFTER graduation I spent six years in Boston working as an ac-
countant, primarily as a public accountant. During the past nine-
teen years I have been with the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, spending most of that time in Washington, except for
five years in Philadelphia and two in Cleveland. I became a certi-
fied public accountant in 1936. The work at the Commission has
been very interesting, and I still look on government work as an
opportunity for public service. In addition I have for the past
fifteen years taught evening accounting courses in various schools,
including American, Temple, and Western Reserve Universities.
I enjoy teaching on a part-time basis.

Participation in civic and church work has been one of our
interests over the years. During the past few years particularly I
have found a good deal of satisfaction in my duties as a member
of the official board of a large, fast-growing, suburban Methodist
Church.

In 1939 I took time out to travel in Europe before the war

[383].

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

broke out. My wife and I enjoy motor trips around our own
country. Occasional trips to my home town of Boston give me
a chance to visit with classmates there, and trips to my wife’s
state of Kansas have given me a good deal of admiration for the
Midwest and its people.

Over the years I have enjoyed the fine associations and talks at
the weekly luncheons of the Harvard Club of Washington. We
enjoy the pleasures of living in a typical American suburban com-
munity, quiet evenings ‘of “reading and music at home or spent
with friends at bridge or just good talk.

Our Class’s twenty-five years out of College have been turbu-
lent years, to mention only the depression years, World War II,
and the present threat of Russian Communism. They have also
been years of tremendous growth in almost every field of human
activity. In spite of the many crucial problems confronting our
country today I am still optimistic as to its future. We can be
thankful for the great contributions that Harvard men continue
to make to life in America.

JOHN FOX

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Post, 259 Washington St. Boston 8, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 9, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Michael James Fox, Christina
Glennon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; LL.B., 1936(37).

margiep: Isabel Murray, July 5, 1933, Laconia, N. H. (divorced 1938);
Olga de Polakova, Dec. 6, 1945. cHmp: Michael G., 1946.

occuPATION: Publishing.

FIVE years ago, in the Vicennial Report, the thing that I looked
forward to more than anything else was “freedom from pressure.”
“Freedom from pressure” — Good Heavens! Pressure has since
taken over so completely as to have crowded out everything else.
Two years ago, because I was so disturbed about the steady
progress of Communism, both here and everywhere else in the
world, and because I thought that Senator Taft was the man to
stop it, to support his candidacy I decided to buy the Boston Post,
which was then the most run-down newspaper in America. That
meant getting out of just about everything else.

[ 384]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The top personnel of the Post were not merely aging, but, to
an unbelievable extent, aged. The newspaper itself was decrepit,
as were its quarters. I haven’t counted them all, but there are
more than one hundred flights of stairs connecting the different
floor levels in the rat’s nest comprising the eleven buildings that
house that venerable organization. When I took over, the re-
porters had to buy their own pencils, a policy that originated
during or before the Civil War. They had a compensation, how-
ever, in that they were all supplied free with a special kind of
old-fashioned lucifer matches, which some insurance underwriter,
in his grave this last half-century, had decreed.

A rheumy-eyed old gentleman used to come into the City
Room every night on the dot of ten, take the reading of a ther-
mometer as old as himself, carefully record it in a scuffed sheep-
skin-covered notebook, and go away. Whence he came, whither
he went, no one ever knew. He never spoke to anyone. No one
ever spoke to him. One night, when the temperature outside was
around zero, the City Editor placed the thermometer on the win-
dow sill. It dropped to three degrees above zero. When one of
the reporters doing scout duty gave warning of the approach of
the old man, the thermometer was hurriedly rehung on its usual
hook. The old man read it, took off and wiped his spectacles,
read it again, solemnly recorded the result in his notebook, and
went away. He has never been seen since. No one knows where
he went. No one has ever asked. He just stopped being there any-
more. That’s the kind of organization the old Post was, and I
suppose, to a great extent, still is.

Rehabilitating the Post takes all my time. I still look forward
in a little while to relief from pressure, and to spending some
time in Maine. I may, in the course of things, even get to see my
family sometimes.

WAYNE WETMORE FOX

HOME ADDRESS: 2726 Payne St., Evanston, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 636 Church St., Evanston, Il,

BORN: June 23, 1908, Fulton, N. Y. parents: Frank Edward Fox, Maebelle
Wetmore.

PREPARED AT: Fulton High School, Fulton, N. Y.

[ 385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. 1929; M.D. (Cornell Univ.), 1933.
sarrieD: Pauline Short, June, 1933, Mc. Vernon, Ind. cuttpren: James Paul,
Aug. 15, 19343 Jon Irwin, May 21, 1936; Patrick Michael, June 8, 1939;
Jennifer Lynn, Nov. 12, 1946; Deborrah Lee, March 11, 1953.
occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Attending physician, Evanston Hospital, since 1937; associate
in medicine, Northwestern University Medical School, since 1937; vice-
president, chairman Health and Safety Committee, Evanston Boy Scout

Council, since 1945; first vice-president, Central United States Ski Asso-
ciation, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Evanston; Harvard Club of Chicago; Snow
Chase Club of Chicago; American Medical Association; Illinois State
Medical Society; Chicago Medical Society, Chicago Society of Internal
Medicine, Central Society for Clinical Research; American College of
Physicians (fellow); American Heart Association; American Geriatrics
Society; American Board of Internal Medicine (certified 1943).

pusLicatioss: Medical articles on brucellosis, pneumonia, endocarditis,

meningitis, diphtheria; article “Family Skiing,” American Skiing Jour-
nal, 195 3-

OUTSIDE of my professional activities, my greatest pleasures
have come from outdoor sports — starting with “cubbing” with
Jim in 1943. I’ve been active in Scouting for ten years. Jim and
Jon, now nineteen and seventeen, are both Eagles. Jim has been
at the University of Colorado two years and made the varsity ski
team each year. Jon won the Junior Downhill-Slalom Champion-
ship of the Central United States Ski Association last winter at
the age of sixteen. The boys have all learned to ski at the age of
five or six. Polly and I have taken them with us for two weeks in
the mountains — either Wasatch in Utah or Rockies in Colorado
—at Christmas, or at Easter (sometimes both) each year since
1945. Pat is a good athlete, too, At fourteen this year he made
the local Pony League all-star team as shortstop. He’s starting
high school this fall. Jennifer, aged six, has started to ski and is
learning to figure skate. So Polly and I started taking lessons in
figure skating with her last year. It’s great fun. Deborrah, aged six
months, is stil] just growing.

Being a family man, a boy scouter, a lover of sports (participator
—not spectator only), I've been long on fair play and straight
dealing. I don’t think we've had it in our governmental leader-
ship —with the possible exception of the higher level federal
courts. | don’t think it’s here yet, even with the new administra-

[ 386 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion. The greatest statesmen in our past have been plain-spoken
and straight-forward. They seen their duty and they done it.
Diplomacy, so-called, with or without a Hahvud accent, never
seems to be either plain-spoken or straight-forward. Let’s set
down the aims and goals — plan the course — publish our plans
to the world — and move forward. Utilizing every weapon pos-
sible to undermine and defeat forces of evil and deceit, our nation
with its resources in righteousness and will power, can tame all
the isms. Veritas is a wonderful motto.

NATHAN FREDERICK FRADKIN

HOME apprEss: Birch Hill Road, Loudonville, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 151 Chestnut St. Albany ro, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Julius Fradkin, Rebecca
Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.D. (Univ. of Chicago),
1934.

MarriED: Esther N. Weber, Aug. 13, 1942, Williamsburg, Va. CHILDREN:
Judith Ann, Dec. 14, 1943; Phyllis Jane, Feb. 6, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Physician. °

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of medicine, Albany Medical College;
assistant attending physician, Albany Hospital; consulting gastroenter-
ologist, Veterans’ Hospital, Albany.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine and Subspecialty Gastro-
enterology (diplomate); American College of Physicians (associate);
American Medical Association (fellow); Harvard Club of Eastern New
York.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous contributions on gastroenterological and allied sub-
jects in these medical journals: Gastroenterology, Annals of Internal
Medicine, Archives of Neurology and Psychiatry.

WHEN confronted with the invitation to record twenty-five
years of one’s life, there is an overwhelming impulse to create an
extravagantly verbose autobiography, but out of consideration for
any readers I shall confine myself to a very brief and informative
summary.

Following my graduation from Harvard, I attended Rush Med-
ical College of the University of Chicago, graduating in 1934.
Coming to the Albany (New York) Hospital for a year’s intern-
ship, I remained for three years in the Department of Medicine,

[ 387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and, interrupted only by the war I have been in this city ever
since. From 1937 to 1942 I practised internal medicine in associa-
con with Dr. Thomas Ordway (Class of 1900, Harvard Medical
School ’os), then dean and professor of medicine at the Albany
Medical College. The year 1942 saw my enlistment in the army as
a captain, beginning my service with a course in tropical medi-
cine at the Army Medical School in W ashington, D. C., before
joining my parent organization, the 33rd General Hospital, in
which I became chief of the gastrointestinal section. After
twenty-eight months in North Africa and Italy, I was discharged
with the rank of lieutenant colonel. While overseas, I was co-
author of a monograph on “Peptic Ulcer in the Mediterranean
Theatre” prepared for the surgeon general. For the report I re-
ceived a Bronze Star Medal.

I resumed practice in 1946, but progressive, insidious deafness
led me to undergo a fenestration operation in 1948 (with moderate
success), and influenced me towards taking a fellowship in gas-
troenterology at the Mount Sinai (New York) Hospital, and sub-
sequently limiting my practice to that specialty.

About three years ago, Dr. Albert M. Yunich, Cornell Medical
School, a very close friend of mine since our intern days, and |
formed a partmership association, which we have both found to be
an exceedingly pleasant and stimulating union. Our practice is
restricted to gastroenterology.

J. SUTHERLAND FRAME

HOME ADDRESS: 136 Oakland Drive, East Lansing, Mich.

orice appress: Michigan State College, East Lansing, Mich.

Born: Dec. 24, 1907, New York, N. ¥. parents: James Everett Frame, ’9!,
Jean Herring Looms.

PREPARED AT: Ecole Nouvelle, Lausanne, Switzerland; Horace Mann School,
New York, N. Y.; Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§~1929, DEGREES: A.B. Summa cum laude, 1929; A-My
1930; PH.D. 1933.

Manna: Emily Bogert Boyce, June 25, 1938, Kinderhook, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Barbara Boyce, July 16, 1941; Paul Sutherland, July 9, 1945; Roger
Everett and Lawrence Henry (twins), Feb. 15, 1949. -

HARVARD magriya: Donald Murdoch Frame, °32,

[ 388 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Professor, head of Mathematics Department, Michigan State
College.

OFFICES HELD: Associate editor, American Mathematical Monthly, 1942-46;
member National Council, American Association of University Profes-
sors, 1948-51; member East Lansing Board of Education, 1948-52; mem-
ber Board of Governors, Mathematical Association of America, 1950-53;
member Policy Committee for Mathematics, 1951-54; national secre-
tary, treasurer general, Pi Mu Epsilon Fraternity (math honorary),
1951-54; member Board of Wardens, 1951-54, chairman, 1953-54, Plym-
outh Congregational Church.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi, Phi Kappa Phi; American Mathe-
matical Society; Institute of Mathematical Statistics, Industrial Mathe-
matical Society; Société Math de France, Canadian Mathematical Con-
gress; East Lansing Kiwanis Club.

PuBLications: General Mathematics, with Currier and ‘Watson, Macmillan,
1939; Solid Geometry, McGraw-Hill, 1948, about forty mathematical
articles, including: “Unitare Matrizen in Galoisfeldern,” Commentarii
Mathematici Helvetici, 1934; “Machines for solving algebraic equations,”
Math. Tables and Other Aids to Computation, 1945; “An irreducible rep-
resentation extracted from two permutation groups,” Annals of Mathe-
matics, 1952; “The solution of equations by continued fractions,” Ameri-
can Mathematical Monthly, 1953.

OUR 1929 Commencement was for me more of a beginning than
an end of academic life. For four more years I stayed on at Har-
vard in Perkins Hall and the then newly built Lowell House,
studying and teaching mathematics, and hearing second hand
about the intricacies of the law from my roommate, Harry Black-
mun. Asa Rogers Travelling Fellow I spent my first post-doctoral
year (1933-1934) studying more mathematics, first in Gottingen,
where the effects of Hitler’s seizure of power were already much
in evidence, and then in Zurich under Professor Andread Speiser.
Brown University then offered me an instructorship and I was
launched on my teaching career. After two years I had the op-
portunity to work closely with the dean on a part-time basis
as adviser to freshmen and member of a board of counselors and
to gain some experience with administrative problems.

The writing of a textbook called General Mathematics by Cur-
rier, Watson, and Frame monopolized a big share of my evenings
in those years, but did not always have number one priority.
There was considerable competition from a teacher of biology
at Lincoln Schoo] named Emily Boyce. She won, and we were
married in 1938 before the book was published. We had a

[ 389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

memorable 12,000-mile western honeymoon trip including visits
to twelve of the national parks that summer, and a 9,000-mile
trip to Mexico the following summer. The war and a young
family made travel more difficult in the ensuing years, but now
that our girl and three boys are old enough, we hope to see Yel-
Jowstone again in the summer of 1954.
The war opened up job opportunities in mathematics, and in
1942, I was appointed associate professor and head of the mathe-
matics department at Allegheny College, in Meadville, Pennsyl-
vania. A call the next year to head a department ten times as big
was not to be refused, and I assumed my present position as pro-
fessor of mathematics at Michigan State College. Except for a
year’s leave of absence spent at the Institute for Advanced Study
in Princeton, we have been here for the last decade.

My professional life has included teaching mathematics courses
from college algebra to the theory of relativity, administering a
department of thirty to fifty teachers which grew in 1946 from
2,500 to 5,000 enrolled students, writing research papers and a
textbook on solid geometry, and arranging a national meeting of
700 mathematicians at Michigan State in September, 1952.

Life has held other interests besides mathematics. For two of
my four years as a member of the East Lansing Board of Educa-
tion I was in the midst of a bitter controversy about educational
policy, which was resolved when a new superintendent was ap-
pointed. When time permitted I have sung in various glee clubs
and in the choir at Lansing’s Plymouth Congregational Church.
Here I also served a year as chairman of the music committee
and was recently elected chairman of the Board of Wardens
(deacons, if you prefer). Membership in the East Lansing Ki-
wanis Club has broadened my acquaintance among the business and
professional men of the city. Still the strongest bonds of life are
in the home where I am blessed with a lovely and capable wife
(Mount Holyoke, ’35) and four fine children, including twin boys.
Elder brother Paul now says he wants to go to Harvard. We
shall see. .

L 390 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES BICHENO FRANCIS

HOME Aporess: Broughton Lane, Villanova, Pa.

orrice aporess: Bell Telephone Co. of Pennsylvania, Widener Bldg., Phila-
delphia 7, Pa. "

Born: April 2, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Joseph Sidney Francis, ’97,
Kate Winthrop Nelson.

prepare AT: Chestnut Hill Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cu7m laude, 1929.

MaRRiED: Frances Dallett Fuguet, Sept. 24, 1932, Devon, Pa. cHitpREN: James
Bicheno, Jr. Feb. 26, 1935; Katherine Winthrop, Nov. 24, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Winthrop Nelson Francis, 31; Duncan Forbes Francis,
"34

occupation: Directory manager, Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania.

OFFICES HELD: Student engincer, 1929-31, assistant manager, 1931-34, public
office manager, 1934-36, unit manager, 1936-47, directory manager, since
1947, Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania.

Memaer oF: Mill Dam Club of Philadelphia; Appalachian Mountain Club.

FOR the past twenty-five years I have been employed by the Bell
Telephone Company of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. I have had
numerous assignments, but of all I think I like my present one the
best. Iam responsible for the compilation and publication of tele-
phone directories. The job is demanding enough to be satisfying.
It also involves frequent pleasant contacts with advertising agen-
cies, printing companies, and of course with many telephone
people. My wartime activities were on the home front.

I was married in 1932. The family consists of my wife Bim
(Frances Fuguet), my son Jim, and daughter Kay. Bim is an ex-
tremely active and competent person, whose main interest is the
family. She is a trustee of the Shipley School in Bryn Mawr and
has been active in church, civil defense, and other organizations.
The energy she expends on everything she undertakes and her
good practical sense have brought invitations to take on additional
projects which she has had to refuse as her strength is not un-
limited. Needless to say, she is a wonderful wife and mother.
She is also a baseball fan (Phillies and Yankees).

Jim is nineteen, a graduate of the Episcopal Academy and at
present he is a freshman at Haverford College. He has a good mind
but is not the intellectual type. He seems to be popular with his
classmates, cares little for girls, and likes to run his own affairs.
All sports interest him and he plugs away at football and track

[ 391 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

without being a star. He is a private in the Organized Reserve

(318¢ Hospital Center).

Kay is seventeen, attractive, a good swimmer and skater. She
is a senior at the Shipley School. She plans to go to Wellesley,
where I think she will do well, not only because she has an in-
quiring mind but also because she will respond to the stimulus of
being on her own.

This description of the family would be incomplete without
mentioning our three Golden Retrievers and Mary, the best cook
I know.

Our social life is on the quiet side, mostly with people we know

very well. We like to play bridge but do not play very often.
Outside of the Harvard Club where I frequently enjoy the in-
finite variety of the conversation at lunch, the club we enjoy
most is the Mill Dam Club where we swim, play tennis, and have
picnics. For a couple of years I was president and Bim was chair-
man of the Ladies Committee. It is unique in its simplicity and
informality. Recently I formalized my almost complete abandon-
ment of the game of golf by resigning from the Gulph Mills Golf
Club.

For the past ten years we have spent our vacations on New-
found Lake in New Hampshire. In spite of the fact that we keep
saying to ourselves that we are in a rut, we still keep going back
and everyone is happy. Jim and I have taken numerous climbing
trips, stopping at the Appalachian Mountain Club huts in the
White Mountains. On one trip we encountered Rupert Mac-
Lauren and family at the Lakes of the Clouds.

If I have a hobby, it is reading, mostly historical and biographi-
cal with some fiction for a change. In between books I like to
dip into Thoreau’s journals. I have read a good deal of American
history, mostly books on Lincoln and the Civil War. At one
point I tackled the Harvard list of works on American history and
literature and made some progress before being side-tracked.
Lately I have been enjoying Professor Morison’s volumes on the
U.S. Navy in World War II. The problem is to find time and still
keep up with current affairs.

I suppose the best way to summarize the last twenty-five years
is to say that they have brought me satisfactory, if unspectacular,
success in business and a happy family life.

[ 392 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERNAN RICARDO FRANCO

HOME appreEss: 53 Blvd. Louise, Condado, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

orFice appress: Cordova and Gonzalez, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

soan: Feb. 7, 1907, Santurce, Puerto Rico. parents: Carlos Franco Soto,
Carmen Romanat.

preparen at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREES: 8.B., 1929; LL.B. (Tulane Univ.), 1933.

Marriep: Betty Cantino. cHitpren: Carlos, Feb. 23, 1939; Sara I, Jan. 19,
1941; Hernan R., Jan. 23, 1942; Idalia M., Sept. 17, 1946.

occupation: Lawyer.

orrices HELD: Deputy assistant attorney general, Department of Justice of
Puerto Rico, 1935-36; district attorney, Judicial District of San Juan,
Puerto Rico.

MemperR oF: Berwind Country Club.

THE following is reprinted from the Vicennial Report by re-
quest of Franco:

I graduated from Tulane School of Law in 1933. I came back
to Puerto Rico the same year and after being admitted to practice
I held the following government positions: deputy assistant at-
torney general, 1935-1936; district attorney of San Juan, 1937-
1941. I then went into private practice until the end of 1941
when I moved with the whole family to the States with the
intention of residing there permanently. I joined the firm of
Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley & Ketchum in Boston and was
with them as one of the associated counsels until the middle of
1945 when I decided to return to Puerto Rico, after realizing that
I couldn’t undergo another New England winter. Perhaps it was
a combination of the weather and a subconscious gnawing desire
to return to this tropical paradise which manifested itself in a
most annoying sinus condition. After getting here I was in charge
for a short while of the legal matters of the Puerto Rico Housing
Authority.

Since 1946 I have been associated with the firm of Cordova and
Gonzalez. Mr. Gonzalez was my roommate when I was a fresh-
man at Harvard. He was then a senior in Law School. While in
Boston I saw some of my classmates, but most everybody was
away somewhere because of the war. In New York I saw several
times my Phillips Andover class and roommate and dear friend,
Clarence Barnes, now head of the Art Department of some New

[ 393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

York concern. His father was attorney general of Massachusetts.
I extend a standing invitation to all friends and classmates who
want to escape the rigors of that New England weather to come
and visit me at any time,

Franco adds that he has given up golf and now does some
fishing and sailing.

ALBERT ABRAHAM FRANK

HOME ADDRESS: 265 Fellsway East, Malden 48, Mass..
OFFICE ADDRESS: 600 Main St., Malden 48, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 17, 1907, Boston, Mass. Parents: Meyer Frank, Bessie Druker.
PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192-1929. DEGREES: AB., 1929; M.D. (Univ. of Chicago),
1934.

MARRIED: Bernice Horvitz, March 16, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Hannah
Fay, March 17, 1942; Robert Elliot, Feb. 7, 1945.

occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, Tufts Medi-
cal School; associate physician, Children’s Hospital, Boston; senior
physician, Malden (Mass.) Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics, American Board of Pediatrics

(diplomate).

PUBLICATIONS: Few on pediatric subjects; section on osteopetrosis (co-author)
in system called Practice of Pediatrics.

UPON completing a most unimpressive career as a member of
our Class, I was so sufficiently impressed with my mediocrity that
I left town and tried again at the University of Chicago. They
were truly kind to me, and probably more so because, at last,
they had found a truly immature graduate student with an accent
they loved to ridicule. Medical school was an experience that only
physicians in extreme privacy dare to extol. Suffice it to say, I
still go back to school. Following internships and residency train-
ing in Los Angeles, Chicago, New York, and Boston, I returned
to Malden where I have practised ever since, except for the time
I served with the Army from 1942 to 1946, in various and sundry
unimportant and boring capacities the vast majority of the time.
I found no Jet down in exchanging the title of major for the names
my patients chose to call me upon my return home.

Since that time I have led a prosaic existence trying to meet the

L 394]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

demands of my practice and family, and from time to time return-

ing to the medical school where I am prodded into hanging on to
the tail of medical progress. My hobbies are golf and bowling,
and were the scores reversed I should be quite adept. I suppose
I am what is now called a liberal Republican, although I must add
that Eisenhower is the first of such for whom I have voted. It was
with a great deal of regret that I found certain members of the
Class of 1929 grouping to complain about the administration of
our University. I have never found a more intellectually honest
group of individuals than my teachers and present colleagues at
the University, and believe as strongly as I know how their major
goals to be the free exchange of ideas and the increase of knowl-
edge.

DONALD LAMPREY FRASER

HOME AporESS: 26 Powder House Blvd. Somerville 44, Mass.

BORN: June 30, 1907, Manchester, N. H. parents: David Fraser, Anna
Marshall Lamprey.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTion: English teacher, Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Massachu-
setts.

OFFicES HELD: Faculty adviser of school paper 1950-52.

MEMBER OF: Haverhill Teachers Association, West Somerville Congrega-
tional Church.

FOLLOWING graduation from college I took advantage of a
summer trip to Europe and England and Scotland which lasted for
a period of ten weeks. This trip was highly educational as well
as enjoyable and was a high-light in my life during the first few
years after college.

I worked for a few wecks in the advertising department of a
department store, Gladdings, in Providence, Rhode Island, and
right then and there decided that advertising was not for me and
teaching was. I began teaching English in Haverhill High School,
Haverhill, Massachusetts, in the fall of 1930 and have been there
ever since. Summers have been spent in summer school study at
Harvard and Boston University Schools of Education with a

[ 395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

summer off now and then for travel, mountain climbing, and
camping. Being a bachelor I find (although still living in hopes)
there is not too much I can enumerate on that social phase of my
life. Time has gone quickly, so it seems, and most of it has been
taken up with school work, church work, and commuting be-
tween Haverhill and Somerville over the years.

ABRAHAM STONE FREEDBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 59 Rowena Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFicE AppRESS: Beth Israel Hospital, 330 Brookline Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: May 30, 1908, Salem, Mass, PARENTS: Hyman Freedberg, Rachel Leah
Levine.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cuz laude, 1929, MD. (Chicago
Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Beatrice Evelyn Gordon, Aug. 29, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Gordon, May 19, 1939; Leonard Earl, Jan. 21, 1943.

occupaTion: Physician; medical research; teaching medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Associate director, Medical Research Department, visiting
physician, Beth Israel Hospital; assistant professor of medicine, Harvard
Medical School; member Board of Editors, Quarterly Review of Internal
Medicine, associate editor, Clinical Progress Section, Circulation.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha; Massachusetts Medical Society; Ameri-
can Medical Association; American Heart Association; American Fed-
eration for Clinical Research; American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science; American Society for Clinical Investigation; American
Physiological Society; American Board of Internal Medicine (1943)
Sub-Specialty Board in Cardiology, (1948).

PusLications: About sixty, covering investigations in heart and thyroid dis-
ease, as: “Effect of External Heat and Cold on Patients with Angina
Pectoris: Evidence for the Existence of a Reflex Factor,” American
Heart Journal, 1944; “Circulation and Respiration during an Episode of
Chill and Fever in Man,” 1945, “Studies with a New Method for Quanti-
tative Measurement of I Content of the Thyroid Gland in Man,” 1949,
Journal of Clinical Investigation, “Treatment of Euthyroid Cardiac
Patients by Producing Myxedema with Radioactive Iodine,” Proceedings
of the Society of Experimental Biology and Medicine, 1948; “The Ex-
perimental Production of Intercoronary Arterial Anastomoses and
Their Functional Significance,” Circulation, 1950; “Further Studies on
the Turnover of Thyroid Hormone,” XIX Int. Phy. Congress, Montreal,
1953.

FOLLOWING medical school and some hospital training, I had
[ 396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in 1939, the good fortune to work in the Medical Research De-
partment of the Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, directed by Dr.
Herrman L. Blumgart. professor of medicine at the Harvard
Medical School. This exposure settled the direction of my future
career to academic medicine, the details of which are shown above.
My success in persuading others to enter this field does not in-
clude my two sons who, expressing an interest in medicine, want
to be real doctors who take care of sick people, i.e, country doc- .
tors. War Service: I served the war years teaching third-year
medicine and doing research work on the circulation in shock due
to infection. Hobbies: They are music and golf. I have given up
and resumed chess and the violin often in these past twenty-five
years. Religion: It is Reform Judaism. Politics: I am an indepen-
dent. ‘

NORTON SHELDON FREEDMAN

HOME Aporess: P. O. Box 1942, San Juan 9, Puerto Rico.

OFFice aporess: Hospital Dr. Maldonado, Hato Rey, Puerto Rico.

Born: Nov. 17, 1907, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Eleazer Freedman, ’03, Kathryn
Eyges.

prePARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1934.

marriep: Maria Dolores Hernandez, 1941. CHILDREN: Doreen Lirette, aged
five; Ronald Brandt, aged four.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Burrill Morse Freedman, ’25; Sumner Herman Friedman,
*31; Donald Kenneth Freedman, ’32.

occupation: Orthopedic surgeon.

MEMBER OF: National Boards (diplomate); American College of Surgeons
(fellow); American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery (diplomate).

I HAVE no desire to appear difficult, but I hesitate to return this
report, feeling that very few who might read it will be vaguely
interested. Most of the fine fellows who were my classmates or
even dormitory mates were not too interested in most of their
classmates, apart from their chosen circle, twenty-five years ago.
I cannot believe that the years have increased their interest, for
no apparent reason. Perhaps the air has changed since my time.
Perhaps that is why so few reports have been sent in to date, as
the Report chairman has mentioned. I don’t believe the Class as
a whole wants to know all the details asked. Probably those who

[ 397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 |

have attained the highest positions on the boards of banks will

rightfully be eager to let their accomplishments be known, »
After separating myself from a very pleasant existence at Har-

vard, I tried the Harvard Dental School, Boston University Law

School, and Rutgers Post-Graduate School, probably still being

propelled by the centrifugal force of scholasticism which had not

yet diminished its power. After four years of medical school, and
six of internship and specialization, I came here to Puerto Rico
where I intended to remain a few months, absorb the relaxing
tropical heat after enduring the rigorous and unpleasant New

York winters for so many years, and also to give the local populace

whatever benefit I could from my years of study.

Once upon a Sunday, long ago in 1941, about eight o’clock in

the evening, I was walking around the square of a small town, in
this emerald isle of Puerto Rico. Here, the square is called the
plaza. Consequently I was walking around the plaza. The official
language here is Spanish. I had no knowledge of that tongue, and
so was little influenced by the conversational murmurs surround.
ing me. But suddenly a vision appeared before me. It was real,
living. I have travelled to many strange lands, but never have I
encountered such beauty and fragrance as this vision presented.
Sometimes I am sure I saw a halo around her head. And when I
recall what she has had to put up with, by living with me all these
years, I become more certain that there was a halo. She has lived
with me legally for twelve years now. We are of different re-
ligions, but that has been no problem at all. Beauty is its own re-
ligion. If the only religion were the ten commandments, I feel
there would be more peace on earth than what we have seen, and
there would be no need for any other religion. The circular asked
for my view on this subject. It was solicited, and I have not im-
posed it, but I am sure it is right.

Politically, I agree with Wendell Willkie’s One World. I am
sure that none of us will see either Willkie’s wish or mine come
true. But they are still the best wishes, notwithstanding the
learned teachings of organized religion over the centuries. We
have seen more hatred born of religion than we, or I, have seen
love born of it. I would like very much to see all religion, except
the acceptance of the existence of one righteous God, with no
embellishments, disappear, like the snow in spring. But I know

[ 398 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

it won't. After almost fifty years of seeing history repeat itself
in innumerable ways, I think there has been no improvement on
the ancient philosophy of life regarding eating, drinking, and
being merry, in one way or another. How many years do most
of us have Icft? Ten? Twenty? Do you really think so? Well,
make the best of them, bub. You might be awfully disappointed
when you wake up to find there’s no pie in the sky after all. And
if there is, you'll get plenty tired of eating it.

CECIL ROBERT FREEMAN

HOME aporess: 14 Brookshire Rd. Hyannis, Mass.

orice aporess: M.K.M. Hosiery Mills, Boston, Mass,

Boan: April 23, 1907, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Benjamin G, Freeman, Ida
Lewis,

parpareo at: Manchester High School, Manchester, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-10927.

marateD: Adaline Gertskin, Oct. 16, 1927, Cliffside, N. J.; Hannah Anne
Fromm, Oct. 10, 1943, Fayetteville, N.C. crupren: Janet Ellen, May
25, 1946; Deborah Joyce, April 21, 1949.

occupation: Sales Promotion and Merchandise Manager in leased hosiery
departments.

MEMBER OF: American Legion; Tau Delta Phi.

I DID newspaper work and free-lance writing until 1934, running
the gamut froin copy boy, reporter, re-write, columnist, editor to
advertising copy writer. I entered chain store operation in a
women’s specialty shop via the advertising department, and trans-
ferred from department to department until I became director of
sales of the chain. I travelled co the Near East and Far East until
World War II. I returned and entered the Army — was an artil-
lery man. In 1945 I returned to my old job and am presently
doing sales promotion and merchandising for a national chain of
leased hosiery department operations.

JOHN EDWIN FREEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 240 Crescent St., Waltham 54, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Republic Co., Inc., 25 Kempton PI, West Newton 65,
Mass.

BORN: July 20, 1905, Somerville, Mass. parents: Thomas Francis Freeman,
Marcella M. Kenney.

[ 399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
prepareD AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mfass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.
occUPATION: Shoe exporting.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

MAURICE J. FREEMAN

HOME ADpRESS: 24 Aberdeen PI., Clayton 5, Mo.

OFFICE apprEss: 408 Olive St., St. Louis 2, Mo.

Born: March 12, 1907, Olney, Ill. parents: Abraham M. Freeman, Hattie
Levy.

PREPARED AT: Olney High School, Olney, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1929; LL.B., 1932.

aarrigD: Dorothy Meissner, Sept. 11, 1939, St. Louis, Mo. cHILprEN: Eliza-
beth Jane, April 24, 1946; William John, May 23, 1953.

occupation: Lawyer, partner in law firm of Lehmann & Allen.

MEMBER OF: American, Missouri, St. Louis Bar Associations; Bar Associa-
tion of the City of New York; Missouri Athletic Club; St. Charles
Club; Westwood Country Club; Harvard Club of St. Louis.

AFTER my graduation from College I attended the Harvard
Law School from which I obtained the degree of Bachelor of
Laws with the Harvard Law School Class of 1932. I then became
associated with a large law firm in New York City and practised
law there from the middle of 1932 to the middle of 1937. At the
last mentioned date I moved to St. Louis, Missouri, where I be-
came an associate, and a few years later a partner, in the law firm
of Lehmann and Allen, with which I have continued to be con-
nected throughout the entire period. My practice has dealt pri-
marily with corporate and tax problems and it has been develop-
ing more and more into a specialized field pertaining to the legal
and tax matters of companies which produce oil, and of manufac-
turing companies whose products are related to the oil producing
business.

This has also resulted in my having been called upon as a con-
sultant for state and municipal governmental bodies and agencies
in connection with protective statutes and ordinances relating to
oil production. Other non-business activities in which I have
been engaged include the taking of an active part as a director,
officer, or counsel for civic, welfare, and charitable organizations.

[ 400 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

All of the above has proved very interesting and stimulating;
and I hope that by having a chance to continue along the lines
mentioned, my work and activities will bring about increasingly
better and greater results.

ALFRED FRANK FRENCH

HOME appress: Starlight Drive, Morristown, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 74 Passaic St., Newark, N. J. co

BoRN: Oct. 27, 1906, Randolph, Mass. parents: Frank Nelson French,
Bertha Ella Tucker.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

MarriED: Eleanor C, Low, July 14, 1934, Randolph, Mass. cHiLpren: Wil-
liam, March 8, 1946; Betsy, Aug. 13, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Phillip French, ’37.

occupation: Assistant treasurer, assistant secretary, Tomkins Brothers;
certified public accountant.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants; National Association of
Cost Accountants.

AFTER graduating in 1929 I took the summer off and went to
work in the following September with a medium-sized account-
ing firm in Boston. In spite of the depression, I found courage to
get married in 1934, and recall that my salary was increased at
that time by $15.00 per month. Then followed eight more years
in public accounting during which I acquired by CPA degree, It
began to look as though I had settled down to a career in this
field when World War II prompted me to volunteer my services
to the Navy. In due time I found myself a reserve officer in the
Cost Inspection Service and became a civilian in uniform along
with many another CPA checking cost of government contract
performance. However, my duties did not take me far afield
inasmuch as I was stationed in the Third Naval District in the
New York City area.

Upon my return to inactive duty in 1946 I discovered that my
former employer did not share my conviction that my Navy ex-
perience had enhanced my value so I looked around a bit and
became associated with the McCurrach Organization, Inc., a na-
tionally prominent necktie manufacturer, in New York City.
During the following three years, the owner, with my assistance,

[ gor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

made such a large fortune that he decided to liquidate the business
and retire. While he was acquiring a fortune, the best I could do
was to acquire a family, which after all was probably much better

for me.
Since 1949 I have been with Tomkins Brothers, one of the

largest wholesale distributors of building and mason materials in
the New York-Philadelphia area.

ARTHUR EUGENE FRENCH

HOME ADDRESS: 72 Fairfield Drive, Short Hills, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 7 Dey St., New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: April 25, 1906, East Milton, Mass. parents: Arthur Eugene French,
Charlotte Stewart Maclean.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929. DEGREE! SB. 1929.

MARRIED: Pauline Pope Day, Sept. 4, 1929, Short Hills, N.J. cumpren: Arthur
Eugene, Jr., March 29, 1932; Pauline (“Muffy”) Pope, April 6, 1936.

HARVARD SON: Arthur Eugene French, Jr., ’53.

occuPATION: Real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Director, executive vice-president, Joseph P. Day, Inc.; direc-
tor, vice-president, Joseph P. Day Florida Realty Corporation, Joseph P.
Day West Virginia Company, Joseph P. Day, Inc.; director, Children’s
Village, the Red Cross of New York City; president, director, Touch-
down Club of New York.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of New York City and New Jersey; New York
Yacht Club; Balcusrol Golf Club; Short Hills Club; Army-Navy Club
of Washington, D.C.

JOHN MAURO FRENCH

HOME apprEss: 34 Forest Rd., Stoughton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 Potter St., Cambridge 42, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Charles Stratton French, ’95,
Isabel Rockwood Mauro.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 19209.

MaraieD: L, Hortense Williams, Aug. 17, 1947; Boston, Mass,

HARVARD BROTHERS: David Stratton French, ’32, Nathaniel Rockwood French,
"35.

occupaTion: Engineering design, special machinery, Manufacturing Divi-
sion, Warren Brothers Roads Company.

orrices HELD: Vestryman, Trinity Church, Stoughton.

[ 402 ]

x

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; White Mountain
Ski Runners; Old Stoughton Musical Society; Stoughton Republican
Town Committee.

THREE years ago, one windy Saturday afternoon when Yale
was pushing Harvard all over the Stadium, I took some pushing
around myself. My wife seized me by the collar, dragged me to
Stoughton, showed me a house, and forced me to sign the pur-
chase agreement.

Somchow it has all worked out very well. At least there has
been a raft of work to do, a good portion of it still undone —
and new jobs turning up on the slate, faster than the old ones get
checked off. Each year we have had a good vegetable garden,
with enough produce to fill a freezer. We have set out trees,
shrubs, and flowers, have painted the house outside and somewhat
redecorated and rearranged it inside, and appear to be settled
for a long stay. We have pleasant neighbors, which is particularly
important, since we also have a pair of badly trained, crossbred
dogs, who insist on patrolling every yard in the vicinity.

I did some work for the Republican Town Committee during
the last campaign, and I have put in many hours trying to help
build up the Episcopal Parish here in Stoughton. This latter or-
ganization, in the fifry-odd years of its existence, has never yet
gotten through a year without drawing financial help from the
diocese. However, a new spirit is developing. We are going to
try to support ourselves in 1954.

If my office went in for titles or “job description,” I suppose
I might be classed as a “project engineer.” One day I may be
designing something brand new, another I may be overhauling
and improving an older product, and a third I may be trying to
figure out the cheapest way to manufacture something already es-
tablished on the market. In sum, if I stop to take an inventory
of all the good things God has provided, my biggest cause for
amazement is why I should ever find reason to complain.

STEWART FRENCH
HOME ADDRESS: 2228 “Q” St., N. W., Washington 8, D. C,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, United States
Senate, Washington, D. C.

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

porn: May 15, 1905, Kansas City, Mo. parents: James Wilson French,
Terese Stewart.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, 1930-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1929(31)3; LL.B. (St.
John’s Univ.), 1939; LM. (Catholic Univ. of America), 1953.

marriep: Mary Anne McJennett, Nov. 11, 1941, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands.
cumtpreN: Deborah Stewart, Dec. 21, 1943; Timothy Mayfield, April 28,
1945.

occuPaTION: Lawyer, counsel to Senate Committee on Interior and Insular
Affairs.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Overseas Press Club of America;

National Press Club; Harvard Club of Washington; American Legion.
PUBLICATIONS: Reports of committees.

SINCE graduation about half the years have been spent with the
federal government (including three in the Army) and half with
private industry. I know I’m getting older, because my judgment
is better, and the half of a quarter of a century with the govern-
ment has been much the more rewarding — in psychic returns,
if not in amount of the pay check, albeit that’s not too bad, either.

Therefore, I cannot but believe that they are uninformed who

follow what almost seems to be a “party line” of belittling our gov-
ernment and the men who make our government work, whether
the worker be clerk or cabinet member. In the past twelve years
I have had personal knowledge of literally hundreds of loyal,
highly skilled civil servants who work long hours over and above
what it would take to hold their jobs. And in those twelve years
and among all those hundreds or thousands of government work-
ers, I can at the most recall one who may have been a crook and
one who may have been disloyal. (Both were separated from the
federal payroll some years ago.) Nor am I alone in my opinion.
In my present post, I necessarily meet and talk with many lobby-
ists. These men, whose business is to know what they’re talking
about with respect to government, almost universally have a
genuine respect for the character, ability, and industry of most
government workers. Of course, there are exceptions, just as
there are Jazy incompetents in private industry.

I should be very interested in getting the views of my classmates
as to why it is that Americans apparently think it smart to belittle
their government and the men who make it work, yet at the same
time would agree that under it, or rather through it, we have be-

[ 404 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

come the greatest and most powerful nation on earth, at the same
time offering to the individual perhaps the greatest freedom
and opportunity for self-realization that any government has ever
offered its citizens. Big government is one of the prices we pay
for our power and wealth and opportunity, and big government
necessarily requires a continuing body of highly skilled workers.

With that as the basic fact off the greying chest, here are the
ancillary facts. After graduation I went to work for the Asso-
ciated Press in the Boston Bureau, and in the autumn of 1933
entered Harvard Law School. However, the AP offered me an
opportunity to go overseas to Rome, and I figured I could be a
lawyer any time, but a foreign correspondent only once. Re-
turning from Rome, I worked on the Herald Tribune, the Chris-
tian Science Monitor, and the World-Telegram. From there I
went to Schenley Distillers to do public relations, including edit-
ing and publishing a trade magazine. While with Schenley I
continued at law school and was graduated from St. John’s in
1939 with an LL.B. degree and admitted to the New York bar
almost immediately thereafter.

In 1940 I became one of Thurman Arnold’s bright young men
in the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice, and then
was appointed as an assistant United States attorney in the South-
ern District of New York in the Criminal Division. In 1941 my
marriage to Mary Anne McJennett, Wellesley ’30, coincided with
the offer of the post of executive assistant and legal adviser to
the governor of the Virgin Islands. So Polly and I had what was
in some ways a two-year honeymoon in the Caribbean. But they
were also two years of a great deal of good hard work, as well,
for both of us. Polly served as head of the Red Cross in an area
where survivors of torpedoed ships were landing at all hours
of the day and night.

Then one bright November day in 1942 I received the letter
from Mr. Franklin Delano Roosevelt: “Dear Sir, Your friends and
neighbors,” and shortly thereafter I was in the Army as a buck
private in Puerto Rico. All the officers and non-coms were
Puerto Ricans, and it was incredible how many times the name
of Stew French came up for K. P. on Sundays, or for other little
odd jobs that somehow are so much more important in the Army
than is learning to be a soldier. However, the day I was inducted

[ 405 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

was the day I started bucking to be an officer, and ten months
later I was graduated from the Military Police Officer Candidate
School in Fort Custer, Michigan.

After the novelty of being the only second lieutenant in the

War Department (Internal Security Division, Office of the Pro-
vost Marshal General) in Washington wore off, I started the old
Army game of bucking and wrangled an assignment with the
Office of Strategic Services as a counter-intelligence officer. One
of the primary reasons for being recruited by OSS was that I
knew Italy and could speak Italian, so Italy was just about the
only place in Europe I didn’t get. After returning from Germany,
I was looking about for a place where I could go into the private
practice of law when appointment as legal adviser to our consulate
general in Shanghai was offered me. My two years in China with
the State Department is a phase of my life of which I am proud.
Back from the Far East, private law still beckoned, but the post of
counsel to the Senate Interior Committee under the chairman-
ship of Senator Joseph C. O'Mahoney, Wyoming Democrat, was
too good to turn down. When the Republicans came in, Senator
‘Hugh Butler of Nebraska succeeded to the chairmanship and with
him also I seem to have a good working relationship. Oil, miner-
als, public lands, the territories are all grist for our mill and from
where I sit Democrats and Republicans both do a top-drawer job.
Our daughter and son, from our unbiased and purely objective
view, are brilliant and handsome. They attend a Quaker school
in Washington and put up with city living in a town house be-
cause of our beach house at Stone Harbor, New Jersey.

GEORGE S$. FREUDENTHAL, JR.

HOME apprEss: 1360 Lake Shore Drive, Chicago 1o, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 N, LaSalle St., Chicago 2, Ill.

BoRN: March 1, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: George Solomon Freudenthal,
Maude Emil Hart.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Chicago, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude, 1929; J.D. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1932.

UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: James Hart Freudenthal, ’26.

occupation: Vice-president, Assessment Bond Service, Inc., real estate

secur. ities.
[ 406 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Northmoor Country Club; Harvard Club of Chicago; Chicago
Bar Association; Illinois Bar Association.
puBLIcATIONS: Article on special assessments in Chicago Bar Record.

AFTER graduation from College and a carefree summer of con-
ventional European travel, I returned in the fateful autumn of
1929 to Chicago, where I entered the University of Chicago Law
School. Things then began to happen almost immediately, as they
did to all of us, and I considered myself fortunate to be able to
complete my law course and to land a clerk’s job with a well
established firm, when I emerged with my law degree in the dark
days of 1932. I regret to this day that my first real introduction
to the world of law and business came at a time when things were
at “dead-center.” The painfully vivid impressions which I re-
ceived during this period of economic and social distress long
continued to color my thinking, and to some extent, at least,
might have unfitted me to avail myself of some of the opportuni-
ties which were later to present themselves in the piping period
of prosperity via war and inflation which was to come.

After several years as a law clerk I entered into a law partner-
ship and subsequently practised independently. My practice, al-
though mainly in the field of real estate and tax work, was varied,
including some intricate equity matters, appeals, and at least one
bizarre criminal case. During the fifteen years which I devoted
to law, the continuous challenge of meeting new situations was
highly stimulating, and I especially enjoyed the friendships which
I made.

During the war I took a legal position with the National Labor
Relations Board, where I found myself in a field of law which
had hitherto been altogether unfamiliar to me. As I got deeper
into the work of the Board, I became more and more convinced
of its importance. I was particularly impressed by the spirit of
the men and women who were my fellow employees, and I regret
that the present political climate discourages able people from
seeking careers in that or other branches of government service.

After leaving the NLRB, I devoted several years to rebuilding
my law practice, and then gradually found myself drifting into
my present business, primarily as the result of the moving to
Arizona of my brother, who had been looking after the liquida-
tion of certain Illinois Special Assessment Bond holdings, which

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

had originally been underwritten by the company of which my
father had been the head. When in 1945 I agreed to “keep an
eye” on these holdings, I had no idea that the coming real estate
boom would soon bring about so much activity in this field that
I should have to give up my general law practice, which is what
happened. Accordingly, at the end of 1948, I formed what has
turned out to be a very happy connection with the leading Chi-
cago firm in this highly specialized field.
I hope I have not been “goaded” into writing too much about
my work! One partial excuse is that I have no wife and children
_to write about, being one of the bachelors who keep down the
official reproduction rate of Harvard graduates. As to “travels” —
I managed to get back to Europe for a glorious three months

e
during my law school days, and then again in 1936 when I was

able to convince a client that he needed my legal services in Lon-
don and Paris. Other than a trip to Mexico, I have spent pleasant
vacations in California, Arizona, and Colorado. I attended the
first Aspen Festival—a place to which I hope to return. This
throws some light on one of my abiding joys — music. I also have
maintained a dilettante’s interest in art and literature. Sportswise I
still play a little squash, and in summer I play at golf and swim.
In my more conscience-stricken moments, I sporadically devote
time to the work of the Independent Voters of Illinois, the local
affiliate of the Americans for Democratic Action, and to a lesser
extent, to the Chicago Branch of the American Civil Liberties
Union.

CARL IGLAUER FRIEDLANDER

HOME ADURESS: 683 Park Ave. New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 1§ Broad Sc., New York 5, N. Y.

Boas: Dec. 2, 1907, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Walter John Friedlander,
Zillah Iglauer.

prepared at: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGRFE: A.B. 1929.

Manso: Louise Oppenheimer, 1950, New York, N. Y.

ocupation: Member, New York Stock Exchange.

orrvas HeLp: Vice-president, V. and H. Flying Service, Texas; president,
Aeronca Aircraft Corporation, Ohio.

[ 408 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DOUGLAS THEODORE FULLER

HOME ADDRESS: 122 Tenth Ave., W,, Huntington, W. Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 225 Guaranty Bldg., Huntington, W. Va.

BORN: July 4, 1908, Scranton, Pa. parents: James Henry Fuller, Vertie Dix
Fuller.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Scranton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1929.
MarRiED: Kathryn Rinard, Oct. 12, 1946, Huntington, W. Va. cHILpREN:
Ruth Ann, Nov. 30, 1948; Douglas Theodore, 2nd, May 3, 1952.
occuPaTION: Branch manager, Huntington (West Virginia) office, General
Adjustment Bureau, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Most Loyal Gander, West Virginia Pond, Honorable Order
of Blue Goose, International.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club.

DURING the first year after graduation I tried accounting, got
tired of it and New York, so retired to the Berkshire Hills to
teach at The Gunnery School, a private school for boys at Wash-
ington, Connecticut. One year of that was enough, and I then
made a connection with my present employer. About half of the
twenty-five years since graduation have been spent in West Vir-
ginia, my adopted state. The other half was spent in New York
(one year), Connecticut (one year), Wilmington, Delaware (six
years), and the Army (three years).

I have had modest success in my career of property and casualty
insurance adjusting, which has continually placed me in contact
with all kinds of interesting and lovable people, in all walks and
strata of life, and in all sorts of places. My travels have consisted
of the usual vacation trips, and an extended tour of France, Ger-
many, and Austria while I was attached to the G-2 section of the
rorst Airbourn Division of the U. S. Army during World War II,
A. B. (After Bastogne). Prior to being sent to Europe, I spent an
interesting and profitable nine months studying Swedish at the
University of Minnesota, and another six months studying photo-
intelligence at the Military Intelligence School at Camp Ritchie,
Maryland. In Europe I was loaned to G-4 and helped discharge
a lot of German prisoners. Only the Army, in its infinite wis-
dom, knows why the study of Swedish and photo-intelligence was
good preparation for that.

My politics are middle-of-the-road; my religion, Methodist.

[ 409 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I consider my chief satisfaction and claim to fame the fathering
of two charming children, both of whom were born after I
reached the ripe ‘old ave of forty. My hair, which is still reason-
ably abundant, is almost w hite, w hich fact may cause questions to
arise as to how I achieved parenthood. The answer lies in the
old West Virginia saw: “Don’t judge the heat of the furnace
by the amount “of snow on the roof.”

JOSEPH BACON FYFFE

HOME aporEss: 99 Pond Rd. Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Federal St, Boston, Mass.

porn: Feb. 10, 1909, Newport, R. I. parents: Joseph Fyffe, ’97, Katharine
Ellen Bacon.

prepare aT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

Marnie: Afary Hunnewell Williams, May 23, 1931, Wellesley, Mass. cHi1-
DREN: Joseph Bacon, March 2, 1933; Katharine Bacon, March 21, 1935;
Mary Williams, June 26, 1938.

OccUPATION: Public accounting; supervisor, Lybrand, Ross Brothers, & |
Montgomery.

oFfrices HELD: Former member various committees, present member Com-
mittee on Ethics, Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants,
trustee, Republican Institution in the Town of Boston.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard
Musical Association; Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Account-
ants; American Institute of Accountants; National Association of Cost
Accountants.

pusuicaTions: One professional article.

SHORTLY after graduation 1 went to work in a New York
banking house where I managed to survive until a move was dic-
tated by the combination of four circumstances, viz., (1) I wanted
to get back to New England, (2) my wife wanted to get back to
New England, (3) I had decided that the public accounting pro-
fession interested me more than anything else I might take up,
and (4) an opportunity presented itself to make the changes I
desired, both as to geography and as to occupation. Since that
time, barring four years in uniform, I have been living in the
same place and doing the same thing.

In general a great part of my livelihood has been made by a
modest contribution to the appalling diversion of manpower to

[410]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

needless administrative effort required by the socialistic experi-
mentation of the last twenty years. As I am convinced that this
artificial demand for my services was not necessary to my own
well-being or survival, there results an undercurrent of frustra-
tion in much of the otherwise interesting work that I do. The
government doesn’t pay me, but it demands that other people
pay me to do things that have no justification by way of benefits
conferred on anybody. While lawyers and accountants are in a
particularly good position to realize the extent of effort wasted
in this way, I suspect that anybody carrying any responsibility
must realize that much of his time is spent in jumping through
various really useless regulatory hoops. Without elaborating any
further, the foregoing adds up to a consistent Republican voting
record.

My participation in community efforts has been limited to help-
ing run the administration end (rubber bands and paper clips,
with incidental carbon paper) of our local Red Feather drives,
in which I spent two years as administrative chairman, and prob-
. ably I shall continue to give assistance to my successors. When
you have a general chairman who is determined to beat all pre-
vious records, the administrative job becomes anything but a
sinecure! However, it has been good fun and has also furnished
me with grounds for respecting a small college of which some of
you may have heard, situated in a place called Princeton (some-
where south of here).

From this distance the two most valuable things I got out of
college (one of which was also one of the most expensive) were
(1) a number of friends, and (2) knowledge of the incontrover-
tible fact that the playing of cards for any stakes whatever must
inevitably be disastrous as far as I personally am concerned. If I
had it to do over again, I hope I would devote far more time and
effort to studies and less to social amusements. There also are a
couple of subjects in which I wish I had taken courses, not for
any economic value they might have for me, but simply because
I wish I knew more about them. Probably most of us have some
such feeling; in my particular case the subjects would be Prob-
ability and Comparative Religion.

Economically, the two most useful subjects I ever studied were
Latin (in prep school) and the mechanics courses given in the

[qu]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Mathematics Department in college: the first because, for the kind
of writing an accountant has to do, it surpasses in value any Eng-
lish Composition course ever given anywhere; the second because
Newton's Third Law of Motion (the reaction law) is a perfect
analocue for the basis of all accounting.
As to personal matters, mine is the sort of history that never
wil furnish George Weller with material he would want to write
a novel about, and I'm satisfied to leave it that way.

ARTHUR GABELNICK

HOME ADDRESS: 150 Beaconsfield Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 77 Summer St., Boston 10, Mass.

Bors: April 5, 1906, Russia, parents: Zeena Gabelnick, Hannah Lea
Klinger.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.B.Ay 1931.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: President, treasurer, Gable Distributors, Inc., wholesale jew-
elry.

orrices HELD: Assistant buyer, William Filene’s Sons Company, Boston,
1931-39; buyer, Hecht Company, Washington, D. C., 1939-40; R. H.
White Company, Boston, 1941-42; ships service officer, U. S. Navy,
1942-45; president, treasurer, Gable Distributors, Inc., since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Alumni Association; Harvard Busi-
ness Club of Boston, Brotherhood Temple Ohabei Shalom; U. S. Naval
Reserve; Friends of Creative Arts of Brandeis University.

AFTER graduation in 1929 I spent two years at the Harvard
Business School concentrating in marketing and retail distribution.
Having been fortunate enough to secure a position — in the bleak
and gloomy days of 1931 — at a Boston department store, I re-
mained there for about eight years, without becoming either a
vice-president or general manager. In 1939 1 assumed a position
of buyer in the Elecht Company of Washington, D. C., where I
stayed for two years. In 1941-1942 I continued my department
store career at the R. H. White Company, in Boston, and it
seemed as though department store work would be my life occu-
pation.

Then came the war and with it new and fresh expericnces, I
was commissioned lieutenant (junior grade) and assigned to the

[412]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

duties of a ship service officer at Bainbridge, Maryland. I re-
mained there until January, 1946, advancing to the rank of lieuten-
ant commander. Life at the above station was very agreeable —
including such facilities as a golf course, tennis course, and indoor
swimming pool. All of these things made it a very pleasant tour
of duty. While at Bainbridge I was also able to pursue my inter-
est in good music. I was instrumental in organizing a music ap-
preciation group, which provided both recorded classical music
for good listening as well as a series of good live concerts. Many
outstanding artists and orchestras performed at our station, ren-
dering much pleasure to our station personnel. All of this proved
to me that war was not all H

Following my career in the Navy (which ended in January,
1946) I entered the field of wholesale distribution of costume
jewelry in Boston. I am presently engaged in this business, in an
administrative, merchandising, and sales management Capacity.
This was my first attempt at a self-directed business. I find it
interesting, challenging, and stimulating. It would be even more
interesting if and when the excise taxes were removed.

My extracurricular interests and hobbies consist of a devoted
pursuit of the Boston Symphony in Boston and Tanglewood
which covers a span of about twenty years. I play golf poorly,
enjoy skating in the winter time, and while away my spare hours
in the summer time at the Massachusetts, Maine, and New Hamp-
shire beaches. In religion I adhere to the liberal concepts of Juda-
ism. But I am convinced that a sort of universal humanism, under-
standing, and tolerance of our fellow men should be the basic
aim of all religious expression.

Although I am very fond of children and a simple domesticated
existence, I never got around to getting married. But I haven’t
given up the ghost yet — perhaps by the Fiftieth, I shall have
news along these lines.

 

JOHN DAVID GAFFEN

HOME ApDpDRESS: 3808 Fernhill Ave., Baltimore 15, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cat’s Paw Rubber Co., Baltimore, Md.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1909, Halifax, N. S., Canada.- PARENTS: Harry Gaffen, Anna
Marion Bernstein.

[ 413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, 1930-1932. DEGREE: AB. 1929(32).

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: General manager, Cat’s Paw Rubber Company, Baltimore, and
Holtite Rubber Company, Ltd., Drummondville, P. Q., Canada.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; American Society for Testing Materials; Chemi-
cal Institute of Canada; Photographic Society of America; Harvard
Club of Maryland.

COMPLETE absorption in my work over the years has made my
memories of Harvard dim and incredibly far away; yet the knowl-
edge that Harvard is still there, growing in greatness and vener-
able grandeur with the years, is somehow comforting. I cannot
say that I have been able to develop much optimism for the
future of the human race, feeling, as does a certain poet, that our
century leaks disaster. If there is anything that can save the race
from destroying itself, it will come from men, ideas, and ideals
nurtured in places like Harvard. I find that thought a very com-
forting one with which to face the next quarter-century.

JOHN HUNTER GAGE

HOME Appress; Glen Avenue, Llewellyn Park, West Orange, N. J.

OFFIcE ADpREss: Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, N. J.

BORN; March 23, 1908, Somerville, Mass. PARENTs: Burt Raymond Gage,
Mabel Gertrude Hunter.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

marrieD: Betty Elois Zeller, April 8, 1938, Montclair, N. J. camp; John
Zeller, May 5, 1940.

occuPATION: Treasurer, Merck & Company, Inc, manufacturers of chemicals
and drugs.

OFFICES HELD: Member Financial Committee, Community Chest; former
trustee, Montclair Academy; offices in state chamber of commerce and
local charitable organizations.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Essex County Country Club.

EDWARD GALAIDA

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 876 Cambridge Ave., Youngstown 2, Ohio.
BoRN: July 27, 1906, Youngstown, Ohio. Parents: Lewis Galajda, Mary
Schneider,

[414 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED aT: Rayen High School, Youngstown, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Real estate broker.

pusuicarions: “Afill Creek Park.”

JOSEPH MENELAUS GALANIS

HOME aDoaess: 362 Godwin Ave, Ridgewood, N, J.

orice avogiss: R. LL. Dav & Co, 14 Wall St, New York 5, N.Y,

poas: Nov. 37, 1901, Woburm, Mass. parents: Andonis Galanis, Anita
Kayanas.

preparep at; Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa,

YEARS IN COLLELE: 1917-1918, 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929,

maariep: Rita V. Lentz. Oct. 26, 1935, New York, N. Y. cuipren: Joyce
Eileen, July 28, 1937, Gail Ann, Jan. 15, 1940; Ellen Mary, Feb. 13, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Security analyst, registered representative, R. L, Day and Com-
pany, New York Scock Exchange member firm, instructor in security
analysis, New York Institute of Finance.

OFFICES HELD: Program chairman, vice-president, president, 1949-50, member
Executive Committee (currently), chairman, Membership Committee
(currently), New York Society of Security Analysts; former director
(three years), chairman, Education Committee (currently), National
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.

MEMBER oF: Wall Street Forum; Association of Customers’ Brokers; Upper
Ridgewood Tennis Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions on financial subjects in Financial World, Forbes
Magazine, Journal of Accountancy, The Analysts Journal, and others.

THE day following graduation I boarded a train for New York
City, an area where resided a brother and a few friends of long
standing. That same day witnessed my attachment to the pay-
roll of one of the larger public accounting firms. From this com-
fortable spot I was forcibly detached early in the ensuing year,
1930. Shortly thereafter (through a classmate) I became asso-
ciated with the up-and-coming statistical and investment ad-
visory firm, Standard Statistics, Inc. (now Standard and Poor’s).
There, my accounting training and experience (had earlier spent
several years in the evening division of the Wharton School, Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania), plus educational background in eco-
nomics, fitted neatly into the then burgeoning Field Analytical
Staff. I spent eleven very enjoyable and reasonably lucrative
years with this organization. My work consisted mainly of inter-

[4rs ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

viewing top officials of the leading corporations, directors, bank.
ers, and others on behalf of securities holders, in order to gather
at first hand facts for use by our organization. Also I learned
something about appraising security values.

Since early 1942, I have been in Wall Street. For about eight
years I was in the Research Department of the investment bank-
ing firm of Shields & Company, where I specialized in the analy-
sis of industrial common stocks. During the past four years I
have been with the New York City branch of the old established
Stock Exchange firm of R. L. Day and Company (headquarters
in Boston). I have spent about twenty-four consecutive years
in what to me has been a very fascinating type of activity, that
has never seemed like work. In more recent years, I have placed
increasing stress on the production of commission business from
both institutional and individual investment clients; in effect, de-
veloping a business of my own. I make no fancy claims — ex-
cept that my clients will lose their money more gradually under
my guidance than with competitors. |

I have been fortunate in my married and family life, which has
embraced more than eighteen years. Prior to these, I enjoyed a
good fling as a bachelor living in an apartment in New York City.
I suspect at times that my daughters don’t regard the old man
as too bright. Their mother is more discerning and tolerant. Five
years ago we purchased a commodious house (with an equally
large mortgage) in the very pleasant northern New Jersey resi-
dential community of Ridgewood, where we expect to remain
permanently. We are affiliated with the West Side Presbyterian
Church here and are gradually getting mixed up in local affairs
of one kind or another. My wife and I are reputed to be a fair
bridge team. Aside from bridge playing my only other hobby
is an appallingly low grade of weekend tennis — mostly doubles.

Politically, 1 am and have been a staunch Republican at all gov-
ernment levels for at least twenty years. Although a fairly easy-
going and gentle soul, I am inclined to the belief that the election
of Ike caused the greatest exodus of rats (pink and red especially)
since the Pied Piper of Hamelin.

I have taken more than a passing interest in the relatively new,
growing profession of security analysis, For the past seven years
I have been a regular instructor on this subject at the New York

L416 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Institute of Finance. Looking back, I have perhaps unconsci.
stressed the professional side of my work in the investment

and have not been as acquisitive-minded as some of my assoc
who are firmly convinced that the lack of money is the roc

all evil. Perhaps this is why in a community noted for preval
of ulcers, I remain ulcerless. This reminds me of the touc
tale of one of my analyst friends. In a heated discussion of inv
ment policy his biggest client said, in substance, “You so sm

why ain’t you rich?” His retort, “You so rich, why ain't”
smart?” He lost the client.

SAMUEL LEWIS GALLAND

HOME aporess: 2414 W. Second Ave. Spokane, Wash.
orrice aporess: W, 116-124 Pacific Ave. Spokane, Wash.

porn: Aug. 10, 1907, Spokane, Wash. parents: Samuel Galland, Ed
Henter.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: AB., 1929(30).

MaRRIED: Leona Atkisson, Jan. 17, 1939, Seattle, Wash, critpren: Edit
May 10, 1941; Samuel Peter, March 1, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Hexter Galland, '30, M.B.A., °32.

occuPATION: Owner-operator, The Arctic Company, cold storage ware
housing, real estate.

- OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Exchange Club of Spokane
member board of directors, adviser, Junior Achievement, Spokane:

past chairman, Dutch Uncle Committee; president, P.T.A. (local
public school), Harvard Club of Spokane.

MEMBER oF: Eastern Washington Historical Society; Spokane Retriever
Club.

MY years at Harvard were both instructive and pleasant. How-
ever, upon graduation, I felt no particular urge to enter either
business or a profession, so I spent the next four years fishing,
hunting, and travelling. That may have been frivolous, but I have
no regrets. My memories of this period are a constant source of
pleasure — new sights and countries then at peace, quail in the
Nile Valley, chukkar in India, duck in China, swordfish and tuna
from Mexico to Tahiti, trout from Scotland to the mountains of
Ceylon.

About 1934, I came home and went into business. I found that
1 was ready for it and liked it. I met the future Mrs. Galland and

[417]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

married in 1939. My daughter was born in 1941. The war came
and I spent four years in the Air Force, two of them overseas in
England. On my return to civilian life I bought the business ]
now operate, The Arctic Company, cold storage warehousing
and freezing. My son, Samuel Peter, was born in 1948. My wife,
children, and business are the life for me now.

My hobbies are still hunting, fishing, field trials; I am leaving
tomorrow morning for a few days on Kootenai Lake, British
Columbia. My politics — Republican; I was a delegate to the
state convention in 1948 and a member of the finance committee.
I like civic activities; I have a fly-tying class for youngsters in
the third year now, and I am active in the P.T.A. I am president
of the Spokane Harvard Club this year. We have some sterling
alumni in the Northwest. Occasionally we draw them in from a
large surrounding territory for a meeting. In conclusion, I can
only say that I consider myself extremely fortunate to have at-
tended Harvard, and that the instruction and friendships acquired
there will be with me all my life.

HARRY S. GANTZ

HOME ADDRESS: 5918 Salem Rd., Cincinnati 30, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2828 Vernon Pl., Cincinnati 19, Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1909, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. pareNTs: Louis Gantz, Anna Katz.

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Edwina Bookwalter, Aug. 30, 1937, Springfield, Ohio. CHILDREN:
David Alfred, July 30, 1942; Emily Anne, March 13, 1945; Edwina
Katherine, Dec. 16, 1948.

occupaTion: General agent, life insurance agency, part owner, interstate
trucking company; part owner, mail order business; owner, general
farm.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Executive Committee, Pacific Mutual General
Agents Association, 1950-52.

MEMBER OF: Life Underwriters Association, General Agents and Managers
Association (Cincinnati), Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce; Cincinnati
Club; lodge, F. & A.M.; Syrian Temple, Shrine; Scottish Rite, American
Radio Relay League, American Guernsey Cattle Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “New and Unusual Savings Plan,” 1937, 1945, 1950, 1952, 1953.

AFTER graduation in July, 1929, I joined the sales organization
of the Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company, Detroit. In 1932

[418 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I transferred to Cincinnati as a supervisor. In 1939 I was a partner
in the general agent offices at Cincinnati, Columbus, Dayton, and
Toledo, Ohio. In 1940 I moved to Columbus, and in 1943 I was
commissioned as a communications officer in the U. S. Navy. I
spent six months at Harvard in Communications School and my
duty ended in Okinawa and Japan as a radio officer. I went on in-
active duty on January 1, 1946. I spent three years in Columbus,
Ohio, and in 1949 returned to Cincinnati. still a general agent,
same company.

I have a rather successful insurance agency and one of the
largest trucking firms with rights from Cincinnati to New York
City, with fourteen terminals. I have dabbled in a small mail order
business and run a 380-acre general farm.

I have been interested in amateur radio, Call Sign W8QroN,
since 1937. I also have commercial licenses as telephone and
telegraph operator, which I have never used in business, I am
still interested in radio as a hobby.

A rather staunch Democrat, I am interested in charter govern-
ment in Cincinnati and am active in the annexation of suburbs
to the City of Cincinnati. With my wife I am active in the
Y.W.C.A. movements, the Parent Teachers Association, Cub
Scouts, and so on. I enjoy reading radio journals, scientific jour-
nals and books, as well as business trade journal and news maga-
zines. Aly active sports are mostly horse-back riding, farming,
sw imming, and I enjoy baseball. Although I have had moderate
success in business, if I were returning to school I would concen-
trate on physics and mathematics and science. I may still get
time to take such courses. ’

+ WILLIAM GARBOSE

Born: Oct. g, 1907, Gardner, Mass. parents: Haiman Garbose, Gertrude
Yuzuk. '

PREPARED at: Gardner High School, Gardner, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

Diep: Aug. 31, 1940, near Lovettsville, Va.

FROM 1929 to 1932, and for the year 1934 to 1935, Garbose
studied at Harvard Law School. He then continued his legal
studies at the University of Arizona, and in 1936 was made special

[419]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

attorney in the Criminal Division of the United States Department
of Justice. In 1939 he reported that he was still with that depart-
ment. He was killed in a plane crash in Virginia.

JOHN PENNINGTON GARDINER

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Cumberland Ave., Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

Born: Aug. 31, 1905, Cohasset, Mass. parEnts: John Pennington Gardiner,
Elinor Greene Whitney.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MaRRIED: Julianna Geszty, April 20, 1938, Budapest, Hungary. CHILDREN:
Nicholas, June 19, 1939; Claire, Aug. 9, 1941; John, July 17, 1944.

OccUPATION: Business broker, Minot, Kendall & Company.

MEMBER OF: Les Societies d’Aviron de la Loire et de L’Ouest de la France
(honorary life member); Japan Society of Boston.

AFTER graduation I went to New York as a trainee with W. R.
Grace and Company. In the spring of 1930 a reduction in the
staff took place and I was one of the “reductees.” I then returned
to Boston where, until May, 1931, I sold investment trust shares.
I then joined Scudder, Stevens & Clark, investment counsellors,
and was associated with the firm’s New Business Department until
January, 1933. I had always wanted to get into Foreign Service
but hadn’t taken a shot at the examinations because I had been
told (I now know that this advice was erroneous) ‘that it was an
unworkable proposition unless one had a substantial private in-
come. Well — business in 1933 was so bad that I decided to take
a crack at it anyway, so I left Scudder’s and went to France to
study both the language and international law, which I did
for six months at the Universite de Poitiers which had a branch
in Tours where I lived. I lived in a “pension” which was run
along the lines of the show “You Can’t Take It With You” — of
all the screwball establishments, this was tops. I was fortunate
enough to find a rowing club in Tours — La Societé Nautique de
Tours — which I joined and enjoyed immensely.

My schedule called for a return to the United States in June
when I planned to go to Washington to a cramming school and
to take the examinations for the Foreign Service in September. In
the middle of May I got a cable from my family telling me that

[ 420 ]

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the examinations had been cancelled “for reasons of economy” —
this from the New Deal! So my schedule was out. I stayed in
France long enough to row against the champion of France at
Nantes —1 was billed as “Champion des Etats-Unis” which was
pretty amusing in view of the fact that there were at least five
fellows in the Union Boat Club who could whale the tar out of
me at singles. I came in second and beat one contestant.

Then I came back to Boston. In those days no one here seemed
much interested in international affairs so I started an organiza-
tion called The Junior Foreign Affairs Society. As a result of
these activities, I one day called on one of the members who
flashed a letter on me which he had just written that stated in
part, “I can’t go out to China as I must stay in Boston to look after
my own business.” Well, the net result of all this was that in ten
days I was on my way to China on a four-year contract with
Swan, Culbertson & Fritz —an American financial house whose
headquarters were in Shanghai and which had branches in Hong
Kong, Tientsin, and Manila. I was in Hong Kong for about six
months and then came to Shanghai where I stayed for a year.
After that I went to Canton as branch manager; there I stayed
until the Sino-Japanese war arrived in the locality in October,
1937. I then returned to the United States via Europe, stopping
off in Budapest to get myself officially engaged to the uniquely
wonderful woman who is now my wife. Then I came back to
Boston and Christmas Eve on Beacon Hill. It had been four years
since I had seen any snow.

In April, 1938, my brother-in-law, my sister, and I went to
Budapest to get me married, there was not a word of English in
the marriage ceremony and I had to do my part in German —I
should have funked German A! I returned to the United States
in June, and I struggled along as an independent insurance broker
until May, 1941, when I went to Washington to work in the De-
partment of State. I fought the war “deskborne” there. Perhaps
the most interesting job that I held down there was as one of two
State Department representatives on the State-War-Navy Codrdi-
nating Committee Secretariat the forerunner of the National
Security Council, In 1947 I took an examination for the Foreign
Service and passed it. After a wait of about a year, I became a
Foreign Service officer and was assigned to the American Mission

[421 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

at Seoul, Korea. I served in Seoul until about two weeks before
the invasion and was in Japan when this event took place. I served
in Japan until June, 1952, when I returned to the United States
and retired from the Service. I am now working in Boston as
a business broker and am associated with Minot, Kendall & Com-
pany in that capacity.

As for my views, I don’t suppose that I shall ever be anything

but an unreconstructed nationalist and I feel that the tragedy of
our times is that so few people among the better educated realize
the threat to human freedom posed by Communism. Was it
Jefferson who said, “Where tyranny is, there is my enemy.” What
in the devil has happened to the far-famed New England con-
science which appears to be terribly concerned with measures
taken in this country to dig up the red ants, some of which of
course are certainly open for improvement, but in some indefina-
ble way seems unable to focus on a system of slavery and degra-
dation which is more vicious and insidious than anything that the
world has ever known. Has the New England conscience gone
isolationist? I can’t understand it—I honestly can’t. There were
plenty of people in government in Washington who knew the
score during the administrations of F.D.R. and part of Truman's,
but one yip out of them about the problem we were up against
and it was the ash can for that “reactionary.” I just read “The
Truce of the Bear” by Kipling — times haven’t changed — indeed
they haven’t. I am convinced that the present administration 1S
“loaded for bear” and that it is making real progress in this field.
Our allies in western Europe quite naturally don’t like us to rock
the boat, for if a shooting war should break out they are going
to catch a good deal of it — incidentally we shall too, since mod-
ern science has shrunk the Atlantic as the airplane made England
a continental power, albeit with a good moat. We must not for-
get the millions upon millions who groan beneath the Communist
yoke and their plight should ever be in our minds, our hearts, and
our prayers — when you see as much as I have of this Satanism
of our times, perhaps you too will feel “Delenda est Communis-
mus.” Half-way measures are useless — in the long run it is Com-
munism or the Constitution and I trust that no one will have any
difficulty in determining where I stand.

[422]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CARL BRADFORD GAREY

HOME aporeEss: 405 Main St., Afontour Falls, N. Y.

OFFicE appress: County Office Bldg. Watkins Glen, N. Y.

poan: May 10, 1908, Brockton, Mass, parents: Fred Vining Garey, ‘03,
Anna Bradford Bates.

prepanep at: \Weymouth High School, East Weymouth, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

Marnivp: Helen Boyd, July 3, 1935, Newport, R. I. cumpren; Alice Brad-
ford, Nov, 20, 1940; Nancy Boyd, April 17, 1944.

occupation: County 4-H Club agent.

OFFICES HELD; Lecturer, 1937-38, overseer, 1939, Portsmouth Grange; treas-
urer, Pomona Grange, 1940-43; chairman, Central District 4-H Club
Agents, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Masons, Grange; First Presbyterian Church; Appalachian
Mountain Club; National Association 4-H Club Agents.

SINCE a graduate year at National Recreation School in New
York City, my work has been with 4-H Clubs in Rhode Island
and New York. As club agent in Newport County, Rhode
Island, and Schuyler County, New York, my time and imagina-
tion have been so occupied that I have done little else. Our two
girls grow and venture amazingly, keeping my wife and me ever
on the alert and interested. Church activities help, I am con-
vinced that much more applied Christian spirit would solve the
larger national and international problems as well as personal dif-
ficulties. We have the pattern and the yardstick if we would but
use them. ‘

Apparently we are not very aggressive or venturesome as a
family. We own little, we owe little, measurable in dollars and
cents. Occasionally we enjoy a real treat, a mountain or seashore
camping trip. On a recent three-hour visit to Harvard, I was
surprised to see such an increase in women and bicycles at the
University — especially the bicycles. Did we suffer for lack of
these?

HUGH PATRICK GARRITY

HOME aporess: 9 Hunnewell Circle, Newton 58, Mass.

oFFice appress: Robert J. Garrity and Sons, Brighton 35, Mass.

Born: Aug. 14, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Joseph Garrity, Eliza-
beth Mary Garrity.

[ 423 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 >

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: AB. 1929(30).

MARRIED: Mary E, McDaniel, Sept. 5, 1936. cHmpREN: Hugh James, Dec.
10, 1937; Robert Joseph, 1941; Carol Ann, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Emmett Garrity, ’29.

occupaTioN: Retail liquor business.

I HAVE spent much of my time since graduation with my father
in the liquor business which he established in 1906. After eighteen
months in the Army during World War II, in the Ordnance
Corps, I spent the next few years in the Veterans Administration
Office in Boston, and later rejoined my father in his business.

ROBERT EMMETT GARRITY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS; Northeast Harbor, Maine.

BoRN: March 7, 1906, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Robert Joseph Garrity, Eliza-
beth Mary Garrity.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

marrieD: Mary Louise Breen, Feb, 18, 1947, Dayton, Ohio.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hugh Patrick Garrity, ’29.

occupATION: Manufacturer's agent.

OFFICES HELD: President, Mount Desert Development Corporation, 1953,
Beverly Eastern, Inc, 1949-53, American Consolidated Corporation,
1946-49; treasurer, Robert J. Garrity & Sons, Inc., 1937-53; Vice-presi-
dent, Mount Desert Chamber of Commerce, 1953; director, Mount
Desert Chapter, American Red Cross, 1951-53; member, Warrant Com-
mittee, Town of Mount Desert.

MEMBER OF: U, S. Naval Reserve; Clover Club of Boston; Hancock County
Trustees of Public Reservations; Maine Auxiliary State Police; North-
east Harbor Fire Department.

AFTER graduation I spent the next three years in San Antonio,
Texas, where I met the girl who, when our paths again crossed
years later, became my wife. The intervening years were, in
retrospect, quite unimportant. I entered the liquor business with
the advent of repeal and became sales manager of Readville Dis-
tilleries, a Boston concern. Shortly after Pearl Harbor I volun-
teered and was accepted by the Navy with the rank of lieutenant.
After the shake-down at Quonset, I spent the next couple of years
in the Pacific as a fighter-director, first land-based with Argus
Five, then aboard the CVE Santee until after the Leyte show in the

[ 424]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Philippines. The end of the war found me skipper at the Naval
Air Facility in Bar Harbor and as a result of this billet 1 am now
a resident of this glorious region in the heart of Acadia Na-
tional Park.

It took several postwar years of rushing around New York,
Boston, and other spots of their ilk to convince Mary Louise and
me that the spot I had purchased here in Maine while here in the
Navy looked good to us for our permanent home. We haven't
regretted this decision as it is living for us because we both like
the country and the type of life and people that go with it. We
do move around a bit and spend a part of each month away from
here just so we can appreciate Maine all the more. We both
are active in local civic. charitable, and Catholic affairs and I keep
my business going in the four northern New England states chiefly
from here with a Boston telephone listing to boot. Mary Louise,
as a result of her valuable contribution during and after the war
in Spain and France as director of Catholic War Relief Services
in refugee and rehabilitation work, was awarded the Mundelein
Medal as the Catholic College Woman of 1953 in the United
States.

My problem at the moment, as president of the newly formed
Mount Desert Development Corporation, is to try to help to
raise the economic level of this area by bringing in new industries
and still maintain the historic reputation of this area as one of the
nation’s best known summer paradises. Any suggestions, class-
mates?

JOHN DIMITRIOS ARISTOS GATSOS

HOME ADDRESS: 1160 Bueno Ave, Salt Lake City 2, Utah.

orrice aporess: Hill Air Force Base, Hill Field, Utah.

BORN: Jan. 9, 1899, Drakeia, Mt. Pelion, Greece. parents: Dimitrios Ioannou
Gatsos, Olga De Lee Katsikas.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.D. (Tufts
Coil.), 1933.

MarRIED: Corrine Elizabeth Mills, May 27, 1936, Mobile, Ala. CHILDREN:
Wilson Alexander, Nov. 19, 1932 (adopted); Aristea, May 2, 1937; Olga
Lula, Nov. 27, 1938 (died Oct. 12, 1939); Julia, Aug. 22, 1940; Kallioppe
Maria, Dec. 23, 1942; Nickie Dimitria, May 16, 1945; Dorothea Aspasia,

[ 425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

May 18, 1947; John Dimitrios Aristos, Jr. June 7, 1949; Ramona
Eilleene, Nov. 25, 1951.

occuPATION: Physician, surgeon, children’s specialist, general practitioner,
medical officer, Hill Air Force Base.

OFFICES HELD: President, director, treasurer, Itep Corporation (investment
trust), since 1933; member House of Delegates of Illinois, State Medical
Association, 1938; instructor of anatomy, Lakeside Hospital, Chicago,
1934-37; staff member Ford Hospital (Chicago World’s Fair), 1933,
Lakeside Hospital, 1934-37, Savannah City Hospital (Ill.), 1937-38,
Herrin Hospital (Ill.), 1939-42, American Hospital (Picher, Okla.),
Charleston General Hospital, McMillan Hospital, Mt. States Hospital,
Kanawah Valley Hospital, St. Francis Hospital (Charleston, W. Va.),

- 1943, Manteno State Hospital and Anna State Hospital, 1947-51; chair-
man, Carterville Defense Council, 1939-42, Charleston (W. Va.) De-
fense Council, 1943-45; medical examiner, Illinois Defense Plant Corpo-
ration, 1939-42; chief industrial surgeon, Webster Lumber Company
and Employers Mutual Insurance Company, Federal Government proj-

ect (Thomson, Ill.), 1937-38; chief of staff, medical department and
hospital, Red Jacket Coal Corporation, 1943-45.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association (fellow); National Board of
Medical Examiners of U.S.A. (diplomate); University Club of Boston;
San Juan County Medical Society; Boston Medical History Club; Bos-
ton Medical Library; William Harvey Society; American Geographical
Society; American Phys. Art Association; Academy of Political Science;
Chicago Medical Society; Carroll County Medical Society; Williamson
County Medical Society; Illinois State Medical Association, Utah State
Medical Association, U. S. Air Force; Chicago Harvard Club; Chicago
Tufts Club; American Academy of General Practice, Pediatric Soicety.

PUBLICATIONS: “Hippocrates, the Father of Medicine,” One Hour of Medical
History by Ben Spectoe, 1931; “The Effects of Acetphenetidin in Blood

Causing Methemo-Globenaemia, and Its Cure by CO2 Gas Treatment,”
Tufts Forum, 1932.

MY ideals consist in being a real Christian, not just going to
church every Sunday and forgetting the sermon during the week.
I have tried to practise Christianity in my every-day life. I have
actually saved thousands of American lives (men, women, and
children) in different state and federal institutions, free of charge.
I do not smoke, drink, gamble, or use dope. I keep the Ten Com-
mandments one hundred per cent daily. I obey the law one
hundred per cent. I endeavor to be the best in every department
of life, such as the best citizen, the best doctor, the best father,
the best husband, the best friend, the best neighbor, and so forth.
Of course, I do not always succeed because human life is very

difficult. | -
[ 426 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

At the same time, I try to be extremely humble. When I work
I do it extremely hard, and 1 try to please everybody. I attain
my happiest moments when I fight the deadly forces of nature
and save human lives.

As to my points of view on life, I believe in all the ideals of all
the presidents, from George Washington to Dwight D. Eisen-
hower. I believe the women should have the same rights and
privileges as the men, even up to the presidency. I believe in
equal justice for all the people, regardless of race, color, sex, or
religious beliefs. I believe that the people should have oppor-
tunities to go to any schools or colleges they want. I believe in
the highest moral, educational, and living standards.

The history of my medical career is reflected in the previous

ages. I possess licenses to practise medicine and surgery in all
their branches in Utah, Alabama, Illinois, and West Virginia
(temporary). I have worked awfully hard, all the days of my life.
My family consists of eleven members, nine children and my wife
and me. We have the usual family joys and troubles, and we
manage to get along as best we can. Our oldest son is in Korea.
My travels are extensive. Both my family and I travel extensively
throughout the country. We went to all the states. The pleasure
and education we derive from travelling is unique. My hobbies
consist in collections of rare oil paintings, stamps, and other
objects of beauty. My government service consists of my appoint-
ment by the U. S. Civil Service Commission as medical officer,
GSXV, in general medicine and surgery and in public health,
and I was employed as such at the Hill Air Force Base, Hill Field,
Utah, from 1952 to 1953. As to my religious convictions, when
we came to Utah in 1951 my family and I joined the Latter Day
Saines Church. Now I am a priest in the Aaronic Priesthood of
the Latter Day Saints Church.

TAYLOR SCOTT GAY

HOME appress: 14 Vanderbilt Drive, Lake Success, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: May 24, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William David Gay, Mary
Belle Scott.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

[ 427]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B,, 1929.

MaRRiED: Berta Brych, Aug. 8, 1938, Maryland. cHip: Georgeann F., Feb,
4, 1943.

HARVARD RBOTHER: William David Gay, °26.

occuPATION: Vice-president, assistant secretary, in charge New York office,
Phillips Petroleum Company.

MEMBER OF: Bankers Club; Downtown Athletic Club; Madison Square Gar-
den Club; Deepdale Golf Club; National Golf Links of America,
American Society of Corporate Secretaries; Independent Natural Gas
Association; New York State Chamber of Commerce.

AFTER graduation I was first employed by Hayden, Stone &
Company in New York; I transferred to the then newly organized
Adams Express Company. From mid 1930 until 1938 I was em-
ployed by Standard Statistics Company (predecessor to present
Standard & Poor’s Corporation), when I entered the employment
of Phillips Petroleum Company in the Economics Department
at Bartlesville, Oklahoma. I was transferred to the New York
office as assistant secretary in 1943 and was elected vice-president
as well in 1945. Chief activities since then have been in the New
York office of the Phillips Petroleum Company.

* ALLEN MOORE GEISSLER

BORN: Dec. 27, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Arthur Dorman Geissler, Carol
Moore.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

pep: Sept. 5, 1942, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

AFTER Geissler left college he was for three years in the real
estate business and for five years in finance. He then spent two
years with a large oil company, leaving to form his own business,
the White Star Petroleum Corporation in Brooklyn, of which he
was both president and director. In 1942 he joined the intercepter
division of the Army Air Corps and became a first lieutenant. He
was stationed at Mitchel Field when he was killed in the crash of
a trainer plane.

[ 428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

t+ GUNNAR JOHN GELOTTE

porn: Sept. 14, 1907, Quincy, Mass. parents: Carl Otto Gelotte, Ida Matilda
Peterson.

parpanrp aT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGRFE: AB. 1929.

pixp: March 7, 1937, Bombay, India.

SOON after leaving college, Gelorte entered the foreign sales de-
partment of National Aniline & Chemical Company in Brooklyn.
Before his death he had been for five years assistant manager of
an American chemical company in Bombay,

CONSTANTINE D. J. GENERALES

HOME appajess: 2211 Broadway, New York 24, N. Y.

orrick aporess: 11§ Central Park Wese, New York 23, N. Y.

poan: Nov. 10, 1908, Athens, Greece. parents: Demosthenes John Gener-
ales, Urania Tseclepis. .

parparen at: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. pecares: Mo. (Univ. of Berlin), 1936; Pt.
(ibid.), 1937.

*maraiep: Johanna Wailhemina Turon-Schellckens, Dec. 10, 1938, Berlin,
Germany.

HARVARD BROTHER: Minos Demosthenes Generales, ’31.

occuPaTion: Physician. .

orrnices HELD: Mfember staff, New York Cancer Institute, Bellevue Hospital,
Mc. Sinai Hospital, Metropolitan Hospital, Byrd Coler Memorial Home
and Hospital, chief medical officer, Veterans Administration, Sacra-
mento, Calif.; clinical instructor in medicine, New York Medical Col-
lege, Flower and Fifth Avenue Hospitals, New York; physicians’ sec-.
retarv, Greek War Relief.

mMemara os: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Ameri-
can Medical Association, New York State and County Medical Society;
American Heart Association; American College of Chest Physicians;
American Geriatric Society; Explorers’ Club, New York Academy of
Sciences; Rudolph Virchow Medical Society of the City of New York;
German Genetic Association, New York Medical College Society;
American Hellenic Educational Progressive Association; New York
Athletic Club; American Numismatic Association.

pusLications: Erbkrankheit und Fertilitat, 1936, Neue biometrische Unter-
suchungen von Spermien und Fertilitat, 1937, F. Enke Publ., Scutegart,
Germany, “Muikropathogie von Spermien,” lecture before German
Genetic Association, 1937; “You and Cancer,” lecture at Manhattan

[ 429]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

later became incorporated into the Greek War Relief headed by
Spiro Skouras. We worked tirelessly, like many folks in those
days, sending hundred thousands of dollars of medical supplies
and equipment to Greece. It was quite upsetting when a Liberty
ship carrying a 200 KV X-ray machine, a personal donation to me
for Greece, was torpedoed twenty miles off New York Harbor.

I volunteered after Pear] Harbor and after much needless waste
of time was commissioned August 24, 1942, with the adjutant
general’s assurance, “have a definite spot in mind where you can
be of great service to your country.” Three weeks later found
me with two other lonely medical officers in the ricefields of Stutt-
gart, Arkansas, at an unfinished airfield, being directed by the
commanding officer to pick up Coca-Cola bottles in the com-
pounds of the civilian employees. In short, I later became a flight
surgeon, then was connected with the Military Government
School at Yale, and still later was chief of the Prisoner of War
section of the Sixth Service Command, Winter General Hospital,
Medical and Surgical Unit. These were the principal stop-overs
among the sixteen permanent changes of station with 167,000
miles of travel in the same Buick, covering all states except North
Dakota with dependents consisting of my wife and a European-
bred Scotch Terrier, Kasimir, and later Mark, a beautiful, intelli-
gent, white German Shepherd.

After the war I returned to New York and was fortunate in
being able to get an office at the same address I had before I went .
into the service. While before and during the war I did surgery
to quite an extent, besides being busy teaching my medical stu-
dents, I now find myself more interested in internal medicine and
practising it exclusively.

In relation to hobbies, a little time is allocated for tennis and
swimming throughout the year. My collection of ancient Greek
coins, practically all artful, keeps my interest in the past alive.
The art of the unknown artisan is lost to us today. I suppose we
have to pay in some way for the comforts of technology, mass
production, and modern man’s quest for less work and more time
for relaxation. 1 also manage to attend once a week courses in
“Philosophies of Life and World’s Religions” and find them very
stimulating. One begins to wonder whether in man’s quest for
knowledge, time may be working against him. The earth’s human

[ 434 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

population is increasing by some 77,000 individuals daily at the
time of this writing. Internecine wars, relative decrease in natural
food resources, reduction of green (02 producing) plants, decrease
of available atmospheric oxygen, the prospect of the somewhat
difficult-to-predict fifth Ice Age — which in itself could be catas-
trophic for hundreds of millions — and possibly other unpredict-
able cataclysms from within or without, such as nuclear fission
and fusion detonations: all these one day our progeny will have
to face. But in spite of a very remote, somewhat gloomy future
observed from an anthropocentric point of view, I find that my
personal life, divided between work and play, has treated me until
now rather well, and I am enjoying it while it lasts.

ROBERT PINKERTON GIBB

HOME appRESS: Oldwick, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 74 Trinity Pl, New York 6, N.Y. .

BORN: Aug. 1, 1906, Bay Shore, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Lewis Mills
Gibb, Anna Pinkerton.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrieD: Molly Flagg, March 30, 1937, Far Hills, N. J.; Hannah Elizabeth
Willets, Aug. 27, 1941. CHILDREN: Allan P., July 30, 1942; John B., Nov.

4, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lewis Mills Gibb, ’25.

occupation: Portfolio and venture capital manager, importing and export-
ing firm.

IF in choosing a career one’s Twenty-fifth Anniversary biography
were a consideration, one would certainly give stock brokerage
very little consideration. The only thing to recommend it would
be the brevity of said biography. Actually, as the first week that
I went to work was the first week of the 1929 Panic, I should
have known enough to stop right there and seek some other field.
However, I spent eleven years as a member of the New York
Stock Exchange, more specifically as an odd lot dealer, a a job
that required little intelligence but rather more the speed of an
antelope and the cunning of an outhouse rat. "

In August, 1941, I had had enough and joined the Aviation
Corporation whose largest subsidiary at that time was Consoli-

[ 435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

dated Vultee. This experience taught me a good deal about manu-
facturing and brought home the.fact that I should have applied
myself more in Elementary Physics. Because I had acquired a
few physical disabilities, this work was my sole contribution to
the war effort and therein lay the satisfaction. At present I am
connected with a firm importing and exporting minerals and
rare earths, which is most interesting because of the global nature
of the business.

I am prouder of my family than my career, quite naturally. We
live on a small farm in Hunterdon County in New Jersey and are
striving to improve the breed of pure-bred Suffolk sheep. My
two boys are in this “business” with me — incidentally, one is a
left-hander who can hit. My political convictions have been that
the late Senator Taft was the best man ever to emerge from Yale.
This belief was not shared by certain of my friends in the recent
primaries and convention, but we are friends again now that they
have won.

Looking back, I find that my happiest years have been the
thirteen that I have been married to Hannah and the four spent
at Harvard. In my declining years I live close enough to Prince-
ton to be able to infest the Hobey Baker Rink and give their so-
called hockey team a bad time vocally.

MALCOLM OSBORN GIBSON

HOME appress: 1009 W. College St., Midland, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 1509, Midland, Texas.

BORN: July 18, 1906, Cleveland, Ohio, parents: James Andrew Gibson, © 02,
Eva Linwood Brown.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: 8.B, IN ENG. AND BUS. ADMIN. 1930.

MarRieD: Marian Owen, March 5, 1932, New York, N. Y. curpren: Mar-
garet Owen, Feb. 21, 1937; Louise Osborn, Aug. 2, 1942.

occupation: Administrative assistant to exploration manager, West Texas
Area, Shell Oil Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Governors, Midland Community Theatre;
past president, Midland Music Club.

PusLicaTions: “Network Adjustment by Least Squares — Alternative For-
mulation and Solution by Iteration,” Geophysics, April, 1941.

AFTER a year as student engineer with the General Electric
Company, I spent most of Depression I in New York City doing

[ 436 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

experimental work on electric railway equipment. This job
wobbled along for four years before finally collapsing. A flight
_ from the city eventually led to a job as geophysicist for Shell
Oil Company, for whom I am still working. I had never heard
of a geophysicist until I went to Houston and had never imagined
myself in the oil business, but here I am and I like it. About ten
years ago I got into administrative work and since then have
gotten farther and farther away from engineering.

In former reports I included tennis as one of my hobbies. I re-
tired from the courts somewhat reluctantly in 1946 and since then
have done nothing more violent than yard work. As time goes on
I am becoming more and more devoted to music in various forms.
I sing bass in the Presbyterian choir, and from time to time sing
in a secular mixed quartet. Several years ago I attempted to learn
the piano. I consider the experience invaluable, but to the great
relief of my family and friends I eventually switched to voice
training. At the age of forty-five I decided that if I was going to
do so much singing I really ought to learn how. The results have
been gratifying and, although I shall never be a threat to Pinza
or Alfred Drake, I have had the satisfaction of winning a solo
part in “The Gondoliers” (the Duke of Plaza-Toro). I am now
working on the part of Ben in “The Telephone” for our Theatre
Workshop. When I am not. vocalizing, or making unmusical
noises on the piano, or singing in some show, I like to fool around
with arranging. Most of my efforts have been for a barbershop
quartet, but last summer I arranged a spiritual for our high school
choir which they have now added to their repertoire.

My wife and I are also celebrating the twenty-fifth anniversary
of our acquaintance in Cambridge. As we look back on the pic-
tures of cloche hats and underslung waists, it is hard to realize
that they represented the height of glamor at the time. Maybe
the girls knew what they were doing, for the twenty-five years
seem only to have increased her eye appeal. My children are both
native Texans and are looking forward to visiting the mysterious
Fast at the time of the Twenty-fifth Reunion,

[ 437 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

+ ROBERT BOIT GIERASCH

BorN: Feb. 12, 1907, Louisville, Ky. parents: Walter Siegfried Gierasch, ’o2,
Georgia Mercer Boit.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1927-1929.

piep: Jan. 15, 1930, Lexington, Mass.

WHILE in college, Gierasch participated actively in student ac-
tivities. He was a member of the freshman soccer team and base-
ball squad, the varsity squash squad, and later the Class baseball
and squash teams. He served as secretary of the Circolo Italiano
and held a Price Greenleaf Scholarship for one year.

JOSEPH HUBERT GIESEN

HOME abprEsS: Belgrade Road, Belgrade, Maine; Oakland, Maine (post
office address).

OFFICE ADDRESS: 36 Gilman St. Waterville, Maine.

BORN: June 14, 1904, Davidson County, S. Dak. parents: Frederick John
Giesen, Katheryn Bauer.

PREPARED AT: Mitchell High School, Mitchell, S. Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: S$.B., 1929; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1933.

margieD; Virginia Larsen, March 30, 1935, Fryeburg, Maine.

occupation: Orthopedic surgeon.

MEMBER OF: Maine Medical Society; Kennebec County Medical Society;
American Medical Association, American Academy of Orthopedic
Surgery (diplomate); American College of Surgeons (fellow); In-
ternational College of Surgeons (fellow); International Board of
Surgeons (diplomate), Arthur Steindler Alumni Association; Worces-
ter City Hospital Club; Boston Orthopedic Club.

PuBLicaTions: Orthopedic articles on fractures and orthopedic surgery in
Maine Medical Journal.

AFTER graduation from Tufts College Medical School I in-
terned at the Long Island Hospital in Boston Harbor for six
months, waiting for my two-year internship to open at Worcester
City Hospital. Several bouts of sickness during my internship at
Worcester City Hospital deferred my graduation from that in-
stitution for a year. During this time while in a CCC Camp in
Frycbhurg, Maine, I married and enjoyed the best year of my life
roaming the Maine woods doing little but enjoying nature at its
fullest. On completion of my internship at Worcester City Hos-

[ 438 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pital I spent eighteen months at the Children’s Hospitals of Iowa

City, under Dr. Arthur Steindler, orthopedic surgeon of the high-

est ability and quality, and two more years at Reconstruction

Home in orthopedic surgery at Haverstraw, New York. From

there I was called into the Naval Service on January 3, 1941. I

had a bit over five years service and during this period had excel-
lent orthopedic services. I was released as commander, U. 8. Naval

Reserve, after five very interesting years.

On my return in January, 1946, I bought a farm in Belgrade,
Maine, and entered practice in Waterville, Maine. Maine is a
beautiful state. My practice is in a community drawing perhaps
75,000 for business purposes. My practice is growing and I have
recently built a combination home and office which I rent. I
have many headaches, I can assure the reader. I have now been
in practice over seven years, specializing in management of frac-
tures particularly and rehabilitation of the injured and the crip-
pled. I have my own rehabilitation set-up, which is large and
- growing — large enough for one person with many disappoint-
ments and many happy times.

My hobbies: fishing definitely for salmon, which are very elu-
sive indeed, in my case; I love the woods of which I possess some;
I love the small Maine lakes with their birds and small animals. All
this I like very much, very much indeed. | try to keep up with
modern methods in my field. My present age is fifty years. —

EDMUND FRANCIS GIROUX

HOME ApprEss: 42 Adams St. Arlington 74, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1908, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Eigear Giroux,
Katherine Louise Blake.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1926. DEGREES: A.B. (Boston Coll.), 1930; A.M.
(ibid.), 1933.

MarRIED: Antoinette Lessard, 1945, Canada. cHmLprReN: Richard, May 24,
1946; Colette, Jan. 10, 1948; Suzanne, Sept. 25, 1949; Madeleine, Sept.
25, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of French and mathematics.

AFTER graduating from Boston College in 1930 I did substitute
work in the Somerville public schools and I also started working

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

for my Master's degree in French, which I received in 1933 from
Boston College. In 1933 I started as a teacher in the Somerville

ublic schools. I lived in Somerville until 1946 when I moved to
Arlington. IT am a Town Meeting member in Arlington. I am a
member of the Parish of St. Agnes Catholic Church of Arlington.

I have enjoyed several trips to the Province of Quebec in Can-
ada where many of my father’s and my wife’s folks live. My long
summer vacation permits me to enjoy many motor trips which
my family and I take together.

GEORGE LANE GLASHEEN

HOME ADDRESS: 4427 S. Four Mile Run Drive, Arlington, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1901 Constitution Ave, N. W., Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1905, Leominster, Mass. pARENts: George Henry Glasheen,
Mary Agnes Lane. |

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips
Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929; 1931-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(32).

MarriED: Dorothy Freeman, Nov. 16, 1929, Cambridge, Mass.

occupation: Chief, Educational Services Branch, United States Atomic
Energy Commission.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston, New York, and Washington, D. C.;
University Club, Washington, D. C.; Post No. 27, American Legion,

Cambridge; Military Order of the Carabao; National Education Associa-
tion.

GOAD No. 2 finally did it. So here goes. Nearly eighteen of the
past twenty-five years I’ve spent in the government service —
civilian and military — and I’ve found it to be a most satisfying
experience, if not perhaps as financially rewarding as the careers
of many of my classmates. After three enjoyable years of teach-
ing and tutoring at the New Preparatory School in Harvard
Square, as well as some additional study at the University, I was
appointed in 1935 to the staff of the National Youth Administra-
tion, with headquarters in Boston. There I remained for seven
pleasant and fruitful years, as assistant state administrator, and
later as regional director of student work for New England and
New York. In 1942 I resigned this position to accept a commis-
sion as captain in the Army of the United States,

My military years consisted of a series of interesting and worth-

[ 440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

while assignments, both in this country and in the Pacific. After
serving briefly in the Pentagon, and as education officer for the
Seventh Service Command in Omaha, Nebraska, for several months
— in October, 1943, | was ordered overseas, where I was assigned
to headquarters, USAFFE, SWPA. Thereafter I served in Aus-
tralia, New Guinea, and the Philippines, as commanding officer
of the Information and Education Detachment, with the rank of
lieutenant colonel, before returning to the States in May, 1945.
My final assignment before separation in 1946 was as chief of the
Fducational Reconditioning Branch, Office of the Surgeon Gen-
eral, War Department, Washington, D. C. For my military serv-
ice, I was awarded the Bronze Star Medal, the Philippine Dis-
tinguished Service Star. the Asiatic-Pacific Medal with three
bronze stars, and the Philippine Liberation Ribbon. I have main-
tained close association with reserve activities since my separation
from active duty, and was recently promoted to the rank of col-
onel.

My first job after I left the Army was with the Retraining and
Reemploymentr Administration here in Washington. As assistant
administrator in charge of retraining and vocational education,
I remained with that agency from early January, 1946, until its
legislative authority expired in mid-1947. And then, after a year
as executive director of the National Committee on Atomic
Information, with offices in Washington, D. C., I came, in May,
1948, to my present position with the U. S. Atomic Energy Com-
mission, where I enjoy immensely my work in the field of public
education on atomic energy.

So there it is. Twenty-five years! But Dorothy and I both
agree that they have been good years, which have brought us
many blessings and much happiness. And we approach the next
quarter-century lap with hope, enthusiasm, and anticipation.

WILLIAM GLAZIER

HOME Appress: 1 Audubon Pk. Lynn, Mass.

OFFice apprEss: Boston Daily Record American, 5 Winthrop Sq., Boston,
Mass.

BorN: July 4, 1907, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Harry Myer Glazier, Teresa
Sugar.

[ 441 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.
MARRIED: divorced. cHiLp: David, Sept. 28, 1928. GRANDCHILD: William M,
Glazier, 1951.
OccUPATION: Newspaper work.

ROBERT HENRY GLEDHILL

HOME ADDRESS: 201 VW. Spruce St. Jerseyville, Ill.

oFFICE appREss: Bankers Securities Co., 305 LaSalle Bldg., St. Louis 1, Mo.,
Gledhill & Gerson, Box 231, Jerseyville, Tl.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1908, Jerseyville, Ill. parents: Henry Robert Gledhill, 91,
Cornelia Winstanley Newton,

PREPARED AT: Jersey Township High School, Jerseyville, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Dorothy M. Romersberger, April 12, 1947, Danvers, Ill.

occuPATION: Salesman, Bankers Securities Company; owner, Gledhill & Ger-
son, general earth moving contractors; farmer.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Jersey Community Hospital District; member,
Jerseyville Municipal Water Works Board; president, Jersey Oak
Grove Cemetery Association.

MEMBER OF: Lions Club; Farm Bureau.

A TWENTY-FIFTH Reunion biography, they say, should in-
clude some comment as to one’s politics; and certainly it should
commence with Commencement. So I can kill two birds, etc., by
disregarding the old de mortuis fetish and say that our own Com-
mencement was marred only by the presence of F.D.R.

The summer of 1929, spent partly at fishing in Maine and east-
ern Canada and partly at home in Illinois, did little to change the
fact that I had no definite plan for the future. My father’s life
as a physician had never appealed to me; and principally because
I had an uncle (Class of 87) who had been most successful in
law, I arranged for entrance into Harvard Law School. Small
things, however, change the usual course of events. A chance
visit of one of my father’s classmates, who lived in Paris, resulted
in my present various occupations. He pointed out that teaching
was a great profession, too; and that even with travel expense,
the University of Paris was cheaper than the Law School. So I
sailed for Paris in September and arrived on my twenty-first birth-
day, feeling most mature. | spent one year at the Sorbonne and
the Alliance Francaise studying French and Fine Arts. Following

[442]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this, | was fortunate enough to be employed by the French na-
tional museums and to get part-time work on a French weekly
publication. These jobs made it possible for me to stay on an-
other year and a half in Paris — and to make various trips to other
countries.

But the depression caught up with me finally and I returned
home in early 1932. This was not the best time to get employ-
ment as a teacher, even for a man with three majors, so I did a
little work at Northwestern University and was unemployed
until November, 1933. At this point another chance meeting re-
sulted in an offer of employment in the brokerage business with
Bankers Securities Company of St. Louis — for which I have been
a salesman and statistician ever since. This seems a far cry from
the teaching for which I had prepared; yet I have found it fasci-
nating and not too dissimilar in one important respect. With in-
vestments, the past is gone and counts only as a minor guidepost.
Only the future is important. Just so, a professor has a new class
each year; and I feel that the perennial mental alertness and youth
of our Copelands and Bliss Perrys and Kittredges were largely
due to this fact.

World War II took some time. Naturally, the fat man is every-
body’s friend and nobody’s darling — so I had never married and
was A-1 for draft purposes, although my number was the last
but one in my county. Army and Navy and Marine Corps
showed no interest in the enlistment of my 270 pounds on a five-
foot-nine frame. But when the draft number finally came up in
May of 1942 they took me right off and sent me directly to the
Infantry (good old Army! ), where I spent three years and seven
months — all but three months as staff sergeant. About half of this
period was occupied with various types of training in the U. S.
and the balance on various islands in the Pacific Theatre — ending
in Japan in December, 1945.

Following my discharge, I returned to Illinois and to the bro-
kerage business in St. Louis early in 1946. A year later I married
a very charming girl who shares my liking for travel and golf,
but thinks bridge is no fun at all. However, she continues to put
up with it and with me, and as a result of accounts by ’29 wives
Bruce and Felton and Newsome in the Roundup, can hardly wait
for June to come. |

[ 443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

In 1946 I took over the management of two family farms in the
Illinois Valley — and became a partner in a small bulldozing and
earth-moving business, of which Iam now the owner. These side-
lines, with some municipal activities and the securities business,
do not leave much time for hobbies such as golf and bridge and
fishing. Our vacations are usually auto trips. Politically, I have
been uniformly Republican, and especially proud of voting against
Roosevelt all four times. At present, I do nor entirely approve of
the policy of either party. Civic activities, even in this small
town, make one aware of how widespread is the idea that govern-
ment is responsible for everything. Whether the New Deal started
all this is beside the point. For me, it would be a great pleasure
to support some new party — Moderate Conservative, it might be
called, or Moderate Liberal. Whatever the name, it would be a
party dedicated to the currently forgotten fact that it is the in-
dividuals who make up the government — and not vice-versa.

HENRY FLETCHER GODFREY

HOME apprEss: Grandview Avenue, Rye, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 420 Lexington Ave. New York 16, N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 22, 1906, Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Henry Flet-
cher Godfrey, ’97, Marie Havemeyer.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B, 1920.

MaRRIED: Marie Louise Gray, June 15, 1929, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Marie-
Louise, Jan. 7, 1931 (m. Lowell P. Weicker, Jr.); William Gray, Nov.
19, 1932; Richard Dudley, Jan. 28, 1935.

occupation: Copy and media research director, J. Walter Thompson Com-
pany, advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Senior warden, Associate Vestry, Christ’s Church, Rye; presi-
dent, Copy Research Council, 1952-53; member Committee for Eco-
nomic Understanding (4-A’ssANA); member Advertising Research
Foundation on Printed Media Readership; chairman, Printed Media
Group, American Marketing Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Manursing Island Club, Rye;
Shenorock Shore Club, Rye.

I HAVE moved around a good deal (even exclusive of the Navy),
both as to where I lived and the jobs [held. Following my gradu-
ation and marriage in 1929, we first lived in Oyster Bay. Long
Island, Jater moving for about a year to Brookline, Massachusetts,

[ 444]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Nahant. Then we lived for a number of years in Hewlett,
Long Island, and in New York City. For a short time after the
war we lived in Boston, moving in 1946 to our home in Rye, New
York. .

Jobs followed somewhat the same pattern, starting off in the
stockroom at Air Associates, Roosevelt Field, Long Island, and
later being shop foreman and pilot for Peel Gliderboats, College
Point, New York. I then became account executive at Doremus
& Company, Boston and New York. Next, 1 was advertising
manager of the Economic Forum, and finally settled down in 1934
to become executive vice-president of L. M. Clark, Inc. a job
which I left for the Navy. Upon my return from the service, I
was for two years advertising research manager at the Schenley
Distillers Corporation, and I am now with J. Walter Thompson.
My daughter, who was graduated from Connecticut College,
married Lowell Palmer Weicker, Jr., last spring; my elder son
is a senior at Trinity College; and my younger is a freshman at
Brown University. |

OGDEN GOELET

HOME ADpRESS: 65 Rue St. Didier, Paris 16, France.

OFFICE ADpREsS: 608 Fifth Ave., New York 20, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Robert Goelet, ’o2z, Elsie

Whelan.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.

MARRIED: Enid Connfelt, July, 1934 (divorced 1937); Maria Zimbalist, April
19, 1938, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1940); Mimi Nicholson Browne,
May, 1941 (divorced 1950). cHitpreN: Enid, April 19, 1935; Ogden,
Jr., Oct. 15, 1942. .

OFFICES HELD: Account executive, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane,

- 1941; economic statistician, War Production Board, 1942-43; club super-
visor, American Red Cross, 1944-45; president, Kan-Du Manufacturing
Company, Los Angeles, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Nouveau Circle, Paris.

THE first year after leaving college I lived in New York City
and studied musical composition under Rubin Goldmark; so did
George Gershwin, but somehow he seemed to catch on a bit
better. So a year later I went to Paris, studied more composition,

[445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and took piano lessons from Walter Rummel — and a few from
Yves Nat. Unfortunately, the damp Paris winters brought on
chronic bronchitis and a third attack of pneumonia, the second
one having forced me to leave college for six months, and I had to
seek warmer climates for several years.

In 1934 I married and spent the next year in Honolulu, where
my daughter was born and I resumed the piano under Robert
Vv etlesen, a former pupil of Joseph Lhevinne. In 1936 I returned
to Long Island, and studied piano with Terry Josefly, herself a
pupil of Lhevinne and Schnabel, until her death. Divorced in
1937, the next year I married Maria Zimbalist, the daughter of the
violinist and Alma Gluck. During the next few years I worked
on the piano, with scattered lessons from David Soferton (son-in-
law of Leo Godowski), then assistant to Joseph Hoffman at the
Curtis Institute — and Sasha Grodnitzhi, head of the piano de-
partment in The Julliard.

I remarried in 1941, worked in the research department of
Merril] Lynch until the war, then went to Washington on the War
Production Board as an economic statistician. Our section tried
to compute from questionnaires to mines, plants, and other pro-
ductive sources, their present and future theoretical “capacity,”
presupposing that they had access to an equally theoretical un-
limited supply of man-power and materials actually needed. From
these figures, actual materials and man-power could be more
effectively allocated, shortages foreseen, and needed expansion
planned. In the fall of 1943, having been classified 4-F, I joined
the American Red Cross and spent the next year in England —
first as Club Director at Bournemouth till after D-Day, then
Cheltenham, and finally I became Art Club supervisor in London.
In January, 1945, I became club supervisor for southern France,
and returned to the States in April, 1946. |

From 1948 to 1951, I lived in California, where I was associated
with the motion picture business and interested myself in tele-
vision film production. Since the fall of 1951 I have been living in
Europe — living in Paris but doing much travelling, free-lance
photography, and sound recording. My greatest pleasure is
seeing friends and I luckily know many people in the social, politi-
cal, movie, and musical worlds and feel at home on the west coast,
east coast, or in Europe.

[ 446 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JACOB GOLDBERG

HOME AppREss: 802 Forest Glen Rd., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE AppREsS: Federal Power Commission, Washington, D. C.

BorN: Oct. 9, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Goldberg, Sarah Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1933.

marrieD: Anne Rosenthal, Sept. 7, 1942, Washington, D.C. cuirp: Ellis Jay,
Jan. 12, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer,

MEMBER OF: B'nai B'rith.

PUBLICATIONS: Annotations to rules of superior court of Massachusetts.

THERE is nothing original, I daresay, in a ’2ger dating his
“career” from October of that year, for the crash left me without
a job. Led to believe that recovery was just around the corner, I
took a part-time job in the Social Law Library, catering to law-
yers who practised around Boston. The corner continuing to be
just a little way off, and realizing that my counsel to inquiring
attorneys might be more accurate if I studied law, I enrolled in
Boston University Law School, where I made Law Review for
two years, continuing my part-time job in the library. What had
been an avocation became a vocation, so that in January, 1934. I
had my calling cards printed — no need to send out announce-
ments since I had orally announced my entrance in the practice of
the law to the three or four people I knew (also lawyers). The re-
sult was that I became a lawyer’s lawyer. I did the work and when
my lawyer client got the fee, he had his own unpaid bills to meet.
So, after seven years, during which I acted like all Boston lawyers,

by eating at the same counter at Thompson’s Spa every day at the

same hour, and buying suits at Scott’s Limited when they ran a

sale (with due apologies to Danielson, who never waited on me),

and sitting in the same seat at symphony concerts every Saturday

night, I was ready for a change in pace.

In 1941, with the help of Bill Youngman, who was general
counsel at the time, I started at the bottom rung as a junior at-
torney with the Federal Power Commission. Came marriage in
1942 to a girl from Waynesboro, Virginia (hill-billy country to
you Yankees). I’ve gotten used to fried apples for breakfast,
Southern fried chicken for Sunday dinner, etc. But I’m ahead of
my story. On my return from the honeymoon at Nantucket,

[ 447]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

“Greetings” were awaiting me. To the many officers in the Class,
it may come as a shock to learn that the army had a few privates,
and I was one of them — until a month before my discharge, when
I made T/5 and received my Good Conduct Medal. I was in the
service for three years, during which I had the opportunity to
visit Paris, Brussels, Antwerp, and a few other way stations. My
wife now insists that we take a trip to Europe so she can see the
sights too, sans fox hole, of course.

I followed the line of least resistance and returned as an attorney
with the Power Commission which, among other things, regulates
interstate natural-gas pipeline companies. This natural-gas busi-
ness has experienced the boomingest postwar expansion, so that
for the past five or six years I’ve worked days, nights, Sundays,
holidays, trying to keep pace. Now I never eat lunch at the same
place twice, never at the same time, and at times not at all. To
those who think a government job leaves time for coffee breaks,
long lunch hours, vacations, dreaming with feet on the desk, let
the foregoing serve as a reminder that the grass always appears
greener on the other side. The result is that ’ve found no time
for hobbies, cards, clubs, bull sessions, what have you. I have all
I can do to get together with my family, and believe you me they
are wonderful to put up with me. Being busy, however, has its
advantages — it doesn’t offer much time for regrets for the past;
nor worry for the future. Now that writing this gives me pause,
I am beginning to feel like the man whom an instructor at the
College described as follows: “After twenty-five years out of col-
lege, he doesn’t know where he’s going, but he’s half-way there.”

I know Hutch, et al., have a thankless job in stirring up these
autobiographies. I hope to find time to read the others, which I
am sure will prove to be much more interesting than this particu-
lar one.

WILLIAM AMBROSE GOLDEN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 4242 N. Arica Ave., Rosemead, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS; 610 S. Main St., Los Angeles 14, Calif.

BorN: April 13, 1907, Wilkinsburg, Pa. parents: William Ambrose Golden,
Mayte Haull. .

PREPARED AT: East High School, Des Moines, lowa; Central High School,
Omaha, Nebr.; Santa Ana High School, Santa Ana, Calif,

[ 448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1926,

marrieD: Margaret Eleanor Tucker, Feb. 4, 1930, Yuma, Ariz. CHILDREN:
William Ray, May 2, 1931; Michael Ambrose, June 26, 1940.

occupATION: Assistant industrial agent, Southern Pacific Company and
Pacific Electric Railway Company,

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, committee, Cub Pack 3, 1950-51, member District
Committee, 1951, Boy Scouts of America, Rosemead; member Research
Committee, Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, since 1952.

MemBER OF: Rail and Water Club; Alhambra Camera Club; Los Angeles
Transportation Club; Miniature Camera Club of the San Gabriel Val-
ley; Pasadena Short Wave Club; Jack Powell Pictorial Group; Ameri-
can Radio Relay League; Los Angeles Athletic Club, Pacific Coast
Club.

PUBLICATIONS; Occasional contributions to magazines QST and Radio.

SUNCE leaving Collge I have been with the Southern Pacific Com-

pany in Southern California continuously in various capacities. In

addition, during the last two years I have been employed also by
its subsidiary the Pacific Electric Railway Company. With the
exception of a year as travelling freight agent at Santa Barbara
in 1942 and a few months at El] Centro in 1930, I have been located
in the offices of the two companies at Los Angeles in the positions
of clerk, city freight agent, assistant chief clerk, chief solicitation
clerk, and chief clerk with the Southern Pacific Company and,
at the present time, assistant industrial agent for both companies.

While I was located at E] Centro, Margaret and I were mar-
ried in Yuma, Arizona. During the depression years we raised our
first boy, Bill, who after completing high school and starting col-
lege joined the United States Coast Guard when the Korean
trouble started. He was stationed in Alaska and at several places
in the United States, among them Boston. His service now com-
pleted, he is back home with us and intends to return to college.
Although he visited Cambridge and Harvard during his stay in
Boston, he was not impressed and expects to secure his higher
education locally in southern Califonrnia.

Mike, our other son, arrived in 1940. After gaining the ripe
age of ten, he joined the Cub Scouts and I became involved as a
pack committee member and chairman for two pleasant and inter-
esting years. As a member of the National Rifle Association he
is now enthusiastic about target shooting and we spend some of
our weekends in this activity.

Like my employers, my hobbies are few and of long standing.

[ 449 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

They are photography and amateur radio, both of which have
held my interest and consumed much of my spare time over the
past twenty-five years. During that period I have held and still
hold a license for amateur radio station W6EMJ. In recent years
our summer vacations have been spent in the beautiful and ma-
jestic High Sierras of California at an elevation of nine thousand
feet, camping and trout fishing.

In spite of political trends in this country and throughout the
world in the last two decades, I have remained a conservative
Republican. Events to me, until recently, were most discouraging
and I sometimes doubted that we might ever again see a reason-
ably rational and business-like direction for our country’s affairs.
Apparently many people, including a good share of my friends,

did not agree with my thinking, for I found myself voting regu-
larly for losing candidates.

LEON MILTON GOLDENBERG

HOME AppRESS: 132 Amory St., Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Alger St., South Boston 27, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Barnet Goldenberg, Marion
Abramson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1929.

Marriep: Adrea Denton, June 12, 1934, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Barbara,
May 12, 1937,

OccuPATION: President, Alberti Importing and Exporting Company, Inc.,
importing foodstuffs,

EVEN my largest and most contemptible creditors have never
plagued me with the continuous insistency, pressure, and arrogant
demands of one John W. Hutchinson who, if I remember cor-
rectly, was quite normal before he became involved with the
Class of 1929 Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report. All his pleadings,
frantic appeals, and goadings bothered me little. But when the
son-of-a-gun gets the F.B.I. after me, and my wife and daughter
pack to leave home, brother, P've had enough! “This is my life.”

Writing a report on twenty-five years of one’s life is a serious
and thoughtful project. Its difficulty lies in the fact that it can
become a bit too penetrating for one’s own comfort. I might say

[ 450 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that mine has been an average life. I have accomplished no mir-
acles, nor have I become a businessman of extraordinary wealth,
power, or influence. But I have had many things which to me are
greater and far more compensating. My marriage to a devoted
and intelligent girl has been most successful. My daughter, now
a young lady, has been a constant source of pleasure.

I am still an importer of foodstuffs — working hard, and like
many businessmen today, chasing expenses rather than profits, I
was accepted into the Navy i in World War II, but due to a change
in age limit a few days before departure, I remained at home to
fight the battle of red and blue food points, OPS interpretations,
and fuel coupons.

The years have seen me change physically but I hope not too
ungracefully. My hobbies consist of a little golf whenever pos-
sible, seeing my friends, and doing just a little of everything to
round out what I consider a perfectly normal way of life. June
will be a most outstanding month for me. Our Twentieth wedding
anniversary falls on the day of my Twenty-fifth Reunion, and our
daughter will graduate from high school two days prior. She
will go on happily to the Rhode Island School of Design for her
college education. These twenty-five years have been ones of
good health, comfortable routine, dreams, disappointments — but
always with the hope of continuing to have, not necessarily the

big things, but some of the nice little things that help to round out
a contented life.

+ J. LESSER GOLDMAN

BORN: July 13, 1908, Se. Louis, Mo. parents: Alvin Damascus Goldman,
‘o3, Blanche Lesser.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, Sc. Louis, Mo,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).
prep: March 2, 1951, St. Louis, Mo.

AFTER graduation Goldman worked for four years in the
Dunster House Book Shop in Cambridge. He then owned his
own book and music store in St. Louis under the name of J. Lesser
Goldman Books. In 1938 he added records. In 1942 he entered
the Army, and until his discharge in 1945 was a member of the

[451]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

3ist Infantry Division, He served in the Southwest Pacific,
reached the rank of master sergeant, and was awarded a Bronze
Star Medal. While in service, he had liquidated his book and
record business. After the war, he travelled widely and was active
in musical and cultural circles, serving on the Board of Directors
of the St. Louis Symphony Society.

HAROLD MATTHEW GOLDSTEIN

HOME Appress: 544 Ward St. Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 115 Chauncy St., Boston 11, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 23, 1908, Roxbury, Mass. PARENTS: Maurice Mendell Goldstein,
Kathryn Eva Levy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Effie Grace Klayman, Dec. 22, 1935, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN:
Paul Edward, Dec. 4, 1938; Richard Alan, Feb. 16, 1942; Daniel Irving,
Nov. 15, 1944; William Alfred, July 6, 1946.

occuPATION: Manufacturers’ representative in apparel industry.

oFFices HELD: Neighborhood commissioner, Norumbega Council, chairman,
Troup Committee, Boy Scouts of America, president, 1951, treasurer,
1949, Congrss Associates; solicitor, worker, Red Feather, Red Cross,

Combined Jewish Appeal; member Survey Committee, Newton School
System,

MEMBER OF: Masons; Zionists; Ohabei Shalom Temple, Brookline.

FOLLOWING graduation I accepted a training job at Abraham
and Strauss, a Brooklyn department store. My purpose was to
learn retailing, but came the crash — and after two years in New
York City, I decided I could live more economically in Boston,
and I re-engaged my room at the folks. From 1931 to 1934 !
was an insurance broker, married in 1935, and struggled to keep
the wolf from the door. For a couple of years my wife taught
pianoforte and we entertained no bill collectors.

In 1938 I joined my father-in-law in the rag business (ready-
to-wear industry) and the venture folded three months before
Pearl Harbor. What a break — if we could have lasted but six
months longer our priorities in the piece goods market would
have been worth their weight in gold. I joined another firm in a
kindred line in October, 1941, and managed this business through
1945. During this period we lived in Brookline, Massachusetts.

[452 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

* My oldest son was born in 1938, and three more boys followed in
1942, 1944, and 1946. During these eventful years I devoted my-
self to civilian defense activities, as my contribution to the war
effort.

When I sought an interest in the business that I was managing,
and was duly refused, I resigned and tried to set up my own
business in the same field. I then sought allocation of fabrics,
but without priorities it was hopeless. My business was stillborn
and I then decided that being a sales representative was to be my
future occupation. From 1947 to the present I’ve travelled New
England, representing two or more concerns in the ladies apparel
industry.

In 1949 we moved our four sons to our present address, an
eleven-room, gracious old house, built at the end of the nineteenth
century. Each son has his own room, and there is ample room,
both within and without, for the boys to raise “hell.” Because
of the boys I've become interested in the Boy Scouts and at the
insistence of the “scouters” I accepted the post of “Neighborhood
Commissioner.” My wife is active (as you'd suspect) in P.T.A.’s
and still takes lessons in art and piano. There’s always something
doing at the Goldstein abode — four healthy and active boys,
piano lessons, clarinet lessons, Hebrew school, and Dad’s help
with home-work. To supplement this, the children enjoy a free-
for-all “rasslin” session with Dad on the bottom — lucky I took
freshman wrestling in Hemingway. If this isn’t enough there is
always baseball, football, basketball, and skating to keep me in
trim. My golf clubs get litrle use. When the pace does settle
down, our German Shepherd will quicken the tempo. Yes, sir,
there’s always something doing, etc. In politics I’ve been slightly
to the left of center — voting Democratic in national elections and
Republican in the state and local contests. I’m unhappy about
both party labels, but only griping and doing nothing else about
it. I favor low tariffs, strong federal government, social legisla-
tion, and am a friend of labor.

My wife and I are active in the affairs of our Temple. Outside
of Scout meetings, we both enjoy symphony concerts, lectures,
golf, and communal activities. Over-night camping with my boys
is a source of real pleasure and, in spite of my middle-age spread
(expanding waist-line), it keeps my spirit young. Life has been

[ 453]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

good to me; I have been blessed with a loving and understanding °
companion, a beautiful girl, and a truly wonderful mother to our
four boys. The quarter of a century has really sped by. We
are all looking forward to my return to Harvard, meeting old
friends, and reliving our youth (if only in the physical sense),
and perhaps once again shouting “Rhinehart” in the Yard.

ROBERT JOHN GOLDWATER

HOME ADDRESS: 142 E, 18th St., New York 3, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Queens College, Flushing, Long Island, N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 23, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Sigismund Schulz Gold-
water, Clara Aub.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926. DEGREE: A.M., 1931.

MarRIED: Louise Bourgeois, Sept. 12, 1938, Paris, France.
OCCUPATION: Education.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

+ WALTER CHAPMAN GOODWIN

BORN: July 17, 1906, Marblehead, Mass. parents: Perley Reynolds Goodwin,
Mary Montgomery.

PREPARED AT: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. -

pep: March 31, 1937, New York, N. Y.

DURING his first year at Harvard, Goodwin attended the En-
gineering School, and during his second was enrolled in the Col-
lege. He later became an estimator in New York City.

HERBERT MORDECAI GORFINKLE

HOME ApprEss: 1 Taymil Rd., New Rochelle, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1441 Broadway, New York 18, N. Y.

BoRN: May 1, 1910, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Isaac Gorfinkle, 03,
Rose Anna Leventall.

PREPARED AT: Mount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.B.A. 1931-

MarRrieD: Evelyn Shapiro, Oct. 27, 1935, New York, N. Y. cHILDREN: James
Maurice, Nov. 8, 1936; Irene Elizabeth, Dec. 11, 1939; Lawrence David,

L454]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

June 2, 1943; Anne Evelyn, April 25, 1946; Emily Jane, March 4,
1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nathaniel Edward Gorfinkle, M.B.A. °38.

occupation: Textile banker; vice-president and treasurer, Shapiro Brothers
Factors Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Shapiro Scholarship Fund, Inc. president, Gor-
finkle Foundation.

AFTER graduating from Harvard Business School in 1931, I
went to work for Shapiro Brothers Factors Corporation, of which
I am now vice-president and treasurer. For two years during the
war I was on leave of absence with the War Department, New
York Ordnance, New York City. I started as a renegotiator, was
made chief of the Audit Section Fiscal Branch, and then director
of contract settlements for the district.

My interests have centered almost exclusively around my busi-
ness and my family. Travelling has been for the most part con-
fined to commuting to New York by train in winter, and to Maine
by plane in summer. Sailing has been my chief source of recrea-
tion, for many summers on Long Island Sound and more recently
on Lake Sebago in Maine. Other activities include serving as presi-
dent of the Gorfinkle Foundation and as treasurer of the Shapiro
Scholarship Fund, Inc.

ROBERT BIGELOW GOWING

HOME aporess: 8 Middle St., Concord, Mass.

oFFice aporess: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 14, Mass.

Born: Nov. 18, 1907, Brookline, Mass. parents: Franklin Patch Gowing,
Bertha Darrow.

PreparED aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGRFES: A.B, 1929; LL.B. 1932; M.B.A. Cuz
laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Julia Townsend Locke, Aug. 3, 1935, Boston, Mass. cxitp: Julia
Townsend, March 6, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Augustus Gowing, ’19; Charles Darrow Gowing,
"28.

occupaTion: Hospital administration.

AFTER three years of teaching at the Harvard Business School
I took a job with the investment counsel firm of Scudder, Stevens
& Clark and was with them, except for three years in the Navy,

[455 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

until 1951. For most of the period my principal concern was
the administration of their two investment companies of the type
usually known as “investment trusts,” and I served as treasurer
and director of the two corporations.

Service with the Navy was as a ground officer in naval avia-
tion. The Navy was very considerate in selecting mostly water-
ing places as the location of my billets: I taught in Navy schools
at Quonset Point (Rhode Island), Hollywood (Florida), and
Dallas (Texas), and finally worked on the Operational Intelli-
gence section of the staff of the Commander, Air Force, Pacific
Fleet, at Pearl Harbor. I doubt if I should ever have made most
of these vacation spots under my own steam.

Returning to Scudder, Stevens & Clark after the war, I re-
sumed my former job until late in 1951 when I left to be vice-
president in charge of the trust department of the Mechanics
National Bank of Worcester, Massachusetts. Unfortunately this
new field was not to be long enjoyed. We had hardly settled our
furniture in a new house and I had just begun to find my way
around the bank, when I was hit by severe “nervous exhaustion.”
The acute phase was overcome in a short period but as anyone
knows who has lived with this affliction, it was a long pull getting
back to full stability. Having achieved this in due course and
looking for something satisfying to do, I became much interested
in hospital administration and have been working in various de-
partments to learn as much as possible about the Massachusetts
General Hospital, a fascinating complex of medical, nursing, re-
search, and teaching activities, I hope to remain permanently in
this field which has never made anyone rich but nevertheless
offers a variety of other rewards.

CHARLES HOLBROOK GRAINGER

HOME Appress: 203 North St. Hingham, Mass.

OFFice appress: 8 Main St., Hingham, Mass.

BORN: July 8, 1908, Susquehanna, Pa. PARENTS: William Grainger, ’oq, Anna
Henshaw Holbrook.

PREPARED AT: East Hampton High School, East Hampton, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930, DEGREE: AB., 1929(30),

MarRiED: Barbara Eleanor Boughton, Feb, 25, 1931, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:

[456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Barbara Welby, Oct. 18, 1931 (2. Donald H. Chapman, June 15, 1953);
Charles Holbrook, Jr, July 12, 1935.
HARVARD BROTHER: James Eldredge Grainger, °34.
occupation: Contractor and builder, owner, partner, Holbrook’s, Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, president, Smelt Brook Merchants Association,

1942-44.

THE period from June, 1929, to September, 1931, was taken up
in odd jobs and trips. Then I started with Filene’s in Boston. I
spent nine years here, moving from stock boy to assistant buyer.
I acquired a wife and in due course, first a daughter and then a son.
In 1939 I left Willie F., started my own retail store, and in 1948
added another.

My daughter went off to the University of New Hampshire in
1949 and graduated in 1953 — June sth, to be exact—and on
June 15th married an Air Force lieutenant and now lives with him
in Germany. Charlie, Jr. graduates from Hingham High this
June. He is a three-letter man in football and hockey, probably
going in the service with college coming later.

During the war experience with construction drew me away
from retailing and as a result I closed one store and now operate
the other by remote control, while I have gone into the business
of small-home building and renovation. It’s good, with better
hours, better air, and no constant stream of “always right” cus-
tomers. Afoney? Now and then. Our home in Hingham, a small
place on the Cape, fishing, skiing, and touring comprise our main
interests and hobbies. As to our social, political, and religious con-
victions, hour after hour and evening upon evening have been
spent in probing their many facets, but the Golden Rule is easy
to remember.

JOHN HENRY GRANSTROM

HOME apprEss: 3 Coolidge Rd., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 196 Warren St., Roxbury 19, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John August Granstrom, Flor-
ence Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MARRIED: Barbara M. Mulcahy, July 12, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Bar-
bara Annette, Aug. 17, 1936; Jane Elizabeth, March 16, 1940.

[457]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occuPATION: Funeral director.

MEMBER OF: St. John’s Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Milton Rotary Club; Milton
Players; Swedish Charitable Society; Swedish Masonic Club; Episco-
palian Club of Boston; Funeral Directors Association.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I continued to live in Boston, devoting
myself to the business of being a funeral director. In 1938 we
moved to Milton — our present address. In the summer we usu-
ally manage a few weeks some place on Cape Cod where we can
all enjov the ocean and fishing. My daughters: the elder is a fresh-
man at Wheaton College in Norton, Massachusetts; the younger is
in Milton Junior High School. My wife is still very attractive to
me. I have no real gripes —I still vote Republican — and am well
satisfied with the country and most of the people in it.

°

FRED STANLEY GRANT, JR.

HOME apprEss: Center Street, Dover, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Lincoln-Mercury Division, Ford Motor Co., Natick, Mass.

BorN: April 5, 1905, Wakefield, Mass. parents: Fred Stanley Grant, Eliza-
beth Bailey.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrieD: Barbara Morton, Nov. 25, 1938, Weston, Mass. CHILDREN: Gordon
Douglas, May 3, 1940; Georgia Deering, Sept. 28, 1942.

occuPATION: Manager, Lincoln Sales Department (New England), L Lincoln
Mercury Division, Ford Motor Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1947-49, chairman, 1949, Town of Dover Warrant
Committee, commanding officer, lieutenant colonel, 772nd Antiaircraft
Artillery Battalion Gun gomm, Massachusetts National Guard, since
1950; military aide, Governor of Massachusetts, since 1952.

MeMBeR OF: National Guard Officers’ Association, Dedham Country and
Polo Club.

AFTER Commencement in 1929, I enrolled at the Business School
and managed with difficulty to stay through one year. My first
job after that was with a small, fine jewelry concern in Boston.
The depression cut this period to a year and I went with a large
Boston department store as an assistant buyer of clocks, watches,
and silverware. Thence I went into the wholesale paper business.
A year of this and three short months in the bond business brought
me by pure chance into the automobile field. Through a series of

[ 458 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

steps including retail sales, service manager, wholesale manager,
and the Germans sweeping into France; came the War, the end of
business, and forty-two months in the armed services as an anti-
aircraft artilleryman. I went in as a first lieutenant, came out as a
major. My peregrinations during the war were extensive, if not
for the most part particularly perilous.

Starting at 808 Commonwealth Avenue, the First Service Com-
mand, as a military war bond salesman, I travelled New England
in all directions, ‘Then came various schools and travel to Virginia,
to North Carolina — back to Camp Edwards, thence to Texas, to
Arizona, New Mexico, California, and the “delightful” desert
country just west of Death Valley. I shipped out of San Francisco
on an old, Henry Ford, oceangoing freighter with an antiaircraft
battalion and some other special troops. We zig-zagged across the
“blue Pacific” alone and unescorted, completely blacked out at
night but with sparks shooting out of the old freighter’s stacks
like a Roman candle. Top speed was twelve knots per hour. P’'m
sure we must have looked like a water-born Haley’s comet to the
enemy. The Guy upstairs must have had His eye on us, because
we made it to New Guinea in nineteen days over “that lovely blue
water” with, of course, the more than usual number of queasy
hours — you may have the Blue Pacific.

From New Guinea I went to the Philippines, including one swim
in Subic Bay; then nineteen days before Christmas in 1946 I went
from Manila to San Pedro, California, with another ocean trip
thrown in, a “fast” cross-continental railroad journey to Fort
Devens and home the day before Christmas. I thought I’d had
enough of the military, but signed up with the National Guard
again in 1948, and as a lieutenant colonel I command an antiair-
craft artillery battalion in Boston. Military Science bit me and it
took, I’m afraid. Last year I was detailed, in addition to my other
duties, as military aide to Governor Herter. This keeps the tonsils
in shape and has, of course, augmented my repertoire of post-
prandial stories or has, at least, refurbished somewhat most of my
old ones.

As to hobbies other than the military, I have a woodworking
shop down cellar at home where I fashion such brutish articles as
sawhorses, and outdoor chairs and tables. Also, I am slowly but
surely being driven out of my mind by that royal and ancient game

[459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

familiarly referred to as “golf.” For the most, I’m under one hun-
dred and have never bettered eighty. Disgustingly inconsistent
am I. Then too, I still “beat the ivories” in pseudo fashion with a
group of highbinding “jazzbos” who call theniselves “The Ded-
ham Club Polecats.” The last word in the name, I assure you, is
highly significant.

The family, my wife plus a boy and a girl, have no difficulty
making life interesting for me. Needless to say, my attempts at
fair arbitration in their problems meet with complete and utter
scorn. I swallow my pride and go on. I am looking forward to
next June with high anticipation. I’m wondering how all the rest
of the “old goats” will look.

CHARLES CHAUNCEY GRAY

HOME AppREss: 18 Farwell Pl., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 49 Elmwood St., Newton, Mass.

Born: Aug. 21, 1906, Dedham, Mass. Parents: William Holder Gray, ’98,
Corinne Calhoun.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).

MARRIED: Pauline DeFriez, June 20, 1936, Burford, Oxon, England.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Calhoun Gray, ’26.

OCCUPATION: Plastics business.

MEMEER oF: Cambridge Boat Club, Cambridge Civic Association, Mystic
Seaport Association; Republican Club.

SINCE 1929 I have worked diligently but without startling suc-
cess in various fields. I have acquired an engaging wife, no chil-
dren, a few congenial friends, and not very much money.

GEORGE GREENBERG

HOME apprEss: 498 Highland Ave., Malden 48, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1907, Malden, Mass. parents: Bernard Greenberg, Sadie
Goldberg.

PREPARED aT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude, 1929; M.B.A., 1931.
magriep: Alma Rosenberg, 1939. CHILDREN: Sue Anne, 1940; Kenneth, 1942.

[ 460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ELBRIDGE HOWE GREENE, JR.

HOME aporess: 173 Maple Rd., Longmeadow, Mass.

orrice appress: U. S. Envelope Corp., 21 Cypress St., Springfield, Mass.

porn: March 21, 1907, Rockland, Mass. parents: Elbridge Howe Greene,
’oz, Anna Victoria Anderson.

prepareD AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Excter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

marrieD: Catherine J. Clarke, Oct. 4, 1930, Longmeadow, Mass, cnitp:
Manlyn Clarke, Dec. 11, 1933.

occupation: Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary's files.

RAYMOND MARTIN GREENE

HOME appreEss: Colesville Road, Ashton, Md.

Born: Jan. 8, 1908, Lowell, Mass. parents: Ransom Alphonso Greene,
Mabelle Sarah Greene.

PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB. 1929.

MaraiEeD: Helen Goodrich Osborn, Oct. 7, 1933, Brandon, Vt. CHILDREN:
Rodney Milton, Feb. 2, 1936; Barbara Osborn, Dec. 27, 1938.

MY career has been quite uneventful. From graduation to 1937
I was employed in various positions in the investment and insur-
ance business, located at Boston. From that time until 1942 I
was associated with the Coca-Cola Bortling Company of Boston.

In 1942 I moved to Washington, D. C., and environs, where I
am still located. My activities have been connected primarily
with the federal government during this period, and have been
entirely in a civilian capacity. I have worked with a number of
government agencies, for the most part the Army Department,
and most lately with the National Production Authority, De-
partment of Commerce.

MAURICE GREENFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Marlboro St., Chelsea 50, Mass.

OFFicz appress: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1906, Poland. parents: Philip Greenfield, Etta Krantzberg.
PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

[ 461 ]

. HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. Cum laude, 1929; A.M., 1932.

marriep: Dorothy Bernstein, April 3, 1933, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Naomi Joy, March 30, 1939; Nathaniel Leon, April 23, 1941.

occupation: Teacher of English, Chelsea High School.

A QUARTER of a century has elapsed. It is a big chunk out of

a man’s life. I haven’t much to boast about, but it hasn’t been too

bad.

My work hasn’t given me too much of the world’s goods. But
it has had its compensations. It has given me a certain measure of
protection, and leisure to indulge my hobbies: books with a lot
of footnotes, chess, and my own literary compositions. I have
many stories and poems which I haven’t attempted to publish; al-
though now I am working on a novel, which, if it turns out to my
satisfaction, I may allow to see the light.

In some ways I am a lucky man. I found a girl whose tastes are
similar to mine, and have been very happy with her. We have two
lovely, healthy children. They think their parents are just about
the grandest people that ever lived, and we do not think it wise
to disillusion them.

As to “social, political, or religious convictions,” thereby hangs
a tale. Ever since childhood I have sought “Wisdom” — for with-
out wisdom how can you have amy convictions? That’s why |
kept on coming to Harvard. But Harvard could not give it to me,
as, indeed, who can? Sometimes I think I see it coming of itself.
But I am not sure. Therefore I shall not say anything now. By
our Fiftieth Reunion maybe I'll be more positive. So Ill tell you
then. Stick around.

JESSE LEONARD GREENSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 2057 San Pasqual St., Pasadena 10, Calif.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Mount Wilson and Palomar Observatories, California In-
stitute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1909, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Maurice Greenstein, Leah
Feingold.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, Fieldston, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; A.M., 19303 PH.D., 1937.

MarRieD: Naomi Kitay, Jan. 7, 1934, Paterson, N. J. CHILDREN: George
Samuel, Sept. 28, 1940; Peter Daniel, Aug. 27, 1946.

[ 462 ]

oe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Professor of astrophysics, department head, astronomer, Mount
Wilson and Palomar Observatories.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Commission of Spectroscopy, International Astro-
nomical Union, panel of consultants on astronomy, National Science
Foundation; member consultant panel, Otfice of Naval Research; foreign
editor, Annales d'Astrophysique, Paris; councilor, American Astronom-
ical Society.

MEMBER OF: American Astronomical Society; Astronomical Society of the
Pacific; International Astronomical Union; Union Radio Scientifique
Internationale; Royal Astronomical Socicty; Athenaeum, Belfry Players.

PUBLICATIONS: About 120 research papers in technical journals; technical re-
ports on military devices, Otfice of Scientific Research and Develop-
ment; other classified reports; chapters in books, The Atmospheres of
the Earth and Planets (editor, Kuiper), Astrophysics (editor, Hynek),
Modern Physics for the Engineer (editor, Ridenour).

THE Twentieth Anniversary Report contained most of the facts
and events of my life. Enough has happened so that in twenty-
five years the few undergraduate years and many years since, have
faded into dim, incredible, romantic myths. I feel as little personal
contact with myself as an undergraduate as I have had with class-
mates since then; there have been too many phases in between.
Liberal education, free electives, neo-humanism, arguments about
literature, art, the founding of new literary journals over toasted
sandwiches in the basement of the Lampoon —all that is quite
dead. With it is part of myself that I found very interesting —
replaced for me by other intellectual activities which bring me
back to Harvard often, but to a very different Harvard and not as
the young student. Instead now I am myself a professor, expert
at student-lashing, busy at pushing students along a rigidly pre-
scribed technical course to a degree supposedly worth money in
research jobs. I know now that a good deal of my technical
knowledge has been obtained elsewhere, and that the undergradu-
ate years were valuable to me because they were so untechnical, so
amazingly, freely diversified. The things I remember now were
those that Harvard wisely permitted one to do on the side.

I have had an active and interesting career in pure science, with
a few excursions into science applied to some military problems,
and in the last few years into somewhat administrative aspects of
the support of science by government. From 1937 to 1948 I was
at the Yerkes Observatory of the University of Chicago, as an
instructor, assistant professor, and associate professor. I then be-

[ 463 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

came a professor at the California Institute of Technology and
have organized a new school for graduate training in astrophysics,
in connection with the 200-inch Palomar telescope. This has
meant a closer contact than I had in pure research previously,
with people, paper work, committees, and the general questions of
the future of science in this country. An anti-intellectual, anti-
liberal, anti-scientific wave is, I hope, receding. In the permanent
emergency in which we must live in the foreseeable future, it is
necessary to organize the scientific potential of this country the
way its technological and industrial potential has been — on a ra-
tional basis, and with full respect for the capabilities and pecu-
liarities of individuals and institutions. The balance between free-
dom for research along lines desired by the scientist and those
needed by the people is hard to maintain. Yet we had an example
of this possible balance between freedom and duty in the under-
graduate curriculum of 1925-1929 — a few tough, required doses
to give us a general look at the world, plus a freedom to study
whatever exotic tidbit (Sanskrit, sevententh-century English, or
the life-cycle of the platypus) appealed to us.
This leaves me little space for personal confessions. I have had
a wonderful time, altogether. I know many amusing and inter-
esting people (hobby number one). Other hobbies are music,
a weak attempt at raising orchids, good parties, talking, work. I
have had the good luck to have as wife a girl I took to a Harvard-
Yale game; two boys are growing rapidly, and with luck, and a
peaceful world, they might go to Harvard. It will be a different
place now, but a very good one. It would be nice to visit them in
Cambridge and again see through younger eyes the red brick and
white windows, and smell the wood fires in the air. |

DON SWINT GREER

HOME Appress: 372 Highland Ave., Winchester, Mass.

orrice appress: J. W. Greer Co., Wilmington, Mass.

Bon: March 16, 1908, Mt. Pleasant, Texas. parents: Jesse Wade Greer, Dee
Swint.

Preparep at; Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930, DEGREE: $.B. IN MECH. ENG, AND BUS. ADM. cuit
aude, 1930.

[ 464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

@

MARRIED: Charlotte Wedgwood Mason, April 12, 1930, West Newton, Mass.
CHILDREN: Diane Wedgwood, May 31, 1934; Charlotte Mason, Jr., Oct.

II, 1935.

OCCUPATION: President and general manager, J. W. Greer Company; presi-

. dent and co-manager, Wire Belt Company of America; president and
director, Westlex Corporation (real estate development).

OFFICES HELD: Director, Cambridge Y.M.C.A., 1950-53; member, 1949-51,
vice-chairman, 1951, Town of Winchester Finance Committee; member,
1951-54, chairman, 1953-54; Town of Winchester Board of Selectmen.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of Professional Engineers; American
Society of Bakery Engineers; Harvard Club of Boston; Winchester
Country Club; Badminton & Tennis Club.

MOST of you severed for good your academic connection with
Harvard in June, 1929. Since I was taking a five-year course in
engineering and business administration, I remained another year
as an undergraduate. The major portion of my time the last two
years was spent at the Business School. For the next twenty years
most of my waking and sleeping moments likewise concerned
business, as I joined my father and brother in our family business.
We design and manufacture special and standard machinery for
the food, and more recently, other industries. We now ship Greer
continuous production machinery all over the world, and our
business has grown to the point where for the last two years we
have been building a new plant on the outskirts of Boston, and
moving into it. We think we have one of the most modern and
best-equipped engineering and machine-building establishments
in the East, and any time you are driving around Boston on Route
128, turn off two miles on out Route 38, and stop in and see us.

Just a few years ago, some good friends inoculated me with the
bug of civic responsibility, so I accepted an appointment to the
Town of Winchester Finance Committee where I served for three
years, and then really got serious and ran for selectman. Much to
my surprise I was elected, and am now completing my term of
three years, serving as chairman this year. It has been a wonder-
ful experience, and I recommend it to everyone who has a little
time and willingness to do something for the town in which he
lives. Nothing can compare with it in opportunity to learn some-
thing about people and how to make them work together, and to
see first-hand the terrific problems of ever getting a world to pull
together.

[ 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

A few years ago I very fortunately found a religion which an-
swered my questions about life, God, and man. Through study of
it I learned a new way of life, and a comprehension of spiritual
values which nothing can take from me, and for which I shall be
eternally grateful. As I look back over the years I am amazed
that it could take a man forty-five years to get his feet really on
the ground, even when he has the benefit of a Harvard education
in the middle of that period!

I am proud of my two daughters, and my wife who has stuck
with me through the ups and downs of the last twenty-five years.
We all had one trip abroad together in 1950, and I’m hoping we
can have another before we become three families instead of one.

JAMES HOOPER GREW

HOME apprEss: Abbot House, Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 16, 1906, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Henry Sturgis Grew, '96,
Ethel Gertrude Hooper.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; Dr.-és-lettres (Paris), 1932.

marrigp: Alma Clayburgh, June 14, 1938, New York, N, Y. cumpren: Alma,
July 29, 1941; Edward Sturgis, May 29, 1944; James Hooper, Jr., May
5 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Sturgis Grew, Jr., 24

occupation: Head of French Department, Phillips Academy.

OFFICES HELD: President, Salon Frangais de Boston, 1951-52, Boston Chapter,
American Association of Teachers of French, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; American Association of ‘Teach-
ers of French, New England Modern Language Association.

PuBLicaTions: Articles in Modern Language Journal, French Review, Inde-
pendent School Bulletin.

IT seems only yesterday that I was writing an autobiographical
sketch for the Twentieth, and not so much longer that I was still
an undergraduate in Cambridge. It is hard to believe that the
famous Twenty-fifth, about which one hears so much, is actually
upon us — that we have really attained the dignity and maturity
of those approaching fifty.

How can one account for the quarter-century since leaving
Harvard? The statistics will tell of marriage, children, jobs held,

[ 466 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and the like. That ic has been a happy if uneventful life I can
state without hesitation. But more significant, has it been a useful
one? Surely all will agree there is nothing more essential to a
modern democracy than a sound education. And those who know
something about American education will recognize the important
part played in it by Phillips Academy. I like to think that my
eightcen years at that school have contributed something to the
high standards it has always maintained. A life devoted to school-
mastering is neither dramatic nor likely to interest many readers,
However, it would be comforting to feel it has added something
to the training of young Americans.

What is there that is new since the report written in 1949? Very
lictle, I fear. After many summers in the Andover Summer School,
I received, two years ago, a Carnegie grant to work at Yale on
ways and means to improve and extend the teaching of the modern
languages in the United States. During my summer in New
Haven, I taught aural-oral French in one of the public primary
schools, as part of a movement, now sweeping the country, to make
Americans bilingual. In Andover last winter, two of my Phillips
Academy colleagues and I offered our services to the local primary
school to inaugurate there, too, the teaching of French. We were
successful enough to see the School Committee this year add such
study to the regular curriculum. It was a novel and rewarding ex-
perience to teach children of that age and to work in a public
school; I was thus able to learn much about our educational
system.

Now Iam the holder of a Fulbright teacher exchange grant. We
are living in Brussels, my family and I, where I am teaching Eng-
lish (another novel experience!) in two Belgian high schools as
well as to adults. It is exciting indeed to be living in a foreign
country again, and to be learning something about a different
system of education. We find life here most enjoyable. The one
drawback is the fact that my contract does not expire until well
after this June’s festivities are over. We shall miss the oppor-
tunity of participating in what we know will be a gala occasion,
but we shall drink from here, in good French wine, to a most
successful reunion, and wish the best of everything to the honor-
able Class of 1929.

[ 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

LAWRENCE TREVOR GRIMM

HOME ADDRESS: 836 Westchester Pl. Los Angeles 5, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Shafer & Grimm, 417 S. Hill St., Los Angeles 7, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1906, Petersburg, Ind. parents: Lawrence Edward Grimm,
Martha Louise Moore.

PREPARED AT: Manual Arts High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; LL.B. (Univ. of Southern
California), 1942.

marrieD: Harriett Margaret Bergstrom, Dec. 31, 1935, Santa Ana, Calif.

CHILDREN: Trevor Alan, April 24, 1938; Patricia Ann, Nov. 13, 1941;
Richard Neal, Jan. 22, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Norman Randolph Grimm, ’29.
occuPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; California State Bar;
Lawyers’ Club; Delta Theta Phi Law Fraternity; Melrose Lodge No.
602, Free & Accepted Masons; Al Malaikah Temple, A.A.O.N.MS.
(Shrine) of Los Angeles; Los Angeles Athletic Club.

WELL, here goes. I have threatened for months to do it. I have
come to dread the phone calls and letters, having long since run
out of excuses. It will be dull and prosaic — but you asked for it.

The first ten years I'd rather skip, but perhaps there are a few
kindred souls who also learned the world wasn’t breathlessly
waiting to be opened, was cemented shut and harder to crack than
the atom. First, I was employed as and later became a merchandise
broker (dried beans and rice); later I dabbled slightly in politics
and the selling of insurance — everything on a catch as catch can
basis. As yet unmarried, my financial obligations included a
mother, sister, and two younger brothers, as a result of a parental
divorce within months of graduation. It was during these years
that the hairline receded, but a Civil Service job in 1936 relieved
the tension. However, those years had their compensations. On
New Year’s Eve, 1935, I acquired a wife and eventually a family
including two boys and a girl. It has been a happy and rewarding
union with many of the story book features.

It was not until after Trevor (Andover, Class of ’56), our first
son, was born that law school was possible, and our second child,
Patricia, arrived before my LL.B. from the University of
Southern California. Richard, our youngest, still unplanned, was
thoughtful enough to arrive at a time when there was money in
the bank. A full time job as Deputy Marshal paid law school tui-

[ 468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion and living expenses for four years, assisted by much needed
income from a legal secretary wife. Working hours: 4 P.M. until
midnight, classes, etc., 8 A.M. until 3 P.M. But in the words of
my professor in equity, 1 was “fortunate in graduating from law
school with a bald head.” Add to the appearance of maturity the
war years of free-flowing cash, and the legal novitiate could do all
right. Since graduation I have practised law, specializing primarily
in real property and the problems of multiple unit property
owners. During the war there was the additional swing-shift ac-
tivity at Douglas Aircraft, and for a short time a legal connection
with O.P.A. Rent Control.

During the past four years, in association with a client, we have
operated the Golden Bull, Inc., three steak and chop houses with
cocktail lounges, in themselves full-time businesses. From the
above it is evident that business activities consume both day and
night hours. There doesn’t seem to be enough time to go around.
Our social life centers around gatherings at home and at the homes
of our friends. A trip now and then to Las Vegas, Nevada (social
only), is a zestful pick-me-up. The place is fabulous for cuisine
and entertainment on a twenty-four-hgour basis. Their approach
is realistic in failing to distinguish between the roulette table and
the more dignified Wall Street. Hobbies — I have none, other than
@ postprandial nap.

All in all the last twenty-five years have been happy ones, em-
bracing the best that life has to offer. I ask no more than to be
able to write the same in the “Class Life” for our Fiftieth. See you
next June!

NORA {AN RANDOLPH GRIMM

HOME ADDRESS: 101 Avalon Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Brandeis University, 415 South St., Waltham 54, Mass.

BorN: April 22, 1905, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Lawrence Edward Grimm,
Martha Louise Moore.

PREPARED AT: Manual Arts High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(30).

MARRIED: Florence S. Durocher, June 17, 1936, Waban, Mass. cuitp: Norman
Randolph, Jr. Nov. 22, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Trevor Grimm, ’29.

occupaTion: Director of dining halls, Brandeis University.

[ 459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

oFFicEs HELD: Chairman, Local Board, Office of Price Administration,
Eugene, Ore.; scout master, committeeman, Boy Scouts of America.
MEMBER OF: Boston Stewards Club; New England Restaurant Association.

THE mere thought of “twenty-five years” suggests an aspirin
chaser, particularly when the depression 30’s, the warring 40’s,
and the recovering 50's are considered. Fortunately for myself
and family, the Fates have been kind, and any scars obtained along
the path have vanished.

While I have invented nothing, nor composed anything, nor
become a famous painter, I have contributed to our society a cer-
tain tangible — excuse the vernacular — work. I started climbing
the ladder in a brokerage firm, but found the rungs too far apart,
and shifted to a firm manufacturing commercial stationery. ‘Then,
by chance, I became co-manager of a hotel in beautiful Eugene,
Oregon. Thence to a resort hotel in New Hampshire, followed
by a short, but pleasant, association with Mr. William A. Heaman
in the freshman dining hall in the Harvard Union. Shortly there-
after, in 1948, I joined Brandeis University as director of dining
halls, and am happily engaged in this work at the present time. Of
all my limited number of occupations, I find the intimate associa-
tion with Brandeis students, faculty, and administrative staff the
most stimulating, exciting, and satisfying.

As for my family, let me first give credit to classmate Larry
Durocher, for it was through him that I met, wooed, and married
his sister Florence. (Just for the record, it was I through whom
he met, etc, and etc., his lovely wife Peggy.) Thanks from both
of us to Harvard! Again to the family — our son Norman, Jr. -
is just at present a hot-rod enthusiast with ambitions to make
M.LT. Still there is time, and he might have a change of heart
and go to Harvard in 1955.

Looking futureward, I am now trying to figure out a way to
tour the world with the Missus on some kind of earn-as-you-go
plan, and would be glad to represent any classmates with “legiti-
mate interests” in any foreign market, for a fee. The pre-Reunion
events thus far, sparked by George Cleary and secretary Terry
Collens, have been great, and say, my how some of you fellows

have changed —too! Hobbies are largely of the domestic type, |
with an occasional round of golf.

[ 470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BRONSON WINTHROP GRISCOM

HOME ApprEss: Syosset, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 26 The Place, Glen Cove, N. Y.

BORN: June 2, 1907, Rome, Italy. parents: Lloyd Carpenter Griscom,
Elizabeth Bronson.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, 1928-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarrieD: Sophie M. Gay, June 20,:1931, Southampton, Long Island, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Frederic Bronson, June 9, 1932; Elsa Dumaresq, Feb, 25,

1934, Gay, June 30, 1938.

HARVARD SON: Frederic Bronson Griscom, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lloyd Preston Griscom, '37.

occuPATION: President and director, Griscom Publications, Inc. :

OFFICES HELD: Member board of governors, New York Republican Club,
1931-33; member, New York Republican County Committee, 1932;
director, Nassau County Chapter, American Red Cross, 1948-49, lieu-
tenant colonel, Air Forces Reserve.

MY life in the outside world, away from home, school, and Har-
vard, really began in my junior year. During my sophomore
year I worked a deal with the Harvard authorities under which
I could spend my junior year at Trinity College, Cambridge,
England, and get credit at Harvard for the work done there. I
had a delightful year there and during my stay engaged in what
was to become one of my principal hobbies, namely, travel. One
of the pleasant things about this English University was the length
of the Christmas and Easter holidays. This permitted me to travel
extensively and visit numerous countries in Southern Europe and
the Balkans. I also met and visited a great number of very attrac-
tive English people.

Right after graduation I spent a full summer of travel which
was highlighted by a six weeks’ tour through Russia with an in-
teresting group. I left Russia via Leningrad and proceeded to
travel through Finland and the other Scandinavian countries.

- [then spent a year at the Law School where I had a good time
and gave my mind some splendid exercise but I soon concluded
that I did not wish to be a lawyer. After another wonderful sum-
mer of travel through most of the South American countries, I set-
tled down to my life’s work, the newspaper business. I obtained a
job in the advertising department of the New York Herald Trib-
une where I remained until May, 1933, when I began my present

[471 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occupation of publishing local papers on Long Island. The Trib-
une years were pleasant and during this time I was quite active in
New York City politics. I enjoyed my associations in the New
York Young Republican Club where I served on the board of
governors with a fine group which included Tom Dewey and
Herb Brownell.

In twenty years of publishing on Long Island I’ve had a
job of building and consolidation. I have purchased or started
something like twenty-eight weekly newspapers in this period
and have consolidated these into a much smaller number, six
of which I now publish. I also conduct a commercial printing
business which is a separate operation and, like the newspapers,
has expanded greatly with the phenomenal growth of the area in
which we operate.

In this endeavor I have had to combat the hardships that we
have all faced. My business was conceived in a depression and
born during a banking crisis. It suffered through years of New
Deal antagonism to free enterprise, new and increasing taxes, and
four years of war during which I was away in the Army Air
Forces. Various controls which began in that war and only re-
cently were lifted added to our problems. We had our share,
too, of labor troubles, culminating in a critical strike. Yet during
this twenty-year period our gross business has increased a thou-
sand per cent, and our circulation gains have been excellent.

Ican sum it all up by saying it has been a rewarding experience.
There is a great opportunity for public service in publishing
local newspapers and I enjoy the great variety of the work. | also
like the pleasant country commuting by car from home to office
and am glad to be out of the New York City maelstrom except
for one thing: I do not see nearly as much of my old friends as I
should like to.

Being one’s own boss has many compensations and one of the
principal ones is that when you feel like taking some time off you
can very often do so. It has permitted me to continue my travels
and to develop and enjoy my retreat in the mountains of Maine.
I have purchased several old farms there near the village of Phil-
lips. This is just south of the Rangeley Lakes district in the north-
western corner of Maine, not far from either Canada or New
Hampshire. Incidentally, it is an odd fact that another classmate

[ 472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

has chosen the same place in which to develop a sizeable property.
I refer to John Fox who has distinguished himself in the financial
and real estate world and needs no introduction by me. He, too,
by the way, is a newspaper publisher.

I enjoy this place in Maine tremendously and usually go there
for short trips in the spring for the fishing, in the summer for a
family vacation, and in the fall for bird shooting and deer hunt-
ing. I have done a lot of mountain climbing, have become a mem-
ber of the Appalachian Trail Conference and am responsible
for maintaining a seven-mile section of the Trail over three moun-
tain peaks. Elow long I shall be able to keep this up I don’t know
as | am getting older all the time.

I have no hobbies in the usual sense of the term, yet I hope
some day to be a camera fan. I do have absorbing interests be-
sides travel such as foreign affairs and politics. Otherwise I am
quite contented with various activities on both my places, sports,
and a quiet social life.

I have had my share of fun and foolishness. In 1936 I crossed
the Spanish border and walked into a hot revolution with plenty
of shooting and excitement. I once, while at Trinity College,
posed as an Italian Count and got an excellent seat near Rudyard
Kipling at Thomas Hardy's funeral in Westminster Abbey. I was
at one time invited to join a colorful band of soldiers of fortune
who were plotting a revolution in a Latin American country, but
I shied away quickly from this one. IT have watched a magnificent
revolution in Bolivia from a hotel window. I have met scores of
fascinating people and one of the oddest was a rich miser in the
Bowery. I interviewed him in a dingy basement and a few days
later he was murdered in the same spot. In short, I have had an
interesting time since graduation and I hope to continue the same
pleasant existence.

DAVID SAMUEL GRUBER

HOME appREss: 2717 Heyward St., Columbia, S. C.

OFFICE appress: Tree of Life Congregation, 2701 Heyward St., Columbia,
Ss. C

BoRN: May 30, 1907, Shepetowka, Russia. parents: Isaac Mayer Gruber,
Rose Katz.

[ 473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED aT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192-1929. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1929; Rabbi, muy,
(Jewish Inst. of Religion), 1933.

MarRIED: Mathilde Nover, May 10, 1936, New York, N. Y. cHILpren:

Louis Nover, Nov. 7, 1938; Mayer Isaac, Nov. 23, 1944.
OCCUPATION: Rabbi.

OFFICES HELD: President, Schenectady District, Zionist Organization of
America, Jewish Community Council of Schenectady, N. Y.; secretary,

Schenectady County Board of Child Welfare, Schenectady Round Table
of Christians and Jews.

MEMBER OF: Central Conference of American Rabbis; Alumni Association
Jewish Institute of Religion, Hebrew Union College; Zionist Organiza-
tion of America; Masons, Roman Eagle Lodge, Danville, Va.; B'nai
B'rith; Columbia Ministerial Association; board of delegates, Commu-

nity Chest, Columbia, S. C.; Rotary Columbia, S. C.; Torch Club,
Columbia, S. C.

I PREPARED for the Rabbinate at the Jewish Institute of Re-
ligion, New York. I was awarded the Bloch Prize for being the
outstanding first-year student, and held a social service fellow-
ship for a number of years doing boys’ work and acting as chap-
Jain at Bellevue Hospital in New York City.

I served the Gates of Heaven Congregation, Schenectady, New
York, from 1934 to 1948, and the Beth Sholem Congregation,
Danville, Virginia, from 1948 to 1950. Since then I have been
serving the Tree of Life Congregation, Columbia, South Caro-
lina.

Throughout my ministry I have tried to be a teaching rabbi and
not merely a preaching rabbi. I believe I have had a fair measure
of success in educational work with children and adult education.
I have carried on an extensive program of interfaith work. Had
I more fully realized early enough my own interest in teaching
and what may be a natural aptitude for teaching, I should have
taken more work in education and educational psychology.

I have always been interested in arts and crafts, in teaching
through handiwork, and in the use of audio-visual aids. Over
the years I have acquired an extensive library of books on Jewish
and general religious interest, a good collection of records and
books on art. I love antiques. I have picked up some fine furni-
ture, china, and silver. I collect generally and have interested our
boys in collecting souvenir spoons, stamps, coins, and postcards.
My wife and I are both interested in art and in arts and crafts

[474]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I often take some time out during the summer vacations to make
furniture with hand tools.

Both our boys are interested in music. Louis, our elder boy,
has been playing the piano since he was four and a half. He has
been studying organ and the clarinet. Mayer studies the piano,
Both boys have real aptitude for languages and drawing, have
beautiful voices and love to sing. Both boys would love to go to
Harvard. I hope something may turn up that may enable me to
send them. I fear, however, a minister's salary may necessitate
their contenting themselves with a local college.

As I look back I think my four years at Harvard were the most
wonderful in my life. It was those four years that more than
anything else gave me my faith in God, in man, and in America.
They passed all too quickly. Were I to live my life over again, |
might choose to do some things differently, but four years at
Harvard I would not want to miss, and those I should want to

live over again.

DAVID GUARNACCIA

HOME AppREss: 105 School St, Springfield, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 812 Monsanto Ave., Indian Orchard, Mass.
Born: June 20, 1907, Wakefield, Mass. parents: Joseph Guarnaccia, Pietra

Caruso.

PREPARED AT: Wakefield High School, Wakefield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B, 1929; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1934.

marrieD: Shirley H. Herriman, June 24, 1933, Sayville, N. Y. (died Feb. 28,
1953). cHiLD: David, Jr, Aug. 19, 1936.

occuPaTION: Product sales manager, plastics, Monsanto Chemical Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Lions Club of Bayport, 1949-51.
MEMBER OF: Society of Plastics Engineers, Society of Plastics Industry;
Lions Club of Bayport.

I'VE put this Class history off long enough. I could have done
this a long time ago, but I couldn’t work up enough enthusiasm
for the job. The Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reunion seemed a
long way off, until the “Goad No. 1” card came. |

I went into a Peabody, Massachusetts, tannery right from Col-
ege. It took a year of tannery smell to convince me I needed
some background in business. In the fall of 1930, I enrolled in the

[475 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Harvard Business School and, guess what! I lasted until mid-years,
For eight months I lived from hand-to-mouth, then started a four-
year career of teaching and coaching. That’s how long it took me
to find out I didn’t have the temperament to handle growing teen-
agers and a stomach cast iron enough to take a losing football
team. The headmaster finally tipped me off that I was through.

In 1933 I married and brought my bride to the private school
where I was teaching. Institutional living is rather confining, I
found out. I should have known better, I suppose, but after leav-
ing my teaching job I went to Columbia to complete a masters
degree I had started. I never used the degree because I went on
the Street to sell stocks and bonds. This was unfortunate, because
I just couldn’t sell something I didn’t really believe in. I found
this out, because I left the Street in 1937 to go with the Spool Cot-
ton Company to sell Clarks ONT thread. I found I could sell
lots of that in the seven years I was with the company. I sold
enough thread to stitch the clothes of every man, woman, and
child on this earth. Two and one-half of the spool cotton seven
years were spent during the war years in an essential capacity. |
was away from home for that length of time, with occasional
visits to my family who had settled in Brooklyn. I never did get
into the service, but I did get out of the thread business.

A young, exciting, and fast-growing industry beckoned me. I
answered the call of plastics in 1944, when I joined Monsanto
Chemical Company. This was industrial selling at its best. I liked
it, and it was good to me. I now direct national sales of thermo-.
plastic molding materials; with a drawn-out competitive period
ahead, I am wondering how to keep a green sales force fired up
to more than hold its own and keep myself from getting ulcers.

Looking back over a rather uneventful life, the following come
to mind:

Married in 1933.

Son born in 1936.

Son’s first steps a year later.

Buying and restoring a 150-year-old house.

Putting together a hi-fidelity system.

Experiencing the sensations that come from learning to like
classical music.

An Pw Nm

[ 476 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

7. Trying to sell an old house you love and finding out that
most people don’t like old things.

8. Selling the old house at a ridiculously low figure.

g- My promotion to my present job, and the awful feeling that
I was over my head.

10. Flying over the Rockies by moonlight.

LEON INDEPENDENCE GUBIN

HOME aporess: 218 S. Peck Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDREss: 219 W. Seventh St. Los Angeles 14, Calif.

Born: July 4, 1906, Havana, Cuba. parents: Oscar Gubin, Bertha Miller.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1932,

MARRIED: Louise Mae Schwarzchild, June 26, 1930, Richmond, Va. CHILDREN:
Virginia Lee, Aug. 3, 1940; William Leon, Sept. 18, 1944.

occuPATION: Lawyer; real estate investments.

MY wife and I were married after I finished my first year at Har-

vard Law School, and after I graduated two years later, we es-

tablished our home in the city of Beverly Hills, where we have

since resided. We moved into our present home in 1940 and have

just completed an addition to it in order to provide the extra

space required by our two children. In four years we hope to

see Virginia enter Wellesley and at the same time I hope Bill will

go to Exeter and then Harvard. I began the practice of law upon

returning here from Harvard and have always maintained my

own office, except for a period of a year and a half prior to the

end of the war when I served as an enforcement attorney with the

Office of Price Administration.

In the early thirties we joined the West Side Tennis Club of
Cheviot Hills as we both are very enthusiastic about the game and
we are able to play all year. (Plug for southern California
weather.) We have travelled extensively throughout the United
States and Europe and have also visited Bermuda and Mexico
City. This coming March we expect to take a trip to Honolulu.
I have always been interested in music, especially in the current
popular music, and I continue to play the piano. While I have
played in public, I am only an amateur, but I have composed and

[477]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

copyrighted several numbers which have been played by profes.
sional musicians. They will not, alas, ever be published.

In closing, I am sorry to state that I have no great message to
give to my classmates. I can only say that I have had a busy life
with the problems of every day existence and a happy life helping
my wife raise our children. For what I learned at Harvard as
preparation for life I am deeply grateful.

+ GEORGE DENVER GUGGENHEIM

BorN: April 7, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Simon Guggenheim, Olyo
Helen Hirsch.

PREPARED AT: Evans School, Mesa, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

piep: Nov. 9, 1939, New York, N. Y.

THE Secretary knows little of Guggenheim’s life, except that
after leaving Harvard he resided in New York City. His father
was a former senator from Colorado.

MITCHELL GEORGE HADGE

HOME ADDRESS: 332 Jamaica Way, Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 3, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: George Michael Hadge, Agaby
Milham Boussard.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MARRIED: Nima Mike, June 9, 1935, Norwood, Mass. CHILDREN: Ronald,
1936; Elaine; Kenneth; Richard.

occupation: Lawyer.

ARTHUR SEYMOUR HALL

HOME ApprEss: 24 Norton Rd., Quincy 69, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 Evans Way, Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 15, 1907, Raleigh, N. C. parents: John Galentine Hall, ’96, a.M.
’97, Martha Green Harding.

PREPARED AT: Stoughton High School, Stoughton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(30).

MarRigep: Mildred Nickerson Smith, July 7, 1934, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Seymour Brewster, June 30, 1936, Brenda Nickerson, July 31, 1939.

[ 478 j

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OccUPATION: Instructor in radio subjects, Leland Powers School.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Stoughton Grange, Patrons of Elusbandry 199, 1930~
31; member Board, American Federation of Radio Artists, Boston;
member Board, vice-president, president, Boston Naval Chapter, Re-
serve Officers Association; junior deacon, Rural Lodge, A.F. & A.M,
Quincy.

Muemper oF; Scoughton Grange, Patrons of Husbandry t99; Harvard Club of
Quincy; Rural Lodge, AF. & A.M, Quincy; Taleb Grotto, Quincy;
Scottish Rite Bodies, Valley of Boston; Reserve Officers Association,
Boston Naval Chapter, Merrymount Association of Quincy; American
Federation of Radio Artists, National Sojourners, Mystic Valley Chap-
ter,

PuBLicaTions: Occasional poem.

THE little men in the white coats haven't come for me yet, though
goodness knows I've given them provocation enough. Their first
opportunity came when, in my first job after Commencement (as
a messenger boy for Stone & Webster) I went to work in sport
shorts. All that happened was a sudden cessation of employment!
Several differenrt soda fountains (the old Loft store on Summer
Street, Boston, the Efarvard Square Se. Clair’s, et alia) provided
temporary employment, and then the old Alumni Placement Bu-
reau got me a spot as an announcer at WBSO (now WORL),
where in a year and nine months I acquired a fiancée, the rudi-
ments of the art of radio, and a second-hand model A. The Roger
Babson radio organization and [ came to a parting of the ways —
we didn’t see eye to eye about a lot of things, such as manager
W. Webber’s philosophy “What this country needs is another
war so that J can make a lot of money” —and soda work and
theatre ushering at the Communiry Playhouse in Wellesley Hills
kept the Ford and me in fuel and fun for a time. In 1934 I
returned to radio as program director, announcer, script writer,
and sometime elevator operator at WORC in Worcester, Massa-
chusetts. That was also the year that Milly Smith became Milly
Hall — and in our sojourn in Worcester, Seymour was born in
1936.

Early in 1938 we left the heart of the Commonwealth to return
to Boston and WCOP where production and program building
duties were added to those of announcing. In the fall of 1940 I
shifted over to WHDH, where I did such chores as announcing,
script writing, musical directing, music library-ing. and such like

[ 479 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

tations. This fall of 1953 I was appointed assistant radio director
at the Leland Powers School of Radio, Television, and Theatre,
and find my teaching duties there most interesting and rewarding,
All in all, these twenty-five years have been reasonably kind, com-

pletely happy, and often amusing. I'll see you all at the Reunion
— and until then, the best.

EDWARD FRANCIS HALL

HOME ADDRESS: 378 Spring St., Newport, R. I.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1619 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.

BorN: April 22, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Edward Earl Hall, Annie
Louise Maher.

PREPARED AT: Rogers High School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

occuPATION: Purchasing agent; writer.

OFFICES HELD: Manager, Currie’s Ice Cream Company, Los Angeles, 1931-33.

PuBLicaTions: Magazine and newspaper articles; privately printed novel;
miscellaneous writing for hotel journals,

THE twenty-five years that have elapsed since I left Harvard
long ago in 1929 have been peculiarly satisfying to me. I have
deviated from the beaten track a number of times, most notably
into the field of professional tennis in New Hampshire and later
on, for a more extended period, into the hotel business. These
lapses, however, have been for the most part of comparatively
short duration, and I have consistently returned to my more con-
genial literary endeavors which have always been my first love.
My initial experiment, except for some very juvenile efforts and
of course English “A,” was with Columbia Pictures in Hollywood
shortly after my arrival on the West Coast. I was introduced
thereto by a classmate, Mr. Reuel E. O’'Harra, who had spent the
preceding ten years or so entrenching himself with that admirable
organization. My stay there, however, was not long as I felt that
the greater security offered me by Currie’s Ice Cream Company
was not to be denied. So I became a purveyor of Mile-High Ice
Cream Cones, figuratively speaking, for the ensuing two years.
Failing to find sufficient spiritual nourishment in that Capacity,
I returned to writing and bombarded most of the Los Angeles

[ 482 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

papers and several neighboring sheets with a wide variety of
literary efforts with sufficient response to keep me away from the
ice cream cones and any other similar commodities.

In due time, through another friend, I re-entered as purchasing
agent the more practical business world in the shape of the Hilton
Hotel Company and in particular the glamorous Town House in
Los Angeles. My daily contacts with maharajahs, movie stars,
titans of industry, and such kept me occupied for the longest
static period in my not-so-static career. At long last, after spend-
ing the years of World War II at the Town Elouse, because of a
disability caused by my aforementioned tennis activities, I trans-
ferred my talents to the Del Mar and Deauville Beach Clubs in
Santa Monica.

All this time I did not neglect my writing and I plan to bring
forth the Great Hotel Novel one of these days, Arnold Bennett's
Imperial Palace notwithstanding. These constitute what I choose
to select as the highlights in my post-Harvard life. I have too, at
the moment, the most pious hopes of making my mark in tele-
vision and I hope that you all will be sceing my name on your
screens in the not-too-far distant future.

Although I have made several trips to the East during the past
decade, I have not been able to make any of them coincide with
the various Class functions. So I shall be unusually happy to renew
my friendships with many of my Class members this coming
June.

MORRILL KNOWLTON HALL

Home appress: Alden Road, West Yarmouth, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Route 28, Hyannis, Mass,

Born: Novy. 21, 1906, Newton Center, Mass. parents: James Randolph Hall,
Adaline Simmons Phillips.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Barbara Lilian Morse, March 22, 1952, North Woodstock, Conn.
cuiLp: Jeffrey Allen, Nov. 28, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Phillips Hall, ’27.

OccUPATION: Proprietor, manager, Hall’s Cleaners, dry cleaners.

I FINISHED my course at Harvard College in February, 1929,
[ 483 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

to go to work for the Lee Higginson Trust Company, with the
mutual understanding I was going to the Harvard Business School
for its two-year course in investment banking and work at the
Trust Company during vacations and after I graduated. I did not
graduate. | attended the Business School in 1929 and 1931, and
worked at the Trust Company until May, 1932, when they started
to liquidate. During the next two years I worked for Lincoln
Stores, Inc., a low-priced variety chain of stores. 1 worked in ten
of their sixteen stores in New England and northern New York
State for a period of from not less than six months to not more
than fifteen months in each store. I was an assistant for the first
five years and a manager for the last five years.

From April, 1942, to October, 1945, | was in the ground force
of the Army Air Corps, serving as a private to a I-sergeant, first
as weather observer and then as a meteorologist. I put in half of
this time in this country and the last half in Newfoundland and
Labrador. After being discharged from the Army in October,
1945, | took a forty-day auto trip around the U.S.A. before going
back to work for Lincoln Stores for one more year. In March,
1947, my brother and I bought a small dry cleaning business in
Hyannis, Massachusetts. Except for six months when I went to
Niagara Falls to help some business acquaintances run Beir Bros.
Department Store, I have been working at and managing Hall’s
Cleaners. My brother went back into the insurance business in
1949 and since that time I have been running this business alone.
We have two small stores on Main Street besides the plant op-
posite the airport.

My wife and I have a nice modest home near the beach in West
Yarmouth, only two miles from my work. We have a young son
and work for his and our future. I was brought up in the country
—spent about sixteen years in the harness of city business and
the U.S. Army, being bounced around from place to place like a
checker on a checkerboard — now I’m back in the country in my
own business, finally settled in one spot where my wife and I can
take some part in the local community affairs, have a feeling of
stability and make our home our anchor.

[ 484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RAYMOND GARDNER HALL

HOME AppREss: Thomson Ave., Springfield R.F.D. 3, Media, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E. I. duPont de Nemours, Wilmington, Del.

Born: Nov. 12, 1906, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Raymond Crandall Bevins
Hall, Helen Hadlock.

paepareD AT: St. George's School, Newport, R. 1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929(31); S.M., 1932.

MarRiED: Frances Doliber, April 6, 1929, Brookline, Mass. cHILpREN: Vir-
ginia, Oct. 14, 1929; Barbara, Feb. 24, 1932.

occupation: Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

ARTHUR DONAHEY HAMILTON

HOME AppRESS: 196 Spring St. Shrewsbury, Mass.

oFFice aporess: Hamilton International Corp., State Mutual Bldg., Worces-
ter 8, Mass.

Born: Nov. 4, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Arthur Hamilton Donahcy,
Minnie McLeod.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1934.

Marariep: Marion Rose Runo, Oct. 23, 1937, Worcester, Mass.

occuPATION: Lawyer; president, Hamilton International Corporation (im-

rts).

orrices HELD: Past master, Massachusetts Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; member Na-
tional Committee for Import Development, Foreign Trade Council,
Worcester Chamber of Commerce, lieutenant colonel, Army Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Worcester County Bar Association; Masons; Japan Society of
Boston.

PusLications: “Forty Questions and Answers on Supply of Armored Divi-
sions,” 1942.

AT this point in completing the questionnaire for the Anniversary

Report I should like to say that I get so much pleasure from read-

ing your “comments” that I am encouraged to believe you may

find some in reading mine.

After college I studied law and, excepting the period of mili-
tary service from 1942 to 1946, have continually practised the
same. However, my life-long interest in foreign trading finally
culminated in the formation of my own foreign trading company
In 1951.

Before the war my wife and I resided in a Colonial style house

[ 485 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

in Wellesley. During the war our inquiries into the subject of a
“postwar dream house” persuaded us that we wanted to say good-
bye to Mr. Chippendale, and, in the footsteps of Frank Lloyd
Wright, try to participate in the creative opportunities that build-
ing a new home offered. We did not drift into this decision. It
was preceded by a horrible shock to our traditionalist minds when
we discovered that some people regarded a twentieth-century
Cape Cod as a sterile image of a dead era. We soothed our hurt
feelings with the observation that it takes all kinds to make a
world. Next came the difficult decision to lay aside the security
provided by the old and tried and risk the insecurity offered by
the new and untried. Fortunately we made the decision and
opened for ourselves a new world. We acquired a philosophy, a
fresh approach, which would continue to influence our lives ina
thousand different ways we could not forsee.

The final form of a shelter that would satisfy us would be de-
pendent upon two things: how well we knew ourselves and how
well we understood the nature of materials. These man has studied
through the ages. Now, however, these studies acquired personal
meaning and application. If we know any more about ourselves
or materials today than we did yesterday, then the structure we
build today should reflect such advance. It is also possible that we
did not build as well yesterday as we might have if we used all the
knowledge we then possessed. Further, each new structure pre-
sents an opportunity to exercise the creative instinct which each
of us had at birth but which the educational system of our time
stunted and made impotent.

Well, architect, builder, and owner collaborated in designing
and erecting a dwelling evolved from the foregoing ideas. It has
been a constant source of pleasure to us. Time will tell whether
it was a success or failure but either way a little experience has
been gained. I see now what John Dewey meant when he said,
“Not perfection as a final goal, but the ever-enduring process of
perfecting, maturing, refining, is the aim of living.”

Miscellany. Classmate whose name will be remembered longest:
Leroy Anderson for his delightful music. Favorite saying: Be
kind to the other fellow; he is fighting the battle of his life. From
a recent trip to Japan: we should spend more time developing the
ties that bind men together rather than emphasizing the differ-

| 486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ences which drive men apart. Mystery of the times: why some
supposedly intelligent people lend aid and comfort to systems of
government which must enslave the mind or perish. Money: now
there is a problem no matter how you look at it! Women: shall
we talk about them now or wait until later?

CHARLES RUFUS HAMLEN

HOME aporess: Bedford, N. H.

oFFice appress: Carl E. Peterson, 1008 Elm St., Manchester, N. H.

BORN: July 7, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Ewing Wallace Hamlen,
Mary Gore Child,

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.ARCH., 1933.

marrigD: Doris Driggs, June 7, 1934, Jaffrey, N. H. cumpren: David, Jan. 9,
1942, Carol, Aug, 4, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard King Hamlen, ’25, M.B.A., ’27.

occupation: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Harvard Club of Manchester, N. H.

MEMBER OF: Exchange Club of Manchester; New Hampshire Chapter,
A.LA.; New Hampshire Society of Architects; Manchester Film So-
ciety; Uncanoonuc Ski Club,

I GRADUATED in 1929 and entered the School of Architecture
with a side job as assistant in the Department of Fine Arts. Before
graduation, I managed to play a little hockey, a lot of squash, and
spent a couple of years on the tennis team. I graduated from archi-
tectural school in the winter of 1933, after teaching for a half
year at the University of Minnesota in the spring of 1932.

In early 1934 1 got a job in Manchester, New Hampshire, in
architectural work and have remained here ever since — practi-
cally all the time associated with Carl E. Peterson (Harvard School
of Architecture, 1915-1917). I married Doris Driggs of New
York City and Redding, Connecticut, in June, 1934, and have two
children (see above). I entered the Aviation Engineers in 1944
and went to France that year. I returned home in March, 1946,
after an interesting tour of France, Belgium, Holland, and Ger-
many. I held the rank of captain. My architectural masterpieces
while in the service were: 1. remodelling the Royal Stables into
barracks at Newmarket, England; 2. assisting in designing a me-
morial flagpole for Lille, France. I also assisted in designing the

[487]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

portable gallows used in terminating certain criminal careers. Har-
vard architectural school training was found to be somewhat in-
adequate particularly in the last instance. |
I have been back in architecture since, May, 1946 — same firm.
In the ensuing years I have worked on several outstanding build-
ings throughout New Hampshire, also on a wine cellar for one
friend and a dog house for another — in the latter instance the
building is less ambiguously known as a kennel. As of the moment
of writing, I seem to have acquired another dog house (also a
kennel) for Colonel Norman Vaughan’s racing Huskies. The
colonel, not the Huskies, is Harvard ’29. Doesn’t anyone else want
a dog house? (Adv’t.) From October, 1937, to the present, ex-
cepting War Tours, Inc., I have lived in Bedford, New Hamp-
shire. In May, 1952, we moved into our new house, situated on
twelve acres of woodland with a “meander” brook almost sur-
rounding the house on the east, south, and west sides. If you
notice the word “woodland” above, any home owner will instantly
know our family’s hobbies — cutting down or trimming and
burning. This fact I presume will also appear in my Fiftieth An-
niversary report! Other hobbies are a mammoth (for an amateur
and beginner) electric train layout, some tennis, some cabinet
making, and a notable change from the Twentieth Anniversary
Report from dry martinis to rye on the rocks. And my final hobby
(it is really my wife’s) can be judged by a list of living things
inhabiting this would-be estate and/or farm (other than those
listed previously): a registered Collie, a very unregistered baby
bitch that grew into a big one, a Bantam rooster that crows under
our windows at such an unearthly hour we can’t even open our
eyes to see the hour, a one-eyed rabbit, a Barred Plymouth Rock
rooster, seven Barred Plymouth Rock hens, and “Mr. Tutt,” a
small turtle. On this small note we rest our case for a happy and
interesting twenty-five years since graduation.

EDWARD HAMLIN, JR.

HOME apprEss: 141 Highland St., Dedham, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 264 Beacon St., Boston 16, Mass,

porn: Nov. 18, 1906, Boston, Mass, parents: Edward Hamlin, ’86, Katharine
Brooke Conrad.

[ 488 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D. 1933.

MARRIED: Rose L. Bryant, June 7, 1930, Milton, Mass.; Jane Hamlin, Dec. 31,
1942, Nevada. cuitpren: Edward, 3d, May 26, 1939; Katharine Brooke,
Nov. 24, 1943; Jane Peabody, Sept. 29, 1945; Hilary Rose, July 26,
1950.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, First Aid Service, American Red Cross, Boston
Metropolitan District; clinical associate in surgery, Harvard Medical
School; chief of surgical service, Milton Hospital, Mass.

MEMBFR OF: American Medical Association; Boston Surgical Society; Ameri-
can College of Surgeons; American College of Surgery of the Hand;
Massachusetts Charitable Society; Harvard Club; Dedham Country and
Polo Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in medical and surgical journals.

IN the fall after graduation I entered Elarvard Medical School
where the next four years were spent. I found that studies inter-
fered with my outside activities such as sailing far more than they
had as an undergraduate, but I assumed that life was real and
earnest and submitted with fair grace.

I decided rapidly that the life of a surgeon would suit me better
than the more contemplative life of a medical man, and was for-
tunate enough on graduation to be accepted on the surgical serv-
ice at the Massachusetts General Hospital where the next two
years were spent as an intern. The year 1936 was spent in Balti-
more on a research problem, following which I returned to the
Massachusetts General Hospital as resident surgeon. In 1939, the
year after graduation, I was thrown on the cruel world with the
by then obvious necessity of earning a living. This latter was slow
in coming but by dint of doing anything that I was asked, short
of abortion, by working with the H.A.A. as crew and hockey
doctor, both ends finally met, and the well-known feeling of in-
security receded at least around the corner.

I consider myself a general surgeon with particular interests in
hand, thyroid and vascular problems. Perhaps my greatest pleasure
is teaching, and for ten years I have been responsible for the
teaching of surgery to the the third year class of the Harvard
Medical School at the Massachusetts General Hospital. Concern-
ing medicine in general, I have found that patients as people are
far more interesting than their diseases.

The practice of surgery I found interfered with my outside

[ 489 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

activities even more than did medical school or a white suit in a
hospital, and perhaps my greatest aim in life was to see my famil
at least once a day. To make thinks worse, however, the number
of interests outside of medicine snowballed in direct proportion to
the lack of time to spend on them. All this perplexity became re-
solved about five years ago when together with three friends we
acquired a stretch of wild shoreline near New Bedford together
with a house. The driveway is a mile long, there is no telephone,
there are no neighbors. There are duck, deer, quail, pheasant,
striped bass, bluefish, and about a million oysters. Once there life
slows down to mere pleasurable living and problems can be
viewed in their true proportions. A reasonable number of week-
ends with my family there is all that is necessary to make life
as pleasant as I can imagine it ought to be.

JOHN HAMMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3379 Inwood Drive, Houston 19, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2131 San Felipe Rd., P. O. Box 13028, Houston 19, Texas.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1908, Houston, Texas. parents: John Hamman, Mary Frances
Transom.

PREPARED AT: Houston High School, Houston, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; A.M., 1930.

MARRIED: Sara Lenoir Bowen, July 26, 1934, Houston, Texas. CHILDREN:
John, 3d, Sept. 6, 1935; Henry Royden, June 15, 1937; William George,
Nov. 25, 1942.

HARVARD SON: John Hamman, 34d, ’57.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Frederick Hamman, ’32 (deceased); William
Henry Hamman, *34 (deceased).

occuPATION: Geologist, geophysicist, president, Hamman Oil and Refining
Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Museum of Fine Arts of Houston, 1948-51; secre-
tary, Harvard Club of Houston, about 1948; member Board of Di-
rectors, Harvard Alumni Association, 1949-51, Union National Bank
of Houston, 1947-54; regional vice-president, Associated Harvard
Clubs, since 1949; member Visiting Committee, Department of Geologi-
cal Sciences, Harvard University, since 1948, member Advisory Commit-
tee, Texas National Bank of Houston, since 1953.

MemBeR OF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineer-
ing; American Association of Petroleum Geologists; Houston Geological
Society; Independent Petroleum Association; Delta Tau Delta Frater-
nity; Texas Academy of Science, Bayou Club, Allegro, Harvard Club

[ 490 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Houston; American Association for Advancement of Science; Texas
Society, Sons of the American Revolution; Sons of Confederate Vet-
erans.

THE years since I left Harvard have been spent exploring for oil
by geophysical methods and the drill, refining it, and marketing
crude oil or its products. The operation of these many phases of
the industry is most interesting and never fails to come up with
“something new.” Certainly a geologist, dealing with a subject
so large and complex, will not grow stale except by his own
choosing. It is very evident now that there will always be new
ideas and problems. My son John, 3d, is now a freshman at Har-
vard and is happily starting down this path. I hope it proves as in-
teresting to him and to my younger son Henry, when he tackles
it, as it has to me. |

This search for oil has been somewhat successful, before taxes,
as I have been instrumental in the discovery of several oil fields.
This would sound as though it were a cinch, but it takes a lot of
hard work and effort. Our refinery was immediately able to go
into the production of aviation fuel at the start of World War
II and during that period we produced large quantities of critical
war materials, both for the Army Air Forces and the U.S, Navy.
Our capacity was expanded and pushed as much as possible to help
supply the sudden increased demand for these vital products.

My hobbies, besides work, to which I shall have to confess, are
hunting and fishing. We have had a lot of fun fishing or boating
and give our outboard boat a workout on nearby bays and the in-
tra-coastal canal whenever possible. I am still interested in photog-
raphy, but it has taken second place for lack of time. The 3:00
and 4:00 A.M. duck hunts of the past ten years or more stand out
as masterpieces of achievement, both of fun and folly. Sometimes
the whole family went, sometimes one or more of the boys and
myself. A large volume of several hundred pages could be written
about these singular pioneer expeditions. Suffice it to say they
were rugged. However, this year we found a place for daytime
hunting with plenty of “blackies.” At my age, it is time. On a
hunt near the Rio Grande Valley, we were stationed early one
morning in our various positions trying to “rattle up” a deer.
There was no wind, so we were concerned and curious about a
tree nearby that seemed to have a life of its own. It shook so it

[ 491 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

was positively noisy. On investigation, we found it was only my
son Henry kneeling on one of its roots and shivering in the early
morning frost. This was his hide-out.

I enjoyed very much and found most interesting the time spent
on the Board of the Harvard Alumni Association. It has also been
a pleasure to serve for a number of years as regional vice-president
for the Southwestern District of the Associated Harvard Clubs,
In this work and that with the Harvard Club of Houston, I have
made many fine new friends and renewed with pleasure many old
acquaintances. I have also served as secretary of the Harvard
Club of Houston and have been as active as time will permit in its
affairs.

One wonders if the next twenty-five years will go by as fast as
the last. The boys are grown and off at college or preparatory
school. The house is quiet and still except at vacation times. Of
course, there is then a constant and violent uproar, all through
the twenty-four hours. As has been mentioned by others, I find
that my shaving lights are too dim, and that I could read better if
my arms were longer. But it still seems to me impossible that
twenty-five years have gone by so fast and that, as I look back,
very few if any of them were during a period that might usually
be referred to as “normal times.”

LOREN BERNARD HANCHETT

HOME appress: R.R. 1, Big Rapids, Mich.

OFFICE appRESS: Hanchett Manufacturing Co., Big Rapids, Mich.

sorn: Dec, 30, 1905, Big Rapids, Mich. parents: Louis Bernard Hanchett,
Mabel Anna Hanchett,

PREPARED AT: Big Rapids High School, Big Rapids, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: 8.B. IN MECH. ENG, AND BUS, ADM., 1930.

Marriep: Kathryn Estelle Forster, July 6, 1933, Northport, Mich. cnixp:
Richard Louis, Sept. 10, 1935.

occupATION: Purchasing agent, Sales Department, Hanchett Manufacturing
Company, machine manufacturing.

orricrs HELD: Secretary, Hanchett Manufacturing Company.

THE world in 1930 was for me, as for thousands of others, some-
what inhospitable, though T finally obtained employment as an

[ 492 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

apprentice at Kearney and Trecker Corporation in West Allis,
Wisconsin. This work proved to be good from the stand-point
of experience, but the pay was low even for the depression. After
a year of that job a sudden rush of engineering work at Hanchett
Manufacturing Company, manufacturers of saw and knife grind-
ing machinery, gave me an opening, which though not great was
somewhat better and permitted me to live at home. Of course,
like many other jobs at that time, it didn’t last long and I was
soon a blue-print boy on a nominal salary with plenty of time
to roam and mix into this and that about the plant.

To add to the income of a blue-print boy, I opened a radio
service laboratory for the local dealers who ran into particularly
troublesome service problems and were forced to bring radio
sets in. This laboratory lasted for about four years until the
regular work became so heavy that it was best to sell out the
equipment and stick to one job. By that time I had taken over
successively the order department, the cost department, and in
1938 the purchasing department.

During 1933 and a spell of optimism, I entered the married
state and in 1935 was honored with a son, Richard Louis Han-
chett. These improvements, of course, led to a new house with
expanded facilities and in fact, after the war, even to a farm a
couple of miles out of town where we now live. The period in
town was filled with the usual activities such as service clubs,
drives, Chamber of Commerce, and so forth. In fact, I even served
as president of the latter organization for two terms.

It is my firm conviction that I spent the war years on the tele-
phone as purchasing agent and chief expediter for our very active
machine tool plant with approximately 700 employees. When
this situation quieted down, my job became production control
which in turn has put me into sales service and, since we lost
our purchasing agent in September, 1953, the supervision of that
job has been added. In this time we have sold some portions of
our business, bought others, and have dropped and added various
units to our lines. In other words, we have a typical active Ameri-
can small business.

Hobbies have not played a great part, though the principal
ones are farming, in a small way, and music reproduction with
greatest emphasis on tape recording (the old radio experience or

[ 493 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

bug keeps popping up). My travelling has been confined to this
country and Canada. In short, life has been enjoyable but not
particularly exciting,

JAMES HARRIS HANLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 221 Conway Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

orFice appress: John Gibson Co., 210 W. Seventh St., Los Angeles 14, Calif.

BORN: June 9, 1907, Pawtuxet, R. L parents: Walter Hanley, Maud Harris.

PREPARED AT: Radley College, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

MARRIED: Nancie Naylor, Dec. 6, 1932, London, England. cHiLpREN: Carolyn
J. Sept. 4, 19335 Steven J. B., Jan. 26, 1937; Paul W., Oct. 27, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Travel agency.

OFFICES HELD: Member Vestry, St. Alban’s Episcopal Church, Los Angeles.
MEMBER OF: Royal Cornwall Yacht Club, Public Schools Club.

AFTER my freshman year at Harvard, I went to Oxford Univer-
sity for two years and then lived in California and England. After
I married I lived back and forth between England and Rhode Is-
land. All my children were born in England, one during World
War II. When the war started I went to Ireland with Lockheed
Overseas Corporation and from there was commissioned a first
lieutenant in the U.S. Army. I was stationed in London on the
European Theatre Staff, took part in the Normandy Campaign,
helped liberate Paris(!), and continued through the war to a year
of occupation in Germany. I finished the war as a lieutenant
colonel with the usual medals and decorations including two
Bronze Stars, Army Commendation, and the Order of the British
Empire. After the war I had a cattle ranch in Arizona near
Nogales, and then had to move to Los Angeles because of an
injury to one of my children, who is now fully recovered.

CHESTER ADAMS HANSON

HOME Appress: RFD 2, Perrysburg, Ohio.

orrice appress: Gulf Refining Co., Nicholas Bldg., Toledo, Ohio.

Born: Jan. 1, 1998, Toledo, Ohio. parents: Clifford Taft Hanson, ’o1, Alice
Melvin.

purparep AT: Scott High School, Toledo, Ohio.

YZARS IM COLLEGE: 1925-1928, 1929-1930.

[ 494]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marRiED: Mary Adele Daenitz, July 3, 1937, Toledo, Ohio. critpren:
Thomas Adams, Nov. 13, 1942; David Alan, Dec. 6, 1945.

occupation: Sales analyst, Gulf Refining Company.

MEMBER OF: American Legion; Harvard Club of Toledo.

MY life during the last twenty-five years falls naturally into three
stages, as perhaps it does for many of us— the years before mar-
riage, married life pre-war, and married life after the war. The first
stage lasted until 1937. I rode out the early depression years in a
rather carefree manner in California, living in rooming houses and .
pursuing such hobbies as tennis, golf, dancing, and weekends at
the beach. |

By 1937 I was back in Toledo, employed by Libbey-Owens-
Ford Glass Company. Mary and I were married and bought a
house in Maumee. We spent less time on sports and more on
parties, having many happy group discussions with our young
married friends on politics and current events. I believe that the
federal government should uphold the progress of social welfare
in domestic affairs and that the nation must play a dominant role
in world affairs. I was therefore pretty well satisfied’ with the
Roosevelt era. I was, however, one of those who thought it was
time for a change and voted for Eisenhower in 1952. I am hopeful
that he will eventually exercise real leadership.

Our first boy was born in the year following the attack on Pearl
Harbor, and I was inducted into the Army when he was seven
months old. I never questioned that our part in the war was nec-
essary, but I was very glad when this experience was over and I
was able to join my family again.

I now began working for the Gulf Refining Company at the
Toledo Division office and was soon placed in Youngstown as
chief clerk and about a year later was transferred to Bryan, Ohio,
as plant superintendent. The years in Bryan had great significance
for me and for us as a family. Our second son was born two
months after we reached Bryan and my work with Gulf was par-
ticularly interesting, as it was a part of the business life of a small
town and its outlying rural communities. But most of all my wife
and I developed a way of living that brought us a satisfaction we
did not realize was possible. We rented a farm house and about
an acre of land on which through trial and error we learned about
gardening and raising small livestock. We produced milk, eggs,

L 495 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

meat, vegetables, and fruit. This production of food and its pres-
ervation through canning and freezing became a profitable hobby
for the whole family.

We also bought camping equipment and a station wagon and
took several camping trips. Our younger boy was only two when
we made our first trip. These adventures in family living kept my
wife and me feeling young and undoubtedly gave the boys the
security of sound family ties and an eagerness and confidence to
meet whatever life has to offer.

I have now been transferred back to the Gulf Toledo office as
a sales analyst, forecasting demand on Gulf Refining Company’s
refineries and terminals in the five states of the Toledo Division.
My elder boy has joined the Boy Scouts and is a great enthusiast
for overnight hikes and the rugged life. He looks forward to
Scout camp next summer. I have told the Scoutmaster my services
are available and this unguarded remark may well lead to my next
hobby. My wife is now teaching a nursery school mornings which
represents a real contribution to the welfare of the youth of
America. -

We are still living in the country — near Perrysburg, but for
the time being have reduced our farming activities to the care of
one parakeet and one cat. We anticipate exposing the boys to the
more sophisticated adventures of urban living and to enjoying
their school-boy activities, vicariously at least, for several years
to come. But when they have finished training us as parents we
intend to return to the backwoods leading off with one pig, two
goats, and a dozen hens.

PAUL HANSON

HOME Appress: 70 Hill St., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 275 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: July 29, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Lane Hanson, ’92,
Bertha Winthrop Flinc.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H., Cambridge High and
Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192-1930. DEGREE: $.B, IN CIVIL ENGIN., 1930.

Maneiep: Ruth Adams Titus, Aug. 1, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. cHipren:
David Adams, June 25, 1934; Barbara Lane, Aug. 3, 1937; Lois French,
March 7, 1942.

[ 496 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD SON: David Adams Hanson, ’56.
occupation: Buyer, Purchasing Department, General Radio Company, manu-
facturing radio and electronic laboratory equipment.

THE day after my last exam my first job began, as field engineer
for the Whidden Company on the foundation of Eliot House at
Harvard. We started thirty-two feet below street grade with the
inspection of the footing of the caisson which now supports the
tower, and gradually worked up. September, 1930, brought an
interesting Opportunity to move to the Meter Department of the
General Electric Company, West Lynn, where motion study,
methods, and the conveyorizing of the watthour meter assembly
line lasted a year and a half until the April depression of 1932
brought a pink slip. While looking for an opportunity to teach
science in a boys’ school, I received an invitation from the General
Radio Company in Cambridge which began a series of interesting
projects which included organizing plant maintenance, plant se-
curity during the war, development and design engineering, and
most recently, the purchasing of hardware, tools, and materials
for engineering.

On a beautiful day in August, 1931, we were married, “the”
girl and I, but since then we haven’t been to many Saturday
stadium affairs (until 1953). After three apartments, we moved
into our Cape Cod colonial which we built in Lexington in 1934
overlooking a golf course and distant hills. It takes more than a
house to make a home, but after we graded, built a rock garden,
planted trees, etc., and after we accumulated three children, we
can agree that we have a home.

David, now nearing twenty, the third generation at Harvard,
is a sophomore concerned somewhat with international govern-
ment, several attractive girls at Wellesley, and playing in the Har-
vard Band. Barbara, a junior in Lexington High School, wonders
whether it is worth all the trouble of high school to go to college,
but has deeply enjoyed playing her ’cello which she enterprisingly
earned by the sale of the nine puppies to whom she was god-
mother. Lois, although mentally retarded, is enjoying a small
nursery school. She is healthy and is making some progress. My
wife Ruth, in addition to being a good mother, has developed a
strong interest in adult education and world federation.

Getting into Scouting “so that I should know enough about it

[ 497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

to help David” has become a vigorous hobby which included three
active years with David (and the Jamboree trip to Valley Forge),
many hikes and mountain trips, and even now the pleasant duties
of being Scoutmaster to about fifty eager boys. .

CHARLES HUTCHINS HAPGOOD

HOME AppREsS: 2 Allerton St., Provincetown, Mass.

porN: May 17, 1904, New York, N. Y. parents: Hutchins Hapgood, ’92,
Neith Boyce.

PREPARED AT: Scarborough School, Scarborough, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1929(30); A.M., 1933.

MARRIED: Tamsin Avery Hughes, 1941, New York, N. Y. cHitpren; Charles
Frederick, Jan. 16, 1942; Hutchins, Sept. 12, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Teaching.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor of history, Putney School, instructor of history
and economics, Keystone College; assistant professor of history and
government, Springfield College.

I FIND it very embarrassing when somebody asks me what my
occupation is. Mine has been a roving life, and it seems to be
getting nowhere fast. When I graduated it seemed easier to do
postgraduate study than to get a job. Good reasons were easily
manufactured, and the parental purse being liberally opened (even
though there was not much in it), I spent several years in graduate
study, completing the requirements for the Ph.D. except for the
thesis. The thesis subject was a bore. It seemed even worse than
getting a job. There were good reasons, then, for accepting a
teaching position at the Putney School in 1935, the year it was
organized. This was a very exciting year, but the work was far
too arduous for one of my temperament. At the end of that year
it was generally agreed that 1 should return to Cambridge and
finish the Ph.D. thesis.

In the fall of 1936 I found myself in Provincetown, on Cape
Cod, working at the thesis in a desultory manner, and paying
attention to local politics in the town. Angels of uplift in the
women’s clubs were in a state of agitation regarding the absence
of proper recreational facilities for children. They were talking
about play grounds, and a community center. The WPA was
then financing recreational projects throughout the country —

[ 498 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and, here’s the point: they were paying people to supervise them.
I had never, of course, been previously interested in the field of
recreation, but I did like children, and I found myself irresistibly
drawn to the idea. In the end I became supervisor of recreation,
and director of a Community center, which was founded and
built up with the active codperation of the community organiza-
tions and the children. It was quite successful in attracting state
and national publicity and we were fortunate in winning the
interest and moral support of Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt. 1 was
director of this center for four years.

In the course of my work at the center, there was a development

of many activities in the hand-crafts, and gradually I became
interested in the problems of the adult craftsmen of the Cape.
Eventually I organized a Cape Cod Crafts Exhibition for the
finest professional craftwork. This exhibition was moved to Bos-
ton for exhibition at the Women’s Industrial and Professional
Union. There it attracted the attention of Washington officials
concerned with crafts, and so I found myself drawn into discus-
sions about a national program to promote the crafts. I now toured
New England, corresponded with craftsmen all over the country,
and submitted a program to Mrs. Roosevelt, of which she ap-
proved. The major point of the program called for the appoint-
ment of a national commission representing the various govern-
ment departments concerned with crafts to prepare legislative
proposals. In May, i940, President Roosevelt appointed this
committee.

Rosy dreams now floated in my mind of plush-lined swivel
chairs, soft carpets, beautiful typists, and long luncheons with
political big-wigs. The crux of the matter was, which of the five
great government departments was to pay me $300 per month as
executive secretary of the committee? Two departments, in par-
ticular, met in head-on collision. Memoranda in triplicate were
pounded out and dispatched in all directions. Tempers became
thin. In the middle of this major fracas, a minor disturbance
caused by one A. Hitler spoiled everything. He chose that mo-
ment, of all others, to invade the low countries. Mrs. Roosevelt
informed me that, for the present, even hand-crafts would have
to wait.

After a short hiatus, required to catch my breath and look

[ 499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

around, I found myself taken on by the coédrdinator of informa-
tion (which office later was known as the OSS). I was thus a
Cloak-and-Dagger Boy, only in my case my activities consisted
in sneaking memoranda from one end of the corridor to the other.
At first [ was supposed to be an editor (in view of my long pre-
vious experience in editorial work — note above), but it turned
out, after a few months, that there was no work for me or the
other editors. We sat around waiting for things to edit, and when
some poor meager little report came through for editing we fought
over it like beasts of prey. In order to put in an honest day’s
work (once a week), I busied myself with devising a new and
infinitely superior way of indexing the documents that came into
our division at the rate of several thousand a day. My system
consisted of indexing each subject and each sub-division of each
subject in each document separately. What an amazing amount
of paper work this resulted in! The secretaries groaned while
boys wheeled in barrow loads of filing cards. The bureaucrats
liked it so much that I understand my system has since been in-
stalled in two other departments. It has been expanded to astro-
nomical proportions and they now use IBM machines to locate
data.

Well, even this soft game came to an end, and so I found myself
first in the publications office of the Red Cross, where I helped to
edit their monumental manual of services to the armed forces, and
then in the field, where I was Red Cross assistant field director
attached to Army units (domestic). I enjoyed the work with the
soldiers very much indeed, especially when it was possible for me
to grant them loans which were slightly outside the Red Cross
directives. 1 thus won the undying gratitude of many G.I’s,
probably.

Finally, as the war drew to a close, I returned to academic work.
My preparation had been for teaching history: it seemed therefore
natural to me that my first teaching job was as instructor at Key-
stone College in economics, economic geography, business or-
ganization, and (of course) history. History was a sort of after-
thought. Later as assistant professor at Springfield College I found
myself teaching history, all right, but also American government,

comparative government, great social problems of our time, and
the like. It was all very much enjoyed.

[ 500 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The latest phase in my life began at Springfield. There I was
angered one day at a student’s remarking that he preferred the
physical sciences to the social sciences because they were more
exact — you knew where you were. | started in to show him
otherwise. I shouted at him, “And what’s electricity? How does
the Law of Gravitation work?” I began to examine the intellectual
underpinnings of the physical sciences. I was amazed to find that
the basic problems in geology are unsolved problems. After a bit
of this I became convinced that nothing would do but a new
theory of the earth. I hit upon some interesting ideas, and lest one
of you should conclude I am definitely cracked, these ideas have
lately received the endorsement of Albert Einstein. I shall not say
anything more about them here, because my book will be out
next year, and I am afraid I might discourage a sale, and this might
reduce the total sales too far.

As to my hobbies, it would be superfluous for me to mention
any. My different professions have been my hobbies. But now
that I approach my fiftieth birthday I realize only two solid works
have resulted from my activities. They are my two sons, Freddy
and Willy. It is my great good fortune that they are both smarter
than I am. Perhaps they will be able to support me in my fast
approaching old age. If not, perhaps in some old man’s home I
shall still finish che thesis.

STUART GORDON HARDY

HOME AborEss: Prospect Street, Marshfield Hills, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1400 Hancock St., Quincy, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1907, El Paso, Texas. pARENTs: James Gordon Hardy, Flor-
ence Mary Gordon.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DECREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRieD: Katherine Driggs, Sept. 24, 1932, Redding, Conn.; Margaret Mary
Scum, Redding, Conn. cHitpren: Stuart Gordon, March 21, 1940; Flor-
ence Margaret, May 11, 1943.

occupation: Trust officer, Granite Trust Company.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Scottish Terrier Club of America;
Kiwanis Club.

(Doing things on schedule is the result of my training. That’s why
I think I shall complete this biography and get it in promptly.)

[501]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

mentalization and specialization frequently rob you of perspective,
I definitely advocate the bucolic existence.

As far as hobbies are concerned, I notice in some of my earlier
blurbs that I made a great deal of my interest in breeding and
judging Scottish Terriers. That was more or less a war casual
and pressure of business has prevented its resumption, although I
occasionally am called upon to judge a show when they can’t get
anyone better. I still like to fish but can’t get used to this sea fish-
ing. Like the Cabots, dry fly fishermen talk neither to man nor

God, but only to one another. Need I comment on the Great
Emancipation?

+ ROBERT BRUCE HARKNESS, JR.

BoRN: May 5, 1908, Houghton, Mich. parents: Robert Bruce Harkness,
Alice Chadbourne.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(30).
marrieD: Alison Hardy. CHILDREN: Two sons.
piED: Dec. 17, 1933, Boston, Mass.

AFTER graduating from Harvard, Harkness studied at the Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology for a time and then became
a dye chemist with E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company. At
the time of his death he was an engineer in the Merrimac Chemi-
cal Company. His wife and sons survived him.

ARTHUR HAROLD HARLOW, JR.

HOME Appress: 1155 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BorN: April 12, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Arthur Harold Harlow,
’96, May Valentine Stern,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRiED: Sue Carns, July 8, 1932, Hartsdale, N. Y. caHitpren: Alison, Aug.
29, 1934; Linda, Feb. 1, 1937.

occuPATION: President, Group Health Insurance, Inc., local, voluntary,.
non-profit insurance against doctor bills.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, City Affairs Committee, 1935-
39, 1952, 1953, Urban League of Greater New York, 1937-40, Henry

[ 504 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Street Settlement, since 1936, Visiting Nurse Service, 1939-48, Codp-

erative Health Federation of America, 1948-53.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; American Public Health Association.
AFTER graduation I went into my father’s art business, Harlow-
McDonald and Company, dealing principally in etchings and en-
gravings by the old and modern masters. Then, in 1932, my wife
and I moved to Cambridge for a year’s graduate work in Fine
Arts. It was during that year that I first acquired a serious in-
terest in social, economic, and political problems, partly as a re-
sule of the newly-born New Deal and partly because of the wave
of anti-Tammany reform that was sweeping New York City. In
the summer of 1933, I became secretary of the New York County
Committee of the City Fusion Party, then being formed to sup-
port Fiorello LaGuardia's candidacy for mayor.

On January 1, 1934, | was appointed an examiner in the office
of Bernard S. Deutsch, president of the Board of Aldermen, and
served with him for the two years untul he died. My job as a
city employee dealt largely with Hlome Relief and the city’s
other social services.

In 1936, I returned to my father’s business, then Arthur FI.
Harlow and Company, and remained there until 1941. During
these years I was active in philanthropic, social, and civic ac-
tivities, including membership on the boards of directors of the
Henry Street Sertlement, the Urban League of Greater New York,
and the City Affairs Committee. In 1941 I helped organize the
volunteer New York City Civilian Defense Council and, after the
war started, went to work in the National Office of Civilian De-
fense in Washington. There I headed a section charged with en-
listing the memberships of all kinds of national organizations in
volunteer civilian war programs.

While I was in Washington, Winslow Carlton asked me to
come to what was then called “Group Health Codéperative,” a
non-profit organization in New York City. The first of its kind
in the Northeast, Win had been its original organizer. Its purpose
was, and still is, to develop voluntary insurance against the cost
of doctor bills —to facilitate the distribution of needed medical
care to American families who find its cost an unbearable burden.
We believe this job can be done better by voluntary codperation
between doctors and patients than by government.

[ 505 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Group Health Coéperative was changed to a membership cor-
poration in 1946 and took the name of Group Health Insurance.
At that time, Win became chairman of the board of directors and
I was made president. GHI has grown substantially and has
helped, as well, in starting other voluntary insurance plans and as-
sociations throughout the country.

My job is particularly interesting because of the many different
groups in the community with which we work. For example,
both organized medicine and organized labor are substantially
represented on our board of directors. They approach problems
of medical economics very differently, but so far, have managed
to work together. We are also increasingly in contact with both
parties to labor-management negotiations. The payment of pre-
miums for our kind of insurance by employers for employees has
become a popular Union demand.

My wife has maintained her interests in social work and in
education. She is currently active in the Public Health Associa-
tion and the Women’s City Club. My daughters are now nine-
teen and seventeen, the elder one a sophomore at Bard College,
and the younger a senior at The Brearley School in New York. I

am pleased that they are both intensely interested in sociology
and politics.

ROBERT SHAW HARRIGAN

HOME aDpress: 16 Vanderbilt Rd.. West Hartford, Conn.
OFFICE appress: Pratt and Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Conn.

Born: April 17, 1906, Bangor, Maine. parents: Michael Robert Harrigan,
Catherine B. Davis.

PREPARED AT: University of Maine, Orono, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

margiep: Margaret M. Fitzpatrick, Oct. t, 1932, Houlton, Maine. CHILDREN:
Robert Shaw, Jr., Sept. 20, 1933; Paul Edward, Dec. 7, 1939; Jerry H.

June 7, 1941; John Thomas, Aug. 30, 1943; Joseph Michael, Oct. 28,
1947

OCLUPATION: Member Payroll Department, Pratt and Whitney Aircraft.
THE passing years, from teaching high school in Maine during

the depression years to my present job at Pratt and Whitney
Aircraft in Connecucut, have been full and interesting. God has

[ 506 |

L_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

blessed us in many ways and we have so much for which to be
thankful.

A family of five boys has certainly made life perplexing and
exciting, They are all sports-minded and are active in sports all
year ‘round. Their mother has had quite a masculine-dominated
life, and she has a keen interest in the sports activities of her boys,
especially i in the “Little League” where three of them were play-
ing on the same team at the same time — the “Civitans” of West
Hartford. The boys have done much to keep us young — in
ideas and spirit anyway — and most of our activities have been
associated with theirs. These, together with busy days at the
office and a do-it-yourself program at home, have accounted for
most of my time and all of my money. But who would have it
otherwise — I like things just as they are.

+ ERWYN HENRY HARRIMAN

BORN: Dec. 18, 1907, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Henry Osgood Harriman,
Anna Nichols,

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB., 1929; A.M., 1932.

MARRIED. .

piep: May 11, 1950, Oakland, Calif.

wipow: Mrs. Lois Harriman, 2112 Santa Clara Ave., Alameda, Calif.

AFTER graduating with our Class, Harriman spent two years
at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, where he received a
Master’s degree in 1932. During this time he had worked part-
time at the Harvard Codperative Society, and he continued his
association there until 1933. After eight months’ work with a
candy company in Chicago, he made his home in Berkeley, Cali-
fornia, where for three years he worked at the Y.M.C.A. and
for a year studied at the University of California, also. In 1936
he was an instructor at a private school and the following year
began teaching in the Corcoran, California, public school system.
At the time of our Decennial Report he held a position in Cor-
coran High School. During the war he served in the Army for
three and a half years, and in 1946 had returned to Corcoran.
Three years afterwards he was employed as an English teacher by
the Alameda Board of Education. His wife survived him.

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JAMES DEXTER HARRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Homewood Rd., Waban 68, Mass.
OFFICE abpREss: 7 Elkins St., South Boston 27, Mass.

porn: Aug. 15, 1907, Nahant, Mass, parents: James Elder Harris, Martha
P. Dexter.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: S.B., 1929(30).

MARRIED: Rosamond Jackson, Nov. 22, 1929, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Pauline F., March 23, 1936; David D., Oct. 3, 1939; Gregory S., Sept.
27, 1941.

cocuerton: Superintendent of manufacturing, director, Northern Industrial
Chemical Co., molded plastic products.

MEMBER OF: Waban Neighborhood Club; Hay Harbor Club, Fisher’ s Island
Country Club; Society of Plastic Engineers.

IN the fall of 1929, Posie and 1 were married, so 1954 brings our
silver anniversary as well as the Class Twenty-fifth Reunion. We
have lived around Boston all the time, with the exception of one
year near Worcester, and have spent the last seventeen years at
our present home in Waban.

Polly will graduate from Winsor this spring and is looking
forward to college in the fall. David, our elder boy, has been at
Fessenden four years, where he has learned a great deal about
football and other important matters, whereas Greg is at Warren
Junior High in Newton and shows promise of becoming the
scientific member of the family.

During the depression years I batted around at one job or an-
other, finally starting my own paint manufacturing company.
The advent of the war, however, made it necessary to give this
up, and I then went to work for Northern Industrial Chemical
Company, a plastic molding firm here in Boston, and I am still
with this company. We are custom molders, making primarily
plastic parts for industrial use, although we also produce a line of
plastic dinnerware under our trade name, “Residential,” which
was designed for us by Russel Wright. The plastic industry,
growing rapidly because of many new materials and applications,
is nonetheless very competitive. I’d like to meet the guy who

tagged it a “Glamour Industry.” Sports: I still ski and play ten-
nis. My hobby is woodworking.

[ 508 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT SOMERBY HARRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Stillman Rd. Melrose 76, Mass.

oFFIce appress: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

porn: July 29, 1906, Brighton, Mass. parents: Albert Ashton Harris, Caro-
line Howard Moore.

paepareD at: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1949.

margieD: Eleanor Louise Van Buskirk, Dec. 31, 1934, Melrose, Mass. chivo:
Stephen Robert, March 31, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of American history and government, Newton High
School and Newton Junior College, Newtonville.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Aldermanic Committee on Health, Education, and
Welfare, 1935; member, Committee on Protection and Licenses, 1936,
president, Acton (Mass.) Teachers’ Association, 1942, Acton Parent-
Teachers’ Association, 1942, treasurer, Newton Center P.T.A,, since

1943.

MEMBER OF: Newton Teachers’ Federation; Massachusetts Teachers’ Associa-
tion; New England Association of Social Studics Teachers; United
States Power Squadrons, Boston Power Squadron, Kappa Sigma Fra-
ternity; Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex.

AFTER our graduation from College I attended Harvard Law
School for two years. During the next few years it was my privi-
lege to serve as employees’ legal adviser in a Boston department
store. It was during this period that I became infected with a
virus known as “city politics.” Having got myself elected to
the Melrose Board of Aldermen I let the disease run its course in
1935 and 1936 and emerged thoroughly cured of the malady for
all time.

After completing research for the federal government in its
Historical Archives Survey, I entered the teaching profession via
Acton High School in 1940. Following a two-and-a-half-year
term there and six months at Concord High School, I accepted a
post in grade nine social studies at Weeks Junior High School in
Newron. Completing a year’s service there, in 1944 I came to
my present position of teaching United States history at New-
ton High School. In 1946 I was appointed part-time instruc-
tor of American history and government in Newton Junior
College which is attached to the high school plant in New-
tonville. In other words, for four hours a day I have to serve as
a high school teacher, and for one hour a day I become a college
“professor,” giving formal lectures in history and government.

[ 509 ]

Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

My hobbies are: (a) my family, consisting of a beautiful blonde
wife, and an attractive sixteen-year-old son whom I hope will
join Harvard, Class of ’60; (b) our new seven-room Cape Cod
home in Melrose where I am general repair and mop-up man; and
(c) boats and sailing. I don’t work summers any more so have
adequate time to “navigate” my outboard runabout in John’s
Bay at Pemaquid, Maine, with my family. Several summers ago I
served as sailing master at three different camps and was captain
of two sloops, a yawl, and two schooners. I also hold a captain’s
license issued by the U.S. Coast Guard to carry passengers for
hire on all boats up to sixty-five feet in length. I have held this
license for eighteen years and have carried a total of two passen-
gers at twenty-five cents each!

As incidental “sideline” employment during the past two years,
I have worked as a photographers’ model for two Boston model
agencies. In addition to appearing for several ads in commercial
magazines and the newspapers, I modelled for three men’s cloth-
ing stores in a fashion show at Shoppers’ World in the fall of
1952. The work is interesting and my female co-workers are not
exactly boring company!

As to my political convictions, I am a Taft Republican. Al-
though our Class Commencement included the conferring of an
honorary LL.D. on F. D. Roosevelt, I never have been impressed
by liberalism in any form. I suppose, as a social studies teacher,
I should be carried away by the great revolution “for the better-
ment of the masses” these last twenty years. It is with interest
that I note that some of my learned contemporaries on the Har-
vard faculty have succumbed badly to the pressures of left wing
philosophy. Not me! I firmly believe that preservation of the
American system depends upon a conservative course by our
leaders. That system, as 1 understand it, includes the right to in-
herit, earn, and save money; to invest it and make additional
money with it; to have it free from unfair, confiscatory, or double
taxation by the government. It also includes the old-fashioned
idea that individual thrift, and not government handouts, is the
basis of a strong nation, Many years will elapse before the dam-
age caused by the New and Fair Deals to our way of life is ob-
literated. But the return of genuine American ca
its way. I hope to live to see it completed.

[510]

pitalism is on

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STANLEY HARRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 502 E. 53rd St., Savannah, Ga.

OFFICE AppREss: 28 W. Broughton St., Savannah, Ga.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Lester Harris, Lee Doctors.

PREPARED AT; Savannah High School, Savannah, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929, DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

margigéD: Bernice Baer Wolf, Nov. 15, 1934, Tampa, Fla. cxitp: Stanley
Earl, Jr., Sept. 4, 1937-

occupaTion: Vice-president, treasurer, Harris-The Hub, Inc., men’s wear;
president, Harris Real Estate.

oFFices HELD: Member board, Savannah Merchants Association, 1931-33;
member N.R.A. Code Authority Board, 1933-34; chairman, Merchants
Division, Jacksonville Chamber of Commerce, 1938-39; Disaster Com-
mittee, American Red Cross, 1942; member board, Harvard Club of
Florida, 1940-43, member board, Kiwanis Club, 1945-46, Worshipful
Master, Clinton Lodge 54, F. & A.M., 1951; member board, Savannah
Civil Defense, 1952-53, treasurer, Ritualistic Divan Alce Temple
AAONMIS, 1953; vice-president, Temple Mickve Isracl, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Little Theatre of Savannah (patron); Museum of Fine Arts; Ki-
wanis Club; Savannah Golf Club, Clinton Lodge 54, F. & A.M.; Alee
Temple AAONMS, Elks, University of Virginia Club of Savannah,
Quarterback Club,

AFTER graduation I went with Filene's of Boston for a year
and then returned to Savannah to enter our family business, where
I stayed until 1934. At that time I moved to Jacksonville, Flor-
ida, to become vice-president of another business with which my
family was associated. I remained there until 1944.

My son is now taller than I am and hopes to enter Harvard in
1954. He can beat me at golf, which makes me feel that I was
somewhat correct when, at graduation, I looked upon the Twen-
ty-fifth Reunion Class as being a bit on the old side.

During these past twenty-odd years, I have engaged in the
usual civic endeavors, a certain amount of athletics, and probably
a little too much business to be well-rounded, except for my
figure which is rounded well enough. I am looking forward to
attending our Twenty-fifth Reunion and wish to thank Frederic
Felton for providing an added incentive for being there.

The committee’s suggestion that we state our social, religious,
or political convictions leads to my observation that the three are
very closely related. I voted Democratic in the 1932 elections
and was gratified when the minimum-wage-maximum-hour law

[str]

L—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

was passed, feeling that our politics were going to be honestly for
the public welfare. However, when the theory came in that each
was entitled to a living from the government, regardless of obli-
gation to do one’s own part, I knew I had been over-optimistic.
At this point the tie between religious principles and politics be-
came weaker and weaker, culminating in what I feel to have been
one of our most corrupt administrations. To complete the pic-
ture, politicians used social classifications not for the benefit of
any social group, but for their own political advancement, re-
gardless of the ultimate effect on the group being so used. From
this you may gather that my convictions are that political, re-
ligious, and social actions should be unified in the broad sense,
and that we should subordinate the selfish motives in each much
more completely than is being done at present. I am looking

o>
forward to an un-serious Twenty-fifth.

BERNARD JOHNSTON HARRISON

HOME ADDRESS: 120 E. 65th St. New York 21, N. Y.

OFFIce appRrEss: Furno and Harrison, 660 Madison Ave., New York 21, N. Y.
Born: Feb. 16, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Bernard Johnston Harri-
son, Jane Dashiell Randolph. |

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; B.F.A. (Yale Univ.), 1933-

maraiep: Martha B. Kountze, Sept. 13, 1930, Westbury, Long Island, N. Y.
(divorced 1941); Roxanna Scoville, 1950, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1953). cHiLp: Carter Henry, March 4, 1935.

HARVARD soN: Carter Henry Harrison, ’57.

HARVARD BRoTHER: John Randolph Harrison, ’27.

oocuPATION: Partner, Furno and Harrison, architects; president, construc-
tion corporation,

orrices HELD: Chief architect, Federal Housing Administration, New York,
1938-40.

MEMBER of: American Institute of Architects; Harvard Club of New York;
Links Club.

ATTENDING the Harvard School of Architecture during the
summer after graduation, I decided that 1 was sufficiently inter-
ested in the profession to continue its study. Eventually I gradu

ated from the Yale School of Fine Arts with a degree in architec-
ture at a moment when most of my colleagues in the profession
were sclling apples or were in similar gainful occupations. First

[512]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

jobs were hard to get at that time and the government seemed
the best refuge so my professional career started as an employee
of the Federal Housing Administration in Washington.

In 1938 I moved to New York and opened my own architec-
tural office and practised there until the U. S. Navy decided to
give me a commission as a lieutenant (junior grade). Four years
later, after seeing a good deal of the Atlantic and Pacific as well
as many classmates in unexpected parts of the globe, I got out as
a lieutenant commander. Again I opened an architectural office
in New York and from a practice of designing various types of
buildings decided to branch out into the actual construction of
them as well. For the past year or more I have been designing,
building, and selling homes on Long Island.

JAMES LEWIS HARRISON

HOME ADDRESS: 3518 Stoer Rd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 800 Lime Rd., Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Dec. 27, 1904, Painesville, Ohio. ParENts: Willard Crane Harrison,
Blanche Hope Lewis.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarriED: Elizabeth Dennison Coolidge, Dec. 2, 1938, Cleveland, Ohio.
CHILDREN: James Lewis, Jr., April 22, 1946, Mary Coolidge, April 11,
1948.

occuPATION: Salesman, Mau-Sherwood Supply Company, industrial supplies.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cleveland; First Cleveland Cavalry Veter-
ans’ Association.

MUCH as I should like to present an imposing list of accomplish-
ments and fascinating adventures, I discover, in retrospect, that
there have been none. Contented anonymity is all I can claim,
and that too has its compensations. |

Along about 1963 I hope to see my son enter Harvard College.
Being impartial, I am also prepared to favor with an offspring one
of the better colleges for women. Congratulations to the great
clan of 1929! I hope to attend its Fiftieth as well as its Twenty-
fifth Reunion.

[ 513]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

CHARLES HENRY HART, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 356 Inwood Rd., Ardmore, Pa.

OFFICE appress: Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Broad and Chestnut
Streets, Philadelphia 2, Pa.

BoRN: Aug. 29, 1907, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Charles Henry Hart, Marion
Livingston Phillips. |

PREPARED AT: New York Military Academy, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N, Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Cornelia Roland, Sept. 7, 1937, Harrison, N. Y. (divorced, 1948).
cuitp: Charlene Victoria, May 14, 1939.

OccUPATION: Assistant personnel officer, Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Philadelphia Chapter, Re-
serve Officers Association,

THE year 1929 was a wonderful year! I was graduating from
Harvard and was going to join the multitude in making my for-
tune quickly during that boom in New York. Everything was
fine until that dark day late in October, 1929, when the Boom
went boom (I was still in training) and the future became a ques-
tion of surviving the present. However, the company didn’t fire
me but they did the next best thing —they sent me out to sell
securities on April Fool’s Day, 1930. I became thoroughly famil-
iar with every square foot of Manhattan Island and after four
months I had been unceremoniously ushered out of some of the
finest offices in the city. A securities salesman was as welcome in
those days as an irate skunk. But for some unknown reason the
company took pity on me and gave me an inside job. I remained
with them through the merger into Chase Harris Forbes Cor-
poration (the Chase National Bank’s securities affiliate) until its
dissolution on July 1, 1933. From then until 1937 I continued
in the financial field, first with the brokerage house of Hammons
& Company as assistant to the sales manager, then a spell in the
tax department of the Bankers Trust Company, and finally iin the
Syndicate Department of Hayden, Stone & Company until they
cut their staff drastically in the summer of 1937. Being relatively
new, I was one of the first out. "

By that time I had my fill of Wall Street activities — or should
I say inactivity — so in 1937, being brave and still young enough
so that I hadn’t lost faith in the future, despite the depression, I
married a Philadelphia girl, moved to the City of Brotherly Love,

[514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and became collection manager for the Philadelphia branch of the
Standard Accident Insurance Company of Detroit. During this
period my daughter was born. Before my daughter could know
me very well, Uncle Sam beckoned and on December 8, 1940,
I was ordered to Fort Benning, Georgia, and assigned to the Sec-
ond Armored Division which was then rapidly being welded into
a first-class fighting outfit by Georgie Patton, then division com-
mander. I had been commisioned a second lieutenant of Field
Artillery upon graduation from Harvard and had maintained an
active interest in the Organized Reserves, with the result that I
was a captain when | entered upon active duty.

During the next five years I was astonished at the many and
varied duties that could be given one man — things he had never
done before and never dreamed he could do. 1 started out by
being sent to an Air Observers School, then became, in order,
battery commander, battalion liaison officer, survey officer (and
I had practically flunked out of Engineering School my first year
in Harvard), plans and training officer, intelligence officer, and
executive officer of an Artillery Battalion. A tour of duty at the
Tank Destroyer School was also included. During all this time
the Second Armored was maneuvering in Georgia, Tennessee,
Louisiana, Texas, and the Carolinas and it scemed that only oc-
casionally would we spend a little time at our home station of
Fort Benning. Then one day in August, 1942, I was told to re-
port to a transport quartermaster’s school at Norfolk. The title
meant nothing to me at the time but after a ten-day course given
by the Marines, I was told to prepare the amphibious loading of
all ships in a sub-task force for the invasion of Africa — I who had
only once before in my life been on a ship, and then on a quick
trip to Bermuda. Well, I loaded the ships and we landed at Safi,
Morocco, on October 8, 1942. We then spent six months living
in the Foret de Mamora, a cork forest about ten miles outside of
Rabat. In the spring of 1943, we moved to Algeria for practice
loading for the invasion of Sicily, then to Bizerte in Tunisia for
the actual loading. By this time I was having difficulty deter-
mining whether I was in the Army or Navy —I was spending so
much time with ships. However, that was all changed when the
ship I was on in our landing at Licata, Sicily, was bombed and
I had my first swim in the Mediterranean — involuntarily.

[515]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929.

Dripping wet, I reported ashore and was told to take command
of the Combat Command “A” trains. All I knew about them
was how to spell the word but I quickly discovered they con-
sisted of most of the supply and non-combat vehicles of the com-
mand. I continued on that duty until Sicily was cleaned up. I
was then returned to the States in November, 1943. |

My reassignment was to the 13th Armored Division com-
manded by Major General John Wogan who, as a major, had been
one of my ROTC instructors while I was in Harvard. There in
the 13th I found Tim Clark as a battalion commander and Johnny
Case on the staff of Combat Command “B.” Again I started on
the Army merry-go-round of battalion executive officer, divi-
sion artillery personnel and supply officer, assistant division per-
sonnel officer, Combat Command “B” intelligence, then supply
officer. During this period I was back overseas again but this
time “rat racing” through France, Germany, and Austria, then
back to the States at the end of July, 1945. Fortunately, the war
ended before we could sail to take part in the invasion of Japan
which was to have been our next mission.

I have maintained an active interest in the organized reserves
and at present, as a colonel, command an ordnance group head-
quarters. Since the war I have.completed a course at the Com-
mand and General Staff School and attend unit summer training
for two weeks annually. On October 28, 1945, I returned to
civilian life and on November 13, 1945, joined the staff of Girard
Trust Company in Philadelphia, now Girard Trust Corn Fx-
change Bank, where I hope to remain the rest of my business
days. All my experience here has been in the general personnel
field. Dealing with people and their problems is extremely in-
teresting, and it is awesome to know that in your “yes” or “no”
you have the ability to give or deny a person the chance to earn
a living, at least with your bank, and that your answer may change
the very course of a human life.

I think I can attribute what success I may have in the employ-
ment phase of my work to sensing how a person feels inside when
asking for a position, I remember very vividly the frustrated
feeling that 1 developed from the fortunately not too many times
I had to find a new job during the depression years and heard
“no” so often. For diversion, my daughter, now a very lovely

[ 516 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and talented young lady of fifteen, and I like to take cruises to
the many interesting ports in the Caribbean area but financial re-
striction prevents us from indulging very often in this pastime.
We maintain our small home together where we will welcome
any member of the Class passing this way.

FRED L. HARTE

HOME appress; 166 E. 96th St., New York 28, N, Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Seeman Bros., Inc. 121 Hudson St., New York, N. Y.

porn: Oct. 4, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Ferdinand Wolff Herz,
Florence Hirsch.

prePareD AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 8.B., 1929.

occupation; Mercantile business.

THIE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JOHN EDWARD HARTNETT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 938 Main Se., Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Staff, CINCPACFLT, Navy 128, FPO, San Francisco, Calif.

BorN: Afay 29, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: John Edward Hartnett, Anna
Cecilia Foley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929, DEGREFS: A.B. 1929; LL.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Virginia Andros Barron, Dec. 19, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joseph Barron Yeaton, June 17, 1934 (stepchild); Judith Virginia, Sept.
13, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Joseph Barron Yeaton, '56.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Frederick Hartnett, '30, 11.B., '33.

occuPATION: Lawyer, assistant legal officer for commander in chief, U. S.
Pacific Fleet.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston and the North Shore; Appalachian
Mountrain Club; various bar associations.

PuBLicaTions: “Survey of the Literature of Military Law,” 6 Vanderbilt
Law Review, 333.

THE 1939 and 1949 Reports account in detail for my first twenty
years. To summarize: I spent three years in the Law School,
joined a large Boston firm for the next six years, then branched

[517]

Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

out on my own for three years. Then followed three and a half
years in the Navy after which I returned to the law and the life
of a small Essex County town. My most interesting avocations
since the war have been participating in the town government
and stage-managing various gatherings for our classmates in the
Boston area. In September, 1950, I was recalled to active duty
in the Navy to participate in the greatly expanded military law
program resulting from the enactment in that year of the uniform
code of military justice. After a seven-week indoctrination in
this specialized field at the Navy’s Justice School at Newport,
Rhode Island, I was selected to remain there as an instructor. In
the following two years I taught the law of evidence to some two
thousand officers from all branches of the Navy and all corners
of the world and found it a fascinating and rewarding experience.
Since May of 1953 I have been on the staff of the commander in
chief, U.S. Pacific Fleet, engaged in legal duties and enjoying the
weather and beauties of Hawaii. So far I have not taken any af-
firmative action to bring about my return to civilian life, and at
the moment I have no very settled plans to do so.

ALFRED TOWNSEND HARTWELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1420 Rexford Ave, Pasadena 8, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 760 S. Hill St., Los Angeles 55, Calif.

BorN: April 26, 1907, Chestnut Hill, Mass, parents: Alfred Townsend Hart-
well, Mabel Rebecca Hartwell.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.B.A., 1939.

MARRIED: Frances Pearce Whitmore, July 14, 1934, Hartford, Conn.
(divorced, 1948); Martha Wood Hosch, July 16, 1949, Los Angeles,
Calif. cup: Elizabeth Whitmore, Oct. 12, 1944.

OccUPATION: Assistant trust officer and assistant secretary, Union Bank and
Trust Company of Los Angeles.

OFFICES HELD: Member Trust Division, Committee on Fiduciary Insurance,
California Bankers Association, since 1951; director, 1950, 1952-54, presi-
dent, 1954, Harvard Club of Southern California, secretary, 1948-50,
president, 1950-52, director, 1952-54, Harvard Business School Club
of Southern California.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Los Angeles; Town Hall of Los Angeles;

American Society of Corporate Secretaries, Los Angeles Regional
Group.

[ 518 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pusuicarions: “Fiduciary Duties in Regard to Insurance,” submitted to Pa-
cific Coast Banking School, 1951.

FOR the sake of simplicity, I shall use the headings in the ques-
tionnaire.

Career History. 1 got into the ill-fated brokerage business as
quickly as possible in May, 1929. Although I survived the depres-
sion, it tovk me eight years to realize that the only people who
made any money in that business (when they did make moncy)
were the salesmen and I didn’t want to be a securities salesman.
In 1937 I entered the Business School and graduated in 1939 full
of enthusiasm about manufacturing and eager to see things I pro-
duced shipped out the back door. I was with Joyce, Inc., manu-
facturers of women’s playshoes in Pasadena, California, until
Pearl Harbor Day. A stint with an aircraft factory and one with
a molded plywood manufacturer preceded my entering the
Supply Corps of the U.S. Navy in July, 1943.

When I was released in 1946, I joined the Union Bank & Trust
Company of Los Angeles, working on trust investments, About
five years ago I moved into trust administration and now have
charge of the Probate Division. I spent the last two weeks of
August of 1949, 1950, and 1951 in Seattle at the Pacific Coast
Banking School where I was sent to get a broader picture of
banking.

The work is fascinating to me. Each new account is like a
novel. You think you know how it will finish but sometimes you
are surprised. You are glad to finish with some of the people
and others you are sorry to see go. It is not a way to get very
rich but, on the other hand, not many trust men are hungry.
Family. 1 am very happy in my second marriage. We have a
small home near the mountains with a magnificent view when the
smog does not interfere. Frequently my daughter visits us.
Commuting takes too long but I have found no one in downtown
Los Angeles with a satisfactory solution.

Travels. I have had two quick trips to Europe — one in 1929
and the other in 1936: I would like to travel more.

Hobbies. They are our home, hiking (especially in the moun-
tains), and Jong automobile drives. We had a forty-foot auxiliary
yawl for a while.

[519]

L=-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

War Record, It is undistinguished. As a lieutenant (junior
grade) I went to Babson Park in Wellesley in 1943 for twenty-
eight days’ indoctrination and then to Camp Parks near Liver-
more, California. Before then I had never even walked through
a restaurant or hotel kitchen but I found myself feeding 26,000
Seabees for six months. Then, after a little over a year as retail
clothing and small stores officer, I was transferred to the Naval
Supply Depot on Okinawa and became the wholesale clothing
and small stores officer.
Social and Political Convictions. 1 am combining these two head-
ings because I am convinced that education is needed (by me
as well as by others) on local, national, and world affairs. For
this reason, my wife and I have completed the American Founda-
tion for Political Education’s discussion program in world politics
and have now started one on American foreign policy. We read
Foreign Affairs and the Sunday edition of The New York Times,
and still feel as if we were poorly informed.
Religious Convictions. There is something missing here. When
I felt I wanted the help of the church, I didn’t find it — probably
my fault
General. There just doesn’t seem to be enough time to do all the
things I want to do— work or play —and so I am not doing

anything as thoroughly or as well as I should like. I wish I could
figure out an answer. |

REED HARWOOD

HOME aboress: 81 Spooner Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ALDRESS: 256 Beacon Se, Boston 16, Mass.

Boa: Sept. 1, 1907, Brookline, Mass. parents: John Henry Harwood, ’93,
Anne Bowland Reed,

prepanep at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1919, DEGREES: A.B., 1929, M.D. Cum laude, 1934.

Maguizp: Faith Garrison, Jan. 20, 1934, West Newton, Mass. cHILDREN: Mi-
chacl, Sept. 22, 1934; Anne Reed, April 9, 1937; Daphne, July 7, 1940;
Lynne, Nov. 16, 1944.

Hagvasn son; Michael Harwood, ‘54,

Hanvanp BeoTiiess: John Henry Elarwood, Jr. °27; Sydney Harwood, °32.

OrLUPATION: Physician,

ovens HED: Assistant physician, 1943-54, chief of Diabetes Clinic, 1946-54,

[ 520 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Massachusetts General Hospital; instructor in medicine, Harvard Medi-
cal School, 1942-44; instructor, Department of Hygiene, Harvard Uni-
versity, 1938-42.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
American Diabetes Association, New England Diabetes Association;
The Country Club, Brookline; St. Botolph Club, Boston; Handel and
Haydn Society, Boston.

PusLicaTions: Half dozen articles in various medical journals mostly on the
subject of diabetes mellitus.

MY story begins a few months before graduation. I had taken,
quite casually, a course in abnormal psychology in the first half
of my senior year. I became interested then in psychiatry as a
career, and soon was convinced that a degree in medicine was
essential. To pass the pre-medical requirements I went to sum-
mer school in 1929 and spent another academic year at Harvard
studying chemistry, biology, and physics— all of which I had
carefully avoided as an undergraduate. I was admitted to Har-
vard Medical School, spent four remarkably happy and stimulat-
ing years there, and was graduated in 1934.

The next step was an internship at the Massachusetts General
Hospital — harder work than Medical School, and even more ex-
citing, as it involved taking some real responsibility for the first
time. By this time I had abandoned the idea of becoming a psy-
chiatrist and had chosen the broader field of general medicine —
Or, aS it is now inappropriately called, internal medicine. Psy-
chiatry has remained an important interest, and fortunately so,
since it is an essential part of the internist’s armamentarium.

When my internship was completed, I had the temerity to
hang out a shingle in Boston, where I have remained in practice
ever since. For the first year or two I was an assistant to a Bos-
ton physician and then struck out on my own, supplementing my
meagre earnings for the next four years with a part-time job in
the Harvard Hygiene Department in Cambridge. By 1941, my
practice was well enough established to keep me occupied full
time. Shortly after Pearl Harbor I applied for a commission in
the Army, but was rejected because of an earlier illness which
happily has not interfered with an active life.

I am on the staff of the Massachusetts General Hospital and
maintain an office in the Back Bay. As happens with many urban
doctors today, I became interested in a sub-specialty of medicine

[521 ]

Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

— it happens to be diabetes — and I have been for some years the
chief of the Diabetes Clinic at the Massachusetts General Hos-
pital. Being something of an expert in a special field has its dis-
advantages: people tend to think of one only in relation to that
field. My interests are broader; I wish to continue to be the
family physician, ready to handle anything medical that comes
along.

During my professional life I have also maintained an interest
in the social aspects of medicine. Before the war, I participated
in an experiment in delivering complete medical care on a pre-
payment basis here in Boston. (This organization died in 1942
partly because of the determined resistance of the Medical Soci-
ety.) I maintain a conviction that more must be done to deliver
more and better care to rural areas and to the underprivileged,
and to protect the family of modest means from the appalling
costs of catastrophic illness. I have retreated somewhat from an
. earlier position that these aims could only be achieved by “social-

ized medicine,” but I expect to live to see a marked increase in
government’s already considerable participation in the problems
of the nation’s health.

So much for my professional life. I married in 1934. a few
months before graduation from Medical School. With embar-
rassing promptness I begat a son (now at Harvard) and, at quite
decent intervals, three daughters. My admiration for these chil-
dren is unbounded, and is exceeded only by my regard for, and
devotion to, their mother, whose sterling qualities will be readily
apparent to all who have the good fortune to meet her at the Re-
union.

Interests outside my profession and family have been diverse.
Travelling is one of them which I have not been able to indulge
as much as I could wish. Despite the demands of my practice and
the ever-increasing tuitions, | have managed many pleasant vaca-
tions — trips to Bermuda, the west coast, Florida, the Maine
woods, cruises along the New England coast, and brief binges
in New York. I have maintained a life-long interest in orni-
thology and have dabbled in skiing, mostly of the open-slope
variety. Photography is another hobby, of which the subjects
are mainly my family and the places we have visited. Books
(mostly contemporary) and serious magazines afford an impor-

[ 522]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tant escape from the pressures of daily life. I am fond of games,
particularly bridge and chess. In recent years I have devoted a
significant portion of my spare time to improving my golf, and
regretfully report that it still leaves much to be desired.

With each year my interest in the passing political scene has
increased, I was raised a staunch Republican, but have had
liberal leanings since my College days, and today I am an inde-
pendent vorer. Adlai Stevenson won my support in the 1952
election because he seemed to have an exceptional understanding
of the complexities of the present-day world. More men of his
integrity, intellectual capacity, and idealism must be found to
lead this country through this period of danger. To my mind,
the greatest immediate danger is that we shall fail to maintain a
clear view of our relationship to the world beyond our borders.
Above all we must guard ourselves against hysteria, against nar-
row self-interest, and against the sacrifice of our cherished civil
liberties.

EDMUND LEWIS HATFIELD, JR.

HOME Appress: 55 VV. Burton PI, Chicago, Ill.

orFice aporess; 7 S. Dearborn St., Chicago 3, Ill.

Born: July 6, 1907, Chicago, Hl. parents: Edmund Lewis Hatfield, May
Stafford.

PREPARED AT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEcaFE: LLB. (Northwestern Univ.), 1944.

occupation: Law.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Chicago Bar Association, Delta
Theta Phi.

puBsticaTions: Law Review articles.

I HAD tried, on a foundation of two years of preparatory school
and a winter in Montparnasse, to graduate from Harvard in three
years. The combination was somewhat indigestible and, in the
middle of what was to have been my senior year (1928), I became
winded and took a leave of absence which has gone on prolonging
itself. (For the record: my experience does not cause me to dis-
sent from Hutchins’ view that two years is ample time to spend on
such a dull chore as secondary school. But I am unable to com-
prehend why anyone should want to cut short those wonderful

[ 523]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

exploratory years of College, at least when the College is Hay.
vard.)

After several months of recuperation I got involved in screen
writing. This had the effect of getting me further entangled ina
profound interest in the theatre and its various allied arts. After
several spartan-epicurean years as an apprentice writer, I began
pounding away, still without much knowledge of life, at a work
of serious proportions, only to be rudely interrupted by pnev-
monia, which in New York in 1932 almost terminated this biog-
raphy. I was not good for much for more than a year. By that
time the depression had thoroughly caught up with me. There
were various depression jobs. There was further study, both with
the Jesuits and at the University of Chicago. There was more
writing, more illness, again very serious.

I then spent several years on the staff of the Catholic Youth
Organization in Chicago. There in 1942 I had a hand in setting up
the Sheil School of Social Studies. In 1944 I was graduated from
Northwestern University School of Law, where in an individual
course I had had the good fortune to be Dean Wigmore’s last
student. In due course I was admitted to the Bar. Since then I

have specialized in labor law, civil liberties cases, and federal
appellate practice.

JAMES PATRICK HAYES

HOME Appress: 6o1 Johnson Pl, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1108 G St. N. W., Washington, D. C.

BoRN: Jan. 30, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Patrick Joseph Kearney,
Margaret Hayes.

PREPARED AT: High School of Commerce, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. ;

MaraigeD: G, Gaynel Worrell, Nov. 22, 1929, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1935); Evelyn Gladys Swarthout, June 30, 1939, Lawrence, Kans. cHIL-
preN: Edward Francis, Dec. 17, 1931; Bryant Teal, June 2, 1942; Eliza-
beth Ruth, Feb. 14, 1947.

occupation: Concert manager, impresario, Hayes Concert Bureau; radio
commentator on music.

orrices wep: President, National Association of Concert Managers, two
years, Greater Washington Music Council; member Board of Directors,
Alexandria Hospital, member, City Democratic Committee, Alexandria,
two years; assistant ta president, American University for Fine Arts

[ 524]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Projects; current chairman, Cultural Development Committee, Wash-
ington Board of Trade.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; University Club; National Press
Club. .

PUBLICATIONS: Weekly ten-minute broadcasts on subjects related to good
music, for four years,

I DO not like questionnaires and the only good thing about this
one is that I have gotten along this far into it, and see twenty or
more clear lines without an interrupting question. With only
two years of College, no degree, no profession, and landing on
the scene in time for two depressions in seven years (the tech-
nological depression in the theatre that started in 1927 with the
advent of talking pictures, and the one we all know about that
hit in 1929), I worked successively in a bank, a restaurant, a night
club, and with an insurance company. In 1938 my Irish luck
brought me an opportunity in the concert business. After three
years with the NBC Artist’s Bureau, I became manager of the
National Symphony Orchestra in Washington, D.C., a position
I held from 1941 to 1943.

The next thirty months were spent with Uncle Sam, blue suit
division, as a lieutenant, junior grade then senior, in the Supply
Corps, U.S. Naval Reserve. There was no Caine Mutiny for me
— it was Bayonne, New Jersey, where mutiny was avoided b
living in a nice town nearby, Cranford, New Jersey, and I had my
family with me the whole time. January, 1946, found me with
enough points to become a civilian again. I returned to Wash-
ington to the Orchestra Association as general manager.

After a year and a half, in November, 1946, I resigned from
the Orchestra Association to start my Own concert management
business, the Hayes Concert Bureau, of which I am proprietor.
National statistics tell me I am in the upper seven per cent
of earners in the nation, but that is not what my accountant’s
work-sheets show periodically. As “Patrick Hayes” I present all
of the great musical artists and attractions of the world to the
Washington public in Constitution Hall (and occasionally in the
National and Shubert Theatres). Our staple is a concert series,
like Aaron Richmond presents in Symphony Hall in Boston.
During the past two years the concerts became an activity of the
American University of Washington, with me as managing di-

[525 ]

Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

rector, and I was appointed an assistant to the president of the
University for Fine Arts Projects.
In my time at Harvard, the “love a man who smokes a pipe”
era (and I an ardent pipe-smoker), there was a commencement
speech, at MIT I think it was, in which young men were advised
to marry the boss’s daughter, other things being equal. With
Insh luck again, I married not my boss’s daughter but the daugh-
ter of one of the nation’s great bosses of music, Dean Donald M.
Swarthout of the University of Kansas. Wednesday of the week
in which John Hutchinson goaded me into writing this, my wife
appeared as piano soloist with the National Symphony Orchestra
in Constitution Hall, with Dr. Howard Mitchell conducting.
She played the Mozart Concerto in G Major, K453, and “Nights
in the Gardens of Spain” by deFalla. It was a musical triumph
and something for our twelve-year-old son to remember — he
was in the audience. Mrs. Hayes is adjunct professor of music
at the American University, head of the piano department, and
often plays in recital and with chamber music ensembles at the
National Gallery of Art and at the Phillips Gallery. Our chil-
dren often go to sleep to the music of the rehearsal in the living
room — the Steinway piano is here and the string quartet visits
the house to rehearse.

I have forgotten Economics A, but I read the newspapers care-
fully and I heard about “hedging” a few years ago. So I took on
a few business sidelines — a few advertising accounts on the Good
Music Radio Station here, WGMS, assignments as management
consultant to theatrical and musical producers, and as tour con-
sulrant to Fred Waring. A hobby pays me a little each week —
writing and doing a broadcast on events and people in the world
of music each Sunday at one P.M., WGMS. ,

Literature suffers in our house from Jack of time to read. We
do well by the theatre, attending almost as many plays a year as
we do concerts. We are happy in Washington, a city that has a
touch of Paris about it as well as being a cross-roads of the United
States these years. We thrive on the daily kick of good ideas,
good humor, interesting experiences, and although we are iden-
tified with music and cultural activities, we are not “ivory-tower”
or “Jong-haired” people, Athlctically, I am a regular visitor to
the steam-room and the swimming pool at the University Club.

[ 526 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am grateful for Harvard, glad I attended Harvard, and as a
citizen I felt proud of Nathan Marsh Pusey when he replied in
the manner he did to Senator McCarthy. I am an unreconstructed
Democrat, voted for FDR, Harry Truman, and Adlai Stevenson.
I hope my son Bryant will go to Harvard. He plays the clarinet
very well, and could fill Roy Lamson’s shoes leading the “Har-
vardians” of his class) My son Edward graduates this June, 1954,
from Union College in Schenectady, Dean’s List, ROTC Air
Force, headed for the practice of law. My daughter Elizabeth
was born on Valentine’s Day, is now seven years old, and is a
Valentine. And a Happy Valentine’s Day to harried John
Hutchinson!

JOHN JOSEPH HAYES

_HOME ADDRESS: 61 Pelham St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Oliver St., Boston 10, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 11, 1907, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: John Michael Hayes, Cath-
erine Agnes Moran.

~ PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Barbara A. Callahan, Oct. 16, 1937, Concord, N. H. cHILpren:
John Joseph, Jr., July 15, 1939 (died September, 1940); Stephen, Aug.

23, 1941.
occupation: Central area staff supervisor, New England Telephone and
Telegraph Company.

UPON graduation I was employed by New England Telephone
and Telegraph Company and worked in the Traffic Department.
Until 1941 I lived in western Massachusetts, Maine, and New
Hampshire, as company policy moved me about. While in New
Hampshire I became associated with the National Guard unit in
Manchester. I was inducted with this unit in February, 1941,
and spent the next five years on active duty in the Army. I was
commanding officer of the 172nd Field Artillery battalion, on
combat duty in Europe with VII Corps of the First Army. In
1946 I returned to work with the New England Telephone and
Telegraph Company and was assigned to the Boston area. Since
that time I have been living in Newton Center.

[527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

WILLIS GILPIN HAZARD

HOME ADDRESS: 3609 Mapleway Drive, Toledo 14, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Owens-Illinois Glass Co., Toledo 1, Ohio.

porN: April 27, 1907, West Chester, Pa. PARENTS: Willis Hatfield Hazard,
A.M., '92, PH.D., 94, Mary Dunbar Creigh.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cu77 laude, 1929; A-M., 1930.

marrigepD: Elizabeth Anne Ericson, Sept. 20, 1941, Toledo, Ohio. cHmoren;

Willis Gilpin, Jr, July 13, 1942; Samuel Garth, Dec. 7, 1944; David
Creigh, May 17, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Colton Dunbar Hazard, ’25, M.B.A., 27; Vincent Hatfield
Hazard, ’25, M.B.A., 27.

occupaTION: Industrial hygiene director, General Industrial Relations Divi-
sion, Owens-Illinois Glass Company.

orFices HELD: Director, former secretary, American Industrial Hygiene
Association; general chairman, Glass and Ceramics Section, National

Safety Council; former member, Engineering Committee, Industrial
Hygiene Foundation, Pittsburgh.

MEMBER OF: Acoustical Society of America, American Public Health Asso-
ciation; former member, Institute of Radio Engineers, American Con-
ference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers on various phases of industrial hygiene (con-
trol of air contaminants, local exhaust ventilation, comfort conditions
in hot industries, noise reduction, control of absenteeism, etc.).

AS recounted in the Decennial Report, my student career at Har-
vard was rounded off by a year at the Graduate School of Arts
and Sciences, leading to an A.M. in physics. Next came a four-
year turn at the Harvard School of Public Health, nominally as
instructor, but where I actually did more learning than teaching.
Principal thing learned was that there exists an activity known as
industrial hygiene — in which work I’ve been ever since.

In 1943 I left Boston and Cambridge for Toledo, where I went
to work for Owens-Illinois Glass Company, manufacturers of
glass containers, T'V tubes, glass building blocks, and other glass
products. Owens-Illinois has some thirty plants scattered from
coast to coast. Interestingly, Michael J. Owens, inventor of the
first automatic bottle machine, was working at the end of the
last century for Edward Drummond Libbey in the latter’s hand-
blown glass shop in Lechmere Square, Cambridge. After a few
years they picked up and moved to Toledo bringing to it an in-

[ 528 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dustry that has made this Ohio city the Glass Center of the
World.

Industrial hygiene is aimed at providing in-plant working con-
ditions that are safe from the health standpoint. It combines
aspects of engincering, preventive medicine, and personnel. En-
vironmental conditions that lead to possible illness, or even dis-
comfort, are the substance of industrial hygiene: dusts, fumes
and vapors, excessive heat, noise or vibration; lighting; radio-
active compounds used in industry; and certain personnel situa-
tions that end in absentecism or other difficulty.

The chief drawback to a job of this kind is that the work to be
done is not in Toledo, bur in the plants — which means travelling
and time away from home. With the finest wife in the world,
and the three best boys, as active as only five, nine, and eleven-
years-olds can be, every day away from our bulging Mapleway
home is a day too many. This bulging led this fall to adding a new
room and basement. So just as there was when the Vicennial Re-
port was written five years ago, there’s still painting and much
to be done at the Hazard house.

During the war I was in the U.S. Public Health Service, sta-
tioned for four years in New Jersey and New York, and was
fortunate enough to be in industrial hygiene work all the time
Uncle Sam was my employer.

JOSEPH HEAD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2228 Pine Sc., Philadelphia 46, Pa.

OFFICE appress: Swartz, Campbell & Henry, 1724 Lincoln-Liberty Bldg.,
Philadelphia, Pa.

Born: Nov. 28, 1907, Germantown, Pa. parents: Joseph Head, Annie Lind-
say Wilkinson.

PREPARED aT: Chestnut Hill Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, 1928-1931, DEGREES: A.B., 1929(31); LL.B. (Univ.
of Pennsylvania), 1937.

MargieD: Helen B. Smith, Dec. 18, 1936, Providence, R. I. (divorced 1948);
Anne Heist, 1950. CHILDREN: Joseph, 3d, December 28, 1939; Manton B.,
June 24, 1941; Margaret B., June 12, 1944.

[ 529 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

HARVARD BROTHER: Howard Head, ’36.

occupation: Trial lawyer, emphasizing casualty insurance and surety work.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia, St. Andrew’s Society of Phila-
delphia; Philadelphia Bar Association.

I WAS out of College one year (1927-1928), so did not actually
graduate until 1931. I then “selected” a position with the Singer
Sewing Machine Company. My official title was impressive, but
in fact we “peddled stitchers” in lower Connecticut, Yonkers,
and the Bronx. After three such broadening years, I decided to
study law and entered University of Pennsylvania Law School,
graduating in 1937. I then began the general practice of law and
discovered that my inclinations and, I hope, talents inclined me
to court-room practice. The rough-and-tumble of trial work has
proved to be increasingly fascinating. :

In 1942 1 was commissioned in the Air Force and spent the next
four years in various military police activities. I then returned
to the law and have been specializing more and more in insurance
law. In 1948 I joined the Pennsylvania National Guard as, I then
thought, a pleasant peacetime avocation. However, the events of
1950 turned my military hobby into a full-time job, as 1 was re-
called into active duty with the 28th Infantry Division as the
artillery intelligence officer. After training at Camp Atterbury,
Indiana, we sailed for Germany in 1951. My nine months’ tour
of duty in Germany was surprisingly delightful and an extremely
informative experience. I had remarried in 1950 so my wife,
Anne, came over to join me in Germany as soon as possible. In
spite of restrictions, we were able to do a fair amount of touring
and sightseeing all the way from Italy to Holland. Upon our re-
turn to Philadelphia, we bought an old house in the city. My two
boys had been in boarding school in Connecticut, but shortly
joined us. What with the inevitable alterations, my hobby now
consists of an attempt to outdo Mr. Blanding. Dreamhouse or no,
Anne and I and Joe and Tony are fast acquiring an assortment of
skills with a minimum of bashed fingers. All is serene.

[ 530]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEE ANTHONY HEILER

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Antwerp St., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Carriker Motor Co., 68 Washington St., Quincy 69, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Matthies Heiler, Therese Green-
wald.,

PREPARED AT: Boston College Preparatory School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1928-1929.

MarrieD: Helen Zagami, April 19, 1938, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Lee An-
thony, Jr., Oct. 1, 1940; Matthew J., 3d, Feb. 13, 1942; Lola F., March
18, 1944; Grace H., June 9, 1950.

occupaATion: Automobile sales.

MEMBER OF: Town Club, Milton.

UPON leaving College in 1929, I went to work for a small
brokerage firm in Boston, selling securities. The “Crash” wrote
“fini” to this career and for several years I engaged in the sale
of advertising space for a variety of media. In 1938 I entered the.
automobile business and have stayed in one capacity or another.
During this period (1938 to 1953) I have represented the fol-
lowing manufacturers: Packard Motor Car Company (New
York), Ford Motor Company (Somerville), Dodge Brothers
(Detroit and Boston). In 1948 I entered my own business as a
dealer for cars and trucks representing Dodge Brothers in the
Waltham, Watertown area, After an unpleasant partnership ar-
rangement, I liquidated my holdings and returned to the retail
sale and managament phase of the business from 1949 to the
present time.

I am now living a very quiet and peaceful life in suburban
Milton where I purchased a home with the help of a nearby
bank. My wife Helen and I are busily engaged in guiding the
future of our four children. With Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts,
civic enterprises, social activities, local theatricals, music, singing,
and other endeavors, we crowd thirty-six hours of fun and work
into each day. Our sincere wish for the future is a continuance
of good health to keep on doing what we are doing.

[531]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PAUL HENLE

HOME ADDRESS: 2012 Frieze Ave, Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Philosophy Dept. Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.
BORN: Sept. 12, 1908, New York, N.Y. parents: Leo Henle, Pearl Hahn.
PREPARED AT: East High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1029. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1929; A.M,
1931; PHD, 1933.
occupation: Education,

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

LOUIS RICHARD HENRICH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 8831 Terrace Drive, El] Cerrito, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: Radiation Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley 4,
Calif

porn: Aug. 20, 1908, Faneuil, Mass. parents: Louis Richard Henrich, Mary
Ruth Johnston.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1929; PH.D.
(Univ. of Chicago), 1942.

MararieD: Edith M. Dodd, Aug. 14, 1936, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1948). cHiLD: Mary Johnston, July 16, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Johnston Henrich, 728.

OCCUPATION: Physicist.

+ THADDEUS ANDREW HEPKE

Borx: July 15, 1908, Boston, Mass, parents: Czeslaw Hepke, Palagia Be-

rendt.
PREPARED aT: English High School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: 8.8. cum laude, 1929, A.M. 1930.
piep: Sept. 10, 1930, Cambridge Springs, Pa.
AFTER graduating with our Class, Hepke entered the Graduate
School and received an A.M. in 1930. He then became a mem-
ber of the faculty at Alliance College, Cambridge Springs, Penn-
sylvania, where he was teaching at the time of his death.

[ 532 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD HERBERT, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: Cedar Park Farm, Greensboro, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 57 E. 88th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1908, Fall River, Mass. pAreENts: Edward Herbert, Eleanor
Sarah Chace.

PREPARED AT: B. M. C, Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; MD. (Columbia
Univ.), 1933.

mMaraigD: Virginia Piers Summey, Sept. 28, 1937, New York, N. Y.

occuPATION: Medicine.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

HAROLD EDSON HERTZFELD

HOME ADDRESS: 3920 Brookside Rd., Ottawa Hills, Toledo 6, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hertzfeld-Oldsmobile, Inc., 1717 Madison Ave., Toledo,
Ohio.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1907, Toledo, Ohio. parents: Joseph J. Hertzfeld, Maud
Mabel Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Libbey High School, Toledo, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: 8B. 1929(30).

MARRIED: Georgia C. Yarick, Feb. 15, 1930, Lexington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Harold Edson, Jr., and George C. (twins), Feb. 27, 1936.

occuPATION: Oldsmobile-Cadillac dealer: president, Hertzfeld-Oldsmobile,
Inc.; secretary, treasurer, chairman of board, Rhodes-Hertzfeld, Inc,
Muncie, Indiana.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Dealer Discount Company, Toledo; president,
Harvard Club of Toledo, 1943-44, Toledo Automobile Dealers Associa-
tion, 1944; past director, Ohio Automobile Dealers Association; gen-
eral chairman, Inverness Invitational, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Inverness Country Club; Sylvania Country Club; Kiwanis
Club; Chamber of Commerce; Wabe McQuaw Club, Quebec, Canada.

DURING the depression of 1931-1932 I left Harvard Law School
to obtain a job to keep groceries on the table, especially since I
had been married during my senior year in College. The job
was selling automobiles. In 1937 I became an Oldsmobile dealer
after having had Auburn, Willys, and Hudson franchises. In
1945 another Olds-Cadillac franchise was obtained in Indiana.
The business has been kind to me —I have enjoyed it immensely.
We have a new modern building in downtown Toledo and
should enjoy visits from former classmates. The twins are finish-

C533]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ing high school this year and will be ready for college; they
strongly indicate a preference for becoming automobile dealers.
Thanks for the opportunity of being a part of the Twenty-fifth
Anniversary program.

My travels have included Florida regularly, California, Canada,
and South America, From 1942 to 1946 I shipped automobiles
West from New York City. My hobbies from 1949 to 1951 were
the restaurant and floor show at the Taboo Night Club, Willard
Hotel, Toledo.

FRED ROBISON HERYER

HOME ADDRESS: 5331 Mission Woods Rd., Kansas City, Kans.
OFFICE appREss: 426 W. Fifth St. Kansas City, Mo.

BORN: June 15, 1907, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Fred Wiley Heryer, Loren
Leslie Heryer.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Virginia Booth, Feb, 15, 1938, Kansas City, Mo. cHmpreNn: Fred
Robison, Jr., June 15, 1939; James Curzon, June 20, 1942.

OccUPATION: President, McManus-Heryer Brokerage Company.

MEMBER OF: Mission Hills Ccuntry Club; Book Club of California; Cali-
fornia Historical Society; St. Paul’s Episcopal Church.

THE first ten years (1929-1939) were the hardest. he depres-
sion was a difficult time for making the adjustment from college
to practical business life. Necessary experience in selling was
acquired through life insurance sales and in banking through
work with the Federal Reserve Bank and the National Bank
Examiners. In 1932 I attended the summer session of the Har-
vard Business School and, in 1933, 1 joined my father in the
McManus-Heryer Brokerage Company, which he founded in
1905. There we have since worked successfully in the grocery
brokerage business, also in handling for thirteen years the sales
and credits for the American Can Company in four states. These
were years of hard interesting work, and I count myself extremely
fortunate to be associated all these years with my father, whose
fine character, ability, and reputation for honesty and integrity
in every aspect of his business and personal life are unsurpassed,
The net result of our efforts was that we acquired sufficient

[ 534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

capital assets to make subsequent years easier, with more time for
leisure. The work did not interefere with the enjoyment of
good health, and the pursuit of hobbies, principally travel photog-
raphy and the collecting of rare and fine books, which is an in-
terest acquired in the Farnsworth Room of the Widener Library.
Vacation trips with my camera to Mexico, Hawaii, and Europe
added to my enjoyment of these years. Membership in the Mis-
sion Hills Golf and Country Club permitted frequent rounds of
golf, with scores seldom under ninety.

The first two years of the next ten (1939-1949) marked my
marriage to Virginia Booth, of Kansas City, and the birth of my
first son, Fred R., Jr., who was born on my birthday, followed
by the birth of James three years later. These were the happiest
and most fortunate events of my life. For three months after our
marriage in 1938, Virginia and I travelled in Europe, visiting
many countries which I studied about at Harvard, including
Greece, Sicily, Dalmatia, Hungary, Austria, Germany, and
France, photographing many unusual places. Subsequent trips
with the children have included Williamsburg, Mexico, Jamaica,
and as this is written we are in the Grand Teton National Park
in Wyoming, horseback riding and photographing the magnifi-
cent Teton Country. These years have been devoted to working,
and spending as much time as possible with the children, watching
them grow up all too rapidly. Much time was devoted to the
improvement of my library, and fortunately I acquired a number
of fine rare books in English literature from libraries which were
dispersed during this period. As each year goes by, my library
becomes a more essential part of my life and is something which
also is enriching the lives of my children. Each year of the war
we deplored the tragedy of the Roosevelt administration which
carried us into it and prayed for a higher type of leadership which
recognizes the futility of war.

The last five years, which have passed so quickly, have also
been occupied with my business and family. For ten years I have
been active as sales director and president of our company oper-
ating in western Missouri, Kansas, and Oklahoma, with branch
offices at Wichita and Oklahoma City. The children are growing
up and their many activities provide an ever-varying source of
interest and pleasure. During this period we bought a home in

[535]

POA Ie ant a AN a NT OI HRT OI NL a |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Carmel, California, where we go in the spring and summer to
enjoy the charm of Carmel and the unsurpassed beauty of the
Monterey Peninsula. Nowhere in our travels have we found a
lovelier place. Our garden permits us to enjoy the infinite vari-
ety of flowers which grow so profusely there; and the fine golf
courses provide a further attraction, although they have not re-
sulted in any marked improvement in our golf scores. Living
both in Kansas City and Carmel has permitted us to enjoy, en
route, such places as Yosemite, Yellowstone, and the Grand
Canyon Parks. Frequent vacations, hobbies, and outside activities
have contributed to the good health we fortunately enjoyed
during these years.

The future: my plan to delegate the responsibilities of business
to others will, I hope, permit even more leisure to seek, wherever
they may be found, the beauties of nature, beautiful pictures,
books, and architecture and to share with my family and others
who may be interested a greater appreciation of beauty. We
hope to revisit with our children the Picture Towns of Europe,
especially the cathedrals, castles, and historic cities of Italy, Eng-
land, and France. I shall, of course, continue my interest in fine
and rare books.

The sum total of the accomplishments of the members of the
Class of 1929 will make an impressive record of which Harvard
may be proud and we shall look forward to the future with confi-
dence. What may we expect of the future at Harvard? How
long shall we be ashamed of Harvard’s current reputation as the
center of Communistic propaganda activities among American
universities, where foreign doctrines and Communist “cells”
are permitted to influence the thinking of the students and faculty
under the guise of “intellectual freedom”? How long will Har-
vard lend its prestige to these causes and permit its great resources
and endowments, which were created through the American
system of capitalism and private enterprise, to be used for these
un-American activities? These are questions which the recent
administration at Harvard has failed to answer satisfactorily. We
sincerely hope and pray that the new administration will meet
the challenge of this unfortunate legacy and openly and enthusias-
tically preach and teach these fundamental principles of Amer;
icanism which have made this country so prosperous and great.

[ 536]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Those of our Class who have sons preparing to enter college
especially will want these questions answered clearly and in such
a way that we shall know certainly that Harvard is keeping faith
with its alumni, its great traditions, and its glorious history.

+ PHILIP HICHBORN

BorN: Sept. 22, 1907, Washington, D. C. parents: Philip Simmons Hich-
born, Elinor Hoyt.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.

marrieD: Gertrude S. Vander Poel, 1933.

piED: June 9, 1936, Los Angeles, Calif.

WHILE in college, Hichborn was “Ibis” of the Lampoon and a
staff member of the Advocate. The Secretary had not heard from
him after he left Cambridge.

FRANCIS LEE HIGGINSON, JR.

HOME appREss: White River Junction, Vt.

BORN: June 5, 1906, London, England. Parents: Francis Lee Higginson, ’oo,
Hetty Appleton Sargent.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.; Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. °

MarrieD: Dorothy Lucas, Oct. 10, 1928, Blundell Sands, Liverpool, England
(divorced 1933); Harriet Beecher Scoville, June 7, 1935, Cornwall,
Conn.; Ruth (Montgomery) Black, March 5, 1948, Hillsborough, Calif.
CHILDREN: Francis Lee, 3d, Aug. 12, 1937; John, May 2, 1939.

occupaTION: Working student, Arnold Arboretum,

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Manchester (Mass.) Yacht Club.

THIS acount of your life since graduation . . .” In the first place
delete the word “graduation” and substitute “amputation,” for
I went through Harvard in a year and a half — through the bot-
tom — in spite of nearly three months in the fall of my sopho-
more year working at the Dennison Manufacturing Company,
“lovingly” referred to as the Harvard Reform School (or will I
be sued for libel?). Why an institution of learning that sees fit
to suspend a student because of low marks concludes that by using
only his arms and legs all day he will eliminate the cause of those

low marks, I shall never know. Possibly it was thought that the

[ 537]

som scanned Laan ce pinpoint tatiana ananea,. |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

* MARK ELROY HILLIARD

BorN: July 12, 1907, Haverhill, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Irving Hilliard, Ger-
trude LeFebvre. -

PREPARED aT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

marrieD: Dorothy A. Buck, Nov. 24, 1927.

piep: Dec. 24, 1935, Manchester, N. H.

IN 1930 Hilliard reported that he was in the auto finance busi-
ness in Haverhill. In 1934 he had moved to New Hampshire.

ALFRED HERMAN HIRSCH

HOME Appress: 1414 E. Boylston St., Milwaukee, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1012 N, Third St., Milwaukee, Wis.

BorN: Feb, 19, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Herman Hirsch, Sybil Thal.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929, A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Irene Frager, July 1, 1939, Fort Lee, N. J. cumpren: Sybil, Aug.
27, 19403; Peter, March 3, 1942; Fred Oscar, Dec. 24, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gerson Thal Hirsch, ’26.

occupation: Owner, May Letter Service.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Labor Press Section, New York Newspaper Guild.
1940-42; member State Board, People’s Progressive Party, 1948-50.

MEMBER OF: Milwaukee Jewish Center; Harvard Club of Milwaukee; Mil-
waukee Association of Commerce; Milwaukee Chapter, Mail Advertis-
ing Service Association; East Side Businessmen’s Association; Maryland
Avenue School PTA; member board of directors, Milwaukee Boy
Scouts Troop No. 10.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in the Nation, Forum, New Masses, Labor

Defender, March of Labor, etc, dealing with labor and civil rights
matters.

THE manner in which President Pusey has (so far at least)
stood up to our unesteemed Senator from Wisconsin has given
me more pride at being a graduate of Harvard than anything else.
This is the more gratifying since I am periodically accused of
having helped elect McCarthy to his first senatorial term in °46
at which time I edited the Wisconsin CIO News. (This widely
spread accusation is completely false but that story is too long
and devious to go into here.)

Mention of the above should give a tip-off as to my interests

[ 540 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and many of the occupations of my adult life, until recently re-
volving around labor organization and civil liberties work.
Minute details might interest the FBI more than the average mem-
ber of the Class of ’29, though that organization already has a
sufficient if faulty dossier on me, one which pursued me (always
two months behind!) during my two years in the service from
1944 to 1946, where I ended up as a corporal. For the record
I might say I never was a spy. (McCarthy, please note.)

For the past two and a half years I’ve been struggling to get
a little letter shop 1 took over out of the red. One consolation
is that during this period, and a few years before (at which time
my wife was seriously ill—now recovered), I have not been
troubled with such mundane considerations as income taxes.
Frankly, I don’t consider that funny any more, and recent indi-
cations are that by next year I’ll be able to bring some small
remedy to that situation.

[ve a wonderful family which, so far, has brought more joy to
each and everyone of its members as the years pass. ‘hanks to
the Mrs. and her handling of the children, we are and have been a
closely knit unit through the thick and thin of newspaper name-
calling. The children have varied and developing interests rang-
ing from considerable talent at ballet dancing (Sybil), a bit less
at dramatics (also Sybil), to sports, and, for the moment, the Boy
Scouts (Peter), not to mention Hebrew School. Fred (aged five)
is enthralled with kindergarten and everything that is new and
everything still is.

Due to aforementioned dirth of income tax problems, I doubt
that we'll be on hand for the festivities next June, much as we’d

all like it,

ARTHUR LAWSON HODGES

HOME ADDRESS: 630 Reeve Rd. Willoughby, Ohio

OFFICE ADDRESS: 24701 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Oct. 23, 1906, Mentor, Ohio, Parents: Lucius Arthur Hodges, Glen-
dora May Stevenson.

PREPARED AT: Ashtabula High School, Ashtabula, Ohio

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

MaRRIED: Greta Marie Moulton, Feb. 6, 1937, Erie, Pa. cmmpren: Mary

[ 541 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

RANSOM FULLER HODGES

HOME ADDRESS: 257 Adams Lane, Hewlett, Long Island, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 29, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Charles Davis Hodges, ’o6,
Ethel G. Fuller,

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass., New Preparatory
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, .

MaRRIED: Hester S. Codman, June 11, 1931, Hamilton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Julian Codman, Dec. 19, 1932; Louise Fuller, April 26, 1935.

occuPATION: Investment banking, vice-president, sales, The First Boston
Corporation,

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, National War Fund, 1944-45, president, Five
Towns’ Community Chest, 1945-46, Cedarhurst, Long Island; police
commissioner, Mayor, Village of Hewlett Neck, Long Island; presi-
dent, Lawrence Beach Club, Atlantic Beach, Long Island, 1948-50.

MEMBER OF: Bankers Club of New York; Harvard Club of New York,

Rockaway Hunting Club, Cedarhurst; Lawrence Beach Club; Bond
+ Club of New York.

THERE is not much change since the Twentieth Reunion Re-
port except that I am older, my children are practically adults,
and my wife and I have taken up golf. I am still with The
First Boston Corporation, where I have been since College, and
where Whitbeck and I grow older together.

My son, Julian, graduates from Middlebury College this June

and then joins the United States Marines as a second lieutenant.
My daughter, Louise, is a freshman at Briarcliff Junior College,
having graduated from Miss Porter’s last year.
P.S. I don’t know if it’s proper for a wife to add her two
cents’ worth, but it can always be omitted before printing! I'd
like to say that I have thoroughly enjoyed the twenty-five years
since graduation. The only thing we both find thoroughly frus-
trating is the golf but, as we say, “Where there’s life there’s
hope.” — we hope! We're both looking forward to “re-uning”
with old friends in June.

BERNARD JAMES HOGUE

HOME apprEss: Poppasquash Road, Bristol, R. 1.
orrice appress: Providence Paper Co, 160 Dorrance St., Providence, R. I.

[ 544 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Sept. 20, 1902, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Robert Murray Hogue,
Jane Elizabeth Horner,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1925-1926.

marriep: Amy S. Butler, June 25, 1936, Hyannis, Mass.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

OLIVER DAVID HOGUE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 112 Lincoln St., East Orange, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Telephone Co,, 101 Willoughby St., Brooklyn,
N. Y.

BoRN: July 10, 1906, Cambridge, Mass, PARENTS: Oliver Driscoll Hogue,
Jean Forbes.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MARRIED: Wilma Kathryn Savacool, July 13, 1929, Newton, N. J.

OCCUPATION: Engineering.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JOSEPH RUDOLPH BRUCE HOLCOMBE

HOME apprEss: 94 Willowdale Ave., Montclair, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Pine St., New York 5, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 6, 1900, Orange, N. J. parents: John Early Holcombe, Sara

- Greenlee Freelon.

PREPARED AT: De Witt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925—-1926.

MARRIED: Muriel Morgan Proctor, Aug. 24, 1935, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILD:
Henry Proctor, Nov. 28, 1937. :

OCCUPATION: Member Printing Department, Wood, Struthers & Company,
brokerage house.

MEMBER OF: Employment Service, P.E.O. (national); Brooklyn Urban
League Association; N.A.A.C.P. (Brooklyn); Community Chest Drives
(Montclair),

MY chief work experience has been in personne] administration
with the federal and state government agencies. I do preliminary
evaluation of cases of applicants for employment, compiling,
evaluations of the information secured in the interview, mainte-

[545 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

nance of an accurate status record, placement and referral to job
opportunities. In addition I do registration, counseling, and voca-
tional, recreational, and educational guidance for adults and
juniors. I have worked in this line of work for fully eighteen
‘ears and more, which I have enjoyed to the utmost.

More recently I have followed another line of work, chiefly
because of the lack of governmental job security. I have found
out that private industry has more to offer most people. And I
sincerely advise all who may become interested in Civil Service
to try to select some other branch of service. I still remain a
Republican at heart, but over the years according to the positions
held in government, I was compelled to vote otherwise.

Although raised or brought up in the Baptist faith, at present
I belong to the Congregationalist religion, the religious faith of my
wife. Her father was before his death a Congregational minister,
one of the greatest according to my way of thinking: Henry
Hugh Proctor of Brooklyn, New York, formerly of Atlanta,
Georgia. Our family life is complete with three, including my-
self. We enjoy doing things together as we did last summer to-
gether with my brother-in-law and his wife. For our vacation we
toured New England: Plymouth, Provincetown, Cambridge,
Great Barrington, and Tanglewood. Our son, Henry Proctor
Holcombe (Class of ?), enjoyed having his picture taken along
side of the statue of John Harvard at University Hall. I sincerely
hope Pve given some information and know full well there is
more, but at the present time I am unable to make my facul-
ties function further!

RICHARD STEDMAN HOLDEN

HOME apprEss: 87 Round Hill Rd., Northampton, Mass.

OFFicE ApprEss: Northampton National Bank, Northampton, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 9, 1907, Bennington, Vt. Parents: Arthur John Holden, Frances
Louise Coleman,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 19209.

MaRrRIED: Isabel Anderson, May 29, 1937, Essex Falls, N. J. cuitp: Constance,
Oct. 11, 1941.

[546 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur John Holden, Jr., ’23, ED.M. '29; Waldo Cole-
man Holden, ’25, M.B.a., ’27.

occUPATION: President, Northampton National Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Director, past president, Northampton Community Chest;
trustee, Clarke School for the Deaf, Frank Newhall Look Memorial
Park; director, Northampton Chamber of Commerce, Edwards Con-
gregational Church, second vice-president, Massachusetts Bankers As-
sociation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Northampton Rotary Club.

AFTER a breather in Europe the summer following graduation,
I went to New York in the fall of 1929 to seek my fortune work-
ing for the National City Bank. It didn’t quite work out that
way, but anyway I made a living. In 1933 I took six months out
to accompany the secretary-general of the Institute of Pacific
Relations (Senator McCarthy take notice) on a trip around the
world, as a secretary, via Hawaii, Japan, China, the Philippines,
Russia, and England. My contribution to the expedition was
small, except for keeping track of some thirty pieces of luggage,
but the experience was highly interesting. Then I went back for
eight more years with the National City, happily punctuated by
my marriage in 1937 to Isabel Anderson of Caldwell, New Jersey.
(We have a daughter, Constance, who is twelve.) In 1942 I had
achieved the position of branch manager when I joined the Naval
Reserve, and served a sedate three and a half years, eighteen
months of which were at the Naval Advanced Amphibious Base
at the Royal Naval College, Dartmouth, England, first as com-
munications officer and later as executive officer.

My wife and I had for years longed for country life, but after
the war I couldn’t find a spot away from New York, and
so returned to the National City for two years. In 1948 oppor-
tunity knocked, in the form of the job of president of the North-
ampton Bank, Northampton, Massachusetts, and there we are,
and there we hope to stay. Let no one make the mistake of think-
ing that time hangs heavy in a small community. In addition to
the bank, I am active in the Community Chest, the Chamber of
Commerce, the Edwards Congregational Church, Frank Newhall
Look Memorial Park, Clarke School for the Deaf, the Massachu-
setts Bankers Association, and perhaps a few other organizations.
Clearly it is time to give more attention to golf and fishing.

My wife and I have been strong supporters of General Eisen-

[547]

oO rs

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

hower from the beginning, and this leads to some interesting
conversations over the glasses in this academic community. She
is fond of animals and has some very good basset hounds and a
couple of horses (borrowed). We feel that for us, life began in
1948.

THEODORE CLARENCE HOLLANDER

HOME ADDRESS: South Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 140 Federal St, Boston 10, Mass.

Born: May 3, 1907, Wenham, Mass. parents: Sumner Russ Hollander, ’97,
Mary Theodora Clark.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MarrieD: Elisabeth Brewer Keyes, May 24, 1930, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elisabeth Willard, March 30, 1932 (m. Francis Cabot Parson, Nov. 16,
1951); Theodore Clarence, Jr., May 30, 1935; Timothy Keyes, June
30, 1943. GRANDCHILD: Francis Cabot Parson, Jr., Sept. 5, 1952.

HARVARD SON: Theodore Clarence Hollander, Jr., ’57.

occupaTion: Manager, Tanning Machine Department, United Shoe Ma-
chinery Corporation.

OFFicEs HELD: Area chairman, Blood Program Committee, Boston Metropoli-
tan Chapter, American Red Cross; president, Airedale Terrier Club
of New England, North Shore Kennel Club, Eastern Dog Club,
Airedale Terrier Club of America.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club.

AFTER leaving college at Christmas-time of our sophomore
year, I took a six-month trip to Europe and then went to work
for L. P. Hollander Company, in Boston. I wanted to earn
enough money to get married. My ideas in regard to this amount
changed considerably over the course of the next few years, and
in 1930 we got married anyway. The great-uncle who owned
the business sold it to outside interests early in 1929 and that sum-
mer I quit and went to work as a bond salesman for Harris, Forbes
& Company, Inc. (along with Report chairman Jack Hutchin-
son). I sure picked a good time for it! After starving in that
business for two and a half years, I accepted an offer to go
to work for the aforesaid retired, elderly great-uncle in 1932,
handling afl his personal and business affairs, which included
management of a personal holding company, or investment trust,
know as Rednalloh Company. The old gentleman died in 1939,

[ 548 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and after winding up his affairs and liquidating Rednalloh Com-
pany, I went to work for Tucker, Anthony & Company, invest-
ment brokers, in Boston, early in 1941.

In December, 1941, I enlisted in the Navy and was given the
rating of boatswain’s mate second class, being promoted to first
class in 1942, and to chief boatswain’s mate (the most important
guy in the Navy) in 1943. During this time I was attached to
small ships operating along the Atlantic Coast, a net-tender and a
YP. Early in 1944, they made me an ensign and for the balance
of the war I was attached to the Amphibious Forces, Pacific, as
exec. on an LSM. We saw some action, including the initial
landings at Iwo Jima; and I witnessed the celebrated flag-raising
on Mount Suribachi.

Upon being released to inactive duty as a lieutenant (junior
grade) shortly after V-J Day, I renewed my connection with
Tucker, Anthony & Company. In 1947 I entered the employ of
the United Shoe Machinery Corporation, where I have charge
of the marketing of machines used in the manufacture of leather.
I do a fair amount of travelling, visiting tanneries in all parts of
the country, and have recently delivered speeches before the
Tanners Production Club of Wisconsin, in Milwaukee, and the
American Leather Chemists Association, in Cincinnati.

Since 1932 we have lived in the house in which I was born in
Wenham, Massachusetts (post office: South Hamilton). Our
daughter Beth, after three years of boarding school, spent a year
at Radcliffe, during which she met “the man.” He graduated
from Harvard in 1951 and immediately went on active duty as
a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps. After they were mar-
ried, they spent a year and a half at Camp Pendleton, in Cali-
fornia. Happily, they are now back in Boston with “my grand-
son”; Frank works for the New Haven Railroad. Our elder son,
Teddy, spent six years at Middlesex, where he had quite a record,
graduating in 1953. He was awarded an Honorary Scholarship
to Harvard, and two of his three roommates are sons of 1929,
Ostheimer and Sachs. His interests in life, at present, in the order
of their importance are: dogs, hockey, golf, baseball, etc. ‘Tim-
othy is ten. He’s the best looking of the kids, and has a smile that
could charm a bird off a tree, but so far he shows all the character-
istics of an outlaw. I might add that, taken together, we are

[ 549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

distinctly a “family” family, almost a mutual admiration society.

I suppose I’ve done the usual amount of soliciting and other
work for charities, and for the Republican Finance Committee.
I ran for selectman in 1947, and it gives me the shivers to think
how close I came to. being elected. I am a member of the Arling-
ton Street Church (Unitarian) in-Boston, and for some years
served on its Investment Committee. My daughter marks the fifth
generation of our family to be a member of this parish.

My hobbies are dogs and golf. We’ve been breeding and show-
ing Airedales in a small way (about one litter a year) for about
twenty years. I am asked to do quite a bit of judging, and have
judged at most of the larger shows, such as: Boston, New York,
Morris & Essex, Philadelphia, Dallas, Los Angeles, ‘I’oronto, etc.
Unfortunately, at the age of thirty-eight, I took up the game of
golf. What a disease! I haven’t improved a bit. (But I’m going
to!) Teddy gives me twelve or fourteen strokes, and we have
some pretty tight matches.

CLINTON BENNETT HALE HOLLISTER

HOME ApprEss: 924 Garden St., Santa Barbara, Calif.

OFFICE apprEss: Santa Barbara Clinic, Santa Barbara, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1905, Sacramento, Calif. paRENTs: John James Hollister, Lot-
tie Steffens. .

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30); Mv. (Columbia Univ.),
1934.

MarRiep: Amelia Davis, Jan. 19, 1935, Santa Barbara, Calif. (divorced
1948); Rebecca Doyle, May 22, 1948. cuiLpren: Charles Davis, March
18, 1936; Lincoln Steffens, Oct. 16, 1938; Clinton Doyle, July 4, 1949;
David Oliver, Oct. 3, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: John James Hollister, Jr., ’z5.

occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Fellow, American Academy of Pediatrics, since 1941.

I WAS late in deciding to go to medical school and therefore took
another year to qualify in chemistry and physics. I chose Johns
Hopkins University because it was far removed from the tempta-
tions of the Spee Club and other frequented places in and about
Cambridge. After qualifying for the College of Physicians and
Surgeons at Columbia University, I graduated with an M.D, degree

[550]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in 1934 and began an internship at Bellevue Hospital, 4th Division.
Shortly thereafter I contracted rheumatic fever and, following
convalescence, was advised to seek other climates. _

Asa result, I went back to California where I was married in

January, 1935. In April of 1935 I renewed my internship at the
Los Angeles County General Hospital. In July of 1936 I was
accepted as a fellow in pediatrics at the Mayo Clinic where I com-
pleted four years of formal training in this field. Part of this time
I was a member of the graduate school of the University of Min-
nesota. In this way I have succeeded in getting my name on the
mailing lists of three other universities besides Harvard, all of
which seem hard-pressed for funds.

I returned again to Santa Barbara, California, in 1940 and started
a practice as a child specialist. After passing my specialty boards
in 1941, I was rudely jolted into World War II by the bombard-
ment of our coastline, my brother’s house being in the direct line
of fire. August of that year found me a captain in the Army Air
Force, bound for Walla Walla, Washington. Part of my job in
the Army was psychological testing to determine whether or not
student pilots could be trusted to fly complicated aircraft. Thus,
during my Air Force service, my interests were focused on the
early growth and development of the individual as they would |
affect his abilities in adult life. |

Upon severing my connections with the Army in 1946 as a
lieutenant colonel, I began to pursue the practice of pediatrics
with an emphasis on the psychological growth and development
of the child rather than depending on the tongue blade and stetho-
scope type of medicine which is still most common today. To
supplement and broaden my previous training, I took a course at
Langley-Porter Clinic in San Francisco in neuro-psychiatry to-
gether with the studies of analytical psychiatry under both Jun-
gian and Freudian teachers. I now have an answer for any problem
a parent may present, but most of the answers are better kept to
myself,

As for my political views, I still belong to the Democratic Party
and am an active and working member. Despite the philosophy of
the second most powerful lobby in Washington, the American
Medical Association, I do believe that some form of national health
insurance would be beneficial to the nation as a whole.

Cs5t]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I have been back in Santa Barbara since 1946 and expect to re-
main here for the rest of my life devoting my time to the care of
the young, to say nothing of four boys of my own.

+ DAVID HOWARD HOLZMAN

BORN: Jan. 2, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Holzman, Ida Hermann.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: A.B,, 1929.

MARRIED: Selma Harrison, Feb. 14, 1935, New York, N. Y. cuitp: Jane
Harrison, Jan. 13, 1936.

DIED: July 1, 1940, Boston, Mass,

FOR one year after graduation, Holzman continued his studies
at Harvard. In 1939 he was a stock broker in Boston with resi-
dence in Brookline. His wife and daughter survived him.

MARCUS ROBERTSON HONEY

HOME appress: 540 Park Ave, New York 21, N. Y.

Born: Nov, 19, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Robertson Honey, Mabel
Elsworth Boggs.

PREPARED AT: Clifton College, England.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.
marRiED: Vera Elsa Ganelin, Feb. 3, 1949, New York, N. Y.

KINGSLEY WILDE HOOKER

HOME apprEss: 6239 Hunting Creek Rd., N. E., Route 1, Dunwoody, Ga.

Born: March 3, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: George Franklin Hooker,
Jessie Leora Wilde.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MarrieD: Minter Somerville, May 21, 1937, Memphis, Tenn.; Frances Gray.
CHILDREN: Kingsley Wilde, Jr, 1942; William S., 1946.

MARK HOPKINS

HOME aporEss: Farm Road, Sherborn, Mass.
OFFicE AppRESs: Pro-phy-lac-tic Brush Co., Florence, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1906, Needham, Mass. parents: Mark Hopkins, ’oz, Gwladys
Sutton Crosby.

[552]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, 1930-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(31).

MARRIED: Dorothy Rogers, July 29, 1931, Chestnut Hill, Mass. (died July
26, 1951). CHILDREN: Mark, Jr., Jan. 28, 1932; Howard Rogers, April
7, 1934; Gwladys, July 12, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, sales manager, Parker D. Perry, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Air Reserve Association, Boston, 1937-40;
co-founder, vice-president, secretary, 1946-47, president, 1947-48, Bos-
ton Air Chapter 20, Reserve Officers Association.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country and Polo Club; Badminton and Tennis Club;
Reserve Officers Association; Air Force Association.

IF I ever attempted the launching of a “career,” it would have
been the day I left Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, for San Antonio,
Texas, in October, 1929, to face the Army Air Corps flying train-
ing. And I might have followed this career, had it not happened
that Uncle Sam was “busted” in those days. So the proud “shave-
tails” were released and sent home with their silver wings in order
that Uncle Sam be relieved of an embarrassing financial burden.

The years that followed this economic breach of a government
contract until World War II taught me many a harsh lesson. I
ran my own small service business and later joined one of Boston’s
oldest travel firms. It became apparent that the selling of tangibles
was to be my specialty.

I have certainly had my share of “breaks.” My work with pro-
fessional sales personnel throughout the country is very exhilarat-
ing. Modern sales management work is so closely related to ad-
vertising, packaging, merchandising, and design as to make it a
living and active challenge. I am sales manager for a concern
which is under contract for national distribution of proprietary
products of The Prolon Plastics, Pro-phy-lac-tic Brush Company,
a division of the Lambert Company.

Our small family suffered one tragedy — the death of my wife
after a prolonged illness. We sold our home and moved into our
current antique rented cottage. All family decisions are now made
by the four of us—the most recent being to remain where we
are until the lady of the household attains the age of social ma-
turity. She is a captivating miss.

Hobbies of hunting, fishing, and tennis have certainly helped
me to keep feeling young. My boys are good shots, ardent out-
door enthusiasts, but impatient with games. My daughter rides

[553]

ae a we et ER GAEDE NR Rata ANA

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

with perfection. We still use our camp at Nauset Heights in
Orleans, where we catch more than our share of stripers, fluke,
and lobsters — dig our own quahogs and clams.

Politically I am a liberal Republican. Economically I feel that
our expanded credit system has worked wonders for millions and
taught them to vote intelligently. Our current over-production
is a fearsome fact. For some time I have been unable to under- |
stand who is supposed to acquire the mass of national output. |

If we as a nation can foster the respect of other nations — re-
spect born of understanding and economic teamwork, if we en-
force universal military training at home, perhaps we can still
leave our grandchildren a legacy of world peace. .

~ STANFORD WILLIAM HOPKINS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 28 Orne St., Marblehead, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1907, Chestnut Hill, Mass. parents: Roland Gage Hopkins,
’99, Florence Marguerite Stanford.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D., 1933.

marriep: Lois Edith Alexander, Sept. 12, 1936, Chestnut Hill, Mass. cun-
pREN: Margo, March 25, 1938; Kay, May 19, 1943.

occupation: Physician and surgeon in active practice.

OFFICES HELD: Surgeon, Mary A. Alley Hospital, Marblehead, since 1937;
junior surgeon, Salem Hospital, Salem, Mass., since 1938; member,
since 1943, chairman, since 1949, Marblehead School Committee.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
Massachusetts School Physicians Association, A‘sculapian Club; Har-
vard Club of North Shore.

I SPENT the four years immediately following graduation in
medical school, the first at Columbia and the last three at Har-
vard. Then came two years of surgical internship at the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital, followed by another year’s training
at the Pondville Cancer Hospital. Then, at the ripe old age of
thirty, I came to Marblehead to help out another doctor who
was chronically ill and who was not to practise any more. I fitted
into his plans satisfactorily and have been here ever since. He
died nine months after I arrived, and I was most fortunate to in-
herit a practice rather than have to wait for one to build up.

My work is general, and while I do my own surgery and ob-
stetrics I also try to relieve itches and treat the grippe. The life

[554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of such a “family doctor” is a full one, and it has its interesting
as well as its dull moments. I have treated many dog, cat, and
human bites, but also one monkey bite, one skunk bite, and one
chipmunk bite. All three were pets. I have twice been called
to put pet cats out of their misery when the owners have been
unwilling to see them suffer further. I never know what the next
telephone call will bring.

Extra-curricularly I have had a great deal of pleasure working
on the Marblehead School Committee, and in caring for all the
school athletic teams. This work has been very interesting and
has taught me many things. Education, like all other fields, has
changed in the last twenty-five years, It has also, like everything
else, become much more expensive. The trend is rapidly chang-
ing in public schools to what it has been in the private schools,
namely, smaller classes and more individual attention, direction,
and guidance. This calls for larger faculties and more coordinat-
ing work, with resulting spiralling of costs. The taxpayers are
rapidly learning that the type of education given in private schools
cannot be obtained in public schools without their being willing
to pay for it, and many of them as yet do not want to doso. They
feel that what was good enough for them is good enough for
this generation. .

Unfortunately I have not seen as much of my classmates in
these last twenty-five years as I should have liked. However, I
have met several since graduation whom I did not know at Col-
lege, and in a couple of instances the association has been most
pleasant. I do hope to attend more of the Reunions in the future,
and I am looking forward to this June enthusiastically.

LOUIS A. HORVITZ

HOME ADDRESS: 1316 Highland Ave., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 335 Granite Block, Fall River, Mass,

BoRN: Feb, 24, 1909, Fall River, Mass. parents: Harris Horvitz, Eva Krasnow.

PREPARED AT: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LL.B. 1932.

MarRiED: Betty F. Shindler, Aug. 14, 1935, Brookline Mass. cui~pRen: Mar-
jorie S., July 3, 1937; Paul S., May 23, 1942; Jane M., May 15, 1950.

OccuPATION: Lawyer, partner, Horvitz & Horvitz.

OFFICES HELD: Counsel, director, District 6 Area Civil Defense Organization,

[sss]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

since 1951, Needle Trades Employers Association, since 1946; director,

Community Fund of Fall River, Inc, since 1949, Diman Vocational
School, since 1951. |

MEMBER OF: Fall River, Bristol County, and Massachusetts Bar Associations;
American Jewish Committee; Harvard Law School Association; Har-
vard Club of Fall River; Ledgemont Country Club.

AS I recall it, one of our first chores at Harvard, as green fresh-
men, was to write an autobiography for English A. Now our
Class demands an “account of your life since graduation.” This
leaves a period of four years uncharted, silent, and secret. Perhaps
it’s better so?

To reveal just a little, those four years were fun. So, to make
the parting easier, 1 moved up Massachusetts Avenue, just a little
past the Yard, and for the next three years spent my time with the
legal giants at the Harvard Law School. Immediately upon gradu-
ation from the Law School, I went into practice in Fall River.

My life as a small city lawyer engaged in general practice has
seemed to me, in the living at least, to be a very full one, never
dull, and crammed with a miscellany of joy and sorrow, excite-
ment and elation, despond and despair. But now, in retrospect,
looking back over the last twenty-five years, both the peaks and
the valleys seem to have flattened out and levelled off, and nothing
appears to stand out.

There was my marriage, for example. In all modesty, the one
claim I had to fame, even in my embryonic days at College, lay
in my ability to pick outstanding women. The ultimate in exploita-
tion of this talent came with my selection of my wife, Betty. I
make this statement in all sincerity and without hope of reward,
since Betty does not care for biography and will certainly not read
this opus. As for children, I think I have been blessed with three
of the finest anyone could ever have hoped for or dreamed of —
so fine, in fact, that I know they won't be spoiled by reading this,
as they undoubtedly will, with their interest in better literature.

Our family life has, on the whole, been a happy one, and I have
been, I think, a fair-to-middling husband and father. On occasion,
Betty has not seen eye-to-eye with me on matters concerning the

children, but she has loyally presented a united front with me.
The end result is that my children sort of like me, and try to
understand me and get along with my strange ideas, and I, adopt-

[556]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing a happy, casual, and relaxed attitude, do my best (1) to endure
my sixteen-year-old daughter, Margie’s, bee-bop music and ener-
getic boy friends, (2) to interfere to the least degree possible with
the instructions my eleven-year-old son, Paul, receives from his
school football coach, even though it may spoil him for Harvard
football, and (3) to gather enough strength, energy, and patience
to keep my little three-year-old, Janie, busy and to tell her an
infinite number of stories. To this date, my rendition of “Jack
and the Bean-Stalk” has surpassed even “South Pacific” in number
of performances.

Actually, the one irritant in our happy family life is the ever-
constant demand on my time made by business, leaving me an
absentee from the family hearth on too many occasions, and on
others, though present, too tired and nervous to enjoy or to be
enjoyed.

It was not always thus. The practice of law in 1932, when I
entered that learned profession with my brother, was not such as
to keep me either busy or in excessive funds. That was the period
when I became so expert at squash. It was also the period when
I learned to type with two fingers at a fairly rapid pace, not being
able to afford the luxury of a stenographer. But then, whether it
was due to my marriage (which is Betty’s claim), or to the Roose-
velt administration (which the Republican organization will
deny), or to my own talent and genius (which theory I secretly
embrace), things picked up, and more and more clients found their
way to our office. While our practice has remained a general one,
it has escaped provincialism and has spread beyond the confines
of our city, following in the tracks of some of our burgeoning
clients. The resultant increase in the size of our office and the
number of men employed has permitted of a certain amount of
specialization for individuals within the office. Thus, in recent
years, I have given most of my attention to matters involving
corporations, taxation, labor law, and administrative law.

With the passing of time, I note that my interest in sports,
which has continued in full strength, has changed from that of a
participant to a spectator. On the credit side of the ledger, I have
learned (almost) to shed the role of a passionate partisan, and to
enjoy and applaud a good play by virtue of its goodness alone,
and regardless of the team making the play. I say “almost” be-

[557]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

cause I must admit, in all honesty, to a terrible gloom which held
me fast for at least two days after last year’s Yale game in the
Stadium. [I still enjoy and find great relaxation in music and books,
and have learned the great sedative rewards of working with my
hands. I spend long and absorbing periods of time with an ortho-
pedic surgeon friend of mine, engaged in fix-it problems involving
carpentry, electrical work, plumbing, and what have you. With
the above, an occasional round of golf, a bit of tennis, going native
on Cape Cod during the summer, and a cruise through the Carib-
bean for a few weeks in the winter, I have thus far been able to
avoid the occupational diseases of my profession, and to keep just
a hop, skip, and jump ahead of complete nervous and physical
collapse.

From my many years of acting for management in negotiations
with labor unions has arisen a new appreciation of the nature of
our democratic society and form of government. Management
and labor have both been charged with the responsibility of sitting
down around a table together, discussing their mutual differences,
and attempting to reconcile them and reach an agreement. Govern-
ment interference with the bargaining process has been frowned
upon, and has been at a minimum. The parties have been left on
their own, encouraged but not compelled by government volun-
tarily to reach agreement. To my mind, this is a real expression
of freedom and true democracy, and worlds removed from the
picture in our modern totalitarian societies, where the basic the-
ory of government is that labor and management must inevitably
clash, and that one must overcome the other, without possibility
of compromise or agreement. Which difference leads to my con-
viction that both management and labor must accept their respon-
sibility to reach agreement and resolve their differences without
shirking, recognizing this responsibility as one of the great free-
doms under our democracy, the freedom of contract. Without
this, then chaos; or worse yet, a totalitarian state.

I. DANIEL HOSMAN

HOME appress: 188 School St., Chicopee, Mass.
oFFice appress: 188 School St. Chicopee, Mass.; 151 Maple St., Springfield,
Mass.

[ 558)

materi ce .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porn: May 27, 1908, Chelsea, Mass. parents: David Hosman, Celia Feldman.

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; MD. (Chicago Medical
School), 1933.

marriep: Molly K. Jankow, Aug. 3, 1944, Washington, D. C. cumoren:
Patricia Dale, April 28, 1945; Todd David, May 18, 1951.

occupation: Dermatologist, private practice; chief of dermatology, Soldiers
Home Hospital, Holyoke, Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Committee Conservation of Vision, 1951, chairman,
Civic Improvement, Chicopee Chapter, 1951-52, Lions Clubs, medical
adviser, Chicopee Visiting Nurse Association, 1952; president, Pavlov
Medical Club, 1952-53; member of committee, Community Chest.

MEMBER OF: Hampden County Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical
Society; American Medical Association; Association of Military Sur-
geons of U. S.; Veterans of Foreign Wars; American Legion; Inter-
national Brotherhood of Magicians; Springfield Tennis Club; Long-
meadow Community Players; Parent Teachers Association; Harvard
Club of Springfield; Lions International.

ONE of the most critical periods of my life was the depression
year of 1933 when, as a senior at medical school, I was without
funds at Chicago. When I could pay my $2.50 weekly rent for
my hall bedroom I felt lucky. I found it was not easy to study
when my stomach was empty. When I had a nickel or a dime I
debated, “which would satiate me longer, the hamburgers at the
White Castle or a chocolate bar.” In desperation, on one of the
occasions when I was without even a nickel or dime, I requested
a meal ticket book at the office of the Y.M.C.A. in the west side
of Chicago. I wonder if the grey-haired man saw the hunger in
my face, for he gave me the meal book without hesitation or
question of payment then or in the future. How could I help but
have a warm spot in my heart always for an organization like that.

The crisis came when I couldn’t pay my tuition and I was not
permitted to take the final comprehensive medical examination.
Standing in front of the bulletin board in the corridor of the
school, my gloom was complete and obvious. One of my teachers,
an otolaryngologist, interceded so that I was allowed to take the
examination. Though I had successfully completed my medical
school and State Board examinations I did not receive my diploma
until several years later, after earning enough money in my medical
practice to repay my tuition debt.

Internship proved to be a haven of shelter, food, and a ten-dollar

[559]

sae seecisccape lama A |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

monthly stipend. My work was hard but I was deeply grateful
for the relative wealth I now had. Six years after the completion
of my internship I built a new home and office which I used for
a very short time, for World War II started, and I joined the
Army Medical Corps. After a brief indoctrination in the military
aspects of medicine at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, I was
shipped overseas. As a battalion aid surgeon I tasted the hardships
of the infantry, as a regimental surgeon with the coast artillery I
learned to stuff my ears with cotton as protection against the roar
of the 155 mm. guns, and as executive and later commanding officer
of an air-base hospital I experienced the esprit de corps of the
Air Force.

In retrospect certain events of my military life are vivid in my
memory. I remember waiting at the port of embarkation, the
many false alerts, our external gaiety and superficial levity in spite
of our feeling that we were all “dead ducks” on our last wild
reckless, fun-seeking, money-spending spree before embarking
for a destination unknown to us. I remember the blackout aboard
ship, the outbreak of diarrhea and the scarcity of toilets and bis-
muth to cope with the situation; the salt water showers which
would mat our hair with oil left on the water by passing ships; the
time we were travelling between some islands and we took to sea
in a merchant marine ship with all the flies from the port buzzing
and swarming over the chicken guts and gizzards lying on the
deck outside the galley. 1 remember the encampment of tents,
the oppressive humidity and mud, shaving by a tree-trunk while
a lizard, perched head down, watched intently, tarantulas creeping
out of their abodes in the ground or falling from the tent ceiling
onto our cots, cockroaches the size of walnuts parading around
our quarters so that you could hear their footsteps.

After the war I continued with my interest in dermatology and
did some postgraduate study at the Boston City Hospital, Boston
Dispensary, and the skin clinics of Massachusetts General Hos-

ital.

I still like the beach and swimming, the art of conjuring, pho-
tography, and tennis which I attempt to confine to doubles. My
travel coincides with my work and hobbies, trips to the beach,

preferably Cape Cod, attendance at tennis matches at Longwood
and occasionally at Forest Hills, and visits to the medical and

[ 560 ]

cee fon et | EET OPO OT TE EL ale

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

magical conventions. My most recent extended tour was with the
Pan American Medical Congress to Haiti, Panama, Colombia,
South America, and Cuba.

PHELPS HOTCHKISS

HOME ADpREss: 1403 W, Acres Rd., Joliet, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 122 Scott St., Joliet, Ill.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1906, Joliet, Ill. parents: Thomas Field Hotchkis Margaret
Phelps.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

mMaRrRIED: Caroline Burry Huey, Oct. 12, 1946, Joliet, Ill. cump: Caroline
Jane, Aug. 24, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Insurance, real estate, manager, Insurance Department, Mun-
roe Brothers Agency.

AFTER leaving College I thought the investment field beckoned.
A few years later (remember?) I learned that what I thought
was a beckon was merely the back of a hand.. I eventually wound
up with Gimbel Brothers in New York in 1933. After a short
stretch in the Army in 1941, I returned to Joliet and became
associated with Munroe Brothers in their business department.

I surprised myself by getting married in 1946. My wife is the
daughter of a Joliet physician. We have a daughter. She is rea-
sonably good to us, leads us with a velvet glove, and occasionally
lets us have our own way so we won't be discouraged.

** DAVID WILLIAM HOUCK

BoRN: Feb, 18, 1908, Buffalo, N. Y. PARENTS: Oscar Frederick Houck, Elsa
Lydia Geyer.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Kathleen Merriam. cuitp: David M., 1943.

DIED: Sept. 6, 1950, New York, N. Y.

wwow: Mrs. David W. Houck, 425 E. 86th St., New York 28, N. Y.

FOR a year after leaving the College, Houck studied at the Har-
vard School of Architecture. In 1939 he was associated with the
Observation Roofs Department of Rockefeller Center. He spent

[ 561 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

five years in the service during World War II, becoming a first
lieutenant in the Signal Corps. In 1949 he reported that he was

a salesman for Bloomingdale Brothers, Inc., of New York. He
was survived by his wife.

ARTHUR AMORY HOUGHTON, JR.

HOME ADpRESS; 3 Sutton Pl, New York 22, N. Y. -
OFFICE ADDRESS: 718 Fifth Ave., New York 19, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1906, Corning, N. Y. parents: Arthur Amory Houghton,
Mabel Hollister.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: LHD. (Lehigh Univ.), 1950; LL.
(Rochester Univ.), 1952; tarry, (Washington Coll.), 1953.

marrieD: Jane Olmsted, June 12, 1929, Harrisburg, Pa.; Elizabeth McCall,
Jan. 15, 1944. CHILDREN: Jane Olmsted, Nov. 28, 1930; Sylvia Bigelow,
July 3, 1933: Arthur Amory, 3d, May 6, 1940; Hollister Douglas, June
14, 1945-

occupaTIoN: President, Steuben Glass, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Steuben Glass, Inc., Corning Glass Works, Dela-
ware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad Company; trustee, Metropoli-
tan Museum of Art; Parsons School of Design; American Federation
of Art, National Trust for Historic Preservation; Pierpont Morgan
Library; New York Public Library; Cooper Union; Institute of Inter-
national Education; St. John’s College, Annapolis; French Institute;
Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York.

UPON leaving college I returned to my birthplace, Corning, New
York, and entered the employ of Corning Glass Works. I have
been president of its subsidiary corporation, Steuben Glass, Inc.,
since its establishment in 1933.

In 1940 I was appointed curator of rare books at the Library of
Congress, and for the next two years divided my time between
such librarian work in Washington, D. C., and the main offices of
Steuben Glass in New York City.

I entered the armed services early in 1942. I attended the Army
Air Force Intelligence School at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, and
was subsequently appointed to its staff where I served as chairman
of its academic planning board. Late in 1944 I was transferred to

the Army Air Force Technical Service Command, and worked
on termination of air force contracts until I was placed on inactive
status at the end of 1945.

[ 562 ]

Sap aereReRE NCR er conan teeciett A CON ATONE Ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Since the war I have lived in New York City, continuing my
work in the glass manufacturing business. A part of my time is
given to the work of various educational and cultural institutions.
I am an independent Republican in politics, and a liberal Episco-
palian in religion. |

HENRY HOWARD

“HOME ADpREsS: Tuxedo Park, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 469 Fourth Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

BORN: May 4, 1907, Washington, D. C. Parents: George Howard, ‘Mary
Claggett.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MarRIED: Natalie Bayard Merrill, March 22, 1941, Savannah, Ga. CHILDREN:
Natalie Bayard, Nov. 16, 1942; George Howard, May 8, 1944; Mary
Mowbray, Oct. 14, 1948.

occuPATION: Appraiser for estates and insurance companies.

KENNETH WINSLOW HOWARD

HOME ADDRESS: 519 Browning St. Mill Valley, Calif.

BoRN: May 27, 1908, Tewksbury, Mass. parents: Burt Foster Howard, Mar-
garet Foster.

PREPARED AT: Public schools, Sacramento, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1929; AMzy

1933.

OCCUPATION: Carpentry.

YES, it is true Mr. Chairman that I have received a number —
you say it is fourteen? — of messages asking that I detail some-
thing of my life and interests for the Twenty-fifth Reunion of
the Class of 1929 at Harvard. The gap is too great. Disconti-
nuity has been a principal aspect of my existence, and by this
time my sense of connection with Harvard is so attenuated that
I cannot take seriously your request.

Whence this pressure to maintain the connection between Har-
vard and the graduates? Should it not be clear that there must
be some exceptions to the general rule?

I am a carpenter. I build houses. It is hard work and leaves
its mark after a few years. Talk to any working carpenter if you

[ 563 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

don't know what I mean. I have also dug ditches, picked fruit

in the San Joaquin, and trimmed lettuce in the Great Salt River

and Imperial Valleys. Naturally, I do not understand things as

the more representative members of the Class must. Yet I have

not repudiated what I learned at Harvard — and I did learn. One

of my best friends as an undergraduate was my tutor, Ralph Mon-

roe Eaton. He slit his throat with a razor. Another good friend,

also a young faculty member, jumped out of a window of a Bos-
ton hotel. From him I learned too, a different lesson because he
was a different kind of man.

These incidents are disagreeable to you I am sure, and should
not be mentioned at a time when the supply of bourbon (our
own special brand) is practically unlimited. But they are not
peripheral accidents; they are exceptions to the rule which should
be studied to determine their relation to the general whole. The
malady from which these men died was not entirely a private
one. To live with and be a part of an institution like Harvard
and at the same time to respect and search after the truth create
in our time an almost insufferable contradiction.

I was interested to see the considerable attention which Dr.

‘Conant gave in his final report to the free-speech fight at Har-

vard in the late thirties. Apparently he regarded it as an im-
portant incident in his term of office. He manages to portray
his role in obtaining conformity as not too disreputable a one. I
gather that Mr. Pusey has had some experience with McCarthy-
ism. We shall see whether he is able to take advantage of his
previous experience in his new environment. I came to Harvard
possessed of an ineffably naive conviction — that the truth about
the world and our society and its ills can be found and used in the
interests of mankind. It seemed to me then that a plain lesson
could be learned from the war of 1918 and the turmoil in which
civilization found itself. I graduated into the hardship of the de-
pression, I witnessed a second world war and along with the
rest of humanity face a third unless there is a reversal in some
of the existing trends within our civilization.

The conviction about the value and availability of objective
scientific truth and its proper functioning in society has stayed
with me. In order that I might maintain it, I had to slough off
the scepticism and mysticism which in one form or another

[ 564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

characterizes the dominant Harvard philosophy. I do not speak
of the simple obscurantism by means of which some men like
Carver of the Economics Department tried to convince me that
there wasn’t any depression in the early thirties. I am thinkin
rather of the men like Irving Babbitt, C. I. Lewis, A. N. White-
head, and R. B. Perry. For all that he ended up with a socially
conservative position, Babbitt was convinced of the vital function
in society of rational ideas expressed in literature — but this ap-
proach was in contradiction to the mystical aspect of his think-
ing. Something similar was true of Whitehead, who in the early
twenties made a brave approach to understanding the world in
a scientific sense in Science and the Modern World, but who
retreated from the effort in this very book and in later ones when
he found it necessary to posit the bifurcated God to tie the world
together. Lewis and Perry were men who wasted brave years
in the intricacies of professorial philosophy, though both felt
and understood the value of scientific truth and longed for a
society which would sustain its pursuit.

From these men I learned too — from their obvious frustration
as well as their insight. I resolved to attempt to free myself of the
frustration and to maintain if I could the conviction which lay
at the heart of the honor which they paid to knowledge and
truth.

Yes, the gap is very great; too wide, I fear, for me to bridge
in these random remarks. Yet if you are not afraid to print them,
Mr. Reporter, they may help some of my friends to understand
what I have been doing these twenty-five years past.

JAMES HARVEY HOWE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 540 Big Bend Rd., Webster Groves, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lewis-Howe Co., St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: July 14, 1906, St. Louis, Mo. parents: James Harvey Howe, Nelle
Ocuff. .

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

OCCUPATION: Business.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files,

[ 565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JAMES DEWOLF HUBBARD

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Skiff Mountain, Kent, Conn.

BorN: Dec. 7, 1906, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Russell Sturgis Hubbard,
Elizabeth Russell Perry.

PREPARED AT: Nfilton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1920, DEGREE: AB. 1929.
marrieD: Betsy D. Gunn, Jan. 2, 1936, Saranac Lake, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Russel] Sturgis Hubbard, ’24; John Perry Hubbard, ’25,
MOD., 31.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.
OFFICES HELD: Chaplain, executive secretary, Toc H, 1931-34; rural mission-
ary, Vermont, 1934-35; rector, St. Luke’s, Saranac Lake, 1935-39; Epis-

copal chaplain, Yale University, 1939-40; vicar, Barre, North Brookfield,
Christian Hill Center, 1940-46.

MEMBER OF: Kent Board of Education; American and Connecticut Gurnsey

Breeders Associations, Farm Bureau; Dairy Herd Improvement Asso-
ciation; Artificial Breeding Association.

LIKE most, if not all, of us my life has been full and interesting
since College days. I started off in May even before graduation
for a long summer’s work at the Hudson Stuck Hospital in Fort
Yukon, Alaska, where I really began to find myself, as for the first
time I was on my own — away from all former friends and rela-
tions. At the end of the summer I faced a major decision when
two brothers who had cleared $7,000 in furs the previous year
asked me to join them the following year both in trapping and
prospecting what they thought was a gold strike near the Arctic
slope. I have often pondered on the might-have-beens. But my
New England conscience was still too strong and I suspected
that if I stayed one year I should stay more, so I came “outside”
on schedule for my three years at theological school in Virginia —
and again, with all new friends to make, I found those years stimu-
lating and thrilling.

Church-wise, however, even in those distant days I was a heretic,
seeing what the church might be rather than what it was and
hoping that I could do some pioneering from within the ranks.
I have always felt that all organizations should put major stress on
improving — even as medicine and industry spend millions in re-
search. But the church whose ways have proved inadequate even
to hold many earnestly seeking Christians insists on clinging to its
old ways and traditions. So for fifteen years I tried seeking new

[ 566 }

Cee ARR cmap ch RR ae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and better ways within the church as a kind of laboratory worker
— but the powers-that-be were not impressed, even with the last
experiment at Christian Hill in Barre, Massachusetts. This proved
the need for a new approach to the rural work of the church by

giving an interdenominational center with the chance for a large
staff comparable to that of a city church so that a whole area could
be covered far better than any one man could hope to do. It was
the very success and enthusiastic response of the laymen involved
that killed this venture as it grew beyond what my wife and I
could swing alone both financially and physically. Unfortunately
I was not salesman enough to get the necessary support beyond
the almost universal “moral support.” Finally it came to the point
where I had to give the ultimatum that we had to have practical
help — or else — and else won.

So after two years of waiting to see if some other research type
of church work might be available. I finally decided to take the
plunge into full scale commercial farming. I had had some prep-
aration for this as a part of the job at Christian Hill where I had
been overseeing a farm to utilize the facilities, help pay the bills,
and have work available, Grenfell fashion, for our college and
other workers. During the process of selling the property I had
to let the farmer go and carry on alone with our herd of seventeen
— and to my amazement I found that I am a farmer at heart. Many

_ have criticized this fact, saying that “I was trained for better
things,” but at last I know that I am doing a fundamental, creative
job. Each day when I see our 300 to 500 quarts of milk go out or
when I see the results of our carpentry or field work, there is a
thrill of accomplishment that I never seem to get used to.

And a professional man can make a success of farming if he likes
the hard, gruelling, and dirty jobs. With one other man and my
wife to help drive the trucks, etc., we are able to swing a fifty-
head farm and make it pay. To do this on a shoe-string, bank loans
have enabled us to go into the most modern labor-saving practices
such as, for the agricultural intelligentsia, pen stabling and field
chopping. If the ministry needs a jack (or master) of all trades,
farming is even more so. Aside from the regular farm work we
have to do everything possible ourselves, including the repairs and
maintenance of our tractors and trucks and farm machinery (so
that sometimes I feel just like a grease monkey), our own welding,

[ 567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

carpentry, roofing, painting, electrical work, and so on. One of
the joys of farming is its unending variety. Before you have a
chance to get fed up with one job, you're doing three others. Nor
is it all just hard physical work. The brain work and organization
is fully as important and beside all this there is the bookkeeping,
filing, herd registration, etc., that should have a full-time secre-
tary but somehow gets crowded into rainy days and evenings. Far
from being “trained for better things,” there is use for any amount
of training and education.

Nor do I know of any better thing than an active participation
in the eternal mysteries of life and growth. Each calf that is born,
each new crop that grows, links me closer to God than I could
ever be in professional life. And so far as helping others is con-
cerned, I truly believe that it is not what we do, but how we do it,
that counts. Each life we touch will be better or worse not be-
cause of what our job may be but because of what we are. One of
the amazingly few “outs” to farm life is that it does tie you down,
especially when you have to make it pay and therefore have to do
a major part of the work yourself and be on hand to make sure
that things go right. You can’t make a date ahead and be sure of it ,
just because it is in the little black book. So when it comes to
thoughts of our Reunion in the busiest month of haying, my fin-
gers are crossed — but here’s hoping and if it is anywhere near
possible, I'll see you there.

JOSHUA CLAPP HUBBARD

HOME ADDRESS: 1013 Wyndon Ave., Bryn Mawr, Pa.
OFFICE appress: Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Born: Feb. 13, 1907, Boston, Mass. PareNTs: Joshua Clapp Hubbard, ’92,
Marion Richardson.
PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude,
1929(31)3 A.M. 10345 PH.D. 1938.
MarRRieD: Martha Brewer, April 22, 1942, Weston, Mass.
oocupaTion: Associate professor of economics, Bryn Mawr College.
MEMBER OF: American Economics Association.
puBLicaTions: Creation of Income by Taxation, Harvard University Press;
Basic Ideas of Economics, Stackpole Company.

AFTER two years of college I went to the Southwest for the next
L 568 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

two, during which my future plans took shape for the first time.
A wonderful summer on the California cattle ranch owned by the
family of classmate, Clintie Hollister, awakened an interest in eco-
nomics and government, thanks to the discussions of Mr. and Mrs.
Hollister. The next summer spent at the long end of a shovel
digging in an Indian ruin near Flagstaff clinched my mind to re-
turn to Harvard, give up archeology, and major in economics.
Hence the next four years were spent in Hollis Hall where I en-
joyed the privilege of knowing Copey well. The next two years,
again mainly in the Southwest, were devoted to passing language
exams and writing the first draft of my Ph.D. thesis.

In Santa Fe, New Mexico, the Talking Book first came into my
possession and it has brought me great pleasure since, not only in
the form of literature but also through its teaching me the songs
of many birds. After getting my degree, no teaching job opened
up until the West again gave me a hand. Pomona College took me
on for the second semester. A real break developed at the term’s
end when I had the opportunity to attend the Hazel Hearst
Foundation. With this experience Harvard gave me some private
tutoring to do as the college was then driving out the Widow.
The next real break occurred when I had again gone west to the
Hazel Hearst Foundation. Harvard asked me to teach a section
of Economics A in summer school as the war was drawing off the
regular staff. This good luck had been preceded by even better
good fortune with my marriage to Martha Brewer. Then fol-
lowed an appointment at Wesleyan University in Connecticut for
the next academic year which led to my appointment at Bryn
Mawr in 1943 when the Navy took over Wesleyan.

Thanks to the high government salaries, my superior at Bryn
Mawr left academic teaching at the war’s end and I have stayed
on since. I recommend Bryn Mawr not only for your daughters,
and I am looking forward to the arrival of the first, but also for
academic teaching. Classes are small, students excellent, although |
too few graduate students, and the teacher enjoys a maximum of
freedom and independence. The high spot for Martha and me
came with my sabbatical year 1951-1952. We spent it on the shore
of Blue Hill Bay in the house where we had spent our summers
since being married. The snow closed the driveway for eight
weeks when we walked on snow shoes the quarter of a mile to the

[ 569 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

road. We were out working some part of nearly every day be-
cause we enjoyed the out-of-doors. Thanks to Martha’s fore-
thought in building a house able to keep out the Maine winter and
to an oil space heater we were very comfortable. A fireplace and
two electric radiant panels gave us luxury. My study was the
bathroom and this is the only distinguishing feature of the book
that I wrote. Now we are planning for our next sabbatical, when
I hope that Martha will not have to devote so much of her time to
my work.
Let me thank the Class Committees for all their efforts for our
Reunion. I wonder whether the traditional Twenty-fifth Reunion
is the best way to serve Harvard.

EDWARD HUBERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Hickory Drive, Maplewood, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Rector St., Newark 2, N. J.

BORN: Jan, 30, 1910, Newark, N. J. parents: Joseph Huberman, Fanny
Kramer.

PREPARED AT: South Side High School, Newark, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: AB. 1929; A.M. (Rutgers Univ.),
1930; PH.D. (Duke Univ.), 1934. |

marRIED: Elizabeth Duncan Lyle, Sept. 17, 1939, Lenox, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joel Anthony, Feb. 13, 1941; Jamie Lyle, (daughter) July 29, 1943;
Vincent Michael, Sept. 6, 1946.

occupaTIoN: Associate professor of English, Newark College of Rutgers
University.

OFFICES HELD: President, Coéperative Consumers of the Oranges; chairman,
Human Relations Council of the Oranges and Maplewood.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; College Eng-
lish Association, Modern Language Association, National Council of
Teachers of English.

PUBLICATIONS: Chree books translated and adapted from Spanish of Antomoi-
robles, most recent, The Refugee Centaur, Twayne, New York, 1952;
about 200 articles and stories for children and others in perhaps twenty-
five magazines, including Books Abroad, Child Life, Story Parade, The
Library, Indian Education, Journal of Housing, Junior Red Cross
Journal, Consumers Guide, The American Observer.

DURING the depression my career history almost matched the
Dictionary of Occupations. Young and eager, I sought (and
found) “experience” in library work, graduate school, teaching,

[570 ]

dee EE A RE TNE SLA NOEL NRHP OTT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

travel in Europe and Africa and Mexico, journalism, personnel
work, public housing, ghost writing for a judge in domestic rela-
tions court, marriage. In the qo’s I built a house, helped start a
family, spent some time in federal service, and then concentrated |
on teaching. This is lively, Sparkling, happy, and underpaid.
Teaching. continues into the 50’s.

LEO HUBERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 6915 Rue Versailles, Miami Beach, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1021 Biarritz Drive, Miami Beach 41, Fla.

BORN: Oct. 23, 1907, Brunswick, Maine. PARENTS: Benjamin Huberman,
Mary Brown.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Ida Golman, Feb. 25, 1936; Beatrice Gilman, April 14, 1941, Fort
Lauderdale, Fla. cHrpren: Jill, April 23, 1942; Benjamin, Oct. 2, 1943;
Joseph Gilman, May 21, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Kenneth Huberman, ’24, LL.B., 28; Moses Samuel Huber-
man, ’25, LL.B., ’28.

OCCUPATION: Headmaster, Normandy School.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Directors, 1942-44, secretary, 1944-48, vice-
president, 1948-49, president, 1949-50, Miami Beach YMWHA; member
Board of Directors, Greater Miami Jewish Community Center, 1950-
53; president, 1949-51, member Executive Committee, 1951-53, Pri-
vate Schools Association Dade County; charter member, local Harvard
club.

LIFE since June, 1929, has been a varied and, naturally, an event-
ful one. An extra-curricular activity, the last three years at college,
involved me in an enterprise devoted to making ends meet known
as the Brookline Outing Club. This was organized by my brother
(Class of 1924) and me for the purpose of helping young boys to
learn to get along with each other — and of course it has its mone-
tary advantage. This extra-curricular activity, rather than my
specialization in studies, led to my final choice of career.

After graduation, a summer of running a day camp at Nantasket
Beach was followed by a winter devoted to the Outing Club and
painting portraits for which the Fine Arts Department had pre-
pared me inadequately. A burning desire to paint better pictures
took me to New York and the Art Students League, where I
studied for several years. These years I taught science and shop to

Cs7r]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

young children at the Center Academy in Brooklyn and took
courses at Columbia and Teachers College. Summers were de-
voted to camping in New Hampshire at Camp Kenwood which
was organized by my brother and me.

By 1935 art as a career gave way to art as a hobby, and I headed
south to Miami Beach to investigate the possibility of opening a
private school. After a winter of teaching at Miami Beach, I de-
cided to undertake two ventures: one marriage, and the other the
Normandy School. The first of these ended by mutual agreement
five years later. The Normandy School, built and established by
me in 1936, has flourished and is flourishing.

In 1941 the re-adventure in marriage was taken. Beatrice Gil- .
man, my wife and the mother of our three children, is a graduate
of Juilliard Graduate School and a fine singer. When we are not
busy directing the destinies of the boys and girls who come to the
Normandy School and are not occupied with the devious duties
which attend parenthood, we make music together, I plodding
along at the piano and Beatrice soaring away in singing. Some-
times we change places and I blow breathlessly through my
flute while she takes over the piano. Our family is pretty well
involved in living music and art. I still paint from time to time,
in which activity my two older children, Jill (eleven) and Ben
(ten), join me. Young Joseph, three years old, succeeds in messing
up our painting with his own efforts from time to time. Ben and
Jill join Beatrice and me, occasionally, for noisy musical times —
Jill with her flute and Ben with his violin. Some day it may be fun
for other people to hear; right now, it is fun only for us. This is
just a quick picture which omits much that is adventure for the
family.

This wonderful sub-tropical Miami Beach offers tremendous
variety for family living. Short trips to Havana and Nassau, sail-
ing in Biscayne Bay, fishing trips to the Everglades, camp fires
and picnics at the parks and beaches, and of course swimming in
the pools and in the caressing South Atlantic Ocean are part of
the routine. A family trip to New England this past summer,

however, has whetted our appetites for New England in the sum-
mer. We’re all looking forward to June in Cambridge in 1954-

[572]

cman tO TIN Sp euonnerenencgepten Gr ENC NITE EOI TT TI

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES HUDSON

HOME apprEss: Gordon Road, Essex Fells, N. J.

OFFICE appREss: Grammer, Dempsey & Hudson, 212 Rome St.. Newark,
N. J.

BORN: June 16, 1906, Phoenixville, Pa. parents: Clarence Walter Hudson,
Elizabeth Morgan.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Mary Ellen Wilfley. cHILpREN: James F.; J. Morgan; Judith P.

OCCUPATION: Steel warehousing business.

AFTER graduation I was with the Bethlehem Steel Company for
six years, and then went into the steel warehousing business in
Newark, New Jersey, and Milford, Connecticut, and I have been
at it ever since. I served a term in Washington, D. C., as chief of
the Warehouse Section of the Iron and Steel Division of the Na-
tional Production Authority. We miss New England so much
that we have spent frequent summer vacations on Cape Cod.

GORDON HUGGINS ‘

HOME appRESs: Westford Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Wadsworth House, Harvard University, Cambridge 38
Mass.

BorN: Aug. 5, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Gurry Ellsworth Huggins,
‘or, A.M., ’or, Marion Brooks Swasey.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Elise Welch Read, Oct. 11, 1930, Wayland, Mass. cHitpREN: Ken-
neth Read, May §, 1932; Marion Brooks, July 29, 1934; Christina Sumner,
Aug. 3, 1943.

HARVARD SON: Kenneth Read Huggins, ’55.

OccUPATION: Executive director, Harvard Foundation for Advanced Study
and Research.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Harvard Club of New Jersey, 1930-33; member
Board of Governors, McBurney Branch, YMCA, 1933-37; treasurer,
Harvard Club in Concord, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Boston.

PusLicaTions: “The Holyoke Police Department, a Survey,” 1942.

I SUPPOSE most men who were young in the thirties approach |
biographies with some apprehension, certainly with some skepti-
cism about the durability of achievement. Looking over my re-

[573 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

port to the Class at our Twentieth Anniversary, I note that I said
“your hero has been specializing in lost causes.” Now I must re-
port to you that under the influence of the postwar boom and in
consideration of wise public relations policy this description will
no longer do.

For ‘four years I have worked for Harvard University. Some
of my classmates holding firmly to the principle of guilt by asso-
ciation will conclude that I have passed beyond the iron curtain
and am now lost indeed. On the contrary, I was never happier or
more sure that what I am doing is likely to succeed and make
some contribution in the field of education. Before I am personal,
it is probably worth saying where some few of our classmates can
read it that, with the destruction wrought by the war and the
consequent decline of many European universities and the dis-
appearance of others behind the Iron Curtain, Harvard has become
the foremost university in the Western World. Whatever they
do or say about it, they might bear in mind our collective respon-
sibility as Harvard men who are a part of her great enterprise of
scholarship. Certainly, if they had the opportunity of closely
observing the great faculties at work at Harvard as I have, ad-
miration rather than fear, would dominate their thinking about
Harvard’s great teaching staff. After all, unfriendly critics of
Harvard have delved among our faculties for many years and come
up with only three names out of 3,000 to charge with subversion.
In my contacts with the faculty, the most distinct impression I
receive is of their tremendous devotion not only to learning, but
also to our way of life.

No flashbacks are necessary. Eight years of broad training in
business, seven years of experience in civic organizations, and
nearly three years of administrative work in the Navy in World
War II have brought me to my present job. This mission is to
guide the development of a new institution in the graduate schools
as the first director of the Harvard Foundation for Advanced
Study and Research. Some of my classmates who went on to
acquire A.M.’s and Ph.D.’s at Harvard will know about it and are
members. It is both an annual fund and an association of former
graduate students in the Graduate Schools of Arts and Sciences,
Design, Education, and Public Administration. It represents 29,000

alumni with the University. It exerts some leadership in the area

[574]

ear hg OR eT NENA ER ETI OI I a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of arts and sciences in acquiring support for fellowships and re-
search, particularly for projects that call for the participation of
several departments of schools. It administers an annual fund for
the support of scholarly work in the areas of the graduate schools
where unrestricted funds are inadequate. Like all new ventures,
no one can be sure of the outcome, but I expect it to prosper.

Thanks to a prescient wife who seized an opportunity to buy
an old house for us in Concord, Massachusetts, when I was away
during the war, we live comfortably there in the country near the
Middlesex School. We and our three children consider Concord
home and continue to grow up happily there. Ken is sitting this
winter out in Korea; he hopes to return to Harvard next fall.
Marion (Ann) is a sophomore at Mills College in Oakland, Cali-
fornia. Christina is an active member of the fourth grade, the
Brownies, and other local organizations. Elise runs the home front
which includes most of the civic duties of the family. I travel
much of the year for Harvard. We cultivate what hobbies we can
between times. These are still heavily on the athletic side, con-
sidering the age of the children, if not the parents.

WILLIAM HOWARD HULSMAN

HOME apprEss: 11 Bemuth Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1319 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

BorN: April 7, 1908, Oxford, Mass. parents: Lorne Beaconsfield Hulsman,
Marion Louise Howard.

PREPARED AT: Pittsfield High School, Pittsfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

marRRiED: Barbara Parks Ellis, Dec. 15, 1934, Newtonville, Mass. CHILDREN:
Judith Ann, Dec. 8, 1935; Elizabeth Alden, March 22, 1938; William
Howard, Jr., Jan. 6, 1941; Susan Adams, May 31, 1944; Joanna, Sept. 2,
1946.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, secretary, Norfolk County Trust Company.

HAVING obtained an M.B.A. degree in 1931 at the Harvard

Business School, where I majored in investment banking, I dis-

covered in June of that year that there was no such thing as in-

vestment banking. So I secured a job with a commercial bank and

have been with that same bank ever since. My connection with

Norfolk County Trust Company has been an extremely pleasant

one.

[575]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

My family, thank the Lord, is a perfectly normal, numerous,
group of people who resemble one another in appearance only,
Their activities at home, at school, and at our summer cottage at
Sandwich, Massachusetts, have kept my wife and me busy, puz-
zled, astounded, broke, and at times, horrified. However, under-
lying the mood or condition of the moment has been the basic
satisfaction and pride of accomplishment that a family of five
children brings. They keep us young, too.

My’ travels have been negligible and my war service non-
existent. My job and my family have conspired to keep me at
home and to exempt me from war service. Politically, we have
been die-hard Republicans who, only once in our voting lives,
have voted on the winning side. In religious matters, we have felt
that church affiliation should be a matter of individual choice.
Our children were introduced to the Congregational Sunday
School, but now you will find Unitarians, , Episcopalians, and
heathens among us.

HAROLD RUSSELL HUNKINS

HOME ApDpRESS: 27 College Ave., Upper Montclair, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 67 Broad St., New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1900, Austin, Minn, parents: Adelbert Benjamin Hunkins,
Lotue Jane Colton.

PREPARED AT: Mason City High School, Mason City, Iowa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: $.B. IN E.COM.ENG., 1929.

MarrieD: Anne Stewart Magill, Sept. 24, 1931, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILD:
Marcia Jane, June 20, 1938.

occuPATION: Assistant chief engineer, American Cable and Radio Corpora-
tion.

OFFICES HELD: Consultant, Communications Section, Association of American

Railroads.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Lodge, A.F.&A.M.; Montclair Society of Engineers;
American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Institute of Radio Engineers.

MY college years were the most pleasant and profitable vacation
I ever spent. I had accumulated seven years of sub-professional
work in engineering before I was faced with the bare fact that
success in my chosen field required the acquisition of a college
degree in engineering. The effort of accomplishing this by spend-

[ 576 ]

es ests Hi eens emery) eth eMC see tempat Penn ith ITE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing two years at Columbia and two at Harvard, on a fully self-
supporting basis, has paid for itself many times over.

After the “vacation,” my professional work was resumed and
I have been involved principally in research and development in
the field of communications. I have spent several years in the
management of manufacturing units supplying materials to the
communications industry and have just recently returned to the
operating end of the business. I am now concerned with the in-
stallation and operation of transoceanic cable and wireless tele-
graph communication systems.

The “best girl” and I were married in 1931 and eventually (after
all, these things take time) we welcomed our only child, a daugh-
ter, in 1938. Our social life has been that of a typical suburban
family. We find most of our pleasures locally and have been quite
involved in the day-to-day goings-on in our little Reformed
Church, the Girl Scouts, dancing classes, P.T.A., and so on.

Beyond commuting on the Erie, keeping the lawn alive and the
house painted, there still has been time for some hobbies. We all
enjoy square dancing — frequently —and then I put in what
time I can with golf, or, of a winter evening, working in the base-
ment on my model railroad.

Among our most pleasant experiences are the vacations we
spend in New England. We are somewhat partial to Vermont.
probably since Marcia is a “regular” at Aloha Camp and looking
forward to counsellorship by the time she is ready for college.

Not having a Harvard son coming along, we must direct our
consideration to Smith, Wellesley, Vassar, or the like. Of course,
the decision will be Marcia’s, but the fun of planning it with her
will, for me, be akin to living again the “best days of my life.”

ALFRED HURWITZ

HOME appREss: West Spring Street, West Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration Hospital, West Haven, Conn.

BoRN: April 12, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Max Hurwitz, Rose Goldsmith.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.D. (Johns
Hopkins Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: Dorothy Solomon, April 12, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Richard,
May 3, 1940; Susan, Jan. 31, 1942; Tobey Ellen, March 9, 1953.

[577 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

HARVARD BROTHER: David Hurwitz, '25, M.D, ’29.

occupation: Chief, Surgical Service, Veterans Administration Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Associate clinical professor of surgery, Yale Medical School.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Thoracic Surgeons; American Board
of Surgery; American Board of Thoracic Surgery.

pustications: Many papers of surgical interest.

I LEFT Boston in the fall of 1929 to embark upon a career of
medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. Those next four
years were demanding but ebullient. Fortunately, most of my
time was spent in the pursuit of knowledge and I had little oppor-
tunity to become aware of the depressing aspects of living in
Baltimore (spoken like a proper Bostonian). After graduation, I
devoted the next four and one-half years as a surgical resident at
the Beth Israel Hospital. Two years later I spent a most profitable
and enjoyable period as a Louis Kirstein Fellow at the Massachu-
setts General Hospital in thoracic surgery. In 1938 I joined the
plethora of surgeons engaged in private practice in Boston. Al-
though I was not aware of the masses beating a path towards my
office in those early years of practice, I managed to keep busy and
to enjoy “three squares” a day. In April, 1938, I had the good
fortune to convince a charming young lady to marry me. This
maneuver turned out to be the best thing that has happened to me.
My wife and I have enjoyed a full and rich life and believe it
or not, are even more enamoured of each other than we were
when we took that fateful step in 1938. In addition, the union
proved to be productive of two children prior to World War Il
and one postwar child, all of whom have been a source of great
gratification to us.

In October, 1942, I joined the Third Auxiliary Surgical Group
in San Antonio, Texas, and, in less than six weeks, became a Eu-
ropean tourist at government expense. We had a rough crossing
on the Queen Mary. The next eighteen months were spent visit-
ing surgical clinics in England and Scotland and in preparing for
the invasion of Europe. On D-Day we tried to land on Omaha
Beach but found the beach untenable and had to tie up alongside
an LST in the harbor that night. On the following day we man-
aged to set foot on the shell-torn beach. Those first few days were
nightmarish and never to be forgotten. I was in charge of a sur-
gical team which consisted of three surgeons and an anesthetist

[578 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and four corpsmen. Because we worked next to the clearing sta-
tions of the Infantry divisions, we were able to perform the earliest
definitive surgery. It was a privilege to be of service to the youth
of our country and to be in a spot where you were really needed.
The exciting adventures of the outfit have appeared in an un-
popular book entitled The Frontline Surgeon, a copy of which I
shall be glad to lend you on request.’ I returned to the good old
U.S.A. in July, 1945, and was finally mustered out of the Army
in October. After a short period of private practice and renewal
of my teaching commitments at the Beth Israel Hospital, I decided
to embark upon a full-time, salaried career in surgery. I became
chief of surgery at the Veterans Hospital in Newington, Con-
necticut, in June, 1946, and have recently taken over the respon-
sibilities of chief of surgery in the new goo-bed Veterans Hospital
in West Haven, Connecticut. During the past eight years my
affiliation with the Yale Schoo] of Medicine has been such a happy
one that my Harvard brother has labelled me a “Judas Iscariot.”

My wife and I were able to prove that we were not as old as
we look (this statement despite the anticipated Reunion cliché
“You don’t look a day older than you did twenty-five years ago”)
by producing a delicious bit of femininity in March, 1953. We
selfishly anticipate having someone around the house when we
reach our dotage or Fiftieth Reunion, whichever comes sooner.

GEORGE HILLEL HURWITZ

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Stratford Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 99 Pratt St., Hartford, Conn.

BoRN: Nov. 12, 1908, East Hartford, Conn. parents: Samuel Hurwitz,
Mary Jaffee.

PREPARED AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§~1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D. (Univ. of Maryland),
1933.

MARRIED: Beatrice Gilman, 1935, Bridgeport, Conn.; Elinore Gross, March,
1942, West Hartford, Conn. cuiprEN: Jane Elizabeth, Nov. 4, 19473
Deborah Ann, Aug. 12, 1952.

OccUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Connecticut Allergy Society,

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Connecticut Medical Society;
Hartford City Medical Society; Academy of Allergy.

[579 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

puBLicaTions: “Limitations of Passive Transfer,” Journal of Allergy; “Peni-
cillin Reactions,” Journal of Oral Surgery.

THE years since Harvard have been filled mainly with the fury
of medical practice in my native Hartford. My only foreign
travels were provided by Army service in the Philippines and
Japan. It is somewhat astonishing to me to find that there are
now veterans of a newer war and that I must restrain my reminis-
cences. The passage of time is also brought home when I see as
atients children of former child patients. However, my two
small daughters, aged six years and eighteen months, keep my out-
look young.

LYFORD HUTCHINS

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Marchant Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Headquarters U. S. Marine Corps, Washington, D. C.

zorn: Nov. 11, 1903, Wolfeboro, N. H. parents: Frank Hutchins, Mildred
Vernon Whelpley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1928-1930, 1933-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1929(34);
LLB. (Boston Univ.), 1935.

marrigD: Alys Esther DeLorey, Sept. 7, 1928, Montreal, P. Q., Canada.
cumpreN: Robert Lyford, May 18, 1930 (a. Barbara Joy Butler-Cush-
man, Oct. 3, 1953, Hamilton, Mass.); Stuart Sanborn, Jan. 19, 1938.

occupation: Lieutenant colonel, U. S. Marine Corps, assistant head, Re-
serve Branch, Marine Aviation; lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, New England Excelsior Corporation, 1940-
52; president, Gardner Pad Company, Inc., 1938-52; director, Na-
tional Rifle Association, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: National Rifle Association (life member); Harvard Lodge,
AF. & A.M.; Acacia Club, Bar Association of the City of Boston;
New Hampshire Bar Association,

LAST November I entered the U.S. Naval Hospital in Chelsea
(for a complete engine overhaul). Since that time, as an in-and-
out patient, I have enjoyed a delightful one-way correspondence
with Jack Hutchinson who has admonished and importuned me
to itemize twenty-five years of peregrinations. Although little
of interest has occurred since Mrs. Hutchins supplied the Class
historians with my World War II record, herewith a recapitula-
tion,

[ 580 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After graduating from College I received a law degree from
Boston University, was admitted to the Massachusetts Bar, and
became associated with Fosdick P. Harrison, 24 School Street,
Boston, in the practice of law. Along with my law practice in
Massachusetts and New Hampshire I formed two New Hamp-
shire corporations for the manufacture of excelsior packing

ads. My active participation in this business was interrupted by
World War II and, in 1952, anticipating further overseas duty,
I disposed of my interest in these corporations.

As detailed in an earlier report, I served as an air liaison officer
in the Marine Corps during World War II and participated in
four operations in the Pacific. Subsequently I was recalled to ac-
tive duty several times to serve on aviation and other boards one
of which was instrumental in establishing the first Marine Corps
Experimental Helicopter Squadron. The mobilization of the
Marine Corps Reserve for the Korean conflict required my pres-
ence in Washington and, in 1952, I received overseas orders to
the First Marine Air Wing. In Korea liaison assignments took
me up the chain of the “Western Island Command” whose radar-
capped volcanic isles looked down the throat of the Red air
comple at the mouth of the Yalu. Subsequently I was aboard a
carrier off the east coast and during some of the heavy Red at-
tacks on the First Marine Division was on the MLR or on night
interception or observation flights.

Although my Korean duty was highly interesting I was glad
to get a short tour in Japan. Here I acquired a deep respect and
considerable affection for the Japanese people along with a firm
belief in their renaissance as a great nation and as a bulwark against
Asiatic Communism. Coincidentally, my travels in Japan crossed
the track of two other “twenty-niners”: Arthur Donahey Hamil-
ton and Shinshi Kondo (Imamura). Since my return from the
Far East I have been stationed in Washington assisting in recon-
stituting Marine Air Reserve units at various naval air stations
throughout the United States. At an early date I anticipate my
release to inactive duty and the resumption of a New England
law practice and New England living.

[ 581 ]

= Adina tnt heath

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JOHN WHITON HUTCHINSON

HOME ADDRESS: Nashoba Road, Concord, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

sorN: April 9, 1907, Plainfield, N. J. parents: James Abbott Hutchinson,
Mary Knowlton Whiton.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

marrieD: Harriet Jaqueth Fitz, Sept. 19, 1936, Harwichport, Mass. cuit-
prEN: John Whiton, Jr., Sept. 24, 1940; Jaqueth K., March 24, 1942;
Thomas F, Oct. 17, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Abbott Hutchinson, Jr., °28.

occupation: Salesman, partner, Hutchinson and Company, investments.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Northeast Investors Trust, Boston; director, Eliza-
beth Peabody House, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club; Boston Yacht Club.

FITZIE, the girl who said yes back in 1936, John, Jr. (thirteen),
Jay (eleven), Tom (six), and myself make up the Hutchinson
household. Count, if you wish, a dog, cat, goldfish, and parakeet
— the last survivors of many of their kind. We live in an old-
fashioned house about a mile from the center of Concord. It’s an
appealing town, although some of its rural charm has been lost
the last few years. The children all go to school in Concord, but
their future educational plans have not yet been worked out
either by them or by us. We think they are quite normal — they
fight incessantly, read endless comics, and chew vile-smelling
bubblegum, but you know how they are; they make life fascinat-
ing and worth while. You'll see two of them next June, but Tom
can’t pass the age test, alas!

“The quest” began as messenger boy for Harris, Forbes & Com-
pany in Boston. The pay was $12 per week, and I saved more
money then than seems to be the case now. I guess I was a satis-
factory messenger boy, for after six months the envelope con-
tained $15. Now I was really moving! After thirteen months of
toting the wallet and getting the Partners’ Saturday lunch at
Thompson’s Spa, I was made a cub salesman, but fortunately for
me, I was not considered well enough trained in time to sell the
security bargains of that era.

In 1933 I left Harris, Forbes to do special work for an indi-
vidual, but still along security lines. This required living in Chi-

[ 582 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cago and Baltimore for the better part of a year and was both
interesting and instructive. It had a definite end, however, and
in 1934 my brother and I formed our own investment firm. Some
twenty-five years of selling or advising — many times it’s hard
to know which I’m doing — lead me into the inexcusable error
of divesting myself of a few “pearls.”

For most of us, the money we make in securities is not as im-
portant as the money we don’t lose. Ask the customer exactly
what he wishes or hopes his money to do for him. It’s not so
much what did you buy as when did you buy it— and more im-
portant, if you invested for gain, when did you sell it? Were you
a splendid judge of an (undervalued) security, or did you merely
buy at a propitious time? Or did good old Uncle Harry die and
leave you a legacy when the market was relatively low?

These are not the observations of a cynic, but of one who be-
lieves there are many of us unwilling to credit Lady Luck with
her fair share of a successful investment or speculation. Most
astute investors whom I know readily admit that something,
favorable or unfavorable, affected a stock after its purchase. In
the event any of you are interested, I recommend for outside read-
ing, Where Are the Customers Yachts by Fred Schwed, Jr., pub-
lished by Simon and Schuster in 1940. It’s a classic, I think.

Hobbies have varied. For many years, golf was uppermost,
but with summer vacations in Chatham on Cape Cod, I became
interested in surf-casting for striped bass, and from this in
boating — power boating, not sailing. There is a saying, “The
man who owns a motor boat has two happy days — the day he
buys it and the day he sells it.” This is not altogether true in my
case, as I have had many wonderful times with my small boat.
By chartering it three or four weeks each season, and by doing
all the winter work myself, I can keep the cost reasonably in
hand. Perhaps before I’m through, too many headaches will
hasten that “second happy day,” but so far it’s been a lot of fun.
This boating business, with its attendant work in the off season,
has greatly reduced my appearances on the golf course. Five or
ten games a year is about it. So if John Filoon, Tom Kernan, Bob
Winston, or others are looking for “easy pickin’s” on the course
at Reunion time, I’m your boy. .

A hobby I enjoyed for some fifteen years was collecting the

[ 583 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

old-size paper currency which was printed from 1862 to 1928
when it was discontinued in favor of the present-day smaller
size. The Hutchinson liquid asset picture restricted the collection
for the most part to the $1, $2, and $5 denominations of the many
series and types issued. In January, 1953, Stacks (New York coin
dealers) sold this collection for me at public auction. It was most
absorbing putting it together, and yet I have never regretted its
sale.

Few of you are curious as to my religious convictions, but as
the questionnaire asks for them, suffice it to say that my wife and
children attend the Episcopal church far more often than I.

Friendships made at Harvard have made life much more inter-
esting and so did three academic courses in particular, namely,
English 2 under Professor Kittredge, Military Science II (internal
combustion engines), and English 78 (poetry).

A word or two about helping with this book: It has been
great fun reading the biographies as they have come in, and I
realize, as will you when you read them, what time and effort
were spent on many. Quite a few men enclosed personal notes
to me. These were most welcome and sincerely appreciated. For
the most part, they were humorous and many sought pardon for
their sin of tardiness and expressed sympathy for my hard lot in
life. They all pleased and rewarded me. Not one berated me for
hounding and goading. If any of you secretly felt too hard
beset upon, I’m sorry and ask your forgiveness. Hunt for my
name-badge at the Reunion, speak to me, and Ill apologize per-
sonally and profusely.

DONALD MAYFIELD HYMAN

HOME appREss: 40 Central Park South, New York, 19, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 Columbus Circle, New York 19, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 2, 1908, Elberon, N. J. parents: Mark Hyman, ’99, LLB., ’o1
Louise R. Baer.

PREPARED aT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: Mark Hyman, Jr., °34.

OCCUPATION: Real estate management and investment, self-employed.

[ 584 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Jewish Association for Neighborhood Centers;
member board of directors, Clinton Trust Company, New York.

THE winter after graduation I went around the world, a trip
which has provided concrete and pleasant memories in distinct
contrast with the New York to which I returned in the spring of
1930. After a couple of jobs whose need of me was as small as my
dislike of them was great, I formed a firm with another man to
purchase and remodel old tenement houses. With side trips into
other forms of real estate, we have been thus engaged ever since.

My hobbies are, I’m afraid, chiefly sedentary with a strong
leaning to bridge which I play hopefully but not too successfully.
In voting I am prone to pay small attention to party lines in local
and state elections, but am almost consistently Democratic in na-
tional balloting. I have never married and consequently am
agreeably tyrannized by a considerable number of small nephews
and nieces.

MELVILLE EZRA INGALLS

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Willow St., Babylon, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Merchants Shippers Association, 11 Park Pl, New York 7,
N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1906, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTS: George Hoadly Ingalls,
’93, Katherine Hinkle.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(30).

MaRRIED: Beatrice Carroll, May 25, 1932, New York, N. Y. cHipRen:
Melville Ezra, qth, Aug. 14, 1933; Carroll, Jan. 11, 1935.

HARVARD SON: Melville Ezra Ingalls, 4th, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Howard Ingalls, ’27.

occuPATION: Commercial agent, Railroad Carloading Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Southward Ho Country Club;
South Bay Cruising Club.

AFTER College I enrolled in the ranks of the traffic department
of the New York Central Railroad where I spent twelve years
trying to wheedle freight from unsuspecting traffic managers.
After three years in New York I was promoted to general agent
at “Indianoplace,” Indiana, for a couple of years and thence to
Peoria, Illinois, which I thought would be the jumping-off place
of the world; however; my family and I enjoyed it there, although

[ 585 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

life was pretty rugged due to the many distilleries and breweries
there whose products I tried to consume or ship via the New York
Central to other classmates in the East.

During the war I was fortunate enough to acquire a commission
in the Air Corps and even more fortunate in finding myself at
Wright Field for the duration, except for a slight detour at Syra-
cuse for six months in 1945. My main duties were the issuing of
uppers, lowers, roomettes, etc., for the many travellers to and
from Dayton and also the issuing of certificates which entitled the
receiver to purchase a tankful of gasoline which as we all re-
member was practically unobtainable. At this point I found very,
very many old friends whom I never knew existed.

Since the war we have returned to New York and are living on
the Great South Bay at Babylon, Long Island. I spent three years
selling products to the railroads for the American Car and Found-
ry. Suddenly the wheels spun around and came back where they
started. I am back in the railroad business again. I am soliciting
freight for the Merchants Shippers Association which is a car-
loading company which specializes in expediting less than carload
freight from the East and South to the west coast. ‘To complete
the cycle I have been informed that the New York Central owns
a bit of the stock of the Merchants Shippers Association.

My wife and I have done quite a little travelling commencing
with a wedding trip to Europe and several trips to California,
Nassau, and Florida, together with a yachting trip through the
West Indies and other points of interest which we have enjoyed.
However, since the war our travelling has been mostly on the
Great South Bay either searching for the elusive bluefish, flounders,
and other denizens of the deep or not so deep, or going to Fire
Island to swim. My other hobbies are golf, duck shooting, and
train bridge which is not to be confused with contract ct bridge as
played in homes and clubs.

My son is now a junior at Harvard and at present is 5 struggling
to gain a place on the wrestling team amongst other activities. My
daughter is now working in New York and is making her debut
this winter. My wife is holding down the home front with occa-
tional time out for fishing, swimming, and golf.

[ 586 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

F WILLIAM JAY ISELIN

porn: April 7, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Arthur Iselin, ’oz, Eleanor
Jay.

onEPARED at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1920.

MARRIED: Fannie H. Humphreys, Dec. 19, 1932, Bedford, N. Y. cHILpREN:
John Jay, Dec. 8, 1933; Fannie H., Dec. 8, 1934; Duane, Dec. 24, 1937;
two others.

piep: April ro, 1951, near Vienna, Va.

wwow: Mrs. William Jay Iselin, Rice Street, Greenville, S. C.

FROM 1929 to 1930, Iselin travelled around the world. He then
entered the Chemical Bank & Trust Company of New York
where he worked for three years. In 1933 he accepted a position
with Woodside & Easley Cotton Mills in South Carolina. During
the war he was a lieutenant commander, U.S. Naval Reserve,
with the Amphibious Air Support in the African and Sicilian land-
ings, and was with Air Intelligence in the Solomons, Marianas,
and C.B.I. Theatres. Before his death in an airplane crash he had
become vice-president of Woodside Mills and also of Iselin-Jef-
ferson Company of New York. His wife survived him.

MORRIS ISENBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 98-10 64th Ave., Forest Hills, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 114 E. goth St. New York 28, N. Y.

BORN: June ro, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Max Isenberg, Gertrude Marcus.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREES: AB., 1929(30); MD, (Univ. of Berlin),
1935.

MARRIED: Frieda Epstein. CHILDREN: Edward M.; Elliott S.; Howard W.

occuPATION: Psychiatrist.’

OFFICES HELD; Assistant instructor, American Institute for Psychoanalysis,

_ since 1952; assistant attending psychiatrist, Division of Neurology and
- Psychiatry, Jamaica Hospital, New York, since 1948.

MEMBER oF: American Psychiatric Association; American Institute for
Psychoanalysis; American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (diplo-
mate); American Association for the Advancement of Science; New
York State Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles on psychiatry and psychoanalysis.

IMMEDIATELY upon receiving my M.D. degree at the Univer-
[ 587 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

sity of Berlin, I entered upon my psychiatric career in the state
hospital system of Illinois. There followed a residency in San
Francisco and four years of Army service as a neuropsychiatrist.
Although California beckoned, I came to New York City. New
York is where my wife was born and to a New Yorker there is no
other city but the Big Town. Thus my wife tipped the balance
in favor of the East.

As I grow older, my family is becoming more important. For
a while after World War II, for some reason I was so immersed
in my work I did not realize my children were growing up with-
out me. I felt I was doing it for them, but really, I never asked
them. They preferred my company to my being a busy, devoted
doctor. I wonder too whether my patients will not benefit also
by my becoming a better father and husband and human being
instead of being just a doctor. I believe in helping others to be-
come better human beings; it is important that one try to be one
too.

HARRY HYMAN ISENSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 337 St. Paul St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1005 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1906, Piatka, Russia. parents: Israel Isenstein, Jennie Pozarnah.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1936.

MarRieD: Miriam Levison, Aug. 24, 1947, Boston Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Solomon Isenstein, °35, LL.B., °38.

OCCUPATION: Manager, Beacon Music Store, phonograph record, radio, and
hobbycraft store.

] WAS a real estate and insurance broker until 1936, at which time
I entered the practice of law. In 1944 I became a contract examiner
and later an auditor of CPFF war contracts for the U.S. General
Accounting Office. In 1948 I returned to the practice of law but
did not prosper. In the same year I purchased a phonograph rec-
ord and hobbycraft shop in a suburb of Boston. Two years ago

I moved the business to its present location on Beacon Street in
Brookline.

[ 588 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ORTON PORTER JACKSON

HOME ApDpREss: Church Road, St. Davids, Pa.

OFFICE ADpREsS: 1500 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

porN: May 27, 1907, New York, N, Y. parents: Orton Porter Jackson,
Jessica Godfrey.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1025-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Emily Penrose Rosengarten (Goodman), March 12, 1949, Ithan,
Pa, CHILDREN: Christine Penrose Goodman, Feb. 10, 1937 (stepchild);
Edward Trotter Goodman, April 17, 1939 (stepchild); Orton Porter,
Jr.. March 31, 1951.

occuPATION: Member, Investment Advisory Department, Drexel & Com-
pany, investments and investment banking.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Philadelphia, Philadelphia
Club; Racquet Club of Philadelphia; Gulph Mills Golf Club.

UPON graduation I started work in a trust company in Wall
Street on October 1, 1929, and, like so many other members of
our Class, caught the Crash and the subsequent Great Depression
before I had even figured out what the financial world was all
about. After my father (who was a graduate of Annapolis, Class
of 1893) died in active service in the fall of our freshman year,
I lived in an apartment in New York City with my mother until
her death in 1939. From October, 1929, until going on active
service as a lieutenant, junior grade, in the Naval Reserve in
August, 1941, I worked on Wall Street in the investment advisory
end of the financial business.

During the war I was with the Naval Intelligence until June,
1943, during which time I served overseas for a little over twenty
months, being most of the time on duty in Ceylon and India. After
that I returned to the United States, transferring from “Intelli-
gence” to “Deck” duty and, after a brief period of training, be-
came commanding officer of an LST, which I took to England in
time to land on the Normandy Coast on D-Day. After nine months
of this duty, having been promoted to lieutenant commander, I
became operations officer on the staff of the commander of LST’s,
operating in the United Kingdom. In June of 1945 I came home,
expecting to go to the Pacific, but was saved by V-J Day and
released to inactive duty December 1, 1945. I was awarded the
Bronze Star Medal for duty in connection with LST’s. Upon

[ 589 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

returning to my old job at the United States Trust Company of

New York I found that the City of New York had changed great-

ly and, inasmuch as I had no family to worry about, decided it

was silly to stay there and fight the battle of the ILR.T. twice a

day. I was fortunate enough to land a fine job in Boston with an

investment advisory firm and was happy to be in “The Hub” for
the next year and a half.

The newly-elected headmaster of St. Paul’s School, my old
prep school, asked me in the Spring of 1947 to come back as
master and teach mathematics, an offer which, after a great deal
of soul searching, I decided to accept. In March, 1949, I married
Mrs. Samuel Goodman, 3d, of Philadelphia, the former Emily
Penrose Rosengarten, daughter of Mrs. Adolph G. Rosengarten
and the late Mr. Rosengarten, and the widow of a graduate of
Princeton, Class of ’27, who had been at prep school with me.
There were two Goodman children, a girl, Christine, who at that
time was twelve years old, and a boy, Edward, who was then ten.
We brought the boy to Concord, New Hampshire, with us but,
though it was certainly far from an ideal situation, thought it best
to leave Christine in Philadelphia with her grandmother. The
following year I could see that, for fairly obvious reasons, this
arrangement was not going to work and regretfully resigned from
the St. Paul’s faculty in the Spring of 1950. We then came to
Philadelphia, where I was fortunate enough to secure a job in the
Investment Advisory Department of Drexel & Company, and
where I have been extremely happy ever since.

On March 31, 1951, Orton Porter Jackson, Jr.. known thus far
as “Opie,” appeared on the scene and is becoming more interesting
and satisfactory every day. He is rather hurt to find that, due to
newly imposed age limits, he was not been invited to attend the
Reunion with his doting parents but hopes that come 1998 he will
be going back to Cambridge for a 25th Reunion of his own. We
have a very pleasant house in lovely country at St. Davids. which
is on the ”Main Line” within easy commuting distance of Phila-
delphia. My stepdaughter will be graduating from Westover
School, Middlebury, Connecticut, this Spring, while my stepson
is currently a member of Second Form at St. Paul’s School.

[ 590 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR LEONARD JACOBS

HOME ADDRESS: 91 S. Merkle Rd., Columbus, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2531 Cleveland Ave., Columbus 11, Ohio.

porN: Aug. 7, 1907, Akron, Ohio. parents: Samuel A. Jacobs, Daisy Lillian
Weil.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Akron, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

mMarrieD: Josephine Yuster, March 16, 1932, Columbus, Ohio. cx:
Laurence Wile, May 26, 1939.

OCCUPATION: President, Bell Furniture Company, retail store.

OFFICES HELD: Director, treasurer, Kiwanis International Linden Chapter,
1948; organizer, treasurer, The Rural Transit Company, 1952; commit-
teeman, Troop 3, Boy Scouts of America, Columbus, 1952; past presi-
dent, The Forum, Columbus; Eagle scout.

MEMBER OF: Columbus Chamber of Commerce; Better Business Bureau of
Columbus; National Retail Furniture Association, Franklin County
Furniture Association, Winding Hollow Country Club.

NOTHING appears quite as difficult as recording my personal
history of the last quarter-century. However, I had a little gim-
mick in History 1 which consisted of listing five major headings
and attempting to make at least one very impressive observation
about each. These points went something like: social, political,
economic, religious, and geographical. I had a check word, made
up of the initial letters of these categories, to insure that I cov-
ered them all; but for the life of me, I can’t remember whether
the word was “sperg” or “greps.” With greps (or sperg) in mind,
I hereby plunge: a ;

After graduation I entered my father’s furniture business in
Akron, Ohio, with the full realization that the world was my
oyster and I was remarkably endowed with the finest tools to
peel this particular bivalve and enjoy it thoroughly. Even the
stock market crash made little impression on my rose-tinted
future. co

In 1932 I married the girl I had known ever since she was
a freckle-faced little imp in pig-tails. In passing, I should say
on the institution of marriage: I am for it. In my own case the
support, comfort, inspiration, and ambition I received from
my wife have been far beyond my poor powers of description.
This is not even taking into account the fact that she was a
most important factor in the equation that produced Laurie who

[591 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

is, at the risk of my sounding like the typical proud parent, quite
a fine boy. He became a First Class Scout under the tougher-than-
necessary guidance of his Scoutmaster, who was, strangely
enough, his Old Man. He is developing into a pretty good foot-
ball and baseball player. Maybe some day — but this is supposed
to be my story and not Laurie’s.

Jo and I spent the first eight months in Akron uneventfully,
and incidentally worked on our bridge game until it became, not
expert, but at least formidable for social purposes, putting by a
pitifully small amount for the rainy days that came all too soon.
My father and I did not see eye to eye on a number of matters,
including my worth to the firm. This brought Jo and me to the
biggest step in our lives. We left Akron in our Model A, taking
only our few possessions and a determination to make our own
way. Then came seven months of job hunting; 1933 was not
the most promising year for this activity.

In June, 1933, I landed a job, not a position, at Rollman’s, a
_ Cincinnati department store. One year at twenty dollars a week
and the bankroll was down to a thin shadow with its only sub-
stance consisting of a check book and a balance of ten dollars. We
took inventory and decided that we had been building character
long enough. That meant a new job at Shillito’s in Cincinnati
as salesman and assistant buyer in the furniture department for
three years. Then came three years as manager of the Schuman
Furniture Company in Lockland, Ohio. The bank-roll started
to show a few feeble signs of life and Laurie entered the picture.
When Laurie was six weeks old, we came to Columbus and I be-
came manager of the Hadley Furniture Company.

In 1941, by raising every dime I could borrow, including up
to the last ditch on my insurance, I opened the Bell Furniture
Company in Columbus. Six months later came Pearl Harbor and
no more merchandise. Frankly, I’m not entirely sure how the
Bell Furniture survived, but survive it did, never missing a dis-

count in paying its bills. Thank goodness, those tough days are
over. It is good to look back at them and think that we don’t have
to struggle as we did then. However, the experience gained has
proved to be a wonderful basis for a feeling of confidence that,
no matter what comes along, we can take it.
The above covers the economics, geographical, and social as-

[ 592 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pects of greps (or sperg), and that leaves only the religious and
political categories to fill, Our religion is Jewish. This consti-
tutes my entire inheritance from my family. It has proved ade-
quate through some mighty dark days. Politically, ’m a Repub-
lican with only an occasional lapse in judgment, as when I voted
for F.D.R. for his first two terms. That second term cured me
of his folly. . | .
There you have Art Jacobs after a quarter of a century. I still
haven’t said a word about what sort of person I am. Physically,
I am nearly the same as in 1929. I’ve lost a lot of hair, an appen-
dix, two tonsils, and one kidney since then. On the other hand,
I have acquired a fairly sizeable (Jo says it is more than that) bay.
It’s really not too big and, besides, it helps keep up my pants. But
man does not live by bread alone. Along the way, I found
a wide slice of ham in my character. This took me into some
amateur theatricals, mostly comedy or nearly so, and one drama
(male lead in Sidney Kingsley’s “The World We Make”). My
picture will tell you why I impersonated Adlai in the Winding
Hollow Club show (the resemblance ends at the physical). .
Our family has been recently adopted by Happy, a Beagle pup. ,
She supervises the cooking Laurie and I perform at the open
fireplace in the den from time to time. Secretly she is hoping we
spoil everything so that she can get a hand-out, but most of the
time we fool her and the food is quite passable. Mix all the above
ingredients with a touch of go golf and a pinch of poor gin rummy
and the resulting concotion will loosely resemble the subject.

SAUL JOSEPH JAFFE

HOME ADDRESS: 710 Forston Drive, Takoma Park 12, Md.

OFFICE ADDREss: National Labor Relations Board, Washington, D. C.
BORN: Oct. 15, 1907, Passaic, N. J. parents: Samuel Abraham Jaffe, Julia
Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925—1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; LLB.,
1932. :

MarRIED: Claire Y. Dankner, June 7, 1942, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Allan Stanley, July 8, 1944; Elizabeth (Bethy) Ruth, Oct. 14, 19453
Howard Arya, July 17, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, advisor to member of National Labor Relations Board.

[ 593 ]

nis oc tbh.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

OFFICES HELD: President, Men’s Club, Temple Emanuel, Passaic, N. J.; Noble
Grand, Amelia Lodge No. 215, Independent Order of Odd Fellows;
Cub master, Pack 436, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Passaic Bar Association; Essex County Bar Association; Temple
Emanuel, Passaic; Montgomery Jewish Community Center; Society of
Milicary Engineers; Post No. 1, American Legion, Omaha, Nebr.

FROM 1932, after my graduation from Harvard Law School and

for the next ten years, I was engaged in the private practice of law

in Passaic and Newark, New Jersey. It was rather humdrum
existence, punctuated by a few stimulating law suits and by some
interesting legislative experience at Trenton, New Jersey. How-
ever, in 1942 things perked up. Two of the most momentous
events of my life occurred. I enlisted in the Army and married
the girl I had known all my life and had taken to the Harvard-
Princeton game in 1938. I spent approximately four years in the
military service, serving with the Signal Corps, adjutant general,
and Corps of Engineers. During this period my wife, Claire, camp-
followed me through New Jersey, Maryland, Illinois, Wisconsin,
Texas and Nebraska. In the course of our travels we acquired
Allan Stanley and Bethy Ruth, faithful reproductions of their
proud parents.

Upon my separation from the Army in 1946, I decided to work

for our government in Washington. Once again Claire, Allan,
and Bethy found themselves on the merry-go-round and they
joined me when I was able to perform the miracle of securing an
apartment in Washington —a rare accomplishment in those days
of housing shortages. After a brief experience with the price and
rent control agencies, in December of 1947 I joined the staff of
the National Labor Relations Board as a legal assistant. I have
been there since and have enjoyed every minute of it. On July 17,
1951, Howard Arya, our latest addition, arrived, necessitating the
purchase of our present home. Raising three active children, even
with the help from the distaff side, I find little time for hobbies.
Basketball, my college sport, I had to give up years ago but I man-
aged to keep on playing some handball and golf until Howard
started playing havoc with my leisure(?) time. However, my wife
and I manage to find time for a pleasant social life and an occa-
sional vacation.

[594]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS WADSWORTH JAMES

HOME ApprEss: Leroy Avenue, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 480 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N. Y. :

BoRN: July 6, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Herbert Livingstone James,
Adele Slevin.

PREPARED AT: Caldwell High School, Caldwell, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).

marrieD: Dorothy Jane May Muller, Dec. 31, 1938, Darien, Conn. CHILDREN:
Francis Wadsworth, Jr., July 6, 1942; Jennifer A., Aug. 26, 1943.

occuPATION: Management consultant, specializing in advertising and sales.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

MY field is distribution. During the past twenty-five years I have
helped to establish several basic new products whose brand names
are now well known. One (I was head of advertising and mer-
chandising at Talon, Inc.) is the zipper. |

Our two children, being sufficiently sound of wind and limb
to project their own robust opinions, are strong competitors for
anybody’s time — and leave me few dull moments. We like the
sea and spend as much time as we can bouncing around on it,
either in a small boat or a bathing suit: New England in the sum-
mer, Florida in winter.

The most significant development I can sense in myself since
graduation is an awakening to my need for spiritual understand-
ing and, as I begin to gain it, a consequent adjustment of all my
values. | .

FREDERICK CLAFLIN JOAQUIN

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Nashotah House, Nashotah, Wis.

BORN: Jan. 8, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Chesley Bean Joaquin, Mary
Elizabeth Stevenson. 4

PREPARED AT: Warren High School, Warren, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: B.D. (Nashotah House), 19393 S.M,
(Univ. of Oklahoma), 1950; B.1.s. (ibid.), 1951.

MARRIED: Edna C, Blanchard. cup: Carolyn Lee, 1936.

OccUPATION: Episcopal priest, librarian of theological seminary.

[595 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

SAMUEL MICHAEL JOHNS

HOME ApprEss: R.D. 3, Blairsville, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pennsylvania Railroad Car Shops, Pitcairn, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1905, Blairsville, Pa. parents: Michael Samuel Johns, Eliza-
beth Zacur.

PREPARED aT: Blairsville High School, Blairsville, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MARRIED: Mary Jane Alberts, Nov. 21, 1937, New Kensington, Pa. CHILDREN:
James, April 7, 1941; Carol, Feb. 6, 1944; David, June 16, 1947; Andrea,
Nov. 10, 1951; Stephen, Aug. 8, 1953.

occuPaTion: Machinist helper, Pennsylvania Railroad Car Shops.

SINCE 1942, a series of financial reverses, plus the advent of a
family of five small children have caused me to take whatever job
I could get; this, because of sheer economic necessity. However,
I fee] that I shall have done my share if I can raise my family
in security, in honor, and in peace. This task right now is a full-
time job. And, although I am, like you, at an age where I enter-
tain thoughts on political philosophy, international problems, do-
mestic problems, still all these are tempered by the hard fact of
daily survival.

I'm sorry I cannot list as my accomplishments any spectacular
achievement, or an executive position in the business world, or
even a membership in any club. That I leave to my more talented
and fortunate classmates. My pride right now rests in my family
and in the Harvard Class of 1929. May they continue on the road
to prosperity and happiness!

LAURENCE HENRY HITCH JOHNSON, JR.

HOME AppRESs: 51 Randolph Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Broad St. Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: April 22, 1904, Milton, Mass. parents: Laurence Henry Hitch
Johnson, ’80, Leila Amanda Miller,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MarateD; Marie Francoeur Brewster, Nov, 6, 1928, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Helen Sharp, Sept. 16, 1930 (mm, David Barry Woodworth, Feb. 21,
1953); Henry Augustinus, Dec. 19, 1931 (deceased); Marie Francoeur,
ad, Dec. 17, 1933-

occupation: Partner, Patterson, Wylde & Windeler, general insurance.

orrices wei: Director, Brookline Trust Company, Brookline, Mass,

[ 596 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Tennis & Racquet Club, Boston; The Country Club, Brookline;
Myopia Hunt Club, South Hamilton; Eastern Yacht Club, Marblehead;
Society of the Cincinnati; Society of Colonial Wars; Brookline Lodge
of Masons; Scottish Right Bodies in the Valley of Boston; St. Bernard’s
Commandery,

AS a member of the Class of 1929 I presume that I have seen more
water go over the dam than my father did from the year of his
graduation in 1880 until 1905. We saw the depression which
started in 1929 on top of which came twenty years of Democratic
mishandling of government, a world war which threatened us all
with extinction, and now the cold war in which our children are
actively engaged.

Since I entered Harvard College somewhat later in life than
most of my classmates, the time came sooner when I felt that I
should be out in the world making my way and preparing myself
to be married to my fiancée, Marie F. Brewster. It was a difficult
decision, but I finally decided to leave college after mid-years in
my junior year, having secured a position with Patterson, Wylde
& Windeler in their Marine Department. This decision turned out
to be a fairly wise one, as I had the benefit of a year and a half in
business before the 1929 crash came. 7

On November 6, 1929, I went down to the police station in
Milton and voted for Mr. Herbert Hoover, and then came in town
and was married in the Lesley Lindsey Memorial Chapel. After
a brief honeymoon in Bermuda, Polly and I took up residence in a
small apartment at 6 Marlborough Street, Boston, where we lived
until September, 1930, when Helen, our first child, was born. At
this time we moved into our newly acquired house at 18 Fairfield
Street, Boston, where we stayed until October 1, 1941, moving
then to 51 Randolph Road, Chestnut Hill, where we have been
ever since. Our summers have been spent at Marblehead.

Businesswise my life has not been particularly spectacular. I
continued to be an employee of Patterson, Wylde & Windeler
until January 1, 1937, when I was made a member of the firm,
which position I still hold. In 1942 I was elected vice-president,
treasurer, and director of the Vanta Company, manufacturers of
infants’ and children’s underwear, which position I held until 1948,
when the company was sold. Also in 1942 I was elected vice-
president, treasurer, and director of Earnshaw Publishers Com-

[ 597 ]

aes

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

pany, publishers of children’s magazines. We also sold this com-
pany in 1948. In 1942 I was elected director of the Brookline Trust
Company, Brookline, Massachusetts, which position I still hold.

During the war I was one of those who was left to fight the
battle of the home front. This consisted of doing the work of
all those who were serving their country in the armed forces
which in my case constituted quite a few. I also worked as an
air raid warden, as a member of a team that went in at night to
clean the Children’s Hospital, which like all hospitals due to the
war was terribly put to it for people to keep it going.

Outside of business I have had three fields of interest — yacht-
ing, hunting, and golfing. In yachting I have sailed practically
everything from J boats down to Frostbite Dinghies. My real
love was the 30 Square Meter Class. This class originated in
Sweden and only started in this country in 1929. I owned and
raced three 30 Square Meter boats with more or less success.
Later on I was a member of the permanent crew of Mr. John
Silsbee Lawrence's (01) Moose, in which we competed quite
successfully in two international contests with the Swedes. On
the Fourth of July, 1939, we had a guest skipper, Prince Olaf of
Norway. He was a very nice fellow and an excellent helmsman.
I remember another time; it was the New York Yacht Club
cruise in 1937. The late George Fisher Baker, Class of 1899,
had lent Commander Stewart his 273’ Viking for the Captains’
Meeting. The rendez-vous was held at New London and I must
say I pitied the crews of the various boats when they started off
the next morning for the run to Edgartown. That was the
cruise on which the J boat, Weetamo, fetched up on the middle
ground at Vineyard Sound. The bow went under water and
her stern must have lifted fifteen or twenty feet out. Luckily
the rig stayed in her. As I dictate this am about to go on a cruise
with our classmate, George W. W. Brewster, on his new Loki
Class yawl. The boat was built in Germany and has just arrived
in New York. , |

I noted from the samples we received that one man in the
Class of 1926 said he voted for the late Mr. Roosevelt in both
1932 and 1936. I think that I can best sum up my political activ-
ities and thinking by telling you that I have never in all my
life cast a vote for other than a Republican candidate.

[ 598 ]

oe EEO A NEM NOURI RE TRIOS MERRIE HET”

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

By the time our Reunion comes off I expect that I shall be a
grandfather, but the grandchild. I am afraid, will be too young to
be with us.

LAWRENCE EDWARD JOHNSON

HOME ADDREsS: Route 2, North Adams Road, Hinsdale, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. W. Johnson Co., Bellwood, Il.

BoRN: Nov. 15, 1906, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Lawrence Emanuel Johnson,
Olga Brynaldson.

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Alma Knight, June 6, 1940, Buford, Ga. cHiLpREN: Suzanne, Nov.
27, 1941; Holly, Dec. 27, 1942; Georgia, Jan. 20, 1947.

OCCUPATION: President, J. W. Johnson Company, manufacturers of canvas
products,

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Y.M.C.A.; past master, Masonic
Lodge; trustee of church; president, Manufacturers’ Association, School
Board, director, Red Cross, Community Fund.

MEMBER OF: Hinsdale Golf Club; Oakbrook Polo Club.

THE probable impossibility and the potential “yen” to do so,
left me just a bit frustrated when invited some months ago to
participate in a gathering in Chicago to play “touch football”
prior to the Harvard-Yale game of 1953. I wonder if we of ’z9
will look just as advanced to the boys of 1954 as the elderly
gentlemen of 1904 did to us in 1929, when they returned to their
Twenty-fifth. Needless to say I didn’t play “touch football.”

The past twenty-five years have been most generous to me!
I have the good fortune of three gals — ages, twelve, eleven, and
seven. Any offers with substantial possibilities of corresponding
ages will be carefully considered by my ever loving wife from
the deep South and myself. As a part of good fun my hobbies
include golf, skeet, hunting, and fishing. Have particularly en-
joyed my first blue marlin at Bimini and stalking my first deer
with bow and arrow in northern Michigan —a sport I really
recommend.

My political convictions are Republican. My church affilia-
tions are Congregational. I teach a Sunday school class of a
grand bunch of eighth grade girls and boys. Business successes
have been good, but modest, thanks to the heritage of a three-
generation family corporation.

[ 599 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I am looking forward sincerely to shaking the hands of good
friends whom I have not seen for too long and to the pleasure
of meeting their families. As a closing thought, I am inclined to
agree with the guy who said, “Middle age has arrived when you
can look back and realize your mistakes and wish you could
make them again!”

MONTGOMERY HUNT JOHNSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 447 Estates St., Livermore, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Radiation Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley,
Calif.

BorN: Nov. 21, 1907, Utica, N. Y. parents: Montgomery Hunt Johnson,
Frances Lillian Munger.

PREPARED AT: Utica Country Day School, Utica, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; AM,
1931; PHD., 1932.

MaRRIED: Helen Richards, October, 1935, New York, N. Y.; Gwyneth M.
Johnson, 1946. CHILDREN: Sarah L. 1947; Gwyneth M. 1948.

occupaTION: Physicist, Radiation Laboratory, University of California.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, tutor, 1929-31, Whiting fellow, 1931-32, Harvard
University; National Research Council fellow, 1932-34, instructor,
1934-37, assistant professor, 1937-41, New York University; engineer,
Sperry Gyroscope Company, 1941-42; staff member, Radiation Lab-
oratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1942-46; physicist,
Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D. C., 1946-52, Radiation
Laboratory, University of California, since 1952; professor of physics,
University of Maryland, 1947-52; first president, Naval Research Branch,
Research Society of America.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous papers on topics in theoretical physics.

IN the three years after graduation I earned my admission to
the academic world. I left Cambridge with a belated realization
that it is a mistake to pursue one’s undergraduate and graduate
studies at the same university. For the next eight years I enjoyed
the placid university life relieved only by a continuous struggle
to understand that which is at the limit of understanding, by in-
cessant university politics, and by an unsuccessful marriage. In
1940 the larger conflict occupied my mind and I turned to the
military applications of physics at Sperry Gyroscope Company
and at M.LT. Upon returning, I found my feelings toward Cam-

[ Goo |

ie NE A NEE AAT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bridge had mellowed. They took on a permanent rosy bias after
I met Gwyneth Johnson neé Johnson whom I married in 1946.
Our two daughters, Sarah, born in 1947, and Gwyneth, born in
1948, convince me that boys are over-rated.

From the conclusion of the war to the present I have straddled
pure and applied physics. By now I am used to the unnatural
posture. I have few hobbies. Next to lying in bed, I like best to
sit down and complain about my gout.

"ks REGINALD FRANCIS JOHNSON

BorN: April 5, 1907, Milton, Mass. parents: Reginald Johnson, Julia Pier-
pont Edwards.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).

pieD: Aug. 27, 1934, Boston, Mass.

FOR a year after graduation Johnson studied at the Harvard Ar-
chitectural School. He had an early interest in aviation and at the
time of his death was associated with the Cape Cod Sea Planes,
Inc, .

SIDNEY REMEMBRANCE JOHNSON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: P, O. Box 1388, Vero Beach, Fla.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1906, West Somerville, Mass. parENTs: Ervin Arthur John-
son, Laura Helen Chamberlain.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRRIED: Lucie Alice Mack, April 17, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. cxitp: Pa-
tricia Helen, May 15, 1939.

occupation: Partner, Poinsettia Groves, express fruit shipments.

AFTER toiling in and about Boston for twelve years the family
and I pulled stakes and came to Florida in 1941. During the war
I was employed at the naval air station here in Vero Beach, after
having failed to become an active combatant.

At the close of the war I acquired a citrus grove and started
an express fruit gift business. I am now a partner in a business
of the same type, making shipments of oranges and grapefruit.
I take my politics rather seriously and have finally achieved one

[ 6or ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

goal — a vote for a winning president. When I’m not too tired,
I play golf — still fairly well — but I have noticed with increased

alarm that the length of my drives decreases proportionately
with the increase in my age.

HULBURD JOHNSTON

HOME ADDRESS: 319 Crescent Drive, Lake Bluff, III.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 208 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 1o, Ill.

BORN: Oct. 27, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Hugh McBirney Johnston,
Ethel Hulburd.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB. 1929.
MaRRIED: Beatrice Clow, March 6, 1951, Phoenix, Ariz.
HARVARD BROTHER: Hugh McBirney Johnston, Jr., ’34.

occupation: Stock and grain broker, general partner, Hulburd, Warren &
Chandler.

OFFICES HELD: Member, New York and Chicago Stock Exchange, Chicago
Board of Trade, 1935-54; president, 1947-48, director, 1949, Harvard
Club of Chicago; secretary, 1947-52, member board of trustees, since
1938, Chicago Academy of Sciences; member executive committee,

Association of Grain Merchants, 1948-49; member board of governors,
Chicago Stock Exchange, 1948-51.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Club, Racquet Club, Chicago; Onwentsia Club, Lake
Forest; Mill Creek Hunt Club, Wadsworth, Il.

MONTH after graduation I started out on a trip to the Far
East with three of our classmates — Dick Covel, Jay Iselin, and
Bob Winston. This developed into a trip around the world,
lasting more than a year, and included floating down the Cagayan
River in Luzon in a dugout canoe from Cabanatuan to Aparri,
going by foot and canoe from Bangkok to Rangoon, and some
weeks on the Red Sea as an inept member of the crew of the
schooner Chance, skippered by Bob Leeson, ’29.

Having returned to Chicago in the fall of 1930 I started out
as a clerk in the firm of Hulburd, Warren & Chandler, a stock
and grain commission house, became a partner in 1932, and re-
mained active in the business until the beginning of 1941. To-
wards the end of 1940 it occurred to me that the United States
might get actively involved in the war... silly as it sounds
now, | actually wanted to join the Army. I enlisted as an artil-

[ 602 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lery private in the Illinois National Guard; a year and a half
later via the OCS route, I became a second lieutenant of Artillery
— well over-age in-grade, and thus fit only for State-side duty,
according to the directives of the day. So I applied for Civil
Affairs Training and eventually arrived in Japan—a few days
after V-J Day — where I was assigned to General Headquarters
in Tokyo. In March, 1946, I was discharged as a captain.

On returning to Chicago, I again became somewhat active in
Hulburd, Warren & Chandler. During periods of market activ-
ity I have enjoyed greatly the brokerage business, but I must
confess that during periods of market dullness, and these periods
seem to have become’ more frequent and of greater duration, I
do not enjoy it, especially if I am not making any money. Recent-
ly I have taken up trading, personally, on the floor of the Chicago |
Board of Trade, and this I may say is fascinating and speculative
-and may well lead to ultimate bankruptcy.

In March, 1951, I succeeded in marrying Beatrice Clow. I do
not know how I ever got along before, and am sure she does not
know how I did either. My life prior to this event seemed per-
fectly satisfactory to me at the time, but I have since learned
that I simply did not know. If anyone is interested in my views
on marriage — all I can say is that I recommend it unqualifiedly.

I have been active in the Mil] Creek Hunt of Wadsworth,
Illinois, since 1935, and was Joint-Master from 1947 to 1952. I
play golf with much enthusiasm and a handicap of sixteen. With
my brother-in-law, Conway Olmsted, ’29, I have been interested
in a kennel for breeding and exhibiting pure-bred dogs, my breed
being dachshunds. Every fall that the season is open, my wife and
I go up into northern Wisconsin partridge hunting, and down
the Illinois River duck shooting, and we do a little bass and mus-
kellunge fishing in northern Wisconsin in the summer. We have
been to Mexico in 1951, 1952, and 1953, and on the last trip we
included a tour of Guatemala. In fact, we have become so in-
terested in Mexico and Central America that we have taken up
the study of the Spanish language.

For the record, as far as politics go I have always voted the
Republican ticket — sometimes sadly and with great misgivings,
and I guess I shall continue to do so. But that doesn’t mean I
endorse the entire platform. I have absolutely no use for the

[ 603 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

methods of McCarthy or the viewpoints of the Chicago Tribune,
but care still less for the political expedients adopted by the New,
Fair, and other Deals of recent memory.

I have tried to keep in touch with Harvard affairs through the
Harvard Club of Chicago. I served for several years on the
scholarship committee of the club, and much enjoyed this work.
Later, I became a director of the club and was its president
during 1947-1948. I have attended as many meetings of the As-
sociated Harvard Clubs as I could and these have been of great
interest and pleasure to me.

In conclusion let me say that I am still thoroughly convinced,
as I always have been, that there is no other American university
comparable to Harvard, and that I am looking forward with
great pleasure to coming back next spring to the Reunion.

BURTON JOLLES

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Gatehouse Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 395 Commercial St., Boston 13, Mass.

BoRN: June 30, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Leo Sidney Jolles, Winnie
Stoneman.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1929 (30).

MarRiED: Lillian Siskind, Feb. 8, 1933, Boston, Mass.; Julie Zibbell, Oct. 7,
1945, Boston, Mass. cHiLpReN: Leonard Stephen, May 9, 1949; Rosalyn
Faith, May 25, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edmund Jolles, ’18; Morton Jolles, ’z0.

occupaTiIoN; Wholesale grocer, treasurer, Standard Grocery Company.

AN account of my life since graduation would just be a very
routine assignment for most Pentagon occupants — taking a
molehill and building it up into a mountain. Right now it’s pleas-
ant and prospectively even more so. It’s had its trials and troubles,
but not more than most. I hope the next twenty-five years will
turn out as well. All I can say is dig in, roll with the punch, and

keep going. Eventually you get— who knows where and what
—or when?

[ 604 J

LD ht POR RENE EELS NT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

*k DANIEL FISKE JONES, JR.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Daniel Fiske Jones, ’92, Mary
Houghton Richardson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1927-1928.

piep: March 5, 1951, Matunuck, R. I.

IN 1930 Daniel Jones, Jr., was associated with the First National
Old Colony Corporation of Boston. He had previously spent a

ear on the staff of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Company in Hart-
ford. After two years with the First National Old Colony Cor-
poration, he joined the First National Bank. In 1935 he entered
the real estate business with a small firm in Boston. He retired to
Matunuck, Rhode Island, in 1941 and there was associated with
the Red Cross, Community Fund, and Chamber of Commerce.
During the war he worked for the Office of Price Administration.

GEORGE LEWIS JONES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: % Dept. of State, Washington 25, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Embassy, Cairo, Egypt.

BoRN: Jan. 18, 1907, Baltimore, Md. Parents: George Lewis Jones, Emma
Little.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ Latin School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: $.B. cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Polly Cooke, Nov. 30, 1935, Washington, D. C. cHILpREN: Vir-—
ginia Lewis, July 4, 1942; Christopher George Lewis, April 17, 1944.

OccUPATION: Foreign Service officer of United States; counselor and deputy
chief, Mission at American Embassy, Cairo.

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Country Club, Washington; Metropolitan Club,
Washington.

I LEFT Harvard in 1929 on the verge of nervous exhaustion as
a result of too many hours in the library and too much anxiety
regarding my ability to pass the final examinations. After I spent
a lackluster summer groaning about the ills of the world, my
father financed a year’s study at Christ College, Cambridge. This
experience was an effective antidote to the cramming to which
I had subjected myself, and after spending a year there I became
a more normal human being. I had decided by this time that I

[ 605 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

between Tangier and Rangoon. This was the period of the emer-

gence of Israel, Ceylon, Pakistan, and India as independent states,

From 1949 to 1950 I attended the National War College in

Washington. This was one of the most interesting years of my
life. From 1950 to 1952 I served in Washington; first as a member
of the Policy Planning Staff of the State Department and later
as director of the Office of Near Eastern Affairs. In July. 1952,
I became American consul general at Tunis, Tunisia. In March,
1953, I was transferred from Tunis to Cairo as deputy chief of
mission, this being my third assignment to Egypt.

I am only about twenty pounds heavier than when I left college
and sull have my hair although it is getting pretty gray. The
sport in which I am most interested is goggle fishing which I
introduced into Greece in 1936 and have kept up ever since
when opportunity offered. I enjoy photography and since 1935
we have kept a “photographic diary” which has now reached
sizeable proportions. I travel with an agglomeration of hand tools
collected over the years. I stoutly assert they have paid for them-
selves many times over in savings on home repairs.

I have virtually no savings but the prospect of a pension (if I
get it) which in 1960 should amount to the equivalent of four per
cent interest on $200,000. I have no firm and intimate identi-
fication with any American community but my wife and I have
hundreds of friends of every nationality scattered about the
world. My children are not “typical American kids” and for
this they will suffer when they begin their more advanced school-
ing in the United States, but they are aware of foreign languages,
the ways of other peoples, have good manners, and are on a
par with their age group in the United State scholastically speak-
ing. I probably lack some of the simplicity of thought patterns
with regard to foreign affairs which I would have as a result of
life in a normal American community but, on the other hand,
protracted service abroad has possibly given me a deeper and
keener appreciation of the values of the American way of life
and its importance to Americans than I should derive from living
at home. :

[ 608 ]

RGR NI ora eer

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KENNETH ARTHUR JONES

HOME apDpRESS: 376 Beechmont Drive, New Rochelle, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Rochelle Book Store, New Rochelle, N. Y.

BorN: April 29, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Arthur James Jones, * 02,
Florence Lewis.

PREPARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Gladys H. Noteman, Dec. 25, 1931, New Rochelle, N.Y. cn-
DREN: Kenneth Malcolm, Jan. 14, 1933; (Gladys) Louise, Sept. 25, 1934;
Lawrence Douglas, July 9, 1937; Everett, aged fourteen.

OccUPATION: Book store proprietor.

PHILIP HARDING JORDAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Metedeconk, N. J.

BORN: May 6, 1908, Staten Island, N. Y. Parents: Stanley Jordan, Adeline
de Finck.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers College, Columbia University,
New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929(30).

MARRIED: Nancy Dennett, May 24, 1930, New York, N. Y. cHmpren:
Philip Harding, Jr. June 2, 1931; John Dennett, Oct. 16, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Francis Stanley Jordan, Jr., Sp.; Noel Leslie Jordan, ’37.

OccUPATION: Writing, painting, investments, new ideas.

I WORK always with the basic ideal of Christianity in accord-
ance with Christ’s words as given in the four accounts of His
life. This, of course, is a very difficult goal towards which most
men can strive only through many failures.

NORMAN ROSS JOSEPH

HOME ADDRESS: 948 N. Washtenaw Ave., Chicago 22, Ill.

OFFICE ADpREsS: University of Illinois, 1853 W. Polk St., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: March 27, 1908, Bradford, Pa. PARENTS: Israel Joseph, Jennie Sakolski.
PREPARED AT: Bradford High School, Bradford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1929(28); PH.D. 1935:
OccUPATION: Chemistry

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 609 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MURRAY K. JOSEPHSON

HOME ADDRESS: 333 Central Park, W., New York 25, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 37 Wall St., New York, N. Y.
BORN: July 29, 1908, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: Julius Josephson, Sara Freed-
man,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929 (28).
MarrigD: Rhea Rudd, Paris, France. cup: Julian, Aug. 25, 1934.
OCCUPATION: Law.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

THEODORE FREDERICK KANE

HOME ADDRESS: 146 Main St., Montpelier, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 99 State St., Montpelier, Vt.

porN: May 1, 1908, Yonkers, N. Y. PARENTS: Daniel Higbee Kane, Beryl
Parker Keith.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Catherine Priestly Richardson, Aug. 27, 1938, Seabrook, N. H.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richmond Keith Kane, ’22, LL.B., ’26.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Associated Industries of Vermont,
state-wide manufacturers’ and employers’ association.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of governors, New York Young Republican
Club, 1933-34; secretary, Northern New England Aberdeen-Angus
Breeders’ Association, 1940-44, Vermont Industrial Relations Council;
member, Vermont Apprenticeship Council; member Advisory Council,
Vermont Unemployment Compensation Commission, Vermont De-
velopment Commission; Vermont trustee, Eastern States Exposition;
president, Harvard Club of Vermont, 1949-52, Vermont Council for
Public Education.

MEMBER OF: George Washington Lodge, No. 51, F. & A.M., Chelsea, Vt;
Rotary Club of Montpelier, Harvard Club of Vermont; Squadron A,
New York National Guard. .

HAVING lived in Vermont now for fifteen years, my wife and
I can almost qualify as “real Vermonters” — than which there is
no whicher. As for my occupation and way of life, there is little
to add to my report for the Twentieth in 1949. It reminds me of
the comment on a rejection slip I once received from a publisher:
“More of the dreary same” — except that to my doubtless myopic
eye the “same” is not at all dreary.

Vermont is a wonderful way of life. It’s got everything — all

[ 610 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that hunting, fishing, and skiing of which you city dwellers dream.
Since we came here in 1938 I’ve been fishing five times, skiing
once, and hunting not at all. My work keeps me travelling around
Vermont and to a more or less continuous series of meetings,
workshops, conferences, etc., both in Vermont and elsewhere.
Trips to Boston, New York, and Washington keep me in touch
with at least a few classmates. In fact I find I see some of the
New York and Boston boys more often than they see each other.

As the years pass my work gets me more involved in politics,
which becomes more and more my chief interest and avocation.
And in atomic 1954 the more involved I get, the more confused.
The resulting disillusionments and frustrations are just a few of
the reasons why ulcers landed me in the hospital a year ago. The
doctors removed about two-thirds of my stomach and along with
it about twenty-five pounds of excess baggage that I had been
carrying around too long. Result—TI feel better than I have in
years, can eat anything, and expect to live longer. In recent years
my greatest enthusiasm was a day with Senator Taft when he
visited Montpelier in February, 1952. My biggest disappoint-
ment was his defeat for the nomination. I still resent those oppor-
tunist Republicans who today bemoan Taft’s death but who in
1952 accused him of stealing. With that off my chest, I feel bet-
ter. I don’t blame Eisenhower for his over-zealous supporters.

In my view, one of the happiest signs of the times is Mr. Pusey,
although I know him only through press and Alumni Bulletin re-
ports. His refreshing and forthright language, his advocacy of
the liberal arts versus “specialization,” and his call for spiritual
understanding and a “religion for now” give assurance that Har-
vard will still be Harvard in 1979 when we return to Cambridge
for our Fiftieth. I might add that, while I should like to be around
to see Mr. Pusey in 1979, I make no predictions. I try to live one
day at a time and to accept things pretty much as they come
along.

DAVID ARCHIBALD KAPLAN

HOME appress: 121 Winslow Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Charles St., Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1907, Worcester, Mass, PARENTS: Samuel Kaplan, Katherine
Greenberg.

[ 611 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
PREPARED AT: Ware High School, Ware, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.
MARRIED: Edna Deborah David, Feb. 22, 1942, Boston, Mass. cHiLp: Cathy
David, Dec. 27, 1953.
occupation: Antique dealer, owner and operator of David’s Antiques.

MEMBER OF: Everett C. Benton Lodge, AF. & A.M., Boston; Shriner’s
Aleppo Temple, Boston.

WITH a diploma suitable for framing, duly obtained in June,
1929, little did I think of the time when I should be turning the
crystal ball upside down to look back on that date, come June,
1954. Fully clothed with my A.B., the path to success seemed
straight, the travelling swift and sure. In retrospect, not in a
swivel chair, but comfortably seated in a fine mellow comb back
Windsor (getting in a plug early for my business), the road was
circuitous and hilly.

For several years after 1929 I listened to some of the big boys
of merchandising in the department store field, while I sweated
to make the grade up the ladder from stock boy plus. I managed
to stumble up several rungs, but the listening became boring, the
petty internal politics were worse than those on a national scale,
and my bank account was not flourishing. My restless spirit
called on the great chieftain for a change!

I heeded the smoke rings and “went West, young man” —to
the western part of Massachusetts to own and operate two wom-
en’s ready-to-wear shops in Athol and Gardner. I became the big
boss while others listened, and it was very pleasant talking to my-
self for a raise — how could I refuse my ability? The years rolled
by as I worked diligently, watching closely every innuendo of
style change — it meant my bread and butter, and if the season was
good, jam thrown in! How often I wished the models in the
New York showrooms were my buying public.

My leisure time was given over to dawdling in the spring, sum-
mer, and autumn seasons. But with winter, I became a gazelle
on skis— over hill and dale ~ wherever snow would spread its
welcoming blanket, from Woodstock, Vermont, to the Lauren-
tian Mountains in Canada, I would whizz along or be digging
myself out of a heap. Suddenly I took the big spill and there was
Edna David, the girl of my dreams. We thought our events were

important enough to record in history along with national holi-

[ 612 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

days. We were engaged on Lincoln’s birthday and said “I do” in
Boston on Washington’s birthday, 1942.
That wasn’t the only clarion call that changed the course of my
life. On April 1, 1942 (and no fooling), there were greetings
from the President of the United States to join that exclusive
club of draftees. Being physically fit, I was in a private’s uniform
at Camp Devens, Ayer, Massachusetts, quicker than that, looking
like the original Sad Sack. From Devens | went on to Camp Lee,
Virginia, where I thought they expected me to fight the war on
my own! I saw everyone giving orders, and I figured “that was
for me.” I went to Officers’ Candidate Schoo! for those gold bars
on my shoulders. Fortunately, I was attached to some off-base
(literally and figuratively) installations, so that Edna joined me
on a carefully guided tour arranged through the courtesy of
Uncle Sam’s orders. In a vintage convertible Mercury, we were
off to the peaches of Atlanta, Georgia, for a spell. Then by way
of the Carlsbad Caverns in New Mexico, and the Grand Canyon
I went to Salt Lake City to report to the Ninth Service Com-
mand. They felt I would have much more fun basking in the
sun of Los Angeles, which we did for two years, and where Edna
and I were royally entertained by many of the Hollywood celeb-
rities. They did everything to keep the morale of service per-
sonnel gay and carefree. Some gremlin caught up with me and
we were bundled off to Camp Roberts in northern California for
several months, with a final fling at Vancouver Barracks, Van-
couver, Washington.

When the jig was up, and I became “Mr.” instead of first
lieutenant, which is what I was promoted to over the long pull,
Edna and I, still in the vintage Mercury, piled up thousands of
miles on an American tour from the west coast back to old
haunts in Boston in 1946, with a bundle of memories and having
done very little fighting for this man’s Army. You didn’t need
a very big scale to weigh my contribution to the war effort, but
I am sure many of my Classmates ran head on into service red
tape, so no need to elaborate.

I didn’t return to the women’s ready-to-wear field of my pre-
war days, but engaged in a variety of enterprises aimed at pro-
viding sustenance, They all served their purpose temporarily
until I fell into the antique business—and ah! —this was it!

[ 613 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

That sleeping desire of doing something you enjoy every minute
of the day while providing a livelihood blossomed to the fullest.
David's Antiques at 80 Charles Street in the old Beacon Hill
section of Boston is bulging with fine old treasures of furniture,
china, glass, brass, and bibelots, over which I reign as lord and
master and concerning which I am the authority. Besides ac-
quiring many of our items from the length and breadth of this
country, Edna and I cross the Big Pond several times a year to
go scurrying about the British Isles, France, Holland, Italy, and
wherever the spirit moves us in our search for treasures. Many
of these treasures we have established in some of the finest collec-
tions in the country. |

In 1953 we moved from our intown apartment to Waban for
country living and a bit of gardening in between jaunts. Now
that roaming will have to be alone for awhile, since Edna, who
was my Girl Friday, is dedicating herself to little Cathy David,
who came to our house December 27, 1953, and now I am their
Man Friday. Too bad she can’t be at the Twenty-fifth for “she
really is a beautiful baby.”

Where do we go from here? I am very optimistic. I am sure
the world will progress for good despite all the omens of gloom.
Let us not try to make all people in our own image, but let us
scatter the seeds of friendliness and a gay spirit. Harvard is in
good hands with new heights to be attained under the leadership
of Dr. Nathan Pusey. As for myself, I hope I will be able to
write a report at our Fiftieth Reunion of twenty-five years that
have been as happy and as memorable as the past twenty-five —
1929 tO 1954.

ALFRED LAWRENCE KAUFMAN

HOME appress: 59 Marion St., Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Tremont St., Boston 8, Mass.
BORN: July 5, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Victor Kaufman, Marie Evelyn
Schon.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.
marriep: Mary Ruth Hains, January, 1947, Brookline, Mass. cuitp: Evelyn
Marcia, Aug. 28, 1948.
HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Jerome Kaufman, ’29.

[614]

4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPaTiION: Owner, Victor Kaufman and Sons, real estate investments,
brokerage, counselling.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Queens Trading Company, Inc. William Trading
Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Boston Real Estate Board; National Institute of Real Estate
Brokers; National Association of Real Estate Boards; Benevolent and
Protective Order of White Mice.

FROM retailing to retailing in twenty-five years is my story in
business — and I’m no further ahead of Uncle Sam now than I
was a quarter century ago. A five-year stint in New York in an
unimportant executive capacity, a year of which was at Best’s
and the remainder at B. Alrman and Company, ended with my
doing the one thing I swore I should never do — trading in or
with real estate. My father and my grandfather had spoken j just
enough of the involved travails to scare me away — but I’m still
scared but I’m still in it.

Nevertheless my aimless cavortings in these endeavors continue
— only since 1947 with the comforting and understanding indul-
gence of a wife who will tolerate me, and since 1948 subject to
the peremptory requirements of our daughter ruling with a
heavy hand over all she surveys (and we do love it!).

Politically, I have been a die-hard Republican both locally and
nationally, I believe on the local front, however, a fellow alumnus
not of the Class of 1929, who not long ago served as governor of
Massachusetts, badly messed up an unusual opportunity for na-
tional favorable recognition — for which I’m truly sorry. On
the national front I believe the dignified position taken by the
College authorities in controversies in which they have been in-
volved is one to cause me to quaff one or two in their honor and
say “Keep up the big heart, boys. The rest of the country is
still following you.’

As a Jew I take especial pride i in the enormous development of
Israel and the addition to world culture, understanding, and eco-
nomic wealth which it must eventually provide. After all the
success of this nation is largely a matter for world Jewry to assure.
The only thing that badly disturbs me as the years pass is how
come I know so much less now than I did when I graduated, huh?
And this is even more so as the years pass — too!

[615 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

HAROLD JEROME KAUFMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 408 Funston Ave., San Francisco 18, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 318 Kearny St., San Francisco, Calif.

Born: Dec. 16, 1908, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Victor Kaufman, Marie Evelyn
Schon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB. 1929.

marrieD: Golda Stevens Myers, Sept. 16, 1944, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Julian L, July 19, 1931 (adopted stepchild); Denise V., Oct. 5, 1946,

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Lawrence Kaufman, ’29.

occuPaTION: Real estate brokerage, vice-president and director, Baldwin &
Howell, Ine. ‘

OFFICES HELD: Member, Budget Committee, Jewish Welfare Fund of San
Francisco, 1950-52; member, San Francisco Real Estate Board.

MEMBER OF: Fidelity Lodge No, 120, F & AM, San Francisco; Harvard Club
of San Francisco; Council for Civic Unity; Saints and Sinners; World
Affairs Council of Northern California; B’nai B'rith.

NO graduate of our Class had less knowledge of what he wanted
to accomplish in life or what occupation he desired to enter than
I did. Somehow I was swept to Wall Street in the general migra-
tion of the summer of 1929, and worked in a brokerage house
for about a year. Then followed a period of wandering — news-
paper reporting in Tennessee, department store work in Boston;
finally I drifted into real estate brokerage with my father in the
latter city. After a few years of schooling in this field (none of
which were particularly lucrative) I joined Dreyfus Properties
as property manager in 1937 and remained there until 1943 when
I was called into the Army.

After graduating from Officer Candidate School in transpor-
tation 1 was sent to San Francisco, whence I sailed the South
Pacific as a cargo security or transport officer for the next two-
and-a-half years. On one of my infrequent returns to the States
I secured leave long enough to fly to Boston to marry. That was
probably my first intelligent act since graduation. Upon my
release from active duty, we decided to make San Francisco our
home. We found the climate, the outgoing friendliness of the
people, and business opportunities all to our liking. In the post-
war real estate boom I was carried by the tide to the vice-presi-
dency of Baldwin & Howell, Inc., one of San Francisco’s oldest
real estate firms. Years of training in the highly competitive

[ 616 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New England market served me most advantageously 1 In easy-~
going California.

The gap of fifteen years between Julian’s birth and that of
his sister has forced us to keep abreast of the social activities of
two generations besides our own—a necessity which at times
takes a considerable toll on our physical constitutions. Our in-
terests seem to be all encompassing — from Brownies to World:
Affairs to General Semantics. We grope for answers to such
basic questions as how best to prepare our children to adapt
themselves to an ever changing world; how can we assist in im-
plementing the work of the United Nations; and how soon can
we retire to a more leisurely way of life. In the meantime, we
are enjoying the search for the answers — and pray that we and
all about us may be able to continue our quest with understanding
hearts.

LLEWELLYN BATES KEIM

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 59 E. 56th St., New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1908, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: John Richard Keim,
Gladys Spaulding. |

PREPARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MarrieD: Agnes Lucie Munson. Aug. 11, 1934, New York, N. Y.

OccuPATION: Electronic engineering consultant. |

OFFICES HELD: Assistant executive secretary, Institute of Radio Engineers,
1942; president, director, American Art Works, 1935-373; vice-presi-
dent, director, Marel Works, Inc., 1935-37.

MEMBER OF: Radio Club of America (fellow); Audio Engineering Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous technical contributions in scientific press.

FOR the first eight years following graduation, I had the usual
run of positions associated with what could be called a “mercan-
tile career.” But this was not my forte, since I had a technical
mind and bent. Then followed a most interesting series of tasks,
as a self-employed engineering consultant, dealing with the pio-
neering of FM radio reception and the inceptions of the “High-
Fidelity” movement in the United States.

With the imminence of the war, several broadcasting stations
retained me in a consultative capacity, and once hostilities com-
menced I had commissions to complete stations begun but now

[ 617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

deprived of their normal source of materials. Two such were
completed. Then I took over the operations of an FM station
owned jointly by the Family Circle Magazine and MUZAK,
which had in reality been a shotgun wedding between these two
organizations, spurred on by monies supplied by “We The
People, Inc.,” otherwise known by the name of Merrill Lynch,
ad infinitum.

But more serious duties beckoned, and with the deepening of
the picture a move to Chicago was necessitated by work expedit-
ing essentials for the Manhattan District Project. When the final
shots ended I could not wait to return east, and have fully decided
that Mrs. O’Leary’s cow did not do a good enough job of it, or
what has resulted from that fire never should have been. Chicago
is strictly for the birds, Indians, or what you will.

The past seven years of New York life have seen the ownership
and sale of two coéperative apartments, with a continuation of
my engineering activities. Several times I have managed a good
vacation, a trip to England in 1950 and several trips to the Pacific
Coast, with a few little side ones thrown in for good measure.

Looking back on it all, it has been interesting, but I never
would have thought it possible, when in college, that a group of
Harvard alumni could possibly have gotten the good old U.S.A.
into such a mess, as they admittedly have. The one consolation
is that they had the pattern set for them by an alumnus of Old
Nassau, W.W., who really started us on the downslide by messing
into the first world fracas.

DANIEL VINCENT KENEFICK

HOME appress: 14 Gardner Rd., Norwood, Mass.

OFFice apprEss: Norwood Senior High School, Nichols Street, Norwood,
Mass.

BoRN: July 5, 1907, Norwood, Mass. parents: Daniel Joseph Kenefick, Ellen
McParland. .

PREPARED AT: Norwood High School, Norwood, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, 1929-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1929(30); ED.M.
(Boston Univ.), 1936; Lt.B. (Suffolk Univ.), 1942.

Manip: Grace Evelyn Oliver, 1933, Norwood, Mass. cH1tprEN: Carol Ellen,
Dec. 30, 1934; David Daniel, Nov. 26, 1936.

{ 618 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Director of guidance and placement, teacher of history and law, ©
Norwood Senior High School; attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: President, Norwood Teachers’ Club, 1944-46; guidance director,
Norwood Public Schools, since 1946; consultant on staff of supervisor of
guidance, Commonwealth of Massachusetts, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Norfolk County Bar Association;
Norwood Law Society; Massachusetts Teachers’ Association; Norwood
Teachers’ Club; Greater Boston Vocational Guidance Association;
Greater Boston Guidance Club.

THE biographies of many members of the Class of 1929 will be
fascinating. Mine is not one of them. Since being graduated
from College I have done most of my work in the fields of ed-
ucation and law. For the first few years, I was at Medfield High
School where, in addition to teaching social sciences and mathe-
matics, I coached athletics. In 1934 I was appointed to the
faculty of the Norwood Senior High School where I have taught
history and law. In 1936 I received my degree of Master of
Education and in 1946 became director of guidance and place-
ment in the Norwood school system.

After receiving my LL.B. in 1942 I was admitted to the Massa-
chusetts Bar and the Federal Bar. My association, for many sum-
mers, with the Boston law firm of Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley
& Ketchum has been both pleasant and valuable.

During the past twenty-five years I have acquired neither fame
nor fortune. However, there are many satisfactions that come
from working with and helping other people along the road of
life as one can do in the fields of education and law. I am partic-
ularly blessed in having a lovely wife, Evelyn, and two wonder-
ful children: Carol, who is in her sophomore year at college, and
David, who is a senior at high school. If “Dad” were half as
good as they think he is, he would be a world beater.

THOMAS JOSEPH KENNEDY, JR.

HOME ApDpRESS: 21 Dane St., Somerville 43, Mass.

BORN: July 17, 1906, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Joseph Kennedy,
Ellen Mary Lane.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass,

' YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192 571928.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’ S files.
[ 619 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JOHN DUFF KENNEY

HOME ADDRESS: 122 Clinton St, New Bedford, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: 105 William St., New Bedford, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 15, 1907, New Bedford, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph ‘Thomas Kenney,
Nora Flizabeth Duff.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.; Phillips
Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. Cu7 laude, 1929; LL.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Teresa Westby, June 27, 1936, New Bedford, Mass. cHILpREN:
Joseph Thomas, April 30, 1937; John Duff, Jr, Feb. 20, 1939 (died May
16, 1939); William Westby, July 12, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Elks.

AFTER graduating from the Law School I went back to New
Bedford and have practised law there ever since, first in associa-
tion with my father and later on my own. Outside of my family,
my principal interests are my old flames, the Boston Red Sox
and the Republican Party.

THOMAS SPRATT KERNAN

HOME AbpRESS: 3 Rutger Park, Utica 3, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kernan & Kernan, First National Bank Bldg., Utica, N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 14, 1907, Utica, N. Y. parents: Francis K. Kernan, ’97, Mary
Margaret Spratt.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1932.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Francis Kernan, ’24, LL.B.,’27; Richard Dickinson Kernan,
"31; Walter Avery Kernan, ’36, L.B., ’39.

oocuPaTion: Lawyer.

orrices HELD: Member Board of Education, City of Utica, 1938-41, 1951-525
president, Federated Bar Associations, Fifth Judicial District (New
York), 1950-52, Utica Community Chest, 1939-41; member Board of
Directors, Oneita Knitting Mills, C. V. Hill & Company, Inc., Utica
Chamber of Commerce, Utica Hospital Fund, Inc.; trustee, Mohawk
Valley Technical Institute.

MemBeR or: New York and American Bar Associations; Bar Association of
the City of New York, American Judicature Society; Academy of
Political Science, Knights of Columbus, American Legion; Fort Schuyler
Club; Sadaquada Golf Club; Harvard Club of New York; Saratoga’
Reading Rooms.

[ 620 ]

eid TENT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

UPON graduation from the Law School, I began the practice of
law with my father’s firm of which I subsequently became a
partner. This was interrupted by service in the Army for which
I volunteered in February, 1941, about two weeks before the
draft board would have caught up with me. After the prior
sedentary life, I found that of a private at the age of thirty-three
quite stimulating. Eventually, after several years of routine serv-.
ice, I was discharged as a captain in January, 1946, to resume
practice which still engages the better part of my time.

Apart from the law, I try to do a bit to make my city tick, and
fish (trout and bass), hunt (grouse and woodcock), and play golf
and bridge. Although a Democrat on the registration books, I
shall plead the secrecy of the ballot box when it comes to candi-
dates for whom I have voted. I am a Roman Catholic which,
perhaps, colors my thoughts on a subject upon which I feel very
strongly, viz: the attitude the Harvard Corporation has taken
with respect to certain teachers who have invoked the Fifth
Amendment when questioned about Communist affiliations.
Though the Corporation doubtless felt it was furthering Har-
vard’s liberal tradition, I think its judgment was wrong. It seems
to me that we are in a fight to the finish, and that no one who
refuses to stand up and be counted in that fight should be teach-
ing Harvard students.

LOUIS KERNESS ©

HOME ADDRESS: 751 Oak Grove Ave., Fall River, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 912 S. Main St., Fall River, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1908, Fall River, Mass. parents: Morris Kerness, Sarah Resnick.

PREPARED AT: B.M.C, Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

MARRIED: Dorothy Silverman, March 30, 1933, Providence, R. I. cnn:
Elton Jay, Jan. 25, 1934.

HARVARD SON: Elton Jay Kerness, ’55.

OCCUPATION: Proprietor, Colonial Motors Sales, Studebaker dealer for Fall
River and vicinity, new car sales and service.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Ledgemont Country Club, 1952-55.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Fall River; Elks; Masons; Aleppo Temple;
Ledgemont Country Club.

THE first two years of the past quarter century of my life were
[ 621 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

spent at the Harvard Business School, where I hoped to acquire
enough business know-how to help me overcome the depression
and secure a good-paying position. Upon my graduation, the
only position I was able to secure was a $25-per-week job in a
New York department store. So I swallowed my pride and went
to work for my Dad who operated a wholesale fruit and produce
business. It was the type of business where I was not able to
apply any of the business principles I had absorbed during my
two years at the Business School. The hours were long and the
work was hard, but the pay was good.

In the fall of 1932 I fell in love, and after a short but ardent
courtship I was married in the spring of 1933. Our only child,
a son, was born in 1934. It took me almost four years to convince
my Dad that we should dispose of the fruit business. With the
proceeds we opened a finance company with me as treasurer and
manager. Now the hours were short and the work was easy.
Most of our customers were the automobile dealers, and I soon
learned that more money could be made by selling cars than by
financing them. In 1940 I took over a used car dealer, and I was
now the sole owner of the Colonial Motors where only the best
used cars were sold.

My war record is nil, inasmuch as I had a serial number that
must have been the last one pulled out of the bowl. I was never
called. In 1945 I managed to secure the Studebaker franchise,
and I was now a new car dealer. During the postwar years I
became that most envied of all business men, a new car dealer.
] was everybody’s friend. Needless to say, the financial returns
during those years were very lucrative.

During all this time my son was growing up, and in order to
help him get into Harvard, we sent him to Worcester Academy
where he would get the proper preparation. Isn’t that the dream
of every Harvard graduate to have a son go to Harvard? He
entered Harvard with the Class of 1955, the first to undergo ex-
president Conant’s new educational plan. After one year of hard
study attempting to absorb this program, he decided that it was
not for him (after looking over the curriculum, so much different
from what we had as freshmen, I didn’t blame him too much),
and he transferred to the University of Miami where he is now

a junior.

[ 622 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For the past ten years I have been spending my winters in
Florida, and I like the climate so well that I am planning to settle
there permanently. My hobbies, if you can call them such, are
golf and bowling, and a visit to our den will attest to the fact
that I was proficient enough to win several trophies in each sport.
My present state handicap is down to a respectable fourteen. M
only activities on the political front have been to cast my ballot
as the occasion arose. My allegiance has vacillated from Republi-
can to Democrat (Roosevelt), and from Democrat (Truman) to
Republican. My vote has always been for the man and not for
the party. And thus twenty-five years of my life have gone by.

LEWIS NICHOLAS KESARIS

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Fairview Ave., Augusta, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Malt Beverage Distribution Co. Hallowell, Maine.

BORN: June 28, 1904, Leontaaion, Greece. PARENTS: Nicholas Kesaris, Georgia
Papin.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

occupation: Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

RICHARD ROSS KETCHUM

HOME AppRESS: Union Street, Marshfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Avon Sole Co., Avon, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1906, Quincy, Mass. parents: Woodford Ketchum, Eleanor
Ross.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

mMarRieD: Rhoda Taft Gilpatric, Feb. 20, 1932, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Mary Taft, June 2, 1937; Richard Ross, Jr., March 2, 1940; George
Wheelock, March 28, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Allison Ketchum, ’31.

occupation: Advertising and sales promotion manager, Avon Sole Company
(manufacturers of rubber soles).

OFFICES HELD: Moderator, North Community Church, Marshfield; chairman,
Troop Committee, Boy Scouts of America; vice-president, Marshfield
Little League.

MEMBER OF: Marshfield Country Club; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Marsh-
field Chowder & Marching Club.

[ 623 ]

omnia Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

THE past twenty-five years have gone by very swiftly and I
believe my experiences have been fairly normal. Outside activi-
ties have been for the most part tied up with the affairs of youth
such as Boy Scouts and Little League, in both of which I have
been active. My family is growing up all too rapidly. Life in
Marshfield is a continuously pleasant experience surrounded by
an active community of friends and neighbors.

JOHN PARKINSON KEYES

HOME ADDRESS: North Haverhill, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Remington Rand Venezuela CA. Apartado 3125, Caracas,
Venezuela.

Born: March 26, 1907, North Haverhill, N. H. parents: Henry Wilder
Keyes, ’87, Frances Parkinson Wheeler.

Preparen at: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: $.B., 1929; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1939

marrieD: Alice Claire Curley, Aug. 23, 194§, London, England. cHILp:
Katherine MacArthur, Jan. 25, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Wilder Keyes, ’26, LL.B., ’30; Francis Keyes, °36.

occupation: Regional director, International Tabulating Machines Division,
Remington Rand, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Manager, Tabulating Machines Division, Lima, Peru, 1939-
40, Bogota, Colombia, 1940-42, Santiago, Chile, 1946-47, Buenos Aires,
Argentina, 1947~49; regional director, since 1949, Remington Rand, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Club, Buenos Aires; Phoenix Club, Lima, Peru;
American Club, Caracas, Venezuela.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard I travelled extensively
in South America, Europe, and the Far East. After teaching
history, English, and Spanish in boys’ preparatory schools in
California, I joined the export department of Remington Rand,
Inc., in 1935 and have been associated with this firm ever since
except for service with the Navy from 1943 to 1946, the great
majority of which time was spent in overseas service in the Euro-
pean Theatre. Following separation from the Navy I returned
to my former business activities in South America.

[ 624 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES FARROW KING

HOME AppREss: 3801 Lorcom Lane, Arlington, Va.

BorN: Dec. 12, 1907, Georgetown, S. C. parents: Arthur Locke King, Sue
Savage Farrow.

PREPARED AT: Florence High School, Florence, S. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Janet Scott Leake, Dec. 26, 1935, Clinton, S. C. cHILpREN: James
Farrow, Jr., Oct. 17, 1937; William Leake, Aug. 9, 1939.

occuPATION: Defense work, United States government.

DURING the first few years after I left Cambridge I worked
on newspapers in South Carolina, Baltimore, and Washington.
In 1938, however, I took a job with the federal government which
I expected to last several weeks. It lasted three years, and then
came Pearl Harbor. I helped to organize or reorganize several
wartime government activities, served in the Navy as an aviation
staff officer, and, after a postwar sabbatical, ended up in the
Department of Defense. In less than four years in the Pentagon
I worked for two Secretaries of Defense and three Secretaries of
the Army — Army. Then I joined Manly Fleischmann, ’29, in
the Defense Production Administration and, incidentally, ac-
quired such fancy titles as “deputy administrator for construction
and resources expansion,” “deputy administrator for defense
materials and international activities,” and “United States repre-
sentative on the central group of the international materials con-
ference.” I’m still in defense work. I imagine I’ve seen about as
much of the federal government in Washington as anybody could
and, as a citizen, I’m still proud of it. Twice ve been back into
newspaper work but each time I’ve given up my seat in the press
box to get back into the ball game itself.

WILLIAM TAPPAN KING

HOME AppRESS: Old Concord Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 111 Devonshire St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 31, 1908, Milton, Mass. parents; Tarrant Putnam King, ’91,
Marian Appleton.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB. 1929.

[ 625 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

mcarriepD: Elizabeth Mauran (Mullikin), Feb, 20, 1937, St. Louis, Mo. crn:
Elizabeth, Nov. 29, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Appleton King, "21 (deceased).

occUPATION: Investment banking, manager, Municipal Department, White,
Weld & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Class of 1929, since 1939; member of cor-
poration, New England Deaconess Hospital, since 1941; trustee, King
Terminal, since 1942; director, Macallen Co., since 1946; member,
Planning Board, Lincoln, Mass. 1947-52; president, Municipal Bond
Club of Boston, since 1953; chairman, New England Municipal Securi-
ties Committee, Investment Bankers Association, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Concord Country Club.

BACK in College days, I can remember so well the classes that
were having their Twenty-fifth Reunions and the comments I
used to make about their age. Now I find myself right in the
middle of my own Twenty-fifth and some “kid” will be sure
to say the same thing about me.

Before embarking on a business career, I was ‘fortunate enough
to take a trip abroad with several classmates. Upon my return
in the fall of 1929, I discovered it was not particularly easy to
embark, as we all know too well. However, I thought I had done
a good job of it and liked my work at the Lee, Higginson Trust
Company. Unfortunately, in 1932, Mr. Krueger, the Swedish
match king, found his house of cards tumbling down. This
brought disaster to him, financial distress to many, and an end
to my job. The next year or so I worked with my father in the
industrial real estate business. At that time very few companies
could afford to move their plants and all most of them wanted
was a reduction in rent. This was not a profitable era for me.

In 1934 one large investment banking firm had the foresight
to expand its personnel and I soon found myself employed by
The First Boston Corporation. This was a most pleasant associa-
tion which lasted for six years. I specialized in the underwriting
and distribution of municipal securities. With this background, an
opportunity to manage the municipal department of F. S. Moseley
and Company was offered to me which I accepted. My father’s
death and Pearl Harbor occurred within two weeks of each
other. His business, by that time, was closely allied to war pro-
duction and I felt I should see that it continued on smoothly.
With all the regulations and restrictions that were soon set up

[ 626 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

by the government, it required little imagination to run this
company; so by the end of 1942 Uncle Sam was giving me a
physical examination.

To go back for a moment, I would like to mention a word
about my family. I had known my wife in an offhand way
several years prior to 1934, but it was then | really began to take
notice. A whirlwind courtship of three years ended in our mar-
riage in 1937. Our only heir arrived the next year. In 1940 we
decided to build our own home. Nothing could have been more
fortunate, as it was finished in October, 1941, just prior to the
closing down of all private construction. Except during the war
years, this “estate” has given us perhaps our greatest enjoyment.
Needless to say, I am a putterer and like to do my own improve-
ments — up to a point.

For three years I was in the Navy as a ground officer in the
Naval Air Force. For two of these I was an air controller with
Eastern Sea Frontier, stationed at Charleston, South Carolina.- The
third year I was administrative officer for a torpedo bomber
squadron which, with the rest of the Air Group, was awaiting
orders on the west coast when the Japanese surrendered. Orders.
to decommission soon arrived, followed by eventual discharge
from the service. My tour of duty was not a very illustrious one,
but it took me to most corners of the United States. To use an
old expression, it was good duty and very interesting. Fortu-
nately, my family was able to be with me a good part of the time.

Upon my return to Civilian life, with no visible employment,
I decided there would never be a better chance to investigate —
other lines of business than the one to which I was accustomed.
After an interesting few months of investigation I concluded I
should continue in my own field. Soon, I had the opportunity to
open a municipal bond department for the Rockland-Atlas Nat-
ional Bank of Boston. This association of four years ended in
1951 when White, Weld & Company asked me to head up the
municipal department in their Boston office. My employment in
this field has been with several fine organizations and it is grati-
fying to me that each change has been a greater opportunity for
advancement in my business career.

Except for a few lines about my family, I have made little
mention of my activities outside the business world. As many

[ 627 ]

Mapienntae ditt Ar ling

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

classmates know, I have spent much time on the affairs of the
Class of '29. This goes back to 1936 when the executive commit-
tee was formed to straighten out our financial problems. Since
then I have more or less controlled the purse strings and have
been Class Treasurer for a number of years. Besides having been
the Fund Agent for two years I am currently involved with the
expenses of the Twenty-fifth Reunion, as its treasurer. All of
this association with Class matters has been made interesting and
enjoyable because of the close codrdination with Terry Collens,
to whom we owe a tremendous vote of thanks for pulling the
Class together, as it is today.

In local affairs I was elected to a five-year term on the Planning
Board, a position which was most interesting and required con-
siderable work. I cannot say, however, that my fellow townsmen
appreciate all the effort that is expended on their behalf by such
a board. My leisure time has been allocated to maintaining and im-
proving our home, but somehow, golf at the Concord Country
Club or at our summer residence in Dublin, New Hampshire, cuts
into this routine sharply. My game has been at its best the last
two years, which speaks well for a sport where one can improve
with age.

My family, of course, has been my greatest devotion. Because
of them and because of the many lasting friendships I made dur-
ing College and in business, the past twenty-five years have been
very happy and profitable.

SIMEON KINSLEY

HOME AppRESS: 270 Lafayette Ave., Passaic, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 184 Washington Pl., Passaic, N. J.

Born: April 20, 1908, South Berwick, Maine. ParENTs: Elias Krinsky, Olga
Levine.

PREPARED aT: Somersworth High School, Somersworth, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1929; ED.M., 1936.

MARRIED: Bessie Spector, Jan. 12, 1942, Chattanooga, Tenn. CHILDREN: Susan
Ruth, Nov. 29, 1942; Jonathan Seth, Oct, 22, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Executive director, YM-YWHA.

orrices HELD: President, Rhode Island Chapter, 1947-48, New Jersey Chapter,
1950-51, American Association Group Work; chairman, Committee on
Work with Aged, National Association Jewish Center Workers, since

{ 628 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1952, Program Committee, Passaic County Health and Welfare Associa-
tion, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa; American Academy of Social and Political
Science; American Association Group Work; Passaic County Health
and Welfare Association; American Red Cross; National Conference
Social Work, National Conference Jewish Communal Service.

PUBLICATIONS: Several pamphlets on recreation activities for service men,
published by USO and by National Jewish Welfare Board, Army and
Navy Division.

FOR twelve years after graduation from Harvard I was princi-

pal of small grammar and junior high schools in New England,

while studying part-time at the School of Education, where I

got an Ed.M. degree in 1936.

In 1941 I left school work to go into USO. After a short stint
as director of a USO club in Tullahoma, Tennessee — where I
met a junior hostess whom I married —I became assistant direc-
tor of the Program Department in the national office of the USO
in New York. I enlisted in the Army and went on active duty
in the Signal Corps a few months later. At Camp Wood, New
Jersey, where I was stationed for most of my enlistment, I helped
win the war by directing ‘off-duty education classes and recrea-
tion activities in the special services; rank, private.

After my discharge from the Army, I became director of the
Program Department of the Army and Navy Division of the
National Jewish Welfare Board, following which I was executive
director of the Jewish Community Center of Providence, Rhode
Island, and — during the last five years — executive director of
the Passaic, New Jersey, YM-YWHA.

[have an eleven-year-old girl and an eight-year-old boy, both
of whom show promise as future Harvard-Radcliffe students.

The children and my wife are involved in the many activities of

the community center I direct. My principal hobby has been

study. I am specializing in education for the aged, having com-
pleted all the work for a Ph.D. at Teacher’s College — except
for the writing of a thesis. My principal problem is maintaining

a balance of my two hobbies of study and family with the heavy

demands of my job. In the meantime I continue a life-long habit

of physical exercise and attempt to keep myself trim and in trim.

When I die I expect to have muscles. :

My socio-political convictions are liberal, but not unhedged

[ 629 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

bv the conservative influences of my New England background.
Without much interest in religious forms I have a deep regard
for the basic tenets of Judaism and for the moral-ethical values
of the Judaeo-Christian tradition. I believe that sectarian agencies,
like the one I direct, can help to eliminate the barriers between

peoples by strencthening the values that all people hold in
common.

RICHARD KLARFELD

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 1712 Northampton St., Holyoke, Mass.

BoRN: June 14, 1907, Malden, Mass. parents: Berys Klarfeld, Lena Bedrick.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

KLARFELD has been carried as a “lost”? man on our records
since 1949.

AAGE BRODTKORB KLOUMANN

HOME aporess: Snaroen by Oslo, Norway.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1906, Oslo, Norway. parents: Sigurd Kloumann, Borghild
Brodtkorb.

PREPARED AT: Vestheim Gymnasium, Oslo, Norway.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MarRiED: Gunvor Bruusgaard Sanne, 1939, Oslo, Norway. CHILDREN: Inni-
Carine, 1931 (mm. Scott B. Hanssen, 1953); Peter Henrik, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sigurd Kloumann, Jr., 43.

ANYONE leafing through the pages of our Decennial Class
Report would get the impression that membership in the Class of
"29 has been a certain way of becoming a success in life. The
success in my case has been an inverted one. At the finish of
the war I decided that the time had come for me to be my own
lord and master. With money turned over from an indulgent
family, I acquired a bevy of shaky enterprises, unloaded by per-
sons of greater perspicacity than my own, My plan was to find
a self-propelling plant, which would generously provide me with
the income necessary to spend my declining years travelling, sail-
ing, antiquing, etc. The fallacy could not have been greater.
The proportion of the population that yearned for my pottery

[ 630]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

turned out to be infinitesimal, especially when measured in rela-
tion to the monetary consumption of the plant. As this is being
written, there is clearly no further way of supporting the thing,
and I shall shortly become the only member of our Class —I
hope —to enjoy the dubious distinction of being publicly de-
clared bankrupt.

Among the results of this situation, one is that I shall be spend-
ing next June in my easy-chair. Another is that young Peter
shall at the proper age be able to yell Reinhardt at his cousin only.
In respects other than those referred to above, I consider myself
a very lucky fellow. I am married to the one and only; I am
inordinately prejudiced in favor of my son; and I live still in a
house and a place which I like a lot, although it had probably
henceforth better be known — with apologies to Joe Cook —
as “Wit’s End.”

ROBERT IRVING KNAPP

HOME ADpREss: Candlewood Isle, New Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 Park Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

BORN: May 16, 1908, Medford, Mass. PARENTS: Solomon Van Knapp, Carrie
Geneva Beveridge.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Martha Virginia Bucher, Oct. 7, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Stephen Robert, Dec. 3, 1941; Nancy Ruth, May 8, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Financial consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, treasurer, Church of the Saviour, Washington, D. C.,
1946-52.

. MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York, 1932-41; Horseshoe Harbor Yacht

Club, Larchmont, N. Y., 1936-40.

MY work in the field of finance started in the training school of
the National City Bank of New York in September, 1929, and
just about came to a screeching halt exactly one month later.
Anyway — after struggling thru the depression years I managed
to reach Classification 1A in the Draft, applied for and received
a commission in the Navy, and spent the war years purchasing
naval aircraft for the government. Despite shuttling from air-
craft plant to aircraft plant from the east coast to the west coast,

[ 631 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

we were able to preserve enough family life to get our kids,
Steve and Nancy, launched during these years.

Anyway — after the war we decided that it would be right
for me to take a part in the government’s program for world
reconstruction, and I was hired by the Economic Coéperation
Administration (ECA— The Marshall Plan, etc.) to promote
private American investment in Europe. This was fun and very
rewarding; and just as we had the work well under way, along
came the new administration and Harold Stassen. Mr. Stassen
disagreed strongly with me over the extent of my contributions
to our country’s foreign economic program, and thus came to
an untimely end one of the most brilliant and promising careers
in Washington!

Anyway —we decided to transfer our base of operations to
our home in Connecticut. Here we live on a beautiful island on

a large lake in the Berkshire foothills. I am currently a semi-
commuter to New York City where I am a business and finan-
cial consultant. I am also looking for a small to medium-size
business concern—preferably manufacturing —to own and
operate up here in the count

My dear wife and kids and I have never been happier than
now. One of the joys about living in a rural area such as New
Fairfield, Connecticut, is the sense of being an integral part of
the community — something we never experienced in the large
cities. For example, one of my responsibilities up here I consider

to be a signal honor: substitute organist at the New Fairfield
Congregational Church!

WELLS KNIERIM

HOME ADDRESS: 31090 Providence Rd., Chagrin Falls, Ohio.

OFFice appress: 750 Huron Rd., Cleveland 15, Ohio.

BORN: July 6, 1907, Dayton, Ohio. Parents: John Adam Knierim, Effie May
McCandless.

PREPARED AT: Steele High School, Dayton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1929,

marniep: Mary S. Hicks, Oct. 5, 1935, Cleveland, Ohio.

occupation: General disbursements accounting manager, Ohio Bell Tele-
phone Company.

orrices HELD: Treasurer, West Hill Colony, Inc.; member board of trustees,

[ 632 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Cleveland Presbytery; member, Research Committee, Cleveland Welfare
Federation. ,

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Astronomical Society; Ohio State Gladiolus Society;
Masonic Lodge; Telephone Pioneers of America. _

EXCEPT for a few months in New York immediately following
graduation. my twenty-five years have been spent in Cleveland
engaged in statistical and accounting work with the Ohio Bell
Telephone Company. At present my job is the direction of the
department which handles the disbursements of the company,
which includes preparation of payrolls, payment of bills, distri-
bution of labor, material and other costs to accounts, maintenance
of property records, preparation of administrative reports, etc.
It’s an interesting job because we in the Bell System have a policy
of giving the best possible telephone service at low cost and,
what with the demand for service having more than doubled
since the end of the war and with the sharp increase in the costs
of construction during the postwar period, it calls for consider-
able progress in the art of communications and ingenuity on the
part of all of us in the industry to offset, as much as is possible,
the effects of inflation by technical and operating improvements.
Mechanization in the accounting phases of our business will pro-
gress at an even faster rate than it has in the past and it will be
extremely interesting to see what electronic calculators and
other specialized accounting machines can do for us in the future.

During the summer of 1952 I went back to college. Had the
interesting experience of attending a four-week public utility
executive program at the University of Michigan. Representa-
tives from sixty-three electric power, gas, and telephone com-
panies reviewed some of the special problems affecting the utility
industries today somewhat along the lines of the “pot-bellied”
executive course of the Harvard Business School. May I say that
I now have more respect for the University of Michigan than I
did when I witnessed a Harvard 12 — Michigan 14 football game
in Ann Arbor in the early 1930’s. The Michigan Business School
faculty strongly supports the principles of free enterprise in in-
dustry and for a while I was feeling a little ashamed of some of
the New Deal economists that moved from Cambridge to Wash-
ington. But then one of the outside speakers on our program,
then chairman of the S.E.C., and a Michigan graduate, when asked

[ 633 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

whether he was in favor of private ownership or government

ownership of power, replied that he was not interested in private
power or public power, he was interested in sore power. So
you see that stuff can come from any campus as well as from our
own Yard. Fortunately the November, 1952, elections made a
few changes in Washington and we in the utility industry, who
are in the front line in the defense of private enterprise, are
encouraged.

My hobbies are few but intensive. Being interested in boys
and having none of my own, I have spent eighteen years as a
scoutmaster in the Boy Scouts. I now have a troop of boys at a
nearby orphanage and get a lot of fun and satisfaction from our
meetings and camping trips. It keeps me feeling young and it
sort of keeps my perspective on the younger generation. I play
a little golf when the occasion presents itself but have difficulty
in breaking one hundred. My only other active hobby is flowers.
I have been growing 5,000 or more glads in my backyard for ten
years or so and for a while did some hybridizing. But I found
that hybridizing glads can become more work than relaxation
so I gave it up and decided to diversify and spend some time
growing the newer varieties of daffodils. Daffodils are planted
in the fall and bloom in the spring while glads are planted
in the spring and bloom in late summer, so I thereby spread my
efforts over a longer period of the year. Since it takes about
seven years to bloom a daffodil from seed, I have decided to buy
the English and Australian varieties rather than hybridizing my
own.

I somehow like to feel that my hobbies are in some respects
like my job in the telephone business. My job satisfies an eco-
nomic need of the community and by doing that you get the
feeling of serving your fellowmen. The flowers I grow are cut
and given away by my wife and myself to friends, neighbors,
strangers who pass our way, the girls at the office, and patients
at the hospital where my wife volunteers. And that satisfies a
need too, for man does not live by bread alone. My scouting, I
am sure, fulfills a need, especially for the kids I have now at the
orphanage. The slogan of the scout is service to others and if

our youth of today learn that lesson well, we need have no
worries for the future.

[ 634]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOSTER KNIGHT

HOME ADDRESS: 823 North St., Pittsfield, Mass. (permanent).

OFFICE AppRESS: U.S. of America Operations Mission to the Philippines
(Foreign Operations Administration), Manila, Philippines.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1906, Pittsfield, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Hyde Knight, x1...
*99, Ethel Blinn Holwill.

PREPARED AT: Dedham High School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

mMaRRIED: Helen Louise Pence, Feb. 16, 1946, Washington, D. C. camp:
Deborah Newton, Sept. 20, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Customs adviser, Philippine Bureau of Customs, United States
government.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of the Philippines; Manila Polo Club; Port Offi-
cers Club,

SINCE College days, my life has had its ups and downs, its
prosaic and its exciting moments; on the whole, it has been a
most interesting experience. Briefly summarized, my career
started when I became a junior official in the Chinese Maritime
Customs Service, the third generation of my family in its employ.
Five years out after tours of duty in Chefoo, Moukden, Canton,
and Shanghai, severe bouts with dysentery and malaria prema-
turely terminated my connection with that famous service.
After a long but successful period of convalescence back in the
States, I parried with the problem of unemployment in depression
days, finally winding up with the American Express Company’s
travel department in Detroit, Michigan. From this association I
gravitated to the air transportation business, joining United Air
Lines in 1940.

Late in the same year, I received the familiar greeting from
the president, and soon found myself a buck private trying to
master the fine points of close order drill. “Thus commenced
almost five years in uniform, during which time I served in three
different branches of the armed services and learned what mili-
tary life was really like both as an enlisted man and officer, Mus-
tered out in 1946, I returned to United, but soon ventured into
the travel agency field with the Haley Corporation in New York
and thence into the export-import business as New York man-
ager and vice-president of a firm specializing in the China trade.
As political and economic conditions became worse in China,

[ $35 ]

| —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

the export-import business fell into the doldrums and at the end

of 1948 the firm and I parted company. In January, 1949, I went
to Korea to join the staff of the ECA Mission, which designated
me to act as customs adviser to the government of the ill-fated
but gallant little Republic of Korea.

What proved to be an intensely interesting assignment was
abruptly interrupted when the Communists invaded South Korea
on June 25, 1950. I was flown out to Japan on a United States
Air Force plane a day after my wife and small daughter were
loaded on a twelve-passenger freighter jam-packed with 680
other evacuees. Left behind were all our possessions barring such
few things as we were able to hand-carry with us. Their loss, we
soon discovered, really didn’t matter excepting irreplaceable
photographs and records. After a short stay at the beautiful
Fujiya Hotel at Miyanoshita, Japan, my family was returned to
the States on a Naval transport which, ironically enough, nearly
foundered in a typhoon. I remained in Tokyo working tem-
porarily for SCAP. Then followed orders to return to battered
Korea where I stayed until Christmas Eve, 1950. Going back to
Korea was a heart-rending experience. Many of my Korean
friends had been killed, captured, reported missing, or reduced
to pitiful circumstances. Impressed more than ever upon me was
the horror and utter futility of war.

Next came orders to proceed to the Philippines to become a
member of the newly established ECA Mission at Manila, where
I assumed a similar position with the Philippine Government to
the one I had had in Korea. Except for two brief home leaves,
I have been in the Philippines since, as consultant on customs
administration for the Philippine Bureau of Customs. Working
and living in this tropical part of the world amongst a people
fundamentally Asiatic in origin but having distinctive charac-
teristics of their own has been a very enlightening experience,
and it promises to be even more so under the new administration
of dynamic President Magsaysay. Unquestionably this is one
of the most crucial periods in Far Eastern history and I am privi-
leged to occupy a front-row seat. In the course of the passing
years, I have run across several ’29-ers, even in such remote spots

as Kunming, China (George Weller), and Seoul, Korea (Jack
Gardiner), but have met none to date in Manila.

[ 636 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

With respect to outside activities, my chief preoccupation has
become my family. Never having been a joiner by preference,
I can boast few connections, My club memberships have been
confined to those where my family and I could enjoy the rec-
reational facilities, pleasant company, and good food. In recent
years I have become a color photo enthusiast, and in the process
have amassed a considerable collection of slides, good, bad, and
indifferent. I still retain my reserve commission, but expect that
I may be retired any time for inactivity. And speaking of retire-
ment, a recent holiday trip to the States inspired thoughts of
eventually winding up in some quiet spot in the good old U.S. A.
However, what with the high cost of living and taxes being what
they are, those thoughts will doubtless remain a pleasant dream
for many years to come. Turning to reflections on the forth-
coming Reunion, it is a source of keen regret that I shall be unable
to be present except in spirit since it comes at a time when I am
not due for home leave.

FRANKLIN KNIGHT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 217 Chicasaw Drive, Marietta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Marietta, Ga.

BORN: May 7, 1907, New Haven, Conn. Parents: Franklin Knight, Gertrude
Boucher Mosher.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

MarRiED: Helen Marie Nehrbas, June 17, 1932, Garden City, Long Island,
N. ¥. cHmpren: Helen van Roden, Nov. 20, 1933; Franklin, 3d, July
31, 1939. .

occupation: Manager, Safety and Fire Protection, Lockheed Aircraft Cor-
poration. -

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Cobb County Red Cross; director, Marietta Com-
munity Concerts Association, Allatoona Safety Council; District Com-
mittee Health and Safety chairman, Boy Scouts of America; registered
professional mechanical engineer, Georgia.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Safety Engineers; Marietta Music Club.

THE completely unspectacular career which I reported in 1949
seems to continue and pleasurably so. It is now almost certain
that you will never read my name in the headlines of the metro-
politan papers either for fame or for crime. Indeed, except for

[ 637 ]

Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

its rare appearance in a signed musical commentary (contributed,
not paid for) in the local paper in this pleasant, growing Georgia
city of some 30,000 people, it appears not at all.

The years, however, slip by quietly and a rapid inventory
discloses that my capital assets consist primarily of a fine wife,
two youngsters of more than ordinary promise (an outside
opinion), a comfortable home, and the privilege of small services
to a friendly southern community.

THOMAS HARRISON KNOWLES

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 7 Pierce St., Marblehead, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 2, 1897, Blackburn, Lancashire, England. PARENTs: William
Knowles, Elizabeth Harrison.

PREPARED AT: Swain School of Design, New Bedford, Mass.; New School of

Design, Boston, Mass.; Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.A. 1930.

MaRRIED: E, Gertrude Hubley Welchans, June 12, 1926, Waltham, Mass.
cup: Jeremy Harrison, Jan. 2, 1931.

HARVARD SON: Jeremy Harrison Knowles, ’53.

occupation: Owner-manager, Knowles Publishing Company.

MEMBER OF: Isaac Parker Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Boston Society of Arts &
Crafts; Post 32, American Legion; Pi Gamma Mu; First Corps Cadets,
Marblehead Art Association; Rockport Art Association.

PusLications: “History of Art,” “Practical Application of Dynamic Sym-
metry.”

THIS is August 25, 1953, and since September 16, 1950, the date
I left the veteran’s hospital in Framingham after an operation, I
have been enjoying a period of relaxation which the doctors call
“convalescence at home.” When that will be over I just do not
know, but I am thankful for a wife who seems to be cheerfully
making the best of it. I realize the foregoing slice of life does
not sound too cheerful, but actually so many things have happened
since I left the vicinity of the Yard, that it is difficult to know
where to begin. However, I shall do my best.

In June, 1926, I was married. Returning from a short trip
through New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, my wife and
I spent the rest of that summer in Swampscott. Back in Cam-
bridge we lived first in an apartment at Gibson Terrace, and
during that time I managed to make daily teaching trips to New

[ 638 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Bedford where Alan Dale Currier was director of the Swain
School of Design.

Our only child, Jeremy, was born on January 2nd, 1931, while
we were at Gibson Terrace, and from that time on we have had
the complexing problem of three celebrations very close together
(Christmas, New Year’s, and a brithday). During the fall of
1931, when I was in the Graduate School, we moved to Holden
Green. In the meantime we bought the building next to the
Cantabrigia Club on Mt. Auburn Street, and developed an art
school and store. |

The next turn in the road was in the direction of Swampscott,
where we enjoyed three years with a book shop on the water
front. I also did some private tutoring there. As you knov, it
is very pleasant on the rock-bound coast in the summer, but not
quite so thrilling when winter comes. It was therefore exciting
to have Currier call on the phone one day in the middle of a
snow storm and ask me to come back to the Swain School. Well,
anyway, the three of us and the cat eventually made tracks for
New Bedford, and that took care of another two years.

In the fall of 1937 I became art director and teacher in the
public schools of Marblehead. After I struggled for nine years
with the youth of the town, the War Department became my
boss again, and I was appointed head artist in the Army School
of Engineers at Fort Belvoir, Virginia. After four months away,
I returned home, and, for want of something better to do, pulled
together the remnants of a little publishing business I had started
while at college. Wonder of wonders, it is still alive, and Mrs.
Knowles and I are enjoying working together very much.

To those of you who have not been back to Cambridge re-
cently, you can be assured that the grass is just as green as ever
in the Yard. I know, because Mrs. Knowles and I were there in
June to see son Jeremy graduate. cum laude, with the Class of
1953. That is better than I did. However, it’s all in the family.

We plan to make another trip to Cambridge in September to
drive Jeremy to the Episcopal Theological School with his
record player and other paraphernalia. So there you are! Cheerio

and Happy Landings!

[ 639 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

WALTER ROOSEVELT KOCH

HOME ADDRESS: 2206 Woodmont Ave., Austin, Texas.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 503 Capital National Bank Bldg., Austin, Texas.

Born: April 15, 1906, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Theodore F. Koch, Clara
Dorothy Hoeborn.

PREPARED AT: Riviera High School, Riviera, Texas; St. Paul Academy, St.
Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum? laude, 1929; LL.B., 1933.
markiep: Gertrude Virginia Park, Jan. 2, 1937, Brooklyn, N. Y. cHmpren:

James Theodore, Dee. 4, 1939; Elizabeth Anne, March 18, 1942; Virginia
Marie, March 12, 1045.

HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore William Koch, °14.

occupation; Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Attorney General of Texas, 1939-43; member Austin
School Board, since 1950; president, Harvard Club of Austin, 1953-54,
Harvard Law School Association of Texas, 1953-54; member local

advisory boards of Salvation Army, USO, Boy Scouts, Community
Chest. ‘

MEMBER OF: Travis County Bar Association; Texas State Bar, American
Bar Association, Austin Club; Austin Country Club, Austin Kiwanis
Club.

THE past twenty-five years have completely dispelled my under-

graduate conviction that life after June, 1929, couldn’t possibly

be much fun. After a year in my father’s real estate office in

Beaumont, Texas, I returned joyfully to Cambridge for three

stimulating years at the Law School. The LL.B. proved to have

immediate commercial value of fifty dollars per month with a St.

Paul, Minnesota, law firm. I resigned from this lucrative job a

year later to hang out my own shingle in Corpus Christi, Texas.

This move was really a matter of coming home, as I had grown

up in a nearby village.

On a trip east, which included the Tercentenary in September,
1936, I was so overwhelmed by how nicely the kid sister of S. P.
Park, ’29, had grown up, that we straightway decided to live
happily ever after. We honeymooned in Mexico City and ever
since have been slipping back across the Rio Grande on the slight-
est. provocation, for vacations, weekends, or just for a game
dinner and a bottle of Bohemia ale.

In the summer of 1938, the candidacy of my Harvard Law
School classmate, Gerald Mann, for Attorney General of Texas
seduced me into politics to help him get elected. For the next

[ 640 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

four years I officed in the capitol at Austin, as one of his assist-
ants. It was rather exciting to find myself suddenly handling
big-time litigation.

For the past ten years I’ve been in the private practice of law,
first in Corpus Christi, and now in Austin. If you ask me what is
my specialty, I shall first want to know, “What is your prob-
lem?” I will admit, however, to preferring matters pertaining to
oil and gas. Some day I hope to develop the necessary sales resist-
ance to stay off committees and boards of charitable and public
enterprises — but you do meet nice people that way.

Among my favorite diversions are: being a father, rooting for
the University of Texas football team, and occasionally breaking
ninety at golf. We attend the Presbyterian Church with remark-
able regularity.

FREDERICK KOGOS

HOME ADDRESS: 77 Maple Drive, Great Neck, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1140 Broadway, New York 1, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1907, Kiev, Russia, PARENTS: Joseph Allison Kogos, Minerva

Coolidge Peters.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marRigep: Sarah Ellen (Polly) Pollock, Aug. 5, 1934, Brookline, Mass.
_ CHILDREN: Bonnie Pollock, Dec. 2, 1939; Nancy Pollock, May 5, 1942.

occuPATION: Publisher, owner, Frederick Kogos Publishing Company.

IF brevity is the soul of wit (as someone said) then some women
in the latest bathing suits are funnier than ever (as someone fur-
ther said). Above briefly epitomizes my thinking of life —
brevity, wit, women! And an account of my life just works out
that way. I’m crazy about brevity —a few thousand words at
a time; a lot of humor —I enjoy joke-telling and story-listening;
and as for women — my childhood sweetheart married me and
bore two little female images. I’m surrounded and content!
Now to me, the above would end an account of my life. The
rest is goulash —unedible. A billionaire would hire a ghost-
writer and create the most exciting story about himself. I could
do that without a ghost-writer! But who really cares? And who,

[ 641 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

reading, would remember or be interested? This is a crazier,

more sordid, and more spineless world than it was in 1929. So—

you're asking for it, I'll give it to you simply, and briefly, and
categorically.

Career History: 1 went to work for some trade papers at three
dollars a week in the textile apparel industry (I won’t mention
their names because why should I give them any publicity?)
and struggled along like everybody else to eke out a living, then
a little better than that (as far as I’m concerned, give me the
luxuries and the hell with the necessities), and finally in 1943 I
conceived an idea for a new trade publication in the textile-
apparel industry and threw myself — all of me — right into it!
I got pretty wet, too! Well, not really pretty, I’m not that type!
But I flubbed around, about sixteen to twenty hours a day, and
finally came through with some good, successful business publi-
cations. (Anyone who reads from here on is nuts! It’s strictly
advertising!) The first is Apparel Manufacturer, which is a
monthly magazine for garment makers. The second is Suppliers’
Register, which is a substantial annual directory. The third is
Apparel Markets, which is an encyclopedia of the apparel markets
of America. There are others which are tidbits and offshoots
which a publisher engages either to make an extra buck or some-
times just as a service to the industry and to lose a buck, but then
that’s good for prestige. So here I am— commercially — and
I am content!

My Family: That’s the simplest, happiest, and most beautiful
part of my life. When I was fourteen I met a gorgeous little doll
(I don’t know why I say little, she was taller than me or I [we
were taking turns — me or I — partners in the deal, you know, a
special tax situation]). So I watched her grow up and saw that
she was developing just right: you know, morally (nice parents,
ethical ideas); spiritually (she believed in me); educationally (she
was schooling); and physically (well she was attending Sargent
School; in those days it wasn’t a beef trust, and she was really
the beauty of her class), So I kept my eyes (all four and the one
in the back of my head) on her and as soon as she got a good job,
in 1934, I married her. And then we did the smartest thing —
we spent all the dough we had on a three-week honeymoon
cruise. And we came back broke ... but nonetheless, started

[ 642 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a new, serene life. And it has been that way ever since except
when our two daughters — we adore them like screwballs — toss
us around and then we go into hiding in our straityackets.

Our Tavels: Not as many trips, not as far as we should have
gone, not as many different places. But soon we'll atone for that!
We'll see our wonderful country —all of it. And in due time
we'll go over all the seas and through all the continents and as
many of their countries! |

Hobbies: 1 still like the piano, playing it. I used to like golf
until it gave me prickling sensations in the forehead and aches
and pains in the chest. So I’m looking for new hobbies that require
no physical effort, no thinking, no motion of any kind — jest
settin’ and arockin’ and acontentin’. Anybody got any ideas?

Now as to social, political, or religious convictions: socially,
I'd like to live in a small town in the Middle West (I think the
East Coast of the U.S. is a horrible place). While I like people,
the people on the East Coast have and make too many problems
for themselves and are hard to live with (including me!). Polit-
ically, I have only one hope and that is that the glorious and
wonderful United States of America will grow up, rely on its
own strength, stop worrying about what Russia will do, stop
being a philanthropic organization, or breadbasket to which the
rest of the world stretches out unthankful and forgetful hands,
lay no faith in the United Nations; to put our own house in order:
therein lies the salvation of our nation. My final thought is the
Biblical injunction that wealthy is the man who is content with
what he has! I am content. . . now how can I obtain serenity?

MORRIS LEO KOHN

HOME appress: 37 Wolcott St., Dorchester 21, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 294 Washington St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Kohn, Rose Lipofsky.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1932.
UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

I HAVE been a member of the Massachusetts Bar since 1932,
[ 643 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and have practised in Boston since then. I served in the armed
forces (Army) from May, 1943, to September, 1945, in the
United States, and in the European Theatre.

SHINSHI KONDO

HOME ADDRESS: §2 Kitahiyoshi-cho, Imagumano, Higashiyama-ku, Kyoto,
Japan.

OFFICE. ADDRESS: Osaka Branch, American Consulate General in Kobe, Asahi
Bldg. Nakanoshima, Kita-ku, Osaka.

Born: Oct, 30, 1906, Fukui, Japan. parents: Yemo Imamura, Kiyo Hino,

PREPARED AT: McKinley High School, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; M.B-A., 1931 (32).

marriep: Yoshiko Kondo, April 4, 1938, Kyoto, Japan (died Jan. 17, 1951).
CHILDREN: Yoshiyuki, June 25, 1939 (son); Hideyo, Dec. 28, 1940 (son);
Yuriko, Dec. 19, 1942 (daughter); Taeko, June 20, 1945 (daughter).

occuPaTION: Economic analyst, Economie Section, American Consulate
General in Kobe, Osaka Branch.

TWENTY-FIVE years out of College-—and I have only just
begun to start afresh after losing the family business and my wife,
who passed away three years ago, leaving me with our four
children.

From 1933 to 1938 I was assistant to the supply manager of
General Motors Japan, Ltd., Osaka, and during the next three
years I was a partner in the firm of Y. Kondo & Company, Kobe.
From 1941 to 1951 I was auditor for Showa Trading Company,
Ltd., Osaka. Since then I have been in the employ of the U.S.
povernment, as economic analyst of the Osaka Branch of the
American Consulate General in Kobe. If there is anything I can

do for anyone of the Class passing through Osaka, please let me
know.

LEO KORETSKY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Sagamore Ave. Medford 55, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 6, 1904, Korets, Russia, parents: Harry Koretsky, Rachel
Greenfield.

PrePAneD AT: Chelsea Senior High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§~1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929, M.D. (Jefferson
Medical Coll.), 1933. |

[ 644 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarrieD: Edna Coplin, Oct. 11, 1936, Boston, Mass. cumtpren: Allen Curtis,
Nov. 12, 1937; Beebee (Beatrice), April 5, 1942; Ilsa June, June 21, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Sidney Koretsky, ’43; Irving Bennett Koretsky, ’49.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Physician, Department of Dermatology and Syphilology,
Boston Dispensary; assistant, Department of Dermatology and Syphil-
ology, Tufts Medical School. .

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha (honorary medical fraternity); American
Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society; New England
Dermatological Society; American Academy of Dermatology and
Syphilology.

PUBLICATIONS: “A Study of 107 Cases of Early Syphilis,” July 12, 1934,
“Clinical Evaluation of a New Ultraviolet Lamp,” June 7, 1939, New
England Journal of Medicine.

GOAD No. 1 did it! In fact it did two things. First, it goaded me
into sitting down to write this autobiography, and second, it
obviated the necessity for a photograph. The picture of the per-
plexed soul scratching his head, wondering what to write — this
is an accurate picture of me wondering what to write and where
to start. Trying to sum up the past twenty-five years — the
things I have accomplished (not too bad! ), the things I might have
done but didn’t (not too many), the things I want to do in the
future (not too much for myself, but a great deal for my chil-
dren): this is the task before me.

I entered medical school in 1929 and received my M.D. in 1933.
This I would do again, for I can say unequivocally that no other
field is as satisfying as medicine. However, if I were to do it over
again I would spend more time in residencies and postgraduate
academic training than was permitted to us graduates of the de-
pression years. After a few years of general practice I switched
into dermatology in which specialty I am now happily engaged.

But let me go back again for a moment to 1929. Most of my
classmates who are now in medicine remember what trying days
we had with regard to admission to a medical school. Applica-
tions were filed with five or ten widely separated schools. A few
fortunate ones matriculated at Harvard. I was admitted to Jef-
ferson in Philadelphia and considered myself most fortunate. But
Miss Good Fortune did not reveal herself to me in full array until
my senior year in medical school on December 18, 1932, to be
exact, in the form of a blind date. She was nine years my junior

[ 645 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and a junior at the University of Pennsylvania. It was a memor-
able evening and a very late night! It never happened to me be-
fore. I fell in love with her clear thinking, her fluent speaking,
her voice, and, not the least, her physical attributes.

We were married on October 11, 1936. Neither her abstract
qualities nor her physical attributes have suffered after seventeen
years. I should mark both with plus values. We have three chil-
dren, five vears apart — planned, of course! The oldest, a son,
then two daughters — planned, of course, believe it or not! They
are lovely, as we hoped they would be. Our original plans in this
field we have curtailed by twenty-five per cent — voluntarily!
With all the attacks upon Harvard as a godless institution, as a
hotbed for Communism, I shall deem it a privilege to see my son
on the rolls of the Harvard 1959 graduates. My daughters are too
young for immediate planning, but my wife, who knows them
well, tells me they will not reject any proposals from a man simply
because he went to Harvard.

Politically, I am a registered Democrat. I have faith in the
party’s leadership, especially in the men of Stevenson’s caliber.
The Republicans number some nice people, too, but why don’t
they ever put them on the ballot? I’d have no qualms about vot-
ing Republican.

For a relaxing evening, I like to play chess or bridge. I am
not very good at either. My son can beat me at chess; my wife
does! I am slightly better at bridge, but the G’s with whom we
most often play claim that our losses buy the gas for their car.
And strangely enough, the wife and I play as a team. Yes. we do
fight, but only over the bridge table. Our travels thus far have
been limited to medical meetings only, but both Edna and I are
planning and dreaming. Some day, I hope I can surprise her with
reservations for a trip abroad. In the meantime we are making
plans for the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

SIDNEY SYLVESTER KORZENIK

HOME ADDRESS: 99-41 64th Ave., Rego Park 74, N.Y.

OFFice AvprEss: 51 Chambers St. New York 7, N.Y.

poax: Jan. 12, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Adolph Korzenik, Sally
Seiden.

[ 646 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; a.m.
(Columbia Univ.), 1933; tus. (New York Univ.), 1938.

MaRRIED: Emily Rose Faust, June 23, 1949, New York, N. Y. cutpren:
David Seth, Sept. 2, 1950; Jeremy Faust, April 24, 1952.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES 'HELD: Executive secretary, Unemployment Insurance Advisory
Council of New York State, 1939-42; major, Quartermaster Corps, USS.
Army; legal adviser, Renegotiation of War Contracts, Office of the
Quartermaster General, executive director, counsel, National Knitted
Outerwear Association, since 1940; industry chairman, United Jewish
Appeal, 1950; lecturer, Practicing Law Institute, 1952; arbitrator, Amer-

-ican Arbitration Association, since 1949; member board of directors,
Educational Foundation, Fashion Institute of Technology, New York,
since 1952.

MEMBER OF: New York County Lawyers Association; American Trade As-
sociation Executives.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on legal and economic subjects for business journals,
trade publications, etc.

THE years since I last accounted for myself in the Class Vicen-
nial Report have for me been a time of manna and miracles, with
a wife and two pre-Harvard sons to show for it. Though these
two young men have a number of years to go before being ready
for their higher education, they have in the meantime been dis-
pensing one to their parents. Considering the demands of their
instruction, Emily and I are glad we got away for a trip abroad
before they came along — we spent part of the summer of 1949
motoring about England and continental Europe — because it
looks like a long time before we may be able to attempt anything
like that again. Since then we have been city dwellers, taking
summer refuge in a cottage at Yorktown Heights.

I practise law in Manhattan. It seems a far cry from any
notions I once had of university teaching when I first stamped
the dust of the Yard from my shoes, headed for graduate work
at Columbia, and assisted in the Philosophy Department at Brook-
lyn College. But I have never regretted the course I later chose.
Work in the law can be as taxing as any I know: it is work on
which a man can wreck himself, but there is no other way of
enjoying any calling.

I have come to develop a considerable part of my professional
work in the trade association field, beginning with the discovery

[ 647 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

some time ago that business competitors find an ugly fascination
in just looking at one another at luncheon and dinner meetings
and that out of such strange attractions more important matters
sometimes emerge. In my work with trade groups, I have been
directing and serving as counsel to a national trade association
in the textile field, dealing, in its more interesting aspects, with
a birds’ eye view of an industry, participating in a few inter-
national trade conferences in Britain and France, and writing and
speaking on legal and economic subjects. This, except for the
interruption of four war years of Army service, has been my
chief field of effort and it has for the most part been a satisfying
one.

I used to enjoy trying to paint, but that hobby has been neg-
lected, and now that I have a family I find myself without suf-
ficient opportunity to do the reading I should like to do or enjoy
music even out of the limited library of fine recordings that we
have assembled. But my chief complaint is that my work keeps
me from spending more time with my family and with my
friends, some of the more intimate being classmates of ’29 with
whom the passing of time has strengthened old ties.

GEORGE CARPENTER KOSS

HOME ADDRESS: 2410 Terrace Rd., Des Moines, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 205 Farm Bureau Bldg., Des Moines 9, Iowa.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1905, Boone, Iowa. pARENTs: George Walther Koss, Mary
Carpenter.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

Margiep: Margery Barnard, June 7, 1930, Norwell, Mass.

OCCUPATION: President, Koss Construction Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Associated General Contractors of Iowa, 1940,
Animal Rescue League of lowa, Inc. 1946-52; chairman, 1952, member,
since 1942, City Planning and Zoning Commission; director, Rotary
Club, 1944-45, Community Chest of Des Moines, 1944-51, Iowa Des
Moines National Bank, since 1948, Roadside Settlement House, since
1949; national director, Associated General Contractors of America,
Inc. since 1944; general chairman, American Red Cross War Fund
Drive, 1945, Des Moines Community Chest Drive, 1949; member board,
since 1945, president, 1951, Greater Des Moines Committee, trustee,

[ 648 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Des Moines Club, 1947-53, Edmundson Art Foundation, Inc., since
1948; chairman, Board of Trustees, United Campaign, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Des Moines Club; Wakonda Club; Prairie Club; Kansas City
Club; River Club, Kansas City.

THIS request for an account of my life since graduation gives me

an opportunity to review the past twenty-five years — an as-

signment that I would not otherwise have undertaken, at least in
writing.

I left the Engineering School in 1928 when I had an opportu-

nity to take a trip to South America. Frankly, I think that I felt
that I had had enough of school and I was anxious to get a job. My
trip was completed in three months and I did get a job near Phoe-
nix, Arizona. I thought that I was going to be a surveyor on a land
development project, but most of my time was spent grafting
grapefruit shoots on sour oranges. My employer had a number of
Mexicans who were far better nurserymen than I and not so ex-
pensive.

In the spring of 1929 I went to Winner, South Dakota, where I
worked as instrument man on a survey crew for the Northwestern
Railway. I enjoyed the work. Early in 1930 I started working
for the company with which I am still associated. My first as-
signment was on a paving project just down the river from New
Orleans. It was a great opportunity for I quickly learned that
engineering is an incidental part of the contracting business. We
had a number of additional jobs in Louisiana and I remained there
until the depression overtook us in late 1932. Prior to leaving
Louisiana, early 1930 to be exact, I returned to Norwell, Massa-
chusetts, to marry the girl I met while at Harvard.

Since 1932 we have lived in Des Moines. It has been a happy
life filled with friends and civic affairs. I think of no hobbies as
such but we both enjoy vacations where there are no telephones
and no highways or airports to be built — by me at least.

MAX KOZODOY

HOME AppREss: 180 Moss Hill Rd., Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: May 1, 1908, Newark, N. J. parents: David Kozodoy, Pauline Constant.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 649 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. 1929; AM. (Tufts Coll.), 1930;
Mud. Cibid.), 1934.
acarrieD: Nelle Laux, 1935, New Hampshire. cu1Lpren: Paula, April 5, 1937;
Linda, June 12, 1939; Mary, Jan. 1, 1942; Nikki, June 17, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHER: Peter Harold Kozodoy, '32.
occupation: Physician, internist, Veterans’ Administration Regional Office,
MEMBER OF: Afedical and scientific societies.
PUBLICATIONS: Several scientific articles.

EUGENE GILBERT KRAETZER, JR.

HOME AppREss: Sudbury Road, Concord, Mass.
OFFIcE ADDRESS: Harvard University, 24 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 9, 1907, Lexington, Mass. parents: Eugene Gilbert Kraetzer,
Mary Finch Gibbs.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B. 1932.

marriep: Mfartha W. Marshall, Sept. 23, 1933, Montclair, N. J. CHILDREN:
Sarah Anne, Nov. 20, 1935; John Frederick, June 19, 1937; Martha
Jean, April 9, 1945.

occupation: Lawyer; recording secretary, Harvard University; assistant
secretary to the president and fellows of Harvard College.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Fenn School, Concord, Mass., 1939-48, Boston Society .
of Natural History; trustee, secretary, Concord Academy, Concord,
1945-52; member Town Planning Board, Concord, 1947-52; former
president, Concord Taxpayer’s Association.

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club; Harvard Club of Boston, Harvard
Club of New York; Union Club of Boston; Faculty Club, Cambridge.

THE summer of 1929 was fateful for many people. For the mem-
bers of our Class in particular, as we look back, it held much of
trouble and worry. Little did any of us imagine in June, or even
in September and October when we began our graduate study
or our jobs, that we were graduating into a world soon to be torn
by economic and political upheaval. For me the summer of 1929
was fateful not because of any financial or economic storms about
to descend, but because the student employment bureau offered
me two jobs. One was as tutor-companion to the son of a suc-
cessful business man prominent in political life. The other was as
riding instructor. Perhaps foolishly but certainly fortunately, I
chose the Jatter though I had never taught horse-back riding in
my life and hardly knew how to ride. I know now, as Robert
Frost has said so beautifully in “The Road Not Taken,” “and

[ 650 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that has made all the difference.” The prominent business man is
now a member of our president’s cabinet — and so who knows?
But I am not interested even in speculating because along the road
I took I met my wife.

In the summer of 1930, after my first year in Law School, I
went to Alaska with Brad Washburn (Harvard 733) on the first
expedition which he organized and conducted in that area. That
expedition aimed, but failed, to make a first ascent of Mt. Fair-
weather, then highest unclimbed coastal mountain in North Amer-
ica. We failed, but as many know, Brad went on to become the
foremost authority on the mountains and glaciers of that country.
In the summers of 1931 and 1932 I returned to my horse-back
riding, and in 1932 at the Mountain View House in Whitefield,
New Hampshire, I met Martha Marshall. I was through Law
School that summer but without a cent to my name. I had no in-
tention of becoming involved in marital activities for a few years
and remember making myself quite vocal on this point. This
determination was short-lived. We lived in a tiny apartment in
Cambridge for a year and then moved “westward” to my home
town, Lexington, when our first was on the way. In 1935 we
went again ‘“‘west” to Concord and have been there ever since.
We feel most fortunate to have found early just what we wanted
for a home and to have all three children know just one home. In
these portentous times if we have given them a feeling of belong-
ing and of having their roots down, perhaps we will have helped
some when they encounter the winds and storms that are ahead.

Fresh from Law School and full of contracts, wills, constitu-
tional law, etc., I got a job with a firm whose practice dealt al-
most exclusively with tort claims against insurance companies.
Five years of beating off the chiselers and cheaters born of the
Massachusetts Automobile Compulsory Insurance Law was
enough, and I moved to a firm having a very general practice. In
1941 I decided to go in for myself with a local office in Concord
and had hardly time to put up my shingle before the Japs hit
Pearl Harbor. As was the case with so many lawyers, the Air
Corps didn’t treat me as a lawyer but sent me to the Aleutians as
an intelligence officer. After a year on a remote island, the Kiska
and Attu campaign having been terminated, I was brought back
to Wright Field where I became a swivel-chair soldier — and

[651 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

liked it, with my family to go home to every night. I couldn’t
wait to return to New England, however, even though I had no
job awaiting me and no practice being nourished for me. Four
years on my own after the war were most enjoyable even though
a strain on my time, patience, and pocket-book.

In 1949 I was offered what appeared and has proved to be a
most interesting opportunity to return to the academic fold, nor
into its midst as a scholar but to its fringe to enjoy its feel and
aroma. I am now what one member of the Harvard Corporation
calls a tame lawyer. As recording secretary of the University and
assistant secretary to the Corporation, my duties are many and
varied but can best be described as concerned with the estates,
trusts, and gifts which come to Harvard from her loyal sons and
friends; if you'll pay me a visit there is a good chance I can show
you how to save some taxes.

I feel that these twenty-five years have been most generous in
providing me with my full share of family, friends, and experi-
ences—and not forgetting the opportunity to work again in
close association with the Harvard we all love and respect.

SIMON KRIXTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1359 Massachusetts Ave. S. E., Washington 3, D. C.

orFice appress: U. S. Dept. of the Army, Office of the Quartermaster
General, Second and T Streets, S. W., Washington 25, D. C.

BorN: Feb, 20, 1904, Olita, Lithuania. parents: Aaron Krixtei, Anna
Levinson.

PREPARED AT: European high school.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: 8.8. cum laude, 1929; A.M., 1931.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Economist or statistician, federal government service.

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “War and Federal Employment,” article in Monthly Labor
Review, U. S. Dept. of Labor, August, 1942.

AFTER I graduated from Harvard College in 1929, I took some
more graduate work at the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences in 1929-1931 and 1932-1933. In 1934 I went to Wash-
ington, D. C., where I have been employed by the federal govern-
ment ever since, except for the short period of 1938-1939, when
I returned to Harvard to take some more graduate work in eco-

[ 652]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nomics and statistics. During 1934-1938, while employed by the
federal government in Washington, D. C., I also took special
courses in economics and statistics at the Graduate School of the
Department of Agriculture and American University.

During my employ with the federal government I have also had
three overseas assignments in Germany, China, and Japan. Fol-
lowing is a list of the federal agencies with which I served, periods
served, and positions held:

1. U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1934-1938, statistician

2. Work Projects Administration, 1939-1940, project super-
visor

3. U.S. Civil Service Commission, 1940-1943, associate statis-
tician

4. War Production Board, 1943-1944, economic editor

5. War Assets Administration, 1944-1946, economic analyst

6. American Military Government in Germany, Public Safety
Division, 1946-1948, chief of Statistics Branch

7. Economic Codperation Administration Mission in China,
1948, assistant economic commissioner attaché, chief of Statistics
Division

8. U.S. Department of the Air Force, Air Materiel Command,
1949-1950, organization and methods examiner

9. U.S. Department of the Navy, Office of Naval Materiel,
1950-1951, economic statistician

10. Wage Stabilization Board, 1951 (three months), super-
visory statistician

11. Headquarters, Far East Command in Japan, 1951-1952,
price economist

12. U.S. Department of the Army, Office of the Quartermas-
ter General, since 1952, analytical statistician.

DON ROBERT KROELL

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Crescent Rd. Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 St. James Ave., Boston 16, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 4, 1905, Louisville, Ky. parents: Oscar Robert Kroell, Pearl Kaley.
PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN. 1930.

[ 653 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

atarriep: Geraldine C. Totman, Oct. 3, 1931, Boston, Mass. cup: Paulin
Louise, March 7, 1936.

occuparios: Marketer, Boston Division, Gulf Oil Corporation,

MEMBER OF: William Parkman Lodge, F. & A.M., Winchester; University
Club, Boston; Harvard Club, Eastern Middlesex.

IN the twenty-five years since leaving Harvard, I have been most
fortunate in having happiness in my family life, with interest,
sumulation, and satisfaction in my work. Even the depression
years of 1930-1931, while interrupting my career in Virginia by
terminating my job, gave me the opportunity to return to Boston
to resume my courting at first hand while working as a switch-
board operator in a power plant. I returned to Virginia in the
summer of 1931, my former employers deciding they did have a
place for me. I married the girl from Boston in the fall of 1931
and lived in Virginia until 1936 when our daughter was born and
I changed my work and employer and we all returned to Boston.
By this time, we included not only myself, wife, and daughter,
but two large dogs, one of which was an excellent bird dog and
a source of pleasure on frequent hunting trips with my father.

Since 1936 we have lived in Winchester and I have travelled
throughout New England for Gulf Oil Corporation as lubrication
engineer until three years ago when I took over a desk job with
much less travelling but more headaches, being responsible for the
sale of petroleum products to the industrial, commercial, and
transportation markets. We have enjoyed New England, spend-
ing as much time as possible at our camp on Lake Ossipee, New
Hampshire, both winter and summer, with an occasional hunting
or fishing trip to Maine.

Our social life and needs have not been demanding, revolving
around the Winchester Unitarian Church in which we have been
moderately active, and, also, school parent organizations. Re-
modelling and redecorating our home and camp, much of which
we have done ourselves, have left us little time in which to be
bored. Add to this the necessary work to keep a boat and out-
board motor in shape, as well as miscellaneous fishing tackle and
guns, some reading, and just relaxing, and our time is well taken
up. In looking back, I think it has been a good twenty-five years,
and in spite of the troubled condition of the world, I look forward
with anticipation and optimism to the next twenty-five.

[ 654 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IRVING ROBINSON KUMIN

HOME ADDRESS: 413-B S. Spalding Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 211 S. Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

BoRN: March 29, 1908, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Kumin, Ida Robin-
son.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929, M.B.A. cum laude,

1931.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Artists’ manager, Irving Kumin Agency.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Harvard Business School
Club; Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.

AS a persistent but far from dedicated bachelor, it sometimes
seems to me that my worst problem of the last twenty-five years
has been the one of getting married. I’ve wanted to, I’ve meant to,
[ve been earnestly urged to the step by my relatives and friends,
and I can’t honestly plead to being too busy; but somehow I
never managed to join the great majority. About the only excuse
I can offer is show business, or, as Abel Green and Variety have
it, show biz. Occasionally I think I have, at one time or another,
seen most of the beautiful girls of my, and succeeding, genera-
tions. They bedazzle me, they enchant me, I like ’em every last
one — but only if they can act as well as look decorative. And
thus far Pve been incapable of choosing from such an array of
charming creatures, assuming that any of them would choose me.
They all appear, sooner or later, to gravitate to Hollywood.
When I entered Harvard Business School in September, 1929,
Thad planned to specialize in finance. If you can remember those
dear, dead days, you will recall that everybody intended to go
into a local brokerage office. So did I. But I can be truthful
in saying that even before the bottom fell out of things I was
no longer a potential financier. I was reading far more theatre
programs than quotations on the big board; when I went to New
York it was to Broadway, not Wall Street; and I always seemed
to be picking up a good deal more information on box offices
than brokers’ offices. In October, 1929, a motion picture execu-
‘tive spoke at the Business School on the wonders and delights
‘(and failed to mention the dangers) of the film industry. Then
and there I decided that this was the kind of financing for me.

[ 655 ]

sen bata.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

A couple of years later, w ith a lot of correspondence and many
a trip to New "York behind me, I was offered a job by a major
independent producer in Hollywood. What U.S. Steel did after
that was no concern to me. I went off to southern California and,
without much exaggeration, lived happily ever after. Since that
covered-wagon period I have been a story assistant, a production
assistant, talent scout, and casting director and talent executive
with Warner Bros, Studio. Recently I have been with Cagney
Productions as overseer of talent and general factotum.

There was a hiatus in 1942, shortly after Pearl Harbor. The
Air Force decided it could use me, and I went to Officers’ Train-
ing School in Florida. Although I expected the usual service
career, my unorthodox background soon took charge and I was
assigned to a special film unit organized at the personal instigation
of General Hap Arnold. Presently I found myself casting and
making Air Force films with a pair of bars on my shoulders. It
was as though I had never left home!

About a year ago I took stock of myself and decided that
since I retained an undiminished affection for the entertainment
business and its people for two decades, I'd better try working
for myself instead of a corporation, The brave new world of
television looked as if it would offer more challenges and more
fun, and I was beginning to yearn for a degree of personal free-
dom. So I became an artists’ manager — which is fine language
for being an agent. I don’t feel I have failed the Business School
entirely for I am now a sort of broker in actors and actresses,
writers, composers, directors, and anybody else who has that
fascinating thing, that intangible called talent, for sale. In addi-
tion I represent various literary works and have connections in
New York and abroad.

I live in a quiet apartment in Beverly Hills and rarely manage
to see it except in the early hours of the night; somehow I con-
trive to work fourteen hours a day, often seven days a week, and
thrive on it. As far as possible, I try to remain active in commu-
nity, religious, and philanthropic organizations. One of my spe-
cial interests is the Big Brothers Association.

Politically, 1 suppose 'm an open-minded conservative, or
maybe I’m simply a benched liberal — which is fairly common in

these times! As for hobbies, Iam one of those satisfied individuals

[ 656 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

whose work fills his life. The fascinations of my line have never
deserted me, especially in that branch which concerns the finding
of new stars. A few times I have had the luck and persistence
necessary to discover a great new personality, and I think noth-
ing is quite so exciting as secing somebody who might have
blushed unseen rise and shine under proper guidance. Perhaps
I'd better close on Irving Berlin’s famous note. It’s quite true —
there’s no business like show business.

MAURICE KURN

HOME appREss: 24 Washington Rd., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 134 Ferry St., Springfield, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 8, 1908, Somerville, Mass. parents: Isaac Kurnitsky, Ida Beatrice

Barowsky.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, 1928-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929 (30).

MarRIED: Carolyn J. Prowler, June 14, 1936, Springfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
’ Inez B., Jan. 19, 1937; David, Dec. 14, 1939.

OCCUPATION: President, Springfield Paper Stock Corporation, paper mill
supplies, packing specialties. |
OFFICES HELD: President, Jewish Community Center, 1948-50, Jewish Com-

munity Council, 1952-53; League for Labor Palestine, 1938-40.
MEMBER OF: B’nai B'rith; Jewish Welfare Board; United Fund of Springfield.

IN trying to recall the highlights of my twenty-five years since
graduation, I can only describe certain phases, such as:

Phase 1, 1929-1936: This was probably the most refreshing
period of my postgraduate life. The depression made day-to-day
living hazardous, and I found compensations in the skills and
interests which I had developed at Harvard. I captained our local
Y.M.C.A. wrestling team, played around in amateur theatricals,
studied the violin, drank beer and gin, and played the field — but
carefully avoided matrimony. I joined several organizations, Zion-
ist and social, edited and contributed to various local publications,
and gained recognition as the only person in my community who
could use the semi-colon correctly. My attempts at national
recognition were failures, and I still hold the rejection slips from
the New Yorker and the Satevepost. I never forgave these two
publications for having failed to recognize the ogdenashian over-

[ 557 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

tones in such quips as “A schlitz in steins saves dimes!” or “Sobri-

ety is the mother of conv entions!”

Phase 2, June 14, 1936-1944: This expanding period of my life
began with my marriage to a local practising optometrist, and
from this union there were two: Inez, now sixteen, and David
thirteen. Both had the usual allergies and sibling rivalries, and
having been brought up,along progressive educational lines, they
both have become independent-thinking, democratic, socially
adaptable, and articulate; but neither one can spell worth a damn
nor add beyond his meager allowance.

During these pre-war and war years, my wife and I found our
chief interest and joy in our Zionist activities, especially in helping
that phase of Palestine’s coéperative development which contrib-
uted so greatly towards its national growth and emergence into
statehood. On the home front it was my wife who contributed
most directly to the war effort by helping scores of cadets im-
prove their visual acuity through orthoptic training.

Phase 3, 1945-1950: This period was most gratifying and ex-
citing. My wife and I joined the Wallace forces, and in spite of
name-calling I can truly say that at no other time had I been so
exhilarated with politics and found such satisfaction in being in-
volved in a crusade for economic democracy.

In 1949, after Israel had been granted statehood, I took my fam-
ily there for a visit to see at first hand the results of thirty years of
painstaking nation-building. We were thrilled with the little
state—to the point of sending our children there for a year’s
work and study in a codperative farming community. My wife
went along with them — did public relations for an investment
company. I remained here, sent food packages to augment their
food allotments — and daily letters to keep up their morale.

Following this interesting but costly experiment we settled
down, my daughter to study for her college boards; my son to in-
vestigate further the developing field of inter-stellar space travel;
my wife to enjoy the homely pleasures of domesticity (having re-
tired professionally several years before); and I to the thankless
job of providing the wherewithal to send my kids to college and
to replenish the lowly estate of my cash reserve.

Phase 4, 1950-2: These past few years are too close for retro-
spection — but my future holds promise of a much better golf

[ 658 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

score. I wish I could be as hopeful for peace. Retirement is much
farther away than I would like to think. Work has become tough,
competition keen, and life rather grim. But ah! the challenge!

VICTOR KWONGLEE KWONG

HOME ADDRESS: 420 E. 23rd St., New York 10, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: United Nations, Trusteeship Dept., New York, N. Y.
BORN: Nov. 29, 1906, Cairns, Queensland, Australia. parents: Sue Duk Kwong,

Wong Shee.

PREPARED AT: Scotch College, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929, DEGREE: S.B, (Boston Univ.), 1931,

MarRIED: Nui Bo Tang, Sept. 29, 1938, Phoenix, Ariz.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kwang Lim Kwong, M.B.A., ’21.

occuPATION: Executive officer, Department of Trusteeship and Information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories, United Nations.

MEMBER OF: Chinese Club, Hong Kong; Commonwealth Club, San Francisco.

BY and large, the story of my activities since leaving Cambridge is
a reflection of the fortunes, with all their ups and downs, of
China and the Chinese people over the last twenty-five years.
Having succumbed to the lure of California, I hied myself to San
Francisco where, for a little over three years, I tried my hand
successively at the following: Chinatown columnist on the San
Francisco Bulletin, English secretary of the Chinese Nationalist
Party and foreign news editor of its organ, The Young China,
and public lecturer on China and the Far East. I found the life
in California most interesting and challenging although, as a non-
Caucasian, I had to keep my eyes open in order to avoid stepping
into certain situations which could have proved to be embar-
rassing.

On hearing of my mother’s failing health, I returned to Hong
Kong in September, 1932, determined to spend as much time with
her as possible in order to make up for the ten long years of
separation. Though Hong Kong ranked as one of the world’s
largest ports, the opportunities for jobs were few. I took what-
ever offered: office assistant for six months with the National
Carbon Company (Eveready flashlights), then credit investigator
for six months with the Chase Bank. On both occasions, I had the
misfortune of working under individuals whose ideas of “white

[ 659 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Special Committee on the Balkans with headquarters in Athens,
Greece. I have also re-visited Hong Kong once (1950).

As for my hobbies, they are reading (mostly on international
affairs), motoring to the mountains, poker, bridge, and going to
the movies (enjoy especially historical movies). As for my con-
victions, I do have some but the less said the better, although I
cannot close this without at least observing, in regard to the inter-
national scene, “What a mess! What missed opportunities! But
withal what a compelling challenge!”

EDGAR WARD LaDUE

HOME apprEss: 767 Boulevard, Westfield, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 256 South Ave., Fanwood, N. J.

BorN: May 10, 1906, East Fishkill, Dutchess County, N. Y. PARENTs: William
Ward LaDue, Luella Moore Shaw.

PREPARED AT: Beacon High School, Beacon, N. Y.; Public Latin School, Bos-
ton, Nfass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marRiED: Mildred Elizabeth Martin, Sept. 6, 1932, Philadelphia, Pa. cxui-
preN: Ruth Marie, Nov. 14, 1936; Stephen Edgar, Nov. 22, 1942.

occupation: Real estate and insurance, H. Clay Friedrichs, Inc., specific
emphasis on fire and casualty insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Westfield Codp, 1946-48, troop chairman, Troop
173, Boy Scouts of America; sponsor, 1944-47, institutional representa-
tive, 1947-51, Lincoln Grammar School, Westfield; Sunday school
teacher, Presbyterian Church, junior grades, since 1950.

SHORTLY after graduation, with high hopes, I joined the Penn-
sylvania Railroad in its real estate and taxation department in
Philadelphia. My job was to work up tax appeal data for the con-
stituent roads of the P.R.R. system; then the deluge. So instead
of a big increase, I received a larger decrease in pay. I hung on
until July, 1938, then left that employ for greener fields. In 1940
I became associated with the Bethlehem Steel Corporation in
Staten Island which concentrated on building destroyers. Aprés
la guerre, 1 tied up with H, Clay Friedrichs, Inc., in real estate
and insurance, where I am now vice-president in charge of insur-
ance and the office. Cest fini.

{ 662 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT ARTHUR LAMONT

HOME ADDRESS: 715 Shady Lane, Mt. Lebanon, Pittsburgh 34, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 439 Sixth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1905, Shrewsbury, Mass. parents: Alexander Lamont, Mary
Margaret Morrison.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrieD: Alberta Goold Batchelder, July 23, 1938, Wenham, Mass. cm-
DREN: Sandra Batchelder, Oct. 4, 1940; Alexander, 2d, Aug. 20, 1943.

occupaTion: Manager, plastic products, Jones and Brown, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of managers, City Square Branch, Boston,
1936-41, San Francisco, 1941-45, Army and Navy Y.M.C.A.; chairman,
Scouting Program, Sunset Hills, Mt. Lebanon; elder, Sunset Hills U.P.
Church.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston (formerly); Harvard, Yale, Princeton
Club of Pittsburgh.

AS with all aspiring young hopefuls out of Harvard, my first con-
tact with the business world was in the investment business in
Boston in October of 1929; out in October, 1930 — not a very
successful start. However, after odd jobs during 1930, I returned
to the investment business again in October of 1931. I managed
to make a living at this business until October of 1937. At that
time I switched to the casualty insurance business. This proved
to be, if not as interesting, at least more profitable, as after one
year I was in a position to take on the responsibilities of marriage
— in 1938. In 1940, looking for broader fields, I accepted a trans-
fer to California, where my family and I spent five very pleasant,
if not exciting, years. We came back to Boston in 1945, and then
transferred to Pittsburgh, which at that time was known as the
smoky city. In 1946 I became interested in the plastics business
and left behind sixteen years of experience in finance and insur-
ance. If history repeats, I am about due for another change to
another type of business. However, this ‘will probably not take
place as the plastics industry is still in its infancy and it is my
present plan to age with it.

Transferring around the country and frequent travel which my
job requires have limited my civic and social activities. However,
I have still found time during the past twenty-five years to devote
a considerable amount of time to Y.M.C.A.- work, particularly

[ 663 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

with the Army and Navy and, at the present time, with the Boy
Scouts of America. My chief problem, outside of business, at the
present time, is to convince my son, who is probably affected by
the fact that he was born in California, that he shouldn’t plan to
go to Yale, as I should like him to have an education.

JAMES ANDRE LAMPHIER

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Church St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 47 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 15, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Andrew Joseph Lamphier,

Margaret Clougherty.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton Preparatory School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1929(30); M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935.

marrieD: Anne Fischer Nosworthy, June 21, 1941, Bronxville, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Jean, Nov. 19, 1942; Anne, Feb. 25, 1947; Gail, Sept. 11, 1949; Andre,
April 5, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Timothy André Lamphier, ’37.

occupation: Physician, specializing in gynecology and obstetrics,

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in gynecology and obstetrics, Tufts College Medical
School, since 1946; instructor in gynecology, since 1947, lecturer,
gynecological endocrinology, third-year elective course, Boston Univer-
sity School of Medicine, associate gynecologist and obstetrician, Massa-
chusetts Memorial Hospitals; visiting surgeon, New England Medical
Center; visiting gynecologist and obstetrician, Booth Memorial Hospital,
consultant, Symmes-Arlington Hospital; consultant in gynecology,
Central Hospital, Otis General Hospital, staff, Winchester Hospital;
commander, U. §. Naval Reserve.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (diplomate);
American College of Surgeons (fellow); International College of
Surgeons (fellow); American Association of Obstetrics and Gynecology
(fellow); New England Obstetrical and Gynecological Society (fel-
low); Massachusetts Medical Society (fellow); Association of Military
Surgeons of the United States (fellow); American Society of Anes-
thetists (fellow); American Medical Association (fellow); U.S, Naval
Reserve Officers; American Legion, U. S. Veterans of Foreign Wars;
Harvard Club of Boston; Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company
of Boston.

IT was with deep disappointment and frustration following gradu-
tion that I became aware that I would not be able to attend Med-
ical School because of the financial depression which was the
common lot of most of us in 1929. I tried to console and convince

[ 664 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

myself at the time it was not my destiny to study medicine and
that I should pursue some other line of endeavor. Having no goal
in mind other than to get a job and earn a buck, I applied to the
Harvard employment agency. Here I was given an aptitude test
to determine what I might be useful for after four years of College
education. My field of concentration had been biology and psy-
chology and I felt this interrogation which was conducted by a
member of the class of ’28 to be ridiculous rot. I disdainfully in-
formed my interrogator that I could do a better job than he and
asked what influence he had at the College to get his present job.
Through this agency I became associated with the National Tube
Company, a subsidiary of the United States Steel Corporation.
During a year’s employment as a glorified office boy I learned to
price steel pipe in carload lots. Business was lousy. It gave me
plenty of time to think and ponder what it’s all about. “We're
born to die and don’t know why,” and I was getting nowhere
fast. I became acutely aware of the small part one plays in a large
corporation. There is always a boss and one’s thinking is con-
fined. This convinced me I was an individualist and this made
me more determined than ever that I must go to medical school.

In 1931 I matriculated at Tufts Medical School from which I
graduated in 1935. During this time I financed my tuition by loans
and working nights at the Boston City Hospital, a position ob-
tained through the Honorable James Michael Curley, without po-
litical pull. The job paid $12.50 per week with two meals thrown
in, for which I shall always be grateful to his Honor. Working
nights and attending medical school days I found most gruelling
as I could have used the time for study. As I look back I do not
get that so-called sense of self-satisfaction that some individuals
feel one must get after such an experience.

During 1935-36 I served an internship at the Memorial Hospi-
tal, Pawtucket, Rhode Island, and afterwards was an assistant
resident at the Boston City Hospital. I decided to specialize in
obstetrics and gynecology (female surgery) and served a four-
and-a-half year residency at the Long Island College Hospital,
Brooklyn, New York. The last two years here I received $22.50
per month from the Long Island College Medical School as an as-
sistant instructor. Until this time I had received no financial re-
muneration, only meals, lodging, and six white uniforms each year.

[ 665 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

In the past few years I am pleased to report this unfair exploita-
tion of interns has been improved and now they receive a small
stipend so they can buy a pack of cigarettes and go to a movie
occasionally.

Following this five and a half years of hospital work I took the
qualification examinations for specialists in obstetrics and gyne-
cology. I was disappointed and chagrined when I was informed
I had flunked the examination. As I felt this was unfair and unjust
I sent a sharp letter to the qualification board and demanded a
reconsideration of my examination. Although I felt this would
do no good, to my astonishment I received the good news that on
reconsideration they were pleased to congratulate me on passing
my examination. I asked no further questions as to how or why.

In 1940 I left New York and returned to Boston to do private
practice. It was also in 1940 that I had the rare good fortune to
meet a beautiful New Yorker, Miss Anne Nosworthy of Bronx-
ville, daughter of T. Arthur Nosworthy, president of the Bronx
Savings Bank of New York. After informing her of my im-
poverished condition and the struggle that lay ahead for a young
doctor, she decided to take a chance and string along with me.
We have since been blessed with four wonderful kids and have
a happy home life.

In 1944 I went on active duty in the Navy, served five years, of
which two were as chief of surgery, U. S. Naval Hospital, Balboa,
Canal Zone, with rank of commander. In 1946 I resumed private
practice and clinical teaching on the faculty of two Boston medical
schools.

These past twenty-five years have mellowed my outlook some-
what but not stifled my ambitions. At times I know I have
thrown sand in my own path. It has been difficult for me to ac-
cept that it is not always ability that makes for success and that
most individuals do not appreciate frank honesty. Yet, knowing
this and accepting it, has not altered my own views. I shall con-
tinue always to be honest with myself and expect to give that
same honesty to my fellow man.

[ 666 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAROLD LAMPORT

HOME aApprEss: “Juniper Hill,” Westport, Conn.

‘OFFICE ADDRESS: Yale Medical School, New Haven, Conn.

BORN: Feb. 16, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Arthur Matthew Lamport,
Sara Payson,

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1929; M.D. (Columbia
Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Golden R. Siwek, March 27, 1933, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Anthony Matthew, Dec. 8, 1935; Stephanie Payson, Jan. 6, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Anthony Matthew Lamport, ’57.

occuPATION: Research associate in physiology, Yale University School of
Medicine.

MEMBER oF: American Physiological Society; Society of Rheology; New
York Academy of Medicine; Sigma Xi; Harmonie Club; Bankers Club
of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Various scientific papers in physiology.

AT college I planned to be a mathematical physicist and so in
‘1928 I went to Harvard summer school and also the Berlitz School
to “save” a year (can you ever save time?) and to learn enough
German so that I should not flounder too long in Germany, at
Gottingen, where Nobelist Max Born was the great luminary.
There, during 1928-1929, I met German medical students excited
over their first contact with Freud’s great discoveries. At Har-
vard, Freud had been disposed of by our MacDougall in a foot-
note and a few sarcastic comments.

It was not long before I changed my mind — this was for me.
A quick return to the U.S.A. followed; there I found that I had
to become a physician first if I were to be a proper psychoanalyst.
That meant another year of pre-medical study at Columbia, four
more at Columbia Medical School, a two-year general medical in-
ternship, which brought me to 1937. By then, along the way, I
had become happily married, had two children, and had been
psychoanalyzed. The upshot was I discovered that psychoanalysis
was really not for me. Instead, ever since, I have been applying
the physics and mathematics I learned from our Alma Mater to
problems in physiology and medicine. Today, I am still doing this
at that college in New Haven.

During the war I worked on research problems of military med-
icine, One of them was quite gory, how to kill more effectively:

[ 667 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

what size missile, with what size fragmentation, at what initial
velocity would do the most harm (the most good, we said). An-
other problem I worked on was the prevention of black-out in
aviators making fast turns. I invented the pneumatic-lever, a new
method of applying pressure to any convex surface like the human
body. It is now the basis for the high-altitude and anti-G suits
adopted by our Air Force,

The old school tie, I am afraid, never fit me well. I suppose the
only reason I have written this is because my son, Anthony, is
now a freshman at Harvard, and I want to set him a better exam-
ple of Class spirit than really animates me.

ROY LAMSON, JR.

HOME apprEss: Bulkley Street, Williamstown, Mass.
orFice appress: Williams College, Williamstown, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1908, New Haven, Conn. parents: Roy Lamson, Anna Stasia
Mahoney.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. Cu7 laude, 1929; A.Ms 1930; PH.D.
1936.

MaRRIED: Margaret Friedlander, June 17, 1933. CHILDREN: Patricia, Aug. 15,
1936; David, April 29, 1939.

occupation: Professor of English, Williams College.

SINCE the Report for our Twentieth Anniversary, I have con-
tinued my teaching at Williams College except for a two-and-a-
half-year period of active military duty in Paris. On my return to
Williams in 1946 1 was appointed associate professor of English
and curator of the Paul Whiteman Collection. I also served as
secretary of the faculty from 1948 to 1951. During this period I
spent part of two summers in Washington as acting chief historian
and as deputy chief historian of the U. S. Army.

I was promoted to professor of English in 1950, and in January,
1951, was recalled to active duty as historian of SHAPE (Supreme
Headquarters Allied Powers Europe) which General Eisenhower
was just setting up in Paris. I served in this capacity and as a
staff adviser to Generals Eisenhower, Ridgway, and Gruenther
until August, 1953, when I returned to Williams again. During
my work at SHAPE our family lived in Paris, and my son and

[ 668 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

daughter attended French schools. Patricia, now seventeen, is at
National Cathedral School, and David, fourteen, is in Andover.
My wife, who has written a novel and several plays, is now suc-
cumbing to television. I am a member of the Modern Language
Association of America and the Council on Foreign Relations, and
the U. S. Army Reserve with the rank of lieutenant colonel.

JOHN JOSEPH LANAHAN

HOME ADDRESS: 522 Elm St., Westfield, N. J.

OFFICE appREsS: New Jersey Bell Telephone Co., 540 Broad St., Newark, N. J.

BorN: Oct. 4, 1906, Philadelphia, Pa, parents: Joseph Edward Lanahan, Mary
Irene Gleason. .

PREPARED AT: Rutland High School, Rutland, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1920.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Engineer.

I SPENT thirty-eight months in the Army, including twenty-
eight months in the Southwest Pacific, with assorted fruit as a by-
product. My hobby is bridge. I will not be present at our T'wen-
ty-fifth Anniversary Reunion and thereby hangs a tale:

Harvard was the last of three colleges which I attended. In
the other two, both major institutions, I was Class of 1928 and I
was exposed, therefore, to their Twenty-fifth Anniversary Re-
union activities just one year ago. It’s been quite a thing —I’ve
been deluged with mail, telephone calls, and personal visits, despite
the fact that I have indicated early in the game in each case that
I was strictly a non-participant. My loyalties are too diffused to
have much for any one of my Almae Matri and the Class can save
postage by striking me from the mailing list, aside from the forth-
" coming Twenty-fifth Anniversary publication, to which I intend
to contribute financially.

Let me say that I’m proud of Harvard —I was never more in-
tellectually alive than in the two years I spent there and I was
deeply impressed by such men as Irving Babbitt, Kittredge,
Lowes, Robinson, and so on in a long list of outstanding scholars
and teachers. It seemed to me at the time, and still appears to me,
to be the finest academic environment in the Western Hemi-
sphere. Gauged by the Alumni, the effect is as penetrating as

[ 669 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

water on a duck’s back. How the hell do you distinguish between
a Harvard man and the usual Madison Avenue advertising man?
Our boy may have a slightly keener appreciation of the nuances
of the language, but the dreary economic, moral, and political
values are the same. I’m convinced that somewhere in the back-
ground there’s a mould operating, stamping them out like coins
froma mint. Let me tell an illustrative anecdote gleaned from one
of my few attempts to mix in with Alumni groups. The occasion
was a dinner of the New Jersey Harvard Club —a largely at-
tended affair to which a recent and typical Yale graduate had been
invited. The toastmaster introduced him with appropriate face-
tiousness and, after the laughter died down, the guest retali-
ated by saying that whatever criticism could be directed against
Yale, at least it had never been guilty of putting a man in the
White House.

Need I say that F.D.R. was then President or that the joint
rocked with hilarity? It went on for minutes — Yale had scored
a good one. The point about this story is the complete assurance
of the speaker that we were all of one mind on a highly contro-
versial figure in public life. I am not and was not then a Roose-
velt partisan — in fact, I never voted for him, but I flatter myself
that I could view him objectively. When a whole group can be
typed like this, the Class society is with us, with the distinction
that the better group offers a shoddy comparison with the aristo-
cratic classes of other societies.

In short, Harvard is there to teach men to think with their
minds and not their bellies. I venture to predict that, from the
biographies that will appear in this volume, a reasonably acute ob-
server will be able to determine the size of the saving remnant
and, therefore, the degree to which Harvard has succeeded,

SAMUEL LANDAU

HOME ApprEess: 2001 Ualakaa St., Honolulu, Hawaii,
orrice appress: 301 McCandless Bldg., Honolulu 13, Hawaii.

Born: Aug. 23, 1907, La Chaux de Fonds, Switzerland. parents: Joseph
Landau, Helen Lovell.

PuLPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B 1929; LL.B., 1932,

[ 670 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Ann Levy, March 18, 1933, Pawtucket, R. L cupren: Judith,
Dec. 11, 1936; Stephen Richard, July 13, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Irving Isaac Landau, ’28.

occupaTioN: Lawyer, general practice, Landau & Fairbanks.

THE story of my adult life (in a very condensed form) begins,
as it should, when I married on March 18, 1933, the girl with
whom Id fallen in love before I entered the Law School. It had
been my hope, after being admitted to practise law in Massachu-
setts, to restore the legal profession to its previous lofty standing
in the community. This hope and ambition having gone un-
noticed and unappreciated, I decided in the fall of 1935 to heed
the admonition of Horace Greeley. I went as far west as possible,
arriving in Honolulu, Hawaii, on October 22, 1935. Though I
was unable to take the local bar examination, not having had the
one-year residency required, I was admitted to practise in the fed-
eral court. I'wo days later, on November 4, 1935, I was ap-
pointed, without pay of course, by one of the federal judges to
defend a young man charged jointly with another defendant.
This was my first appearance in a trial in a federal court, and my
first criminal jury trial. The only satisfaction I received, after
the jury found them both guilty, was that my client received a
lesser sentence than the other defendant who was being repre-
sented, with pay, by an older and much more experienced at-
torney of considerable local repute. This was my initiation to
the practice of law in this very friendly community and my intro-
duction to the people, for the case had some local prominence
and it was rather much of an experience to see my name in print
in the news reports.

A week after my arrival, I had become associated with Fred
Patterson, a very capable and experienced attorney and my associ-
ation continued until December 6, 1941. In 1938 I had considered
myself fortunate in obtaining the only vacant reserve commission
in the judge advocate general’s department available in this area.
December 7, 1941, I reported for active duty as captain, JAGD.
I don’t think my wife and children will ever forgive me for leav-
ing them during those trying days without waiting for orders. A
few months later I was assigned as staff judge advocate for the
Hawaiian Anti-Aircraft Artillery Command, a newly organized
unit. Fortunately, the position called for a lieutenant colonel, and

[671 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Cairo High School, Cairo, Hl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927. DEGREE: LL.B. (Univ. of Illinois), 1931.

MARRIED: Virginia Wilson Cheshire, June 1, 1935, Hickman, Ky. CHILDREN:
Peter Thomas, 3d, April 25, 1936; Linda Wilson, Sept. 17, 1942.

OccUPATION: Lawyer, government.

MEMBER OF: Kex Club; Phi Kappa Psi; Phi Delta Phi; Masons; American
Bar Association; Illinois Bar Association.

I GRADUATED from the University of Illinois Law School,
was admitted to the Illinois Bar and started practising at Cairo,
Illinois, in 1931. In 1932 I ran for states attorney in the Repub-
lican primary and lost in a close race. In 1934, without solicita-
uon, I was offered a legal job with the National Recovery Ad-
ministration, After that folded I accepted a job with the Social
Security Board as field attorney at Chicago, Illinois. The Social
Security Board became a part of the Federal Security Agency in
1939 and in 1953 became the Department of Health, Education
and Welfare. In 1941 I came to Denver as assistant regional at-
torney and have remained in that capacity until the present time.
The Denver region covers the states of Wyoming, Montana,
Idaho, Utah, and Colorado. The constituent units of the Depart-
ment are the Public Health Service, the Social Security Adminis-
tration (including Public Assistance, Aid to the Blind, and Aid to
Dependent Children, Old Age and Survivors’ Insurance, Chil-
dren’s Bureau, and Federal Credit Unions), Vocational Rehabilita-
tion, Food and Drug Administration, and the Department o! of Edu-
cation.

My most recent thrill was having my son, who is seventeen and
six-feet-two but who weighs only 155 pounds, chosen as All
City left end by both of Denver’s newspapers and the TV audi-
ence. His team won their forty-fourth consecutive city league
game and the fifth straight city title. He hasn’t decided as yet
where he will go to college.

SAMUEL WALTER ROSS LANGDON, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 1510 44th St., N. W., Washington 7, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 S. La Salle St., Chicago 3, Ill.

BORN: Jan, 8, 1908, Stockton, Calif. parents: Samuel Walter Ross Langdon,
97, Mary Eva Root.

paepakep at: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif,

[ 674 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 19293 LL.B., 1932.
marrieD: Caroline Driscoll, Dec. 31, 1932, New York, N. ¥. comp: Elizabeth
' Driscoll, July 29, 1940.

occuPATION: Lawyer; program counsel, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department
of the Interior.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Bar Association; Illinois
State Bar Association; New Mexico Bar Association; Chicago Bar
Association; Federal Bar Association; Legal Club, Chicago; Harvard
Club of Washington, D. C.

AFTER graduation from Harvard Law School in 1932 a job in
my profession was hard to obtain. Eventually, thirteen months
after graduation from Law School, I was employed as a clerk by
a law firm in Chicago, for which I worked for four years in gen-
eral practice. Thereafter, in the summer of 1937, I established my
own practice which continued until World War II was under way.
My practice was general in nature but primarily dealt with prop-
erty rights. During this period I was moderately active in Bar
Association committee work, including a brief term on the Griev-
ance Committee — a quasi-judicial function involving disciplinary
actions against fellow lawyers.

In October, 1942, I was commissioned a first lieutenant in the
Army Specialists Corps and assigned to the Air Force to draft
contracts at Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio. Several members of the
Class of 1929 were stationed there at the time, but life was so
hectic that during my stay we never had an opportunity to get
together en masse. The Army Specialists Corps was abolished by
executive order and I received an honorable discharge in Decem-
ber, 1942.

From that point on to the end of the war I had fascinating
work, both legal and executive. I was employed by the War
Shipping Administration which operated the United States Mer-
chant Marine. For the first year I was assistant to the general
counsel in charge of all legal matters having to do with the pay-
ment for privately owned boats of all shapes and sizes condemned
by the government for war use. The last two years I worked on
the administrative side in the Office of Fiscal and Shipping Rela-
tions, which had the responsibility for substantially all govern-
ment expenditures necessary for the Merchant Marine operation
of roughly 4,000 ships. The annual budget was in excess of three

[ 675 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

closing might I say that I have been fortunate enough to keep in
close touch with many of my classmates due to my peregrinations
throughout the United States. To those I missed I extend greetings
and hope that the next time they are in Chicago they will look
me up. |

JAMES LAWRENCE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 282 Newton St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN? Mav 30, 1907, Hyde Park, Mass. parents: James Lawrence, ’o1, Marion
Lee Peabody.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrieD: Afartina Louise Brandegee, Sept. 9, 1933, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
James, 3d, Aug. 9, 1936; Martina Lee, April 16, 1939; Edward Peabody,
Dec. 15, 1941; Robert Prescott, Feb. 14, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Endicott Lawrence, 31.

occupation: Architecture, own firm.

OFFICES HELD: President, Massachusetts State Association of Architects, since
1953, New England Opera Theater, 1946-52, English-Speaking Union,
Boston Branch, 1946-50; vice-president, Boston Society of Architects,
1950-52, Massachusetts Civic League, 1951-53; trustee, Wellesley College,
since 1946, Gardner Museum, since 1945; member Brookline Planning
Board, since 1948.

MEMBER oF: Tavern Club; Brookline Country Club; Union Boat Club;
Harvard Musical Association; American Institute of Architects; Boston
Society of Architects.

SINCE our last Class Report of 1949 (which in my view dealt
all too adequately with the first twenty years out of College) my
wife and I have had the happiness of seeing our family increased
by another son, who made his auspicious appearance in the world
on Valentine’s Day, 1950. We have also had the joy in these years
of watching our other three children grow up strong and well —
as one wishes all children might — and are looking forward this
autumn to the eventful moment when our first son enters Har-
vard.

Architectural practice continues to give great satisfaction, an
attitude shared by many, one gathers, if one is to credit a recent
survey showing more architects per capita in this region than any-
where in the country. A crowded but congenial field!

[ 678 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Outside profession and family, my interests are much what they
were five years ago. I find my political and religious outlook well
expressed in the person of Adlai Stevenson, but have no regret
that power should be in the hands of the other party for as much
as four out of every twenty-four years. I have, however, become
deeply concerned over the threat of the current hysteria to our
basic freedom, above all to that threat of our universities, and only
hope this view is widely shared by others in the Class.

In closing 1 would mention how much the crises of the past
quarter century have deepened my understanding of the one word
on Harvard’s shield — even as they have deepened my gratitude
for being among her sons.

WILLIAM HENRY LAWRENCE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: St. John’s University, Collegeville, Minn,

BORN: Jan. 22, 1908, Clarksville, Tenn. parents: William Henry Lawrence,
Sallie Neblett Lawrence.

PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; A.M. (Columbia Univ. ),
1947.

OCCUPATION: Studying for the priesthood.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant commander, officer-in-charge, Progress Section,
Naval Supply Depot, Norfolk, Va. U.S. Navy; director, Department
of Economics, Military Government Headquarters, Ryukyu Islands;
deputy director, General Affairs Division, Diplomatic Section, General
MacArthur’s Headquarters, Tokyo, Japan; assistant to vice-president,
Whitehall Pharmacal Company; assistant director, The Malayan Tin
Bureau.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City and Tokyo; American Club
of Singapore; University Club of Washington, D. C.; Harvard Musical
Association, Boston; Museum of Modern Art, New York City; Inter-
national House Association, New York; The 52 Association of New
York,

NO doubt I have the same feeling about the last twenty-five years
as many others have, in that the years have gone by so fast that it
is with a sense of shock and amazement that I am faced with giving
a summary of what I have done with the years. Most of my life
has been in business in this country. Before I graduated from
College, I was offered a position at Lever Brothers Company in
their new product work. I remained there as an advertising and

[ 679 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

theatre, and sports. I still play squash which I learned at Har-
vard, but I prefer badminton. This is probably the Malayan in-
fluence, because the Malayans are the world’s champions. In
politics, I have tried to be impartial, always voting for those who
I thought could contribute most to the problems confronting the
United States as the world’s leading nation. As for religion, after
years of searching, I have become a Catholic. For me it has been
a great inspiration and has had far-reaching effects upon my life.
I am now studying for the priesthood in the Order of St. Benedict
at St. John’s Univ ersity, Collegeville, Minnesota.

OLIVER INGRAHAM LAY

HOME ADDRESS: 2048 Flm St. Stratford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 101 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 4, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Charles Downing Lay, ’o2,
Laura B. Gill.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; B.ARCH. (Columbia Univ.),

1934.
MarRIED: Cecelia Agnes Young, March 21, 1931, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILDREN:

Darcy Laura, July 18, 1935; Charles Mahonri, Sept. 23, 1938; Daniel
Mackintosh, April 12, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Lay, °32.

occupaTion: Landscape architect, York & Sawyer.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Landscape Architects, Housatonic Boat
Club; Century Association.

ONE summer when I was still in College I took a job as office
boy in the office of York & Sawyer, architects. That is where I
have been for the past ten years. The interim found me first at
Yale, then at Columbia to get a degree in architecture. From
Columbia I progressed to the W-P.A. parks project in New York,
and in 1936 to a civil service job which I held until the beginning
of the war.

I have three children, the oldest now attending Bennington
College. My family enjoys life in Stratford, Connecticut, where
we have a huge old house, the improvement of which takes most
of my spare time after commuting. The rest is spent occasionally
sailing on Long Island Sound.

{ 682 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GORDON LOWELL LEACH

HOME AppRESS: 265 Ohio St., Elyria, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: gor Cleveland St., Elyria, Ohio.

BORN: Aug. 22, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Barton Leach, Grace
W. Wise.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

mMarRiED: Margaret E. Cook, June 12, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. cupren;
Lucy L., April 2, 1931 (mm. R. Lee Crosby, June 3, 1953); Susan G,

Aug. 11, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Barton Leach, ’21, LL.B, '24.

occuPATION: Special sales representative, sales executive, Bendix-Westing-
house Automotive Air Brake Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; St. Johns Lodge No. 1, AF. &
A.M., Boston; New England Transit Club; American Transit Associa-
tion; Chicago Bus Club; Elyria Country Club.

CALL for Winston Churchill! There must have been some things
in twenty-five years that would make my biography sound im-
pressive but darned if I can think what they are. Perhaps more
“personal papers” should have been kept but probably they
wouldn’t have looked good in print either.

Upon graduation I spent a year with the mechanical department.
of the old Boston Elevated to learn the ropes and then under the
banner of the Hunt-Spiller Manufacturing Corporation, a Boston
foundry, went to selling to the heavy duty automotive and indus-
trial trades. After twenty years of this, the lure of Mr. Greeley’s
advice developed attraction and in 1951, Elyria, Ohio, became the
base of operations for Leach Home for Women. From there, as
a special sales representative of the Bendix-Westinghouse Auto-
motive Air Brake Company, I cover the bus industry of the United
States and Canada. A quick check through the figures for the last
year for instance shows some 40,000 miles of travelling. It’s a
great big, wonderful country we live in. Interesting and varied
but not oustandingly remunerative could be the general summa-
tion of the business career.

Family-wise the ledger 1 is considerably better. Margaret Cook,
Radcliffe ’29, and I, in June of 1930, were one of the last couples
to be married in old Appleton Chapel. The bond was evidently
good because it has lasted to the present time with a remarkable
degree of enjoyment and happiness, Maturity rests lightly and

[ 683 ]

_ _ . mas ss

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

becomingly on the old girl’s silvered head. Two fine and (says
he modestly) lovely daughters have supplied figits, crossed digits,
association with a large and fluid group of young, and, it must
be added, a general feeling of well-being and satisfaction. The
elder, a graduate of Skidmore College, Class of 1952, became the
bride of R. Lee Crosby, U.S.M.A. ’53, last June. A recent phone
call provided two bits of information: (1) the lieutenant will
shortly be on his way to Korea and (2) I shall probably be a
grandfather before this is published. Whew! The younger, a
student at Skidmore, Class of 1956, in spite of, or perhaps because
of, frequent emotional disturbances caused by the opposite sex,
seems to be enjoying life to the full.

The non-productive side of life has been made up of a variety
of things. Flights into the theatre both as amateurs from the act-
ing side and professionally from the producing side, developed
associations with many of the great and near great of the enter-
tainment business and have been really great fun but financially
sad, The tendency probably got its stimulus through the Harvard
Dramatic Club. The late Charlie Leatherbee was president our
senior year and under his inspiration classmates Bart Quigley,
Johnny Morris, Kent Smith, and [ participated in the organization
of the University Players Guild — a summer stock company — on
_ Cape Cod. For five years beginning in 1946 I was one of a small
group of long-time participants in amateur dramatics who at-
temped a commercial venture of producing top-flight professional
summer stock in Brattleboro, Vermont. Ouch! Golf, tennis, and
reasonable quantities of whiskey have kept me healthy.

On the whole God has been good and life kind. We could be
richer but not happier. If the next twentyfive are not worse than

the last — I'll settle gladly.

- HENRY SABIN LEAKE

HOME appress: Route 4, Box 55, Kingston, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1909: New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Sabin Leake, Bertha
von Hornemann Munde.

PREPARED aT: Ecole Lemania, Lausanne, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928,

[ 684 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marnieD: (Princess) Gabrielle d'Harcourt de Rohan, Feb. 6, 1936, New York,
N. Y.

occurATIoN: Writer; music critic, translator; secretary to a politician.
PUBLICATIONS: Verse, short stories, articles.

BORN in New York, but a New Englander, before going to Har-
vard I had spent three years in Bavaria, eight in Switzerland, and
had travelled in France, England, and Italy. The bigness of Har-
vard, the ruthlessness of its efficiency, struck me as odd.

The motto of a university should perhaps be “Take it or leave
it.” That of Harvard was “I will give you an education whether
you will or no”; and hence the weekly tests, the prescribed read-
ing, the conferences with advisers, I had gone to Harvard without
knowing anybody, nor did I make many friends while I was there.
This I have of course regretted. But I was not unsociable; only
feeling out of the way, and missing the genial city of Lausanne,
the Lake of Geneva, and the Dent du Midi. I spent a great deal
of time in reading; and indeed it would be hard to find a library
better furnished with books and more hospitable than the Widener
Memorial Library. Reading I have ever since enjoyed: not that
knowing anything gives you social prestige or that it lends sparkle
to your conversation, but that it kills boredom. Good books
never let you down.

After leaving Harvard, I again travelled in Europe, and wrote
articles for newspapers. Returning here, I with friends founded
a magazine, The Critic. Never had I enjoyed myself more, meet-
ing interesting people, discovering what I could do, and doing
what I liked. Another agreeable event was my getting married.
My wife, who was born in France, is full of understanding and
sympathy, gay and wise, and a charming hostess; so that whenever
I return home, I can be sure of finding her interested in what I
did, of finding meals fit for a gourmet, a bottle of Burgundy, and
attractive guests.

Of politics I have the obsolete, perhaps Utopian, notion that
government is the best which governs least. Our ancestors came
here to escape tyrannies; they did not come here so that their de-
scendants should bend the knee to bureaucrats. Irresistible is the
bait of apparently getting something for nothing: free births, free
medical service, free trips, free vacations, free burials. The hook
in the bait people cannot see. Our philosophy is “Leave us alone!

[ 685 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Let George do it!” George is doing it—~ always for his profit.
In sports I like tennis, riding, skiing, mountain climbing; in games,
bridge, if it is not taken seriously, and chess, if it is.

* CHARLES CRANE LEATHERBEE

porn: Aug. 14, 1907, West Newton, Mass. parENTS: Robert William Leather-
bee, ’o5, Frances Anita Crane.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MARRIED: Mary L. Logan, 1933.

DIED: Jan. 29, 1935, New York, N. Y.

DURING his undergraduate days Leatherbee was president of
the Dramatic Club and in his junior year founded the University
Players in West Falmouth, Massachusetts, a group which put on
plays for several summers. In 1931-1932 they had a winter sea-
son at the Maryland Theatre in Baltimore. The group returned to
West Falmouth in 1932 and its name became the Theatre Unit,
Inc. In 1933 it was dissolved but, at the time of his death, Leather-
bee was reorganizing it under the name of Stage Associates in
New York. The year after he graduated he had studied the the-
atre in Russia. In addition to being a stage manager he appeared
in the following plays: “Karl and Anna,” “The Game of Love and
Death,” “By Your Leave,” and “The Pure of Heart.”

ALBERT WILLARD LEAVITT

HOME appress: 9 Whiting Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: H. P. Wood Co., 75 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

Born: Aug. 11, 1903, Parsonsfield, Maine. parents: David Willard Leavitt,
Bessie Gaylord.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

MarRiep: Lillian E, Gill, June 19, 1926, Parsonsfield, Maine. cHitprReN: D.
Willard, 2d, Dec. 2, 1927; Albert Willard, Jr., Sept. 28, 1929; George
Meredith, 1934; Lillian G,, 1936.

HARVARD son: George Meredith Leavitt, ’56.

OCCUPATION: Investment banking.

orrices HELD: Director, Towle Manufacturing Company, Springfield Gas
Company, Brockton-Taunton Gas Light Company, Lincoln Stores.

[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD B. LEAVY

HOME ADpREsS: 186 Moore Ave., Freeport, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 225 W. 34th St., New York 1, N. Y.

sorn: Feb. 8, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Gabriel B. Levy, Dora Rein-
stein.

prEPARED AT: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

marriep: Adelaide Neuburger, Dec. 11, 1936, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1946); Julie Steinberg, Feb. 22, 1950. CHILDREN: Deborah, March 5,
1951; Richard B., Jr., April 24, 1953.

occuPATION: Executive, Merchants Ladies Garment Association, Inc., trade
association.

I HAVE found my happiness.

FREDERICK BILLINGS LEE

HOME ADDRESS: RFD 1, Box 156A, McLean, Va.

oFFIcE ADDRESS: Civil Aeronautics Administration, Dept. of Commerce, 17th
Street and Constitution Avenue, Washington, D. C.

BORN: Aug. 2, 1906, Woodstock, Vt. PARENTS: Frederic Schiller Lee, Laura
Billings.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; Evans School, Tucson,
Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, DEGREES: A.B. 1929(28) 3 LL.B., 1931.

MarRigD: Jane Pillow Rightor, May 7, 1938, Helena, Ark. cHmpren: Jane
Rightor, July 4, 1939; Frederick Billings, Jr., May 9, 1941; Laura, July
19, 1944.

occupation: Administrator of civil aeronautics, government service.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Potomac School, McLean, Aero Club of Washing-
ton; director, Woodstock (Vermont) Aqueduct Company; member,
Community Organization Section on the United Community Services
of Washington, D. C.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Aeronautical Sciences; Society of Automotive En-
gineers; American Meteorological Society; Institute of Navigation,
American Polar Society, Arctic Institute of North America; Explorers
Club; Association of the Bar of the City of New York; New York
County Lawyers Association; Cosmos Club; Chevy Chase Club; Wood-
stock (Vermont) Country Club; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard
Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Washington; The Royal Aero Club
of London, England.

PUBLICATIONS: Imstrument Flight, 1943; Instrument Flight — Basic Theory @
Practice, 1943; Notes on Contact Cross-Country Flying, 1942; Charging
for Federal Airways Services (Report to the Congress), 1946; Instru-

[ 687 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

six months of enforced absence from routine led to a great change
in my life,

Up to now, I had not had time to think seriously about the
opposite sex. Now I came to see the error of my ways, and in the
spring of 1938, at the conclusion of a Yankee-courting-the-South-
ern Belle sequence, I married Jane Pillow Rightor (known as
“Pillow”) from Helena, Arkansas, which is on the Mississippi
Delta, sixty miles below Memphis.

With a wife and airplane to support, I had to get back to work,
so I quickly resumed the practice of the law and kept at it for
about three more years. During this period, two of our three
children were born, and at the same time we did some flying on
the side. In fact, six weeks after the first blessed event, I could
not have had very strong paternal instincts, since I took my wife
on a flight over the jungles of Central America to Panama in a
single-engine plane.

Early in 1941, I had decided that the United States was going
to be involved in a war, so I signed up in the Navy, qualified
as a Naval Aviator, and started on active duty as a lieutenant,
junior grade. We moved the family down to Pensacola, Florida,
where they stayed until December, 1945. My first year, I in-
structed cadets in instrument flying until I thought I would go
nuts. Then I went to Atlanta to develop a new instrument flight
course for the Navy and to write the manual on instrument flight
for the Navy, which was later adopted by the Army Air Forces
also. Later, 1 was put in charge of flight training on the Staff of
the Chief of Naval Air Training, and then in charge of planning
and administration on that Staff. In between times I had a variety
of jobs, including being sent to the west coast to work on instru-
ment approach techniques for the Aleutians and having a tour of
duty in command of the Navy’s night fighter and night torpedo
squadrons in training at Kingsville, Texas. I was converted to
inactive duty status as a commander in December, 1945.

After taking off my “sailor-suit,” I forsook the possibility of
returning to the law and did what I had hoped to do nine years
earlier — work for the federal government in civil aviation. I
joined the Civil Aeronautics Administration and held several jobs,
culminating in four years of duty as deputy administrator. Last
April (1953), the President appointed me administrator.

[ 690 ]

TRS oe AKO lH dhe Ral sa, |

NLL NALA ACAI aU tit tale neat basabidainneien
AOL Nel N ARB dtl sot Yt

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We live in the country. We find life in Washington stimulat-
ing and fun. The kids are growing up faster than we can believe.
Iam a trustee of the girls’ school and we find ourselves quite in-
volved in other community activities. I still have an airplane of
my own, which the children are learning to fly. Also, we have an
omery Shetland pony, which is more fun than any airplane.

So, that about wraps it up. Of the twenty-five years since that
morning in the Yard in 1929, all twenty-five have been filled with
incessant work, half in law and half in aviation; but the work
and the recreation that have gone with it have been rewarding
(other than financially) beyond my most optimistic hope. On
top of that, a blue-ribbon gal for a wife, three good kids, and
many good friends — what more could you wish?

JOSEPH FRANCIS LEE

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Bacon Rd., Bedford, Mass.

oFFIcE appREss: U. S. Custom House, Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1907, Winthrop, Mass. PARENTS: John Francis Lee, Mary Jane
Kilroy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1929 (30).

marrigEp: Gurli Sjoblad. curtpren: Karen Lynn, aged eleven; Patricia Anne,

aged three. °
occuPATION: Deputy collector of Customs, Port of Boston.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; U. S. Marine Corps Reserve Officers’
Association; vice-president, Enforcement Officers’ Association of the

Port of Boston.

AFTER I had finally received that paper, I went on the road for
the Vellumoid Company of Worcester, as a manufacturer’s repre-
sentative. They were a grand outfit to work for but I grew weary
of the monotony of hotel life and driving great distances in all
kinds of weather, so I quit right in the middle of the panic. It
took only a few weeks for me to realize that it was a big mistake.
Nobody seemed to be clamoring for my services and I had quite
a few blue days before I took a fling at selling power oil burners
and other major electrical equipment in Greater Boston. Frankly,
I did quite well at this considering the chaotic conditions preva-
lent at this time. After several years at this line I became affiliated
with the U. S. Customs Service in the Port of Boston where I have

[ 691 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

been ever since that time. On this job I learned to know and
really like every inch of the Greater Boston waterfront. There
is a certain fascination to the waterfront and it got under my skin,
I must confess. There were many interesting assignments while
I was a member of the Special Deputy Squad, and I took an active
part in the capture of several internationally notorious figures in
the narcotics world.

Pearl Harbor Day I was so infuriated that I dashed out to send
a telegram to the commandant of the U. S. Marine Corps volun-
teering for active duty. I had been more or less active in the
Marine Reserves since 1937. Apparently the Marines figured they
might be able to function without my services because they were
not too concerned about accepting my offer and took ample time
in letting me report. Shortly after reporting we went out on
maneuvers which were not exactly funny. Month after month
we crawled over every square yard of that terrain, night and day,
under all weather conditions, always using live “ammo” and
usually with “regular” Marines firing over us to make sure that
we would keep our “butts” down. These “regulars” were nice
boys but they seemed to take fiendish delight in firing all types
of weapons in such a way that the trajectories were far too close
for comfort or much peace of mind. Whenever I was O.D., I
went out of my way to be nice to these boys because I had an
oversize you-know-what and I did not want any of those sharp-
shooters violating it. Bridges were not built for our benefit, I
soon found out. Whenever we came to one we were ordered to
avoid it and with full packs and full complement of automatic
weapons, we forded and floundered across the brook or river or
whatever happened to be decorated by the useless old bridges.
After crossing, they would usually let us get our second wind by
doing a mile or two “on the double” up the side of some miserable
hill. My poor “tootsies” were in a continual state closely resem-
bling freshly ground hamburgers because I usually managed to
pick up some junior boulders in my boots on these festive occa-
sions. One black night, I was leading my outfit on an attack
problem which had worked like clockwork that P.M. under a
broiling sun, when the bottom really fell out on me. I was on a
dead run across this field and it was so black that I misjudged
my distance and landed at the bottom of quite a deep gully at

[ 692 ]

ME ea thd lle Al tack ad a .

An at nth a2 nal tee OARS ae tnd tid Saiea NNR ba lied
\ ai: . :
Was soe ARE tO, A heii Litols
NENT SRe AU nat neh i ain ABR ces hea A SR pen Lt MeL Ses
Nay eS GN te Sanh edhe lait
iA HI eet

oN soe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the end of the field and was pretty well banged up. Shortly after-
wards, my stomach quit on me and I was sent to the U. S. Naval
Hospital at Philadelphia. After some weeks I was well on the
road to complete recovery until Mrs. F.D.R. decided to come to
visit us to boost our morale. I received a survey and much against
my wishes I was returned to civilian life.

After a spell back on the old job I was placed in charge of
customs at Logan Airport. About five years ago I was promoted
to deputy collector of the Port of Boston. Along the way I have
acquired a nice home and garden out in the “sticks” where there
are three lovely blondes who bring me my full share of happiness,

Thank God.

ROBERT LEESON

HOME ADDRESS: 106 Angell St., Providence 6, R. I

OFFICE aDDREss: P. O. Box 1605, Providence 1, R. I.

Born: May 4 1907, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Robert Ainsworth
Leeson, ’99, Mildred Carruth Dix.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.
MARRIED: Evelyn Oldfield Talbot, June 11, 1931, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:

Robert, Jr., Dec. 23, 1932; Richmond Talbot, Sept. 5, 1935.
HARVARD SON: Robert Leeson, Jr., ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Dix Leeson, ’43.
occuPATION: President, Universal Winding Company, manufacturers textile

machinery and electric magnet coil winding machinery.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1946-47, president, 1948-49, director, American
Textile Machinery Association; director, Firemen’s Mutual Insurance
Company, Providence Community Fund, Universal Winding Company,
trustee, Citizens Savings Bank, Council for Technological Advance-
Ment; associate trustee, St. Mark’s School; management member, New

England Regional Labor-Management Committee.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York; Tennis

& Racquet Club; Cruising Club of America; Saunderstown Yacht Club;
Tavern Club; Hope Club.
IN July of 1929 I went to Australia (passing through to get a
never-to-be-forgotten glimpse of Tahiti and the northern island

of New Zealand). At Sidney I joined a group of Harvards and
mostly Yales on the sailing schooner Chance (sixty-five-foot

waterline) and spent the next fourteen months sailing home, with

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

many inland side trips, via the Barrier Reef, Bali, Java, Malay
Peninsula, India, Red Sea, Mediterranean ports, Madeira, Bermuda:
a fascinating look at an interesting section of the world. Opera-
tion Boot Strap to Responsibility put me back in the academic
world for the year 1930-1931 at the Business School. Evie, fortu-
nately, waited until I came back and we were married in June,
1931.

Thence I went to the manufacturing industry, the Universal
Winding Company which I have been operating as chief execu-
tive officer since the latter part of my twenty-ninth year. An in-
terval of four and a half years saw me helping to herd freighters
and troops across the Atlantic as a destroyer officer, and then
later chasing trucks, barges, and Jap warships in the Pacific as a
motor torpedo boat officer, returning for a spell at the Naval
War College, and then back to manufacturing in December of
1945. Having been born in the panic of 1907 and commencing
gainful employment in 1931, I didn’t understand the rush of
business from 1946 to 1951, but the textile industry, our major
customer, is now again completely depressed, and I consider my
working life to have returned to normal.

Evie and my two boys have given me the reason and incentive
for trying in a small way to improve the world we live in. Bob,
Jr., is now a junior and Dickie will be a freshman next year, and I
believe they are on their way to lead a useful life. If I am to
complain, it is against the ever-increasing American custom of
blaming everything bad, or indifferent, on the man in the White
House, Republican or Democratic. I believe it would be a better
world if more of us were for something. I snatch a vacation now
and then to ocean race, cruise or travel, or bird-shoot with Evie
and the kids, and play mixed doubles tennis,

+ DONALD MERRIAM LEITH

Born: Aug. 31, 1906, Concord, Mass. Parents: Hugh Fraser Leith, Edith
Brown.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

Marriep: Kathleen Malcolm, June 27, 1934, Concord, Mass. centp: Donald
Malcolm, April 7, 1935.

[ 694 ]

TEs SETI NNe tien apy-derayiee ce samerempeugrt

Mhadlarath us .,,

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pep: Nov. 27, 1950, Chevy Chase, Md.
wow: Mrs. Donald M. Leith, 4626 Western Ave., Chevy Chase, Md.

LEITH became an instructor in the history department of Phil-
lips Academy, Andover, where he remained until 1931. He then
spent two years at Yale Graduate School and a year in Des
Moines, studying. An article he wrote about adult education in
Des Moines was published in Religious Education. He returned
to Phillips Academy, where he remained until some time after
1939 From 1942 to 1945 he was a target adviser in the U.S. Army
Air Forces and an economic analyst in the Office of Strategic
Services. In 1945 he entered the Office of United Nations Affairs
in the Department of State and was a member of the first working
committee on atomic energy. In 1949 he was adviser to the direc-
tor of the Office of United Nations Affairs, to the United States
representative on the United Nations Atomic Energy Commis-
sion, and to the chief of the Division of International Security
Affairs in the Office of United Nations Affairs. He was a member
of the Board of Trustees of the Landon School in Bethesda. His
wife survived him.

JAMES LIEBMANN LELAND

HOME ADDRESS: 5020 Henry Hudson Pkwy., New York 71, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 935 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 3, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Julius Liebmann, Tony
Scharman.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum” laude, 1929; M.D. (Columbia
Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: Winifred Bronson, 1940. cHiLp: Anne B., Jan. 1, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

INTERN and resident, Bellevue Hospital, 1933-1936. Captain,
Medical Corps, U. S. Army, 1942-1945. Private practice, internal
medicine, New York City; associate in medicine, Columbia Uni-
versity; associate visiting physician, Bellevue Hospital, New York

City.

[ 695 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MOSES LENNON

HOME ADDRESS: 108-28 63rd Ave., Forest Hills, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1907, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: David Lennon, Sophie Rose
Krynski.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. ¢47 laude, 1929; A.M. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1933; a.m. (Columbia Univ.), 1950.

MARRIED: Bertha Jackman, Oct. 7, 1945, New York, N. Y. cHitp: Peter Dean,

Feb. 24, 1949.
OCCUPATION: Administrative work.

HAROLD VINCENT LESE

HOME appress: 7706 13th St., N.W., Washington 12, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 425 Second St., N.W., Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Sept. ro, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Samuel Lese, Dora Sperling.
PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; JD. (New York
Univ.), 1932.

MarrigD: Lillian Hertz, Oct. 19, 1934, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: Peter D.,
June 5, 1939; Alan E., April 15, 1943; Laurence S., May 8, 1945.

occupaTIoNn: Attorney, Securities & Exchange Commission,

IT may be over-simplification in accounting for the twenty-five
yester-years, to record that I have devoted them to the public
service. Not with any aforethought did I take this turn in my
career, though once on the path, I liked what I saw. To be sure,
the search for security, every man’s mirage, played its part too.
Nonetheless, I have no regrets, though I sometimes wonder, and
I have thoroughly enjoyed the stimulating belief that I have con-
tributed somewhat to the public interest.

It seems but a glance to that memorable depressing period of
1932-34: fresh out of law school, undampened by a payless law
clerkship which, all things considered, | was most fortunate to
share; a year or so of non-paying, though thankful clients; and
culminated by that twist of fate that sent me to Washington and
a government career through a chance letter to the State Depart-
ment boldly inquiring of the need for one experienced in interna-
tional law, shortly thereafter acknowledged as a result of a tedious
day-long examination.

Although I initially intended to limit my stay in Washington,

[ 696 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

several enjoyable years with the American Agency of the United
States-Mexico Claims Commission postponed indefinitely any final
decision to return to private life. A short stint with the Interior
Department, and a lengthy and satisfying connection with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, by far the best of them
all, with due acknowledgement to the Hoover Commission and
Fortune Magazine, bring me to the present.

Hills are now appearing in the path; what lies beyond and what
the near future will bring, only the Fiftieth Reunion Report will
show. As to politics, it would not be offensive of the Hatch Act
to say that my Republican friends consider my talk that of a Demo-
crat while my Democrat friends view it as downright Republican.
Could it be that I talk out of the two corners of my mouth? — not
at the same time anyway!

Strange, with all that common talk of time being on the hands
of a government employee, I can manage only one hobby — week-
end gardening and my specialty of growing beautiful roses. My
family is best described by my wife as “Oh? — boy!!! Even down
to the dog and the last goldfish!” And no Harvard men are in sight
either—-not unless its football future is much brighter than
its football present. The subject of travel may be skipped over
quickly —no farther west than West Virginia. [’m just saving
that rolling stone till the boys are safely wived.

WILLIAM LEVENSON

HOME ADDRESS: 61 Betts Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 185 Devonshire St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: July 11, 1908, Pawtucket, R. I. Parents: Morris Levenson, Sarah
Rosenberg,

PREPARED AT: Worcester High School of Commerce, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929, DEGREES: 8.8. cum laude, 1929; LL.B., 1932.

MaRRIED: Mary C. Szigethy, Feb. 15, 1939. CHILDREN: Amy Ruth, Feb. 4,
1940; Susan Rae, May 17, 1942.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Jewish Community Center, Belmont and Water-
town; vice-president, New England Jewish National Fund, Mattapan
Zionist District; member Administrative Committee, Brookline,
Brighton, Newton Zionist District; membership chairman, Harvard
Club of Belmont.

MEMBER OF: Boston and Massachusetts Bar Associations; American Judica-

[ 697 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ture Society; Harvard Club of Belmont, Harvard Law School Alumni
Association; Harvard Law School Alumni of Massachusetts; Amos
Lodge, B’nai B'rith; Zionist Organization of America; American Jewish
Congress; Belmont-Watertown Jewish Community Center; Temple
Emanuel, Newton, Mass,

UNDER the pressure of John Hutchinson’s tearful pleas and
Lovett Morse’s telephonic prodding, a review of one’s experi-
ences over a span of a quarter century brings into focus only the
highlights of a rather unexciting but very satisfactory career.

First, there come to mind fifteen years of wedded bliss produc-
tive of a teen-ager with a definite yen for Eddie Fisher, Julius
LaRosa, Perry Como, etc.—I can never be certain of their
respective ratings from day to day — and another younger daugh-
ter, who by way of contrast, more conservatively yearns for
Frank Sinatra and Atom Squad. Resulting home life is hectic and
never boring.

Second, twenty-one years at the Bar have convinced me that
radio, movie, and now television scripts never portray a true pic-
ture of the day-to-day activity of the legal profression. I haven’t
defended anybody accused of murder or serious crime; nor
pleaded on behalf of stockbrokers or promoters involved in mil-
lion-dollar swindles; nor have I produced any novel legal theories
resulting in earth-shaking reversals of prior decisions by the Su-
preme Court of the United States or even of the Supreme Judicial
Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Nevertheless,
memory brings back many moments of pleasure and satisfaction
arising from ordinary daily activities on behalf of many clients.
There quickly come to mind a few examples (experiences shared
by most general legal practitioners):

1. The happiness shared with adopting parents upon the grant-
ing of the adoption petition;

2. The feeling of achievement in bringing about reconciliations
between youngsters headed for divorce courts;

3. The pride felt in the dependency of clients who “wouldn’t
consider any action” until they have conferred with their
attorney; or the trust of those who insist on naming you as
“executor and trustee” — especially when you know that
they are well-acquainted with other attorneys associated
with “big name” firms;

[ 698 J

ited a te ee

Ahalatbnetinhivthdaiabsibls thud 4

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

4. The regard and esteem of fellow-workers engaged in com-
munity activities.

All the foregoing need not be measured in terms of tangible
wealth or compensation — a modicum of material reward usually
attends such a practice, in spite of Bill Youngman’s tax experi-
ences — but the peace of mind and inner glow is far more satis-
fying than any fee ever earned. Lest there be complete misun-
derstanding, I do make reasonable charges for my services and
have not lacked for nutritional sustenance (200 pounds stripped
is still thirty-five pounds too much for my build and is ample
proof of the latter statement).

Living as a Republican in a Republican town doesn’t require
strenuous political activity, but ours is an Eisenhower (and not
McCarthy, Jenner, or Bricker) Republicanism — there is a vast
difference. Keeping up with the tax laws and decisions has led
to a well-paying hobby — co-editing a tax magazine having na-
tional circulation among certified public accountants. All in all,
if the next twenty-five years are productive of as much happiness
as the past, I for one shall be grateful and thankful to the
good Lord for a long life well spent latterly in the finest town
in the Commonwealth.

EDWARD RALPH LEVI

HOME AppREss: 22 Clifford St., Portland, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Porteous, Mitchell & Braun Co., Portland, Maine.

BoRN: Jan, 7, 1909, Portland, Maine. parents; Benjamin Levi, Dora Beren-
son.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: I92§—-I929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRiED: Sally R. Sclar, Oct. 28, 1938, Boston, Mass. critp: Judith Evelyn,

Jan. 15, 1941.
OCCUPATION: Retailing, merchandising.

ALFRED DAVID LEVICK

HOME Appress: Park Wilshire Hotel, 2424 Wilshire Blvd, Los Angeles 57,
Calif,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 947 W, 8th St., Los Angeles 17, Calif.

[ 699 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

porn: May 23, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Henry Crulley Levick, Pearl
Yunes. .

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. 1929; M.D. (Jefferson Medical
Coll.), 1933.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Physician; proctology with Ross-Loos Medical Group.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Proctologic Society.

AFTER leaving my room at Lionel Hall — and I was glad to get
away from the big bell in Massachusetts Hall which always tolled
at six o’clock in the morning —I suddenly found myself studying
medicine at Jefferson in Philadelphia. I took internships and a
residency in Boston hospitals and started the practice of surge
in Boston. After two years I enlisted in the Army Medical Corps
where I remained for the next three and a half years. Yes, in
1946 they gave mea steak dinner, my majority, and my separation
papers. My life in the Army consisted of many trips across this
beautiful country and finally a year in France and Germany. I
went back to Boston for a brief period where I specialized in
proctology. Snow, ice, and cold weather hold no allure for me
so I came to Los Angeles to practise.

I am a registered Republican but do make an occasional slip at
the polls. Here in the sunshine, I keep myself in condition by
playing tennis. On the side, I enjoy my contacts with the music
publishing and advertising businesses.

HAROLD LEE LEVIN

HOME ApprESs: 83 Sumner St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Court St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1908, Lewiston, Maine. parents: Israel Max Levin, Gertrude
Smith.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1930. DEGREES: A.B, 1929(30); Lu.B. (Northeastern
Univ.), 1935.

MarRrieD: Zelda Katzeff, Jan. 12, 1936, Brookline, Mass. cuHiLpren: Arthur
Lawrence, March 15, 1940; Marilyn Louise, Sept. 25, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clarence Levin, LL.B., 30 (deceased).

OccuUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Boston Center for Adult Education; treasurer, Audi-
vox, Inc.; trustee, Temple Shalom of Newton; New England director,
National Jewish Hospital at Denver.

[ 700 ]

i nee eet neem ee, ,
Sat ntidinte omaha Resmi haan bilby etre Ohtake A ik ky

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: University Club of Boston; Massachusetts and Middlesex Bar
Associations; Massachusetts Conveyancers Association; New Cen
Club; Boston Club (Harvard Business School); Newton Squash and
Tennis Club; Society of American Magicians, International Brotherhood

of Magicians.

SATURDAY, January 23, 1954 — 8:45 A.M.: I showered, shaved,
and came down to breakfast — found Jack Hutchinson hiding in
my oatmeal with a loaded “goad” in his paw. I was cornered and

roceeded to write like mad (select your own interpretation), the
result being the following.

Modesty should prevent an enumeration of my accomplish-
ments over the past twenty-five years, but cold facts prevent it
more effectively. After graduation I completed one year at the
Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, then five
years in the mortgage business, during which period I attended
Northeastern University Law School at night, acquiring both an
LL.B, and “the girl that I married” in January of 1936. I entered
practice in association with my brother (Clarence Levin, Yale ’27,
Harvard Law School ’30) and several others, His death in action
in Tunisia in 1943 and the rapid whittling down of our group by
deaths and departures for the armed services left me in practice
alone. A series of family tragedies beset us in 1942 and 1943 with
the concomitant repercussions which ensued. These set into ac-
tion compensating changes in our perspective and mode of living.

Since the Twentieth there have been few changes of conse-
quence. I have acquired no additional children or wives. I am
still licensed to practice law in Massachusetts and the federal court
but I doubt that I shall avoid detection indefinitely. My practice
is general, and gives way intermittently to the conduct of a mort-
gage finance business — “the better to eat, my dear.” While ever
anticipating that I shall be able to take it easier “next year,” I find
myself working harder and longer when the next year comes
around. Collateral responsibilities, not to be dealt with here, seem
to increase by geometric progression. The rumor that I “bat my
brains out” is unfounded — the hollow sound emanating from my
cranium is convincing evidence that the brains have long since
been batted away. I now patiently await new cell growth.

Life generally, and at home particularly, revolves around the
family. Son Arthur is now at an age (fourteen) where we discuss

[zor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

BorN: May 23, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Henry Crulley Levick, Pearl
Yunes. .

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.D. (Jefferson Medical
Coll.), 1933.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Physician; proctology with Ross-Loos Medical Group.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Proctologic Society.

AFTER leaving my room at Lionel Hall — and I was glad to get
away from the big bell in Massachusetts Hall which always tolled
at six o’clock in the morning —I suddenly found myself studying
medicine at Jefferson in Philadelphia. I took internships and a
residency in Boston hospitals and started the practice of surgery
in Boston, After two years I enlisted in the Army Medical Corps
where I remained for the next three and a half years. Yes, in
1946 they gave me a steak dinner, my majority, and my separation
papers. My life in the Army consisted of many trips across this
beautiful country and finally a year in France and Germany. I
went back to Boston for a brief period where I specialized in
proctology. Snow, ice, and cold weather hold no allure for me
so I came to Los Angeles to practise.

I am a registered Republican but do make an occasional slip at
the polls. Here in the sunshine, I keep myself in condition by
playing tennis. On the side, I enjoy my contacts with the music
publishing and advertising businesses,

HAROLD LEE LEVIN

HOME apprEss: 83 Sumner St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Court St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1908, Lewiston, Maine. PARENTS: Israel Max Levin, Gertrude
Smith.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1929(30); LL.B. (Northeastern
Univ.), 1935.

MARRIED: Zelda Katzeff, Jan. 12, 1936, Brookline, Mass. cuitpreN: Arthur
Lawrence, March 15, 1940; Marilyn Louise, Sept. 25, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clarence Levin, LL.B., 30 (deceased),

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Boston Center for Adult Education; treasurer, Audi-
vox, Inc.; trustee, Temple Shalom of Newton, New England director,
National Jewish Hospital at Denver.

[ 700 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: University Club of Boston; Massachusetts and Middlesex Bar
Associations; Massachusetts Conveyancers Association; New Century
Club; Boston Club (Harvard Business School); Newton Squash and
Tennis Club; Society of American Magicians; International Brotherhood

of Magicians.

SATURDAY, January 23, 1954 — 8:45 A.M.; I showered, shaved,
and came down to breakfast — found Jack Hutchinson hiding in
my oatmeal with a loaded ‘“‘goad” in his paw. I was cornered and
proceeded to write like mad (select your own interpretation), the
result being the following.

Modesty should prevent an enumeration of my accomplish-
ments over the past twenty-five years, but cold facts prevent it
more effectively. After graduation I completed one year at the
Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, then five
years in the mortgage business, during which period I attended
Northeastern University Law School at night, acquiring both an
LL.B. and “the girl that I married” in January of 1936. I entered
practice in association with my brother (Clarence Levin, Yale ’27,
Harvard Law School ’30) and several others. His death in action
in Tunisia in 1943 and the rapid whittling down of our group by
deaths and departures for the armed services left me in practice
alone. A series of family tragedies beset us in 1942 and 1943 with
the concomitant repercussions which ensued. These set into ac-
tion compensating changes in our perspective and mode of living.

Since the Twentieth there have been few changes of conse-
quence. I have acquired no additional children or wives. I am
still licensed to practice law in Massachusetts and the federal court
but I doubt that I shall avoid detection indefinitely. My practice
is general, and gives way intermittently to the conduct of a mort-
gage finance business — “the better to eat, my dear.” While ever
anticipating that I shall be able to take it easier “next year,” I find
myself working harder and longer when the next year comes
around. Collateral responsibilities, not to be dealt with here, seem
to increase by geometric progression. The rumor that I “bat my
brains out” is unfounded — the hollow sound emanating from my
cranium is convincing evidence that the brains have long since
been batted away. I now patiently await new cell growth.

Life generally, and at home particularly, revolves around the
family. Son Arthur is now at an age (fourteen) where we discuss

[701 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

matters on an even plane, as the intellectual gap rapidly narrows.
Over the years our relationship has been of a most intimate nature
and we have engaged in most every activity that a father and son
could participate in together. His development has afforded me
the same enjoyment that will be more ably described in this vol-
ume by those of the gifted pen. Daughter Marilyn refreshes the
mundane daily existence with the illuminating exposition of all
manner of information and facts which this little human sponge
constantly absorbs. The fellow who said “There is nothing like
a dame” knew whereof he spoke. Last but not least the mother of
this menage who feeds the brood, keeps the ball rolling, arranges
the various weekend vacations and trips, solidifies the family unit,
and from time to time induces the father to abandon the chicken
a la king circuit and return to the fold.

Our travel has not been too extensive, being confined to short
summer vacations in Maine or New Hampshire, with infrequent
trips to other parts of the country under the convenient pretense
of attending a convention or the compulsive demands of our
children to visit some city and climb its historic shrines. We are
ever hopeful of taking a sabbatical and indulging in travel with
ease, but as of now the realization of this aspiration is perhaps less
imminent than we wish to think. We talk of building a summer
cottage on a clear lake. However, as time passes it seems we are
indulging in an insidious form of window shopping. While we
like to feel that we do some things that are not typically suburban,
our originality is forever subject to insult by the discovery that
other suburbanites are doing the same thing.

My hobbies are still magic and the company of some of its prac-
titioners (in spite of the peculiar breed of animal affected by this
disease), music, some tennis, little squash (though the continua-
tion of the latter two is now subject to cessation without notice),
and reading though never enough. We take in the theatre as it
comes and an annual motion picture. Over the years I have per-
formed professionally throughout New England and non-profes-
sionally at the drop of a whiskey glass in most available drawing-
rooms (if inhabited by congenial company). During the war and
postwar years I performed at hospitals and Army camps in the
Massachusetts area and elsewhere both with the American Theatre
Wing and free-lance.

[ 702 ]

=A re rien ame vinde y

pate Nerden sentir Abba Ab LE abd ea

  

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The eroding process of time has smoothed out most disillusion-
ments that I may have had. I’m still convinced there are plenty
of decent people left in the world. My thinking is fairly clear,
but subject to frequent readjustment. | still believe in the princi-
ples enunciated in my Twentieth report and I feel that the best
defense against the confusing vicissitudes of our daily existence
is to seek out the simple life. Here are a few likes and dislikes
for the record:

Likes: People who cerebrate well, and those whose thinking is not
distorted by the exigencies of the moment.

Dislikes: The mania for self-glorification and aggrandizement that
overcomes so many and increases with intensity once it takes hold;
the insincere guys who constantly seek publicity via organizations,
associations, clubs, etc.; “phonies” (definition submitted on re-
quest with enclosure of assorted box tops) — unbiased surveys,
crooners (preferably well-boiled), and Roy Rogers’ horse. If the
deluge of pulverizing suggestion by radio, TV, mail, and other
media continues, our skulls should either soon resemble mashed
potatoes or build up immunizing antibodies. I hope for the latter.

I just received a most threatening “goad,” so shall go back to
my tiny flavor buds (coffee to you, pal) with a touch of T.C.P.
additive for strength. See you at the Fiftieth!

HAROLD DAVID LEVINE

HOME ADDRESS: 147 Longwood Ave., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 171 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1907, Boston, Mass. paRENTs: George Levine, Ada Godinsky.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: s.B. cum laude, 1929; M.D. 1932.

marRieD: Barbara Hayward Lovell, Aug. 22, 1934, Providence, R. I. cum-
DREN: Jeffrey Howland, Dec. 11, 1950; Jonathan Adam, April 11, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Melvin Daniel Levine, ’ 315 Edward Philip Levine, 38;
Julian A. Levine, "go.

occupation: Physician — cardiologist, practice, teaching, research.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in medicine, 1946-48, junior associate in medicine,
1949, associate in medicine, since 1950, chief, Electrocardiographic Lab-
oratory, since 1946, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston; assistant in
medicine, 1946-48, instructor in medicine, 1949, clinical associate in
medicine, since 1950, Harvard Medical School, president, Greater Boston
Chapter, Massachusetts Heart Association, 1953-54.

[ 703 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Board of Internal Medicine;
American College of Physicians; American Heart Association; American
Medical Association; Masons, Bristol, N. H.; Shrine, Concord, N. H.;
Consistory, Nashua, N. H.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous papers in field of medicine, particularly heart dis-
ease, including: study carried out with town veterinary on normal
electrocardiogram of rabbits, investigation of tsutsugamushi fever (scrub
typhus), and cardiovascular survey of native Papuans.

ONE wonders how expansive and discursive a narrative of this
type should, in all good taste, be. With as little insight as most of
us have into our own foibles, it is perhaps inevitable that this sort
of autobiography must give a distorted view of its subject. It is
apt to be replete with false modesty and almost necessarily ex-
aggerate the unusual and spectacular and play down the routine
and hum-drum. With these preliminary lines of apology I feel
justified in proceeding at some length.

Upon finishing my undergraduate studies I pursued the regular
course at the Harvard Medical School. While there I had the
opportunity, in my “free” time, of working in the laboratory of
Dr. Walter B. Cannon. I was there exposed to an unparalleled
scientific discipline and a stimulating spirit. This was followed
upon graduation by a year of training in pathology at the Beth
Israel Hospital in Boston with another superb teacher, Dr. Monroe
J. Schlesinger, and three years of medical training at the Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital under the late Dr. Henry A. Christian,
first as medical intern, later as assistant resident in medicine.

I then did an unorthodox thing for a man who had vague plans
eventually to become a heart specialist —I entered the general
practice of medicine in rural New Hampshire. My work for
seven years at Bristol near Newfound Lake included everything
but major surgery. I fixed skiing injuries sustained at nearby Mt.
Cardigan, delivered a reasonable segment of the current genera-
tion of ’teen-agers in that locality, and gave one of the first de-
scriptions of an epidemic disease (now called “herpangina”), an
outbreak of which I saw in some of the boys’ and girls’ camps
around the lake. We learned to know the people very well, en-
tered fully into the life of the community, and our life was a very
full one indeed. At the outbreak of World War II I was even

president of the local Rotary Club! I may add at this point that
here in this Yankee community I never encountered even the re-

[ 704 ]

acrid emneteiaards smneancnaatieep ab ate SrabtriablehnennSaRinetntin ancient dinninisniinsmticesaiiaiirieiWede kl bubdlids bs. bbe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

motest suggestion of prejudice or antipathy toward people of my
faith.

My military experience was likewise a most happy one. Most
of it was overseas, in the Southwest Pacific (Australia, New
Guinea, Philippines). From January, 1942, to August, 1944, I
was with the Harvard Unit (initially the 5th General Hospital,
then its offshoot, the 105th General Hospital). We were fortu-
nate in our friendships and were blessed with a tremendous amount
of work to do. Before going overseas I was assigned to the two
month’s course in tropical medicine conducted at the Army Medi-
cal School by Dr. Richard Strong of Harvard. This course, in-
cluding lectures by the foremost authorities in America, freely
given, was simply unbeatable, the sort of thing that no single in-
stitution could possibly put together. It was partly as a result of
this experience that in addition to our “patient load” at the 1osth,
I was assigned to the faculty of an Army school of tropical medi-
cine at Brisbane, Australia. This was attended by medical officers,
many as yet unfamiliar with the medical problems encountered
in that region — malaria, hookworm, scrub typhus, dysentery —
sometimes on first arriving from the States, more often as an inter-
lude out of their service in the field or in hospitals. I later became
chief of the medical service of a large general hospital (35th
General Hospital) situated first at Lae, New Guinea, later at San
Fernando, La Union, Luzon, Philippines). One of the most mem-
orable experiences of that period was an excursion up the Papuan
Gulf in an LST, then a lugger, with a research team which was
investigating the effect of DDT upon malarial infection in two
native villages. It was then that I made the survey listed above.
At the close of the war I returned to Boston where I have set up
a consultative practice in cardiology. I read and interpret elec-
trocardiograms at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, teach medi-
cine to third- and fourth-year students at the Harvard Medical
School, and engage in cardio-vascular investigations. One honor
of which I am very proud: I gave the annual Phi Chi lecture at
the Medical College of Virginia two years ago. I love to write.
Our diversions consist of our two boys and alternate Saturday
nights at theatre or symphony (we have half a ticket), eating out
at Malatesta’s, or Locke-Ober’s, or Chinatown beforehand.

[ 705 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

+ TOBIAS LEVINSON

BoRN: Sept. 13, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Nathan Jacob Levinson, Ada
Leight.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: D.M.D. 1932+

marRIED: Hannah R. Aronson, Aug. 5, 1934. CHILDREN: Eleanor Grace, Oct.
22, 1937; Eliot.

piep: May 15, 1944, Sheppard Field, Texas.

wipow: Mrs. Tobias Levinson, % Eleanor E. Levinson, 162 Coolidge St.,
Brookline, Mass.

AFTER three years with our Class, Levinson entered Harvard
Dental School where he received a D.M.D. degree in 1932. He
then began the practice of dentistry in Boston which he con-
tinued until his enlistment in the Army in 1943. He was a lieu-
tenant in the Army Air Forces Dental Corps at the time of his
death. His wife and two children survived him.

DAVID BERNARD LEVY

HOME apprEss: 5 Celia Pl., Grove Park, Asheville, N. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 7 Patton Ave., Asheville, N. C.

BORN: July 20, 1908, Vineland, N. J. parents: Charles Levy, Sarah Shane-
field.

PREPARED AT: Vineland High School, Vineland, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; LL.B. (Univ of Pennsyl-
vania), 1932.

marriep: Lillian Schochet, Jan. 31, 1946, Greenville, §. C. curity: Charles
Bernard, March 4, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Executive manager, The Star Store, department store; coun-
sellor at law, New Jersey.

OFFICES HELD: Solicitor, Vineland Chamber of Commerce, 1938-42; presi-
dent, Roosevelt Democratic Club, 1939-41.

MEMBER OF: New Jersey and Cumberland Bar Associations; Lawyers Club;
Elks, B’nai B'rith; Temple Beth Ha Tephila; Tau Epsilon Rho Legal
Fraternity; 8th Infantry Division Association.

THE little crystal set radio is replaced by TV. It’s a real hard-
ship now to travel through the snow. Football games are very
interesting to watch if the weather isn’t too cold and windy.
These are the indicators that flash in my mind and start me re-
counting the years.

[ 706 ]

aiuto.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After graduating from College, I spent three years at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania Law School, getting my LL.B., in 1932.
I entered into the general practice of law in Vineland, New Jer-
sey, for the next nine years, during which time I also helped the
Democratic party into power, with little pecuniary reward for
my efforts, but a great deal of practical experience. In April,
1942, | closed my law office and entered military service, being
assigned to the 8th Infantry Division as Assistant Staff Judge Ad-
vocate. We trained for combat duty and maneuvered through
many of the southern states, the Ozark country, and in the Cali-
fornia~-Arizona desert. We went to Northern Ireland in 1943 and
hit the beaches of France shortly after D-Day, staying in combat
through France (Normandy and Brittany), Luxembourg, Bel-
gium (Bastogne and Bulge action), and finally into Germany.
When the war ended, we were in the northern part of Germany,
in what is now “Iron Curtain Country.” Although I was in the
legal branch of the division, my activities were not completely
chairborne while in combat. The War Department awarded
me a Bronze Star Medal for meritorious service. However, I
came through without injury, for which I am very thankful, and
gained a multitude of wonderful experiences that can never be
forgotten.

I was released from military duty in the fall of 1945. I did not
like the idea of building up a legal practice again and accepted
an opportunity to enter the department store business in Ashe-
ville, North Carolina, my wife’s home city. This continues as a
major occupation, although I have taken on some legal work in
New Jersey at various times and may again re-enter active legal
practice at some future time. I spend considerable time, during
my leisure, at home — one of my hobbies being the “do-it-your-
self method of fixing up the household. I’m surprised at my
good results and delighted in avoiding the plundering by the
so-called “crafts” unionists. I haven’t seen many Classmates since
graduation and look forward to our Twenty-fifth Reunion.

Reflecting on events of my College days, I become suddenly
aware of how far distant they are. The period of twenty-five
years becomes an “age” and, joltingly, makes one realize that
the “old man” status is rapidly approaching.

[ 707 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

HENRY LEWIS, III

HOME AppRESS: “Brookfield,” Oyster Bay, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 Fifth Ave., New York 10, N. Y.

BORN: June 28, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Lewis, Ethel Gay-
lord.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

marrieD: Agnes Clarke McCrea, 1938, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1945);
Margaret Meyer, 1946 (divorced 1951). CHILD: Anne, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Emerson Dole, Jr., ’44 (half-brother).

occupation: Manufacturing, manufacturers’ sales agent, Henry Lewis and
Company, Inc.

OFFices HELD: Treasurer, Henry Lewis and Company, Inc.; secretary,
Lincolnsfield Mills Corporation; secretary, treasurer, U.S. Polo Associ-
ation,

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club of New York; River Club, Turf and

Field Club; Meadowbrook Club; Piping Rock Club; Metropolitan Club
of Washington.

AS I look back over the past twenty-five years since graduation,
the outstanding accomplishments seem to be that I have man-
aged to retain my health, my figure, my hair, and a part of my
sense of humor. I have gained one child, a daughter, twelve
years old, a somewhat precarious financial prosperity; a great
many horses (that all eat, and sometimes win races); several polo
championships including the big one, The National Open last
year; and a house and a farm on Long Island, which are pleasant
but expensive.

My religious convictions have remained the same, rather
vaguely Episcopalian. My war record, though undistinguished
by medals, managed to be interesting, a rank of major; a title of
Strategic Logistics Officer for the Air Forces, attached to the
Joint Chiefs of Staffs, some Pacific duty, when I was never shot
at except from a great distance when out of range.

My hobbies are horses and more horses. I am secretary and
treasurer of the U.S. Polo Association, hold a trainer’s license
for race horses, run a small race horse breeding establishment
consisting of one stallion and four brood mares. I am a staunch
Republican, though I believe that Republican policies will bring
us grave economic troubles during the year 1954. Maybe that is
because I am in the woolen mill business which has been in a

[ 708 ]

novitiate ahaa ibaa igi diiamniahinvtineciatiolbsetetn is ni tadsstanhartain aii AiesiitenanivtceN nT POET in iL Donte Bein pid ritalin Stim, ahmed edati WSK Mhsbiry Wh adedbAb nd sae de

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

depression for the past two years and my reflexes have been con-
ditioned to expect trouble.

In general, I have enjoyed immensely the past twenty-five
years. If I never take another drink of whiskey my average will
be good no matter how long I live, and I am looking forward to
our Reunion and the next twenty-five years with a great deal
of pleasure and anticipation. .

JOHN SMITH LEWIS

HOME ADDRESS: 2231 California St., N.W., Washington 8, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Wilson Teachers College, Washington 9, D.C.

BORN: July 9, 1908, South Windham, Conn. parents: John Smith Lewis,
Eva Binns.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; A.M. (Brown Univ.), 1930;
pup. (New York Univ.), 1941.

MarRiED: Sarah Hamilton, 1932, Dalton, Ga.

occupaTion: Professor of English, chairman, Division of English Language
and Literature, Wilson Teachers College.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; National Council of Teachers
of English; Federal Schoolmen’s Club.

WHAT can a man say about his years since graduation? Should
he tell the truth and echo Captain Ahab? Better stick to the
leads furnished by the questionnaire. Let’s see...

Career History: Don’t make me laugh. Only New Dealers
have had “‘careers,” and honest men (like honest women accord-
ing to the French proverb) have no history. I have taught school
from grade seven through graduate courses, from Georgia to
Rhode Island; assistant-edited the Harvard University Press;
bossed a battery of field artillery; and served as a member of the
staff of the personnel director of the Western Electric Company
—not exactly in that order. By profession it appears that I am
a teacher; at least I have always returned to that amusing and
bedeviled profession after other occupational adventures.

Travels: I am considerably travelled on some ten or twelve
streets of D.C., as I pursue and supervise cadet-teachers in the
course of my duties. I had an agreeable but slightly hungry
sojourn in Stratford-upon-Avon in 1950 with excursions hither

[ 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and yon about the English countryside. Last summer I finally
got around to visiting Lexington and Concord and Walden — all
very interesting.

War Record: Field artillery — ferocious warfare against im-
placable pine trees at Fort Dix, white panels and dilapidated cais-
sons at Fort Sill, various battalion executive officers, smart first
sergeants and dumb supply sergeants, drunk and disorderly pri-
vates, and finally a disability board. That one I lost. Oh, well...
In before Pearl Harbor, out before D-Day. “I hate war.”

Convictions (social): Martinis are preferable to manhattans;
brown shoes should not be worn with blue suits; people’s man-
ners are bad and getting worse; Princeton men are what Harvard
men are popularly supposed to be.

Convictions (political): William Bennett Munro was ever so
right about everything; Chisholm vs. Georgia was a bad decision;
the Whigs had much to be said for them; I am more or less a re-
actionary isolationist (and you can thank the local embassy chauf-
feurs for that).

Convictions (religious): “Heureux les débonnaires.”

Hobbies: None. Life is for me interesting and annoying
enough without my creating artificial possibilities of additional
amusement and annoyance. I do various things for relaxation but
nothing with the consistency and assiduity implied by the term
“hobby.” I am writing a textbook at the moment, but that is by
no stretch of semantics anything resembling a hobby.

So there it is. In my last twenty-five years I have evaded the
illusion of time fairly successfully, lost a good deal of hair and
some hide, retained my teeth, gained only moderately in girth
and property (I had a dog named Grishkin but she died), found
time to ride a certain number of horses and shoot a certain num-
ber of handguns, read books (“of which,” as Ring Lardner used
to say, “I have a complete set”), listened to Mozart, Handel,
Haydn, Bach, and Purcell — and generally done as nearly as pos-
sible as I have pleased, meanwhile looking around me from time
to time at the strangeness of it all— “To seek, to strive, ot to

find, and not to yield.”

[ 710 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
LEO LIBERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Chestnut St., Portsmouth, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 Congress St., Portsmouth, N. H.

sorN: March 26, 1908, Portsmouth, N. H. parents: Harry Liberson, Esther
Garber.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth High School, Portsmouth, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. CU laude, 1929; LL.B., 1932.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: City solicitor, Portsmouth, N. H., 1937-40; representative to
New Hampshire Legislature, 1939.

] HESITATE at the idea of giving an account of myself, so this
is only a brief sketch of the highlights of the last twenty-five
years of my life. With the exception of a break of four years I
have been trying to practise law. Upon graduation from Law
School in 1932 I spent a little better than a year associated with a
law firm in Boston. I enjoyed the big city, and had an opportunity
to make a few pleasant and lasting friendships, but those were the
dificult years of 1932 and 1933, so I returned to my home town,
Portsmouth, New Hampshire, to begin practising on my own.

As with every young lawyer starting out the first few years
were lean, but by 1937 matters had improved. I was chosen city
solicitor that year and served through 1940. In the meantime I
was elected to the New Hampshire Legislature and served one
term in 1939 in the House.

‘In April, 1942, I was obliged to close my office when I was
inducted into the Army. I was in the service for four years. I
saw a great deal of the country east of the Mississippi, and while
assigned to a Victory ship took two trips to France and across
the Channel to England. In 1946 I was separated from the service
asa first leiutenant. I returned home and started over again, open-
ing up an office and since then have been engaged in law practice.

I don’t want to mention the many things I should have done but
didn’t because that would be really giving an accounting. I am
twenty-five years older now, but I am still puzzled by the difficult
and now turbulent era which the year 1929 ushered in. I hope,
however, that it is the prelude to a brighter future.

inthe de ns

[71]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

LEO LIEBERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 241 Main St, Woburn, Mass.

OFFICE aDprEss: Suffolk University, zo Derne St., Boston 14, Mass.

BorN: March 3, 1908, Woburn, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Lieberman, Annie
Brown,

PREPARED AT: Woburn High School, Woburn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B, 19293 ED.M., 1938; ED.D., 1941,

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Chairman, Psychology Department, director, Guidance and
Counseling Department, Suffolk University; psychological consultant,
Boston Dispensary, Boston Committee on Alcoholism.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Student Association, 1939-40, chairman, Doc-
toral Candidate Study Group, 1940-41, Harvard Graduate School of
Education; director, Community Church Sunday School, 1950-53;
chairman, Study Group, Greater Boston Vocational Guidance Associ-
ation, since 1952; captain, Executive Staff, roorst Research and Develop-
ment Group, U.S.A.R., since 1952.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association, American Personnel and
Guidance Association, Harvard Teachers Association; Massachusetts
Psychological Association, Winchester Tennis Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Target-Board Tests, 1944, Educational Advisory Manual,
1944, editor and co-author, series of 106 Occupational Briefs, 1944-46,
War Department; Sequences of Courses for Vocational Objectives of
Interest to College Majors, 1949, Training Guide for Outlook and Affect
Interview Technique, 1953, Training Guide for Value-Ratings Inter-
view Technique, 1953, Suffolk University.

REFLECTION on the value of the four years spent at Harvard
indicated that helping people to develop their potentialities for
happy, effective living would constitute an interesting and enjoy-
able career. The seven years after graduation were occupied in
accumulating enough funds to complete the requirements for the
Master’s degree in education, and then the Doctorate in the field
of personnel psychology.

Uncle Sam shortly thereafter introduced me to the wet mud,
cold dawns, and warm people of Fort McLellan and Anniston,
Alabama. My association in basic training with rifles, machine
guns, and the sometimes ept and sometimes inept manipulators
thereof led to an analysis of the aptitudes required for assimilating
basic military training, and to the development of a series of
target-board tests (constructed literally of nine thousand-inch
targets pasted to the inside of a file folder) which eventually re-
placed all similar group tests used in the U.S, Inductions Stations

[712]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for screening out untrainable inductees. At Fort Washington
Officer Candidate School, I again ploughed through enough mud,
read enough manuals, and polished my boots well enough to be
commissioned as a second lieutenant.

After a short period in the Personnel Research Section of the
Adjutant General’s Office constructing and validating psycho-
logical tests, I was assigned to the Star Unit at the University of
New Hampshire where I developed testing and interviewing pro-
cedures for classifying and assigning troops to train as engineers,
psychologists, physicians, etc. While there I told the colonel in
command, after some sad cases of mis-assignments, that one does
not as he had said, “Judge men the same way you judge horses,”
He was a colonel from the cavalry; I was a second lieutenant from
Harvard; he informed me I needed troop duty, and I got it—a
company of 500 men with no junior officers or non-coms to
assist.

This tour of duty, as commanding officer and classification of-
ficer at Boston University, terminated in my being recalled to
the Pentagon to conduct a study of military leadership techniques.
The study led to publication of a series of training manuals on
leadership and morale. While at the Pentagon, I was requested
for assignment to the Analysis and Planning Branch of the In-
formation and Education Division, General Staff Corps, by
Lieutenant-colonel Lyle Spencer, now president of Science Re-
search Associates; and enjoyed the privilege of working with
him and with Colonel Charles Dollard, now president of the Car-
negie Corporation of New York. In this office we analyzed and
planned all day long with respect to problems of troop morale.
My responsibility was to prepare policies, programs, and materials
relevant to the occupational readjustment of troops to civilian
life. For this I received a letter of commendation from the Secre-
tary of War and an honorable discharge in 1946.

The years since the war have been rich in professional and
community activities and in many friendships. As chairman of
the Psychology Department and director of the Guidance De-
"partment at Suffolk University, my purpose has been to help stu-
dents to acquire a better understanding of their human needs and
potentialities and some awareness of effective means for fulfilling
themselves and helping others to do likewise.

[713 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 |

As Psychological Consultant for the Boston Dispensary, Medi-
cal Rehabilitation Department, and for the Consultation and
Guidance Service of the Boston Committee on Alcoholism I have
been attempting to further the concept of teamwork among a
combination of disciplines as the most effective means for secur-
ing the rehabilitation of people in whom both the physical and psy-
chological economies have been disrupted.

As chairman of the committee on “Uses of Personal Counseling
in Preventive Psychiatry” for the Research and Development
Group of the U.S.A.R., I have been conducting research aimed
at developing such interview techniques as can be used by officers
to assist enlisted men who have personal problems that decrease
their efficiency and impair the morale of the unit.

In 1949 I was asked to organize and direct a non-sectarian
school of religious education for Community Church of Boston.
After three years of study and work, the school appears to be
fruitful as an agency for helping children to develop feelings of
religious, social, and personal security on the basis of growing
insight into the unity among human beings and the strength for
good that is continuously evolved in people and in nature. I like
to think that these children or any of my students will, in a spirit
of good-will, want to apply the democratic principle of the right
of every individual to “life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness”
to all areas of life — political and social, economic and domestic.

A recent interest has been the writing of a handbook titled A
Classified and Integrated Index of Social and Health Agencies.
It is based on the concept that the total health of the individual
consists of physical, emotional, and social aspects and that all the
resources of the community should be integrated in order to
secure the optimum adjustment and development of the individual
towards increased personal and social effectiveness.

Less strenuous interests at the present time are tennis, opera,
ballet, plays, diversified reading, chatting with people, and just
about any kind of moving picture. The only thing that appears to
be missing is a wife and family as nice as some of those that I
have met at recent gatherings of the Class of 1929.

[714]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

J. CHARLES LIEBMAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Sky Ranch, Route 1, Box 708, Escondido, Calif.

sorN: Nov. 28, 1907, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: David Louis Liebman,
Josephine B. Feist.

prepaRED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1920.

margieD: Joan Edith Heineman, April 7, 1932, Chicago, Ill. cup: Jon
Charles, Sept. ro, 1934.

occuPATION: Rancher; avocado grower; real estate salesman.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and treasurer, The Big Store Company, Cincin-
nati, Ohio, 1936-47; member board, Escondido Community Chest, 1950-
52; chairman, Escondido Branch, American Red Cross, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Exchange Club; California Avocado Society; Escondido Fish
and Game Association; United World Federalists.

UNTIL I actually sat down to write my autobiography — _ urged
on, I must confess, by increasingly urgent “reminders” and last
night by a final frantic long-distance call from Fred Hartwell —
the fact that twenty-five years have passed since undergraduate
days seemed unreal. I now realize that the metamorphosis that has
taken place (from retail buyer to avocado grower) required the
full quarter century.

The first year after graduation I spent at Harvard Business
School and the second at the Gilchrist Company in Boston, learn-
ing the “retail business.” In 1932 I joined The Big Store Com-
pany, a departmentalized specialty store in Cincinnati. In April
of that same year I married Joan Heineman, Wellesley ’31. Our
son, Jon, was born in 1934 and from then until the outbreak of the
war, our lives passed pleasantly and uneventfully. I progressed
from assistant buyer to vice-president and treasurer of The Big
Store, had a full and satisfactory social life among lifetime friends,
and participated in the usual civic and community enterprises.

In April, 1944, I was commissioned a lieutenant, junior grade,
in the Naval Reserve. My naval career, while not unduly stimu-
lating, was far from monotonous. In 1944 I was Ships’ Service
Officer at NAS, Atlanta, in 1945 a gunnery officer in Norfolk,
and in 1946 surplus dispdsal officer in Los Angeles, Joan and Jon
were able to be with me at all but the temporary stations — so,
despite house-hunting and school-changing, our lives were not
too disrupted. It was at my last station in Los Angeles (while
living at Malibu Beach) that all three of us developed a love for

[71s]

Miildeddh ai

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

California, and determined to live there if it ever became possible.
In March, 1946, I was released from the service in Los Angeles.
Our return to Cincinnati took us seven weeks, since we went via
Mexico City and Acapulco,

In 1948 we sold our business and headed directly for California.
We bought a four-year-old, 1,500-tree avocado grove near the
town of Escondido, in northern San Diego County. My life since
then has been busy and satisfying. Irrigating, fertilizing, and pick-
ing still leave ample time for hunting and fishing. We are all
delighted with our new way of life. There are, of course, some
problems — chief of which is the water shortage, which, due to
a seven-year drought and the continuing influx of new residents,
becomes daily more serious. However, life is leisurely and pleas-
ant since we are completely divorced from the pressures of city
living and high velocity business.

My outside activities and affiliations are varied. I served as a
member of the Escondido Community Chest Board for two years
and at present I am chairman of the Escondido Branch of the
American Red Cross. I am a member of the United World Fed-
eralists. I also have a real estate license, chiefly to take care of
friends and friends-of-friends who, coming for a visit, fall in love
with our valley and wish to stay.

Our son, Jon, now nineteen, is a sophomore at the University
of Colorado. He is a midshipman in the NROTC. He is, surpris-
ingly, an excellent student, a good swimmer, a poor but enthusi-
astic tennis player, and a fine boy! Since he must go on naval
cruises each summer, his time at home is quite limited, but we do
manage to work in a few fishing trips together on each visit. Since
our community is small, it must necessarily make its own social
life. We are members of two dance clubs, each of which meets
once a month. We belong to several bridge groups — and lately
I have become quite interested in duplicate bridge with absolutely
no aspirations for the national tournaments!

JOSEPH LIFRAK

HOME aporess: 464 Locust St., Fall River, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 130 S. Main St., Fall River, Mass,
Born; May 31, 1907, Fall River, Mass. parents: Thomas Lifrak, Ida Asch.

[716 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prepaRED AT: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

married: Hannah M. Donovan, July 11, 1938, Brattleboro, Vt. cHiLpren:
Diane, June 13, 1939; Stephen Thomas, Jan. 2, 1942; Timothy Thomas,
March 27, 1947; Donna Lynn, May 4, 1949; Lisa, Oct. 24, 1953.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Legal adviser, Fall River Democratic City Committee, 1949-
53; committee chairman, Cub Pack 20, 1950-52; commissioner, Fall
River Little League, 1951-53; president, Westall P.T.A., 1952, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Fall River and Bristol County Bar Associations; Fall River
Harvard Club; Harvard Varsity Club.

LATE in 1936 I was admitted as a member of the Massachusetts
Bar and began to practise law in Fall River. At present I still
maintain an office and have a small clientele.

My family is a source of great joy and sometimes intense
headaches, with three girls and two boys who seem to have in-
herited the characteristic Irish spirit for fun and fighting from
their lovely mother. I have had to develop a capacity for adjust-
ing differences between my children. My oldest daughter, Diane,
is a fine young lady who helps her mother a great deal and is our
chief baby sitter. Needless to say, it is always exciting when I get
home from the office. Just when I would like to sit back and
tread, Timmy, who is seven, wants to wrestle with me and of
course Steve, who is twelve, always joins in. Naturally, Donna,
who is five, doesn’t want to miss anything so she has to take part.
After a couple of minutes I am ready to quit but not if the chil-
dren have anything to say about it. Then when I am exhausted
my wife will ask me to hold little Lisa, who is three months, for
a few minutes. While I’m holding Lisa she continuously smiles
and coos and I wonder whether she knows something I ought
to know.

During the summer we move down to our cottage on the Sa-
konnet River in Portsmouth, Rhode Island, where we usually
have an enjoyable time swimming, riding around in the outboard,
eating outdoors, and playing around. When September rolls
around we are ready to move back to the city for a strenuous
school year. I’m grateful for the privilege of living with my wife
and children and I know of no greater happiness I could have
experienced. For recreation I play golf about twice a week. Dur-
ing the winter I coach a basketball team composed of boys ten

[717]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 —

to twelve. In the spring I act as commissioner for Little League
Baseball in Fall River. For intellectual relaxation I attend a great
books discussion group every other Tuesday, and once a month
J preside at a P.T.A. meeting.

I think that Harvard is the best College in the United States
and I hope that my sons will have the opportunity of attending
Harvard. I shall always cherish the associations I have made at
school as Harvard men are an unusually good group of fellows.
See you at the Reunion.

SALVATORE LIMA

HOME ADDRESS: 182 Salem St., Boston 13, Mass.

OFFICE AbpREsS: 281 Hanover St., Boston 13, Mass.

sorN: April 16, 1907, Somerville, Mass. pARENTs: Gandolfo Lima, Josephine
Russo.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D. (Tufts Coll), 1933.

marriep: Anna Elizabeth Pepe, Jan. 27, 1934, Utica, N. Y.

occuPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society.

ALBERT WILLIAM LIND

HOME appreEss: Hobe Sound, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Broad St., New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Albert John Lind, Inez Caroline
Anderson.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 193T.

MARRIED: Julia V. (Jones) Hubbell, Sept. 11, 1936; New York, N. Y.; Mary
Helen Clark, May 29, 1941, New York, N. Y. campren: Albert Clark,
Oct. 6, 1942; Hoxie Robert, Jan. 17, 1944; Mary Louise, July 29, 1945;
Jon Aspegren, Dec. 15, 1947; Mignon Inez, Sept. 23, 1951.

occupation: Limited partner, Sterling, Grace & Company, members New
York Stock Exchange.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Republican Pictures Corporation, since 1945, Asso-
ciation Motion Pictures Industries, Inc., since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Jupiter Island Club, Hobe Sound; Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht
Club, Oyster Bay, N. Y.; Beaver Dam Winter’s Sports Club, Locust

[718 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

- Valley, N. Y.; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Business School
Club of New York; Eastern Point Yacht Club, Gloucester, Mass.; Bass
Rocks Golf Club, Gloucester; Bass Rocks Beach Club, Gloucester.

SHORTLY after graduating from the Business School in 1931, I
entered the employ of the First National Bank of New York. As-
suming good behavior, one expects a life job in a bank. However,
I found the tempo a little too slow and resigned voluntarily after
about seven years. Since that time, I have been with one firm,
Sterling, Grace & Company — members of the New York Stock
Exchange (which I think indicates a happy relationship) ; a gen-
eral partner for over a decade, and a limited partner for the past
two years. |

We run quite a small shop, which is premeditated; no branch
offices, trans-luxes, plush carpets, etc. Possibly, the Yale influence
is predominant. During my most active period with the firm,
there were five general partners, including myself, of whom three
were Yale men. There are now six general partners of whom four
are from the “other College.”

My war record covers a period from 1942 to 1944: patrol work
with the Coast Guard Auxiliary in Oyster Bay, New York, until
Tentered the Navy as a lieutenant (junior grade), U.S. Naval Re-
serve, in 1942. I served as gunnery officer on an A.M. (fleet mine
sweeper) in the Pacific, based at Pearl Harbor. I was released
from active duty in 1944 for medical reasons.

Supplementing the Twentieth Anniversary Report, we have an
even larger family which continues as my main interest. The latest
addition was born two years ago. We now have a “full house,”
three boys and two girls. The boys are eleven, nine, and five; the
girls are eight and two. Baseball, football, and hopscotch are pop-
ular around our home, and they are all avid collectors of stamps,
comic magazines, magic tricks, etc.

Secondary interests include, music, golf, swimming, and yacht-
ing. Some of you may remember that I devoted a good deal of
time to playing the violin during college years. My music has been
quite active of late; in fact, hardly a week goes by, particularly at
Gloucester, that we don’t have an informal musical gathering.

We see, less and less of New York where we lived for a number
of years and which has always been my business headquarters.
More recently, real estate development has been of interest to me

[719]

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

and occupies a fair amount of my time, both in the North and the
South. You see, we divide our time between our home at Hobe
Sound, Florida, and Gloucester, Massachusetts. We should be
more than pleased to see classmates.

FRANCIS SMITH LINN

HOME ApprEss: R.F.D. 2, Twin Elms, South Zanesville, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Zanesville Stoneware Co., Zanesville, Ohio.

BoRN: June 2, 1907, Zanesville, Ohio. parents: Milman Hart Linn, Jane
Davey Smith. ;

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Vincent Bliss Linn, ’23; Milman Hart Linn, ’23, M.B.A. 29.

occuPATION: Stoneware clerk.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, Putnam Presbyterian Church.

MEMBER OF: Art Institute of Zanesville; Young Men’s Christian Association,
Zanesville, Zanesville Country Club.

HERE it is twenty-five years after going to the English A House
near the Harvard Union Club, where once or twice a week I had
to prepare a theme for the class. I remember they were on a
variety of subjects —narration, description, exposition, and ar-
gumentation.

After graduation in 1929. I started looking for a iob. Applying
at the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio, I moved
on to the Hazel-Atlas Glass Company, Zanesville; and then I fol-
lowed father to the Zanesville Stoneware Company where I have
been since August, 1929. Mother had died when I was four years
old. Father died in August, 1940. Both my brothers have been
associated with the same business.

My brother, Vincent, did not marry until late in life. He was
married in Washington, D. C., in 1945. His wife died four years
later. In 1951 he married Polly White Fordyce in Chicago. She
has three children by her first marriage, Samuel, Susan, and Cyn-
thia. My brother, Milman, was married early in life to Helen
Tuttle Partridge in Boston. They have two children, Helen Dana
Williams and Milman Hart Linn, 3d. The latter was graduated in

1953 from Harvard. My sister Jane was married in Zanesville to
Kenneth Marion Gale. They have four children, Kenneth Gale,
Mary Linn Gale, Jane Dana, and Deborah DeVol Gale.

[ 720 ]

ob eect

x

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1938 I took a trip to Europe, visiting Scotland, Wales, Eng-
land, Belgium, and France. In 1939 I was at the Tenth Reunion,
in Cohasset, Massachusetts. Then we held Class Day Exercises in
the Harvard Stadium.

For a hobby I built a work room in the basement at home for
wood burning, leather craft, and metal goods. Another hobby
was playing the piano.

I served in the Army of the United States from 1941 to 1945,
stationed at Fort Devens, Massachusetts. In 1930 I journeyed with
my brother, Vincent, to the nation’s Capitol at Washington, D. C.
Then, in 1951, I went alone to New York City and saw the United
Nations Building. In 1931 my brother, Vincent, and I went to
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

My social life started with grade school socials. Politically I
voted Republican for Herbert Hoover, Democratic for Franklin
Roosevelt, Democratic for Harry Truman, and Republican for
Dwight Eisenhower.

As for religious convictions, I have been associated with the
Putnam Presbyterian Church. In 1935 it celebrated its one hun-
dredth anniversary. I remember Phillips Brooks House, Holden
Chapel, and the Harvard University Church. In 1947 Zanesville,
Ohio, celebrated its sesquicentennial. This year, 1953, the State
of Ohio celebrates its sesquicentennial.

LOUIS SAUL LIPMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Cascade Ave., Lowell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pacific Paper Products, Inc., Lawrence, Mass.

Born: April 30, 1907, Lynn, Mass. parents: Harry Hirsh Lipman, Ida Gins-
burg.

PREPARED aT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

MarRiED: Julia Mazur, March, 1946, Lowell, Mass. cumpren: Deborah Ruth,
Aug. 14, 1947; Elinor Ida, Oct. 16, 1950.

occupation: Treasurer, buyer, Pacific Paper Products, Inc., paper jobbing
business.

The years, 1930-1940, were ones of struggle and frequent won-
dering why the devil I went to Harvard; opinion of Harvard —
low.

[721]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

1942-1945. I was overseas with the Army. I discovered that a
knowledge of French and German can come in mighty handy. I
decided that the time spent at Harvard was not completely wasted
after all.

1946. This was the year of my marriage — with more than the
usual misgivings. I was much amused with the something akin to
awe with which my wife and relatives regarded Harvard and its
institutions.

1946-1952. This was time spent with the nose to the grindstone
accumulating a bit of worldly goods, coupled with frequent out-
bursts of irritation with James B. Conant. He never should have
left the chemistry laboratory.

1953. I have discovered at long last what Harvard’s true mission
in this society should be: to stand up and fight for what is most
precious in the world—and I am very proud | of the fact that
Harvard is so doing.

LEONARD BING LIPPMAN

HOME appress: Park Dearborn Hotel, 1260 N. Dearborn Pkwy., Chicago,
Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.

BorN: Oct. 22, 1907, South Bend, Ind. parents: Samuel W. Lippman, s Stella
Bing.

PREPARED AT: South Bend High School, South Bend, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; J.D. (De Paul Univ.), rgqo.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTion: Tax agent and insurance manager, General American Trans-
portation Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Harvard Club of Chicago, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: National Tax Association, Chicago Bar Association, Harvard

Club of Chicago; Society of the Fifth Division; Masonic Order.

AFTER leaving College and after some adjustment to the dark
days of the depression, I obtained a job in October, 1930, with
my present employer, General American Transportation Corpo-
ration, manufacturers and lessors of railroad freight cars and
manufacturers of process equipment machinery and plastic prod-
ucts. I worked in the shops of this company in East Chicago,
Indiana, for a while, learning what a freight car looks like at
close range. From there I went into accounting work and in 1935

[ 722 ]

p Canesten besa ei ane tata dctlne inden abit ati eth nb ab tind trina Eatin iets tbe eA oh tela bien dnb. .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was transferred into the department that handles tax and insurance
matters for the company. While doing this work I studied law
at De Paul University School of Law and in 1940 received m

degree from that school and passed the Bar of the State of Illinois.

When Uncle Sam heard about this, he decided I was good
material for him, so on June 6, 1941, I was invited to join the
ranks of the U.S. Army. After basic training it was decided I
was too old to stay in the Army and in October, 1941, I was re-
turned to civilian status. There was a change of mind, however,
and on January 13, 1942, I was permitted to return to the Army,
and after a short sojourn at Fort Sheridan on the shores of Lake
Michigan, I travelled to Iceland and spent the summer of 1942
in that pleasant climate, serving as a radio operator with the Fifth
Division. In the fall of 1942, I returned to Fort Monmouth, New
Jersey, received my commission in the Signal Corps, and there-
after served with the Air Corps for the duration. I spent most of
my time with the Air Corps in England, my longest appointment
being that of Provost Marshal at an air base near Oxford, Eng-
land. In 1945 I was released from active duty with the rank of
captain, but stayed in the Reserves until 1953. Upon my return
to civilian life in 1945, I resumed my work with General Ameri-
can Transportation Corporation and in 1951, upon retirement of
my superior, was appointed tax agent and insurance manager of
the company.

Still single, I am living comfortably, surrounded by a couple of
good radios, a television set, and some good books, many of
which I have not yet read but still hope to. I like to play chess,
enjoy good music, and get considerable satisfaction from my as-
sociation with the Harvard Club of Chicago. I had a very pleas-
ant cruise to the West Indies over the Christmas and New Year
holiday this past year. I do not have too many complaints with
life and I think that all in all it is a pretty good deal.

HYMAN LISKER

HOME ADDRESS: 133 Cole Ave., Providence, R. I.

orFice appress: Lisker & Lisker, 58 Weybosset St., Providence, R. I.; Jonette
Jewelry Co., 147 South St., Providence, R. I.

BORN: Jan, 2, 1908, Providence, R. I. parents: John Lisker, Etta Lisker.

[ 723 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREES: A.B. (Brown Univ.), 19293 LL.B. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1932.

marrieD: Lilyan D, Toretsky, Dec. 19, 1940, West Hartford, Conn. cHtL-
pREN: Elizabeth Ann, June 24, 1942; John Richard Gerald, March 21,
1946; Deborah Jane, Oct. 30, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Lisker, LLB., °31.

occupation: Manufacturer; lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attorney general, Rhode Island, 1936-39, 1941-425
vice-president, Roger Williams Lodge, B’nai B'rith, 1940-42; member
Board of Directors, Manufacturing Jewelers Sales Association, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Rhode Island Bar Association; Winnapaug Hills Country Club.

IT REMEMBER vividly (and with nostalgia) that day twenty-five
years ago. I felt so young and those men from the Class of 1904
looked so old. But now it has happened to me! After college grad-
uation, I spent three hard years at Harvard Law School. When I
got my LL.B. in 1932, you may recall that things were very sad.
So I decided to spend some time in politics. (I succumbed to the
charm and persuasion of F.D.R.) I ran for local office as a Demo-
crat in a dyed-in-the-wool Republican district. Naturally I was
defeated. Later I conducted wage-rate hearings in Rhode Island
for the solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor. Then I was picked
as counsel for the N.R.A. in Rhode Island just a few hours before
it was declared unconstitutional. Finally I was appointed assistant
attorney general of Rhode Island. I held office from 1936 to 1939
and from 1941 to 1942. I worked very hard and received some
excellent trial training.

Betwixt and between I practised law with my brother and two
other Harvard men. I also dabbled in the stock market and got my
fingers burnt there as well as in several other business ventures.
(Silly boy, I should have consulted with our own John Fox!) In
1940 I married a lovely and wonderful girl who is “ditto” as a
wife and mother. We have two daughters and a son of whom
we're very proud. They actually rate much more than I can ex-
press, But as you know, there are a lot of things about one’s wife
and children that a man feels but just can’t seem to put down on
paper. After the war I became impatient with the practice of law
and jumped at the chance to go into my brother’s manufacturing
business, I'll let you in on a secret — it’s different from the prac-

tice of law. Much! I spend most of my time selling and trying to

[724]

MANE he (lt, FO AR,

et vireepemdnreintns bassin Srna AOR tt sAL it ssh KRG RR CAA far oi mc he Atl eemase hawah iNet nab lode as Liletineleh ddl tah sateen te Hl

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

keep customers happy. This business pays fairly well; my brother
is one of the best fellows in the world to work with, but Pll be
darned if I still don’t hanker after the law. I actually miss it. Some
day, maybe, Ill go back.

Once upon a time I enjoyed playing a lot of squash and tennis.
But the doctor suggested I give them up. Now I’m trying to bea
golfer. I’ve taken lessons and practised conscientiously so that
I’m now breaking ninety with some degree of regularity.

As I read the above, it amazes me that it takes such a short space
to write about the last twenty-five years of my life. True the time
has flown by, but while it was flying it seemed there was always
something interesting and important happening. C’est la vie! I’ve
had more than my share of the genuine good life, even though I
haven’t written any books, held high public office, or made a lot
of money. I don’t want this occasion to pass without a fond
“Hello” to each of the fellows I knew way back in those days. I
haven’t seen them in years, but every time I open the 1929 Class
Album, I treat myself to a pleasant visit and reminiscent chuckle.

JAMES MacKENZIE LISTER

HOME ADDRESS: 11000 Chippewa Rd., Brecksville, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 501 City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: March 9, 1907, Cleveland, Ohio. PARENTS: Walter Scort Lister, Minnie
Frances Bartlett,

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; B.L.A. (Cornell Univ.),
1933; M.L.A. (ibid.), 1935.

-MarRigD: Barbara Smith, June 18, 1938, Wellesley, Mass. cHitpREN: Michael,

May 4, 1941; Anthony, June 23, 1943; Geoffrey, Oct. 11, 1945; Jame and
Margaret (twins), Dec. 15, 1947.

occupation; City planner.

OFFICES HELD: Freeway expediter, 1944-47, commissioner, Design and Con-
struction, 1947~49, director, City Planning, 1949-54, City of Cleveland;
member, American Society of Planning Officials, 1949-54; member,
Board of Goodrich Settlement, 1951~54.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Sigma Fraternity.

I LEFT Harvard after graduation in 1929 and enrolled at Cornell
University to train as a landscape architect. After receiving the
Master’s degree I won the Prix de Rome in Landscape Architec-
ture, a two-year fellowship. Chief residence was at Academy in

[725]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Rome, but I travelled to Egypt, Greece, Germany, England, and
France. In the fall of 1937 I returned to the U.S., and worked
with the firm of Madigan-Hyland in New York and then on the
New York World’s Fair. In the spring of 1938 I came back to
Cleveland to prepare a work program for W.P.A. forces. I was
in charge of developing plans for lakefront improvement — free-
way planning and programming and finally a capital works pro-
gram for the entire city. Since 1949 I have been in charge of all
city planning and codrdinating of capital works programming
in a city that thoroughly believes in modernizing its facilities. In
1952 this program was receiving such support that $52,000,000
in capital improvement bonds were voted up by a tremendous
majority.

Believing so thoroughly in city planning I have now moved to
the hills of suburban Brecksville, where we live in one of the early
homes of the Western Reserve to which we have attached a mod-
ern ranch house with a view equal to the Berkshires.

+ JOSEPH ROWE LITTLE

BorN: July 16, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Charles L Little, Lucy Ellen
Rowe.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: s.B. (Tufts Coll.), 1929.

MARRIED: Louise Fortune.

piep; April 11, 1938, Rutland, Mass.

LITTLE joined our Class after he had attended Tufts College.

He returned to Tufts where in 1929 he received an S.B. degree.

The following two years he spent as a special student at Harvard, .

and from 1934 to 1936 he was a student at the Harvard Graduate

School of Education. At the time of his death he had been for

several years a teacher of science at the Rindge Technical Train-

ing School in Cambridge. He had also taught in evening schools

and had served as a playground instructor. |

FRANK LITVACK

HOME AppREsS: 24 Cochituate Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jamey Shoe Co., Inc., Nashua, N. H.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1908, Lynn, Mass. PARENTS: Morris Louis Litvack, Rose Ida
Feldman.

[ 726]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
prEPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrieD: Evelyn Martha Bluestein, Sept. 1, 1939, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
James Michael, April 21, 1941; John Alan, May 25, 1945.

occUPATION: President, general manager, Jamey Shoe Company, Inc. manu-
facturers of women’s shoes.

MEMBER OF: Brotherhood Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

TO remember what has happened to me in the last twenty-five
years would be next to impossible. I find it difficult to remember
what happened any day just passed. ;

I was married on September 1, 1939 — the day Germany 1 in-
vaded Poland, and the Big War started! Since that date I have
been carrying on peace negotiations with my wife.

The rest of my accomplishments have been few, except for my
two wonderful sons. My time has been spent mainly in the shoe
business, and most of my troubles have been to meet my income
tax payments on due dates. I even have had trouble creating good
will within my own organization — the proof of this being that
they recently presented me with a wooden plaque. Of course,
they insisted that it was only for a joke — but I wonder. The
inscription on it reads: ““Why be disagreeable when with a little
effort you can be a real stinker.”

HENRY DEMAREST LLOYD, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 9 Telford Rd., Barrington, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 479 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 18, 1907, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Henry Demarest Lloyd, ‘99
Elizabeth McEwen Mason.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB., 1929.

MaRRiED: Norah Alice Keating, June 23, 1934, St. Catharines, Ontario, Can-
ada. cHILDREN: Dorothy Elizabeth, Aug. 26, 1936; Sheila Andrea, April
25, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Property management, real estate and investment.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Chicago Tribune and associated companies, since
1947; member, Forestry and Wood Industries Committee, New England
Council, 1953.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Barrington Yacht Club; Harvard Club
of Rhode Island.

[727]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and I plan for the day when we can have a more sedate power boat
and meanwhile enjoy trips around Narragansett Bay waters with
friends. The boat matter is going to become a family problem,
though, because we are evenly divided between power and sail.
Also, for most of the year my wife and I work together at our
gardening which we both enjoy. Indeed it is the main reason we
haven’t done more with boats, The two pastimes are not mutually
compatible. Good boating weather is also the time when the
garden and yard are most demanding.

During the last few years I have been disappointed and dis-
turbed at the number of “red” and “pink” trails that have led to
Harvard. I believe it is stretching credibility to its utmost to main-
tain that members of the teaching profession hide behind the Fifth
Amendment to keep up the independence of education. What
person with nothing to hide cares whether he is asked the now
- famous sixty-four-dollar question? And as for Senator McCarthy,
I break sharply with much of the eastern seaboard because I am
for him ninety percent of the time or better. I have watched a
number of his hearings and feel that all the complaints come from
the very segment his committee is after, and/or their shades and
hangers-on. The affairs which I have witnessed seemed to be con-
ducted very fairly. True, he did not let the hearing become a
sounding board for left-wingers nor let himself or his staff get led
astray from the purpose of the hearing by the usual means em-
ployed by those trying to get off the hook. But the hue and cry
of brow-beating, etc., just doesn’t fit my visual experience. With
the nature and habits of communists and party followers being
what they are, means have to be used which are effective against
those characteristics.

With so much talk, as of this writing, about this country treat-
ing its allies as sovereign powers and not as satellites to be threat-
ened, what is so wrong about considering ourselves also as a sov-
ereign nation instead of as a poor relation to be bossed around
more or less at will? We are paying the bulk of the Korean War
costs, By that fact it seems to me we acquire a right to say what
our allies do, directly or indirectly, with aid we give them, and if
we should give it. In this matter I firmly back Senator McCarthy.
I will go along with Secretary Dulles on how we treat our friends
and allies if he will also insist that we get the same treatment from

[730]

sun tea nisiee miid nia hetabatne babii ALE bbe

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

them. The United States is no satellite of England or any other
European country. ,

In religion I have never been much of a church-goer. During
my childhood I was brought up as a Congregationalist and have
been told that I used to be quite a scholar in Sunday School. Next
came a period when I was nothing much at all. Then, for a num-
ber of years, I had my own brand which was sort of tied in with
nature and the outdoors. My wife and children are Episcopalians,
with the result that I have become quite well acquainted with its
forms and ideologies. About a year ago I was confirmed in the
Fpiscopal church to the great joy of my girls, big and little. Here
is an additional bond that the four of us have in common. I still
am not a regular church-goer, but I do much better than formerly.
Also I feel better inside for having this definite tie with religion.

JAMES ISENBERG LOBRED

HOME ADDRESS: 2631 Landor Ave., Louisville, Ky.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 643 W. Main St., Louisville, Ky.

BorN: May 23, 1909, Louisville, Ky. parents: Leon Nahm Lobred, Blanche
Isenberg.

PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. CUM laude, 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

MarrigD: Matilda Jane Hammerslough, Dec. 31, 1939, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Thomas Leon, Nov. 1, 1941; Mary Alice, March 9, 1944; Jane
Helen, June 24, 1946.

occupation: Merchandise, J. L. Strauss Company, wholesale dry goods.

ISHOULD probably still be procrastinating over the writing of
this biography, but my wife, prodded by a classmate calling
from out of town, gave me a deadline. All of which is fairly in-
dicative. I consider myself the head of a fine family, but actually
Tam quite well controlled by each and every member.

My wife —who has been called Tudie by her friends since
childhood, for no apparent reason — is quite a dominant member
of the team. Actually she is my best audience and most flattering
critic, and accomplishes a great deal by building up my ego, as
for instance making me believe I am lord and master. I suppose
actually I am, as she is usually right, and in this case the deadline
was well justified.

[731]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Tommy, our oldest offspring, is now twelve and pre-Harvard.
He too is aware that I am boss, unless of course we happen to
disagree on the television program to watch or who has first
option of the morning newspaper. He is considerably more
aware of the world about him than I was at his age, and is gener-
ally a pretty good citizen. Mary is ten, the elder of our two
daughters. She is vivacious, lively, and usually gets her way,
either by out-arguing us or, in a crisis, by turning on the charm.
In many ways she reminds us of Tallulah and some day we ex-
pect her to be in the theatre. Janie is seven — petite, serious, and
sensible. She is our philosopher and, I suppose, my second most
severe critic. Actually, I am inclined to believe that we are all
pretty well under her little thumb. It is a far finer and happier
family than I had contemplated when IJ left Harvard to conquer
the world. Of course, commercially or financially, I never quite
reached that goal, but it was fun trying.

After Harvard Business School I returned to my home city,
Louisville, to a job at Stewart’s, a major department store, where
I remained for eight years as buyer. Believing I was destined
for the Big City, I moved to New York, where I held executive
jobs successively at Gertz in Jamaica, Macy’s, and Oppenheim
Collins, where I merchandised for several years. It was shortly
after I arrived in New York that I met my future wife, married
soon thereafter, and eventually moved to Long Island.

In 1951 I became associated with R. H. White’s of Boston, as
a divisional merchandise manager, and we moved to Swampscott,
which the children adored and where we stayed until recent
months. At that time, we made a major and apparently sound de-
cision to return to Louisville for me to become associated with
my father in his wholesale dry goods business. Undoubtedly it
is a sign of maturity or advancing age for one’s perspective to
change so markedly. I am very happy at returning home where
I am essentially rooted, and where my family will have the same
secure foothold. It is a relief to leave behind me the pressure of
department store operation and to enjoy the relative leisure of the
South.

My hobbies are really few. We are all great lovers of dogs,
and cherish the two canine members of the family, Dagmar and

Angel Chile, both dachshunds. I suppose, subconsciously, I de-

[ 732 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ferred the writing of this because of Angel. She is expectant and
I regret greatly that at this time I am not yet able to report on
her progeny.

Politically, I suppose I am free-lance. I have rooted for Alf
Landon and Franklin Roosevelt, for Tom Dewey and Adlai
Stevenson. This shows no great consistency, but I have become
increasingly conscious of the need for a balance in government,
so that all interests may have their share of representation, labor
and capital, liberal and conservative.

It is most difficult for me to realize that twenty-five years have
elapsed since graduation, and that so much has happened to and
around me. My wife says I look younger than most of my con-
temporaries. She may not be right — but if she is flattering me,
Llike it.

FREDFRICK VICKERY LOUD

HOME ADDRESS: 89 Joralemon St., Brooklyn 2, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 Liberty St., New York 45, N. Y.

BorN: March 29, 1909, Lawton, Okla. parents: Oliver Blanchard Loud, Julia
Sophie Schule.

PREPARED AT: Methuen High School, Methuen, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cut laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Virginia Hart Miether, Aug.-11, 1950, St. Paul, Minn.

HARVARD BROTHER: Oliver Schule Loud, ’29.

occupation: Economist, Foreign Research Division, Federal Reserve Bank
of New York,

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: “Intra-European Trade and European Integration” (with
Henry C. Wallich), Columbia Journal of International Affairs, 1950.

THE personal stock-taking to which I have reluctantly subjected
myself in supplying the notes recorded here leaves me with much
the same feeling of discomfiture as that which assails most mor-
tals during their appearances before a tailor’s mirror. The domi-
nant realization to which this unaccustomed exercise has brought
me is that I have by no means been a pace-setter in acquiring the
emoluments of maturity. It was not until the age of thirty-eight
that I embarked on a settled career, and marriage came still three
years later. Hope springs eternal, however, and now that the

[ 733 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

OLIVER SCHULE LOUD

HOME ADDRESS: 807 Xenia Ave., Yellow Springs, Ohio.

OFFIcE apprEss: Antioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio.

BORN: Jan, 16, 1911, Vernal, Utah. parents: Oliver Blanchard Loud, Julia
Sophie Schule.

PREPARED AT: Methuen High School, Methuen, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B, summa cum laude, 1929; A.M.
(Columbia Univ.), 1940; Ep.p. (ibid.), 1943.

MARRIED: Frances Dworken, April 28, 1935, Cleveland, Ohio. cHILpREN:
Julia Frances, May 5, 1941; David Oliver, April 27, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Vickery Loud, ’29.

occupation: Professor of physical sciences (chemistry and physics).

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1928-29, first marshal, Harvard Chapter, Phi Beta
Kappa; scouumaster, Troop 52, Boy Scouts, Buffalo, N. Y., 1930~32;
superintendent, First Presbyterian Church School, Buffalo, 1931-32;
secretary, Ohio State University Chapter, 1935-36, chairman, Sarah
Lawrence College Chapter (New York College Teachers Local), 1938-
39, American Federation of Teachers; state chairman, Progressive Party
of Ohio, 1948-52; member Platform Committee, Progressive Party of
U.S.A., 1948-1950; contributing editor, Phylon quarterly, Atlantic Uni-
versity, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Phi
Beta Kappa; Alpha Chi Sigma (chemical); Kappa Delta Pi (education-
al); Phi Delta Kappa (educational); National Association for Research
in Science Teaching.

PUBLICATIONS: Six articles cited in Vicennial Report, four on education and
two on atomic energy; “The Design of Science Courses for General
Education on the College Level,” School Science and Mathematics,
April, 1950; “The Progressive Party and Codperation on the Left,”
Monthly Review, June, 1950; “American Foreign Policy and American
Education,” Progressive Education, January, 1951,

WITH the exception of eighteen months spent in scientific work
at Oak Ridge during World War II, my twenty-five years since
1929 have been devoted to learning and teaching. In some ways
it has been a most varied teaching experience: on every level from
elementary to graduate school; for such diverse purposes as the
preparation of teachers, of army engineers, of trade unionists; in
such differing communities as metropolitan New York, suburban
Bryn Mawr, and the small village of Yellow Springs, Ohio. In
other ways it has been a single, developing life-work: improving
the teaching of science, primarily for purposes of general educa-
tion. My original expectation of returning to Harvard in 1933 —
Either Medical or Graduate School — to resume my professional-

[736]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

zation as a scientist, changed during 1933 through association with

my maturer colleagues at the Ohio State University High School;

thus I became committed to the teaching profession. After an-

other rewarding interval, on the Sarah Lawrence College faculty,

I was ready for graduate study which I pursued on a part-time
basis at the Advanced School of Education, Columbia University,
during the years 1939 to 1943, emerging with a doctor’s degree in
“the teaching of the natural sciences for the purposes of general
education.” Since the war, I have been a member of the Antioch
College faculty, participating in the experiment of designing a
liberal education which integrates: an academic program, a suc-
cession of bona fide work experiences in diverse communities, and
the conduct of an intimate, wholly self-governing college com-
munity committed to a pervasive honor system. Through the
generosity of the Ford Foundation, I was privileged to anticipate
our Class Reunion by spending the academic year 1952-1953 in
residence at Harvard, in advanced and independent study. It was,
in part, a “sentimental journey” for me.

In 1934, the very special fulfillment of love came to me and my
girl; since our marriage in 1935 we have grown together in the
continuing adventure of our comradeship. This included five years
when we were wholly free to pursue our chosen professions —
mine in teaching, hers in acting — legitimate stage and radio. Then
we were ready to create still more of a family. Our two children,
Julie who will be thirteen and Davie who will be nine by the time
of our Class Reunion, think of Yellow Springs, Ohio, as their
home; in choosing to join the Antioch experiment, we were at
the same time choosing a way of life for our children to grow
into— not a Utopia, but a small community (enriched by a lib-
eral arts college) where neighbors could unpretentiously take
counsel together for their common welfare. Now we are prepar-
ing to solve the problem of my wife’s resumption of her profession
as an artist. (She appeared as Volumnia in Coriolanus in the De-
cember, 1952, production at Brattle Theatre.)

The camping experience which began for me in the summers
of my Harvard years was resumed in 1952 and 1953 when I re-
turned, after seventeen years, to Medomak Camp, Washington,
Maine, as a councillor —so that my children could discover and
I could rediscover the very special good consequences of com-

[ 737]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

munity living in the out-of-doors (considered by Harvard’s Presi-
dent Eliot to be America’s most distinctive contribution to educa-
tional practice), Anniversaries have coincided for me: Antioch’s
centennial, Medomak’s fiftieth, and our Twenty-fifth Class Re-
union!

I experienced, not during my undergraduate years but soon
thereafter, a serious interest in religious and philosophical issues.
This led me quite soon and painlessly to an essentially humanist
position — with a deep respect for the beautiful core of every
living faith and a deep regret that religious differences should
divide rather than enrich the peoples of the earth. My own pref-
erence in religious affiliation is, of course, limited by my being “of
the West” and it is powerfully influenced by my deep respect for
the life-work of my father, a liberal Congregational minister. It
would be first of all unorthodox and then it would find as equiv-
alently attractive: liberal Unitarianism, Reform Judaism, and —
if I could reach a pacifist position — the Quaker faith. I have
chosen, I think, as freely as any man has or needs to, when, with
my marriage and facing the problem of educating the children,
my wife and I have affiliated ourselves with the nearest, most lib-
eral Jewish temple. Our objective as parents is that our children
will as freely choose for themselves in their own good time, deeply
appreciative of, because most familiar with one contemporary
faith, but ready to go on invitation with any friend — not as un-
easy visitors — to any temple, church, cathedral, or chapel.

Philosophically, I am equally without orthodoxy. Attracted
about equivalently to pragmatism, logical positivism. and Marx-
ism, my preference for over fifteen years now has been for the
latter.

There remains for me to report my considerable and invaluable
experience with political action, intermittently before 1945 but
continuously thereafter in opposition to the major established
parties. I hope to live to participate (as my great-grandfather did
a century ago) in the successful building of a vast new coalition
—as Jefferson’s Republican Party and Lincoln’s Republican Party
were in their origins — that will give courageous and appropriate
expression, in domestic and foreign policies alike, to the particular
democratic-revolutionary experiences of the American people. I
have employed political procedures which I recommend respon-

[ 738 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sibly to every other citizen — potential ally or opponent — as the

right and responsibility of our citizenship. 1 seek an America

among the nations of the one-world community as strong and as

influential as we the American people prove ourselves to deserve

— strong and influential because the visible and undeferred effect
of American policies is to improve in fact and not merely in con-
jecture the chances for millions of human persons to come out
from under the ancient and obsolete tyrannies of poverty, hunger,
insanitation, illiteracy, and political oppression; because our Amer-
ican policies derive continuously from the freest political advoc-
acy — our political processes no longer subverted as currently by
the versatile punishment of dissenters; because no individual among
us is denied, for irrelevant reasons of “race,” creed, national origin,
or political persuasion, a single prerogative that any of us takes to
himself for granted; because our productive economy can be stab-
ized with full employment on some other expanding basis than
the massing of armament.

In this “our basest hour” yet, I stubbornly hold that integrity
and loyalty are to be found as probably there as here along the
political spectrum, left or right of my own preferred and imper-
manent position. I can respect any political ally or opponent ex-
cept the one who meets some other’s advocacy with the arrogant
charge that it is “un-American”; to start that chain reaction of
violent aspersion, where the rational competition of ideas is indis-
pensable, is ove action that seems to me clearly un-American.
What we should agree upon — ally and opponent alike, as fellow-
citizens — is the need of dealing honorably with one another and
responsibly with ideas. This way of problem-solving — derived
from the scientific enterprise, from teaching, and from the conduct
of a town meeting — is at one and the same time the most promis-
ing procedure available to fallible men and the most attractive way
of life within which to associate as men aspiring earnestly to be
free.

JULIUS LOVETT

HOME AppREss: 115 Webacowitt Ave., Lynn, Mass.
Born: Aug. 28, 1907, Malden, Mass. PARENTS: Harris Louis Youdelovitz,

Fannie Lena Rivkind.

[ 739 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF. 1929

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marriep: Alice Bertha Safran, Aug. 28, 1947, Lynn, Mass. centp: Helene
Zelda, Feb. 14, 1949.

occupation: Postal employee, U.S. Post Office Department.

ALL too often one’s plans do not materialize. Little did I expect
that I would not, upon graduation, continue my education in the
field of medicine, but that is just what did happen. Due to circum-
stances at home, I had to go to work. With the advent of World
War II, I wound up as sergeant in the Army Signal Corps in Eu-
rope. My language studies in both French and German stood me
in good stead as I went through the entire campaign from Nor-
mandy through France, Luxembourg, Belgium, and Germany. I
came home with five battle stars and the Bronze Star. On my
return to civilian life, 1 went back to work with the Post Office
Department. In 1947 I married and moved to Lynn, Massachu-
setts, where I have now happy settled down with my wife and
daughter.

SAMUEL LOWIS

HOME ADpRESS: 169 Marlborough St., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 475 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BoRN: July 26, 1908, Marlboro, Mass. parents: Morris Lowis, Lena Nuren-
berg.

pRepAnes at: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D., 1934.

marrizD: Cecilia S. Miller, Sept. 8, 1936, Brookline, Mass.

occupation: Neurosurgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting neurosurgeon, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, since 1940,
Carney Hospital, Boston, since 1940; associate visiting neurosurgeon,
Mt. Auburn Hospital, Cambridge, since 1940; clinical associate in neuro-
surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, since 1940; consulting neuro-
surgeon, New England Hospital, Boston, Elliot Community Hospital,
Keene, N. H., Booth Hospital, Brookline, Brooks Hospital, Brookline,
Burbank Hospital, Fitchburg, Morton Hospital, Taunton, Glover Hos-
pital, Needham, Bon Secours Hospital, Methuen, Gale Hospital, Haver-
hill.

MEMBER oF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Board of
Neurological Surgery (diplomate); Boston Surgical Society; Boston So-
ciety for Psychiatry and Neurology; Association for Research in Nerv-
ous Diseases; Harvey Cushing Society. .

[ 740 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES LEONARD LUNDIN

HOME ADDRESS: 315 East Side Drive, Bloomington, Ind.

BorN: June 22, 1907, Montreal, P.Q., Canada. PARENTS: Gustaf Leonard
Lundin, Anneta Floyd.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1929; A.M.
1931.

occuPATION: Education.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

+ THOMAS FRANCIS LYDON

porn: April 11, 1907, Chester, Mass. PARENTS: Michael Joseph Lydon, Bridget
Teresa Grady.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

pep: Jan. 5, 1951, Winchester, Mass.

UPON graduating from Harvard, Lydon bought a farm in Wo-
burn, Massachusetts, and became a farmer, milk dealer, and ice
cream manufacturer. For three years during World War II he
built landing crafts at Bethlehem-Hingham and was in charge of
a night shift in radar production at Raytheon. He then returned
to “Lydon’s Dairy Farm” where he resumed his milk business.
He also raised flowers and experimented in real estate.

GEORGE WILLIAM LYNCH

HOME apprEss: 37 Hilltop Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 520 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 7, 1907, Woburn, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Kennedy Lynch,
Susan B. McCall.

PREPARED AT: Woburn High School, Woburn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D., 1933.

marrigp: Margaret Farrell, Nov. 10, 1946, Chestnut Hill, Mass. cHiLpReN:
Margaret Ruth, Nov. 6, 1937 (stepchild); William Henry, Jan. 25, 1943
(stepchild); Marietta Elizabeth, Dec. 21, 1947; Michael Frederick, June
29, 1949; Nicholas Frederick, Sept. 8, 1953.

occupation: Physician, private practice, specializing in internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Medical house officer, 1933-35, member Medical Staff, since
1936, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, research and clinical associate,

[741]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Dr. Elliott P. Joslin, 1935, 1936; associate, Dr. James P. O’Hare, 1936-41;
member visiting staff, Long Island Hospital, 1936-41, Holy Ghost Hos-
pital, since 1947, medical consultant, Boston Psychopathic Hospital,
1938-41, Choate Memorial Hospital, since 1940, Glover Memorial Hos-
pital, since 1948, Winthrop Community Hospital, since 1950; assistant
medical adviser, Harvard College, 1940, 1941, 1946; physician to Har-
vard Law School, 1946, 1947; instructor in medicine, Harvard Medical
School, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); American
College of Physicians; American Medical Association; Massachussetts
Medical Association; New England Heart Association; American Heart
Association, New England Diabetes Association; Harvard Club of Bos-
ton; Catholic Alumni Sodality,; Clover Club; Bass Rocks Golf Club;
Eastern Point Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on vascular disease and diabetes in medical journals.

AFTER graduation I became a member of the Class of 1933 at
Harvard Medical School. I spent four busy and pleasant years in
the company of many of our classmates and alumni of numerous
colleges. I interned at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital and since
then have been affiliated with that institution. In practice I have
been associated wtih Dr. Elliott P. Joslin and later with Dr. James
P, O’Hare. I had my own practice established prior to the war
and resumed it upon returning from the Navy. The sidelines in
my career as a physician have included service in the Hygiene
Department of Harvard College, being physician to the Harvard
Law School, instructing medical students, and an intimate affii-
ation with military medicine.

Being in the Naval Reserve I found myself on active duty,
July 28, 1941. Soon after Pearl Harbor I was assigned to the
First Marine Division and became the commanding officer of a
medical company. Our functions included evacuating the
wounded from the front lines and running a field hospital. Later
I served as Chief of Medicine at a Naval Training Center. I ter-
minated active duty as a commander on April 18, 1946, and am
still in the Naval Reserve.

Even though the Harvard Club was a pleasant place in which to
live, I have since learned that I never really lived until I settled
down with a wife and children. In 1946 I married Margaret Far-
rell of Albany, New York. She was a widow with two children.
We have since had three more. My chief interests are my family
and my work. I have dabbled in golf and hope to develop it to

[742 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the point where I can occasionally enjoy playing it. We spend
the summer in Gloucester and, while I cannot stay there, I do
manage to commute a good deal. All of the children enjoy sailing
and swimming. I, too, enjoy being on the water and hope to have
more time for such pleasure.

THEODORE FRANCIS LYNCH

HOME ADDRESS: 4oo Livingston St., New Haven 11, Conn.

OFFicz ADDRESS: 79 Willow St., New Haven, Conn.

BorN; Aug. 13, 1906, Ashmont, Mass. PARENTS: Daniel Joseph Lynch, Mar-
garet Madelyn O’Brien.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929»

marRieD: Elizabeth Kenna, June 1, 1935, New Haven, Conn. CHILDREN:
Theodore Kenna, May 8, 1937; Barry Kinney, Sept. 4, 1942; Betsy
Kenna, Dec. 13, 1948.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Marlin Firearms Company, manufacturers of
sporting arms.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Associated Realty Corporation (New Haven), since
1946, Illustrated Current News (New Haven), since 1946, Marlin In-
dustrial Division (New Haven), since 1946, L. C. Smith Gun Company
(Fulton, N. Y.), since 1946, United Fund (New Haven), since 1951.

MEMBER OF: New Haven Country Club; Madison Beach Club; Harvard
Club of New York; Harvard Club of New Haven; Union League
(New Haven); Yale Club of Madison; New Haven Gridiron Club.

HAVING worked one’s way through College as a sports writer,
one thought it was only fair to assume in June of 1929 that one’s
career was to follow the journalistic profession. However, June
came and one landed in the New Jersey Bell Telephone Company,
presumably as a publicity man.

There the sports writing stopped dead. Instead of pounding
a typewriter with two fingers, one found one’s self as a com-
mercial employee in, of all places, Hackensack, New Jersey.
After eight months of telling doting housewives they could not
have credit for five-cent phone calls and being forced to follow
the rigid pattern of “do nothing unless the boss tells you” the
former sports writer was ready to quit. It seemed that Hacken-
sack was going to be a permanent residence and it was bad
enough to live there but worse to be buried in that town. Fur-
thermore, if you stay in the sticks too long you are completely

[ 743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Club of Madison and had a picture taken with Herman Hickman
for the edification of the press.

One’s hobbies are limited with the possible exception of ama-
teur theatricals in New Haven and Madison. One’s civic affairs
are somewhat limited although one has worked for the Commu-
nity Chest and the Cancer Drive, etc. On these, if you go over
the top you get a whale of a lot of credit but you know you owe
a lot to other people and in this case to a damn efficient secretary.

One’s Harvard activities have been limited with the exception
of the recent Yale football gathering when one was under the
complete domination of Collens and Cleary. One is still numb
from their volume of letters and abuse but hopes to recover by
Reunion time.

WILLIAM WILSON McADAMS

HOME AppRESS: King of Prussia Road, Radnor, Pa.
oFFice apprEss: 1416 S. Penn Sq., Philadelphia 2, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1907, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Francis Matthew McAdams,
Harriet Farquhar.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1933.

marriep: Sybilla K. Betz, May 30, 1935; Elizabeth Buckner Lisle, Jan. 22,
1953, Washington, D. C.

occupation: Lawyer, general practice.

AN effort to appraise the big and little moments of twenty-five
years indicates that few, if any, were of enduring interest or sig-
nificance. Successes and failures alike seem Jess important as
they become more remote,
Since finishing law school, I have been principally occupied as
a practising lawyer in Philadelphia. I spent four of the war years
in the Air Forces; the latter two in Europe, where I had an amus-
ing time following the U.S. First Army through France, Belgium,
and into Germany.
- Tam sometimes puzzled that I continue to enjoy perfect health.
Observation of my contemporaries has made me appreciate this
good fortune, and has led me, in recent years, to take reasonable
action toward preserving it. I believe that increasing recognition

[ 746 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and acceptance of reality has tempered somewhat many of my
former enthusiasms. The result is that, while life is less hectic,
it is no less exciting and far more satisfying.

HOWARD KING McCAIN |

HOME ADDRESS: 2025 Peachtree Rd., N.E., Apt. 706, Atlanta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1205 Spring St., N.W., Atlanta, Ga.

porn: Aug. 6, 1907, Richmond, Ind. parents: William Howard | McCain,
Almy Florence King.

PREPARED AT: Steele High School, Dayton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: s.B. cum laude, 1929.

marrieD: Maurine Elizabeth Smith, Nov. 30, 1933, Dayton, Ohio (divorced
1952). CHILDREN: Howard King, Jr., Feb. 17, 1938; Susan Copeland, Jan.
20, 1944.

occupaTion: Consulting mechanical engineer, firm member, Newcomb &
Boyd.

orrices HELD: President, Atlanta Chapter, American Society of Heating and
Ventilating Engineers, 1947, Peachtree Civitan Club, 1951; treasurer,
Harvard Club of Adlanta, 1952; chairman, Schools Committee, 1951,
Scholarship Committee, 1953, Harvard Club of Atlanta, member Atlanta
Area Council, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Dayton Engineers Club; Knoxville Technical Society; American
Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers; Georgia Engineering So-
ciety; National Society of Professional Engineers; Atlanta Yacht Club;
Civitan International; Reserve Officers Association; Quartermaster Asso-
ciation; Navy Commissioned Officers Mess, Atlanta.

IN this report, reference is made to my Vicennial report, which
still stands, particularly about People being more important than
Things. Since the former report, I have an increased interest in
the secondary school systems in Georgia. Harvard College must
continue in attracting young men from all parts of these United
States, as well as from other sections of the world.

A previous conviction. that a prepared citizenry is the best
answer to involvement in war, or the threat of war, has kept me
interested in the U.S. Army Reserve program. I am presently the
division quartermaster of the 81st Infantry Division (Reserve) in
the grade of lieutenant colonel. Perhaps our pioneer forefathers
(and the present-day Swiss) had the right idea in keeping a rifle
over the fireplace.

Hobby-wise, I still find watching the development of Howard

[ 747 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and Susan by far the most fascinating. My extra-curricular chief
interest is in sailing (Atlanta is no longer land-locked) on Lake
Allatoona. I am still with Newcomb & Boyd, as engineer in charge
of the Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Section; my job is the
preparation of plans and specifications, also field supervision, of
construction projects throughout the Southeast.

And as a final thought: perhaps one finds that one of the great-
er satisfactions in living is gained from the effort expended in
worthwhile work outside of the field of just making a living.

WILLIAM ALEXANDER McCAUSLAND

HOME apprEss: Old Meeting House Lane, Norwell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hood Rubber Co., Watertown 72, Mass.; 123 Franklin St.,
Quincy 69, Mass.

BORN: July 13, 1906, Quincy, Mass. parents: William James McCausland,
M.D., ’o0, Belle Hamilton Gulliland.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.D. (McGill Univ.),
1936.

marriepD: Alison Duncan McLachlin, June, 1935, Montreal, P.Q., Canada
(divorced); Marie A. De Paulo, April 5, 1952, Salem, N. H. CHILDREN:
Judith Emily, March 17, 1937; Michael De Paulo, 1943 (stepson);
Stephen De Paulo, 1947 (stepson).

OccUPATION: Physician and surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to Medical Director, Hood Rubber Company; mem-
ber, Health Committee, Rubber Section, National Safety Council.
MEMBER OF: Neighborhood Club, Quincy, Mass.; American Medical Soci-

ety; Norfolk County Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society.

AFTER graduation I attended McGill Medical School in Mont-
real, interned in Quincy and England, and started private prac-
tice in Quincy, Massachusetts. Along came the war and I went
into the Navy, serving in the European theatre most of the time.
From 1946 to 1949 I was back in private practice, then went back
to duty to study at the School of Aviation Medicine and Research,
Pensacola, Florida. Upon completing my studies I returned to
Quincy and became inactive in the Navy. In 1950 I received the
opportunity to become assistant to the medical director of the
Hood Rubber Company at Watertown, Massachusetts, a division
of the B. F. Goodrich Company. This position along with my

[ 748 ]

aa

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

private practice keeps me out of mischief. I remarried in 1952
and am at present living in Norwell, Massachusetts, so between
my job and practice I manage to do more than 100 miles a day.
I am in good health and have all my hair even though it is gray.

THOMAS JAMES McCORMICK

MAILING ADDRESS: % Department of State, Washington 25, D. C,

BorN: July 28, rg08, Taunton, Mass. parents: Stephen James McCormick,
Mary Estella Gaffney.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; A.M. (Georgetown Univ.),
1933»

marriep: Frances Dowden, June, 1940, Washington, D.C, camp: Robert
Stephen, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Gaffney McCormick, ‘40.

occupation: Commercial attaché, Foreign Service.

CHARLES CHRISTOPHER McGEHEE —

HOME ADDRESS: 3421 Beverly Drive, Dallas, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 317 Mercantile Commerce Bldg., Dallas, Texas.

BORN: July 15, 1906, Atlanta, Ga. PARENTS: Charles Christopher McGehee, "Bo,
Vera Hatcher.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MaRRIED: Mary Louise Brumby, Sept. 18, 1928, Atlanta, Ga. CHILDREN:
Charles Christopher, Jr., Aug. 27, 1929 (2. Monte Maddox, July 29,
1949); Mary Brumby, March 11, 1931 (2. William Bruce Isaacs, Jr.
July 8, 1949); Thomas Brumby, Jan. 23, 1938. GRANDCHILDREN: Paula
Maddox McGehee, Jan. 11, 1953; Mary McGehee Isaacs, April 30, 19513
William Bruce Isaacs, Jr., Sept. 2, 1952.

OccUPATION: Southwestern area director, Blatz Brewing Company.

MEMBER OF: Florida Yacht Club, Jacksonville; Dallas Athletic Club.

AS the Class of 1929 approached graduation I am quite certain
that few members anticipated the tremendous social changes which
would take place in the next twenty-five years, and certain it is
that few of us anticipated the bursting bubble which began with
the stock market crash in the fall of 1929. My undergraduate con-
victions which seemed to tie in with those of my classmates were
that a few years would enable me to make millions in the “market”

[ 749 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and to rule a business empire which I should direct from Maine in
the summer and Florida in the winter. I was one of those few
who rushed through college and completed the requirements for
a degree in June, 1928, but took a year’s leave of absence in order
to be able to do just what Iam now doing with my classmates of
1929. This hurry to get through was occasioned by the fact that
my father was ill and passed away during my second year.

In September, 1928, I married the girl whom I had been rushing
since early prep school days and Charles, Junior, arrived in August,
1929, just two months after Class graduation. Life moved along
reasonably well and Mary, Junior, was born in March, 1931. Real
estate and insurance, a growing family, and a growing depression
kept me busy and optimistic. In 1934 I went with the Federal
Housing Administration, serving as regional director in Atlanta
and later as deputy administrator in Washington. This appears to
be a good spot in which to mention my political connections and
beliefs. I was fortunate to have been thrown with the Roosevelt
family during prep school days at Groton and to have known them
thereafter. As a Georgian I grew up a Democrat and as a result of
contacts with the Roosevelts 1 became a ‘New Dealer.” I am
convinced that Roosevelt served a purpose in the evolution of the
social system of this country and that without him we should have
had social convulsions, if not revolution, far more serious than we
have had. I could not follow the “Fair Deal” with Truman and
believe that the Republican victory in 1952 was essential.

In 1938 I went into the soft drink business and from then until
1950 my efforts were divided between Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola.
In 1950 I obtained the Miller High Life beer account for Memphis,
‘Tennessee, and opened a wholesalership in that city. In the spring
of this year, 1953, the Blatz Brewing Company purchased my
business in Memphis and I now represent them in four southwest-
ern states with offices in Dallas, Texas.

At the present time Charles, Junior, is a first lieutenant in the
Army Air Corps stationed in Guam. He graduated from the Uni-
versity of Florida and took Officer Candidate School training in
San Antonio, Texas. Our daughter, Mary, is now Mrs. William
Bruce Isaacs, Jr., of Lexington, Kentucky, and we greatly enjoy
our infrequent visits to that lovely city of bluegrass, bourbon, and

horses. Brumby, our youngest, is at Sewanee Military Academy,

[ 750 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Sewanee, Tennessee. Sewanee is an Episcopal church school lo-
cated on the domain of the University of the South. I regret to
say that I have been a rather poor Episcopalian. My wife joined
the Episcopal Church shortly after we were married and she has
been most active in two different churches, having been head of
the Women’s Auxiliary, and on all occasions having worked like
a trooper. .

I believe that America will achieve far greater wealth and world-
ly goods than it has today. The five hundred billion national in-
come is just around the corner — and not the Hoover corner —
but over the long pull I am frightened for this great nation’s fu-
ture when I see individual initiative disappearing and the average
man believing that the government owes him a job. It may be the
prattle of a man twenty-five years out to say that much of the
youth of today is looking for a soft spot and does not want to
work. The thirty-five-hour week alarms me. Can this country
be treading the same path that France followed a few years ago?
If our present and future leaders develop “Guts” that are necessary
in dealing with classes, and serve as statesmen instead of politicians,
there is no limit to our future.

ARTHUR NYE McGEOCH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 8107 N. Poplar Drive, Milwaukee, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 207 E. Michigan, Milwaukee, Wis.

BorN: Oct. 27, 1906, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Arthur Nye McGeoch, ’91,
LL.B., 94, Caroline Bigelow.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MARRIED: Caroline Clark, Aug. 24, 1929, Dark Harbor, Maine; Lily McCabe
Kerr, Oct. 4, 1941. cHILD: Joan, Nov. 17, 1930.

occupation: Associated with The Milwaukee Company.

AFTER leaving Harvard College in December, 1928, I went to
work with White, Weld & Company in New York City on Janu-
ary 2, 1929; I remained there until July, 1931, at which time I
made the horrendous mistake of purchasing a membership on the
New York Stock Exchange. I operated as an independent broker
until 1935, at which time I became a member of the firm of
Rhoades & Company of New York City. This firm dissolved in
1938 and from then until 1940 I again was an independent.

[751]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 >

In the late fall of 1940 I returned to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and
became affiliated with my father in the real estate business until I
joined the Navy in February of 1942. I was in the Naval Air Force
from that date until December, 1945, at which time I was sepa-
rated with the rank of commander. From 1946 until 1950 I was
co-manager of the Milwaukee Office of Harris Upham & Com-
pany, and since September of 1950, I have been associated with
The Milwaukee Company, an investment banking house in this
city.

y eve one daughter, Joan McGeoch. I was married on Oc-
tober 4, 1941, to Lily McCabe Kerr of Richmond, Virginia. We
now reside at 8107 North Poplar Drive, Milwaukee.

THOMAS ARNOLD McGOVERN

HOME ADDRESS: 120 East End Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE appRESs: Forsythe, McGovern & Fetzer, Chrysler Bldg, New York
17, N. ¥.

BoRN: Feb, 18, 1908, Albany, N. Y. parents: Luke Lawrence McGovern,
Eleanor Anna Van Nouhuys.

PREPARED AT: Schenectady High School, Schenectady, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1929; B.A.
(Univ. of Oxford), 1931; B.cw. (ibid.), 1932; tu.m. (Harvard Univ.),
1933+

- MaRRieD: Margaret Charles Jeffery, April 28, 1936, New York, N. Y. cum-
DREN: Jeffery Kate, April 12, 1939; Hilary Eleanor, July 25, 1942; Michael
Thomas, Nov. 23, 1946.

occupation: Lawyer, partner in firm of Forsythe, McGovern & Fetzer.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary to Judge Thomas Swan, U.S. Circuit Court of Ap-
peals for Second Circuit, 1933; member, Admission Committee, Associa-
tion of the Bar of the City of New York, 1947-50; trustee, Madison
Avenue Presbyterian Church, New York City.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American Bar
Association, New York State Bar Association; American Society of
International Law; Racquet and Tennis Club.

FOLLOWING graduation I went to Balliol College in Oxford
as a Rhodes scholar from 1929 to 1932. It was a most enjoyable
three years, filled with rich experiences and much travel. In the
English system you perhaps do not learn so many things as in an
American university, but what you learn you learn very thor-
oughly. The Oxford education is largely based on the tutor.

[752 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Lectures are supplemental or secondary. Life in an Oxford college
is socially very pleasant, though physically somewhat rugged —
at least for the first six months until you get used to such things as
the damp cold or dashing across the quadrangle in the early morn-
ing to the baths at the other end of the college. During the three
years at Oxford I studied law, took two degrees, rowed on my
college crew in the “bumping” races on the Isis, and in the long
vacations covered a good part of Europe.

When I came back to the States, I decided to spend a year in
graduate work in the Harvard Law School and took the Master
of Laws degree. That was a very learned year with my nose in
the books (in the library stacks) all the days and most of the nights
of the term. A few months ago I had a problem in my law office
that I had dealt with in a thesis for the LL.M. The tract was so
complex that I had considerable difficulty in understanding it
twenty years later! The focus of the practising lawyer is indeed
different from that of the neophyte reading away in the library.

Immediately after the LL.M. I took the New York bar exams,
was admitted to practice that summer and came to New York. I
had the good fortune to become the law secretary to Judge
Thomas Swan in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit. Later that year I took a position at the old law firm of
Carter, Ledyard & Milburn where I wrote one memorandum after
another. Three years later I changed to Milbank, Tweed & Hope
where I specialized in corporate finance. In the early and middle
thirties I had a number of proposals to go with the government,
but each time I pulled into Union Station to see someone or other
in Washington my enthusiasm invariably chilled, and so I have
always practised in New York. In 1942 I joined the law firm which
after various name changes became Reed, Crane & McGovern. In
1953 I joined in forming the firm of Forsythe, McGovern & Fetzer
in the Chrysler Building. My practice generally consists of cor-
porate work, S.E.C. matters, labor relations, and estates and trusts.
It has been tremendously interesting, and the rewards have been
both material and intellectual. In retrospect, I wouldn’t have ex-
changed the law for any other career. The only problem is that
the years race by and there never seems to be enough time.

In 1936 I was married in New York and, with the exception of
summer vacations, we have lived in the City ever since. Despite

[753]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

the unconvincing advice, and indeed warnings, of our suburban
friends we are raising three children quite happily here although
one is now away at Chatham Hall. I haven’t found much time for
hobbies, but I get in an occasional round of golf — the 95 to 105
type.

In political affiliation I have been a Republican pretty consist-
ently, even in 1932; yet between elections I have frequently been
critical of the lack of judgment and vision of many of the party
leaders. I believe America now faces a challenge and an oppor-
tunity, at home and abroad. We are in a period of great transition
that will ultimately test our fitness to meet the world need for
moral and political leadership. We have gone far toward identi-
fying our national interest with that of the rest of the world.
There is no turning back in this respect nor should there be. At
home we now have the opportunity for the first time in many years
to prove again the value of individual self-reliance and to re-estab-
lish a competitive economy on which the strength of this nation
was built. The sooner we learn again to make our way without
government help and subsidies in one form or another, the sooner
we shall restore the basic soundness essential to what we call the
American system.

LEE LEONARD McGUIRE

LAST KNOWN ApprEsS: 2531 Marvin St., Dallas 8, Texas.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1908, Columbus, Ohio. Parents: Harold Brunson McGuire,
Lenore Bess Myers.

PREPARED AT: Graham High School, Graham, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

McGUIRE has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1953.

+ JOHN HENDERSON McKESSON

BoRN: Dec. 21, 1906, New York, N. Y. Parents: Irving McKesson, Mary
Henderson.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1027.

pie: April 25, 1927, Norwalk, Conn.

[754]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

McKESSON was killed when his motorcycle collided with an
automobile. He was returning to Harvard after spending a
weekend with his parents in New York.

MEREDITH HALL MacKUSICK, JR.

HOME appreEss: E., Maple Street, Hartville, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: % Babcock & Wilcox Research, Alliance, Ohio.
BorN: Oct. 31, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Meredith Hall MacKusick, Mary

Prall.
PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E. cum laude, 1929.
marrieD: Margaret Adams, Jan, 12, 1931, Clearwater, Fla. caitpren: Stephen
Adams, Oct. 25, 1931; Anne, May 3, 1935; Margot Jean, Feb. 16, 1937.
OccUPATION: Research engineer.
MEMBER OF: Tau Beta Pi; American Welding Society.
MY first position after graduation was in the office of Harvard's
Professor (now Emeritus) Comfort A. Adams, as his assistant in
connection with his consulting engineering work. Through Pro-
fessor Adams I became chief electrical engineer for the Babcock
& Wilcox Company’s plants, manufacturing steam boilers for the
country’s power-generating stations and for the U.S. Navy and
merchant ships.

During the war years I spent a busy but enjoyable period in
California as superintendent of welding for the U.S. Maritime
Commission’s California shipyard where we built 475 Liberty and
Victory ships. Since the war I have returned to Babcock & Wil-
cox Company as welding research engineer in Alliance, Ohio.

I have a son, twenty-two, in the U.S. Navy’s Air Force, one
daughter who is a freshman at the University of Southern Cali-
fornia, and another daughter who is a senior in Hartville High
School. We have enjoyed summers in Maine except while out on
the West Coast, and hope to see the old gang at the Twenty-fifth

Reunion this summer.

+

‘

WILLIAM RUPERT MACLAURIN

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Kennedy Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: Sloan Bldg., 50 Memorial Drive, Cambridge 30, Mass.
BoRN: July 25, 1907, Wellington, New Zealand. Parents: Richard Cockburn

Maclaurin, Margaret Alice Young.

[755]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929, M.B.A. magna
cum laude, 19325 D.C.S., 1936.

marrieD: Elfriede Carter, Sept. 2, 1933, Jefferson, N. H. cumpren: Katha-
rine Adams, Sept. 4, 1936; Robert Campbell, May 17, 1939; Joan Spence,
Sept. 16, 1941; Nancy Hadfield, Aug. 17, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Colin Maclaurin, °38.

OccUPATION: Professor of economics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Industrial Relations Section, M.LT., since 1937;
secretary, Bowman Committee on Science and the Public Welfare,
Office of Scientific Research and Development, Washington, D. C.,
1945; president, Board of Overseers, Shady Hill School, Cambridge,
Mass., 1946.

MEMBER oF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Economic
Association; Economic History Association.

PuBLications: Economic Planning in Australia, 1937 (London, P, S. King);
The Movement of Factory Workers, 1943 (New York, Wiley); In-
vention and Innovation in the Radio Industry, 1949 (New York, Mac-
millan); “Federal Support for Scientific Research,” Harvard Business
Review, spring, 1947; “Patents and Technical Progress— A Study of
Television,” American Economic Review, March, 1950; “The Sequence
from Invention to Innovation and Its Relation to Economic Growth,”
Quarterly Journal of Economics, February, 1953; “Crossing the Andes
on Skis,” “In the Land of the Inca,” Boston Transcript, “Will the
Argentine Default?” Barron’s.

MOST of us undoubtedly find that we are doing something quite
different from what we had imagined in June, 1929. In the
easy-going 1920’s I, for one, took President Lowell’s advice and
postponed thinking seriously about a career until I went to gradu-
ate school. And, despite the fact that my father had been an
educator and there was a strong academic tradition in my family,
I never considered a career of teaching and research. Perhaps in
1929 it did not seem a sensible way of life. Moreover, if I thought
about it at all, I certainly held a distorted view of the activities
and responsibilities of a university professor.

My first year as Fiske Scholar to Trinity College, Cambridge,
was, I consider, largely wasted except that: (1) I learned how to
ski (using the five-week Christmas vacation and the four similar
weeks provided in the spring for the purpose); this has proved
richly rewarding despite the various minor and inevitable con-
sequences in broken legs and fractured noses. (2) I decided to go
to the Harvard Business School rather than the Law School. This

[756 J

Mashed LUM de Mans ce toe

Ape

bel ta

Piatt bet oN ORE HRY HEY RNR RNA a liye

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

decision was made while acting as a courier for the American
Express Company, guiding mid-western tourists through Europe
in the summer of 1930. Previously I had been led to believe that
the Law School was a better preparation for a career in business,
but after being away from Harvard for a year I came increasingly
to doubt whether this could be so.

In many respects subsequent career decisions have come about
almost automatically. The most serious ‘wrench occurred in 1933.
By then I had graduated from the Business School and was work-
ing ina Trust Company. I was closely associated with the chief
executive of the bank, which was an old and important institution.
It suddenly occurred to me that the last thing I ever wanted was
his particular job —a shattering thought, as he clearly had the
best position in the bank and apart from any higher aspirations
it was obviously going to take years and years even to become an
officer.

In this crisis I was grateful that no crossed bridges had been
burned. My. academic record was satisfactory enough so that
when I suggested that I should like to do some teaching and re-
search at the Harvard Business School, an appointment was readily
arranged. To my surprise also I found that I made a little more
money as a junior instructor than as a junior bank clerk. There
was one important hurdle that had to be leaped. A doctor’s de-
gree is virtually a sine qua non for a teaching and research career.
Harvard University came to my rescue again with a Sheldon
Travelling Fellowship to Australia, where I gathered material for
a doctoral dissertation and my wife learned to type.

Back in Boston we worried our way up the ladder through the
“years of anxiety.” Universities are peculiar institutions. The
tenure system provides a life appointment, from which it is ex-
ceedingly difficult to be fired except for moral turpitude, or per-
haps now for Communism. The security of a life appointment is
comforting to the recipient, but providing it desperately worries
university administrators. In consequence, there is too great in-
security among young teachers. In my own case this unpleasant
period was shortened by my being offered a position as assistant
professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1936,
where I have remained ever since.

Four children have kept me busy, and as they have grown older

[757]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

we have increasingly participated together in travel, skiing, and
tennis. On the court at our summer home in Peterborough, New
Hampshire, my wife and I are still able, through wile, to beat
our oldest children at tennis; but we are not certain for how long.
Last summer I renewed my youth by guiding my two oldest
children, at the end of a rope, to several of the highest peaks in
the Tetons,

I have also found a steadily growing satisfaction from my pro-
fessional career as an economist. In the early years there is often
a conflict between earning and learning, but as one strikes out
into new intellectual territory the desire to impart this experi-
ence to younger men increases markedly.

WILLIAM HENRY McMASTER, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 1803, Charlotte 1, N.C.

BORN: March 3, 1907, Gayville, S. Dak. parents: William Henry McMaster,
Harriett Louise Reustle.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Josephine Vereen, March 13, 1931, York, S. C.

occupation: Manufacturers’ representative.

MEMBER OF: American Legion; Harvard Club of North Carolina.

SINCE graduation my occupation has been almost exclusively in
the field of sales work, winding up in my present category of
manufacturer’s representative. The only major interruption in
this pattern was my three and a half years of service in the U.S.
Navy, which included duty as engineering officer aboard LST’s.
My political leanings are definitely Republican; my church affiia-
tion, Episcopal.

EDWARD REYNOLDS McPHERSON, JR.

HOME AbpREss: Stephen Mather Road, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE appress: 1 Atlantic St., Stamford, Conn.

BORN: July 18, 1906, Shippensburg, Pa. parents: Edward Reynolds McPher-
son, Anna May Kyner.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1025-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; LL.B, (Cornell Univ.), 1933.

MagRiED: Bertha Floy Mather, Aug. 16, 1932; Darien, Conn. cripren: Anne

[758]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Floy, Sept. 25, 1934; Stephen Mather, July 28, 1937; Jane Mather, Dec.

31, 1940.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Williamson McPherson, ’29; LL-B., "32.

occupation: Lawyer, partner, Cummings & Lockwood, specializing in cor-
porate and estate practice.

oFFices HELD: Member, Plan and Zoning Commission of Darien, 1938-43;
trustee, Home Bank & Trust Company, 1939-50, Darien Free Library
Association, 1941-45; president, Sterling Borax Company, New Brighton,
Pa., since 1942; trustee, secretary, board of trustees, New Canaan Coun-
try School, Inc., New Canaan, Conn., 1942-48; chairman, Zoning Board
of Appeals of Darien, 1943-45; Town Counsel of Darien, since 1945;
vestryman, 1944-53, warden, 1954, St. Mark’s Episcopal Church, New
Canaan, Conn.; associate director, Stamford Trust Company, Stamford,
Conn., since 1950. .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of New Canaan,
Conn.; New Canaan Country Club, Tokeneke Club, Darien; Darien
Historical Society, Inc.; Bar Association of the City of New York; Con-
necticut and Stamford Bar Association.

AFTER graduation from Law School, I was engaged in the prac-
tice of law in New York City with the firm of White & Case,
from 1933 to 1941. In 1941 I became associate counsel to Philip
Morris & Company, Limited, Inc., and remained with that com-
pany until 1944 when I joined the firm of Cummings & Lockwood
in Stamford, Connecticut, becoming a member of this firm in
1946. Throughout my practice I have specialized more and more
in corporate work, with some emphasis also in estate practice.

My wife and I have lived in Darien, Connecticut, since our
marriage in 1932. Some of my spare time has been devoted to the
problems of this fast growing community, particularly since 1945
when I was appointed and still continue to act as the corporation
counsel to the Town of Darien. A busy legal practice has pre-
vented me from spending much time away from my office except
on brief summer vacations usually spent in New England, or an
occasional trip to the West to visit some of our national parks in
which my family are all greatly interested, inasmuch as my father-
in-law was the founder and first director of the National Park
Service. Bermuda has seen us twice and Florida but once. Sailing
on Long Island Sound for several summers took us away from our
usual form of athletic activities, tennis and golf, but now with age
creeping upon us golf is fast being substicuted for all other outside
activities,

[759]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

With almost twenty-five years behind me in my chosen profes-
sion, I am more convinced than ever that the Law School professor
who told his first year class that “The law is a very jealous mis-
tress” was speaking more truth than allegory.

JOHN WILLIAMSON McPHERSON

HOME AppRESS: Belrose Lane, Radnor, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 530 Walnut St., Philadelphia 5, Pa.

BORN: July 18, 1906, Shippensburg, Pa. parents: Edward Reynolds McPher-
son, Anna May Kyner.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B. 1932.

MarRRIED: Harriet Henderson Gilbert, June 7, 1935, Mechanicsburg, Pa.
CHILDREN: Harriet Henderson, June 21, 1938, Martha Reynolds, Dec. 17,
1940; Phyllis Hall, June 16, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Reynolds McPherson, Jr., ’29.

occupation: Secretary, The Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company; lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Bondholders’ Committee, Philadelphia Company for
Guaranteeing Mortgages, 1933-39; assistant counsel, 1939-51, secretary,
since 1951, Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company; director, secretary,
counsel, Woman’s Medical College of Pennsylvania, since 1942; presi-
dent, Neighborhood League of Wayne, Pa. (“red feather” agency),
since 1951, Pennsylvania Phillips Exeter Alumni Association of Eastern
Pennsylvania, 1947-50, Scotch-Irish Society, since 1953; trustee, Shipley
School, Bryn Maws, since 1952; director, Mental Health Association of
Southeastern Pennsylvania, since 1952; deacon, Bryn Mawr Presbyterian
Church, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Juristic Society of Philadelphia; Association of Life Insurance
Counsel; Pennsylvania Bar Association; American Bar Association,
Merion Cricket Club; Mill Dam Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia;
Pennsylvania Society of Sons of the Revolution; Athenaeum of Phila-
delphia.

PUBLICATIONS: “Some Economic and Legal Aspects of the Purchase and
Lease of Real Estate by Life Insurance Compantes,” University of
Pennsylvania Law Review, 1949.

A REVIEW of the past twenty-five years is not an every-day
assignment for most of us and may explain my seeming procrasti-
nation in filing my Class Life with Jack Hutchinson, who has been
drumming me for weeks to do something about it. An early in-
terest in the law carried me on to the Harvard Law School after
my College graduation; there I spent three years of hard labor,

[ 760 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduating in 1932, just in time to meet the “great depression” in
its full bloom. In fact, it was the depression which brought about
my first real job and landed me in Philadelphia where I have been
ever since.

Although the depression had wiped out thousands of jobs, it
had a compensating factor for the lawyer who suddenly found
that economic stresses and strains had enlarged the practice of
bankruptcy and corporate reorganization. Early in 1933 the
Philadelphia Company For Guaranteeing Mortgages went into
receivership with millions of guaranteed mortgages outstanding.
In 1933 a bondholders’ committee was formed, and I soon found
myself working in the office of the committee’s counsel and at the
same time serving as its secretary. I shall always remember that
when I received my first paycheck the city’s banks were closed,
and I cashed it for scrip of the Philadelphia Clearing House.

In due course I found comfortable quarters with several of my
legal contemporaries (plus a Yale man), two of whom I had
known in law school. We leased a large, depression-ridden Main
Line residence and set ourselves up in bachelor splendor with an
ex-Navy Filipino as our chef and houseman. That was in 1933.
For two more years the group managed to hold together, but it
was obvious that Dan Cupid was at work and that our bachelor
days were ending. In June, 1935, I married Harriet Henderson
Gilbert, a Vassar graduate and the holder of a Master of Archi-
tecture degree from Smith College. My wife carried on with her
architectural work for a couple of years after our marriage. We
now have three girls, who are presently fifteen, thirteen, and
eleven years of age and who keep us very busy. We all expect to
be in Cambridge next year for the Reunion.

In 1939 I joined the Law Department of the Penn Mutual Life
Insurance Company and was appointed assistant counsel the fol-
lowing year. My work here has primarily involved the investment
operations of the company — mortgages, direct placements, pur-
chase leases, etc. I have closed some sizable investments for the
company and on several occasions have met some members of the
Class who either represented the borrowers or who had an inter-
est in the borrowing corporation. In 1951 I was elected secretary
of the company and have since been devoting more of my time to

the agency operations of the company.

[761 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Aly extra-curricular activities have been varied and interesting.
I am secretary and counsel for the Woman’s Medical College of
Pennsylvania, which also operates a 250-bed hospital in Philadel-
phia; for the past three years I have been president of our local
“red feather agency,” the Neighborhood League of Wayne; I am
on the board of the Shipley School in Bryn Mawr, where two of
my daughters are students and which, in my opinion, is one of the
best girls’ private schools in the country. ‘This year I am president
of the Pennsylvania Scotch-Irish Society after having served as
its secretary and treasurer for fourteen years. I am a former vice-
president of the Harvard Club of Philadelphia and served as chair-
man of its Scholarship Committee for several years. Like many of
us, I have had my share of fund-raising for community enterprises
and charity drives. My war service was limited to civilian defense
work, e.g., ration board, air raid warden, etc. The Navy rejected
me because my eyes did not measure up to standard, and the Army
passed me by because of age. My hobbies are my home and fam-
ily. Although not a horticulturist, I enjoy being my own gardener
and jack-of-all-trades. We own a big house with a little over an
acre of ground in Radnor, where the latchstring is always out to
all members of the Class who pass our way. (We are less than
three miles from the Pennsylvania Turnpike Interchange at King
of Prussia.) On several occasions my wife and I have hunted and
fished with her father in the Canadian wilds in the same area where
“T.R.” shot his famous bull moose, but our vacations have usually
been spent on Squam Lake, New Hampshire, where we have done
some mountain climbing, fishing, and loafing, with occasional stops
in Cambridge on our way home. I am a Presbyterian in faith and
by tradition, and am presently a deacon of the Bryn Mawr Pres-
byterian Church.

CHARLES DETWILLER MADSEN

HOME apprEss: Luck, Wis.

BORN; Nov. 6, 1906, Durham, Conn. parents: Albert Alonzo Madsen, Henri-
etta Reisal Detwiller.

PREPARED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LLB.

[ 762 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

margieD: Magdalene Andren, July 6, 1935, Dalboa, Minn. cxo: Carl R,
1939+
occuPATION: Judge of Polk County.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JOHN GEARY MAGUIRE, II

HOME ApDpRESS: 40 Peterborough St., Boston 15, Mass.

orFice appress: U.S. Post Office, 720 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: July 26, 1907, Lynn, Mass. PARENTS: James Leo Maguire, ’03, Frances
Veronica Gorman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MARRIED: Leila E. Magune, Sept. 25, 1935, Boston, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Post office clerk.

TO quote part of one of Bing Crosby’s songs, in the past twenty-

five years I have “lost a little off the top and put on a lot around

the middle.” Add to the above the inevitable bi-focals, fallen

arches, and teeth which finally refuse to take any more ‘fillings,

and one finds the composite “twenty-five year” man.

After leaving Harvard in 1927 I went to work in the post office
and have stayed there through the years, except for a couple of
years in the Navy during World War II. We have had several
different occupants in the White House during those years, and
I regret to say that not one has been an improvement on his prede-
cessor as far as my job is concerned. In short, I have led the life
of a happily married man who prefers anonymity to any rewards
that might come from the sort of ambition which was so unkind
to one J. Caesar.

REGIS FRANCIS MAHADY

HOME apprEss: 708 Chestnut St., Latrobe, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mahady & Mahady, Reed Bldg., 917 Ligonier St., Latrobe,
Pa.; Mahady Bldg., 119 S. Maple Ave., Greensburg, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1906, Latrobe, Pa. parents: James Joseph Mahady, Katharine
O'Neill.

PREPARED AT: Latrobe High School, Latrobe, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929: LL.B. (Dickinson Law
School), 1933.

MarRIED: Kathryn Sheehe, Nov. 21, 1942, Indiana, Pa. cHitprReN: Infant
daughter (died 1945); Regis Thomas, Dec. 7, 1949.

[ 763 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

HARVARD BROTHERS: Paul William Mahady, °30, 118. °33; Henry Joseph
Mahady, LLB., 40.

occupation: Lawyer, general practice, Mahady & Mahady, Greensburg,
Latrobe, and Jeannette, Pennsylvania; affiliated with J. J. Mahady
Agency, real estate and insurance; solicitor, Westmoreland Federal
Savings & Loan Association, Latrobe.

OFFICES HELD: Special counsel, closed banks, Westmoreland County, under
Attorney General Charles Margiotti, 1936-41; professor of political sci-
ence, St. Vincent’s College, Latrobe, 1936-51; president, Bernard P.
McGovern Division, Ancient Order of Hibernians of Westmoreland
County, 1949-52; legal adviser, Local Draft Board No. 167; Deputy
Grand Knight, Latrobe Council No. 940, Knights of Columbus, Latrobe,
1952-53; trustee, local branch No. 48, general chairman, National Con-
vention, Catholic Knights of St. George.

MEMBER OF: Westmoreland County and Pennsylvania State Bar Associations;
Latrobe Country Club; Catholic Knights of St. George; Latrobe Coun-
cil No. 940, Knights of Columbus; Fourth Degree of Knights of Colum-
bus of St. Vincent General Assembly; Ancient Order of Hibernians;
Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania.

PuBLIcATIONS: Legal article in Dickinson Law Review, Carlisle, Pa., 1933;
brief historical works on local history in Westmoreland County.

AFTER leaving Harvard College, 1 chose a career in the law, spent
three pleasant years in beautiful and historic Carlisle in Cumber-
Jand County, Pennsylvania, and graduated with an LL.B. degree
from Dickinson Law School in June, 1933. I had devoted myself
assiduously to a specialized study of Pennsylvania law and conse-
quently I took and passed the difficult Pennsylvania State Bar
exams in July, 1933, at Pittsburgh, and was admitted to practise
law in the Pennsylvania courts on October 10, 1933. Immediately
thereafter, in the depth of the depression, I opened law offices in
Latrobe, Pennsylvania, my home town of about 11,000 people,
and became a “country lawyer.” I engaged, and I still am engaged,
in the general practice of the law. The early years were full of
difficulties, intense struggle and some degree of poverty, disap-
pointment, and frustration. Arch-abbot Alfred Koch, O.S.B., of
the nearby Benedictine Abbey and St. Vincent College appointed
me professor of political science and business law at that college
—a position which I retained for about sixteen years on a part-
time basis, so that I could also follow the practice of law.

I have had a fair success in the legal profession, not as much
through native brilliance as by hard work and putting in more
hours than my contemporaries at the bar. I have acquired and

[ 764 ]

ee neces

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

possess a special and exceptionally good knowledge of real estate
law and office practice. I have appeared as counsel in numerous
cases before the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, Pennsylvania Su-
perior Court, the United States Federal District Court for the
Western District of Pennsylvania, and the several Courts of West-
moreland County.

I had the good fortune in my life to come from a large Irish-
American family. Of ten children, there are eight of us yet living,
and all children were sent to college by my hard-working parents,
who were of but moderate means and made great sacrifices in our
behalf. I might modestly add that I was of some aid in that great
undertaking. Today, our family holds the record for the largest
number of lawyers in Pennsylvania, and perhaps in the nation —
four brothers and one sister, five altogether (Regis, Paul, Henry,
Thomas, and Jane O’Neill Mahady) comprise the well-known law
firm of Mahady & Mahady, attorneys-at-law, who operate law
offices in Latrobe, Greensburg, and Jeannette, in Westmoreland
County, Pennsylvania. Brother Henry J. Mahady is presently na-
tional commander of the AMVETS of World War II, and sister
Jane just completed her term as national vice-president of the
Young Democrats of America.

During the years since College days I have engaged extensively
in fraternal society activities. I served four terms as county presi-
dent of the Ancient Order of Hibernians of Westmoreland County
and was delegate to A.O.H. National Conventions at Montreal in
1948, Boston in 1950, and Atlantic City in 1952. I am currently
serving as Deputy Grand Knight of Latrobe Council No. 940,
Knights of Columbus, and am a member of the Fourth Degree
Knights of Columbus — St. Vincent General Assembly. I belong
to the Catholic Knights of St. George and have just received an
appointment as general chairman of their national convention to
be held at Greensburg, Pennsylvania, on June 5, 6, 7, and 8, 1954.
I have been maintaining membership in the Latrobe Country Club
and it appears that I have good intentions about'playing golf regu-
larly but the press of daily events prevents it. In religion, there is
an ardent desire in me to follow the Roman Catholic faith, prac-
tised by my Irish forbears for the past fifteen hundred years, since
the days of St. Patrick.

In politics, I am an independent middle of the road Democrat,

[ 765 ]

eoncbinattah tbe ribald,

HARVARD CLASS OF I[929

and seldom if ever vote a straight ticket. All through the years, I
have run from public office and not once for it. I view with alarm
public apathy with regard to voting at elections, and I view with
greater alarm the strangle hold which party machine organizations
at every level of government hold for too long and protracted
periods of time in derogation of the public welfare. I view with
the most alarm the “great minds” of both major parties in America
. locked in a gigantic partisan struggle concerning what happened
quite a few years ago instead of devoting their efforts and energies
towards solving our important national and international problems,

Looking backwards to the years 1925-1929 at Harvard, I find
the College training was of immeasureable value to me in life’s
journey. The associations were excellent; the environment, ideal.
In many ways those were better days than present days. Since
graduation, we have gained much, and we have lost much, and
things have about balanced along the way. I can recall very viv-
idly our 1929 Commencement Exercises in Sever Quadrangle with
President Lowell presiding, and on that day Franklin D. Roosevelr,
then Governor of New York State, delivered the Commencement
Address in which he warned the world, in 1929, of the totalitarian
menace impending. Roosevelt and his classmates of Harvard ’oq,
were celebrating their Twenty-fifth Reunion, and I thought on
that day how far away was 1929’s Twenty-fifth Reunion, but soon
we too, classmates, will be gathered together once again under the
elms in Harvard Yard. Let us join together in common bond of
fellowship and friendship this June, regardless of success or ad-
versity, high place, or low, much or little of the world’s goods, and
reminisce and enjoy old times and new times in the same spirit of
youthful exuberance as when we walked gaily to Soldiers Field in

1925.

ALEXANDER MAHLOWITZ

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1492 Cambridge St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 26, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Isaac Mahlowitz, Celia
Grossack.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.D., 1934.

MaraieD: Esther Karnow, Oct. 25, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Edward

[ 766 ]

i,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Michael, Jan. 9, 1940; Naaman Karnow, Dec. 6, 1941; George Stanley,
April 10, 1950.
occuPaTION: Physician.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society, American Medical Society.
AFTER graduating from College I spent a year at the graduate
school of Arts and Sciences where I took a course in advanced
organic chemistry and physical chemistry. In 1930 I entered the
Harvard Medical School and received my M.D. degree in 1934.
I served an internship on the first medical service at the Boston
City Hospital for fifteen months and I spent seven months at the
Cambridge City Hospital. In June, 1936, I began the practice of
general medicine and am doing so today.

It was on the wards of the Boston City Hospital that I met
Esther who was doing social work while attending Simmons Col-
lege. We were married on October 25, 1936. We have three sons
who I hope may be sons of Harvard. Edward, thirteen, is a stu-
dent in the first year of high school at the Cambridge School in
Weston. Naaman, eleven and a half, is in the seventh grade at the
Belmont Hill School in Belmont. Naaman studies the piano, too.
Both Edward and Naaman are interested in athletics. Naaman
was one of the best pitchers of the Minor Little League of
Marblehead for 1953. George is going on four and a half and is a
dear son.

We travelled through the Caribbean area, the West Indies, and
South America on the Andrea Doria in 1952. We visited St.
Thomas in the Virgin Islands; Martinique; San Juan, Puerto Rico;
Curacao; Cartagena, Colombia; Havana, Cuba; and Kingston, Ja-
miaica.

In 1943 I tried to enlist in the Navy but was rejected for a
physical condition. I believe in the simple dignity of man — non
sub homine sed sub deo et lege.

EDWIN MUNN MAHONEY

HOME apprEss: 66 Pleasant St. Holyoke, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: 630 Dwight St., Holyoke, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 18, 1906, Holyoke, Mass. PARENTS: Stephen Andrew Mahoney,
M.D., 89, Caroline Munn.

PREPARED aT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

‘[ 767 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929, M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1933.

MARRIED: Jeannette O'Connor, Dec. 27, 1940, Holyoke, Mass. cHILp:
Jeannette, Oct. 4, 1951.

occuPATION: Surgeon.

oFFices HELD: Member Surgical Staff, Providence Hospital, Holyoke Hos-
pital, Holyoke Soldiers Home; director, Park National Bank of Hol-
yoke, Holyoke and Westfield Railroad.

MEMBER OF: Hampden District Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical
Society; Association of Military Surgeons; Kiwanis Club of Holyoke;

American Medical Association.

PRACTISING surgery in Holyoke since 1936. Peaceful till
joined Navy as flight surgeon from 1942 through 1946. Learned
to fly at Pensacola. Again peaceful till carrier hit by Kamikaze
and returned to finish war at delightful spot named New Bruns-
wick, Maine. Returned to practice and am at the same old stand.

ELBERT GRANT MANCHESTER

HOME AppREss: 103 Wetmore Ave., Winsted, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 356 Main St. Winsted, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1906, Winsted, Conn. parents: George Elbert Manchester,
Cassie Hailey Haigh.

PREPARED AT: Gilbert School, Winsted, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B. (Bowdoin Coll.), 1930; LL.B.
(Univ. of Michigan), 1934.

makriep: Eleanor Elizabeth Jones, Oct. 19, 1935, New Hartford, Conn.
CHILDREN: Elbert Dane, May 9, 1939; Paul Brunson, Oct. 9, 1942.

occupation: Lawyer, judge of municipal court.

OFFICES HELD: Representative to Connecticut General Assembly, 1939, 1941;
judge of Probate, District of Winchester, Conn., 1941-51; president-
judge, Connecticut Probate Assembly, 1943-45; judge, Wéinchester
Town Court, since 1951; president, Beardsley and Memorial Library,
Winsted; trustee, Gilbert School, Gilbert Home.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis; Masons; Ftks; Litchfield County University Club;
Connecticut State Bar Association.

AS a lucky candidate for elective public office seven times, and
with an opponent in each contest, I still like politics as an avoca-
tion. But the deeper satisfaction comes in finding and encour-
aging good talent for elective public service, and helping in the
nomination and election of such candidates. Practising law is a
good profession, with its variety of problems, opportunities for

[ 768 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

study, and constant fascination in observing what makes people
tick. My apprenticeship for two and a half years with a large
law firm in New Haven was a good approach.

Never have I attended one of my reunions anywhere. Thawing
out to make the Twenty-fifth seems to be in the air. If enough
assays by the members of our Class of 1929 carry a note of op-
timism, I want to be present for the gathering. My two sons are
racing toward college age and I should like to have them see Har-
vard in June.

*« JAMES PROCTOR MANDELL

BorN: Feb. 9, 1906, Boston, Mass. Parents: George Snell Mandell, Emily
Waterman Proctor.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

pieD: July 24, 1929, Norwood, Mass.

WHILE Mandell was at Harvard he was a member of the Harvard
polo team which won the intercollegiate championship in June,
1929. He died as a result of injuries received while playing polo
at Westwood, Massachusetts. He was a member of the Myopia
Hunt Club team. He was the brother of Thomas P. Mandell, ’24.

HARVEY BENJAMIN MANGER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 10645 Esther Ave., Los Angeles 64, Calif.

BoRN: Oct. 23, 1905, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Ferdinand Herman Manger,
Clara Rhoda Bingham.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Josephine Lindley, July 16, 1938, Los Angeles, Calif. centp: Wil-
liam, Dec. 23, 1939.

occupation: Motion picture film editor.

MEMBER OF: Masquers’ Club, Hollywood; American Cinema Editors; Har-
vard Club of St. Louis; Harvard Club of Southern California.

AFTER graduating in 1929 I went to work for the Terminal Rail-
road Association of St. Louis in September. Like most of us I was
caught in the depression and was laid off the following summer.

[ 769 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

After that my brother and I started a parking lot on a piece of
property we owned and succeeded in finding a tenant for it.

In January, 1931, I went on a five and a half months’ cruise
around the world. In 1932 I accepted an invitation to visit a friend
in Los Angeles and look for a job there as I had had no success in
St. Louis. I became seriously ill in Los Angeles and spent five
months in the hospital and nearly a year recuperating.

In 1933 I went to work as an assistant cutter or film editor at
Fox Studio where I remained until 1943 when I left Twentieth
Century-Fox, taking advantage of an opportunity to free-lance
and be head film editor. I have been doing this ever since and
during the last three years have been cutting pictures made for
television.

My interests have mainly been my family, reading, taking vaca-
tion motor and train trips with my wife and son, and playing golf.
I am looking forward to the time when I can bring my family to
the east coast and visit Harvard which I haven’t seen since 1931.
I hope it will be at our Twenty-fifth in 1954.

SAMUEL NEWBURY MANIERRE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 2664 N. Lake Drive, Milwaukee 11, Wis.

BoRN: May 19, 1907, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: George Manierre, 3d, ’oo,
Katharine Newbury.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, 1930-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1929(31); DIPL. (Teach-
er’s College of Winnetka, Ill).

MARRIED: Louisa Simpson, Nov. 27, 1942, Milwaukee, Wis.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Manierre, 4th, °33.

occupation: Lecturer, writer, teacher, critic, in fine arts.

OFFICES HELD: Extension lecturer, Milwaukee Art Institute; lecturer in art
appreciation, University of Wisconsin Extension Division, Milwaukee.

MEMBER OF: Walrus Club, Milwaukee (for creative artists).

PuBLicaTions: “Peter Paul Rubens, Painter and Diplomat,” “Eugene
Speicher,” “Six Wisconsin Painters,” The Studio magazine, London,
England.

GOAD No. 1 did it; it broke procrastination’s grip. But not until
Thad given an especially important lecture, “Vincent Van Gogh
and his Victory,” before the Woman’s Club of Wisconsin was ]
free to get this off. Surely I shall be forgiven for the delay, when

[770 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I explain that my mother is president of our Woman’s Club. Now
that it is successfully over, and I’m my own boss again, here goes
for my biography since leaving Harvard.

Leaving Cambridge in 1931, at the darkest hour of the depres-
sion, I took the first job that came along; it was a tutoring job,
directing the studies and recreation of a Milwaukee boy. After
that I sold Fords for eight months (did you notice the “s” on the
word “Fords”? ). I sold two and was proud of the fact. Next I
took a course and received a diploma in elementary school teach-
ing, part of which was in Chicago. It was during those three
months in Chicago, 1934, an historic time in my life, that I gave
my first lecture in the field of the fine arts; it was given at the
Chicago Art Institute, and the subject, a favorite of mine, was
“Whistler,” whom I have coined “the master of good taste.” That
lecture, for which I received the handsome sum of $25, started me
on my principal occupation over the last thirteen years. But to
get back to my absorbing biography in chronological order, in
193§ I returned to the Fogg Museum for two marvellous years of
postgraduate study, which were highlighted by two courses under
Professor Sachs. the first his famous “Museum Course,” the other
his “Print Course.” If Mr. Sachs should ever read this, which I
don’t suppose he will, but if he should, I would like him to know
that I’ve never given a lecture or written an article since but that
his two wonderful courses have furnished me with material.

After postgraduate work, and returning to what my dear Joe |
Cotton often referred to as “the wild and woolly Midwest,” I
spent two years as extension lecturer on the staff of the Milwaukee
Art Institute. In that capacity my work embraced docent talks
and over the two years at our Art Institute I gave eighty gallery
tours. Here is where my biography becomes even more engross-
ing: “Cherchez la femme.” At the second of my gallery tours was
a young lady who had just happened in. I can’t recall that she was
there, but she assures me that she was, and I can take her word for
it, because she was present for every one of the remaining seventy-
eight gallery tours. Her name was Louisa Simpson; today it is
Mrs. Samuel N. Manierre. Louisa was born in Coldstream, Scot-
land; she was educated in a private school in Berwick-on-Tweed,
England; she came with her family to the United States. Long
before she attended that second gallery tour she was a devotee of

[771]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

the arts and especially of the dance. This month (I’m writing this
in November, 1953) we are celebrating our eleventh wedding
anniversary; our years together have flown by.

But to get back to me again; where was I? Oh, yes; after my
two years’ affiliation with the Milwaukee Art Institute I became
a lecturer in the fine arts at large throughout the Midwest. To
make me so-to-speak independent, my father foresaw the ad-
vantage of my having my own slide collection with which to
lecture. So in 1940 he made my first colored slide of a painting
masterpiece. One month ago, thirteen years later, my father put
under glass the 2,oooth slide in my collection. I can say with all
due modesty, because I did not make them, that for a private col-
lection of colored slides of painting, they are to the best of my
knowledge without parallel for their intrinsic beauty as well as
for their faithfulness to the originals. My past thirteen years have
been busy years; they have been happy years; and many of my
most contented hours have been spent sitting in front of my large
viewing box studying with magnifying glass and arranging my
slides for lectures here in Milwaukee, out around the State of
Wisconsin, and sometimes further afield. Today I conduct courses
in art appreciation in Milwaukee, and with a repertoire of about
fifteen formal lectures I speak before art institutes, schools and
colleges, churches, clubs, and in private homes throughout Wis-
consin and the Middle West.

In the past five years Louisa and ] have gotten around a bit,
usually by air, going to semi-tropical Bermuda; out to New Mex-
ico, where my brother George and his family now live; down to
Florida; and on numerous excursions around our beautiful State
of Wisconsin. Those of you who saw me in Cambridge three years
ago (Henry Sawyer will remember) will recall that I walked with

a cane; that was following a three-year bout with my back, three
fusion operations on my spine. If all goes as hoped and planned,
you will see me with Louisa back in Cambridge next June for our
Twenty-fifth, and this time I won’t have a cane. I am looking
forward with the keenest anticipation to our coming jubilee.

[772]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDMOND LIVINGSTON MANN

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Tallman Ave., Nyack, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 N. Broadway, Nyack, N. Y.

BorN: June 4, 1908, South Nyack, N. Y. parents: Arthur Hungerford Mann,
Ethel Livingston Walker.

PREPARED AT: Nyack High School, Nyack, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1933.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Rockland County Bar Association; trustee,
Nyack Library; chairman, finance committee, Rockland County Girl
Scout Council; clerk of Surrogate’s Court, Rockland County; former
member advisory board, St. Stephen’s Church, Pearl River, N. Y.

MEMBER OF: New York State and Rockland County Bar Associations;
Upper Nyack Tennis Club; Rockland Foundation.

IT ENTERED Columbia Law School in 1929, graduating in 1933.
I was delighted in January, 1934, to get a job as sort of a handy
boy in a small New York City law office at ten dollars a week, in
the slough of the depression when many young law graduates of
more promise were working for nothing. I was admitted to the
Bar in June, 1934. My first court appearance for my firm was
against the office of the great Max D. Steuer. I was instructed to
say, “May term by consent” and practised it most of the previous
night, but I never got a chance to say it because the courtroom
was so crowded I couldn’t get in. Somehow we get through these
things and about this time I was raised to fifteen dollars.

In May, 1935, I formed a partnership for law practice at Pearl
River, New York, near Nyack which has always been my home.
The firm of Mann & Rooney lasted eleven years. Since its dissolu-
tion in 1946 I have practised in Nyack. For the last three years I
have also been clerk of the Surrogate’s Court, a job which in
theory is largely administrative but in practice consists mostly in
working on decisions with the Surrogate.

I live with my mother and my brother, who is a hospital chap-
lain and a psychological counsellor at the Cathedral of St. John.
My other brother is also a lawyer. Both went to Princeton, but
of course I disclaim responsibility for that. My principal sport is
tennis.

[773]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

CLIFFORD HAROLD MANWARING

HOME ApprEss: 499 Auburn Ave., Plymouth, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 274 S. Main St., Plymouth, Mich.

BorRN: Nov. 30, 1905, Huron, S. Dak. PARENTS: Zimari D. Manwaring, Nora
A. O’Connor.

PREPARED AT: Huron High School, Huron, S. Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927. DEGREES: A.B, (Univ. of Michigan), 1930; LL.B.
(Univ. of Detroit), 1949.

MarRIED: Dortha May Thornbury, Feb. 12, 1932, Ann Arbor, Mich. cni-
pREN: Oliver John, Nov. 6, 1936; Amicia [., Nov. 4, 1942.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Major, U. S. Air Forces Reserve; member City Planning Com-
mission.

MEMBER OF: State Bar of Michigan; Detroit Bar Association; Delta Theta
Phi; Masons; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Chamber of Commerce.

I LEFT Harvard in 1927. After taking a year out, I entered the
University of Michigan and graduated with the Class of 1930.
Economic conditions were still bright and I landed an interesting
job with the Automatic Electric Company of Chicago. This lasted
less than a year, however. For the next few years I was just one
step ahead of the WPA. Finally, in or about 1937, I rounded that
famous “corner,” which we had been looking for since 1931. I
had held an Army Reserve Commission since 1930. However,
I had practically forgotten about it, and I was sure Uncle Sam had.
The day before Christmas, 1941, brought the rude awakening. I
bought a uniform (I knew that much about the Army) and re-
ported for active duty on January 2, 1942. [served as an ordnance
officer with the Army Air Forces throughout the war — landing
in England in August. 1942, and departing from Italy in July, 1945.
1 had worked with the Army Courts-Martial during part of my
tour of duty (all the lawyers were in the Infantry) and as a result
of this experience, I became very much interested in the law. I
studied law after the war, and at the present time, I am vainly
trying to apply the secret of King Midas to the profession of law.

DWIGHT HUNTER MARFIELD

HOME appreEss: 45 W. 74th St., New York, N. Y.
BORN: Nov. 10, 1907, Cincinnati, Ohio. PaRENTs: Dwight Steele Marfield,
Antoinette Hunter Parrott.

[774]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Virginia Episcopal School, Lynchburg, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES; A.B. Cu? laude, 1929; A.M. 1931.
occuPATIon: Actor; painter.

THE degree of A.M. in mathematics was taken in June, 1931.
The mathematical studies, never intended to be permanent, were
abandoned after a further year of them at Princeton. In summer
evenings of 1931 the earlier version of “St. James Infirmary” was
sung to fellow work-people on the dock at Orr’s Island, Maine —
the later version dates from 1947. There was more to eat at
Princeton than there had been at Harvard, but no weight was put
on. Dayton was inhabited and some acting done there in 1933 and
1934: “Hedda Gabler” produced itself in May, 1934, after which
Broadway was courted and the perennial massaging of its pave-
ments begun. No weight was put on, but more than 125 different
parts have been played, for varying lengths of time, on various
stages in New York and elsewhere. Work with the brush began
to be done in 1938 and grew into a regular river of production
from 1942 onward. One-man shows were held in New York in
1944, 1945, and 1949, in Dayton in 1944, and in Princeton in 1950.
There were showings in London and Paris in 1947. The New Or-
leans mural painted itself in 1948. Thirteen feet high and 120 feet
in perimeter, it was finished in twenty-two working days of not
very long hours. The de Menasce screen was made in 1947. The
ukulele has been in use since 1940; a team was formed with Lead-
belly for a while in Hollywood in 1944. and the song “Have a
Newt” came into being in September, 1952. A little weight has
been put on, but you wouldn’t notice it. There is more hair than
there used to be. A certain amount of gold has been laid down in
the back of the oral cavity — otherwise no parts have needed re-
placement. The leg mileage is high. The telephone number is
listed in the Manhattan directory. The recreations are walking,
dancing, climbing up and down, writing letters which are often
better not mailed, and working. Work being such a rare privilege
in these fields it can be done with a better force than that of which
this pargaraph is a tour de.

' Since the Report Committee has been so generous not only in
the matter of providing us with ruled paper to write on but also
in supplying samples of literary style, it seems fair to go a bit far-
ther here and throw in the following imagined account of the

[775 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

doings of an English contemporary since graduation from his uni-
versity. Should such a man be leafing through this volume seeking
a useful style for the record of his life, this may be just what he is
looking for:

Life of Edmund Langboys, M.A. (Cantab.)

When I got out of Christ's in June of 1929, I went home to the family’s
place in Staffordshire, a pretty good place all things considered, a twenty-
two-room home mostly in the Tudor style of architecture except for the
big Georgian west wing, right in the middle of thirty-six acres of old
English parkland, with all the fallow deer and pheasants you’d ever want
to see —all belonging to Dad. Dad inherited it from his Dad, who in-
herited it from his Dad, and so on back to old Humphrey Longshanks
who took it over in Bluff King Hal’s time right after the Augustinian
friars moved out. I’ve had a lotta homes since then but there’s never been
any place where I felt as at home as I did right there. It’s all a question
of where your roots are, I guess. Since I was the second son, Dad had
always had his heart set on seeing me Navy. But I didn’t figure it that
way. I figured I was cut out for research. And in my idea of breaking
out of the traditional pattern and getting into research I had a great ally
in Mom. You know, when an English mother sees eye to eye with one
of her boys on a question of a career, you've got a combination that’s
pretty unbeatable.

I said to the old man, “Look, Dad, the English Navy’s doing O.K., and
the best way to help it to be more O.K. is to help it with research, live
research, instead of just parking one more well-dressed deckhand on it
for four years, capish?”

Dad seemed like he was going to break his heart for quite a while but
finally he got control of himself and gave in, so we got everything straight-
ened out on that end, And right here’s where we start to get caught up
with Mabel. The Hon. Mabel Matilda Dewlap-Frogover, “to give her
her full title,” as the saying goes, lived with her folks over the county line
in Leicestershire and I guess the family went back to William the Con-
queror or one of those birds but their set-up wasn’t so good — physically,
I mean, You had to walk about a mile to get to a bathroom in that old
castle, and even then you were nowhere. My older brother Reg had been
pretty interested in Mabel the winter before, but he’d gone off to France
and gotten mixed up with some Marquise over there, so that left the field
wide open for me— when the cat’s away the mice will play, you know —
and I guess the rest is history. We were married just before I went off
on my first job for Shell Oil in Honduras. Alge, our firstborn, came

along in 1932, and Cec and Ced followed in 1934 and 1935 respectively.
Hermione, the girl, vulgarly called My-oh, only dates back to 1936 but

she’s beginning to be a young lady with a mind and body of her own. I

pulled out of Shell in the fall of 1937 and went in with Biff Seascales and

[776 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Crouch Apthorp in an outfit we called Oleaginous Enterprises. The name
was changed to Seascales Oil Ltd. in 1941, and that’s the outfit Pve stuck
with right through to the present day. We've lived in a lot of places and
seen a lot of things, but certain basic patterns tend to repeat themselves.
A bunch of native dancers in one place are a lot like a bunch of native
dancers in the next place. And another thing I’ve noticed —the young
people, in these native outfits, seem to have less initiative than ours do,
in choosing their own mates. Marriages tend to be arranged by the
parents. Well, I wish them luck with it, but I know one thing: no power
on earth could have made me marry anybody but the old lady — not
after we'd started going steady. She’s one in a million. And she hit it
off with the folks, too, right from the start. They always had known and
liked her, as a matter of fact. We were sorry to pull out of Persia when
we did but looking back now it seems to me we got out of there at just
about the right time. Things were beginning to get pretty gurgled up in
Abadan in 1950.

Hobbies. My main hobby is collecting all kinds of dope on other oil
companies, especially the ones that didn’t last very long. I have literally
hundreds of old letterheads, old prospectuses, old advertising and pub-
licity material, geological stuff, surveys, personal expense accounts, quar-
terly reports, annual reports on a lot of companies that most people never
even heard of. I’ve got a hell of a file of this kind of material —a lot of
research has gone into it. I get a big charge out of seeing what made these
outfits tick. And what made them stop ticking. There’s a hell of a story
in it. Maybe it will get itself written up some day but I’m not knocking
myself out yet awhile. Steady does it is the English way, you know.
Until then, good luck to all, and to all a good night.

(Don’t mention it, don’t mention it — it’s part of the service.)

To shift over quickly to that Pittsburgh lawyer (Harvard ’26)
who attended a ceremony of investiture at M.I-T. and got so exer-
cised and aburi over the fact that the Harvard delegate was pre-
ceded in the academic procession by the delegate from the Uni-
versity of Mexico — if there are any members of the Class of 1929
who found themselves unable to share this boy’s aburissement and
Herrenvolkgefihl, they are invited to dial the telephone number
referred to above and drop around for a drink.

ERMON LOUIS MARKELLA

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Dennis Ave., Brockton 57, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREss: 142 Main St., Brockton, Mass.

Born: March 29, 1905, Brockton, Mass. parents: Anthony Horace Markella,
Lucy Ann Scrocca.

[777]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.; Dean Academy,
Franklin, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; LL.B. (Univ. of Michigan),
1935.

MaRRIED: Mattie Marie Morgan, Oct. 24, 1934, Angola, Ind. cHILpREN:
Anthony Morgan, Aug. 29, 1935; Frederick Lee, Nov. 8, 1938; Lois
Marie, Feb. 14, 1941; Jean Frances, July 6, 1943.

HARVARD SON: Anthony Morgan Markella, ’57.

occuPpaTION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant district attorney, Plymouth County.

MEMBER OF: Commercial Club of Brockton; University Club of Brockton;
Brockton Scholarship Club; Plymouth County Bar Association.

BIG events affect the lives of little men as well as big men. If the
stock market hadn’t crashed, I should still be working on Wall
Street, no doubt, instead of practising law in my home city of
Brockton, Massachusetts. For the three years after the crash I
hung on, hoping the market would revive, but I finally threw up
the sponge in 1932, when I began studying law at the University
of Michigan Law School. While at Ann Arbor, I met and married
my wife.

I have never regretted studying law. Very few of us are well
paid; still very few lawyers are starving. The work is quite inter-
esting and that’s because we are dealing with people. We have
learned more about human nature, social problems, and psychol-
ogy than we ever learned at school. In this business one learns
something new all the time — from our own clients, from books,
and in the Court Room. I have always enjoyed a general rather
than a specialized form of practice — the kind one would expect
to have in a community like the Brockton area consisting of a
manufacturing city of 63,000, surrounded by a dozen prosperous ~
country towns. It’s natural that a lawyer here would be con-
sulted in all phases of legal work.

I married a Kentucky girl and brought her to Massachusetts.
She has put up with me and with diminishingly rigorous northern
winters for nineteen years. There should be some kind of medal
for that sacrifice. Anthony, our eldest, was one of the ends on
Bob Margarita’s freshman football team this year. He wants to
help Lloyd Jordan beat Yale the next three years. Fred, our next
son, is fifteen. He is a golfer and we hope he makes the Class of

1960. We won’t send Lois and Jean, our twelve and ten-year-

[778 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

old girls to Harvard; but they may want to go to Radcliffe. Who
knows? The only long trips we have taken have been to Ken-
tucky and Indiana. We do travel back and forth to our summer
place down the Cape.

I like America just as it is without any “isms” of any kind.
The Social Security Act, in my opinion, was good legislation
and was a step in the right direction. I believe in all kinds of so-
cial benefits for the working man. We have got to keep the
working man contented because he is the man who earns and
spends the money and thus keeps the country prosperous. How-
ever, we also need proper legislation for the man who provides
the work for the working man. We have got to have a proper
balance between the two.

Iam glad I went to Harvard; I was very happy there; my son
is now happy at Harvard. I look forward to attending my Col-
lege Reunion. Why not? We have a fine crowd of fellows in a
great Class of the best College in the world.

ELLIOT MARPLE

HOME ADDRESS: 2716 61st Ave., S.E., Mercer Island, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 407 Bay Bldg., Seattle 1, Wash.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1908, Seattle, Wash. parents: Lucius Elliot Marple, ’91,
Martha Thayer Folsom.

prepared AT: Garfield High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Dorothea E. Lyman, Oct. 24, 1934, Greenfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
Marcia Tracy, Feb. 8, 1937; Susan Elizabeth, May 11, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Warren Hilliard Marple, ’26.

occupaTion: Business writer; publisher, Marple’s Business Roundup; mana-
ger, Hobson’s Farm Forecast, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Seattle; Washington State Press Club, Seattle.

PuBLICATIONS: Contributor to Business Week, Sales Management, Adver-
tising Age, other business publications, Flying, New Republic; chapter
in Job Evaluation and Wage Incentives, Conover-Mast Publications,
Inc., New York, 1949 (Carl C. Harrington, editor).

THESE things I have loved:
The tug of the tiller and the lash of salt spray, racing on Buz-
zards Bay in the far-away years.

[779 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I am pecking at a book about the Pacific Northwest. I think
I have the boss pretty well convinced he ought to allow a bit of
ume here and there for the project. I hope so. It should indicate
that the next twenty-five years will be a little easier and more fun.

JAMES ANDREW MARS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1407 E. Tenth Ave. Denver 18, Colo.

OFFICE appress: Colorado Military Academy, Box 4268, Denver 9, Colo.

BoRN: Oct. 12, 1907, Fort Des Moines, Iowa. parents: James Andrew Mars,
Marion Elizabeth Burr.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1929.

marrigD: Vitella Neef, Dec. 23, 1942, Denver, Colo.

occupation: Teacher of mathematics, science, Colorado Military Academy,
with related duties.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rocky Mountain Harvard Club, 1948-49.

SEVERAL brief and minor jobs occupied me for the years right
after graduation, spaced by the customary interludes of unem-
ployment during the depression. Serious bad health brought me
to Colorado in 1932 where I have lived since then. Teaching in
a boys’ school; vacation trips to numerous points of interest in
Texas, the southwest, and California; and quite a little work for
the Harvard Club here in Colorado have occupied me steadily
outside of the usual domestic activities. My wife has loyally
shared most of this history, and even pretends not to get fed up
at times with Harvard affairs.

A decade of pretty unsettled living ended with my health un-
der fair control and has been followed by an unexciting career
but one neverthless holding satisfactions and happy memories
which outweigh the inevitable regrets over what might have
been. Living and working here in the west have brought me to
the conclusion that our energetic, wasteful, and rapidly evolving
society operates with too much emotional and political imma-
turity at all levels except the very top. There are, however, cases
of dedicated and intelligent effort scattered about (yes, includ-
ing Harvard) whose total effect will probably be to pull us
through. Thus to end this sketch on a note of optimism I defin-
itely feel!

[ 782 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HUNT MARSHALL

HOME ADDRESS: 45 West St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 167 Second St., Cambridge 42, Mass.

BORN: June 27, 1906, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Irving Franklin Marshall,
Helen May Hunt.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927,

mMarrieD: Anita Tone Potts, May 14, 1930, New York, N. Y. cup: John
Hunt, Jr., June 16, 1931.

HARVARD SON: John Hunt Marshall, Jr., °54.

occupation: Manufacturing, president and treasurer, Synthon, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Synthon, Inc.; member executive committee, Vet-
eran Association of the First Corps of Cadets, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Tennis and Racquet Club, Dedham
Country and Polo Club; Automobile Racing Club of America; Sports
Car Club of America; Veteran Motor Car Club of America (founder),

. Motormaulers; National Ski Patrol.

AFTER leaving College at the end of my sophomore year, I
joined, with Freddie Felton, an expedition exploring Colorado
River and Grand Canyon by boat — lots of exciting, big rapids-
shooting. But one had to have a job, so began as runner and
worked up (or down) to customers’ man in brokerage firm.
Soon decided I was an olive in a Manhattan, so got out. Then
I had my own manufacturing company; eventually sold it at
profit. Next, I spent two years in the Carribbean and ETO on
fast Air Force crash-boats. When discharged I went into manu-
facturing again and formed my present company, Synthon, Inc.,
which does flocking —a process for making synthetic suede,
plush, pile, or velvet materials. (When you finish this boring
account, you may slip your glasses into a flock-lined case, and
your small daughters probably wear a ballerina-style shoe of
synthetic suede.) Although much hard work, such that I fall
asleep in my chair after dinner just like you, it is still lots of fun.

All spare time and weekends are now spent “working on the
place” —thirty acres and a new house — with my long-suffer-
ing, good wife and any friends who unwisely drop in, also my
son when he’s home and can be persuaded. It must be a sign of
age, but it’s rather a thrill to see stuff that I planted myself grow-
ing or blooming — provided I keep ahead of the weeds and bugs.
Incidentally, our son will be graduating — Harvard, of course —

[ 783 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

while 1929 is reuning, then is headed for the Air Force jets as a
ilot.

r As to hobbies, the skis are beginning to gather dust since a
white Jamaica beach looks better than powder snow. Those
stripers are sport, but hard to come by even though we chase
them all over the place in our beach buggy at Nauset or the
Vineyard. I still do a bit of automobile road-racing, especially
the twelve-hour race in Florida. In March I am running for
Dedham Town Meeting Member. I like to think I have most of
my hair, but the bourbon mists are getting weaker.

ERNEST MARTIN

HOME apprEss: 440 17th St., San Bernardino, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 439 Court St. San Bernardino, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1908, Taunton, Mass. parents: Joseph A. Martin, Mary
Joseph Ormonde.

PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB, magna cum laude, 1929.

marriED: Althea F. Barnum, June 23, 1938, San Bernardino, Calif. cHrLpREN:
Peter Michael, Feb. 21, 1946, Timothy James, Jan. 8, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Martin, ’21; Frank Martin, ’25.

occupation: General manager, Barnum and Flagg Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Chamber of Commerce, 1953; president, Rotary
Club of San Bernardino, 1952-53, Downtown Business Men’s Associa-
tion, 1949-51; chairman, Community Chest, 1951-52; director, Y.M.C.A.,
1948-53, San Bernardino Valley Concert Association, 1948-53, San Ber-
nardino County Tuberculosis and Health Association, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club, Chamber of Commerce, Community Chest,
American Legion; Elks Club; Country Club; Printing Industries Assocta-
tion; National Stationery and Office Equipment Association.

IT was before the close of World War II that we decided in
favor of the small town versus the large metropolis, Southern
California versus any other part of the world, and San Bernardino
versus other cities in California. It was the correct decision.

The management of a small, diversified business (printers, sta-
tioners, office outfitters, and wholesalers) in this area probably
involves pursuits similar to those encountered in other parts of
the country. Preoccupations with personnel and the public can
and do require constant attention. Let me simply report that in
spite of planning, in spite of good (or is it lucky?) judgment,

[ 784 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the temporary or flexible are just that, while the permanent is
only permanent until changed. Whatever else may be said about
the life of the small business man it may not be called dull.

Let me report, too, that the small community brings with it
the numerous civic assignments in service clubs, in the Chamber
of Commerce, and in local government which parade through
life one after the other. With me, it has meant no time for golf —
a subject I reserve for my Fiftieth Anniversary Report.

SAMUEL FORREST MARTIN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 165 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: May 23, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Charles Vilas Martin, Margaret
Jane Forrest.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D., 1934-

MARRIED: Wilhelmina Elizabeth Wallace, June 18, 1934, Providence, R. L
(died Nov. 7, 1953).

occupation: Ophthalmologist.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School; con-
sultant in ophthalmology, Veterans Administration Hospital, Boston; as-
sociate ophthalmologist, Children’s Medical Center; assistant surgeon in
ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Massachusetts
General Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
New England Ophthalmological Society; American Academy of Oph-
thalmology and Otolaryngology.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional papers of professional nature.

AFTER graduating from the Harvard Medical School I spent
two years serving a medical and surgical internship at the Rhode
Island Hospital. The next two years I spent as a resident in
ophthalmology at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary. In
1938 I opened an office in Boston where, with the exception of
the war years, I have practised medicine ever since.

Called to active duty with the United States Navy some eight
months before the attack on Pearl Harbor, much of my time was
spent in research concerning methods of visual and electronic
range-finding and fire-control. V-J Day found me at the United
States Naval Hospital at Aiea Heights (directly overlooking
Pearl Harbor) where I was a member of the Surgical Staff (Oph-
thalmic Section). During September, October, and November

[ 785]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

of 1949 I served as a consultant to the Atomic Bomb Casualty
Commission at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In these cities (by that
time largely rebuilt) a number of survivors were discovered who
were developing cataracts of a type similar to those found follow-
ing exposure to X-ray. A clinic was set up to continue the in-
vestigation, and since that time many more cases have been dis-
covered.

In 1941 I built a house in Lincoln, Massachusetts. We enjoyed
the town and the people, but the increasingly heavy traffic,
coupled with an increasing frequency of trips to Boston, made
it desirable that we move into the city. My office and residence
are both at 165 Bay State Road, Boston 15, Massachusetts.

SYLVESTER ANTHONY MARTIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1495 Newton St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Army Map Service, Washington, D. C.

BORN: Nov. 30, 1907, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Thomas Francis Martin,
Mary Whalen.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, 1928-1929.

marrieD: Eleanor Blanche Fetherston, Feb. 18, 1932, Boston, Mass. cHixp:
Francis Vincent, March 26, 1933.

occuPATION: Geographer.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary's files,

PAUL WHITTEMORE MATHER

HOME ADDRESS: 43 Wachusett Drive, Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFIce ADDRESS: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1908, Exeter, N. H. parents: Maurice Whittemore Mather,
’90,; Winifred Berry Smith.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; A.M. 19333
ED.M., 1950.

marriep: Thelma Jewel Ferguson, June 26, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. cHIL-
preN: Nancy Louise, Jan. 1, 1933 (7. Bert V. Borngesser, 3d, June 13,
1953); Priscilla Ann, Nov. 16, 1936.

occupation: Instructor of French.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1938-39, vice-president, 1940-41, president, 194I-
42, Brookline Teachers Club.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; American Association of

[ 786 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Teachers of French; New England Modern Language Association;
Massachusetts Teachers Federation; Phi Delta Kappa; Brookline Teach-
ers Club.

GRADUATION from Harvard found me with my mind made
up to follow in the footsteps of my father and to become a
teacher. Since I had majored in French literature, it was but
logical that I should decide to teach French; and to perfect my-
self in the spoken tongue I went to France in the fall of 1929.
After seven months spent largely in a French family in Angers,
tasting the delights of French provincial life ‘including that of

a “lycéen,” I returned to the United States and obtained a posi-
tion for the year 1930~1931 at the Riverdale Country School,
New York City, a private school for boys where it was my duty
to teach French to the youngsters of the fourth, fifth, and sixth
grades,

Life at Riverdale followed the usual pattern for such schools
and required living with the boys day and night except for cer-
tain nights and weekends, which were free. I was most fortunate,
however, to have as supervising proctor in my dormitory a
certain Nathan Pusey, whom we all called “Nate” and who was
liked by everyone. Little did I dream that I was immediately re-
sponsible in my dormitory duties to a young man who would
one day become president of my Alma Mater.

Nate taught English at Riverdale; and as a colleague who had
already had a year’s teaching experience, he gave me some of my
first lessons in how to handle a class of youngsters more or less
willing to learn of the beauties of the French language. Both
the students and the faculty respected Nate’s opinions, which
were always well-founded, and his scholarship, of which he
never made a show. Although it has been stated in the news-
papers that Nate is not athletic, to me he will always rank as one
of superior athletic ability for his skill in tossing a basketball. In
some of the pick-up games played by those of the faculty and
students who were marooned on campus weekends, Nate would
invariably score a majority of the baskets, many times doing so
by running away from the basket to midfloor, then pivoting and
without pause shooting a basket. I am confident he will score
many a clean basket for Harvard in equally skillful fashion as
the years of his administration roll by.

[ 787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

SIDNEY ALLAN MATTHEWS

HOME ADDRESS: 1403 Beacon St., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wm. Filene’s Sons Co., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1906, Cambridge, Mass, PARENTS: Gabriel Charles Matthews,
Anna Borofsky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrigD: Lillian Munroe, Oct. 25, 1951, Brookline, Mass. cHicp: Peter Bruce,
Dec. 14, 1952.

occupation: Divisional merchandise manager, Wm. Filene’s Sons Company.

MEMBER OF: Boston Chamber of Commerce; Pine Brook Country Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years in retrospect! What could have hap-
pened to all the years between. Sometimes it seems but yester-
day, and then it seems so long ago. What quarter of a century is
there for any of us of which volumes could not be written full
of anecdotes, incidents, large or small, hopes, desires, accom-
plishments, disappointments, joys, sorrows, loves? These things
are common to all of us, and so must for the most part be con-
sidered commonplace. But if our aim in life is to be happy, to
make progress for ourselves, and to do good for others, then al-
though I may not claim the highest honors, I have tried always
to stay above the average. In many respects I feel I have suc-
ceeded.

First of all, I have many friends, men and women to whom I
feel a close attachment, whether I see them often or rarely. To
Me it is a great comfort just to know they are there ready to help
or to be helped should the need arise.

Next, I have my job which I like and which has been moder-
ately good to me. Twenty-five years ago in September, 1929,
after a summer of youthful fun, I took a job (definitely not a po-
sition) as stock boy at Filene’s, a store well known to all Har-
vardians, and at which, in those days, a Harvard degree was worth
an extra two dollars in the weekly pay envelope. Progress dur-
ing the first depression years was slow, but with time and ex-
perience my responsibilities, together with their rewards, in-
creased. When I entered the Army during the first year of the

war, | had been a department manager for several years. I re-
sumed this position upon my return in late 1948, and soon there-
after was promoted to my present position, as divisional mer-

[ 790 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

chandise manager. My work is interesting and stimulating, as
well as being pleasant. The opportunity for travel is always
present, so that I have been able to visit many parts of this coun-
try and Europe.

Then I have my hobbies which keep me reasonably busy and
relaxed. Golf being my favorite sport, I play it at every oppor-
tunity, but in the retail field we are somewhat restricted. It is
for this reason (I keep telling myself) I can’t break eighty con-
sistently. At night I play bridge frequently and backgammon
occasionally. For many years I have been mildly interested in
photography and in recent times have taken up three-dimen-
sional stereo picture making. Music I like, and almost every
evening while awaiting dinner I amuse myself (but nobody
else) at the piano in my own self-taught style. Writing of hob-
bies, I must not forget my two homes, one at Waban and one
at Falmouth Heights, with their attendant chores, lawns, shrubs,
and flowers —all so wonderfully relaxing, if only there were
more daylight hours.

Finally, | have my family, which I place last only because they
are the most important of all. I was a slow starter in the field of
matrimony. Most of my friends had given me up as a hopeless
case of confirmed bachelorhood until the fall of 1951 when I
threw caution to the winds and took the fateful step. Fourteen
months later our son was born and a very happy duo became an
even happier trio, for we were blessed with a most healthy and
contented baby who has been a continuous source of pleasure
to us,

So, for all these things, I repeat, life has treated me somewhat
better than average. I look back with gratitude on forty-seven
years of living and I look ahead with hope and with confidence
that the future will better the past, for my friends, for my family,
for my compatriots, and for myself.

~

JOSEPH NATHAN MATZ

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Beaconsfield Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 99 Chauncy St., Boston 11, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1907, Brookline, Mass, parENts: Abram H. Matz, Betty
Wolfe.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

[791 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B.. 1929; M.B.A., [931.

marrigp: Gertrude Meterparel, June 10, 1937, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Amy Rosalind, Jan. 4, 1940; Michael Baruch, July 29, 1943.

occupation: New England sales representative, American Woolen Company,
textiles.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, treasurer, Matz Clothing Company, Inc.; head,
Men’s Clothing and Furnishings Section, National Office, Office of Price
Administration, Men’s Clothing Section, National Office, Office of Price
Stabilization; chairman, Program Committee, Cub Scout Group, Brook-
line.

MEMBER OF: Germania Lodge, AF. & A.M., Boston; Harvard Business School
Club of Boston; Fabric Salesmen’s Association of Boston.

TO some the writing of a biography may be similar to the prep-
aration of one’s income tax—the problem of what to include
and what had better be excluded. As for myself, I cannot make
such a comparison since the government in effect acts as my
personal accountant and offers no avenues of escape to me.

Seriously, however, although I have procrastinated altogether

too long in getting this off to the press and becoming immortal-
ized on the tablets of the 1929 Class, I can appreciate the impor-
tance of this twenty-fifth inventory. For myself, apart from the
interest it may have for members of the Class, it provides a con-
crete instrument for soul-searching even though some of the
findings are much too personal to record here. It makes one
stop and ponder on what basic accomplishments have come to
fruition in the last quarter of a century, how significantly these
years have been spent. Truthfully, I am embarrassed when I
total up the net results of these years and find what a disparity
there is between some of the goals I set up for myself and their
attainment. I always thought, for example, that a college educa-
tion should be but a prelude to more study and knowledge, and
worked out, in the thirties, a twenty-year program of concen-
tration in the arts, sciences, literature, et al. I shall not recite
here the results of this highly ambitious plan.

But I have come to realize that life is a series of compromises
and this is comforting. My instincts led me at first into the field
of psychiatry but due to certain reasons tinged with perhaps in-
sufficient courage, I found myself in the business world — first
in the rigorous department store whirl and then in the manufac-
turing of men’s clothing.

[792 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Life took on a richer and fuller meaning after I met Gertrude.
It was at a concert (Lee Higginson Memorial by the Boston
Symphony Orchestra, to be exact) when I knew I was smitten.
I] must admit that Brahms and Shubert had something to do with
it, but even so the years that have followed have only mellowed
and deepened this feeling. We forgot the cares of the business
world for a while and for two months luxuriated in France, Swit-
zerland, Italy, England, and Scotland.

In 1943 we moved to Washington where I became head of the
Men’s Clothing Section of the Office of Price Administration,
and in this capacity helped to direct the formulation of price
regulations which industry conceded a necessary safeguard dur-
ing the emergency. Those were hectic but interesting and vital
years with their cross-currents of economic theories, and very
often a struggle to maintain one’s equilibrium in the face of
pressure groups, lobbyists, and self-seeking individuals who
“glutted” Washington in World War II days. It was with a
great sigh of relief, however, when the need for’ regulatory
measures was no longer in evidence, that I returned to Boston.
But because of the difficult housing situation, I was unable to
bring my family back for another two years and this. meant
constant commuting between Washington and Boston.

At the outbreak of the Korean war, significant price move-
ments were again in the making. For over four months I was
an industrial consultant to the Office of Price Stabilization —
this meant taking the Federal Express on Sunday night for Wash-
ington and flying back to Boston Friday night to be with my
family for the weekend. I was finally persuaded to again head
up the Clothing Section of the Agency, returning to the warmth
of my family every other week. Because of the localized nature
of the war and its final cooling off, the upward movement of
prices, mainly psychological in origin, was retarded and it was
back to Boston and the family hearth for me.

With my new association in the textile field, I am able to
spend almost every evening at home and to watch and be a part
of the growth of Michael and Amy and gloat over the latest
tricks of our youngest, our black cocker, Cleopatra.

In retrospect, although the past twenty-five years have not
been used to the utmost, they have been exciting ones in many

[ 793 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ways. If man’s wisdom can evolve a pattern for living in this
Atomic Age that will coérdinate social advancement with scien-
tific progress, then I believe we can all look forward hopefully
to the next even more eventful twenty-five years. For the pres-
ent Hail and Farewell!

JOHN PRIMATT REDCLIFFE MAUD

HOME appress: 1 Greville Pl, London, N. W. 6, England.

OFFIcE apprEss: Ministry of Fuel and Power, Thames House South, Millbank,
London, S. W. 1, England.

BoRN: Feb. 3, 1906, Bristol, England. parents: John Primatt Maud, Elisabeth
Diana Furse.

PREPARED AT: Eton School, Eton, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929.

MarrieD: Jean Hamilton, 1932. CHILDREN: Humphrey; Caroline; Virginia.

OCCUPATION: Permanent secretary to the Ministry of Fuel and Power.

oFFices HELD: King’s scholar, Eton School; open classical scholar, New Col-
lege, Oxford; Henry P. Davison scholar from Oxford University to
Harvard College, 1928-29; junior research fellow, 1929, fellow and dean,
1932-39, University College, Oxford; Rhodes travelling fellow to Africa,
1932; university lecturer in politics, 1938-39; councillor, Oxford City,
1930-36; tutor, Colonial Administrative Services Course, Oxford, 1937-
39; master, Birkbeck College, University of London, 1939-43; deputy
secretary, second secretary, Ministry of Food, 1941-44; second secretary,
Office of the Minister of Reconstruction, 1944-45; secretary, Office of
Lord President of the Council, 1945; permanent secretary, Ministry of
Education, 1945-52; member Economic Planning Board, 1952; president,
Executive Board, 1949-50, United Kingdom delegate, Conferences on
Food and Agriculture, Hot Springs, 1943, U.N.R.R.A., Atlantic City,
1943, U.N.E.S.C.O., 1946, 1947, 1948, 1949, 1950; permanent secretary,
Ministry of Fuel and Power, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Eton Ramblers; Savile Club; K.C.B., since about 1946; C.B.E.,
1942.

PusLications: English Local Government, 1932; City Government: The
Johannesburg Experiment, 1938, chapter, Oxford and the Groups, 1934;
chapter, Personal Ethics, 1935, Johannesburg and the Art of Self-Gov-
ernment, 1937.

CHARLES FREDERIC MAXFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: Thorndike Road, Wakefield, Mass.

orrice appress: General Electric Co., West Lynn, Mass.

BoRN: Jan, 26, 1907, Lynn, Mass. parents: Frederick Ambrose Maxfield,
Emily Jane Tapper. .

[ 794 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~I927. DEGREE: B.B.A. (Northeastern Univ.), 1938.

marrieD: Sarah Levinia Morris, Oct. 11, 1933, Lynn, Mass. CHILDREN: Janet,
Sept. 4, 1934 (mm. Robert Stentiford, June 13, 1953); Charles Gilbert,

Dec. 10, 1939.
OCCUPATION: Cost accountant, Allerton Street Plant, General Electric Com-
an
OFFICES 1 HELD: Line Officer, Golden Rule Lodge, A.F. & A.M., since 1949.
MEMBER OF: National Association of Cost Accountants; West Lynn Works
Foremen’s Association; Allerton Street Associates, Masons.
PUBLICATIONS: “Production Planning and Control of Electrical Instruments,”

1938.

AFTER leaving College I did some bouncing around from job to
job until I wandered into General Electric Company. Once
there, I became interested in accounting and studied at North-
eastern University. One position followed another until 1947
when I was appointed cost accountant for the Allerton Street
Plant where aircraft instruments and gyroscopes are built. I have
never felt the title fit the position since I am the responsible
financial officer, financial adviser, and counselor of this plant.
Since practically all of our work is directly or indirectly for the
government, I am becoming well acquainted with the terms re-
negotiation, redetermination, etc.

At the darkest hours of the depression, we decided two could
live as cheaply as one and so started a happily married life. Our
two children have been a comfort and source of joy. The trials
and tribulations have been weathered successfully —such as
broken arms, legs, and minor abrasions. Although we have spent
our vacations fishing in New Hampshire, we have taken time
out for motor trips to Canada. These have been duly recorded
by 35mm. camera slides allowing us to relive and really enjoy
those trips.

Somehow or other, I have been quite active in church work
even though my accounting career keeps me extremely busy at
all kinds of hours. Wherever finances are concerned, I seem to
end as a participant — whether a building fund is being raised,
audits are needed, tellers to count money, or what have you.
Since I have become a line officer in the Masons, there are
moments when my wife feels she is a widow. There is always
some affair going on which is unusually interesting; but, discre-

[795 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

tion is the better part of valor, so that I manage to maintain a
delicate balance in my marital life. The end of my tour of duty
is approaching, however, so that domestic tranquility will de-
scend once more.
I have always considered myself a Republican which has been
.a very discouraging choice until recently. My fondest hope is
that the Republicans will hire some excellent publicists who can
sell the conservative point of view.

GOTTFRIED OSCAR MAYER

HOME ADDRESS: §23 Farwell Drive, Madison, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 910 Mayer Ave., Madison, Wis.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: Gottfried F. Mayer, Helen Jan-
sen.

preparED AT: Nicholas Senn High School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Ruth McKenna, March 4, 1935, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Roger G.,
Jan. 25, 1936; Elsa J, Jan. 25, 1937; G. Philip, March 7, 1939; Margaret
A. Nov. 18, 1941; Louise M., March 30, 1945.

occupaTion: Meat packing, vice-president of merchandising, Oscar Mayer
& Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, 1948-53, president, 1952, Madison
and Wisconsin Foundation; president, Madison Associations, 1951;
member board of directors, Wisconsin Manufacturers’ Association,
since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Madison Club, Maple Bluff Country Club, Madison, Harvard
Club of Chicago; Chicago Athletic Association.

AFTER leaving Harvard and having a short try at graduate work
at the University of Chicago, I started to work in Chicago for
our family meat packing concern with which I have since been
identified. Those familiar with the industry will agree that one
could readily keep fully occupied in this work right through the
thirties. I did — although there were times when the company
seriously considered so reducing the activities in the plant for
which I was responsible as to make me wonder about unemploy-
ment compensation and develop a sympathy for all the folk who
lacked security. (I still have strong Republican views but am not
quite certain many New Deal accomplishments which increase
and give security to purchasing power for all are not sound.) But
the “Hitler market” of 1939 accelerated the steady progress that

[ 796 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was taking place in the second half of the decade and by 1943 my
first company-wide assignment was received which resulted in
my moving the family to Madison, Wisconsin, the following
year, I am now vice-president in charge of sales, livestock pro-
curement, and research.

I guess I’m a small town boy at heart. The change to Madison
has been most welcome. It has given me time to become a little
active in civic affairs and to devote considerable time to re-
search into which, one day, I hope to “retire.” By 1957 we shall
have two sons and one of our daughters in college. If all five
children finish college on schedule, we will have a graduation
from some school or college in each June through 1967. Need-
less to say, each program is an additional source of pride and
satisfaction.

The last twenty-five years have been full, challenging, and
fun. But I look forward to the next twenty-five with even more
optimism than I had on that June day in 1929.

FRED MILO MAZZULLA

HOME ADDRESS: 1930 E. Eighth Ave., Denver, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 514 Symes Bldg., Denver, Colo.

BORN: Dec. 14, 1903, Trinidad, Colo. parents: Enrico Milo Mazzulla, Angela
Perri.

PREPARED AT: University of Denver, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926~1930. DEGREE: LL.B. (Westminster Law School), 1937.

marrieD: Leona Bivens, Feb. 11, 1928, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1938); Jose-
phine D’Andrea, 1939, Denver, Colo, cumtpren: Arlene, April 1, 19313
Julia, July 1, 1936.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Referee, Industrial Commission, 1940-42; special assistant to
the attorney general, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Press Club; Westerners; National Press Photographers Associa-
tion; Denver Bar Association; Colorado Bar Association; American Bar
Association,

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous photographs in magazines and books.

DURING my undergraduate days at Harvard I worked as a
postal employee. In 1932 I re-transferred from the Boston Post
Office to the Denver Post Office, and entered Westminster Law
School. I was admitted to practise in Colorado in 1937. I have

[ 797 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

been engaged in the active practice of law since that time. |
have two hobbies: collecting sight and sound. In the sound de-
partment I have about 5,000 phonograph records comprising
mostly Dixieland jazz, western music, and early classical music.
I have also made about one hundred hours of tape recordings of
pioneers and various western characters. The other half includes
my extensive photographic collection. It is built around the
Southwest and the West and deals mainly with historical sub-
jects. I have taken many myself, and have purchased a great
many old plates and photographs. Time has been found to take
five or six vacations into the interior of old Mexico and at the
same time to take a few Leica pictures. I have also made a hobby
of the Leica cameras, and certain publications concerning the
Leica, its growth and development.

I have no war record, but have served as government appeal
agent continuously since the inauguration of Selective Service.
I have been a life-long Republican, and have run for office in
Denver three times without any success whatsoever. I reside
with my family at 1930 East Eighth Avenue in Denver. My
daughter Arlene is a senior at the University of California at Los

Angeles, and my daughter Julia is in high school.

ROBERT WINSLOW MEADOWS

HOME apprEss: 631 Second Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Wall St. New York 5, N. Y.

BoRN: Sept. 25, 1906, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Harold Gregory Meadows, ’94,
Frances Hammond Winslow.

PREPARED AT; Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MarRiED: Alice L. Sullivan, Oct. 1, 1932, Springfield, Mass, CHILDREN: Caro-
lin Winslow, May 21, 1936, Robert Winslow, Jr., Nov. 25, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Staff assistant, Professional Relations Committee, Group Health
Insurance, Inc.

THIS is quite a difficult task, to hurriedly piece together a bun-
gled early career in the New York financial district where I lin-
gered too long, then a varying career of wartime electronic engi-
neering, selling both direct and indirect to the consumer; the lum-
ber business and furniture business; and finally ending up down in

[ 798 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the financial district again, but in what to me is a surprisingly
fascinating field — medical care insurance. The scope of this type
of insurance is tremendous — it still is in the growing-pain and
experimental stage of life and there is a great deal to be done
before a degree of perfection is reached. I highly recommend it.
My job is to keep our relations with the doctors a pleasant and
satisfactory one.

My hobbies are few due to a rather tight budget. I still have a
great love of all sports and music, but I believe that my real hobby
is my family, with my seventeen-year-old daughter and eight-
year-old son taking up most of my extra-curricular activities.

WILLIAM MEEHAN

HOME ADDRESS: 191 Dorset Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 530 Atlantic Ave., Boston 10, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 28, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Richard Meehan, Margaret
Theresa Sullivan. .

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREES: S.B. (Massachusetts Inst. of Technol-
ogy), 1926; A.B. (Harvard Univ.), 1929.

MaRRiED: Evelyn M. Barrett, June 17, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Richard

_ L,, April 20, 1939; William C., July 9, 1941; Jane, July 19, 1944.

OccUPATION: Director of operations, New England Division, The Great At-
lantic & Pacific Tea Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

SINCE I entered Harvard in the fall of 1927, and completed my —
requirements for the A. B. degree with a course in Greek in the
summer of 1928, my college career may be said to have been
distinguished chiefly by its speed. Actually, this was no par-
ticular indication of my scholastic abilities, since the bulk of my
requirements had previously been satisfied by four years at
M.1.T. To have attended Harvard at all, after having finished
at M.I.T. and then worked at civil engineering for a short time,
was the result of a long-felt desire to share in its opportunities.
More or less by chance I was employed in December, 1928,
by The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company in construction
work, thence to warehouse operations at several of the New
England plants. In 1941 I was transferred to New York, where
for about three years I was engaged in lease negotiations and

[799 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

miscellaneous activities, returning to Boston early in 1944 to be-
come director of operations of the New England division. The
last ten years have been busy ones; I have been managing the
operation of some twelve plants in New England and Canada,
in addition to the construction of three new ones.

Last Tuesday I celebrated my twenty-fifth anniversary with
the company, an event which brought congratulations from my
fellow-workers and expressions of horror from my children,
who consider twenty-five years of concentration on one subject
an impossible feat. Having come to the subject of my domestic
career, I find that my educational past, both the reinforced con-
crete foundation and the ivy which later covered it, has served
me in good stead. I complemented it by marrying a school
teacher in 1938, the result of which is we are slightly able to cope
with the situations induced by three healthy children. I can
also truthfully say I owe to them and M.I.T. my present hobby
of constructing furniture from an immense collection of tools,
originally purchased for the painful purpose of repairing the
damage inflicted by my wonderful offspring.

My wife and I once in a while congratulate ourselves on being
able to stay on the same plane with our elder son, a student at
Roxbury Latin School. He is now fourteen and almost ready
to settle single-handed the affairs of our troubled world. Our
second son has just entered the adult world by becoming a student
at Junior High, and our daughter, aged nine, is secure in her

- fourth-grade nest.

My form of escapism from the front pages of the newspapers
is fishing, and | try to get up to Canada at least once a year in
pursuit of a few ten-pound pike. My religion, and that of my
whole family, has remained Roman Catholic. My political af-
filiations pretty generally, with some occasional deviations, are
Republican.

The twenty-five years have rushed by, but I found myself
shouting at the Harvard team this year with the same enthusiasm
and feeling the same sense of pride that I did so many years be-
fore when our band marched out upon the stadium.

[ 800 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ABRAHAM MENCOW

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Strathmore Rd., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 881 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 18, 1908, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: David Louis Mencow, Ida
Sugarman,

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: State government service, investigator and auditor, Division of
Employment Security.

MEMBER OF: International Association of Personnel in Employment Security.

I'VE spent most of my working life in state government service
of an investigative and auditing nature. This has led to much
travel, especially in the past few years, and I’ve come to know
the terrain of Massachusetts intimately. The Bay State is not
so bad from a scenic standpoint, either, particularly in the west-
ern part. While on the subject of travel, I might say that I have
gotten around a bit, what with participation in the Rhineland
and Central European campaigns with the U. S. Fifteenth and
Third Armies, and recreational trips to Canada and Mexico.

My principal pastime is gardening, with emphasis on roses. I
must confess that with the care and attention I’ve given them,
the roses have come to be somewhat more than a hobby. Per-
haps I’m seeking in them those infinities that Rilke found in
their glowing hearts: “the world outside, and wind and rain
and patience of spring.”

I remember expecting at the Tenth Anniversary of graduation
that the ferment the world was in would surely settle in fifteen
more years. Life, unfortunately, does not arrange its patterns
neatly in terms of ten or twenty-five years. So we'll settle down
these winter evenings for the long, long view.

ROBERT ETHAN MERRY

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Oregon Ave., Crafton, Pittsburgh 5, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Church of the Nativity, Crafton, Pa.

BORN: Dec. 11, 1907, Duxbury, Mass. parents: Hortence Emory Merry,
Ruth Lucinda Hatch.

[ 801 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Duxbury High School, Duxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; B.D. (Virginia Theological
Seminary), 1935.

marrieD: Harriet Harrison, June 30, 1942, Detroit, Mich. CHILpREN: Paul
Henry, Nov. 5, 1944; Michael Howland, June 26, 1946; Lucinda, May 3,
1949; Margaret Elva, May 1o, 1952.

occuPATION: Rector, Nativity Church (Episcopal).

OFFICES HELD: Member Department of Christian Education, head, Department
of Christian Social Relations, chairman, Released Time Education for
Public Schools of Crafton, Diocese of Pittsburgh.

MEMBER OF: American Civil Liberties Union, Anglican Society of the Angli-
can Communion.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Cross in Action,” The Living Church (national Episco-
pal publication), 1953.

WHEN I was casting about for a position that would give me
experience and yet not commit me to the Sacred Ministry, the
mother of the present Bishop of Maine (Oliver Loring, 26)
secured me a teaching post in a Mission School in Honolulu,
Hawaii. The air cleared while I was there and especially while
I was travelling in the Orient, and I came back to three years
of theological studies at the Episcopal Seminary in Alexandria,
Virginia. Graduating in June of 1935, I went to Vermont to
begin work in the field prepared by our classmate, Jim Hubbard,
but the wonderful bishop (Samuel Booth, ’06) died on the day
set for my ordination. The kindness of the Bishop of Maine
_ saw me through my problems and had me ordained in Septem-
ber of that year and sent to my first parish, St. Philip’s, Wiscasset,
where I stayed till January of 1938.

The Episcopal chaplain of Princeton University (Father Jack
Crocker, ’22) then invited me to be his assistant and I went to
Princeton after a five-month stay at a school of Christian so-
ciology in Cincinnati. Friends jokingly referred to me as “the
Harvard missionary to Princeton,” and I don’t know how any-
one could have enjoyed life more than I did here, living in the
dormitory, eating with students and young faculty, and battling
through the great problems that were being faced at this critical
time. Jack Crocker was a rock of strength to me, and my Prince-
ton life deepened my Catholic convictions about the Church
and sobered somewhat my radical social convictions about the
depth of our increasing social and religious problems.

{ 802 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

But the greatest gift Princeton gave me was my wife whom
I met at a summer school of Oriental studies there. I felt the
need to get out into more active parish work (I did miss the
babies’ baptisms, the weddings, and other family aspects of
parish life while I was at Princeton) and the Bishop of New Jer-
sey sent me to two missions in Trenton. It was while I was here
that war broke out and, having assumed these two missions, I
did not feel I ought to enter the Chaplains’ Corps. Instead I did
all [ could as civilian minister at Fort Dix to help the boys pre-
pare for their battle stations. I was assigned to a group of con-
scientious objectors whom J, as a convinced militarist, proceeded
to tell why they had no basis in Scripture for their views. You
can bet we had some hot sessions. Mrs. Merry and 1 were mar-
ried in June of that next year (1942), and after two more years
of happiness among those grand hard-working people, I ac-
cepted a call to be canon of St. Paul’s Cathedral, Buffalo, New
York.

Here our first two children were born and here also lay a
harvest of a very happy four years. Not having the responsibility
of the parish, I was free to do much social welfare work, labor
arbitrating, youth work, and so on. Here also I ran smack into
the operations of the Communist party and wish every citizen
in America could have seen as I did the brazen efforts to wreck
our country that began immediately after the war. I was also
aware of a corresponding Fascist effort as well, whereby some
big business leaders worked behind the screen of anti-Commu-
nism to destroy the sound social gains of the Roosevelt era. I
think the dominant impression I have of Buffalo is the double
one of many kind and loyal friends who mean much to me today,
plus the somewhat bewildering sensation that came to all of us
in public life during the storms of the post-war months before
we settled down to what we call Cold War.

Here in Crafton, where we came in 1948, we are all having a
wonderful time. Our two girls were born here and we are
getting deeper and deeper into community and parish life. This
is an oasis of relative, residential quiet within earshot of the roar
of Pittsburgh’s steel mills. Harriet is deep in PTA and all the
good things that go with small children, The growth of the
parish is slow but steady and we are planning to be here (God

[ 803 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

willing) the rest of our lives. Not least of the attractions of this
spot is the Pennsylvania Turnpike, which in a few months’ time
(with the New Jersey, New York, and New England turnpikes)
will carry us to our summer home in Duxbury, not far from
Harvard where we hope we can see some of our classmates either
before or after the great days of June 13-17, 1954.

W. IRVING MIDDLETON

HOME abpREss: 192 Washington St, Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 79 Sidney St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

Born: Feb, 12, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Washington Irving Middle-
ton, Lavinia Harthy Haskell.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.; 3 Public Latin
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.ENG. cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Elinore L. Huse, April 2, 1932, Watertown, Mass. CHILDREN:
Janette Haskell, April 26, 1937; Eliot Huse, Oct. 3, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Standards engineer, Simplex Wire and Cable Company.

" OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, vice-chairman, chairman, member Sections
Committee, member Standards Committee, American Institute of Elec-
trical Engineers; corporator, trustee, auditor, Watertown Savings Bank;
trustee, treasurer, Boston District, Board of Parsonage Trustees, manager,
Preachers’ Aid Society, Methodist Church; member Executive Board,
vice-president, president, Parents of Blind Children, councillor, New
England Award Committee, E.S.N.E.; director, vice-president, president,
Simco Credit Union, member Executive Committee, Harvard Engineer-
ing Society; president, The Methodist Club; member Executive Coun-
cil, Protestant Guild for the Blind; member Belmont Methodist Church
Official Board. .

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; National Society
of Professional Engineers, Massachusetts Society of Professional Engi-
neers; Registered Professional Engineer (No. 137), Massachusetts; Har-
vard Engineering Society; Pequosette A.F. & A.M.,; Belmont Chapter,
O.ES.; Belmont Methodist Church, Highland Glee Club of Newton;
The Methodist Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional technical articles on progress in art of modern in-
sulation compounds for extrusion on wire for electrical purposes, in elec-
trical journals; specifications and standards published in booklet form
by national associations concerned with insulated wire and cables.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I spent the summer in Europe
and the British Isles. That fall I started teaching at the Harvard

[ 804 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Engineering School, from which position I resigned in 1934.
Also during that fall (1929) I started going with Elinore. Since
our first date was for the Harvard-Dartmouth game, no one can
say that football is not rewarding. After 1 wore out the road
to Wheaton College in Norton, from which she graduated in
1930, we were married in 1932. It has been a wonderful mar-
niage throughout the many hardships.

In 1935 I started with the Simplex Wire & Cable Company,
manufacturing insulated wires and cables for power and com-
munication electrical circuits, and I have been there ever since.
Since 1939, by active work in certain government specifications,
I have been pleased to take a small part in both the defense of
and the offense by our country. Father left us in 1934, and
mother in 1945. In a sense they still seem to be around. In 1937
Janette was born and is now a junior at Belmont High School.
She excels in many things, maintaining a straight “A” average
in spite of being in the social whirl, of which Rainbow, Questers,
and High School Band play a large part.

Eliot was born in 1948 but unfortunately soon developed re-
trolental fibroplasia. In spite of his visual handicap, he does very
well, and contributes his part to making a happy, cheerful home.
We hope he will soon qualify for entrance into Perkins, and
possibly follow the others from there who have gone to Har-
vard.

Organizations allied with my work, together with church,
fraternal, and musical interests, seem to take up all spare time
which is not spent at Kiddie Land or Pony Rides, etc., with
Eliot. In recent years I have travelled throughout the United
States, and my observations lead me to be optimistic in regard
to its future. I believe we need to mature in our relations with
other countries. To briefly summarize my social and political
beliefs, I might say that, like many others who started family
life during the depression, it would appear that the opportunity
to work and earn a respectable living is more valuable than the
relative worth of a dollar.

[ 805 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

BENJAMIN MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 141 E. 88th St. New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1908, East Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Hyman David Miller, Anna
Weinstein.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

MarRiED: Jane Abraham, Dec. 18, 1945, New York, N. Y..

occupPATION: Member, New York Stock Exchange.

CARL MILLER

HOME AppRESS: 65 McLellan St., Dorchester 21, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5125 Washington St., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

BorN: April 30, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Israe] Miller, Eva Peters.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1933;
gv.M. (Boston Teachers Coll.), 1935.

MARRIED: Symma Pansky, May 27, 1934, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN: Stephen
Avrom, May 14, 1936; Eleanor Sybil, March 17, 1938.

occupation: Teacher, Beethoven School.

MEMBER OF: Zionist Organization of America; New Century Club of Boston.

UPON leaving Harvard I turned to the field of education be-
cause I liked to teach. I still like teaching, although it would be
much more enjoyable if the remuneration were not so modest.
I taught mathematics in the Boston high schools for several years
and then transferred to the elementary schools where there are
greater opportunities for advancement (I hope). Ten years ago
I joined the faculty of Lincoln Technical Institute, an evening
division of Northeastern University. Last year I was there ap-
pointed director of elementary engineering mathematics.

Symma and I are reliving the thrill of our youthful days
through the vivacious activities of our teen-age son and daugh-
ter.

Thanks to the pre-Reunion meetings of our class I have re-
newed old friendships with classmates and am looking forward
to renewing many more at the Twenty-fifth!

[ 806 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID MILLER

HOME AppREss: Surrey Road., R.F.D. 2, Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 27 W. 2oth St., New York 11, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1908, Portsmouth, N. H. parents: Harry Cohen, Rose
Fainsten.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth High School, Portsmouth, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Beatrice Litt, June 19, 1943, Miami Beach, Fla. cup: Robert
Arnold, Oct. 31, 1947.

OCCUPATION: President, Wellingtex Manufacturing Company, Inc., men’s 5 and
boys’ shirt and sportswear manufacturing.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Mu Sigma; High Ridge Country Club, Poundridge, N. Y.

BESET by Union problems as distinguished from Labor prob-
lems, I received notice of our Twenty-fifth Reunion. To state
that my experience with labor leaders has altered my basic
philosophy of life, “live and let live,” would not be a statement
of fact. On the contrary, my convictions are stronger than ever
but my long-range program, of necessity, must be one of educa-
tion and patience. Being the eternal optimist, I feel that in time
my program will pay off.

Upon graduation I obtained employment with a large New
York financial institution where my training and pleasant sur-
roundings continued over a period of thirteen years. Suddenly,
the second war to make the world safe for democracy was upon
us, and I enlisted in the Air Force where I spent the next forty-
five months of my life. Everything has its compensation, how-
ever, for during my assignment at Miami Beach I met Bea, who
some nine months later was destined to become my wife. Upon
being commissioned as a 120-day wonder (mine was the first
four-month class, two months of which were spent at the Har-
vard Business School), I was assigned to Orlando, Florida, where
we took up housekeeping and where I remained for the duration
of the war. Was I lucky? I'll let you be the judge of that.

Upon my discharge from service, I decided not to return to
Wall Street but to strike out for myself. I had certain definite
ideas about how a business should be run, so I bought a little
company, pulled my brother in with me, and we started to build
from the ground up, Our venture actually began in 1950. Thank
God we can now look back on the past three years with a feel-

[ 807 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ing of deep satisfaction and with the knowledge that our prog-
ress has been real and our growth sound.

Politically I have always been a Republican because I just
can’t visualize the continued growth of this country, if private
enterprise and incentive are replaced by a creeping socialism
which teaches people to expect something for nothing. In my
book, blood, sweat, tears, and the hope of ultimate reward are
still the basic requirements of any success story.”

The family and I, complete with wife, son, dog, and an assort-
ment of parakeets (raising them is Bea’s hobby) now reside in
Stamford, Connecticut, where I join the daily crowd of com-
muters to New York via the Dumaine Railroad.

GORDON VAN DYKE MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Avalon Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Crouse-Hinds Co., Boston 10, Mass.

BorN: April 11, 1905, East Orange, N. J. PARENTS: Edwin Fowler Miller,
Helen Packer Hoover.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

MARRIED: Elizabeth F. Green, Weldon, N. C. cii~pren: Geraldine Van
Dyke, 1931 (a. Dale Robertson, 1952); Nancy Clayton, 1934; Elizabeth
F., 1941; Gordon Van Dyke, Jr., 1946. GRaNpcHILD: Suzanne Robertson,

1953. ;
occupation: Divisional manager, Crouse-Hinds Company, manufacturers
of electrical industrial material.

MEMBER OF: Engineers Club of Boston, Waban Neighborhood Club.

HARVARD to M. I. T., to New York office of the Crouse-Hinds
Company, as cub salesman and office boy, then in two years was
pushed out of the office to call on engineers and industrials to
further the sale of Crouse-Hinds products. Transferred to Boston
in 1930, working most of the New England states,

Married; children; a grandchild, a wonderful wife and family;
a very full life since leaving undergraduate days and am looking
forward to many more years in this vale of tears.

ROBERT HUFFMAN MILLER

HOME appress: Blanchard Street, Marblehead Neck, Mass.
orvice appaess: Miller Industries, Box 7, Marblehead, Mass,

{ 808 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porn: May 8, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Clarence Crossman Miller, Har-
riet F. Huffman.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MarrieD: Margaret L. Emerson, Oct. 5, 1935, Marblehead, Mass. cHILpReN:
Robert Huffman, Jr., May 11, 1938; Philip E., May 2, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Miller, ’38. .

occupation: Manufacturing reinforced plastic forming dies.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Marblehead Chapter, Red Cross, 1943; secretary,
Governor’s Advisory Board, Department of Conservation, 1947.

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club.

FOR the past twenty years whenever friends asked, “Tiger, what
are you doing now?” —the answer always was—selling. In
1929, having made an auspicious start in manufacturing, I was
quickly converted to being a salesman by the depression. Now,
after a quarter of a century, I am back in manufacturing again.
The future looks bright in the reinforced plastics field.

In 1935 a female skier changed what I thought was a confirmed
bachelor into a family man. Our two boys have since given us
the usual trials and tribulations experienced by the average family.

A trip to England with the Union Boat Club, and a grand tour
of the Continent with an occasional vacation in Bermuda or
Nassau have still left me convinced that Marblehead Neck is the
best place to live. In the early thirties private flying was a hobby.
That was when the Boston Airport was a cinder patch with a
small shed in the middle. Today I sit in seat 54 and let others
find the field. Middle-age spread has considerably reduced my
skiing ardor and speed. However, I can still enjoy sailing and
cruising because the rest of the family excel in this department.
Local defense with the Coast Guard Auxiliary and the produc-
tion of incendiary bombs constituted my contribution to the war
effort. It has been a grand life and I am looking forward with
enthusiasm to the next twenty-five years.

STEPHEN CALDWELL MILLETT, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Perivale, R.F.D., Pine Plains, N. Y.

BorN: April 7, 1907, Irvington, N, Y. parents: Stephen Caldwell Millett,
Thalia Westcott.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Diane Ellis, Oct. 14, 1930, Paris, France (died Dec. 14, 1930);
Susan Cony Mellen, Dec. 6, 1933, New York, N. Y. (died June 25, 1945);
Kathleen Crocker, Jan. 8, 1949, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1951).

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Knickerbocker Club, New York; Metropolitan Club, Washing-
ton; Travelers, Paris; Society of the Cincinnati; St. Nicholas Society,
Society of Colonial Wars; Dutchess County Historical Society.

ARTHUR MILLS

HOME ADDRESS: 325 E. 57th St., New York 22, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Broad St., New York 4, N. Y.

BorN: March 10, 1907, Santa Barbara, Calif. pARENTs: Charles Henry Mills,
’95, Mary G. Fulton.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrigp: Helen S, Taber, Oct. 18, 1930, New Bedford, Mass. cuitp: Helen
Fulton, March 10, 1932.

occuPATION: Note broker.

MEMBER OF: Downtown Association; Harvard Club of New York; New
Bedford Yacht Club.

UPON graduation I went to work for my father’s firm of
Charles H. Mills & Company, note brokers and am now senior
partner. Although my work takes me to many cities, it is dif-
ficult to find time to visit with former classmates. The war years
were spent as a school teacher for the Navy at King’s Point, the
U. S. Merchant Marine Academy. I barely managed to keep one
lesson ahead of my pupils. However, I became the head of the
Naval Science Department, primarily because of a score of able
assistants. My summers have been spent at our home at Nonquitt
on Buzzard’s Bay —swimming, fishing, and sailing. The past
several winters I have been fortunate in being able to cruise
around Nassau and down in the Caribbean with my wife and
several friends. Our daughter has graduated from Vassar and
is planning an extended trip to Spain. Perhaps this will give
Helen and me an opportunity to visit Europe and to sail in the
Mediterranean.

[ 8:0]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS MARK MINTON

HOME AppREss: 45 Orchard Hill Rd., Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Henry L. Higginson School, Walnut Avenue, Roxbury 19,
Mass,

BoRN: Feb. 14, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: John Michael Minton, ’94, LLB.,
’96, Anna Isabel Madden.

PREPARED AI: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; A.M. (Boston Coll.), 1934.

MARRIED: Gertrude M, Halloran, July 28, 1934, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Thomas, Feb. 24, 1935, Carole, Jan. 13, 1938; Richard, 1945; Roger,
1946; Mark, 1951.

occuPATION: Teaching, submaster, Henry L. Higginson School.

OFFICES HELD: Former district chairman, Roxbury Boy Scouts.

MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus.

MY life has been rather uneventful, although a busy one. As the
vital statistics above reveal, we have been running a fair-sized
charitable institution, not quite so tax exempt as I wish it were.
We manage to get to Unity, Maine, for nine or ten weeks every
summer. All of you, save fellow-travellers, one worlders, mem-
bers of the A. D. A., professional educators and their ilk, will
receive a very cordial welcome if you are in the vicinity.

With the exception of a few public school systems, the paro-
chial and private schools, education today has undergone a com-
plete metamorphosis. Modernism, a euphemism for progressiv-
ism, is largely in favor today, but here and there are hopeful
signs of a rebellion. Two recent books, Educational Wastelands
and Sugar on the Slate, are well worth your attention if you are
concerned about your children’s education.

Regarding the present unfortunate situation at Harvard, I feel
very strongly that it never would have arisen under A. Lawrence
Lowell or if it had, would have been settled very quietly and
with utmost dispatch. I certainly hope that our new president
in the future will follow his fine example.

WILFRED SAUL MIRSKY

HOME appREss: 136 Hazelton St., Mattapan 26, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 92 State St., Boston 9, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 14, 1906, Pinsk, Poland. parents: Isracl Mirsky, Dora Lieberman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[81 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LL-B., 1933 (36).

marRIED: Ruth S. Lessler, June 14, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Mark Jay,
Aug. 11, 1939; Deanne, Dec, 26, 1942.

occupaTIon: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Representative, State Legislature of Massachusetts, 1948-52;
trustee, Metropolitan Transit Authority, 1953; appeal agent, Local Draft
Board, 1953; vice-chairman, 1952-53, counsel, 1953-54, Commission on
Establishment of Medical and Dental School in Commonwealth; direc-
tor, Temple Beth-El and Beth Hillel, Dorchester; financial secretary,
New England Region, American Jewish Congress.

MEMBER OF: Jewish Historical Society; Massachusetts Bar Association.

TIME: 3 A. M., December 23, 1954: Beth Israel Hospital.

Scene: This patient, now post-operative, has just received a jab

of penicillin, and couldn’t help remember a stirring ad-

_ dress at a Harvard Commencement by a man named Alexan-

der Fleming, its discoverer. To him every patient should be

thankful! Still wakeful, this patient, Wilfred S. Mirsky, has

decided this was a good chance to begin his biography, the

form for which his ever-conscientious wife had made sure

to leave on his night table as occupational therapy. And

so I take my pen in hand, and jot down the facts of past,
present, and future, to whomever it might concern:

My studies in economics at Harvard created an impression
within me that there would be enough consumer goods for my
needs during my lifetime. I was impervious to worry about de-
pressions, business cycles, or financial recessions. I left Cam-
bridge in 1929 for New York City, armed with quotations from
Adam Smith such as, “for every mouth there are two hands to
feed it,” and similar ones from Mill, Ricardo, Marshall, Taussig,
and Veblen. I had acquired all the formulas for criticizing the
works of the afore-mentioned philosophers and was expounding
the theory of the leisure class to anyone who cared to hear me.
I found the banking field in New York shut tight and entered
upon a business dealing in orchids and flowers. I don’t know
what Tim Clark’s in-laws — the Burrages— paid for producing
the orchids, but I know I was selling them for soc to 75c each,
and making a profit thereon! Some people in Westchester County

could still afford them at that price!
A Stoughton scholarship brought me back to Cambridge

{ 812]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

where I studied law. I worked at many jobs during those three
years, ranging from the Flower Exchange to teaching Hebrew,
from being a salesman to being a collector, in order to eke out
an honorable existence.

In 1934 I set myself up in the general practice of law at 1
Beacon Street, where “Beacon Street deigns to bend” according
to Santayana. Twenty years at the law is an interesting period.
I took Frankfurter literally: “If you want to make money, go
into business, but if you want to be of service primarily to the
community — stay in the law.” Like many of the lawyers, I
joined many community organizations and spent a great deal of
time representing a clientele who “lived on a shoe string.” Grati-
tude, however, was expressed by my community when they
elected me representative from Ward 14 to the State Legislature
in 1948. For two terms, four years in all, I entered upon a new
education that the legislative chamber under the gilded dome
of the State House affords a lawyer who is eager to immerse
himself in that mill of bills called the Massachusetts General
Court.

For the first time in the history of the Commonwealth, the
Democrats had captured the House of Representatives. History
repeated itself. Once again, “town began to fight gown.” In
that skirmish Harvard had in me, as chairman of the House Com-
mittee on Education, a staunch defender, who for four years
threw bills into the basket that aimed at driving Harvard Uni-
versity to Vermont! My son and daughter warned me not to
brag in writing my biography, but I must mention certain ac-
complishments dear to me in the field of education. I did have
a hand in strengthening our State University of Massachusetts
at Amherst, by notable additions such as the engineering school,
dining halls, and Commonwealth scholarships, as well as keeping
alive Boston Teachers College by having the state absorb it when
the city was ready to close its doors. I did help to get educa-
tional television started. I am glad to see that Lowell Institute
has the charter and will make it a reality.

I am naturally thankful to my legislative experience for the
opportunity to learn a great deal of statutory law in many fields
including constitutional law, labor law, municipal law, and so
on. I have gained the friendship, I know, of people statewide

[ 813 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

who have a hand in administering the laws. I now can fully ap-
preciate the true meaning of the principle, “a government of laws
and not of men.” I have returned to full-time private practice
of law in Boston. I truly miss the legislature and hope to return
if I win the nomination in September, 1954.

The past twenty-five years have added twenty-five pounds
to my girth, a wife and an eighteenth June wedding anniversary,
a son in the ninth grade at Boston Latin School who has shown
up his father in his declamation prowess, and a daughter fair,
bright, and merry —all worth millions—as well as a simple
little summer cottage in ye olde little village of Hull, where
members of the Class are at all times welcome.

FRANK MELVIN MITCHELL

HOME apprEss: 91 Murray Ave., Port Washington, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1740 Broadway, New York 19, N. Y.

BorN: May 12, 1907, West Somerville, Mass, pareNTs: Frank Marion Mitch-
ell, Susie Liberty Savage.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1930. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH, ENG. AND BUS. ADM,, 1930.

marrigp: Hazel FE. Duncan, Sept. 9, 1933, East Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Walter Duncan, Sept. 9, 1936; Dana W., April 13, 1939.

OccUPATION; Supervisor of property accounting, Sylvania Electric Products
Inc., manufacturers of lighting, radio, television, and electronic equip-
ment.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Sylvania Employees’ Association, Sylvania Em-
ployees’ Credit Union, membership secretary, Port Washington Yacht
Club, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Cost Accountants; Port Singers; Port
Washington Yacht Club.

THE roaring twenties had become a whisper by the time I grad-
uated in 1930, having enrolled with the Class of 1929 in the five-
year combined course in mechanical engineering and business
administration. Fortunately, during the summer of 1929, I had
worked in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at the F. S. Payne Com-
pany, which was busy making elevators and dumb waiters for
all of the new dormitories down by the Charles River and I
evidently impressed the president sufficiently so that he asked
me to return after graduation, which I did. However, business
began to fall off and finally on Valentine’s Day, 1931, I received

[ 814]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the proverbial pink slip, which set off a chain reaction of chang-
ing jobs on memorable dates that lasted for two years until I
married, First, I became cost estimator for marine fittings with
Walworth Company in South Boston on March qth, which, at
that time, was presidential inauguration day. Luckily, I missed
riding on the street car that plunged into Fort Point Channel
next to the South Station. The next New Yeatr’s Day, the valve
and fitting business was moved west. Then, I took a temporary
position as a junior accountant with Elliott, Davis & Company,
C.P.A., which I held until my birthday. For the next month I
performed some research work in the Engineering School until
I found another position as cost accountant with Compo Shoe
Machinery Corporation, which I started on June 17th, a holiday
in Massachusetts,

Finally, on the night of Hazel’s birthday, after we had visited
the minister who was to tie the knot, I received a call from Syl-
vania Electric Products, Inc., then Hygrade Sylvania Corpora-
tion, to take a position as cost accountant at Salem, Massachusetts.
After I had worked a week, we were married, toured Canada on
our honeymoon and then settled down. About a year later, I
transferred to the corporate accounting office and gradually
worked up to manager of accounting, along with being treasurer
of the Employees’ Association and the Employees’ Credit Union.
In 1946 I was elected secretary and controller of Wabash Cor-
poration, a newly organized, wholly-owned subsidiary located
on the banks of the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn, New York,
formed to manufacture photoflash lamps, “Sure Shots with Blue
Dots.” When that was dissolved and made a division of the
parent company, I transferred to the corporate tax department
and then a year ago became supervisor of property accounting.
Last fall ] rounded out my twentieth year with Sylvania, during
which time it has more than quadrupled in size to become one
of the leaders in the field of lighting, radio, television, and elec-
tronics.

During these busy years, in addition to raising two husky
boys, I did manage to find time to build a sailing dinghy and do
some winter racing in Marblehead Harbor, When we moved to
Port Washington, Long Island, New York, we brought the
dinghy along on the tailboard of the moving van and joined the

[815]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Port Washington Yacht Club, of which I have been membership
secretary since 1951. We found Manhasset Bay a little too
choppy for a boat with so little freeboard and so last summer
took it over the road again up to Lake Mattiwanakee at Forge
Village, Massachusetts, where we spend vacations.

We always seem to have music of some sort around our house
what with Hazel at the piano, Dana at the trombone, or me at
the accordion. In fact, we are known in the neighborhood as the
Musical Mitchells. I guess it all dates back to the time that
Scotty Burbank and I played the xylophones between the halves
of the Harvard-Dartmouth football game. Remember? Hazel
and I also belong to the Port Singers, a mixed choral group
founded by one of the members of the Robert Shaw Chorale. |
still play a pretty fair game of tennis, doubles that is! In my
spare time, I swing a hammer, a paint brush, and do a little
plumbing and electrical work along with the rest of the modern-
day home owners. Although we have lived in New York eight
years now, I still haven’t lost my New England accent.

KAY MIYAKAWA

HOME ADDRESS: 504 W. rroth St., New York 25, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Japanese Consulate General, 350 Fifth Ave. New York 1,

BORN: Dec. 1, 1907, Sacramento, Calif. paRENTs: Tsunesaburo Miyakawa,
Haruno Kawata,

PREPARED AT: Sacramento High School, Sacramento, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; LL.B. (Univ. of California),
1932.

MarrigD: Toyoko Kato, July 23, 1937, Okayama, Japan.

HARVARD BROTHER: June Richard Miyakawa, ’26.

OccUPATION: Japanese consul; foreign service of Japanese government.

MemBeR or: Harvard Club of Japan; Harvard Club of New York.

RIP VAN WINKLE returned to his little village after napping
for twenty years. He’s got nothing on me. In the fall of 1932
I left the shores of California for a short visit to Japan. Twenty
years later, in 1952, 1 returned to the United States. Unlike
Rip, I slept only about seven of the twenty years and worked
like hell trying to learn the Japanese language and make a living
in the Orient.

[ 816 J}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In January, 1934, I found myself in the icy plains of Man-
churia as a young and insignificant secretary of the Foreign Office
of the now defunct Manchoukuo Government. In 1937 I was
sold on taking a wife and we sat out the entire war in the Asiatic
Continent. After spending ten years in Manchuria chasing ban-
dits in the hills and helping to build up a paradise which unfor-
tunately turned out to be for the Communists to occupy, I was
transferred to the Manchoukuo Embassy in Nanking in the
spring of 1945." Then the roof fell in on August 15th of the
same year.

Most of the difficult post-war years were spent in Sendai in
northern Japan as a liaison officer of the Japanese Foreign Office
working along with the American forces. I have been assigned
to the Japanese Consulate General as a consul since August,
1952. But as photography and golf take up most of my time, I
find there is little left for desk work.

WALTER LUIS MOLINA

HOME ADDRESS: 202 Jamesville Rd., De Witt, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 224 Harrison St., Syracuse, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Manuel Octavio Molina, Zorah
Corinne Guckenberger.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Josephine Glover Foster, Sept. 27, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Gerry Foster, Nov. 15, 1942; Geoffrey Stratton, Sept. 29, 1945.

occuPATION: Manager, Syracuse branch office, Hartford Steam Boiler In-
spection and Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1952, president, 1953, Casualty and Surety Club of
Syracuse, president, De Witt Community Association, 1952-53; vice-
president, Advisory Committee, Central School District No. 11, De Witt,
1953-54; member, De Witt Cub Scout Pack Committee; upper New York
State representative, Class Reunion Committee.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club; Harvard Club of Syracuse; De
Witt School Advisory Committee; Casualty and Surety Club of Syra-
cuse,

IF some men claim to be masters of their fate they are surely in
the minority and I am not one of them. My business career
began in the year of graduation, over a bridge table at a summer
hotel where I was waiting for a reply to an application for a job

[ 817]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

with the Grace Company. I had sailed to South America in one
of their ships in 1927, and had an idea I should be good for Pan
American relations, But making a fourth at bridge, with the then
secretary of the company I’ve worked for ever since, changed
all that, with what loss to inter-American good-will to remain
unknown, I am afraid.

In the nearly twenty-five years with the Hartford Steam
Boiler (which insures only pressure vessels and machinery and
is the largest such insurer in the world), I’ve seen quite a bit of
this country. The first three years in the home office in Hartford
were followed by five in St. Louis as special agent. Back to Bos-
ton for five more, then to Cleveland for two, next to the west
coast as manager of the San Francisco branch office. In 1949 I
came back to the east, as manager of the newest branch, in Syra-
cuse, the heart of upper New York state’s fast growing industrial
region. .

There have been wonderful experiences all along the way.
The St. Louis years were full of the warm friendship of those
hospitable midwestern people. It was there that I went through
the Roosevelt bank closing, and I saw the city celebrate when
legal beer came back. Back in Boston in 1937, I found all of New
England trekking to the ski trails in the winter and promptly
joined the fun. It has been a major hobby ever since, one which
my wife and two boys also enjoy, I am happy to say.

It was also during this period that I stumbled, by accident, into
another growing neighborhood sport — the local Little Theatre.
The most important event of this involvement was, not playing
Caesar in modern dress, but the meeting of a charming girl and
talented portrait painter who was also the best scene designer in
the group. She eventually became my wife and has never, to my
knowledge, held my acting attempts against me.

We had been married only a short while when the Japanese
struck Pearl Harbor. In the spring of 1942, we went to Cleve-
land, where the burgeoning defense industries kept me, and many

others, in a state of working frenzy. Our first boy was born
there and we had the housing troubles which became standard
for couples with young children. In September, 1944, we started
the long drive to California. It was our first view of Denver, the
Berthoud Pass in gleaming October sunshine, and we’d have

[ 818 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been even more impressed if our little boy, not yet two and
perched on a weird collection of baggage in the back seat, hadn’t
had tummy trouble a good part of the way. As it was, we left a
trail of disposable diapers among the glories of the western moun-
tain scenery as far as Salt Lake City, or maybe even Reno.

Those next years were fascinating and exasperating, as anyone
knows who tried to hold office help on the Coast during the last
war years. We learned to love that gay city on the Golden Gate.
We saw it go on a mad debauch when the end of the war finally
came, and we saw the growing problems of the explosive popu-
lation growth — the floaters looking for easy money, the fantastic
inflation of prices and wages, the overcrowding of schools and
overnight appearance of new communities.

Our second boy was born there in 1945. We settled down into
a pretty quiet domestic life. My wife had no time for painting
and I had little for anything but work and commuting. We did
manage to see something of the marvelous California scenery, on
summer trips to Lake Tahoe, Lassen and Yosemite Parks, and along
the coast. And we even got in a skiing trip into the high Sierra
country at the Lodge of the Sierra Club in Donner Pass, where
the deep powder was a vastly different experience from the
typical stump-ice-rock base of our native New England terrain.

Now, back east since 1949, we are convinced that any place
is good to live in if you are busy enough. The boys are both
in school, both in Scouts, both love the outdoors winter and
summer, and both play the piano. Josephine, once more, is find-
ing time for palette and brush and is secretary of the Associated
Artists of Syracuse. We both are active in school and commu-
nity work. We play a little bridge with congenial friends, skate
and ski in the winter when we can, and spend as much summer
time as possible at the artists’ paradise, Rockport on Cape Ann.
It’s a busy life and, we hope, a useful one.

JOHN HERMAN MOLLER

HOME ApprEss: Parkside Road, Harrington Park, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 575 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 18, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Herman Thomas Moller,
Mary Eleanor Brady.

[ 819]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Hackensack High School, Hackensack, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

marrieD: Anne Mercedes Hart, June 19, 1937, New York, N. Y. cHmLpren:
Marilyn Anne, Oct. 11, 1940; John Hart, Aug. 11, 1942.

occuPATION: Partner, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane.

MEMBER OF: Hackensack Golf Club, Oradell, N. J.; Oritani Field Club,
Hackensack, N. J.

FIVE years ago—in the Twentieth Anniversary Report —]
wrote that I had been associated with Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Beane, underwriters and distributors of investment se-
curities and brokers in securities and commodities, through
eighteen character-building years. It is twenty-three years now,
and I am still with Merrill Lynch, but with one important differ-
ence —in i951 I was admitted to the firm as a partner and am
now resident partner and manager of our 575 Madison Avenue
(57th Street) New York office.

Five years ago I reported that in 1937 I had married Anne
Mercedes Hart of Englewood, New Jersey. This was the smart-
est thing I ever did. We are still married and — the good Lord
willin’ — always will be. I still think our daughter and son are
sometimes wonderful and the neighbors sometimes concur.

Now, as the slightly less frantic years beckon, and life becomes
a little more mellow, the enjoyment of good friends and simple
things becomes even more precious. I have never been happier
in my life. And I am still a very lucky guy.

ERNEST LAWRENCE MOLLOY

HOME appress: 418 El Arroyo Rd., Hillsborough, San Mateo, Calif.

OFFIcE appREss: Macy’s San Francisco, Stockton and O’Farrell Streets, San
Francisco, Calif.

Born: May 11, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Ernest Lane Molloy,
Gertrude Agnes Sprague.

PREPARED AT: Norwood High School, Norwood, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB., 1920.

MaRRiED: Julia Wall, Sept. 3, 1932, New York, N. Y. cumpren: Julianna,
July 20, 1933; Sheila, March 9, 1937; Molly, April 11, 7941; Michael,
Sept. 13, 1945.

occupation: Retailer, president, Macy's San Francisco,

orrices HELD: presently: director, Retail Dry Goods Association of San
Francisco, Downtown Association, Retailers Credit Association, San

{ 820]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Mateo City Heart Association, Little Children’s Aid; member Policy
Committee, San Francisco Retailers Council; member Board of Gover-
nors, Federated Employers of San Francisco, member Executive Com-
mittee, San Francisco Bay Area Council, Inc.; director, chairman, Legis-
lative Committee, California Retailers Association; member Labor-
Management Committee for Defense Manpower, Region XII; member
Citizens Committee, San Francisco College for Women.

MEMBER OF: Commonwealth Club; Peninsula Golf and Country Club; Har-
vard Clubs of New York and San Francisco; Rotary Club of San Fran-
cisco; Sierra Club; Varsity Club of Harvard University.

TWENTY-FIVE years is a lot of time to cover in a few lines,
even if I had the ability to turn out immortal prose, which de-
lusion, incidentally, was punctured back in 1925 after wrestling
with English A. Even trying to separate the important from the
trivial is a more difficult job than I seem to be able to accomplish.
Therefore, I am going to hit a few highlights in the trials and
tribulations of the Molloy family.

Immediately after graduation, I went to work for R. H. Macy
in New York. I went through the training squad with some fifty
other characters, and then started as a junior executive. Life
continued through the downs of the depression and the ups of
the pre-war to war years. In 1945 I was selected by my com-
pany to join the great western migration and to go West to San
Francisco to become vice-president of the new Macy store in
that city. This event began the most exciting, interesting, and en-
joyable part of my life. Needless to say, a family of dyed-in-the-
wool easterners left their home and their friends with mixed
feelings — but boy! Horace Greeley was right. In the summer
of 1952 I was made president of the store— and I am having
the time of my life.

My family is assorted in such a way that I can’t add to the
Harvard family for another several years, but I’m working on
Mike and I think he will make it. As you see, I have had sort of
a one-track mind — twenty-five years with the same company,
just in a rut I guess — but they have in retrospect been twenty-
five wonderful years. In this business, I can’t practicably look
forward to twenty-five more, but whatever years do remain,
please let them be as happy as the last twenty-five.

[ 821]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JOHN ANTHONY MONGAN

HOME AbpREsS: 7 Ave. Georges Bizet, Le Vesinet, France.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 151 Blvd., Haussmann, Paris VIII, France.

BORN: June 12, 1907, Somerville, Mass, PARENTS: Charles Edward Mongan,
M.D., 92, Elizabeth Theresa O’Brien.

PREPARED AT: Stone School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1934.

marrieD: LaVonia Lee Smith (Sewell), Sept. 26, 1946. cHiLp: Sharon Lee
Sewell, Dec. 7, 1935 (stepchild).

occupation: Foreign Division, American Radiator and Standard Sanitary
Corporation, manufacturers heating and plumbing supplies.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of France; Harvard
Business School Club of Paris; American Club of Paris; University Club
of Paris.

I WROTE at great length for the Vicennial Report, but as few
of you will want to refer back to that, I shall make a brief ré-
sumé. After graduation in June, 1929, I went out to the North-
west and to Alaska where I spent a season working with the
Salmon Fishing Fleet. At the close of the season I went south
to California, to Central America, and the northern part of South
America, working at different jobs.
Upon my return to Boston in the summer of 1930, the de-
pression was in full swing, and after I had found no position,
Buddy Brine who had been one of my roomates prevailed upon
me to work in his father’s business. As conditions had become
much worse by the summer of 1932, I left the Brines and went back
to the Graduate School of Business, from which I graduated in
June, 1934. After a short stint with the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation in the Boston agency I came to Europe with the
American Radiator and Standard Sanitary Corporation in its
Foreign Division. I remained here until June, 1940, when I
sailed from Genoa for New York the day before the Italians en-
tered the war. It took me almost a year to convince the Navy
that I should be called to active duty, but they took a dim view
of anyone returning from Europe at that period of the war. They
were convinced I was a fifth columnist, I was so enthusiastic
about being called to active duty.
I went on active duty in July, 1941, as a lieutenant (junior
grade). I was the U. 8. Naval Observer from September, 1941,

{ 822 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to September, 1943, at Georgetown, British Guiana, and then
after a period of special schooling for what I thought was to have
been duty with the amphibious forces in England, I was sent to
Washington where I became administrative officer in the Office
of the Director of Naval Intelligence, who was also assistant
chief of staff for combat intelligence in Cominch, and who at
that time was Admiral King. Later I had six months’ duty as
liaison officer from the Office of the Secretary of the Navy to
the Office of the Secretary of State, and then came to Europe as
assistant Naval Attaché, and assistant Naval Attaché for Naval
Air in the American Embassy in Paris. I returned to inactive
duty in June, 1946, with the rank of commander.

In September, 1946, I married one of the best friends of my
younger sister, Mrs. Robert Sewell, Jr., widow of Major Sewell
who was killed over Tokyo in a B-29 plane during a reconnais-
sance flight. We came to Europe again in November, 1946, and
were stationed in London for some time, then spent a year in
northern Italy, and finally came back to Paris. I am still with
the Foreign Division of American Standard, the world’s largest
manufacturers of heating and plumbing supplies. I am afraid
that I shall not be able to return for the June Reunion, but we
did have a wonderful visit on home leave this fall when we saw
the Dartmouth, Princeton, Brown, and Yale football games.
We had a wonderful time and saw many of our old classmates.
We are sorry to miss the party, but send our best to everyone.

EDWARD WARREN MOORE

HOME appress: 7 Mercer Circle, Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 223 Pierce Hall, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1906, Middleboro, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Everett Moore,
Theodora May Kinney.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. Sumtma cum laude, 1929; A-M., 1931.

MARRIED: Dorothea Katharine Rudolph, June, 1933, Meriden, Conn. (died
May 31, 1941); Anne Coolidge, Aug. 27, 1946, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Diane Elizabeth, June 11, 1935; Nicholas Coolidge, May 10,
1941 (adopted).

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of sanitary chemistry, Division of Applied
Science, Harvard University.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Sub-committee on Water Supply, National Research

[ 823 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Council, 1946-53; member Advisory Council to Health Commissioner,
Cambridge; president, Beta Chapter, Delta Omega (honorary public
health fraternity), 1948; member Parents Committee, Goucher College.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemical
Engineers; American Public Health Association, American Water Works
Association; Boston Society of Civil Engineers; Federation of Sewage
Works Associations; about a dozen other scientific and professsional
associations, Faculty Club, Harvard University.

PuBLICATIONS: About thirty technical papers in journals of above associa-
tions; several chapters or sections in others’ books, the most recent:
“Preventive Medicine and Hygiene,” K. F, Maxcy, ed., and “Industrial
Wastes: Their Disposal and Treatment,” W. Rudolphs, ed.

THIS is the biography of a Harvard man who never was able
to get out of the place. I had planned to be a chemist, and hav-
ing just barely made it through the A.B. — financially, that is —
was horrified to find that such a career required higher degrees.
So I went to work as a research assistant in what was then the
Department of Sanitary Engineering in the Harvard Engineering
School because they agreed to allow me to work for a higher
degree in chemistry at the same time that I earned a fairly good
salary for those days. I did get as far as the A.M. in chemistry,
but by that time the pull of the teaching profession was operat-
ing. The projected career in chemistry became one of trying
to hammer into a bunch of civil engineers the chemistry they
needed to become good sanitary engineers. I have been trying
to do this ever since in the same location, while the Engineering
School has passed through a number of metamorphoses to be-
come a Division of Applied Science under the Graduate School
of Arts and Sciences. |

Although Harvard’s name is not often associated with en-
gineering, over half the members of the sanitary engineering
profession who hold higher degrees got them here, and more
than half of the chief engineers of the Departments of Health
of the various states are Harvard products. Many of our gradu-
ates are prominent in foreign countries; some of them have in-
itiated departments of sanitary engineering in their own uni-
versities throughout the world.

I am also doing some teaching in the Harvard School of Public
Health, and until this July was sanitary inspector of the Uni-
versity, under the Hygiene Department. This meant that I was

[ 824 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

responsible for checking the dining halls, swimming pools, etc.,
and woe betide me when a student got a tummy ache. I have
been able to hand this one to a younger colleague after some
hectic but interesting years. Incidentally, I'll match the sanitary
standards of our dining halls against those of any food-serving
establishment in the country.

I married in 1933, acquired an attractive daughter in 1935, and
settled down to an uneventful career of teaching and research,
which was interrupted by two things: the sudden loss of my wife
in the spring of 1941, and Pearl Harbor. I was commissioned into
the Army in late 1942 to serve as a Sanitary Corps laboratory
chief and general trouble-shooter for the European theatre. In
general the military career was, I think, useful but unexciting.
One exception was an inspection trip to the Ardennes area, in-
advertently timed to coincide with the last German break-
through, I spent three days with another officer playing hide-
and-seek with von Runstedt’s boys. We were in a lone vehicle,
and Skorzeny’s crew of saboteurs and spies were supposed to be
dashing about similarly attired and equipped. Our greatest dan-
ger, therefore, was from our own nervous trigger-quick patrols.
Many a time I was thankful to have been a faithful comic-strip
reader: knowledge of esoteric details concerning Lil Abner,
Dagwood, and Orphan Annie was accepted where identifica-
tion cards were eyed with suspicion.

Returning in 1946, I met and married my second wife, Anne
Coolidge, in New York. It was not until too late that I learned
she was really a Proper Bostonian, and that I was just bringing
her back to her ancestral home. In 1949, deciding to adopt a
child, we acquired one Nikolaja Akula, an eight-year-old refugee
from Russian-occupied Latvia. His English vocabulary con-
sisted of one word, “okay.” We christened him Nicholas Cool-
idge, as a reasonable approximation of his original name, and
went to work on him. Anyone now hearing his fluent remarks
when his out-board motor fails to operate, or demanding right
of way in a sailing race would never believe him an imported
product.

My daughter has completed her freshman year at Goucher
College; she hasn’t yet decided whether she wants to be a chemist
or a housewife, but the betting is on the latter.

[ 825]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Politically I am one of today’s confused liberals, finding the
MacArthur-McCormick-McCarthy wing of the Republican party,
and the big-city-machine wing of the Democratic party about
equally repugnant. My voting record is so mixed I can’t even
justify it to myself. Lately [ve had a vague feeling —un-
doubtedly subversive —that it might be a good thing if the
Senate were reduced to a status similar to that of the British
House of Lords.

For vacations I hole up in our summer place in Cotuit on Cape
Cod, dividing the time between boating and bathing. and writing
the papers, books, and reports I can’t get written during the
academic year. Writing a thing like this is the hardest of all.

JAMES WINSTON MOORE

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Nonantum St., Brighton 35, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: 618 Washington St., Brighton 35, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1909, Malden, Mass. parents: James Albert Moore, Lillian
Pearle Dunham.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DFGREE: A.B. 1929.

marrigD: Marion Crosby Grout, Oct. 11, 1941, Hopkinton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Rebecca Ann, July 13, 1942; James Winston, Jr., Feb. 9, 1944; Richard
Edgar, Dec. 25, 1948.

occupation: Retail pharmacist.

MEMBER oF: American Pharmaceutical Association; National Federation of
Independent Business.

A FOND uncle recollects that he first saw me, an infant, in the
care of my father, lying in an improvised baby pen on my father’s
prescription counter. My mother was about some errand and I
was learning the business. None suspected at that time, that the
same counter would, forty-five years later, be my own work
bench.

In 1929 I had the great good fortune to find employment in
the recently established Personal Loan Department of the Na-
tional City Bank of New York. For three years 1 went about
learning the fundamentals of banking. In 1932, however, my
father’s failing eyesight compelled me to return to Boston to
enter the drug business, The temporary diversion proved per-
manent. I am still at ic, neither poorer, nor much richer. The

[ 826 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Memoirs of a Pill Roller, such as they are, will await some future
edition.

The best thing which has happened to me in the intervening
years has been my marriage and the subsequent arrival of our
three children, of whom we are inordinately proud. When in
the good old summertime we all climb into the Chevrolet and

head for Wellfleet, things really look up.

THOMAS GAUNT MOORE

HOME ADDRESS: 109 Laurel Hill Rd., Mountain Lakes, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 61 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1906, Westchester, Pa. paRENTS: George Thomas Moore, ’95,
Emma Lissa Hall.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; A.M., 1931; PH.D. 1936.

MaRRIED: Anne Andrew, May 11, 1929, Londonderry, N. H. CHILDREN:
Melissa, Jan. 10, 1938; Katherine Marquis, April 12, 1942; George
Thomas, July 3, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Manager, Geological and Exploration Department, The Ameri-
can Metal Company, Ltd.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director, Cobre Oil, Inc., since 1952, Southwest
Potash Corporation, since 1948; director, Chibuluma Mines, Limited,
since 1951, Rhodesian Selection Trust, Limited, since 1953, American
Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers; president, Mining Club,
Inc., New York City, 1951, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America (fellow); Society of Economic
Geologists; Mining & Metallurgical Society of America.

AFTER obtaining my Master’s degree, I went to work for the
Cerro de Pasco Copper Corporation as chief geologist. I spent
several years, 1931 to 1934, in Peru at the Morcocha Mines doing
exploration work for Cerro de Pasco. Although my work was
interesting, I did not relish the high altitude and isolation. In
1934 I returned to graduate school for one year, after which in
May of 1935 I came to work for the American Metal Company,
Limited. I have done exploration work in mines and actual re-
sources continuously to the present and my capacity as manager
of the Geological and Exploration Department is totally absorb-
ing and never Jacking in interest. I have travelled extensively
in most of the states in the United States, Canada, and the North-
west territories, South America, Mexico, Cuba, Africa, and so on.

[ 827 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
ALBERT HODGES MOREHEAD

k 19, N. Y.
Lar W, s7th St, New York 19,
DRESS! 177 aie rstone, Ga. PARENTS: Albert Hodges Moreheag,

“Ray lor School, Chattanooga, Tenn.
EGE! 192§-1927.

Claudon, Jan. 21, 1939» CHILDREN: Andrew Turner, Feb. ;
David, March 20, 1942. ,
“er; editor; publisher. a

ident, National Lexicographic Board, Ltd.. New York
mc, New York, since 1949; bridge editor, New Pork
. games editor, Encyclopaedia Britannica, si

3 s Since 1945;
idge World, Inc, 1933, Kem Plastic Playing Cards,
rehead, Frey & Whitman, Inc., 1938-43, John C
1946-48; president, 1943, chairman, board, 1944-45,
ridge League.

ntract Bridge League; Regency Club; Cavendish
ks, 350 magazine articles— among them: The
Oficial Rules of Card Games, 1945, Adultery,

1: 101 Favorite Hymns, 1953, 101 Best-Loved

Mott-Smith: Hoyle Up-to-date, Games For

chard L, Frey: Canasta, Samba, etc.; with

mes (British); editor: Simon @ Schuster

y, New American Dictionary, Modern

ulbertson bridge books,

al record I have written down
y the appearance of jumpines
ng to another, every year of
five years. But it is not 8
n with the same firms, the

a considerable varitty of

1, free-lance, The tell
pays me a salary But
the world, becaust #
ed to learn that ie y

e publishers  W" ¢

 nertods aver

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
New York Times, 1935, King Features Syndicate, 1934, fhig-
the Né aren't reduced too much by a couple of 1949's ike the
itannica and the New American Library. The
. amv

9 S ary 1s a
omer of sixteen years, but she is balanced by Bill Campbell,
enn whom I went to college (he is °27) neatly twenty-mne
wi —_

yen college 1 concentrated on the frivolous, bridge and poker,

Perhaps it is @ reaction, but my taste has tamed to the serous.

] ike making dictionaries, which is such an incredibly complen

‘ob that 1 can't imagine anybody in is Tight mind dome Ww, and

even someone in his wrong mind, like me, should have his head
examined, In a dictionary like the one we are just AMSG, DOW
chere are somewhat more than 200,000 positive Statements, CIETY
one of which must be correct. (They arent, of course, bor That
doesn’t alter the fact that they must be.)

Outside of living well, 1 do nothing but work. A sight te
ception may be that five mornings a week | appeat on WeTSOn,
as a member of the panel on a show called “i Boy Phat’ W's
my first experience with GLeAsepaAlNt and as such ery enoyande,

but we or at least \ shall probably be Hred off the ae belo this
1 ive very at eh s what L work for. Like to eat and dink,
Sol do. My house, selected after years of dtiing hack and Lorn,
between New York and somewhere in the counnry, s yedied
OM top of a building at the comer of gph Street and Levent
Avenue in New York, we can walk to anywhere in he Times
Square district, but we have a yard with ool thee beet Geag, MIR
Ues and a boxwood hedge, a \anmn, anh a fountain, “Tie YANes
pal drawback is that You cant shut off the fountain CAH,
hammering a cork into the spout, and you ger Awe Wong,
My lamily lite is 4 wood family ke, Ny wi AVL AWD
se My elder son, who's chitern (yar Khe est Ss OO
: Mal faling tls the gs he's Stee, ntgye NH HOE NTE
M4 . Ve Suen thet
' HY three year 200, ant Van gus Leet hou, Ae PIA,
V ' ‘ \
When Last say bm, ig as A OAH AD. THEA
IN (\ 1\ a \ ty Se aw \
} 8 ony eleven tut ways yy LAO AN

A toners an tag al
Yogether ant 19 anh en to hn, THON \\

\\y\

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

go in complying with the “religious convictions” part of the
instructions. But note that I didn’t say I go to listen to them. I
said I go and listen to them. There’s probably a difference.

EDWARD MORLEY

HOME AppREss: 54 School St., Manchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: District Court, Duncan Street, Gloucester, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1907, Manchester, Mass. parents: Austin Morley, Ellen Craven.

PREPARED AT: Story High School, Manchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LL.B., 1932.

marrieD: Alice Janet Danskin, June 25, 1936, Manchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Lucy Hayes, April 29, 1937; Alice Janet, Sept. 22, r9qo; Margaret
Louise, Aug. 12, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Morley, Li.B., ’27.

OCCUPATION: Justice, District Court of Eastern Essex, Gloucester, Mass.;
lawyer.

orFices HELD: Director, Manchester Trust Company, since 1935, North Shore
Harvard Club, since 1940, North Shore Children’s Friend Society, since
1951; member executive committee, Essex County Bar Association, since
1940; vice-president, Boston Committee on Alcoholism, since 1950;
member, since 1940, now chairman, Selective Service Board, Gloucester,

Mass.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Boston, Essex County, Salem, and Gloucester
Bar Associations, Manchester Harbor Boat Club; North Shore Horti-
cultural Society.

SINCE 1937 I have been justice of the District Court of Eastern
Essex at Gloucester, Massachusetts. In addition to my judicial
duties there I have been sitting in criminal sessions of the Superior
Court in the various counties of the Commonwealth under assign-
ment of Chief Justice Higgins of the Massachusetts Superior
Court. In 1949 I was appointed to the Appellate Division of the
District Courts by Chief Justice Qua of the Supreme Judicial
Court. I have also been engaged in the general practice of law.

I am especially interested in the problems of children in the
courts. Through the years I have lectured on the subject at
service clubs and civic organizations and have participated in
various conferences throughout New England. I have also been
interested in the problem of alcoholism —although neither a
teetotaler nor an alcoholic.

I gave up golf some years ago and now do too little in the field

[ 830 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of recreation. There just doesn’t seem to be any time for it.
However, in the summer I get away with my family for a trip.
We have covered twenty-four states and three Canadian prov-
inces. My chief complaint is that I have tried to do too many
things and always seem to be enmeshed in a lot of detail. If I had
it all to do over —and I don’t expect to—I’d make a lot of
changes.

ALAN MORRILL

HOME ADDRESS: 2711 Henry Hudson Pkwy., Riverdale 63, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 25 Beaver St., New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: March 13, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Israel E. Abramson, Eva
Morrill,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRiED: Dorothy Henkin, Sept. 4, 1932, New York, N. Y. cyto: Carma
Jean, Aug. 9, 1946.

OccUPATION: Eastern sales manager, Fearn Foods, Inc., food specialties
manufacturer.

I HAVE tried to think why I have delayed so long in complying
with the increasingly urgent requests to complete and send in
my mite of the Anniversary Report. No convincing answer came
forth. I turned the problem around. I asked myself, why should
I write it? As a former advertising man, there was some force
in the argument that the space rates for self-advertisement were
right. But that in itself didn’t seem enough. Suddenly, I knew
why I should write it— for a hypothetical Classmate X.

For, you see, it is just possible in a class as large as ours that
one sleepless ’29er tossing on his insomniac’s bed with his thoughts
in a hectic whirl might ask himself, “What ever happened to
Abraham Isaac Morrill Abramson?” You know, he just might
ask himself that. Well, he might! As when the whirlpool spins
and spins around in its vortex and at length ejects the lightest,
most inconsequential bit of flotsam to the surface, so does the
sleepless, tortured mind heave up its least weighty query. The an-
swer is simple. He became Alan Morrill. All you others who
just came along for the ride may get off here. What follows is
for Classmate X alone.

[ 831]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I spent the first ten years after College in the theatre. “Spent”
is a good word for it. I earned very little. I acted, I directed, I
produced a play on Broadway in 1932; I wrote a few things for
radio and a few unproduced plays; I sold a few short stories to
a few highly unimportant magazines; I dubbed English dialogue
in foreign films. In short, I did everything in the theatre but
make money at it. I took a number of holidays away from this
miscalled profession in an attempt to make a living. Among
other things, I sold chamois for a leather house and I was assistant
executive secretary of a trade association during the N.R.A. era.
I finally gave up the theatre.

Recently, I saw some statistics which startled me, even though
my memory of those depression years on Broadway is still green
— around the gills. During the years I was in College and think-
ing about the theatre an average of about 230 plays a year were
produced on Broadway. During the years I was trying to get
work in it an average of only 32 plays a year were staged. Yet,
Classmate X, you will say that some were successful at it. More
credit to them. For talent alone was not enough.

In 1941 I entered the advertising business in New York. I
was director of merchandising and account executive of an
agency specializing in transportation advertising —car cards
and station posters. Among the accounts I worked on were
Calvert Distillers and Look magazine. After eight years in ad-
vertising my health broke down and we gave up each other.
Since then I returned to New England as sales representative of
a manufacturer of food specialties for the hotel and institutional
trade. It’s a living. It’s a healthy job. I’m relaxed and I’m happy.

The reason for this happiness arises, however, largely from
my personal life. I have been very happily married for twenty-

one years to a charming, attractive, intelligent redhead. We
have a charming, attractive, intelligent, and even talented red-
haired daughter of seven. Like most men who have had a num-
_ ber of serious illnesses, I am not a joiner. My interest in the arts
is still professional so I have no hobbies. What a bore, X thinks.
Not at all. Rather a sociable, articulate, and pleasant sort of guy.
P.S. Written three months later: The dynamics of our individual
lives never seen to conform to the esthetics of history. Moreover,
an autobiography isn’t likely to be definitive unless you wait until

[ 832]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

it is almost too late. Last November, writing my “Life,” I put
myself out on a drowsy philosophical limb complete with pipe,
slippers, and a good book. It was easy to scramble off on all fours
with the slippers between my teeth. The pipe I had thrown away
fifteen years before and the book was only a paper-cover edition
anyway. .

If our Report Chairman was able to change the masthead on
this thing you probably know already most of what I have to say.
I was appointed Eastern Sales Manager of my company, Fearn
Foods, Inc., of Franklin Park, Illinois, the first of the year. I have
an office at 25 Beaver Street in New York and manage, if that is
the word, thirteen states served by eleven sales representatives.
We have an apartment in Riverdale, that Palisade bit of West-
chester irredenta, facing Henry Hudson Memorial Park and his
river. If you’re ever in the neighborhood come up and see us
before you drop in. Betcha we talk you out of it.

GEORGE HENRY MORRIS

HOME AND OFFICE ADpREsS: 7 Ashford Terr., Allston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1884, Boston, Mass. PARENTs: James E. Morris, Hanna
Coughlin.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; English High School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.A., 1929; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1931.

MaRRIED: Marion F. Taylor, Sept. 2, 1908, Boston, Mass. cHmpREN: Marion E,,
Jan. 7, 1910; Lawrence H., Nov. 13, 1912; John R,, Dec. 3, 1914.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, 1931-32; Dickens Fellowship, Boston,
1943-44; five Gilbert and Sullivan operetta groups.

PUBLICATIONS: Dozen poems in Boston Post.

AFTER graduating from Harvard I meandered to Boston Uni-
versity to engage in graduate work and research in Greek litera-
ture for which they graciously slipped me an A.M. Later I
started on the road to a Ph.D. but did not complete the units.

I worked for some years in the municipal government, Boston.
Then one fine day, out of a clear sky, it happened. Four of us
were riding in a city truck, when out of a side street a car tore
into our truck turning it over on its side and catapulting all four
of us onto the sidewalk — out like a light! They told us after-

[ 833 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

wards that the crash drew quite a crowd. We woke up in a hos-
ital. Then followed a disability pension.

My wife graduated from Burdett Business College and was a
private secretary in a down-town business firm. Both boys were
in the service during the second World War. Larry, the elder, is
still in the Marines, a “top kick” and now in Korea; John, the
younger, was in the Air Force. He developed a throat ailment
and a very serious operation resulted in total disability. Marion
was employed for years in the office of Houghton Mifflin Pub-
lishing Company, Cambridge.

I have always wanted to travel but never did as much as I wanted
to do. However, my wife and I did manage to visit lovely Ber-
muda in 1937. We fell in love with that beautiful Paradise and
hated to leave it. We have since been told that such is the usual
impression Bermuda leaves with everybody. We still hope to see
England, France, and Switzerland, and possibly Germany some
day.

Hobbies: my chief interest is reading. This includes almost
everything, even to re-reading Robin Hood, Tom Brown’s School
Days, Henty’s books, Jules Verne’s stories, and the work of such
rarely seen authors as G. M. Fenn, Collingwood, Pickering, and of
course the immortal Dickens. Another very active hobby is Gil-
bert and Sullivan. The five groups to which I belong usually put
on one big show yearly, but one, the Beacon Light Opera Com-
pany (B.L.O.C.) of Boston, operates from October to June some
years, so I am kept pretty busy. Then, too, we are generally given
a party after the last night of each show. It is a lot of fun. They
say that once you get into G & S it is hard to leave; for me it seems
impossible.

During the last war I worked for a tool concern, for the gov-
ernment. Associated with me were two very outstanding Harvard
men: George Owen, All American football star, and Charley
Mason, ’30, famous oarsman. How could work be hard with two
such luminaries at one’s side!

In politics I string along with the Democratic Party, to certain
members of which I owe a great deal. After all perhaps one should
praise the bridge that carries him over.

[ 834 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HANNA MORRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 81 Oak Drive, Pleasantville, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 247 Park Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 12, 1907, Boston, Mass. paRENTs: Charles Hyndman Morris, ’99,
Elizabeth Margaret Hanna.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).

MARRIED: Louise Edwards, Nov. 12, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: John
Hanna, Jr., May 16, 1939; Mark R., July 11, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Hyndman Morris, Jr., 32; William Morris, '34;
Richard Irving Morris, ’44.

occuPATION: Account executive, Kelly Nason, Inc. advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Sixth deputy police commissioner, City of New York, 1937-46,
president, Police Athletic League, 1937-42; commandant, Air Warden
Service, City of New York, 1941-42; member Board of Directors, Catho-
lic Youth Organization, Archdiocese of New York, since 1934, Police
Athletic League of New York, 1937-50; member Board of Managers,
Lincoln Hall, since 1950; member board, Richard Hudnut Memorial
Foundation, since 1939.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Legion; Reserve Officers
Association, Military Order of Foreign Wars. .

ALL the details of my twenty years since 1929 were adequately
covered in the Vicennial Report. Since that time one or two un-
eventful happenings have bothered us a bit. I was recalled to
active duty with the Army in September, 1951, and served twenty-
one months in the so-called Korean “police action.” ‘This, of
course, meant pulling the kids out of school, breaking up home
and business ties, and touring the country at “no expense to the
government.” We lived in five different communities in one
period of eight months. During this tour I saw service in Ala-
bama, North Carolina, and Texas with the 301st Logistical Com-
mand — a new type of unit. Fortunately for me no one seemed
to know just what to do with it, so I spent my time on maneuvers
in this country.

Since my return to civilian life ’'ve become a commuter and
now, after over twenty years as a confirmed Manhattanite, live
in Pleasantville, and so far seem to enjoy it. Back in the adver-
tising game, I’ve been trying to pick up the pieces and get things
going again.

[ 835 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

STEWART PATTERSON MORROW

HOME ADDRESS: 2479 Madison Rd., Apt. 45, Cincinnati 8, Ohio,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cleveland Automatic Machine Co., 4932 Beech St., Norwood,
Cincinnati 12, Ohio.

porn: April ro, 1906, Hillsboro, Ohio. parents: Hugh Patton Morrow,
Blanche Dean Patterson.

PREPARED AT: Hillsboro High School, Hillsboro, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928,

MARRIED: Elizabeth Dougherty, June 4, 1932, St. Louis, Mo.

occupaTion: Manufacturing.

LOVETT MORSE

HOME ADDRESS: 209 Meadowbrook Rd., Weston 93, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 68 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass. .

BORN: May 20, 1907, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: John Lovett Morse, ’87, Adelaide
May Fairbrother.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 19293 M.B.A. 72agna
cum laude, 1931.

MarrieD: Clarissa Gregory Donham, May 20, 1932, Framingham Center,
Mass. cumpren: Elizabeth Ann, Dec. 25, 1935; Joan, Nov. 30, 1937;
Ellen, Nov. 23, 1939.

occupation: Account supervisor, investment counsel.

MEMBER OF: Weston Golf Club; Flycasters, Boston Society of Security
Analysts.

FOLLOWING an intense interest in investment problems, I have
been associated with William H. Coburn & Company, investment
counsel, since my graduation from the Harvard Business School
in 1931. Duties as executor and trustee seem to have caused peri-
odic humps in a calm and peaceful business existence.

Three attractive teen-age daughters (possibly I’m prejudiced)
provide a home life that is never dull. They keep and have kept
me and particularly my wife busy over the years. My liking to
work about my place in Weston seems to allow no time for golf
or tennis and I seem to be a jack-of-all-trades on weekends.

Never much of a traveller, my only extended excursion was
strictly at government expense and I wound up at Niirnberg, Ger-
many, with the 834th Engineer Aviation Battalion building air-
strips, and being known as “Pop.”

[ 836 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I voted for a winning presidential candidate only once — 1952.
I do go to church more or less and might be called a humanistic
Unitarian.

Both my wife and I are ardent fishermen. I need say no more.
We have about covered New England, tried Newfoundland, and
finally settled down at Burnt Hill on the Miramichi River in New
Brunswick, fishing for fresh-run Atlantic salmon.

ROBERT McNEIL MORSE

HOME ApprEss: Orchard Street, Millis, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Comtor Co., Waltham 54, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 19, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Gorham Morse, ’96,
Marion Child,

PBEPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MaRRIED: Jane Balis, May 29, 1937, Philadelphia, Pa. cumpren: Robert G.,
2d, May 29, 1942; Daniel O., July 17, 1944; Jane M., May 3, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Hunnewell, ’33, MBA. '35.

OCCUPATION: President and general manager, The Comtor Company, manu-
facturers of precision gauging instruments.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Waltham Chamber of Commerce, 1954.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Society of Tool Engineers;
American Society for Quality Control.

SEVERAL years after leaving College were spent in groping. I
had a vague idea of getting into commercial aviation, which I
approached from the unpromising angle of peddling a statistical
and news service on aviation “investments.” I cleaned up fifty
bucks in about three months of this. The stock market crash
found me in a tent on the dunes at Wellfleet, Massachusetts, at-
tending a school for gliding and soaring (motorless flying, that
is) which proceeded lingeringly but utterly to collapse. Net
result was about fifteen minutes total flying time for me, one
crashed plane, and the fun of rebuilding ic—end of aviation
career.

Early in 1930 I joined a small firm of investment counsellors
in Boston and in about two years was moved to Philadelphia by
the merger of this firm with another. I stayed on for about three
years more while it gradually dawned on me that I would never
be an investment counsellor. The Philadelphia period was made

[ 837]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

notable by the fact that I met and became engaged to Jane Balis,
Financial considerations postponed our marriage until 1937.

In 1935 I finally got settled in a satisfactory line of work
which I am still following. My father had recently acquired a
very small and very sick manufacturing business which he did
not have the time to care for. The chance was offered for me
to take this over, and I grabbed it. Several years of really hard
scratching were needed to get things rolling, but by the time
World War II came along we were ready to meet the heavy
demand for our product (precision measuring instruments) that
rapidly developed, and since then we have hardly had time to
draw a good breath. My brother joined me in the management
in 1946 and the business has kept us both fully occupied and rea-
sonably prosperous.

I was finally able to claim my patient bride on May 29, 1937,
and she has continued to bear with me patiently. We settled in
South Natick, Massachusetts, and in 1942 moved out to Millis
where we own an ancient house, slowly crumbling around us,
but we like it. Our family consists of two boys, nine and eleven,
and a little girl going on five, together with two dogs, a cat, and
Rita Hayworth (a donkey). General activities: about what you
would expect with such a set-up.

I dabble in local good causes, Red Cross, Community Fund,
etc., and take an interest in town affairs (at present serving on a
committee to build a new elementary school), but do not let any
of these activities interfere with fishing. Other hobbies are wood-
working, model railroading, listening to music (fairly long hair
variety). Health: good. Attitude: optimistic. Inclinations: lazy.
Politics: Republican with slight liberal tinge (Ike suits me fine).
Convictions: Fewer and weaker as time goes on.

THOMAS DAVIS MUMFORD

HOME appress: Chester, N. J.

OFFICE Appress: Charge-by-Check, Inc, Chester, N. J.

BorN: April 21, 1907, Puerto Rico, parents: Philip Gurdon Mumford, ’96,
Carmen Atocha Davis.

PREPARED aT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929(30); LL.B. (Fordham Univ.),
1940.

[ 838 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrigepD: Hilda V-S. Thomas, June 8, 1935, Baltimore, Md. cHitoren: Philip
Gurdon, 2d, May 10, 1937; Maria H., Jan. 15, 1941; Katharine T. D.,
Feb. 3, 1942; Thomas T., May 7, 1947.

OccUPATION: Finance, president, Charge-by-Check, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Union Club; Rockaway Hunting Club; Downtown Associa-
tion, Harvard Club of New York; St. Nicholas Society, Controllers
Institute, 1940-52; others.

AFTER eight years through the depression with Bankers Trust
Company in Wall Street, I entered the manufacturing field in
1937 with American Machine and Metals, Inc., studying law at
the same time.

The early war years were spent in Moline, Illinois, wrestling
with the current problems of meeting ever higher production
quotas with insufficient men, money, and materials. Eighteen
months in the Marine Corps — six months in the South Pacific
and China — gave an opportunity to see products of such fac-
tories rise in ever preater stock piles in the farthest corners of the
earth. The strongest war impression was of the strength of our
nation and of its beauty, and of the pride which came from be-
ing a part of it.

The company’s business brought me back to the east coast at
the end of the war, and we settled in the rolling woods and fields
of midwestern New Jersey, first in Far Hills and now in Chester.
The commuting time is long, but the compensation lies in having
a spacious rambling house with a brook in the front garden, a
rocky tumbling river behind the barn, and herds of deer in the
woods, all of which offset the tensions and the hurly-burly of the
working day. For some sixteen months, 1951-53, I went to gov-
ernment service in Washington, and now for the last twelve
months have spent full time working with banks, engaged in the
centralized charge account field. This involves considerable trav-
elling — no great pleasure — and I find that weekends are spent
most happily with the children and at home.

GUY MURCHIE, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADpREss: Apple Hill, East Sullivan, N. H.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Guy Murchie, ‘95, Agnes Donald.
PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

[ 839 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

mMarRiED: Eleanor Forrester Parker (Cushman), March 6, 1932 (divorced,
1939); Barbara Schenk Cooney, Dec. 23, 1942, Des Moines, Iowa (di-
vorced, 1947); Kathe Luise Rautenstrauch, Jan. 17, 1949, Nashua, N. H.
CHILDREN: Gretel, Dec. 16, 1943; Barnaby, April 6, 1946; Jed, May 7,
1952 (died April 23, 1953). .

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Murchie, ’28 (deceased).

occuPATION: Owner, director, children’s camp; writer.

OFFICES HELD: Feature writer, 1934-40, war correspondent, 1940-42, Chicago
Tribune; flight instructor in navigation, American Airlines Navigation
School, Chicago, 1942-43; flight navigator, American Airlines, Air
Transport Command, 1943-44, Transocean Airlines, 1948, Seaboard &
Western Airlines, 1951~52; director, Apple Hill Camp, since 1945; chair-
man, Salvation Army Service Committee, Pepperell, Mass. 1946-47;
teacher, Landhaven School, Camden, Maine, 1949.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Navigation; American Camping Association; Baha'i
World Faith.

puBLICATIONS: Men on the Horizon, Houghton Mifflin Co., Jonathan Cape
Ltd. (London), 1932; Soldiers of Darkness, Doubleday Doran, 1936;
Mutiny of the Bounty (non-fiction), Consolidated Book publishers,
1937; numerous newspaper articles, few illustrations, photographs.

SOMEHOW I never saw the diploma I’m told I earned at Har-
vard a quarter-century ago. On Commencement day in June,
1929, I was already on the Pacific Ocean out for some first-hand
experience working my way around the world. Before I got back
I had drifted a thousand miles down the Yukon in a rowboat,
worked briefly as an AB seaman, longshoreman, gold miner, night
watchman; had stowed away out of Alaska, lived in a Japanese
family, and crossed Siberia in the dead of winter to reach Europe.
I had been arrested only three times, including once by the secret
police in Siberia, but had had enough adventure to write a book
and stimulate my curiosity about the world —the most durable
dose of education I think I ever got. How I wished afterward
that I could have had an equivalent experience of facing the world
on its own terms before going to Harvard, so that I would have
devoured more opportunities there, slept through fewer classes,
and realized slightly better what it was all about.

I had had a vague idea in college I might become a doctor, but
whether I'd be the kind of doc who delivers lectures, sermons, or
babies I never could quite decide. Writing at least was an art that
should be useful no matter where life led me, I thought, so I
easily deferred judgment during the years of the “great depres-
sion.” Besides, didn’t 1 have a very stimulating teacher in the

[ 840 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

charming mother of our classmate, Allerton Cushman (q.v.)?
When my book came out in the grim spring of 1932 and I re-
ceived a check for $600 from Houghton Mifflin Company, I felt
rich and confident enough to marry her, and even hired a secretary
on the side (male secretary, that is), settling down in the glorious
hope of turning out one best seller after another.

The $600 lasted several months, but the marriage proved
immeasurably more satisfying. It was an unusual one of course,
the bride being more than twice my age, but, as I remember we
once explained it, “what’s a couple of decades between friends?”
Eleanor was indeed as young in spirit as she was creative in mind
and helped me in every way she could as long as she thought her
age had not become a hindrance. We lived our honeymoon years
variously in her aunt’s abandoned Massachusetts farmhouse, with
her eighty-year-old father (a retired major general) in Rhode
Island, and in a New York rooming house whose roof had been
burnt off in a fire (belatedly explaining the low rent).

Jobs being not easy to get in the East, I decided presently to
“go west young man” — venturing forth by bus in March, 1934,
trying my luck in newspaper offices in Cleveland, Chicago . .
and excitedly accepting my first offer: “feature writer” ($50 a
week) on the Chicago Tribune, the “world’s greatest newspaper”
(a title that seemed entirely reasonable at the time). Even though
I started near the bottom (an early assignment: to write up the
“world’s biggest sewage system”), I had a by-line, a liberal ex-
pense account, and what seemed a glamorous life, dining daily
with celebrities, investigating every side of life I could persuade
Colonel McCormick should be put into print. During the next
six years I travelled in all forty-eight states and in much of Mexico
and Canada, learned to fly, ran a boomerang business on the side
(slogan: “Many Happy Returns”), and two of my assigned fea-
ture series came out as books.

I also got an assignment one day to write up an interesting new
religion called the Baha’i World Faith — which appealed to me so
strongly that I have been an adherent ever since. Far from being

unsympathetic with other religions, the Baha’i creed, I discovered,
features the principle of unity and teaches the oneness of man-
kind and of all the great past religious teachers, who came “not
to destroy but to fulfill” each other. It upholds the independent

[ 841 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Sometimes in winter we take on special jobs, like teaching school
or flying. Example: I flew the airlift from San Francisco to
‘Tokyo for six months in 1951-1952, navigating for Seaboard &
Western Airlines under army contract, which also helped me get
on with my book about the sky (long overdue but at last sched-
uled to be published by Houghton Mifflin in October, 1954).
Its probable title is Song of the Sky.

Meantime Kathe and I really get a kick out of seeing our Negro
and Chinese camp kids each summer (sometimes a few in winter),
our Armenians, Persians, Argentines, Czechs, Russians, French,
and Indians playing happily together and not even knowing they
are considered different by most people in the outside world. We
try to teach them the large view of the world, to be citizens of
something more than nations, to know the meaning of sportsman-
ship and basic courtesy. We feel there is need for unity on earth
today, that all men are literally (as genetics teaches us) as closely
related as fiftieth cousins though many have not realized it, that
two brothers can be as different in race as were their two parents,
that God’s world is more mysterious and much more drastic than
people think.

In the past five months I have lost a son and a sister in deaths
that from the earth view seem tragic, and in my time have felt
something of the pitiful humbleness of man amid the unknowable
majesty of the sky and what’s beyond it. What Kathe and I will
be doing next year or the year after 1 don’t know, but we sure
prefer the sunlight to the limelight and, seriously speaking, we
think the former is probably a little better for seeing one’s way
ahead in this soul school that is life on earth.

KERMIT MURDOCK

HOME ADDRESS: 110-20 71st Ave., Forest Hills 75, N. Y.

BORN: March 20, 1908, Wilkinsburg, Pa. parents: Franklin Carroll Murdock,
Ella Anna Rothleder,

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris Hall High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Actor (free-lance).

orrices HELD: Member first State Executive Committee, Liberal Party of the
State of New York, 1944-45; first vice-chairman, Liberal Party of

[ 844 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Queens County, N. Y., 1944-45; president, chairman of board, “New
Stages, Inc.,” 1948-50.

MEMBER OF: Actors’ Equity Association, Screen Actors Guild, American
Federation of Television and Radio Artists.

THINKING of Harvard now, I see that 1 am very far away
from where I thought I'd be when I thought about it then —
9,000 days ago when we were graduated. Good heavens! I’m
an actor, have been for almost this quarter century. Now I never
expected to be an actor. When I was turned down for a part in
“The Taming of the Shrew” back in our sophomore year, I
thought the boys in the HDC showed good judgment. I never
burdened them again with one of my stumbling readings. Yet
it has happened that I have been paid for twenty-three years to
burden the public. |

This will not be the only autobiographical note in this book
of the difference between life and the dream of life. But sitting
down now to the task of looking back, I can’t help wondering
how it was that I got where I wasn’t going. Well, of course, I
accepted what came my way — not docilely, not even contentedly
at first. There was sometimes heartache in it. There were times
when I wanted to be — more, and to do more, and to do some-
thing other. Early dreams stayed late. It took me at least the
first ten years to understand I do what I want to do and it is
worth doing. Perhaps the contentment that came then was all
the more enjoyable for being the reward of battle.

When we were seniors and had to begin thinking of what we'd
do next — as late as the spring of that year I accepted an invita-
tion printed in the program of the Boston Repertory Theatre to
meet a guide under the left-hand box at the end of the perform-
ance and go ona tour backstage. I’d never been on a stage before.
A few days later I applied to Professor Baker for admission to
the Department of Drama at Yale. For two years I studied
theatrical production at Yale. Acting was the one part of produc-
tion which was not included in the curriculum. The faculty had
decided that while postgraduate study might properly be spent
on the sewing of costumes and the nailing together of flats,
there’d be none of that acting nonsense. They were moved by
the old-folk notions about poor, and doubtless disreputable,
players. So they had set up the most modern and most complete

[ 845 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

theatre — as it were — with nobody in it. Of course they pre-
sented plays. And plays are interpreted by actors. Of necessity
the students were encouraged to act, as long as nobody told them
how to do it. That way, if any of them became vagabonds, the
faculty couldn’t be blamed.

They asked me if I would act and I said “No.” But I didn’t
stay long on the side of the angels. One of the boys in our second
play got a job playing the sax in a local band. It would help him
pay for his studies, so he took it, leaving a large hole in the cast
which could only be filled if I would make a sacrifice. I did,
had a certain amount of success, and played in almost everything
else they did for two years.

Back in New York, I worked in a theatrical office for some
months. ‘Then some young men decided to produce that first play
from Yale at the Provincetown Playhouse, that remodelled barn
in Greenwich Village which is our most important surviving
theatre. I’m rather pleased that I made my professional debut
there, even if it had already slipped from its eminence by 1931.
I was now, in the midst of the depression, a member of a labor
union, the Actors’ Equity Association, the first of the professional
unions and the model for many others. As a unionist in a troubled
time, I made the logical progression from my own concerns to
concern for the needs of others and on to political action. In
1932 I cast the first of my four votes for Franklin Delano Roose-
. velt. A little later I did more than vote; I got others to vote.
Finally in 1944 I was one of the four hundred New Yorkers who
established the Liberal Party in this state. I remained active as an
officer and then a member in that party until the pressure of my
work in broadcasting took me out. But I still get steamed up at
campaign time.

In 1938 my hobby, the collecting of historical recordings,
brought me in front of a microphone. I served as commentator
for a program of rare records in the collection of Stephen Fassett
which was broadcast from WOXR in New York. That experi-
ence in a radio studio got me to thinking of acting in radio. In
May, 1939, 1 made my debut in a dramatization of a news story,
impersonating Billy Rose, a man whom I still have not met, have
not seen, and have not heard. But it must have been a very ac-

curate impersonation. I’ve been in radio ever since. There is no

[ 846 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

need to say much about radio, though it has been my principal
work. I’ve appeared at one time or another on virtually every
major program originating in New York. Radio seems to be
coming to an end now, at least as far as dramatic programs are
concerned. I can testify that it provided in its heyday a happy
and exciting life with the wittiest and kindliest bunch of people
to be met with in this world. Television is a better medium for dra-
matic broadcasts, if only because the eye is quicker than the ear.
But it is too new for me to say I belong to it. P’'ve done about two
hundred programs, but even that is only a beginning.

I must add a word about another activity of the past fifteen
years which is close to my heart—an example of the kind of
extra that comes to an actor and makes a dull day bright. I
am a reader for the Talking Book at the American Foundation
for the Blind. I read books onto records which are distributed
by the Library of Congress to blind people — all kinds of books,
James Thurber and Albert Schweitzer, Roosevelt and Hopkins,
and the other day a catalogue of phonograph records. To my
classmates who have heard me (you have all doubtless been ex-
posed to the sound of my voice, but you may not all have been
listening), I can only say I hope you were entertained. That was
my intention.

ATHOL MACDONALD MURPHY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield,
Mass. .

BORN: March 16, 1908, Haileyburg, Ont., Canada. parents: Matthew Joseph
Murphy, Marie Florence Macdonald.

PREPARED AT: Punchard High School, Andover, Mass.; St. Leo’s Academy,
Montreal, P. Q., Canada.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925—1928, 1030-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(31).

marrigep: Margaret Roberta Hill, Sept. 2, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Janet Stuart, Sept. 4, 1944; Barbara Hill, Dec. 29, 1947; Stephen Mac-
donald William, Jan. 13, 1951.

occupaTIoN: English teacher.

OFFICES HELD: President, Private School Athletic Council, 1946-48; trustee,
North Shore Adult Education Foundation, member Guide Committee,
U. S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; English Lunch Club.

[ 847 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

THE annals of a schoolmaster in a boarding school for boys are
of necessity simple, and they should be brief. A cluster of well
written books has recently explored the fascinations and limita-
tions of the profession far better than I can do here; but I must
attest that for me the satisfactions have far exceeded the limita-
tions. After all, there are few manufacturing processes in which
the raw material is active but unformed human beings. One of
the limitations, of course, is that it takes years to test the worth of
the finished product.

I came to Governor Dummer after finishing work at Harvard
at mid-years in 1931. The school was then in the process of com-
plete reorganization. It has been at once my pleasure and privi-
lege to watch it grow from a student body of seventy-five to one
of 21 5, to see the physical plant develop beyond the most sanguine
hopes of 1931, and to share in the work with an unusually fine
group of confreres. The greatest professional satisfaction has come
from the association for over twenty years with the men and boys
of this and similar schools. A by no means inconsiderable pleasure,
too, has been the strange and wonderfull screwballs who appear
from time to time on the school scene.

As part of the well regulated schoolmaster’s life I am coaching,
or have coached tennis, football, hockey, and lacrosse. These ac-
tivities have been useful in keeping the waistline within bounds
and in developing an incipient set of ulcers. It is not necessary to
take games so seriously, but we all do. Coaching, various adminis-
trative duties, and large stacks of English themes weekly have
kept me reasonably well out of trouble.

For a good many summers I was actively engaged in camp
work both in Maine and in Canada. This enabled me to get into
the mountains and the bush, and to get an extra allowance of
trout and salmon fishing. It also gave me a chance to persuade
certain boys that a car and a country club were not the absolute
essentials for a vacation. During the last two or three years I have
dwindled to directing a training course for trip counselors and to
running the Junior Guide testing camp for the State of Maine.

A very happy marriage and a young and energetic family have
revolutionized my thinking. It is not so long ago that I was con-
vinced that the chief difficulty with which a boy had to cope was

his family. Now that belief is shaken. In find myself marching

[ 848 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

across the floor of the House to take my seat with the opposition
— the parents.

A proper footnote to this report — although I can take no credit
for it whatsoever — is that in the last twenty years more boys
from Governor Dummer have gone to Harvard than to any other
college. This record, of course, is only as it should be.

LAURENCE JOSEPH MURPHY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 603 Pleasant St., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 695 Washington St., Dorchester 24, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 26, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Laurence Joseph wuPhy.
Catherine Elizabeth Donnelly. -

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; A.M. (Boston Coll), 19313
MD. (Tufts Coll.), 1936.

MARRIED: Ruth Louise Hewins, March 24, 1940, Dorchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Paul Richard, 1942; Susan Ellen, 1945, Lawrence Joseph, 1948, Jane
Ruth, 1950; David Andrew, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting physician, Boston City Hospital, Sanatorium Division;
member staff, Carney Hospital, St. Margaret’s Hospital, Milton Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American College of Chest Physicians (fellow); American
Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society; Norfolk District
Medical Society; Massachusetts Trudeau Society.

AFTER receiving my degree from Harvard in 1929, I entered Bos-
ton College Graduate School and received my Master’s degree in
1931, having majored in modern languages. ‘This was a period of
indecision for me and then I settled on medicine and registered at
Tufts College Medical School in 1932. I received my M.D. in
June, 1936, and immediately began a one-year rotating internship
at St. Mary’s Hospital in Waterbury, Connecticut. I then re-
turned to Boston where I spent the next two years (1937-1939)
as a resident at the Boston City Hospital — Sanatorium Division.

In September, 1939, I opened an office in Dorchester, Massa-
chusetts, for the practice of general medicine and after six months
Ruth and I decided that we finally could set the day. In March,
1940, we were married and in February, 1942, our first child, Paul
Richard, was born. In October of the same year I reported to
Portsmouth Naval Hospital in New Hampshire for active duty

[ 849 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

as a lieutenant in the Medical Corps of the U. S. Navy. Sea duty
took me to Europe for the invasions of Sicily and Normandy.
After four years of active duty I was discharged with the rank of
lieutenant-commander, U.S. Naval Reserve, and resumed practice
in Dorchester in 1946.

We have since been blessed with two more boys and two beauti-
ful girls. Ruth has been very busy with the children but has found
time to share my interest in “Hi-fi” and photography. We sum-
mer at North Falmouth on Cape Cod and find ourselves talking
frequently about a tour of Europe at Music Festival time.

I have continued my study of chest diseases and this year I was
elected to fellowship in the American College of Chest Physicians.
This brings me up to date and my next important milestone will
be my Twenty-fifth Reunion in 1954.

SUMNER BYRON MYERS

HOME ADDRESS: 904 Forest Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.

orFice appress: Angell Hall, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

BoRN: Feb. 19, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Solomon Myers, ’oo, Nettie
Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1929, A.M,
19313 PH.D. 1932.

MmargieD: Alison Tennant, June 10, 1942, Ann Arbor, Mich. cHiLpren: David
Fredric, Feb. 3, 1936 (adopted stepchild); Alison, Aug. 13, 1938 (adopt-
ed stepchild).

occupaTion: Professor of mathematics, University of Michigan.

OFFices HELD: Member Executive Council, American Mathematics Society,
1948-51.

MEMBER oF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Mathe-
matics Society; Mathematics Association of America; Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in mathematical journals.

AFTER obtaining a Ph.D. in mathematics at Harvard in 1932 I
spent a year in Europe, a year teaching at Harvard, two years of
research at Princeton, and finally ended up at the University of
Michigan in 1936 — I’ve been there ever since. Mathematical re-
search and teaching have kept me busy the last seventeen years.
During the war I was involved in technical training programs for
army officers, and spent some time in research at the Radiation

[ 850]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Laboratory at MIT. Most of my old hobbies have disappeared —
squash, tennis, bridge — but I still find time to watch football
games and cheer for my son at swimming meets (he is a freshman
at Michigan, no reflection on Harvard, just a boost for Michigan).
I also enjoy gardening and book-collecting. The only really dis-
turbing influence in my life at present is the gradual disappearance
of some of our basic freedoms. But mathematics is still an area
of freedom of thought, with originality more desirable than con-
formity, and let us hope it remains so.

JOHN BURTON NASON

HOME ADDRESS: Pasco, Wash.

BORN: July 4, 1907, Erie, Pa. parents: Joseph Edward Nason, Ruth Burton.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Erie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LL.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Doris Weaver, July 8, 1933, New York, N. Y. cHipren: Ann,
June 16, 1937; John Howard, Feb. 5, 1944.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Jones, Mitchell & Nason, 1934-41; various positions,
secretary, treasurer, China Defense Supplies, Inc., 1941-45; counsel,
Chinese Supply Commission, 1945-47; consultant, United Nations In-
ternational Children’s Emergency Fund, 1947-48, member Office of
General Counsel, U. S, Navy Department, 1948; various positions, direc-
tor Division of China Program, Economic Codperation Administra-
tion, 1948-50; deputy chief, ECA Special Mission to China (Formosa),
1950-52; consultant, 1952, Indochina officer, 1953, Mutual Security
Agency. .

IN her recent autobiography, Mrs. Agnes Meyers tells how her

husband early in life made up his mind that a man should change

occupations every twenty years and how he did just that. My
owrl experience since leaving Cambridge reflects a somewhat simi-
lar formula, although there are notable differences between Mr.

Meyers’ pattern and my own. For example, he devoted the first

twenty years of his life to the earning of a safe competence. The

first phase of my working life was devoted to the practice of law

in Springfield, Massachusetts, for nine years as a member of a

small but highly respected firm. This was not the same thing as

amassing a competence.
As I look back on those early days, it seems to me that mv

[ 851 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

existence there was pleasant, not too arduous, and perhaps a little
limited. During this period, in addition to getting married and
acquiring a daughter, I took part in an effort to persuade the citi-
zens of Springfield that they should adopt the charter type of
municipal government complete with city manager and Propor-
tional Representation. The effort of explaining P.R. to various
groups of citizens was excellent training for the young lawyer
but did not result either in the benefits of a modern municipal
system of government for Springfield nor in any other appreci-
able benefits to me.

In December, 1941, I came to Washington to work with the
Chinese government lend-lease mission, China Defense Supplies,
Inc., of which Bill Youngman was president. This was followed
by an association with the Chinese Supply Commission, the post-
war Chinese purchasing mission, still in association with Young-
man, until 1947. During this time I was also admitted to the Dis-
trict of Columbia Bar and engaged sporadically in the practice of
law there. In 1948, after a brief tour with the United Nations
International Children’s Emergency Fund and the General Coun-
sel’s Office of the Navy Department, I joined the Economic Co-
operation Administration to work on the China Aid Program,
eventually as director of the division responsible for administer-
ing this program.

In 1950, after the outbreak of the Korean War and the presi-
dent’s declaration with respect to Formosa, it became clear that
the economic aid program on Formosa, which by that time was
the only territory where the China Aid Program operated, would
continue and probably be expanded, and that our Mission on
Formosa was not adequately staffed. In order to help meet the
need for additional staff, I accepted a three months’ assignment
as deputy chief of the ECA Mission. For one reason and another
this temporary assignment stretched out into six months and then
into a year, and more than sixteen months finally elapsed before
I finished my stay there. On the whole I enjoyed my experience
there, chiefly, perhaps, because for the first time in my associ-
ation with matters Chinese, it was possible to show concrete
accomplishments. Earlier the efforts in which I was engaged
were more often than not frustrated, first because of the limited
wartime accessibility of China and Jater because of the deteriora-

[ 852 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion of the situation and the uncertainties of United States policy
toward China.

After my return I continued to work with the Mutual Secu-
rity Agency (formerly ECA), first on the Washington end of the
Formosa program and later on the Indochina program until the
unhappy and really gruesome days when Mr. Stassen was re-
ducing his staff. This event, unpleasant but I think not unfortu-
nate, has forced me to a decision which I had thought about for
some time, but I had been too thoroughly occupied to make it
final. A few days after this sketch is completed, I am leaving
for the State of Washington with my wife, daughter, son, dog,
and the twenty-one years’ accumulation of Jares and penates to
enter on what I hope is the final phase of my working career,
the return to the practice of law in the Columbia River Basin.
Westward ho!

NICHOLAS NAZAR

HOME apprEss: 70 Villa St., Waltham 54, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Waltham Watch Co., Waltham 54, Mass.

BorN: March 7, 1906, Aintab, Armenia. PARENTS: Armenag N. Nazar, Gule-
nia Babaian.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930, DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MaRRIED: Rosalie Calusdian, Aug. 18, 1934, Newton, Mass. cHi~pREN: San-
dra, Jan. 15, 1937; Robert Charles, Dec. 27, 1940.

occupation: Works manager, Waltham Watch Company, manufacturing.

MEMBER OF: Horological Institute of America; American Ordnance Associa-
tion.

SINCE graduation I have been engaged chiefly in engineering
and manufacturing. For the major part of this period I have
been connected with the Waltham Watch Company at Waltham,
Massachusetts, of which I am at present works manager.

The pressures of work, the problems and activities connected
with every-day living, the insatiable demands of the children
leave very little time for diversions of my own choosing. How-
ever, now and then I retreat to my workshop to experiment on a
high-fidelity system which I recently built to receive excellent
FM broadcasts of the Boston Symphony concerts.

[ 853]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

°

Every summer I become a bachelor, as the family goes for their
annual vacation to our cottage at the South Shore. I go there for
weekends but find little time for relaxation— there is always
some repair job which requires attention. I have settled down
to a more or less routine existence, not that it is a dull or un-
eventful one by any means.

+ WILLIAM WAYNE NEFF

Born: Aug. 9, 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Nettelton Neff, ’92, Katherine
Scudder.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

biED: June 4, 1928, Stonington, Conn.

NEFF was assistant manager of the Harvard varsity crew and
active in the Hasty Pudding theatricals. He died at the end of
our junior year.

IRVING NEIMAN

HOME appRress: 33 Gay St., Newtonville 60, Mass.

oFFick appress: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 8, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Neiman, Rose Cotter.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 19293 M.B.A., 1933.

marrieD: Elinor T. Simons, June 24, 1937, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Leslie
Dorothy, March 14, 1940; Marjorie Ann, March 14, 1944.

occupaTiON: Mathematics teacher, Melrose High School; public accounting.

OFFICES HELD: Clerk, Board of Directors, Alumni Association of the West End
House, president, Cabot School Parent Teachers Association, Newton-
ville.

MEMBER OF: West End House Alumni Association; Brotherhood Lodge,
A.F. & A.M., Boston, Temple Shalom, Newton.

AFTER four years of preparing for a medical career, I changed
my mind at the suggestion of some friends at Hayden, Stone &
Company, stockbrokers, etc., and went to the Harvard Business
School to get training in financial affairs which would stand me
in good stead in the stock brokerage business. I had worked for
Hayden, Stone & Company summers and remember meeting
“Tim” Clark on Congress Street when he, and I also, was a runner

[ 854 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

— with handcuffed briefcase of stocks dangling from our wrists.
It was quite a contrast, his six-feet-six-inches versus my five-
feet-six-inches or less. This was all changed by that never to be
forgotten “Crash of 1929.” I finished the year at the Business
School and was fortunate (?) to get employment at Filene’s. I
wasted two years there. I left and went back to the Business
School to get my degree, concentrating in accounting. I gradu-
ated with an M.B.A. in 1933.

I started my teaching career in the fall of 1933, teaching book-
keeping and commercial subjects at the High School of Com-
merce, Boston, for three years. I then spent one year at the Boston
English High School. Then I went to Melrose High School,
Melrose, Massachusetts, and have been teaching mathematics there
for the last seventeen years. During my first four years at Melrose
I coached basketball, but I resigned tq become treasurer of student
activities.

During all these years my accounting training at the Business
School has enabled me to supplement my income by doing public
‘accounting and so I have been able to continue teaching. I might
mention here that all members of the Class of 1929 should do
everything in their power to see that teaching salaries be raised,
so that this profession may compete favorably in attracting capable
men. Because of the comparatively low salaries many good
teachers are lost to other professions.

My progeny consists of two daughters born on the same day,
four years apart. Leslie, my elder child, is a young lady —
charming, genteel, an excellent student, an accomplished ballet
dancer. She wants to join a ballet company when the time comes.
Midge, my younger daughter, is a terrific athlete, throws a base-
ball better than most boys of her age, plays tackle football and
excellent tennis. She’s strictly a tom-boy, an extremely lovable
tom-boy. My wife, Ellie, is a most desirable wife, a woman of
strong character, a very understanding and hard-working mother,
and the love of my life. She enjoys the respect and friendship of
all who come to know her.

My hobbies: I played semi-pro basketball after college, tennis,
and now when the years have slowed me down I play golf
(middle eighties). I have also become very enthusiastic about clas-
sical ballet. I have become quite an expert critic.

(855 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I am 2 devotee of Reform Judaism and am fairly active in the
affairs of my temple. Politically, I have been a Democrat and still
am. I feel that after four years of Republican administration,
the people of the United States will see fit to elect Mr. Stevenson
after they see that “the change” that was suggested by the Repub-
licans is not what they wanted.

In conclusion I might say that my life has been a comparatively
happy one thus far and I feel that the secret to continued happi-
ness is enclosed in the simple word, kindness.

HENRY HALL NEWELL

HOME ADpRESS: 75 Sargent Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 State St., Boston, Mass,

BorN: Aug. 21, 1907, Brookline, Mass. parents: John Louis Newell, Katherine
Morrison Hall.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Paula L. Patch, Sept. 23, 1933, Gloucester, Mass. CHILDREN: Henry.
Hall, Jr, Sept. 11, 1935; Piatt Andrew, June 19, 19373 Paula Patch, June
30, 1939; James Webster, Feb. 2, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Louis Newell, Jr., ’26, M.p., ’30.

occupation: Partner, Estabrook & Company, investment banking.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Board of Trustees, Park School Corporation, 1942-
52; trustee, Noble and Greenough School; director, Kennedy & Com-
pany, Inc.; treasurer, director, Federation of South End Settlements,
Lincoln House Association, Hale House Association; treasurer, News-
boys Reading Room Association, Massachusetts Indian Association;
secretary-treasurer, Grand National Curling Club of America, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Fox Club; Seigniory Club; Bostonian Society, The Country
Club; Eastern Point Yacht Club; Brookline Historical Society; Bass
Rocks Golf Club; City Club Corporation.

THE most important reflections of the years since graduation con-
cern a happy family with the blessings of four children. Naturally
my wife and I have been primarily concerned with our home and
development and interests of the young. I have been continuously
engaged in the investment banking business which I find exciting,
interesting, sometimes discouraging, but on the whole rewarding.
Much of the reward is due to school and college friends, in addi-
tion to the many fine acquaintances one makes when dealing with
the general public. I enjoy meeting people and making new

[ 856 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

friends. I have been interested in my children’s education and have
served as trustee for two schools they have attended. I am very
favorably impressed by the splendid work our “settlement houses”
are doing for less fortunate children and adults, and am serving
as treasurer and director for a number of these worthy organiza-
tions. I consider golf to be my pet hobby, but after all these years
of trying, am still a “hacker.” In the winter I curl actively and find
the game most sociable and great fun. I have made several trips
to other cities and to Canada in order to enjoy this friendly game.

Unfortunately I have found that Harvard has lost the support
of many graduates and friends in recent years due primarily, I be-
lieve, to the possible overemphasis of scholarship in contrast to
general good character, and the inclusion in the faculty of too
many research scholars in place of skilled instructors. The unfor-
tunate publicity attendant to Harvard’s recognized “liberals” can-
not be entirely disregarded. The socialistic philosophy of a leader
in the economics department is especially hard to take by those,
like myself, who are dependent upon the capitalistic system. I am
distressed to see so many sons of Harvard graduates going to
other colleges and believe that the thoughts expressed above may
have influenced their decision. I trust that the new administration
may modify this trend.

PAUL ALBERT NEWSOME

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Meadowbrook Rd., Needham g2, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Newsome & Co., Inc., 1000 Statler Office Bldg., Boston 16,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1906, Coffeen, Ill. parents: William Edward Newsome,
Isadora Stokes,

PREPARED AT: Lorain High School, Lorain, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MaRRiED: Ruth-Adeline Taplin, Dec. 5, 1931, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Patricia Ruth, June 26, 1933 (a. Clare C. Leiby, Jr, Dec. 10, 1952);
Nancy Carolyn, Dec. 2, 1936. GRANDcHILD: Clare C, Leiby, 3d, Sept. 21,
1953.

occupaTion: Public relations executive; chairman of board, Public Relations
Management Corporation, New York City; president, Newsome &

Company, Inc., Boston.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1952-53, director, since 1949, Advertising Club of

Boston; president, Weymouth (Mass.) Rotary Club, 1937-38; director,

[ 857]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ist District, Advertising Federation of America, 1952-53; public rela-
tions chairman, Boston Jubilee, 1950; special events chairman, Boston
Public Library Centennial, executive secretary, Massachusetts Press As-

sociation; press chairman, Red Cross, 1951; public relations chairman,
Boston Chamber of Commerce, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America; Harvard Club of New
York; Boston Public Library Centennial Commission; Newcomen So-
ciety of England; Aero Club of New England; Publicity Club of Boston,
Advertising Club of Boston; Boston Chamber of Commerce.

puBLicaTions: Directory of weekly newspapers in New England; occasional
contributions to trade magazines.

THE Report Committee’s edict requiring every man to submit a
biographical sketch, which in effect forces him to recall all the
mistakes of a quarter-century, no doubt violates some constitu-
tional rights. At the very least it must be regarded as an “un-
friendly act.”

I entered the public relations profession via journalism and gov-
ernment service. My first ten years were spent in running an old,
well established weekly newspaper in Weymouth, Massachusetts.
Economic conditions being what they were at the time, adver-
tising revenue was hard to come by, and a dollar was a sometime
thing. Yet my new Wellesley wife and I lived happily, became
deeply involved in local affairs, and started raising a family. This
could be described as my $10 down, $10 a month period.

Hoisting myself out of a pleasant rut, I went to work for the
government when World War II came along, handling informa-
tion programs in New England, chiefly for the Office of Price
Administration. I learned that most of the things they say about
bureaucrats are simply not true. Bureaucrats work hard, usually
under very frustrating conditions. This was my raking-leaves-in-
a-high-wind period. Early in 1945 I founded my own public rela-
tions firm in Boston. After the traditional two-year struggle the
business “caught fire,” and has been growing rapidly ever since.
Our clients are manufacturing firms, industries, and trade associa-
tions who retain us to interpret management policies to stock-
holders, employees, customers, the local community, and the gen-
eral public, and also to publicize their day-to-day activities and
thus gain proper recognition for their achievements and business
leadership. Most of them are located in New England, and so it is
necessary for us to know our region well and to take part ourselves

[ 858 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in civic affairs. To do an effective job we must know what makes
New Englanders tick, which approach will evoke the greatest
response, and which media will best reach a particular audience.

In 1952 I was able to merge twenty regional public relations
firms in the United States and Canada into one big company
known as Public Relations Management Corporation, with execu-
tive offices in New York. This successful effort to create the
largest pool of manpower and facilities in our field has given me
more satisfaction than anything else. A public relations man
stands in no danger of becoming immoderately rich, and has little
opportunity to become famous. Our job is to help make others
rich and famous. But if you enjoy working in the back room of
the Hall of Fame, and like the excitement of being around where
important things are happening, then this relatively new profession
has much to recommend it.

PHILIP NICHOLS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 118 Prince St., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Renegotiation Board, Tempo. S., Seventh and Jefferson Drive,
Washington, D.C,

BoRN: Aug. 11, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Philip Nichols, ’95, Mabel Gib-
son.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; LL.B. 1932.

marrigeD: Margery Jenks, June, 1934 (divorced 1938); Dorothy Jackson,
April 19, 1940, Washington, D. C. cumpren: Donald, April 2, 1941;
Patricia, Oct. 7, 1942; Christopher Jackson, June 25, 1951.

occupaTIon: General counsel, Renegotiation Board.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant general counsel, Treasury Department, 1948-51; gen-
eral counsel, War Contracts Price Adjustment Board, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Old Dominion Boat Club, Alexandria.

I HAVE to report that I am still in government service, though I
am not disposed to be as smug about it as I see I was on the occasion
of the Vicennial Report. It makes fifteen years now. The situa-
tion of the permanent or would-be permanent government servant
is at the present time not conducive to smugness. We thought:
“Those nasty things they are saying, they mean somebody else.
They don’t mean us.” So in 1952 we went to our polling places
in Arlington, Fairfax County, Alexandria, Montgomery County

[ 859 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

all the bedroom suburbs — and voted with a fine detachment
for what we thought was best for the country. Then we learned
to our chagrin and amazement that they did mean us. No doubt
when the dust has all settled, most or at least many of us will be
found still doing business at the old stand, and no doubt they will
have learned, as we always figured, that they can’t run the show
without us. But for those who had come to depend on the serenity
and confidence in the future which are alleged to compensate for
them any drawbacks of public service, the present will remain
graven on their memories as a harrowing period.

At any rate, as of the time of writing this my business address
is still Washington, D. C. And I still live in that old house on
Prince Street. It seems smaller than it did, since two years ago
we added Christopher to its occupants, but it still manages to hold
us. For recreation I can sail on the Potomac, which flows past
(washes is hardly the word) the foot of Prince Street. Perhaps
some day before I die they will stop the pollution so I can swim
in it, just once. As a home owner, I have had to learn to plant
euwanamus (though not to spell it), assemble Sears Roebuck
fences, and change blown out fuses — useful arts I had never ex-
pected or wished to master. Here, as everywhere, it is impossible
to hire things done, which I guess is a good thing, and we all sur-
prise ourselves with our self-reliance; at the same time we wonder
what has happened to our wonderful standard of living. I can
change the baby’s diapers with a skill derived from long practice,
a thing which I am sure my grandfather never learned to do,
though he had more children than I have, and made less money.
As I predicted five years ago, my children have strange accents.
They know all about Robert E. Lee, but they have never so much
as heard of such worthies as Benjamin F. Butler or Charles Sumner.
I suppose the same happens to all Harvard men who transplant
themselves, and many have done so to more exotic climes than
these. One child is going to be an electronics engineer, and one
a ballet dancer, but please God none of them will be a lawyer.

This is about all that seems worth mentioning at the moment.
My wife and I expect to be at the Reunion, so if anyone wants to
know more about us, he can ask.

[ 860 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR CHARLES NISULA

HOME ADDRESS: 324 S. Main St., Cohasset, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jackson & Moreland, 31 St. James Ave., Boston 16, Mass.

poRN: Dec. 2, 1905, Quincy, Mass. parents: John Henry Nisula, Emilia
Hokkanen.

PREPARED AT: Hingham High School, Hingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.ENG., 1929.

marrigD: Alice Richmond Stewart, June 5, 1943, New York, N. Y. campren:
Ann Richmond, Nov. 6, 1944; Mary Douglas, June 8, x48

occuPATION: Electrical engineer (design).

MEMBER OF: American Society of Professional Engineers; American Insti-
tute of Electrical Engineers.

CONRAD NOBILI

HOME ADpREss: 24 Maypole Rd., Quincy 69, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 34 Hancock Ct., Quincy 69, Mass.

BORN: June 4, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Decio Nobili, Vincenza
Costa.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: M.D. (Univ. of Rome), 1934.

MARRIED: Nica Bighini, Jan. 16, 1935, Rome, Italy. cHmLpREN: Conrad Decius,
Nov. 23, 1935; Carla, Aug. 17, 1939; Paula, March 7, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Conrad Decius Nobili, ’57.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Quincy Harvard Club, now, Massachu-
setts Physicians Art Society, now; president, L’Eco Club, 1949-53;
director, Community Concert Association, now, Quincy Red Cross
Chapter, now, Merrymount Association; master councillor, Order of
DeMolay, 1927; physician, Draft Board, World War II.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; Norfolk South District Medi-
cal Society; American Medical Association (fellow); American Col-
lege of Allergists (fellow); American Diabetic Association; American
Heart Association; American Geriatric Association; World Medical

Society; L’Eco; American Physicians Art Association; Community
Concert Association; Quincy Harvard Club; Legion of Honor, Order
of DeMolay.

PUBLICATIONS: “Dyspnoea and Diminished Vital Capacity as a Symptom
and a Sign in Hayfever” (Brown, Nobili, Sannella, and Wadsworth);
“Skin-test Blocking Antibody Response to Oral Pollen Therapy and the
Criteria for its Use” (Brown, Holden, and Nobili); “Clinical Evalua-
tion of a New Antihistamine Agent, ‘Trimeton’” (Allergy Clinic,

_ Boston Dispensary).
'TIS strange how with the passing of the years one slowly, with-

[ 861 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 .

out noting, approaches the sad realization that he is not quite
going to scale successfully the lofty heights that he had set for
himself in his youthful dreams and ’tis even more strange that it
no longer seems so important. However, one is just about at the
summit of the little promontory that he did climb whence he can
look back and review his upward trek with some pleasure amid
some sorrow, wishing that at certain points in the road he might
have taken a better course, but on the other hand, being com-
pensated by the fact that at least he did get that far and that
he can now look ahead a bit more clearly than at the beginning.
He can pause, reflect, repent. “Come fill the Cup and into the
Fire of Spring, The Winter Garment of Repentance fling.” The
declining years have begun and with them comes the realization
that one’s own ambitions are second only to one’s children. It is
too late to correct any errors. “Let come what will come.”

There is little to add to this report but a reiteration of most
of the last. After four delightful years in the poetic clime of
Rome, I took my degree in medicine at the University of Rome.
While there I Jost no time in enjoying the ecstasy of the Italian
skies, in trying to gather a bit of the fabulous Italian culture, and
in acquiring a little first-hand appreciation of the Italian masters
of the brush and the chisel. While under such a spell I married.
From this union appeared three apostles of deviltry — one son
and two daughters. My son graduated from Milton Academy
with distinction for high scholarship and is now at Harvard in
the Class of 1957, apparently enjoying his stay at Holworthy
Hall. Unlike me, he is completely an outdoor man who lives for
hunting and fishing and has made the Cape his paradise. My
daughter, Carla, is an honor student at the Woodward School
for Girls where she is a freshman, and my daughter, Paula, very
proud of her Harvardian brother, is doing very nicely in the
fourth grade and eventually “wants to use lipstick at Harvard
too.”

When I returned from abroad I came under the influence of
Dr. Joseph H. Pratt who sent me to the Eastern Maine General
Hospital for an internship. I followed it with a fellowship in dis-
trict medicine at the Boston Dispensary. I am now a physician
in the Boston Dispensary, an assistant in’ medicine at Tufts Medi-
cal School, an associate in the Allergy Clinic of the Boston Dis-

[ 862 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pensary, head of the Medical Division and lecturer in the School
of Nursing at the Quincy Hospital — and I also conduct an al-
lergy practice in Quincy.

After preaching at length to patients about hobbies I succumbed
to the DaVincian and Raphaelian pastime of the canvas, Having
eventually found the courage, I started exhibiting my ambitious
efforts at the American Physicians Art Association exhibits at
the annual American Medical Association conventions. My frus-
trated ego began to be inflated when I was awarded one first
prize, one third prize, and two honorable mentions. As long as I
do not take myself seriously, I shall continue to have fun!

With my family coming along nicely, my profession very well
established, and my painting prospering, I am now ready for my
declining arteriosclerotic years. One sometimes cannot help
thinking that, if it were not for one’s family, life could be so
futile — one struggles in the first half that he may decline in the
second. I can only agree that, as I said before, “The Worldly
Hope men set their Hearts Upon Turns Ashes — or it Prospers.”
Therefore, whatever might have been I can only reflect that

The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ,
Moves on: Nor all thy Piety nor Wit,

Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line,

Nor all thy Tears wash out a Word of it.

JOHN MARTIN NOBLE

HOME AppREss: 726 Holmby Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4845 W. Exposition Blvd., Los Angeles 16, Calif.

Born: July 11, 1906, Oklahoma City, Okla. parents: James Franklin Noble,
Rose Wright.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(31),

Marriep: Margaret Bromley Spalding, June 28, 1930, Coronado, Calif. cHm-

_ DREN: Nina Meredith, Dec. 11, 1934; Margaret Bromley and Patricia
Anne (twins), Jan. 5, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Alexander Noble, °20, s.B., ’22, A.M., '36, PH.D. °39;
Gilbert Wright Noble, ’24; Laurence Edmund Noble, ’27.

occuPATION: District manager, Walter Kidde & Company, Inc. for all West
Coast Aviation activities.

OFFICES HELD: Vestry, St. Albans Episcopal Church, Westwood Village, Los

Angeles.

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MEMBER OF: American Ordnance Association; Institate of Aeronautical Sci-
ences; Society of Automotive Engineers.

I AM afraid that my inability to get located in a freshman dorm
and my having therefore to live in a private apartment contributed
heavily to my becoming better acquainted with activities and
people (especially in aviation) outside the Harvard circle, and I
have never been among the most loyal and devoted Sons of Har-
vard. My contacts, social and business, were elsewhere and have
largely remained so.

My main interest has always been in aviation and photography.
During college, I took the U. S. Naval Reserve Aviation training
at night at M.LT., and flight training in summers at various naval
air stations. After college I completed my flight training at the
Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Florida, and became a pilot aboard
the old U.S.S. Lexington and U.SS. Saratoga. 1 subsequently flew
for Aero Service Corporation of Philadelphia on aerial photo sur-
vey work, and then for Pan American Airways on the Central
American run from Texas to Panama. I later joined the Friez Divi-
sion of Bendix Aviation in Baltimore, then in March, 1940, joined
Walter Kidde & Company at New York City as manager of the
Aviation Division.

In 1939 at the Naval Air Station, Cape May, New Jersey, I was
injured by a fall and was permanently “grounded” by the Navy,
being discharged in 1941 after sixteen years.

Since December, 1943, I have been district manager for Kidde,
covering all aviation activities for the West Coast. ‘They are prin-
cipal manufacturers of fire extinguishing and detecting equip-
ment for marine, aviation, and industrial applications, with many
other items for aviation, including oxygen, raft inflation, and high
pressure pneumatics. To put it in grossly mild terms, this is a full-
time job, but most pleasant.

In June, 1930, I was fortunate enough to marry the girl who is
still a most wonderful companion, wife, and mother. Thanks
largely to her most capable guidance we have three lovely daugh-

ters, one of whom is an undergraduate at Stanford, and two others
studying at Marlborough School in Los Angeles and probably
headed for Stanford also.
My travels, with and without my family, include most of the

[ 864 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

United States, much of Canada, and Central America. My hobbies
are airplanes, photography, model railroads, continually working
on things at home, and relaxing with my family.

My war record (still continuing) is strictly as a civilian, but
one very heavily engaged in a wide variety of aviation activities,
including aircraft and missiles, much of the work being of a
military classified nature and therefore not to be detailed.

My social, political, and religious activities have been heavily
affected by my rather intense business activities. When I finished
college and went into active duty in the Naval Reserve as a pilot,
officer, gentleman, and Harvard graduate aboard the U.S.S.
Lexington, 1 thought the world was a lovely, peaceful place in
which to enjoy life. When the financial crash hit the country
and the Naval Reserve ran out of money, and I finally managed
to find work, I came quickly to realize that my father knew
whereof he spoke when he had so often told me of the difficulty
of working your way to the top, as he had. Most fortunately for
me (although it was rough at the time), he saw to it that I took
that opportunity to learn the hard and permanent way life’s real
values, monetary and otherwise. Without the devoted under-
standing of my bride, I should never have weathered that storm.
Those were the days when with a Harvard degree and a nickel,
you could always be sure of one cup of coffee.

At long last I am now reaching the time and condition (both
financial and otherwise) when I believe I have a reasonable ex-
pectancy of security, a certain amount of leisure, peace of mind,
and above all a happy family life. No one can take those things
from me. I hope that my children will never have to face the
trials and tribulations through which my bride of almost twenty-
five years has gone with me, but if they do, I am confident of their
ability to come out of it with equal security and happiness.

PHILIP ERNEST NOKES

HOME AppREss: 25 Pershing Ave., Beverly, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: United Shoe Machinery Corp., Beverly, Mass.

Born: March 19, 1907, Leicester, England. parents: Ernest Studley Nokes,
Louisa Sophia Bradshaw.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

[ 865 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

$$

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929- DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG. magna cry laug
eg

1929.

MaRRieDs Esther May Whitney, Aug. 30, 1935, Beverly, Mass. cH
Kenneth W., July 18, 19373 David S., Jan. 7, 1941; Carol Je
Karen L. (cwins), Feb. 4, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Roy Nokes, "33.

occupation: Experimental engineering on shoe machinery.

TLDREN.

COME spring I shall have spent twenty-five years in the same
place, doing basically the same job. In this time my family, the
job, and I hope myself have grown. I have dabbled in a number; of
hobby fields (now it’s fishing). I have had no very EXCiting op
long travels, and no direct war service (in age, I fall between the
wars). The reader may have gathered that in most respects I am
a bit conservative. I am, but — I’m satisfied.

GUY HOLDEN NORRIS

HOME ADDRESS: 493 Gay St., Westwood, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 441 Tremont St., Boston 16, Mass.
BORN: May 24, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Charles Sumner Norris,
Alice Waterman Greenough.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.
marrieD: Lucy Sturgis Codman, Oct. 15, 1932, Manchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Nicholas, July 28, 1936, Christopher Chadwick, March 18, 19395 R.
Timothy Greenough, Jan. 18, 1944.
HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Greenough Norris, ’24.
occupaTion: Vice-president, general manager, Norris and Company, piano
manufacturing, wholesale and retail.
orFices HELD: Uptown District and Area chairman, Community Fund Drives,
1940, 1941, 1942; director, Boston Back Bay Association, 1940-41; sec
retary, Longy School of Music, since 1942; Red Cross Disaster chal
man for Westwood.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Dedham Country and Polo Clubs
Society of Sons of Colonial Wars; Westwood Lions Club.

AFTER graduation I spent two interesting years in the Busines
School, spending the summers out west and abroad, and mt
lucky early in 1932 to have an opportunity to work for hel
Oil Company as an executive trainee. This involved operating
filling stations in Metropolitan Boston, drilling oil wells in Louise
ana, laying pipe in New Mexico, and working in the presiden
office in St. Louis. In 1935 we moved back to Boston 4”

[ 866 ]

ae

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘vated the family piano business. After Pearl Harbor | joined
acti Galvage Division of the War Production Board and found
rhe already there to welcome me. When the steel scrap short-
Baker ed up many months later, I switched to a strange new posi-
a as assistant production manager of a big machine job shop.
The end of the war found me back in the piano business and
spending my evenings bossing groups of distinguished but some-
what elderly busboys at the stage door canteen. Since then my
business routine has been varied by a couple of mildly successful
speculations in real estate.

The Norrises live in a modern redwood house twelve miles
southwest of Boston in rolling countryside and surrounded on all
sides, by some curious coincidence, by other Harvard men. My
charming wife, Louie, ministers gallantly and effectively to the
wants of the family, including those of two Labrador retrievers
and an old but sagacious cat, yet still manages to look younger
than ever after twenty-two hectic years with me.

It mystifies both of us how much the three boys differ in ap-
pearance, personality, and aptitudes. Nick, away at boarding
school, likes debating, good music, dancing, is a tireless hiker and
a good man with an axe or a scythe. Chris, a day pupil at Milton,
is a natural athlete who can make or do anything with his hands
but hates all forms of labor unless the coin of the realm is in-
volved. Tim, our youngest, is big, slow, and very cheerful.

We lead a fairly simple life: quiet and early hours on school
nights, busy weekends with a lot of chauffeuring and an occa-
sional dance or theatre. I play a lot of mediocre golf and love
to putter around the place. We still like to go off on skiing week-
ends and late August has found us in recent years at a New Hamp-
shire mountain inn known as Waterville Valley.

We make fierce efforts to persuade the boys (coerce is too
‘trong a word) to accompany us to St. Paul’s Episcopal Church
Sunday. Together with the Grants and Shearers we cele-
tsi Eisenhower's and Herter’s victory on November 4, 1952.
an ything ele possibility of a future militant Germany more than

se.

. 1 Conclusion, may I make a prediction based on my observa-

tu . : .
“ONS at last year’s Twenty-fifth that we will experience nothing

0 ; .
the boisterous alcoholic traditional type of Reunion. Rather

[ 867 ] .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

it will be a time for long talks and pleasant experiences with
men whom you knew and liked in College and with whom you
presumably have much ground to cover in four short days.

ROLLIN HOSMER NORRIS

HOME Appress: 1385 Regent St., Schenectady 9, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: General Engineering Laboratory, General Electric Co.
Schenectady 5, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 11, 1906, Haverford, Pa. PareNTs: Rollin Norris, Katharine
Hosmer.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: $.B. summa sum laude, 1929; S.M., 1931.

MarRieED: Elisabeth W. Plummer, Oct. 23, 1932, Malden, Mass, CHILDREN:
Anne, July 13, 1933; Richard Cromwell and Dorothy (twins), Nov. 2,
1935-

HARVARD SON: Richard Cromwell Norris, '57.

occuPATION: Consulting engineer, heat transfer and fluid flow, General Elec-
tric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Schenectady Section, 1940, Heat Transfer Division,
1947, member, chairman, various technical committees of Heat Transfer
Division, since 1941, American Society of Mechanical Engineers; re-
gional counselor, Office of Ordnance Research, Army Ordnance Corps,
1953; member Board of Trustees, First Unitarian Society, Schenectady,
1944-46; treasurer, Niskayuna Consumers’ Codperative, Inc., 1943.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; American Physical
Society; Institute of Aeronautical Sciences; American Rocket Society;
New York State Society of Professional Engineers; American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science; American Ordnance Association;
American Civil Liberties Union; Niskayuna Consumers’ Codperative,
Inc.; Schenectady Wintersports Club; Mohawk Valley Hiking Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers include: “Laminar Flow Heat Transfer in
Ducts” (with D. D. Streid), 1940, “High Performance Fins for Heat
Transfer” (with W. A. Spofford), 1942, “Supersonic Convective Heat-
Transfer Coefficients from Skin-Temperature Measurements on a V-2
Rocket in Flight” (with W. W. Fischer), 1949, Transactions of Ameri-
can Society of Mechanical Engineers; several technical papers on heat
transfer published by other engineering societies; eight U.S. patents.

THE first two years after College graduation were spent com-
pleting the conventional curriculum in mechanical engineering;
at College I had concentrated in mathematics. An engineering
job offer from General Electric was accepted in June, 1931, for
a starting date effective in February of the following year. The

: { 868 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

waiting period was effectively utilized for a trip to Europe. This

ermitted several weeks of Alpine climbing in Switzerland (some
with Lincoln O’Brien and Guy Norris), a four-week trip as a
tourist through the European part of the U.S.S.R. (before the
iron curtain came down), and three months of study of advanced
engineering subjects in Germany, with numerous weekend skiing
trips. The proficiency gained in reading technical German has
proved very useful ever since.

In my first three years with General Electric I spent my days
on a wide variety of engineering assignments and my nights doing
homework (twenty to thirty hours per week) on the three-year
G. E. Advanced Engineering Course. I still found enough time
weekends to help start the Schenectady Wintersports Club and
help it promote Sunday “Snow Trains” from Schenectady to
North Creek in the Adirondacks. At General Electric I began
to specialize, by 1936, in heat transfer problems and the prob-
lems of flowing gases and liquids incidental thereto. This has led
to a fascinating variety of applications of knowledge in this sub-
ject, including cooling of aircraft turbo-superchargers, tempera-
ture predictions and aerodynamic designs for guided missiles, and
design improvements of large electric generators and of innumer-
able other G-E products.

Almost every department of the company has utilized my
services at one time or another. Although this fact has required
visits, generally brief, to many other plants of the company, my
home office and laboratory have always been in Schenectady.
Occasionally longer out-of-town tasks widened my experience.
In 1941 I spent several weeks at Seattle participating in flight
tests of the B-17 at high altitudes. In 1944 I spent several months
at Berkeley, California, and Oak Ridge, Tennessee, on the “Man-
hattan District” project. In April, May, and June, 1945, I was in
Germany “treasure hunting” for secret technical reports under
the auspices of the U.S. Army Ordnance Department; the suc-
cess of this hunt has been described in the Vicennial Report of
our Class. Occasionally my work has been on problems of such
widespread occurrence as to justify an engineering society in
publishing the results, I have often derived much satisfaction,
later, when subsequent papers by other authors have quoted one
or more of my own papers as a significant reference; then I feel

[ 869 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

] have contributed to the general advance of scientific knowledge
and engineering progress.

Another major interest and source of satisfaction in my life is
my family. While the children were in high school we had
many pleasant ski trips together each winter. Now all three chil-
dren are away at college: Dick at Harvard (on freshman cross-
country and indoor track teams), Dot at Swarthmore (Class of
57), and Anne at the University of Rhode Island (Class of ’55).
In summertime we now spend almost every weekend at my old
home in New Hartford, Connecticut, with much swimming and
tennis. My wife keeps busy in the local American Association
of University Women and in our Unitarian church activities, as
well as in the promotion of needed expansion of the local public
school system. My principal non-athletic hobby has been con-
tinual participation in and promotion of our local consumers’ co-
operative. This is now a full-sized super market, doing half a
million dollars a year of business and returning a patronage refund
of four to five per cent.

CHARLES McKIM NORTON

HOME aporess: 87 Lafayette Rd., Princeton, N, J.
OFFICE apprEss: 205 E. 42d St., New York 17, N. Y.
BORN: Jan. 6, 1907, Lake Forest, Ill. parents: Charles Dyer Norton, | Kathe
erine McKim Garrison.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; LLB,
1932.
marRiep: Martha Chipman Hutcheson, May 27, 1939, Gladstone, N. J. cut-
DREN: William Hutcheson, 1941 (died August, 1946); Lucia McKim,
1944; John Chipman, 1947.
HARVARD BROTHER: Garrison Norton, 723.
occupation: Lawyer, city and regional planner, vice-president, Regional
Plan Association.
oFFices HELD: Trustee, Chatham Square Music School, since 1937, Bank for
Savings in The City of New York, since 1954; member board of di-
rectors, New York Citizens’ Housing and Planning Council, since 1942,
American Society of Planning Officials, 1946-49, member board of
managers, Harvard Club of New York, 1948-51; member, Zoning
Board of Adjustment, Princeton Borough, 1951-54; member, since 1952s
chairman, since 1954, Planning Board, Princeton Borough.
MEMBER oF: American Society of Planning Officials, American Institute

[ 870]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Planners; Century Association; Royal Ocean Racing Club; Harvard
Club of New York; Association of the Bar of the City of New York.
PUBLICATIONS: The Cruising Cookbook (co-author), W. W. Norton & Co.,
1949; various articles in American City Magazine, Journal of the Ameri-
can Institute of Planners, and other technical publications including
Approach to Urban Planning, Princeton University Press, 1953.

HAVING set forth my life history in some detail only five years
ago in the Twentieth Anniversary Report, I have found it diffi-
cult to settle down to do the job all over again. This simply
means, I suppose, that the last five years have been less eventful
than the preceding twenty which included a depression, a war,
and, more important to an individual's life, a happy marriage and
children.

Although I am still a “family man and a city planner,” as re-
ported five years ago, several events have taken place which have
kept life from exactly standing still. For example, we have moved
from Manhattan to Princeton (one of our New York friends said,
“You're really moving to Princeton, Princeton, New Jersey?”).
This makes me one of that hardy band which commutes daily
except Saturday and Sunday on the Pennsylvania Railroad.
Princeton is a wonderful town, as Pat Outerbridge discovered
years ago. I have served on the Zoning Board of Adjustment for
three years and have just resigned from that board to become
chairman of the Planning Board. This latter responsibility I take
very seriously knowing what happened to the sleepy town of
Cambridge, the quiet city of New Haven, the once delightful
village of Oxford, etc. Princeton is today less than twenty miles
from the newest and one of the largest steel mills in the United
States.

My city planning work led me to a special assignment with a
_research group organized by the Department of Defense and two

other federal agencies known as “Project East River.” The job
was to take a long look at non-military defense. My assignment
was as chairman of a panel which studied practical means to re-
duce urban vulnerability by protective measures and by space.
At first overwhelmed by the facts of the new weapons (even the
old Hiroshima A-bomb, now obsolete, was equal to four freight
trains 100 cars long loaded with TNT), we found there are prac-
tical ways to increase chances of survival which might spell

[871]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

the difference between annihilation and survival of a nation. (The
words “victory” and “defeat” are no longer applicable to a next
war.)

To add to the confusion of a member of the Class of 1929 liv-
ing in Princeton, I have been lecturing (on city planning) at
Yale for one term of the past three years. Our principal family
diversions are still sailing and music. Much of this music is
home-made and our ten-year-old daughter plays the violin in
the school orchestra. I have become an enthusiastic power-tool-
and-plywood carpenter since we gave up apartment life and
achieved a cellar.

I am amazed to find that this is the year of our Twenty-fifth
Anniversary. The tradition used to be that one’s son was safely
in Harvard by this time. Our son is six years old and safely in
the first grade of public school. Perhaps rowing on those Ed
Brown crews back in the r920’s slowed me up permanently. At
any rate, I feel in no hurry to rush through life any faster than
it has carried us along thus far. It’s rather nice to have the chance
of seeing a son graduate with the Class of 1970.

FREDERICK VINCENT NUGENT |

HOME ADDRESS: 122 Wales St., North Abington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 784 Memorial Drive, Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1906, Rockland, Mass. parents: Maurice Francis Nugent,
Nellie Loretta Spence.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929: DEGREE: $.B., 1929.

Margiep: Catherine Louise Bowler, Nov. 11, 1935, Rockland, Mass. CHILDREN:
Denis Leo, Oct. 13, 1936; Paul Frederick, Aug. 6, 1944.

occupation: Chemist, adhesives, B. B. Chemical Company.

PUBLICATIONS: Six patents related to adhesives and methods of use.

TWENTY-FIVE years from prosperity to depression, to hot
war, to cold war: during this period I have acquired one wife,
two sons, two houses, ulcers (since lost), gray hair, and no money.
This last item shows no improvement since graduation because
I had none then.

After graduation I spent several years with different firms in the
heavy chemical industry. In 1936 I came to B. B. Chemical and

[ 872]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have remained there since. After seventeen years’ association
with, and research on, adhesives, I still am not sure why anything
does or does not stick. I have found a few classmates unfortunate
enough to be in a business requiring adhesives and hope that our
efforts to satisfy their usual, impossible requirements has at least
kept them out of bankruptcy.

- During this last hot war I was kept on the sidelines doing re-
search work for the Quartermaster Corps. My military service
was limited to three years in the State Militia which I joined as a
private and retired from as a captain of infantry,

On the lighter side, most of my free time is spent at my cottage
on Wing’s Neck, Cape Cod. Here, from early spring to late fall
I attempt as little as possible, except try to improve a golf game,
which is practically beyond redemption. Despite the lack of ma-
terialistic gains the time since graduating has been rewarding in
many ways and has been satisfying and fun. While I have never
become one of the “Old Crimson” group who perennially live
their undergraduate days, I am glad I went to Harvard and were
I to make the choice again today, it would be Harvard.

MARSHALL BRANSON NUNLIST

HOME apprEss: Oak Street, Trucksville, Pa.

OFFICE ADDREsS: 16 S, River St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

BORN: Sept, 23, 1905: Chicago, Ill. parents: William Albert Nunlist, Laura
Emiline Branson.

PREPARED AT: New York public high schools.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: S.B. IN CIVIL ENG, & BUS. ADM, CU7I laude,

+ 1930.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Moora, Aug. 22, 1938, Montclair, N. J. cHtipren: Mar-
shall Branson, Dec. 25, 1944 (daughter); Mark Moora, May 30, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, controller, Glen Alden Coal Company, coal
mining.

MEMBER oF: Delta Upsilon; Tau Beta Pi: Harvard Engineering Society; Con-
trollers Institute of America; American Institute of Mining and Metal-
lurgical Engineers; National Association of Cost Accountants.

I LANDED in public accounting work in 1933. Mixing engineer-
ing and other ingredients with it, I managed to transform ac-
counting, a subject which was about the last thing on my mind
in school, into an enjoyable occupation. I became a certified

[ 873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

public accountant; I travelled a lot, particularly to the Texas and
Oklahoma oil fields and to Puerto Rico, and also spent a short time
exploring the Guatemalan highlands — a wonderful country if it
ever straightens out politically. In 1937 I moved into the account-
ing business for myself for several years, and married Elizabeth
Moora.

My wife and I crossed the Atlantic on a very small Norwegian
freighter in 1938. In London on one day and Hamburg the next
we witnessed business as usual and a general mobilization, re-
spectively — this being about the time of Munich. On the way
back we pounded through the incredibly high seas of the 1938
hurricane. The war years, and some after them, I spent in a fac-
tory handling cost and financial control — necessary, but not very
exciting.

_My daughter, Marshall Branson Nunlist (Jr.), was born on
Christmas day, 1944; my son, Mark Moora Nunlist, arrived on
Memorial Day, 1948. We have probably run out of holidays. In
1948 I took on the job of controller of one of the world’s largest
coal companies, and am now a vice-president. On the side, I
amuse myself studying history. It is a valuable avocation these
days, especially in sizing up the trend of events. Intermittently,
I build astronomical telescopes and roam around in extragalactic
neighborhoods — very helpful in keeping this troubled century
in some kind of personal focus. Landscape painting, one of my
other sides, yields indifferent results though on the surface it
looks pretty easy to do. My wife composes, and she has written
and produced a number of full-fledged ballets. To get some idea
of what life in five flats was all about, and in sheer self-protection,
I bought a ’cello a couple of years ago. I can now play the
simpler duos with her, but with occasional flights into the super-
sonic. Of all management problems, managing a fiddle is un-
doubtedly the greatest!

BERTRAND BURGESS NUTTER

HOME apprEss: 139 Bellevue Ave., Melrose 76, Mass.

OFFice Appress: 81 Highland Ave, Salem, Mass.

Boan: July 6, 1905, Malden, Mass. parents: Bertrand Burgess Nutter, Maud
Esther Sanborn. ,

[ 874 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

marrieD: Dorothy Morse Lancaster, Nov. 17, 1934, Boston, Mass. cup: Ann
Lancaster, Jan. 16, 1943.

occupation: Director, Salem Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Clerk, Salem Hospital Corp., 1952-1953; director, Salem Chap-
ter, American Red Cross, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Salem Community Council, New England Hospital Superin-
tendents’ Club; North Shore Personnel Association; Massachusetts Hos-
pital Association; American Hospital Association.

I THINK my life since graduation may be summed up as one of
uncertainty to stabilization, from deflation to inflation. My work
to 1934 comprised financing of automobiles with the Universal
Credit Company for one year, and four years of credit work and
field supervision with the Shell Oil Company. In 1934 I returned
to financing of General Motors products with General Motors
Acceptance Corporation. In 1942, due to curtailed production
and the Second World War, I shifted my line of work to hospi-
tals. I have been fortunate to progress from business manager,
controller, to director, a position I now hold. This work has
proved most interesting in that along with performing a service
to mankind, it presents ever changing situations in human rela-
tions, medical advances, and continued growth from the business
viewpoint. It seems fairly certain that hospitals are here to stay,
unless atomic developments destroy us all.

For hobbies I enjoy golf most and all other sports equally. If
ever I can retire I certainly would like to spend my later years
travelling.

DANIEL PATRICK O’BRIEN

HOME ADpREss: 645 Calvert Ave., Detroit 2, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2933 Cadillac Tower, Detroit 26, Mich.

BORN: April 5, 1906, Laurium, Mich. parents: Patrick Henry 0’ Brien, Eliza-
beth Kelly.

PREPARED AT: Northern High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. peGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Michigan), 1929; LL.B.
(Univ. of Detroit), 1932.

MarRRiED: Catherine Slater, Feb. 9, 1935, Monroe, Mich. cuipren: Daniel
Patrick, Jr, April 27, 1937; Diane P., Feb. 22, 1939; Kerry M., July 25,
1949.

[ 875 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
oocupaTion: Lawyer, parmer in firm of O’Brien and Nertney.
OFFICES HELD: A{ember, Democratic State Central Committee, Michigan,

1940-53.
MEMBER OF: State Bar of Michigan; Detroit Bar Association, Knights of
Columbus, No. 305.

I WAS in the Class of ’28 at Kenyon College originally, and when
I transferred to Harvard College after two years at Kenyon,
Harvard put me in the Class of ’29, which I accepted somewhat
reluctantly; after two years at Harvard and two summer schools
I was put in the Class of ’30 (told that I could not graduate until
1930); naturally I was disgusted as I had enough credits to grad-
uate in 1928 or at least 1929; so I went to the University of Michi-
gan and the dean there said that his son got a raw deal at an
eastern college, and that I could stay at Ann Arbor and graduate
in 1929, which I did. Then I spent a year at the University of
Michigan Law School and two years at the University of Detroit
Law School, graduating in 1932. Of course there was no law
business for the next eight years and it was tough sledding all the
way. I was an active New Dealer, but I never obtained anything
out of it. Maybe a little law business. Things brightened up in
the forties and our law firm made a little money. But the law
business is not the easiest way in the world to make a living. By
going to four colleges I have not been able to do anything for
any of them particularly. I realize now that I made a mistake
moving around so much, and I would strongly advise anyone
against doing that. You just do not belong anywhere. I have
scarcely been back to any of my schools, although I love them
all well enough. I have not accomplished one-half of what I
should have or maybe only a quarter, but that is another story.
It seems impossible that twenty-five years have gone by since
being at Harvard, actually twenty-six for me. I am a Roman
Catholic, a Democrat, enjoy my family, go to bed about eleven
o'clock every night instead of four o’clock in the morning, only
drink about ten per cent of what I used to, and generally take
life pretty easy now. I would like to come back to the exercises,
but I would last only about two days so have not decided as yet.
I have a home, a summer cottage way up north where I hear
WBZ, and almost enjoy life except for the horror of the headlines.

[ 876]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD THOMAS O’BRIEN

HOME ADDRESS: 3074 S. Broadway, Brainerd, Minn.

oFFIcE apprEss: O’Brien Mercantile Co., Eighth and Laurel, Brainerd, Minn.

porN: Dec. 21, 1905, Brainerd, Minn. parents: Corneilius O’Brien, Elizabeth
Minogue.

PREPARED AT: Washington High School, Brainerd, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929(41)3 A.M. (Univ. of Minne-
sota), 1942.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: President, general manager, O’Brien Mercantile Company and
Brainerd Broadcasting Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Crow Wing County Younger Democrats, 1932-35,
Brainerd Community Relief, 1934-37; president, Brainerd Board of Edu-
cation, 1936-44, Brainerd Rotary Club, 1939, Minnesota State School
Board Association, 1940-42, Upper Minnesota Broadcasters Association,
1952-53; member Executive Board, Democratic Party, State of Minne-
sota, 1939-43; legislative contact, Minnesota Public Schools, 1941, 1943,
Minnesota State Legislature; member Welfare Division State Defense
Council, 1941-43; member Governor Stassen’s Educational Advisory
Committee, 1940-42; chairman, 1946-50, member, Brainerd Charter Com-
mission; member Board, Brainerd Playgoers Association, 1950-53, Civic
Music, since 1950; member Board of Directors, Northwest Retailers
Association, 1951-53; member Advisory Board, College of St. Scholastica,
Duluth, since 1951.

PUBLICATIONS: Contribution to National School Board Journal.

PERHAPS I am the least known member of 1929. Actually I
never spent any time with the Class; ill health interrupted my
College work and caused my being placed with the 1929 group.
During the years following my work at Harvard a good deal of
time was spent building up some physical reserve and interesting
myself in the family-operated business as well as with community
affairs. While a member of the Brainerd Board of Education I
spearheaded establishment of a vocational guidance program, kin-
dergartens, Agricultural Department, junior college, and a salary
schedule. We also built our four major grade school buildings
(all without raising local taxes). During this same period I was
very active in organizing the local coéperative rural electrifica-
tion project and served as secretary-treasurer as well as office
manager during the construction period, I drew number 39 in
our local draft board and was promptly 4-F’d. Subsequently I
joined the American Red Cross and was assigned as assistant field

[ 877 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 .

director at Jefferson Barracks, Camp Wallace and Camp Hood,
and finally as field director at Camp Hood. My stay at Camp
Wallace was during the time it was occupied by the Navy and
where, to my knowledge, I was the only male to do hospital so-
cial welfare work. In 1940 at the close of my work as super-
visor of the federal census for this northern area, I enrolled for the
Summer Session at Harvard instead of taking a usual annual vaca-
tion. This turned out to be the most interesting six weeks ever
spent in school.

While there the various lectures and general atmosphere around
Cambridge awakened me to the seriousness of the international
situation and the fact that my district in Minnesota was repre-
sented by an arch isolationist. I filed for the Democratic nomina-
tion for Congress from Cambridge and subsequently won the
nomination, winning in all precincts of the district. The general
election was unsuccessful but did help lead to the eventual defeat
of the isolationist. Returning to Brainerd immediately after V-J
Day, I took over the management of our family store and placed
in operation our local radio station KLIZ, at the same time re-
maining active in the affairs of the O’Brien Realty and O’Brien
Minerals. My travelling has included every state in the union,
all the provinces of Canada, Alaska, the states of Mexico, Central
America, West Indies, Europe, and Hawaii.

My chief relaxation is my Hammond Organ and the garden at
the lake cabin. Other than the Rotary Club I do not belong to any
social or fraternal clubs and never have. In recent years my main
Rotary activity, other than student loan work, has been connected
with international affairs— particularly foreign students and
United Nations publicity. My religious affiliation is Catholic.
Politically I was always very active in the Democratic Party until
1952. In that election I preferred to remain comparatively inactive
but supported a split ticket including Eisenhower. For years the
local superintendent of schools and myself tossed a coin to see
who would head the local Harvard Club. Since his death there
is no longer anyone with whom to toss the coin. That is the only
thing lacking in this small-town midwestern life — not enough
Harvard men. Otherwise life has been generous in all things good.

[ 878 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LINCOLN O'BRIEN

HOME aApprESS: Circle Drive, Santa Fe, N. Mex.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Radio Plaza, Santa Fe, N. Mex.

porn: Feb. 4, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Lincoln O’Brien, ’91,
Emily Young.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-19209. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1932 (33).

MarRIED: Frances Torka Eliot, Nov. 26, 1935, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Lincoln, Jr., Aug. 12, 1937; Susan, March 12, 1941; Eliot, Nov. 29, 1947.

OCCUPATION: President, owner, New Mexico Newspapers, Inc. chain of four
daily newspapers. —

OFFICES HELD: President, 1951-53, director, Harvard Club of New Mexico,
director, New Mexico Press Association, since 1950; chairman, New
Mexico Committee on Observation of Powered Flight.

MEMBER OF: Alpine Club, London, Associated Press; Harvard Club of Boston.

AFTER graduating from the Harvard Law School (1932) I got
a job as police reporter for the Tulsa (Okla.) Tribune at fifteen
dollars a week. A year later I went home to Dedham for my
sister's wedding and while there took a job as advertising solicitor
and later advertising manager of the Beverly (Mass.) Evening
Times. In November, 1934, I got hold of a little money and
founded the Athol (Mass.) Daily News, which I owned till 1941.
The News was a lucky deal; we got out of the red after nine
months and bought in our three weekly competitors at scrap value
within the first eighteen months. Feeling my oats a little too
strongly and relying unwisely on oral promises of Cape Cod
merchants, in 1936 I founded the Cape Cod Daily Colonial. The
New Bedford papers established a better, larger Cape Cod daily
the next month, which they sold, in combination with their New
Bedford papers, for one cent a week. We lasted thirteen months
and then suspended, selling our machinery and paying off our
debts in full.

In 1937 the owners of the Boston Transcript, having tried to
hire all the well-known newspaper publishers to run their paper,
offered the job to me, then publisher of the Athol Daily News,
for $5,000 a year. That looked like a fabulous salary to me and a
great opportunity. I took it. After a few weeks it was clear that
the Transcript had to be financially and otherwise completely
revamped, The “Tranny” went into voluntary “re-organization
of the capital structure.” The court appointed a receiver, who

[ 879 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

hired me as publisher again. Operating under receivership is lots
of fun; you keep contracts you like and throw out others. You
forget all the bills before the receivership. We jazzed up the
paper, added twenty per cent to its circulation, got the losses
down from around $200,000 a year to Jess than one tenth of that.
A buyer appeared and the Transcript was sold out of receivership
to a new group who retained me. After a few months with the .
new owners I found myself disagreeing with their policy strongly,
and resigned in 1939. Then I bought the Claremont (N. H.) |
Daily Eagle and operated it till 1948. When we sold it, the net
was greater than the gross had been when we bought it.

At the start of the war I was a reserve Field Artillery first
lieutenant. I wangled a captaincy, was stuck in public relations,
wangled my way into Military Intelligence, spent a year at Miami
Beach, a year as assistant military attaché to Brazil, and eighteen
months in Asuncion, Paraguay, ending as a major and military
attaché. No one shot at me except one of my own men (on guard
_ duty) in the very beginning. I had trained him how to shoot so
he missed me. Allow me to recommend this type of war service
to those who appreciate a soft life.

After the war my family and I looked afresh at New England
and decided we wanted out. We moved to New Mexico in 1949.
We are now violent converts to the West in general and to New
Mexico in particular. We live on a hill outside of Santa Fe, ina
house made of mud (adobe), painted pink, with the cellar 1,200
feet higher than the top of Mt. Washington, with nearly constant
sunshine, deep blue skies, and a heated swimming pool. Our
family income is probably less than half of that of our New York
classmates but I don’t see what they buy with what they get.

My elder boy goes to Mountain Valley at Colorado Springs.
He will enter Harvard in 1955. My daughter, Susan, and younger
boy, Eliot, go to Santa Fe public schools and provide noise and
joy around the house. No divorces, no major troubles — so far,
a good life.

With the approach of age and mental maturity I have given
up mountain climbing, which used to be my one big hobby.

Minor hobbies are now camping in the Indian country, garden-
ing, travel, but my principal hobby is flying. New Mexico is the
same size as Italy and my papers—the Tucumcari Daily News,

{ 880 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Gallup Daily Independent, the Las Vegas Daily Optic, and the
Farmington Daily Times — are spread over the northern half of it.
Ordinary transportation became too difficult so my company
bought a Cessna 170 and at the age of forty-three I learned to fly.
Except in serious turbulence, I love flying, have about 800 hours
and a little instrument time. My family can leave home early in
the morning and have lunch with friends on the beach of the
Pacific. We have flown to the East Coast a couple of times, but
you fellows have weather there, so flying for an amateur is
_ harder. Mexico is close by and the Gulf of Mexico is an easy
day’s trip—the same distance as Boston to Charleston, South
Carolina. My wife flies, too, but doesn’t yet have a license to
carry passengers.

New Mexico is our life and we love it with a passion. I hope
to own more newspapers some time but they'll be in New Mexico.
Both in pleasure of living and in economic opportunities the Land
of Enchantment offers five times what New England does. Come
out and see the place, but don’t buy a round-trip ticket — you
won't use the return!

DAVID JOHN O'CONNELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Dedham Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 99 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 11, Easton, Mass. parents: David John O’Connell, Edith Ger-
trude McCaffrey. ,

PREPARED AT: Oliver Ames High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MARRIED: Eva G. Michaud, Sept. 28, 1937, Salem, Mass. cutoren: Judith,
March 25, 1939; Jeannette, July 24, 1945. .

OccuPATION: Manager, Industrial Chemical Division, Howe and French,
Inc,

OFFICES HELD: President, Chemical Club of New England, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Chemical Club of New England; Varsity Club; Western Golf
Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

IT was my intention to enter Law School after completing Col-
lege but conditions existing in the early thirties definitely altered
my plans. In 1930 I was employed in the paper manufacturing
business in Walpole and three years later went into the industrial
chemical field. Majoring in history, government, and economics

[ 88: ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

had not given me an ideal background for the chemical business
and as a result my schoo] days did not end in 1929 but continued
for a number of years thereafter.

I started with my present company in 1933 and worked in
various departments of that organization for a period of years.
Later, I covered the New England territory for that company
as a salesman of industrial chemicals and a few years ago took my
present position as division manager.

While working in Walpole I lived at home but later when I
became employed in Boston I moved in town. In 1935 I took a
house in Dover, married there in 1937, and have lived there up to
the present time. I have two daughters, Judith, now grown up
and attending Dana Hall School, and Jeannette, eight years old
and still attending the Dover schools.

In the field of other activities I have always been a golf en-
thusiast and am still trying to master that game. My bride and
1 also developed a keen interest in sailing some years ago and for
a long time sailed our own boat. In recent years we have been
sailing a Homer Hill’s Java and have done a lot of cruising and
racing along the New England coast. We have competed in two
Marblehead-Halifax ocean races and in one of these brought
home the Class A honors.

Politically, I attend our town meeting regularly and that is
about as much as I can say. Although business has occupied much
of my time I have been active in organizations closely allied to
the industrial chemical field. I was one of the founders of the
Chemical Club of New England and president of that group two
years ago.

RICHARD HENRY O’CONNELL

HOME appress: Quarters E, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point,
N.Y.

orFice appress: U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, N. Y.

Born: March 2, 1903, Cambridge, Mass, parents: Jeffrey James O'Connell,
Mabel Gertrude Daniels.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1929 (31).

Magrigp: Marie Frances Reardon, June 25, 1930, Somerville, Mass. (died May
4 1942); Catherine Jane Reardon, April 8, 1944, Somerville, Mass, cHtL-

[ 882 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pREN: Sheila M., Nov. 18, 1931 (7. Ensign Fred Mahr, Oct. 17, 1953);
Richard P. (adopted); Peter S. (adopted); Nancy (adopted).
occuPATION: Regimental officer, commander, United States Merchant Marine
Academy.
OFFICES HELD: Instructor in English and mathematics, football and track coach,
Suffield Academy, Conn., 1930-37; representative, Ginn & Company,
1937-42; regimental officer, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, since 1945.

O’CONNELL reports that his daughter, Sheila, married a gradu-
ate of Kings Point, an ensign in the U. S. Naval Reserve. His
adopted son Dick is a Korean veteran who holds the Purple Heart
and having attended Officer Candidate School is now a second
lieutenant in Germany. Nancy is in high school. O’Connell him-
self was in the U. S. Navy from 1942 to 1945. His recruit training
was at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station and the naval sta-
tion in Farragut, Idaho. His physical training was at the U. S.
Merchant Marine Academy, at Camp Peary, Virginia, and at
Hollywood, Florida. At the time of his separation he held the
rank of lieutenant commander. His duties as regimental officer of
the U. S. Merchant Marine Academy are the same as those of
the commandant of cadets at West Point and Annapolis. His
hobbies are his family and amateur painting.

REUEL ELLIOTT O’HARRA

HOME ADDRESS: 631 S. Randolph St., Macomb, III.

BORN: July 26, 1908, Macomb, Ill. parents: Ira Jefferson O’Harra, Anna
Dickinson Gloyd. .

PREPARED AT: Macomb High School, Macomb, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B,, 1929.

Marrigp: Ruth Barbara Boole, Aug. 7, 1951 (died Oct. 29, 1953).

OccUPATION: Book reviewer, motion picture story editor.

ANY book reviewer will tell you (and I have reviewed books for
at least fifteen years) that far too many words are disgorged by
our presses. Let this autobiography be brief. In common with the
majority of motion picture readers and story editors I have at one
time or another worked for most of the studios in New York and
Hollywood. We now sit back to await the outcome of Holly-
wood’s latest economic and technological spasm. During World
War II, I fought the Battle of the Potomac four years as training
film officer on the staff of the Director of Military Training, ASF.

[ 883 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I regret that I married so late and became a widower so early.
My present family consists of three Siamese cats. Politically I am
now a liberal Democrat and a staunch admirer of Mr. Stevenson.
At present I am living in New York City and am hunting for a
new apartment. Diversions consist of theatres, concerts, bridge,
conversation, and reading cookbooks. My hobby is cooking, and
I sometimes wish it were my profession.

HYMAN OLKEN

HOME ADDRESS: 207 Rosemary Lane, Philadelphia 19, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 160 N, 15th St., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1907, Woronowa, Poland. parents: Barnet Olken, Freida
Dobrow.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Cambridge High and Latin
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; A.M., 1930.
MARRIED: Miriam K. Stern, Nov. 25, 1951, New York, N. Y. crimp: Frank,
Oct. 8, 1952.

occupation: Publicity writer on scientific and technical developments, John
Falkner Arndt Company, Inc.
MEMBER OF; Institute of Radio Engineers.

I GOT into Harvard by accident (the scholarship to M.I.T. came
— but not soon enough). I deviated there from my long-time
ambition — physical chemistry — into radio engineering, and
spent five years becoming saturated with the equations for what
goes on in electronic circuits. Two things I gained in this five-
year grind were of value: (1) the experience of studying with a
great pioneer (A. E. Kennelly, builder of a new branch of tech-
nology, communication engineering); (2) a liberal arts back-
ground that avoided the narrowness of a strictly engineering cur-
riculum. After Harvard came a few fat years, then several lean
ones, followed by a fifteen-year stretch in the federal Civil Serv-
ice as engineer, technical editor, and finally as specialist in tech-
nical education.

About two years ago I met and married a girl who was also a
Harvard-trained radio engineer (Wave Officer course). I recently
decided that private industry pays best, so I transferred my tech-
nical writing activities to the industrial publicity department of
an advertising agency.

[ 884 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My life-long hobby has been studying the history of inven-
tions. From this two interesting by-products have developed:
(1) a study of methods of training inventors; and (2) a study of
the physiological mechanisms of the human process of thought.
J am working on a book on each of these subjects in whatever
time is left after demands of job, family, and social life.

CONWAY HOWARD OLMSTED

HOME abpREss: 1 Moffett Rd., Lake Forest, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 3501 Howard St., Skokie, Ill.
BorN: Oct. 28, 1907, Harrisburg, Pa. PARENTS: Marlin Edgar Olmsted, Ger-

trude Howard.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§~1929.

marriep: Mary Elizabeth Johnston, Sept. 12, 1931, Lake Forest, Il. cm.
DREN: Conway Howard, Jr., May 3, 19333 Phyllis, March 19, 1936; April,
April 1, 1939; Ethel Hulburd, July 14, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Conway Howard Olmsted, Jr., ’55.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Marlin Edgar Olmsted, Jr. ’21; Henry Cushing Olmsted,
28,

occupation: Chairman of Board, Jas. P. Marsh Corporation, manufacturer
of pressure gauges and other industrial instruments, valves, controls.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Illinois Children’s Home & Aid Society, 1937-q1,
Dauphin Deposit Trust Company, Harrisburg, Pa. since 1946, Gaylord
Container Corporation, St. Louis, since 1949; vestryman, Church of the
Holy Spirit, Lake Forest, 1947-51.

MEMBER OF: Racquet Club, Chicago; Racquet and Tennis Club, New York;
Onwentsia and Shoreacres Golf Clubs, Lake Forest.

AFTER College I started out to be a banker, first in New York
at the City Bank Farmers Trust Company and later, from 1931
to 1933, at the Continental Illinois Bank in Chicago. In the latter
year, at the bottom of the depression, I purchased the Jas. P.
Marsh Corporation in partnership with Barrett Scudder, ’27, and
have been connected with that organization ever since. We make
a large variety of gadgets but by far our largest business is in
pressure gauges and thermometers, sold chiefly to other manufac-
turers who make things which must be equipped with such in-
struments — anything from boilers to beer pumps and, most re-
cently, the atomic submarine, Having started at the top, I have

[ 885 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

no Horatio Alger story to tell, my only achievement having been
to avoid going downwards.

In 1931, the year I moved to Chicago, I married Mary Elizabeth
Johnston (known as “Toodles,” no one knows why), sister of
Hulburd Johnston, ’29, and we have a family consisting of one
son and three daughters, ranging in age from twenty-one down
to seven. Connie, Jr., is in the Army after an involuntarily short-
ened career at Harvard, and the three girls are all in school.

The only break in my family and business life was the usual
one caused by the war, during which I spent three and a half
years in the Navy seeing the world from London to Okinawa.
Compared to many people, I was very lucky in drawing interest-
ing jobs, all of a “staff” nature. The only actual combat in-
volved was at Okinawa where the Kamikazes made sleep difficult.
I am still a commander in the Naval Reserve but have submitted
my resignation which should be accepted soon.

Outside of business activities, I spend a good deal of time rais-
ing springer spaniels and handling them in field trials pretty well
all over the country. I also judge trials from time to time so that
our fall weekends are busy ones —I haven’t had a chance to see
a football game in years. In summer I play a good deal of very
bad golf, my only triumph in that line having been last summer
when with Tim Clark as a partner I won a handsome trophy in
our “Visitors Tournament” (handicap, needless to say). Of
course, with Tim’s combination of grace and fighting spirit, his
partner only has to be able to walk around the course.

Being a friend and great admirer of Adlai Stevenson who was
my attorney for many years, I took a fling at politics in 1952 as
a travelling member of the National Committee of “Volunteers
for Stevenson.” I had a very interesting time, including several
days of “whistle stopping” on the Stevenson train through New
Jersey and Pennsylvania, but when election day was over, it did
not seem that the results of my campaigning justified a continuing
political career! It looks as though nature had intended me to
confine my activities to family life, business, dogs, and, when
Clark is available as a partner, golf.

[ 886 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD OLNEY, JR.

HOME AppREss: Nason Hill Road, Sherborn, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Babson Institute, Wellesley, Mass.

porN: April 3, 1907, Dedham, Mass. parents: Richard Olney, Anna Kerr
McCullagh.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928,

marriED: Isabel Forbes Potter, July 9, 1932, Needham, Mass. cHivprEn:
Nathalie, Jan. 14, 1936; Richard, 3d, Oct. 26, 1938; Austin Potter, Dec.

19, 1947.

occuPaTION: Director of dining halls, Babson Institute.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Charles River School, 1947~50; chairman, Sherborn
United Community Fund, 1953-54.

UPON leaving college after two and a half years, I tried banking,
insurance, and manufacturing, and finally ended up in the travel
business. I had over three years in the Coast Guard; then with a
partner I operated my own maintenance and painting business.
Since 1947 I have been at Babson Institute of Business Adminis-
tration, a men’s business college in Wellesley, where I have found
the work interesting and varied.

I was married at the bottom of the depression in 1932. I have
three children, one already grown up and through school —as
hard to believe as the fact that it is a quarter of a century since
we were all together in Cambridge.

I have had very little chance to travel, but keep busy working
weekends on our farm with some tennis, swimming, skating. The
last twenty-five years have had their ups and downs, but I believe
the ups have outweighed the downs, especially if you are a phi-
losopher, which one really needs to be in this day and age.

JAMES ARCHER O'REILLY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 6322 Pershing Ave., St. Louis, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1421 Pierce Bldg., St. Louis 2, Mo.

BoRN: July 28, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: James Archer O'Reilly, ’o2,
MD.,, 06, Jane Elliott Sever.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1931.

mMarRieD: Mary Margaret Conway, Nov. 16, 1934, St. Louis, Mo. CHILDREN:

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Jane Conway, April 5, 1936; Mary Elliott, Oct, 17, 1939; James Archer,
3d, Feb. 3, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Noel Sever O'Reilly, ’31, M.B.A., °33; Daniel Elliott O’Reil-
ly, °38, Mv. "42.

occuPATION: Secretary and financial secretary, American Automobile Insur-
ance Company and subsidiaries: American Automobile Fire Insurance
Company and Associated Indemnity Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, treasurer, Guaranty Trust Company of Missouri
(Clayton), since 1947; director, Harvard Fund Council, since 1947, St.
Louis Community Play House, 1948; vice-president, 1946-47, president,
1947-49, director, since 1946, Missouri Society for Crippled Children and
Adults, Inc.; member Executive Committee, chairman, Scholarship Com-
mittee, 1947-50, vice-president, 1948-49, National Society for Crippled
Children and Adults, Inc.; member, Visiting Committee of Board of
Overseers of Harvard College, 1949-54; member, St. Louis County Fund
Investment Advisory Committee, since 1951; vice-chairman, Health &
Hospital Division and director, St. Louis Social Planning Council;
chairman, Committee to Study Rehabilitation Services, 1951, Social
Planning Council; member Budget Committee, Children’s Service Divi-
sion, 1947-§1, chairman Central Budget and Policy Committee, and
member Board of Directors and Board of Governors, Greater St. Louis
Community Chest; member Advisory Committee, Volunteer Film As-
sociation (St. Louis), since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston, New York, and St, Louis; University
Club of St. Louis.

DESPITE superhuman efforts in English A, sparkling prose has

never been an attribute of mine. Fortunately, in the many reports

demanded of me during the past twenty years, debits and credits

rather than literary style have been the main requirements. So I

shall proceed in the manner to which I am most accustomed.

The thirties having been what they were for most of us, plus
the fact that I had a good deal more trouble getting out of Cam-
bridge than I had getting in, my early aspirations towards chem-
istry as a career were soon filed under “debit.” I filled in the years
1929 and 1933 with a daytime apprenticeship in investment analysis
at the Mississippi Valley Trust Company and my evenings as gen-
eral handyman at the St. Louis Little Theatre: small credit in the
exchequer — but charged off to excellent experience!

On November 16, 1933, I secured my first regular position with
take-home pay, as assistant to the statistician of the American
Automobile Insurance Company. One year from that day I was
married. These dates I enter on the “credit” side. Twenty years
with the American Auto have seen a gradual change in my titles

[ 888 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

— each prefixed by “assistant” — until assistant treasurer becomes
treasurer, financial secretary, and secretary. These last two titles
I hold today on behalf of each of our three companies.

Three children in three different schools supply a variety of de-
mands and interests that are frequently overwhelming, but always
creditable. They’re good tourists— and loaded into a station
wagon, we've covered most of the United States and Canada.
When stop-overs included, as they often have, visits with Harvard
classmates from Boston to Los Angeles, there’s very special satis-
faction in finding friendships springing up in the second genera-
tion. Jane, our eldest, who graduates from Villa Duchesne in
June, has high hopes of entering Radcliffe in 1954 to follow in the
footsteps of my mother — Jane Sever O'Reilly, Radcliffe ’99.

My contribution to World War II consisted of a three-year
stretch with the Missouri State Guard, a period during which I
helped provide basic training for several hundred prospective
draftees and attained the rank of captain. |

An inherited interest in crippled children led to my succeeding
my father, Dr. Archer OReilly, ’o2, as president of the Missouri
Society for Crippled Children for three years— and to further
service with the National Society for Crippled Children. This,
in turn, led to a variety of jobs with the Community Chest, the
Social Planning Council, and other local community and welfare
agencies. On Sunday mornings I work for the choir-master of
Saint Roch’s Catholic Church and try to keep abreast of the de-
mand for repairs around the house —a sideline in which I have,
of necessity, become quite adept. A thirty-eight-foot ladder has
replaced my rusting golf clubs, paint brushes my squash racquet,
but painting my own house on a sunny weekend produces its own
branch of suntan and satisfaction.

It has been my pleasure to serve as secretary of the Associated
Harvard Clubs since 1946. During that period I have been in con-
tact with Harvard men throughout the world and have particu-
larly enjoyed our meetings in Cambridge and throughout the
country. Such an avocation gives one a great respect for Harvard
and her men. As we approach our Twenty-fifth I am gratified to
see the increasing number of our classmates who have taken an
active interest in alumni affairs through their local Harvard clubs.

Through my position as secretary, I have had the privilege of

[ 889 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

serving on the Harvard Fund Council and have been appointed to
a Visiting Committee of the Board of Overseers. This has afforded
me a ringside seat for the introduction of courses in general edu-
cation, Dean Bender’s report on the College and its adoption, and
now a new president for Harvard and distinguished honors for
James Bryant Conant. It has been an exciting experience.

Since an accounting of twenty-five years in the normal span
of life is at best a trial balance, this statistician finds it a source of
great satisfaction to record that in this his second quarter of a
century, the sum of the credits far exceeds the sum of the debits
in his personal ledger.

LESLIE BECKER OSBORNE

MAILING AppRESS: % B. B. Hall, 1913 N. Vance St., Arlington, Va.

BORN: March 14, 1908, San Jose, Costa Rica. parents: Edmund Arthur Os-
borne, Lilly de Jongh.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MaRRIED: Lila Mae Hall, March 21, 1933, Las Cruces, N. Mex.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stanley de Jongh Osborne, ’26.

OCCUPATION: Aviation; import-export.

MEMBER OF: Masons; American Club of Tokyo, Japan; Union Club of
Tokyo; University Club of Tokyo; Anglo-American Club, Bogota,
Colombia; ABI, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Gatun Golf Club, Gatun, Canal
Zone.

SINCE leaving Cambridge in 1929, I have covered most of the
known world with the exception of Europe both for military and
business reasons, but the place on which I have concentrated has
been Latin America. I have been in aviation, import-export, and
the oil business and conservatively figure I have covered about
two and a half million miles by every possible way of travel from
burro-back to aircraft. Militarily I was in the Air Force during
the unpleasantness and am still a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air
Force Reserve. Due to my being out of the U.S. almost continu-
ously I have voted only once and then very proudly for Willkie.
My last sojourn was in Mexico from which I have just returned
and as I expect to leave for the Caribbean area any day now I do
not expect to be in Cambridge in June for the big doings.

[ 890 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALFRED J. OSTHEIMER, III

HOME appreEss: “Grimmet,” Whitford, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1510 Chestnut St., Philadelphia 2, Pa.

porN: April 25, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Maurice Ostheimer, ’94,
Martha Gibson MclIlvain.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Gray, June 30, 1928, Gwynedd Valley, Pa. (divorced
1934); Ruth Magargle, May 29, 1935, Glen Loch, Pa. cuitpren: Barbara
Gray, April 3, 1929 (mm. Joseph F. St. Georges, Feb. 7, 1948); James A.,
4th, June 27, 1932; Anthony Mcllvain, Jan. 27, 1936; John Maurice, Nov.

‘22, 1938; Martha, March 28, 1941. GRANDCHILDREN: Joseph Kennedy
St. Georges, Sept. 20, 1948; Philip Maurice St. Georges, Aug. 7, 1951;
Aimée Gray St. Georges, Nov. 28, 1953.

HARVARD SON: Anthony Mcllvain Ostheimer, ’57.

OCCUPATION: President and director, Ostheimer and Company, Inc., Ost-
heimer-Walsh, Inc., Ostheimer Realty Corporation; proprietor, Osthei-
mer and Company; director and member executive committee, New
York Water Service Corporation, Michigan Gas and Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant scoutmaster, 1928-31; member, Class Committee,
1929; member executive committee, 1942-45, chairman, 1944, chairman,
by-laws committee, since 1945, Million Dollar Round Table; various
managerial positions, Community Chest of Downington and Chester
Valley; member, various committees, National Association Life Under-
writers, Philadelphia Association Life Underwriters; president, 1951,
member executive committee, since 1951, Northwestern Mutual Special
Agents Association.

MEMBER OF: Racquet Club, Philadelphia; Harvard Clubs of Philadelphia and
New York; Union League Club, Chicago; American Alpine Club; Penn-
sylvania and Philadelphia Associations of Life Underwriters; Million
Dollar Round Table; Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia; Amer-
ican Malacalogical Union.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles for publications of Harvard Mountaineering .
Club, American Alpine Club, Alpine Club of Canada, Royal Geographic
Society, and other periodicals about mountaineering; various articles for
surance trade publications.

AT our graduation I was an overworked husband of one year with
a baby daughter. The year had been spent learning something of
the paper box business, thanks to the kindness of the Dean’s office
in granting a leave of absence. Based on hindsight, I should say
that completion of the required college work in three years con-
stituted a most grievous error; however, at the age of twenty, no

[ 891]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ories and I think I can see a measure of success, gained amidst

family and home surroundings which provide essential happiness
and peace of mind.

BROOKS OTIS

HOME ADDRESS: 639 S. Main St., Geneva, N. Y.
oFFIcE appress: Hobart College, Geneva, N. Y.

BoRN: June 10, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward Osgood Otis, '71,
Marion Faxon.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1929; A-M., 1930; PHD.
1935.

MagkieD: Christine Cheney, May 22, 1937, Birmingham, Ala. CHILDREN:
Brooks Adams, May 3, 1938; Marion Faxon, July 14, 1940; Franklin
Carter Cheney, Sept. 24, 1943; Irene Renny B., Nov. 27, 1947; Paul
Hamilton, Aug. 22, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Osgood Otis, Jr., ’22.

occupation: Hobart Professor of Greek and Latin, chairman of Division of
Humanities, Hobart College.

OFFICES HELD: Member committees, University Club, Creighton Club, Gug-
genheim fellow, 1952-53; senior Fulbright Research fellow, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association; Creighton Club; A.A.U.P.;
American Council on Religion in Higher Education (fellow); Guild of
Scholar-Churchmen.

PUBLICATIONS: Reviews, short articles; long articles in H.S. Pb. Trans. Am.
Phil.

MY formal career has little salience on the record. I have taught
briefly at Earlham College, Richmond, Indiana, and summer quar-
ters at the University of Chicago and Ohio State University, but
my main job has been at Hobart College (since 1935), where I
have risen to professional glories — such as they are. My prin-
cipal academic achievement has been in the inauguration and par-
tial direction of a “General Education” program at Hobart which
is even slightly older than Harvard’s, But I don’t consider myself
as the summary of a professional career. My major interest has
been in the philosophy of history, and I’ve given some two decades
to a book that I hope, thanks to recent Guggenheim and Fulbright
grants, to bring out before too long. I have had a five-child fam-
ily and have been therefore interested in various population prob-
lems in practice as well as theory,

[ 894]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am very conscious of the fact that I have developed very late.
J have found an academic career in a nice up-state New York
town and in a small and poor college very pleasant, mainly because
I've enjoyed as much freedom to do what I wanted as I could
reasonably expect anywhere in this present world. I would define
this freedom of mine as a relatively great opportunity to get away
from routine and to try to reach conclusions as to what this tem-
poral existence of ours is all about. My feeling is that philosophy
is too important a subject to be left to the professional philos-
ophers.

The main themes of my concern have changed from politics to
economics to philosophy and religion. Since man has at length
devised for himself a quick return to the sub-atomic order from
which the physical, biological, and human orders took some bil-
lions of years to emerge, man seems to have posed to himself
rather neatly the reason for his own existence. Why indeed avoid
nothingness? The answer is mot 1 now think to be found in the
kind of thinking in which Democrats, Republicans, and — yes —
Communists and Fascists (past or potentially future) indulge.

But aside from all this, life has been reasonably pleasant. I mar-
nied into the Deep South and have never regretted it. The infla-
tion has been trying but not catastrophic. I leave within six days
of this writing for a year in Rome and hope to find something
new there. Five offspring are often a pain in the neck but they
are also nice to have around. I spent some four months around
Harvard this year and discovered that it was now a co-educational
institution. I don’t object,

JOSEPH WILLETTS OUTERBRIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Chambers Terr., Princeton, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Homasote Co., Trenton, N, J.

BORN: Aug. 22, 1907, Skaneateles, N. Y. PARENTS: Samuel Roosevelt Outer-
bridge, ’97, Amie Willetts.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MaRRiED: Sarah Richmond, April 6, 1934, Glen Head, Long Island, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Joseph, May 25, 1935; David R., April 30, 1937; S. Martin,

April 25, 1940; Patience, Dec. 4, 1945.

[ 895 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occupation: Secretary and director, Homasote Company, manufacturers
of wood-fibre building board, secretary and director, Nova Sales
Company; research director, Hobson & Hess, Limited.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, The Homasote Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club; Cruising Club of America;
Royal Ocean Racing Club; Engineers Club of Trenton; Nassau Club
of Princeton.

AS a close friend of Miss Patience Outerbridge, I consented im-
mediately when her father, Joseph Willetts Outerbridge, proposed
that I serve as his amanuensis— and, of course, anything for a
good neighbor. That is why, for the first time in Harvard history,
a so-called autobiographical sketch is being written by one John
O'Hara (ex-Fordham Preparatory School ’23) who has an even
more remote connection with Harvard than with the university
in the town in which both Outerbridge and his ghost-writer live.

Over long cups of coffee — Outerbridge and I are on the wagon
—I have learned that Pat resigned from College in 1928, a resig-
nation which he says was accepted without regret, but which he
also maintains carried with it the understanding that he could
retum to Harvard any time, upon two weeks’ notice to the
Registrar.

In the summer of that year Pat went to the Olympics on the
team with Ray Barbuti, Sabin Carr, Eleanor Holm, and others.
He took third place in the six-metre event. That somehow pre-
pared him for a job with Western Union in New York, where
he first stood behind a counter, learned to hate the American
public (he says; I question it), and eventually rose by sitting
down. That is, he went from the counter to a desk.

In 1931 he sailed to England in Dudley Wolfe’s cutter, High-
land Light, entered the Fastnet Race, and had the pleasure of
watching the seasickness of the Dean who first put him on pro.
Later he cruised along the Cornish Riviera and made a three-
weeks’ trip in a fishing smack out of Brixham. Next time out the
trawler burned and sank with all hands.

He went back to the Highland Light in 1932, on her passage
to Bermuda which established a record: half an hour less than
three days. I draw the veil over his resumption of activity with
Western Union, his parting company with the dit-da merchants,

and his 1933 efforts to sell insurance. Instead, I can report that

[ 896 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

he cruised down East — Nova Scotia, Cape Breton Island, and
the Bras d’Or, and in 1938 he was again in the Bermuda race, this
time in Narwhal, with Bob Leeson, Rich Warren, and George
Tiffany, which he regards as one of the few bright spots between
1934 and 1941. His recollection of that period is, you might
say, viscose; he was working for an oil company. He does not
put the knock on the oil company, but he has no happy memories
of commuting on the Long Island Railroad (who has?) to a city
that he didn’t like anyway.

He tried a small woodworking shop of his own; no cigar; or,
maybe, no cigar box. Then he got a job as a draftsman with the
Homasote Company, Trenton, New Jersey, manufacturers of
wood-fibre wall board, went to night school, and, by completing
a four-year course in machine design in two years and graduating
at the top of his class, achieved what he regards as his only aca-
demic distinction. Nothing like Harvard, he says, to fit a man
for trade school. In this period he moved his increasing family
to Princeton, probably using up the ten-dollar prize he won at
trade school. During the war, Homasote supplied board for
emergency wartime housing and has expanded since those days.
I wouldn’t know. I visited the plant once with a hangover and
all I know about the place is that you come out of the press-room
feeling as though you had been in the Luxor Baths with your
clothes on.

Pat has told me he has no social convictions, but he also has
told me he is a McKinley-type Republican, which in my opinion
means ironbound social convictions. He is what you might call an
Easter Sunday Episcopalian.

I know about his hobbies. He has a cellar workshop where he
puts together high-fidelity record players and where he has
turned for me a set of Old Fashioned muddlers and a desk orna-
ment made out of an old brass Stewart speedometer. The mud-
dlers are in, I hope, temporary retirement. The objet d’art fits
in with an activity of my own; I like to shine shoes and do the
brightwork. In active sports he likes to sail in anything that
floats on salt water and in spectator sports likes dirt-track auto-
racing, crew racing, track meets, and the Yale-Princeton football
games of ’28, 34, '36, and ’53. Propinquiry, in other words, has
done nothing to change his attitude towards the local University.

[ 897 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I hope Miss Patience Outerbridge approves of this report, for
if she doesn’t, Pll hear from Miss Wylie O’Hara, who is an even
closer friend of hers and somewhat less removed by age.

DAVID MICHAEL OWENS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Perkins St., Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of Senate Counsel, 306 State House, Boston 33, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 23, 1908, Roxbury, Mass. parents: David Michael Owens, Kathe-
rine Elizabeth Condon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 19293; LL.B, (Boston Univ.), 1932.
UN MARRIED.

occupation: Lawyer, assistant counsel to Massachusetts Senate.

OFFICES HELD: Member Massachusetts House of Representatives, 1936-403 as-
sistant corporation counsel, City of Boston, 1940-42; treasurer, 1951-52,
vice-president, 1953, New England Chapter, Judge Advocates Associa-
tion; major, Judge Advocate General’s Department, U.S. Army Reserve,
1947-53.

MEMBER OF: Eire Society, Boston; Knights of Columbus; Catholic Alumni
Sodality; Judge Advocates Association; Massachusetts Bar Association;
Massachusetts Legislators Association.

IN the fall of 1929 I began the study of law, and in 1932 I was
graduated from the Boston University School of Law and admitted
to the Massachusetts Bar in the same year. Four years later I was
elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives where I
served until 1940. In that year I ran for Congress, the times being
propitious, but my Republican opponent took the seat. Although
I didn’t think so at the time, and had strong intention of running
again, that marked the end of my career as candidate for public
office. My experience in politics was one which I thoroughly en-
joyed; it was as good as a college education.

In 1940 I was appointed an assistant corporation counsel in the
City of Boston, in which capacity I acted as legislative agent for
the city in matters affecting it which were before the legislature.
I also represented the city in the trial of tax cases before the Ap-
pellate Tax Board.

In April, 1942, I was drafted into the Army. In the latter part
of 1943, I resumed the study of law — military law — at the Uni-
versity of Michigan Law School, as a member of the Judge Advo-
cates Officer Candidate School. I was later assigned to the goth

[ 898 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Division as assistant staff judge advocate, and went overseas with
that division in September, and remained with it until transferred,
in July, 1945, to the rst Infantry Division. I was appointed acting
staff judge advocate of that division in October, 1945, and served
until February, 1946.

In May of 1946 I returned to the law office where I found it
difficult to get into the swing, due partly to my army experience
and partly to the fact that the Red Sox were winning a pennant
that year. However, after October, I was back in the groove. In
1949 I was appointed assistant counsel to the Massachusetts Sen-
ate, which position I now hold. For relaxation I enjoy going to
baseball games and to college football and hockey games. I play
a little golf, and get a real kick out of scoring in the nineties,
which occasionally happens.

JAMES PETER PAPPAS

HOME ADDRESS: 809 Corbett Ave., San Francisco 14, Calif. (temporary).

OFFICE apprEss: Public Health Branch, Korea Civil Assistance Command,
APO 59, % Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif,

BORN: June 6, 1908, Manchester, N. H. parents: Peter Demetriu Pappas,
Fanny N. Stefis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D. cum laude (Tufts
Coll.), 1934; M.p.H. (Harvard Univ.), 1952.

MarRieD: Ann Cordelia MacLennan, July 28, 1934, Somerville, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: James Leonard, April 7, 1937; Ralph Byron, March 14, 1940.

occupation: Colonel, Medical Corps, Regular United States Army.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Governors, Korean Communications Zone,
Medical-Dental Society, since 1952; member Board of Directors, Pusan
City Charity Children’s Hospital, since 1953; honorary “Father Superior,”
Convent of Trinitarians, Meaux, France, 1946.

MEMBER OF: Sir William Osler Honorary Society, Tufts Medical College;
Alpha~-Omega-Alpha National Honorary Medical Society; Delta~-Omega
National Honorary Public Health Society, Preventive Medicine Society,
US, Eighth Army, Korea; American Board of Public Health and Pre-
ventive Medicine (diplomate); American College of Hospital Adminis-
trators; American Public Health Association (fellow); American Medi-
cal Association (fellow); Massachusetts Medical Association (fellow);
Massachusetts Public Health Association; Association of Military Sur-
geons; Association of Harvard Chemists; Academy of Social and Politi-
cal Science; Harvard Clubs of Boston and St. Petersburg; Harvard Club
of Cape Cod (founder-member); A.F. & A.M.; Sojourners,

[ 899 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

puBLications: Numerous articles on public health, preventive medicine, and
hospital administration.

ACCOUNT of life since graduation:

House officer, Mount Auburn Hospital, Cambridge, June, 1934
—July, 1935.

Resident obstetrician, Evangeline Booth Hospital, Boston, July-
December, 1935.

Entered on active duty as first lieutenant, Medical Corps, De-
cember 8, 1935; assigned First Corps Area CCC duty and later as
Corps Area medical inspector.

Chief, surgeon service, Station Hospital, Fort Adams, R. I,
May, 1938-September, 1939.

Postgraduate study, U. S. Army Medical School, Washington,
D. C., September-December, 1939; Field Medical Service School
U. S. Army, Carlisle Barracks, Carlisle, Pennsylvania, January-
April, 1940.

Chief, surgical service, Station Hospital, Fort Davis, Canal Zone,
April, 1940-March, 1943.

Assistant commanding officer, Medical Replacement Training
Battalion, MRTC., Camp Barkeley, Texas, April-June, 1943.

Venereal disease control officer, Camp Joseph T. Robinson,
Little Rock, Arkansas, June-September, 1943.

University of Virginia, School of Military Government, Char-
lottesville, Virginia, September, 1943—-January, 1944.

Surgeon, European Civil Affairs Division, commanding officer,
European Civil Affairs/Military Government Medical Group,
June, 1944-September, 1945; personal representative of chief
public health and welfare, G-s5, Supreme Headquarters, American
Expeditionary Forces (SHAEF) for public health operations in
northwest Europe, September, 1944-September, 1945.

Chief operations, Public Health Branch, G—s5 Office of Military
Government, U. S. Zone, Germany, September, 1945—April, 1946.

Chief health officer, Office of Military Government, Land Ba-
varia, Germany, May-August, 1946.

Executive officer, Murphy General Hospital, Waltham, Massa-
chusetts, August, 1946-December, 1948; U. S. Army Command
and General Staff School, 1947 (equiv.).

Commanding officer, U. S. Army Hospital, Fort Devens, Massa-

[ 900 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

chusetts, and surgeon of that command, September, 1950-Sep-

tember, 1951.
Postgraduate study: Harvard School of Public Health, Septem-

ber, 1951—June, 1952.

Chief, Public Health Branch, United Nations Civil Assistance
Command, Korea, October, 1952, to date. (Command redesig-
nated Korea Civil Assistance Command, June, 1953.) During this
period, adviser to Minister of Health, Republic of Korea.

Military decorations: United States — Legion of Merit, Bronze
Star, Commendation Medal, National Defense Medal with one com-
bat star, American Theatre Medal, European Theatre Medal with
four combat stars, Victory Medal (World War II), Army of Oc-
cupation (Germany, World War II), Korean Theatre Medal with
four combat stars; foreign decorations — Order of Public Health
(Officer Class, France), Order of the Royal Crown (Officer Class,
Belgium), Order of the Star of Solidarity (Italy), Order of Ulchi
with Star (Korea), Korean Campaign Medal (United Nations),
Presidential Unit Citation (Republic of Korea).

ALWIN MAX PAPPENHEIMER, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 24 Gramercy Park, New York 3, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 477 First Ave., New York, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 25, 1908, Cedarhurst, Long Island, N. Y. Parents: Alwin Max
Pappenheimer, ’99, Beatrice Leo. .

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1929; PH.D., 1932.

MARRIED: Pauline Forbes, Sept. ro, 1938, Naushon Island, Mass. CHILDREN:
Ruth Forbes, July 21, 1939; Sara Ann, July 10, 1942; John Forbes, Sept.
26, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Richard Pappenheimer, ’36.

OccuPATION: Professor of microbiology, New York University College of
Medicine; research.

OFFICES HELD: Member Commission on Immunization of Armed Forces Epi-
demiological Board; member National Research Council committees;
editor, Journal of Immunology, bacteriological reviews; holder, Eli Lilly
Award in Bacteriology, 1942; member Council, 1950-52, vice-president,
1953, president, 1954, American Association of Immunologists; member
Council, Harvey Society, 1950-52.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, American Chemical Society;
American Society of Biological Chemists; Biochemical Society, England;
Société de Biochimie, France; Society of American Bacteriologists; Har-

[ 901 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

vard Society; New York Academy of Science (fellow); New York
Academy of Medicine (associate fellow).

pustications: Nature and Significance of the Antibody Response, editor,
Columbia University Press, 1953; about fifty publications, various sci-
entific journals.

IF I had to relive the past twenty-five years there is little I would
care to change. In fact, I not infrequently have the guilty feeling
that life has treated me more kindly than I deserve, since I must
confess that I have spent most of the time since our graduation in
doing just what I wanted to do. Perhaps the only exception was
for a brief period during the war when I served under a Gl.
colonel whose resemblance to Commander Queeg of the Caine
was striking. Both my professional life and my family life have
been intensely happy and singularly free from sorrow.

Provided one enjoys a moderate success, a university professor's
life has much to recommend it. Scientific research has its exciting
moments and if one has the occasional good fortune to discover
a rational explanation for a previously unexplained phenomenon,
it can be very satisfying. Moreover, one is constantly making new
and stimulating friendships with colleagues from all over the
world.

It is usually possible to arrange a change of scene during the
summer months. Recently I have spent my summers at Harvard
working on insect physiology in Carroll Williams’ (Ph.D. 741)
laboratory. I had my first sabbatical leave in 1951 and was able to
spend a full year in Paris working with my close friend, Jacques
Monod. Our three children learned to speak fluent French and
to love that country as I do. Christmas was spent skiing in the
Tyrol, Easter at the Riviera, and during the summer we drove
up through Sweden and back to Paris again.

I have never been interested in politics. I like to think of my-
self as a liberal but usually end up by being conservative and voting
for the Democrats. The present trend does worry me and I fear
that McCarthyism is a far more serious menace to us than is Com-
munism, although I have little sympathy for either doctrine.
Music continues to be one of my most active hobbies. I get little
opportunity to play squash or to ski any more but do get exercise
on our farm in Connecticut taking care of a vegetable garden and
cutting wood.

[ go2 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STEWART PEARCE PARK

HOME ADDRESS: 520 Fourth St., Mamaroneck, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 140 West St., New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 24, 1907, Saltsburg, Pa. parents: James Williams Park, a.m, ’15,
Mabel D. Pemberton Pearce.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.; Erasmus Hall, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB., 1929.

MARRIED: Evelyn Dow, Sept. 16, 1932, Forest Hills, N. Y. CHILDREN: Stewart
Pearce, Jr., June 13, 1936, Carol Virginia, Oct. 7, 1937; Robert Edward,
March 21, 1940.

occupation: Commercial personnel supervisor, New York Telephone Com-
pany.

OFFICES ye: Chairman, Membership Committee, Official Board, Mamaro-
neck Methodist Church, 1946-54; president, Mamaroneck Second Sun-
day Forum, 1936-50, Mamaroneck University Club, 1950-51; Boy Scout
Troop Committeeman, 1948-54; chairman, New York Communications
Division, American Red Cross, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Sigma Fraternity; Telephone Pioneers of America; West-
chester Grand Jury Association, Mamaroneck Community Chest; Taft
School Alumni Association; Harvard Club of New York.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I joined the Hills Brothers
Company, packers of Dromedary Dates and other such toothsome
delicacies, but after a year I switched from confections to com-
munications. It wasn’t just the right time to make my fortune,
and somehow it never has been. Nevertheless, in 1932 Evelyn
Dow, my Harvardian girl-friend decided to take a chance, and we
were married. She was there at that wonderful day in the Bowl
last November still sporting the “H” handkerchief I sent her my
sophomore year. Also present were Ty Sweeney and Gerry
Sweeney, her sister, through whom it all came about.

The year 1936 was memorable because of the tercentenary and
the meeting of Walt Koch with one of my kid sisters, Gertrude,
whom he promptly married. The two of them nobly uphold the
“Twenty-nine” tradition in the Republic of Texas with frequent
visits to terra firma, The same year Stewart, Jr., appeared. Sad to
relate, he decided to win a Ford Foundation scholarship and enter
Columbia at sixteen, rather than wait another year for Harvard.
He is doing well in pursuit of an engineering degree, but he has
made life miserable for me on the last two Harvard-Columbia
football weekends. A year later came my daughter, Carol, a
charming lass who is now a high school junior with ambitions for

[ 903 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Smith or Wellesley, getting closer to Cambridge. In 1940, rapid
Robert arrived. He now slides a mean trombone and shows
definite crimson tendencies.

As for myself, I have kept active with the New York Tele-

hone Company, as manager of one exchange area after another
in New York, and in the last few years as personnel supervisor,
where I have been involved in the codrdination of employment,
training, employee education, medical matters, pensions, and a
hundred other personnel activities, all of which have been tre-
mendously interesting and, while sometimes exasperating, very

satisfying.

For twelve years until the war, quite by accident, I found
myself an instructor of English in the evening session of Brook-
lyn College. This was a most rewarding experience with many
of the thousands of fine young folks who have attended New
York’s splendid municipal colleges. I learned much from them
and hope that a little of what Harvard has meant to me became
significant in their lives.

Early in 1941, as the result of the patriotic foresight of the
Harvard Club of New York, I became associated with the First
Fighter Command of the U. S. Air Force. In a civilian capacity
I served during nights, Sundays, holidays, and weekends as chief
civilian air raid warning officer for the eastern seaboard area,
centering around New York. In my spare time I also served
as an intercept officer at the Control Center. While fortunately

our efforts ultimately came to nothing, it was a stirring expe-
rience, though not to be compared with that of those who were
overseas.

In 1945 we moved from the backwoods of Brooklyn to West-
chester County. I soon realized I had never had it so good before.
There has been no peace since, with all the church, social, and
civic activity of suburban life. But it has been interesting and
satisfying, and the whole crowd has thoroughly enjoyed subur-
bia. Vacations for many years have been spent in New England
at our farm in the Green Mountains of Vermont. North Pownal
is the post office, off Route 7, and all Twenty-niners are welcome
each August.

So, today I find myself a Twenty-fifth Reunioner, wondering
where the quarter century has gone. Blessed with family and

[ 904 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

friends, encouraged that the debilitating influence of the “New”
and allied “Deals” seems to have passed, and that the communists
are being routed out, still looking skeptically for my first million,
I think I still possess a bit of that bright optimism of June, 1929,
and am eagerly anticipating June, 1954. Maybe they should call
me Pollyanna Park.

JAMES BEALS PARKER

HOME apprEss: 44 Moulton St., Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 44 Moulton St., Hamilton, Mass.; Dictograph Products, Inc,
Park Square Bldg., Boston, Mass.

Born: May 9, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Walter Adams Parker, ‘or,
Anne Read Beals.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRIED: Helen Angela LaChance, July 14, 1935, Plaistow, N. H. cum:
James Beals, Jr., Sept. 22, 1936.

occuPpATION: Owner, Parker Sales Co., distributor of specialty products; sales-
man, Fire Alarm Division, Dictograph Products, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Pi Eta Club; Ipswich Bay Yacht Club; American Radio Relay
League,

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in American Photography magazine.

IT seems incredible that twenty-five years have passed since the
coveted sheepskins were passed around. An abundance of water
has flowed over the dam since 1929, some smooth and some
rough enough to weed out the men from the boys.

It took some time for me to be converted to the state of mat-
rimony but in 1935 I finally succumbed, and from then on we
seemed to do nothing but move from state to state as the war
progressed and circumstances dictated. Of course, the real high-
light for us is our only, not too spoiled son, Jim Jr., who is now
seventeen and bigger and stronger than his dad and a much bet-
ter ball player. He finishes school next year and wants to enlist
in Uncle Sam’s Navy.

My business interests have varied over the years, embracing
the manufacture of concrete pipe, investments, chain store man-
agement, custom electronic equipment, aircraft superchargers,
army gun mounts, electrical appliances, and specialty products.
At present I am connected with the sales department of Dicto-
graph Products, Inc., here in Boston.

[ go5 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 —

Religiously, I am in the middle and politically I find the wait
too long between elections of my chosen candidates. Radio,
television, and newspapers leave me cold. According to these
so-called educational media, everyone is slowly dying of some
dread disease or will be blown to bits if he lives that long. Per-
haps we could all lead a more constructive and stable life if we
lived a little closer to heaven and earth. In this respect, spare
time photography and gardening here on four acres take some
of the sting out of modern living, and when the weather is right
we take out a few friends for a ride or deep sea fishing on the
Angela, a rough but capable sport fisherman. As for the next
twenty-five years, let them fall where they may and “be the good
Lord willing” I shall be around to say hello again in 1979.

NEWTON BELMONT PARKER ©

HOME ADDRESS: 2306 California St. N. W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1818 H St., N. W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1907, New York. parents: William Belmont Parker, ’97,
Helen Louise Newton.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929(30); A.M. 1044)

MarRieD: Mary Godfrey Pepper, July 5, 1938, Philadelphia, Pa. (divorced
1947); Cary Blunt Millholland, Feb. 6, 1954, Washington, D. C.

HARVARD BROTHER: Barrett Parker, A.M., ’35.

OCCUPATION: Economist, staff member, International Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development, specialist, Latin American economic develop-
ment problems.

WHEN I graduated in 1930 1 was lucky enough t to be able to
choose between two jobs — making floors in Newark or teaching
school in Arizona. Since making floors seemed to me hardly a
fitting sequel to a Harvard degree, I followed George Weller
into the Great American Desert. At that time, and in spite of
George, Harvard graduates had yet to achieve general popular-
ity in the desert. Came the end of the academic year, I found
myself right back where I'd been at its beginning — only with
no choice of jobs at all, Memories of the next years are spectacu-
larly lacking in nostalgia. But in 1935 my good angel finally
came out of hiding and I rated myself a pampered child of for-
tune to be heading once more for Arizona. There, under condi-

[ 906 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tions of fading ambition, static income, and rampant good health,
I remained until after Pearl Harbor.
At that point, with the purpose of enhancing my potential
usefulness to the Navy, I returned to Harvard, where on the
Navy’s advice I set out to add some Portuguese to my moderately
effective Spanish. That effort was concluded just about a week
after the Navy decided it no longer wanted either Spanish or
Portuguese; the Navy cheerfully recommended me to the Army.
While the Army pondered the merits of its sister service’s recom-
mendation (findings ultimately negative), I took counsel with
Professor Haring, and in 1944, after some poignant differences of
opinion as to my latent talents, the History Department some-
what reluctantly awarded me an A.M. in Latin American history.
The step from there to economics seeming to Professor Burbank
(who bore a very close resemblance to my good angel at its
best) a natural and proper one, I therefore transferred to Littauer.
In the fall of 1946, having reached a very advanced stage of
chronic impoverishment, I went to Washington to work for the
Treasury as an apprentice expert in Latin American economic
problems. That lasted until the summer of 1947, when returning
hordes of ex-Treasury aides, who had sallied forth to man the
wartime agencies clad in the impregnable armor of civil service
“status,” came clamoring home for their old jobs — and the “tem-
poraries” were out. But my good angel, once more emerging
from its customary hibernation, hied me to the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where I found a
vacant cubicle and resumed my efforts of trying to diagnose the
tantalizing vagaries of postwar Latin American economic policy.
I am still at The Bank (our nomenclature), currently dividing
my time between Washington and Paraguay, where I am coming
to be referred to as “este medio paraguay o.”

As the foregoing will have abundantly made clear, at the
twenty-five-year mark I am poor, moderately healthy, mild-
mannered (except as regards a rather formidable array of preju-
dices), devoted to the alternate decomposition and reconstruction
(sometimes) of so-called “high-fidelity” phonograph equipment,
and a perennial optimist about my next roll of 35 mm color pic-
tures, My tailor has had to scramble to keep up with my change-
ableness, and my tonsorial adviser some years ago threw up his

[ 907 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

hands and went back to southern France. (For me, too, it was a
gesture of despair, but the resultant money savings have gone a
long way towards reconciling me to the irrefutable logic of it.)

As I take time out, on this historic occasion, momentarily to
scan the future, I see no grandchildren in the offing and no flam-
ing Thameses, but an abundance of conjugal harmony, and may-
be one day a seven-or-so-acre stretch of beach somewhere on
the west coast of Mexico to which we can retire, complete with
a new second-hand Leica and a Klipsch three-way loudspeaker
system. Sic transit spes gloriae!

JOHN PARKINSON, JR.

HOME apprEss: Old Westbury, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Clark, Dodge & Co., 61 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: June 4, 1906, Boston, Mass. paRENts: John Parkinson, ’06, Mary Ann
Wales Emmons.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1929. DEGREE: AB., 1929.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth A. Bliss, 1932, Westbury, Long Island, N. Y. (divorced
1945); Winifred Loew Trumble, 1947, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
John, 3d, Aug. 8, 1934; Zaidee B., July 2, 1936, Mary Ann, May 12, 1953.

HARVARD SON: John Parkinson, 3d, ’57.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nathaniel Emmons Parkinson, ’31.

occuPATION: Stock broker, member New York Stock Exchange; partner,
Hutchins & Parkinson.

OFFices HELD: Former mayor, Village of Brookville, Long Island; former
chairman of board, Hicksville Public School, N. Y.; commander, U‘S.
Naval Reserve; governor, Cruising Club of America.

MEMBER OF: New York Yacht Club; Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club;
Harvard Club of New York, Racquet and Tennis Club of New York.

AFTER graduating from College I spent the following fall coach-
ing the Groton School football team, and then went to work
for Kidder, Peabody & Company in Boston as a messenger at
the time of the 1929 stock market crash. This was a rude be-
ginning to my financial career, After a year in State Street I
moved to New York and went to work for J. P. Morgan & Com-
pany where I remained for two years working in various depart-
ments, and learning a good deal about the financial business.

I decided 1 was not cut out to be a banker and in 1932 I be-

[ 908 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

came a member of the New York Stock Exchange as the repre-
sentative of the Boston firm of Hutchins & Parkinson, subsequently
opening a small New York branch office. In 1932 I married
Elizabeth Bliss of New York. In 1934 my son, John, 3d, and
in 1936 my daughter, Zaidee, were born. During the thirties
we lived pleasantly in Westbury, Long Island, which was more
rural than it is today. In the winter I did a lot of foxhunting
over weekends and rode some steeplechases. My weight was
lower than it is today. In the summers I raced boats, cruised
with my father on his sloop (we took her to the Baltic in the
summer of 1938), and ocean raced. One of my best memories is
the Bermuda Race of 1932 on board our late classmate Dudley
Wolfe’s Highland Light when she made the still unbroken record
of seventy-one hours in that race. .

In the spring of 1940 I decided the United States was going
to become involved in the European war and wangled an en-
sign’s commission in the U. S. Navy. In July of that year I went
to sea on the U.S.S. Hopewell, a World War I fourstacker de-
stroyer. She became one of the famous fifty and we turned her
over to the British in Halifax that fall, a dramatic and touching
ceremony. She was subsequently sunk. I spent that winter in
the Caribbean on the battleship Arkansas and in the spring of
1941 was transferred to another old “four piper,” the U.S.’
Bambridge. Almost immediately we began convoying to Iceland,
which we continued to do for a year. This was tough duty, and
nothing I have ever read about it is an exaggeration. Within six
months we lost three out of five in our division. We were also
with the Reuben James when she was sunk. The Navy was
short of escorts and we spent most of our time between Iceland
and Newfoundland. The winter weather was plain awful. In
the spring of 1942 the Germans moved the submarines into the
West Indies and we moved to that area. This was much better
duty due to pleasanter weather, although it was pretty hot that
summer. We were credited with a “possible kill” on a sub and
were damaged by a German mine. That fall, after over eighteen
months, I got a change of duty and went to Hingham, Massa-
chusetts, as executive officer of the DE Precommissioning De-
tail, where we instructed the British in operating the new de-
stroyer escorts the United States was building for them. In the

[ 909 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

fall of 1943 I went to Command School in Miami and in 1944
received command of the U.S.S. Burrows, a new destroyer es-
cort, and a big improvement over the old ‘“fourstackers.” I
spent that winter escorting convoys to England and Ireland, the
following summer with a long slow convoy to Bizerte in the
Mediterranean, and the following winter, 1945, I was back in the
North Atlantic run to England.

Due to radar, convoying was much easier in the latter part of
the war. We were in the Channel when the Germans quit and
proceeded to the Pacific. There after some patrol duty off Truk
we proceeded to Leyte from which we escorted the American
division to Tokyo, where we arrived the day after the surren-
der. We spent that fall in occupation duty in the smaller Japan-
ese ports, riding out a typhoon in the China Sea in the process.
All this was very interesting and the Japs were codperative. |
was finally relieved and got back to the United States just in
time for Christmas. I was divorced in 1945 and was at rather
a loose end when I got home, but had a relaxing winter on ter-
minal leave around New York and Boston, seeing a lot of my
children. In the summer of 1946 I was employed by the Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institute as a liaison man between the U.S
Navy and a group of their scientists who were measuring the
height of the waves at the Bikini atomic explosion test. We pro-
ceeded to Bikini in the spring of 1946, experiencing the tidal
wave at Hawaii on our way out. This was bigger and more
devastating than the atom bomb waves. I helped measure the
waves and had a front row seat at the explosion, but got a bad
case of coral poisoning out of it, as we were in the water a lot.
Bikini is not an idea] summer resort, the climate is oppressively
hot, the island is covered with flies, the coral is poisonous, and
there are a lot of sharks around.

In the fall of 1946 1 returned to the New York Stock Ex-
change and resumed my life in New York after six years. In the
fall of 1947 I married Winifred Loe Trumble, a widow, and
now I have a stepdaughter, Winifred, twenty-one, and a stepson,
Richard, nineteen. We have been living on Long Island and
spending considerable time on Cape Cod in the summers, where
we have a cottage. We have a forty-foot yawl, the Winnie of
Bourne, on which we do much cruising and some racing with

[910]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

our children. In the winter of 1950 we chartered a small
schooner in the West Indies and had a wonderful two weeks’
cruise among the Virgin Islands. I still go ocean racing to Ber-
muda or elsewhere in the summers. On May 12, 1953, Mary
Ann Parkinson was born, a large, fat baby. I think she must al-
most hold a record as the youngest child in the Class and is a
great source of pride to me. My son Johnny entered the fresh-
man class at Harvard last fall and I hope he will be able to meet
the high educational standards of today. As my father used to
say, college requirements get harder every year. My daughter,
Zaidee, seventeen, has left school and is devoting all her time to
studying to become a concert pianist. As I get older 1 hope I am
going to be able to spend more time back in New England,
where I started out.

BURTON MINER PARKS

HOME appREss: 20 W. Madison St., Baltimore 1, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1116 Fidelity Bldg., Baltimore 1, Md.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1907, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Francis Robert Parks, Jane
Bille Slocum.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Ivy Williams, 1933, Honolulu, T.H.; Margaret Rochester Phillips,
1945, Baltimore, Md. (divorced 1951). cin: Robert Rochester Slo-
cum, April 16, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Slocum Parks, ’28 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Owner, Campaign Advisory Service, public relations and fund
raising.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Maryland; University Club (Baltimore);
Merchants Club (Baltimore); L’Hirondelle Club (Ruxton); Public
Relations Council of Maryland; Civilian Club; Paint and Powder Club.

I HAVE been living in Baltimore since 1936. My entire business
career has been spent in public relations work and directing the
raising of funds for charitable, health, civic, political, and church
organizations. Following the war I established my own business
in Maryland, the Campaign Advisory Service.

During the war I worked with the War Production Board in
Washington and served as a Field Director with the American
Red Cross. My political convictions are such that since 1932 I

Cour]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

have constantly refused to raise money for the Democratic party
or for any individual or organization remotely connected with it.
I am bitterly opposed to an administration at Harvard that will
retain as faculty members men who find it necessary to take cover
under the Fifth Amendment when questioned concerning their
loyalty to our country.

HENRY IGNATIUS PARKS

HOME apprEss: 309 W. Waverly Rd., Glenside, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 872 Public Ledger Bldg., Philadelphia 6, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 30, 1907, Fall River, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Aloysius Parks,
Emma Veronica Lapham.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.

MARRIED: Ruth Elizabeth Gutgesell, July 7, 1936, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Henry Ignatius, Jr., Oct. 27, 1939; John F., Dec. 6, 1945; Richard M.,
April 16, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker, consultant, Lukens, Savage & Washburn,
special risks surveying on national risks.

OFFICES HELD: Cubmaster, Pack 38, Glenside, Boy Scouts of America; direc-
tor, local Glenside Heights Civic Association.

FOLLOWING a training period of six months at the home office
of the Employers Liability Assurance Corporation in Boston, I
moved to the Philadelphia branch office and for the next ten years
acted as underwriter and special agent in the field on various
forms of insurance, throughout Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
In the midst of this period I took unto myself my one and only.
Subsequently we lived for short periods of time in Pittsburgh,
Williamsport, Harrisburg, etc. I left the insurance company and
joined the firm of Lukens, Savage & Washburn, insurance brokers
and consultants. Incidentally, all three of the original partners
are Princetonians (a horrible thought) but lovable guys nonethe-
less. So, for the period from 1941 to date my horizons have been
expanding. I do a fair amount of travelling on national accounts
with Philadelphia as the head office.

My only activity remotely connected with government service
was membership in the Volunteer Port Security Force of the
Coast Guard and activity as insurance adviser on national defense
projects in various parts of the country — otherwise I was 4-F.

[912]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am Republican, Catholic. My hobbies are the family (three
pointers), some golf (?), camping — but the family likes the New
Jersey shore in the summer. Currently Ruth and I are going
through the period when “the youngsters aren’t bright enough to
realize their parents couldn’t be that stupid.”

EUGENE PASTER

HOME ADDRESS: 269 Clifton St., Malden 48, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 677 Main St., Melrose 76, Mass.

BorN: July 12, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Max Paster, Anna Toby
Weisman.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. DEGREE: LL.B. (Suffolk Law School), 1934.

MARRIED: Evelyn Rosenthal, July 6, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHmpren: Barrie,
Sept. 24, 1942; Tobyanne, Sept. 26, 1944; Luisa Ruth, Aug. ro, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Registered pharmacist, president and treasurer, Emerson Phar-
macy, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Committeeman, Boy Scouts of America, 1953, Girl Scouts of
America, 1953; secretary, Brotherhood, Congregation Beth Israel, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts State Pharmaceutical Association, Congregation
Beth Israel; Brotherhood Congregation Beth Israel; Temple Lodge,
AF, & A.M.

AFTER leaving Harvard I worked in a drug store for a few
years and then attended and received a degree from Suffolk
Law School. However, I did not follow the practice of law, but
went back into the drug business into my own store.

My life was uneventful until I met and married my wife. We
have three wonderful children with whom I devote all my
leisure time, of which a druggist has very little. We all share
common interests of fishing, home movies, collecting records, and
scouting, since my children have become of age. During the
war years I served in the U. S. Coast Guard (temporary re-
serves) and Civil Defense Corps. At a Class Reunion last spring,
five other classmates and myself formed a social group. We
meet at regular intervals and enjoy a very happy association.

GEORGE PATON, JR.

HOME appress: 118 Woodland Terr., Oaklyn, N. J.
BorN: April 15, 1907, Wilmington, Del. Parents: George Paton, Maude
Elizabeth Reeves.

[913]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Bulkeley School, New London, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Anna May Serle, Aug. 26, 1934, Willimantic, Conn. CHILDREN:
Susan Anne, May 14, 1935; George, 3d, May 12, 1939; Carol Louise,
June 21, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Structural draftsman.

ALBERT LEONARD PEARCE

HOME ADDRESS: 13 Crescent St., Biddeford, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 270 Main St., Biddeford, Maine.

BORN: Dec, 11, 1906, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Charles Albert Pearce,
Charlotte Freeman.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928,

UNMARRIED.

oocuPATION: Librarian, McArthur Library.

OFFIces HELD: Member Board of Directors, Biddeford Chapter, American
Red Cross; York County Concert Association, past commander, Brown-
Emmons Post, American Legion, Alfred, Maine, 1938-39.

MEMBER OF: Arion Lodge, Masons, Goodwins Mills, Maine.

I HAVE been assistant librarian of the McArthur Library of
Biddeford since 1948. Previous to that I was engaged in farming
and a thirty-nine-months job with Uncle Sam. I was in the Air
Force, with two years spent in China with the rqth Air Force.
I spend my time between work in Biddeford and country life
in Goodwins Mills. I still see a football game occasionally in
the stadium.

Like the proverbial busman, I like to read; also fish, hunt, col-
lect records, and books, etc. At present I’m serving as publicity
chairman for the local Red Cross chapter, and as music chair-
man for a county concert association.

Politically, I suppose I’m a sort of liberal Republican, if there
is such an animal, and religiously, I’m a member in absentia of
the Union Church, Watertown, Massachusetts.

I am fortunate that I can say that I like my work and am quite
happy in general, combining in my life the advantages of city
and country life. It’s nothing too exciting, perhaps, but a pretty
good way to live, we think in Maine, where you guys come for
vacations, but where we’re already here!

[914]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD ALLEN PEASE, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 1488 Old House Rd., Pasadena 8, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sportcraft, 1488 Old House Rd., Pasadena 8, Calif.

BoRN: Nov. 29, 1906, Boston, Mass. pARENTs: Edward Allen Pease, ’88, Mar-
garet Caldwell Mohler.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

UN MARRIED.

occuPpaTION: Manufacturing sporting goods.

OFFICES 'HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Markham Club, 1938-40; secretary, Benev-
olence Committee, Neighborhood Church of Pasadena, 1946-48.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Markham Club; Wood-
Jand Club; Southern California Chapter, Sierra Club; Tyee Club of
British Columbia.

MY first position was with | the Los Angeles branch of the Gen-

eral Electric Company. Following five years with this organiza-

tion, I was offered the opportunity of entering another field at

a substantially higher salary as an employee of the Los Angeles

Placer Gold Mining Company. A year later, when the remaining

ore became too lean to process profitably, I turned to the sport-

ing goods manufacturing business, opening a small plant of my
own. This venture was interrupted by four and one-half years
of Army service (two years overseas) during which I was
awarded the Bronze Star Medal. In late 1945, upon my dis-
charge from the service, I returned to my former occupation,
from which I hope to be able to retire in the near future.
Relating closely to my vocation, my avocations continue to
be fishing, hunting, and skiing. As to politics and religion, the
two controversial subjects to be avoided in polite conversation,
my beliefs continue to flow in the same channels as followed at
school—I am a Republican Episcopalian. The smog in and
surrounding the Los Angeles area is my favorite complaint.

. ELLIOTT MAURICE PERLSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Terry Plains Rd., Bloomfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 75 Pratt St., Hartford, Conn. .

BorN: Dec. 6, 1906, Hartford, Conn. parents: Hille Perlstein, Libby Sherry.

PREPARED AT: Weaver High School, Hartford, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; D.S.c, (Illinois Coll. of Foot
Surgery and Chiropody), 1938.

[915 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

marrieD: Elva Alberta Kimball, 1942, Hartford, Conn. cuitp: James Kimball,
March 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Abraham Perlstein, A.M., ’30.

occupation: Doctor of surgical chiropody.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Connecticut State Military Association of Chirop-
odists, 1946-49; secretary, Temple Beth Israel Marrieds’ Club; staff mem-
ber, McCook Memorial Hospital, Hartford.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut; Temple Beth Israel; West Hart-
ford Fish and Game Club; Men’s Club of Temple Beth Israel; National
Association of Chiropodists, Connecticut State Chiropody Society;
Hartford County Chiropody Society; Amherst Alumni Association.

LIKE ninety-eight per cent of the 29’ers I’ve had this question-
naire nagging at the back of my mind whenever I’ve had a free
moment. Who can think back twenty-five years without gilding
the lily about what happened? I remember being such an eager
beaver that I didn’t even wait for graduation but dashed right
down to Wall Street to make some of that easy money floating
around. After twenty-five years I’m still chasing it. When Wall
Street flopped I promptly went to Europe and spent a few months
spending my hard-earned bucks. When I got back home I dis-
covered employers weren’t interested in Harvard grads —
laborers were more in demand. So I went into business for my-
self installing libraries in stores. Dr. Kinsey was right. People
were only interested in books with sex as the main motif. I de-
cided my Harvard lit. courses had been wasted — they hadn’t
taught me about Forever Amber. After pandering to the low
tastes of the public I threw the sponge in and again was on the
town.

After mature reflection I decided I wasn’t cut out for business
and wanted to be a professional man —a doctor. Again Harvard
failed me —I hadn’t taken a pre-medical course. The closest
I could get to medicine without going back to school for umpty-
ump years was the practice of chiropody. So out to Chicago I
went and three years later I was a licensed Doctor of Surgical
Chiropody. I think I enjoy the unique distinction of being the
only Harvard grad extant in my field, or so I was told by the
Harvard Bulletin. Fame has finally caught up with me. Can
any other 29’er boast of being the only one of its kind in the
Class? Incidentally, chiropody involves the care of the feet

(plug).
[916 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Just after getting started in my new career Uncle Sam tapped
me on the shoulder and after a quick indoctrination 1 was put
on a boat and sent out into the vast Pacific—-New Guinea,
Caledonia, Fiji Islands, and assorted real estate. I forgot to men-
tion that I acquired a wife before I sailed. About four years
later I got to see her again. Sometimes I think that our wives
were the real heroes. The closest I got to danger was a torpedo
that missed us by a mile.

I got back to practice in 1946 and also became the proud pop
of one James Kimball Perlstein, now aged six years and in the
first grade. Kids are wonderful these days, they make one feel
twenty-five years younger. Jimmy and my new home in the
country keep me busy. My hobbies used to be tennis and skiing.
Now my recreation consists of trying to grow better grass than
my neighbors. It may be a sign of age but I love it. I still have
a trim figure albeit my hair has gone the way of all flesh. My
wife and I are active in affairs of Temple Beth Israel in Hartford
and bridge a little socially.

Politically, it seems like I got the habit of voting for F. D. R.
ever since I could vote, and still will vote Democratic. I think
Adlai Stevenson would make a wonderful president. On the
local level I tend to be a liberal Republican if there is any such
animal. I believe Ike is trying but doesn’t have the know-how.
I’ve been told he never reads a newspaper or is that a vile canard
(Democratic). To sum up, after twenty-five years I have a
good wife, a nice kid, an oversized mortgage, and a drawer full
of bills. What more could a man ask for?

RALPH BARTON PERRY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 179 Tamalpais Ave., Mill Valley, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Ralph Barton Perry, A.M., ’97,
PH.D., 99, LITT.D., °44, Rachel Berenson.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. 1929.

MarRiED: Harriet Seelye, Aug. 15, 1931, Islesford, Maine. cHtpReNn: Ralph
Barton, 3d, March 17, 1936; Matthew Barrows, Jan. 11, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bernard Berenson Perry, '32.

OccUPATION: Artist.

OFFICES HELD; Art dealer, Arnold Seligman & Rey Company, 1936-37; in-

[917 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

structor in art history, University of Pittsburgh, 1932-34; lecturer in art
history, Mills College, Oakland, Calif, 1948; vice-president, Marin Co-
operative Society, Mill Valley Forum.

MEMBER OF: Sierra Club; Marin Council of Civic Unity; Artists Council, San
Francisco Art Association.

MY great interest in art has continued throughout the twenty-
five years since graduation in one form or another; as a spectator
in European art galleries, as a lecturer in art history at the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh and Mills College, and as an art dealer in
New York. Finally I discovered that my real interest lay on
the creative side. For a number of years I was primarily inter-
ested in landscape painting but of late my main interest has
been in non-objective or abstract art which I feel expresses the
vitality and violence of modern living. I have exhibited fre-
quently in San Francisco Art Museum shows, Some of my time
has been spent doing sculpture and building houses.

Fifteen years ago we settled in Mill Valley, fourteen miles
outside of San Francisco on the slopes of Mt. Tamalpais from
which we have a spectacular view of San Francisco Bay and the
many wooded spurs of the mountain. As local chambers of
commerce have pointed out, this land of the lotus eaters is set
up for living. Our two children have grown up here roaming
over the hills and fishing the creeks all year round. They are
confirmed westerners, liking outdoor life and sports. During the
summer we usually take long camping trips into the wilderness
areas of the Pacific coast mountains. The results have been that
our elder boy, Ralph, has distinguished himself by winning
championships in cross country events both here and in the East
where he goes to school.

My wife, Harriet (Smith, ’29), has been working for the last
few years in the field of adult education and codperative nursery
schools. Being an artist has made me sensitive to forces of both
the left and right which are trying to destroy our culture. In
doing our share to promote a better world my wife and I have
found ourselves active in a number of local educational, political,
and cultural organizations.

[918]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

- THOMAS DONATO PETRELLA

BORN: Jan. 26, 1907, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Antonio Petrella, Anna Di
Pirro.

PREPARED AT: Buffalo Hutchinson-Central High School, Buffalo, N, Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1929. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1929.

DIED: 1937, in Spain.

AFTER graduation, Petrella attended the Law School for a year.
He then travelled in France and Spain with a travel service and
guide bureau. Later he came to New York City and entered the
field of artistic printing. In March, 1937, he resigned from a po-
sition with Spear and Company, furniture, to join the Abraham
Lincoln Brigade in the fight for Democracy against Fascism in
Spain. He disappeared on the Spanish front.

RICHARD LUTZ PHELPS

HOME ADDRESS: Quarters U-80-A, Gray’s Hill Village, Fort Belvoir, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of the Post Chaplain, Hq The Engr Center, Fort
Belvoir, Va.

‘ BORN: Jan. 17, 1907, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Louis Tarfel Phelps, Martha
Georgina Lutz.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. 1929.

MarRIED: Beatrice V. Kidd, Oct. 3, 1945, Arlington, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Administrative assistant, Chaplain’s Section, Fort Belvoir.

JOHN GOLDSMITH PHILLIPS

HOME ADDRESS: 53 E. g6th St., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, New York 28, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1907, Glens Falls, N. Y. parents: John Goldsmith Phillips,
Mary Agnes O’Connor.

PREPARED AT: Muskogee High School, Muskogee, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. Ctr laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Giovanna Maria Sodi, Oct. 2, 1937, Sesto Fiorentino (Florence),
Italy. cxmpren: Anthony Valiant, Oct. 11, 1938; Beatrice Marie, Feb.
26, 1943; Guy Lawrence, April 13, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Curator of Renaissance art, Metropolitan Museum of Art.

oFFicEs HELD: Member, Council, Cooper Union Museum; member board of
directors, Harlem House.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in Bulletin of Metropolitan Museum and in
various art journals,

[919]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ON graduating from College in 1929 I took a job at the Metro-
politan Museum as assistant in the Department of Decorative
Arts. Twenty-five years later I am still in the same Museum
and in the same field. My title has been progressively changed .
through the years — it is now curator of Renaissance art — my
work continues in the same direction.

By and large my museum work has arranged my life for me.
To a considerable extent it has chosen my friends; it has taken
me to Europe on many trips (on one of which, in 1937, in Rome,
I met Giovanna Sodi who became my wife); it has been my chief
amusement and sport. My work is extremely varied. At the
present moment (December, 1953) I am feverishly trying to
get a number of rehabilitated galleries ready for a gala February
opening. At other times I may be able to devote a considerable
number of my working hours to research. General administra-
tive duties, never too onerous, form another part of my work.
The Harvard University Press will publish my Early Florentine
Designers and Engravers, and possibly my China-Trade Porce-
lain, in 1954.

As for life outside the Museum, I have always resisted the joys
of commuting. I live in the city, within walking distance of my
office. For the summer we have a house in the town of Cornwall,
Connecticut. What with one thing or another our life is full,
even though the balance in the checkbook is generally microsco-

pic.

JOHN McCANDLISH PHILLIPS

HOME aAppress: 15 Regent Circle, Brookline, Mass.

orrice appress: G. D. Searle and Co., 15 Regent Circle, Brookline, Mass.

BORN: June 8, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Frank Percival Williams
(stepfather), Louise McCandlish Phillips.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1926.

Marnigp: Margaret Wick Dukelow, Aug. 17, 1926, Boston, Mass, CHILD:
John McCandlish, Jr., Dec. 4, 1928.

occupaTION: Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[920]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STEPHEN PHILLIPS

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Chestnut St., Salem, Mass. |

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 27, 1907, Salem, Mass. parents: Stephen Willard Phillips, "95,
Anna Pingree Wheatland.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarriED: Bessie G. Wright, Oct. 2, 1942, New York, N. Y. c#mp: Jane
Appleton, March 14, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Trustee.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, New England Home for Deaf Mutes, Danvers,
Mass.; councillor, Essex Institute, Salem; trustee, Peabody Museum of
Salem, New England College, Henniker, N. H.; member Board of Con-
trol, Salem Fraternity (local boys’ club).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Club of Odd Volumes; Salem; Marine

_ Society, at Salem, in New England; Colonial Society of Massachusetts,
Appalachian Mountain Club; Eastern Yacht Club; First Congregational
Society in Salem (Unitarian).

IN the earlier Reports I mentioned the time spent with tuber-
culosis— time for reading and wondering. By the Vicennial,
there was marriage. Some of you may be amused that although
I had lived for years within a few blocks of salt water, it was
the bride from northwestern Pennsylvania who wanted to get
out on it. We’ve bought a third-hand skip-jack auxiliary center-
board yawl, apparently neither fashionable nor very expensive,
and try to invite friends with longer nautical careers to join
us on summer cruises. Laying-up and overhauling a cruising
yawl is certainly more costly than garaging and keeping up a
Cadillac, but living aboard is much cheaper than in a hotel. I
mention these finances because it seems to interest people, as
judged by their questions. There is great natural beauty along
our shore and this is the best way I know to see it, photograph
it, and in part live it. Betty takes Power Squadron courses. Our
Peabody Museum (I use “our” to distinguish the Peabody Mu-
seum at Salem from several other Peabody museums), in addi-
tion to its Japanese and ethnological collections, has an impor-
tant collection pertaining to the sea and sailing ships. It makes
space available to various groups for meetings, and several of
the Marblehead Power Squadron courses are given there.

We have a summer place in New London, New Hampshire,

[oar]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

a town which some classmates will remember I went to twenty-
five and more years ago. (I may say that properly to combine
a farm and a boat, go ’way down the coast of Maine.) New
London is a high town, dry, cool, and breezy. Just off the route
from Salem to New London lies Henniker, New Hampshire,
and the Phillipses are on the board of New England College. In
contrast to the other organizations on the list above, this has no
long history, and is practically experimental with its three-year
plan. There is nothing new about going through college in
three years. The novelty is in the college treating three years
as the normal, and planning the terms and classes accordingly.
This report does not seem the place for a detailed explanation,
but I shall gladly furnish information on request.

An invitation to serve on a visiting committee for the Peabody
Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology has been a rare oppor-
tunity to visit Harvard’s Peabody Museum. All these institu-
tions and many thousands of others are doing a good job and
deserve the support and interest of educated men. The family
business affairs take more of my time than anything else but
would be dull reading. My skiing is slowing down. I use or
misuse time playing chess at the Salem Y.M.C.A., and should
‘add I do not play well. I still like to swim a little, and the mem-
bership in the Eastern Yacht Club reflects my new interest in
cruising. I’ve voted Republican. Back in 1933 in Leysin, I came
to appreciate firmly Stevenson’s “The world is so full of a num-
ber of things.” Watching and trying to help our daughter Jane
accounts for a lot of time. She’s healthy, cheerful, and bright,
so we have much for which to be thankful.

WILBUR NELSON PHIPPS

Home appress: 2017 Greenfield Ave. Los Angeles, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration Center, Los Angeles, Calif.

Boan: Aug. 13, 1907, Holliston, Mass. parents: Jesse Austin Phipps, Grace
Winifred Simpson.

paeparen at: Holliston High School, Holliston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1928. DEGREE: D.M.D. cum laude, 1932.

MaAsnizto: E. Louise Ferguson, April 5, 1930, Brewster, Mass. (died June 5,

[922]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1945); Galina Lubchenko, March 15, 1946, Shanghai, China. cro:
Leonid Victor, March 3, 1935,

occupation: Dentist; chief, Central Dental Laboratory, Veterans Adminis-
tration Center, Los Angeles.

*WHEN I entered Harvard College in 1925 it was my intention
to prepare for and enter medical school upon graduation. My
oldest brother, however, who was then a practising dentist in
Quincy, Massachusetts, persuaded me that dentistry had as much
or more to offer than medicine so in 1928 I entered the Harvard
Dental School. After four strenuous hectic years I graduated
from the Dental School, D.M.D. cum laude. During this period
I courted a home-town girl, E. Louise Ferguson, and married her
on April 5, 1930, in Brewster, Massachusetts.

Soon after passing the Massachusetts Dental State Board Exam-
ination I hung up my shingle as a fledgling dentist alongside that
of my brother at 38 Billings Road, Norfolk Downs, Massachu-
setts, in July, 1932. I continued in private practice until February
2, 1942, at which time I was called into active service in the Navy
Dental Corps. My first tour of active duty was at the Chelsea
Naval Hospital (February 2, 1942 to July 15, 1945). About a
year after going on said duty my wife came down with a serious
illness. Numerous operations and treatments were unsuccessful
in remedying her condition and she passed on to, no doubt, a
better life on June 5, 1945.

In July, 1945, I was ordred to the Pacific Theatre of Operations
as senior dental officer, U.S.S. Sierra. I finally caught up with
the U.S.S. Sierra in September in the port of Shanghai, China. I
remained in Shanghai from September, 1945, till May 20, 1946.
These months were the most wonderful and interesting in my
life. During this period I met, courted, and married my present
charming, lovely wife, Galina Lubchenko Phipps. Our military
marriage aboard the flagship, U.S.S. San Clemente, is an event we
shall never forget. During my tour of duty in China I served as
chief dental officer aboard the U.S.S. Sierra and U.SS. Holland,
and the U.S.S. San Clemente. On April 5, 1946, I was ordered
back to the States and came back with Mrs. Phipps on the Navy
transport U.S.S. Bremington.

I finally returned to Quincy, Massachusetts, in July, 1946. I
returned to private practice in which I remained until September,

[923]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

1947, at which time I accepted a position with the Dental Service
of the Veterans Administration. I was ordered to Los Angeles
as chief, Central Dental Laboratory, Veterans Administration
Center, where I am presently stationed.

FRANK AUGUSTUS PICKARD

HOME ADDRESS: 5507 Bowdley Rd., Richmond 26, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Lace Leather Co., Inc., 21st & Perry Sts. Rich-
mond, Va.

BORN: Feb. 11, 1907, West Concord, Mass. parents: Isaiah Lovell Pickard,
M.D., 96, Grace Sheldon Peirce.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

marriep: Carrie Neal Augustine, Dec. 11, 1943, La Jolla, Calif. compren:
Cynthia Augustine, Dec, 22, 1944; Frank Augustus, Jr., June 12, 1953.

occupaTION: Assistant to president, American Lace Leather Co., Inc., tanners
of lace leather.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to president, director, American Lace Leather Co.,
Inc., since 1950; chairman, Schools Committee, Harvard Club of Virginia,
since 1953; commander, U.S. Naval Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Country Club of Virginia; Harvard Club of Virginia; Senior
Assembly of Richmond.

ONE early morning in the fall of 1929, Cecil Fraser, then profes-
sor of finance at the Business School, asked, “Gentlemen, can
anyone tell me the most important thing that has happened in
the financial world in many years?” No one had any answer
until one timid soul raised his hand and volunteered the informa-
tion that the stock market had had its biggest drop in history
during the previous week. Little did any of us present realize
that we were witnessing the start of the Great Depression. All
of us made predictions which seemed to be wrong. Now, ap-
proximately twenty-four years later, it seems hard to believe
how optimistic we were then for almost no reason, and how
pessimistic people get today for many fewer reasons. Perhaps
these added years of maturity have given us facts to work with
to make decisions. Let us hope that we as a group have grown
in wisdom.
This is my way of stating that the first twenty-five years are
the hardest. There was plenty of fun and adventure, but no
great progress towards that final goal of achieving any real re-

[924]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sponsibility in business. There were plenty of chances to make

the little decisions with the big ones left to the future. It seemed

such a waste of a good Business School education. Pearl Harbor

changed all that for me as it did for so many others. The U. S.

Navy made me an armed guard officer in charge of a gun crew

aboard merchant ships. It was-interesting duty and some of my
friends found it too entertaining on the Murmansk Run in the
dark days of 1942. Mine was a lucky ship that carried me to the
far corners of the earth. After a brief period of training, I spent
fifteen months at sea and covered 60,000 miles in two voyages to
Suez. After rounding the Cape of Good Hope we arrived at
Suez just before El Alamein with some badly needed tanks and
ammunition on the first trip. Returning through the Roaring
Forties of the South Atlantic, we were most grateful for the
comparative quiet of a passage of the Straits of Magellan. My
second outward voyage around Cape Horn in March of 1943
gave me the rather doubtful privilege of “spitting to windward.”
My extreme age and this excellent experience then required the
Navy to make me an instructor at San Diego, California, in
September, 1943.

During this quiet stateside duty, Carrie Neal and I were mar-
ried in La Jolla, California, that lovely town just north of San
Diego. Cynthia was born there in December, 1944, and shortly
thereafter I found myself under instruction for further duties
overseas. My experience while attached to the Atoll Command
at Einewetok eliminated a lifetime of yearning for the langorous
islands of the Pacific. We were busy building up the base for
the invasion of Japan, but fortunately V-J day came in time to
prevent any further expenditures for such a costly operation.
The facilities that we left must have been useful for the Atomic
Energy Commission of today.

My Navy experience proved that there was nothing new that
I could not attempt. Four years of New York convinced me
that it is foolish to spend a lifetime combating crowds and catch-
ing commuting trains to build up a business for somebody else.
Consequently, when the opportunity came to work for myself
in Richmond, Virginia, there was never a doubt in my mind.
Carrie Neal has been overjoyed to return to her former home.
Cynthia has thrived under the advantages of a quiet suburban

[925 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

home, with all the green grass and flowers which she can call
her own. It has been the most rewarding experience of my life
at last to employ the Business School training to advantage.
Politically, it has been a wonderful change to the honesty and
thrift of the Byrd Democratic Party rule in the state of Virginia
after the malodorous conditions of state and city government
as practised in the State of Massachusetts under James Michael
Curley, and the city of New York under William O'Dwyer.

I believe that I shall live longer in the pleasant atmosphere of
this thriving community. The new frontiers are present here
in the South. To be sure, there are problems here as well as
elsewhere, but they seem to be capably handled without all the
fuss and fury that is generated in the crowded streets of New
York. Richmond is not so large that action can not be obtained
quickly on important decisions. The lost motions and the many
lost hours in commuting are eliminated here, and all of the
family seem to like it. We seem to be closer to the fundamental
joys of living without which life is rather sterile. You can see
that I like it here.

DANIEL THOMPSON PIERCE, JR.

HOME appREss: Princeton, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 25 Broad St., New York 4, N. Y.

Born: April 28, 1907, New York, N. Y. parENts: Daniel Thompson Pierce,
Hadassah Hamilton Hellen,

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MargieD: Eleanor Salzer, March 12, 1929, Denver, Colo.

occupation: General partner, Hirsch & Company, investment banking and
brokerage.

OFFices HELD: Director, Produce Exchange Clearing Association, Andrew
Freedman Home,

MEMBER OF: Apawamis Club, Rye, N. Y.; Springdale Golf Club, Pretty Brook
Club; Nassau Club.

SINCE I left College, there have been four highlights in my
life:

1. My marriage in 1929.

2. Being made a partner of my firm in 1933.

[926 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

3. The end of World War II and my separation from the
Army in 1946.

4. Voting for my first presidential winner in 1952.

I am now awaiting, impatiently but confidently, the fifth high-
light — Harvard’s first football victory over the Tiger since
I moved into his lair in 1947.

EUGENE WILMOTH PIKE

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Churchill Lane, Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 148 California St., Newton 58, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 26, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: Frank Henry Pike, Sue Hattie
Reece.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: s.8. magna cum laude, 1929, PHD.
(Princeton Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Ruth Gottemoller, Sept, 14, 1948, Indianapolis, Ind.

occuPATION: Electronics manufacturing: head, Applied Physics Section,
Raytheon Manufacturing Co.; consultant on physics, statistics, and ap-
plied math to engineering divisions.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Panel on Statistics in Physics and Astronomy,
American Statistical Association, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; American Statistical Association;
Institute of Mathematical Statistics; Society of the Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: About twenty-five technical papers on topics in physics, sta-
tistics, and mechanical design; leader of about forty people writing
300-page report on “Fuel Quantity Measuring Techniques” for Air
Force; thousand or more internal reports.

AFTER graduation I went down to Princeton to work for my
doctorate in physics with K. T. Compton. About then the de-
pression started, and the next five years were a scramble of schol-
arships, summer and evening jobs, assistantships, and hall bed-
rooms, with a year in Germany (1931-1932) travelling and
studying on five hundred dollars. For excitement, there were
motorcycle, polo and canoeing.

After getting my doctorate in 1934 I spent the next ten years
as a physicist in industry in various contexts: the design of meas-
uring instruments for the Scott Paper Company; development
of photomultiplier tubes and the 53 photosurface for RCA; de-
signing and selling special-purpose machinery for Andrews and
Perillo, Inc.; production engineering for Western Electric Com-

[927]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

pany early in the war; measurements on jet engine blade ma-
terials at Battelle Memorial Institute. Hobbies during this period
were beer drinking and unsuccessful courting.

In 1944 my health and my philosophical motivation collapsed
together, and the next two years were a succession of short jobs,
mostly designing electronic gear, combined with much doctoring
and some heavy thinking, At the end of this time I was straight-
ened out for a second career, which I started in 1947 by opening
an office as a consulting statistician. In 1948 I married the professor
of casework in the Boston College School of Social Work; the
dean remarked that she would forgive what I did to her faculty
because I proved to so many students that a career in social
work did not preclude marriage. This marriage was the wisest
thing I ever did or hope to do.

In 1949 I joined Raytheon in my present capacity, after a
two-year period as a consultant, another wise and happy decision.
In 1951 I built a house on a rocky hillside in Lexington, and
shortly discovered that it is the house which owns the man.
What with landscaping the grounds, painting inside and out,
building a shop and furniture, and keeping up with the chores,
there has been no problem of time heavy on my hands. My
community activities have been largely quiet and unorganized —
enduring friendships, unofficial professional activities, some tech-
nical writing. In short, I am a living proof that happy is the
man whose history is dull.

I believe that mankind is important because alone among all
life forms it has at this time the potentiality of revealing the
thought of God by evolving new forms of biological and social
and psychological organization. I believe in the dignity and
sanctity of each individual human personality as part of this
whole, and in the responsibility of every individual to enlarge
and enrich his personality by all the means at his command.

In my technical activity, I believe in the value of the rational
methods for reaching conclusions from inadequate or inaccurate
data which have resulted from research in statistical theory, and
that the methods should and must be applied to our industrial
and ultimately our community activities. No animal could sur-
vive without a sensory nervous system, in competition with
others having a sensory system. The corresponding activity in

[ 928 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

our industrial and community organizations is rudimentary, al-
though the motor system is well organized, especially in industrial
organizations. I'd like to have a part in the development of sen-
sory systems for social structures.

PAUL MONROE PILCHER

HOME ADDRESS: 721 Bay State Rd., Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 253 Essex St., Salem, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 13, 1908, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Paul Monroe Pilcher, Mary
Chancelor Finlay.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Friends School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927,

MARRIED: Nancy Van Alystine Sherwood, June 19, 1936, Montclair, N. J.
CHILDREN: Elizabeth Boutelle, March 10, 1949; Paul Monroe, 3d, April 1,

1952.
HARVARD BROTHER: Lewis Stephen Pilcher, '26, M.D., ’30.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director, Merchants National Bank of Salem.
OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Salem Five Cent Savings Bank; incorporator, Salem
Savings Bank; president and director, Salem Chapter, American Red
Cross; director, Salem Laundry Co., Salem Credit Bureau, Inc.; treasurer,
North Shore Babies’ Hospital, North Shore Harvard Club; member
executive committee, Community Fund Association of Salem, Marble-
head, and Danvers; past president, North Shore Clearing House Associa-
tion, Salem Credit Bureau, Inc.,; past member, executive council, North
Shore Boy Scouts of America.
MEMBER OF: North Shore Clearing House Association; Indoor Court.
THE shortness of my college career was by no means compa-
rable to my stay to date in the banking fraternity. Having no
idea of what I wanted to do, or why, when I left College, I
started in September, 1929, as a banking department trainee with
the Title Guarantee and Trust Company of New York City.
Whether or not my choice of the field of finance as a career
had anything to do with the depression is a moot point, but it
is worth mentioning that the stock market crashed within a
week or two of my employment.

My career from 1929 to December, 1941, was uneventful and
unexciting, except for my very good luck in 1936, in persuading
Nancy to marry me. I had hoped my financial career would
resemble the razzle-dazzle and long-forward-pass spectacular
games of modern two-platoon football. Instead, it was of the
old-fashioned variety, inching ahead a yard or two at a time

[ 929 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and hoping the next year not to be thrown for a loss. ‘The climax
of each financial year came with the $100.00 or $200.00 a year
raise given personally, with congratulations, by the president of
the bank. In all, those years were some of the most pleasant
I have spent. Nancy and I lived quietly in a three-room apart-
ment on West Ninth Street in New York City, and enjoyed
the usual goings-on in that town. We had no children, and ac-
complished nothing of an astonishing nature.

Occasionally, my mind would look towards other fields and,
for a while, I considered but then discarded going to night law
school and becoming a lawyer. My thoughts returned often to
Harvard, and the Harvard-Yale game became a tradition for
us, attended each year (and still attended) with a group of Yale
friends. I talked to Dean Pennypacker about finishing my Har-
vard studies but, in turn, decided against it. In the end, I re-
mained with the Title Guarantee and Trust Company as a very
junior officer.

By 1940 my mind was turning more and more to the war in
Europe. It seemed the conflict was one in which we all should
be deeply concerned and would eventually have to share. Learn-
ing of a special investigative unit being formed by the Treasury
Department, I applied for a position with it. The process of
being screened was most impressive, but, after it was concluded,
I had no idea whether I was still a banker or about to become
a government employee. Several months passed and we arrived
at December 7, 1941. In the early morning of December 8th
I received a telegram to report for duty within twenty-four
hours. I remained with that unit on its field staff until the early
spring of 1943. Its work at first was very exciting and important.
In the late fall of 1942 I began to feel that the unit’s usefulness
as a major factor was over. I still felt strongly my urge to con-
tinue to have an active part in the world conflict. In December,
1942, I volunteered for combat service with the Army and, by
the early summer of 1943, found myself running around with
a rifle and a machine gun under the hot Georgia sun. Before I
even had a chance to pull out, 1 was on my way to Europe as
a machine gunner with the Infantry. My position at that moment
had many aspects that did not appeal to me and, fortunately,
after I arrived in England, the same thoughts apparently occurred

[ 930 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to the Infantry. I was transferred to a special combat unit operat-
ing directly from E.T.O. headquarters, where the risks involved
were compensated for by luxuries unavailable to the infantry
soldier. I served with this group as an enlisted man during the
invasion of France and until our armies reached the German
border. My next assignment was to become part of our Army’s
first counter-sabotage team, and I spent the rest of the European
war with it, commuting between Paris, Germany, and the Riv-
iera.

Having been unable to find ways to spend the majority of my
pay, I arrived home in November, 1945, with no debts and some
money to spend. Nancy and I exceeded even our fondest hopes
in spending this and, by March, 1946, found ourselves in the
same positions we were in in 1943, plenty of debts and no money.

Feeling that New England was a better place than New York
City to raise a family, I didn’t return to my old job but was
fortunate to find a bank in Salem, Massachusetts. My association
with that bank has been, for me, very pleasant and, as each year
passes, I seem to be able to convince the board of directors to
take a chance with me for another. Nancy and I lived for a
while in Beverly and are now in Hamilton, where we have ac-
complished the feat of furnishing a large house with what we
used to have in a three-room apartment. In addition to our son
and daughter, our family consists of Mr. Thurber, a dog known
to us by his first name of James, Lullaby, a tom cat, named be-
fore we discovered his idiosyncrasies, and Scrappy, a turtle. Our
hobbies consist of our family, our house, and, when we have
time, fishing.

JOHN ALLEN PLUMMER

HOME apprEss: 26 Glen St., Malden 48, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Russell, Plummer & Rutherford, 27 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: March 20, 1907, Malden, Mass. parents: Frank Wentworth Plum-
mer, M.D., 95, Deborah Allen Wiggin.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; LL.B, 1032.

MARRIED: Ernestine Westcott, Aug. 2, 1933, Maine. cumpren: Deborah,
May 19, 1936; Sarah, Nov. 5, 1938.

[931]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occupation: Lawyer, general practice in partnership.

orrices HELD: Director, First National Bank of Malden, Malden Y.M.C.A.;
trustee, board member, Malden Savings Bank; trustee, Malden Public
Library, Davenport Memorial Foundation, member, legal advisory
committee, Massachusetts Bankers Association; president of trustees,
Centre Methodist Church; treasurer, Malden Home for Aged Persons,
about fifteen years, vice-president, Quannapowit Council of Boy
Scouts; past president, Malden Lions Club, Malden University Club.

MEMBER OF: Malden Lions Club; Malden Amateur Radio Association.

SEVEN long years at Harvard — they hardly seem possible, but
the three Law School years were so different from the College
days that they could as well have been spent in another univer-
sity and location. Bar review went on right through the 1932
Commencement, the exams were passed and my legal career
started officially in November, although actual practice began
in early fall in a small firm in Boston. The two years there taught
me something of how the poor debtor lives and dodges his credi-
tors and that your client cannot feed his family on fancy execu-
tions which are uncollectible. In 1934 I transferred to the office of
Joe Wiggin, ’93, prominent as a lawyer as well as a Harvard
pitcher. From then until his death in 1948 my position was as an
employee, from then on as a partner with two co-workers, now
one, Gaynor K. Rutherford (LL.B. ’39). I suppose my career has
been a moderate success; at least 1 do not scrape the bottom too
often. I have enjoyed it and that, I guess, is pretty important, too.

My wife and I marvel increasingly at the two daughters we
are raising. Both seem to combine looks and brains, highly inex-
plicable. One reaches college this fall, the other two years later,
if the old man produces. Having remained in the old home town,
both my wife and I find ourselves pulled into many civic and
charitable organizations, and they can take up many an evening
as well as too many daylight hours.

My principal hobby is ham radio which I try to keep down to
modest proportions. I learned to blow fuses at an early age,
dropped my radio when Law School duties interfered, and got
back on in 1948. It produces little that is tangible except accumu-
lating gear, but I know of no better one for all ages. Along with
this goes the civilian defense communications which lends a serious
purpose to an enjoyable hobby.

For many years my chicf outdoor activity was an annual

[ 932 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trek into the White Mountains of New Hampshire. The days of
jumping from desk and office routine to rugged hiking and climb-
ing under a fifty-pound load seem to be over, but I resolve not to
give up at least an occasional jaunt into the foothills where news
bulletins cannot reach for a week or so. As for the year around,
I am afraid I neglect my physical ed.

My war effort was rendered in quiet ways at home, including
the draft board. The army medics placed me in 4F, not because
of a trick knee which would have given trouble, but because
_ of a heart murmur acquired in childhood which has never re-
stricted my activities.

Perhaps because of the lack of the spectacular in my quiet
career, I cannot make myself believe for more than a passing
moment that we twenty-niners are getting near the top of the
heap. The news of the accomplishments of contemporaries plus
the passing of those I regarded as permanent old-timers is gradu-
ally making an impression.

JOSEPH FAIRFIELD POLAND

HOME appRrEss: 260 Meister Way, Sacramento 19, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2520 Marconi Ave., Sacramento 21, Calif.

BoRN: March 14, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Poland, Olive James
Fairfield.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. Cum laude, 1929; aM. (Stanford
Univ.), 1935.

MaRRIED: Eleonor Marie Tompkins, Sept. 21, 1935, South Orange, N. J.
CHILDREN: Joseph Tompkins, Dec. 22, 1938; Stephen Fairfield, Feb. 27,
1941; Jane Haviland, Oct. 27, 1943; Grace Elizabeth, Oct. 21, 1946;
Sarah Lovert, Dec. 5, 1953.

occupation: Ground-water geologist, district geologist for California, U. S.
Geological Survey; investigation of ground-water resources and prep-
aration of reports for use by the public.

MEMBER oF: American Association of Petroleum Geologists; American Geo-
physical Union; American Water Works Association; Geological So-
ciety of America (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Sundry papers and reports on ground-water geology, ocean-
water intrusion into ground-water basins, land-surface subsidence, and
related subjects.

[933]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MY career as a geologist began one week after Commencement
when I sailed for Colombia, South America, where I spent two
years with the Tropical Oil Company on the Magdalena River,
helping to get oil out of the ground and shooting a few alligators.
Then I went to Stanford University and found an immediate in-
terest in ground-water geology which has persevered through
some consulting work, teaching at Stanford, and a career with the
U.S. Geological Survey in California since 1940.

A geologist is a scientific detective, collecting clues and fitting
them together to form a picture. If he works for the Ground
Water Branch of the Geological Survey, and hence the people
of the country, he tries to paint his picture in words and diagrams,
to explain to people where water occurs, in what amount, how
pure it is, and where it can be found in commercial quantities.
Men do not become geologists to make money, but to enjoy a
field of endeavor. Their reward has to be in accomplishment,
not in wealth. Except for pressures on report completion, dead-
lines, and too much administrative work in recent years, my
work has been fascinating and rewarding and I would not change
if the years were to be relived.

During the war I was on call for water-supply development for
the Armed Forces and defense agencies. I assisted on develop-
ment of supply at several bases and plants in the southwest, made
two trips to Mexico for the Corps of Engineers, but went no
farther afield.

Family: Two boys came first and then two girls and lastly
Sarah nearly twenty-five years after Commencement. They say
a full house is a winning hand and I think they’re right. My wife
has the patience of Allah and an understanding heart. Add a dog,
cat, canary, white rat, hamster, and assorted rodents but no tele-
vision and you have the picture — not a Rembrandt but priceless.
Through the boys I took up committee work in Cub Scouts and
Boy Scouts and found this very rewarding. We usually go camp-
ing in the Sierra Nevada for a few weeks each year, but two sum-
mers ago my wife found a camping trailer that opens up to sleep
four. Since then we’ve been camping from Lassen to Jenny Lake,
Wyoming.

Politically, I am a doubtful Republican who would have voted

for Stevenson if Eisenhower hadn’t been running. If some zealous

[ 934 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but unscrupulous Congressmen don’t get slapped down by their

pu ong 8 PP y
party or their constituents I may have to vote Democratic next
time.

FREDERICK HENSHAW POLLARD, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Hickory Kingdom Road, Bedford Village, N. Y.

BORN: July .23, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Frederick Henshaw Pollard,
Anne Durling.

PREPARED AT: Adirondack-Florida School, Onchiota, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrieD: Doris Roberta Nichols, Jan. 12, 1946, Coconut Grove, Fla. cum-
pREN: Carol Roberta, June 14, 1950; Susan Nichols, Jan. 1, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Marshall Spring Perry Pollard, ’31.

occuPaATION: Stock market trader.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Miami; Biscayne
Bay Yacht Club.

WELL here we are at the big one, The Twenty- -fifth Reunion.
This is fine. As far as I am concerned, life begins at forty-seven!
When I informed my wife that I was about to write a short
autobiographical sketch for the delectation of my classmates,
she said, “Just tell them that you’re doing everything now that
they did twenty years ago!” Quite so: our children are babies;
my conclusions about life are still in the formative stage. By our
Fiftieth, this situation will be rectified.

To begin with, I studied Romance languages in College. In
those days I had a real interest in the arts, a taste which seems
to have been somewhat neglected over the years. Today I am
much more interested in science, particularly as it pertains to
problems of an investment nature. However, my training was
not all wasted. I have had some very interesting conversations
with some very interesting blondes at some very interesting
cocktail parties concerning the influence of satanism on Gothic
literature, or what have you? This, of course, was no reflection
on the Romance Language Department, which is and always
has been excellent. .

As it transpired, I gravitated in due course towards trading
in the stock market, a pursuit not without its worrisome mo-
ments. The Army interrupted my endeavors along this line
for a while. It made me work very hard for four years as a

[935 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

dog-face soldier (two of them in Assam getting planes over the
“Hump”). The most awe-inspiring sight encountered was the
Kanchenjanga Massif viewed from a C-47 flying alongside.. My
most nervous moment was probably one day in Kunming when
they raised a four-ball alert. I started for the rice paddies, but
before I got there the Japanese planes came over e7 masse, and
en masse dropped their bombs — in the rice paddies!

To get back to the stock market, I might add that I am still
waiting for that fabulous moment when I’m going to pick up
Tricontinental warrants at 1/32. Of course I shall. Natch! All
of which doesn’t sound like very high ideals or lofty goals. Sure,
I'd like to do something for humanity, At the moment this con-
sists of helping to raise two healthy young daughters, Carol and
Susan. I find great satisfaction in this, and will get to humanity
when I can. What inspired Carol and Susan was that in 1946 I
married Doris Nichols Gaines, and have been kicking myself
ever since that I didn’t manage it sooner. Some of our happiest
years were spent in Florida where we made our home, and where
collecting palm trees became a great hobby. Now we have
moved to Bedford, New York, and plan to live somewhere in
this vicinity at least for the present.

In my opinion, the crying need of the moment is the kind
of statesmanship which can avert this atom bomb thing. Has
anybody got a good second-hand lead mine for sale cheap? I
am only a pessimist for the short term. The Golden Age un-
doubtedly lies ahead. See you all at the Reunion!

THOMAS EDWARD POLSKY

HoMe Aporess: Route 1, Baird’s Cove, Asheville, N.C.

Born: May 5, 1908, Akron, Ohio. parents: Bert Alfred Polsky, Hazel Steiner.
pagPparep aT: West High School, Akron, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

Marnigp: Jane Culver. cHipren: Peggy, 1936; Katherine, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

PuBLications: Mystery novels and short stories.

[936 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN MARSDEN POOLE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 4362 Hillside Ave., Norco, Calif.; Route 1, Box
1234, Norco, Calif. (mail).

BoRN: Sept. 4, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Alva Emory Poole, Florence
Faulkner.

PREPARED AT: Foxboro High School, Foxboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; B.D. (Episcopal Theological
School), 1934.

MaRRIED: Mildred Patricia Tomlinson, Nov. 29, 1934, Gwynedd, Pa. cum:
Patricia Ann, March 1, 1945, San Bernardino, Calif.

occuPATION: Owner-operator, Norconian Photo News, weekly newspaper.

KENYON EDWARDS POOLE

HOME ADDRESS: 1241 Maple Ave., Wilmette, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Economics, Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.

BORN: Feb. 23, 1909, Rockland, Mass. PARENTS: Ralph Waldo Poole, Mae
Gertrude Edwards.

PREPARED AT: Rockland High School, Rockland, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; A.M. (Fletcher
School), 1934; a.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1937; PH.D. (ibid.), 1938. .

MARRIED: Katherine Reeves Noland, Aug. 31, 1940, Cambridge, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Professor of economics, Northwestern University.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Directors, American Finance Association,
1953; member Governor’s Committee on Financial Management (Illi-

nois), 1952.
MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; National Tax Association;

American Finance Association.

PUBLICATIONS: German Financial Policies, 1932-39, Harvard University Press,
1939; editor and contributor, Fiscal Policies and the American Economy,
Prentice Hall, 1951; The Economics of Public Finance, to be published
by Rinehart and Company; articles and reviews.

YEARS of reading and writing in the field of economics prob-
ably prejudice one in favor of a sober rather than a chatty style.
At the risk of making the years seem less interesting than they
actually have been, I'll try to remain true to the profession.

A year at the University of Munich in 1931-32 inaugurated
my awareness of some of the economic problems contributing
to the international frictions that exchange students were sup-
posed to be alleviating. A brother chemist recommended that
I read John Maynard Keynes’s Economic Consequences of the
Peace. I did, and never having had Ec. A, I gor bogged down.

[937]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

So at the end of the year I went back home to get a Ph.D. in
economics; not right away, though. First came a year of teach-
ing high school English, then a Master’s degree in international
relations at the Fletcher School.

The career of an academic economist during these years has
been somewhat standardized: gradually, the steps from instruc-
tor to professor; the years in Washington (in my case the Treas-
ury, Board of Economic Warfare, Office of Strategic Services,
and the Navy); and along with all this, a number of trips to
Europe. These are the days of economic and other missions to
foreign governments, I had an enjoyable and profitable experience
as a member of an ECA mission to the German Ministry of Fi-
nance in 1951. Except during the war years my wife has ac-
companied me on these trips. Finally, like most economists, I
rather felt that writing a textbook compared unfavorably with
research as a challenge to one’s abilities: until I tried it myself.
After three years and more I am still revising.

Hobbies? I have managed to stifle somewhat the yearning for
more and more travel that gradually threatens to become uncon-
querable. But one to two hours at the piano daily for many years
have made an adequate encroachment on my time. Tennis two
or three times a week helps maintain the physical standards re-
quired of the professor of economics in these days of ardent
schools of thought. |

CHARLES BURNHAM PORTER

HOME abpRESS: 840 Hale St. Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 56 West St., Beverly Farms, Mass.

BORN: July 27, 1906, Beverly Farms, Mass. Parents: Charles Allen Porter,
’88, Margaret Cockran Dewar.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928,

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Manager, North Shore Office, R. M. Bradley and Company,
Inc., real estate. ;

MEMBER oF: Cruising Club of America; Manchester Yacht Club; Manches-
ter Harbor Boat Club; British Officers Club of New England; Ward-

room Club. |
I LEFT College at the end of my second sophomore year after
a mild discussion with the dean over my marks. There were a

[ 938 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

couple of years in a brokerage office, then one or two other jobs,
and finally in 1932 I went into the real estate business with Hunne-
man and Company. These were not very lucrative years, but I
did manage to scrape enough money together to have my auxil-
iary cutter, Roarin’ Bessie, built. She has been the medium of
many very pleasant cruises on the east coast and is still going
strong in her twenty-second year. I am nearly convinced that a
wife might be cheaper. In 1938 I cruised with Sam Morison in
the West Indies while he was gathering material for his now fa-
mous book on Columbus.

When the war started, I tried to get into our Navy but bum
eyes kept me out. However, after several months of running
back and forth between Halifax and Washington I got myself a
commission as a “leftenant” RNVR in the Royal Navy. I got a
ride across in the late H.M.S. Repulse, trained at the Royal Naval
College at Greenwich, England. In July, 1941, I was assigned as
assistant operations officer on the staff of the Commander-in-
Chief of the Nore, at Chatham, England. There was quite a little
activity overhead in those days but we were eighty feet under-
ground and very comfortable. This was an interesting assign-
ment for you really knew what was going on and what was be-
ing planned.

In January, 1943, I transferred to the U. S. Naval Reserve in
spite of my eyes. This probably would not have happened ex-
cept for a personal letter from C. F. Adams, Harvard ’88, to Ad-
miral Harold Stark, USN, Comnaveu. The most important
change for me was the phenomenal rise from $67.50 per month as
a “leftenant” RNVR to $520 per month as a lieutenant USNR.
That $7 per diem was wonderful. Liaising the other way with
the Royal Navy, helping to get the artificial harbors ready for
the Normandy invasion kept me occupied until September, 1944.
Then I came back home for miscellaneous jobs, another half
stripe, and came out in October, 1946. I went back to the real
estate business, this time with R. M. Bradley and Company as
manager of their North Shore office. Adv. Come down to Beverly
Farms any time, we have a lot of expensive shore front for sale.
A couple of Bermuda and Halifax races, three winter cruises in
the Bahamas bring me up to date. Life has treated me very kindly
and the wolf is not quite sitting on my doorstep.

[939]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ROBERT PAYNTON PORTER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 204 E. 46th St., New York 17, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 202 E, 46th St. New York 17, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 27, 1906, Las Cruces, N. Mex. parents: Robert Paynton Porter,
Alice Mary Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Union High School, Las Cruces, N. Mex.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

occuPATION: Owner, general manager, chief designer, chief sanitary engineer,
The Smart Set Company.

MEMBER OF: Young Men’s Christian Association; American Legion.

JUST in the nick of time before the stock market crash of 1929
I secured a job with the New York Daily News, then operating
in a dingy loft building on Park Place in downtown New York.
Those were the days of lurid tabloid journalism, and News re-
porters often had bodyguards accompany them on the trail of
a sensational story. Many a news reporter was slugged by an
irate politician or “boy friend.” Walter Winchell had been
lured away from the News by Mr. Hearst for his Mirror, and
Mark Hellinger was the reigning gossip columnist for the News.
Bernard Macfadden was also hawking his Graphic, but it ex-
pired ungracefully not long after the ‘Peaches Browning” affair.
I had an inside and somewhat humdrum job with the News as
an assistant to the financial editor (“Trader” was his nom de
typewriter) which kept me in close touch with the maelstrom
of the stock market crash. At the time, however, I did not realize
the immensity of the tragedy of the crash. To me it meant
merely that the rest of the people in the United States (and the
world, for that matter) were merely being knocked down to my
financial level.

In 1931 the News moved into a modern new building on East
4znd Street and became more respectable. I branched out to
work with the short story editor and that great, likeable, and
erudite man of the theatre, Burns Mantle. I was fortunate, also,
in working with his first assistant, John (then Jack) Chapman.
My tenure at the News lasted until, in 1932, Colonel Patterson
sold Liberty magazine and some of the older Liberty employees
pushed some of the younger News employees (myself included)
out of jobs. That was at the very nadir of the depression.

[ 940 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After a long visit with my parents and brother, Harry, in
New Mexico, I returned to New York and became an actor.
In most of my appearances as a thespian I did not grace the
stages of Broadway. I did, however, appear (without stellar
billing) in one very interesting Broadway show —the Group
Theatre’s production of Maxwell Anderson’s “Night Over
Taos.” That show was an “artistic failure” and I soon found
myself pounding the pavements again. Undismayed and un-
mindful of the seriousness of the Depression I managed to se-
cure one job after another, ending up in the sales department of
International Business Machines. That job led a few months
later to one in the advertising department of the Vick Chemical
Company where I stayed for four years.

By 1937 I had developed an interest in radio and I left Vick’s
to free Jance as an actor, writer, and publicity man on various
radio stations including NBC, WQOXR, and WNYC. Between
1937 and 1942 I also served in similar capacities in five summer
theatres: Cragsmoor, New York; the Barter Theatre in Abing-
don, Virginia; Bridgehampton, Long Island; Jennerstown, Penn-
sylvania; and Hunterdon Hills, New Jersey.

I was just beginning to feel fairly well established in radio and
the theatre when World War II came along. Back in 1g2g I had
earned a second lieutenant’s commission in the Field Artillery
Reserves. In the early thirties, however, I had become a pacifist
and had discontinued my R.O.T.C. activities. In 1940 I offered.
my services to the Army and made inquiries as to continuing my
R.O.T.C. studies. I was told to stand by —that I might be
called in at any time on two weeks’ notice. I stood by for a
year and when I went into the Army it was as a draftee buck
private! I was inducted at Fort Bliss, Texas (fondly called
“Fort Blister” by many of its alumni), and from there I was
sent to Camp Roberts, California, for basic training in field artil-
lery. That was in the California desert in July where the day-
time temperature usually climbed to 120° in the shade, and
sometimes reached 130°.

At Camp Roberts I took preliminary officers’ training as well
as basic enlisted training and towards the end of my tenure there
I was offered the choice of going on to Fort Sill, Oklahoma, for
further O.C.S. training in field artillery or transferring im-

[941 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

mediately to anti-aircraft with the reinstatement of my R.O.T.C.
commission and a short training session at Camp Callan, Califor-
nia. I chose the latter, much to my regret. later on. Camp Cal-
lan (“Club Callan”) was a delightful spot, but in positions of
responsibility and leadership later I felt the need of more thor-
ough officer training, and in anti-aircraft I also missed the high
standards and the old Army traditions of field artillery. A very
happy note in my transfer, however, was that it brought me into
the vicinity of the beautiful, friendly, and cosmopolitan city of
San Francisco. .

For the greater part of my Army career I was on field duty
in or near the San Francisco Bay area in the 217th Group of the
Western Defense Command. I was shifted often and on short
notice from one unit and location to another, achieving a first
lieutenancy in the process, but was usually within visiting dis-
tance of the city of San Francisco. I expected to be shipped over-
seas at any time (with the South Pacific area the most likely)
but such orders never came, and when the United States achieved
definite air superiority in the latter part of 1944, our outfits were
broken up and I was shipped back to Ft. Bliss for mustering out.

For eighteen months after getting out of the Army I worked
with my brother, Harry, in Albuquerque, in his wholesale liquor
business, a hiatus which I enjoyed very much. Eventually, how-
ever, I returned to New York.

In New York I considered returning to radio and trying to
break into some phase of television, but I found that many of my
old contacts had gone — and, more important, my interests had
changed, After trying various fields of endeavor I became in-
terested in the plastics industry and started a small business of
my own which I named “The Smart Set Company.” Still some-
what to my own surprise I am now manufacturing ladies’ quality
plastic leatherette carry-all bags which are being sold in better
stores from coast to coast. I am pleased to say that my wares
are well liked by the weaker, smarter, and more practical sex
and that the firm is prospering.

Class members and their wives (or girl friends) are invited
to visit my small showroom, office, and factory at 202 East 46th
Street, New York City, at any time, six days a week from nine

[ 942 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the morning until midnight. Coffee, tea, doughnuts, and
crumpets are served at 9:30 A.M. and 4: oo P.M. to employees
and visitors.

JOHN ANDREW PRIOR

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Vista St., Malden 48, Mass.

BorRN: May 17, 1905, Medford, Mass. Parents: James Andrew Prior, Ann
McCarthy.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-19209.

MarRieD: Margaret Eileen Macdonald, April 15, 1936, Malden, Mass. cuit-
DREN: Gertrude Ann, Jan. 18, 1937; Jane, Feb. 16, 1938 (died Aug. 5,
1940); Kathleen, Oct. 2, 1941; John Andrew, Jr., April 3, 1943; Torbert,
Dec. 29, 1944; Harriett H., Jan. 2, 1948; Paul, Jam. 1, 1951.

occupaTion: English instructor, head coach, Medford High School.

OFFICES HELD: Former district manager, southern New England, northwest
territory, Procter and Gamble Company; president, Massachusetts
Football Coaches Association.

FOR the six years, 1929 through 1935, 1 worked for the Procter
and Gamble Distributing Company in the bulk Crisco depart-
ment. I first spent three months in their school at Cincinnati and
then started as a missionary man, contacting all small outlets and
working with our jobbers’ salesmen. After a year and a half of
this work I became a regular route salesman in the Boston area.
Things broke well for me during the next year, and I was pro-
moted to the district managership of southern New England. A
year later I was sent to Seattle to become manager of the north-
west territory which included Washington, Oregon, Idahe, Mon-
tana, British Columbia, and Alaska. I spent the next two years
on the coast and then entered the personal research department,
travelling the entire country for the next year and a half. At this
time I took time off to regain my health. During the next few
months I decided to give up travelling on the advice of my
physician. |

In 1936 I obtained a teacher-coach position at Concord High
School, New Hampshire. The next year I went to Mount Her-
mon School where I taught English and coached three sports
for the next two years. The next year I spent at Brookline High
School as a teacher-coach. In the fall of 1939 I went to Medford

[ 943 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

High to teach English, and coach hockey and baseball. At the
same time I coached football at Malden Catholic, winning the
championship each of the eight years I stayed there. I became
head coach of football at Medford in 1948 and am still there.

Politically, I am a Democrat, but vote for the best man re-
gardless of party. As to religion, I attend the Catholic Church,
usually accompanied by my four older children, each one, as
well as the other two, worth a million to me, and the best wife
in the world. I think that any church is the best means of fight-
ing Communism and delinquency.

t+ HENRY HARRISON PROCTOR

BORN: Jan. 8, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Charles A. Proctor, Grace Hop-
kins.

prepaRED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LL.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Angela Susan Maxwell, October, 1944. CHILDREN: Barry; Simon;
Sheelin (stepchildren).

piED: July 6, 1948, off Marblehead, Mass.

AFTER graduation from the College, Henry Harrison Proctor
entered Harvard Law School and received an LL.B. in 1932. He
travelled for a year and then joined the legal firm of Gaston,
Snow, Saltonstall & Hunt of Boston. In 1936 he opened his own
office. He joined the Civil Air Patrol in 1942 and received the
Air Medal for his anti-submarine flights. In 1943 he became a
member of the civilian staff of the Office of Strategic Services,
and in the same year received a commission in the United States
Naval Reserve. He was attached to the London embassy and as
a lieutenant commander directed the London office of the OSS.
He was awarded the Bronze Star and the French Croix de Guerre
with gold star for liaison work with both French and British.
While in the service, he married the widow of a former member
of Parliament. Returning to Boston, he resumed the practice of
law, and made frequent business trips to England. He was
drowned in a sailing accident in Marblehead Harbor, and was
survived by his wife and three stepchildren.

[944]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID MARTIN PROUDFOOT

HOME AppREss: North Wilton Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 30, 1907, Lowell, Mass. parents: David Chauncey Proudfoot,
Georgia Martin.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES 8.B., 1929.

marrieD: Mildred P. Bailey, April 14, 1936, New York, N. Y.

occuPATION: Banking, assistant vice-president, Irving Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Harvard Club of New Canaan; governor,
Country Club of New Canaan, Dedham Country and Polo Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Uptown Club, New York.

AFTER graduation I joined General Motors Acceptance Cor-
poration in the Bank Relations Department and remained with
this company until 1934. I then returned to Boston in charge
of bank relations in New England for the Commercial Credit
Company. In 1936 Mildred P. Bailey and I were married and
we lived in Dover, Massachusetts, until 1940 when I joined the
staff of The Hanover Bank in New York and we moved to New
Canaan, Connecticut, to live.

Early in 1943 I was commissioned in the U. S. Navy and Mrs.
Proudfoot joined the Overseas Service of the American Red
Cross. I was assigned to Naval Aviation Supply Corps and Mrs.
Proudfoot was sent to the Mediterranean Theatre where she
received the Bronze Star Medal for meritorious service. In 1946
we returned to New Canaan to live and I returned to The Han-
over Bank. In 1949 I changed jobs and went into industry for
two years. In 1953 I went back to banking with the Irving
Trust Company where I now am assistant vice-president of the
new branch at 46th Street and Madison Avenue, which is very
convenient to the Harvard Club. In New Canaan we enjoy the
pleasure of an early American house and its garden, golf, and
the many social and civic activities of this charming community.

GEORGE BENJAMIN PUTMAN

HOME ADDRESS: sos W. Lake St. Marceline, Mo.
BORN: July 22, 1907, Marceline, Mo. Parents: Ola Putman, Elise Carter
Jones,

[945 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Marceline High School, Marceline, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: $B. 1929, M.D. (Cornell Univ.),

1933+
maRRIED: Mildred Dicks Hardin, Oct. 27, 1934, Marceline, Mo. cHiLpren;
George Benjamin, Jr., May 25, 1936; Margaret Elise, Nov. 10, 1938.
occuPATION: Physician and surgeon.

GEORGE BENJAMIN PUTMAN sustained a severe brain injury
on February 22, 1942, and since that time has been confined to a
sanitarium. He graduated from Cornell Medical School in 1933
and was interning at Jersey City Medical Center when the sud-
den death of his father, Dr. Ola Putman, compelled him to re-
turn to his home town, Marceline, Missouri, and take over the
hospital that his father had owned and operated.

ELIOT THWING PUTNAM

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Noble and Greenough School, Inc., Dedham,
Mass,

BORN: May 6, 1908, Hingham, Mass. parents: Eliot Thwing Putmam, ’o1,
Marguerita Sumner.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(30).

MarrieD: Laura Elizabeth Wiggins, June 29, 1938, Dedham, Mass. CHILDREN:
Eliot Thwing, Jr., Jan. 27, 1940; Laura Elizabeth, Feb. 7, 1942; Arthur
Ware, Nov. 19, 1943; Marguerita Sumner, March 31, 1947; Charles
Wiggins, Nov. 17, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Ware Putnam, ’27 (deceased); Sumner Putnam,
"31.

occuPATION: Headmaster, Noble and Greenough School.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Independent School Association of Boston.

MEMBER OF: Headmasters Association, Country Day School Headmasters
Association; Tavern Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club.

AS a sophomore, I knew that I wanted to be a schoolmaster, and
immediately after graduating in 1930 I reported as a resident
teacher at Noble and Greenough School, a place that has been
awfully good to me and which I have never had the slightest
inclination to leave. My field of teaching is the French language,
and during my bachelor years I travelled often to Europe, twice
with boys, and attended summer sessions at Harvard and Middle-
bury College. During the school year I was also active in coach-
ing athletic teams, and in the utterly absorbing and rewarding

[946 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

job of helping boys to grow up into fine, big-calibre men. School-
mastering requires patience, understanding, respect for and ab-
solute fairness with one’s students. It is sometimes frustrating,
but never dull; and far more often than the layman realizes, it is
downright thrilling.

In 1938 I led a dual life. After finishing my dormitory duties
at ten o’clock at night, I walked one hundred feet down the hall
to plead my cause with the daughter of my beloved headmaster,
Charles Wiggins. Somehow the boss’s daughter said “yes” and
a new chapter began. In November, 1943, my father-in-law
died, a war casualty, for those were difficult days for prep
schools. I was appointed to succeed him.

For the past several years we have spent our summers in
Maine: July at Camp Merryweather on the Belgrade Lakes, af-
fectionately remembered by many classmates; and August at
my mother-in-law’s on Deer Isle. My happiest out-of-school
moments are spent with my family in the outdoors. Mountain-
climbing, golf, carpentry, working with my hands, reading, “do-
ing the chores” — these are my favorite hobbies. I can think of
nothing to complain of, except the flight of time.

THOMAS BARTLETT QUIGLEY

WOME ADDRESS: 20 Hawthorn Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: 319 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BoRN: May 24, 1908, North Platte, Nebr. parents: Daniel Thomas Quigley,
Helen Seyferth.

PREPARED AT: Omaha Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; MD., 1933.

MarRiED: Ruth Elizabeth Pearson, Dec. 31, 1938, New York, N. Y. cHu-
DREN: Jane Seyferth, Oct. 28, 1939; Thomas Bartlett, June 14, 1941;
Pamela Pearson, June 25, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of surgery, Harvard Medical
School; senior associate in surgery, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital;
surgeon, Department of Athletics, Harvard University; attending sur-
geon (orthopedics), West Roxbury Veterans Administration Hospi-
tal.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Longwood Cricket Club; Aescula-
pian Club; American Medical Association; American College of Sur-
geons; American Association for the Surgery of Trauma; New Eng-

[ 947 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

the more prominent symptoms is the bug-eyed reading of galley
proofs to the exclusion of all other activities. This disease has
resulted in a number of effusions in print in various surgical
journals and one small book.

During World War II, I served in North Ireland and England
for three and one-half years. For two and one-half years I was
Chief of the Orthopedic Service of the Fifth General Hospital.
The personnel of this hospital, as in the First World War, was
recruited from the Harvard Medical School, principally the
Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. During the last year I served as
Chief of Surgery at the Twenty-second General Hospital, also
stationed in Southern England. This war experience crystalized
my interest in the surgery of injuries and was invaluable ex-
perience.

In 1938, Ruth Elizabeth Pearson and I were married. We have
three children, Jane Seyferth— fourteen, Thomas Bartlett —
twelve, and Pamela Pearson — five. There has been relatively
little time for hobbies but we have enjoyed fishing expeditions
in Nova Scotia and in recent years serving as crew for Rich
Warren on cruises off the New England coast. If the next
twenty-five years are as much fun as the last I can have no cause
for complaint.

PAUL QUINN

HOME AppREss: 105 Church St., Wallingford, Conn. (permanent); 14 E.
28th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 6 E. 45th St., New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1929.

OCCUPATION: Editor.

ALDO LYON RAFFA

HOME ADDRESS: 8500 Garfield St., Bethesda 14, Md.

orFice appress: The American University, 1901 F St. N. WwW, Washington,
D.C.

Born: Sept. 10, 1906, Milan, Italy. parents: Ottavio Raffa, Harriet Breiten-
bach.

peepanepD at: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

[950 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1929. DEGREES: A.A., 1929; D. PHIL. (Palermo Univ.),

1943.
MaRRIED: Joyce Frances Manley, April 21, 1930, Meriden, Conn. cumtpren:

John Brooks, Jan. 5, 1935; Joyce Harriet, March 13, 1937.

occuPATION: Government consultant in international relations, administra-
tion and training; professorial lecturer in political science and public
administration, American University; reserve officer, U. S. Air Force
Intelligence.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Washington Chapter, Society for the Ad-
vancement of Management, 1938-41; president, Huntington Terrace
Citizens Association, Montgomery County, Md., 1937-41; correspond-
ing editor, Public Personnel Council; director, legislative research and
analysis, American Retail Federation, 1936-38.

MEMBER OF: U. S. Air Force Reserve; Military Order of the Knights of
Malta; Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.; American Political Sci-
ence Association; Italian Academy of Arts and Sciences (honorary).

PUBLICATIONS: Government Policy and Consumer Purchasing Power, Wash-
ington, D. C., 1938; Handbook for Speakers, NRA, Washington, D. C,
1933; Review of UNRRA Programs in Italy, Milan, 1947; Manual for
Intelligence and Security Officer, Air Transport Command, 1943;
“Vocational Education and the National Security,” American Voca-
tional Journal, 1951; Offsetting Communist Propaganda in South Asia,
U. S. Air Force, 1953.

INSTEAD of trying to write a chronological account, which
in this case would be as boring to the writer as to the reader,
.of what has happened to me since 1929, I shall try to describe
the situation then as against now with a few highlights of events
in between.

Immediately after Commencement and acting upon the then
rather unusual impulse of entering government service as a
“career,” I passed the examination for the U. S. Foreign Com-
merce Service and entered the service of the Department of
Commerce in July. Today after twenty-five years of unex-
pectedly varied, often dull and frustrating, but at times highly
gratifying and interesting experiences in the federal service, in
private industry, the Armed Forces, and in university teaching,
I continue to serve the government as an adviser and consultant
while simultaneously serving as a professorial lecturer in com-
parative government and public administration at the American
University School of Social Sciences and Public Affairs. My
son is grown and is now in the Navy; my daughter is in high
school,

&

[951]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

where to find a common ground of reason, sense, and human
decency, and to safeguard this system of “freedom under law”
against the ominous and potent threats which it has had to face in
our time.

Those threats have appeared in various forms and guises — as
Communism, Fascism, Nazism, and at times as a super-patriotism
which alleges to be against one or another of the better-known
forms of tyranny but which would itself fasten a similar system
upon us. A plague on all their blouses! The greatest war in his-
tory was the direct result of the machinations of Nazi-Fascism
joined, just prior to its outbreak, by Soviet Communism. A half
a world war in Korea is the result of the acts of the Communist
form, as is the state of armed tension and international nightmare
of the present day. To use an older metaphor, these are all the
same poison under a different label. Unfortunately, this fact is
still not apparent to large numbers of people in this country and
abroad who are still misguided into fighting each other on false
or minor issues rather than facing up to the true nature of the
enemies of freedom. ,

If the cause of human freedom, internally and internationally,
is to survive in these foreboding 1950’s, it should not only make
provision to defend itself negatively but should assert the posi-
tive, creative philosophy and action of which it is capable, given
enough confidence in itself. America, whether she likes it or not,
is looked to for leadership of the free world. That leadership
cannot, in my opinion, be effective unless it is exercised not alone
by the government in Washington but backed by a conscious
and thoughtful citizenry. Aware men, particularly the so-called
“educated” sector, have a responsibility for helping, on the one
hand, to overcome indifference, smugness, or cynicism about the
issue of freedom versus tyranny and, on the other, to prevent a
near-hysteria or fear complex about our ability to cope with the
enemy. We need not acquire a false sense of superiority in order
to avoid a feeling of inferiority or hopelessness about the inherent
strength of the kind of political principles on which this country
was founded. Those principles, re-evaluated in terms of the
present day, can be applied as a universal vital force for human
reason, enlightment, and well-being in a world which is being
challenged by organized ruthlessness, violence, and despotism.

[954]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERIC HILL RAHR

HOME AppREss: 1 East End Ave. New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 9 E. 56th St., New York 22, N. Y.

porn: April 23, 1904, Malden, Mass. parents: Chester Emil Rahr, Elsie
May Hill.

PREPARED AT: Stone School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.

MARRIED: Julia Ashton Bradshaw, Feb. 18, 1931, Athens, Ga. CHILDREN:
Rosena Ashton, Nov. 30, 1931; Frederic Hill, Jr., Nov. 17, 1936 (died
April 8, 1949).

occuPATION: President, Frederic H. Rahr, Inc. (Rahr Color Clinic) and
Customer Preference Clinic, Inc., merchandising and style consultant.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Sales Executives Club; Architec~
tural League, New York; Shenorock Shore Club; Inter-Society Color
Council.

THERE is nothing more painful than trying to write your own
biography — but at your insistence, here goes!

In June, 1929, I started work as product research laboratory
assistant with the Flintkote Company, Rutherford, New Jersey.
By the end of that year we began to realize that “appearance” —
color and style, were significant influences in the sales of con-
sumer goods for the building markets. Basing our studies on
technical information and methods learned in the Flintkote de-
partment, we began the development of a systematic method for
surveying the consumer point of view regarding these style and
appearance factors.

These studies resulted in rapidly increased sales throughout the
depression years, during which I was employed by the above
company and Certainteed Products. In 1936 we started our own
firm, as consultants to industries producing a wide variety of
consumer goods.

In 1942 I reported for active duty in the U. S. Marine Corps
where I served as a captain until 1944, and a major in 1945. Upon
my return from the service, we re-established our firm and have
expanded its consulting operation to include building materials,
home furnishings, fashions, cosmetics, and a wide variety of con-
sumer publications. As consultants in these fields our job is to
measure and report shifting trends in consumer demand for color,
style, types of material, price, and size. This we do for leading
manufacturers and retailers.

[955]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Except for the war years, our family has lived in or near New
York ever since 1932. We enjoy travel, the theatre, and our
social and business friends here, and contrary to frequent rumor
can recommend the city as a good place to live, and a good place
to come back to. Politically we think of ourselves as independ-
ents leaning to the Republican middle of the road. Our church
is the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church. Mrs. Rahr’s interest
in social service organizations is now widely active, including
several that serve the greater New York area.

Our daughter is a student at Finch College, where she has con-
centrated her studies so far in the field of child care and psychol-
ogy. We all hope that as a result of the publication of this Class
book, we may catch up with many old friends of whom, in spite
of this city’s being a cross-roads, we have seen too little and too
seldom.

WALTER MacGREGOR RAIGUEL

HOME ADDRESS: 1904 Spruce St., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

OFFice aDpREss: 1835 Arch St., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

BoRN: March 27, 1907, Germantown, Pa. parents: Ralph Percival Raiguel,
Minnie Guthrie MacGregor.

PREPARED AT: Germantown Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marRieD: Margaret Elizabeth Schuder, March 1, 1952, Glenolden, Pa.

occupation: Writer on The Telephone News, employee publication of
The Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania.

OFFICES HELD: Member Executive Board, Salvation Army, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: University Glee Club of Philadelphia; Savoy Opera Com-
pany; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Huguenot Society of Pennsyl-
vania; Plays and Players, Philadelphia.

PUBLICATIONS: The Song of America, 1941, The Call of America (song),
1941, Oliver Ditson & Company.

AT the time of our Twentieth Reunion, I wrote that I was com-
pletely awed that our Twentieth-fifth Reunion should be only
five years away. Now, five years later, I am still amazed that it
should be upon us. In all sincerity I must say that all of us in the
Class of 1929 seem to have withstood the years far better than
our predecessors who tottered about the Yard when we gradu-
ated. Well, following graduation I took a fine trip to Europe

[956]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which has remained one of my best memories ever since. The
day after my return, I started working as a traffic engineer with
the Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania. (Since I concen-
trated in English for four years and avoided mathematics as much
as possible, it was only natural, of course, that I should have as
my first job that of engineer. The man who hired me told me
later that I looked like an engineer; probably the old, beaten-up
Harvard Square hat.)

A year later I was transferred to the Public Relations Depart-
ment of the same company to write lectures. I have been in the
same department ever since, formerly writing various kinds of
advertising, and at present writing for the employee publication,
The Telephone News.

For many years of bachelorhood, I spent busy days in various
activities. I took parts with the Plays and Players, a local non-
professional group. I sang with the Savoy Opera Company in its
production of Gilbert and Sullivan and with the University Glee
Club for which I wrote about four musical shows. I have been
on the Schools and Entertainment Committees of the Harvard
Club and active in the Community Chest. In 1950 I wrote a show
for the Salvation Army which had Claude Rains as narrator and
received a great deal of satisfaction from it. Finally, in 1952,
romance came into my life and I married a very fine girl. I have
not spent a bored or unhappy moment since. (I am writing this
of my own free will, with no one looking over my shoulder.)
We have a wonderful time with much affection and much laugh-
ter and I consider the married status, like the American Navy, a
great institution. I remember reading an autobiography one time
the author of which, then in his late years, said that looking back
on his life he could say that there had been few days that had not
brought more pleasure than pain. Looking back, at this half-way
mark, I can say the same.

PHILIP SCRIBNER RAND

HOME ApprEss: Redding Ridge, Conn.

OFFICE appRrEss: Remington Rand, Inc., Wilson Road, South Norwalk, Conn.

BORN: June 6, 1906, Newtonville, Mass, PARENTS: James Henry Rand, Mary
Scribner,

[957]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

marrieD: Mary B. Page, June 19, 1928, Melrose, Mass. (divorced 1935);
Louise Nelson, Nov. 2, 1936, Dover, N. H. citpren: Mary Banks,
May 19, 1929 (7. Jack March, 1948); Louisa Nelson, Jan, 16, 1942,
GRANDCHILDREN: Jack March, March 14, 1950; James March, June 15,
1953-

HARVARD BROTHER: James Henry Rand, ’o8.

occupation: Electronic engineer, research and development of electronic
business machines, Remington Rand, Inc.

orrices HELD: Director, Civil Defense Radio for Middlesex County, Conn,
1942-46; member, Disaster Committee, 1948-52, board of directors,
1950-52, American Red Cross, Norwalk, Conn.; consulting engineer,
ARRL, since 1952; director of radio communications, Civil Defense
Area 1, Conn., since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; American Radio Relay League;
Amateur Radio Transmitting Society, Louisville, Ky. (honorary life
member); Rock Creek Amateur Radio Association, Washington, D.C.
(honorary life member).

PUBLICATIONS: Television Interference, three editions; forty technical articles
dealing with radio transmitting and receiving equipment in Electronics,
Radio @ Television News, Electrical Manaufacturing, Modern Plastics,
QST, and CQ; lectures on above subjects.

FOR anyone who has done the writing and lecturing listed above
under “Publications” it should be easy to dash off this brief ac-
count of one’s life since College days. Unfortunately, the above
subject matter was highly technical in nature and is of no help
in describing the unpredictable actions and movements of a human
being during the last twenty-five years. If I were to follow my
usual style of writing, it might go something like this:

“New Model of Human”
by P. S. Rand

(A brief description of the production and life testing of a new
model of human called “PSR” — Editor)

Introduction

The subject of this paper is a new experienced male model of
a human called “PSR.” The co-inventors and manufacturers of
“PSR” were James H. and Mary S. Rand of North Tonawanda,
New York. “PSR” was produced in Newtonville, Massachusetts
in 1906, the fifth and the last model manufactured by this firm.

[958]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When first put into operation, it was found to be too small to be
practicable and furthermore lacked most of the desirable and
necessary functions of such a unit. Therefore work was contin-
ued on the project until the summer of 1928. During these twen-
ty-two years certain phases of the engineering on this job were
subcontracted to other organizations such as Nichols School in
Buffalo, New York, and Harvard University in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, to mention only two.

In the spring of 1928 considerable difficulty was encountered
with the main fuses blowing in the unit and before the trouble
could be rectified, unit “PSR” had combined with a female unit
of another manufacturer, which we shall call “MBP.” The com-
bined units seemed to function OK with oversize fuses and so
these were installed. The manufacturers thought it best to do one
more year of research, however; they soon found that the ma-
chine was too difficult to control with the oversize fuses and so
gave up this idea.

Life Testing

Within one year the combined unit “PSR-MBP” actually
started producing new units itself. During the next seven years
the machine operated reasonably well. The machine performed
various jobs or tasks given it. For the first two or three years the
inventors used it in their business. It was then rented to the New
York Rio and Buenos Air Line in Florida for about a year.

In 1935 the old trouble of blowing fuses developed again and
the unit was shipped out to a laboratory in Reno, Nevada, for
repairs. After an overhaul, which involved the separation of
units “PSR” and “MBP” the unit was returned in good working
order and was leased to Remington Rand, Inc. They used it at
their various plants in Bridgeport, Connecticut, Hamilton, On-
tario, Garwood, New Jersey; Stamford, Middletown, and Nor-
walk, Connecticut.

In 1936, while in Canada, unit “PSR” again combined with an-
other unit, this time with a Canadian unit called “LN.” In 1942
this combination produced another small unit of the female type.
After twelve years’ work this unit is quite sizable and shows
promise of performing satisfactorily in another ten years or so.

During the years of the World War II, unic “PSR” was en-

[959]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

gaged in producing television cameras for military glide bombs
and other secret weapons. During the past seven years it has been
installed in a laboratory of Remington Rand, Inc., in South Nor-
walk, Connecticut, developing electronic devices for business
machines.
Peculiarities

During the nighttime hours and during weekends unit
“PSR” is housed in a special container designed and built for the
purpose on an 8o00-foot hilltop in Redding Ridge, Connecticut.
After having been turned off at the end of a working day and
returned to its container for refueling and maintenance, unit
“PSR” has often been observed to spontaneously resume opera-
tion. Careful analysis shows that this nighttime mode of operation
is along entirely different lines than that of daytime. These are
tabulated in Table I.

Table I

. Writing technical articles
Lecturing

. Photography

Amateur Radio Operator Wi1DBM
. Yachting

. Red Cross Work

. Civil Defense Work

Observation of human units of other manufacture also show
some of these peculiarities. The layman, untrained in research,
usually calls this behaviour the “pursuit of a hobby.” It is de-
batable in scientific circles whether these peculiarities add to or
detract from the basic function of the unit.

Specifications
Age 47
Weight 185
Height 5° 11”
Hair brown (a little thin on top)
Sight excellent (glasses needed to combat the trend of

using smaller type in modern printing)
[ 960 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Mechanical Condition — like new (some modifications needed
to combat trend of making stairs in modern build-
ings so steep and so high)

Hearing flat from 20 to 1200 cycles

Hydraulic System — pressure — normal, pump good, fluid —
rich red (drained off a pint yesterday for Red
Cross)

Conclusion

In concluding this technical report, I would like to mention
that the “life test” on the first unit produced by “PSR-MBP” has
already started and there are two new small units under develop-
ment. These are sometimes known as grandchildren. Also let me
point out that this paper only covers the first twenty-five years
and it is hoped that additional data can be compiled for the next
twenty-five years.

VIRGIL PATRICK RANDOLPH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 55 Malvern Ave., Richmond 21, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mutual Bldg., Richmond, Va.

BORN: Aug. 28, 1905, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Virgil Patrick Randolph,
Elizabeth Stanley.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 19293 LL.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Jane Day Boogher, Nov. 12, 1926, Suffern, N. Y. cup: Virgil
Patrick, 3d, Oct. 27, 1929 (mm. Betsy-Hart Bonan, May 30, 1953).

occuPATION: Lawyer, self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attorney general, Virginia, 1944-46; member, Virginia
State Milk Commission, since 1949.

I AM an Episcopalian and a Byrd Democrat. My son received an
A.B. from the University of Virginia in 1952.

ARNOLD RAUM

HOME ADDRESS: 9400 St, Andrews Way, Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tax Court of the United States, 12th Street and Constitution
Avenue, N. W., Washington 25, D.C.

BoRN: Oct. 27, 1908, Lynn, Mass. parents: Isaac Raum, Ida Ross.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

[961 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. Stentma cum laude, 1929; LL.B.
magna cum laude, 1932.

marriep: Afuriel Leidner Slaff, Jan. 26, 1944, Washington, D. C.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leonard Raum, '35.

occuPATION: Judge, Tax Court of the United States.

OFFICES HELD: Special assistant to attorney general of United States, 1934-50;
assistant to solicitor general, acting solicitor general of United States,
1939-50; lecturer, Yale Law School, 1938, Harvard Law School, 1947.

MEMBER OF: American Law Institute; American Bar Association; District
of Columbia Bar Association (honorary); Harvard Club of Wash-
ington, D. C,

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to various legal publications.

THE jurisdiction of the Tax Court is coextensive with the entire
country, and I therefore find myself from time to time away
from Washington sitting in various cities in the United States,
but most frequently perhaps in New York, Chicago, and Los
Angeles. On the average, I am “on circuit” about ten weeks of
the year, at from one to three weeks for each trip. I find judicial
life stimulating, exacting, and rewarding (please don’t get the
wrong impression! ).

My wife is a physician, specializing in pathology, and our pro-
fessional satisfactions complement each other to a remarkable
degree. By the time this Class Report appears, she will have pub-
lished as co-author a treatise and atlas of otolaryngic pathology
which is expected to sell for the frightening sum of about eighteen
dollars a copy. She refuses to consider seriously my suggestion
that the book be dedicated to me “without whose impatient under-
standing this work would never have been completed.”

I have virtually abandoned tennis. Puttering around the lawn
and an occasional round of golf constitute my chief forms of ex-
ercise. My wife and I enjoy music, the theatre, and a few rubbers
of bridge, if not played too seriously. It is always pleasant to
welcome old friends who find their way to Washington.

WILLIAM ROBINSON REED

HOME aporess: 163 Tremont St., Taunton, Mass.

orri2 anperss: William Reed & Sons Co, 5-9 Cohannet Sc., Taunton, Mass.

Born; Aug. 14, 1904, Taunton, Mass. parents: William Hale Reed, ‘95,
Fmma Belle Robinson.

parpanro at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Excter, N. H.

[ 962 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1924, 1925-1926.

MARRIED: Doris Mildred Field, Nov. 16, 1939, Easton, Mass. cHILDREN:
Nancy, June 7, 1940; William Field, June 28, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Hall Reed, ’38, Edward Waldo Reed, "40.

occupation: Treasurer, William Reed & Sons Company, publishers of
Taunton Daily Gazette; editor and publisher, Taunton Daily Gazette.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Bristol County Savings Bank, director, Taunton
Boys’ Club, Community Chest of Taunton, president, State Square and
Folk Dance Associates, Inc., 1952.

MEMBER OF: Old Colony Callers and Teachers Association; Bay State Square
and Folk Dance Associates, Inc.; Automobile Club of Rhode Island;
Rotary Club of Taunton.

AFTER leaving Harvard in mid-term, 1926, I entered the Em-
pire State School of Printing at Ithaca, New York, in March. At
the completion of a six months’ course, I worked until just before
Christmas at the Norton Printing Company in Ithaca. In Janu-
ary, 1927, | went to work for my father at the Taunton (Massa-
chusetts) Daily Gazette. I worked in all mechanical departments
of the newspaper and finally worked in the news and editorial
departments. Since the death of my father in 1950 I have been
editor and publisher.

During the war I was living in Raynham, a suburb of Taunton,
and served on the War Price and Rationing Board and for a while
was chief air raid warden of that town. I also served on the town
fire department until the return from the war of the regular
members. 1 was a member of the U. S. Coast Guard Temporary
Reserves and did duty at Sandwich, Massachusetts, at the station
on the Cape Cod Canal. Since the war I have become interested
in square dancing and find it a relaxing pastime.

SAMUEL KREAMER REEVES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 218 Pembroke Ave., Wayne, Pa.

BORN: March 19, 1906, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Samuel Kreamer Reeves,
Josephine Lippincott.

PREPARED aT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

UNMARRIED.

MEMBER OF: First Troop, Philadelphia Cavalry (non-active); Philadelphia
Club.

SINCE leaving Harvard I have had various jobs: the first was
[ 963 ]

_ A

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

selling real estate, the most recent was selling securities. At the
present time I am both unemployed and unmarried. During the
war I served in the Army, starting in the Horse Cavalry in Febru-
ary, 1941, and ending in the Transportation Corps in March,
1946, with thirteen months of overseas service.

RALSTON BYRNES REGAN

HOME ADDRESS: 2254 Du Broca St., Mobile, Ala.

Born: Dec. 14, 1907, Mobile, Ala, Parents: Ralston Byrnes Regan, Eliza-
beth Cummins.

PREPARED AT: Mobile High School, Mobile, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: S.B. 19293; LL.B. 1932.

MarRieD: Viola Cooper, June, 1932. CHILDREN: Barbara, Feb, 1, 1934; an-
other child.

OccuPATION: Lieutenant colonel, Air Force.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files. |

JAMES LUTHER REID

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Chestnut St., Hallowell, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 284 Water St., Augusta, Maine.

Born: Dec. 31, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Thomas Alan Reid, May Belle
Warren.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1932.

maraieD: Alice Brown Hastings, June 20, 1935, Quincy, Mass.; Anne Hoffses,
Oct. 25, 1941. CHILDREN: James Luther, Jr., June 13, 1936; Carolyn,
Sept. 2, 1938; Thomas Jeffrey, Jan. 31, 1943.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Kennebec County attorney, 1946-50; member, Maine State
Senate, 1951-54; incorporator, Kennebec Savings Bank. .

MEMBER oF: American and Maine State Bar Associations; Mason; Elks;
Union Club of Boston, Abnaki Club of Augusta; Augusta Country
Club.

AS previously reported, after graduation from the Harvard Law
School I decided to settle and practice law in a relatively small
New England community which turned out to be Augusta,
Maine, and I have lived here ever since. In a community of
20,000 people one invariably becomes a general practitioner which

[ 964 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

includes the drama of jury trials. The trial of cases is exciting

but not very remunerative. In order to be moderately prosperous

and taking into account the high cost of living on the one hand

and the high cost of taxes on the other, one must represent a

corporation or two. In my case I represent in Maine the New

England Telephone & Telegraph Company, The Great Atlantic
& Pacific Tea Company, the American Woolen Company, and
the Hudson Pulp & Paper Corporation. From the time I first
alighted in this most delightful state, I have interested myself
politically. Until the war my activities were largely in young Re-
publican circles, After the war I ran for the office of Kennebec
County attorney, was elected, and re-elected. It was an experi-
ence well worthwhile. Then I ran for the Maine State Senate,
was elected, and re-elected, and I have just announced my candi-
dacy for a third term and also as Republican floor leader. Politics,
in so far as public office is concerned, should very definitely be
played by ear and consequently I venture no guess as to what I
might be up to in 1956.

In the fall of 1942 I received my commission as lieutenant (jun-
ior grade) in the United States Navy and served until the end of
the war and thereafter for several months while waiting to be re-
leased. All of my service was in connection with anti-submarine
warfare as an air intelligence officer, first for the Naval Air Dis-
trict at Norfolk and then attached to VC-19 and other air craft
squadrons engaging in anti-submarine warfare on small carriers
in the Atlantic—in my case the U.S.S. Guadalcanal and the
USS. Bogue. Like most of the others who were indoctrinated
at Quonset Point, Rhode Island, I stated a preference for service
in the Pacific. ‘The Navy, however, has a way of handing out as-
signments diametrically opposed to those requested. Neverthe-
less, I really enjoyed the problems involved in the areas in which
I found myself during the war.

The whole subject of atomic energy has fascinated me to the
extent that I have made it a reading hobby, beginning with the
Smythe Report on atomic energy for military purposes which I
have read many times and continuing with all the articles I have
been able to find at the Maine State Library, In addition I am on
the mailing list of the Atomic Energy Commission. All of this,
of course, is simply a layman’s effort, although I believe I have

[965 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

a rather intimate knowledge of the structure of atoms and the
significance and extent of the power therein contained.

Bridge and golf continue to be my only hobbies. My son,
James, Jr., is seventeen years old and is preparing for college at
the Maine Central Institute in Pittsfield. My daughter, Carolyn,
is a sophomore at Hallowell High School, and young Thomas is
in grammar school. We have a pleasant camp near Round Pond
on the Maine sea coast which affords us a great deal of enjoy-
ment. My wife and I have a strong preference for the seashore
which includes a variety of smells as well as a variety of fish, not
forgetting, of course, the ugly but tasty lobster. Socially there
is too much going on. Since I am in politics, there is an endless
chain of social events and cocktail parties. In the summer time,
there are country club activities. The obvious objective is to fall
one step short of Alcoholics Anonymous, a status which I pres-
ently enjoy.

My political and religious convictions are intertwined some-
what as follows: The world appears to be about two billion
years old and civilization, in one form or another, about six thou-
sand. The pilgrims landed on Plymouth Rock some 333 years
ago. The life of our country, as such, is 177 years. Eighty-six
years ago Abraham Lincoln was president of the United States.
Today we number one hundred sixty million people out of the
world population of two billion, or a small fraction thereof. Yet
we produce at least half of the material goods of the world. How
did a few people come so far so fast? From the pilgrimage to the
present time we seem to have been devoted to the precepts of
Christianity and the political theory of the freedom of the in-
dividual. I am convinced of the existence of God and of the
political justification of the American way of life. The state of
Maine is an ideal environment for such convictions. The scenery
is beautiful and the pace slow enough to allow for the expendi-
ture of effort within the limits of one’s physical and mental limi-
tations. Nervous breakdowns are exceptions to the rule. And so,
if any there may be who are troubled in mind or body, come to
Maine where the pastures are greener.

[ 966 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT REINHART

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Ansonia Hotel, 2109 Broadway, New York 23,

N. Y.
BoRN: Dec. 13, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Rudolf Reinhart, Lulu

Heine.
PREPARED AT: Adelphi Academy, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; 8.M. (New York Univ.),
1930.

MaragiEp: Catherine B. Johnson, Dec. 31, 1948, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Toy manufacturing.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Society of Magicians.

AS the result of a boyhood interest in conjuring I became a manu-
facturer of magic trick sets and other toy kits. I enjoy this work
because it gives a lot of fun to youngsters and doesn’t hurt anyone.

Sleight-of-hand is still my favorite hobby. Practising judo (a
form of jujutsu) and salt-water surf swimming in the summer are
my favorite sports. I have a spectator’s interest in flying and
hope that one day a helicopter will be within my reach pricewise.
My deepest conviction is a belief in pacificism. I was a conscien-
tious objector in World War II. My wife’s attitudes are similar
to mine and we derive mutual satisfaction from sharing common
interests and convictions.

MELVILLE JULIUS REIS

HOME ADDREsS: 121 Madison Ave., New York, N. Y.
BORN: Nov. 14, 1906, New York, N. Y. Parents: Julius Max Reis, Minnie

Stern.
PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).
MarRIED: Shirley Ollendorff.
AFTER graduation I entered the label business in my late father’s
company, G. Reis & Brothers, Inc. My hobbies were at first golf
and then later boating and photography. However, travel was
my real hobby and I made a few small trips as I never had the
time for any long ones. In 1952 my wife and I took our first real
trip around South America and added a visit to Mexico. We liked
it so much that I finally got some sense. I retired from business

[ 967 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and my wife and I made a leisurely ten-month trip around the
world, including the South Pacific. We took over three thousand
color slides en route. This trip is my only claim to fame, if you
can call it that,

WILLIAM DENT PRENDERGAST REIS

HOME ADDRESS: 219 Beach Rd., Belvedere, Marin Co., Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 311 California St., San Francisco 4, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1907, San Francisco, Calif. parents: William Batte Reis,
Clara May Conners.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MaRRIED: Grace Dearborn, Feb. 20, 1938, Reno, Nev.

occupation: President, Santa Margarita Land & Cattle Company.

MEMBER OF: Pacific Union Club, San Francisco.

AFTER the termination of my somewhat telescoped career at
Harvard, I managed a little travel and bounced about in a variety
of odd jobs running the gamut pretty much from San Francisco
to Paris via Boston and back. One of the highlights of this phase
was a summer working in the old Bankers Trust Company in
Paris (now extinct) with three members of the Class of 1928,
John MacCollom, Bob Sargent, and Jack Dunlop, and incidentally
sharing an apartment with them on the Left Bank. In 1930 the
above John and I purchased a seven-year-old Model T Ford and
motored to California. We had paid $36 for it and upon arrival
disposed of the parts for $45, thus realizing a net profit of $9 on
the transaction, before taxes, that is. This masterpiece of finan-
cial wizardry so exalted us that we decided the West was the land
of opportunity and to all intents and purposes have both re-
mained here ever since.

A couple of years later I entered the vegetable oil business in
which I remained for some nineteen years with only the usual
vacation in the Air Corps. Recently, eventually realizing that
my mind was not spiritually attuned to the crass and venal marts
of trade, I severed this mundane connection, This has permitted
me to concentrate more fully upon the philosophic and cultural,
like Bourbon. My present efforts are bent toward trying to

[ 968 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

imagine the income from the family ranch into higher brackets.
I should like to make the Reunion to see a few old friends but
consider my presence doubtful at this writing.

REUBEN REITER >

HOME aporess: 187 Sylvan Ave., Leonia, N. J.
orFice ApprEss: 38 W. 48th St., Room 606, New York 36, N. Y.
porn: Nov. 30, 1907, London, England. parents: Mark Reiter, Anna

Palatnick.

prepared AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREES: 8.8. IN E.ENG. AND BUS. ADM. 19305
$.M., 1932; $.D., 1936.

MarRiED: Berthe Lourie, 1939, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1944), CHILD: Joel
Marc, Dec. 27, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Reiter, M.B.A., 34.

occuPaATION: Chief officer, Reuben Reiter, ScD., medical research and de-

velopment firm.

PUBLICATIONS: “Electrical Characteristics of Suspension-Insulator Units,”
Electrical Engineering, 1937 (National A.LE.E, best paper prize in
theory and research, 1937); over one hundred professional papers in
the medical field about the Reiter Electrostimulators.

I STARTED off into the depression without any communism,
but very poor. Research was my obsession, and my qualification.
Dean Clifford at the Engineering School pushed me into the tre-
mendous high voltage laboratory for the advanced degrees and
consequent national prize which I later learned to value. No
funds taught me to work with almost no resources, the hard way,
and to reason out problems with a minimum or no instruments.
That is now a valuable and necessary background for keeping in
advance of the field. I am proud of the results so far, and find
my hobbies as they suit the job. My medical movies are now easy
for me, and fit as both hobby and work. So does my contact
with the medical men, although this contact has become very
time-consuming as well as pleasant. My rewards come often
when a tyro reports that he has definitely saved the life of a pa-
tient by keeping the breathing and pulse going for many hours.
The laboratory work is also exciting when I work out the new
current forms that remove still further the undesirable side effects

[ 969 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

of treatment, and increase the therapeutic value, in treatment of
mental disorders.

During 1930-1931, I was a student engineer at General Electric
Company; 1938—1941, I did research in aids for blind and deaf-
blind; 1941-1943, I was an engineer at Brooklyn Navy Yard;
1943-1945, I was an engineer at Western Electric Tube Shop;
since 1939, I have been in development of mental treatment equip-
ment, full-time since 1945.

During the war I found myself a specialist on the cure of the
ills of electric minesweepers at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, and also
working on radar and de-gaussing at the beginning. Then the
greener and more intricate field of tube work at Western Electric
tube shop kept me from sleeping much for the rest of the war.
My own business started full blast thereafter. I applied for a
commission during the war, but the business people claimed they
could not spare me, effectively. The firm of Reuben Reiter,
Sc.D., has developed equipment and helped to develop techniques
for advanced methods of treating mental illness by stimulatory
(electric) treatment. This equipment also has saved many lives
here and abroad by stimulating respiration and pulse for many
hours in barbiturate and other poisoning, surgery, etc.

My social contacts have become mainly those with my medical
colleagues. Politically I find that the men we elect seem to live
up to high standards in their offices after election, so that I find
it hard to become very partisan. The mistakes they make are like
those I might make, and I am not over-critical. In the religious
direction I find that my added years have brought more love and
affection for my fellow man in all religions, and fuller tolerance
for limited views. I hope to go still further in this direction.

My travels about the country have been mainly connected with
my work. Now I am taking my eleven-year-old son along with
me when he feels he can share the time from our home and his
school. He has decided that these travels will enable him to follow
in my footsteps. Besides, we love each other enough so that
parting is difficult. My son looks forward to becoming a member
of the Class of ’63 at Harvard. His school grades are fine and his
associates and teachers like him a lot. What more can a father
ask,

I am grateful to my school for the opportunity it has opened

[970 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for me and I am happy to have been born in an era, and to live in
a country, that has allowed me this very full, albeit difficult,
expression for my life.

+s EDMUND JOHN REPETTO

BORN: Sept. 2, 1907, Somerville, Mass. parents: Anthony Andrew Repetto,
Delphina Beatrice Repetto.
PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.B.A., 1931.
MARRIED: Teresa Lentine, Nov. 10, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Richard
Anthony, April 10, 1940; Eleanor Jane, June 25, 1947; Donna Marie,
Oct. 9, 1950.
pIED: Sept. 19, 1953, Charlotte, N. C.
wiwow: Mrs. Edmund J. Repetto, 1147 Linganore Pl., Charlotte, N. C.
AFTER graduating from the Business School, Repetto joined the
Boston firm of J. Murray Walker & Company, investment bro-
kers. From 1932 until 1934 he was with Poor’s Financial Services
in Wellesley, Massachusetts. He then became an economic ana-
lyst with the Division of Finance and Accounts, Farm Credit
Administration, in Washington, D. C.; during World War II he
was chief of the Investment Section of the administration in
Kansas City, Missouri. In 1945 he left government service to join
the Wachovia Bank & Trust Company as assistant vice-president
in Winston-Salem. The following year he transferred to Char-
lotte, North Carolina, where he served as credit officer in the
commercial banking department of the company. In 1950 he be-
came a vice-president, the position which he held at the time of
his death. He served as chairman of the Schools and Scholarship
Committee of the Harvard Club of Charlotte, director of the
Piedmont Association of Credit Men, member of the Educational
Committee of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, and member
of the Letters Committee of Robert Morris Associates. His wife

and children survived him.

JOHN HENRY REYNOLDS

HOME apprEss: Hibiscus Park, Gainesville, Fla.
BORN: Jan. 31, 1907, Lansdowne, Pa, parents: Harry Lorenzo Reynolds,
Margaret S, House.

[971]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

PREPARED AT: Swarthmore Preparatory School, Swarthmore, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; A.M., 1930.
MarRIED: Myrtle de Vaux, Oct. 7, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter,
Nov. 8, 1941, Margaret, April 4, 1943; Norman, April 20, 1947.
occuPATION: Retired.
WE have recently retired in Terra Florida, and find ourselves
enjoying enormously a number of pursuits that used to be
squeezed to the vanishing point for lack of time: music, writing,
gardening, and especially playing and working with three young
children.
_ It would appear from notices and questionnaires that have
come my way and my wife’s (Bryn Mawr '30) during the past
year that there actually are members of our classes with grown
children, even college-age children, and most incredibly, grand-
children. I can assure those Class members in the above categories
that raising a family in middle-age requires an output of energy
that concentrates one’s concern in the growing biographies of
the next generation to the almost complete exclusion of their
parents’ histories. So I shall turn over the remainder of space
generously allowed me by the Report Chairman to those who
can use it now.

WILLIAM HUTCHINGS REYNOLDS

HOME Apress: 19 Glenwood Rd., Needham 92, Mass.

orrice appress: U.S. Weather Bureau, Logan Airport, East Boston 28, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1908, Derry, N. H. parents: Arthur Warren Reynolds, ’98,
Alice Gertrude Hutchings,

PREPARED AT: Pinkerton Academy, Derry, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREE: AB., 1929.

Marriep: Dorothea M. Salman, Aug. 23, 1941, Needham, Mass. CHILDREN:
David W,, June 25, 1946, William Hutchings, Jr.. May 9, 1947.

HARVARD BrotHERS: Arthur Warren Reynolds, Jr. ’27; Charles Ansel
Reynolds, ’33.

occupation: Meteorologist, U.S. Weather Bureau, aviation forecaster,

TO choose the most important features of a twenty-five-year
period from the middle and most active portion of a man’s life
is quite a problem, as others of you are certainly finding out.
There are so many successes and failures, so many seemingly

[972]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trivial events or decisions that have had their effect in bringing
us to, the point where we now stand. A true autobiography would
consist largely of a catalogue of such small items, most of them
uninteresting, some of them unpleasant to recall; and it would
certainly not fulfill the purpose of this volume, or lie within its
scope. We are left, then, with the alternative of listing a few of
the more readable facts about our past career and present situa-
tion, recognizing that they may not, after all, be the really im-
portant items.

I left Harvard with the intention of becoming a teacher, largely
because I did not know what else I could do. For two years I
taught at a private boys’ school, with its main plant in the Adi-
rondacks, but with winter quarters in Florida. An overpowering
boredom and dissatisfaction with the private school atmosphere,
plus a realization of the economic uncertainty of such an estab-
lishment during the depression years, caused me to give up my
job there at the end of the second year.

Another two years of teaching, this time in public schools,
convinced me of several things, among them that I was not meant
to be a teacher, that teaching is one of the most difficult and
thankless jobs on earth, and that the best of teachers, hampered
by the restrictions and requirements of an educational system
based upon expediency, can do only about one-half as well as
they might.

Having foresworn the teaching profession, my next few years
were spent in trying to outlive the depression and to discover
some career which I could follow successfully and without dam-
age to my self-respect. The final choice was made in the late
thirties; the interim years were occupied with odd jobs ranging
from substitute teacher to small-town grocer. In some respects
they may have been the most important years of my life, for
they gave me opportunity and cause for a great deal of thinking,
and a broadening of my experience of people and things.

A discovery of the one girl in 1938, and an almost immediately
ensuing desire for marriage impelled me to make a last and de-
cisive attack upon the career problem. After a discouraging
period of doorknocking and office-haunting around Boston, I
chanced one day to see the notice of a forthcoming Civil Service
examination for a minor position in the Weather Bureau. I had

[973]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

turned away and left the building before it occurred to me that
this might offer a start in just the sort of work I wanted to do.

So I went back and registered for the examination, passed it,
and was the first candidate appointed from the New England
area. With a reasonably secure job and a steady income, Dottie
and I could now make definite plans for marriage, a goal we
reached in August, 1941. It took another five years to establish
our family, with Dave arriving in 1946 and Bill, Jr., the following
ear.

I have always held to the now unfashionable opinion that will-
ingness to do an honest day’s work and a demonstrated desire
to learn and advance within one’s occupation will eventually
pay off. This attitude, with an undoubted assist from the per-
sonnel shortage brought on by the war, resulted in a fairly rapid
advancement in work assignment, so that by 1943 I was appointed
to the newly organized Aviation Forecast staff at Boston’s Logan

ort.

I find my work in the bureau generally interesting and usually
stimulating; dull only when easy. During extended periods of
bad weather the nervous tension reaches a high pitch, for the
responsibility can be considerable. We work shifts which carry
~ us around the clock, so that our living habits are of necessity
rather irregular. Fortunately each day’s work is a completed
unit, so that we rarely have problems left over to carry home.

Our two boys have been growing rapidly, as boys do, and it
is hard to realize that they are already well started on their
schooling. They have presented us with the usual amount of
satisfactions and worries, and, regardless of our pride in them, are
undoubtedly two quite normal youngsters.

We had had rather more than our share of illness of one kind
and another, and probably have as wide a nodding acquaintance
with doctors and hospitals as anyone in the Class outside the
medical profession.

When time and weather permit we indulge our favorite hobbies
of fishing and camping. We are also interested in a very ama-
teurish way in photography and music, and I occasionally have a
stab at woodworking in my basement workshop. I expect to
have plenty of interests and longpostponed projects to keep me
busy when retirement finally creeps up on me.

[974]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERIC WILLIAM RHINELANDER

HOME ADDRESS: 1719 Fifth Ave., San Rafael, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1717 Fifth Ave., San Rafael, Calif.

BoRN: May 25, 1906, Middletown, Conn. parents: Philip Mercer Rhine-
Jander, ’91, Helen Maria Hamilton.

PREPARED AT: St. Alban’s School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929(28); B.A. (Ox-
ford Univ.), 1931; m.p. (Harvard Univ.), 1934.

marrieD: Constance Templeton, June 15, 1930, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1946); Julie C. Hale, Sept. 12, 1946. cumpren: Frederic William
Templeton, Nov. 16, 1931; John Bassett, June 18, 1933; David Hamilton,
June 8, 1935; Mary Frederica, May 3, 1940; Eric Hale, March 26, 1953.

HARVARD SON: Frederic William Templeton Rhinelander, ’53.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Philip Hamilton Rhinelander, °29, LL.B., °32, PH.D. "49;
Laurens Hamilton Rhinelander, ’31, Lu.B., ’36.

occuPATION: Orthopaedic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of orthopaedic surgery, University
of California School of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, state and county societies;
American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, American College of
Surgeons; other scientific societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Some medical articles.

AFTER graduating from Harvard College in June, 1928, I spent
four years at Oxford, where I took a B.A. in physiology in 1931.
After one more year of taking medical subjects at Oxford, I
transferred into the junior class at the Harvard Medical School,
and graduated in 1934. In 1930 I was married to Constance Tem-
pleton, who was also a student at Oxford and received her degree
when I did. After receiving my M.D., I spent the next seven
years in a “white suit” at various hospitals in Boston and Phila-
delphia: Peter Bent Brigham, Massachusetts General, Children’s
(Boston); Shriners’ and Temple University (Philadelphia). Then
I returned to the Massachusetts General Hospital and to the Har-
vard Medical School as a member of the teaching and research
staff, where I was “frozen” during the first part of the war. In
1944 I joined the army and was shipped to California for all
three years of military service. My wife and children remained
in Boston. I was fortunate in obtaining excellent assignments in
my specialty (orthopaedic surgery) throughout my army career,
which culminated as I became chief of the Orthopaedic Section
at Letterman Army Hospital, San Francisco.

[975 ]

"apne rere

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

In July, 1946, I was released from the Army and received an
appointment as assistant clinical professor of orthopaedic surgery
at the University of California Medical School, where I took an
active part in the orthopaedic resident training program — and
still do. My wife and I were divorced in 1946, and that same

ear I was married to Julie Hale of Seattle and San Francisco,

and San Rafael which is the county seat of Marin County across
the Golden Gate. Practice was very busy, too busy — in fact, so
busy that I had less time for teaching and research than I had
hoped for and expected. In June, 1951, I acquired an associate in
my office and now am looking for an additional one. For a year
I was War Department consultant to the army at Letterman Hos-
pital, San Francisco, and now I’m a similar consultant to the Air
Force bases nearby.
_ Once or twice a year I visit the East, and my children come
to California. One has recently graduated from Harvard, an-
other is a junior at Yale, and the third boy has been admitted to
Harvard but has elected to spend a year in France first.

I’ve never had time to indulge in social or political activities,
though I’m a strong backer of Eisenhower. My chief avocation
of sailing has had to go off the board, for the most part, though
San Francisco Bay and Lake Tahoe get me out on the water
occasionally.

PHILIP HAMILTON RHINELANDER

HOME appress: 75 Fisher Ave., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Holyoke House 20, Harvard University, Cambridge 38%
Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 1, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Philip Mercer Rhinelander,
’91, Helen Maria Hamilton.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1929; LLB.
19323 PH.D., 1949.

MaraieD: Virginia Roberts, July 9, 1932, Boston, Mass. cumpren: Helen
Hamilton, Jan. 2, 1934; Virginia Katherine, Jan. 19, 1936; Philip Mercer,
Dec. 5, 19393 Elizabeth Jane, July 10, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederic William Rhinelander, ’29, M.D., '34; Laurens
Hamilton Rhinelander, ’31.

OCCUPATION: Teacher; director of general education, Harvard University.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, New England Conservatory of Music, Winsor

[976 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

School, St. Timothy's School, Bishop Rhinelander Foundation; director,
New England Opera Theatre, Boston Opera Association, Fifty Asso-
ciates; chairman, Massachusetts Committee on State Fulbright Scholar-

ships.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club; Saturday Club; The Country Club; Century
Association; Harvard Club of New York, Boston Bar Association;
Mediaeval Academy; Phi Beta Kappa.

I RECEIVED my Ph.D. degree in philosophy in June, 1949, and
thereby became eligible for an appointment as instructor, This
was about sixteen years late by the normal standards of academic
progression. The delay was accounted for by eleven years in the
law (including three at the Law School) and a five-year inter-
ruption for war service in the Naval Reserve which began after
I had completed my first term of work as a graduate student, and
lasted from February, 1941, to February, 1946.

To start out as a college instructor at the age of forty-one has
its inconveniences, It is like becoming an ensign or second lieu-
tenant at a comparable age. To shift so late to a new career
throws suspicion on the seriousness of your intentions, if not on
your capacity, and you are uncomfortably aware that you pose
a special problem for officials concerned with placement and
tenure. It was my good fortune that [ was interested in teaching
and in the objectives of general education and that I became an
instructor at the time when the general education program at
Harvard was under development. Being new, its policies and
procedures were flexible, and being in process of expansion, it
needed to enlarge its staff. This presented an opening which
would not have been available five years earlier. I did some
lecturing in philosophy and had the opportunity also to teach
a course in humanities and subsequently to work with an in-
structor from another department in planning a new humanities
course, which I am still giving. I became executive secretary of
the Committee on General Education in 1951 and chairman the
following year. I still have a connection with the Philosophy
Department with the title of lecturer, which is something of a
misnomer since my work in philosophy is confined almost en-
trely at present to undergraduate tutorial. My present position,
therefore, combines administrative work with teaching, and I
find the combination both challenging and rewarding. I have

[977]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

only two grounds for complaint, One is that neither in running
an office nor in giving a large lecture course is it possible to be
in as close touch with the students as anyone who enjoys teach-
ing would like to be. The other is that very little seems to be left
for research and writing, of which I have been unable to do
much beyond giving a series of Lowell Lectures last year, which
[am sull trying to edit for publication.

Although I enjoyed the law, I have no regrets about my deci-
sion to leave it for academic work. On the other hand, I do not
regret having spent time in the law. The experience has been
of great value on various counts, but there is one drawback which
may be worth mentioning. The lawyer whose practice is not
limited to a single field or a single type of case moves from one
subject to another so frequently that while he gains experience
in the art of mastering special topics quickly, he also acquires the
habit of dismissing one matter from his mind as soon as he turns
to something else. Instead of trying always to carry forward as
much as possible of what he has learned, fitting it all into one
growing body of knowledge as the scholar does, he tends to rely
less on his ability to remember what he has once been over
than on his ability to pick it up again easily when occasion arises.
This habit, once acquired, is hard to overcome.

Outside my work I have been interested in music and the
theatre. I served for a year or more on the board of directors
of the Brattle Theatre Company in Cambridge, which had a bril-
liant if tempestous career before it succumbed to the customary
fate of independent theatre groups who specialize in plays of
artistic merit. 1 have also devoted time to amateur productions.
Recently I have undertaken a farming venture in. Vinalhaven,
Maine, where I live in the summer and which I visit as often as
opportunity allows at other times of the year. I do some sailing,
though less than formerly, and also play tennis and occasional
golf.
In politics I am still nominally a Republican, but of a border-
line variety. I find it increasingly difficult to support a party
which tolerates McCarthyism in any form. I am convinced that
the greatest service anyone could possibly do for the communists
is to make democracy appear ridiculous, and we do this if we
make it appear that, despite our solemn professions to the con-

[978 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trary, we have no concern for individual rights, no concern for
the orderly processes of law, and no patience with free speech or
free inquiry, except for those with whom we happen to agree.
I have no respect for the sort of man who would frantically burn
down the whole house in order to get rid of the rats in it, and
then justify his stupidity by claiming that anyone who wanted
to preserve the house must be “soft” on rats. Good causes have
been lost before now by the efforts of misguided, panicky sup-
porters. I am confident that the communists can never destroy
democracy in this country unless we assist them by destroying
it ourselves. I might add that it has always struck me as curious
that those of us who are most violently opposed to “collectivism”
and government control in the economic sphere are often the
most vigorous supporters of “collectivism” and government con-
trol in the realm of thought and opinion, whereas those who stand
most strongly for freedom of thought and inquiry are usually
critical of “free enterprise” in business and willing to accept a
large measure of government control in that area. Anyone who
supports freedom in either area stands opposed to communism
which denies both. Hence, it is just as silly to charge the pro-
ponents of free inquiry with communist sympathies as it would
be to charge the supporters of free enterprise with the same
thing. I believe both in the principle of free enterprise and the
principle of free inquiry, but as between the two, I think the latter
is more important than the former.

I could go on indefinitely, but this has run too long already.
My reason for discussing this last issue is that it concerns me as
a teacher, and especially as a teacher at Harvard which has been
under attack in this connection.

LEONARD NICHOLS RHOADES

HOME apprEss: Merrill Hall, Loring Street, Exeter, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

BORN: June 18, 1906, Cambridge, Mass, PARENTS: Frank P, Rhoades, Alice L.
Nichols.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192 $1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Jean S. Stone, Sept. 7, 1931, Wellesley, Mass. critpren: Stephen

[979 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Severance, June 26, 1936; Alan Sherburne, June 14, 1941; Elizabeth

Adams, Feb. 23, 1945.
oocuPaTion: Instructor of mathematics, director of summer session, Phillips
Exeter Academy.

THE past twenty-five years have gone all too rapidly. The life
of a teacher is a pleasant one, keeping one young enough to
compete with each new generation of school boys as it comes
along. After four years in Minnesota at the St. Paul Academy,
I returned to Exeter in 1933 and have been here ever since. I
have taught many sons of classmates in the past twenty years and
have enjoyed meeting many old friends again through their
sons.

Life here is very full. I have performed most of the duties ex-
pected of a teacher, coaching, dormitory work, etc., enjoying
most of it to the full. Besides school work I have been active in
town and church affairs.

The war years in Exeter were very full as I taught the whole
year and served as a volunteer for the Coast Guard at Ports-
mouth several hours each week. It was unpleasant to train boys
just for Army service when they appeared so young.

We have not travelled as much as we should like, although we
have sandwiched in a European trip along with several automo-
bile excursions to various parts of the country between school
terms. Since all of the family like boats, the position of Exeter
not far from the sea has been an added pleasure. We have
had a sail boat at either Portsmouth or Rye Harbor for many

ears.
, One of my great pleasures during the past four years has
been having my son Steve in the Academy. He has been a top
student and a good athlete. It has been my job to coach him in
some sports. We have both survived and enjoyed the experience.

While on paper the accomplishments of the twenty-five years
do not seem great, I feel that the friendships made and the boys
encouraged to further efforts have made them very worth while.

WALTER CECIL RHODES

HOME Appaess: 1907 W. Sixth Sc. Los Angeles 57, Calif.
Boan: May 22, 1907, Portland, Oregon. parents: Frederick Nickolas Rhodes,
Julia Marie Weatherbee.

[ 980 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

marrieD: Madaline Marie Teasley, Nov. 6, 1936, Davenport, Wash. (divorced
1948). CHILDREN: Walter Cecil, Jr., Oct. 4, 1937; Vicki Lee, Aug. 28,

1942.
OCCUPATION: Construction.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Pi Chapter, Phi Kappa Tau Fraternity.

I HAVE worked principally since leaving school at large con-
struction projects. Places and jobs include the Grand Coulee Dam,
a U.S. Engineer and U.S. Bureau of Reclamation Project; Oki-
nawa, Japan, Atkinson and Jones, Army and Air Force installa-
tions; Atkinson and Jones, North Richland, Washington, Atomic
Energy Commission installations; Civil Service, U.S. Navy, Guam,
Marianas Islands, construction and maintenance. More recently,
I was struck by an automobile while in a “safety zone,” and am
spending one year in a hospital and another year convalescing.

EDWARD MacGIFFERT RICE

HOME appress: Christiansted, St, Croix, U. S, Virgin Islands.

BORN: Dec. 7, 1906, West Newton, Mass. PARENTS: Eustace Bond Rice,
Teressa Raechel Hindon.

PREPARED AT: Newton Classical High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB.

MARRIED: Jannet Brownell, 1940, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1946); Martha
Katherine Bostwick, 1946, Short Hills, N. J. campren: Anne Hindon,
Aug. 7, 1947; Edmund Bostwick, May 8, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: Former assistant director, Business Development, National
Electrical Manufacturers Association; former director, Public Rela-
tions, Tax Foundations, New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Phoenix Club, Lima, Peru; Tennis
Club of St, Croix.

PROPPED on an elbow in a San Juan hospital I concentrate be-
latedly on the Class of 1929 material brought over by my wife
from our home on St. Croix. It is a Friday evening in December.
If such were magic it might be a frost-breathed, almost snow-
bound night of shimmering lights; opera-hatted, white-tied, boot-
legged-cherry-brandied gay; I ultra, all-knowledgeable — a com-
ing-out party at the Somerset, twenty-five years ago!

[ 981 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and after a few months’ recuperation returned to renovate my
old home outside of Boston. Another phlebitis dictated an emer-
gency ligation of both legs. We lived in Boston two years. The
“pot o’ gold” paid off again. Wickie was born in 1951.

Medical advice to get away from the cold winters sent us
winging again, crated this time, with bag and baggage, dogs, and
children to St. Croix in the U.S. Virgin Islands, one of the An-
tilles which bound the Caribbean. In the country just outside
of Christiansted I bought a house surrounded with numberless
flowering shrubs and plants and trees and shaded by a huge ma-
hogany. At this writing there are seven dogs, one small horse,
and innumerable mongooses which, of course, are entirely on
their own. Wickie’s sole covering, night and day the year ’round
is a diaper, which describes the climate. One day, last year I think,
it rained most of the day. If you know your stuff there is won-
derful sailing. Believe it or not, there is deer hunting. I am go-
ing Cruzian fast.

Some of you may remember the old “pipe course,” equestri-
anism, or some such, in Military Science and the horse they had
down at Soldiers Field which, all by itself, demonstrated every
ailment known to the equine world. He was certainly an illustrious
product of Harvard. I feel like that horse, minus his savoir faire.
It seems rather silly that probably one’s major claim as a Harvard
man of distinction (and it will certainly not win me a four-color
spread or an honorarium, which I could use, from Lord Calvert,
which I could use) is that one is undoubtedly one of the nation’s
top, living, cardio-vascular exhibits with one of the youngest sons
of the Class.

So this is the fairy-tale. In retrospect the Harvard years are
always an infinitely warming and smile-making memory. But
everything seems to be starting anew. Maybe at the “Fiftieth” I
can report more solid distinction, a book or something — but
I shouldn’t count on it,

FRANCIS NEILSON RICH

HOME AppREss: % Dominic W. Rich, 31 Nassau St.. New York 5, N. Y.
BORN: Jan. 1, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Lawson Carter Rich, Eliza-
beth Granger Haviman.

[ 984]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1929.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

HERBERT WILLIAM RICHARDS

HOME ADDRESS: 2800 Scott St. San Francisco 23, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 627 Sutter St., San Francisco 2, Calif.

sorn: Dec. 25, 1907, Woodhaven, N. Y. parents: Carl Wilhelm Rubsamen,
Pauline Beutenmiiller.

prepareD AT: Richmond Hill High School, Richmond Hill, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

marriED: Barbara Louise Foltz, June 1, 1935, Indianapolis, Ind. cHtpreEN;:
Christopher, June 10, 1945; Victoria, Nov. 5, 1946; Penelope, Aug. 25,
1950; Timothy, Jan. 17, 1952.

occuPaTION: National director, Arthur Murray, Inc.; owner-director, Ar-
thur Murray Studios of Northern California, president, Arthur Mur-
ray Proprietary, Limited, Sydney, Australia, president, 5828 Wilshire
Corporation, Los Angeles.

OFFICES HELD: Director, World Affairs Council of Northern California,
Lindberg Instrument Company. |

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco; California Tennis Club; World
Affairs Council of Northern California, Commonwealth Club; Seventh
Regiment, New York.

MY father should have seen the handwriting on the wall — or
the heelmarks on the dance floor. That Charleston Troupe was
such fun to tour with in late 1925; who would dream that the
dean of the Engineering School would be so petulant about a
week’s cut classes, even to alarming a roommate into sending
out telegrams? So now I’m an engineer gone wrong. Except for
a very happy stint with the slide rule when the Navy assigned me
to Pan American during the war and I finished up as assistant
division engineer. I’ve been a dancing teacher since 1930. It was
a better provider then and has been ever since.

I met my wife in the training class at Arthur Murray’s on the
second day, but it took me till 1935 to convince her. We left
New York to open the first branch in 1937, at Minneapolis; then
we went to San Francisco in 1941. After a brief visit began a
love-match with the city which hasn’t petered out yet. We now
have studios in a dozen northern California communities and one
in Los Angeles, and just this week we celebrated the opening of

[ 985 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

our first overseas branch at Sydney, Australia. Nowadays, I only
wish I could dance a little; there’s too much ulcer-work and not
enough footwork.

We have four wonderful children and are looking forward to
the day when they will be old enough really to enjoy travelling
with us. Kip, at age eight, is beginning to bat a mean tennis ball
and I'm afraid the day is not so far distant which will see him
aceing the old man with ease. Richards’ Folly No. 2, a lovely old
house in Victoria, British Columbia, with a grass court that makes
the thousand-mile commuting worthwhile, frames a perfect sum-
mer for the whole family. We are travel-crazy: mucho Mexico,
Europe in 1951, and then the trip-of-a-lifetime around the world
this spring (1953). It started out as a business jaunt to Australia,
but those persuasive little come-ons that said we could go around
the long way for so little more were our.undoing. Oooh, those
fibbers!: Buc it was worth it, and it’s fun being married to such
a good dancer that the waiter stops waiting and the chefs come
out of the kitchen in Sydney and Singapore, in Calcutta and
Cairo, and even at Maxim’s, to watch!

In addition to my old hobbies of tennis, dancing, cooking, and
mixing extremely dry martinis, I have now added trying to keep
up with my wife, who is practically running San Francisco. My
anemic little list of “Offices Held” shrinks to insignificance be-
side hers; if Vassar ’30 sends out a questionnaire like this one,
heaven help the printer! Politically, after the first two votes for
you-know-who, I’ve been an ardent worker for Willkie, Stas-
sen, and Ike. All in all, it has been a delightful twenty-five years,
so I am looking forward to our Fiftieth.

BURTON RICHARDSON

HOME appress: 72 Williston Rd. Auburndale 66, Mass.

OFFICE AbDparss: 441 Stuart Sc. Boston 16, Mass,

Bon: Nov. 23, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Fred Boyd Richardson,
Eloise Holland.

perpaseD At: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGRFE: A.B., 1929.

Mansiep: Ruth M. Latimer, Oct. 9, 1942, Auburndale, Mass,

HAanvano protien: Laurance Richardson, ‘19 (deceased),

oA PaTION: Credit man, Shell Oil Company.

[ 986 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduation I went with the Great A & P Tea Company
but left after about a year and a half. In March, 1931, I was em-
ployed by Shell Oil Company and have been with them ever
since in varying capacities. From October, 1942, to September,
1945, I was in the Army, stranded the entire time in Camp Howze,
Texas. I did not become naturalized though.

Prior to the war I took four vacation cruises to the West Indies.
Since then my travels have been almost completely confined to
Cape Cod, where my wife and I built a cottage three years ago —
another case of finding manual abilities never before unearthed.
Constant improving of it has used up much of my spare time and
has usurped my previous hobby of photography at which I had
become good enough to have some shots “hung.”

Other than the cottage, there have been no changes since the
last Report as to wife, job, or family. I did try to run a Boy Scout
troop for two years but lack of parental assistance took all the
pleasure out of it and resulted in my resigning.

GEORGE WAKEFORD NEEDHAM RIDDLE

HOME ADDRESS: 225 E. 73rd St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 369 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 1, 1903, Brighton, England. Parents: Ernest Joseph Riddle,
Alice Needham.

PREPARED AT: Heversham Grammar School, Heversham, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1929; a.m. (Columbia
Univ.), 1940.

MarRiED: Grace Adelaide Brown, July 1, 1938, New York, N. Y. cHitpren:
Larry, March 29, 1940; Adele Alice, Dec. 11, 1944.

OccUPATION: Technical publishing, director of development, market re-
search, Putnam Publishing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Directors, secretary, Controlled Circula-
tion Audit, Inc.; vice-chairman, Research Committee, National Business
Publications, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association, Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions, professional and trade journals.

EUGENE WILLIS RIDEOUT

HOME Appress: 4 E. 28th St., New York 16, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Y% W., R. Grace & Co., 7 Hanover Sq., New York 5, N.Y.

[ 987 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

BORN: June 2, 1907, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Eugene Glazier Rideout, Stella
Burdick.

PREPARED AT: Western Reserve Academy, Hudson, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929. _

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Auditor.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York,

A GOOD part of my life since graduation has centered around
my job. During the entire period, except for an interruption
occasioned by World War II, I have worked for W. R. Grace
and Company, an international industrial and trading corporation,
with headquarters in New York. This concern, now about a
century old, is both an operating and holding company and to-
gether with its subsidiaries is engaged in a wide range of activities
connected with foreign commerce, steamship and air transporta-
tion, manufacturing, agriculture, and finance in the United States,
Central America, and South America. This connection has given
me not only a training in a variety of enterprises, but also an op-
portunity to travel extensively and frequently both in my own
country and on the west coast of South America.

I joined Grace in the autumn of 1929 as a messenger in the
mail department, from which I progressed to various posts in the
cashier’s and accounting departments. Parallelling my work, |
studied exporting, accounting, and auditing at Columbia Univer-
sity. The Spanish language is an essential requisite in a good part
of Grace’s business. I learned it through individual instruction
with a Cuban professor and by taking my meals for several years
at a boarding house in New York operated by a Venezuelan
family.

In 1940 I entered the auditing department, concentrating my
efforts on the South American industries. Early in 1941 I spent
several months in Puerto Rico on an industrial assignment. After
this initial baptism, I left in August, 1941, for a year’s stay im
Peru, where I visited every Grace industry there. Over one-half
of my time on this trip was spent on two large sugar estates or
haciendas. The estates form self-contained communities by them-
selves and are located in coastal valleys, which have been under
irrigation even prior to the Spanish conquest in the sixteenth
century. The fact that it rarely, if ever, rains in these coastal

[ 988 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

valleys has contributed to the wide preservation of many relics
of now extinct civilizations (Inca and Chimu), which have had
great interest for present-day archeologists. A souvenir of those
ancient times is the burial mound. Some of these, towering up-
ward for several hundred feet or more, are scattered throughout
the cane fields. I have frequently climbed a mound by horseback
to enjoy a panoramic view of the Pacific ocean, the cane fields,
and the Andes mountains. One of these estates, Paramonga, is
the only one in the world that packages its refined sugar in bags
which it has fabricated from paper produced on the hacienda from
the residue of the milled cane stalks (bagasse). One of the prod-
ucts of the other estate is a rum, Ron Cartavio, from which nearly
every Cuba Libre in Peru is made.

I might mention that the Peruvians are very proud of their
University of San Marcos (founded in Lima in 1551) and like to
remind Harvard people that it is the older.

The period of U.S. participation in World War II considerably
altered my pattern of life and activities. From October, 1942,
until October, 1945, I was continuously in the U. S. Army Signal
Corps. My service commenced with eight months’ study of elec-
trical engineering at Rutgers University in preparation for my
ultimate assignment to radar units in the field. However, upon
completing the studies, I was surprised to find myself in radio
intelligence, a branch concerned with the interception and scru-
tiny of the enemy army’s radio activity. After a period of basic
and specialized training in the U.S.A., I sailed for England on
July 1, 1944. Upon my arrival there, I was assigned to the 129th
Signal Radio Intelligence Company and spent three months in
London and its suburbs. This interval was not very rugged
though it was marred by continuous blackouts and the flying
bombs, V-1 and V-z. In October, our company left for France,
where it was assigned as special troops to the Sixth Army Group
(composed of the Seventh U. S. Army and First French Army).
We spent the winter of 1944-45 in the Vosges mountains of
northeastern France. At the end of March, we went directly to
Kaiserlautern, Germany, thence to Heidelberg, and eventually
to Augsburg where we were when V-E Day arrived. Our com-
pany immediately returned to the Heidelberg area, where we
took up residence in a former Nazi Mutterheim, a large castle,

[989 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

the Schloss Falkenhof, Bensheim. We remained there until we
returned to the U.S. in October, 1945. The lazy interlude pre-
ceding our voyage home was broken for me firstly, by an auto
trip of ten days in May through the Rhineland and Belgium to
embark captured German army radio equipment and personnel
to England and secondly, by a week’s sightseeing trip in June to
Berchtesgaden, Munich, Salzburg, Innsbruck, and the Brenner
Pass. Both of these trips gave me an excellent chance to see a
fair part of the West Germany countryside at an ideal time of the
year and to observe at first hand the extensive damage wrought
by the war.

I resumed my work with W. R. Grace and Company in Janu-
ary, 1946. Since that time I have made four trips to South Ameri-
ca, spending thirty months in all in Chile, Colombia, and Peru.
I remember Chile very well for its seashore resort, Vina del Mar,
where I resided for a month. One of the epicurean delights
I enjoyed in Chile is the lobster, which is brought in from the
Juan Fernandez Islands, locale for some of the stories of Robinson
Crusoe.

One of the more enjoyable trips I made in the U.S.A. was
one to California in the summer of 1949, where I passed three
months, mostly in San Francisco. I found this city to be a natu-
rally air-conditioned one and the evenings so cool that artificial
heat was required even in the summer months. Its restaurants
seemed to me to be among the best found anywhere.

What do I do save work? Well, I play squash and tennis a
bit whenever opportunity offers. As an outdoor spectator I still
enjoy good football and baseball games. I listen to a lot of music,
good and bad. I do not see as many stage plays as formerly, but
I still try to see as many good ones. My summer and Christmas
vacations for the most part have been spent at my family home
in Ohio, although I have passed several summer vacations in
Maine, Maryland, and Quebec. In October, 1952, I had a vaca-

tion in Great Britain, making the round trip from New York by
air. During 1954 I expect to go to Peru for a six months’ stay.
It is my hope that pleasure will come before business and that I
can attend the Class Reunion first.

[990 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROSCOE CONKLIN RIDER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 938 Bellefonte St., Pittsburgh 32, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Colorscreen Co., Inc. 5530 Penn Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: June 26, 1905, Sewickley, Pa. parents: Roscoe Conklin Rider, Isabel
Arrott.

prepareD aT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MarRieD: Elizabeth Tytus, Nov. 11, 1929, Middletown, Ohio (divorced
1939); Jean Diecher, Aug. 23, 1942, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN: Roscoe
Conklin, 3d, Oct. 11, 1930; Ann Elizabeth, Oct. 11, 1931. GRANDCHILDREN:
Roscoe Conklin Rider, qth; James Tytus Rider.

OccUPATION: Advertising.

LINCOLN RIDGWAY

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Elmwood Ct., Winthrop 52, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 Ames St., Cambridge 42, Mass.

BORN: June 27, 1907, Boston, Mass. Parents: Herbert Newell Ridgway,
Madeleine C, Clarke.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1920.

MaRRIED: (Rita) Ann Ranck, Aug. 20, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: Don,
May 5, 1943; Linda, Nov. 22, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Industrial engineer, United-Carr Fastener Corporation, chief
engineer, Snap-Fastener Division, __

OFFICES HELD: Assistant plant engineer, Sloane-Blabon Corporation, Phila-
delphia, Trenton, 1931-33; vice-president, Spanish Gables, Inc., Revere,
Mass., 1933-37; director, Ridgway Construction Company, Boston,
1933-39; assistant manager, director, Brown's Letters Corporation and
Construction Reports, Inc., Boston, 1938-44.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Beta Chapter, Alpha Sigma Phi.

HELLO again! Twenty-five years since — twenty-five years!
Incredible — unbelievable-—I must have dozed off somewhere
along the route. It’s just a dream perhaps— no! Those “Goads”
are the real McCoy; there they are, right there in red and white.
The “Horrors from Hutchinson” we call them. Any unbeliever
who tells his young that there are no such things as Bogey-men
just hasn’t been haunted by the House of Hutchinson. Of course
there have been the pleasant reminders during the past year —
like those family warm-up get-togethers at the Dartmouth and
Yale games, and the many committee meetings, wives and all.

[991 ]

oy

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

you mates let ol’ Hutch down and he wound up with space to
spare. Don’t you dare spare the enthusiasm and action though,
when it comes to making Cambridge on June 13th next.

LAURENCE JAMES RITTENBAND

HOME ADDRESS: 82344 S. Hobart Blvd., Los Angeles 5, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 210 W. Seventh St., Los Angeles 14, Calif.

BorN: Dec. 25, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Abraham Nathaniel Ritten-
band, Ann Gottlieb.

PREPARED AT: Stuyvesant High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1929(28);
LLB. (New York Univ.).

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant U. S. attorney, Southern District of New York,
1929-31; lecturer in English and law, College of the City of New York,
1930-35; lecturer, Practising Law Insucute, 1935-40; assistant corpora-
tion counsel, City of New York, 1934-37; president, Senior Class New
York University Law School, editor, New York University Law Re-
view,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Southern
California, Los Angeles Bar Association, New York County Lawyers
Association; Hillcrest Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Editorial notes, New York University Law Review.

REVIEWING my life since graduation is like looking through
the wrong end of a telescope. What once loomed large now,
sicklied over with the pale cast of time, has shrunken to the nor-
mal happenings in an average life.

I would like to believe that I have had more freedom to move
about in the world by reason of the fact that I have remained a
bachelor. Because of it I have had understandably more time
to cultivate the many but selfish interests I enjoy than have oth-
ers with marital cares and responsibilities. However, I have had
to pay a small price for my unmarried bliss since I, too, have been
subjected to some of the trials of which Charles Lamb com-
plained in his well-known essay on “The Bachelor’s Complaint of
the Behavior of Married People.” But all things considered, time
and man have dealt kindly with me.

Between the year 1932 and the outbreak of World War II, I
travelled a number of times to Europe and North Africa, as well
as Mexico, Central America, Western Canada, and United States.

[ 994 J

ly

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My work under Republican administrations in the United States
District Attorney’s Office in New York and in the office of the
corporation counsel of the city of New York was most interest-
ing and stimulating. In between these jobs my private law prac-
tice in New York was rich in experience and fairly productive.

During World War II, I served my time in the Army Air
Forces as intelligence officer in North Africa and as Air Forces
renegotiation counsel on the West Coast. I'd attained the rank
of major upon my discharge from the Army. Deciding to re-
main in southern California, I took the California Bar examina-
tions and was admitted to practice there in June, 1947. While I
have not regretted my decision to settle on the West Coast, it is
nonetheless a far cry from my family, close friends, and remem-
bered haunts in the East. There are, though, many compensa-
tions for these losses and living in this Never-Never Land is
rather pleasant and relaxing.

This brief account cannot be brought to a close without men-
tioning that in addition to the lasting contribution which Har-
vard made in fashioning the complete man in me, some of the
fellows I met in College have become increasingly through the
years my dearest friends and boon companions. In these ways
_ Harvard has always abided with me.

I am anticipating eagerly meeting again other classmates whom
I haven’t seen since graduation, except in snapshots taken at vari-
ous Class Reunions appearing in the Class of 1929 publications.
Looking at them, I often said to myself: “My haven't they grown
old!” It will be their turn to say the same thing of me when I
meet them in Cambridge next June. Actually, though, it won’t
be true!

BURKE RIVERS

HOME ApoRESS: 49 S. Franklin St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 35 S, Franklin St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

BorN: April 8, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. paRENTS: Burke Rivers, Grace Aaron.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§—1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; B.D. (Episcopal Theolog-
ical School), 1932.

Marrigp: Phyllis Esther McCausland, June 25, 1932, Worcester, Mass, CHIL-
DREN: Richard Davis, Jan. 22, 1934; David Buchanan, May 22, 1937.

[995 ]

_ _ Y

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occupation: Clergyman, rector, St. Stephen’s Episcopal Church.
MEMBER OF: Westmoreland Club, Torch Club, Wilkes-Barre.

FROM September, 1929, to June, 1931, I studied at the General
Theological Seminary in New York, and then transferred back
to Cambridge for a final year at the Episcopal Theological School.
Ordination, graduation, and marriage all happened within ten
days in June, 1932, and Phyllis and I were off to a mission church
in the outskirts of New Haven. We stayed there until 1937 when

- we moved to a small but independent parish, also in New Haven.
All in all, we had eleven tremendously happy and fruitful years
there in spite of, or perhaps because of, the depression.

The needs of parishioners carried me into all sorts of responsi-
bilities and associations: with the Community Chest, the Council
of Churches, the Connecticut Council of Churches, Connecticut
Prison Association, and many aspects of the life and work of the
Episcopal Church at the parochial and diocesan level. On the per-
sonal non-professional side I was an active member and sometime
secretary of the New Haven Harvard Club. Phyllis was equally
involved with the New Haven Radcliffe Club.

My work was almost entirely with industrial workers and their
families. It bred in me an unshakable distrust of “free enterprise,”
if it is really free, because I saw what happened to perfectly ©
good, harmless people when the system or whatever it was we had
before 1933, broke down. From where I sit it looks as if some
measure of control over industry and commerce is necessary, and
if in recent years we’ve had too much regulation, the answer
is certainly not to go back to the “good old days.” As I remem-
ber them, they weren’t so good for most of my friends.

A more fundamental problem which seems to me inherent in
an industrial democracy is the spiritual abrasion which takes place
in the shop and on the assembly line. People lose their desire
for responsibility and their ability to take leadership. Imagina-
tion is stifled and energy is dissipated. Is this the reason some
labor leaders hold their power without opposition and political

dictators have such an easy time in industrialized states? At any
rate I conceive it is a major function of the church in such a
community to help heal this spiritual abrasion by giving men and
women the scope and status their work denies them, and so de-

[996 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

velop and use talents for which the rest of their world makes no
demand.

In 1943 we went to Johnson City, New York, leaving New
Haven with great regret. In Johnson City the main industries
are shoes and business machines instead of firearms and hardware,
and there is nothing like Yale, but otherwise the situation and the
problems were much the same. The church was larger, the work
heavier, the demands of the diocese, parish, and community just
as varied. I became a Rotarian, and served on more boards and
committees than I can remember.

Both major industries were strongly paternalistic, offering their
workers higher wages and more fringe benefits than any union
could think of. Yet there was an undercurrent of discontent in
many quarters, stemming largely from fear of the big boss, from
whose rule there was absolutely no appeal. The people in general
were prosperous, yet they too lacked imagination and the num-
ber of natural leaders among them was pitifully small, Almost
nobody dared to think or feel independently of the known will
and policies of the management.

The call to St. Stephen’s, Wilkes-Barre, came in January, 1948.
Here our economy centers about anthracite coal, and one of the
potent figures is our classmate Marshall Nunlist, of the Glen Al-
den Coal Company. We all know the community can no longer
depend upon coal for the major part of its income, as it has done
for over a century. So we are trying to bring in new factories
and to lay a new foundation for our community life. It is fas-
cinating and thrilling to be a part of such an effort. We may be
licked, but if so, we don’t know it yet. (Anybody who wants to
locate a factory near abundant water and labor, good hunting
and fishing, four hours away from New York and Philadelphia,
in the midst of the loveliest countryside, you’ve ever seen, just
drop us a line.)

St. Stephen’s is the leading non-Roman Catholic Church in the
valley. As rector I have a role in inter-church as well as com-
munity projects. The diocese sent me to General Convention in
San Francisco in 1949 and Boston in 1952. As pastor I serve peo-
ple from all walks of life, from a few of the very rich to some of
the poorest people I have ever met anywhere. As preacher,
teacher, and administrator I am still dealing with the spiritual

[997]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

results of the industrial system, and still convinced that nowhere
is the church more important than to the people of industrial
America, and that no other force can contribute anything that is
more important to our society than what the church can give.

While all this has been going on, Dick has reached his junior
year at Haverford College. (Maybe he’ll do graduate work at
Harvard some day.) Dave is a junior in the Wyoming Seminary,
Kingston, Pennsylvania. Our family hobby is borrowing (some-
times buying) recordings, and our private lust is for a better
player. Maybe even Hi-Fi. Summers we have spent in Maine,
always stopping in Cambridge to visit families and friends. There
has been little time and less money for extensive travels. But
after the kids are through college, who knows? Anyhow they
have been a great twenty-five years.

FRANK WATKIN ROBERTS, JR.

HOME apprEss: 1411 Glen Ave., Muskegon, Mich.

OFFice appress: Central Paper Division, S. D, Warren Co., Muskegon, Mich.

BORN: July 7, 1907, Ashmont, Mass. parents: Frank Watkin Roberts, Flora
Miller Wheeler.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; S.M. IN MECH.
ENG. 1931.

MarRiIED: M. Louise Swett, July 11, 1936, Boston, Mass. cuttp: Linda, Jan. 12,
1940.

occupation: Mill manager, Central Paper Division, S. D. Warren Com-
pany, pulp and paper manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Member, City Council, Westbrook, Maine, 1938-qo; trustee,
1940-53, chairman, 1949-50, Cornelia Warren Community Association,
member, 1944-53, chairman, 1949-50, School Committee, Westbrook,
Maine; chief engineer, S. D. Warren Company, Cumberland Mills,
Maine, 1949-53; director, Presumpscot Water Power Company, 1950-
53, Muskegon Manufacturers’ Association, 1954.

MEMBER OF: Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry; Ameri-
can Pulp and Paper Mill Superintendents’ Association, American So-
ciety of Mechanical Engineers, Century Club (Muskegon), Muskegon
Country Club; Greater Muskegon Chamber of Commerce; Warren
Phillips Lodge No. 186, AF. & A.M.

Pustications: “The Evolution of the Modern Pulp Mill Recovery Unit.”

AFTER graduation in 1929, and with some misgivings, I de-
cided to parlay a degree in mathematics into further study in

[ 998 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the more practical field of engineering. Two years at the Harvard
Engineering School satisfied degree requirements but landed me
in the middle of that leanest of years, 1931. After some looking
around, I accepted an engineering trainee position with the S. D.
Warren Company, a Boston concern operating pulp and paper
mills in Maine. In retrospect this was a wise and fortunate choice.
If I had it to make again, I’m sure I would buy the same ticket.
After my apprenticeship, I was assigned to the plant engineering
staff at Cumberland Mills, Westbrook, Maine. I became assistant
chief engineer in 1943 and chief engineer in 1949. Throughout
these years my work developed a fine mixture of headaches, op-
portunities for learning, and satisfaction in accomplishments. In
1953 the Warren Company purchased the Central Paper Com-
pany in Muskegon, Michigan. I was transferred at that time
to manage the new operation. Although I am no longer directly
in engineering, I appear confronted with related headaches, op-
portunities, and satisfactions.

My family, acquired along the way in the usual fashion, is
small but active. We have enjoyed good years together and best
of all we enjoy each other. Our location in Maine (near Port-
land) we considered ideal; some of our best days were spent on
the Maine coast. Since coming to Michigan we have found our
loyalties wavering. We are fast becoming mid-western in all
but accent,

My hobbies have been simple. I have taken a great deal of
interest in local politics and civic affairs. This has been espe-
cially true in the field of education, the result no doubt of ad-
vice given in Education A to “get yourself elected to a school
committee.” I play ‘golf regularly with moderate success and
much enjoyment. Bridge has been our family game— and as
a family we have a genuine interest in most things athletic. We
look forward to making the next twenty-five years as happy
as the first.

SETH BLAKE ROBERTS

HOME AppREsS: Box 465, Route 5, Geyer Road, Frontenac, St. Louis Co,
Mo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2008 Olive St, St. Louis 3, Mo.

[ 999 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

BORN: Jan. 31, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Seth Blake Roberts, Gertrude
Knowles Lees.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnetka, IL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

marrieD: Evelyn Ellen Beckeman, Nov. 16, 1940, Kirkwood, Mo. cum:
Wadelle June, June 16, 1931 (stepchild).

occuPaTion: Inspection and testing engineer, district manager, Robert W.
Hunt Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Engineers’ Club of St. Louis, 1946; chairman, St.
Louis District Council, American Society for Testing Materials, 1948-
54-

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of St. Louis.

I THINK the most remarkable thing about my life to date is that
the last twenty-five years have gone by so fast. Since it seems but
yesterday that I was bidding the Yard a fond farewell, my first
idea in contemplating a biographical sketch is that it is down-
right silly-— whoever wrote an autobiography. on the basis
of one day? But alas, it is not yesterday that I departed; the
calendar says distinctly, and in doing so agrees with you, that
twenty-five times 365 days h have elapsed. And so now for the
accounting thereof:

As the data shows, I went to work for the Robert W. Hunt
Company upon graduation and have remained with them ever
since. The first eight years were spent in Chicago followed by a
short stretch in New York before I was sent to St. Louis in 1937,
where I have remained ever since. And I suppose, in many ways,
most of what I have to report on the last twenty-five years can
really be said to have happened in the last sixteen years. For it
was here (St. Louis) that I met the girl who became my wife; it
was here that I set up my own home and joined in such commu-
nity affairs as couldn’t be escaped; and it was here that, through
club and technical society affiliations, I contributed my mite to
the so-called professional side of my life. All of this makes it
seem like a quiet, steady sort of life which it has been, and
which probably accounts for the fact that the time has gone by
so fast.

My career might have been different. Upon graduation I
toyed with the idea of going into investment banking. Fortu-
nately I kept that ambition pretty well to myself, for it was but
a matter of a few months that that particular vocation took on

[ 1000 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the connotation of Public Enemy No. 1, and no one wanted any
part of it. Then I thought the career of C.P.A. beckoned, but
before I had a real shot at it a transfer to New York effectively
balked that. After New York came St. Louis and that was that.
Except for business and holidays my travelling has been quite cir-
cumscribed. My hobbies too can be counted on the fingers of one
hand and consist mostly of an interest in the stock market. On
social, political, or religious convictions | hesitate to commit
myself. Perhaps fence-sitting would be the best description. One
thing I know — the convictions I held in my College days are no
longer the ones I lean toward today. I guess you might say the
only conviction I have is that I have no conviction — socially,
politically, or religiously. That is not to say I am not interested,
only that I have never been able to set up a creed and say, “In this
I believe.” Perhaps I can write more definitely on this subject
come our Fiftieth Anniversary Reunion,

_ KENNETH DOUGLAS ROBERTSON, JR

HOME aAppREss: 6 W, Hill Pl., Boston 14, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 27, 1906, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Kenneth Douglas Robert-
son, May Hadden.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929,

MARRIED: Elizabeth Morgan, Jan. 2, 1930, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN: Mary
Douglas, Oct. 11, 1930 (7. William Andros Barron, 3d, May 2, 1953,
Concord, Mass.); Gavin Douglas, Sept. 17, 1932; Dianne, Aug. 7, 1943.
GRANDCHILD: Emily Barron, Feb. 9, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Aspinwall Robertson, ’31; Gordon Farquhar
Robertson, ’36.

occupation: Salesman, H. C. Wainwright and Company; manager, Robert-
son Plan, formula guide for tming and selection.

OFFICES HELD: President, director, Concord Taxpayers Association, 1952-535
director, General Communications Company, since 1940; commander,
Volunteer Composite Company of U. S. Naval Reserve.

WHEN one stops to think that we are still receiving light from
stars which, like our moon, are long since dead, that light travels
at approximately 186,000 miles per ‘second, that we do not know
what lies beyond the farthermost body in the universe, it is a
humbling thought to set down on paper what one has done, what

[ roor J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

of prostitution and a pimp who procures for Moscow. It is per-
fectly all right to “Let South Korea fall but not to let it look as
though we had pushed it.”

I suggested to another dean, also a member of the UN Coun-
cil’s Faculty Advisers, that it seemed to me a university had the
duty to teach the truth about Communism, particularly a univer-
sity whose motto is “Veritas.” He reiterated what he called Har-
vard’s traditionally “liberal” policy of giving the boys credit for
being able to decide for themselves, that it was the duty of the
teacher to present both sides and let them make up their own
minds. I then asked him how far he thought the greatest teacher
of all would have got with such a policy had he not gone out and
taught the difference between right and wrong, good and evil,
and I reminded him of the Christian principles we had been
taught at school and those same principles as set forth in the
College Charter.

“Oh, come now, Ken!” he replied, “Don’t give me that kid
stuff! We've grown up since then!” If that is what is meant by
a liberal Harvard education, no wonder we have been having
trouble. And if his sort of intellectual liberalism is typical at
Cambridge, God help Harvard and God help the country!

I haven’t all the answers, maybe none of them. But I think.
And I hope to get others to think — all those whose various and
several faiths have noble standards of living — the Catholics, the
Jews, the Protestants, the Mohammedans, and others, many far
older than Christianity. Prayer and thought have to precede
action. It is not too late. It’s never too late in the larger sense.
But even if it should prove to be too late in the narrower and
shorter view, it is better to go down fighting for what one be-
lieves to be right than not to fight at all. In most cases it is true
that a soft answer turneth away wrath, There are times, however,
and this may be one of them, when the negative council of turn-
ing the other check should give way to the more positive example
Jesus gave when he drove the money-changers out of the temple.

The centuries of time will continue to tick on. Harvard’s stream
of knowledge cannot be stopped by any temporary or expedient
policies or personalities. Te will pass the dams, flow over or
around the rocks, and swell on to the sea of truth. Long after we
have been gathered unto our fathers, what we have said and done,

{ 1010]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

left unsaid and left undone, will have been forgotten except for
a few of us here and there. The two and a half billions of souls
make up the whole. Each of us is a part of that whole. As each
of us sets his and her standards high, so will the whole benefit.
As each sets it low, or has no standard at all, the whole will
suffer. Because thus it is with the life of civilization, of culture,
and of humanity.

JOSEPH ROBINSON

HOME AbpREsS: 6 Alton Ct. Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 88 Broad St., Sixth Floor, Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles E. Robinson, Rose
Gertrude Silbert.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Adelle L, Altman, Nov. 8, 1936, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Charles
E., Jan. 29, 1939; David F., Oct. 25, 1941; Stephen J., Sept. 7, 1946;
Paul R., June 27, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Leo Robinson, ’28; Maurice Robinson, ’34; Robert Rob-
inson, 42.

OccUPATION: Legal adviser, School Building Assistance Commission of Com-
monwealth of Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Federal Bars.

MY chief hobbies since I graduated have been amateur photog-
raphy and pinochle. I gave up the photography for a good
FM radio set and have not yet succumbed to looking at tele-
vision seriously. I can still play a good game of pinochle although
my best friends from the Class of 1929 deny this vehemently.

I have a lovely wife and four fast-growing boys and we are all
looking forward to the Reunion this summer. I have been the
legal adviser for the Massachusetts School Building Assistance
Commission for some time and enjoy my work there immensely.

THEODORE WINTHROP ROBINSON, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 2608 N. Lakeview Ave. Chicago 14, Hl.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2243 W. Harrison St., Chicago 12, Il.

[ 101 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

orn: Dec. 30, 1904, Chicago, Ill. parents: Theodore Winthrop Robinson,
Frances Steel.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.; Westminster School,
Simsbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928,

marrieD: Annabel Albright, Feb. 18, 1936, Chicago, Ill. camp: Theodore
Winthrop, 3d, Sept. 21, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edgar Steel Robinson, ’14, 8.B., '16.

occupation: Chairman of Board, Ditto, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to the president, vice-president in charge produc-
tion, Ditto, Inc.; member board, Ditto Press, Inc., Watson & Boaler,
Inc., llinois Children’s Home and Aid Society, Chicago Latin School,
former member, Office Machinery Committee, War Production Board,
World War II.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Club; Saddle & Cycle Club; Harvard Club of Chicago,
Harvard Club of New York; Edgartown (Mass.) Yacht and Golf
Clubs.

RELIGION: Episcopalian. Hobbies: Golf, sailing, fishing,
hunting.

ALFRED PEET ROGERS

HOME Appress: R. F. D. 1, Concord, Mass.

OFFice Appress: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Hartwell Rogers,
’93, Caroline Elizabeth Heizer.

prepare aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1920; M.B.A. 1931.

MaagizD: Louise E. Scatterty, December, 1937, New Orleans, La, cHILpREN:
Joan Ellen, March 7, 1940; Louise Hartwell, March 7, 1942; Sarah Ann,
Nov. 27, 1944; John Ashby, Oct. 13, 1946; Judith Craig, June 6, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Frederick Rogers, ’34.

occupation: Staff member, Division of Industrial Codperation, Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology, private trustee; farmer.

MeMBeR oF: Harvard Business Schoo! Association; Harvard Law School
Association; Massachusetts Institute of Technology Faculty Club.

MY life is entirely taken up by a very lively family, two cows,
thirty hens, and nine cats; squash racquets three nights a week,
bowling one night a week; chauffeuring two daughters to danc-
ing class one night a week. Whatever time is Icft is taken up by
farming and photography.

{ r0o12 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FISKE ROLLINS

HOME ADDRESS: 109 Hollis Ave., Braintree 84, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 716 Columbus Ave., Boston 20, Mass.

porN: May 2, 1906, Brookline, Mass, PARENTS: Charles Fiske Rollins, Flor-
ence Louise Alghieri.

PREPARED aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREE: 8.B., 1929.

MarRRIED: Alice L. Bennett, Sept, 20, 1930, Boston, Mass.

occuPATION: Sales manager, laboratory furniture sales engineer, Henry S.
Wolkins Company, school furniture and supplies.

MEMBER OF: M.B.B.A.; Delta Upsilon Fraternity; Reserve Officers Asso-
ciation; American Legion; N.S.S.L; N.E.ES.A.

DURING years prior to the war I was in the investment end
of banking, principally with Granite Trust Company, Quincy,
Massachusetts. I went into service in January, 1941, with the
roist Field Artillery, 26th Division. I left them in early 1942 on
cadre to the 77th Division, only to cadre again in July, 1942, to
the g4th Infantry Division, whence I stayed till after V-E Day.
The 94th went to Europe, I’m glad to say, and after containing
the Lorient and St. Nazaire pockets went up and breached the
Siegfried Line Switch and spearheaded the Third Army to the
Rhine. My assignment was division artillery supply officer, un-
glamorous but interesting.

The war years gave me plenty of time to decide that dull in-
vestment statistics were not for me, so in 1946 I went into my
present work. This sales work is really to my liking with enough
travel throughout New England so that the office end does not
get too boring.

Since the war I have added surf casting for striped bass to my
old standby of duck shooting and consider the eight months of
weekends in pursuit of bass and ducks on good old Cape Cod the
best medicine there is; the other four months of weekends are
spent keeping the house from falling apart. From force of habit,
and just in case, I have kept active in the army reserve and pres-
ently am “professor of transportation,” without benefit of Ph.D.,
in the Boston army reserve officers school. If predictions are in
order I will say that 1961 will be the year in which Russia will
strike, so trust Uncle Sam will by then have his pantaloons at
full mast.

[ 1013 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ALBERT ULYSSES ROSA

HOME ADDRESS: 164 Bayswater St., East Boston 28, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREsS: 18 Meridian St. East Boston 28, Mass.

BORN: June 20, 1908, Italy. parents: Anthony Rosa, Mary Memmolo,

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926. DEGREE: LL.B. (Suffolk Law School), 1932.

marrieD: Helen Chase Sargent, Aug. 19, 1939, Boston, Mass. cuixp: Richard
Sargent, Aug. 9, 1945.

occupaTION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Local rationing board, member, Selective Service
System, 1939-45.

] STARTED in the general practice of law in 1932. In 19391
was appointed a member of the Selective Service System and
served until the end of the war. In 1941 I was appointed chair-
man of the local rationing board and served until the end of
hostilities. I was married in 1939 and have one son. I am still
actively engaged in the general practice of law.

a

HAROLD WILLIAM ROSE

HOME ADDRESS: 434 E. sznd St., New York 22, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 Ave. P, Newark, N. J.

BORN: June 2, 1907, Providence, R. I. parents: Isaac Rose, Susan Feinberg.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MarrieD: Mildred Olson, Nov. 24, 1928, Willimantic, Conn.; Joan Galla-
gher. cumpren: Betti Sue, June 6, 1934; Harold William, Jr. July 1,

1937-
occupation: Manufacturing, president, Alliance Color and Chemical Com-

pany.
THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files,

FREDERICK ROSENBAUM

HOME AppRrEss: 179 Clinton Rd., Brookline 46, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 251 Causeway, Boston, Mass.

Born: Nov. 16, 1907, Roxbury, Mass. PARENTS: Michael Samuel Rosenbaum,
Tina Kupferman,

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: 8.B., 1930.

[ 101g ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
marrieD: Elizabeth Gelman, Jan. 5, 1933, Boston, Mass. cuipren: David
_ Mark, Feb. 11, 1935; Ellen Joan, Aug. 26, 1938; Judy Flo, April 15, 1944.
occuPaTION: President, Globe Sporting Goods Manufacturing Company,
manufacturers of sporting goods.

IN the beginning — 1933 God mated Beth and Fred. It was
said at the time that the world was filled with depression. In any-
thing but a depressed state of mind, we started to see the world in
an unforgettable trip to southern Europe, Palestine, and Egypt.
Somebody told us that each child brings its own good fortune.
We tried out the theory with three children and we can testify
that it is true. At present, we are trying to maintain our hold —
albeit somewhat weakly —on the various rungs of the educa-
tional ladder. David, a sophomore at Brown, Ellen, a sophomore
at Brookline High, and Judy, in the fourth grade of grammar
school tolerantly guide us through the current teen-age and sub-
teen-age wisdoms.

Through the years my hobbies have varied from tennis, bad-
minton, golf, and fishing to bridge and chess. A “‘C” is the best
mark Id get in any of them. Politically, Pve backed Roosevelt
and Truman. I wonder if that will mean anything to my de-
scendants. In spite of the terrible destructiveness of the last twen-
ty-five years, I’m still naive enough to try to look through the
international fog for a gleam of light with a hope that this light °
will last for a long period of peace.

LESTER SAMUEL ROSENGARD

HOME ADDRESS: 43 Hamilton Ave., Haverhill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 181 Merrimack St., Haverhill, Mass.

BorN: April 6, 1908, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Eli Rosengard, Annie
Rosengard.

PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1933.

UNMARRIED,

occuPaTion: Retail dry cleaning, County Cleaners.

MEMBER OF: Temple Emanue-E] Brotherhood, Haverhill; Haverhill Post,
Jewish War Veterans.

AFTER obtaining my LL.B. in 1933, I entered the business world,
engaging at various times in life insurance and retail furniture
selling. I volunteered for military service in 1942 and served for

[1015 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

two years (rank, Tech — sth); my work was primarily survey-
ing, and computing orientation data, where my mathematics and
surveying at Harvard served me in excellent stead. I was sta-
tioned at Forts Preble and McKinley in Casco Bay, east of Port-
land, Maine.

After my honorable discharge in 1944, I returned to Suffolk
Law School in Boston, where I pursued graduate work in law,
leading to advanced degrees, on a part-time basis.

My latest business venture is in the dry cleaning field. My
hobbies are chiefly following local high school sports, and play-
ing tennis. I have also followed with great interest local political
contests and developments; we are at present on the eve of a po-
litical election involving the fate of the Plan D, city-manager
form of government, recently adopted by the voters of Haverhill.

I shall always remember my days in Cambridge for the many
pleasant acquaintances I made among my classmates of 1929, and
Iam very happy when I read in the papers of the achievements
of any, whose names I recognize as “Harvardians, Class of ’29.”
Finally, to Professor Haertlein J shall forever hold a world of gra-
titude for assistance rendered me in the past.

SAUL ROSENZWEIG

HOME ADpRESS; 8029 Washington St. St. Louis 14, Mo,

oFFice appress: Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.

BoRN: Feb. 7, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: David Rosenzweig; Etta Tuttle.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1929; AM.
1930; PH.D, 1932.

MarnrieD: Louise Ritterskampf, March 21, 1941, Worcester, Mass. CHTLDREN:
Julia Maya, July 21, 1943; Ann Gradiva, Feb. 12, 1953.

occupation: Psychologist, professor of psychology and medical psychology.

orrices HELD: Associate editor, Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology;
consulting editor, Applied Psychology Monographs; consultant in
clinical psychology, Veteran’s Administration; council representative,
member Education and Training Board, American Psychological Asso-
ciation; council member, American Association of Psychiatric Clinics
for Children, 1953-55.

memarr ov: American Psychological Association (fellow); American Ortho-
psychiatric Association (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Psychodiagnosis: An Introduction to the Integration of Tests
in Dynamic Clinical Practice (with K. Kogan), Grune & Stratton,

[ 1016 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

N. Y,. 1949; Rosenzweig Picture-Frustration Study (adult form, chil-
dren’s form), 1948; about one hundred articles in various psychological
journals and reference works, including Encyclopedia Britannica.

THE world of ideas claimed me early and I have been working
the claim since college days — if not before. Undergraduate work
led me to graduate study in psychology at Harvard, which
earned for me in due course a Master’s and a Doctor’s degree.
After several years of association with the Harvard Psychological
Clinic, under Henry A. Murray, I went to Worcester, Massachu-
setts, where I was research associate at the Worcester State
‘Hospital, widely known for its research in abnormal psychology
and psychiatry, and affiliate professor of psychology at Clark
University. Nine years in Worcester were followed by six in
Pittsburgh, where I served as chief psychologist at the newly-
established Western State Psychiatric Institute and as lecturer at
the University of Pittsburgh. In this latter city I gained consider-
able administrative experience, for the first time I had responsi-
bility for the training of young psychologists serving internships.
Some of my work here during the war contributed in a minor
way to military psychiatry. Six years ago a new appointment
took me to my present position in St. Louis, where I now work
as professor in the Departments of Psychology and Neuropsy-
chiatry at Washington University.

As an advanced undergraduate at Harvard my interests in
philosophy turned to the psychology of philosophers. Adoles-
cently philosophical myself, I was probably trying to account
for my own precocious bent and so began to explain the views
of select philosophers on the basis of their personalities and life
experience. I was thus led from philosophy to psychology and,
in particular, to psychoanalysis. Having resolved to do graduate
work, psychology became my specialty. Such a graduate pro-
gram meant at that time a choice between “experimental psy-
chology” in the traditional sense and abnormal-dynamic psychol-
ogy at the Psychological Clinic. The latter was clearly more in
line with my interests but it was soon apparent to me that dy-
namic psychology needed the refinement that experimental meth-
od could provide and I therefore embarked on what I later
dubbed “experimental psychoanalysis,” with laboratory studies of
repression, projection, etc.

[ 1017]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Some years ago I wrote a Declaration of Interdependence for
this psychological democracy. It runs: All men are created un-
equal in capacities, needs, and interests but with equal rights to
express their inequalities in the pursuit of their individual happi-
ness as consistent with the mutual good. As important as these
rights of the individual are his responsibilities to protect the
similar rights of every other individual. A good society is thus
one which has as its outstanding value the valuing of its constitu-
ent members, each in his own terms; the good individual values
himself as a personality with well-developed interests and abilities
that are to be expressed in consonance with the equal claims and
responsibilities of his fellows. The best society is that which

rovides an ever broadening base of guaranteed securities for the
individual so that he, the individual, may return to it for the com-
mon good the creative expression of his evolving individuality.

JOHN ORREN ROSS

HOME Aporess: R. F. D. 1, Ridgefield (Wilton), Conn.

OFFicE ADDRESS: 101 Park Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

Born: Oct, 26, 1906, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Sidney Fuller Ross, Eleanor
Ann James.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1929.

MaraiED: Frances Ridgely Hunt, Aug. 26, 1944, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Sidney Ann, Oct. 23, 1948, John Orren, Jr, Aug. 30, 1951.

occupation: Architecture: partner, York & Sawyer on school work; project
manager, other public buildings.

MeMaea oF: Wilton Riding Club, Harvard Club of New York.

UPON my leaving the Architectural School, confident of my
ability to design the house of tomorrow, there was at that time a
mere problem of finding an architect with a client and the need
of an extra hand. New construction was practically at a stand-
still, and such nuggets as hanging an exhibition or drawing land
maps were eagerly grasped.

Robert Moses and the New York Park Department provided a
haven for me and the majority of the city’s architects, and of-
fered a wholesome grounding in side planning as well as in
architecture.

[ 1020 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

With the outbreak of the war I migrated to Trinidad to work
on island bases. Surviving the languor of the tropics and the
call of the Calypsos, I returned to this country and joined a
Navy construction battalion. My next tour was in the Solomon
Islands laying out airfields, where the languor of the Pacific Isles
was fetid compared with that of the West Indies. James Mich-
ener had a break in his greater freedom of operations.

Home with a leave of thirty days, marriage seemed an excel-
lent idea, and has since proved a sound one. Then followed a
period of cross-country trooping, from New York to Florida, to
Jersey, to California, complete with delayed orders, confused
transportation, and the inevitable search for a place to lay one’s
head. All this led to an assignment in military government, a
memory course in Japanese, and a hurried trip to Korea, where
the newly acquired language was of no avail. Navy officers were
soon detached, though, which permitted my return to civilian life.

The new experience of family responsibility quashed any la-
tent ideas of wanderlust, and my wife and I chose to busy our-
selves in the city. The domestic picture had changed. Where to
find a place to live presented a major obstacle, where to find archi-
tectural work was wherever you chose to hang your hat and coat.
Hospitals, schools, public buildings were on the drafting boards,
and some actually were being built. We settled down in a cliff-
dwelling, and I to the routine of a large office— early visions
of tomorrow’s house somewhat tempered by the intervening
years. In Grace Episcopal Church and its minister we felt a stimu-
lating source of inspiration.

The fact that I was a Republican and lived in New York did
not lead to great political satisfaction; there was always too much
of the feeling “wait until next year.”

In the following years there came along first our daughter and
then her brother, to join the carriage parade and later the play-
ground groups. With the children approaching school age, life
in the country took on a different aspect, however, and last
year we made the great decision and moved out to Wilton.
Weckends are short and there is much to be done, but at the
same time we find a great deal of pleasure in an occasional game
of tennis and a swim in the pool with the children,

[ 1021 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JOHN ROTHSCHILD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1425 Laurel St, Menlo Park, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 52 Main St., San Francisco, Calif.

porN: Jan. 21, 1908, San Francisco, Calif, parents: John Rothschild, Grace
Arnold Hecht.

PREPARED AT: San Mateo Union High School, San Mateo, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, 1928-1929.

marrigp: Geraldine Garrett, Oct. 30, 1943, Camp Fannin, Texas. cump;
John Garrett, Feb. 18, 1949.

occupation: Sales manager, Julius Rothschild & Company representing
manufacturers for armed forces.

MEMBER OF: Olympic Club, Harvard Club, San Francisco; AF. & AM.
Tyler (Texas) Lodge 1233; Nat'l Defense Transportation Association,

FROM 1929 on, the next thirteen years of my life were most
uninteresting and uninspiring. In August, 1942, I was drafted
into the Army. In March, 1943, I received my commission at
officer candidate school, and spent the next three and a half years
at Camp Fannin, Texas — very pleasant years, particularly since
I met my wife while at camp. Upon separation as a captain, US.
Army Reserve, I returned to the firm with which I had been as-
sociated before the war and spent the next four years in Seattle
as its northwest manager. Then [ went to Honolulu for two and
a half years — from which place, I made several trips to Japan,
Manila, and Guam. My travels to these areas greatly added to
my conviction that an American citizen too often doesn’t realize
how fortunate he is! The callous attitude towards human life and
complete lack of sympathy and kindness for the unfortunate that
one finds in the Orient is quite appalling. It is ironic that, less
than ten years after December 7th, 1941, I much preferred the
Japanese to the other races in the west Pacific, an opinion shared
by many. I met quite a few Japanese gentlemen on trains, etc.,
and found them most courteous and excellent company.

In September, 1952, we returned to the mainland, and now live
in Menlo Park, a suburb of San Francisco — for the next fifteen
years, I hope. As a native San Franciscan, I am prejudiced, but
to me San Francisco (and the Bay Area) is the finest place in the
world — the cool climate, the physical beauty of the bay and
hills, the tolerant, conservative, and intelligent people. It is un-
fortunate that so many people judge California by thar virulent

[ 1022 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

scab of stupidity, greed, and obscenity known as Los Angeles.
(This is one subject that really gets me wound up!)

I spend my leisure time mostly with my wife and son — work-
ing in our garden, taking a few trips, etc. As in the past, ever
since I can remember, my hobby is railroads—not making
models, or delving into technical matters, but just plain looking
at trains, collecting time tables, and trying to guess whether No.
98 will have engine number 4458 at the head end — the days of
the latter are numbered, since steam is fast disappearing from our
national scene. The next generation will never know the beauty
of seeing and hearing three S.P. 4200’s pounding their guts out
pulling a freight drag over the Sierra Nevada. This leads to my
alternate hobby — getting the hell away from things and going
hunting or taking a trip to the mountains. We are very luck
here to be within a few hours of Yosemite, Lake Tahoe, and the
Sierra Nevada in general —to be extremely trite, the works of
man are nothing compared to the beauties of nature. Fortunately
for both of us, my wife and I are in complete agreement on this.

One more thought: although I feel that at times in recent
months a too liberal attitude has been shown towards those few
in the faculty who have become befouled with communism,
Harvard and its ideals of true liberty and integrity is representa-
tive of what is really fine and great in America. The headlines
in the papers and the chatter on the radio are often depressing —
crime, young punks going around in gangs, strikes, two-bit greed
— but then you read and hear things that renew your faith and
you realize you don’t have to worry too damn much about the
future that your son will face.

DAVID EDWARD ROUNDS

HOME apprEss: Apt. 2, Bldg. 542, Fort Monmouth, N. J.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Training Aids Dept, The Signal School, Fort Monmouth,
N. J. -

BORN: May 11, 1907, Whitewater, Wis. PARENTS: Charles Ralph Rounds,
ED.M., '24, Mabel Cassandra Willis.

PREPARED AT: Roselle High School, Roselle, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1929(31); S.B. IN ED,
(Trenton State Teachers Coll.), 1931; a.m. (New York Univ.).

MARRIED: Elizabeth O’Brien, Feb. 21, 1943, Fort Monmouth, N. J. cutcpren:

[ 1023]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

David Edward, Jr, June 1, 1944; Jonathan William, Oct. 11, 1946;
James Ralph, Dec. 16, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Willis Rounds, "27; Stuart Boyd Rounds, Sp.

occupation: Army officer.

MEMBER OF: Armed Forces Communications Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Signal Officers’ News Letter (monthly military Publication
prepared at Headquarters Second Army, 1948, 1949).

AS 1930 was not an auspicious year for entering the School of
Architecture, I transferred my credits to Trenton State Teachers
College (New Jersey) and received an S.B, in Education the
following year. I taught for several years in bachelor state at
Bordentown Military Institute, and one year at the Landon
School for Boys in Washington. When war came I avoided a
direct commission in the Adjutant General’s Department and
went in as a private in July, 1942. A kindly sergeant in the
Interview Section at Fort Dix granted my wish and had me
assigned to the Signal Corps instead of the 88th Infantry Division,
to which everyone else went. So I stayed in New Jersey, went
through Officers Candidate School, and two days later acquired
a dependent wife. After a year of training at Fort Monmouth,
Camp Pinedale (Fresno, California), Fort Washington (Mary-
land), and Camp Patrick Henry (Virginia), I went overseas to
England as a second lieutenant with the primary duty of reading
other people’s letters and examining their packages. This was
Military Intelligence. However, in 1945 while still overseas I
got back into the Signal Corps and worked in the communication
centers at London, Paris, and Frankfort. I was released from
active duty in April, 1946.

After earning my Master’s degree in History at New York
University School of Education, I went to work for a year and ,
a half at Cranford (New Jersey) High School. Temporary duty
at Governors Island in 1947 and 1948 was interesting, and in
September, 1948, I returned to extended active duty in the Army.
After a year in the Signal Section, Headquarters Second Army,
Fort Meade, Maryland, I went to Japan, followed shortly by my
family. We lived in Tokyo for three years. I worked at the
Communications Center at General Headquarters and then moved
to the staff of the 71st Signal Service Battalion as Special Services
Officer, Information and Education Officer, and Public Informa-

[ 1024]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion Officer. In September, 1951, I left the battalion to join the
Signal Section, General Headquarters, as Brigadier General Elton
F, Hammond’s aide. This work lasted a year, and involved con-
siderable travel and photography. Our third boy-child was born
at Tokyo General Hospital, and the two older boys started their
schooling in the Grant Heights Elementary School. My first
assignment after returning to the United States in September,
1952, was to the Signal Corps’ far west training center at Camp
San Luis Obispo, California. I stayed there for a year, the family
joining me after a few months in nearby Shell Beach. My job
was Plans and Policies Officer, G4 Section.

I recently returned to Fort Monmouth to tackle the prepara-
tion of a complete Signal Corps Training catalog, which may be
ready for publication this summer if I get some help and don’t
go blind. We occupy shabby family quarters on the post and
are delighted to be here.

* Music has been my principal hobby since College days. I enjoy
playing the ’cello in string quartets, especially Mozart, Schubert,
early Beethoven, and the like. I was an amateur member of the
Trenton Symphony Orchestra for ten years. Easily swayed,
however, I was roped in on the formation of an informal chamber
music group of 71st Signal Battalion officers known as the Cormm-
tones, who became notorious in the Far East for disturbing
patients at the Tokyo military hospitals. I played slap bass in
this sinfonietta and even contributed such nocturnes as “Shim-
bashi Sheila, My Shoeshine Gal.” My wife and I like to play
bridge, and on one occasion we actually placed first in a San
Luis Obispo duplicate session.

My status in the Army is that of captain. If my category is
renewed in November, I'll probably be headed overseas again by
that time.

PHILIP WINEGAR ROUNDS

HOME AppREsS: 87 Elmwood Ave., Chatham, N. J.

oFFIce appREss: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Murray Hill, N. J.

Born: Aug. 27, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: Walter Sleeper Rounds,
Clara Chesley Darsie.

PREPARED AT: Rockland High School, Rockland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

[ 1025 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

marriep: Annette Ayer Sheridan, Sept. 29, 1934, Melrose, Mass. curtpaey;
Sarah Valpey, May 16, 1945; Robert Philip, June 7, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Darsie Rounds, LL.B., °37.

occupation: Research and development in communications, member of
technical staff, Bell Telephone Laboratories.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, The Harbinger Corporation, 1940-46.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; Harvard Engineering Society,
East Harlem Athletic Association; American Institute of Electrical
Engineers; Chatham Friends of the Library; Chatham Committee for
Good Schools; Telephone Pioneers of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in technical journals.

SOME may thank the Lord because they are Harvard men; I
thank the Lord because I graduated from Harvard in 1929. That
was the last happy year in which an A.B. could have an engineer-
ing job just for the asking, and the year in which I joined the
Bell Laboratories in an association that has continued ever since.
It was also the year in which I joined a group of Harvard Bacca-
Jaurei in setting up bachelors’ quarters in New York. Sheldon
Tower, Doug Fuller, Dean Chamberlin, Russ Carpenter, and Bob
Burley were members of the group. During the precarious thir-
ties, our interests were convivial but simple. Later I acquired a
Jandlubber’s interest in sailing and bought a sloop in partnership
with Sheldon Tower. The sailing adventures might have con-
tinued if I had not been swept off my feet the first summer. As
a result, [ shaved off my mustache, sold my interest in the boat,
and got married.

After a year of commuting from Connecticut, we set up an
apartment in New York, where for thirteen years we had the
fun of greeting many visiting Harvard men. Our vacations,
except for a trip to Mexico and one to the Canadian Rockies,
have always meant a couple of weeks of simple, primitive living
in an old farm house near St. George, Maine.

Shortly after the war, I moved with the Bell Laboratories to
suburban New Jersey. The work is the same, but the environ-
ment is pleasanter. During the war years I was busy working on
devices for the military. In peacetime, my job involves the de-
velopment of circuits for telephone, telegraph, telephoto, radio
broadcast, and television transmission. My present most press-
ing problem has to do with the transmission of color TV signals
over the country. I still don’t have a TV set.

[ 1026 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our life at home is centered around our two children, a small
Chinese girl who lives with us from time to time, Fresh Air chil-
dren in season, and any others whom we can snare in our web,
For the past five years we have taken part in a Great Books dis-
cussion group. Like all provincials we are engrossed in the civic,
church, and fund-raising activities that are a part of small-town
life.

EDWIN WALKER ROWELL

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Pleasant St. Baldwinville, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Templeton High School, Baldwinville, Mass,

Born: July 31, 1907, Waltham, Mass. parents: Henry Kendall Rowell, May
Louise Mitchell.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1025-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; ED.M., 1934,

MarRIED: Mona Gertrude Davison, July 1, 1939, Billerica, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth May, Nov. 8, 1940; Frank Davison, Jan. 15, 1944; Martha
Louise, June 11, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kendall Bailey Rowell, ’22 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Superintendent of Schools, Massachusetts School Superintend-
ency Union No. 1 (comprising towns of Hubbardston, Phillipston,
Royalston, Templeton).

MEMBER OF: Trinity Lodge, AF. & A.M., Clinton, Mass.; Massachusetts
Schoolmasters’ Club; Iota Chapter (Harvard) of Phi Delta Kappa;
New England Gladiolus Society; American Association of School Ad-
ministrators,

MY career, if such it be, began following the receipt of my degree
from the Graduate School of Education. I taught and coached
for six years at Lancaster High School, then became principal
and superintendent of schools for the town. After eleven years
in that dual position I moved to Baldwinville to be superintendent
for a four-town union. The work is interesting and challenging,
rewarding in non-financial ways, and usually too time-consuming
for my own good. Public education as it has developed in our
nation is a unique and largely undervalued contribution to our
growth and strength. It needs many friends of the caliber of
President Conant, especially during the next decade or more of
expansion which it is entering.

My family is now at a most interesting age, not yet in the

[ 1027 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

super-critical teens, yet past the baby stage. Years of habit of not
discussing them because of my particular position in their com-
munity are upon me as usual. My garden serves as my hobby.
Such spare time as I have is more available at the time gardens
are active so I am fortunately able to indulge my desire to raise
more and better vegetables and flowers. We feed and decorate
our own household and also those of friends and neighbors.
After all, I have the pleasure of raising the stuff, so others should
have the pleasure of consuming it.

My job, one of the most important in the world today despite
its economic status; my family, to me the most important people
I know; my hobby, one important pleasure of living: these three
leave me little time for anything else, so why hunt for more to
write.

DAVID JOHN ROWLAND, JR.

HOME appreEss: 77 Bentley Ave., Jersey City, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 39 Cortlandt St., New York 7, N. ¥.

Born: June 18, 1906, Jersey City, N. J. parents: David John Rowland,
Carrie Louise Jones.

PREPARED aT: Hun School, Princeton, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: S.B. 1929; LL.B. (Rutgers Univ.);
LLM. (New York Univ.).

UN MARRIED,

occupation: Lawyer; owner, Rowland & Burns, sales engineering.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Nominating Committee, Rutgers Law Alumni
Association; senior deacon, clerk of consistory, Bergen Reformed
Church; program chairman, University Club of Hudson County, treas-
urer, Hudson Country Branch, New York Board of Atlantic Union;
member Hudson County Committee, Regular Republican Organiza-
tion, past president, 53rd Artillery Association.

MEMBER oF: Hudson County Bar Association; Essex County Bar Associa-
tion; State Bar Association, American Bar Association, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon Alumni Group (Harvard); Railway-Machinery Club of New
York; St. David’s Society of New York.

UPON graduation from college, I travelled briefly in Europe
with another member of the Class and then took up the study of
law, in the course of time passing the bar and being employed by
one of the larger law firms in Jersey City, engaged in general
practice. Later I became trial attorney for an insurance company

[ 1028 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Newark and then turned to practice on my own account. In
1950 I inherited a sales engineering firm and continued to oper-
ate it.

In 1942 I found myself assigned to coast artillery, largely as the

result of having served in the First Corps in Boston concurrently
with college years. After being stationed in Florida for two years
and in Virginia for some months, we were suddenly converted to
field artillery and sent to the European Theatre in time to witness
the break-up of German resistance during the last weeks of the
war along the Rhine. During this period I was in Military Intel-
ligence.
- This serves to remind me that the first American soldier I saw
as I landed at Le Havre, France, was a member of the Class of
1929 (Tim Cleary) and it also reminds me that wherever I have
gone I have found Harvard men and have been impressed by
their quiet achievement. ,

DAVID HOWARD ROWSOME

HOME aAbDpRESS: 74 Macdonnell Rd., Hong Kong, British Crown Colony,
China.

OFFICE apprEss: Caltex (China) Ltd., Edinburgh House, Hong Kong, China.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Francis Howard Rowsome,
Caroline Matilda O’Grady.

PREPARED AT: Dedham High School, Dedham, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Helen Laura Johnson, March 26, 1934, Tokyo, Japan. CHILD:
Susan Marilyn, April 16, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Howard Rowsome, Jr., '35.

occuPaTION: Manager, Caltex (China) Limited.

OFFICES HELD: President, American Club of Hong Kong, 1953.

MEMBER OF: American Club of Hong Kong; Hong Kong Club; Hong Kong
Jockey Club.

TWENTY of my past twenty-five years have been spent abroad.
In 1929 I went to work for the Texas Company’s foreign sales
division and arrived in Shanghai in November. The next six
years in various parts of north and central China, Manchuria,
and Korea were followed by four years in New York. Then I
went out again to the Far East in 1940 and observed December

[ 1029 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

8, 1941 (December 7th to most of you), by awakening to the
4 A.M. initial Japanese air attack on Singapore. I came back to
New York via the Indian Ocean and the Cape of Good Hope
and the Caribbean where German submarines were having deadly
success day after day. I joined the Navy in July, 1942, and
served at Pearl Harbor, New Caledonia, and the Solomons until
the final very comfortable year in Washington. Then in No-
vember, 1945, I arrived back in Shanghai for two years’ work in
North China. The past six years, except for one in Japan, have
all been here in Hong Kong. In 1936 the Texas Company and
Standard Oil Company of California formed their jointly owned
subsidiary “Caltex” to operate in the eastern hemisphere. “Tex-
aco” became “Caltex” and Caltex has subsequently become a
major international oil giant in the same league with Standard
of New Jersey and Socony.

In 1934 in Tokyo I married Helen Laura Johnson of Caldwell,
New Jersey, who had been with General Motors in Japan in
1930 and with the Rockefeller Institute Hospital in Peking during
1931-33. We have one daughter, Susan, born in Tientsin, North
China.

I have liked my job ever since I started with my employers
more than twenty-four years ago. In fact sometimes I shudder
to think that if I had not been determined to go abroad in 1929, I
might have been on the domestic commuting tread mill for all
these years and thinking frequently of timetables, lawn mowers,
gardening tools, and snow shovels. Year after year of absorbing
non-routine work, frequently changing scenes, countless opportu-
nities to know persons of other nationalities and other races —
would all have been missed, as well as trips around the world and
back and forth across the Pacific. Of course, when I do return
to the U.S. every two or three years I do feel a sense of in-
security when I observe how former colleagues have established
their roots in an American community and how they live in
their own owned homes. But if I had it to do over again —I
should not do differently.

As we return to the US. fairly often for visits of several
months, I do not think that I fail to appreciate the American
side of today’s arguments and troubles. But residence abroad
has given me the feeling that at home too few people and too

[ 1030 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

few interests are ready and willing to deal with foreigners and
foreign nations on a truly reciprocal basis. We do a great deal
of talking and grant vast aid and military assistance, but when
it comes to really dealing on a genuine give-and-take basis —
well our tariff and immigration policies are examples of our one-
way operations. I believe we shall grow even greater and even
more secure when we increase and demonstrate our understand-
ing of other nations’ points of view and problems.

WELLMAN ELLIS ROYS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 16 Rochambeau Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 9, 1907, Northfield, Vt. parents: Leon Dexter Roys, Mildred
Trask Ellis.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

MaRRIED: Helen Elizabeth Brewerton, March 21, 1935, Libertyville, Il.
CHILDREN: Elizabeth, May 2, 1937; William B., May 11, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Frederick Roys, M.B.A., "48.

OccUPATION: Owner, operator, Camp Kineowatha, Wilton, Maine, summer
camp for girls.

UPON graduation from G.S.B.A. in 1931, I was fortunate enough
to find the type of job I wanted. This was a job in the produc-
tion end of the food industry. My primary interest throughout
College and graduate school had (scholastically speaking) been
economics and factory management. It seemed to me that the
food industry should provide steady employment. It did.

For sixteen years following graduation I remained with one of
the larger food companies, serving in many capacities and in
several locations. My responsibilities during this period ranged
from research in the matter of composting temperatures for the
mushroom industry’s principal growing medium to those of
vice-president and director in charge of all production and ac-
counting procedures. In retrospect, I cannot say with certainty
whether this range of activity was the result of a variety of talents
or the fact that there is less difference than commonly assumed
between compost piles and director's meetings. There is little
doubt but that a poorly concealed perplexity as to the above
distinction was a factor in the eagerness with which my resigna-

[ 1031 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

tion from the ranks of industry was accepted in 1947. (Author’s
note: To the best of my knowledge, 1 was the first and last
Harvard graduate to be employed by the above company.)

Marriage has proven to be a somewhat more stable affair than
employment and, at the date of this Report, we are working on
our twentieth year. Helen Brewerton, A.B., DePauw, 1929, J.D.,
Northwestern Law School, 1932, and a member of the Illinois Bar
Association, agreed to abandon a legal career in favor of mar-
riage in March, 1935. Although friends, neighbors, and her own
lesser convictions pointed out the fallacy of marrying an east-
erner with a Harvard accent, time and persistence have wrought
reforms sufficient to make the union tenable. .

Our major concern, at the moment, is the raising and educat-
ing of two children. Elizabeth, seventeen, is a senior in high
school and Bill, thirteen, is in his second year of junior high.
College plans for Elizabeth are in the process, but far from
resolved.

All of the above brings me in a somewhat haphazard fashion
to the matter of present occupation. Being a little tired of the
food business after sixteen years, and somewhat influenced by
the face that the rest of the Roys family had been in summer
camp work for many years, it was natural that I should investi-
gate the possibilities in this field. This I did, and in January,
1948, we purchased Kineowatha Camps in Wilton, Maine
(founded 1912). Kineowatha is a camp for about 140 girls, lo-
cated on Wilson Lake and offering an extensive program of
sports and instruction. For the benefit of the uninitiated, and
contrary to common belief, this type of endeavor does not con-
sist of eight weeks’ work and forty-four weeks of vaction. We
have managed to keep busy at least eleven months out of the
year, and are currently looking forward to our seventh season
of operations.

GEORGE BERNARD RUBIN

HOME apoarss: §29 Boylston Sc, Newton Center 59, Mass.

ovvicz apvugss: 185 Devonshire Sc., Boston 10, Mass.

man: July 4, 1907, Chvadan, Russia, parents: Hyman Rubin, Anne Stein-
fan.

[ 1032 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prepareD AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 19293 LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1932.

marriep: Barbara M. Getline, Aug. 19, 1943, Haverhill, Mass. crrpren:
Edward M., Aug. 8, 1946; Ann Leslie, May 23, 1949; Susan Martha,
Nov. 19, 1951.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Judge advocate, Disabled American Veterans, Navy Yard Chap-
ter, Boston; finance officer, American Legion, George D. Carson Post,
Newton, Mass.; auditor, Parent-Teachers’ Association, Bowen School,
Newton.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association, Federal Bar Association; Amer-
ican Legion; Jewish War Veterans; Disabled American Veterans;
Temple Shalom, Elks.

IN the fall of 1932, after my graduation from law school, I be-
came a member of the Massachusetts Bar and immediately hung
out my shingle, put my feet on my desk, and waited for “the big
case.” However, being young and naive I disregarded the fact
that we were in the midst of a depression, and after about a
year of waiting, I realized that I was still waiting for “the big
case.” To relieve the monotony, I was admitted to practice as a
member of the Federal Bar and now there was no doubt it would
soon come. After a few more years of “talking to myself,” I
joined forces with another attorney and soon things began to
perk — I was now an attorney with a State Street address.

In 1942 it was my good fortune to engage a new secretary
and she is now the mother of all my children. In 1943 Uncle
Sam said, “Let’s go!” and I went, and before I was told the
Top Secret, I found myself a member of the roth Armored Di-
vision. After eleven months of service, the Army decided I
would do more good at home and I received a medical discharge
for what is commonly known as a “lawyer’s disease” — ulcers.
With patriotism still burning in my veins, I worked for the
Office of Price Administration for one year; however, having
been born a lawyer, I went back to my first love — the law.

Although I am still waiting for “the big case,” the little ones
(cases) have kept us all very content in a suburban community
where my young wife has become a “tiller” of the soil so I
can go out and ‘“‘shoot” in the eighties for nine holes,

[ 1033]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ALFRED STEPHENSON RUDD

HOME ADDRESS: stor 39th Ave. Long Island City 4, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 51 Madison Ave., New York, N., Y.

Born: March 12, 1908, Fall River, Mass. parents: Alfred James Rudd, Jr,,
Fva Alice Fox.

PREPARED AT: B.MI.C, Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

marrigeD: Marjorie M. Rekus, April 10, 1939, New York, N. Y. ciivpren:
Carole Ann, Oct. 3, 1941; Richard Anthony, Nov. 5, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Investment analyst, supervisor, industrial securities, Invest-
ment Department, New York Life Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: New York Society of Security Analysts.

LIFE since graduation has been, in turn, hectic and quiet, re-
fiecting age. During the roaring thirties it was fun starving in
Wall Street. Now that we all are eating again, life has become
quiet. All this time I have been what is laughingly called an
“investment analyst.” This means that you have no money of
your own, but you tell other people what to do with theirs.

Marriage began in 1939 and has progressed, sometimes bumpily
but most times smoothly, since that time. The youngsters are no
more bratty than usual, and probably will grow up to be normal,
disgruntled Americans. As yet, Senator McCarthy has made no
overtures toward the family, but we are hopefully expectant. |
am not revealing my politics with that statement, but you are at
liberty to guess. As a family, we care little for travelling, al-
though occasionally we get to the zoo to see how the other half
lives. It is only fair to say that life is ordinary but very com-
fortable.

IRVING G. RUDD

HOME appress: 4709 Alton Pl, N. W., Washington 16, D. C.

OFFicz appress: 1010 Vermont Ave., N. W., Washington 5, D. C.

BORN: May 12, 1907, St. Petersburg, Russia. parents: Nicholas Rudd,
Bertha Kleinman.

parpanyp at: Alexander Gymnasium, Helsinki, Finland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1927-1929. DEGREES: 8.B., 1929; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1931.

Manno: Edith Kavovitz; Ulrica von Eggers Thomsen, 1943, Washington,

[ 1034 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
D. C. cyipren: Nina, Jan. 14, 1939; Lauren, April 10, 1945; Alan,
Aug. 27, 1946; Eric, Aug. 29, 1948.
OccUPATION: Resident manager, Sutro Brothers and Company, members,
New York Stock Exchange. "
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.

AFTER graduation I took a stab at the Harvard School of
Business Administration but soon discovered that I was less in-
terested than I had surmised in the art of marketing and con-
veyer-belt factory operation. The next three years were spent at
Columbia University Graduate School where I received my A.M.
in economics, and later passed the orals for a Ph.D. Shortly there-
after I went to London to gather data for an ambitious research
project in the field of monetary theory which was to be my doc-
torate dissertation. However, when I returned home a number
of interesting assignments came my way and permanently de-
tracted me from scholarly pursuits. _

From the time I was in College I wanted to try my hand at
investment business—a natural sequence to my stock market
ventures at Kidder, Peabody’s, off Harvard Square. After a
stretch of apprenticeship as an analyst for Wall Street firms,
‘I became a partner in D. M. Minton and Company, members of
the New York Stock Exchange.

Two weeks before Pearl Harbor I joined General Donovan's
intelligence agency which later became OSS. The war years
were spent in Washington and overseas trying to assess Russia’s
military capabilities. When the war ended I decided to remain
in Washington where in the meantime I had acquired a wife and
ahome. We now have four children, a girl and three boys. They
have taken all my free time, interest, and energy, leaving little for
extra-curricular activities.

After a brief. detour into international trade and shipping I
returned four years ago to the only business which always had
my unrivaled interest. Since 1950 I have been resident manager
of Sutro Brothers and Company, New York Stock Fxchange
firm, but by the time this goes to press I expect to have my own
company,

[ 1035 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

EDWARD RUDIN

HOME apprEss: 175 Manchester St., Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 207 Post Office Bldg., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Nov. ro, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Max Rudin, Rose Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.ED. (Boston Teachers
Coll.), 1937.

MarRIED: Anna Gans, Aug. 7, 1939. CHILDREN: Rosalyn Eleanor, Aug. 14,
1940; Brenda Lois, Jan. 19, 1945.

occupation: Investigator, United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

CHARLES RUPP, JR.

HOME ApprEss: The Barclay, 237 S. 18th St., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 133 S. 36th St., Philadelphia 4, Pa.

BoRN: Oct, 12, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Charles Rupp, Helena Chris-
tina Bauer,

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.D., 1933.

MarrieD: Marjorie Drew, Aug. 4, 1937, New York, N. Y. (died Nov. 2,
1950); Jane Dubbs, Jan. 2, 1954, Chicago, IIL.

OCCUPATION: Physician, neurologist.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor of neurology, Graduate School of Medi-
cine, assistant professor of neurology, School of Medicine, University
of Pennsylvania; diplomate, American Board of Psychiatry and Neu-
rology; neurologist, Philadelphia General Hospital, The Graduate
Hospital; associate neurologist, psychiatrist, Lankenau Hospital, Phila-
delphia; secretary, 1944-54, president, 1954, Philadelphia Neurological
Society; assistant secretary, American Neurological Association, since
1948, treasurer, 1951-53, secretary, 1954, Medical Board, Philadelphia
General Hospital; secretary, director, 133 South 36th Street, Inc.

MEMBER oF: American Neurological Association; American Academy of
Neurology; American Psychiatric Association; American Medical Asso-
ciation, American Association of Neuropathologists; Society of Biologi-
cal Psychiatry; Philadelphia Neurological Society; Philadelphia Psychiat-
ric Society; College of Physicians of Philadelphia; Harvard Club of
Philadelphia.

PuBLications: Approximately fifty papers on various neurologic and psychi-
atric subjects appearing in diverse journals, transactions, and medical
textbooks.

FOLLOWING graduation from College, I spent four years at
the Harvard Medical School, graduating in 1933. Then followed

[ 1036 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

six years of internships and residencies at the Bryn Mawr, Penn-
sylvania, Hospital, The Philadelphia Orthopedic Hospital and
Infirmary for Nervous Diseases, The Pennsylvania Hospital, and
the New York Hospital. In 1939 I returned permanently to
Philadelphia and began the private practice of neurology and
psychiatry. I also became associated with a number of hospitals
in Philadelphia and began teaching neurology at the University
of Pennsylvania, where through the years I have gradually risen
in the academic ranks. During the war years I served as an
examiner in neurology and psychiatry at the Armed Forces In-
duction Station, Philadelphia, and spent much time teaching
undergraduate and graduate medical students under the accel-
erated program then in effect.

My first marriage to Marjorie Drew of Jacksonville, Florida,
was saddened by her prolonged illness which led to her death in
1950. Recently I married Jane Dubbs of Chicago and Wood-
stock, Illinois, a graduate of Vassar College.

A busy professional life with many demands on my time has
made the years since graduation flow quickly. In the not-too-
frequent moments of leisure, I have travelled moderately exten-
sively throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico, the British
Isles, and Europe. The theatre, reading, and an interest in Ameri-
can history, particularly that of railroads, furnish a refreshing
contrast to the not always cheering glimpses of life encountered
in my medical experience.

" WILLIAM APPLETON RUST

HOME AppRESS: 1631 Canton Ave., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 201 Devonshire St., Boston 10, Mass.

Born: Jan. 17, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Philip Sidney Rust, ’87, Harriet
Widdifield Fireng.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

Marriep: Alexandrine McKennan, Jan. 7, 1942, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN:
William McKennan, Jan. 8, 1943; Alexandrine Gerard, April 27, 1944.
occupation: Public accountant, senior accountant, Patterson, Teele &

Dennis.

EMERGING from the Business School in the unpromising year
[ 1037 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

of 1931, I was glad to take a clerical job with a public utility in
Pittsburgh and later in West Virginia. Returning to Boston after
a few years to do internal auditing for a local public utility, I
soon discovered that if I wanted to be with friends on weckends,
I would have to take up skiing. Joining the weekend trek to the
White Mountains made the winters a season to be enjoyed in-
stead of just tolerated.

Having been persuaded by a “friend” to enlist in the First
Corps of Cadets after the Nazis invaded Poland, I soon found
myself as a G.I. on active duty with an anti-aircraft regiment
in a slough of mud near Palacios, Texas. A year of this liberal
education taught me really to appreciate the values of home life,
and led me to marry a girl from home whom I had known for
some years, and who was willing to risk marriage with a soldier
in wartime. In the dark days after Pearl Harbor, I attended the
Finance Officer Candidate School near Indianapolis, and after
graduation was lucky enough to be assigned to West Point. There
my bride joined me for the duration. It was a pleasant life and I
acquired a healthy respect for the training system of our regular
army officers. Of all the VIP’s that came to West Point during
the war, the last and most impressive was General Eisenhower,
who appeared to be “just an old grad glad of an excuse to pay a
visit to his Alma Mater and to take part in all the activities of
the day,” without giving any sign of inward consciousness that
they were all in his honor.

After the war we returned to Boston where I started working
for a public accounting firm and studying accounting at night
school. As an antidote for this type of life, I spend as much
leisure time out of doors as possible and have become interested
in gardening. We bought an old farmhouse in Milton which we
modernized, and with which we were lucky enough to acquire
a good variety of trees and shrubs, some of them over one hun-
dred years old. My wife and I both enjoy helping them along
and planting new varieties from time to time. In rural surround-
ings easily accessible to the city we think we have a combination
hard to beat. The move here was our eighth, and we hope the
last.

[ 1038 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT DANIEL RYAN

BORN: Jan. 1, 1905, Jamaica Plain, Mass, parents: Daniel Francis Ryan, Anna
A. Donovan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1925, 1926-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Virginia Carolyn Pearson, Feb. 12, 1938, New York, N. Y. cun-
DREN: Virginia C., 1939; Herbert D., 1940; Daniel N., 1943; Arthur P,
1945; Francis A., 1947; Katherine Ann, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Joseph Ryan, ’24.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Scarsdale Country Club; Larch-
mont Shore Club.

AFTER spending all my business life in the retail business, I
finally emerged into a wholesale career in January of this year.
And now I must admit that I am a very poor salesman, and am
about to step back into the retail business. I cannot mention the
next move, but it will be to the Sunny South, and probably all
the Ryans will live a little longer.

Virginia and I have devoted our lives to bringing up six young-
sters, and let’s hope that a couple of the boys will be able to make
Harvard and score a couple of touchdowns for the Crimson.
The old gentleman plays at golf, but spends any spare time at
picture taking and playing sports with the youngsters. (And I
have had plenty of spare time in the last few months.) My apolo-
gies to John Hutchinson for my tardiness in getting this report
in, and here is hoping for a wonderful Reunion.

JOHN FRANCIS RYAN

HOME AppRESS: 3 Everett St., Walpole, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kendall Mills, Walpole, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 11, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Francis Michael Ryan, Lillian
Parker.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1929. DEGREES: A.B. cut laude, 1929; s.M. (Brown
Univ.), 1931; PH. (ibid.), 1933.

Marrigp: Phyllis Elizabeth Howard, March 26, 1938, Walpole, Mass. cHt-
DREN: Patricia Ann, Oct. 7, 1939; John Howard, May 16, 1942.

occupaTion: Laboratory director, Research Department, Kendall Mills.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Blood Donor Service, Walpole Red Cross, 1946-493
secretary, Walpole Little League, since 1950.

[ 1039 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MEMBER of: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; Alpha Chi Sigma; American
Chemical Society; Walpole Footlighters.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional technical articles in Journal of American Chemical
Society, American Dy estuff Reporter, etc.

IN the fall of ’29 I entered the graduate school of Brown Uni-
versity. Foresight? I'd like to think so. But analysis of the sub-
sequent record shows that this event was without statistical sig-
nificance. At any rate, I was snugly engaged in chemical re-
search during the cold winds of the early depression. Graduate
work at another school led to a certain dichotomy of feeling,
and to a certain degree of exasperation when I explain for the
five hundredth time that I went to Harvard, then to Brown, not
the other way ‘round. Did I run the wrong way, or something?

Ph.D. in °33—not exactly a vintage year: where were the
jobs I had passed up four years before? I was now, theoretically,
four years wiser. So was our economic system. Eventually I
went into industrial research in Buffalo. In 1937 I came to Wal-
pole, liked what I saw, and settled down. I can sense — dimly —
that I have probably changed a lot in twenty-five years. Much
of the change has been as involuntary as graying hair.

Of course, part of the change has been through conscious ef-
fort. My wife and children would resent being told that they
just happened to me. But I do wonder at times just how I come
to be living in an old Colonial farmhouse after years of urban
and suburban life. Somewhere along the line — never under-
estimate the power of a woman— it happened to me. How I
ever got along for forty years without five fireplaces, I can’t
understand. I didn’t even know a Norfolk from a Suffolk latch.
Keep your knotty pine: I'll take pumpkin, eighteen inches
wide.

Years ago, suffering from an overdose of Goethe, I decided
that I would spend the evenings of my middle years sipping
beer and playing Mozart on the flute. I never have. But now I
can sip beer while my daughter plays Mozart on the flute, much
better than I ever would have; or, while a stack of LP’s run out.
slowly through a home-built sound system. If need be, I can
sip beer while humming gently to mysclf.

Little Theatre work has taken an increasing amount of my
time for nearly twenty years. Staging and set design, lights, cos-

[ 1040 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tume, make-up, even acting: must be a subconscious desire to in-
fluence people. It’s not just a hobby with the group I belong to,
it’s the hobby. There has been time enough left for Red Cross,
Little League Baseball, various other community activities,

My work, thank the Lord, continues to fascinate me. It’s prob-
ably the same with all research men: ninety per cent of the time
I am sure that no other type of work would make me more happy
and satisfied. The other ten per cent ['m equally sure that any
other type ¢ of work would.

JOHN WARD RYAN

HOME ADDRESS: 525-D Parkview, Collingswood, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 121 S. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1909, Wellesley, Mass. parents: John T. Ryan, Cora
Louise Ward.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, 1932-1033.

MarRieD: Olive Marion Hughes, Oct. 11, 1936, Montclair, N. J. cempren:
Gordon Douglas, Dec. 10, 1937; Donald Spencer, May 18, 1943; Leslie
Jean, Oct. 10, 1947; Virginia Christine, Dec. 11, 1952.

occupation: Director of industrial relations, American Water Works
Service Company, Inc.

AFTER leaving College, I spent a few months in the Transfer
Department of a now forgotten bank in New York. That lasted
about as long as might be expected in the fall of 1929, and there-
after I kept myself occupied with a few other short-term jobs.
Finding employers’ lack of enthusiasm for my services on a
permanent basis a little disconcerting, I enrolled in the Babson
Institute, graduating in 1932, and returned to Harvard for the
year 1932-1933. Still hopeful of learning banking, I then went
to work for a small, newly organized bank in Boston — the Union
Trust Company, and had high hopes until the bank merged
with the State Street Trust Company in 1936. Deciding that the
junior officers. of the State Street Trust Company might be
blessed with the extreme longevity of those then heading the
bank, I moved again — this time to American Water Works and
Electric Company. This time the move was right and I pro-
gressed through various jobs until I was appointed director of

[ 1041 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

industrial relations in 1947. There have been many corporate
changes over the years, in the course of which the water busi-
ness and the power business have been divorced and American
Water Works and Electric Company has been liquidated, but the
separated branches have grown independently through purchases
and mergers. There is never a dull moment with some 125 sub-
sidiary companies and sixty different local labor unions scat-
tered through twenty-one states,

At the same time that I joined American Water Works, I
married Olive Hughes, a member of the Class of 1936, Wellesley
College. Through no long-range planning whatsoever, we have
had four children at approximately five-year intervals, and with
the passing of each five-year interval and the corresponding mul-
tiplication of the company’s industrial relations problems, |
have found it more and more difficult to pursue my limited re-
laxations of golf, tennis, bridge, and furniture refinishing.

FREDERICK VINCENT RYER

HOME ADDRESS: 316 S. Pleasant Ave., Ridgewood, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 45 River Rd., Edgewater, N. J.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Vincent Ryer, Mary
Catherine Cahill.

preparen aT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. IN IND, CHEM., 1929.

MarRiED: Fileen Collette Moran, June 17, 1933, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert Frederick, Oct. 11, 1935; Judith Ann, Jan. 30, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Research chemist, Lever Brothers Company.

MEMBER OF: American Oil Chemists Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers in Journal of American Oil Chemists Society.

I AM still researching in the chemical field for Lever Brothers
Company. The most abrupt change in this career occurred in
1952, when the company shifted its technical staff from Cam-
bridge, to new quarters at Edgewater, New Jersey.

The wisdom of my choice for matrimonial mate has become
increasingly evident throughout these years —a selection which
has been repeatedly approved by my children, Bob and Judy.
Bob is just beginning the freshman year at Lehigh University.
He hopes to major in electrical engineering. Judy, at thirteen,

[ 1042 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is a freshman at Ridgewood High School. As for hobbies, home
maintenance and gardening, with a little golf and bridge, supply
my simple needs.

IRVING BUDD RYMPH

HOME ADDRESS: Lagrangeville, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hq. 51st Ordnance Group, APO 154, % PM, New York,

N. Y.
porn: Dec. 28, 1907, Lagrangeville, N. Y. parents: Sheldon Irving Rymph,

Mary Budd.

PREPARED AT: Poughkeepsie High School, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 19293 M.B.A., 1934,

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Assistant to Chief Management Branch and safety officer,
adviser on business management methods, director of industrial and
motor vehicle accident prevention program, U. S. Army repair service.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Freedom Plains Grange, 1941; secretary, Lagrange
Volunteer Fire Company, 1941; president, Dutchess County Poultry-
men’s Association, 1941.

MEMBER OF: American Ordnance Association; Harvard Business School
Club of New York; Harvard Alumni Association; Esslingen Officers’
Club.

MY life has been spent in meeting interesting people and having
interesting experiences, some of them very bitter. But, without
the bitter experiences, one would be living in a dream world
wherein no true evaluation of the wide range of characteristics
of the human specie could be achieved. I feel that one must
physically live through a war in order to really know the thin-
ness of the veil of social conventions which covers the basic
predatory nature of man.

After graduation from the Business School, I lived at Lagrange-
ville, New York, until 1942. I owned and operated a poultry
breeding farm. My major occupation was active participation
in community betterment projects. I spent the war years learn-
ing skills which were never effectively utilized. Most of these
skills were techniques in the art of killing people. Except for
the recruit period and interludes when I was assigned to oriental
language work, I plied the trade of an infantry line sergeant
specializing in heavy weapons, reconnaissance, and ranger ac-
tivities,

[ 1043 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

After the war I remained abroad working at various jobs in
Europe and North Africa, which required a background in f-
nance, accounting, and business management methods. At pres-
ent I have the two-fold position of adviser on business manage-
ment methods, personnel relations policies, and German labor
law; and safety director for a U.S. military establishment (a
repair service for passenger, cargo, and combat vehicles as well
as small arms, artillery, and fire contro] instruments), which em-
ploys approximately 12,000 people in a series of eight industrial
plants in Western Germany.

The job does not allow much leisure time. However, I man-
age to squeeze out a little time to continue pursuing two of my
hobbies, church architecture through the rococo period, and
serious music from the sixteenth century until the present time.
I hope to return to the United States some day.

DAVID CLEMENS SACHS

HOME ADDRESS: 4901 Windsor Mill Rd., Baltimore, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 37 Commerce St. Baltimore, Md.

BORN: Jan, 27, 1909, Cleveland, Ohio. parENTs: Nathan Harold Sachs, Sarah
Blanche Yosell.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Miriam R. Bechhoefer, June 17, 1932, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Stephanie Lee, Jan. 2, 1936; Robert M., 1939.

occupaTion: Chief law officer, Fifth Region, National Labor Relations
Board.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JAMES HENRY SACHS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Long Ridge Road, Pound Ridge, N. Y. (R. F. D.
1, Bedford, N. Y.).

BORN: Nov. 17, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Arthur Sachs, ’or, Alice
Goldschmidt.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1025-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarrieD: Margery Fay, Feb. 8, 1932, Brookline, Mass, cxmpren: Samuel,

[ 1044 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

2d, Nov. 30, 19353 Cecily, June 26, 1938; Arthur Gordon, Oct. 21, i941;
Stephen Fay, Dec. 17, 1942.

4ARVARD SON: Samuel Sachs, zd, °57.

socupation: Entrepreneur; journalist; philosopher; general partner, A. W.
Jones & Company, investment fund.

SrFices HELD: President, Pound Ridge Association; member, Zoning Board
of Appeals, Pound Ridge; trustee, Hiram Halle Memorial Library,
Pound Ridge, director, New York Water Service Corporation, 1948-50,
Young America Films, Inc., since 1946, Junior Achievement, Inc., 1935-
$3; editor, publisher, Nashville Times, Nashville, Tenn. 1939-41; a
founder, Newsweek, 1933, member, Associates of Harvard Business
School; treasurer, Urban League of Greater New York, 1946-47; with
Office of War Information, Overseas Branch, 1941~45.

member OF: Harvard Club of New York, Keene Valley Country Club.

Twenty-four Lines for the Twenty-fifth

Reports for the Tenth and Twentieth
Gave all the pertinent facts.

Since the latter, few data.

I won't keep you long men; Relax!

I’ve no advice; I draw no morals;

No politics; no laughs; no tears;

Life has been fair; 1 have few quarrels;

Our hearth’s been warm for twenty-two years.

My health is good; my hair is black
(And plenty left to comb!),;

My weight is up, but under attack,
And my teeth are all my own.

Firm friends are few — half dozen or so;
But lucky the man with these.

Write for them? They already know,
The mass I don’t care to please.

In business I’ve mixed oil and water.
In marriage similar blending took.
The only clue from this reporter:
Don’t go by what it says in the book!

[ 1045 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Encapsuling what's gone before,

This two-line précis, yours, in parting:

Here signs a man from whose door
Opportunity’s knuckles were left smarting.

MAXWELL SACHS
HOME AppREss: 887 W. Roxbury Pkwy., Chestnut Hill 675 Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Hathaway St., Boston 10, Mass.

BoRN: May 26, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Sachs, Harriet T. Abra-
hamson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; 13.

1932.
occuPaTION: Inventor; sole owner, Spring-o-lator Manufacturing Company.
MEMBER OF: Shriners; Massachusetts Bar.

MY life is dominated by three basic interrelated urges: the love
of freedom, the desire to accomplish something worthwhile and
significant, a creative bent. These have led to my present status
as an independent inventor. (I have also done some writing,
published under a pen name, and intend to do a great deal more
—not merely for the sake of writing, but in order to advance
ideas which have long been churning in my mind.)

Before the war I developed frozen cooked foods, and pioneered
the industry. During the war (served three years in the Army)
the quartermaster-general called upon me to assist in the initial
investigation into frozen cooked foods for use by the armed
forces. At present I am launching some inventions of mine which
leading experts feel will produce a bit of a revolution in the shoe
field. One of these — called “Spring-o-lators” — will appear this
spring in one of the top high-style high-price women’s shoe
lines. These will be followed by the commercialization of several
more of my inventions in various fields. After that will come
the pleasurable labors of writing.

It is now my confident expectation to be able to repay in part,
materially as well as spiritually, the intellectual debt which I owe
to Harvard College. As the years mature my thinking, I become
more impressedly aware of all that Harvard offers which I as a
student had not the good sense to appreciate and accept. It is a
source of great pleasure to note her continual progress in the

[ 1046 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

advancement of the mind. It stirs a deep reflective feeling of
pride to observe how she protects this progress by adhering to
her principles.

MILTON CHARLES SACHS

HOME ApDRESS: 18 Lincoln Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 354 Fourth Ave., New York 10, N. Y.

porn: March 9g, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Abraham S. Sachs, Re-
becca Abramson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrieD: Helen Novack, July 4, 1935, Boston, Mass, cHILpREN: Toni, April
27, 1942; Virginia, April 5, 1944.

OccUPATION: Retailing, merchandise manager, Lerner Shops for Children,
apparel chain store.

WELL, let’s see —I went on to the Business School because
department stores seemed to have a fatal fascination, then into
the retail business and the depression,

I married Helen Novack on July 4, 1935. Her birthday is on
Christmas (among her many attributes) so I never forget any-
thing. It’s quite an advantage. We've been around; lived in
Boston, Grand Rapids, Manhattan, Albany (New York), and
finally decided that New York was really the place for us. We
put roots down in suburban Scarsdale, which to our taste is one
of the most favored places in the world to live, and I commute by
train, and read the papers so I’m well up on current events.

I've been working for the Lerner Shops since 1937, having
about as varied an experience as it is possible to have in the chain
store business. For the last five years I’ve been merchandising
the “Lerner Shops for Children,” a unique venture in the field
of retailing. The retail business has been good to me; it has paid
well enough, and it has never permitted me to be bored. Working
for the top organization in its field has given me great satis-
faction in creative achievement.

Helen and I lived a fairly boisterous life during the first six
years of our marriage and got to do pretty nearly everything.
It seems to me that we've done a reasonably good job of our
lives, at least partly because we were mature enough for each

[ 1047 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

major step. We've been able to settle into maturity with some
grace and no stuffiness because we really had had the experience
to do it. Toni, our first daughter, was born in 1942 and Virginia,
our second, in 1944. They are lovely. We've had our share of
troubles, but on balance there’s no question but that we should
be considered as among the “lucky.”

In 1953 it became apparent that the “indigestion” was angina,
and our Classmate, Dr. Allan Bloomberg, did a cardiopexy on
me which seems to have been most successful. In case you don’t
know, a cardiopexy is the “Talcum Powder” heart operation and
I’m really a late twentieth-century model. I can recommend
both the operation and Allan, for I probably owe to both my
being around to write this.

Now if you'll forgive me, I'd like to express one idea. It seems
to me that the most important single fact in our lives is that our
basic rights are being threatened by the rulers of a couple of
thousand million other people. Isn’t it a fact that it is no longer
possible for any government now in existence to guarantee the
basic rights for anybody, for us or for the couple of thousand
million “others.” I think that we have a book of instructions
which — although you all know, I just must quote:

“We hold these truths to be self evident, that all men are
created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with
certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty,
and the Pursuit of Happiness—that to secure these rights,
Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just
powers from the consent of the governed, — that whenever
any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends,
it is the Right of the People to alter or abolish it, and to insti-
tute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles
and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem
most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness.”

This instruction sheet seems to say quite simply that we’d better
start creating a new government whose prime purpose would be
to guarantee to each individual these unalienable rights as no
other government now seems able to do. I’m convinced that if a
few real leaders, recognizing the need for their leadership, got
together to write, to present, and to sell the Constitution for

[ 1048 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this new government, the most important problem of all man-
kind could finally be argued out and settled. I think it looks like
we need a new Benjamin Franklin and a few new John Hancocks
— do you know any? Just in case you do, Id like to tell them
that I for one now realize finally and unequivocally that no
government can guarantee me my rights unless I agree that it
guarantees you yours. The “you” seems now to include every
intelligent individual everywhere, not just “us.” Doesn’t it?

MORRIS SADOW

LAST KNOWN aporess: % Mrs. Philip Zilman, 5 Wyeth St., Malden 48, Mass.

porn: March 18, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Sadow, Rose Leven-
thal.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

SADOW has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1954.

FELIX FRANK SALAMON

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Castle Heights Avenue, Nyack, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1906, Stamford, Conn. parents: Peter Paul Salamon, Anna
Frances Podrazik,

PREPARED AT: Stamford High School, Stamford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§—-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

MaRRIED: Lesly Binney, Nov. 28, 1929, Stamford, Conn. (divorced 1946);
Miriam Helen Marten, Oct. 25, 1946. cHiLpREN: June Binney, Oct. 5,
1930 (vt. Earle Sherman, Dec. 7, 1950); Jan Frederick, Oct. 16, 1934.
GRANDCHILDREN: Sandra Sherman, Dec. 1, 1951; Lesly Sherman, March
26, 1952; Gail Ellen Sherman, 1953.

occupation: Head of Sales Department, owner, F. F. Salamon Company,
manufacturer’s representative.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Rockland County Bowling Association.

MEMBER OF: Rockland Country Club; Innis Arden Golf Club, Hubbard
Heights Golf Club.

SINCE graduation my life has been a far cry from the life of a
Harvard man as generally conceived in the public mind. I have
had no special success in any field. I have not accumulated any
fortune, prestige, or affluence in any direction. I have held no

[ 1049 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

the States transferred me to the cadre of a new replacement depot
that was being organized to train Infantrymen in Europe. For a
while, I thought I was being useful, but eventually the paper
work became very boring. I tried for a reassignment but couldn't
get one. They said they needed my training and background
where I was; besides, I was getting too old to fight. My service
left me with some definite convictions. First, heaven protect us
from any form of compulsory military training; second, the serv-
ices provide a home for great numbers who would be hard put
to earn a decent living on the outside; and third, no one will ever
succeed in eliminating the waste and inefficiency, and conse-
quently, the drain on the public resources coming from military
activity, peacetime or wartime.

As for hobbies, I have never had one in the true sense because
I have never applied myself to any one thing. I am interested in
sports and do well at golf and bowling. As a matter of fact I
may have one distinction. Has anyone else in our Class played
in the British Amateur Golf Championship? I did, at Prestwick
in 1952. I did passably, winning two matches to reach the third
round. On the way I beat a former Walker Cup player from
Scotland. The luck of draw had me in the opening match on the
first day so that I was the first American winner in the tourna-
ment.

Adding it all up, I have no complaints. I do not intend to sec-
ond guess any move I have made. I have made mistakes, most
likely will make some more. But I look forward to many years
of contentment and enjoyment of life. My philosophy does not
permit any problems to get me “down.” I am very optimistic
about the future. If it is true that happiness is a state of mind, I
believe I have come as close to it as any human being can, and,
having found the perfect mate, I am satisfied.

My politics are simple. I am an independent. I believe there
are good and bad in both major parties. In our system it is very
difficule to be both an independent and a good party man. For
this reason I refused an offer to have my name on the ticket for
selectman in the town of Stamford, Connecticut, the year I gradu-
ated from college. It is difficult to be completely honest and a
good party man at the same time all the time. For the good of the
party you must give in on certain issues and not always vote the

[ 1052 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

way your conscience dictates. I am afraid I could never be a poli-
tician or hold a political position and be happy with it.
That is the score to date, for better or for worse.

RICHARD WILLIAM SALLINGER

HOME appress: 18 Browne St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 32 Curtis Ave., West Somerville qq, Mass.

BoRN: July 4, 1906, Boston, Mass, PARENTs: Nathan Sallinger, Jennie Masse.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: AB, 1929(30).

marrieD: Charlotte F, Shapiro, Aug. 5, 1931, New York, N. Y. cHripren:
Carol N., Sept. 21, 1933; James R., June 21, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Real estate management, Mt, Auburn Realty Company.

MEMBER OF: Temple Lodge, Masons; Belmont Country Club; Technion
Society; Temple Israel Brotherhood; Boston Club (Harvard Business
School).

AFTER graduation, following a brief whirl into insurance and
retail credit merchandising, I became owner and manager of a
small loan finance company. I continued to operate this business
for almost ten years until I sold it to a competitor in 1939. I
subsequently became engaged in an endeavor which was the out-
growth of a hobby and, as such, has continued to fascinate me.
Before the U. S. entry into the war, I set up a small machine
shop. After Pearl Harbor, the Harvard School of Business Ad-
ministration originated a concentrated course in “retraining for
war production supervision.” I enrolled in the second series of
this program in the summer of 1943 and while receiving instruc-
tion theory, I put it to practical use as I continued to operate
this embryo business. The real benefits of this higher education
were not realized for several years until the shop had grown to
a large enough size to take advantage of some of these teachings.
Although I retain an interest in a machine tool business, I am
now entirely inactive in it. My time today is taken up with
management and operation of real estate. In this field I am
associated with my brother-in-law, Mel Shapiro, Harvard '26.

We are chiefly concerned with the development of low-rental

properties.

My pursuits and interests have been varied but prosaic. In
retrospect, I find that most all activities, accomplishments, and

[ 1053 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

satisfactions revolve about my family. My wife Charlotte and
I will be approaching our twenty-third anniversary at Reunion-
time and our College-days romance has continued to be a most
happy one throughout these years. Our daughter, Carol, is now
a junior at Boston University. We are again reliving the activi-
ties of our youth with her. Our son, Jim, a tenth-grader at Law-
rence Academy, seems to have inherited my appetite for crafts-
manship as demonstrated by an excellence in model building. I
am sure that he devotes himself more fully to academic chores
than I did, and not without cause, as the work is much harder
and more intense than it seemed to be in my comparable years.

Twenty-five years—it sounds a long time but seems only
yesterday. They were happy days at Harvard —no more so
than today and during the intervening span.

CHARLES BAKER SALSBURY

HOME Abpress: 2 Woodside Circle, Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE aDpREsS: 10 N, Main St., West Hartford, Conn.

BorN: Dec. 25, 1907, Hamilton, N. C. parents: John Marion Sherrod
Salsbury, Mary Louise Baker.

PREPARED AT: Annapolis Preparatory School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: A.B. C2771 laude, 1929; M.ARCH., 1933.
MARRIED: Edith F. Colgate, May 26, 1934, Bedford, N. Y. cHitpren: Colgate,
July 18, 1935; Sherrod, Sept. 1, 1939 (daughter); Baker, June 15, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Colgate Salsbury, 57.
OCCUPATION: Partner, Moore & Salsbury, architects.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Hartford Tennis Club.

THE general practice of architecture was interrupted by a
three-year period of war service. I served as a first lieutenant on
a destroyer escort in the Atlantic and Mediterranean, and as cap-
tain of an LST in the Pacific, ending my service with the rank of
lieutenant commander.

ALEXANDER EDWIN SALZMAN

HOME avoress: 17 E. 8th St. New York 28, N. Y.; Catamount Road, West-
port, Conn.

ovvicz appaess: Standard Bag Corp., 29-10 Hunterspoint Ave., Long Island
City 1, N. Y.

[ 1054 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porn: Jan. 14, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: William Samuel Salzman,
Minnie Reich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

markieD: Betti Hellinger, May 28, 1930, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Ann,
‘March 4, 1931; Josie, Aug. 27, 1934.

occuPATION: Officer and director, Standard Bag Corporation, Standard Bag
Sales Company, King Brands, Universal Brands, King Specialty Bag
Corporation, William Salzman Family Fund, Imlay Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member board, Wiltwyck School; treasurer, member Na-
tional Board, Union for Democratic Action; delegate to U. S. UNESCO
Conferences, 1951, 1953; director, Palestine Foundation Fund; member,
Industry Advisory Committee, OPA, 1942-46, WPB, 1942-46, OPS,
1951-53; member, Sarah Lawrence College Parents Committee.

MEMBER OF: Harmonie Club; City Athletic Club; Birchwood Country

~ Club, Westport; American Civil Liberties Union; Citizens’ Union;
City Club of New York; New School for Social Research (associate
member); Brandeis University (associate member); Friends of He-
brew University; Federation of Jewish Philanthropies,; United Jewish
Appeal, American Fund for Israeli Institutions; Museum of Modern
Art; Metropolitan Museum of Art; American Economic Committee
for Palestine.

IN the summer of 1929 I got a job on the Morning Telegraph
doing movie reviews. In rapid stages I advanced to doing reviews
of those plays no one else wanted to see and then was given a
column of my own at a salary of $225 a week, $25 in cash, $200
in by-line. I was living. Mencken, Fitzgerald, Hemingway —
all the idols of the twenties smiled their approval.

One day, several things gloomily occurred to me. I didn’t
have the talent to write the Great American Drama; most of
those I knew who worked at it didn’t either. They were simply
trying to make money. I concluded that if that was what I, too,
really was doing, I'd rather do it over lunch at the Biltmore than
lunch at Sardi’s.

_T went to work in the other end of the paper business, making
paper bags. I have been at it ever since. One month after quit-
ting the Telegraph I met Betti. Three months later we were
married, and a year later my daughter, Ann, came along. Though
harrassed by the depression, we managed somehow. Three years
later, Betti gave birth to Josie. Betti had also concentrated in
English literature so we had much in common. However, we
soon learned that we had even more in common wrestling with
our bills. A few years of this and we had less of an interest in

[ 1055 ]

1 erry nEDERREEiRpE neem resesnmonmITE RCI

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

James Joyce and more of an interest in F. D. R., whose budgetary
notions we understood only too well.

We are still involved with a host of organizational activities,
Betti more ardently and successfully than I. Her interests range
from the Women’s City Club of New York to being an officer
of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.

As the children grew ready for school we moved uptown
from Ninth Street. I think back on this move with deep regret.
We loved the neighborhood downtown and are determined to
return some day. In any case, except for a pre-kindergarten
period at the Payne-Whitney Nursery School, both girls went
straight through the Ethical Culture Schools until they were
ready for college. Ann graduated from Sarah Lawrence in 1952,
won a Fulbright, and lived in Rome for a year. She is now back
in New York and spends her time between the activities of the
Junior Council at the Modern Art Museum and writing for an
Italian art magazine. I, who failed elementary German, am over-
whelmed by her aptitude for languages. My younger daughter,
Josie, is a sophomore at Sarah Lawrence and, if her activities on
the Student Council are any basis for forecast, Madame Pandit
will be out of a job in a few years. However proud I am of their
accomplishments, I am even more proud of the fact that I am
the father of two such beautiful, warm, lovely human beings.

Travel? we had taken an occasional trip to Cuba, to Mexico,
and a cruise in the Caribbean, but in the last five years since the
girls have “grown up,” we have travelled a great deal through-
out Europe and parts of Asia. I enjoy scenic beauty and am
interested in the cultural and historical monuments, but travel,
for me, means people. I love people and trust them instinctively,
and while this has occasionally hurt me, it has given me con-
siderably more pleasure than hurt. I have found people essen-
tially alike no matter what their nationality, color, or religion.
This profundity had not escaped me even before our travelling
so much abroad, but I was grateful for our ability to live with,
and yet not see or feel too much, the “otherness” of people. If
I have learned anything from my travels, it is that the one thing
certain is uncertainty. One can’t see people suddenly compelled
by force of circumstance to make a new life for themselves and
still take oneself or the things one has too seriously.

[ 1056 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hobby? in the strict sense I don’t have a hobby. We go to
the theatre, the ballet, the art shows; we attend organization
meetings — but as time goes on, more and more of our free time
is spent at our house. in Westport which, incidentally, becomes
more suburban each year. While this troubles many of our
friends, my family (and our dogwood) seem so far to have re-
mained unruffled by this trend.

My war record? I have only my wife’s and brother’s records
about which to tell my grandchildren. Betti won a citation while
with the Interceptor Command. My brother won one in the
invasion of Attu and Kiska. All this time I was fighting Wash-
ington — hotel clerks, taxi drivers, railway porters, and bureau-
crats. I spent a lot of time in Washington doing industry advi-
sory work at both the OPA and WPB, a tiresome experience,
the telling of which will bore my grandchildren to death.

My social, political, religious convictions: with each passing
year I seem to know less and less about more and more. Equally
as bad, and perhaps worse, I am sceptical of those who pretend
to know the answers. Orthodoxy, whether in the field of religion
or in politics, creates a rigidity that in my opinion stifles the free
mind; moreover, the institutional forms it takes seem to separate
people. I am not unmindful of the fact that it gives strength to
those who belong, but it is also a divisive factor. I therefore
doubt those who “know,” who have “the plan,” the “right
approach.” In my view there are many approaches to the good
life, and I don’t believe that any political party, any religious
group, has “the answer.”

A quick look at the world today might cause us to see chaos
and to feel despair. I am optimistic enough to believe, however,
that all over the world there are many men of good will working
for the common good of all humanity.

JOHN SCRIBNER SAMPSON

HOME appress: 96 Appleton St., Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % High School, Arlington 74, Mass.

Born: April 18, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Colby Sampson, Maude
Azuba Hickey.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 1057 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: Elizabeth N. Wellington, July 3, 1937, Sharon, Mass, cHILpREN:
John Colby, Sept. 16, 1938; Charles S., June 24, 1940.

occuPATION: Teacher of science and mathematics.

MEMBER OF: Arlington Chess Club; Arlington Teachers’ Club; Monomonac
Lake Sailing Association; New England Gladiolus Society.

HAVING majored in chemistry at Harvard, I first tried to be a

chemist with DuPont Rayon but, as I was color blind, I found

chemistry was no field for me. So in 1932 I went to Boston Uni-

versity to get an Ed.M. with the idea of teaching chemistry.

After I obtained the degree, the only job I could get as a teacher

was in the mountains of Kentucky.

I met some characters during the years I taught there and was
considered a character by others. I have many anecdotes about
the people and places, such as the story about the ten-year-old
boy who told me he wasn’t going to get drunk any more. We had
mad dogs, mud, typhoid fever, and beautiful springs.

After leaving “the hills” I taught one year in Jewett City, Con-
necticut, three in Sutton, Massachusetts, and ended up in Arling-
ton, \fassachusetts, in the fall of 1940. We shall probably stay
here as long as I teach.

I shall probably never get rich as a teacher but there are other
compensations. We have two houses on Lake Monomonac. In-
cidentally, my wife sometimes claims I married her because of the
houses. Maybe she is right as we all believe this Rindge, New
Hampshire, region is about as nice as any in New England. So in
the summer I can putter about in the garden with glads and a
few vegetables and in the winter I can try to play chess for amuse-
ment.

Incidentally, as a teacher it is best to take a course every now
and then. So I have been back at Harvard School of Education
every so often, in fact no later than the fall term of 1952. I have
also had some practice teachers from the School of Education.

SAMUEL SAMUELS

HOME ADDRESS; 35 Campbell Ave., Revere 51, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 153 Beach St., Revere 51, Mass.

Born: Aug. 16, 1908, Boston, Mass. Parents: Nathan Samuels, Sophia
Mannos.

[ 1058 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; ED.M. (Boston Univ.) 1949.
MarRIED: Jennie Shuman, Dec. 27, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHiLp: James, May 20,

1939-
occupation: Teacher of sciences, Revere High School.

OFFICES HELD: Fund chairman, Revere Red Cross, 1951; commander, Revere
Post, No. 940, Veterans of Foreign Wars, 1951; department aide to com-
mander, JWV of Massachusetts, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Seaview Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Veterans of Foreign Wars;
JWV; Massachusetts Teachers’ Association, Crescent Chapter, PTA,
Revere High School Teachers’ Club; Jewish Community Center of

Revere; Young Israel of Revere.

SINCE my graduation from Harvard there have been no par-
ticularly world-shaking events taking place at the Samuels house-
hold. I was married in 1936 and became the proud father of a
son in 1939. Adhering to the religion of my father I have been
closely affiliated with the religious life of the Jewish community
of Revere, with most of my efforts expended in the direction of a
boys’ club, the Young Israel, whose prime motive for existence
has been the perpetuation of their faith.

Politically, I have had to answer to the rebuffs of my Repub-
lican friends for twenty years, but I am having my innings now!
Actually, I did not take any active part in any of the political
campaigns until the last one, when I was very active in aiding
fellow alumnus John F. Kennedy in his successful campaign to a
seat in the United States Senate.

After several snafus I was finally commissioned a lieutenant,
junior grade, in the U.S. Navy in May, 1944. After eight weeks
of training at Fort Schuyler, I volunteered for sea duty and was
shipped out to the Pacific. My entire Navy career was spent
aboard the USS Niobrara, a fleet tanker on which I served as the
communications officer. We visited many of the islands in the
Pacific, such as Ulitihi, Saipan, Guam, Tinian, Okinawa, Iwo
Jima, and Tokyo. Battles engaged in were Iwo Jima, Okinawa,
and Occupation of Tokyo. Our ship was fortunate enough to be
assigned a berth 2,000 yards to the starboard quarter of the Mis-
souri in Yokosuka Harbor and we were privileged to witness the
signing of the surrender papers. At the present time I am serving
with the Naval Reserve as commanding officer of Naval Reserve
Harbor Defense Division 1-1 (OP) at Boston, Massachusetts.

[ 1059 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Since my separation from active duty I have been active in vet-
erans’ organizations as noted above. Much of my endeavors in
this type of work has been directed to assisting the Soldiers’ Home
at Chelsea, Massachusetts.

As for my work in the community, I have been very active in
aiding most of the worthy national charities, such as the Red
Cross, March of Dimes, Salvation Army, and the Community
Chest. Moreover, there is scarcely a local organization which
does not call upon me to handle their publicity. In sum, although
being an educator is not the way to affluence, it has been the road
for me to have a very satisfying life in that I have found it pos-
sible to be of service to many of my neighbors, their sons and
daughters.

As an afterthought, I might mention that in 1949 I returned to
my studies and received the degree of Master of Education at
Boston University. Currently, I am trying to obtain my Doctor's
degree and will be successful when and if I can get some sympa-
thetic headmasters to allow me to enter their schools and complete
the paper with the help of their student bodies, That’s All!

LARS JOSEF SANDBERG

HOME aporess: Fox Hill Lane, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 342 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 7, 1906, Winchester, Mass. PARENTS: Josef Sandberg, Bertha
Brackett. :

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.B.A. ¢U72 laude, 1931;
D.LS.5 1933.

MagagieD: Janice Whittaker, Oct. 28, 1931, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Peter Lars, Dec. 13, 1934; David Nils, Sept. 3, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Partner in charge of marketing projects, Rogers, Slade & Hill.

MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association, Sales Executives Club;
Harvard Business School Association; Harvard Club of New York.

FOLLOWING graduation from the College I spent seven years
at the Graduate School of Business Administration, two as a stu-
dent and five as a member of the faculty. This period included
marriage and the establishment of a home, as well as continuing
studies for a doctorate and preparation for a business career.
From 1936 until the summer of 1939 we lived in Wilmington,

[ 1060 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Delaware, where I was assistant economist for Du Pont. In 1939
we moved to Westfield, New Jersey, added a second son to the
family, and I became associated with Merck & Company, Inc.,
in Rahway, New Jersey. Until 1950 I served Merck in various
marketing and executive capacities.

I became associated with Rogers, Slade & Hill, management
consultants, in 1950, and I was made a partner of the firm in 1952.
This affiliation resulted in our moving to our present home in
Darien, Connecticut, in December, 1953.

In the years since 1929, I have been fortunate in many ways.
J have been blessed with an attractive, devoted wife and two fine
boys. We have had many friends and opportunities to enjoy
them. My work has sometimes been frustrating, but it has led to
an extremely challenging and satisfying connection. There have
been opportunities to help others, and we have sometimes made
the most of them. The body, while considerably deteriorated
since 1929, has held up reasonably well. All in all, they have been
good years.

As I review these years, I am impressed by the lack of out-
standing contributions or experiences. At this stage, there is an
awareness that more worth while accomplishments could have
been realized. On the other hand, there is gratitude for a lot of
average things which have added up to a quarter century of in-
teresting living. And there is the hope that the next twenty-five
years will be even better.

DANIEL MONFRIED SANDOMIRE

HOME ADpRESS: 440 E, 23rd St., New York 10, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Pine St., New York 5, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 5, 1907, Pittsburgh, Pa, parents: Peter Sandomire, Flora Mon-
fried.

PREPARED AT: High School of Commerce, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREES: s.B. magna cum laude, 1928(29);
LL.B. summa cum laude, 1931.

MarriED: Esther Leila Schultz, April 1, 1947, New York N. Y. cumpren:
Peter Harry, Aug. 11, 1948; Hazel Flora, April 8, rgso.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

THE life of a lawyer and — quite recently —a family man sel-
[ 1061 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

dom makes exciting reading for others. Government service
during the war got me as far as Australia. We all get on and we
all get older — and I shall brag only of the fact that I still have
almost all of my hair.

++ JOSHUA SANDS, JR.

Born: Nov. 14, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Joshua Sands, ‘or, Lucy
Lamb Childs.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, DEGREE: LL.B. (Univ. of Buffalo), 1934.

pep: Aug. 30, 1951, Buffalo, N. Y.

WHEN he left Harvard, Sands worked for a time in Hartford
and then moved to Buffalo to enter the advertising field. In 1931
he entered the University of Buffalo Law School and, after re-
ceiving a degree, was admitted to the Bar. He was still prac-
tising law in Buffalo at the time of our Vicennial Report.

MARION SANFORD

HOME ADDRESS: 3007 22nd St., Lubbock, Texas.

oFrFice Appress: Sanford Bldg., 1009 Texas Ave., Lubbock, Texas.

Born: Dec. 9, 1905, Fort Worth, Texas, parents: Clarence Alexander San-
ford, Daisie Elizabeth Newlon.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

marrieD: Linda Elizabeth Mitchell, June 3, 1927, Needham, Mass.; Mary
McGrath Drane, March 30, 1936, Jackson, Miss. cH1LpreN: Linda Eliza-
beth, June 12, 1929; Marion, Jr., Jan. 2, 1941; Mercedes, July 6, 1942;
Douglas, April 3, 1948.

OccUPATION: Insurance: owner, The Sanford Agency.

orrices HELD: Director, Lubbock Boys Club, Inc. 1938-53, Lubbock Ki-
wanis Club, 1939, commissioner, 1948-53, chairman, 1950, 1953, Civil
Service Committee, City of Lubbock; regional chairman, Texas Asso-
ciation Insurance Agents, 1946-48, 1952-54; president, Lubbock Asso-
ciation Insurance Agents, 1942; chairman, County Roll Call, Lubbock
County Red Cross, 1940, 1941; steward, St. John’s Methodist Church,
1939-$3; Committee man, Citizen’s Trafic Commission, 1950-53.

Mesara ov: Lubbock Club; Lubbock Country Club; Lubbock Kiwanis
Club; Alpha Sigma Phi.

EXTREMELY happily married, with three of the finest children
in the world, I had much rather stay home than travel, but do

[ 1062 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

take occasional trips. I am an independent Democrat with very
strong accent on the “independent,” and a Methodist with pro-
nounced conviction that all the world’s ills can, and eventually
will, be cured through the daily application of Christianity. I
have several hobbies, principally hunting, with a little stamp col-
lecting. My war record consists of serving on a large number of
local defense boards, raising money for numerous defense organi-
zations, and similar work.

My convictions, social, political, and religious, would more
than fill this book, and I shall be glad to support them in person
at any time, although, like many other people, I prefer not to set
them down in print for the curious to examine.

GEORGE NICHOLAS SAUM

HOME AppREsS: Box 157, Wayne, Ill.

OFFICE appREss: Taylor Forge and Pipe Works, Cicero, Il.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1907, Watseka, Il. PARENTS: Claude Nicholas Saum, Olive
Mather,

PREPARED AT: Watseka High School, Watseka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRieD: Virginia Coney, Aug. 30, 1929, Chicago, Il. cumpren: Nicholas
Mather, June 30, 1933; Virginia Foster, May 23, 1936.

occupation: Director of staff operations, Taylor Forge and Pipe Works,
special forgings and industrial fittings, flanges, and pipe.

OFFICES HELD: President, School Board, 1945, 1946, 1947; director, Dunham
Woods Riding Club, 1948, 1949, 1950.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago; Dunham Woods Riding Club;
St. Charles Country Club.

MY first seven years after graduation were spent with Marshall
Field & Company, in the wholesale division. Despite my efforts
the company decided to liquidate that operation in 1936, which
put me on the job market. After a couple of false starts I went
into the management consulting field in 1939 with the firm of
Booz, Fry, Allen & Hamilton. In 1943 I became a member of the
newly organized firm of George Fry and Associates and subse-
quently an officer and part owner of that firm.

By 1950 my interest in farming had reached the point where I
decided to change my avocation to my vocation, so I left the
business whirl] and devoted all my time to farming for the next

[ 1063 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

two years. In January, 1953, however, I had an opportunity to
return to business in my present connection, and have demon-
strated to my own satisfaction, at least, that farming is a great life
buc that the white collar life has a slight edge — especially so
since my wife is turning out to be a better farm manager than I
am.

RICHARD EVERETT SAVORY

HOME AppRESS: 79 Whittier Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: New Amsterdam Casualty Co., 153 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 11, 1907, Newton, Mass. parents: Edward Everett Savory,
’06, Lida May Ross,

PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 8.B. cum laude, 1929.

marrigD: Helen Egerton, Sept. 16, 1932, Wellesley, Mass. crimp: Wallace
Fgerton, May 20, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Sinclair Savory, ’27.

occuPaTION: Manager, branch office of New Amsterdam Casualty Com-
pany (fidelity and surety bonds) and of United States Casualty Com-
pany (bonds).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Boy Scout committees; Surety
Association; Republican Town Committee.

MY career has not been much. In 1929 I started working for the
New Amsterdam Casualry Company and am still there, as man-
ager of the Boston office. I find that one doesn’t get rich working
for insurance companies, but probably I wouldn’t have any place
else, so am reasonably satisfied.

My family consists of one wife and one son, who do their best
to keep me happy. My travels are frequent, but most limited in
area. My hobbies are such simple things as gardening, etc. Prob-
ably the most important hobby is a place in Maine where I spend
more time than I should,

A Republican and a Unitarian, I have become accustomed to
being in the minority.

+ GEORGE ALFRED SAWIN, JR.

soan: March 21, 1907, Swampscott, Mass. parents: George Alfred Sawin,
‘ot, Grace Scofield.
parpanen at: Edgewood High School, Edgewood, Pa.

[ 1064 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: 5.B, IN E.ENG. 7agna cum laude, 1929.
MARRIED.
pieD: Sept. 21, 1950, Newton, Mass.

AFTER receiving a degree from the Engineering School, Sawin
attended Harvard Business School for one year. He then joined
Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company, with which
he remained for the rest of his life. He was first in the sales
department in East Pittsburgh and then with the Boston office;
in 1937 he was made advertising and promotion manager for the
New England district. He was secretary of the Delta Upsilon
Alumni Club for several years. His wife survived him.

STANLEY ADRIAN SAWMELLE

HOME ADDRESS: 3731 Gunston Rd., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Power Commission, Washington, D. C.

BORN: June 22, 1907, New York, N, Y. PARENTS: Mikael Stanley Sawmelle,
Cyrille Heilner.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927,

MARRIED: Jeanne Erlanger, Dec. 29, 1934, New York, N. Y.; Miriam Whit-
lock. cxmprEeN: Stephen M., 1945; Michael W., 1948.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

HENRY BUCKLAND SAWYER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Kennard Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 Berkeley St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: April 16, 1907, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Buckland Sawyer,
Georgia Washington Pope.

PREPARED AT: St, George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MARRIED: Georgie Cook Williams, Feb. 22, 1941. CHILDREN: Georgie Cook,
Sept. 9, 1945; Henry Buckland, 3d, Jan. 2, 1947; Carol Louise, March a,
1948; Roger Williams, Sept. 9, 1949; Phyllis Ann, Aug. 18, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Avery Sawyer, '34-

OCCUPATION: Investment research.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, member Finance Committee, Boston Floating Hos-
pital; trustee, Home for Aged Men, Boston, Mass.; member corpora-
tion, New England Medical Center, Suffolk Savings Bank (Boston),
Brookline Savings Bank (Brookline), Park School (Brookline).

[ 1065 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MEMBER OF: Boston Society of Security Analysts, former member, Union
Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Essex County Club; Myopia Hunt
Club (Manchester, Mass.); Boston Yacht Club; Ski Club of Great
Britain; White Mountain Ski Runners.

IMMEDIATELY after College, armed with a few letters of in-
troduction and a thousand dollars, I started off to see the world,
In the course of eleven months I was successful in visiting most
of the countries in western Europe, North Africa, and the Far
Fast. In retrospect, this adventure was even of more value than
it seemed at the time in that the opportunity to learn at first hand
how the rest of the world lived and thought has given me an in-
sight in some of the problems involved in attempting to reach a
one-world concept of permanent freedom from strife, and the
realization that these problems cannot be surmounted over night.

Upon my return, I went with Stone & Webster and spent two
years going through the various departments of this many-sided
enterprise as a student trainee. Arriving in the investment divi-
sion at the height of the depression I found it obvious that new
employees were expendable and another connection might prove
advantageous. At that time, Massachusetts Investors Trust was
starting an investment department and on January 1, 1931, |
became a junior member of a two-man team, and ever since have
continued with the organization in an investment capacity. As
of the day I started, the Trust’s assets were a shade under
$10,000,000; today, they exceed $500,000,000. I have been for-
tunate enough to get a pay raise each year although my salary
has not grown as fast as the Trust. In spite of the wear and tear
incident to a week or ten days on the road, the job is a continual
challenge, and particularly interesting in that I am in frequent
contact with the top executives of leading companies throughout
the United States. The closer you get to it the more you realize
the wonder of American industry.

The most wonderful thing that ever happened to me occurred
on February 22, 1941. I won out over 43,156,000 other US.
males of marriageable age and got the wife for whom they were
all looking. Happiness and fullness of life, companionship, and
mental, moral, and physical support have been mine at all times
ever since,

Uncle Sam did his best to gum the works by inviting me to

[ 1066 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

interrupt my honeymoon and the next five years were spent in
his service. Although not outstanding, I think they were suffi-
ciently unique to be of interest: one year as an M_P, private
patrolling Hyannis’ Bloody Gulch week nights and Scollay
Square over the weekends; Infantry Officer Candidate School at
Fort Benning (a stinker in summer at the age of thirty-five); a
year training WACS; Service Command Headquarters in Boston;
assignment to Far East Civil Affairs (apparently because I had
spent three weeks in Japan sixteen years before); schooling in the
University of Virginia and Yale (what a place for a Harvard
man), and an eventual staff job in General Headquarters, in
Tokyo, where Harvard '29 (Cobb, Johnston, and Sawyer), com-
prised the major brains in the economic and scientific section;
discharged in 1946 as a captain.

Once back at my desk, which George Whitney had kept ¥ warm
in my absence, settling down at last and raising a family became
possible and Georgie and I have been somewhat busy — with five
kids born since V-E day —a set-up which seems to take pretty
good care of our energy, affections, and ready cash.

Prior to marriage and the war, skiing and cruising filled most
weekends, and extra-curricular activities such as settlement work,
as a hospital trustee, and participation in local charitable and po-
litical activities and fund-raising filled in any free moments. Since
the war, the demands of five young children and attempting to
be one’s own janitor have somewhat limited outside activities.
Principal ambition is to give my kids the best start in life that I
can. Principal likes are (1) my family; (2) my job; and (3)
sailing, skiing, and golf. Principal dislikes are inflation, taxes, and
the New and Fair Deals. Principal gripe is the day i is only twenty-
four hours long.

OSCAR STRAUS SCHAFER

HOME ApprEss: King Street, Port Chester, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: 76 Mamaroneck Ave., White Plains, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 26, 1908, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Edward Schafer, Mildred
Straus.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

[ 1067 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

marriep: Marjorie Grier, Sept. 30, 1932, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1946); Adelae Hansen, June, 1938, New York, N. ¥. (died June, 1950),
Alexandra Leriou, June, 1951, Greenwich, Conn. CHILDREN: Jack Grier,
March 28, 1934; Oscar Straus, Jt. July 24, 1939.

HARVARD son: Jack Grier Schafer, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Straus Schafer, ’41, LL.B. '44.

OCCUPATION: Co-manager, White Plains office of G. H. Walker and Com-
pany, investment bankers.

OFFicES HELD: Treasurer, Fred L. Lavanburg Foundation; member Finance
Committee, Jewish Theological Seminary of America.

AFTER graduation from the College I attended the Graduate
School of Business Administration. Ye olde firm of Schafer
Brothers (established by my grandfather in 1860 and the New
York Stock Exchange’s oldest members) beckoned enticingly and
I went to work as a Wall Street runner after one year on the other
side of the Charles. I stayed as an employee of this firm until I
became a partner in 1937. I volunteered in 1942, became a first
lieutenant in 1943 as a controller of fighter aircraft, and was sta-
tioned in Norfolk, Virginia, until I was sent overseas in January,
1944. I was assigned to the R.A.F. in the air defense of London
against the “Buzz-Bomb” or V-1. After D-Day I went over to the
continent with a tactical air command and went through France,
Belgium, Holland, and Germany, controlling fighter aircraft in
ground support operations. I was separated from the air corps in
October, 1945, as a major. Upon my return I also separated from
my wife Marjorie and lived a bachelor’s life for about two years.
During the war Schafer Brothers had suffered from having both
its partners in the service, and my brother having become ill, we
dissolved this firm and with Ben Miller (also ’29) formed Schafer
Miller and Company as members of the New York Stock Ex-
change. Ben bought a seat on the New York Stock Exchange,
retiring from our firm, which then became Schafer Long &
Meaney. I remained with this firm until shortly after I suffered a
coronary thrombosis and was ordered to ease up; I am now
happily employed fifteen minutes from home — still active in the
securities field.

My wife Adclae (we had been married in 1948) and stepson
Jon were killed when the Northwest Airlines Aircraft in which
they were flying was lost over Lake Michigan en route to the
West Coast, in June, 1950. My present wife Alexandra and I are

[ 1068 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

happily established here in a 150-year-old colonial house on a
rural six acres which my brother Roger (Harvard ’41) and I own
jointly. After having been out of action for about one and a
half years after my coronary I am once again full of good health
and able to do all the things I like to do — and am ordered by my
doctor (name on request) not to do most of the things I don’ t
like to do anyhow.

I took my son Oscar, Jr., to Choate last fall and was reminded
by the headmaster that it had been just thirty years before that
I had arrived there. That made me feel even more ancient than
when I visit my son Jack, Harvard ’55. After all it’s only twenty-
five years since I graduated from Harvard! |

MARSHALL SCHALK

HOME AppRESS: 74 Lyman Rd., Northampton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Smith College, Northampton, Mass.

BorN: April 25, 1907, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Louis Schalk, Phebe Estelle
Marshall.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1929; A.M., 19313
PH.D., 1936. ;

MARRIED: Dorothy Stowell, Sept. 23, 1933, Boston, Mass. cuttpren: David
Louis, June 18, 1936; Ellery Stowell, Nov. 10, 1938, Dorothy, Aug. 6,
1943; John, June 11, 1946.

occupation: Geologist, teacher.

MEMBER OF: Society of Sigma Xi; Geological Society of America; American
Geophysical Union.

PUBLICATIONS: Few short papers in geological journals,

AFTER graduation and a summer with the old Harvard Field
Summer School in western Canada, I headed for Houston and
worked there in the fall of 1929. Just before the end of that year
I took a job in a mine in northern Mexico. When the price of
copper dropped in the late summer of 1930 I was out of a job and
returned to Cambridge and the graduate school. In the spring of
1931 I again went to Texas and worked for a year for one of our
classmates. In the fall of 1932 I returned to Cambridge and started
on my Ph.D. which was not finished until 1936. Meanwhile I
married, worked at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, and
taught for two years at Smith, From 1936 to 1941 I worked in

[ 1069 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Pittsburgh in the geological department of the Gulf Oul. In 1941
I returned to Smith where I have been ever since — one of the
few Republicans on the Smith faculty. For a geologist I have not
travelled very much. In 1945 I got as far as the Bahamas working
for Woods Hole and the Navy on topographic problems con-
nected with transmission of long distance underwater sound. My
first sabbatical, in the spring of 1948, I spent working for Woods
Hole in Washington at a desk in the Hydrographic Office.

Since I returned to teaching I have helped out the family budg-
et by working summers at Woods Hole and when I have been in
Northampton during the summer, working in local factories. At
one time I rose to the position of night shift boss in the tooth-
brush stapling department, meanwhile carrying on my teaching
by day. For the last four years my hobby has been building an
addition of concrete and steel on to my house. |

Although I have always managed to enjoy my work, wherever
I have been, I am quite sure at this point that I still like teaching.
Also, the small town that goes with this particular job is a good
place to bring up a family. I realize that the Twenty-fifth is ap-
proaching when I can look over my new Class lists each fall for
familiar names — and find daughters of 1929 in my classes.

CYRUS WILLIAM SCHAMBS

HOME AppRESs: 42 Grace Cr, Brooklyn 1, New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 68 William St., New York 5, N. Y.

BorN: April 23, 1907, Richwood, Ohio. Parents: Edward Andrew Schambs,
Mary Margaret Beer.

PREPARED AT: Richwood High School, Richwood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: $.B., 1929; J.D. (New York Univ.),
1935.

MarrieD: Sara Louise Estey, Oct. 9, 1930, Malden, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, First Presbyterian Church of New York City; mem-
ber Board of Managers, New York Bible Society.

MEMBER oF: American Association of Variable Star Observers; Foundation
for the Study of Cycles, Harvard Club of New York.

MY life story in allegory: In den Ozean schifft mit tausend
Masten der Jungling. Still auf geretetten Boot, treibt in den Hasen
der Greis.

[ 1070 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Happy the man, who studying nature’s laws
Through known effects can trace the secret cause —
His mind possessing in a quiet state,
Fearless of Fortune and resigned to Fate
And happy too is he, who decks the bowers
Of sylvans, and adores the rural powers —
Whose mind, unmoved, the bribes of courts can see,
Their glittering baits, and purple slavery —
Nor hopes the people’s praise, nor fears their frown,
Nor, when contending kindred tear the crown,
Will set up one, or pull another down.

Without concern he hears, but hears from far,
Of tumults, and descents, and distant war,
Nor with a superstitious fear is awed,
For what befalls at home, or what abroad.
Nor his own peace disturbs with pity for the poor.
Nor envies he the rich their happy store,
He feeds on fruits, which, of their own accord,
The willing ground and laden trees afford.
From his loved home no lucre him can draw;
The senate’s mad decrees he never saw;
Nor heard at bawling bars, corrupted law.
Some to the seas, and some to camps, resort,
And some with impudence invade the court;
In foreign countries, others seek renown;
With wars and taxes, others waste their own,
And houses burn, and houschold gods deface,
To drink in bowls which glittering gems enchase,
To loll on couches, rich with citron steds,
And lay their guilty limbs in Tyrian beds.
This wretch in earth entombs his golden ore,
Hovering and brooding on his buried store.
Some patriot fools to popular praise aspire
Of public speeches, which worse fools admire,
While from both benches, with redoubled sounds,
The applause of lords and commoners abounds,
Some, through ambition, or through thirst of gold,
Have slain their brothers, or their country sold,
And, leaving their sweet homes, in exile run

[1071 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

To lands that lie beneath another sun.

Give me the ways of wandering stars to know,
The depths of heaven above, and earth below:

° *

My next desire is, void of care and strife,
To lead a soft, secure, inglorious life —
A country cottage near a crystal flood,
A winding valley, and a lofty wood

Or lead me to some solitary place,

And cover my retreat from human race.

Je Pai regretté tous les jours
Mais je m’en suis félicité
toutes les nuits.
Via — Veritas

ARNOLD SCHLOSSBERG

HOME ADpRESS: 3125 Avenham Ave., S. W., Roanoke, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 709-13 State & City Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

BORN: July 24, 1908, Roanoke, Va. parents: Morris Joseph Schlossberg,
Jennie Weinstein.

PREPARED AT: Jefferson High School, Roanoke, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; LL.B., 1933.

marriep: Alice Hermine Jacobi, June 24, 1933, Woodmere, Long Island,
N. Y. cuipren: Nancy, Dec. 24, 1934; Arnold, Jr., Feb. 14, 1937; Deda,
Oct. 29, 1940.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Roanoke City Democratic Committee, 1946; trus-
tee, Roanoke City School Board, 1948-49, secretary, Roanoke City
Charter Commission, 1950-52; president, Roanoke Chapter, Mental
Hygiene Society of Virginia, 1951; vice-president, trustee, Temple
Emanuel, 1951; chairman, Roanoke Corporation Committee for Hous-
ing and Slum Clearance.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Virginia and New York; Association of
the Bar of the City of Roanoke; American, Virginia, and Roanoke
City Bar Associations; Green Hill Country Club.

I CAUGHT the speculative fever of 1929 ina bad way. Without
even waiting to enjoy the last weeks of my senior year and the
Commencement activities, I ran down to New York as soon as

[ 1072 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my comprehensives were over, to get on the gravy train. All I
got was the sensation of watching the bubble burst at first hand,
Then came a job with a moving picture chain because the movies
were, after all, depression-proof. But depression soon caught up
with the movies, too. My family thought that the best thing to
do was to postpone the problem of my career and suggested that
I return to Law School. I was a little reluctant at first because
the law students I knew seemed pertifoggers and stuffed shirts but
I agreed to go back as possibly an easy way to ride out the depres-
sion, and on the assurance that legal training was always good in
any business. It had to be Harvard. The family agreed.

My years at Harvard Law School were, much to my surprise,
equally as pleasant as those in College. Certainly they were more
memorable in that I met and became engaged to my wonderful
wife, who was then Alice H. Jacobi. Also the fact that I was able
to rejoin my friend, Sidney B. Maisel, of the Class of 1927, was
an added pleasure. Sid had really befriended me when I arrived
at College as a provisional sophomore without the supporting
friendships and ties I would undoubtedly have gained had I spent
my freshman year ac Harvard. We became very close friends
during the remaining portion of his College years and our friend-
ship and association continued during his first year in Law School
and my junior year in College. Sid had left the Law School in °
1929 and after one year away returned in 1930 so that he was
in his second year when I entered. The girl who became my
wife was his fiancée’s roommate. We two couples spent much
time together and share some grand memories of the Law School
years.

” Twas surprised to find that I liked the study of law and became
convinced that I would enjoy its practice. After graduation, the
depression and dislocation in business made it difficult to deter-
mine just what could be planned or deemed reasonable expecta-
tions so we felt justified in getting married and being together on
Merve alone. We decided to try my luck in New York City
where my wife’s parents lived. Contrary to most folks in the
early thirties, they were doing extremely well and it seemed
reasonable that with their influence it would be fairly easy to be-
come established in New York. The only flaw in this plan was
that I had become an admirer of F.D.R. and a New Dealer during

[ 1073 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

College, Columbia, Missouri. Our son is completing his fourth
and last year at Mercersburg Academy in Pennsylvania. We are
leading a relatively quiet family life at home with only our
younger daughter who is in the eighth grade in a local school.
One final word about our family favorite, “Blackie,” the best
cocker spaniel in town and an important member of our family.
Since he can’t come to the Reunion he sends as much of a wag as
his abbreviated tail will permit, and a friendly bark to all.

STANLEY DAVID SCHUVAL

HOME ADDRESS: 319 St. Johns Pl., Brooklyn 38, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 270 Broadway, New York 7, N. Y.

BorN: April 7, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Philip Arnold Schuval,
Selda Frank.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; J.D. (New York Univ),
1934.-

MARRIED: Bess Kaplun, Aug. 31, 1951, Brooklyn, N. Y. cxHitp: Lawrence
Michael, Nov. 19, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Senior attorney, New York State Labor Relations Board.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

HENRY FREDERICK SCHWARZ

HOME Appress: 7 Cottage St., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFicE appress: Wellesley College, Wellesley 81, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1906, Greenwich, Conn. parents: Henry Frederick Schwarz,
Irma Hermner.

_ PREPARED AT: Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; B.LITT.
(Univ. of Oxford), 1937; pH. (Harvard Univ.), 1938.

MarrieD: Marialisa Gutherz, April 18, 1931, Vienna, Austria. CHILDREN:
Anne Elizabeth, March 5, 1932; Caroline, Jan. 15, 1938; Henry F., Dec.
22, 1041.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick August Otto Schwarz, ’24, LL.B. °27.

occuPATION: Professor of history, Wellesley College.

PuBLicaTions: “The Imperial Privy Council in the Seventeenth Century,”
“Bohemia under the Habsburgs,” in A Handbook of Slavic Studies;
“Genealogical Tables to Illustrate the History of Western Europe.”

TO write an account of my life since graduation is rather diffi-
cult, because it has been relatively uneventful. Immediately after

[ 1076]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduation I went to Balliol College, Oxford, where I remained
until the spring of 1931, actually doing most of my work in the
Public Records Office in London and in the Vienna archives.
Thereupon I was appointed assistant in the old History I at Har-
vard, a position which I held for a number of years. In 1935, my
wife, elder daughter, and I spent a year in Vienna, where I car-
ried on research for my doctoral dissertation, During 1939~1940
I was a preceptor at Princeton and then returned to Harvard as a
tutor. In 1942 I received an appointment as assistant professor in
the History Department at Wellesley, where I have been since
then; I was promoted to professor of history last spring. My par-
ticular field of historical interest in which I have done most of
my work is Central Europe, especially the former Habsburg
monarchy.

Since I was rejected for military service with the classification
4F, I did not have any active war experience, but tried to make
myself useful in whatever capacities seemed to offer themselves
at the moment. After coming to Wellesley I bought our home
here and must confess that I very much enjoy having a house and
a little plot of land which I can call my own. In politics, at least
on the national level, I have always sympathized with the Demo-
cratic program and still do so; although this has not been wholly
true of other members of my family. That, I believe, about covers
the subject and, take it all in all, 1 have found my life since gradu-
ation has been pleasant, satisfactory, and interesting.

ROBERT GILLAM SCOTT

HOME apbprEss: Russell Avenue, Orange 3, Conn.

OFFICE ADpREss: Street Hall, Yale University, New Haven, Conn,

BORN: Jan, 31, 1907, St. Johns, Mich. parents: Walter Abner Scott, Martha
Shoemaker.

PREPARED AT: St, Johns High School, St. Johns, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.F.A. (Yale Univ.), 1932.

MarrieD: Miriam Doan, Sept. 13, 1932, Duluth, Mich. camp: Martha Anne,
March 6, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of design, Department of Design, Yale
University.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, AAUP Chapter, Tulane University, 1949-50.

MEMBER oF: AAUP; New Haven Paint and Clay Club; Paugusset Club.

[ 1077 ]

"PP" TYE IONE TIRE RSERREREPHERP EH ARERERHNtrNS)m

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
pustications: Design Fundamentals, McGraw-Hill, 1951; calligraphy for
George Washington’s Rules of Civility, Lewis Glaser, New Haven,
1952.

THIS is written in the deep woods in New Hampshire, where my
wife, daughter, and her friend Polly are camping with me in the
“Scotstrocity,” a folding camp trailer I designed and built. We
spend our vacations camping in various places from Colorado to
Maine for a summer’s painting. I started teaching as an instructor
in scenic design at Yale in 1932. From 1937 to 1940 I was an in-
structor in the Graduate School of Design at Harvard. From
1940 to 1942 I served as director of the Stuart School of Design
in Boston. Next came three years as assistant professor of costume
design at the University of Texas, with the middle year on leave
as an air-craft sheet metal mechanic at San Marcos Army Naviga-
tion School. From 1945 to 1950 I was an associate professor of
design at Newcomb College of Tulane University. In 1950 I re-
turned to Yale on the other side of the “Bridge of Thighs” from
the Drama, Department, in the Department of Design. I teach
basic design, beginning painting, and lettering.

In 1951 McGraw-Hill brought out my first book, Design
Fundamentals. ?'m working on another dealing with nature and
design, My pictures have been exhibited in the Texas General,
Southern Arts League, Pepsi-Cola, Michigan Artists, New Orleans
Arts and Crafts. I had a first one-man show at the Creative Gal-
lery, New York, in 1952.

LAWRENCE SCOVELLE

HOME appREss: 98 Sheffield Rd., Melrose 76, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: 144 Pearl St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: July 3, 1906, Melrose, Mass. parents: O. Mortimer Scovelle, Kath-
arine Beebe.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE; A.B., 1929.

Maraiep: Constance Willey, Sept. 21, 1933, Melrose, Mass, cHILpREN: Janet,
March 13, 1938; Stuart Beebe, April 6, 1943; Constance Joan, Feb. 16,
1945.

occupation: Salesman, Reasoner Tool & Supply Company, mill supplies.

MEMBER oF: Bellevue Golf Club, Melrose, Mass.

[ 1078 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WHEN I made my exit from the Harvard Business School in
1930, one year ahead of my class thanks to a horrible subject
known as “accounting,” I was one of those who had never been
able to make up his mind in which field of endeavor he wished to
set the world afire. Jobs were at a premium in those days, so I
took advantage of an opportunity to learn the mill supply busi-
ness from the ground up. I became duly indoctrinated with many
phases of it; but when, after five years, the stipend was still not
far up from the ground, I decided to try something else.

I spent the next two years with a brewery, then the next two
trying various fields without any measure of success. I finally
decided to consult some of the vocation counsellors who think
they can help one find one’s niche; and after various aptitude
tests, and through the process of elimination, we managed to com-
pile a rather imposing list of occupations that were not for me.

° Heading this list was “selling”; so ’'ve been doing that ever since.
Four of us are partners in a mill supply business which is not
doing too badly. We are in the process of acquiring it from the
man who founded it, and can finally see daylight ahead.

Hobbies? oh — golf, for one. I shoot in the nineties; I don’t
see any sense in trying to master the fool game because then there
wouldn’t be anything left for which to strive. In the winter we
have a rip-roaring ping-pong club which guarantees diversion
each week. I have a healthy interest in tennis; I say “healthy”
because I have long since given up playing the game lest my
ineptness prove my undoing. However, I am a member of the
committee which sponsors the Northern New England Cham-
pionship at Squirrel Island, Maine, each summer. I love to watch
them as can do it, do it.

Home life centers around the kids. We figured if we got tele-
vision we'd know where the two little ones were, come evening.
It worked of course, but we also know where half the other kids
in the neighborhood are. The high school sophomore has begun
to appropriate the living-room for the young swains; normal pat-
tern, but perplexing. The last twenty-five years have been a lot
of fun. I never wanted to be a millionaire anyway; you only get
on all the sucker lists.

[ 1079 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JOHN FRANCIS SCULLY

HOME ApprEss: 76 Abbott Rd., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 717 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1908, Salem, Mass. parents: John James Scully, Elizabeth
Angela O’Callahan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1929(30)3 LL.B. (Bos-
ton Univ.), 1934.

marrieD: Mary Aurelia Burke, Sept. 25, 1937, Boston, Mass. cHILpaEy;
Virginia Ann, Sept. 22, 1938; Elizabeth Nancy, June 9, 1940; Ellen,
May 22, 1942; John Francis, Jr, April 13, 1946; Richard Walter, June
23, 1948.

occuPATION: Sales of fire prevention and protection equipment, American
Fire Equipment Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Committee on Admissions, Boston Bar Association,
1936-37; Town Meeting member, Dedham, 1940-48, vice-president,
Society of St. Vincent de Paul, 1945-53.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Norfolk Golf Club; St. Vincent de
Paul Society; various fire chiefs’ associations.

I ENJOYED practising law in Boston for some three years,
mainly doing trial work. Upon the sudden passing of my father
in late 1937, I gave up the law completely and have ever since
carried on the business which he had started. Despite some expan-
sion, we still confine our activities largely to New England; but it
is a work I seem to enjoy.

Since marriage and especially since being blessed with five in-
teresting children, I find my non-business moments devoted
increasingly to family affairs. It’s a privilege and an absorbing
pleasure for us to attempt to grow along with them, sharing and
—not too obviously — guiding.

JOSEPH ROBERT SEGEL

HOME ADDRESS: 244 Temple St., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 620 Memorial Drive, Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: July 15, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Moses Segel, Celia Kadish-
evitz.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 19293 M.B.A. 1932.

MARRIED: Sarah Mary Smith, Sept. 3, 1933, Boston, Mass. cHitprEN: Ronald
George, Aug. 26, 1935; Gerald Bernard, Dec. 30, 1936; Marjorie Joy,
Jan. 16, 1944.

[ 1080 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD SON: Ronald George Segel, '57.

occupation: General sales manager, The Eastern Company.

orFices HELD: Member, Electronic Advisory Board, U. S. Government,
Washington, D. C., 1944; member, City of Boston Committee on
Public Safety — Civilian Defense, 1942-45; committee member, Elec-
tric Institute of Boston, 1946-53; director, Eastern Charitable Associa-
tion; chairman, Television Division, Electric Institute of Boston, 1950.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Alumni Association; Temple B'nai
Moshe, Brighton; Temple Shalom, Newton; Harvard Varsity Club.

AFTER my graduation in June, 1929, I spent one year at the
Harvard Law School, and two years at the Harvard Business
School from which I received my M.B.A. degree in June, 1932.
I went to work for the New England Coke Company selling
fuel to the public. I worked here for a year with good results,
in spite of the depression and the fact that the banks closed during
this period. In the summer of 1933, I went to work for the W. L.
Thompson Company, distributors of household appliances for
the General Electric Company. I worked here until December,
1939, and during this period I held the positions of branch man-
ager, retail sales manager, comptroller, and wholesale territory
manager, Since December, 1939, I have been affiliated with the
Eastern Company, distributors for the Radio Corporation of
America, Bendix Home Appliances, and other nationally adver-
tised brands of appliances. I joined this company as sales manager
of the Bendix Division and subsequently held the positions of
sales manager of the RCA-Victor Division and general sales
manager. In this last capacity I am responsible for the sales per-
formance of the company on all products which include the
distribution of radios and television for the Radio Corporation of
America, home appliances for the Bendix- -Crosley Division of
Avco, laundry equipment for the Whirlpool Corporation, refrig-
‘eration products for the International Harvester Company, and
Cott Beverages in Rhode Island and southern Massachusetts.
During World War II, as part of the management of The
Eastern Company, I was instrumental in converting the com-
pany’s operations from a distributing firm to a manufacturer of
electronic apparatus for the armed forces. I was in charge of a
group responsible for purchasing, expediting, getting material,
and keeping it flowing to the production floor uninterruptedly.
The company served as a prime contractor for the Signal Corps

[ 1081 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and the Bureau of Yards and Docks of the Navy. The company
also acted as a Jarge subcontractor in radar manufacturing for
Raytheon. We also supplied test equipment for the Manhattan
Project.

In September, 1933, I married Sally Smith who had been my
sweetheart since high school days. During the first two years we
travelled considerably — Miami, Nassau, Kingston, Curacao, and
Venezuela. We attended every Harvard football game. In
August, 1935, our first son, Ronald, was born. Today he is a
freshman at Harvard — Class of 1957. In December, 1936, my
second son, Gerald, was born. He is a senior at Newton High
School and hopes to enter Harvard in September. I really cele-
brated that New Year’s Eve — Jerry being born on December
30, 1936. In January, 1944, my third child, a daughter, Marjorie
Joy, was born — pretty as a picture and a real joy to the entire
family. Most of my time has been devoted to my work. How-
ever, I have managed to be a loyal Harvard football fan and
have taken the children to every game since they reached the
age of five. We have missed only those away from home games
like Stanford, West Virginia, and Cornell. The entire family
has managed to spend a few weeks in Florida every winter since
1948 and the summers in Maine since 1940.

I have been an active member of the Electric Institute of Boston
since 1946. I have been an active member of Temple B’nai Moshe
in Brighton, since 1939, and Temple Shalom in Newton, since
1953. I keep in close touch with many members of my Class and
a group of us meet once a month. I am certainly pleased to see
increased interest in football on the part of the alumni and the
new president. I know all of us are going to have a grand time
in June.

LAZARD SEIFF

HOME appress: 1205 N. Pitt St., Alexandria, Va.

OFFIcE appress: U. S. Department of Labor, Washington 25, D. C,

Born: Feb. 13, 1909, Brockton, Mass. parents: Henry Seiff, Jeanne Levy.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. .
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, 1929-1930.

MARRIED: Marion V. Buxbaum, Oct. 11, 1936, Brookline, Mass. cHipren:

[ 1082 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Henry Edward, April 1, 1940; Joanne Ellen, March 4, 1944 (died Nov.
16, 1948); Jonathan Melvin, July 6, 1952.

occuPATION: Management analyst, Bureau of Employment Security, De-
partment of Labor,

MEMBER OF: American Management Association; International Association
of Personnel in Employment Security.

SETTLED a little more firmly in my comfortable rut, I still find
myself adequately challenged by the problems and tasks of a lesser
bureaucrat. A mediocre game of golf, a much stronger game of
bridge, an unpaid sideline of directing tournaments in a govern-
ment workers’ bridge club, an occasional family picnic, a bit of
community work: thus do the hours pass when I’m away from
my desk. Raising our younger son, now in his second year, is a
most pleasurable experience; much more so, it seems, than is the
case with children born to younger parents.

CARL COLEMAN SELTZER

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Williston Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

orrice appress: Harvard University, 13 Holyoke St. Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: June 1, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Solomon Hyman Seltzer, Edith
Abramson,

preparep At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cur latide, 1929; PH.D., 1933.
MaRRIED: Ruth Jacobson, July 9, 1930, Boston, Mass. cHipren: Judith Lois,
Oct. 12, 1935; Linda Jane, Aug. 4, 1940; Roger Alan, Sept. 7, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Lewis Seltzer, ’25; Herbert Abraham Seltzer,

28, A.M., '20.

occupation: Anthropologist, The Grant Study, Department of Hygiene,
research associate in physical anthropology, Peabody Museum, Harvard
University; merchandise manager, Daytimer Shoe Company, Boston.

oFFices HELD: Member Board of Freshman Advisers, Harvard University
(now); associate editor, American Journal of Physical Anthropology,
1938-41; consultant physical anthropologist, Office of Indian Affairs,
Department of Interior, member, Brookline School Committee, since
1942; consultant in constitution, Robert P. Brigham Hospital, Boston,
since 1942.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Physical Anthropologists; American
Anthropological Association; Sigma Xi; Massachusetts Bay Lodge,
B-B-N Zionist Organization; Amalgamated Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Many scientific articles.

MY field of concentration at College, anthropology, determined
[ 1083 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

for me my future vocational interest. For, after attending med-
ical school for a year, I accepted the position as physical anthro-
pologist at the Constitution Clinic of the Presbyterian Hospital
in New York City. In 1931 I returned to Harvard to study for
my Doctorate degree. After receiving my Ph.D. in physical an-
thropology in February, 1933, 1 was awarded a National Research
Fellowship in the biological sciences for the purposes of field
studies in the racial anthropology of the American Indian. For
two field seasons my wife and I travelled the Southwest collect-
ing anthropometric data on the Zuni, Hopi, and Navaho Indians
of New Mexico and Arizona. In 1934 I was also part of an expedi-
tion to Sonora, Mexico, where we studied the Yaqui Indians. My
interest at this time was primarily focused on racial studies and
most particularly on the American Indian. As a result for several
years I was consultant anthropologist for the Office of Indian
Affairs, of the U. S. Department of Interior.

About 1937 my interest shifted from racial studies to the study
of human constitution, and from that time on I have been work-
ing in this field. In 1937-1938 I was a research associate to the
Fatigue Laboratory of the Harvard Business School, and from
1938 I have been anthropologist to the Grant Study, a division of
the Hygiene Department of Harvard University. My major re-
search has been conducted in the Grant Study, an organization
devoted to the study of the “normal” individual. This research
team is working to determine the factors, physical, social, psycho-
logical, medical, etc., which makes for the “normal” functioning
of the person. This is but the beginning of a very complicated
long-range investigation.

My present appointments at Harvard are as follows: anthro-
pologist, Department of Hygiene; research associate in physical
anthropology, Peabody Museum, and member of the Board of
Freshman Advisers. For the last several years I have been spend-

_ ing more and more time in business activities outside of the Uni-
versity in order to supplement my income and to maintain the
standard of living I desire for my family. This has been rather
difficule for me since it has turned out that I have been spending
more time outside than inside the University. Some day I hope to
reverse this order of things.

It might be of some interest to note that I have been quite ac-

[ 1084 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tive in local affairs in my community. For more than ten years
I have served as a member of the Brookline School Committee, as
well as of the School Committee of Temple Israel of Boston. The
work on the Brookline School Committee is arduous and time-
consuming, but I have derived inner satisfaction from whatever
part I have played in developing high standards in our public
schools.

My greatest satisfaction, however, has been with my family. I
have been more than ordinarily blessed with a happy and stimu-
lating family life. I married Ruth Jacobson in 1930 and we now
have three children. My elder daughter, Judith, is now eighteen
and a sophomore at Radcliffe College. My younger daughter,
Linda, is thirteen and my son Roger is seven years old.

The lives of most of us are influenced by either events or peo-
ple. I feel that in my case, my life has been influenced princi-
pally by two people, Professor E. A. Hooton and Dr. A. V.
Bock of Harvard University. I have drawn much from the great
scholarship, wit, counsel, and intimate friendship of Earnest
Hooton. Arlie Bock has given me a sympathetic approach and
warm understanding of people, their strengths and frailties, in ad-
dition to an intense desire to help them wherever possible. Har-
vard has contributed immeasurably to my life purpose and inner
satisfaction in the friendship of these two men.

SHEPHARD STERLING SENTER

HOME apprEss: Bay Lane, Chatham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREss: Main Street, Chatham, Mass.

BORN: March 3, 1904, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Erastus Lee Senter, Nel-
lie Pearl Coulter.

PREPARED AT: Pinkerton Academy, Derry, N. H.; Medford High School,
Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1929(30).

MarRiED: Alice Gertrude Beunke, April 23, 1931, Medford, Mass. CHILDREN:
Shephard Sterling, Jr. Jan. 19, 1934 (m. Elaine Ryerson); Linda, Jan.
5» 1943.

occupation: Advertising, executive assistant to vice-president, National
Transitads, Inc.; real estate,

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting member; member of committee, American
Red Cross Fund Drives, Winchester, Mass.

MEMBER oF: Advertising Club of Boston; AF. & A.M.

[ 1085 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

AFTER one year in Harvard Law School my dwindling fi-
nances forced me out into the business world where I became
a direct factory representative working on sales promotion for
the Radio Corporation of America. It was not long before old
man Depression (or was it Recession) hit the radio business a
body blow so I sought new fields ending up in the publishing
business with Street and Smith Publications. In 1936 I went into
the advertising business in Boston and spent the next seventeen
years as a huckster, with a three-year tour of duty as a lieutenant
commander with the U.S. Navy.

I now have a real estate business on delightful Cape Cod. Here
there is time for fishing and for doing the many things that I
have been too busy to do before. Mrs. Senter and I have been
happily married and have two fine children. We recently had an
addition to our family—a daughter-in-law, the former Miss
Elaine Ryerson of Northboro, Massachusetts. Religion: I am a
boat-fishing Methodist who believes sincerely in the Golden
Rule, and prays for the fish to bite. Politics: I believe in a con-
stitutional democracy in which at least a few people are willing
to work for what they get.

EDWARD WILLIAM SEXTON

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Coolidge Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 Cross St., Everett 49, Mass.

BoaN: Sept. 9, 1907, Medford, Mass, parents: Isaac Edward Sexton, Nellie
Renfrew Fraser.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: $.B., 1929.

Marrirp: Barbara Fairfield, June 5, 1930, Boston, Mass. cHr~pren: Edward
William, Jr. Sept. 30, 1931; Barbara, May 21, 1934.

HARVARD SON: Edward William Sexton, Jr., ’53.

occupaTion: Treasurer, general manager, Sexton Can Company, manufac-
turers of metal containers.

OFFICES HELD: President, Richards, Sexton & Wells, Inc.

membBER oF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

TES Reunion marks a transition point for our family just as it
marks a milestone for the Class of 1929. Both children have
grown out of their teens and are well on their way to growing

[ 1086 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

out.of the house. It seems strange to think now in terms of our
own desires, when for all these years we were thinking of their
needs. Middle-age is here in spite of any feelings to the contrary.

In looking back I fail to see any great personal achievement
which brought fame or fortune. Business has afforded some
progress but this can be very transitory in a small company.
One new technological development could give us a real jolt.
Thus, the feeling of an infallible security common in many large
business organizations does not exist in a small manufacturing
enterprise. We do enjoy a feeling of real responsibility for our
own destiny and have many compensations other than money.

The past few years have brought a little outside activity in
connection with fund raising for community services and other
private institutions. The wide variation in response amazes me.
We enjoy the benefits these hospitals, schools, and colleges give
but we have been slow in giving the time and money they need.
In the future I hope to make a better showing than in the past.
This goes for Harvard as much as any other. She may be wealthy
but the needs are tremendous if she is to maintain her position
of leadership in the years ahead.

GEORGE HENRY SEXTON

HOME ADDRESS: 304 W. 75th St., New York 23, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 225 Fifth Ave., New York ro, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 29, 1907, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Thomas Henry Sexton, Bea-
trice Frances Doherty.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30),

MarrieD: Florence De Lillis Rinaldo.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Thomas Sexton, 727.

occuPATION: Partner, O’Brien-Sexton (wholesale giftware), sales repre-
sentatives for manufacturers of gift merchandise.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, ‘The Barton Line, Inc.; lieutenant colonel,
U. S. Army Reserves.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity; Harvard Club of New York;
87th Division.

I HAVE come from the New York Telephone Company’s
Traffic Department to selling stocks and bonds; to retailing —
first with Best & Company in New York, then with Dennison’s

[ 1087 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

retail store (same city); and finally to my own business, “Whole-
sale Giftwares,” known as O’Brien-Sexton. There have been only
two interruptions — depression and military service. Twenty
percent of the twenty-five years was spent with our Uncle Sam
who managed to get me away from daily chores and gave me
the great opportunity to travel, to collect mementos of steel
(during the Battle of the Bulge), and to increase my knowledge
of military life.

After the war, I did not reclaim my old job of assistant man-
ager at Dennison’s New York retail store, but became eastern
and Canadian sales representative for the Paper Art Company of
Indianapolis, Indiana. By the end of 1948 I decided to go into the
wholesale giftware business with my wife, Florence; and that’s
it to the present time. I have enjoyed the twenty-five years to
date except for the two interruptions mentioned, and know that
the following twenty-five are going to be even better because
Florence and I have our retirement spot of one hundred acres
in the beautiful southern Berkshires all bought and paid for;
so here’s to June, 1954, and on to 1979.

PAUL RYAN SEXTON

HOME aDoRESS; 262 Aft. Vernon St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFicz appREss: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 9, Mass.

Born: Aug. 8, 1906, Derby, Conn. parents: John E. Sexton, Annie L. Ryan.

prepareD at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MarniED: Frances B. Connecly, Oct. 7, 1939, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Paul Ryan, Jr, Aug. 27, 1941; Anne Frances, Nov. 21, 1944; Karen,
Aug. 2, 1949.

occupation; Superintendent, Automobile Fleet and Special Risk Dept.,
Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company; owner, Paul R. Sexton
Insurance Agency.

orrices Hrip: President, past treasurer, Association of Casualty and. Prop-
erty Underwriters; Grand Knight, Knights of Columbus C/234; trus-
tee, Dedham Council, Knights of Columbus; auditor, Knights of
Columbus Building Association.

Memapr ov: Society in Dedham for the Apprehension of Horse Thieves;
Insurance Society of Massachusetts; Association of Casualty and Prop-
erty Underwriters; First Friday Club of Greater Boston.

{ 1088 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN the darker days of September, 1929, I joined the ranks of the
fEtna Casualty and Surety Company as junior underwriter
where, thanks to the N.R.A. (or was it a sheepskin?) I received
a few more dollars than I was worth or than they, perhaps, could
afford. Here it was, none the less, that I learned the basic prin-
ciples of insurance and suretyship, through a sort of apprentice-
ship, and evening courses. For relaxation in the following years,
I developed a keen interest in table tennis, playing in most of the
metropolitan leagues and some of the weekend tournaments held
at Provincetown, Springfield, Worcester, and Providence. In
March, 1936, the Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company
hired me as underwriter to handle special risks. More courses
followed, including public speaking at Emerson School of Ora-
tory. During these years I passed my insurance brokers’ ex-
amination and formed my own local insurance agency which I
still conduct evenings and weekends.

After ten years “out,” still single, my interest waning in table
tennis, and spending too much money at the Harvard Club on
poker, I met and married the girl of my dreams. For a year or so
we had a “Sky-Ranch” on Beacon Hill, four flights up, walk to
the top, for “the” most beautiful view overlooking the Charles.
This was a glorious place for honeymooning, downtown shop-
ping, teas, and the Esplanade concerts, but not particularly appro-
priate for children or family life. So, the following year, we
rented a two-family apartment in Brookline, near the folks. Life
began anew. Paul, Jr., arrived. I learned to play chess, and baby-
sit now and then, listening to the news commentators. This
tranquil period soon changed. Early in 1943, I joined the Coast
Guard, patrolling the docks and supervising the loading of ammu-
nition and supplies. I can still recall the black markets and ra-
tioning, and the good or bad news which the commentators fed
us over the radio. Anne Frances was born in these troubled
times, and my wife and I began to dream of having our own
home when the war ended. The housing shortage which fol-
lowed hit us hard. After a year or more of looking everywhere,
we bought a place in Dedham, “Available for Immediate Occu-
pancy,” which proved to be almost a year. Before we could
occupy our new home, we were evicted from our apartment,
had to store our furniture, and took the kids to live in a hotel.

[ 1089 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Out of these six months of confusion came patience and under-
standing, which I do not recall learning at Cambridge, but who
in 1925-1929 had ever, ever thought or dreamed about O.P.A)
Finally, March, 1947, found us in our own home in Dedham.
New neighbors and more friends helped us along the way, and
soon we were enjoying community life again. I joined the
Knights of Columbus and the Horse Thieves, tried to bowl and
get in a little golf. My wife joined a few women’s clubs and
the sewing circle. Mly insurance agency started to click, and my
job in the Massachusetts Bonding progressed more surely. By
the time our “Twentieth” was approaching, I had become presi-
dent of the Association of Casualty Underwriters, and Deputy
Grand Knight of Dedham Council 234, K. of C.

I enjoyed our “Twentieth” to the fullest, including Galanis’
Analysis of the Market, and Felton’s perfect Daiquiris. About
five years ago, I became Grand Knight of our local council and
devoted most of my spare time to local charitable efforts, and to
revising an outmoded constitution. By then Paul, Jr., was grow-
ing up and I had to learn all over again how to fish and play
checkers. Anne was taking tap lessons, but seemed more inter-
ested in fishing. She usually catches the largest one. In the
summer of 1949, our youngest daughter, Karen, arrived. She
has since become the deciding factor in matters of vacations;
two girls against one boy. We usually manage to spend time
each summer both at the Cape and in New Hampshire. Last
year I fished Lake Memphramagog in Canada, which, as far as
I can determine, is the longest lake in the world. I can’t say as
much for its trout.

When I find the time to do a little serious thinking, which is
too seldom, I realize that I am not sorry that I voted for Roose-
velt's first term, but wish that he hadn’t served a third. I like to
think that Taft should have been President, and to speculate on
what might have been; who would have succeeded him, and
what would have followed his death. As for Communism, the
solution, T believe, lics within your own family, teaching the
children to become part of a good strong America, loyal to its
real traditions, honest with their neighbors, helpful to their
brothers, and to believe in God's providence, regardless of one’s

[ 1090 ]

i\

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

particular denomination or faith. America will have to become
2 good “family” before Communism disappears. You can be
sure it will.

SAMSON AARON SHAIN

HOME ADpDREss: 420 Morrison Ave., Hot Springs National Park, Ark,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cong. House of Israel, Quapaw Avenue and Market Street,
' Hot Springs National Park, Ark.

BorN: May 1, 1906, Boston, Mass. PaRENTs: Jacob Gerson Shain, Sarah
Freda Levine. ;

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; RABBI, M.H.L. (Jewish
Inst. of Religion), 1933.

MarRiED: Lillian Elizabeth Litoff, Feb, 13, 1944, New York, N. Y. cepren:
Paula, Feb. 11, 1945; Joyce Hope, Jan. 29, 1947; Judy, March 16, 1949,

OCCUPATION: Rabbi.

OFFICES HELD: President, Alumni Association, Hebrew Teachers’ College,
Boston, 1926-29; member board of trustees, Jewish Institute of Re-
ligion, 1940-43; member executive board, New York Board of Rabbis,
1946-48; past master, Perfect Ashlar Lodge No. 604, F. & A.M., 1948;
member, Commission on Synagogue Activities, Central Conference of
American Rabbis, Union of American Hebrew Congregations, 1950-56,
chairman, Committee on Scouting, C.C.A.R., 1951-52, International

. _ Contacts Committee, Hot Springs Rotary Club; chaplain (major),
U. S. Air Force Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Belvedere Country Club, Hot Springs.

A LOT of things have happened to me since my days of con-
centration in philosophy at Harvard. I did not get all the an-
swers to my questions about life and its destiny, but I got for
the continuation of my quest directions that are as valid today
as they were when I studied under Ralph Barton Perry, and
Alfred North Whitehead.

On graduation in 1929 I entered the Jewish Institute of Reli-
gion, the president of which was the late Rabbi Stephen S. Wise.
Two years later, a group of Dr. Wise’s Boston friends hap-
pened to have established a fellowship at the Institute in honor
of Charles W. Eliot. Dr. Wise appointed me the first recipient of
the fellowship and I became, in my junior year, an instructor in
the school where I was studying. At the end of that year I re-
quested permission to spend my fourth year at the Hebrew Uni-

[ rogt ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

versity in Jerusalem. Dr. Wise granted my request and I sailed
to Israel in the fall of 1932. There I studied historical Geography
and saw the Promised Land “from Dan to Beersheba.”

On my return in 1933 I received my ordination and subse-
quently held four successive pulpits: the Cape Cod Synagogue
for two years; the Sunnyside Jewish Center, Long Island, for
thirteen years; the Nassau Community Temple, Long Island,
for three years; and my present post since 1951. When the war
came I volunteered and served as a chaplain for two years at
Fort Benning and for eighteen months overseas in the U.K. J
resumed my ‘civilian pastorate in April, 1946.

As the years rolled along I developed — as every man must —
a sort of personal faith based both on my religious heritage and
my philosophical inquiries. God created the principal chaos ez-
nibilo, placing in it in imminence both a “law natural” and a
“spark divine.” The “spark” is the will to live and grow. It is
the key to evolution and man’s salvation. The “Jaw” is the
circumscribed area of natural activity and growth. Man, to ful-
fill himself has but to use the spark and follow the ethical stand-
ards which the spark at the same time lights up for him.

Now, twenty-five years after graduation, serving as resident-
lecturer at Henderson State Teachers’ College and as an occa-
sional Jecturer at several other Arkansas colleges I find myself
delightfully back in academic circles and more grateful than
ever for the intellectual stimulation I received from Perry and
Whitehead. But more than that I am grateful for a gift Harvard
could never give — my four “divine” redheads.

+ LAWRENCE MILTON SHAPIRO

poan: June 6, 1908, Brooklyn, N. Y. PaReNts: Heyman Shapiro, Anne
Wolfson,

puepaneD at: Erasmus Hall High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1919, M.p. (New
York Univ.), 1933.

maaaizp: Estelle Srebnik, June s0, 1934, New York, N. Y, citpren: Henry
David, May 7, 1937; Nancy J., 1938.

pup: Aug. 26, 1953, New York, N. Y.

wow: Mrs. Lawrence M. Shapiro, s W. 74th St., New York, N. Y.

[ 1092 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER receiving an M.D. at New York University, Shapiro
interned at Bellevue Hospital and later specialized in pediatrics
in New York City. He was a first lieutenant in the U. S. Army
Medical Corps Reserve. He published many medical papers
dealing with pediatrics and hematological subjects. In 1948 he
became co-director of Camp Northwood in the Adirondacks.

NATHANIEL SHARF

HOME ADDRESS: 121 Dorset Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 320 Newbury St., Boston 15, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 10, 1908, Malden, Mass. parents: Max Sharf, Rose Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE! A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Edith Sycle, Dec. 12, 1936, Richmond, Va. cuttpren: Richard
Sycle, Dec. 8, 1939; Susan, Feb. 21, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hirsch Sharf, ’27.

occuPATION: Vice-president, M. Sharf & Company, Inc. wholesale dis-
tributors of toys and sporting goods.

OFFICES HELD: President, Jewish Big Brother Association of Boston; chair-
man, New England Fishing Tackle Jobbers Group; member Steering
Committee, National Fishing Tackle Jobbers Association; director,
Temple Israel Brotherhood.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Rockport Golf Club; Massachusetts

Bay Lodge. -

PusticaTions: National Fisherman, consumer booklet, 1951-53.

SOON after graduation I entered the family business, joining
my father and brother (Class of 1927). I have spent these
twenty-five years in the distribution of sporting goods and toys
to dealers throughout the New England states. One “advantage,”
peculiar to our business, is the host of friends we have developed
_ who want to buy Junior a set of trains or brother Oscar a new
fishing reel, at wholesale. Constant application to my job has
enabled me to derive a modest return and a fair degree of satis-
faction from my work.

In 1936 I met and married a southern belle. We started our
married life in a most auspicious manner, with a seven weeks’
trip to Europe. It was such a wonderful experience, we immedi-
ately planned a return trip, but have not yet been able to take
it. With the coming of our children, travel has not been easy.

[ 1093 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

We have specialized in two weeks’ trips to various parts of the
country and even a spring cruise to the West Indies. Two live! ly
children keep us busy at home, giving us a full and happy domes-
tic life. Some years ago, we built a cottage at Rockport, Massa-
chusetts, where we have spent all of our summers and whatever
weekends the weather, football games, and other obligations will
permit. Our life in this quiet, picturesque town has been es
cially restful and diverting. I have even dabbled in oils (with
brushes, that is), succumbing to the influence of the atmosphere.
We spend a good part of each winter waiting to “open up the
Rockport house.”

My major extra-curricular activity has been in Big Brother
work. At this time I am president of the Jewish Big Brother
Association of Boston. This is an organization of volunteer so-
cial workers (of amateur standing) each of whom devotes a good
deal of time and effort to some boy in need of guidance and
security.

In order to keep fit, I have indulged in some skiing and squash.
This winter may spell the end of my skiing, as I find my enthu-
siasm on the wane. I take my squash with caution and enjoy
these work-outs even though my game is slow. Summers will
find me hacking away on fairway and in rough, wondering why
I continue to devote my time to such a bewildering activity.
However, Edith and I both enjoy the game, and plan to spend
our spring vacation at Pinehurst in another vain attempt to im-
prove our scores.

In setting down this short résumé, I find myself in what we
call the middle-class group. Although these twenty-five years
have not been spectacular, they have by no means been dull. 1
have much to be thankful for, and freely credit my four years at
Harvard with a considerable influence on my way of life.

MORRISON SHARP

HOME AppRESs: 5207 S. Ingleside Ave., Chicago 15, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 222 N. Wells St., Chicago 6, Ill.

BoRN: March 21, 1904, Hingham, Mass. PARENTS: Dallas Love Sharp, Grace
Hastings.

PREPARED AT: Deep Springs High School, Deep Springs, Calif.

[ 1094] -

Le A OT RTURRNNRTRGAE ONE *

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; A.M., 1933; PH.D.

1938.
MarnieD: Janet M. Gauld, Oct. 12, 1933, Cohasset, Mass. ciitpren: Enid

Hastings, June 4, 1934 (m. Arthur Bierman, Aug. 29, 1953); Cecily,
Nov. 9, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Waitstill Hastings Sharp, LL.B. '26, A.M. °31.

OCCUPATION: Canvass director, Wells Organizations.

MemaBeR oF: American Historical Association; American Marketing Associa-
tion; American Unitarian Association; N.A.A.C.P.; Hyde Park-Ken-
wood Community Conference; City Club of Chicago; First Parish
Unitarian, Chicago.

PusLicaTiOns: “Leadership and Democracy in Early New England,” Ameri-
can Historical Review, January, 1945.

GRADUATION in the spring of 1929 underwrote the projec-
tion of a comfortable lifetime of respectable and solid illusions.
But the sulphurous crash of that fall started an eroding process
of realistic evaluation. Harvard had been so nice, i.e. secure.

For the next nine years I was in and out of estate settlements
while acquiring something of a real graduate school education
despite all that Harvard could do, Students and even faculty
were not afraid to associate for worthy ends and talk above
whispers. In the dark of the depression I carted away my Doc-
torate.

For the next twelve years I lived a charmed life of insecurity,
poverty (more or less), and professional delight. I was a teacher.
I used that Education, and Henry Adams’ too, on some eager
young minds, and some not so eager, in the deep South, back in
New England, among the pine stumps of northern Wisconsin,
on the prairies of Lincoln’s southern Illinois, and finally in
America’s last full measure of devotion to liberal education,
Roosevelt College.

Shrinkage of enrollment and of college finances put an end
to all that, so I drew a two-year term in life insurance, long
enough to be interesting but not too long to be productive. And
now I am earning a living as a canvass director in Wells Organi-
zations, tops in church-fund raising. I draw churches out of the
pockets of alumni who have retained some moral responsibility
while acquiring the financial.

Almost every year, it seems, I have given to the Harvard Fund
a mere pittance, a poor thing but my own. On the other hand

[ 1095 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I have steered a few young men of promise to the Yard and the
Library I have loved for thirty years. I only hope that Harvard
continues to justify my memories of Merriman and Mcllwain,
Schlesinger, Sr., and Morison, for in them I really believed that
I had glimpsed Veritas.

WILLIAM WALTER SHARPE

HOME ADDRESS: 5801 N. Bay Rd. Miami Beach, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 248 E, Flagler St., Miami, Fla.

BORN: June 28, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Ira W,. Shapira, Lena Wroff,

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

marriepD: Barbara Hyman, March 5, 1939, Newark, N. I CHILDREN: Linda,
March 30, 1940; Iris-Beth, Feb. 14, 1943.

OCCUPATION: President, general manager, United Shirt Distributors, Inc,
of Florida, chain of men’s apparel stores (retail).

AFTER three mediocre years at Cambridge I was fitted for ex-
actly nothing in the business world. I floundered around from
one field to another with very little in the way of accomplish-
ment to boast about. For four years I managed a small theatrical
hotel in Boston, The Metropolitan by name. That was good sport
at least, and much more enjoyable than deer hunting in the Maine
woods. However, the financial gain was negligible and when the
big bust of 1929 settled down to a sustained depression, I finally
decided to try something that had the outward appearance at
least of offering a more lucrative future, Shortly after I left the
hotel industry, that business started to boom. I never have been
able to know for sure whether or not my leaving the hotel busi-
ness had anything to do with its sudden upsurge.

My next venture took me to New York City where I inter-
ested myself in a small neon sign company. My results here were
equally brilliant as those in the hotel business, but instead of
catering to pretty show girls, my work brought me in touch
only with drug store and grocery store proprietors. The finan-
cial compensation was so poor that I came to the decision that
I must at Jeast find a more “glamorous” field. I joined a resi-
dent buying office in the ladies’ apparel field and found this more
to my liking. After a couple of years in the resident buying of-

[ 1096 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fice, I took a position as assistant merchandise manager of a retail
store in Detroit, Michigan — Russeks by name. During the five
years that I was associated with Russeks and the next nine years
in Detroit with a men’s apparel chain, I had the good fortune to
meet and marry Bobbye, who I think has “everything.” We
were blessed with two daughters and my life became complete.

In 1950 I finally tired of the cold winters in the North and
made a big decision, to uproot my little family and move to
God’s country. We moved to Miami in the summer of 1950 and
I started to open a few stores for myself. So far I have not re-
gretted the move, nor do I think it possible that I ever shall regret
it. Living in this part of the country is ideal, probably the closest
thing to Heaven that I shall ever enjoy.

DAVID COLLINS SHAW

HOME ApprEss: Gold Beach, Ore.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shaw, Starkweather & Taylor, Gold Beach, Ore.

BORN: Feb. 4, 1908, Cambridge, Ohio. Parents: William Boyce Shaw, Mary
Elizabeth Hammond.

PREPARED AT: North High School, Columbus, Ohio. ~

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LLB. 1933-

MaRRIED: Henrietta Catherine Wickes, Feb. 15, 1936, Baltimore, Md. crt:
Joseph Wickes, June 1, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Boyce Shaw, LL.B., '24.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; rancher.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Gold Beach High School Board; member board of
directors, Coos-Curry Electric Cooperative, Inc.; city attorney, Gold
Beach; former assistant general counsel, National Labor Relations
Board.

MEMBER OF: Oregon State Bar Association; American Bar Association;
American Judicature Society; Lodge 1689, BP.O.E.

PuBLICATIONS: Articles in Oregon Law Review.

FROM College I went to teaching in a boys’ school for a year.
Then I returned to Cambridge for three years at the Law School.
Here I took my degree in 1933 and went immediately to Chicago.
Then I went to Washington with the Interior Department and
later with the National Labor Relations Board. Here, except
for the war years, most of my time was spent as a trial lawyer.
My first assignment was in St. Louis, a city of wonderful people

[ 1097 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

me well, to the effect that it was a good thing for the country
that I had been beaten. I don’t know about the country, but I
know it was a good thing for me.

My wife, a Bryn Mawr graduate, has patiently gone along
with this wild career of mine. But Gold Beach was a little too
much for her for a while. Then she bought a newspaper —a
weekly. Now she is having more fun and doing better writing
than I have seen in any weekly anywhere. It’s hard work but
she loves it and, what is more, she’s making it pay.

I have a feeling that I have been missing much of the tension
of our times out here. The local newspapers and the radio do
tell me what goes on. The New Yorker and the Manchester
Guardian give me some urbanity and perspective. But the details
of terror, intolerance, mass hysteria, and the mounting evidence
of the failure of reason to govern men’s actions — all these have
little impact on me. My guess is that there is no opportunity for
fame or fortune here. But there is for contemplation. And if I
keep looking at the Pacific, as did stout Cortez (as Keats wrongly
put it), I can at least feel like some watcher of the skies when
a new planet swims into my ken. And who knows? Maybe one
will.

+ GORDON HUTCHINS SHAW

BORN: Feb. 3, 1905, Concord, Mass. parents: Walter Keith Shaw, Mary
Groom Hutchins.

PrepareD AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926,

pizp: March 10, 1926, Brookline, Mass.

SHAW’S death occurred during our freshman year. He was the
brother of Walter K. Shaw, Jr., ’22.

FREDERICK VINCENT SHEARD

HOME aporess: 7 Tanager St., Arlington 74, Mass.

orrice apparss: Jack C. O'Connor, 80 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.

worn: Aug. 2, 1907, Providence, R. I, parents: Thomas Sheard, Agnes
Hall

parpanep aT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass.

[ 1100 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. .

MarRiED: Jane C. Armstrong, Jan. 2, 1943, Cambridge, Mass. cuiLpren:
Nancy Jane, July 23, 1944; Frederick William, Oct. 29, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Comptroller, general agency, health, accident, and life in-
surance,

MEMBER OF: Masons.

THE state of my finances was so sad in June, 1927, that I re-
marked to some friends that I should have to go to work even
if only for a short time to raise some money. Through those
friends I got on with a new casualty insurance company and I
have been in that field ever since. I originally intended to return
to Harvard for my degree but my temporary work apparently
became permanent. In June of 1942 after working for three
different employers I accepted a commission of first lieutenant
with the Air Force as an administrative officer. I spent three
and one-half years at Chanute Field and was separated as a major
— enough said. Upon my separation from the service I returned
to the insurance field and am now comptroller with the local
general agent for the Mutual and United of Omaha.

_ Since I have never earned or had a great deal of money I
guess I am not smart enough to make a mark on those things on
which one makes a mark. I am spending my time raising what I
think are two exceptional children and attempting with the as-
sistance of my wife to renovate and redecorate an older type
house of mixed architecture. I am trying my hand at teaching
Sunday School to a group of ten-year-old boys and also heading
the Property Committee of the Park Avenue Congregational
Church in Arlington. I am also a member of the Air Force Re-
serve. I find that I do not apparently need a great deal of money
to enjoy living as a grass-roots unspectacular John Q. Citizen.

WILLIAM LEONARD SHEARER, III

HOME apprEss: Mountain Road, Jaffrey, N. H.

OFFICE apprEss: 81 Arlington St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: June 24, 1906, Swampscott, Mass. PARENTS: William Leonard Shearer,
Jr., Elsie Bailey Clark.

PREPARED aT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Rosamond Holton, Sept. 6, 1932, Swampscott, Mass. (divorced

f rro1 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

1946); Constance Murphy Redlon, Dec. 27, 1946, Portsmouth, N. H.

CHILDREN: Daniel Holton, Sept. 4, 1937; Michael Kristie Redlon, Dee.

22, 1944 (adopted stepson); Jonathan Clark, Oct. 28, 1947.
occupaTion: President, Paine Furniture Company, retail furniture.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Back Bay Association, Inc.;
member, Governing Council, Retail Trade Board; member, Commi-
tee on Conventions and Visitors, Greater Boston Chamber of Com
merce; member, Monadnock Community Hospital Corporation, mem-
ber, Board of Overseers, Old Sturbridge Village.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity Club; Boston Club
of the Harvard Business School Association; Brookline Country Club,
Peterborough Golf Club; Thorndike Club; Siberian Husky Club of
America; New England Sled Dog Club; Union Boat Club; University
Club.

SINCE graduating from College I have been associated with the
Paine Furniture Company and, by voting for myself, have been
president for the past seven years.

My only claim to differentiation has been my hobby of racing
sled dogs. Although I won’t admit it, this to some extent has
governed my way of life and I have finally ostracized myself and
family (and noisy Siberians) far from my former urban habitat to
the wilds of southern New Hampshire. Now, having reached
a certain state of perfection in the art of sled dog driving, par-
ticularly insofar as dogs, locale, etc., are concerned, I find that
the necessary physical attributes of the driver, himself, have gone
beyond recall; and — as ever — age must give way to youth and
to eating dust, or whatever sled dog drivers eat, when they can't
go that fast any more. It has been said that the prerequisites for
all sled dog drivers are to have no teeth (why, I don’t know) and
to have an I-Q only slightly above that of the lead dog, but there
should be added to these at least one pair of limber and well-
muscled legs!

I was in the Ordnance Department and the Army Air Force
during the war and, for two years, was stationed at small Arctic
weather stations on Baffin Island and the Canadian Northwest
territories. Later I was in charge of the search and rescue section
at Presque Isle, Maine, and was attached to the Third Army in
the European Theatre.

[ 1102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM MAURICE SHEEHAN

HOME ADDRESS: qt Fenwick Ave. Montreal West, P. Q., Canada.

OFFIce AporEss: International Air Transport Association, Montreal, P, Q.,
Canada.

BoaN: June 2, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: William Maurice Sheehan,
Mae Erta Clark.

parpanen at: Barringer High School, Newark, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B4 1929; LL.B. 1932.

marrizp: Rhoda Wheeler, Feb. 11, 1938. cHitpren: Eileen, Dec. 29, 1944;
Stafford, April 6, 1946; William, Aug. 6, 1947; Marion, March 21, 1952.

occupPaTION: Air transportation, lawyer.

MEMBER OF: New York and Korea Bar Associations; Reserve Officers Associa-
tion; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on air transportation in Harpers, American
Aviation, Harvard Law Review, Southwestern Law Review, Journal
of Air Law © Commerce.

PROBABLY the most noteworthy aspect of my postgraduate
activities has been the seeming inability to stay put.

After graduating from Law School I made a determined effort
to take root in the precipitous canyons of lower Manhattan.
Five years of general practice, however, proved that I was not
cut out for anything so sedentary as normal legal pursuits. Then,
in 1937, two events of importance occurred. One was alliance
with Rhoda Wheeler (of Harvard descent), by means of which
a fairly fruitful attack on the allegedly low fecundity rates of
Vassar and Harvard graduates has been maintained. The other,
for which ex-aviator Hank Lloyd can claim some responsibility,
was the decision to seek livelihood in the field of air transporta-
tion.

Two years of airline operations at United Airlines School
in Oakland, California, and a period of toil and sweat at Lock-
heed Aircraft Corporation’s shops in Burbank, California, as well
as some writing for trade and legal journals, led to a job with
Pan American Grace Airways surveying air freight routes and
markets in Peru, Bolivia, and Ecuador.

At the outset of World War II, I was commissioned in the
U.S. Army Air Force and promptly sent back to South America
to survey new air supply routes through the interior of Colombia
and Venezuela to the “Hump” of Brazil. Collapse of German
military efforts in Africa resulted in abandonment of the Amazon

[ 1103 ]

- HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

project and my reassignment to air transport activities in Wash-
ington, Brownsville, and Presque Isle, Maine. Thereafter, in
preparation for service in the Far East, I was the fortunate bene-
ficiary of intensive training in Japanese and oriental culture at
the Universities of Virginia and Yale. Despite all the disparage-
ment one hears, Yale isn’t so bad after all — it is almost as civil-
ized as Harvard. Occupation in Japan and Korea was well worth
the sacrifice of being released from active duty a year late. We
have much to learn from those older civilizations.

Since the war I have had the job of legal adviser to the Traffic
Conferences of the International Air Transport Association. The
latter, comprised of virtually all the scheduled international air-
lines, has offices in Montreal (where the Sheehans thrive), New
York, London, Paris, and Singapore and is charged with agreeing
air fares, rates, and traffic practices throughout the world. It
does this through conferences held periodically at such far-flung
places as New York, Buenos Aires, Rio, Mexico City, Bermuda,
Honolulu, Madrid, Paris, Rome, Nice, Cannes, Cairo, Athens,
and Sydney. The job is strenuous and not particularly suited
to family life. But it does help one to get around, to see that
peoples the world over are more alike than unalike, and to main-
tain a faith that some time, before our Fiftieth, please God, a
single, effective world government will ensure to us and to our
children a decent, lasting world peace.

OLIVER NATHAN SHERBURNE

HOME ADDRESS: 629 Slattery Blvd., Shreveport, La.

OFFICE aDpREsS: Aero Drive, Shreveport, La.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1908, Weston, Mass. PARENTs: Nathan Barker Sherburne,
Marion Edith Thompson.

PREPARED AT: Weston High School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

MarriepD: Catherine Eleanor Clemons, Aug. 14, 1930, Melrose, Mass. cHt-
DREN: Dawn, Jan. 15, 1933; Carol, Aug. 29, 1936.

OccuPATION: Office manager, Bird & Son, manufacturers of asphalt roofing

products.
OFFices HELD: President, Shreveport Wholesale Credit Men’s Association,

1950, Shreveport Fellowship Club, 1953.
[ 1104]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

meMBER OF: Shreveport Fellowship Club, Shreveport Wholesale Credit
Men's Association, Shreveport Chamber of Commerce; Caddo Lodge
179, F. & A.M; St. Mark’s Laymen's League (Episcopal).

THE life of an accountant and office manager, which I have pur-
sued since 1928, does not lend itself to glamor or “dangerous
living,” though perhaps it is not as prosaic as one might think.
My career began very quietly back in Boston and today I find
myself 1,800 miles away, in the promising and growing Mid-
south city of Shreveport, Louisiana. In the twenty-five years
which have passed between these two opposite geographical lo-
cations, I have survived war and peace, depression and inflation,
bachelorhood and marriage, Hoover, Roosevelt, and Truman. I
am no longer a Yankee Republican but now a Southern States
Rights Democrat, voting as I please. My Harvard accent has
disappeared and is replaced with a smattering of southern drawl
and country idiom. In between times I have acquired a charm-
ing wife, Kay, and two lovely daughters, Dawn and Carol, now
twenty and seventeen years old respectively, This year of 1953
finds both of them at Louisiana State University, one a senior
and the younger a freshman, both majoring in education. This
leaves Mother and Dad alone in a seven-room cottage with only
a mortgage for company, and the mortgage is getting bigger in-
stead of smaller as the combined result of the cost of higher edu-
cation and flowering inflation.

I was too young for World War I and too old for number two.
About the Korean situation all I do is worry and criticize the
government for not finding a solution. My sole souvenir of all
three conflagrations is an air warden’s arm band.

You will not find our names in the Social Register. We are
simple suburban people with lots of friends. Golf, bridge, fishing,
and just “visiting” round out our social activities. We lead the
simple life. Dreams of travel and adventure arise before us but
are shunted aside until the education of the children is com-
pleted. Then we hope — but who knows what tomorrow holds
except promise?

[ 1105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

GEORGE HAROLD SHOEMAKER

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Stratford Pl., Apt. 407, Newark 8, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 614 Frelinghuysen Ave., Newark, N. J.

BorN: Aug. 27, 1901, Jersey City, N. J. parents: George K. Shoemaker,
Matilda Ann Burhans.

PREPARED AT: Kingston High School, Kingston, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

marrieD: Hilda Heine, April 23, 1927, Brooklyn, N. Y. cup: George
Harold, Jr, Aug. 19, 1928.

occuPaTION: Division chief in charge of Physical Research Laboratory,
Weston Electrical Instrument Corporation.

PUBLICATIONS: Patents on photoelectric cells and rectifiers.

I FIND it difficult to draw the line between school and my life’s
work. From the time I left dear old Harvard until now, I have
spent all my time in research laboratories. As a matter of fact,
I'd be very unhappy if I were not in a laboratory. Although I
was a physics major, most of my life has been spent in Selenium
chemistry and I have been associated with both Selenium recti-
fiers and photocells for many years.

My greatest weakness, outside of my work, is the piano and
when I am not stirring solutions, I play the piano in night clubs;
an unusual combination — however, I find it most relaxing and
pleasant. I still haven’t decided what I shall do in my old age
but I have been thinking seriously of having a chicken farm with
plenty of time to relax, reminisce, and renew my youth with
fond memories of school days. My son has been in the service
for one and a half years.

SAMUEL SHWARTZ

HOME ApprEss: 3849 Beecher St., N. W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1912 R St., N. W., Washington 8, D.C.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Philip Shwartz, Jennie Gernitzky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGB: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; A.M., 1930;
m.p. (Washington Univ.), 1934.

Marriep: L. Rella Resnick, Feb. 21, 1936, New York, N. Y. crrmopren:
Michael, Nov. 4, 1943; Emily Gerson, March 13, 1947.

OccuPATION: Physician, private practice as pediatrician.

[ 1106 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

*¢ OFFICES HELD: Consultant in Pediatrics, Bureau of Maternal and Child Health,
District of Columbia Department of Public Health.
MEMBER OF: Medical Society of District of Columbia; American Medical
Association; American Academy of Pediatrics.
PUBLICATIONS: “Report of a Survey of Maternity and Newborn Nursery
Care in Hospitals of the District of Columbia,” 1952; “Report of a
Survey of Hospital Care for Children in the District of Columbia,”

1953+

THE process of becoming a pediatrician occupied nine years of
my life after leaving College, in the course of which I accumu-
lated a number of debts and acquired a wife. The latter ac-
counted for my going into private practice in Washington, D.C.,
since she had a job there and an income from it, and I had neither
a job nor an income. |

Some years later we could afford a son, whom I saw briefly
before going off to the wars and an unplanned tour of Europe at
Uncle Sam’s expense. Like all tours at somebody else’s expense I
never got to see the places I wanted to see, but did have ample
time to reflect on my singular lack of success in influencing par-
ents’ attitudes towards their children. I decided to do something
about that on my return.

Getting back into civilian life was kind of rough. There was
the matter of getting started again in practice. There was the
arrival of a daughter. There was the study of psychiatry and
psychoanalysis on the side. The latter started out as a casual
venture and grew to be a long term proposition. I now under-
stand why people get dyspepsia, ulcers, colitis, and a variety of
other peculiarly human ills. In my present capacity as consult-
ant in pediatrics in the Bureau of Maternal and Child Health
of the District of Columbia, Department of Public Health, I
fully expect to join the ranks of the afflicted.

I gave up religion when I came of age. I gave up politics when
I moved to Washington. I lost my good humor when I joined
the Health Department. I fear I am becoming a dyspeptic old
man, and for some peculiar reason I seem to be enjoying it. At
least I was enjoying it before the barrage of poignant weckly
reminders from brother John.

[ 1107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MINOR LEO SIBERT

HOME apprEss: 4245 Eighth Ave., Los Angeles, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60g0 W. Jefferson Blvd., Los Angeles 16, Calif.

BORN: May 5, 1906, Uniopolis, Ohio. parents: Samuel Henry Sibert, Ella
Glendora Focht.

PREPARED AT: Wapakoneta High School, Wapakoneta, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

marrieD: Lucille Fern Barto Sutterfield, Oct. 1, 1951, Reno, Nev. cymp:
Eugene Sutterfield, June 6, 1935 (stepchild).

occupation: Engineering, research and development, Coleman Engineering
Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, treasurer, General Administration, Contract
and Financial Administration. |

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California.

THE past quarter of a century! It began with a year’s con-
valescence in southern Arizona and three years of travelling
through the western states as a salesman in order to regain my
health. In 1934 I re-entered the hotel business in southern Calif-
ornia and spent the next seven years catering to the whims of
the travelling public lured there by the Los Angeles Chamber of
Commerce. |

War clouds and the Martian Hosts! When Uncle Sam turned
down my application because he evidently preferred better phy-
sical specimens, I attached myself to the aircraft industry in
southern California and for the duration and on until 1950 helped
build the machines of war. The work was interesting but the
industrial giants too big for real personal happiness. Other kin-
dred spirits had the same outlook, so in 1950 we formed a small
engineering research and development company to provide a
modus operandi for these and other like spirits. We continue to
build machines of war, but we have derived a great amount of
personal satisfaction from creating an industrial environment
wherein brilliant engineers and others can find personal happi-
ness while earning a living. Incidentally, in 1951 I joined the
ranks of the benedicts — it was about time — and now, as this
is written, my son, by acquisition, proudly wears the PFC
stripes of a Marine just recently graduated from “Boot Camp.”

[ 1108 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERIC CONKLING SIDNEY

HOME ADDRESS: 2200 Main St. Glastonbury, Conn, (P.O. South Glaston-
bury).

OFFICE AppRESS: Installation Engineering Laboratory, United Aircraft, East
Hartford, Conn,

poan: Dec. 7, 1906, Wakefield, Mass. parents: Frederic Holbrook Sidney,
Luella Maybelle Conkling.

preparep aT: Wakefield High School, Wakefield, Mass.; Huntington School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: A.B. 1929; LL.B. (Univ. of Connecti-
cut), 1947.

MarRieD: Gladys Elizabeth Johnson, Dec. 1, 1924, Baldwinville, Mass. cum
DREN: Ruth Conkling, July 12, 1926 (mm. Barrett L. Weston); Frederic
Conkling, Jr., May 19, 1929 (married); Charmian; Robert. cranpcuit-
DREN: Barry L. Weston; Robert S. Weston; Terry Weston; Sue Wes-
ton; Cheryl Sidney,

occuPaTION: Laboratory and field project engineer, airplane engine installa-
tion test operations.

NUMEROUS Class Life forms and Mr. Hutchinson's “goads”
have been shadowing me from the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of
St. Lawrence, and I had successfully eluded them until “Swan
Song,” or Goad No. 5, brought tears to my eyes. I don’t know
why, but the last event of a series of anything — good or bad,
significant or insignificant (such as my “Life”) — fills me with
sorrow at its passing. So if a ghost writer wishes to interpolate,
here is a naked outline of my activities and interests since 1929:

Public high school teacher, Massachusetts and Connecticut.

Law study, Hartford College of Law (LL.B., University of
Connecticut, 1947).

Casualty and surety claims — adjuster to Claims Office; man-
ager, AEtna Life and affiliated companies, Connecticut.

Engineering study, Hillyer College and University of Connecti-
cut.

Aeronautical engineering, specializing in vibration and sound
testing of power plant installations from guided missiles to jets
and prop jets.

War activity —the prisoner of United Aircraft.

Travels — continental.

Hobbies — climbing, forest culture, dog trial judging, reading,
piano, and oh yes! procreating grandchildren.

[1109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Convictions — no sound social, political, or religious convic-
tions, I’m sure; also no criminal convictions to date.

I enjoyed my stay at Harvard and look forward to reading of
the more significant achievements of my classmates. My sincere
apologies go to Mr. Hutchinson for those of us who have made
his job difficult.

MELVIN HIRSCH SIEGEL

HOME ADDRESS: 2506 Sheridan Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1036 Andrus Bldg., Minneapolis 2, Minn.

BoRN: March 23, 1909, St. Paul, Minn. PARENTs: Elias Siegel, Evelyn Aaron-
sohn.

prepareD aT: Central High School, Superior, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B, summa cum laude, 1929; LL.B.
magna cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Caroline Cummings, Oct. 12, 1934, Washington, D. Cc. CHILD;
Ellen R., June 13, 1945.

occuPaATiION: Lawyer, member of firm, Leonard, Street & Deinard. -

OFFICES HELD: Law Secretary to Mr. Justice Cardozo, October term, Supreme
Court, 1932; assistant solicitor, Interior Department, 1933-34; attorney,
assistant general counsel, Tennessee Valley Authority, 1934-39; chief,
Supreme Court Section, Claims Division, Department of Justice, 1939-
42; counsel, Imports Division, F.E.A. and predecessor agencies, general
counsel, U. S. Purchasing Co. Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 1942-43; member,
Justice Jackson’s staff for War Crimes Trial, Nuremberg, Germany,
1945; special assistant to attorney general, Department of Justice, 1946.

IN the winter of 1950, after eighteen years in the government
service, I entered the private practice of law in Minneapolis,
Minnesota, as a member of the firm of Leonard, Street & Deinard.
Minneapolis is an attractive city, and, to one removed from the
Fast, affords some pleasant surprises: the physical environs for one
— ample living space with a pleasant prospect of lakes and parks
only minutes from the business center of the city, and in the near
vicinity a variety of Jakes and wilderness to the north, lush and
gently rolling countryside to the south and east, and OJ’ Man
River rolling to the sea; the cultural level of the community for
another —an enlightened university (the best, I think in the
Middle West), a first-rate symphony orchestra, and a more active
interest in the arts than is to be found anywhere in the United

[1110]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

States outside of New York and San Francisco. The winters, of
course, are often long and cold, but a month in the south pro-
vides a welcome break.

Professionally, the advantages of the change are perhaps more
debatable. The year with Justice Cardozo, those with the TVA
in its formative period, the assignments in Rio de Janeiro and in
Nuremberg, as well as the more extended tour of duty in the
Department of Justice, were among the most satisfying experi-
ences of my professional life. The rewards of private practice
are of quite a different order, depending in part on the amounts
at stake and the extent to which a maze of conflicting doctrine
may, with more or less ingenuity, be made to serve a particular
client’s immediate interests. Still, if the aims are more limited,
the professional discipline is no less exacting — and the opportu-
nity for providing the minimal luxuries essential to family con-
tentment is, of course, considerably greater.

MARK SILVERSTEIN

HOME aApprEss: 7840 Hawthorne Ave., Miami Beach, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 420 Lincoln Rd., Miami Beach 39, Fla.

BoRN: Aug. 14, 1906, Malden, Mass. parents: Morris Silverstein, Rebecca
Sherman.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Ida Jacobson, Nov. 20, 1932, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Alan, June 13,
1938.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, North Shore Lodge of Miami Beach, B’nai B'rith
No. 1744, 1949-50; member Board of Directors, Miami Beach Bar
Association, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Miami Beach Bar Association; Harvard Club of Miami; Florida
Bar Association; Massachusetts Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Article on Florida Mechanics’ Lien Law, Miami Law Quar-
terly, June, 1953.

FROM college, I went to Harvard Law School and was gradu-
ated with an LL.B. in 1932. That same year I got married, passed
the Massachusetts Bar examination, and began to practise law in
Boston, Massachusetts. I still have the same wife but I have
changed the scene of my law practice to Florida.

[rr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

I seem to have developed a talent for “just missing the boat,”
as witness the following chain of events: 1. In my college gradu-
ation year our country entered the depression era and by 1932,
when I began to practise law, the depression had hit rock bottom.
2. I struggled along in the legal profession until April, 1937, and
then decided to leave my private practice to become corporation
counsel for an ice cream distributing corporation. Three months
later, a lawyer for whom I had been handling the overflow busi-
ness became the court-appointed receiver of a ten-million-dollar
company, and I was unable to participate. 3. In Massachusetts,
where the governor of the Commonwealth appoints the judges
to a life-time position, a man whom I knew quite well and who
would probably have considered me for a judgeship ran for the
office of governor of Massachusetts and was defeated by about
six thousand votes. 4. I was slated for the position as one of
the assistant corporation counsels of the City of Boston, but the
chief corporation counsel who was to appoint me went to Wash-
ington, D.C., to help in the defense of a prominent government
official, and after waiting in vain for several months for him to
return to Boston, I decided to move to the lucrative fields of
Miami Beach, Florida. 5. I took the Florida bar examination and
passed it in November, 1946, but by the time I could get estab-
lished in the community the big legal fees were becoming scarcer.
6. After I had moved to Florida, and became a member of the
Florida bar, my friend who had previously just missed getting
elected governor of Massachusetts (while I was still living in Bos-
ton) was elected governor, but now I was not eligible for appoint-
ment to a judgeship in Massachusetts.

Despite continually “just missing the boat” I have no regrets,
although I often wonder where I would now be had I caught one
of the boats.

The weight of the evidence proves that I am growing older.
At first, the young lawyers called me “Mark”; then they called
me “Silverstein”; now they address me as “Mr. Silverstein”; also,
I find myself eager to “advise” young lawyers, and I have a de-
sire to go back to the Law School to address the graduating
class on what to expect from the practice of law. My fifteen-
year-old son offers to help me across the street to protect me

[ 1112 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

from automobile traffic, and I hesitate to discuss with him the
good old days way, way back in the “twenties.” Add to this
my partial baldness and graying temples and you have the in-
disputable picture of a man getting along in years.

I might sum up my life since 1929 by saying that I am an aver-
age American citizen who has not set the world on fire but who
has tried to live and let live.

HENRY SIMON

HOME ADDRESS: 90 Boylston St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

oFrFice appress: 73~75 High St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: June 16, 1908, Brighton, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin Simon, Gertrude
Hirshon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Louise Dopkeen, June 16, 1932, Boston, Mass.

occuPATION: President, Mason Brothers & Tarlin, Inc.

SINCE graduation I’ve worked in small, privately owned busi-
nesses, first in the manufacturing of folding boxes and now in
the importing and distributing of toys and novelties. I’m a firm
believer in the joys and sorrows of being in one’s own business.

I'd rather not admit that I have no panacea for the world’s
ills, but I suspect that the solutions will be found in the direction
of less attention to techniques and more attention to people — in
an individual rather than an institutional approach.

Has any one of our literary or literate classmates speculated on
the difference between wisdom and knowledge? There ought to
be a good book on the subject. .

And what about the notion that ethical negatives may be more
humanly valid than ethical positives? Perhaps “do no harm” is
more efficacious and less difficult to follow than “do good.” It
could be that less hurt would come to us innocent bystanders.
When is it going to become an inseparable part of us that the
ends we reach are determined rigidly by the means we use?
Have you too ever wondered what is going to become our next
national neurosis? You can see that I’ve become a cynic, a skeptic
~— and quite the hearty extrovert (?, by all and sundry).

Nowadays Louise and I find ourselves more than a little willing

[rr13 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

to live the quiet life and run around much less than we used to.
Are we feeling our advancing years? Our social activities con-
sist mostly of mild bridge and of course we follow the football
team religiously — at least we have pious hopes each fall. Go thou
and do likewise, the H.A.A. still needs the money.

We're looking forward eagerly to seeing you all at the Re-
union.

JAMES SIMPSON, JR.

HOME AppREss: Stoneybroke Farm, Wadsworth, IIl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 111 W. Washington St., Chicago 2, Ill.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1905, Chicago, Ill. parents: James Simpson, Jessie McLaren.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N, H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927. ,

MarRiED: Alicia Patterson, Sept. 28, 1928, Libertyville, Ill.,; Ella deT. Snel-
ling, Jan. 15, 1931 (divorced 1940); Elisabeth Bonbright Morse, Dec. 6,
1940. CHILDREN: Sheila, Feb. 4, 1933 (#2. Robert Cassatt, Jan. 16, 1954);
Diana, July 25, 1934; Sandra, May 6, 1937; James, 3d, May 8, 1943;
Jessie, May 7, 1947; Howard, May 7, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Racquet Club; Shoreacres Club; Onwentsia Club, Sports Car
Club of America.

PAUL SINCLAIRE

HOME AbDpREsS: Box 458, Georgica Farm, East Hampton, Long Island, N. Ys
25 East End Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 23, 1904, Corning, N. Y. parents: William Sinclaire, Helen
Bostwick Walker.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

marrieD; Claire Callaway Harris, Oct. 31, 1930, New York, N. Y. (died
Jan. 9, 1935); Helen Schonwolf Hunt, March 21, 1941, Palm Beach,
Fla. cup: Ann Callaway, Nov. 19, 1932 (7. John Clifford Mathews,
April 18, 1953).

MEMBER OF: Society of Colonial Wars; Huguenot Society; Sons of the
Revolution; St. Nicholas Society; Society of the War of 1812; Racquet
& Tennis Club, New York; Metropolitan Club, New York; Turf &
Field Club, Pilgrims Society, New York; Church Club, New York;
Maidstone Club, East Hampton; Devon Yacht Club.

[1114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I HAVE travelled extensively in North, Central, and South
America; Hawaiian, Caribbean, Windward, and Leeward Islands;
Europe and British Isles; have done some color photography; in
former years, some travel in Africa. I was formerly with the
Corning Glass Works.

EDGAR LUCE SINNOTT

HOME ADDRESS: 985 Stoneridge Drive, Pasadena 2, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 639 S. Spring St. Room 715, Los Angeles 14, Calif.

Born: April 6, 1908, Villa Nova, Pa. parents: John Sinnott, Mary Henrietta
Luce.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

“YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

marrieD: Mary Swift, Aug. 27, 1947, Pasadena, Calif. cump: Edgar Luce,

Jr. May 27, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Francis Sinnott, ’28; John Sinnott, Jr., ’39.

occupation: General partner, Specialties Limited, manufacturer and dis-
tributor of plastic novelties.

MEMBER OF: Los Angeles Men’s Garden Club; Southern California Camel-
lia Society; Air Force Aid Society.

SINCE leaving Harvard I migrated to California, winding up fi-
nally in Beverly Hills (near Hollywood) and for several years
worked in and around the legitimate theatre. Finally I was one of
the founders of the Theatre Workshop which discovered such
film stars as Frank Prince and Jane Brian, then moved to Pasa-
dena and settled down to a commercial life. In 1942 I went into
the Air Corps as a private and after much travel graduated from
Officers’ Candidate School as a second lieutenant in 1943. From
then on I was sent to various posts and wound up as a captain
in Wilmington, Delaware, in 1945 and was placed on inactive
status in the Reserves in 1946.

After military service ] went with Technical Industries, a
firm which did custom plastic injection molding, and left there
to form my own company in 1952. When I got out of the serv-
ice I built a home, married, and had a son, in that order. I have
only been east once since leaving there and on that trip found out
why I live in the West.

[ r11g ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JOSHUA PATTERSON SKINNER

HOME ADDRESS: 117 N. W. 93d Sc., Miami Shores, Fla.

OFFICE aporess: The Miami Daily News, Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, Fla.

porn: Feb. 19, 1908, Augusta, Ga, parents: Charles Jones Skinner, Jr.,
Evelyn Eugenia Patterson.

PREPARED AT: Academy of Richmond County, Augusta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, 1929-1930. DEGREE; A.B. cum laude, 1929(30).

marrieD: Emily Scott Owen, Sept. 13, 1938, Walhalla, S. C.

OCCUPATION: Assistant managing editor, The Miami Daily News.

MEMBER OF: Greater Miami Professional Chapter, Sigma Delta Chi (jour-
nalistic fraternity); Harvard Club of Miami; Sigma Omicron Beta.

IN case any of you Classmates wondered what happened during
the senior year when I was not around, I found it necessary to
stay out for the 1928-1929 sessions, but returned in the fall of
1929 and succeeded in getting my degree in 1930. This makes’
me one of the Azovs— my diploma was granted in 1930 as of
1929, which makes me legally a member of the Class. Such mem-
bership has not been an asset to the Class. |

Because of my one-year delay in leaving College, I ventured
into the world several months after the great crash instead of
several months before as did many of you. This allowed me to
face a very desperate world which thought the worst had al-
ready arrived.

There having been no long line of big corporation executives
lined up at the College to grab off the year’s crop of brains, I
found it expedient to head South for my home in Augusta, Geor-
gia. Ir had not been made famous then by the Augusta National
Golf Course and Mr. Eisenhower, but I distinctly remember as a
child having my picture snapped with a Mr. Taft, who was also
a President of the United States, a golfer, and a Republican. He
had to content himself with playing the Augusta Country Club.
I was not then a member of the club. It just happened to be near
my home, and there just happened to be a hole in the fence near
one of the tees, and I just happened to go through that hole with
some other brats when the time came for taking pictures.

Nothing else momentous happened to me in Augusta until sev-
era} months after I returned from Harvard. During the several
months I had experienced some difficulty in the economic world,
i.e, I had not become attached to a payroll. Fate placed me in

[1116]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the offices of the Augusta Herald (a newspaper) on the day when
the mother of a reporter called to notify the city editor her son
had typhoid fever and would be out indefinitely. The city editor
gave me the position and a Vermonter who nursed me through
English A must have died of apoplexy over the prospect of me
making my way by attempting to write in English. I have been
at it since, although most of the time I have been in the editing
field without having to inflict my compositions on the nickle
diggers. | | | .

From Augusta I ventured to the metropolis of Atlanta, hired
myself to the Associated Press, and later graduated to the Atlanta
Constitution as managing editor. During my first year in that
position, I was sent to Miami on a convention. I made up my
mind then and there that when I retired I would come to Florida.
The wife and I discussed this, until it dawned on us that we
probably would be too old to enjoy living if we kept waiting for
Social Security. The Miami Daily News didn’t need a managing
editor, but the managing editor needed an assistant. We now
live in Miami, and have for five years. “Twas worth it.

Some of you may remember me as slightly chubby. I left
College with my five-foot-nine frame carrying about 200 pounds.
Over the years, this approached the 250 mark. Last year I got
it back to 175. I mention this only because a year of dieting
makes personal weight the most important of things, and there
still is some space on this form for something to be mentioned.
The formula I used was medically devised for me alone, and I
can’t pass it on to any of you who may be fighting the calorie
battle. The best I can offer is a size fifty white dinner jacket only
slightly used.

HARRY GEORGE SLATER

HOME apprEss: 116 Harrington Rd., Syracuse 3, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 300 Erie Blvd., W., Syracuse 2, N. Y.

BORN: May 20, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Henry George Slater, Jennie
Blotcher,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925--1929, DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1932.

MarRiED: Charlotte Moskow, Aug. 6, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Barbara

[1117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929
Joan, Feb. 19, 1937; Gerald Erwin, June 1, 1944; Harvey Michael,
April 3, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Associate general counsel, Niagara Mohawk Power Corpora-
tion.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, director, Beebee Island Corp., Watertown, N. Y.,;
member Legal Committee, Edison Electric Institute.

MEMBER OF: American and New York State Bar Associations, Onondaga
County Bar Association, Syracuse; Harvard Club of Syracuse; Lafayette
Country Club, Syracuse.

PUBLICATIONS: Decisions of Massachusetts Appellate Division (editor and
reporter), 1935-39; “Federal Eminent Domain” (co-author), published
by U. S. government, 1940; “Annotations to the Rules of the Superior
Court of Massachusetts” (editor), 1940.

FOLLOWING an intensive premedical education at Harvard,
including a chemistry major, I entered the Harvard Law School
in 1929 and, in the economic depths of 1932, the practice of law
in Boston. I remember best the trial work which came my way
and my functions as editor and reporter of the decisions of the
Massachusetts Appellate Division, but I cannot record those
earlier years as among the more progressive or interesting ones
of my last twenty-five.

In 1939 I left Boston to join a score or more of my Law
School classmates on the Washington scene, as a special assistant
to the attorney general in the Lands Division of the Department
of Justice. For a year I was concerned with the validity of ac-
quisitions of real estate by the federal government in connection
with our then rapidly expanding defense efforts. At the same
time I co-authored a manual entitled, “Federal Eminent Do-
main,” for use by United States district attorneys in the great
volume of pending and prospective condemnation litigation then
confronting the federal government. These activities were as
close as I was to get to the direct war effort for I was later re-
jected for military service for physical reasons by both the Army
and Navy.

In the latter part of 1940 I joined the legal staff of the Public
Utilities Division of the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission, and in 1945 became its chief counsel. We had some
forty lawyers concerned primarily with the administration of
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. Many will
recall the much publicized provisions of the Act imposing the

[ 1118 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“death sentence” for utility holding companies. These provi-
visions required, in brief substance, the physical integration of
holding company systems, simplification of their corporate struc-
tures, and the elimination of holding companies serving no use-
ful economic purpose. In the beginning resistance by the utility
industry to the enforcement of these provisions was most strenu-
ous. But the industry, generally, was in the dog house and there
came about a growing awareness and, soon, almost universal
recognition, that the Act afforded a means of rehabilitation not
available under state laws or otherwise. One by one the holding
company systems came into compliance through plans of re-
capitalization, merger, dissolution, or other reorganization, Each
plan was subject first to Commission approval and then to court
approval and enforcement. One by one the utility giants fell
or became meager shadows of their former sprawling greatness.

From 1945 through 1950 I represented the Commission in these
judicial proceedings wherein we sought execution of the “death
sentence.” For me, the professional experience has been invalu-
able. I appeared for the Commission in litigation in almost every
federal district and appellate court in the land. For the utility in-
dustry, the Act has provided not a death sentence but a new lease
on life. The securities of public utility companies are held in
very high esteem today in the investment world. Their recog-
nized stability has enabled the industry to finance soundly its
enormous expansion required in recent years to meet the tre-
mendously increasing power demands of America’s farms, fac-
tories, and homes.

I am very happy today to be among those who represent the
utility industry. My company is one of the country’s soundest
and largest utility operating companies, serving an area of 22,000
square miles in upstate New York. My workshop extends from
the Niagara escarpment on the west to the broad valley of the
Hudson on the east with part of the Great Lakes and Finger
Lakes, the Thousand Islands and the Adirondacks in between.
Our rates are low and the quality of our service high —so if
you’ve got a mislocated factory somewhere, don’t write to any
Chamber of Commerce — write to me!

[1119]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

HERBERT JOSEPH SLAUGHTER

HOME ADDRESS: 3636 16th St, N. W., Apt. A137, Washington ro, D.C.

orFice aporess: U. S. Dept. of the Interior, 18th and C Streets, N.W,,
Washington 25, D. C.

BorN: June 5, 1907, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: James Herbert Slaughter,
Katherine Christine Powers.

PREPARED AT: Lower Merion High School, Ardmore, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LL.B. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1932.

MARRIED: Eleanor Elizabeth Athey, Aug. 26, 1939, Warrenton, Va. (divorced
1949); Rita Margaret Moreland, Oct. 6, 1952, Arlington, Va.

occupation: Lawyer, assistant solicitor (chief, Reference Division, Office
of Legislative Counsel), United States Department of the Interior.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Subcommittee on Law and Legislation, Cen-
tral Housing Committee, 1936-38; associate editor, Federal Bar Journal,
1944-46, member Committee on Hard Minerals, Section of Mineral
Law, American Bar Association, 1950-52; member Committee on Nat-
ural Resources and Interior Affairs, Section of Administrative Law,
American Bar Association, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Federal Bar Association; American
Society of International Law; Academy of Political Science; National
Trust for Historic Preservation; Historical Society of Pennsylvania;
Corcoran Gallery of Art; Harvard Club of Washington; Harvard Club
of Philadelphia, University Club of Washington; University of Penn-
sylvania Club of Washington, Old Dominion Boat Club.

PuBLicaTIoNs: Various articles on legal subjects in professional journals and
law reviews; contributions to Selected Essays on Constitutional Law.

AFTER graduation from Harvard I made a tour of Europe and
then entered the University of Pennsylvania Law School, obtain-
ing my LL.B. in 1932. For the following academic year my time
was devoted to research in administrative law, and to some teach-
ing of law, as Gowen Memorial Fellow at the University of
Pennsylvania. In June, 1933, I entered the service of the United
States as an attorney for the Farm Credit Administration at
Washington. The ensuing five and one-half years were spent in
handling a varicty of legal problems for that agency, principally
in connection with its farm mortgage loan business. In Decem-
ber, 1938, I transferred to the Department of the Interior, be-
coming assistant solicitor, with responsibilities chiefly in the
ficld of Icgislative liaison.

Since that time my work has been concerned primarily with
the legal and policy aspects of the highly diversified legislative

[1120]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

activities of the Department of the Interior. Each year the de-
partment is called upon by the committees of the Congress to
submit detailed reports and recommendations on hundreds of
pending bills; in addition to responding to these requests, the
department frequently submits drafts of proposed legislation to the
Congress on its own initiative. In June, 1943, I was placed in
charge of the preparation of all of these legislative reports and
proposals, and still continue, notwithstanding recent reorganiza-
tions, to perform that duty.

The writing of federal legislation and the support or opposi-
tion of bills before Congressional committees have proved to be
a vitally interesting way of earning a living. Read in the light
of experience with political techniques and methods, even the
Congressional Record, that ostensibly driest of publications, be-
comes a naively sensational account of the movements and, quite
as important, the personalities that turn the wheels of the federal
legislative machine. Perhaps some day I’ll turn literary and do a
history, say, of the 80th Congress.

Vacation time usually takes me out of Washington for some
amateur exploration of the pioneer trails, ghost towns, Indian
villages, mining camps, and blood-and-thunder battlegrounds of
the once wild and wooly West. To a minor extent, I have also
engaged in such customary Harvard graduate vices as philately,
golf, yachting, and civic activities.

Notwithstanding, or perchance because of, a generally seden-
tary life, I am still reasonably sound of wind and limb, as the
horse traders would say. My waist-line has expanded substan-
tially since graduation, but my scalp still hides beneath its thick
dark thatch as of yore. An inveterate addiction to reading —
which some of you will recall includes matters on the index
expurgatorius as well as the more highbrow stuff — has brought
me down to the point of wearing glasses when so engaged, but
otherwise seems to have had no evil consequences.

My first voyage on the matrimonial sea, undertaken in 1939,
turned out to be unsuccessful. A second, and very happy one,
began in October, 1952. While no prospective candidates for
Harvard or Radcliffe toddle around our home, I am, at long last.
a contented Benedict.

[r120]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JOSEPH BIRCH SLENSBY

HOME AppREsS: 67 Hilton Ave. Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 61 Hilton Ave., Garden City, Long Island, N, Y.

BoRN: Jan. 18, 1906, Richmond Hill, Long Island, N. Y. Parents: Joseph
Pickett Slensby, Flossie May Birch.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930, DEGREES: $.B., 1929(30); LL.B. (Brooklyn Law
School), 1937.

marrieD: Ann A. Ruwe, Aug. 27, 1949, New Rochelle, N. ¥. cumop: Jac-
queline R, Nov. 5, 1950.

occuPaTiON: General contractor; real estate lawyer; realtor.

OFFICES HELD: President, Birch Building Corporation, Garden City, since
1946; termination clearance supervisor, Sperry Gyroscope Corpora-
tion, Lake Success, N. Y., 1943-45; director of procurement, Cherokee
Ordnance Works, Danville, Pa., 1941-43; member Disaster Committee,
American Red Cross.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Long Island and New York; Cornell En-
gineers Club of Long Island; Alpha Chi Rho; Garden City Republi-
can Club; Nassau County Bar Association. —

THOSE of you who will make the greatest successes in life are
the ones who will make the greatest number of correct guesses
which will necessarily be based upon insufficient information” —
or words to that effect — were spoken by our President Lowell
during our senior year. He was speaking of both tangible and
intangible goals, and he was trying to explain that Harvard had
its part in preparing us to handle the elements of this truism. Try
to invest in the stock market, to decide on taking your raincoat
to work, to buy a house, or to pick a wife! You see what he
meant, fellows — Prexy really had something!

Well, these twenty-five years have, it is hoped, seen me make
nearly as many good as bad guesses, but the bad ones have been
whoppers. Successes have been modest, and it becomes more
clear each year that our Haravrd education is something of which
adversity cannot deprive us. Also, there is always a good lesson
to be salvaged out of failures and disappointments; in this atti-
tude there does lie progress. This leads to the status of my reli-
gious convictions, to wit: still a Congregationalist but sometimes
believe like a Unitarian; can’t make up my mind whether there is
a hereafter except in our children and in the influence of our
good works — and this, it is recalled, was an undecided subject

[ rr22 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in many a bull session in the Yard dormitories. It becomes ap-
parent, though, that our Sunday school admonition to “turn the
other cheek” cannot be followed without exception, for there
are plenty of plants, animals, children of six, and children of six
who at one time or other require the application of the foot or
the paddle. And this leads to the present status of my political
convictions, and a new paragraph. .

Politically, it seems that throughout the nation the men of our
Class were, then in 1929, at the end of an era where education
was pretty much an exposure to laissez-faire thinking, To have
this thinking return would be good; for the enervating, govern-
ment paternalism that we have had — this exchange of freedom
for security — at least up to 1952, does not build the character
necessary for us to continue to be either happy as individuals or
virile as a nation. History will show that the greatest political
blunder of our times was the withdrawal of our support of Na-
tionalist China during the Democrat marathon, Let us hope that,
as a consequence of freedom of education, Communism and the
atom and hydrogen bombs will all become so distasteful to man-
kind that they will all be universally rejected.

In a lighter vein, my social convictions tend to recognize that
those in a position to give somebody a break usually give it first
to the one most likely to return the favor, or if he isn’t available,
then to a friend because he is the next one most likely to return
the favor. However, there are still many who cast their bread
upon the waters with Biblical intent; the trouble is, there are not
enough of them. Our churches and institutions of learning must
keep ahead of this observable cynicism.

Businesswise, it seems that with me a hybrid type of activity
has developed which combines construction, law, and real estate.
It all started when summer vacations from College were spent
in a surveyor’s field party. After graduation there was a job with
a construction company until operations were stopped by the
great depression. During that gloomy period there ensued the
study of law together with the management and sale of fore-
closed properties as receiver for the court. Upon my admittance

to the bar, there followed the practice of real estate Jaw, which
eventually led to the war years and an acquaintance with ma-
terials priorities. This led to my first government service job

[1123]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

which was as director of procurement for the construction of a
war plant in Pennsylvania. The introductory part of this biog-
raphy hits the high spots of my business ventures from that
point on; I have had my own law practice on Long Island since
1946. Also, it will show that marriage with me was not as early
as with most of you fellows, but a nice little daughter has come
along quite promptly, so you see, the accompanying photo isn’t
wholly flattery.

In closing, will the editor please not delete the following: three
rousing cheers for our Report Chairman, Jack Hutchinson. In-
numerable goading communications of one kind or another have
been forthcoming from him urging the submission of this biog-
raphy. These too have become an appreciated and unforgettable
part of my twenty-five years of being a Harvard alumnus.

AUSTIN SMITH

HOME AND OFFICE ApprEsS: Felton Street, Peabody, Mass. —

Born: April 19, 1907, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: William Austin Smith, '95,
Annie Breed.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1920.

MARRIED: Eleanor Frothingham, Oct. 29, 1931, Boston, Mass,

OCCUPATION: Fruit farmer.

oFFIces HELD: Trustee, Forsyth Dental Infirmary for Children.

MEMBER OF: St. Botolph Club.

AFTER graduation from College and a year at Law School, |

entered business, rubber manufacturing — which I followed un-

til 1953. As a side line I had been operating a fruit farm, which

I found took more and more of my time and money and in-

terest. As a result, I am now devoting my time and energies to

this unprofitable but otherwise absorbing pursuit. As the typical

liberal clergyman’s son, I am a conservative Episcopalian and a

standpat Republican. I am not planning or working for any

political, social, or economic changes as I like what we have now.

FRANK GROSVENOR SMITH

tome aporess; 63 Harrison Drive, Larchmont, N. Y.
ovvice anoanss: 570 Seventh Ave. New York 18, N. Y.

[1124]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Jan. 19, 1906, Worcester, Mass. parents: Frank Bulkeley Smith, '86,
Nancey Hacker Earle.

PREPARED aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

Maarrigp: Catherine S, Ashbrook, 1928, Wilmington, ‘Del. (divorced 1932);
Emily Tybout duPont, Sept. 29, 1933, Wilmington, Del. (divorced
1940); Mary Virginia Mersfelder, 1945, New York, N. Y. cempren:
Frank Bulkeley, Dec. 21, 1929; Elizabeth Everett, Oct. 4, 1935; Prudence,
July 23, 1946; Patience, July 29, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Bulkeley Smith, ’13; Willard Smith, ’14 (deceased); Earle
Smith, ’20 (deceased).

occuPATION: District manager in charge sales and operations, American
Locker Company, Inc., automatic parcel checking lockers.

MY first attempt at earning a living involved me in the invest-
ment business in Philadelphia. I found myself an unwilling, but
active, participant in the dark days of ’29.

In the hope of establishing myself in a pleasanter way of
life, [ moved to Wilmington, Delaware, late in 1930 and talked
my way into an inspector's job at the Pusey & Jones Shipyard.
There were three (3) very large diesel yachts abuilding there,
replete with tile baths and gold plated hardware. My hours of
work were abominable, but I enjoyed them tremendously. It’s
fascinating to watch a ship grow from keel to masthead —to
live with her, to launch her and feel her come alive. In 1933, the
yard’s contracts which by then included an oil tanker or two,
and a covey of harbor tugs, were completed and my days in the
shipyard ended.

I had always wanted to go into business for myself and now
seemed to be the time to do so. With an older man, an engineer
whom I had known for several years, I organized the Delaware
Compressed Gas Company to deal in oxygen, acetylene, and
COz. It was our ultimate intention to build our own CO, plant
for the manufacture and distribution of dry ice. In 1935 that
plant was in operation. Two-thirds of our capacity was con-
tracted for and we were in business, Six months later, an in-
junction was tacked on our door: we found ourselves in a pat-
ent litigation with one of the “Giants of Industry.” We were out
of business.

I went back to banking for my bread and butter, and, al-
though I did well enough, I did not like it. I devoted a good

[1125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

measure of my time searching for a niche in some business that
I could grow with and enjoy. In 1936 I found it. In the fall of
that year, I joined the American Locker Company, Inc., opera-
tors of the well known self-service parcel checking lockers. The
company then was in its struggling infancy. Now, seventeen
years later, with our company in mature good health, I find my-
self more interested than ever.

During the war I served in the Navy. I volunteered for enlist-
ment in July, 1943, and took my “boot” training at Sampson,
New York, where I qualified as quartermaster, third class. When
I was discharged in September, 1945, with eighteen months in
the South Pacific under my belt, I had advanced in rate to quar-
termaster, first class. I wouldn’t have missed those two years for
anything in the world, but I was glad to get back to New York
and my lockers, with their never-ending surprises. _

Who knows what may turn up in a locker. The variety of our
inventory of unclaimed articles can be favorably compared to
the offerings in a Sears & Roebuck Catalogue, plus anything you
can think of. Who knows when a call from the police, the Secret
Service, or the F.B.I. will involve us in another “Dick Tracy” se-
quence, The “Hess Jewels” were found in a locker in Chicago,
you know.

Where am I going? I don’t know — but I’m having a lot of
fun on the way.

FRANK KENT SMITH

MAILING AporEsS: New York Athletic Club, Seventh Avenue and soth Street,
New York, N. Y.

Born: March 19, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: James Edward Smith,
Charlotte Louise Hoehn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YRARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Viola Gillette, Jan. 15, 1937. CHILD: One daughter.

OCCUPATION: Actor.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[1126]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE WYNN SMITH

HOME ADpDREss: Tiptonville, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tiptonville, Tenn., Ridgely, Tenn.; 588 Shrine Bldg,
Memphis, Tenn.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1907, Tiptonville, Tenn. Parents: James Harry Smith,
Truma E, Wynn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MARRIED: Myrtle Goodin, June 17, 1932, Charleston, Mo. (died Feb. 12,
1934); Maleita Everett (Lindamood), March 6, 1937, Jackson, Tenn.
CHILDREN: William Everett Lindamood (stepchild), Nov. 20, 1929
(m. Helen Fumbanks, Aug. 17, 1951); Eleanor Ann Lindamood (step-
child), Feb. 12, 1932 (m. Robert Hull Twyford, Dec. 22, 1953); George
Wynn, Jr., Feb. 9, 1934. GRANDCHILD: William Everett Lindamood, Jr,
Oct. 2, 1952 (step-grandchild).

HARVARD SONS: William Everett Lindamood, ’52; George Wynn Smith, Jr.,
"56.

uaRVano BROTHER: James Harry Smith, Jr., ’25-

occuPATION: Farming (self-employed).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Memphis.

CONVINCED that a really small town had most to offer, I

never considered moving from the place where I was born. Ac-

quiring and rearing a family, enjoying many and varied pastimes,
and beating the wolf from the door have been my lively enter-
prises. Dull times have had no part in my experience.
Absorbing interests have altered with the years, of course. It

has been decades since I ran cross-country atop the levees. And
I had to abandon making the varieties of wine I once made; the
growing children became too curious about the smells emanating
from various brews, and in later years I have never gotten back
to vintning. The long poker games on rainy afternoons went by
the board during the thirties when one finally concluded that
the only way out was by undeviating devotion to business. But
a good game of chess, a good game of bridge, a slow game of |
tennis, my happy and engrossing family (whose average age is
four years less now that it was in 1951), conversation among
friends — strangers too—on matters not too subjective, pur-
suit of “the strong crust/Of friendly bread; and many-tasting
food,” and the occasional journey for temporary asylum from
the telephone and other woes of one’s normal day remain a large
part of my life.

[1127]

“HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

During twenty-five years my happiest thought has been that
of belonging to this Class. It has enriched every day to know |
am integrated into this group of the finest men alive.

JACK JOSEPH SMITH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 329 Reilly Rd., Wyoming 15, Ohio.

BoRN: May 14, 1906, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Jacob Joseph Smith,
Eleanora Stern. ,

prePARED AT; Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

marriep: Helen Isay (Schimberg), Oct. 17, 1944, Chicago, Tl. cumopren:
A. Bruce Schimberg, Aug. 26, 1927 (stepchild); Lee Schimberg, June 9,
1931 (stepchild).

HARVARD SON: Lee Schimberg, ’53.

OCCUPATION: Semi-retired.

OFFicEs HELD: Director, United States Shoe Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Cincinnati Harvard Club; Cincinnati Club; Cuvier Press Club;
Cincinnati Kennel Club; Fraternal Order of Police Associates; Big
Brothers Association; Kentucky Colonels; Wyoming Civic Center;
Great Books Course.

IT seems to me that the privilege of autobiography should be
extended only to those whose lives entitle them to the Merit
Badge of renowned achievement. My only claim to fame is the
fact that I am a graduate of Harvard College and among that
list of illustrious colleagues I willingly hide my light under a
bushel basket. In short, I recognize myself to be just another good
American citizen mindful of historical progress during twenty-
five years of world-wide tumult, economic chaos, social revolu-
tion, and pyramiding taxes that make me rant and rave as wrath-
fully as those who were not fortunate enough to obtain a degree
from Harvard. The only advantage I possess, as a member of this
select group, over that other segment of humanity, is the spirit
of calm detachment acquired at Harvard.

After graduation, I tried a year in the Law School and in spite
of the vigorous inspiration offered by Roscoe Pound, I decided
that law was not for me. Post haste I entered the shoe business
with an organization known as the Stern-Auer Company, which
business had been founded by my maternal grandfather. Those
of this Class will have no difficulty in recalling the doldrums of

[ 1128 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the great depression and in short order I came to personal grips
with it. Opportunity suddenly arose to acquire a brand name,
the possession of another shoe manufacturer whose operation
was not as successful as our own, and with the knowledge that
the world was becoming brand conscious as well as price con- _
scious, a coup d’état was performed, merging the two businesses
into what is today known as the United States Shoe Corporation,
whose sole efforts were directed towards the manufacturing and
merchandising of Red Cross Shoes for Women. It was a suc-
cessful venture. With it, however, came little time to do much
else than work, and work I did.

Community life is important and I decided I should contribute
my share not only of dollars but effort in the direction of un-
fortunates. For many years I devoted what time there was avail-
able to me as a member of the Cincinnati Community chest and
did lots of “leg work” in the solicitation of funds and other help-
ful chores. In 1936 I was suddenly bitten by the political bug,
principally because, as most people know, Cincinnati was in the
throes of straightening out political corruption through the en-
lhghtened and civic minded group of individuals who created
what we know here as the “Charter Party.” I was asked and be- |
came part of the group who attempted to elect a candidate in
opposition to an engineer long in office. I can faithfully state
that we tried and it wasn’t until then that I realized the disagree-
able flavor attached to postage stamps. Even though we swamped
the mails we were not quite so fortunate with the ballot boxes,
and if you have read this far, you have probably surmised that
our candidate took the same licking as did the stamps and the
envelopes. My ardor was equally dampened and although I can
say that the Party went on eventually to great heights and glory,
I did not go with it except as a contributor.

Looking for more rewarding fields, other than business, I em-
barked on a career of Dog Fancier. I chose Boston Terriers be-
cause I thought they were cute little guys and proceeded to
learn the tricks of that trade. This was something that could
be done at night and on weekends. Whatever tempted me to
tackle the shows I do not know, but all of a sudden there I was,
and you can take my word for it that nothing is quite as mysteri-

[1129 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ous as the machinations of exhibiting pure bred dogs for the
illusive purple. Eventually I learned, and on the way carried
the ball for those whose interest was as great as mine but who re-
fused to express themselves publicly. Consequently I began to
write articles for magazines and succeeded in stirring up a boil-
ing cauldron. It was fun. Suddenly I discovered a breed that
offered more promise and less argument and therefore changed
my allegiance from Bostons to Boxers. As a matter of fact I
pioneered this breed in my part of the country and if nothing
else, stimulated interest. With it came the war, and grimmer
things came along.

Lots of my friends started to disappear but our Uncle decided
that I was 4F, leaving me to my own devices. Those of you
who were not members, in uniform, of Uncle Sam’s armed forces
know exactly how I felt and even though I know it was not the
most pleasant life, neither was that of being a civilian. I shall
always feel that I lost an experience of great magnitude. I took
my excitement from the difficulties imposed on business, and if
possible, devoted myself even more wholeheartedly to the shoe
business, which you may recall was one replete with handicaps.
In 1944 I married Helen, who is just about the most terrific gal
there ever was. Her elder boy Bruce was attending the Univer-
sity of Chicago and at the completion of his college work was
taken into the service, attended officer candidate school, and
ended up in Japan — but after the shooting war ceased. Lee, the
younger guy, came with me and is more fun than a barrel of
monkeys and, I am glad to report, completed his undergraduate
work honorably in Cambridge last June. For some completely
non-understandable reason the Business School refused him, and
he is presently enrolled in the Business School at Columbia.

Life is completely different with the companionship of a won-
derful wife. She is much more enthusiastic about community af-
fairs than am I, and today is the president of the Cincinnati
Chapter of the Council of Jewish Women; has devoted much
time to the enervating problem of a mental health program; is
actively engaged with the Women’s Committee of her adopted
Brandeis University (a new and struggling university located
at Waltham, Massachusetts). Religion is not a major factor in

[ 1130 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my life although I am a member of the Isaac M. Wise Temple
named for the rabbi who is credited with having started Re-
formed Judaism and who did it with the congregation of which
my grandfather was a member. Politically, I reserve the right to
vote for the principles rather than the party or the man at the
same time believing that Taft, a home product, was a great man.
It seems as though twenty-five years have produced in me little
glamor and dull reading, but an individual who believes in Har-
vard and who gains something more from it each day. On Janu-
ary 4th, 1951, I had mine — coronary, that is, and since that time
I have been no longer active in the shoe business, although still
interested. After a good recovery I became interested in trailer
parks and trailer sales (house trailer) until the doctor put his
foot down and decided for me that I was to indulge in nothing
quite as strenuous. Since then I have dabbled in a few enter-
prises only to keep busy, to try to make a donation to the Class
fund, and of course to pay taxes. God willing, I shall attend
the Twenty-fifth, and I look forward to meeting once again
those friends without whom no college would be complete.

** NORMAN BLONDEL SMITH

BoRN: Nov. 5, 1906, Yonkers, N. Y. parents: Frederick Phillips Smith, ’97,
Marthe Guignon.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, 193!-1933- DEGREE: A.B., 1929(33).

MARRIED: Proxidies Amelia Wentworth, Sept. 3, 1932, Waltham, Mass. cHiL-
DREN: Timothy Wilder, Jan. 19, 1938; Martha; Nancy; Rosalind.

pieD: Feb, 18, 1946, Cambridge, Mass.

ILLNESS forced Norman Smith to leave college in 1927, and for
almost three years he was engaged in ‘farming, studying, and
working for D. Whiting & Sons, box manufacturers. After
graduating in 1933, he took up teaching and spent two years in
Sewickley, Pennsylvania. In 1937 he accepted a position on the
staff of Browne and Nichols School, where he served as a French
teacher and director of athletics. He was made head of the French
Department in 1943. He was survived by his wife and four
children.

[r13r]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

RUSSELL EDWARD SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 2130 Clinton St., Rockford, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1001 Talcott Bldg., Rockford, Ill.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1908, Rockford, Ill. parents: Frederick Henry Smith,
Frances Morrison.

PREPARED AT: Rockford High School, Rockford, Iil.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: $.B., 1929; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Dorothea Redman, June 8, 1935, Lexington, Mass, CHILDREN: Gary
Redman, Sept. 21, 1936; Diana Holladay, Nov. 21, 1938.

occupation: Lawyer, senior partner, Smith and Sype.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rockford Y.M.C.A., 1949-51, Rockford United
Nations Organization, 1951, Professional Men’s Forum (Rockford
Chapter American Interprofessional Institute), 1952; member Executive
Committee, Winnebago County Bar Association, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Winnebago County Bar Association; Illinois State Bar Asso-

- ciation; American Bar Association; Tebala Temple; American Inter-
professional Institute; Rockford United Nations Organization; Masons;
Rockford Y.M.C.A.; Delta Tau Delta Social Fraternity; Phi Delta
Phi Legal Fraternity.

DEPOSITED with a diploma on the brink of the depression, |
floundered about more or less unproductively until, shouldered
with the responsibilities of a wife and family, I set law as my
goal. Leaving the paltry prospects of an assistant insurance un-
derwriter, I entered Boston University Law School in 1937.

After graduation, I travelled, en famille, to my place of origin
where I have combined the practice of the law with the avoca-
tion of farming. Both have treated me kindly, if not lavishly.
Whatever my disposition, any contentiousness finds scant outlet
in my professional pursuits. My law practice is mainly devoted
to probate, real estate, business, and tax matters, with only a rare
controversy for the ear of court. I have played some part
in nurturing the local Y.M.C.A. from one room in a downtown
hotel to a model riverside campus development of national in-
terest in Y circles.

Because of some fancy stomach surgery, Uncle Sam rejected
my proferred services after Pearl Harbor with the terse com-
ment, “Too many cuts in the guts.” Since 1932, when I sold my
birthright for a mess, I have been a passive Republican. During
the last political upheaval, however, I suffered a rash of crusad-
ing fever and organized the Rockford Eisenhower for President

[1132]

Lo SR PUERTO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Club in the midst of this Taft stronghold. As a result, my re-
spectability suffered a serious decline until after the election.

My wife insists that my free-evening basement activities should
not be ignored. I feel that she is a little over-sensitive about the
noises, clutter, and smells which are by-products of a miscellany
of metal and wood-working projects.

SIDNEY EDWARD SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 531 Moreland Rd., Bethayres, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2300 W, Allegheny Ave. Philadelphia, Pa.

BoRN: June 23, 1907, Wilmington, Del. parents: Paul Shortt Smith, ‘’o2,
Maud Alma Webb.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, 1929-1930.

MaRRIED: Edith Slingerland Latcher, Nov. 8, 1941, New York, N. Y. cnit-
pREN: David Marshall, Jan. 2, 1944; Joan Terrell, Jan. 30, 1946.

occupaTION: Research and development engineering, business machines,
senior mechanical engineer, High-speed Printer Project, Eckert-
Mauchly Division, Remington Rand, Inc.

FOLLOWING my departure from Harvard, I held two jobs
whose only virtue consisted of producing sufficient food to sus-
tain life. After a couple of years I became associated with my
father in the invention and development through the laboratory
production stage of a new method of making pile carpet at previ-
ously unheard of speeds. At the conclusion of this stage, and
during the various efforts at promoting the project, I was em-
ployed by Hoosick Engineering Company of Hoosick Falls, New
York, as a research and development engineer, being, in fact, the
entire department. This work consisted largely of the design
of small centrifugal pumps, or circulators, for hot water heating
systems.

Eventually a license under the Smith carpet patents was ac-
quired by C. H. Masland and Sons of Carlisle, Pennsylvania, and
I was employed by them as assistant design engineer and con-
struction supervisor for a full-scale production machine. This
project being interrupted by the war, I worked as methods en-
gineer on mass production of immense volumes of tarpaulins,
truck covers, and other large canvas articles for the armed serv-
ices. Following the war, work was resumed on the Carpet project,

[ 1133]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and upon its nearing the production stage, I resigned to take a
position with Remington Rand as senior mechanical engineer on
its high-speed printer project in the Eckert-Mauchly Division's
engineering plant, where I am at the present time.

_My hobbies remain, as always, golf, tennis, fishing, and listen-
ing to music. In spite of the fact that I have always earned my
living in a field quite removed from my College training, I have
no regrets over the path my education follqwed.

HERVEY LESLIE SOLAR

HOME ADpRESS: 75 Shaw Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1050 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 31, 1908, Lynn, Mass. parents: Harry Isaac Solar, Lena
Newburgh.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1929; LL-B., 1933.

mareiep: Mildred B. Beckerman, May 1, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard L., Aug. 15, 1939; Barry L., Dec. 30, 1941; Alan D. and
Robert L. (twins), June 11, 1946.

occupation: General manager, Enterprise Stores, Inc., retail chain.

orFices HELD: Member Board of Directors, Window Shop, Inc., 1950-51,
Jewish Vocational Service, 1950-52, Jewish Centers Association, 1949-
51, Brandeis University Associates, 1951-53; vice-president, Business
Men’s Council of Combined Jewish Appeal, 1951-53; group vice-chair-
man, Boston Red Feather Campaign, 1953, Boston Red Cross Campaign,
1952; assistant treasurer, Jewish Family and Children’s Service, 1953-54;
director, Enterprise Stores, Inc., Clear Weave Hosiery Stores, Inc,
C. T. Sherer Company, Inc.

WHEN, twenty-five years ago come this June, I sat on Alumni
Day at the foot of the John Harvard Statue and watched the
classes file past in ever descending chronological array, the quar-
ter-century class (that year the chief marshal was Franklin
Delano Roosevelt) seemed historic and venerable, ancient relics
of the hoary past. But now, as I sit in my study and inwardly
anticipate the joys of the coming Reunion, I cannot but muse
on the wonder of nature: blessed nature, which so thoughtfully
has invested us with a so subtle, self-deceiving perspective that
we still believe that we are that self-same watcher and that, not
we, but only the marchers have changed. And it is only when
an occasional obituary column records the passing of a close

[1134 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

friend that the mind takes note and startles conscience, which
all too quickly passes over (alas pore Yorick, I knew him well!),
And as I review the passing years, have patience gentle reader if
they appear as but a telescoped chronology.

After graduation I spent a year in the shoe department of the
Jordan Marsh Company, New England’s largest department
store. In September, 1930, I debated with myself the wisdom
of staying and joining the Jordan Marsh “executive training
course” or returning to the University. Though fearful I was
merely putting off the fateful day of reckoning, I heeded the
advice of the personnel adviser who said, “If you can afford to
go to Law School, do so by all means — anything is better than
retailing,” and entered the Law School. There I spent three very
instructive and most enjoyable years living the usual titillating
trilogy; first year, Mellon Street Rooming House; second year,
Walter Hasting Dormitory; third year, “lush” Harvard Street
apartment.

The year away from the academic life seemed to have done
me no harm, and after a month, I was once again able to concen-
trate and study. Whether it was because of my maturity, my
interest in the law, the fine and challenging faculty, or the close
friendships I made, I really loved those three years at the Law
School. I feel I got a tremendous amount out of them, and a
background which was to stand me in very good stead in the
years ahead. I graduated in June, 1933, and that September be-
came a member of the Massachusetts Bar.

Remember the bank holiday (March, 1933); mine lasted al-
most five years. After a year as a slavey in a Boston Jaw office,
I returned to my home town (Lynn, Massachusetts) and opened
my own office. My biggest client was Sears Roebuck Company,
whom I represented in connection with huge collection claims
up to $199.95, and for whose sake I repossessed myriad unusable
stoves, radios, and refrigerators.

In May, 1938, I married Mildred, whom I had met the previous
September. My father-in-law’s ill health, the not too encouraging
legal prospects, and the impending appearance of the first of four
sons, impelled me back into retailing via the Enterprise Stores,
Inc. (in which my father-in-law was a partner).

[1135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MORGAN DIX SOUTTER

HOME appREss: Rua Embaixador Pedro de Toledo 112, Santos, Brazil.

OFFICE appRESS: Rua Frei Gaspar, 6 (Caixa Postal roo), Santos, Brazil.

BORN: Oct. 8, 1908, Greenwich, Conn. PARENTS: James Taylor Soutter, ‘og,
Helen Eugenia Battelle.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. ,

MaRRIED: Maria Bugdahl, Dec. 19, 1948, Santos, Brazil. CHm™DREN: Helen
Victoria, Sept. 18, 1949; Alexis Morgan, March 31, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Ordon Soutter, ’32; Peter Munro Soutter, ’39.

occupation: Coffee export business, Hard, Rand & Cia.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Associacio Comercial de Santos, 1949-50; former
manager, Departamento de Café, Standard Brands of Brazil, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Santos Golf Club; Santos Athletic Club; Clube Hipico de
Santos; Tenis Clube de Santos; Clube XV.

IT was only in 1941, when I applied for a commission in the
Naval Reserve, that I realized how very poor, scholastically, was
my college record. Nevertheless, for more than twenty-five
years I have looked back at my Cambridge days with nostalgia,
remembering the many happy experiences which have influenced
my mind and spirit to a great extent.

My life since leaving Harvard in December of 1927 has been
spent mostly in South America: for a year in Buenos Aires, and
since 1934 in Santos. The four and a half years in the service,
although formative and instructive, are a much dimmer memory
than that of my two years’ sojourn on the banks of the Charles.
Coffee, coffee, and more coffee are my principal interests from
a commercial viewpoint. Santos is still the largest coffee port in
the world, and each crop brings its new problems to keep us from
growing old. It is hard to explain the fascination of this export
business, except to state that a retired coffee man is a very rare
bird indeed.

In 1948, at the age of forty, my life really began, and to quote
from the Twentieth Report, “I married and lived happily ever
after.” Since then Micia and I have acquired two children, who
have become our principal interests. Although only four years
old and two and a half years old, they speak three languages with
facility and, before we know it, will be at school themselves.

My hobbies are few: taking photographs, mostly of the chil-

[1138 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dren; listening to Mucia play the piano; and reading whatever
books I can find. Every morning, rain or shine, I have a workout
and swim on the beach, which keeps me healthy. Life in the sub-
tropics also brings the compensation of lunching daily at home,
since the office is only three miles from the beach. In short, I
feel that I have a most happy life, and am keeping my fingers
crossed.

FRANCIS LECOMPTE SPALDING

HOME ApoREss: 4520 Hoban Rd. N. W., Washington 7, D.C.

orFice appress: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

BoRN: Oct. 30, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Fred Maurice Spalding, '93,
Adelaide Frances Lecompte.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.

mMarrieD: Loranda Stephanie Prochnik, March 26, 1931, Washington, D. C.
(divorced 1946); Inga Carlgren, April 18, 1947, Stockholm, Sweden.
CHILDREN: Francis, Jr., March 1, 1932; Stephani, March 1, 1933 (daugh-
ter); Peter and Sheldon (twins), Aug. 18, 1937; Ingela, Oct. 4, 1937
(stepdaughter).

HARVARD SON: Francis Lecompte Spalding, Jr. ’54.

occuPaTIoNn: Foreign Service officer, officer-in-charge, Swiss-Benelux A fairs,
Department of State.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-consul, Panama, 1933, Zurich, 1933, Stuttgart, 1936,
Cairo, 1939-40, Alexandria, 1941; second secretary, vice-consul, Cairo,
1941-42; second secretary, consul, Reykjavik, 1944, Stockholm, 1945;
consul, Hamilton, Ontario, 1948; first secretary, consul, Athens, 1950.

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club; Metropolitan Club, Washington, D. C.

WHAT a panorama backward to 1929! To think of it is to slide
scene-gazing down a slowly revolving year-painted funnel and be
dropped with a dimly familiar splash into a canvas-bottomed tem-
porary fountain in the Yard in the dark waters of which I had
relaxed in solitary splendor for an uncertain Jength of time on a
warm June evening after “graduation”; I then and there took the
first serious step down the twenty-five years leading to this spring.

With me, as I guess with most of us, family, job, and relaxation
in about that order have made up our story in those years. The
above statistics record the ups and downs of my history in the
first two categories. The third does not readily lend itself to sta-
tistics and is better left pleasantly retained in memory. My prin-

[ 1139]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

cipal preoccupation over the years has been to strike a balance in
the three activities. It is impossible to remain in dead center of the
triangle they form. How I have moved, and been moved, within
the confines of that great triangle would, if the paths could be
traced, form a convenient pattern from which to cut a biographic
sketch. However, no such pattern exists.

My oldest boy is studying Russian in the Army Language
School at Monterey, California. Two years more of Arm
and he hopes to return to Harvard for his last year. My elder
daughter is learning a lot from a job in a book store. The three
youngest — well, try having three sixteen-year-olds learning to
drive a car.

I am looking forward to an assignment abroad in the summer,
with no idea where or what it will be. Under present regulations
I can retire voluntarily on reaching fifty years of age after more
than twenty years of service. Right now I feel a change from
government work would be stimulating and refreshing even
though life has been good in the “once proud Foreign Service” as
Theodore White called it. My wife says I should not retire until
I know what I want to do. I say I can’t know what I want to do
until I retire and see how some of you make a living and what you
do for amusement. So Ill probably retire after another three years
(ten, my wife says) with no fixed plans but plenty of ideas.

JAMES EDWARD SPIKE, JR.

HOME AppREss: 21 Hilltop Rd. Baxter Estates, Port Washington, Long Is-
land, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 47 Beaver St., New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: May 10, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTs: James Edward Spike, Anne
Louise Hoppe.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; A.M., 1931.

MARRIED: Sophia M. Grubbs, June 19, 1948, Locust Valley, N. Y. cnt:
Barbara Anne, June 5, 1953.

occuPATION: Secretary, Research Committee (research administrator), Amer-
ican Cancer Society.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Chapter, Gamma Alpha (graduate sci
entific fraternity), 1931-33, Willcox Research Institute, 1951-54; vice-
chairman, Entertainment Committee, Harvard Club of Boston, 1937-45.

MEMBER OF; American Physical Society; American Chemical Society;

[ 1140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

American Association for the Advancement of Science (fellow); In-
stitute of Food Technologists; New York Academy of Sciences; Optical
Society of America; American Ordnance Association; American Crys-
tallographic Association; Faculty Club, Harvard University; Harvard
Club of Boston; Kenwood Golf and Country Club, Washington, D, C,
puasLicaTions: Short articles of professional interest; lay articles on cancer.

SHORTLY after President Lowell had given the baccalaureate
sermon to our Class, gathered in Appleton Chapel for the last time
before Commencement, the seniors filed out and the members of
the Class of 1904 filed in to hold the Twenty-fifth Anniversary
Reunion memorial service. As a member of the College choir I
remained for this second service. From the balcony one could
easily view the group of “old grads” who came to pay their re-
spects to their deceased classmates. The occasion was memorable
for the reading of short biographies of those who had died. I do
not believe I knew one of them personally, but I discovered, as
the roll was read, that Harvard graduates could and did lead simple
lives. Few were in Wall Street or outstanding in professional
circles. They were just respected members of their communities
— free from pomp and circumstance. That insight into Harvard
lives has provided me with a comfortable philosophy. Never have
I felt the necessity to do the spectacular. I could enjoy Harvard
indifference on the stage of life,

Looking backward, I realize that such a philosophy was charac-
teristic of my eight years of graduate study at Harvard following
1929. During most of those years I had a heavy teaching schedule.
First it was teaching physics in the College under Professors Black
and Saunders, later it was teaching at “The Widow’s.” But over
the span of years I was very conscious of my objective: to learn
something new in science each day. That to me was education.

After eight graduate years I left the University not with a
Ph.D. degree but with a working knowledge of modern science
covering physics, mathematics, chemistry, and biology. Diversi-
fied experience in laboratory research had been gleaned from re-
search courses under several faculty members and close associa-
tion with fellow graduate students. As early as 1933 I was
researching on the chemical factors involved in the growth of
plant tissue. Five years later I was telling ladies’ clubs and Ro-
tarians about the riddle of cancer, and the scientific task ahead.

[114]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Teaching at “The Widow’s” was truly gratifying both with
respect to the income and the excellence of the students who gave
full devotion to the task before them. I continued tutoring at
Manter Hall throughout the remainder of my graduate life and
for a year thereafter. Only then did I resign to devote full time
to research related to medicine with the Ogden Memorial Lab-
oratory. This was a transitory activity.

In the fall of 1939 I decided to investigate the industrial re-
search laboratory as a career. Lever Brothers were then develop-
ing a new form of soap of which Swan, or Proctor & Gamble’s
New Ivory are representative. England was at war. Research
was accelerated. New processes for oil handling and refining
were under investigation. The industry was being converted
from an art to a science. As senior research physicist for a com-
pany which produced glycerine in carload lots, I was retained
in the laboratory throughout the war period. My teaching record
almost pulled me back to teaching at Annapolis — but my eyes
failed to take me over the Navy hurdles. I therefore remained a
laboratory scientist.

In 1945 the expansion of the aluminum industry brought on
as a result of war demands resulted in the founding of a new
laboratory. Reynolds Metals Company set up this new venture
in research on the former estate of F. W. Woolworth at Glen
Cove, Long Island. With an outstanding scientist as chief, I went
there as assistant director in charge of fundamental research.
Those were hectic days. Following the surrender of Japan, our
industrialists were keen to turn to aluminum as a replacement for
steel which was to remain short for another two years. When this
laboratory’s operation was curtailed in 1947, I started a well-
earned vacation — but this did not last as long as I had hoped.

In the fall of 1947 I undertook a survey on the cancer research
potential for the American Cancer Society, the largest private
foundation supporting research in the Medical area, and since then
have continued to devote my full attention to its research effort.
I know of no man who has the wisdom to direct a five-million-
dollar annual program of research on cancer. So I have left the
ranks of commanders to be secretary to the Research Committee
— with a small group of associates and the scientific advice of the

[ 1142 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences,
I codrdinate the program and analyze the effort. Cancer research
embraces scientists in a wide spectrum of disciplines. My gradu-
ate school years now enable me to serve better the needs of in-
vestigators throughout the country. Teaching of freshman
physics fortunately had developed in me the ability to express
complex science in everyday language. I have come to rest in a
scientific Athens.

My occupation is the administration of cancer research, my
hobby is cancer research, my vacation is full of cancer research
— even my wife entertains primarily imvestigators in cancer re-
search. And that brings up my wife-— who was an unexpected
prize after two years of living at Reynolds Research on Long
Island. Having found a good research photographer I decided to
keep her for life. I am now leading the modest life of a Long
Island commuter, with the short-sightedness of a scientist and an
ever-growing yen for research. Maybe when our home is so well
developed that I cannot add an electrical or mechanical gadget
without adding a new room, I'll take to the water and sail as I
did before World War II. Recently I’ve chartered a boat and
will set out this summer to convert our daughter — aged one —
into a sailor and a sportswoman.

HYMAN SPOTNITZ

HOME AND OFFICE ADDREss: 41 Central Park West, New York 23, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Eiser Spotniz, Annie Waxler.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1929; M.D. (Friedrich
Wilhelms Universitit), 1934; sp. (Columbia Univ.), 1939.

MarRiED: Miriam Berkman, June 29, 1934, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Henry Michael, July 7, 1940; Alan Jeffry, May 31, 1944; William
David, Dec. 10, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Murray Spotnitz, '45.

occuPATION: Physician, psychoanalyst, psychiatrist, neurologist.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant neurologist, Neurological Institute, New York, 1940-
52, Columbia University, 1941-46; adjunct psychiatrist, Hospital for
Joint Diseases, New York, 1942-43, Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York,
1944-46; consulting psychiatrist, Jewish Board of Guardians of New
York, since 1944.

[ 1143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; New York County Medical
Society; New York Society for Clinical Psychiatry, New York Neu-
rological Society; Association for Research in Nervous and Mental
Diseases, American Group Therapy Association, American Society for
Psychical Research; Association for the Advancement of Science; New
York Academy of Medicine (fellow); American Psychiatric Associa-
tion (fellow).

PuBLIcATIONS: More than forty publications dealing with physiological
psychology of vision, smell, hearing; with modified insulin therapy;
with psychology and the psychoanalytic investigation of emotional
processes in normal and abnormal children and adults as they function
individually and in groups.

THE practice of psychoanalysis and psychiatry is an emotionally
educational experience. If you don’t understand people, they do
not feel loved. And if people do not feel loved, they question
the value of living. |

To be a good doctor requires that one have a good family to
make life worth living; much travelling to attend all the medical
conventions; and the right hobbies and the right convictions.

The right hobbies make life especially interesting. I love all
sports, but the one that requires the least exertion and is most ex-
hilarating appears to be motoring in a convertible with good com-
pany, a good road, and plenty of sunshine.

The right convictions: to learn how to help people to feel
their loves and their hates; then to make it possible for them to
turn their hate into love if they want to. Perhaps some day people
will evolve towards a social order in which even the lowest citi-
zen will live in a style fit for a king.

MALCOLM NORTH STANLEY

HOME apprEss: 48 Moody St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFIcE apprEss: 40 Broad St., Boston 9, Mass. .

BORN: Nov. 22, 1905, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: James North Stanley,
Caroline Zelie.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

MarRiep: Anita G. McKeen, Nov. 9, 1940, Brookline, Mass. cHILpREN:

Sheila F., July 8, 1942; Anita G., July 23, 1944.
OCCUPATION: Insurance.

[1144]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orness HELD: Commander, U. S. Navy; clerk, First Parish Church, Brook-
ie.

IN September, 1929, I began my career working in a boat yard
in Maine. I then operated the yard for several years and imported
boats from Sweden. In 1933 I spent a year at Bristol, Rhode Is-
land, while the Herreshoff manufacturers were building boats for
a class I had started. Meanwhile 1 became a marine surveyor.
Then when the boats were built I sailed up and down the coast.
In 1935 I entered the merchandising field, designed a package, and
in 1937 returned to marine insurance in which I had been en-
gaged since 1929.

In 1938 I was accepted in the U.S. Naval Reserve as a lieu-
tenant. In 1939 I became an insurance broker and have continued
in this capacity. In 1941 I received orders to Washington from
the Navy and in October 1941, went to Halifax on convoy
work. I got promoted a couple of times and had a good view of
the war; in October, 1945, I came home. I went back to the office
and the field of insurance. There I developed and patented the
niftiest fishing boat, called the Packet, and set up the Porta Com-
pany to market it and other products.

HUMPHREY STATTER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 125 E. 84th Se., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 7, 1908, Sioux City, lowa. parents: Humphrey Statter, Estella
Stackerl.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1933+

MarrieD: Amy C. Plant, July 25, 1944. cHmpreNn: Phyllis J., March 8, 1946;
Humphrey, 3d, Oct. 1, 1947.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

I HAVE been engaged in the general practice of law in New
York City since 1933, except for four years with the U.S. Naval
Reserve during World War II.

[1145 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

WILLIAM HAROLD STAVSKY

HOME ADDRESS: 66 W. 88th St. Apt. 6F, New York 24, N. Y. (temporary),

OFFICE ADDRESS: Astor Home for Boys, Rhinebeck, N. Y.

BORN: May 25, 1907, Kobryn, Poland. parents: Reuben Stavsky, Leah
Shevalowitz.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: S.B. Cum? laude, 1029; AM 1931;
PHD. 1932.

marrigpD: Shirley Dattner, March 23, 1941, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. cHivoren:
Richard M., Dec. 20, 1943; Jane M., May 16, 1946.

occupation: Clinical psychologist, Astor Home for Boys.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; American Orthopsychr
atric Association, American Board of Examiners in Psychology (dip-
lomate); American Association of Social Workers; Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in various psychological journals.

SINCE graduation I have taught psychology, and worked in vari-
ous child guidance clinics as a clinical psychologist. I have been
superintendent of a home for delinquent children. I am currently
clinical psychologist for a residential treatment center for emo-
tionally disturbed children, i.e., the Astor Home for Boys in
Rhinebeck, New York. During the war I served in the Army of
the United States and was discharged as a captain. I am now a
major in the reserves.

JULIAN DENEGAL STEELE

HOME apprEss: Crane Neck Road, West Newbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 43 Rutland Sq., Boston 18, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1906, Savannah, Ga. parents: Alexander McPherson Steele,
Minnie Ellis.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1929.

MarrieD: Mary Bradley Dawes, May 7, 1938, New York, N. Y. cum:
Emilie Dawes, Aug. 7, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Trustee, Walnut Real Estate Trust, since 1950.

OFFICES HELD: Executive director, Robert Gould Shaw Settlement House,
Inc., 1931-38, Armstrong-Hemenway Foundation, 1938-50, member,
advisory committee, Massachusetts Public Employment Service, since
1934; member, standing committee, Boston Latin School Association,
1945-48; president, Boston Branch, National Association for Advance
ment of Colored People, 1945-48; moderator, West Newbury Forum,
1946-54, Town of West Newbury, 1951-54, Essex North Association

[ 1146 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Congregational Churches, 1952-53; vice-moderator, Massachusetts
Congregational-Christian Conference, 1953; secretary, Department of
Social Relations, Massachusetts Council of Churches, 1953-54, member,
South End Rehabilitation and Construction Committee, 1953-54; mem-
ber of council, Ford Hall Forum, 1954, public member, War Labor
Board Region 1; member, Public Relations Council, First Service
Command.

pusuicaTions: Technical articles in professional social work and group
work publications.

THE first twenty years after graduation, I spent in social work.
One learns a lot about people in that period of time, particularly
when dealing with both clients and board members. I got into
this after a year at the New York School for Social Work during
which I spent an enjoyable year living at International House in
New York. In May of 1938 I married my present wife, Polly, and
in August, 1944, our only child, Emilie, was born. We decided
that the country was the place to bring up a child and located in
West Newbury, a small town north of Boston. We have made
that our headquarters. We have a lot of fun keeping some live-
stock and raising fruit and vegetables for our table in season. I
commute to Boston three or four days a week as necessary and
Polly teaches at the Bradford Pre-school.

Emilie is now in fourth grade, shows some promise in music,
and has her horse which she rides well. She insists that she is
going to be a ballet dancer! Somehow I do not enthuse at the
prospect.

Somewhere along the line the idea spread that I am a good
moderator, although my family thinks I am anything but moder-
ate in temperament and appetite (215 pounds today). So I am
always being asked to moderate something. We like to travel
and although we have been to Europe, made our first transconti-
nental trip by motor last year. We took plenty of time, cov-
ered ten thousand miles, and included the Canadian Rockies. We
intend to do the West Indies next.

We are concerned about man’s intolerance, religious, racial,
and social. We believe that human progress can be measured
largely in terms of acceptance of difference as interesting and our
common humanity as profoundly important. We hope we be-
long to the Human Race and suspect that many of our friends do.
I sometimes have some doubt about one or two of our classmates,

[ 1147]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

but then they have the same doubt about me! I am an independ-
ent in politics, a Congregationalist in religion, with ecumenical
leanings.

During the war I had an opportunity to have a hand in estab-
lishing the first U.S.O. in the country, open without any re-
strictions to any service man. It was a gratifying experience,
and strengthened my conviction about the average human —
that if given a chance he is surprisingly decent.

I am convinced that we shall get through the present “stale-
mate of terror” that exists in the world, not so much by force
of arms as by the moral and spiritual forces in the universe that
as yet have not been tapped. We, in the West, have inherited a
great tradition. We must not sacrifice it in the process of de-
fending it.

+ EDWIN HENRY STEINER |

Born: Dec. 15, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Simon Joseph Steiner,
Edith Levy.

PREPARED AT: Far Rockaway High School, Far Rockaway, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: $.B., 1929.

maggie: Allice Renard, Oct. 26, 1932, New York, N. Y. cumpren: William,
1929 (stepson); Edith, Jan. 27, 1938.

piep: July 5, 1952, Woodmere, Long Island, N. Y.

wipow: Mrs. Edwin H, Steiner, 129 Combs Ave., Woodmere, Long Island,
N. Y.

IN the year following his graduation, Steiner worked for the
Manufacturers Trust Company of New York. In 1939 he was in
the department store business in New York, and in 1946 he
was in the dry cleaning business. During World War II he was
an acting intern for his local hospital and did night duty on wards
in an Army Evacuation Hospital. In 1949 he reported that he was
manager of a dry cleaning establishment, Renard’s, in New York
City. His wife survived him.

ERNEST STENT

HOME aporess: op Sutherland Drive, Atherton, Calif,
OFVicz Apoaess: Goo Market St., San Francisco, Calif.

[ 1148 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Oct. 25, 1907, Oakland, Calif. parents: Ernest Albert Stent, Frances
Lowe Harris.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Santa Barbara, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.B-As 1932.

“MaRRIED: Mary Redington, Aug. 26, 1933, San Mateo, Calif. cumpren:
Ernest R., Sept. 19, 1934; Arthur R., July 19, 1938; James P., Dec. 28,

1945.
HARVARD BROTHER: Ferdinand Reis Stent, ’36.
occuPATION: Security analysis, stock brokerage.
MEMBER OF: Pacific Union Club, San Francisco.

WITH some amazement I graduated with my Class in 1929 after
only four years in college. Shortly thereafter the great depression
commenced. It seemed unwise to start immediately bucking the
economic trends single-handed so I spent the next year going
around the world with Jack de Laittre and my camera.

In 1930 I entered the Harvard Business School, from which I
graduated in 1932 after only two years’ study. Shortly thereafter
the Great Depression ended. (Any connection between these
events is believed to be largely coincidental.)

In 1933 I married Mary Redington. We have three sons ranging
in age from twenty to eight. The eldest of these is now a sopho-
more at Cornell University which he tells me is an institution of
learning somewhere east of the Mississippi.

Between Pearl Harbor and V-J Day I served with the Navy in
the Pacific campaigns, emerging as a lieutenant commander. From
1946 to 1948 I was secretary-treasurer of a small manufacturing
company, but early in November of the latter year, I returned to
the brokerage business. Next day the Dow Jones Average went
down eight points (any connection, etc.).

We are enthusiastic travellers and since the war have found time
to tour Mexico, Guatemala, and the major European countries
outside the Iron Curtain.

EDWARD JOSEPH STEPTOE

HOME apprEss: 187 Canton St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Telephone and Telegraph Co., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 26, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Steptoe, Margaret
Elizabeth Crowley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 1149 ]

-HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

marrieD: Mary P, Brearton, June 18, 1938, Dedham, Mass. (died Aug. 23,
1950). CHILDREN: Edward Joseph, Jr. (Jay), July 4, 1947; Jane B., Dec.
17, 1948.

occuPaTION: Traffic supervisor on General Staff, New England Telephone
and Telegraph Company.

MEMBER oF: Oak Hill Country Club, Fitchburg, Mass.; Harvard Club of
Washington, D, C.; Washington Golf and Country Club, Arlington,
Va.

CAREER: I went to work for New England Telephone and
Telegraph Company in 1932. I transferred to the Chesapeake
and Potomac Telephone Company in Washington, D. C., in 1945.
I transferred back to N. E. Tel. & Tel. Co., in 1950, following
death of my wife (very sudden— polio). My specific job is
development, training, and supervision in connection with clerical
mechanization processes. A thumbnail description of my career
is — replete with ordinariness. (I’m not wealthy — but then, too,
I’m not a millionaire.)

Hobbies: They are 1) raising the world’s two finest children,
2) golf — still play in the 70’s despite advancing years, 3) watch-
ing baseball, which I last played in 1946; resulc — muscles just
bouncing back to subnormal. | ,

War Record: There’s none; I stayed out because of job. This
was a mistake.

Political Convictions: 1 am pro-Ike, pro-Pusey, anti-McCarthy

(ugh). | |

ALBERT MORRIS STERN

HOME ADDRESS: 91 Faulkner St., Malden 48, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 State St., Boston 9g, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry S. Stern, Lena G. Kabatz-
nick.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B. 1932.

MarRIED: Irene H. ‘Goldstein, Dec. 24, 1939, Boston, Mass.

occupATioN: Lawyer, partner in firm of Kabatznick, Stern & Gesmer.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Jewish National Fund Council of Malden, since
1946, Malden Zionist District, 1947-48, Combined Jewish Appeal of
Malden, 1952; president, Brotherhood Congregation Beth Israel of
Malden, 1948-50, Congregation Beth Israel of Malden, since 1952; di-
rector, Malden Hebrew School, since 1948.

[1150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association; Jewish War Veterans; Zionist
Organization of America.
THE law was my natural course after receiving my A.B., as I
had spent considerable time in a law office since my high school
days. I enjoyed three years at the Law School listening to the
wisdom of Frankfurter, Scott, Chafee et al. After my degree,
I was certified to practise in Massachusetts. I entered my uncle’s
office and I am still there.

I married in 1939 and made my home in Malden, Massachusetts.
Uncle Sam and my Draft Board sent me “Greetings” in 1943 and
I became a member of the U. S. Army. After being shuffled
around the entire country for over a year I was shipped to Cal-
cutta and spent a year there with the Air Transport Command.
My chief contribution to the war effort was pushing a pen in a
Statistical Control Unit helping to push our material over the
Hump into China.

After my discharge I became interested in our Synagogue and
communal activities. I was elected president of one of the largest
traditional synagogues in the Greater Boston area, and I am still
at the helm. Politically, my first ballot was cast for Al Smith in
1928 and my preference nationally has been Democratic. I class
myself as an independent in state and local elections. My off-
duty activities are principally the Synagogue and other com-
munal activities. I still dabble a bit in photography, and during
the summer as a weekend golfer I am still on the shady side of 100.

BARRETT WHITNEY STEVENS

HOME aporess: 8 Peter Cooper Rd., Apt. 6C, New York to, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: Hanover Bank, 786 Fifth Ave. New York 22, N. Y.

BoRN: May 21, 1907, Lexington, Mass. PARENTS: Ralph Leslie Stevens, ’93,
Marie Cary Clarke,

PREPARED aT: Ridgefield School, Ridgefield, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1920. DEGREE: A.B4 1929,

MarrigD: Mary Louise Herrick, Aug. 2, 1947, Westfield, N. J. CHILDREN:
Leslie Clarke, Aug. 9. 19515 Alexander Whitney, Feb. 4, 1954.

occupaTION: Assistant vice-president, The Hanover Bank; assistant secre-
tary, The Hanover Safe Deposit Company; assistant branch manager.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Metropolitan Club of New York;
Association of Ex-Members of Squadron A; Grand Jury Association
of New York County.

[ars1 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

WALTER PITKIN believed that “Life Begins at Forty,” which
gives me hope as that’s where mine seems to have started. After
wasting many years working up courage, I finally plunged into
matrimony in 1947 and have been really living ever since. I am
now well house-broken and reconciled to having all my former
free and easy bachelor time absorbed by my home, a beguiling
small daughter, and a son, who showed up just in time to beat
the deadline for this Report .. . not to overlook, of course, my
wife, who I am glad to say got me into all this.

The little energy remaining to me after dishwashing, diaper-
changing, and general housework is devoted to The Hanover
Bank, where I was thankful to land a job at the depth of the
depression after pounding the pavements for some months as a
refugee from a brief and disillusioning start in a Wall Street
brokerage firm two weeks before the 1929 crash. Outside of a
wartime hitch in the Air Force, I have stuck with the same bank,
plodding along slowly but steadily, and I’m hopeful that if I
last long enough I may eventually be able to make a living there.

I sometimes wonder if I wouldn’t have done better to stay in
the Air Force, as they promoted me so fast in their undiscerning

way during my three and a half years of servitude that I might
by now have been a five-star general. However, I was only too
glad to quit as a lieutenant colonel after V-J Day and disentangle
myself from red tape. For I had wearied of my conducted tour
which started in Oklahoma and then took me to points east,
ending with fourteen months seeing Africa and Italy via the
12th and 15th Air Forces, where I was fortunate enough to hold
a special staff job under a couple of notable Generals — Doolittle
and Twining. Though I had an official speaking acquaintance
with them, I was never quite sure that they knew just what I was
doing in their headquarters, and sometimes I didn’t either. Despite
being a relatively dramatic change from the staid stability of the
banking business, with a few exciting episodes thrown in, my
fighting was all done with reams of paper and my chairborne
wounds did not rate a Purple Heart.

During the past seven years of my new and more orderly life,
we have been contented cliff-dwellers in New York. However,
our recently expanding family has pressured us into house-hunt-
ing in the wider open spaces up Connecticut way. Our major

[1152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

problem is finding the dream house we can afford with plumbing
included. When we do, I know it will more than satisfy my
present extra-curricular enjoyment of indoor manual hobbies,
such as repairing and upholstering old furniture, carpentry,
painting, etc., which in my more confined living have replaced
squash racquets, golf, and other active sports of pre-marital days.
I now struggle only feecbly to counteract the enlarging effect of
my sedentary existence with tennis, swimming, and occasional
golf, largely compressed in summer vacations at Bridgehampton,
Long Island. However, the keener recreation my wife and I
derive from socializing with friends over a bucket of martinis
bodes ill for my waning efforts at physical culture.

One private diversion I have particularly enjoyed, but now
have little time to indulge in, is landscape sketching and water-
colouring. The products of my dabbling will never grace a gal-
lery, but I once thought I could look forward on retirement to
finding in this artistic endeavour an absorbing and pleasant avoca-
tion for my leisure hours. My delayed start in life, however,
having put me in the fix where at retirement I shall be con-
fronted with a couple of college-age children waiting to be
educated, I now foresee the necessity of developing some other
more practical and productive side-line to supplement social
security.

As for my social, political, and religious convictions, I fear
that I carry out the prosaic pattern of a conservative banker in
being a Republican, an Episcopalian, and an ardent follower of
Eisenhower down the middle of the road.

JOSEPH EARLE STEVENS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 27 E. 62nd St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFicz ADDRESS: 49 E. 53rd St. New York 22, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 23, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Joseph Earle Stevens, ’92,
Marion Ludlow Whitaker.

PREPARED at: Harvey School, Hawthorne, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Ludlow Whitaker Stevens, ’31; Arthur Pelham Stevens,

"34.
occupation: Real estate consultant, Previews, Inc.

[1153]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

OFFICES HELD: Joint secretary, Anglo-American Lunch Club, Washington,
D.C., 1941-46.

MEMBER OF: Regional Plan Association, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Report on the British Board of Trade, published by Foreign
Economic Administration, Washington, D. C., for official circulation,

1944.

AFTER five years in business in New York, I embarked on a gov-
ernment career with the State Department and specialized in
Anglo-American affairs. During the war I was affiliated with
various agencies in the foreign economic field and was stationed
in Washington and London. At the end of the war, the frustra-
tions of bureaucracy and a lack of sympathy for the “new” and
“fair” deals led me to resign and return to New York, where ]
have been working ever since as a real estate consultant and deal-
ing with the development of suburban properties.

I have remained a bachelor and, although I live in town, I get
most of my recreation in the country, particularly in Tuxedo
where I spend many weekends. Outside of walking, which is my
principal form of exercise, tennis and skiing are my favorite sports.
When I was in England I spent several summers in the Isle of
Wight and did a lot of sailing in the “red wings” at Bembridge.
I also did some skiing in Switzerland and Austria and, after many
tries, got my “gold eagle” on the Kandahar in St. Anton. Having
worked on two railroads, I enjoy reading the trade magazines
and keeping up with the current developments in this field. I
still have a special interest in architecture and town planning and
I follow closely the activities of my church, St. Mary’s-in-
Tuxedo.

Politically 1 am a Republican, although I voted for Roosevelt
twice. Since then I have become an ardent believer in private
enterprise. Having always lived in large cities, I find myself
fascinated by country hamlets and shall probably wind up in one.

RICHARD FULLINGTON STEVENS

HOME ADDRESS: 22300 Parnell Rd., Cleveland 22, Ohio. :

OFFICE appREsS: 1956 Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1906, Elyria, Ohio. PARENTS: Frank Marion Stevens, Helen
Moriarty.

PREPARED AT: Elyria High School, Elyria, Ohio.

[1154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES; A.B. Cuz laude, 1929; LL.B., 1932.

maraieD: Marian Ruth Hubbell, July 5, 1932, Elyria, Ohio (died April 11,
1937); Margaret Dana Church, June 25, 1944, Bangor, Mich. cHiupReNn:
Sarah Louise, Jan. 8, 1934; Frank Marion, April 6, 1937; David Fulling-
ton, May 21, 1950.

occupaTION: Lawyer, partner in firm, Baker, Hostetler & Patterson.

orrices HELD: Member, Elyria City Board of Education, 1935-45, president,
director, Telkor, Inc. 1938-46; assistant prosecuting attorney, Lorain
County, Ohio, 1939-45; vice-president, Ohio State Bar Association,
1943; director, National Tool Co.; member advisory board, Cleveland
Institute of Art.

MEMBER OF: Country Club; City Club of Cleveland; Harvard Club of
Cleveland; Mid-Day Club; Rowfant Club; American, Ohio State, and
Cleveland Bar Associations; American Law Institute.

puBLicaTions: Two papers presented to Ohio State Bar Association on
appellate procedure, 1937, 1940.

DIRECTLY after graduation from Harvard Law School in 1932,

I was married and went abroad for the summer. Upon returning,

I joined my father and brother in our family law office in Elyria,

Ohio, where I remained until the spring of 1945 and where my

brother still practices.

While in Elyria I was active in community life and at one time
or another was head of the local Red Cross chapter, director of
the Chamber of Commerce, campaign chairman and a trustee for
the Community Fund, a member of the draft board, and so on.
Politically I’ve always been a Republican and was a member and
officer of various local Republican clubs. I was also on the Elyria
School Board for ten years and for some five years was assistant
prosecuting attorney. In addition, I was active in the local Chris-
tian Science Church in various capacities such as reader, trustee,
and president, during the entire period of my residence in Elyria.

Mrs. Stevens passed away shortly after the birth of our son,
Frank, in 1937, and for something over seven years I remained a
widower. In 1944 I had the good fortune to persuade Margaret
Dana Church to adopt me and my two children even though the
recognized procedure in my case involved marriage. For nearly
ten years we have not only again been blessed with a balanced
household but now have a wonderful young son in addition.

In the spring of 1945 I became affiliated with the firm of Baker,
Hostetler & Patterson in Cleveland which is just beyond suburban
travel range from Elyria. The result was that we moved to

[1155 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Greater Cleveland in 1946 and located in Shaker Heights. In
January, 1947, I became a partner in the firm, In my work I have
shifted from a busy general county seat practice which included
a good bit of defense representation in personal injury cases, to
an even busier large city practice in which involved matters such
as antitrust litigation and extended equity cases play a substantial
role. In contrast with one to three-day cases which were the rule
in Elyria, I now find a week is a short one and a month by no
means the longest. While the training which I had in a legal
general store in the smaller community for twelve years has been
invaluable, I find that the opportunity of dealing with larger
problems is more stimulating and satisfying.

Since moving to Cleveland I have had an opportunity to de-
velop further an interest in art and at least to keep alive an inter-
est in English literature, notably poetry. Our two older children
have had the opportunity of attending excellent day schools.
Our daughter, having graduated from Hathaway-Brown School
for Girls, i is now a junior at Principia College in Elsah, Mlinois.
Our son, Frank, is a junior at University School where he is doing
a grand job in athletics. In addition to playing on the football
and basketball teams, he has done extremely well in pole vaulting,
having cleared 11’ 8” as a sophomore. Young David in our house-
hold is still short of school age.

In Cleveland, as in Elyria, I have found activity in my church
a rewarding experience and have served it in various capacities.
I have also joined a Republican club but have’ only been able to
attend an occasional meeting. My real hobby is work, I suppose.
Nevertheless, I have recently tried to find my golf swing after
a twenty-year lay-off. Up to now the search hasn’t been success-
ful but has produced a lot of fun. I also enjoy swimming a great
deal and would like to get to the theatre a good many more times
a year. than I manage to make it.

WILLIAM LEONARD STEVENS, JR.

Home appress: 1 Abbot Pl, Exeter, N. H.

oryx2 apoarss: Phillips Excter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

BOAN: July 6, 1906, Copperhill (Knoxville), Tenn. PARENTS: William Leon-
ard Stevens, Agnes Letitia Flournoy.

[1156]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
PREPARED AT: Clinton High School, Clinton, Iowa; Somerville High School,

Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1929. DEGREES: 8.B. cu7m laude, 1929; A.M. 1935.

marrieD: Mary Elizabeth Emerson, June 20, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. cHm-
DREN: Martha, Feb. 14, 1937; John Emerson, April 4, 1943; Eugene
Flournoy, June 11, 1944.

occupaTiON: Teacher of English, Phillips Exeter Academy.

UPON graduation from College I had planned to enroll in the
Law School, but on being offered an assistantship in English by
Professor Lowes decided to defer doing so until I had sampled
teaching as a possible career. I found it both fascinating and
stimulating and remained at Harvard until 1938, teaching English
A, serving as tutor in history and literature, and taking courses
in the Graduate School as time and regulations governing full-
time instructors permitted. A year’s interlude of study and travel
in Europe (1931-1932) following my marriage, intervened and
laid the foundations of a continuing interest in European lan-
guages and literature and, latterly, for some very amateurish
efforts in drawing and painting.

In 1938 I accepted an offer from Yale, where I taught for four
years and discovered that I was far more interested in teaching
than in doing research, more interested in classroom teaching
than in lecturing. In the fall of 1942, attracted by what I felt
were the glittering possibilities of round-table discussion with
small groups and of more immediate contact with my students, I
accepted an offer from Exeter, where I have remained teaching
English, helping with dramatics and publications, and being con-
tinually involved with the enthusiasms, the growing pains, and
the rather turbulent intellectual awakening of a good many able
boys. The process is by turns exciting, fatiguing, and disruptive
of family life; but it is invariably stimulating and is varied enough
to maintain one’s illusion of youth (fading a little, I must con-
fess) by reason of its almost daily share of unforseen problems
and a youthfully insistent and forthright challenge to all one’s
more or less settled assumptions. During this last period I have
given four series of lectures at the Yale Summer School of Music,
lectured and given a course in a program of Adult Education,
taught in Summer School in order to face the grocer with a
little equanimity.

[1157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Two young sons, one insatiably curious, the other insatiably
athletic, and a daughter, seventeen, of determined energy anda,
disposition to music make our family noisy, varied, at times
exasperating, but always interesting. A trip to Europe last sum-
mer, via freighters, and explorations in England and southern
Italy, with a glimpse of North Africa, proved to be a powerful
stimulus to family solidarity and to community of effort and of
interest, besides being a lot of fun of itself.

Spare time in this way of life is at a premium, but we do
manage a good deal of reading, an occasional outing on a moun-
tain trail or in a boat, and frequent brief excursions in the local
countryside. At last we have contrived high-fidelity F.M. and
phonograph that deserve the name, after a dozen years of desul-
tory experiment, and they, too, serve us well in pleasurable
relaxation and in escape from a frequently confining routine of
petty detail. In the process of constructing these admirable in-
struments, I have learned how to saw wood in a reasonably

_ straight line (with the later aid of files and sandpaper) and to
wield a soldering iron without too much anguish from burns.
My wife who looks on these efforts with a sceptical and some-
times unfriendly eye is easily pacified when I turn these dubious
talents to the repair of the latest household casualty.

We talk, talk endlessly, Mary and I, happily of modern litera-
ture, current events, psychology, politics, our chief interests, and
often with anxious concern of some trends in education and of
the current threats to freedom of the mind and of the spirit, and
these conversations are to me the most absorbing and delightful
in a highly conversational life. We have just now been talking
of the tardiness of this rambling report and the patience of John
Hutchinson in awaiting it through all those ingenious “goads” of
his. It is now time to sip at a highball and to reflect on the happy
prospects of the Twenty-fifth and to plot the snaring and bribery
of a few friends to take on those classes that might interfere with
some of it.

ARTEMAS JAMES STEWART

HOME AppRESS: 143 Clark Rd., Lowell, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 308-310 Merrimack St., Lowell, Mass.

[1158 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: May 30, 1907, Lowell, Mass. parents: Arthur Andrew Archibald
Stewart; Harriet Woodworth.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: aB. cum laude, 1929; M.D. 1933.

MarrieD: Phyllis Robinson, March 1, 1934, Reading, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Member Council, 1946-53; executive councillor, 1950-53,
Massachusetts Medical Society; secretary, Staff, since 1950, member
Senior Surgical Staff, Lowell General Hospital; member Senior Surgical
Staff, St. Joseph's Hospital, Lowell.

MeMBER OF: Middlesex North District Medical Society; Massachusetts Med-
ical Society; American Medical Association; American College of Sur-
geons (fellow); Vesper Country Club; various Masonic bodies,

AFTER leaving College in the spring of 1929, 1 embarked upon
my medical education at the Harvard Medical School in the fall
of the same year. I am afraid that there is very little of general
interest to relate during the next four years as my time was taken
up more or less completely with the demands of graduate educa-
tional work. After graduating from Medical School I served my
general internship requirements for eighteen months at the Hart-
ford Hospital, Hartford, Connecticut, where I met many friends
who later have practised in that general area and whom it is al-
ways a pleasure to see again at various meetings.

While at the Hartford Hospital I was married to Phyllis Robin-
son of Reading, Massachusetts. This was probably the smartest
thing that I have ever done, as my wife has been the best help-
mate that any man could ask for and we have had a most pleasant
and congenial life together.

I then returned to Boston and entered upon my surgical train-
ing at the Boston City Hospital and at the Free Hospital for
Women in Brookline where I remained for approximately another
three years. In 1938 I finally settled in Lowell, opening an office
for the practice of general surgery. During this time my vacation
periods were spent at Uncle Sam’s expense as I was a member of
the Medical Reserve, having transferred from the Field Artillery
Reserve in which I was originally commissioned when leaving
college. It was perhaps well that Uncle Sam granted me these
paid vacations in those days for certainly I would not have been
able to have taken one in any other way.

In February of 1941, when the clouds of war began to darken

[1159 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

our horizon, I was called into service as a captain in the Medical

Corps and became assistant chief of surgical service in a 1,500-bed
station hospital at Camp Edwards, Massachusetts. I remained there
for approximately a year and a half and I must say that I thor-
oughly enjoyed the associations and friends I made during my
first assignment. In the fall of 1942 I was transferred to Camp
Breckinridge, Kentucky, which was then in its final phases of
construction. I remained there for about six months, engaged in
the interesting but at times rather trying task of organizing a
station hospital. However, I missed clinical work and was fortu-
nate enough to be able to secure a transfer in the spring of 1943
to Nichols General Hospital in Louisville, Kentucky, where |
served as assistant chief of surgical service and as chief of surgical
service until November of that year when I joined the goth Gen-
eral Hospital for overseas duty in the European Theatre of Opera-
tions. I remained with this hospital until about one month after
D-Day when I was transferred to a new general hospital which
had just arrived in the European Theatre of Operations. I became
chief of surgical service of this 2,000-bed hospital, organized its
surgical service, and remained with it throughout the balance of
the European campaign. During this period of service in Europe
I was fortunate enough to meet many of my old Medical School
classmates who were also in service and I was also fortunate
enough to be able to meet and become acquainted with many of
the prominent surgical figures in this country.

After returning to the States following V-E Day, I became
chief of surgical service in a regional hospital at Camp Maxey,
Texas, and was finally ushered out of the service as a lieutenant
colonel in November, 1945, after nearly five years of war service.

I again resumed my surgical practice in Lowell in the early
part of 1946 and have remained in Lowell since then, keeping very
busy with my practice and with my commitments at two of our
leading hospitals. After returning to practice my wife and I pur-
chased a house on the outskirts of the city, where we can enjoy
a chance to be outside occasionally, free from a closed circle of
other dwellings. I have learned the value of vacations and have
made it a habit to take a month’s vacation each fall, usually in
September, which I spend at my summer home in Falmouth,
Massachusetts, engaged in loafing, social activity, and my major

[ 1160 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hobby which is fishing. I usually plan to take a winter holiday of
two weeks or more as well and have used that in very enjoyable
trips to Bermuda, Jamaica, and other Caribbean places of interest.

During the summer of 1952 my wife and I took a trip to Europe
to revisit some of the places which I had seen and in which I had
lived during the war years, to visit old friends in England whom
my wife had never met, and to see some parts of the continent
which I had not visited before. We had a most enjoyable trip,
motoring through southern and southwestern England, staying
at the inns in which I had previously stayed, and rekindling old
acquaintanceships and friendships which had lapsed during the
intervening years. We then toured Switzerland, Italy, and France
by car and finally returned home somewhat worn out but with
the complete satisfaction of having seen and done the continent.

Socially my life has not been quite as acitve as perhaps has been
the case with many of my classmates, due to the fact that the exi-
gencies of a doctor’s existence preclude many of those things.
However, we do try to live as full a social life as is consistent
with early morning operating and long days in the office.

Both my wife and I are looking forward with extreme interest
to the Twenty-fifth Reunion and we certainly hope and expect to
be on hand, hoping to renew the old College friendships which
have such an inevitable way of lapsing over the years.

CHARLES ARTHUR STEWART, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Winsor Way, Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: A. L. Stewart & Sons, Cherryfield, Maine.

Born: March 17, 1906, Cherryfield, Maine. parents: Charles Arthur Stewart,
Cora Nash.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).

MARRIED: Louise Kidder, June 19, 1933, Winchester, Mass. cHILpREN: Charles
Arthur, 3d, Oct. 16, 1934; Mary Williams, April 3, 1937; Robert Kidder,
Oct. 12, 1940.

occupation: Canning: treasurer and manager, A. L. Stewart & Sons, Cherry-
field, and George H. Hall & Sons, Inc., Dexter, Maine.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, National Canners Association, 1939-41; di-
rector, Maine Blueberry Experimental Station, 1946-49; president,
Cherryfield Academy, since 1950; trustee, Cherryfield School District,
since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Weston Golf Club; Masons.

[1161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 .

IMMEDIATELY after graduation, I went to work in Boston for
a large engineering company, but soon realized that my interests
lay in having a business of my own, in spite of all its trials and
tribulations. My childhood had been spent in Maine where two
generations of the family had devoted their time to the canning
business, and that type of work seemed the answer to my prob-
lem. In order to have some knowledge of the merchandising of
canned foods, I worked for the next seven years as a food broker
in Boston and New England but arranged to spend two months
every summer in Maine during the canning season.

In 1937 I gave up that work and devoted my entire time to the
canning business. In looking back, I can see where I have made
plenty of mistakes and there have been some very discouraging
years, but I have enjoyed the work and have been very happy
in it. .

I knew if I played the field long enough I would eventually
find the right girl and that’s precisely what happened. We were
married in 1933, made our home in Weston, and have lived here
ever since. We, like so many suburban couples, have devoted our
time to our home, our town and church activities, and to our
children. Our oldest boy is hoping to enter Harvard next fall.
Our daughter, who is now at Concord Academy, seems at the
moment to be interested in a nursing career. Bob is in the eighth
grade and is having his first taste of football, school dances, and
all the other activities befitting a young man of that age.

Considering the canning season occupies my summers and, in
addition, sixty per cent more of my time during the year, we have
to govern our family activities accordingly. As you can see, my
set up is rather unique: a family in Weston and a business Down-
east. My wife and I were badminton enthusiasts until the out-
break of World War II. Since then we have spent many winter
vacations skiing as a family in New Hampshire and Vermont, and
have had many wonderful times together. But Dad and Mother
are getting older, and stronger becomes the call to vacationing in
the warm and sunny South.

I am not going to write about my convictions other than to
state that they have remained unchanged since I was six years old.
The politicians know only too well how hard it is to change a
Downeast Yankee.

[ 1162 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHAUNCEY DEVEREUX STILLMAN

HOME appRESS: Wethersfield, Amenia, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 230 Park Ave., New York 17, N. Y.
porn: Nov. 9, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Chauncey Stillman,

"98, Mary Wight.

paeparep at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.; Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1929(30); B.ARCH. (Columbia
Univ.), 1935.

marnmieD: Theodora Moran Jay, Jan. 21, 1939, Westbury, N. Y. (divorced
1949). CHILDREN: Emily Theodora, Oct. 27, 1939 (died Nov. 9, 1939);
Elizabeth Jay, Aug. 2, 1945; Mary Theodora, Dec. 15, 1946.

orrices HELD: Director, Freeport Sulphur Company; board member, New
York Botanical Garden, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, Homeland
Foundation, Biodynamic Farming Association.

MEMBER OF: Century Association; Council on Foreign Relations, New York
Yacht Club; Knickerbocker Club; New York Farmers; Society of the
Cincinnati; Millbrook Hunt; Tavern Club, Boston; Metropolitan Club,
Washington.

puBLICATIONS: Air Group Twenty Album (Carrier Air Group Twenty,
U. S. Pacific Fleet, 1943-45), privately printed, 1949.

TO summarize my war years, 1 was commissioned lieutenant
(junior grade) in the Naval Reserve in February, 1942, graduat-
ing some four years later as lieutenant commander. Three of my
naval years consisted of stateside duty, but during 1944-1945 I
served on the carriers U.S.S. Enterprise and Lexington as an air
combat intelligence officer with a bombing squadron in the Third
and Fifth Fleets. This period covered the first strikes on the
Bonin Islands, Okinawa, and Formosa; the invasions of Palau and
the Philippines (notably the battle for Leyte Gulf), and Halsey’s
penetration of the South China Sea. V-J Day found me teaching
a miscellany of subjects at Cecil Field, an auxiliary naval air sta-
tion in Florida.

In September, 1947, I was back in federal harness but as a
civilian this time. I spent four months in the brand new Depart-
ment of Defense under Mr. Forrestal, then gravitated into the
Central Intelligence Agency, at that time a fledgling also. There
I remained until September, 1951, burrowing busily like a gopher
in the gopher colony of Washington officialdom.

For the past two years my time has been divided between New
York City and a farm in Dutchess County, with winter cruising
in the West Indies and summer cruising in New England waters

[ 1163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and down East. My farming is fairly diversified, the main product
being milk from a Guernsey herd. We have been local pace-
setters in effecting a sound soil conservation program, with such
practices as organic fertilizing through composting manure and
vegetable wastes, crop rotation on contour strip ploughing, re-
forestation of barren steep slopes, diversion ditching, pond con-
struction, allowing pumped irrigation, and multiflora hedging.
Since 1937 when I bought the run-down farm, I have had the
satisfaction of seeing a large increase of the productivity of the
land.

My pastimes nowadays are largely dependent on my young
daughters’ desires. At the moment their main delight is in horses,
and in anything to do with the water, whether salt or fresh:
angling, swimming, sailing, rowing, or just messing around. I am
an inveterate putterer, and to our genus garden, field, woods, and
water provide endless opportunity for agreeable activity. A par-
ent’s compensation lies in seeing his children’s skills increase as his
own decrease. Which brings up the topic of age: how does one
carry the overlay of twenty-five years? Well, last year 1 dis-
covered that (since my arms had stopped growing) I needed
glasses to read the journal and telephone book; I no longer relish
late evenings or arduous travel; stories and situations are apt to
have a familiar ring. But what is lost in energy is gained in dis-
crimination, and life continues to seem mighty enjoyable.

In 1952 I joined the Catholic Church after three decades of de-
liberation, Thus with destination known, charts and fare pro-
vided, and company too—TI look forward cheerfully to the
remainder of the voyage.

HUGH SYLVAN STIX

HOME ADDRESS: 132 Macdougal St., New York 12, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 121 Hudson St., New York 13, N. Y.

BORN: July 28, 1907, Tuckahoe, N. Y. Parents: Sylvan Louis Stix, Flor-
ence Deitsch.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1931-1932. DEGREE: S.B. 1929(32).

MarRRIED: Adine Haviland, Marguerite Gomperz. cHiLpREN: David F., 1940;
Elizabeth H., 1942.

[ 1164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Sales and advertising, Seeman Brothers, Inc., manufacturing
wholesale grocers.

MY chief interest since leaving Harvard in 1933 (1 graduated
with the Class of 1932 and did one year’s graduate work at the
Fogg Museum) has been in contemporary painting and sculpture
and the problems of contemporary artists.

In 1936 1 was instrumental in founding an organization known
as the Artists’ Gallery. This is a non-profit organization sup-

rted by voluntary contributions. Its purpose was and is to
exhibit the work of mature contemporary artists who have not
had adequate recognition so that their work may be seen by the
public and eventually taken under the sponsorship of commer-
cial dealers. Exhibitions are given without charge to the artist
and he receives the entire sale price of all work sold for him.
In the past eighteen years we have exhibited the work of some
s00 painters and sculptors in over 250 one-man and group ex-
hibitions.

The Artists’ Gallery takes pride in the fact that artists to whom
it has given a start are now represented by practically all our
leading art dealers and that there is no major museum in the
United States including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the
Museum of Modern Art of New York, the Barnes Foundation,
the Chicago Art Institute, etc., that does not include in its per-
manent collection work by artists the Gallery has introduced
to the art world. Our present address is 851 Lexington Avenue,
New York City. Classmates who are interested in contemporary
art will find plenty here every day of the week — and if inter-
ested in seeing me, I come as a bonus every Saturday.

I am married to one of America’s top sculptors who works
and exhibits under the name of Marguerite.

FRANZ THEODORE STONE

HOME appress: “Welcome,” Rural Route 2, East Aurora, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Columbus McKinnon Chain Corp., Tonawanda, N. Y.

BorN: May 11, 1907, Grandview Heights, Ohio. parents: Julius Frederick
Stone, Edna Alice Andress.

PREPARED aT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.

[ 1165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Katherine Devereux Jones, Feb. 23, 1935, Asheville, N.C. cun-
prREN: Franz Theodore, 4th, Jan. 24, 1942; Thomas Devereux, Dec. 12,
1944; Catherine Devereux, 1946; Raymond Courtney, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Julius Frederick Stone, Jr., A.M., ’23, PH.D., '26, LLB., "go.

oocupaTion: Manufacturer of chains and hoists, president, Columbus Mc-
Kinnon Chain Corporation.

orrices HELD: Member advisory council, Albright Art Gallery, since 1953;
president, American Supply and Machinery Manufacturers’ Associa-
tion, Inc. 1950-51, Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio, 1940-41,
Columbus Town Meeting of the Air, 1939-42, DeGraff Memorial Hos-
pital, since 1953, Humane Society of the City of Columbus, 1940-42,
Tonawanda City Planning, 1944-48; vice-president, American Hard-
ware Manufacturers’ Association, 1951-53; director, American Red
Cross, Columbus, 1938-42, Philharmonic Society, Buffalo, since 1953,
Tonawanda Community Fund, 1948-53, Y.M.C.A., Buffalo and New
York, since 1947, Y.M.C.A., Columbus, 1933-42, Office of Strategic Serv-
ices, Research and Development Branch, 1944, Seagrave Corporation,
Columbus, 1936-45; member advisory board, Children’s Hospital, since
1953, Marine Trust Company of Western New York, Tonawanda
area, since 1953; consultant, Tools Division, Industrial Supply Sec-
tion, Office of Production Management, 1941; chief, Tools Branch,
Industrial Supply Section, 1942, Industrial Specialties Branch, Tools
Division, 1942-43, deputy director, Tools Division, 1943-44, 1945, War
Production Board, assistant administrator, Industrial and Agricultural
Equipment Bureau, 1951-52, deputy administrator, 1952, National Pro-
duction Authority; president, director, Columbus McKinnon Chain
Corporation, since 1935; director, 1932-43, secretary, treasurer, 1935-43,
Case Crane Kilbourne Jacobs Company, Columbus.

MEMBER OF: Buffalo Club; Buffalo Historical Society; Columbus Academy
Alumni Association, Columbus Club; Country Club of Buffalo; Faculty
Club, Ohio State University; Genesee Valley Hunt Club; Harvard
Alumni Association, Mid-Day Club of Buffalo, Phi Beta Kappa; Har-
vard College and Phillips Exeter Alumni Association.

THE warm summer sun of 1929 turned pretty cold, went under
a chilling cloud, and stayed there after the stock market had its
little ups and big downs that fall. An incipient career in manu-
facturing was abruptly terminated, and I left my position as a
statistical clerk in Buffalo, New York, and went to Columbus,
Ohio, where poking an adding machine and returning bum
checks for a bank made my fingertips and feet first sore, then
tough. After a while, I reached the auditing department. When
the manager of a farm in the trust department was appointed
head of a subsidiary of the then recently organized Reconstruc-

[ 1166 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion Finance Corporation, I left the bank to become as.
secretary and treasurer of the newly formed corporation.
subsidiary made production loans to farmers in Ohio, In
Kentucky, and Tennessee. My friend was primarily a f:
and was looking for someone to take responsibility fo:
accounting. I was looking for a job with greater responsi
than the auditing one and so, even though my agricultural k:
how was zero, we joined forces. With the insight into far:
operation thus gained, a co-worker, who really knows a
farming, and ] thought we saw an opportunity in agricul
We resigned in 1934, acquired an interest in several farm p
erties and went to work for ourselves. The venture has pre
successful and has expanded into a farm management group
manages farms, grain elevators, and farm implement sales
service.

A job as treasurer and director of a concern manufactur
wheel barrows, baggage trucks, platform trucks, and sim.
items, and a directorship in a concern making firefighting equ
ment had given me some manufacturing experience, particulas
in the management and control aspects of manufacturing. T!
background has proved very helpful as I have been, since 193
the chief executive officer of a manufacturing company, th
Columbus McKinnon Chain Corporation, with head offices :

Tonawanda, New York, and plants there and at Dixon, Illinoi:
as well as at St. Catharines, Ontario, and Johannesburg, Unio1
of South Africa.

Several excursions into government service have proved most
interesting. The last one, from March, 1951, through August,
1952, with the National Production Authority, followed an inno-
cent-seeming call from our classmate, Manly Fleischmann, then
administrator of the National Production Authority. What
Started out as a six months’ job stretched out to a year and a half.
‘About half the eighteen months in Washington was spent as
assistant administrator in charge of N.P.A.’s Industrial and
Agricultural Equipment Bureau. After Fleischmann, for a time
administrator of both the Defense Production Administration
and the National Production Authority, relinquished the latter
post, his successor asked me to become deputy administrator, a
post I filled until August, 1952. In this tour of duty I ran across

[ 1167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ALEXANDER LAW STOTT

HOME aporeEss: 478 Catamount Rd., Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 195 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 5, 1908, South Boston, Mass. parents: William George Stott,
Annie Law.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarrieD: Ruth Hammond, Nov. 27, 1929, Boston, Mass.; Margaret Whitner,
Sept. 12, 1935. CHILD: Nancy Whitner, Feb. 11, 1945.

occupanion: Comptroller, American Telephone and Telegraph Company.

OFFICES HELD; Assistant comptroller, 1949-52, assistant treasurer, 1952, treas-
urer, 1952-53, comptroller, since 1953, American Telephone and Tele-
gtaph Company; treasurer, Telephone Pioneers of America, 1952;
commander, U.S. Navy, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; U. S. Naval Reserve; Railroad
Machinery Club of New York City; Patterson Golf Club, Fairfield,
Fairfield County Hunt Club, Westport, Conn.; Controllers Institute of
America, New York City; U. S. Naval Institute, Annapolis, Md.; In-
stitute of Mathematical Statistics, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Naval Air Re-
serve Advisory Council, Washington, D.C.

EXCEPT for four years of Navy Service during World War II,
I have worked for the American Telephone and Telegraph Com-
pany since 1929. It’s a fine outfit and I have enjoyed being with it.
I have had various assignments there over the years, and just re-
cently was appointed comptroller.

Navy service was with the chief of the Bureau of Aeronautics
and with the deputy chief of Naval Operations for Air as an
AV(S) officer. The job naval aviation did in the Pacific made
this a wonderfully interesting and busy assignment. In spite of
persistent pressure, the frustrations of dealing with Navy brass,
and the wear and tear of long travelling, I think I enjoyed it. It
was a new experience, where I rubbed shoulders with people of
ability, both in and out of the Navy, worked on matters worth-
while, and made many new friends. Just for the record, however,
I've had enough Navy service.

Looking back, the years since College seem mostly good. I’ve
had good health, a family Tam proud of, work I like, and no really
major problems. I enjoy sports, particularly golf, hunting, and
fishing, and I have lots of fun doing things with the family. We
are a small family and it’s not too hard to get together. Three

[1170]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dogs — a cocker, a dachshund, and a newly-acquired labrador —
are usually part of our activities and add to the confusion and
merriment of our lives.

On the serious side I see the free enterprise system as our best
bet and I hope it is given a better chance to work in the future.
With any kind of a break, my guess is that the country will make
steady progress for the long pull provided, however, the Russians
act sensibly with their atom bombs. However, I wonder about
them when I learn of the treatment of our prisoners of war in
Korea. Despite misgivings, my best hope for the next twenty-five
years is that they'll be as good as the years since graduation. With
some luck and more good will in this world, ['m sure of it.

RICHARD ARNOLD STOUT

HOME ADDRESS: Riverside Drive, N. W., Route 6, Atlanta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 881 Piedmont Ave., N. E., Auianta, Ga.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1907, Louisville, Ky. parents: Kenneth Mears Stout, Blanch
Belvedere Arnold.

PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LL.B., 1933.

MARRIED: Violet Fowler, Oct. 24, 1947, Atlanta, Ga.

OCCUPATION: Trade association executive, lawyer; executive director, Print-
ing Industry of Atlanta, Inc., the Association of Georgia Printers, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attorney general, State of Texas, 1937-40; president,

_ Harvard Club of Atlanta, 1951, Graphic Arts Trade Association Ex-

ecutives of U. S. and Canada, 1953-54, Secretaries Club of Atlanta,
1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Georgia and Texas Bar Associations; Atlanta Advertising Club;
Yaarab Shrine Temple; Harvard Club of Atlanta; Shakerag Hounds
Hunt Club; Idlewild Club, Dallas, Texas.

AFTER graduating from Law School in 1933 I went to Houston,
Texas, where I obtained my first job in the Legal Department
of Shell Oil Company. In the fall of 1936 I was offered a position
on the staff of the Attorney General of Texas. I resigned from
Shell effective January 1, 1937, and went to Austin, Texas, as an
Assistant Attorney General in the State Capitol. I spent three and
a half years under two attorney generals, my legal assignments
taking me into all parts of the Lone Star State. In the spring of
1940 I had the opportunity of becoming junior legal counsel for
Interstate Circuit, Inc., and Texas Consolidated Theatres, Inc.,

[rr7t]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

largest motion picture exhibitors in the Southwest. I accepted
this position and moved to Dallas, Texas, where the company
had its general offices. My work in the motion picture industry
carried me throughout the Southwest and to the west coast and
New York City.

After the entry of the United States into World War II, I
applied for a commission in the U. S. Naval Reserve, and early
in 1942 became a lieutenant, junior grade, in the Intelligence
Division. Following indoctrination and brief duty on the Gulf
Coast, I asked for and was granted transfer to line status. I
served as a deck and division officer aboard, first, the “baby flat-
top,” USS. Shamrock Bay, and then the heavy cruiser, U.S.S.
Minneapolis, for the duration of the war, attaining the rank of
lieutenant commander. I saw action in both the European and
South Pacific Theatres, and after the Japanese surrender was
aboard the Minneapolis on patrol in the Yellow Sea between
Korea and China until I was ordered back to the States in De-
cember, 1945, for release from active duty. A civilian once more
I went back to my legal and public relations duties for Inter-
state Theatres. Early in 1946, however, I acquired an interest
in some theatrical and sports promotions which necessitated
moving to Atlanta, Georgia.

Although I had become an ardent Texan by adoption and have
since married a Texan girl whom I met while I was in service, I
have never regretted “settling down” in Georgia after the active
and interesting years in Texas. I am no longer connected with
the entertainment field, but do public relations, labor relations,
and legal work for the commercial printing industry of Georgia.
I live in the country near Atlanta, and for hobbies and outdoor
exercise have horses and dogs.

RANDALL EDWIN STRATTON

HOME AppRESS: 35 Woodward Ave., Rehoboth 2, Mass.

OFFICE appREsS: Providence Country Day School, Providence, R. I.

BorN: April 18, 1907, Watertown, Mass. PARENTS: George Russell Stratton,
’99, Mabel Louise Moulton.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; A.Mq

1949.
[1172 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

margieD: Charlotte Thompson, July 30, 1933; Hopkinton, Mass. crrpren;
Sandra Joan, Feb. 9, 1938; George Thompson, July 31, 1940; Randall
Edwin, Jr., Feb. 17, 1945.

occuPaTION: Teacher, head of History Department, Providence Country
Day School.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; World Affairs Council of Rhode Island.

PUBLICATIONS: Juarez of Mexico, American Book Company, 1942.

ASIDE from brief flurries of activity in such closely related
fields as landscaping, writing, salesmanaging, small fruit farming,
plating, store management, forestry, and sandblasting, my quarter
century has been chiefly devoted to teaching. It has been a
happy profession, although one regrets on receiving those con-
stant appeals from Harvard and the Class of 1929 that its rewards
have been so exclusively non-financial.

After three years of combined graduate work and History I
section-handing, I left for browner pastures in Arkansas with
my bride. Two years at the College of the Ozarks, where among
other activities we founded a college and community Little
Theatre group, left us longing for New England’s snows (?)
and greenery.

Back in Massachusetts the next few years were spent in a
variety of activities, mentioned above, but in igq2 I returned to
teaching and have since happily remained in the field. In that
time I have worked in schools and colleges in Providence, Utica,
Plattsburg, Waltham, and am once again in the Providence area
as head of the History Department at the Providence Country
Day School.

A balance sheet of gains and losses since June, 1929, would
include the following on the plus side: one wife and three chil-
dren (sons nine and thirteen, daughter sixteen); a large number
of widely scattered friends including past students; one house
(mortgaged) on 2.7 acres of land in Seekonk, Massachusetts; a
considerable library; and some fifteen pounds avoirdupois.
Among the more spectacular losses must be included one rela-
tively thick head of hair and several naive beliefs, chief among
them the convictions that the nations would never again risk a
world war and that American industry and finance under the
wise administrations of Coolidge and Hoover had for all time
solved the problems of production and poverty.

[ 1173 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

As to current beliefs and convictions, I am an Eisenhower
Republican with crossed fingers, and I have for some time been
active in the Unitarian church and church school. My present
prayer is that we shall never be faced with a choice between
such alternatives as Communism and McCarthyism. Although
not “joiners” we have usually been involved in civic affairs
wherever we were. With Sandra a junior at Lincoln School
(Providence), Tomp at Country Day, Randy, Jr., at the local
grammar school, each with various interests, and my wife doing
some teaching, tutoring, directing, and a great deal of taxiing,
we are a busy household. My recreation and relaxation include
occasional excursions into community drama groups, some tennis,
gardening, and reading who-dun-its.

JOHN DODGE STRONG

HOME ApbRESS: 82 Village Hill Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

orrice appress: C, J. McGinnis, 521 Trapelo Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

poan: March 18, 1905, Binghamton, N. Y, PARENTS: Cyrus Strong, Kathrine
Lovell.

prepareD aT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.; Pawling School,
Pawling, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

margiep: Mary E. Inglis, April 18, 1931, Scranton, Pa. CHILDREN: Cyrus,
Nov. 13, 19323 John Dodge, Jr. Oct. 2, 1935; Mary Elizabeth, Dec. 2,
1939; Kathy Javne, Jan. 13, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Barton Hepburn Strong, *27.

occupation: Manager, C. J. McGinnis and Sawtelle Coal Company, divisions
of Household Fuel Corporation.

MEMBFR OF: Belmont Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Belmont Chapter, A.F. & A.M.

IN the spring of 1928 a blind date was the cause of changing my
plans of going to Law School to getting through College and
getting a job, It took two years of high-pressure selling, but on
April 18, 1931, Mary Inglis became Mary Strong. We haven't
kept up with Tim Clark for we have only four children, running
from age twenty-one to two, and there the machine has stopped!

Hobbies have been hunting, skiing, and fishing with a little
tennis and golf thrown in. These have been cut to hunting and
fishing because Doc Richards removed the cartilage from both
knees and because of a recent coronary attack. I have no military

(1174)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

record because of the knee operations which made me 4-F as far
as any branch of service was concerned.

The business record is rather uneventful. From 1929 to 1934 I
was an electrical engineering student with the C. H. Tenney Com-
pany. In the spring of 1934 I changed from public utilities to the
fuel business and have been in it ever since with the same com-
pany. The twenty-five years have been a whale of a lot of fun.
My only regret is that neither of the boys would enter Harvard.
Cy is a senior at Williams and Johnny a freshman at Dartmouth.
Maybe by 1964 Radcliffe will be completely merged with Har-
vard and Kathy will go there. That is my only hope of getting
another Harvard man (?) in the family.

ALAN MAXWELL STROOCK

HOME ADDRESS: 180 E. 95th St., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 61 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Sol Marcuse Stroock,
Hilda Weil.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 77agna cum laude, 1929; LLB.
(Yale Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Katherine Wyler, June 12, 1931, New York, N. Y. cHIpRen:
Robert Alan, July 27, 1934; Mariana, April 6, 19373 Daniel W., March 20,
1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Louis Stroock, ’27, A.M., ’28 (deceased).

OccUPATION: Lawyer, member, Stroock & Stroock & Lavan.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant corporation counsel, City of New York, 1938, mem-
ber Board of Legal Examiners, United States Government, 1943-45;
member Grievance Committee, former member Admissions Committee,
Association of the Bar of the City of New York; member Board of
Directors, S. Stroock & Company, Inc., Palestine Economic Corpora-
tion, Institute for Human Relations Studies; member Committee to

Visit Department of History, former member Committee to Visit De-
partment of Egyptian and Semitic Civilizations, Harvard College; mem-
ber Board for Development of New York University; trustee, Horace
Mann School for Boys; chairman, Board of Directors, Jewish Theo-
logical Seminary of America, Publications Committee, Commentary
magazine; member Executive Committee, Administrative Committee,
former vice-president, American Jewish Committee; president, Amer-

ican Friends of Alliance Israelite Universelle.

MEMBER oF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; New York
County Lawyers Association; New York State and American Bar As-

{1175 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

sociations; Harvard Chapter, Phi Beta Kappa; Yale Law School Chapter,
Order of Coif; Lawyers Club; Harmonie Club.

I DID not start out like a Harvard man who is going to be a
lawyer should. In the first place, I did not start out to be a lawyer
at all. I helped to bring the Hound and Horn to New York, to
try to make a national magazine out of it. If you don’t remember,
‘that was an egg-headed venture started at Harvard in our day
which, despite its brief career, made such a splash that it is still
talked about in literary places twenty-five years later. When the
crash ended all chances for that kind of undertaking, I tried the
art world for a few months and then got married to a girl who,
straight from Vassar, kicked me out of pipe dreams and sent me —
of all places — to Yale Law School. I was about the first Harvard
man to do that, but it wasn’t too bad because at that time we were
still winning football games. On graduation I was appointed secre-
tary to Justice Benjamin N. Cardozo, Supreme Court of the
United States. By then there were three of us, and we spent two
years in Washington at just the right time for excitement at my
post. The NRA, the AAA, the Gold Clauses — all the New Deal
came up for review by the nine old men — and I sat at the feet
of the great team — Brandeis, Cardozo, and Stone — the like of
whom has not since been seen.

Back in New York after five years during which we had the
whole of every summer off (nice work if you can get it) we
started to have more children and I settled down in my father’s
firm, at least for a year. Then I worked for a year as an assistant
corporation counsel] under LaGuardia — may his name increase —
and then returned to the firm as partner, where I have remained
ever since. ,

Fortunately I have been able to give a fair part of my time to
things that may not do much good to anyone else, but do a lot
of good for me. Mostly, as the list of my disorganized activities
reveals, I like education. I may be wrong, but that seems to me
the ultimate good in a democracy. I also have faith that when an
American acts like Roosevelt and thinks like Stevenson, we are
likely to have a better America than when we act like McCarthy
and think like Taft. So I guess I remain an egghead. And I hope
my children go to Harvard, or Radcliffe, and come out the same.

[1176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL RIDLEY STUBBS

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Moody St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: 1344 Hyde Park Ave., Hyde Park 36, Mass.

Born: March 29, 1906, Hyannis, Mass. parents: Charles Henry Stubbs,

Phoebe Long.

prePAReD AT: Mount Hermon Academy, Mount Hermon, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: $.B, IN E.ENG., 1930.

married: Eugenia Litchfield, 1930, Bridgewater, N. H. ciitpren: Virginia,

April 1, 1944; Fred, Dec. 23, 1946.
occupation: Manufacturing, production engineer, Boston works, Allis
Chalmers Manufacturing Company.

CAREER History: Nothing startling. Application of natural and
acquired abilities to making a living as a vacuum cleaner
salesman, a sign painter, a civil engineer, machinist, a welder,
a draftsman, a sales engineer for heavy electrical equipment,
a treasurer and service manager for an automobile dealership,
and a production engineer (this time for the manufacture of
heavy equipment, in charge of methods, tool design, cost con-
trol and master production planning) — in the preceding
order chronologically through the years since 1930 to date.

Family: Everything 1 desire and need, my two children, a boy
and a girl, and my wife, and they all love me in spite of all
my faults.

Travels: Restricted to the United States, but including all of them.

Hobbies: Homecrafts metal and woodworking including mainte-
nance of house, golf, swimming, climbing, reading, music.

War Record: None.

Government Service: None.

Social Convictions: The sooner everybody treats people like hu-
man beings, the sooner we’ll have peace in the world.

Political Convictions: Ditto above.

Religious Convictions: “As you sow, so shall ye reap.”

LOUIS STURCKE, JR.

HOME appreEss: 625 Ponce de Leon Ave., San Juan, Puerto Rico.

OFFICE apprEss: Office of the Governor, 4 Allen St. San Juan, Puerto Rico.

BorN: April 28, 1908, New York, N. Y. Parents: Louis Sturcke, Marguerite
Oluf Peppard.

PREPARED AT: Scarborough School, Scarborough-on-Hudson, N. Y,

[1177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(30).

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Consultant to government of Puerto Rico.

OFFICES HELD: Consultant, budgetary matters, Bureau of the Budget, since
1949, tax matters, Secretary of the Treasury, since 1949, administrator,
Committee on Design of Public Works, 1945-48, director, 1943-45,
part-time consultant and acting director, 1942-43, Budget, Government
of Puerto Rico; senior research technician, National Resources Plan.
ning Board, Office of the President, 1942-43, chief, Special Reports
Section, Resettlement Administration, 1935-37, assistant economic ex-
pert, Agricultural Adjustment Administration, 1934-35, U. S. Govern-
ment; secretary, Bureau of the Budget, 1951, director, Division of
Capital and Assessable Improvements, New York City Planning Com-
mission, 1938-51, City of New York, research analyst, American Molas-
ses Company, New York, 1937-38.

DANIEL JEREMIAH SULLIVAN

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Prospect St., Nashua, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: « Prospect St., Nashua, N. H.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1907, Manchester, N. H. Parents: Jeremiah Joseph Sullivan,
Margaret McBride.

PREPARED AT: Manchester High School West, Manchester, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: S.B. 19203 M.D., 1933.

MarkiED: Stella Claire Flynn, Oct. 22, 1932, Brookline, Mass, cuitp: Robert
Austin, July 20, 1947.

occupation: Physician, general practice, surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Class of 1933, Harvard Medical School, 1929-33:
member, Delegates Committee, Board of Governors, New England
Obstetrical and Gynecological Society, 1946-49; president, staff, Nashua
Memorial Hospital; councillor, New Hampshire Chapter, secretary,

- New Hampshire Committee on Trauma, American College of Sur-
geons; member, House of Delegates, chairman, Committee on Emerg-
ency Medical Service, New Hampshire State Medical Society; chairman,
Board of Censors, Hillsborough County Medical Society; director,
Indian Head National Bank, Nashua; trustee, Nashua Hospital Asso-
ciation, member, New Hampshire State Board of Health.

MEMBER OF: Nashua Country Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Nashua Hos-
pital Association; Hillsborough County Medical Society; New Hamp-
shire Surgical Club; New Hampshire Medical Society; American Med-
ical Association, American College of Surgeons; New England Ob-
stetrical and Gynecological Society; Harvard Club of New Hampshire.

PUBLICATIONS: “Transportation of the Injured,” U.S. Naval Medical Bulletin,

July, 1944.
[1178 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER leaving College I went to Harvard Medical School and,
after absorbing years there, started interning at the Boston City
Hospital. Upon completing my internship in November, 1935, I
was engaged as a contract physician for the United States Govern-
ment at a CCC Camp in Waterbury, Vermont. I then returned to
Boston and interned from February to August, 1936, at the Boston
Lying-in Hospital. Then came the cold plunge into the practice
of medicine in Nashua, New Hampshire, in September, 1936.
Life went along uneventfully until December, 1941. I was sitting
at home in the living-room listening to the radio on that Sunday
afternoon when the news of Pearl Harbor broke and in the next
week I made up my mind that wartime service was something
that I couldn’t afford to miss so I made application for a commis-
sion at the First Naval District in Boston.

It was March, 1942, before the Navy completed all its paper
work and had me in uniform. My initial experience in the Navy
was somewhat confusing to me because upon arriving at my first
duty station at the Norfolk Naval Hospital in Portsmouth, Vir-
ginia, I was assigned to do gynecological surgery and consequently
never had anything to do with a sailor. This situation was rem-
edied within six weeks, however, because 1 was then assigned to
the U.S. Naval Air Station at Elizabeth City, North Carolina,
where lighter-than-air ships were operated. During my tour of
eleven months of duty at that station I had many opportunities
to go on anti-submarine patrol in lighter-than-air craft because
the medical duties were not pressing and we were oversupplied
with medical officers at the time. Thereafter I was assigned to
duty on board an aircraft carrier, U.S.S. Monterey, which oper-
ated during the next twenty-one months with Task Force 58 and
the Third and Fifth Fleets under Admirals Halsey and Spruance.
When I returned to the States following this tour of sea duty I
was assigned to the U.S. Naval Hospital at St. Albans, New York.
I was discharged from the service in January, 1946, and since then
have been back in Nashua practising medicine.

I have no strong social convictions that I know of. I have de-
veloped strong political convictions over the last ten years. Up
until 1948 I had always been a registered Democrat but in that
year changed over to the Republican Party. I was aghast at the
ineptitude of the Roosevelt-Truman regime in dealing with the

[1179]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

postwar problems. The attempts of Truman and Company to
foist socialized medicine upon the American people convinced
me that I was right in abandoning the Democratic Party. I am
presently disturbed at the indifference of many people in high
government office and in the field of education to the menace
and danger of communism. I live in hope that these people may
take a more realistic attitude towards the danger of communism
in the United States.

+ FRANCIS JOHN SULLIVAN

Born: Oct. 8, 1903, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Henry James Sullivan,
Katherine MacFarland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

piep: April 28, 1926, Boston, Mass.

JOHN AUGUSTUS SULLIVAN, JR.

HoMeE appress: Hawthorne Road, Essex Fells, N. J.

OFFICE aDpRESS: 264 Bloomfield Ave., Caldwell, N. J.

Born: Sept, 30, 1905, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTs: John Augustus Sullivan,
Catherine Agnes O'Flaherty.

PREPARED AT: Kingsley School, Essex Fells, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

Maxgiep: Margaret Mary McCormick, June 30, 1934, Upper Montclair, N. J.
CHILpREN: John Augustus, 3d, Sept. 17, 1935; Robert McCormick, Nov.
11, 1936; Mary Georgia, Oct. 12, 1940; Margaret Mary, Jan. 30, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Desmond Sullivan, ’34. |

OccUPATION: Business manager, Caldwell Progress-Verona News, weekly
newspaper.

orrices HELD: President, Caldwell-West Essex Kiwanis Club, 1945, Caldwell
Chamber of Commerce, 1947~48, director, Bronx Home News Publish-
ing Company, 1940-45, Caldwell National Bank, 1947-50, Citizens Na-
tional Bank and Trust Company, Caldwell, since 1950.

mMemBrRe or: Caldwell-West Essex Kiwanis Club; Caldwell Chamber of
Commerce, Mercier Club of Montclair; Essex Fells Civil Defense
Council.

AFTER leaving Harvard in the spring of 1928 I joined a weekly

newspaper in Caldwell and in 1933 my partner and I purchased it.

The day the final papers were signed, the banks closed! Feeling

there was plenty of future in the paper, I got married the follow-

ing year and have never regretted it. .

[ 1180 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Living in a suburban community (only eighteen miles from
New York) I have become more and more engrossed in its de-
velopment. Being in the newspaper business, I have shied away
from any political ventures, although I am known as a rara avis
(a Democrat) in this Republican area. I have been interested in
such local groups as the Kiwanis, Chamber of Commerce, etc.,
and have served for some years now as a director of our only
locally owned bank. Athletic interests are few, but I do try to
see the team play at least once a year if it comes to the metro-
politan area. For many summers we have gone to the Cape, the
Vineyard, or Nantucket, but this year we returned to Sea Girt.
My hobbies, if such they can be called, include stamp collecting
and doing Double Crostic puzzles —I know the woman who
originated them. Never having attended a Reunion, except the
Yale game last fall, my wife is insisting that we do so this year.

During the war I was never called (perhaps because of my four
kids), but I helped as best I could by joining in a monthly salvage
drive which continued uninterruptedly for forty-nine months. I
also was a marshal in the main pumping plant of our water system
(which supplies water to five surrounding towns) and helped the
police with night desk duty. At present I am a member of the
local defense (or more properly, disaster) council.

PAUL JOSEPH SULLIVAN

HOME AppREss: 376 Bowdoin St., Dorchester 22, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Solomon Lewenberg School, Outlook Road, Mattapan 26,
Mass.

BoRN: April 18, 1908, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Jeremiah Sullivan,
Ella Ignatius McMahan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; A.M. (Boston Coll.), 1930.

MaRRiED: Katherine Patricia Buckley, July 22, 1939. CHILDREN: Katherine
Frances, Oct. 10, 1942; Paul Joseph, Jr., Jan. 9, 1947.

occupation: Submaster, Junior High School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Intermediate Schoolmen’s Association, 1936-37;
chairman, Modern Foreign Language Council, Boston Public Schools,
1952-53; secretary, Boston Home and School Association, 1943-44;

[1181]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

vice-president, Home and School association, Lewenberg School, 1942~
MEMBER or: Boston Teachers Alliance.
AFTER receiving a Master of Arts degree from Boston College
in 1930 I taught French for three years at Boston College High
School in Boston. During the summer of 1932 I studied at the
Sorbonne in Paris. In 1934 I was appointed as a teacher of French
at the Solomon Lewenberg Junior High School. I have been in
the Boston Public School System ever since, having been pro-
moted to the position of submaster in 1942. I now find myself
within sight of another possible goal — that of principal of an
elementary or junior high school.

In the process of scraping the bottom of the barrel in 1944, my
local draft board invited me to lend my services to the armed
forces for two years. Armed with a typewriter and an ample
supply of carbon paper I earned my American Defense Medal in
various army personnel offices at Camp Lee, Virginia, and Fort
Devens, Massachusetts.

Although the financial remuneration of the teaching profession
is only moderate at best and promotional opportunities are rather
long in coming, I can honestly admit to a sincere and constantly
growing liking for my work, My twenty-two years in the field
of education have provided me with many happy memories of
my associations with the “teen-agers” of this generation. I do not
view them with alarm, but rather with a sympathetic understand-
ing of their “problems” most of which are imposed on them by
' their indifferent or cynical elders.

My private life, like my professional career, has been unspec-
tacular but, to me, most satisfying. It centers around a happy (and
permanent) marriage and a small family growing up normally in
a modest American home. I am looking forward to my quota of
the next twenty-five years with the hope that they will be as
good to me as the last twenty-five have been. If only they would
not pass so quickly!

JOHN STEWART SUMMERHAYES

HOME AppRESS: 1191 Stratford Rd., Schenectady, N. Y. (permanent); 2121
Decatur PL, N. W., Washington, D. C. (temporary).

[ 1182 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: Sept. 21, 1905, Schenectady, N. Y. parents: Harry Roswell Summer-
hayes, Marion Frances Stewart.

prepared AT: Noble and Greenough School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1925-1927, 1928-1929,

marnigp: Ralphine Henderson, Scpt, 17, 1946, Maysville, Ky.

OCCUPATION: Electronics scientist, U. S. Government.

orrices HELD: Research, development, test engineer, General Electric Com-
pany; licutenant colonel, U. S. Army Active Reserve, now.

MeMBeR OF: English Speaking Union.

pusticaTions: About 120 classified military scientific, engineering, and
technical analyses and reports since beginning World War IL

IN the years since leaving Harvard, I have associated primarily
with scientists, engineers, military men, and sea-faring men in
this country and England. The wondrous ways of these men,
and others, in both peacetime and when the chips were down,
have continually amazed me. Most of all has this been the case
when they have vigorously demonstrated the courage of their
convictions and fought for democratic principles of freedom and
justice.

My Harvard physics and General Electric laboratories studies
and work early in my career developed in me a lasting awareness
of man’s struggles, failures, and successes in learning more about
the material and philosophical nature of the universe. Before
that, my Unitarian grandfather had instilled in me the firm con-
viction that the basis for all progress of humanity lay within the
great established religions, and perhaps some yet to come. The
important part that Harvard has been and still is playing in help-
ing to light the way in understanding of these human affairs
daily becomes more evident to me.

Up to the beginning of the war, skiing, skate-sailing, ice
hockey, fishing, and boating occupied most of my spare time.
Included were many happy holidays with my immediate family
and numerous cousins at Crown Island, Lake George, New
York. No account of my life would be complete without men-
tion of innumerable skiing and skate-sailing trips with my father,
a General Electric engineer. I am happy to report that at the age
of seventy-nine, he is an expert skate-sailer and skier. He has
enthusiastically promoted both of these sports for some fifty
years, and is currently negotiating the “expert” trails in the
Adirondacks and New England, occasionally demonstrating the

[ 1183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

now almost extinct “Telemark Swing” in addition to everything
else in the book.

From January 6, 1941, to August, 1946, I was on active duty
with the U. S. Army and spent three years in the European
Theatre. During the war, aside from the unhappy aspects, |
derived much pleasure and excitement of a sporting nature from
Royal Air Force and U. S. Air Force test and operational flying
in the European ‘Theatre.

My spare-time reading, of necessity but partly by inclination,
has been largely of a professional nature. However, my English
wife, with whose fundamental views I am in complete accord, is
a keen and diligent student of United States and international
history and current affairs, and she keeps me well-briefed in
these respects. Last but not least, my devoted mother’s unwaver-
ing faith, advice, and kindness to me on all occasions must be
mentioned as being a prime factor in my happiness. Her frequent
letters with the news of home have followed me to many pars
of the world.

HURD HARRY SUTHERLAND

HOME apprEss: 418 W. Dunlap St., Northville, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ford Motor Co., Engineering Staff, Dearborn, Mich.

Born: Aug. 18, 1907, Detroit, Mich. parents: Harry Bertram Sutherland,
Zella Hurd.

PREPARED AT: Northwestern High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30),

MarRiED: Clara Witney, Aug. 26, 1931, New York, N. Y. c#nmrpren: Susan
Jane, Aug. 24, 1932 (a. Dewey Ketner, Nov. 4, 1951); Laura Ann,
Jan. 16, 1941; Dorothy Jean, Jan. 22, 1943; Peter Robert, Aug. 17, 1947
GRANDCHILD: Coleen Gay Ketner, Sept. 22, 1952.

WELL, it has been as aimless as a Picaresque novel. The only
continuity was a red Parker duofold I carried from 1921 undl
1950 when they washed out on their guarantee. Well by then |
was boss so I said to hell with it, I can hire people to write for
me. As a matter of fact my sight got so bad that they had to
rgad to me. The eye doctor was amazed that I could read blue-
prints until I told him I just had my help tell me what is said.
When I wasn’t doing things the hard way, I was off on the wrong

[1184 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fork. I was out of college before I realized I could only see with
one eye; so there I was trying to hit baseballs, etc, when I was
even being hit by basketballs.

Well nothing was lively in Detroit in 1929 so I ended up at
Sears. I was difficult, I insulted them, and they loved it. I could
not stand the line of merchandise, so I quit. I did not understand
politics and passed up a spot that can never come again. I hit a
job running a house organ, cared to shoot crap, was fired, So I
went to Chase Bank. I was meek and humble and they spat upon
me. My manager thought Harvard was a bed of atheists. Ele was
s Methodist or something and would not believe it was a bed of
roses. Finally after all the humiliations they gave me $1.50 a week
raise. I told them off and then they begged me to stay.

During this time of the hair shirt I succumbed to the artistic
influence and taught portery at Flenry Street; in exchange I was
permitted to sop up some knowledge of ceramic chemistry, weav-
ing, and to mess about with charcoal while staring at some lovely
nudes. But there was no more money there (for me) than at
Chase. Meanwhile I had gone from the West Seventies to East
Thirty-fourth, to Cherry Srreer, Astoria, and Mount Kisco. So
we got up one morning in Mount Kisco, left the breakfast dishes
on the table, the curtains on the windows, left the door unlocked,
and went to Fowlerville, Michigan.

We farmed. We did things the hard way and proved it paid.
The neighbors hated us. I went into a brokerage house; I proved
I could tell chem when to buy and sell and they hated me. They
went back to selling low and buying high. I could not bring in
enough customers to support that type of operation, so we sep-
arated. I tried market, tax, and accounting advice for farmers.
They did not believe they were going to make out returns (FDR
let them down). So having used all my ideas and pressed all my
connections to no avail, I found C.I.O. was tough in Detroit. I
got in politics with Fitzgerald, helped elect him governor, and
he died. .

I walked into Currier Lumber and said, I want a job. They did
not ask me if I could read or write and I asked nothing! I be-
came stock boy at forty cents an hour. Well I had seen classmates
selling apples in New York, and at that I made more than I
ever had at Chase. Soon I was running three machines, nailing

[ 1185]

‘

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

sash, tailing the sander, assembling, scheduling inventory and pro-
duction; I was still stock boy but I had top pay for my depart.
ment and from three to twelve helpers. The first year we fought
the C.I.O., next the A.F.L., then I was made a salesman. I was
good. I sold three screen porch jobs during a blizzard. One
morning they informed me that P.J. had signed everyone up
with the C..O. “No one is signing me up to anything.”

So I went over to see what the U.S.E.S.C. was doing for us tax-
payers and before I knew it I was sworn in and on duty at the
Detroit tank arsenal. So we start over again. Those S.0.B.'s
really gave it to me. Brother, it was stupid. Being a civilian em-
ployee, I could give some back. It took a long time to convince
them that the top man in the War Department was a civilian
and that we ran it. Anyhow we really chastised Chrysler and
some of them thought that if I would always work that way for
the one who signed the check it might be a sweet arrangement.
For once the hard way paid off.

I was invited to Willow Run by an ex-Chrysler executive. At
last we were in on the ground floor, recognized, and a good future
mapped out. That was November. We dug in and worked around
the clock and put those cars in the Waldorf. By January the tank
arsenal gang had Willow Run. Meanwhile some others were poli-
ticking and by April my boss was fired; in June my second boss
was fired and I was alone surrounded by orange juice and C110.
I had read Tolstoy’s War and Peace and it is true in war, peace,
flood, famine — but people go on living, eating, and having chil-
dren. So I went on with a weak, stubborn resistance. I avoided
the C.I.O. and spit out the orange juice. They did not want me
to do anything I knew anything about, so mostly I sat at a desk,
gave my work to others, collected my pay, and designed furni-
ture. We bought an old Northville house and made our own
antiques, since we could not afford to buy them. It was a slow,
hard process. You cut down a tree and after some work and two
or three years air drying you have native walnut, maple, cherry.
While you wait you refinish and rebuild. Well, they finally gave
up and put me in charge of the blueprint room since I hate it and
know absolutely nothing about it.

Then too they probably thought the C.I.O. would cut me up.
Well, we consolidated our position and soon there were airplanes

[ 1186 ]

ort w

FTE NEE TERE PTR TERRE RE PE pp ori ia gp A a NEA A GON NI HbR NICER SHI IRD a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and brother, they had burned their bridges ’cause there apparently
are only two ingredients in an airplane — blueprints and rivets.
We had seventy-five people on three shifts. Instead of a cubby
hole, it was production. I made my own prints of my furniture
and boats, and branched out to king-sized chess men — too hard
to see the others, Yes, Fairchild really did drag its heels, The air
force threw a few curves too. That’s why we had to run up so
many blueprints we had drawings for at least four or five obso-
lete planes mixed in.

By the time they hit us with that idea of “what's good for G.M.
is good for the country,” I had something of a reputation in re-
production work. Instead of people not wanting me because |
had no experience now it was because they had no opening wor-
thy of my talent. But I made it again. It’s another beginning, but
this time with an outfit chat uses a little black ink.

We live in an old-fashioned village where you have neighbors
and you belong because you are there. The countryside is as
much like New England as you can find out here. Traffic is
light and there is enough native wood left so I can make chess-
men out of walnut, cherry, maple, locust, apple, osage orange,
mulberry, butternut, beech, sycamore, and my beautiful wife
has almost given up hope of ever getting away from the sawdust.
But then a man who has wanted a son for seventeen years cer-
tainly is entitled to a few privileges. We have always had shoes
and in these days of deals, taxes, and rations, that is almost boast-
ful.

Politics: I always manage to pick the minority side. The only
thing I have learned is that when I go along independently I go
well. I still have not learned to act, so I cannot profit by my
lesson.

KELSO HENDERSON SUTTON

HOME appress: RFD 2, Ridgefield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 794 E. 140th St. New York 54, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 2, 1906, Campbellton, N. B., Canada. parents: Richard Ernest
Sutton, Ethel Kelso.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

margieD: Edith Furbush, March 17, 1934, Portland, Maine (divorced 1943);

[ 1187 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Margaret Virginia Springer, Nov. 22, 1947, Chevy Chase, Md. cup;

Kelso Furbush, March 8, 1939.
occuPATION: National sales manager, Loral Electronics Corporation, manu-

facturers of electronic and electro-mechanical equipment.
pusuications: The Technique of Selling, McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1949;

Zimzam and Jeejeeboy, sales training series, 1947.
I EARN my living as a sales manager, and I enjoy this type of
work. Right now my company is putting new products on the
commercial market and I am opening up distribution channels,
seeking outlets and volume uses, initiating publicity, and keeping
very busy on all problems involved in gaining national distribu-
tion. It is most interesting. I commute to New York City every
day. In addition, and as a hang-over from my years as a sales con-
sultant, nights and weekends I am now writing a complete sales
training manual for a very large corporation in the construction
industry. This is a sub-contract assignment for a consulting firm.

Margaret and I enjoy living here in the country of Connecticut.
We both love to play golf. We play a fair game. My son Kelso
lives with his mother in Falmouth Foreside, Maine. He is a fresh-
man in high school. I see him quite frequently and he visits with
Margaret and me. I see a lot of Warren Bradbury. This last
summer he and I played golf together many weekends. We col-
lect records, play bridge, take quite a few trips together, and get
to Bay View, Michigan, every summer. I used to do a lot of
fishing, but time prevents it now — maybe later on I'll get back
to it.
I was a captain in the Army Signal Corps duringWorld War II

and stayed in the Reserve until 1953.

STEPHEN ANTHONY SUTTON

HOME appress: 843 Country Club Drive, Mt. Lebanon, Pittsburgh 34, Pa.

orrice aporess: Colonial Trust Co., Wood Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Boan: Feb. 13, 1904, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: John Sutton, Mary Burke. ,

prepanrp at: Allegheny High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLELE: 191§-1929. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1929.

Masairp: Susan R. Sutton, September, 1934, Pittsburgh, Pa. crrpren: Hil-
ary P., 1936; Gladys M., 1937; Evelyn; Arthur; Clifford.

ocoupaTion; Finance.

THE year 1954 also marks my twenty-fifth anniversary with
[ 1188 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The Colonial Trust Company of Pittsburgh, where I presently
serve as trust officer. My interest in economics has been main-
tained by attendance at the Graduate School of Banking at Rut-
gers University and by teaching a course in money and banking
at Duquesne University.

This year will also mark my twentieth wedding anniversary.
A full house of three boys and two girls makes up our happy
family; the children’s ages range from eleven to eighteen years
of age.

THOMPSON TYLER SWEENY, JR.

HOME AppREss: 17 W. Tenth St., New York 11, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 44. Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BoRN: May 5, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Thompson Tyler Sweeny,
Amy Shipley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

marrigD: Geraldine Dow, July 2, 1932, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Investment banker, Snow, Sweeny & Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Maine Central Railroad Company, National Vul-
canized Fibre Company, Seiberling Rubber Company.

MEMBER OF: The Players; Wall Street Club.

SOMEHOW I feel a bit embarrassed about this note, perhaps
because I have so little to add to that which appeared in the Vi-
cennial Report. I am still, as I have been since graduation, in the
investment banking business. I still have no children. As to avo-
cations, I am still collecting first editions of English authors (an
avocation which has got a little bit out of hand), still getting off
occasionally to sit in the sun (three more trips to the British West
Indies and two sunny months in Spain), and have become finally,
irrevocably, and unregenerately lazy. In a way, I suppose, my only
achievement since we last got together on the Cape has been
the embarcation of an old associate and myself into the invest-
ment banking business for ourselves, dedicated to the dual goal
of less work and longer vacations (I would just as soon not go
into the financial aspects of the matter). The “less work” seems
to have worked out fairly well, but the longer vacations have not
to date (as my wife frequently reminds me) been very much in
evidence, But I live in hope.

[ 1189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JOHN LESLIE SWEETNAM

HOME ADDRESS: 1670 Commonwealth Ave., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 155 N. Beacon St., Brighton 35, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 25, 1908, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: George Swanton Sweetnam,
Jane Galloway Leslie.

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. C771 laude, 1929; M.B.Aw 1931.

marrieD: M. Margaret Casey, Nov. 11, 1944, Chestnut Hill, Mass. CHILDREN:
Cynthia Jane, March 7, 1946; George Leslie, June 2, 1947; Sandra
Margaret, May 6, 1950.

occupation: Vice-president, director, H. A. Johnson Company, food manv-
facturer and distributor.

MEMBER OF: Boston Club; Harvard Business School Alumni; Boston Cham-
ber of Commerce; Brae Burn Country Club; Lambda Chi Alpha
Fraternity; Royal Society Ruptured Disc Removees.

IT bothers me to see my name printed as above, for I know that
some classmate, memory dimmed by the quarter-century, will
consult the Report and greet me confidently, “Hi, John,” and
that I, being one of those punctilious people who go by their
middle names, will embarrass him by looking blank. So to you
who have forgotten, it’s ““Les.”

I am impressed in reviewing the Vicennial Report by the large
proportion of men whose paths have strayed far afield from the
carefully planned careers of college days. One wonders how to
advise a son trying to plan his future. My case is no exception
to this deviation from the chosen course. Always ambitious for
a legal career, I had majored in government as the ideal prepara-
tion and registered for the Law School on graduation. But the
business and stock market boom’s reaching its climax in the sum-
mer of 1929 enticed me to switch at the last moment to the Busi-
ness School. There, a love of travel and a desire to live abroad
induced me to major in foreign trade with the hope of an import-
export career. Again, fate in the form of the Great Depression
stepped in and reduced foreign trade to a nadir that left no op-
portunity in this field in 1931. Then, strangely, circumstances
led me to purely domestic, even regional business, situated only
a mile from the college, involving little travel, and in which the
extent of my foreign residence has been the wilds of Brooklyn.
Yet, however contrary, fate has not been unkind. My progress

[ 1190 ]

nee gee NS Sea AR AS NR A SE SA

SORE TRENT TERRE T ero Ig eit a rT Ma fetta tere So

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in that business has been constant, and today I find myself sitting
behind one of those panelled doors labelled “vice-president.”

The details as briefly as possible are: the H. A. Johnson Com-
pany, with which I have spent my entire business career, is a
medium-sized manufacturer and distributor of food products and
food handling equipment serving bulk consumers in the Eastern
seaboard states. Although we are little known to the public, it
is difficult to dine in New England without consuming our prod-
ucts. After five years in sales management I moved to New York
City in 1936 as manager of our New York House, where I re-
mained for six years until beckoned by Uncle Sam in 1942. I came
back to Boston after the war as assistant to the president, then
vice-president and general manager of a newly acquired subsidi-
ary the Murray Company (soda fountain supplies), and finally in
19st vice-president in charge of the Manufactured Goods Di-
vision.

On two interludes in this career I must comment: My six years
in New York as a bachelor with a modern apartment on Brooklyn
Heights and a summer cottage at Huntington, Long Island, were
pleasant but enough to convince me that I did not want to bring
up a family there nor spend three hours of every working day in
that dubious pastime known as “commuting.” Hence, I wel-
comed the return to Boston and have rejected several lucrative
offers to remain in that jungle.

My three years in the Army were a thrilling experience, an op-
portunity to indulge my penchant for travel and living abroad
of which fate had so far cheated me. Entering the Air Corps as a
first lieutenant, I went through the popular six weeks at Officer
Training School, Miami Beach, then immediately to England with
one of the first Heavy Bomb Groups (97th), on to North Africa
with the 1942 Invasion, and across that continent with the prog-
ress of the war to Tunisia, Sicily, and Italy, meanwhile trans-
ferring to troop carrier activities and progressing to my majority.
I went back to England for an exciting part in the Normandy
and Riviera Invasions with the Pathfinder Group of the First
Allied Airborne Army before returning to the States in late 1944.
There was some lush living and much tent-in-the-mud existence,
but I made the effort of a first-time tourist to see all that there
was to see, to mix and live intimately with the people of each

[1191]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

country, and to indulge my love of foreign languages to the point
of reasonable fluency. I returned determined to retire as ear]
as possible and spend some of my declining years in Europe.
Always a procrastinator of marital entanglements, I had post-
poned that commitment until the Army claimed me. Foreign
service imposed further delay so that when | returned and took
the vows with a lovely, petite, blonde nurse who had shared my
troubles in New York, it was, alas, too late to acquire sons and
daughters who could come to the Reunion. There are, however,
three — girl (eight), boy (seven), girl (four), who are such
tornadoes that perhaps the Reunion pleasure will come in getting
away from them.

Since my home is adjacent to my country club (Brae Burn),
over-looking its pond and fairways, the club has provided most
of my recreational activities. With twenty-seven holes of golf,
tennis, skating pond, ski-tow, and swimming pool at my back
door, I have so far resisted investing in Cape Cod real estate —
though we do get down for a few weeks each summer. Photog-
raphy being my principal hobby, I have a fair darkroom and an
extensive collection of prints, slides, and sixteen-millimeter movies,
but the lawnmower, the paint brush, and the screwdriver actually
get more attention than the camera.

I am a Congregationalist (active), a Republican (the lesser
of two evils), primarily a family man, and, I must confess, a bit
of a misanthrope. I derive intense pleasure from my contacts

with classmates both in and out of Reunion activities, so do join
me for a drink.

ALAN RICHARDSON SWEEZY

HOME ADDRESS: 433 S, Greenwood Ave., Pasadena ro, Calif.

orFicg appress: Dabney Hall, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
Calif.

BORN: June 29, 1907, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Everett Benjamin Sweezy,
Caroline Perkins Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1929; A-Ma
19323 PH.D., 1934.

MarRiED: Susan Shepherd, Aug. 4, 1937, Cheboygan, Mich. cumpren: Sara,
March 21, 1940; Caroline, July 13, 1942; Cornelia, Aug. 18, 1947.

[1192 ]

aaah pcr ee St IF eee EW SS OY

crating it RA
hy nyt Re og RR IE MENS RU IN TENE Sh

a aE ITT TRH AT IR PRO OI mee fe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARVARD BROTHERS: Everett Wilson Sweezy, ’22; Paul Marlor Sweezy, ‘31,
PH.D. 1937.

oocuPaTion: Professor teaching economics to science and engineering stu-
dents.

pusticaTions: Few articles in professional economic journals.

THE year 1929-1930 I was at Emmanuel College, Cambridge,
England, where thanks to the Lionel de Jersey Harvard Student-
ship, I not only lived in John Harvard’s rooms (or at least what
are thought to have been his rooms), but also had an unusually
good opportunity to become acquainted with the students and
with English college life. Then I went back to Harvard, where
I spent the next two years going through the regular graduate
economics mill. This included courses with Taussig, Gay, Ripley,
and Williams, all of whom were masters of the art of teaching as
well as of their own special ficlds of interest in economics. All
of us who were graduate students in economics at Harvard at
that time received among other things a thorough grounding in
classical and neo-classical economics, for which I have often been
grateful.

Interest in the Austrian branch of neo-classical economics took
me in 1932-1933 to Vienna, and for a few weeks to London,
where I studied with Mises, Haberler, and Hayek. The next year,
again back at Harvard, I finished up my Ph.D. and did part-time
teaching in Economics A and tutorial work. By this time I had
become curious to see something of the New Deal at first hand
and hence welcomed an opportunity in the summer of 1934 to
join a group of young economists who were making a study of
monetary and banking policy and of the financial aspects of the
projected social security system under the direction of Jacob
Viner at the Treasury. This project was completed by the end
of 1934 and I got back to Cambridge in time to resume teaching
with the beginning of the second term in February, 1935, and to
continue my own education by taking part in the seminars and
discussions that were then flourishing at Harvard.

A European economist who had been a graduate student at
Harvard in the mid-thirties later wrote in glowing terms of his
sojourn there. “In the memory of those who have lived the Har-
vard life, the Yard will always remain the dreamland of students
and scholars.” I am sure most of the others who were there when

[ 1193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

CHARLES EARL SWEZEY

HOME appREss: Box 175, R.D. 6, Lancaster, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Armstrong Cork Co., Lancaster, Pa.

BoRN: Feb. 9, 1908, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Arthur Dwight Swezey,
Elizabeth Thompson.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; ED.M., 1938.

MarRIED: Helen M. Rohrbough, June 19, 1937, Alton, II.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Dwight Swezey, ’28, LL.B., "31.

occuPATION: Editor, manager, Employee Information Section, General Per-
sonnel Department, Armstrong Cork Company.

BY June, 1929, I was pretty well steeped in literature and philos-
ophy but rather short on health and finances. But with the aid
of the Student Placement Bureau — Mrs. McCallum —I got a
tutoring job in Canada where I recuperated, saved most of my
earnings, and discovered enough about teaching to want to learn
more.

After two (depression!) years of tutoring and job-hunting,
I got my first regular teaching assignment in the little town of
Clinton, Connecticut. It was a delightful experience — small
school, young enthusiastic faculty, and an idyllic home life in
the eighteenth-century household of the retired headmaster. The
salary was just enough to enable me to take a course at the Har-
vard Summer School every year.

Money-wise, I made out better in a Mid-west military school,
but didn’t like the life. I returned to Harvard to complete my
ED.M. in educational administration — it was then a two-year
degree. I spent another year, on scholarship, studying educa-
tional psychology, tests and measurements, etc. This year opened
up the college teaching field. After an interesting year in a junior
college (teaching English and psychology and conducting testing
programs), I spent two even more interesting years as an in-
structor in education at Queens College, Flushing, New York.

Then came the draft in which I was classified as a “zombie” —
unable to get into the Army or out of it. In 1943 I regained my
“freedom” and joined the Armstrong Cork Company where I
am in charge of the Employee Information Section of the Gen-
eral Personnel Department. “Communication” is by all odds my
chief interest — both on the job and off it. But for hobbies, I'll

[ 1196 ]

ce gcc egcnirimin mina woe NI

a
x
S
%

i

 

\

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

take gardening, wood-chopping, hi-fi music, hiking, square-
dancing, and building things with hand-tools.

I wish I could wind this up with a word of wisdom. Ic isn’t
as easy to philosophize as it was twenty-five years ago. But I
still want to be part of the answer rather than part of the problem
people have in getting along with one another. I’m just as naive
and idealistic as I was in 1929. But the problem looks bigger
now, and my part looks a whole lot smaller.

JACQUELIN ALLIEN SWORDS

HoME appress: Mount Kisco, N, Y.

orrice avoress: 14 Wall Sc, New York 5, N. Y.

poen: Jan. 31, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Robert Swords,
Florence Jacquelin.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DecnEz: LLB. (Columbia Univ.), 1932.

magrizp: Helen de Lancey Kountze, July 5, 1934, Long Island, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Peter de Lancey, April 12, 1935; Helen Jacquclin, April
16, 1937; Lucinda, Oct. 14, 1939.

HARVARD 80N: Peter de Lancey Swords, °57.

occupaTion: Lawyer, member, Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft.

ormices HELD: Director, Federal Gas, Oil & Coal Company, Kycoga and
Company, trustee, Samaritan Home for the Aged in the City of New
York, Bedford-Rippowam School, Bedford, N. Y.

MEMBER oF: New York State Bar Association; Association of the Bar of
the City of New York; Links Club; Harvard Club; Union Club,

AFTER graduating from Columbia Law School in 1932 I started
to work for the firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft in
downtown New York and, with the exception of four years out
during the war, I have been happily practising law with that firm,
first as an associate and then as a partner, ever since.

In 1934 I married Helen Kountze. We have a boy, Peter, who is
a freshman at Harvard this year, and two girls, Helen and Lu-
cinda. We started our married life in New York City but, in
1941, on the theory that the children would be healthier and
better off in general if brought up the country, we moved out to
Mount Kisco where, to my pleasure, I found myself surrounded
by a goodly number of our classmen, but where the children
seemed to catch at least as many colds as they had in Central Park.
Next year, when our youngest goes away to boarding school, we

[1197]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

plan to move back to the city for those long, cold winter months
which, contrary to the Weather Bureau’s published statistics,
seem to me to be getting longer and colder every year.

When I was an undergraduate at Harvard, one of the experi-
ences I missed was living in the Yard. In 1942 I made up for this
deficiency by spending two months in Straus Hall in a Navy
indoctrination school. There I did calisthenics face to face with
John Harvard every morning at seven, paraded every afternoon
over the Larz Anderson Bridge to Soldiers Field and back again,
and learned a bit about watch and station bills, plotting boards,
and John Paul Jones in various of the graduate school classrooms.
When given “liberty” twice a week, we were allowed to go 2s
far afield as the Coop and Hazen’s sandwich shop. When given
“shore leave” twice a month, we were permitted to go all the
way into Boston. Against this background of austerity, I am
looking forward doubly to our Reunion next June.

EDWARD CHRISTOPHER SYKES

HOME ADpDRESS: 1815 Elmwood St., Burlingame, Calif.

BorN: Aug. 22, 1907, Santa Barbara, Calif. parents: Richard Sykes, Fanny
Eliza Walton. ©

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

marRigeD: Marge Shrewsbury, Fresno, Calif.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Sykes, '27.

OccUPATION: Farmer, Sacramento Valley.

MEMBER OF: University Club, San Francisco, Calif.

I OWN two small farms in the Sacramento which are operated
by Mr. Leryal Partain of Winters, California. In the past, I have
tried to beat the stock market; so far I have failed.

SAMUEL SALMOND SYLVESTER, II

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Hanover, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 12, 1907, Hanover, Mass. parents: Albert Lenthal Sylvester,
Amy Winifred Dinzey.

PREPARED aT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1927.
MaRRiED: Constance M. O’Brien, Aug. 6, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:

[ 1198 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Samuel Salmond, 3d, June 13, 1936; James R.. Dec. 14, 1939; John,
Nov. 6 1944.

oocupanion: President, Sylvester Company, Inc, dealers in hardware, lum-
ber, grain, fuel, and builders’ supplies.

member of: New England Fuel Dealers Association, New England Hard-
ware Association, Rotary Club.

LUMBER my business, boating my hobby.

+ JAMES KEITH SYMMERS, JR.

soan: Jan. 4 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: James Keith Symmers, Agnes
Louise Shuey.

parparrp at: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IM COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

piso: Dec. 3, 1928, Charlottesville, Va.

ARTHUR FITZWILLIAM TAIT

HoMe@ aporess: % F,W. Wright, Jr, Box Aro, Haworth, N, J.

ormce apoaess: I G ad Infantry Division, APO 248, % PM, San Francisco,
Calif.

Boan: July 13, 1905, Yonkers, N. Y. parents: Arthur James B. Tait, Edith
D. Miles.

preparrp at: Riverdale Country School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1917,

Maaniep: Isabella Hlurst, June 6, 1934, New York, N. Y.; Frieda Goeding-
haus, Dec. 10, 1943. Santa Barbara, Calif. cortporen: Arthur Fitzwilliam,
3d, Dec. 17, 1944, Althea Kristine, Dec. 30, 1946, Geoffrey Miles, Oct.
17. 1940.

OCCUPATION: Assistant inspector general, major, 2d Infantry Division, Korea.

Memsra of: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity; National Model Railroad
Association, Reserve Officers Association.

I WONDER if we would change our lives if we could look
into the future? I for one know I wouldn’t because I have had
a wonderful time in the last twenty-five years. After leaving
school I went with the New York Trust Company where I
battled with corporate trust for two years until I got the wander-
lust and set off for the Golden West. I did a lot of sightseeing
and finally landed in Dallas, Texas, working for Sears Roebuck
& Company and the Dallas Power & Light Company for a year.
Getting the urge to go back home, I took off and stayed in New

[ 1199 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

York City with the National Broadcasting Company from 1931
to 1933, and the H. F. Wanvig Company from 1933 to 1938 sell-
ing physicians and surgeons liability insurance to doctors. I saw
an opportunity to start in the life insurance business and joined
the Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company in New York City
where I “stayed” until September, 1940.

The call to arms found me in the 44th Division at Fort Diz,
New Jersey, until January, 1942, when we started the trek west-
ward, ending it temporarily in Fort Lewis, Washington. In
January, 1943, I was assigned to the 170th Field Artillery Batta-
lion and we entrained for “Destination Unknown.” I was nowa
captain and was the special service officer for the battalion. We
pulled into a siding and looked out the window to find ourselves
in Santa Barbara, California. This was tough to take, but we
managed to survive. As special service officer it devolved upon me
to find wine, women, and song for the troops, which kept me
very busy at night and sleepy during the day much to the batta-
lion commander’s consternation. In the process I found an ex-
tremely lovely girl and convinced her two can live as cheaply
as five, so we were married and have lived more than happily for

the last ten years.

We purchased a house trailer and roamed around the country
trying to keep up with army orders. I taught at Fort Sill for a
year and then was sent to China for another. While there I trav-
elled from Calcutta to Kunming and on to Kweyang over the
Burma and Stillwell Roads with the 12th Field Artillery, Chinese,
a distance of 2,200 miles and most of it by jeep. It was very in-
teresting and instructive. I returned in December, 1945, and was
mustered out of the army in April, 1946.

After a short shift in the retail florist business I got a hankering
for the army again and enlisted as a master sergeant which rank
took me through California and on to Newark, New York, where
I was on recruiting duty until July, 1948. I applied for my com-
mission and received it in the same mail with orders to Europe.
We now had two children, and in a fine stateroom we all em-
barked for Germany. Here I supervised a company of Polish
DP’s who guarded U. S. installations. This was a fine job for
two and a half years and during that time we managed to get
enough time off to see a lot of Europe. In 1949 we had another ad-

{ 1200 ]

teweacnt gga”
ane po eT ee ARON Seem ¥

ates’ er rehecineyenae arama mre dene FS MbLiT eS
ore ONT ef SS CEE TF

\

SP PaO ENACT TIEN

\

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dition to the family (remember the five I mentioned above), and
after a year as company commander of a service unit in Frank-
furt I returned to God’s country. We had stored our thirty-
three-foot trailer and so we picked it up and pulled it from New
Jersey to Camp Polk, Louisiana, in April, 1952. I knew it
wouldn't last long and sure enough it didn’t. In April, 1953, 1
was on a plane for Korea. I was assigned to the Inspector Gen-
eral’s Department of the 2d Infantry Division where I still am.
As we all have to stay sixteen months, I am keeping my fingers
crossed in the hope that I can be home in time for the grand old
Twenty-fifth. The family awaits me with bated breath in our
trailer in Santa Maria, California.

SAMUEL KINTER TALLEY

HOME appress: 791 Hilldale Ave., Berkeley 8, Calif,

orrice aporess: Shell Development Co., Emeryville 8, Calif.

Born: April 29, 1907, Dauphin, Pa. parents: George Russell Talley, Agnes
Rebecca Kinter.

PREPARED AT: Rahway High School, Rahway, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1929, A.M. 19313
PHD., 1933.

MARRIED: Isabella Gillespie McCurtain, Dec. 16, 1933, Alton, Ill. cuitpren:
Wilson Kinter, Jan. 27, 1935; Isabella Gillespie, Dec. 31, 1936; James
Douglas, June 4, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Wilson Talley, 29.

occupation: Chemist, lubricating oil and asphalt.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, American Society of Lubricating Engineers,
1949; editor, Lubrication Engineering, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Society of Metals;
American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Alpha Chi Sigma; Sigma
Xi; Registered Mechanical Engineers of California.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific journal articles.

THE industrial world in 1929 proved unreceptive and so, having
been offered an assistantship in some graduate chemistry courses,
I returned to Harvard in the fall of 1929. After a lapse of a few
months in the Graduate School, I received a form asking if I
wished to enter and, if so, “please fill out the enclosed applica-
tion.” I never received notice of acceptance but assumed that
the subsequent degrees were granted in good faith. I also had a

[ 1201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

few other small jobs to help make ends meet. One of these was
an assistantship at Radcliffe, where I met Isabella who undoubt-
edly knew better but said, “Yes.”

Industrial life began with Shell Oil Company in Wood River,
Illinois, near St. Louis, and was chiefly concerned with manv-
facturing lubricating oils. Three years and two children later,
we moved to Houston, Texas, where the third, a Texan naturally,
joined our forces. The Gulf climate was a bit more humid and
the summer heat lasted longer than in the midwest, and so, after
another three years, we were glad to come back to Berkeley,
California, under Shell’s guiding hand. After two years, life be-
came dull and I went with the U.S. Rubber Company, to help
manufacture ammunition at Eau Clair, Wisconsin, where the
winters are really cold. Overproduction ruined that job and I
was transferred to Charlotte, North Carolina, to work on ant-
aircraft ammunition. After a reasonable period, we elected to
return to California, Shell, and lubricants. This last stretch has
lasted almost ten years, and we are beginning to feel settled.

So much for travelling, business, and vital statistics. My hob-
bies are various but all start out as innocent diversions and im-
perceptibly become task-masters. One started as an evening
course in the local high school in motor winding, degenerated
into five nights a week plus Saturday mornings and ended up
with me boring holes like mad in the innards of a Sierra Lodge,
putting in electrical circuits by the dozen. Another started by
listening to loud speakers at a Hi-Fi fan’s house and has ended
in interminable cabinet making and getting lost in electronic
equipment. Another started in the interest of science, attempt-
ing to test a few root-inducing chemicals, and now I have a large
backyard greenhouse and seem to be in the semi-commercial
production of ornamentals. Thank goodness I got rid of the bees
when I discovered I was keeping them to raise honey to bribe
the neighbors to let me keep the bees. The above, plus house
painting, plastering, boy scouting, watch repairing, and auto re-
pairing, have kept me moderately out of mischief. I’m just won-
dering if the mischief, whatever it might be, might not have been
a more pleasant alternative.

The older boy, Wilson, is a sophomore at the University of
California, studying physics after a last minute switch from the

[ 1202 ]

yanine neseeg octets
one an a, SHARAN NA PY RE enor fn AP

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

related subject, journalism. Little Izzy enters University of Cali-
fornia in a month or so to study domestic science. Meanwhile,
Jimmy is in his second year at Berkeley High School. He is six-
feet-four at fifteen, and if he plays his cards right, will make the
baskerball team.

WILLIAM WILSON TALLEY

Home Appress: 154 Glenwood Ave. Winnetka, Ill.

Orric2 appress: 310 Green Bay Rd., Winnetka, Ill.

poan: April 19, 1907, Dauphin, Pa. parents: George Russell Talley, Agnes
Rebecca Kinter.

pazpareD at: Rahway High School, Rahway, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: 8.B., 1929; ED.M., 1937.

MARRIED: Jean Kastrup, July 24, 1948, Winnetka, IIL.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Kinter Talley, ’29.

occuPATION: Teacher, head of Science Department, North Shore Country
Day School.

ormces HELD: President, Rhode Island Mathematics Teachers Association,
1940-41.

SINCE graduation my life has been about as full and varied as it
could be for one who has found his energies pretty well taken
up by the requirements of daily classroom teaching in prepara-
tory school work. As a consequence, I might be permitted to
doubt, despite the implications of this questionnaire to the con-
trary, that the Class awaits with bated breath my pronounce-
ments on social, political, economic, and religious convictions.
Suffice to say, in common with most of us, I do have them, but
will refrain from an exposition here.

Teaching for twenty-five years has naturally given me a won-
derful opportunity to evolve some ideas of my own on the
education of young people, but after having written the above
introductory paragraph, I must abstain from developing any
theories here. My teaching has been in Berlin, New York, where
for some years I was principal of a consolidated rural school,
then Boston, and Providence, and finally my last move to date
brought me here to the North Shore Country Day School in
Winnetka, where for the past ten years I have had the privilege
of working under one of the foremost educators in the country,

[ 1203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Perry Dunlap Smith, ’11, former member of the Board of Over.
seers of Harvard College, and one of the early proponents of
progressive education.

As for hobbies, I have had several and ridden them quite hard
and with much pleasure. One of the continuing ones has been
the collecting and restoration of antique furniture. In this Mr.
Talley and I have been enthusiastic codperators. A small farm
which we own in New York state and where we spend our
summers has given us considerable opportunity to indulge our-
selves in this, and it has also afforded an outlet for another hobby
— that of carpentry. I think it is correctly said that one interest
leads to another, and my experience has confirmed this. At one
time I was interested in old clocks and other time pieces; the
acquisition of these in varying stages of dilapidation necessitated
that I repair them, and this in turn has Jed to the repair of clocks,
watches, and other horological instruments. Much fun, but some-
times quite vexatious.

I cannot report any special wartime service. I was willing,
although a bit reluctant, but the doctor of even a man-hungry
draft board turned me down. Previous to this an attempt to
enlist had ended the same way.

I wonder what we all shall be writing if the Class celebrates
its Fiftieth in ’79?

+ ARCHIBALD GOURLAY THACHER, JR.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Archibald Gourlay Thacher,
’97, Ethel Davies.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).

Marrigep: Anne Shaw Jones, May 25, 1933, Darien, Conn. cxtin: Peter High-
leyman, Sept. 8, 1926 (stepson).

DIED: Oct. 17, 1944, Lakeville, Conn.

FOR one year after graduation, Thacher was associated with the
Chemical Bank & Trust Company. He then attended the Insti-
tute of Musical Art in New York for three years. In 1935, he
entered the field of teaching after two years of work with the
Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company. He was at the Lawrence-

[ 1204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Smith School in New York and later taught at the Buckley
Country Day School on Long Island. At the time of his death,
he was at the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville.

BENJAMIN THACKABERRY

LAST KNOWN ApDoress: 29 Cumberland St. Boston, Mass.

poan: March 20, 1906, Boston, Mass, parents: George James Thackaberry,
Chnistena Morrison.

puepaneD AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

THACKABERRY has been carried as a “lost” man on our rec-
ords since 1933.

HARRY RUSSELL THAYER

HOME Appress: Sky Water Lodge, Glenbrook, Nev.

OFFICE aDpREss: 220 S. Virginia St, Reno, Nev.

poan: Aug. 7, 1906, Braintree, Mass. parents: Harry Clifton Thayer, Lena
Pond Russell.

preparep aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, 1930. DEGREES: AB. 1929(30); Lie. (Yale
Univ.).

MakniED: Bettina Barbara Butler, Nov. 23, 1933, New York, N. Y. (di-
vorced 1939); Dorothea Eleanor Lakson (divorced 1953), cHito: John
Bates, Feb. 17, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Attorney's consultant; guest lodge proprietor.

MEMBER of: American Bar Association, Harvard Club of New York,
Association of the Bar of the City of New York (associate member).

AT least I have enjoyed a lot of living: trip around South Ameri-
ca with John Keyes, back to College in 1930 for degree I missed
in 1929 — due to a pilonidal sinus, which made sitting in class-
rooms quite uncomfortable; work in the theatre; selling bonds
with Steve Fuller; marriage; graduate work at the New School
for Social Research; public social service work; helping the Span-
ish Republicans; left wing activities; disgust with such activities
and ideologies and abandonment of them, raising Norwegian
Elkhounds at a Connecticut farm; divorced; law school; Wall
Street law firm; army; marriage, back to Wall Street; a son born;
to Nuremberg, with Office of Chief of Counsel for War Crimes

[ 1205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

— mostly as chief of Krupp Trial Team or director of Economics
Ministries Division.

I came back to New York City and my own law office and was
harassed for several years by separation and divorce actions in
two states. I moved to Nevada and opened an office in Reno as
consultant and aide to attorneys— since I am not admitted to
the Nevada Bar. I obtained a divorce and bought a wonderfully
beautiful place on Lake Tahoe and operate it as a guest lodge
(classmates on vacation with or from their families are sincerely
welcomed). I am still lecturing to service clubs on war crimes
trials (and asking whether, in Korea, we have abandoned prin-
ciples for which we have stood for fifty years).

While I am reminiscing this way, and recalling the number of
Harvard graduates I have met in Nevada for the “cure,” the con-
clusion appears reasonable that the Harvard curriculum did not
provide an education. Also, I wish that I had had more of White-
head and much less of Hocking. A little less of safe respectability
in my College curriculum, however, might have resulted in more
safe respectability during the last twenty-five years — and a very
dull life. Now the years of rebellion are over, and I expect the
cross-breeding of Harvard College and rebellion to bear fruition
in this state, where natural beauty and human independence and
dignity are both so commonplace —and the latter so nearly
archaic.

_ *FRICHARD WATERMAN THAYER

BoRN: Aug. 11, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Herbert Thayer, Alice
Waterman.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1932.

bien: Nov. 2, 1932, Albany, N. Y.

WHILE in college Thayer held many offices. He was sub-
chairman of the editorial board of the Red Book, member of the
class finance committee, member of the Student Advisory Com-
mittee and Undergraduate Athletic Council, manager of the
track team, member of the Senior Nominating Committee, and
member of the executive committee of the IL.C.S.A.A.A. After

[ 1206 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduating from the Harvard Business School he accepted a re-
search position with Lever Brothers in Cambridge. He remained
with that company until his death.

GEORGE ALBERT THOW

HOME ADDRESS: 4306 Klump Ave., North Hollywood, Calif.

poan: July 8, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: George Adie Thow, Mary
Gray James.

preparen at: West High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, 1928-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(30).

MARRIED: Jessie June Petrie, Jan. 8, 1934, New York, N. Y. cHivpren: Linda
May, April 7, 1940; Willa Jean, Dec. 4, 1943.

occuPATION: Musician, free-lance trumpet player.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of Southern California, San Fernando Valley
Association for the Handicapped.

I GRADUATED in 1930, the year’s discrepancy being accounted
for by a nine-month engagement with the orchestra at the “Club-
karnak,” replenishing the meager exchequer to meet bursar’s
bills and insure my graduating at all. In the summer of 1930 I
played at Silver Beach, Cape Cod, with Jim Moynahan, '23, and
band. I returned to Cleveland and to a mysterious condition re-
ferred to as “The Depression.” This phenomenon apparently
attacked legitimate businesses before it did such non-essential
and bastard by-products of a decadent society as “entertain-
ment” and “music.” A prominent investment banker and Harvard
alumnus joined a host of Republican prophets when he assured
me “things will be on the upgrade after the first of the year
(1931)”; (free translation: “Prosperity is just around the cor-
ner’). ,

I found myself encouraged and gently persuaded (not entirely
against my will) to glean what profit I could from music (at
least temporarily). I’ve been doing it ever since. To wit: I
worked with local bands in Cleveland from 1930 to 1932, and
during the winter of 1931-1932, in Miami, Florida. From 1932
to 1934 I was with Isham Jones in Cleveland, Chicago, Atlantic
City, and New York. In May, 1934, I joined the newly-formed
“Dorsey Brothers Orchestra” and along with Glenn Miller, fre-
quently acted as referee for “The Battling Dorseys.” I remained

[ 1207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I929

with Jimmy Dorsey following the showdown battle and in No-
vember, 1935, travelled with him to Hollywood for the Bing
Crosby program. I played the Crosby show through 1936, then
left Jimmy to make my home in California.

I bought a place in North Hollywood in June, 1937 (mortgage-
burning with Seven-Up and toasted marshmallows, February,
1955). From 1937 to 1954 I’ve free-lanced in and around Los
Angeles, playing radio, movies, TV, night clubs, saloons, Chinese
funerals, state fairs, parades, and market openings. I’ve played
on radio programs with Ray Noble, Rubinoff, Gordon Jenkins,
Artie Shaw, Paul Whiteman, Robert Armbruster, Skitch Hen-
derson, Roy Bargy, Charles Dant, John Trotter, Victor Young,
Nat Shilkret, and Xavier Cugat, to name a few. From 1941 to
1943 I was with the staff orchestra at N.B.C., and during 1944-
1945, held a similar job at Warner Brothers Studios. Over a
period of twenty-two years I’ve made hundreds of phonograph
records with Jones, the Dorseys, Ben Pollack, Benny Goodman,
Artie Shaw, Ray Noble, and with numerous Dixieland bands.

I seem destined to scratch along (or “blow along”) in the
music business from now on, or “until something better turns
up.” At present I am holding forth at the El Cortez Hotel in
Las Vegas, as a sort of “Musical Shill” for the crap, roulette, and
“21” games, playing with an aggregation known as the “Sextette
from Hunger” and dispensing approximately the same style of
jazz that was in vogue when we were beating it out with “The
Harvardians,” from 1925 to 1930.

I regret that I’ve been deprived of the company of my family
a large part of the time in the past year or two. However, I’m
bowing to a peculiar law of economics which finds this gambling
community paying better wages than Los Angeles, which metrop-
olis seems to have reached a saturation point in musical talent.
I have been happily married for twenty years to Jessie Petrie of
Kansas City, Missouri. Our daughters are now fourteen and
ten years of age. The elder one is now holding down the first
trumpet chair with the North Hollywood Junior High Orchestra.

When we became property owners in 1937, North Hollywood
was a semi-rural suburb of Los Angeles, although within the city
limits. (Hell, so is Timbuktu.) Our constant dread now is to
awaken some morning and find the newest tentacle of the Free-

[ 1208 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

way System poking its way through our bathroom. However,
we have a large yard which acts as a buffer against encroaching
civilization and affords romping space for the two girls, the
collie dog, the cat, and all their respective friends.

I am registered in California as “D.S.” (Decline to State),
which puts me in fairly neutral territory, politically, and gives
me the privilege (in the primaries) of casting a vote for or
against Bond Issue No. 97324, and the option of selecting Trip-
hammer J. Subpoena or Gamma G. Globulin, Jr., for the office
of magistrate of the Seventeenth District Court of Appeals. At
the risk of appearing downright audacious, I am willing to go
on record as stating that I have little love for Communists and
mighty little regard for their relentless pursuer, the Honorable
(?) Joseph McCarthy.

I've foresworn anything stronger than orange pekoe or an
occasional root beer float for the past five years, but figure that
I can coast until 1979, at least, on the fuel intake between 1925
and 1948. I weigh about 145 pounds and wear the same size suit
and shirt as when I departed from Cambridge; also the same size
hat (my wife insists it’s the same hat). I have all my hair and
most of my teeth, with tattle-tale gray creeping into both de-
partments.

RICHARD BOURNE THURBER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: RFD. 1, Charlotte, Vt.

Born: April 20, 1907, Milton, Mass. parents: William Bartlet Thurber,
Julia Bourne Perry.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; S.B. (Iowa State Coll.),
1936.

MARRIED: Mary L. Dousman, Nov. 15, 1933, Providence, R. I. cHmprew:
Mary E., May 11, 1939; William Schuyler, Sept. 2, 1941; Julia B., Nov.
26, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS; James Perry Thurber, °17; William Schuyler Thurber,
"19.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1945, 1948, 1951, 1953, member, 1942-54, Char-
lotte Board of School Directors.

MEMBER oF: American Milking Shorthorn Society; New England Milking

[ 1209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Shorthorn Breeders Association; National Wool Growers Association,
New England Meat and Wool Growers Association.

I LEFT Cambridge as soon as possible after the last exam in
June, 1929, and headed west to Montana where I spent the next
ten years on and off herding cattle, dudes, horses, and sheep
around the Rocky Mountains northeast of Yellowstone Park
During this time the most important event of my life was to meet
and marry Mary L. Dousman of Billings, Montana. The last
mentioned event took place on November 15, 1933. As the say-
ing often goes, “hindsight is better than foresight,” but this was
once I made the exception to prove the rule as my foresight on
this most important event in my life proved one of the best in-
vestments in my future. Also during this ten-year period I com-
pleted the course in animal husbandry at Iowa State College,
having decided to cast my lot with agriculture.

Following my return engagement with the books at Iowa
State, the pastures looked greener to me in the East and after
diverse and sundry jobs connected with farming, I landed almost
in Lake Champlain at Charlotte, Vermont, where I now own and
operate a 200-acre farm on the Jake shore. I moved to this farm
in 1938. Being a farmer by choice and having learned much of
what I know of farming in parts of the country far from Ver-
mont, I have quite naturally run through the gamut of farming
from milk to beef and back to milk and beef combined in milk-
ing shorthorn cattle. I tried poultry in a small way, raised hogs,
horses, and sheep and have finally settled down or at least so I
think, to a farm with sheep as the main enterprise and a small
herd of milking shorthorn cattle. There is good money in a
Vermont farm. I know whereof I speak on this score.

My family consists of my wife and three children aged four-
teen, twelve, and nine at present writing. I have been active on
the school board in Charlotte and for better or worse was instru-
mental in building a Central School in the town. My hobbies at
present are farming and looking into possibilities in Canada
where with my wife and children we have taken several canoe
expeditions in the past few years in northern Quebec and the
Hudson Bay region. I also have been renewing my youth and
hastening my old age in recent years by skiing, as I have suc-
ceeded in making enthusiasts of my family in this sport. Being

[ 1210 ]

2$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a Vermonter, I think my political leanings are well known, so I
won't go into that.

I am glad to have had this opportunity to write so much about
myself and hope to be around twenty-five years hence to add an-
other chapter.

+ GEORGE SHEPLEY TIFFANY, JR.
poan: Oct. 25, 1906, St. Louis, Mo. parents: George Shepley Tiffany, ‘99,

Marie Scanlan.
purpArED At: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.
margisp: Hortense C. H. Paul.
DIFD: Jan. 6, 1944, at sea.

AFTER leaving Harvard, Tiffany worked for a while in St.
Louis. In 1939 he was a broker in New York associated with
H. C. Wainwright & Company. In 1941 he left his business to
enter the Navy, and became a lieutenant. He lost his life when
his ship, the U.S.S. St. Augustine, was sunk. His wife survived
him.

RODMAN KING TILT

HoMeE aporess: Mr. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE ApoREsS: Sports Aficld Magazine, 959 Eighth Ave. New York 19, N. Y.

porn: Aug. 30, 1906, Montclair, N. J. parents: Albert Tilt, Gertrude King.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MARRIED: Jean Preston, Sept. 21, 1935, Mt. Kisco, N. Y. cxitpren: Rodman
King, Jr. Feb. 4, 1938; Jean McAtee, March 4, 1940; Priscilla Preston,
June 1, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Tilt, Jr., ‘26.

OCCUPATION: Eastern manager, Sports Afield magazine; president, Hay Harbor
Realty Corporation.

OFFIcEs HELD: Chairman, Second Election District, 1936-44; president, Mt.
Kisco Republican Club, 1937-42, Federation of Northern Westchester
Republican Clubs, 1937-41; director, Northern Westchester Hospital,
1939-41, Boys Club of Mt. Kisco; treasurer, St. Mark’s Church.

MeMBeER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bedford Golf and Tennis Club;
Mt. Kisco Country Club; Fisher’s Island Country Club; Hay Harbor
Club; The Country Club; Camp Fire Club of America; Verbank Hunt-

.[ 1211]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ing and Fishing Club; Society of the War of 1812; Colonial Lords of
Manors.

WHAT has happened since 1929? To those of us who are still
alive, twenty-five years have been added. During this short
quarter of a century I got married, raised children, dogs, and
horses. To keep myself out of mischief I have worked hard as
a representative for various publications — now with the world’s
leading sportsman’s magazine, Sports Afield — and devoted con-
siderable time to such organizations as Boy Scouts, hospitals,
churches, and local politics. Last year I caught a tuna that
weighed 813 pounds— this took up more than three hours of
the twenty-five years.

Today I am more concerned with tomorrow than yesterday.
If no catastrophes occur, I hope, in the days to come, to be able
to devote more time to the helping of others and a lot more
time to hunting and fishing with my family.

CLAIR ROBERT TIMPANY

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Temple St., West Medway, Mass.

BoRN: May 6, 1906, Gardner, Mass. parents: James Almon Timpany, Jen-
nie Maude McConnell.

PREPARED AT: Gardner High School, Gardner, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.

marrieD: D(orothy) Mareta Grimes, Aug. 20, 1938, New Ipswich, N. H.
CHILDREN: David Grimes, March 24, 1941; Roderic Rand, April 17,
1945.

occuparion: Arc welder, Pullman Standard Car Manufacturing Company,
Worcester, Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: American Philatelic Society.

EVELETH REED TODD

HOME AppREss: Lincoln Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

BORN: June 5, 1905, Lincoln, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Lee Todd, Pauline
Eveleth.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, East Hampton, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929.

MarRiED: Mabel Wheaton Hatheway, April 13, 1935, Lincoln, Mass. am-

[r212],

be
i

|
i

;

 

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pagn: Conrad Hatheway, July 13, 1937; Lucia, Aug. 27, 1940; Charles
Lee, 2d, July 8 1940.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Lee Todd, Jr. '26, John Todd, °31.
occupaTioN: Advertising and publicity.
mmMssx oF: Concord Country Club.

AFTER about the fifth “goad” from Jack Hutchinson I picked
up my pen determined to do something about my Class biog-
raphy. All of a sudden it dawned upon me that this was the
only way to avoid a physical crack-up. Ever since July I have
wondered why my hand shook when I went to open the mail
box; why I was snapping at my wife and kids and had horrible
nightmares of being smothered by government postcards. If this
report lacks a certain rhythmic flow or seems to be incoherent it
is because I’m under pressure to meet a deadline.

As it must to all Elarvard men, the Twenty-fifth has finally
arrived. All at once we are faced with the realization that our
acts of omission or commission must be dragged out into the
open and an honest appraisal made. Doubtless, there are many
of us who will bask in the glory of the past and others like myself
who will say, “Oh, well, there’s another twenty-five coming up.”
A quick reflection reveals nothing very startling. For the most
part I have been mixed up in advertising and publicity since
graduation and although I have made several little exploratory
junkets into other fields, I cannot seem to shake the vise-like grip
of this early calling. My latest venture was the formation of an
advertising agency along with two other men. It was fine while
it lasted but, unfortunately, there was always more going out
than coming in.

Life in the country, I find, is very rewarding but it has its
drawbacks, too. Unless one is good at saying “no” he soon finds
himself enmeshed in a multitude of civic duties. I guess I have
just about run the gamut of the usual demands made upon the
unsuspecting, such as Red Cross, Community Fund, Church
Vestry, Planning Board, amateur theatricals, civilian defense, etc.
After a sabbatical from these duties, unless you are on your
guard, you find you’re running it all over again.

My family wound up at three. The oldest is sixteen, a daugh-
ter, thirteen, in the middle, and the youngest is four and is often
referred to as the rowen crop. He has red hair and serves as a

[1213 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

wonderful conversation piece. I understand he will be too young
to attend the Reunion, so my wife and I will be spared the in-
evitable question of “where did he get it?”

Our summers are generally spent pretty close to home. Tennis,
golf, and the lawn mower occupy most of my weekends. In the
fall I get in as much hunting as possible. We did manage, how-
ever, to spend two glorious summer vacations in Wyoming. The
kids take to the saddle and I head for the streams with my fly rod.
Pve been known to dig a worm or two when nobody is looking.

Perhaps one of the most disappointing aspects of leaving Col-
lege is the tendency to lose contact with close friends. It’s going
to be nice to see everybody again but I hope the committee in
charge will require great big identification badges to be affixed
to lapels so we won’t have to say “hi” and then mumble in our
beards.

WALTER SHELDON TOWER, JR.

HOME appress; Church House, Trodds Lane, Merrow, Surrey, England.

oFFIcE appress: Western Electric Co., Ltd., Liberty House, Regent Street,
London W1, England.

BORN: Dec. 275 1907, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Walter Sheldon Tower,
’03, A.M., 04, Lurena L. Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Kings College School, Wimbledon, Surrey, England; Colum-
bia High School, South Orange, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1029. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

MaRRIED: Margaret Rutledge Slattery, Aug. 30, 1933, Hoboken, N. J. cua-
DREN: Mary Sheldon, June 13, 1934; Jonathan Rutledge, June 28, 1939;
Jeremiah, Nov. 6, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Wilson Tower, ’35; Donald Bayley Tower, ‘41,
M.D., "44,

occupaTion: Managing director, Western Electric Company.

MEMBER oF: East Harlem Athletic Club, New York; Guildford and Dis-
trict Club; American Club, United Hunts Club, Harvard Club, Lon-
don; Green Room Club, Melbourne; Stamford Power Squadron, Hal-
lowe’en Yacht Club, Stamford, Conn.; Society for Nautical Research;
Steamship Historical Society of America; Marine Historical Associa-
tion, Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers.

ON the first day of July, 1929, I went to work as a shipping clerk
in the Export Department of Electrical Research Products, Inc., a
subsidiary of Western Electric which had been formed a year or

[1214 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

two previously to foster the spread of that then new invention,
talking motion pictures. I am still working under the same banner
towards a similar end, except that now Mr. Skouras wants three
speakers behind the screen instead of one, and a screen wide
enough to hide them. In the course of this particular form of
missionary endeavor, I have lived in Mexico, Argentina, Aus-
tralia, and now England, and have visited a good many other
countries. Ie has been fun. What our three children will think,
when they are grown, of having been brought up around the
world I do not know, but my nineteen-year-old daughter Mary,
who is now a freshman at Pembroke, doesn’t seem to find it any
handicap. Sometimes I think the United States can use a few
citizens with built-in convictions that people in many foreign
lands are pretty much like ourselves.

The children are too young, of course, to have acquired some
of the other benefits of our life abroad, such as a carefully de-
veloped appreciation of the fact that all beer is good, but some
is better than others, and a knowledge of what cigarettes to smoke
where, although my daughter's progress along these lines in the
last year or so has rather startled me.

What else is there to say? During the war I spent thirty
months with the War Shipping Administration in Egypt and in
Guam. In 1946 I tried my hand for four months working for
RCA, and didn’t like carrying General Sarnoff's bags. I have
never taken root long enough anywhere to get involved in any
community activity, and I can’t vote, not even for Churchill.
The only religious conviction I have is that it doesn’t matter
what the other fellow’s is. Hobbies? Well, I mentioned the beer.

BERNARD WALTON TRAFFORD, JR.

HOME appress: 48 Mountain View Drive, West Hartford 7, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: 151 Farmington Ave. Hartford, Conn,

porn: April 30, 1905, Ardmore, Pa. parents: Bernard Walton Trafford,
"93, Leonora Brooks Borden.

PREPARED aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926.

marrieD: Sarah M. A. Johnston, May 31, 1940, Princeton, N. J. cHiLpREN:
Bernard Walton, 3d, May 31, 1942; Robert Johnston, May 25, 1944;
Kate Carroll, July 17, 1948.

[1215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occupation: Investment analyst, Aetna Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Agency director, Greater Hartford Community Chest, 1943-
453 president, treasurer, Hospital Social Service, 1943-48; director,
Hampstead Hill Club, 1947-50; treasurer, Hartford Tennis Club, 1950-
52; president, Sterling Ring Traveler Company, Fall River, Mass,
1942-49; secretary, Harvard Club of Connecticut; member Finance
Committee, Society for the Increase of the Ministry, Diocese of Con-

necticut,
MEMBER OF: Hartford Tennis Club; Hampstead Hill Club.

I CAME to Hartford in 1926 after my “release” from College and

have been here ever since. For the first two years, I was em-
ployed by the Hartford National Bank and Trust, and then went
with Aitna Life Insurance Company in the Investment Depart-
ment, where I have remained to date.

SAMUEL BANCROFT TRAINER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 46 Dunvegan Rd., Toronto 7, Ontario, Canada.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Canadian General Electric Co., Toronto, Ont., Canada.

BORN: June 8, 1906, Toronto, Ont., Canada. pArENTs: Samuel Bancroft
Trainer, ’04, Florence Webb Levis.

PREPARED AT: Upper Canada College, Toronto, Ont., Canada.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926.

MARRIED: Carroll Fairfield Corley, Oct. 11, 1935, Toronto, Ont., Canada.

occupation: Manager, Sub-Contracting Department, Canadian General Elec-
tric Company.

MEMBER OF: Phi Gamma Delta; Weston Golf and Country Club; American
Radio Relay League.

I BECAME a licensed amateur radio operator in 1928, operating
station VE3GT. During the summers of 1930 and 1931 I oper-
ated radio for the Ontario Forestry Service, Department of
Lands and Forests. I continued an active interest in amateur
radio until a year ago when all the things necessary around a
newly acquired house left little or no spare time . . . and still
don’t. In 1932 I became associated with Silverwood Dairies
Limited as a salesman on concentrated milk products, and carried
on in various capacities until Canada declared war on Germany
I 1939. ,

At that time my hobby of radio gave me an opportunity to
join the Crown-owned Research Enterprises, Limited, where we
designed and manufactured, in codperation with Canada’s Na-

[1216 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tional Research Council, many types of radar equipment both f
the British and American Forces. In fact the Americans carri
with them radar of our manufacture in their landing in Nor
Africa. Also, a radar transmitter, Serial No. 1, made almost ¢

urely by hand in our laboratory found its usefulness at Po
Moresby.

Soon after the war was over I joined Stromberg Carlson Con
pany of Canada, as manager, Sound Systems Salcs, then move
to Canadian General Electric in June, 1951, on a special pus
chasing assignment for defense radar and am still so connectec

Hobbies over the years— other than amateur radio — hav

been golfing, fishing, and stamp collecting, — and now — priz
fights on television.

RICHARD HENRY TRAISER

HOME appress: 2510 NE. 13 Cc, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

BoRN: Nov. 15, 1904, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Richard Ernst Traiser, Fannie
J. Traiser.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.; Noble and Greenough
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930.

maRkieD: Mary L. Griffiths. com~pren: Richard E. and Martin A, (twins),
1944.

ALBERT CHESTER TRAVIS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 101-38 1218t Se. Richmond Hill 19, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE apoREss: 135-018 Liberty Ave., Richmond Hill 19, Long Island, N, Y.

BoRN: May 13, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Albert Chester Travis,
Doris Fitch.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MarRiED: Madaleen Holbrook, May 10, 1929, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1941); Linda Ostrowski, 1942, Elkton, Md, (divorced 1950); Patricia
Meehan, 1951, Hillsdale, N. ¥. caitpren: Douglas Holbrook, March ~
2, 1931 (a. Charlotte Randall, 1951); Nancy Anne, Nov. 13, 1951.
cranpcHiLp: Deborah Rachel Travis, 1952.

OCCUPATION: President, Broadcast Equipment Specialries Corporation, elec-
tronic-mechanical manufacturing company, making specialized sound
recording equipment.

[1217]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

OFFICES HELD: Sales manager, Audio Devices, Inc., 1939-42; vice-president,
sales, Reeves Soundcraft Corporation, 1946-50.
pusuications: Articles for trade publications.

THE following is an excerpt from a previous biography: “When
interviewed in his swank trap of an office, Al said there was no
subject he’d rather talk about than himself. Going back into
statistics, he said he was sure he was born of parents. The date
is uncertain because it changes every year so that his annual
birthday will always be the 38th. It is rumored that one of his
multi-great grandmothers came across on the Mayflower, but,
on the other hand, if all the matriarchs that made such a claim
had been laid end-to-end, we’d have to change the subject.

“Al was exposed to education at Harvard but, due to allergy,
he contracted only a mild case. His excuse was that all work and
no play makes Jack a dull boy. His father, contrariwise, said that
all work and no play makes jack. Today Al concludes that all
jack and no work makes a playboy.

“No longer a boy, he rattled around the depression picking
up more half-baked trades than the CIO. Thus today, while
jealously guarding his amateur status, he delights in knocking off
an occasional round of plumbing, carpentry, roofing, machining,
spray painting, auto rebuilding, sign lettering, or airplane re-
pairing. Taking a dim view of over-specialization, he wants to
be the guy that knows less and less about more and more until,
eventually, he knows nothing about everything.

“To keep in line with this philosophy, in 1939 Al undertook
to sell Audiodiscs on straight commission. He was soon making
more money than the president and was given the choice of
quitting or remaining on a salary. He remained to become sales
manager.

“Leaving Audio Devices, Inc., to accept a commission in the
Air Corps, where his pre-war flying experience was needed to
train pilots, he spent a jittery but non-shooting war flying air-
planes, desks, and tents in the Pacific.

“Upon discharge, Al helped form Reeves Soundcraft Corpo-
ration. He dreamed up the name ‘Soundcraft,’ christened the
various types of discs, prepared the literature and helped de-bug
the disc manufacturing processes. Al believes in humor in busi-
ness, but worries when customers worry. He’s never satisfied with

[ 1218 ]

cre yr an eee ae esp TITER ARIE RITA Fama py ote

eequraet

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the job, thinks you have to go like hell to stay even, let alone
make progress. Al says the good thing about selling something
is that it’s so much easier than working.

“After four years of this, he decided that if he couldn’t get
rich in a big outfit, he might as well stay poor in a small one.
So, he dreamed up a somewhat marketable gadget, conspired to
get risk capital, and now reigns supreme in his own organized
confusion, gaunt but happy.”

HERBERT AUSTIN TRIPP, JR.

HOME aporess: 3 Aldon Lane, Silverton, Cincinnati 36, Ohio.

orFice appagss: Federated Department Stores, Inc., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

Boan: June 10, 1909, Washington, D. C, parents: Herbert Austin Tripp,
Elsie Cora Gaden.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. wiagna cum laude, 1929.

marniep: Katherine Sheridan, Nov. 12, 1938, Aclanca, Ga, cHitpren: Herbert
A., 3d, 1946, Susan, 1948.

occupation: Mercantile business,

THE above statistics are from the Secretary's files.

HULBERT WILLIS TRIPP

HOME ADDRESS: 109 Landing Rd., S. Rochester 10, N, Y.

OFFicE appress: 1§ Prince Se. Rochester 3, N. Y.

BoRN: Jan. 17, 1908, Prospect, Maine. parents: Willis Porter Tripp, Alice
Ellen Wescott.

PREPARED AT: Edward Little High School, Auburn, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRRIED: Laura Dean Montgomery, Feb. 10, 1934, Garden City, Long
Island, N. Y. catpren: Dean Holloway, Jan. 25, 1939; Diana W., Aug.
I, 1944.

occupation: Vice-president for investment, business manager, University
of Rochester.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Chemical Fund, Inc.. New York City, Haloid Co.
Rochester; trustee, Eastman Dental Dispensary, Hillside Children’s
Center, Rochester.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Rochester; Genesee Valley Club, Rochester,
Country Club, Rochester.

[1219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

THERE is a strong indication that my life history must be cov-
ered in narrative style. On the other hand, I have been hounded
for the last couple of days with cut postcards requesting an im.
mediate reply and a combination of narrative and outline will
have to suffice. Anyway, I had a hell of a job with English A and
for a time it was touch and go as to whether I would have to
repeat it. Fortunately, my poor penmanship made it impossible
for the professor to find out whether I knew anything or not,
and I was allowed to continue.

From 1929 to 1936 I worked in the Trust Investment Depar-
ment of Bankers Trust Company, 14 Wall Street, New York
City, and during the following year was manager of the Invest
ment Advisory Deaprtment, Shields and Company, Wall Street.
From 1937 to 1941 1 was general partner with H. C. Wainwight
and Company, Wall Street. All of you must have received Tim
Clark’s hot tips at various times and all I can say is that, if the
deep depression years were tough, the association with Tim was
really rugged. We had a lot of fun, made very little money, and
are still good friends.

From 1941 to 1943 I was assistant treasurer of the University
of Rochester and during the next three years I was a lieutenant,
U.S. Naval Reserves, attached to the Secretary’s Office in Wash-
ington. Since 1946 I have been back at my old job at the Uni
versity of Rochester and in addition to investments have stuck
my neck into practically every phase of the operation except
teaching. |

As to highlights, hobbies, etc., I guess mine are rather unex-
citing ones and it may sound corny but my chief interest is, un-
doubtedly, the family. Married in 1934, we have two children,
a son fifteen, and a daughter ten. Because of a somewhat rugged
youth and years of dissipation my chief athletic interest is con-
fined to golf and everyone in the family except my daughter can
now beat me handily.

I expect that everyone is supposed to do a bit of philosophizing
upon reaching this milestone. Frankly it is difficult for me to
reminisce and I have been told by a very wise man that when you
get to this stage you have really had it. I have certainly not re-
gretted the choice of college. I hope that daughter and son go to
Harvard or another high-grade eastern institution. The business

[ 1220 ]

ERC mhS IS DEO BEL A NERS,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

careers of all of us starting in 1929, have, of course, been inter-
esting and arduous.

Life at the present seems awfully damn respectable. Rochester
reeks with culture and civic pride. It is practically impossible to
have a couple of martinis at lunch because you are always talk-
ing about the poor sick children or some other group’s problems,
(Most of us should be looking after our own.) You are expected
to devote half your time to civic improvement and you are very
lucky if you can limit it to that percentage. The combination of
civic activity and respectability sometimes gets a little thick and
justifies the old expression — “The most exotic perfume becomes
obnoxious when applied with a garden hose.” If I am able to
attend the Twenty-fifth Reunion you can be sure that I will not
act respectable in any sense.

Since I am connected with an educational institution perhaps
I am expected to make some comments on this gencral field. All
I can say is that, if twenty-five years ago I had known what little
knowledge college administrators had about students, I would
have raised a lot more hell than I did and might not have fol-
lowed any of the rules. I have heard a great many things said
about Harvard in the intervening years, some complimentary,
others uncomplimentary. I am inclined to think that the casual
observer judges our higher education a little harshly. It is one
field where all the outsiders feel free to criticize at will and fre-
quently in an unjust manner. This racket is the same as any other
— we may be just a litcle bic more naive than those who are in
business to make a profit.

THOMAS FRANCIS TUCKER, JR.

HOME aporess: 17 Castle Rock St. Dorchester 25, Mass,

Born: March 16, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Thomas Francis Tucker,
Ann G. Conroy.

PREPARED at: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: AB., 1929.

MargizD: Regina E. Finnegan, Brooklyn, N. Y. atmo: Thomas Francis, 3d,
June 5, 1946.

[ 1221]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

+ JOHN TUDOR ©

BORN: Aug. 19, 1907, Nahant, Mass. PARENTS: Henry DuBois Tudor, ’gs,
Eleanor Lyman Gray.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

piep: Aug. 19, 1929, Fall River, Mass.

DURING his undergraduate years Tudor was one of the most
prominent members of our Class. He served as captain of both
the freshman and varsity hockey teams, chairman of the Fresh-
man Jubilee Committee, member of the Student Council and the
Class Day Committee, and president in 1928-1929 of the Hasty
Pudding-Institute of 1770. At the time of his death as the result
of an automobile accident, he was associated with a Boston bank.

GEORGE AKIN TUPPER

HOME ADDRESS: 283 Bellevue Ave., Upper Montclair, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: R. H. Macy and Co., 34th Street and Broadway, New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: George William Tupper,
Mary Leonard Akin.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1920.

MarrieD: Alice Maud Tener, June 21, 1935, Washingtonville, N. Y. cut-
DREN: Patricia Akin, March 16, 1937; Virginia Tener, June 3, 1939;
Jane Evans, May 4, 1948.

occuPATION: Merchandise, buyer of women’s hosiery, R. H. Macy and
Company.

MEMBER OF: Upper Montclair Golf Club; American Arbitration Associa-
tion; Upper Montclair Republican Club.

RIGHT after graduation I joined the Naval Reserve and was
assigned to the Squantum Air Base outside Boston for flying in-
struction. That lasted one month and the Navy decided I could-
n’t fly in a straight line — too much right rudder — so I went to
work for Sears Roebuck in Cambridge.

After a months at Sears I was put in charge of the warehouse
then the sporting goods department. Six months passed when
the store manager resigned to become divisional manager of L.

[ 1222 ]

ah ap a Nt EYRE gS Sap itt Ba eg

re aT RR STs frteh a aCRMIRE ne ptr ANC MRA HURT IE eT

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Bamberger and Company, a department store in Newark, New
Jersey. So in March, 1930, I moved to Newark, an employee of
Macy's newest acquisition— going through the mill there —
marker, stock boy, sales clerk, section manager for six months,
and towards the end of 1930 I was promoted to buyer of the
basement women’s shoe department. In no time I found myself
in Czechoslovakia at the now infamous Bata shoe company.
The shoe job was mine until 1935 when I became merchandise
man for a group of departments for eight years, then was trans-
ferred to another group of departments, and finally in December,
1944, | was transferred to Macy’s, New York, as buyer of wom-
en’s hosiery, where I have been ever since.

Montclair became my home in 1931 and having been an ad-
mirer of Jersey girls for a long time, 1 married one in 1935. I
am told I’ve lost most of the Boston accent but do my best to
keep in touch with it by annual summers on Cape Cod where
we built a house in igs0. My wife, three daughters, and the cat
(also a girl) look forward beginning September first every year
to getting back there and when I retire, if that’s possible, that’s
where my home will be.

Hobbies — except for golf, they change almost every year. I
built a toy auto, seating four, which went twelve miles an hour on
batteries; I was given a real electric 1906 version deluxe model —
four speeds forward and one reverse — which proved most con-
venient during gas rationing. I hooked rugs all one winter; have
painted or papered every room in the house, which we own, some
of them twice; had a parrot who could swear like anything; built
a few bookcases and an outdoor pool; did most anything to keep
busy until television came along, and then just got lazy and un-
sociable,

I missed the draft in the war by a couple of days — was due
for physical the day after they called the whole thing off; I can’t
say I was sorry, but I was a very efficient reserve policeman.
Incidentally, I finally discovered the need and benefits of a
school and college education. Almost every evening now in-
cludes a certain amount of time in doing, correcting, or helping
one or both of the girls with their homework.

[ 1223]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

HAROLD CLYDE TURNER

HOME ADDRESS: 358 qist St., Brooklyn 32, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1905, Detroit, Mich. Parents: Hugh Turner, Elizabeth
Williams,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929(30); M.B.A. (New York
Univ.), 1952.

MarRiED: Pearl Brown. cup: Douglas Hugh, 1946.

occupaATION: U. S. Government accountant.

FROM 1942 to 1945 I was with Motor Torpedo Boat Squadron
13, United States Navy.

JOHN HERMAN TYLER

HOME ADDRESS: White Oaks Road, Williamstown, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 21 Bank St., North Adams, Mass.

BoRN: July 5, 1907, Seattle, Wash. parents: Albin Austin Tyler, Lillian
Bonnette,

PREPARED AT; Everett High School, Everett, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
. 1940,

marriep: Anne Dauchy, July 22, 1937, Townshend, Vt. cHimpren: John
Albin, June 5, 1938; Anthony O., Aug. 9, 1939; Andrea, July 8, 1944.

OccuPATION: Public Utilities, manager and sales manager, Berkshire Gas
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Water commissioner, chairman, 1950-52, Warren (Mass.)
Water District; chairman, Recreation Commission, Town of Warren,
Mass., 1950-52; member, Worcester Area Council, 1950-52, Berkshire
Area Council, 1953, Boy Scouts of America; director, Berkshire Gas
Company, 1953; junior warden, Quaboag Lodge, A.F. & A.M. (War-
ren, Mass.), 1952.

MEMBER OF: Albany (N. Y.) Chapter, National Association of Cost Ac-
countants, Kiwanis Club, North Adams; Guild of Gas Managers;
New England Gas Association; First Congregational Church, Williams-
town,

I HAVE been continuously employed by the New England
Electric System in various capacities since leaving College. I am
now manager of the Berkshire Gas Company at North Adams.
I like Williamstown as a residence for, besides being a very
scenic part of New England, it provides spectator sports.

[ 1224 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SIDNEY FREDERICK TYLER

HOME aporess: 2146 E. Fifth St., Tucson, Ariz.
orice aporess: Crystal River Ranch, Carbondale, Colo.
Born: July 20, 1907, Jamestown, R. 1. parents: George Frederick Tyler,
‘os, Stella Elkins,
paepareD At: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
‘YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, 1929-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).
maanniep: Constance Harper, April 21, 1930, Milton, Mass. critpren: Sidney
Frederick, Jr, July 19, 1932; Daniel, Aug. 9 1933; Robert Ogden, March
18, 1937; Hope, Nov. 16, 1939; Mary Hoe, March 4, 1942.
HARVARD SONS: Sidney Frederick Tyler, Jr. '54; Daniel Tyler, ’s5.
HARvaARD BRoTHER: George Frederick Tyler, Jr., 38.
occupation: Rancher, cattle and sheep breeder; executive.
orrices HELD: General partner, Smith, Bammey & Company, 1930-41, 1939-41;
member, Office of Production Management, Washington, 1941-42; di-
rector, Jenkintown Bank & Trust Company, 1931-33, Newton Title and
Trust Company, 1933-40; Anniston Manufaccuring Company, 1935-48;
vice-president, director, Barrett Associates, Inc., 1947-51; president, di-
rector, Crystal River Corporation, since 1946; treasurer, director, Zoé-
logical Society of Philadelphia, 1935-41; trustee, Abington Memorial
Hospital, 1931-39, Public Baths Association of Philadelphia, 1935-40,
Pennsylvania School for the Blind, 1937-40, Meadowbrook School, 1937-
42, Brooks School, 1946-48, Fountain Valley School of Colorado, 1950-
53-
mMeMBER oF: Philadelphia Club; Denver Club; Harvard Club of Arizona,
Society of the Cincinnati in the State of Connecticut.

IF my twenty-five years of life after graduation have produced
no e¢arth-shaking repercussions upon my fellow man, they have
at least provided me with a variety of experience, and more con-
tentment than I doubtless deserve. From a modest beginning as
an amateur and thoroughly ingenuous explorer in South America,
accomplished in exchange for, and at the expense of, my senior
year at Cambridge, I gravitated to the opposite extreme and set
out upon a career in the brokerage business which, had it not
been for the war, might well have remained my principal interest
and life-long occupation. One of the few compensations for the
disruptions of the war years, however, was a somewhat altered
perspective, and a disinclination to return to a vocation which,
however satisfying it had been prewar, had suddenly lost its
challenge and its sense of purpose.

Not that there was anything spectacular about my contribution

[1225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

to the war effort. It began with the abortive Plattsburg camps
in 1940, which I had a hand in organizing and which I attended
at Camp Meade, Maryland. It continued with service as a civilian
in the office of E. R. Stettinius, then Director of Priorities in the
Office of Production Management, and later as the Administrator
of the Copper Conservation Order. Then followed a captain's
commission in Ordnance, some service in that Branch, and sub-.
sequently a transfer to the Air Force. It culminated as a Statis-
tical Control Officer attached to various headquarters, both Brit-
ish and American, in the western Mediterranean, and then con-
cluded with a year in the same capacity as a lieutenant colonel
in the Personnel Distribution Command back im the States. There
was surely nothing very startling in this; but there were enough
new horizons to make me loath to return to Philadelphia and re-
sume my former life there.

Thus it is that I write this on, of all places for one of my
training, a mountain-top in Colorado; and that I am engaged in,
of all things, the utterly fascinating business of ranching. How
we got here, and why, is of no general interest, except that the
kind of life that thus offered itself gave promise of a happy con-
formity to the tastes and requirements of my wife and family.
That the performance has outrun the promise is a source of ever-
lasting satisfaction.

Let it not be supposed, however, that we are rodeo hands, or
bronco-busters, or cowboys in the raw. For one thing, it’s too
much of a business for that; and for another, there’s still too
much of the suburbanite in us. Our business is the raising of
cattle and sheep, and the winter feed for their keep, on a basis
which doesn’t permit of much fooling —though Ill have to
admit that we include in our septet some tractor-operators that
I should stack up against anybody, at least one first-class sheep-
herder, camp-tender, and packstring-handler, and a few horse-
men and horsewomen not lightly to be rated. We don’t have the
oil well or the uranium mine, which are commonly supposed to
guarantee the profits of the stockman, but we do have some
solid veins of metallurgical coal, the output of which is moving
in increasing quantities to feed the furnaces of western steel
mills. We have crops to raise, and fences and ditches to maintain,
water to spread in irrigation, and no end of machinery to keep

[ 1226 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in repair. In this microcosm of ours, which is as nearly self-suffi-
cient as nature and human ingenuity can make it, there is more
than enough to keep all tastes and talents busy, each in accordance
with age and ability.

Nor has it been all beer and skittles, either, for we've had our
share of grief. There have been parching droughts, and devastat-
ing cloudbursts, mountains of winter snow, and disappearance of
summer stock-water; man-made economic dislocations that are
harder to cope with than those that are the results of nature; and
a generous sampling of all the obstacles which a small business,
especially a new and unfamiliar one, is heir to. But there are
vast and overwhelming compensations: the independence that is
characteristic of the life; a sense of direction, and at most times
a feeling of accomplishment, and, best of all, the dedication of
a family to a common purpose. Therein lies the contentment,
and the reward.

+ GUSTAVE HENRY UMBSEN

Born: Jan. 13, 1908, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Gustave Henry Umbsen,
Helen Downey.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Santa Barbara, Calif,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1919. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(31).

marRRieD: Alison Towle, Oct. 24, 1931, Boston, Mass. (divorced). cnito:
Gustave Henry, Jr.

prep: March 6, 1935, San Francisco, Calif.

IN college Umbsen was a well-known fencer. He was captain
of the freshman fencing team and later was a member of the
varsity team and president of the Fencers’ Club.

ALEXIS EUGENE USHAKOFF

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Warren St., Beverly, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 7, 1907, Petrograd, Russia. parents: Eugene Alexis Ushakoff,
Valenteena Alexandra Constantinoff.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, 1929-1031. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH, ENG., 1931.

MarrigD: Dorothy Adler, Feb. 3, 1929, New York, N. Y. cuttpren: Tamara,

"Jan. 4, 1930; Alexis E., Nov. 3, 1932.

OccuPATION: Consulting engineer, president, Secotan, Inc.

[1227 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Harvard Faculty Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Various patents; articles in technical journals.

INVESTIGATING the fringes of the unknown and of the un.
tried has been my chief occupation and hobby. It has been mos
interesting, hectic, and exciting. It has not brought me riches
(not yet anyway! ), but it has provided a living. It has produced
extended periods of frustration, punctuated by intense flashes of
satisfaction, but it has never allowed me to become bored with
my work.

Having directed research departments of an aircraft company
in New York and of a shipbuilding company in New Orleans, I
decided, after the war, to organize a company of my own to
develop some of my projects and to furnish a general consulting
service. This keeps me well occupied. At present most of my
time is spent in the development of a process and equipment for
a radically new and rapid means for producing leather. This
automatic, nonaqueous tanning process has been one of my pet
projects for a number of years and it is gratifying to see it
approach a satisfactory conclusion.

As to my family life, my daughter graduated last June from
the School of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston where she
majored in jewelry and silversmithing. She has announced her
engagement and is planning to be married this April. My son is
in his sophomore year at Tufts Engineering School and is also
a professional photographer. The accompanying photograph
duplicating the pose of twenty-five years ago was taken by him.
Hmmm! Our other youngsters, Sheba, Schmultz, Gertrude,
Sambo, Foofy, and Fuzzy-Wuzzy keep their tails high and the
mice out. Further details might prove interesting and exciting,
but only to me.

JOHN WADSWORTH VALENTINE

HOME AppREss: 24 Chestnut St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: 111 Devonshire St., Boston 9, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 6, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Loomis Valentine, ’98,
Albertine Whitney Flershem.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B, 1929(30).

[1228 ]

be teat

sc pre ag eat ak FM Ae A AND LE

teal i

wea aye om A tS RNA POD gear ot inat men eee eR RHA ARB OH
eer Te eacnanienieemmiaaeeel

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

margizp: Jean Purcell, July 10, 1930, Boston, Mass, cuitpren: Ann Loring,
May 26, 1931 (2. John W. Cobb, '49, March 28, 1953); Jean Purcell,
April 27, 1934; John Wadsworth, Jr. Nov. 3. 1939-

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Willard Valentine, °38.

occuPATION: Partner, White, Weld & Company, stock brokers and invest-
ment brokers.

memaeR oF: Bond Club of New York, Bond Club of Boston; The Country
Club; Harvard Club of New York; Ulithi Lagoon Club.

THIE twenty-five-year span has been, indced, kind to me in many
ways — not the least of which has been a great varicty of loci
operandi, Following a fine tour of Europe in the summer of
1929 with classmates Bill King, Fran Spalding and the late Phil
Hitchborn, I went to work for the Harris Trust and Savings Bank
in Chicago, By great luck I managed to keep my job through
the grim early thirties, chiefly, I believe, because as my boss re-
minded me when I asked for a raise, “you realize, Valentine, you
are costing us practically nothing.” That was, indeed, the case,
but we survived and enjoyed it.

Early in 1937 we moved to New York City where I opened
an office for Harris, Hall & Company, investment bankers with
headquarters in Chicago. After battling Manhattan with two
small daughters for six months, we moved to Bedford, New
York, where we found to our pleasure many classmates including
Jack Swords, Henry Cobb, Jim Sachs, and others.

Shortly after Pearl Harbor I made the sixty-day tour at Quon-
set and received orders to a Navy pre-flight school near San
Francisco whither we moved en masse, settling in Orinda, just
east of Berkeley. There followed a tour in the Pacific aboard
the luxurious Essex Class carrier Intrepid, then a short tour in
Washington, D. C., and, war over (we thought), back to Wall
Street and Bedford. In 1951 I joined White, Weld & Company
and learned to my great pleasure that they wanted me to make
my headquarters in their Boston office. This has, indeed, been
fun and a real feeling of coming home again.

Our vacations have varied from ten days’ camping in a trailer
in northern Michigan to a two-month trip to Mexico. Of recent
years, we have found the island of Martha’s Vineyard suited all
of us, and last winter achieved one major ambition by building
a small house of our own on Edgartown Great Pond. I doubt I

[ 1229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

shall ever want to “retire” as such, but I hope that when I come
to write my Fiftieth Anniversary report, I shall be spending a
good portion of the year “on-island.” My hobbies — sailing, fish-
ing, swimming, reading — are all blended into Island life.

Like all classmates blessed with children, I have found the
years past to a large extent devoted to them. Our rewards in this
regard have been generous beyond our dreams. Ann married
a young lawyer last year and has informed us that we may ex-
pect to be grandparents before this goes to press. Jean graduated
with distinction (no precedent for this on her father’s side) from
Milton Academy and is in her sophomore year at the coeduca-
tional college of Radcliffe. John, Jr., is enjoying life and en-
riching himself and us under the watchful and benign eye of
classmate Eliot Putnam at Noble & Greenough. So far I can't
find anything to complain about and humbly count my four
years at Harvard among my blessings.

WILLIAM BIRD VAN LENNEP

HOME ADDRESS: 57 Lakeview Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Houghton Library, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BoRN: May 2, 1906, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Gustave A. Van Lennep,
Florence Leas.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1929; A.M., 1930; PH.D.
1934.

MarriED: Rebecca deLoache Pollard, Oct. 6, 1926, Palm Beach, Fla. (dt
vorced 1938); Martha Melsena Richardson, Jan. 20, 1939, Pasadena
Calif. cuitpren: Richard, March 1, 1935; Joel Richardson, Aug. 4, 1941;
William Bird, Jr., Feb. 18, 1944.

occuPaTION: Librarian and teacher; curator, Harvard Theatre Collection;
teacher of drama and theatre at Harvard and Northeastern Universities.

OFFicEs HELD: Adviser, Harvard Dramatic Club, since 1942; member advisory
board, Boston Tributary Theatre, 1946-50, Boston Children’s Theatre,
since 1946; editor, Theatre Annual, 1947-50; member executive board,
Theatre Library Association, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Princeton Charter Club; Harvard Faculty Club; Cambridge
Boat Club, Theatre Library Association, Modern Language Association.

PuBLications: The Life and Works of Nathaniel Lee, Dramatist, The
Reminiscences of Sarah Kemble Siddons,; numerous articles on drams
and theatre.

[ 1230 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALL that I have said about myself in the Vicennial Report still
holds good, thank God (see p. 414). Iam now in my fourteenth
year as curator of the Harvard Theatre Collection, the greatest
collection of its kind in the world, and still find the job a fas-
cinating one. It brings me in contact with students and scholars,
members of the theatrical profession, male and female, and visi-
tors from many places and many lands. J never tire of talking
shop with them, listening to their problems, and giving them
what help I can. And I have met a host of stimulating persons,
acquired a widely varied set of acquaintances, and made some
new friends who share with me my interest in the arts. [ con-
tinue to lecture on and teach drama and theatre — you may have
heard one or two of my drama talks on the air, since a number
of them have been broadcast recently —and believe I speak
more effectively in public than I did five years ago (or so my
wife says, and she has occasionally “sat in on” my courses), |
still find teaching a most rewarding experience and trust I have
given as much as I have gotten from it. Brushing minds with
college boys and girls keeps one’s own mind open and one’s
spirit young. Besides my teaching and work in the Harvard
Theatre Collection, I have published from time to time articles
on the theatre and am at present writing two books on the sub-
ject, one to appear in this year, the other in 1955.

At home I have a beautiful and intelligent wife—I repeat,
beautiful and intelligent— who long ago learned to overlook
my eccentric ways and late hours, and two fine boys of twelve
and ten (I married Martha in my thirties), whose surprising
questions and odd hobbies keep me on my toes. My main con-
cern these days is how I am going to give them the education
that my parents gave me. Salaries in my profession have not
risen enough to balance the higher cost of living, and I am feel-
ing the pinch. Well, I cannot have everything my way, and the
compensations of my life considerably outweigh the disadvan-
tages, which are strictly financial. I like Cambridge and New
England; I love my work; I am mad about my family. Gee, my
cup almost runneth over!

[ 1231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

GEORGE BOOTH VAN SCHAACK

HOME ADpRESsS: 7165 Kingsbury Ave., University City, Mo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Mathematics, Washington University, St. Louis,
Mo.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1903, Coxsackie, N. Y. PARENTS: Myron Brate Van Schaack,
Lilian Laura Booth.

PREPARED aT: Coxsackie High School, Coxsackie, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B. summa cum laude, 1929, A.M.
1932; PH.D. 1935.

MARRIED: Elisabeth R. Dougan, Aug. 15, 1936, Middle Granville, N. Y.
(divorced 1938); Constance Rogers, Aug. 9, 1938, Great Neck, Long
Island, N. Y.

occupation: Associate professor of mathematics, Washington University.

OFFICES HELD: Honorary curator of grasses, Missouri Botanical Garden,
St. Louis (now). .

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America; American Society of Plant Taxonomists; Arctic Insticute
of North America; Phi Beta Kappa; American Association of Univer-
sity Professors.

pusLications: Flowers of Island X, Navy 163, 1945.

I FEEL almost as if I were back in English A being asked to
read my theme aloud, except that I think I am more embarrassed
now at the thought of giving an account of my past twenty-five
years than I was then by my naive opinions and unfelicitous style.
Not that I have anything particularly embarrassing to report!
Except for a breadwinning year at Phillips Exeter, I stayed
on at Harvard after graduation until 1935 to finish off advanced
degrees in mathematics, always looking through the deepening
economic twilight towards a teaching position. Such positions
were far to seek in the summer of 1935, and I landed in an ac-
tuarial office computing diminishing dividends, while any slight
interest in things fiduciary dwindled. A year later I went to the
University of Rochester to instruct in mathematics for a couple
of years and, following that, for five years at Michigan State
College. These were years of mingled disillusionment and en-
lightenment. Harvard, in the late twenties and early thirties at
least, was a poor place to learn that west of the Hudson colleges
may not be conducted as they are in Cambridge, that college
students may be less nonchalant but also less well-prepared, less
interested in liberal arts and more insistent upon obtaining what

[ 1232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

they consider as value received. I learned that in much of teach-
ing the interest must be in the student and in the problem of
communicating with him, for interest in the subject itself must
be soon exhausted at the student’s level. And I learned also that
not all good things academic come out of Cambridge; Harvard
men were here and there, to be sure, but so were their brothers
from Michigan, Wisconsin, Chicago, California — many of them
well trained, albeit somewhat benighted. I suspect that no mem-
ber of the Class of 1954 will have to be thus waked up after
four, or even ten, years in Cambridge — all of America knows a
lot more about all of America now than it did in 1929, partly
thanks to radio and television, but probably much more thanks
to a war.

It was this war which took me from East Lansing in the spring
of 1943, a newly commissioned jg: the Navy considered me not
old enough nor impressive enough for a higher rank, but still
well enough trained by college experience to be able to keep a
commander, or even a captain, in good humor while I should
have to tell him that his anti-submarine tactics needed improve-
ment. And so I found myself for two years on Attu Island in
the Aleutians, where there weren’t any submarines and the com-
manding officers would much rather drink coffee in the ward-
room than play at chasing them.

I reached Attu in the winter and was told that it was a barren
rock. But in April the snow melted, green began to appear, and
from late May onward the place was a riot of bloom. Thinking
myself in a place where flowers had not before been noted by
science, I made a representative collection of them, which I sent
back to the Smithsonian Institution. It turned out that most of
them had been found on Attu before, but a few were newly re-
ported. Finding myself still there a second spring, I wrote a short
pamphlet entitled Flowers of Island X, which described about a
hundred of the commonest flowers of the island. The station rec-
reation department put out several hundred copies which disap-
peared like hot cakes. Many copies went back to the States as mere
souvenirs, but a significant number were used on the spot by
men both with and without more time than work. An army
Major came to my hut with a small portfolio of plants he had
collected and tried to name, the captain himself sent along the

[ 1233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ones he couldn’t name, and several of the enlisted men became
engrossed in plant collecting.

The second summer of harder but more absorbing work led
to a lot of new reports, and to an interest aroused in plant tax-
onomy. Back at home I worked over my plants at the Smith-
sonian, where the agrostologist, Mrs. Agnes Chase, steered me
into the fascinating study of the classification of grasses. Since
1947 I have been honorary curator of grasses at the Missouri
Botanical Garden, But “honorary” means “no pay,” so I still earn
my living teaching mathematics, for these several years at Wash-
ington University. My colleagues at the university envy me so
absorbing a hobby, while those at the Garden count me lucky
to be “honorary” and free to follow my fancy. And following my
fancy these last few years I have learned on the side more biology
and other natural history, geography, history, and language than
I'd ever dreamed of, and have widened my field of interest im-
measurably. So I have my “pay,” too much to fit into any
envelope. |

CLAUDE HALSTEAD VAN TYNE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1139 W., 36th St., Erie, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 128 E. 11th St., Erie, Pa.

BorN: April 6, 1908, Ann Arbor, Mich. parents: Claude Halstead Van Tyne,
Isabel Joslyn.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929.

MarRRIED: Janet E. Haldeman, Jan. 2, 1936, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1943);
Charlotte Anthony, June 25, 1943 (divorced 1948); Bernice Sultz,
Dec. 30, 1948. CHILDREN: Claudia, Jan. 30, 1950; Martha, Feb. 2, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Josselyn Van Tyne, ’25.

occuPATION: Field organizer, United Electrical, Radio, and Machine Workers
of America.

AS I attempt to review in my mind the past twenty-five years,
what strikes me most forcibly is the contrast between the spring
of 1929 and the present moment. Whether viewed subjectively
or objectively, it was indeed another world. My rather vague
plans at that time were for an academic life devoted to the study
and teaching of history. However, the actual practice gave me
less and less satisfaction and after two years I turned in other di-

[ 1234 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rections. What had most effect in altering my life, however,
was the blight of the Great Depression followed a year or two
later by the development of a severe personal physical handicap.
In the latter months of 1934 and early 1935 I became partially
blind. Probably the cause was a sinus infection but by the time
the doctors had diagnosed the trouble and the necessary opera-
tions had been performed, I was in a condition that no eyeglasses
could help. For the next seven years I was unable to read and
it was only by accident that I was finally directed to the great
Dr. William Feinbloom of New York. With the help of a special
type of lens which he had developed, I was able to make use of
what was left of my eyesight and once more to read, though
somewhat slowly. The condition of my eyes has remained un-
changed for these past nineteen years. The reason that I men-
tion all this is that this handicap profoundly altered my life and
resulted in my learning many things I should otherwise never
have known. I do not feel that this personal disaster ruined my
life. On the contrary, after the first painful months of adjusting
to this handicap I learned that this weakness could be many times
transformed into a source of strength.

The richest source of satisfaction in my life has been my par-
ticipation in the American labor movement during the last eight-
een years. Whether as a member of various labor committees, or
as a rank-and-file worker or steward in the shop, or as an or-
ganizer, I find that sharing in the struggles of the working men
and women to improve their lot is what gives real meaning to
my life. In the course of close association with many people dur-
ing strikes and lockouts, organizing campaigns and contract nego-
tiations I have learned great respect for the courage, resourceful-
ness, and common sense of American workers and I am confident
that they will find a solution to their problems.

I have no theories any more on higher education, but I cer-
tainly doubt the value of my concentration at Harvard on the
history and literature of Tudor and Stuart England as preparation
for my life as it actually did turn out. I don’t regret those
studies, however, for they gave me much pleasure at the time and
possibly some perspective. What I did acquire, largely at Har-
vard, was a most damnable lack of respect —to put it mildly —
for certain racial and religious minority groups. These chauvinisti¢

[ 1235 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929.

attitudes I had to wmlearn painfully through many struggles and
experiences in subsequent years.

I was so unlucky as not to succeed in building a family until
fairly recently, but I am making up for lost time now in the pleas-
ure I get from watching my two daughters develop. Other than
this I have no hobbies except perhaps some spotty vegetable
gardening. To the best of my recollection I have not seen another

_ classmate in the last fifteen years. Truly I seem to live in another
world and I am undeniably happy there.

NORMAN DANE VAUGHAN

HOME apprEss: 22 Moulton St., Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Headquarters Command, USAF, Bolling Air Force Base,
Washington, D. C.

BORN: Dec. 19, 1905, Salem, Mass. PARENTS: George Cutts Vaughan, Elizabeth
Norton Dane.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MARRIED: Iris Geraldine Rodey, 1932, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1936);
Rosamond Lockwood, Nov. 5, 1937, Providence, R. I. cHmpren: Gerard
Gould, June 15, 1935; Jacqueline, Feb. 27, 1940.

occuPaTION: Lieutenant colonel, U. S. Air Force, director of air support
activities for Headquarters Command,

oFFices HELD: Member, Dr. Grenfell’s mission, 1926, Byrd Antarctic Expedi-
tion, 1928, 1929, 1930, Second Byrd Antarctic Expedition, 1935; account
executive, Boston Office, N. W. Ayer and Son, 1931-35, Harry M.
Frost Advertising Agency, 1937, Doremus and Company Advertising
Agency, 1938-39, Badger, Browning & Parcher Advertising Agency,
1949-50; sales manager, W. F. Whitney Company Furniture Manufac-
turing, 1935-36, manufacturers sales representative, 1940, partner, New
England Sales Organization, 1951, Homelite Corporation; commanding
officer, Goose Bay, Labrador, 1942, Crystal I, Canada, 1943; director,
Search and Rescue, North Atlantic Division of Air Transport Com-
mand, 1943-46, USAF Balloon activities, 1951-54; chief, Search and
Rescue Division, International Civil Aviation Organization, Montreal,
P. Q., Canada, 1945-49.

MEMBER OF: Royal St. Lawrence Yacht Club, Montreal; Montreal Athletic
Association; New England Sled Dog Club, Boston; Alaskan Dog
Mushers Association, Fairbanks; Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard
Travellers Club, Boston; Explorers Club, New York (formerly); Amer-
ican Geographical Society (formerly).

PUBLICATIONS: Ski Fever, 1936, numerous Air Force manuals on survival, and
search and rescue.

[ 1236 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SINCE early life I have enjoyed adventure and excitement. If
I had not had the good influence of my better half, I should be
either lost in the Arctic or have joined an Eskimo settlement long
ago.

"But in spite of business and Air Force life, ’'ve enjoyed more
than my share of Arctic travels and world-wide journeys. My
greatest adventure was going with Admiral Byrd to the Antarc-
tic. This took place over strong objections from my family
who wanted me to finish College, but then I never should have
learned the problems of isolation or polar travel, both of which
have been important in Air Force work. I made one trip with
Eddie Goodale (Class of 1928) and Freddie Crockett (Class of
1930) of 1600 miles by dog team from Little America to the
Queen Maude Mountains and 300 miles into land never before
seen by man. Admiral Byrd named three mountains all over
8,000 feet for his three Harvard members.

Since joining the service in 1942 and I.C.A.O. (Interna-
tional Civil Aviation Organization) in 1946, I have been once
around the world, travelled all over South America, to New
Zealand and Africa, made search and rescue flights over the
North Sea, and over enemy territory in World War I], have flown
leafleteering missions in Korea in 1951, and have made thirty-five
airplane trips across the Atlantic Ocean. I should like to try it
by boat some day. At the time of the Belgian Bulge in World
War II, when wounded men could not get to the rear on account
of deep snows, I took 209 sled dogs and seventeen dog drivers
across the Atlantic in four airplanes to Belgium and France. Bill
Shearer, ’29, was in charge of the ten teams in France.

In World War II my work was search and rescue. On this
tour (Korean War) I have been in psychological warfare and
in charge of the USAF balloon flying. I am now responsible
for all the high-alticude balloon flying of the United States
Air Force. Effective psychological warfare is one way to win
the cold war, or should I say one way not to lose it. Balloons
made of polyethylene do not carry personnel and fly at high
altitudes (40,000 to 100,000 feet) and remain at a predeter-
mined constant level for days. One balloon launched at Hollo-
man Air Force Base, New Mexico, into the jet stream arrived in
Oslo, Norway, in fifty-six hours. It is not inconceivable in the

[ 1237 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

forseeable future that we shall be able to launch a balloon and
have it encircle the earth.

The Air Force in 1953 had only eight guard dogs on its offi-
cial rosters and these were in the balloon squadron. I have been
advocating a greater use of these animals to replace sentries be-
cause they will more effectively deny entry to areas such as
warehouses and hangers than air policemen and do so at far
less cost to the government. This savings in manpower can be
translated into taxpayers’ savings. I predict that in the immedi-
ate future the United States Air Force will change its concept of
security measures and employ hundreds of guard dogs at United
States air bases here and abroad. This will increase security, save
thousands of dollars in salaries, and eliminate pilferage wherever
dogs are used. On a test case in Japan, $80,000 was saved in
four months by replacing sentries with guard dogs.

Daily the United States Air Force launches three balloons from
West coast launching sites. They fly at 55,000, 65,000, and
75,000 feet crossing the country and reporting by radio their
track, altitude, and speed. This information adds to the meteoro-
logical information of these high altitudes for forecasting weather
conditions for jet flights. Other uses are for leafleteering and
cosmic ray research.

All my life P’'ve been interested in sled dogs and have driven
in Norway, France, Belgium, Switzerland, New Zealand, The
Antarctic, Alaska, Greenland, Baffin Island, Canada, Labra-
dor, Newfoundland, and the United States. The most fun was
competing in March, 1953, in the North American Championship
Sled Dog Derby at Fairbanks, Alaska. There were twenty-eight
competitors including four service teams. I represented the
United States Air Force. One of my dogs was born and trained
in Virginia and had never seen snow until two days before the
race. She went the full distance of seventy miles. My team car-
ried me to finish in tenth place, ahead of all other white men and
the other three service teams. The winner was Holy Smoke, an
Indian who raced a Malemute and Wolf cross. His dogs were
superior. It is the dogs and not the driver that win races. No

champion in Alaska has ever lost and then won again, proving
that great teams are few in number and once the victory streak
is broken, a driver does not come back again. “A racer is great

[ 1238]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

only so long as he has that great team with its superlative leader”
(Mr. Buck Landru, Fairbanks, Alaska).

I joined the U.S. Army Air Corps on March 30, 1942, as a
first lieutenant and was separated as a lieutenant colonel in
March, 1946. I was recalled to active duty in 1951. I am joining
the Watts Regulator Company, Lawrence, Massachusetts, as as-
sistant to the president in March, 1954. I am looking forward
to resettling in New England and to the Twenty-fifth. -

FRANK HENRY VERHOEK

HOME ADDRESS: 37 E. Riverglen Drive, Worthington, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Chemistry, Ohio State University, Columbus 10,
Ohio. :

BORN: Feb. 12, 1909, Grand Rapids, Mich. parents: Henry Verhoek, Cor-
nelia Engelina Benjamin.

PREPARED AT: South High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1929; s.M. (Univ. of
Wisconsin), 1930; PH.D. (ibid.), 1933; DRPHIL. (Oxford Univ.), 1935.

marriED: Cordula Clara Thurow, 1940, Madison, Wis. cHmpreNn: Susan
Elizabeth, May 1, 1942; Helen Katherine and Louise Gretchen (twins),
May 24, 1946.

occuPATION: Professor of chemistry, Ohio State University.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1946~47, vice-chairman, 1947-48, chairman, 1948-
49, Columbus Section, member of Council, 1950-52, American Chemi-
cal Society. |

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Society of the Sigma Xi; Associa-
tion of American Rhodes Scholars; Faculty Club of Ohio State
University.

PUBLICATIONS: Introductory Chemistry for the Laboratory, Boston, 1942;
Textbook of Chemistry, Boston, 1949; Chemistry for the Laboratory,
Boston, 1951; scientific papers in Journal of the American Chemical
Society, Proceedings of the Royal Society (London), Transactions
of the Faraday Society, Journal of Physical Chemistry, and elsewhere;
patents.

WHEN 1 left Harvard in 1929, I went to the University of Wis-
consin as a teaching assistant for graduate work in chemistry. It
was evident that jobs were still going to be scarce when I got out
with my Ph.D., and I applied in 1932 for a Rhodes Scholarship,
for which I was still young enough to be eligible. This was even-
tually awarded to me and I waited out the post-depression years
from 1933 to 1936 in Europe. The first two of those years I

[1239 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

spent at Oxford, where I wrote another thesis and acquired a
second Ph.D., and the third I spent at the University of Copen-
hagen. In the fall of 1936 I came back to this country and to the
Department of Chemistry at the Ohio State University. I have
been at Ohio State ever since, except for brief periods at the
General Electric Company’s research laboratory in Schenectady,
at Stanford University, and at the Argonne National Laboratory.
During the war, too, I remained at Ohio State, except that, like
- many other people in wartime, I took on a second job, and helped
the Liberty Mirror Division of Libbey-Owens-Ford Glass Com-
pany with the manufacture of tank periscopes and rear-view
mirrors for fighter planes. .

Life since the war has been relatively uneventful. The Uni-
versity absorbed, and survived, the horde of returning G.I.’s, and
is now preparing for the influx of the war babies during the next
few years. My own children — three daughters, including a pair
of identical twins — are growing, and will soon reach the terrify-
ing teens.

I have held offices in the local branch of my professional so-
ciety and have served in its national council. I have never been
back to Europe, but with the family I have covered widely
scattered portions of North America — one of the advantages of
the academic life is the existence of long summer vacations. It is
not a life which will make me rich, but a satisfying one.

BENJAMIN VINE

HOME appress: 46 Abernethy Drive, Trenton 8, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 116 S, Broad St. Trenton 10, N. J.

Born; May 12, 1909, Trenton, N. J. parents: Israel Vine, Clara Lidsky.

PREPARED aT: Trenton High School, Trenton, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.B.A. 1931

Marrirp: Florence Faber, Nov. 3, 1935, Trenton, N. J. cumpren: Jonathan
Morris, Oct. 4, 1945; Victoria Ida, July 7, 1947.

OccUPATION: Treasurer, controller, Fabers-116, Inc., retail fabrics and
decorating services,

Memner or: Greenacres Country Club, Lawrenceville, N. J.

A LOT of work, a lot of fun— and twenty-five years have dis-
appeared. Young children keep the spirit young and help to hide
the shadow of the mushroom cloud. I have done a little writing

[ 1240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and should like to do a lot more, but the opportunity becomes
increasingly difficult to make. I have been in both manufacturing
and retailing and like them both. I notice Harvard is still being
indifferent — now to a person named McCarthy. It couldn’t
happen to a more suitable guy.

PHILIP PEARSON WADSWORTH

HOME appREss: 66 Oxford St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 68 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.; J. W. Greer Co., Wil-
mington, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1908, Framingham, Mass. ParENTs: George Albert Wads-
worth, Flora B. Ephlin.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1920.

MarrigpD: Elizabeth V. Shaffer, Aug. 17, 1934, Franklin, Pa. cuitpren: Vir-
ginia Davenport, Nov. 23, 1937; Christopher, June 18, 1940.

occuPATION: Lawyer; vice-president and treasurer, J. W. Greer Company;

treasurer and director, Wire Belt Company of America.

OFFICES HELD: Moderator, 1949-54, past chairman, Board of Selectmen,
Town of Winchester; trustee, clerk, Winchester Savings Bank.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Boston, and Middlesex County Bar Associa-
tions; Harvard Law School Association; Harvard Club of Eastern
Middlesex, Newcomen Society in North America; American Ord-

nance Association; Winchester Unitarian Society; Kappa Sigma.

FOLLOWING seven years of College and Law School (inter-
spersed with three stimulating and subsidized summers in Europe
visiting the sites and searching out the subjects I had studied
as an Italian Renaissance history and literature major) I settled
down in a law office, married the finest girl in the world, and
started earning a living. After a couple of years as an apprentice,
I yielded to a previously suppressed desire by accepting a teach-
ing position at Roxbury Latin School. As much as I enjoyed it,
the economics of the middle thirties and the contemplated ar-
rival of our first-born forced a shift back to a more lucrative pro-
fession. Opening my own law office, good friends and good
fortune brought me an adequate foundation of corporate clients
and, until the war, I enjoyed a practice primarily in the field of
probate, corporate, and labor law.

Commissioned a lieutenant in the U.S. Naval Reserve in 1943,
after a few months indoctrination at Princeton and Harvard

[ 1241 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

(where required gym and road work took a too temporary toll
from one accustomed to the sedentary life), an assignment to
staff duty in the Naval Air Forces took me to England for a
year and later to Hawaii. The discipline, the personal con-
tacts, the travel, and the satisfaction of “taking part in the
war effort,” left no regrets when I had returned a wiser and
a physically whole “veteran.” Any sacrifice was made by the
rest of the family who lived on a curtailed budget, without
a man to mow the lawn and hang the storm windows, and with
less heating fuel and beef and gasoline than was available over-
seas! However, it’s an ill wind that blows no man good for I
found that my good wife knew when to take care of car main-
tenance, how to keep a balanced checkbook, and was enforcing
parental control far superior to the prewar variety I had exercised.
After the war, the law practice was revitalized with the aid
of old clients and legal associates. Among my clients was the
J. W. Greer Company of which Don Greer, ’29, became presi-
dent. Since 1950 most of my time has been spent with this com-
pany and I now serve as vice-president, treasurer, and counsel.
While I have continued to maintain my law office in Boston, 2
growing manufacturing concern, with a beautiful new modem
plant among pine and oak trees on.a thirty-acre country tract,
has created an increasing temptation to change from practising
lawyer to “industrialist.” Until Ike restored my confidence in
the future, I might have hesitated. However, the challenge and
the pleasure of aiding the management of a business with a prom-
ising future gives a tremendous amount of satisfaction.
In retrospect and using the personal approach expected in this
sort of report, these things, some large, some small, and in no
particular order of importance, have given me satisfaction and
enjoyment: A normal happy family life (an understanding and
patient wife, a teen-age daughter who finds Johnny Ray and
Perry Como “fabulous,” and an enthusiastic son who loves basket-
ball, photography, and camping out and who still plans to go to
Harvard); my pipes (which are burning all day long and which
handicap my speech but stimulate my thoughts); good health
(which allows me to work, play, eat, and sleep well regularly);
a love for music (whether produced by members of the family
or the Boston Symphony, whose concert series at Sanders I still

[ 1242 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

attend); spring fishing (at Moosehead Lake, where the salmon
and square tails sweep away winter cobwebs the weck after the
ice goes out); travel (whether it’s Yosemite, Bermuda, New Or-
leans, or the Laurentians); a liberal religious faith (from which
I get great help and satisfaction and an honest respect for the
religions of others); a standard poodle — Beau-Beau (who has
never had a show clip burt is a trouble-free source of constant
amusement); a mind not so active that it causes concern over its
deficiencies, occasional tennis (so long as I can hold my own
against my own progeny); New England (with its delightful
variety in topography, election results, weather, and people);
gardening (whether it’s Kentucky Wonders or dahlias); and
finally Harvard which opened the eyes and the mind of a carefree
country boy to a better understanding and appreciation of man
broader, finer, and more complex aspects of mature living, De-
spite the caustic attacks of senators and local councilmen, despite
the ridicule of the novelists and sports writers, despite the criti-
cism of Harvard graduates (even some ’2gers) — all prompted
perhaps by envy, impatience, bigotry, sincere convictions, factual
data, or past personal disappointments, I have faith that Harvard
is still a noble institution of learning “calm rising through change
and through storm.”

WILLIAM PERKINS WADSWORTH

HOME AND OFFICE Aporess: “The Homestead,” Geneseo, N. Y,

Born: Sept. 16, 1906, Geneseo, N. Y. parents: William Austin Wads-
worth, '70, Elizabeth Greene Perkins.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.

marriep: Martha Doty Scofield, June 29, 1929, Geneseo, N. Y. cHrLpRen:
Winifred Perkins, May 5, 1930 (#1. H. Gates Lloyd, 3d, June 16,
1949); Martha Doty, Aug. 12, 1931 (2. Helge K. Heen, March 7,
1953); William Austin, June 5, 1935; Sara Elizabeth, Nov. 23, 1938.
GRANDCHILDREN: Elizabeth Perkins Lloyd, May 16, 1950; Lallie Barnes
Lloyd, Nov. 8, 1952; Lief O. Heen, Sept. 29, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Farming, management of large landed property consisting of
thirty-five farm units.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Education, 1930-34, Town Board, 1935-
41, 1945-53, Town of Geneseo.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Genesee Valley Club, Roches-

[ 1243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ter, N. Y.; Country Club of Rochester; Genesee Valley Hunt, Geneseo;
MFH Association of America, Wianno, Osterville, Mass.; American
Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars of Uniced States.

ON June 29, 1929 (very briefly after leaving College), I was
duly married to Martha, and soon found myself engaged in the
management of a large farming property, inherited from my
father. I found no trouble in keeping busy. During the depres-
sion it was quite an interesting problem keeping my employees
paid, my tenants in business, and my bankers satisfied. In addition,
I found that country life involves getting more or less entangled
with the local government, the local hunt club, and the local
National Guard unit.

It was due to the latter that I was inducted, as part of the sorst
Cavalry Regiment, early in 1941. My squadron trained as horse
cavalry for a year, and then was mechanized, and I eventually
wound up in Germany as the S—3 of the 1o1st Squadron. I con-
tinued my National Guard connection until last spring, when
pressure of my business forced me to give up. Since the war I
have been increasingly occupied in trying to balance the forces
of labor, tenants, and government as applied to the small business
man, and have become increasingly active in the affairs of the
Genesee Valley Hunt, have done some skiing, and a very little
sailing.

Martha and I started our family with commendable promptness
and we now have three daughters, a son, two sons-in-law and
three grandchildren, in all of whom we take great pleasure. The
rest of our time is occupied in filling in forms and writing out
reports for the town clerk, the county clerk, the county treasurer,
the state comptroller (and all the branches of his office), three
branches of each department of the federal government, three
schools, two colleges, the dog warden, and the Class of 1929.
Life has been good to us!

JOHN THAYER WALES

HOME appress: Standish Street, South Duxbury, Mass.

OFFICR AvoRrss: 378 Scuart St., Boston 16, Mass.

BoRN: July 17, 1908, Milton, Mass. parents: Winficld Scott Wales, Ethel
Dingwell.

[ 1244]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRRIED: Lota Perry, June 17, 1939. CHILDREN: Scott P., Feb. 6, 1943; Paul
W., Feb. 22, 1947.

occuPATION: Assistant chief examiner, Home Office Claims, casualty insur-
ance, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company.

I WENT into the boat business after graduation and stayed in it
until 1933. Although the boat business was more fun than work-
ing for a living, I found, in the middle of the depression, that
the customers were more interested in buying food than boats,
particularly in the middle of the winter. Inasmuch as I was in-
terested in regular eating too, 1 went into the insurance business
in 1933 and have been in it ever since.

In 1939 I got married and have two fine boys who fortunately
enough look like their mother. Three years ago I moved to
South Duxbury, the town where Myles Standish and John Alden
used to spend their summer vacations from 1623 on. I bought
a somewhat dilapidated house which the bank is going to fix
some day although the bank is not yet aware of this fact. I com-
mute daily to Boston and am gradually becoming an expert on
“train” bridge, which some ignorant people say bears no resem-
blance to either contract or duplicate. I have retired from the
tennis racquet and golf clubs, probably permanently, and now
concentrate on swimming, fishing, and the bridge table when
not working.

LEO WALZER

HOME ADDRESS: 3365 Ardmore Rd., Shaker Heights 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2010 E, roznd St, Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Alfred Benjamin Walzer,

_ Erna Koppel.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: AB. Cum laude, 1929; M.D. cum
laude, 1933.

MaRRIED: Doris McGonagle, Nov. 30, 1946, Cleveland, Ohio. cup: David
Mark, May 24, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Israel Walzer, ’34; Joseph Walzer, ’34.

occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Senior clinical instructor, School of Medicine, Western Re-
serve University; secretary, Cleveland Area Heart Society; associate

[ 1245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

physician, Department of Medicine, Lakeside Hospital; senior visit-

ing physician, Mr. Sinai Hospital. .
MEMBER OF: Lake Forest Country Club.
AFTER graduation I attended Harvard Medical School. There
I spent four very pleasant and instructive years. I soon overcame
the seclusiveness natural to a Yard dweller and had a fine time.
My next three years were spent as an intern and resident in med-
icine at the Beth Israel Hospital, Boston. Here my good fortune
conunued, I was exposed to doctors of wide experience and some
of their knowledge rubbed off on me. My fellow interns were
stimulating and lots of fun.

Then in 1936 I returned to Cleveland to the private practice of
medicine. The good times were over. Somewhat later than most
of my classmates I found that life on the outside could be a trifle
rough. Prosperity rhymed with “just around the corner.” After
several years I began to make use of my training as a doctor and
by 1940 I was recovered from the shock of discovering that
making money wasn’t easy. About that time Paris fell and I
found I wasn’t very interested any longer in practice. In Janu-
ary of 1942 I went overseas with the 4th General Hospital. After
four years of active duty, three years overseas, I was separated
from the service with the rank of major.

I returned to private practice in 1946 and was married in the
same year. In 1949 my son David was born. I am kept fairly
well occupied with my practice, teaching at the Medical School,
and as a visiting physician at Lakeside, Mt. Sinai, and Crile Vet-
erans’ Hospitals. Recently, I’ve found out about golf and I plan
to break a hundred soon.

I admit to some confusion in my thinking about recent po-
litical events. Adenauer’s Germany and Franco Spain still smell
to me of the crematoria and firing squad. I still remember vividly
my talks with survivors of Japanese prison camps. Hitler’s ghost
will feel quite comfortable at the side of our former enemies, now
allies; not I.

LESLIE CLARE WARREN

Home appress: 810 W., Illinois Se., Urbana, III.
ovyuz avoress: 222 Gregory Hall, University of Ilinois, Urbana, IL.

[ 1246 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: April 8, 1907, Hartford, Mich. parents: Clare Henry Warren, Grace
Starr. .

PREPARED AT: Hartford High School, Hartford, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: A.B. Cu? laude, 1929; A.M., 1930; PH.D.
(Univ. of Chicago), 1937.

MARRIED: DeAlton Shearer Thomas, Sept. 30, 1932, New York, N. Y. cum-
DREN: Janet Christine, Aug. 27, 1940; James Frederick, Jan. 13, 1944.

occupaTION: Assistant professor of English, University of Illinois.

RICHARD WARREN

HOME appress; 162 Highland St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1180 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: May 12, 1907, Brookline, Mass, PARENTS: Joseph Warren, ’97, Con-
stance Martha Williams,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREES: A.B. 1929; M.D. cum laude, 1934.

MarRRiED: Cora Lyman, April 1, 1933, Ponkapoag, Mass. cHiLpreN: Janet,
Oct. 28, 1934; Constance, May 23, 1936; Richard A. May 19, 1939;
John C,, July 22, 1946,

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Warren, ’28, Howland S. Warren, °32, LLB., 35.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer on surgery, Harvard Medical School; associate in
surgery, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital; associate visiting surgeon,
Massachusetts General Hospital; chief, surgical service, Veterans Ad-
ministration Hospital, West Roxbury, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery; American College of Surgeons;
American Surgical Association; Society of Vascular Surgery; Society
of University Surgeons; Boston Surgical Society; Halsted Club; In-
ternational Society of Angiology; Harvard Club of Boston; Tavern
Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Forty-five articles in scientific and other journals.

IT is difficult to decide what fragments of one’s all too unimpres-
Sive past to impart to a Class life. This is particularly so since its
readers will be a varied group. I should list them as follows:

_ (1) Classmates who will read it once only.
(2) Historians, genealogists, or biographers in the case of those
few of us whose lives may be of interest for that purpose.
(3) Our children who will undoubtedly and for some time
keep it high on their list of bathroom reading.
Anyhow, here goes.

[1247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

load rather than that we are less able to handle the previous one
and surely, the reason we puff on exertion is due to “lack of con-
dition” rather than to the natural processes of ripening matunity,
namely, narowed arteries and a decreased alveolar filtration rate
in the lungs. I am here to say that the Twenty-fifth Reunion will
be the high point of our lives. It will be worth everything we
can put into it and more.

DAVID HERMAN WARSOWE |

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Rowena Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 236 Broadway, Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1908, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Warsowe, Alice
Lappen.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MaRRIED: Jennie Epstein, March 3, 1932, Troy, N. Y, cuitpren: Robert,
Sept. 14, 1938; Allan, July 30, 1940; Carl, Aug. 21, 1943; Marc, Sept.
27, 1947.

OCCUPATION: President, College Seal & Crest Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Education, ‘Temple Israel, Boston, mem-
ber board of directors, National Association of College Stores, Temple
B'Nai Moshe, Brighton, Mass., Y.M.C.A.. Cambridge, West End
House, Boston; president, Brotherhood, Temple B’Nai Moshe, Brigh-

ton. . .

MEMBER OF: Blue Lodge, Consistory, Shrine; U. S. Power Squadron, B'nai
Brith; Temple Israel, New England Jewelers & Silversmiths Associa-
tion; Jewelers Board of Trade; Chamber of Commerce; National
Association of College Stores; Providence Jewelers Club; Educational
Jewelry Manufacturers.

SINCE high school and my all-too-short College days I have had
just one job. Back in 1875 my grandfather made the first college
seals that had ever been used for commercial purposes, and from
then on the Warsowes were in the college jewelry business to
stay. We made rings, pins, keys, etc., and we distributed them
through college stores like the Coop from coast to coast. I found
the business fascinating. I enjoyed thoroughly travelling about
America, and I enjoyed my work on every college campus, True,
I have slowed down somewhat in the last few years, but I still
enjoy my work and my own business far more than any avocation

[ 1250 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

or hobby. And if your sons and daughters who are away at col-
lege cannot stretch their allowances quite far enough, | hope it
is my fault — for I do my best to see that they Icave as much as
possible with some college store in exchange for as interesting a
collection of seal-crested jewelry as ever graced a bureau drawer.

My war work in retrospect seems unimportant, but at the time
it loomed pretty large. Principally, I made emergency stills for
converting ocean water to drinking water. These were used in
rubber life rafts and, I am told, were quite effective. I also made
a number of small machine parts and stampings for torpedos,
radar, and the like. Include some electroplating and soldering of
a special nature and you have it all. It scems little enough now,
but at the time it kept us humping.

Hobbies at the moment are in a state of flux. They once were
tennis, skiing, and swimming. But it looks now as though they
are going to be model railroading, photography, and ham radio
— in all of which I can be professionally assisted, advised, and
tutored by my four boys.

Jen and I were married back in 1932 and the boys are now fif-
teen, thirteen, ten, and six. They are quite a handful at times,
but in the main highly satisfactory. It is too early to tell which
one is going to be the college emblem luminary of the next gen-
eration, but time will decide this for us.

I like to play cards but play all too seldom. I have spent the
last five summers rebuilding a cottage on Cape Cod. Most years
I take an evening course which might catch my fancy. I belong
to quite a few organizations, but attend few meetings. I like
people but prefer individuals to large groups. I wish I could say
that the balance of my life would be more useful and of benefit
to mankind, but I’m afraid the pattern has already been set. I
expect to spend my declining years doing exactly the same things
I have done for the past twenty-five years. If I can get as much
enjoyment and satisfaction doing them as I have in the past, then
there will be no complaints.

FRANK DeWITT WASHBURN, JR.

HOME appress: 16 Shepard St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 581 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass,

[ 1251 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

BoRN: Nov. 2, 1906, Iowa City, Iowa. PARENTS: Frank DeWitt Washburn,
’o0, Olive Ely Allen. °

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).

marrieD: Doris Edith Bradbury, June 15, 1935, Nashua, N. H. cup: Carolyn
Allen, July 29, 1949.

OccuPATION: Numismatist, partner, owner, operator, Copley Coin Company,
Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, treasurer, Copley Coin Company, Inc.; vice-
president, Boston Collectors Club.

MEMBER OF: Rhode Island Coin Club; New England Numismatic Association,
Worcester Numismatic Society; American Numismatic Association;

_ Jacksonville Coin Club, Fla.

THERE have not been too many unusual aspects to my life
since graduation, but at least it has been somewhat varied and en-
joyable to me. At present, I find myself engaged in a business
which until three years ago was a hobby — numismatics. Pre-
viously banking had been my chief occupation, for ten years
with the National Shawmut Bank, and later the Quincy Trust
Company. The war came along to end my banking career,
such as it was. I had no regrets on that score, and served three
years with the U.S. Navy, mostly in the Pacific. Upon my re-
turn I formed a business as manufacturers’ representative on the
west coast. My headquarters were in Los Angeles. Here I
spent a very enjoyable three-year period. My father’s death in
1949 brought me back east again. With Maurice Gould I formed
the Copley Coin Company, and later incorporated. This last
step has been, I believe, the most important, since I am extremely
happy in this work and the financial picture is very good. Outside
of business, my wife, Doris, and daughter, Carolyn, keep me pretty
well occupied, except when I can steal away for an occasional
fishing trip.

HENRY MITCHELL WASHBURN

HOME ADDRESS: 935 Topeka St., Pasadena 6, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2500 S, Atlantic Blvd., Los Angeles 22, Calif,

BORN: Jan. 11, 1903, Caneyville, Ky. parents: Ernest Malon Washburn,
Lauretta Mitchell.

PREPARED AT: Chino High School, Chino, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: 8.B., 1929.

[ 1252]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marniep: Ethelyn Moore Urann, Feb. 20, 1929, Boston, Mass. (died Dec.
22, 1941); Mabel Louise Hillman, March 6, 1943, Los Angeles, Calif,
CHILDREN: Patricia Moore, March 26, 1931 (sf, Eugene Mergele, 1951);
Cynthia Mitchell, Sept. 6, 1933 (om. Jerry Harding, 1953); Ethelyn
Urann, Dec. 14, 1941; Alan Leavitt (stepchild), April 26, 1931 (om.
Jackie Duke, 1952), caanocuitpren: Eugene Mergele, Jr. 1951; Debra
Lynn Mergele, 1952.

occupation: Administrative assistant to vice-president, The Fluor Cor-
poration, Limited.

Member OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; American Orchid So-
ciety; American Begonia Society.

IT has been said that when one starts reminiscing instead of plan-
ning for the future he has entered the period in life we call old
age. If this is any test, thank goodness I'm not yet even close to
being old, because for the life of me, I can’t figure out how I am
ever going to have time to do just those things that scem impos-
sible of foregoing in those days ahead of us. On the other hand,
as I look back over these last twenty-five years and sum up all
that has happened, it seems just as impossible that any one person
could have gone through all that has made up my life in so short
atime. Perhaps reference to my three lifetimes would be more
correct, for I have a distinct feeling of three separate, almost non-
related existences during that period — one of eleven years, one
of only two, and one of twelve years’ duration which is still in
progress.

The first period of eleven years began as I finished school in
1929 and married Ethelyn Moore Urann of Dorchester, a gradu-
ate of Boston University, as the culmination of a romance which
started in Los Angeles six years before in 1923 at the University
of Southern California. As some of my classmates may recall,
1929 carried other implications in addition to those connected
with our graduation from Harvard. A brief stay in Indianapolis,
Indiana, was terminated by financial difficulties encountered by
my employers. Fortune being with me, however, I became well
entrenched in a good position with a good company in Newton,
Massachusetts, before things got too bad there, and rode out the
storm of the depression without further mishap of this sort.

Our life was the usual one for those times —some worries,
some struggles, lots of joys, and an unchanging happiness that
comes from a peaceful, contented existence. Routine in nature,

[ 1253 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Antonio, Texas, in 1951, and Cynthia married Jerry Harding of
Inglewood, California, in 1953. Alan married Jackie Duke of
Tulsa, Oklahoma, in 1952, and spent his honeymoon with the
Army in Korea. Two grandchildren have appeared on the scene,

The one outstanding unsatisfying circumstance for twenty of
the twenty-five years was — you know what — the mess in Wash-
ington and all it stood for. I have often wished for time and the
ability to write a book, for my children’s use, whose title would
be, 1 Remember America.

Perhaps old age is creeping up on me at that, but it strikes me
the philosophy of the Roosevelt and Truman regimes was so
foreign to my own conception of America and what it stands for,
and it was so deliberately planned and thrust upon us for so long,
that we no longer have the America we knew in our younger
years. There are those who will say we have progressed. We
have, but this progress could have been made without ripping out
by the roots the old-time concept of some respect for the rights
of others and replacing it with an attitude of “‘to hell with you
and the future, I’m taking what I can get— now.” In my opin-
ion, all the foreign enemies America has ever had have not been
able to harm us as much as the harm resulting from the deliberate,
planned actions of these power-grabbing mass destroyers of char-
acter. For my grandchildren’s sake I hope some repair of the
damage can be made. My own children will find it difficult to
understand this statement, for they have been worked on too long
by these influences to understand my old-fashioned views. So
much for politics.

On the lighter side, my interests these days center around the
growing of Cattleya Orchids as a hobby. Who knows, some day
when I start reminiscing in earnest and decide that management
problems are too strenuous, I just might turn to growing orchids
as a full-time job, and J’ll forget about reminiscing all over again.

ROBERT EDWARD WASSON

HOME apprEss: 9 Plymouth St. Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hood Rubber Co., Watertown 72, Mass.

Born: Dec. 10, 1906, Cambridge, Mass, parents: Frank Whitfield Wasson,
Ethel Blanche Carpenter.

[ 1256 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prepared at: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928, 1929-1931. DEGREE: $.B. IN MECH, ENGIN, 1931.
marniep: Antoinette P. Ray, July 20, 1929, Somerville, Mass.

OccUPATION: Instrument engineer.

+ ROBERT HARDING WEATHERHEAD

poan: Jan. 12, 1909, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Albert John Weatherhead,
Hennetta E. Parmely.

parparrp At; University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DECREK: A.B. 1929.

pin: Aug. 23, 1947, Rome, Italy.

WHEN he lefe Harvard, Weatherhead enrolled at the Yale
Drama School in New Haven, In 1939 he reported that he was
an advertising manager in Cleveland.

ROBERT CLIFTON WEAVER

HOME aporess: 706 Riverside Drive, New York 31, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York a0, N, Y.

porn: Dec. 29, 1907, Washington, D. C. parents: Mortimer Grover
Weaver, Florence E. Freeman.

PrepareD at; Dunbar High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREES: 8.8. cum laude, 1919(30); A.M. 1931;
PHD. 1934.

marniep: Ella V. Haith, July 18, 1935, Baltimore, Md. auto: Robert Clin-
ton, Jr. April 16, 1940.

HARVARD BroTHER: Mortimer Grover Weaver, 2d, a.M., '27 (deceased).

occupaTion: Director, Opportunity Fellowships, John Hay Whitney
Foundation.

orrices neLD: Adviser on Negro Affairs, U. S. Department of the Interior;
special assistant to administration, U. S. Housing Authority; adminis-
trative assistant, National Defense Advisory Commission, chief, Negro
Employment and Training Branch, Labor Division, O.P.M. W.P.B.;
director, Negro Manpower Division, War Manpower Commission,
Community Services, American Council on Race Relations; executive
director, Mayor's Committee on Race Relations, Chicago; lecturer,
Northwestern University; visiting professor, Teachers College, Co-
lumbia University, School of Education, New York University;
member Advisory Committee, American Youth Commission; member
Fellowship Committee, Julius Rosenwald Fund; member Executive
Committee, Board of Directors, National Committee on Housing;
member Board of Governors, Metropolitan Housing Council, Chicago;

[1257 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

member Board of Directors, Citizens Housing and Planning Council
of New York, Provident Hospital, Chicago; member Selection Com-
mittee for Fulbright Fellow to Western Europe; chairman, National
Committee Against Discrimination in Housing; vice-chairman, Board
of Directors, National Association for Advancement of Colored
People.

pusBLicaTions: Negro Labor: A National Problem, 1946; The Negro Ghetto,
1948; articles in many periodicals such as, Atlantic Monthly, Quarterly
Journal of Economics, Journal of Political Economy, Journal of Land
and Public Utility Economics, Journal of Negro Education, Social
Forces, International Labour Review, Journal of Housing, Les Etudes
Amiericaines.

THERE is, perhaps, no more crucial quarter century in a man’s
life than the twenty-five years which follow College Commence-
ment. Looking backward, it is an extremely short period; yet it
marks the close of over half one’s lifespan. If the occasion serves
no other purpose, it is a time for taking stock —a time when
most of us would prefer to narrate rather than evaluate.

College commencement did not terminate my stay at Cam-
bridge. Three more years at Harvard, interrupted by a year’s
teaching in North Carolina, followed 1929. In the fall of 1933, I
joined the staff of the Department of the Interior as an adviser
to Secretary Ickes. This was followed by participation in the
initiation of the public housing and defense and manpower pro-
grams. I was a New Dealer, became a Fair Dealer, and am now a
member of the political minority. Although my College and
graduate training was in economics, my work and writing have
veered somewhat toward sociology, and today my after-office,
community activities are in the fields of housing and minority
problems.

While in Washington, I married Ella V. Haith of Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, and in due course we welcomed Robert,
Jr. In 1943 the three of us moved to Chicago where I became di-
rector of the Mayor’s Council on Human Relations and, subse-
quently, an officer of the American Council on Race Relations.
These assignments were punctuated by five months in the
Ukraine as a member of the UNRRA Mission. Fortunately, I
saw enough in the USSR to realize that a short stay in that com-
plex country didn’t qualify me as an expert and to appreciate the

[ 1258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vast cultural and ideological difference between this nation and
Russia.

Several summers on the faculty of Teachers College of Colum-
bia University whetted my appetite for teaching in the East. Sub-
sequently in 1948, I joined the faculty at the School of Education
of New York University. In the interim a most congenial affilia-
tion with the selection committce for Julius Rosenwald Fellow-
ships introduced me to that areca. Ic was natural, therefore, that
when the John Hay Whitney Foundation invited me to direct
its new Opportunity Fellowship program, the offer was most at-
tractive. For the past four years | have enjoyed the work, dis-
covering that a man in his forties gains much from continuing
contacts with college youth. Learning the art of giving is ex-
citing, and I cannot resist observing in this regard that as a nation,
we need to apply the principles which an effective “philan-
thropoid” has to master.

We live in Manhattan and love it. Of course, I travel a great
deal and all three of us desert New York City in the summer for
a small cottage on the Housatonic River in Connecticut. There
is bathing, swimming, and boating from our back yard, and the
place always needs attention. As a matter of fact, I am taking
time out from preparing plans for a bedroom-bath addition to
write this report. Nothing can stop me from doing the construc-
tion work this summer; after all I started at Harvard in the School
of Engineering.

As one who has been engaged in race relations and education,
I have found the last twenty-five years most interesting. They
have brought great social and economic developments and proven
to me America’s capacity for change. It is belief in this capacity
which impels me to look forward to the date of our Fiftieth Re-
union. Perhaps by then J shall have answers to some of the many
questions which harass me today. In the interim, I’m sure I shall
maintain an active interest in the world about me, believing that
any society which can and does change has an excellent chance
to survive.

[1259]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

LESTER HERMAN WEBER

HOME ADDRESS: 2907 Washington Ave., Cairo, II.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Weber Dry Goods Co., Cairo, III.

BORN: July 6, 1908, Cairo, Ill. parents: Herman Weber, Edith Katherine
Schulze.

PREPARED AT: Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929(30).

marRiED: Marye Louise Slaughter, Dec. 31, 1931, Evansville, Ind. chtprgn:
Jacqueline Hermine, Jan. 19, 1939; Penelope Louise, Feb. 27, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Schulze Weber, °25, M.B.A, ’27.

OccUPATION: Secretary, treasurer, Weber Dry Goods Company, wholesale
dry goods,

MEMBER OF: Elks Club, B.P.O.E. 651, Cairo; Egyptian Country Club,
Mounds, Ill.

AFTER graduating in 1929, my visions of entering the invest-
ment banking field were cut short by a lucrative offer of my
father’s to return to Cairo, Illinois, and enter into business with
him, with the prospect of eventual participation in all of his busi-
ness interests. These interests included wholesale dry goods,
hotel, farming, and car ferries crossing the Mississippi and Ohio
Rivers.

Needless to say boot training in all of these interests was quite
extensive: buying and selling merchandise in the dry goods line,
advertising and supervision in the hotel interests, and supervision
of farms.

In the process of learning these different lines I acquired a
marine pilot’s license to operate boats on the Mississippi and Ohio
Rivers, while operating the car ferry boats from Cairo, Illinois, to
Birds Point, Missouri, and Wickliffe, Kentucky. To help you
understand this I wish to point out that Cairo, Illinois, is located
at the confluence of the Mississippi and Ohio Rivers, which sepa-
rates the three states of Kentucky, Missouri, and Illinois. By 1933
two large highway bridges were completed between these states
which naturally put us out of business.

In 1938 I decided to try my hand at larger boating operations
and went with the Federal Barge line as a marine pilot. My par-
ticular field of operations was towing barges of various bulk items
including grains, coal, sulphur, oil, etc., from St. Louis, Missouri,
to Joliet, Illinois, on the Mississippi and Illinois Rivers. From

[ 1260 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Joliet smaller boats would take these barges to Chicago and the
Great Lakes area. However, since this trade involved being on a
river boat twenty-four hours a day and most of the days of the
year, I decided it would be better to raise a family with the dry
goods business and in other ficlds. Accordingly, in 1939 our first
daughter, Jacqueline, arrived and in 1944, Penelope. Since that
time my principal efforts have been in the dry goods and farming
lines.

Our family are members of the Evangelical Lutheran Church
which we attend regularly. During our spare time we manage to
do some gardening and golfing (amateurs at both, of course). We
are not sure that all of our family will be able to attend the Twen-
ty-fifth Reunion, but we are all hoping to make it.

JOHN COMSTOCK WEEKS

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Frost St Cambridge go, Mass.

orrick aponess: The Texas Co, Statler Bldg., Boston, Mass.

Boan: May 18, 1907, Hyde Park, Mass, parents: Joseph Weeks, Jessie
Darling.

prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1919; A.M., 1930.

margaisp: Helen M. Weeks.

occUPATION: Accounting.

WEEKS adds nothing to these statistics,

GEORGE LEON WEIL

HoME appress: Cabin John, Md.

OFFICE appress: 1025 Connecticut Ave. N. W., Room 603, Washington 6,
D. C.

Born: Sept. 18, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Leon Weil, Elsie Rose
Weil.

prepareD at: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: a.B. curd laude, 1929; a.m. (Columbia
Univ.), 1931; PHD. (ibid.), 1942.

MarRiED: Virginia M. Harlow, 1935, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1936);
Veniette F. Caswell, 1950, New York, N. Y. camp: Stephen George,
March 20, 1952.

occupation: Consultant (nuclear reactor engineering, nuclear power),

[ 1261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, industrial concerns, other organi.
zations; lecturer, Engineering School, Johns Hopkins University.
OFFICES HELD: Assistant director, Division of Reactor Development, U.S

Atomic Energy Commission, Washington, D. C., 1949-52.

MEMBER OF: Cosmos Club, Washington; Harvard Club of New York,
Sigma Xi Society; American Physical Society (fellow); American
Association for the Advancement of Science (fellow); New York
Academy of Sciences.

PUBLICATIONS: Number of contributions to technical and other journals;
among most recent of semi-technical nature are following: “A Prospec-
tus for the Development of Atomic Power,” privately printed, 1952:
“Power Only Reactors— The Direct Approach to Economic Nuclear
Power,” Nucleonics, 1953; “Economic Feasibility: The Single Pur-
pose Nuclear Power Plant,” The Annals of the American Academy
of Political and Social Science, 1953; “A Role for Private Nonprofit
Organizations,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, 1953.

RICHARD WEILER

HOME ADDRESS: 73 Stearns Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 107 Stewart St., Providence 3, R. I.

BoRN: Nov. 26, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Gustavus Weiler, Hilda Kall-
man,

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MARRIED: Ruth Louise May, April 28, 1931, Steubenville, Ohio. ctuto:
Louise May, May 4, 1937.

OccUPATION: Salesman for New England and southeastern states, Bojar
Company, jewelry manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Aberdour Lodge, A.F. & A.M., 1949; chaplain,
Aberdour Lodge, 1950, 1951, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Congregation Adath Israel, Aberdour Lodge, AF. & AM.
First Worshipful Master’s Association in Massachusetts.

IN December, 1927, I left the University to enter the family
jewelry and mail order business. In 1936 this business was sold,
but I continued to work for the new owners until 1938. I then
attempted to sell life insurance and eventually other types of in-
surance. In 1940 I added some mortgage brokerage work to my
insurance brokerage. During this period I could not be described
as an outstanding financial success.

After Pearl Harbor, I began to take some war training courses
in radio and electronics, since I wanted to assist the war effort
and felt neither physically nor emotionally inclined to enter the

[ 1262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

armed forces. As an answer to this, in 1942 I went to work for
Raytheon Manufacturing Company, Receiving Tube Division,
constructing and maintaining test equipment. In 1944 I was
supervisor in charge of maintaining test equipment for the pro-
duction departments of this division, but I transferred to the
Standards Laboratory part of the Equipment Division of the
same company, The work consisted of making and repairing
measuring devices, mostly electrical and electronic meters which
I did until 1947 when the disarmament program finally caught up
with me. During the ycars described above, I continued with the
war training courses (at night), finally getting a couple of cer-
tificates for work completed at the Harvard Graduate School of
Engineering. These are my nearest approach to a Harvard shecp-
skin. Also during this period my wife took over my insurance
business, at which she still works. In addition we acquired a two-
family house in Brookline in one-half of which we still live.

In 1947 I started to travel in New England for Bojar Company,
jewelry manufacturers. In tgso0 the states of Virginia, the Caro-
linas, Georgia, and Florida were added to my territory, This
means that I am away from home for six or seven weeks at a
time, for two trips a year. I can’t say that I enjoy being out of
sight of my family and friends for so long, but few of us have
everything just the way we'd like it to be.

Since Bojar's production for the year is usually sold by early
November, and the new samples are not ready until late January,
I have about two and one-half months each year in which I can —
loaf (if I can afford it) or find other work. The past three years
I have worked during this time at Raytheon Standards Labora-
tory, so maybe I haven't progressed in the last ten years after all.

RICHARD WEILL

HOME Appress: 262 Central Park, West, New York 24, N. Y.

orrick appress: Mutual Paper Co. Inc., 20: Coffey Sc. Brooklyn 31, N. Y.

poan: April 20, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Max Weill, Minnie Wel-
lenski Weill.

Preparep aT: A. B. Davis High School, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; LL.B. 1933.

UN MARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: Jacob M. Weill, '28.

[ 1263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occupation: Executive, manager of sales, State of New Jersey and Long
Island, Mutual Paper Company, Inc.; officer in affiliated and sub.
sidiaty companies.

MEMBER OF: North Shore Country Club; Grand St. Boys’ Association;
American Legion; Embassy Club (London); 60 Grosvenor St. Club
(London); Ladder Club (London); San Carlos Club (London),

puBLicaTions: “British Peerage,” written for the American Army, 1943;
several stories for newspapers in Bristol, England.

AFTER graduation from Harvard Law School in 1934 I clerked
in a law office for several years and was admitted to the Bar of
the State of New York and the Federal] Bar. Legal studies were
in preparation for a business career. As a result of high standing
(ninth of hundreds who took the exam) in Civil Service Exam-
ination for senior attorney, Public Service Commission, I was
offered very responsible positions (such as: attorney, State Tax
Commission, State of New York, and principal law clerk, At-
torney-General’s Office, Unemployment Insurance Division, at
Albany and New York), all at handsome starting compensation,
with great possibilities of preferment. Possibly I might have
ended high in the state administration or as a judge. I rejected all
these offers to go into the family business — no regrets at all.

I entered the employ of the Mutual Paper Company, Inc., a
business founded over half a century ago by my father. We are
manufacturers and converters of paper products, mill agents, and
distributors of papers and twines. My business career proceeded
pleasantly, when it was rudely shattered. I was drafted into the
Army on July 1, 1942.

After brief basic training at Camp Pickett, Virginia, I wound
up in northern Ireland on September 5, 1942. Then service in
the 53d Medical Battalion from which I was transferred to Pub-
lic Relations Section, Headquarters V Corps (Reinf.), the head-
quarters of the American Ground Forces at Bristol in Britain. On
the assumption of command by General Eisenhower I was trans-
ferred to Public Relations, Headquarters SOS, Etousa at London
in late 1943. Services were requested by Quartermaster Procure-
ment Division affiliated with the general purchasing agent. I un-
derwent the bombings of London, then on to the Normandy
Invasion and the North of France campaign with the advance
party of Etousa Headquarters, the break-through at St. Lo, and
the liberation of Paris. I was stationed at Paris, France, and then

[ 1264 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ended my Army career as chief clerk, Southern France Branch,
Quartermaster Procurement Division at Lyons, France. I received
two Battle Scars and several commendations. Practically my
whole Army career was spent overseas.

There were few memorable events of my Army career, I
wrote a radio scrip, “American Life in the Summer,” which I
broadcast over the world wide network of BBC, on the Forces
Program in 1943. I had crosses and stars of David manufactured
in France and was one of the few who knew top secret informa-
tion of the incredibly high casualties of the Normandy Invasion.
I procured hay and feed for General Eisenhower's two cows. |
selected the full dinner service for twenty-four for General Pat-
ton which was flown co him at the front. I untangled differences
between DeGaulle's provisional government and the American
Army, was responsible as T/3 for release of goo tons of straw
needed desperately by our Army, which France refused to re-
lease to our generals. My commanding officer received the Legion
of Merit for this bit of diplomacy of mine.

I came back to America in September, 1945. Three years over-
seas made me a stranger, yet made me appreciate our wonderful
country all the more. I took up the pieces of my business carcer.
I spent what should have been the most productive period of my
life as a lowly T/4 in the Army; but I feel honored that I did my
duty by God and my country, and do not regret the lost opportu-
nities to amass a fortune if | had remained out of the Army, and
the opportunities to acquire at bargain prices attractive paper
mills.

I am unmarried and reside with my father who is a semi-invalid.
One thing I do regret is not having married one of the more at-
tractive and very nice girls I knew in London and Paris. As I
think of this I am reminded of a quotation of Berkeley, the
English empiricist, the only thing I remember of my course in
philosophy at Harvard, “There is a divinity which shapes our
ends, rough hew them as we may.”

In 1949 I had the urge to revisit France and relive some of the
scenes of my Army career. In response to a kind invitation of
friends I had made while in the Army in France, I sailed for
France. I spent some time in Paris and its environs, and then
headed for Juan-le-Pins on the Riviera, where my friends had a

[ 1265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

villa. I visited the art colonies at Cagnes sur Mer, St. Paul de
Vence; was entertained in French homes; was taken to Eden
Rock, the smart beach club La Garoppe; gambled at the Salon
Privee at Monte Carlo, and then came back to the prosaic paper
business. I hope to travel soon to Europe and visit some friends
in Switzerland. I find an ocean voyage bracing and a most
wonderful tonic for the tired business man.

I took up golf seriously about four years ago and joined a golf
club. Golf is a wonderful game and I play with a fair amount
of proficiency — but one disadvantage for New Yorkers, it takes
too much time to drive out to the country, and the traffic prob-
lems spoil the fun. Golf is a great game for those who live in the
suburbs and in five or ten minutes can drive out to the club.

I collect stamps as a hobby, not a general collection, but a few
specific situations in which I am interested. I own a complete
collection of the State of Israel, complete collection of the United
Nations, and all the stamps issued for the coronation of Queen
Elizabeth. I wrote the plan of reorganization of the New York,
Westchester & Boston Railway Company.

I try to emulate Lincoln in my religious life. I attempt in my
daily life to live by the teachings of the Bible, with kindness and
justice to all, brotherhood, and the essential dignity of man. On
the high holy days I like to go to synagogue to participate in the
traditions of my religion.

ALFRED ABRAHAM WEINSTEIN

HOME aApprEss: 380 Whitmore Drive, N. W., Atlanta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 663 W. Peachtree St., N. E., Atlanta, Ga.

BoRN: Nov. 30, 1908, Chelsea, Mass, PARENTS: Michael Weinstein, Florence
Bishandler.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea Senior High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; M.D.
1933.

MarRiED: Hanna Kaunitz, Sept. 25, 1945, Manila, Philippine Islands. cmt-
DREN: Malcolm Michael, Dec. 22, 1942; Ronald Kent, Feb. 16, 1944;
Elsa Josephine, Feb. 9, 1950.

OccuUPATION: Physician, surgeon, author, president, Mack Motors, Tech
Insurance Agency, Inc.; financier; real estate promotion.

OFFICES HELD: President, Zionist District, Atlanta, 1948, commander, Jewish
War Vets, 1950; member National Advisory Board, Veterans’ Volun-

[ 1266 ]

wy. een ENA NTE A

mee cremme ng pe OPA

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tary Services; director, Jewish Children Service, Y.M.C.A. B'nai
Brith, Jewish War Vets; A.D.L. Chairman for Georgia, U. S. Ad-
viser, War Crimes Commission, member, staff, St. Joseph's Hospital,
Georgia Baptist Hospital, Hugh Spaulding Hospital; instructor of
surgery, Emory Medical School,

memner or: American Medical Association, Georgia State Medical Associa-
tion, Fulton Co, Academy of Medicine; Standard Mayfair; progres-
sive clubs; Masons; Scottish Rites; Yarab Shrine; A.V.C.; Jewish War
Vets, Harvard Club of Adlanta,

pusucations: “Relation of Potassium and Calcium level to Arterial Elyper-
tension,” “Mechanism of Early Relicf of Pain in Total Thyroidce-
tomy,” “Medicine in the Talmud,” “Anatomy of Sympathetic Ner-
vous System in the Foetus and the Adult,” Barbed Wire Surgeon,
Macmillan, 1948,

WHILE watching my four-year-old daughter splashing in the
wading pool at the club, I overheard this fragment of a conversa-
tion earnestly delivered by one college student to another. “If
you have any will-to-learn still left, why don’t you transfer to
Harvard?” Time, faces, names, and people change. But, ap-
parently the invigorating arrogance of Harvard is changeless.

It was twenty-five years ago that I left Harvard College to enter
Harvard Medical School. Spurred by the “will to learn,” I spent
weekends and summers under the direction of Dr. Soma Weiss,
director of Thorndike Research Laboratory, Boston City Flos-
pital, on the trail of the mechanism and causation of arterial
hypertension in man. Those were exciting, exhausting, and fruit-
ful years which were not ended when I left the Thorndike and
Harvard Medical Schools to work under Dr. H. L. Blumgart at
the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. Under his direction, the
“will to learn” flourished. For two years we worked on the per-
fection of the medical and surgical techniques for the treatment
of angina pectoris and congestive failure by total ablation of the
thyroid gland. Every ramification of this technique was studied
in hundreds of patients: cardiographic, roentgenological, hema-
tological, chemical, physiological, and sociological. The study
had personal significance because my father, a cardiac cripple,
was thyroidectomized in 1932 and because of the treatment, he
is still alive and functioning.

Egged on by “the will to learn” I remained at Beth Israel until
1938 and finished an extensive training in medicine and surgery.
Dismayed by the slow start in medical practice some of my friends

[ 1267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

towns in Georgia where surgical facilities are reminiscent of my
war and P.O.W. experiences.

That’s about the story. I certainly don’t know how many more
years I have to live. If they are many in number, so much the
better. I shall fill them with work I consider productive and
creative and that represents a challenge to my “will to learn.”

ABRAHAM JOSEPH WEISMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Conant Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 150 Belgrade Ave., Roslindale, Mass.

BoRN: May 14, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Max Weisman, Emma Shepard.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1928.

MARRIED: Jessie Botbol, March 19, 1953, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Rich-
ard Kropp (stepchild); Neal Kropp (stepchild).

OCCUPATION: Owner and general manager, Belgrade Motor Supply Com-
pany, wholesale distributor of automotive parts and equipment.
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, American Jewish Congress, Boston, 1932-36;
president, Degree Team, B’nai B'rith, Haym Solomon Lodge, 1933-37;
team captain, Associated Philanthropies, 1937-38; first lieutenant, State
Guard, 1941-43; president, 1951-53, secretary, 1953, Greater Boston
Automotive Wholesalers Association; director, New England Re-

gional Show, 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Metropolitan Yacht Club,
B’nai B'rith; Big Brother Association, Demolay; U. S, Coast Guard
Auxiliary.

puBLicaTions: Articles for the wholesale trade papers.
LIKE many others of our age, I was cast out on the sea of life,
when the times were rather turbulent — but like the others I
stayed afloat and survived. I went into the automotive equip-
ment business (a growing baby then), on the selling end, and have
stayed with it ever since, except for four years in the Army and
the year following. That year I spent in the retail household
linen business. I couldn’t see dealing with women the rest of my
life, so I bowed out. Following my skirmish with women and
linens, I returned to my old love, automotive equipment and
parts. In October, 1946, I opened my own business (against the
advice of many old-timers). Despite the shortages, etc., the busi-
ness came along fine — and now I have a good organization and
also have recently purchased a branch store.

[1272 ]

weet EEN RE ROH
Sap eceteaearpancpa ne pe oh ET

eRe Pep nerRpstore gg rary mere

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I started my Army career in Ordnance, but wound up in charge
of payrolls in a rehabilitation center in England. I spent three
years (a pleasant experience — though expensive). 1 managed to
tour England and Scotland extensively —I found the country
beautiful and the people most cordial.

During all these years I remained a bachelor, until last March,
when I took upon myself the responsibility of a family. I mar-
ried Jessie, a widow with two fine boys — Richard, aged sixteen,
and Neal, aged twelve years. 1 acquired a home in Brookline and
spend my spare time gardening. I am slowly learning to be a man
about the house. My chief hobby has been boating. Before the
war I raced a thirty-eight-foot Saunders Class boat. After the
war (lacking the vigor and energy required by that sport), I
merely sailed. But I have found that sport loaded with fun and
excitement, such as being caught in @ hurricane and the Coast
Guard standing by all night. My lesser sports were tennis and
skiing — but alas, I no longer indulge in these — aching back and
muscles say no. Happy Sailing on the Fifticth.

DONALD WEISMAN

HoM® aporess: 21 Greenacres Ave. Scarsdale, N. Y.

orrice appress: 15 Chester Ave, White Plains, N. Y.

poan: June 1, 1908, New York, N. Y¥. parents: Jesse Meyer Weisman,
*9t, Janee Blumenstiel.

purpanep at: Cherry Lawn School, Darien, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: 8.8. 1929; M.D, (Univ. and Bellevue
Hospital Medical Coll.), 1933.

Maraiep: Susan Stix, Sept. 14 1935, Elmsford, N. Y. cuitoren: Hugh Stix,
May 19, 1939; James Stix, June 22, 1941, Donald Stix, Oct. 7, 1944 (died
Oct. 31, 1951).

HARVARD BROTHER: Alan White (Weisman), '26.

occupation: Physician, pediatrician.

OFFices HELD: Former trustee, Cherry Lawn School; consulting pediatrician,
chairman, Medical Board, Windward School, Hawthorne Cedar Knolls,
Hawthorne, N. Y.; former instructor in pediatrics, College of Physi-
cians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York; former assistant
attending pediatrician, New York Postgraduate Hospital and Medical
School, New York; former attending pediatrician, French Hospital,
New York, attending pediatrician, White Plains Hospital, St. Agnes
Hospital (White Plains), Blythedale (Valhalla, N. Y.); member Pediat-
fic Section, Westchester County Medical Society; member Maternal

[1273]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

and Child Health Committee, Medical Society of Westchester County,
member Jewish Board of Guardians, Bellevue Hospital Alumni Associa.
tion, New York Postgraduate Hospital Alumni Society.

MEMBER OF: Westchester County Medical Society; American Medical
Association (fellow); American Academy of Pediatrics (fellow),
American Board of Pediatrics (diplomate); White Plains Hospital
Clinical Society; County Tennis Club, Scarsdale.

pusLicaTions: Many scientific (mainly pediatric) articles, American Jour-
nal of Medical Science, American Journal Dis. Children, Journal of
Pediatrics, Journal of the American Medical Association, etc.

I TAKE typewriter in hand with trepidation lest, even though I
submit this sketch at a very late date, I receive no more “Goads,.”
Yet it is hard to put twenty-five years succinctly. One can write
long newsy letters on a vacation if written daily, but if one puts
off writing for a week or two the days will crowd together and
the long, fine letter becomes a limp “Having a wonderful time.
See you soon.’

The early years: At medical school I did an average of at least
ten hours work daily, with the speculation, “If I had worked this
way at College I would have graduated cuz in two years.” There
were internships, residencies, marriage, and the start of practice in
a community already overcrowded with physicians. I would not
dwell on those early years of practice when, if a patient ques-
tioned a dose or diagnosis, I should hasten to suggest that they
find another physician if they had no faith in me! Why do not
medical schools devote considerable time to the economics of
medicine, good office and bookkeeping practices, and above all
to the proper and happy relationships the physician and his
patients can achieve?

The war: I was at Boca Raton (of all places!) Air Field for
a year, one year of helping to establish the Air Forces Rehabilita-
tion Centers, a fascinating concept. Next I was with a Clearing
Company attached to the 9th Army and went to England, France,
Holland, and Germany. Finally I was executive officer of the
113th Evacuation Hospital. We were the medical unit with the
znd Armored Division, and were the first United States Army
troops to enter Berlin. I received the Bronze Star and a hundred
and umpteen points, so eventually went home and out.

More lately: A very busy practice occupies my life for the
most part. I have a younger associate and, with radiotelephones

[ 1274]

separ Tp on ANA AAI RS er I RAT TRIE oer gr

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in our cars, we careen about Westchester ministering to the sick
and well, rich and poor, and trying to keep ahead of an enor-
mous overhead. My hospital and clinic work is demanding and
fascinating. I devote a good deal of time to an institution for
disturbed children, and to an institution for orthopedic cases.
My leisure moments are fully occupied by music, books, garden-
ing, and by a desperate kind of tennis and paddle tennis for, as
I improve each year, I get seriously older each year. Bridge is
my favorite game. We spend a few weeks each summer at Mar-
tha’s Vineyard, and each winter at Sanibel Island, Florida. Our
sons, Hugh and James, are our pride, well-rounded boys, pleas-
ant and intelligent. Both boys are consistently on the High Honor
Roll at Scarsdale High. Naturally I hope they matriculate at
Harvard.

More personally: Two years ago, in a senseless and unforseeable
accident, my son Donnie, who was just seven, was showered with
flaming gasoline and died the next day. I would not say that I
loved him the most, for I love my other two boys with all my
heart, but we are all emotionally freer with our third child.
Many of us have had to learn that we can survive the death of a
parent. The loss of a beloved child is different. The chain of
emotion is primarily downward, from parent to child. I have
recovered with the constant noble help of my wife and many
friends, until it is now a dull ache. Though the vividness of life
is forever on a muted scale, we brood no more and look ahead.

Classmates, we have a very large house with a guest cottage, a
stone’s throw from the Hartsdale station and the Bronx River
Parkway. We live primarily on charcoal steaks, Scotch, bridge,
and good companionship. We are late to bed and our doors have
never known a lock.

GEORGE ANTHONY WELLER

HOME appress: Via Oreste Tommasini 13, Rome, Italy.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chicago Daily News, 400 W. Madison St., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: July 13, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George Joseph Aloysius Wel-
ler, Matilda Bernardine McAleer.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(30).

MarRiED: Katherine E. Deupree, 1932 (divorced 1944); Charlotte Ebener,

[ 1275]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

January, 1948. cuiLp: Ann, 1932 (7, Lt. Raymond Tagge, 1953).
occuPATION: Foreign correspondent, Chicago Daily News Foreign Service
OFFICES HELD: President, Stampa Estera (foreign press club), Rome.
MEMBER OF: Stampa Estera,; Adventurers’ Club.
pusLicaTions: Not to Eat, Not for Love; Clutch and Differential; The

Crack in the Colunm: novels; Singapore is Silent; Bases Overseat: po

litical books; Fontamara (translation, under pseudonym of Michad

Wharf).

ROME ... For seventeen of the years since graduation I have
been a foreign correspondent, living from the curiosity of Amen-
cans about the world, praying that it will not grow less. I took
refuge in newspapering after teaching English and Latin to nich,
asthmatic youths in an Arizona ranch school, after studying play
direction at Max Reinhardt’s school in Vienna and playing ac-
cent roles at his Theatre in der Josefstadt, after writing three
novels and learning the melancholy bookkeeping of the creative
life, after directing a foundation with decentralist ideas and money
provided by classmate Chauncey Stillman, and after “free-
lancing” — a sub-profession for a Don Quixote, not for me.

If it is not immoral to be paid by strangers for slaking one's
own curiosity, the job of foreign correspondent, though restless
and raffish, is probably worth half a lifetime. It is self-education
totally subsidized by disinterested persons, with all the continents
of man, inner and outer, as its province. As free education it
comes pretty close to the ideals of Lowell, Conant, and Pusey.
Yet it has discipline, too. The truth is not inhibited, but if you
really “write as I please,” the public yawns, your employers file
you vertically and eventually fire you. I started by working
three years in Greece for the New York Times at $45 a month
plus $20 a published column, while spending two years on
an experimental novel called Clutch and Differential that made
me a profit of $110. (There is such a thing as meeting too many
interesting people.)

For me nowadays, as for many of 1929 (like John Fox, the per-
plexed caterer to the U.S. Marines in Hawaii), things are be-
ginning to emerge from the Dali pattern. The war came along
like an uncomfortable command car and allowed me to climb
into the back seat. Greece, exquisite and static under the Times
(only two revolutions, 1933 and 1935), became a battleground

[ 1276 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

under the Chicago Daily News. L covered the struggles of the
Grecks against the Italians and Germans, watched the Reichswehr
enter Bulgaria, and was held by the Gestapo in Athens after
witnessing the parachutst-loaded gliders of the Luftwaffe, bound
for Crete, fly over the Parthenon. I saw the fall of southeast
Europe, then of Singapore and southeast Asia, then the recovery
of each in tum, ending up by being captured by the Chinese
communists in Manchuna and by spending five days alone in
Nagasaki before the allies arrived (and having my 30,000-word
description of how Nagasaki died killed by MacArthur's censor-
ship).

The troubles of the world multiply and I go on shamelessly
battening off them, a vulture trailing a long typewriter ribbon.
Fxamples: dunng the last couple of ycars | have walked through
India’s villages with the land-giving successor to Gandhi, Vinoba
Bhave; I have watched Israeli forces raid and burn a village un-
der UN “protection” and carry the kidnapped Arab families into
Israch, I have seen Moussadegh and Hussein Makki take over
the oilwells of southern Iran, I have bumped over the Khyber
Pass into Afghanistan, and then over the Hindu Kush mountains
to bathe in the Oxus on the margin of Sovict Central Asia; I
have ridden horseback co Hunza in the Himalayan Karakorum
range, and watched a revolution in Nepal and another in Kash-
mir arranged to the taste of the anti-imperialist Nehru; I have
watched the fighting in Malaya and Indochina, and the neutral-
ism in Burma and Indonesia. In the last year I have been tossed
out of Saudi Arabia, swum the Bosphorus with Florence Chad-
wick as coach, and done five months at the United Nations.

This is not a life, of course; it is a newsreel. Like any newsreel,
its characters are jerky and disorganized, and the plot, if you
insist on finding one, makes your head ache. One divorce is par
for this course, and one child, a Wellesley Phi Beta Kappa re-
cently married at the understanding hands of classmate Ted
Ferris, is probably better than the cameraman deserves. I am
now married to a newspaper woman, Charlotte Ebener, who also
was captured in Manchuria, but twice (Soviets and Chinese).
We live in a treeless corner of Rome where television aerials,
cursed mandragoras, are beginning to sprout from the rooftops.
My only shame is that I weigh 205 pounds instead of 180, my

[ 1277]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

only pride is being able to do a half gainer from a ten-foot board
without biting it.
At Harvard I could never rise above the Class football and

lacrosse squads, but it seems that I am destined to be a lifetime
athlete: getting up before dawn in one-towel hotels, carrying —

suitcases to windy identical airports, and being lifted, vibrating

assively, into new skies as dawn breaks, seeing strange things
without fully understanding them, composing laconic accounts
of what they may mean, marketing them to trusting people far
away, and finally coming home again, of all places, to Rome.
Yes, Rome, Italy. “At home in Rome.” Gentlemen of the jury,
I ask you to study the defendant against the background of his
environment. Doesn’t that expression “at home in Rome” prove
to you that he is just a crazy mixed-up kid who stumbled into
this thing?

HENRY BARTLETT WELLS

HOME appress: 484 Valley Rd. Plainfield, N. J. (permanent); American
Legation, Helsinki, Finland (present).

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Department of State, Washington, D. C.

BorN: Sept. 4, 1908, Plainfield, N. J. parents: Henry Claflin Wells, Alice
Rushmore.

prepareD AT: Plainfield High School, Plainfield, N. J.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929.

MarniED: Margarita Viesca y Palma, Jan. 15, 1935, Montevideo, Uruguay.
CHILDREN: Robert, Aug. 11, 1938, Alice Stephanie, Dec. 26, 1940; Rich-
ard Philetus, Dec. 11, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Claypoole Wells, ’33, M.B.A., °35.

occupation: American foreign service officer, currently, first secretary,
American Legation, Helsinki.

OFFICES HELD: Foreign service officer, Mexico City, 1932-33, Montevideo,
Uruguay, 1933-37, Managua, Nicaragua, 1937-41, Reykjavik, Iceland,
194t~42, Havana, Cuba, 1943-47, Department of State, Washington,
1948-50, Helsinki, Finland, 1951-53.

PusLications: Considerable anonymous or pseudonymous literary trans-
lation.

I HAVE worked largely in remote regions rather than in world
centers. The life of northern Europe, especially in Iceland and
Finland which I know best, strikes me as exceptionally congenial.

[ 1278 ]

£
£
i

cach ahd
crete Hee SS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In the summer of 1952 my elder son and I travelled in Finnish
Lapland and arctic Norway. The austerity of the region sur-

rised us less than did the urbane and cordial bearing of the in-
habitants. We swam in the Arctic Ocean, which is nice to talk
about afterwards.

My wife and I have some prospect of finding among our chil-
dren a scientist, a painter, and a constructor. These three, with
their mother, frequently cross the North Atlantic by air — some-
thing I have never done yet.

My interests have not been markedly creative, but are essen-
tially interpretative in character. There cross my path many
interesting things into which my education and experience have
given me perhaps exceptional insight, and Iam concerned to mold
and work them just so much that they may be correctly appreci-
ated by others. This is the essence in particular of literary transla-
tion, an activity which has accounted for a good deal of my spare
time over the past ten years or so, but with every passing year the
range of subjects I cannot neglect to follow seems to increase.
To linguistics, wood sculpture, and other pursuits I mentioned
in our Twentieth Anniversary Report I now add the making of
decorative sailing ship models and the collecting of sixteenth-
seventeenth-century European swords. My only exercise is
fencing, in Finland under instruction of Olympic caliber, but I
am really too old for it.

I am not a church member, but am of Christian monotheistic
belief, agreeing in essential matters with the Unitarians and the
Hicksite Friends, I regard with affection a number of other re-
ligious communities whose creeds I do not share. It has been
of interest to note that opinions on religious subjects which I
once entertained in a merely speculative fashion have increas-
ingly tended to consolidate into points of religious faith.

RICHARD WILLIAM WERNER

HOME ApprEss: 1057 Peachtree Battle Ave., N. W., Atlanta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 570 Forrest Rd. N. E. Atlanta, Ga.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1907, Milwaukee, Wis. PaRENTs: Richard Victor Werner,
Eleanore Graf.

PREPARED aT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

[1279]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

marrigD: Siri M. Hokanson, Aug. 22, 1936, Milwaukee, Wis. cHmpazy.
Richard H,, Dec. 31, 1938; William A., June 6, 1942.

occuPaTION: Vice-president, Safway Steel Scaffolds Company.

MEMBER OF: Druid Hills Country Club; Harvard Club of Atlanta.

I SPENT the thirties in Milwaukee perfecting inventions in hy-
draulics, all of which proved commercially worthwhile. I moved
to Atlanta in the latter part of 1939, where my father, brother,
and I started our present business, operating in the construction
industry. The expanding South has kept us extremely busy, and
branch facilities are now maintained at thirteen locations, among
which are Birmingham, Jacksonville, Tampa, Miami, and Savan-
nah. Our operations keep me away from home much of the
time, but I still manage to keep acquainted with my wife, Sin,
and the two boys, Dick and Bill. We all enjoy living in Dixie,
but still spend a part of each summer at our summer home in
northern Wisconsin, which enables us to visit with old friends.
Time has been good to us.

RICHARD GOODMAN WEST

OFFICE ADDRESS: 230 W. qist St., New York 36, N. Y.

BORN: July 23, 1907, Albany, N. Y. parents: Howard Miller West, Edith
Willoughby Goodman.

PREPARED AT: Trinity School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1929.

MaRRIED: Irene Waters, Oct. 21, 1933, New York, N. Y.

occupaTION: Day city editor, New York Herald Tribune.

MY twenty-five years since leaving Harvard have been spent
with one organization where I have been busy with congenial
work whose rewards have been many, although largely in-
tangible. After graduation I joined the staff of the New York
Herald Tribune as a reporter and have been a member of it ever
since as rewrite man, night city editor, and day city editor.
Newspaper work, although rarely as hysterically exciting as
the entertainment media portray it, has its moments for the desk-
bound editor as for the war correspondent. Its emphasis has
changed: when I began, it was called “the newspaper game,”
then it was “the newspaper racket,” and now it is “the news-

[ 1280 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

paper business.” A lot of the shine has rubbed off it, as it has off
most things, but nobody can stop learning about it, if he pos-
Sesses a normal curiosity, because its raw material is the stuff of
the world itself. Trying to keep in touch with the march of
events in every ficld of human activity and feeling that you may
know a little about many things, even if you do not know much
about anything, helps your sense of proportion. It is still a good
racket.

In politics and other human affairs I have tricd to preserve
a basically liberal position, distrustful of labels and rigid  pro-
grams. Most of the ame this is pretty hard to manage. But I
cannot lose my faith in the order of the universe or the ultimate
balance of human nature. The late Ring Lardner wrote once
that Wagner's music is berter than it sounds, ] believe that man
is better than he behaves and that his good will and courage will
survive whatever he can do for himself.

My wife and I have found our principal pleasure exploring
the woods and mountains with a camera and learning something
of the outdoors. Flowers and birds are our favorite photogr aphic
subjects, the flowers stay sull. This is an inadequate summing-up
of twency-five years, but it covers the matter. The time has gone
too fast, but it has been a good time.

PHILIP BLACKBURN WEYMOUTH

Howe apoarss: Marshallron. R. D. ¢ Wilmington, Del.

orice apoarss: Delaware Trust Bldg, Wilmington, Del.

born: Sept. 2¢. 1907, Canaan, Conn. parents: Clarence Andrew Weymouth,
Margaret Sherwin Tyler.

parparep at: Montgomery School, Wynnewood, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLFGE: 1916-1927, 1928-1930. DRCRFR: B.B., 1929(30),

Maran: Martha D. Machold. June 15, 1934, Wynnewood, Pa. criLoren:
Philip Blackburn, Jr. Aug. 28, 1935; Charles M., Feb. 18, 1938, An-
thony E. Feb. 24, 1942.

occupation: Parmer, Weymouth, Smith & Wilcox, insurance brokers.

orrices HELD: Chairman, Office Buildings Division, United Fund Campaign;
president, Delaware Association of Insurance Agents; director, Dela-
ware Curative Workshop.

MemMaeR of: Wilmington Concord Country Club; University Club of Wil-
mington; Harvard Clubs of Philadelphia and New York.

BUSINESSWISE, with the exception of three war years in
[1281 J

ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Washington, my entire time has been spent in the general in.

surance field. I left college after sophomore year, worked on —

year for the Insurance Company of North America in Philade.

phia, and then, after completing my last two college years, r.

turned to that company for three more years. During the latter

period, I travelled extensively for my employer, finally ending
up as manager of their operations in Nebraska, lowa, Wyoming.

Colorado, and New Mexico. In September, 1933, I left tha .

company to start my own insurance brokerage business in asso —

ciation with Richard Haughton, Class of rg00. In 1934, I trans
ferred my home and principal activities to Wilmington, Dele —
ware, and since 1943 have been associated with my present
partners in the business of general and life insurance. We have
been pretty lucky, since World War II, and almost feel tha
we can justify a bit of leisure now and then, even at the risk of
not getting some business that we probably wouldn't have
snagged in any case.

During World War IJ, I was in Washington for some three
years, first as assistant director, Office of Industry Advisory Com-
mittees, War Production Board, later in the navy as assistant
chief of procurement, Office of the Assistant Secretary. The
War Production Board part was interesting and constructive; the
navy part boring, futile, and a relief to leave. Certainly, anyone
who saw the economic waste, justified by the armed forces as
necessary in wartime, couldn’t help feeling disgusted, knowing
full well that similar waste in peacetime was part of the philos
ophy of the military. It was great to get back to business, and
better still to get Eisenhower, with his knowledge of this partict-
lar problem, into the driver’s seat in more recent years.

My family of three boys is pretty grown up now, the oldest
running six-foot-three and 210 pounds on the hoof, and the
others also showing the results of the vitamin age. Number one
is off to Yale, of all places, and just to make the cheese more bind-
ing, numbers two and three threaten to go to Yale and Princeton
respectively. Quite a compliment to their father and his Alma
Mater! Those who presently remain at home, consisting of mv
wife and two younger boys, live in the country pretty simply but
enjoyably, and until another war incident comes along to grab
the kids, we hope to stay pretty much as is.

[ 1282 ]

ceemegt cates BSN AE Bone MIDI ey :
sepa wisi ta BS

“ secpsays, AGL HIE
ete ‘ inch RC ANH MR MONT SANNA RAE SS
a ah POM ONE HE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My travelling has been confined to Bermuda three times,
Florida nearly every winter, New England occasionally, and
Wyoming one summer for a glorious six weeks on a ranch with
the kids, What with kids still growing up, I sometimes wonder
if we shall ever make, or want to make, that grand tour we have
so often planned. In recent years my hobbies have dropped
down to a really rotren game of tennis, very little golf, and mostly
riding a tractor around my place, not farming, but just keeping
the grass and weeds down.

Socially and politically, Fm a straight, conservative, Eisen-
hower Republican, with all sorts of convictions that, despite
many years of New Decal, socialistic philosophy drummed into
our people, we are coming back to our senses. Moreover, I
firmly believe thar from here on out we shall progress in this
country and in world leadership beyond our fondest dreams,
I even see signs that the “something for nothing” ideas sold by
our previous leaders and plaved upon by the rest of the world
are undergoing a change. All in all, I'm feeling pretty hopeful for
the future, despite the Red Menace from abroad and the pink
socialists here, and I even look forward rosily to grandparenthood
one day.

+ ROGER DENISON WHEDON

Bonn: May 15, 1907, New York, N, Y. pasents: Burt Denison Whedon,
Marion Steele.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREZ: A.B. 1929.

piED: Jan. 1, 1931, Darien, Conn.

WHILE at Harvard, Whedon was a member of the staff of the

Lampoon and in his junior year was on the varsity polo squad.

He belonged to the Instrumental Clubs and the Dramatic Club.

After leaving college he trained for a year at the Navy flying

station in Pensacola, Florida, and was qualified as a pilot. After-

wards he was stationed at Northeastern Airport. Shortly before

his death he had resigned from the Navy air service.

[ 1283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

BRAINERD HUNT WHITBECK

HOME ADDRESS: 1150 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Brainerd Hunt Whitbeck,
99, Edith Emily Plummer.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Mary Virginia Ranck, June 14, 1941, Strasburg, Pa. cutvprey:
Brainerd Hunt, Jr., Sept. 2, 1943; John Van Husan, Dec. 21, 1946,
HARVARD BROTHERS: John Fonda Ward Whitbeck, 727; Franklin Plummer

Whitbeck, 735.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president, director, and member of executive committee,
First Boston Corporation, in charge of Municipal Bond Department.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bond Club of New York.

DAVID WHITE

HOME AppRESS: Station 16, Agana, Guam, Marianas Islands.

OFFICE appREss: Industrial Relations Office, Commander Naval Forces
Marianas, Guam, Marianas Islands.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1903, Boston, Mass. Parents: Isaac White, Ida Lipsky.

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, 1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1929(30).

MaRRIED: Robin Joan Reigner, Jan. 30, 1940, Gardiner, Maine, CHILDREN:
Daniel Newton, March 22, 1943; Lisa Carol, May 22, 1946.

occupation: Employee relations officer, civilian personnel, Navy Depart-
ment.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Directors, The Guam News, 1949-50;
president, Adelup Grammar School Parent Teachers Association,
1950-51; institutional representative, Parent Teachers Association, Cub
Scouts, 1951-52; auditor, Parent Teachers Association, 1953-54; secre-
tary, charter member, Coral Reef Golf and Country Club,

THE first few years out of college were spent in social work and
as the depression mounted the need for my services declined. I
next became involved in a worldwide youth movement which
resulted in my going abroad in 1932 and 1935 with two teams of
athletes to compete in the Jewish Olympic Games in Palestine
and make subsequent tours of Europe. A brief interlude in Macy's
New York store ended with my moving to Washington as pri-
vate secretary for William R. Castle, a former under secretary
of state. I left his employ to enter the government and ran the

[ 1284 ]

wun sasiacy an TE ee AR IME MOOT BEET EE A
et cge ase proton HN

pa Beet SMe

é
t
¢
i
8
;
}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gamut from stenographer to administrative officer (1936 to 1945),
then somehow got the notion that the export-import game needed
me. Two years and no shirt later settled that! A few sorties
here and there and I decided that I'd better get into something
I knew some answers in, so early in 1949 the Navy Department
obliged by selecting me for the job I now hold in Guam. As
employee relations officer I am connected with staff and line
operations in programs for discipline, grievances and complaints,
performance ratings, employee group organizations, fair em-
ployment, veterans’ advice, and so on. I am soon to become
director, Industrial Relations Division, Public Works Center,
with programs in safety, training, employment, employee rela-
tions and services.

Life in Guam is very pleasant: year ’round outdoor living, in-
teresting work, just enough friends with similar and dissimilar
tastes; in fact, there is everything here except being able to take
long weekend drives (by Stateside standards). The children
thrive in the climate; schooling is good; and this is our main
concern. In my work, I have occasion to go Stateside, to Hawaii,
and to the Philippines.

On the eve of my fiftieth birthday and heading into our four-
teenth wedding anniversary, my one thought is why didn’t I do
it sooner, so that Lisa (seven) and Danny (ten) would have been
around longer as would have Robin, their mother. But decidedly
it has been better late than never. Danny is in quite a gang — all
Boy Scouts, bike riders, swimmers, and baseball “bugs.” Several
play golf as does Danny. I think some day Danny will be a
pretty fair athlete — if he wants to be. School-wise he shows a
small flair for writing, so who knows, a sports writer? His hobbies
are stamp collecting and model planes. Lisa tries to do every-
thing her brother does plus a few strictly feminine items such as
dolls. To sum up, they are pretty good kids and we expect them
to grow into rather decent citizens.

In my travels, both official and personal, ’'ve been in Europe,
the Middle East, Africa, some of the Pacific Ocean islands, and
the Philippines, before returning to the States to settle down we
expect to visit further in the Orient. Hobbies take in reading,
music (record collecting and high fidelity), and golf — really
not hobbies, just living. I help out in scouting, Parent Teachers

[ 1285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Association, and the other things which come along in a con.
munity. My religion is not organized but personal; my polity —
conviction — the best people for the job without regard to pany.

JOHN GARNETT WHITHAM

HOME ADpREsS: 14 Lockway Rd., Andover, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 77 Franklin St, Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: June 30, 1907, Lawrence, Mass, PARENTS: John Garnett Whitham |

Anna Adeline McDavitt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; LL.B., 1932.

MarRiED: Barbara Heath, April 17, 1948, Andover, Mass. cup: Willa
Lee, Dec. 8, 1951.

OccUPATION: Lawyer: assistant to general counsel, Godfrey L. Cabor, lac.

MEMBER OF: Boston and Massachusetts Bar Associations, Massachusen
Society of Certified Public Accountants (associate); Harvard Club

New York; Union Club of Boston; Appalachian Mountain Club; Phoe.
nician Lodge, AF. & A.M.

DAVID WHITING, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Summer Lane, Framingham, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 842 Park Square Bldg., Boston 16, Mass.

BoRN: June 4, 1905, Wilton, N. H. Parents: David Whiting, Helen Maude
Porritt.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929.
mMarriep: Alice Durell Loveland, Sept. 2, 1929, Chatham, Mass. cHiLprey:

David, 3d, July 21, 1934; Timothy Loveland, May 18, 1937; Durell
Dec. 12, 1939; Sarah, Nov. 25, 1949.
OCCUPATION: Salesman, Thatcher Glass Manufacturing Company, Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Dairy Mixers of New England, 1949-51, Mens
Club, First Parish Church of Framingham, 1952-54; president, Bottlers
Service Club of New England, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Dairy Mixers of New England; Bottlers Service Club of New
England; Stage Harbor Yacht Club.

IF I hadn’t just received a note from Jack Hutchinson saying
“Dave — no biography — no fishing,” I doubt if this would ever
have been written. Needless to say, Jack knows my weakness.
Most of you who knew me in College probably will remember
Alice Loveland. Since I married her in September, 1929, that

[ 1286 ]

dene is A ge ot ha ott rt me ar ag a ey OP a

1 Aiie MSDENRE IDR AE METIS TIRE PE

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

date scems to be a good point at which to begin. I went to work
for the Whiting Milk Company in Charlestown and in February,
1930, Was transferred to the Providence, Rhode Island, division
where I was production manager until 1936. It was there, in
Providence, that David, 3d, was born. Being under the family
umbrella, and with a small but steady pay check, the depression
meant little to me at the time. Elowever, as an indirect result,
the umbrella folded and the family was no longer in the milk
business. Having dealt with, and knowing something of, live
cows I thought that dealing in dead ones might be a good idea
and so I went to work with my father-in-law in the meat busi-
ness in Fancuil Efall Market. This business was sold in 1940 and
I was again at liberty. In the meantime Tim had arrived in 1937
and Durell in 1939.

Because 1 am a staunch Republican, F.D.R. and his gang
thought it would be just the thing to appoint me as their Works
Project Administrator in the N.Y.A. for the State of New Hamp-
shire. This was my only contribution to the war effort, but we
did train and place a great many young people, mostly girls, in
war industry. When V-E Day came, I began to realize that I
belonged in the dairy industry. Having been offered an oppor-
tunity to join the Thatcher Glass Company, I accepted. I have
been with Thatcher ever since and have handled milk bottle sales
for them in all the New England states. My apprenticeship was
served in Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont and then the
company brought me into the Boston area where, in 1945, we
bought and remodclled an old house in Framingham, as duly
reported in the Vicennial Class Report.

In the meantime our boys were growing up and Durell, our
daughter, had reached the age of ten. At this point “our own
granddaughter” arrived in the person of our fourth child, Sarah.
I can assure you that since that time life hasn’t been the same.
For the past four years she has been queen bee and rules the
roost completely.

To look back over the past few years, it seems as if Alice and
I had done nothing, yet everything. David developed into a real
scrappy end on the football team here at Framingham High
and also played goalie on the hockey team for two years. Tim
played a little tackle on the football team in his junior year. He

[ 1287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

picked up the pads that David dropped when he went on to col.
lege and has been full-time goalie this season. I rate him Bay
State All Star next year. This of course brings to mind the
boys’ and Alice’s question as to why I don’t give up my job
and put in full-time duty as coach and critic instead of just tell.
ing them both what to do, in addition to attending practice ses-
sions and games. Of course this is nothing new to a great many
of you, but I am getting a tremendous kick out of having the
boys participate, and do fairly well, in competitive sports.

During all these years we have continued to go to Chatham
on the Cape. All this brings me to about where I began because
Jack Hutchinson is there at Chatham too and, as he is the skipper
of the Green Owl, I don’t know what Id do if I ever saw him
start for the back of the beach without me.

_ JOHN KIMBALL WHITING, JR.

HOME ApDpRESS: Fox Howe Farm, Wilton, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: David Whiting & Sons, Inc., Wilton, N. H.

BORN: Jan, 30, 1906, Brookline, Mass, PAreNTs: John Kimball Whiting,
Mildred Peay.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE! A.B. 1929.

MARRIED: Margaret Wentworth, June 10, 1930, Milton, Mass, CHILDREN:
John Kimball, 3d, April 6, 1931; Margaret LeMoyne, Oct. 5, 1933.

HARVARD SON: John Kimball Whiting, 3d, ’53.

occuPaTION: General manager, treasurer, David Whiting & Sons.

OFFICES HELD: Clerk of corporation, Whiting Milk Company, Boston, 1934-
38; business analyst, Office of Price Administration, Washington, D. C,
1942; captain, major, Ordnance Department, U. S. Army, 1942-45;
director, treasurer, general manager, D. Whiting & Sons, since 1946;
member Budget Committee, Town of Wilton, since 1946; director,

’ Wilton National Bank, since 1951, Souhegan Mills, Inc., Wilton, since
1947, American Forest Products Industries, Inc, Committee for New
Hampshire, since 1953; director, president, Wilton Pressed Metals,
Inc., since 1953; director, vice-president, Manchester Chapter, Society
for Advancement of Management, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Wilton Center Tennis Club; Society
for the Advancement of Management, Society for the Protection of
New Hampshire Forests, American Legion.

THE fall of 1929 found me again in Cambridge — this time at
the Busy School. In June of 1930, Margaret (Rita) Wentworth

[ 1288 ]

sete Ree tea eas a a TS
sectiiptaene teed hated AEA EMM QUT RE
nee eget inne ret een err me Se "

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and I walked arm in arm out of the little white church in Milton,
Massachusetts, into an unsuspecting world. Kim— John K.
Whiting, 3d—and Peggy — Margaret LeMoyne Whiting —
now twenty-two and twenty respectively, soon arrived to com-
plete our family, Kim graduated with the Class of 753 and cur-
rently is serving as a Navy ensign. Peggy is now a junior at
Radcliffe. Surprisingly enough, we feel they both turned out
well and we hope you will see them at the Reunion.

The years 1930 to 1938 I was employed by Whiting Milk Com-
pany of Boston. When my family sold the business to other in-
terests, I resigned to continue the practice of nepotism with
David Whiting and Sons, Inc., of Wilton, New Hampshire,
where I have remained except for the period 1942 to 1945 when
I served Uncle Sam — first as business analyst in O.P.A.’s Wash-
ington office, Dairy Products Division, and later as major, Ord-
nance Department at Seneca Ordnance Depot, New York, and
then at Black Hills Ordnance Depot, South Dakota. I should have
received the D.S.C. for latter service but somehow was passed
over.

My job is general manager of ‘the David Whiting and Sons,
Inc., a box shook and nailed wooden box manufacturer, using
native white pine as raw material. The paper and plywood boys
regard our industry as the vanishing Indian, but to date no largess
has been showered upon us by the government. This spring Bill
DeCamp, a 1930 M.I.T.-er, and I incorporated under the name of
Wilton Pressed Metals to operate a stamping and sheet metal
fabrication shop. Bill is general manager and I am a silent
partner.

Business could be better but on the other hand it could be
much worse. We live in Wilton and enjoy a delightful rural ex-
istence with occasional excursions into the fleshpots of urban life.
We are usually at home with plenty of spare beds and a hind
quarter in the deep freeze and the latch string is always out. For
recreation we can offer seasonally, tennis, swimming, climbing
(very moderate), skiing, hunting, and the practice of horticulrure
and silvi-culture. At last I voted for a winner!

[ 1289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

JOHN WHITMAN

HOME ApprEss: West Simsbury, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Lewis St., Hartford, Conn. :

BORN: Sept. 10, 1908, Springfield, Mass. PARENTS: Henry George Whitman .
LL.B., 97, Martha Elizabeth Pratt.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, 1930-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(31). :

MARRIED: Jean Butler, May 29, 1937, Buffalo, N. Y.; Phyllis Early, June 1,
1942, Pittsburgh, Pa. ;

OCCUPATION: Assistant district manager, Sales Department, casualty insurance,
American Mutual Liability Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut.

IN 1931 I moved to Buffalo, New York, where in 1936 I started
working in the Sales Department of American Mutual Liability
Insurance Company. In 1943 I enlisted in the Army and was
comparatively fortunate to get into the 114th S.R.I. Company
(Radio Intercept) as a traffic analyst. We went from England
to Normandy and then to Luxembourg, Belgium, and Germany,
ending up on the Czech border.

Upon my return to Buffalo in 1946 I was transferred to our
Boston office. We bought a really old Cape Cod house in Perm
broke, Massachusetts. Starting with electricity as the only sign |
of modern living, we went to work. Came 1950 with the last |
essential brushful of paint applied and last nail driven, and also |
with a transfer to the Hartford, Connecticut, office.

This time we started with a genuine old Colonial (so genuine
it didn’t even have the aforementioned luxury of electricity).
One of my wife’s comments when she saw it was that I had
bought it primarily for our dogs because it included 150 acres
of meadow and woods where they could roam. Fortunately, we
both love the country and especially Barkhamsted, Connecticut.
We find restoring old houses a fascinating and rewarding hobby.
On a cold winter’s night we sit in front of a stone fireplace with
half a dozen four-foot logs blazing (two dogs and four cats
draped around) and wonder how anyone | can be satisfied with
less.

sagt Fea Ge SN NE

eae

i
i
t
k

[ 1290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD WHITMORE, JR.

HOME appress: 54 Carver Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % John P. Chase, Inc. 75 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BorN: May 9, 1905, Newton Highlands, Mass. parents: Howard Whit-
more, ‘95, Helen W. Hinkley.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

maariep: Henrietta Marr, June 18, 1937, Southboro, Mass. CHILDREN: How-
ard, 3d, May 3, 1938; Nancy Marr, Aug. 28, rggr.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel, account manager, John P. Chase, Inc.;
representative, Massachusetts House of Representatives, sth Middlesex
District, mayor, City of Newton.

orrices HELD: Alderman-at-large, City of Newton, 1940-42; representa-
tive, since 1947, chairman, House Committee on Ways and Means,
Commission on the Structure of the State Government, Massachu-
setts Legislature; mayor, Newton, Mass.; member, recreation com-
mission, City of Newton, since 1948; former assistant treasurer, Per-
kins Institution and Massachusetts School for the Blind; president,
Home for Aged Men, Boston; trustee, All-Newton Music School,
Newton Center Savings Bank; vice-chairman, Newton Chapter, Ameri-
can Red Cross.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; American Legion, Post 48, Massachu-
setts Republican Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago, like several classmates, I set sail with
great optimism for New York and a financial career. Completing
a short course of training at the Guaranty Company of New
York, I returned to Boston and the turbulent atmosphere of fi-
nancial despair. Selling bonds was mighty rough and unprofit-
able. I soon moved over to the investment counsel field and be-
came associated with my friend and baseball team-mate from the
Class of ’28, John P. Chase, who had only shortly before estab-
lished his own company. One could never find a finer boss —I
am still associated with him, although I shall take a leave of ab-
sence commencing January 1, 1954.

Not until 1937 did she come along — but very much sooner
thereafter came the namesake. At fifteen years of age he is now
six feet, four inches tall. The best mistake of my life resulted
in our young daughter, now something under two and a half
years old.

I became involved in politics briefly prior to the war, serving
as an alderman in the City of Newton. In June, 1942, I received

[1291 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

a commission in the Air Force and my Army career was com.

posed for the most part of training assignments. I served at sey. -

eral camps, but mostly at officer training fields in Florida anj

Texas. Shortly before discharge in 1945 I served under Colong |

Bill Faversham, a fine officer and a classmate. Louisville, Ken.
tucky, adopted him, I understand.

After the war I became more seriously involved in politic,

being elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives in
1946 and managing somehow to retain my seat ever since. Lag
year I really had to work at it, being chairman of the Hous
Committee on Ways and Means. In that position I found one has
to think, move, and talk pretty fast — activities which never had
come too naturally. However, it was a grand experience and if
one enjoys politics as I do, it has been very enjoyable. In No
vember I was elected mayor of Newton, Massachusetts, and shall
assume the office on January 1, 1954. This position will undoubt-
edly be challenging, have its pleasant as well as trying moments,
but what job hasn’t. Suffice it to say in regard to my feeling about
politics, that I am certain that sound, honest, and fair dealings
are the best political techniques — but they will never get you
rich. Politics offers a fellow the best opportunity for real public
service, and is enjoyable because it provides competition, an in-
sight into human problems, and an opportunity to show init-
ative and imagination.

My life has been generally like that of any average fellow.
How much longer it will last, I don’t know, but I have thoroughly
enjoyed it, especially in the years when Harvard has had a re-
spectable football team and not too many Commies.

WILLIAM DAVIE WHITMORE, III

HOME AppRESS: 276 Edge Hill Rd., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BoRN: April 25, 1906, Santa Barbara, Calif. parents: William Davie Whit-
more, Jr., Law School, 1896-99, Maude Virginia Thompson.

PREPARED AT: Belmont School, Belmont, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1928. DEGREE: LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.).

Marriep: Barbara Elizabeth Bray, Jan. 15, 1938, Rochester, N. H. cHILpREN:
Anne Stuart, Aug. 5, 1941; Elizabeth, Nov. 15, 1945; Margaret, Jan. 25,
1949; Susan, Feb. 25, 1951.

[ 1292 ]

SORE IRL LEONE GOT IOLA LTE SOLE: IT A ep prensa e Be nies fo

Pee DigAP

ay Oo TH YP ROO EE RENEE ROU INA Op IE AR

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Lawyer.

MeEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity.
AFTER short hitches with a Boston insurance company and a
New York advertising agency, in 1932 1 became associated with
my good friend, William D. Morton, Jr., ’27, in his law office,
and have been with him most of the time since then. At first I
had some aversion to the law and regarded my proximity to it
as unfortunate but temporary. However, as time passed, my
interest grew until at last I entered law school and in due course
was admitted to practice. Besides Bill Morton, another associate
of mine is David R. Ovans, ’28, and our good Classmate, George
Barner, was with us for quite a period of time.

In 1928 I gained a wife and lost a moustache — removal of the
latter being a condition precedent to the girl saying “yes.” We
have four lively and healthy daughters who, with their lovable
little friends, turn our house into a reasonable replica of one of
the larger railroad stations or lunatic asylums. Of course, my
wife and I take an active interest in the P.T.A. and the local Girl
Scout group.

My political persuasion is Republican, and since three of my
office associates — Messrs. Morton, Thomas E. Key, and J. Rob-
ert Ayers — are Representatives in the Massachusetts Great and
General Court, I feel that I can best serve the cause by valiantly
cheering them on in their daily jousts with the Democrats. I
was happy that Mr. Eisenhower was elected, and believe that
his presidential stature and sagacity have steadily increased.

Hobbies are few and modest: a desultory attempt at a back-
yard garden, annually won by the weeds; a considerable amount
of reading, generally along legal lines, with an occasional “who-
dunit” for variety; helping the youngsters with their homework
(can that be a hobby?). My athletic activities are mostly of
the spectator sort, and even these have been sharply curtailed
when my ever-loving Braves moved to Milwaukee. I do go out
and jeer the Red Sox a few times each season, and look forward
to the happy day when President Pusey scores the winning
touchdown against Yale on a long pass from Dr. Bart Quiglev.

Classmate most often seen is C. Ed Brown, the merry sheet
metal merchant, and we and our families get together frequently.
It is always pleasant to meet Dr. Brad Cannon ‘annually at Com-

[ 1293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Lb

mencement time, and to have had a recent happy reunion with
Dr. Charlie Ferguson — not seen for too many moons. I mis ©

seeing Dr. Bud Martin, who in College was the titular head of
a slightly heretical hierarchy, of which Jim Francis and myself,
among others, were humble members. For Bud’s sake, I hope
the White Sox make it this year. Oh, and of course good of
Horace Smith turns up occasionally.

The last twenty-five years, with their share of disappointments
and pleasant surprises, have not been too unhappy, and I hope
our classmates appear at the Reunion with no greater scars or
more grey hairs than your obed. servt.

ALFRED GIBSON WHITNEY
HOME ADDREsS: 32 Alexander St., Manchester, Conn.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 855 Asylum Ave., Hartford, Conn.

BorN; April 8, 1908, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Sumner Whitney,
Alice Wright Gibson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930, DEGREES: A.B., 1929(30)3 ED.M., 1941.

mMarrieD: Margaret Harriet Lewis, July 26, 1930, Manchester, Conn. ci-
DREN: Robert Lewis, March 15, 1931 (7. Susan Stewart Evans, June
21, 1952); Elizabeth Ann, Sept. 12, 1934; Janet Alice, Oct. 19, 1939.
GRANDCHILD; Steven Evans Whitney, Dec. 29, 1953.

occupation: Research associate, Life Insurance Agency Management Asso-
ciation.

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association; Psychometric Society; Eco-

nometric Society; Institute of Mathematical Statistics; American Mar-
keting Association.

PuBLIcaTions: Articles on marketing of life insurance in professional and
trade journals.

CONCENTRATION in the field of transportation in the Eco-
nomics Department at Harvard prepared me for a job with the
Boston & Maine Railroad. The year 1930 was such a poor year for
the railroads of the country that I was forced to look elsewhere
for employment and I spent the next eleven years teaching
mathematics and coaching at high schools in the vicinity of Bos-
ton. In the meantime I did graduate study in the field of tests and
measurement at the School of Education. In 1942 we moved to
Fort Worth, Texas, and lived there while I served as a statistician
in the Classification Testing Program of the Army Air Forces.

[ 1294 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Before the end of the war, I transferred to the Department
of State and became an economic analyst at the United States
Embassy in Canberra, Australia, and then spent two years in the
Division of Foreign Service Personnel in Washington. When
my present job was offered, I gladly accepted the opportunity
to return and live again in New England. I am research associate
in charge of statistics and market research for a trade association
serving a membership of 240 life insurance companies.

During many years my chief hobby was playing semi-pro
baseball wherever I happened to be living. In recent years I
have given up baseball for tennis and have had the pleasure of
playing in several tournaments with my son as a partner. He
graduated from Andover and Oberlin College and has his Master’s
degree in actuarial mathematics from the University of Michigan.
He is now living in New York and working in the Actuarial De-
partment of the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York.
My daughter Betty is in her second year at Radcliffe and Janet is
in her first year of high school. I have one grandson.

GEORGE KIRKPATRICK WHITNEY

HOME appress: Musketaquid Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 Berkeley St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Nov, 9, 1907, Concord, Mass. Parents: Charles Hayden Whitey,
Caroline Patrick.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931,

MaraieD: Donita H. Stahl, April 24, 1937, New York, N. Y¥. (divorced,
1951); Una Rogers King, 1951, West Hartford, Conn. cHILpREN: Rob-
ert Hayden, Nov, 22, 1937; Sarah Minot, March 31, 1940; Faith, May 20,
1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Hayden Whitney, Jr. '27 (deceased); Otis
Minot Whitney, 30, LL.B., 733.

OcCUPATION: Trustee, Massachusetts Investors Trust, investment company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Business School Club of Connecticut,
1938-39, Concord Taxpayers’ Association, 1950-51; governor, Concord
(Mass.) Country Club, 1949-50; present member board, Massachusetts
Investors Growth Stock Fund, Inc., Brooks School of Concord, Con-
cord Taxpayers’ Association, Speakers’ Club; present member board,
member Finance Committee, Transportation Association of America;
present member Finance Committee, Concord Friendly Aid Society.

MEMBER OF: Union Club of Boston; Harvard Clubs of New York and

[ 1295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Concord; Concord Country Club; Ekwanok Country Club; Varsity
Club; Bostonian Society; Concord Antiquarian Society; Americag
Institute of Management.
PUBLICATIONS: Speeches reproduced in The Analysts’ Journal, Babson In.
stitute Alunmi Bulletin.

FOLLOWING graduation at the Harvard Business School, hav-
ing inadvertently become involved in the trust imvestment bus-
ness in Chicago (it will be recalled that any job was a good job
in 1931), 1 was encouraged to make a career in investment work
by the fact that at the end of the year when there was a generd
ten per cent reduction in salaries, I was presented with only a
five per cent one — down to $23.75 a week, as I remember it
At one point later on, in Hartford, I almost became a commer-
cial banker but was saved from that fate by the opportunity ~
about eleven years ago — of a position on the investment staff of
Massachusetts Investors Trust (the oldest and still the largest—
at this writing — open-end investment company).

In my humble opinion the field of the open-end investment
company is fascinating in all its aspects. This type of investment
institution has taken its proper place in the American economy
as a “tried and true” vehicle for the investor — uninformed or
otherwise — who wishes a diversified and managed participation
in the equities of American industry and commerce, alongside
the savings and loan associations and savings banks which repre-
sent the traditional medium for those desiring a diversified invest-
ment in fixed-income securities.

As the worthy older executives of M.I.T. have retired over
the past few years, the responsibilities of my associates and me
have increased (I have even to make speeches, having inflicted
myself on people as far away as San Francisco), but, as I have
indicated, it is most interesting and constructive work and effort
the taking care of the invested funds of well over 100,000 indi-
viduals and institutions. And despite all this, my golf score in the
more recent past has become more respectable (I hope the Report
Chairman will not censor this statement). I have a most wonder-
ful wife and wonderful children — the oldest at Milton (next
June, only a year away from college) — for what more can one
ask? I live in my boyhood home — recently renovated at a cost
thanks to labor inflation, in excess of its original cost.

[ 1296 ]

ba

RR FAO PRAT TEI NENG OARS LOSE ONE PYRENEES ERIE SER: EP TEMG EKA HORE MOF INEM M AEE A ARENT i MEE loos

SR FOREN NSM aS ORR AA I Le aE

meee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The instructions state that something should be said about
politics, religion, and the like. I believe property rights are human
rights. I believe the American enterprise-profit system has made
this country great, and that the preservation and strengthening
of this system is the only hope of the world. I am best classified
as a Taft Republican, although in 1932 I thought the country —
for psychological reasons only —needed a change and would
have voted Democratic, except for the nominee selected by that
party, in whom I did not have confidence or trust. As to reli-
gion, I believe in God and am an Episcopalian, although not too
faithful a one, especially during the golf season.

The fall is my favorite time of year. Therefore, I approach the
aurumn of life with anticipation, despite Democrats, Socialists,
Communists, and alphabetical bombs of one sort or another.

PAUL CREIGHTON WHITNEY

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Townsend Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: 730 Main St., Cambridge, Mass.

Born: April 9, 1909, Cambridge 39, Mass, parents: Stephen Henry Whitney,
Florenia May Creighton.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarnigD: Ruth Ellsworth Gayton, June 20, 1936, Watertown, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: Joel Gayton, Oct. 13, 1937; Paula Ruth, Nov. 16, 1939; Brenda
May, Sept. 6, 1942.

occupation: Production control manager, Polaroid Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Belmont Town Meeting, 1933-54; treasurer, Belmont

. Salvage Committee, 1943-44; Master, Belmont Lodge, AF. & A.M., 1945;
president, Greater Boston Industrial Hockey League, 1945; District
Deputy Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, AF. & A.M.
1948-49; member, Belmont Playground or Recreation Commission, 1950-
$4; chairman, Belmont Red Cross Drive, 1951; president, Elementary
PTA, 1948, Junior High School PTA, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Belmont; Belmont Badminton Club; Belmont
Lodge, A-F. & A.M.

A CONVENTIONAL New Englander is perhaps a broad de-
scription of how I probably appear to my friends. The fact that
I was born in Cambridge, schooled in Cambridge, and am now
working in Cambridge, ties me closely to New England. Typ
cally, I live in a Boston suburb and have a summer home in Maine

[ 1297 ]

»~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

(which is preferable to the Cape). My wife is a local girl and
our family of three shows all the symptoms of New England,
loving boats, the salt water, the smell of rotting sea weed or of a
fishing smack. We can’t imagine living in a place where the
roaring waves and splashing spray are inaccessible.

From a business standpoint, my early years were spent in
the shadow of old Yankee conservatism and “stuffed-shirt” em.
ployer-employee relationship. It is refreshing to see many new
companies in our area taking on the progressive and understand-
ing philosophies of business that prevail elsewhere in our coun-
try. In our Vicennial Report I outlined my change in 1943 to
Polaroid Corporation (Edwin H. Land, ’30, president) and the
bright future that appeared to be ahead for that company. The
past year brought four times the sales volume of 1948 and in ny
opinion this is only the beginning. In the years to come many
new developments and products will surely come from the fer-
tile brain of our chief executive.

Like many parents we wish we didn’t have as $ many commv-
nity and church activities so that we could have time to grow;
up with our family. TV is a blessing in disguise for there are |
many nights that we stay home together and watch certam
shows. However, I have no sympathy for those who shirk ther -
community responsibilities and consequently, to practise wha _
I preach, I have done some political campaigning, have been ac-
tive in Cub Scouts and PTA, ran DeMolay athletic programs,
and have almost continuously participated in some phase of the

religious education program of my church. Masonry has claimed
a large share of my leisure time and I suppose my two greatest
thrills were to be Master of my Lodge and then to be appointed i
a District Deputy Grand Master by our Massachusetts Grand i
Lodge. :
Current signs of the times indicate that there is a swing te |
wards the spiritual life, the emphasis on the family, and the
importance of the individual. I hope this swing is real becau® :
I have felt a great concern over the lack of understanding by .
youth and our average citizen of the difference between right
and wrong, of the practice of the Golden Rule. Few among 4 —
are ready to stand to be counted or to offer a protesting voice
when we observe injustices and wrong-doing. It’s easier to

[ 1298 ]

SB PRM EL Ra WT To Lee apes ee
. POT be tetera Le came

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

back and say nothing. I hope and pray that the years ahead hold
for all of us a fuller spiritual life, a life full of concern for those
basic principles of moral conduct which have made the Ameri-
can way of life outstanding in the world.

+ ROBERT MURRAY WHITTEMORE

BORN: Sept. 25, 1907, East Orange, N. J. PARENTS: Frank Bruce Whittemore,
‘96, Grace Isabel Thompson.

prepareD AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929, DEGREE! A.B., 1920.

marariep: Alice Ives. CHILDREN: Constance Ives; Susan.

piep: Nov. 23, 1937, Boston, Mass.

WHITTEMORE was active in the Instrumental Clubs while in
college and in his senior year served as leader of the Banjo Club.
From the time of his graduation until his death, he was associated
with Kidder, Peabody & Company, investment bankers, in Boston.

KENNETH FRANCIS WICKS

HOME ADDRESS: 1205 Sixth Ave., New Hyde Park, N. Y.

oFFice Appress: 4 Irving Pl., New York, N. Y.

Born: March 22, 1907, Pawtucket, R. I. parents: Asaph Swift Island Wicks,
‘go, Grace Lillian Conant.

PREPARED at: Pawtucket High School, Pawtucket, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1930. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG. 1930.

MaRRiED: Marjorie A. Page, April 16, 1932, Watertown, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carol Frances, March 31, 1935; David Andrew, March 24, 1939.

occupATION: Mechanical engineer, Consolidated Edison Company.

MEMBER OF: New York State Society of Professional Engineers; Nassau
County Council, Boy Scouts of America.

WELL, the fellow that hired me, right there at school, Mr. J. C
Arnell of Consolidated Edison, can still tell me my father’s name
and class. I haven’t left the rut since, but have grown with the
power industry. The year 1932 saw my marriage in Watertown
to the girl that took up most of my spare time in Cambridge for
a couple of years. This event naturally was followed in due
time by daughter Carol who is now studying commercial art at

[ 1299 ]

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Long Island Agricultural and Technical Institute at Farming.
dale, and by son David, well along at Sewanhaka High School,

My work with the Edison Company has gradually progressed
from reading and repairing instruments to the control from an
efficiency angle of what soon will be one of the largest of our
power plants with each new addition incorporating new ideas,
This is the East River Power Plant, of which, as assistant division
engineer, I am in charge. I consider myself very lucky in stan.
ing when I did with the background gained at Harvard. Ad-
vances in knowledge, design, and operation of steam-driven
power generating equipment have been rapid since then. I feel
that I have kept pretty well abreast of them and doubt tha
atomic power when it arrives will cause much real excitement.

I moved from apartments to three successive rented houses,
till a returned G.I. in 1946 put me out and forced me to build
the sixth house on a block now filled with fifteen. I got into the
Scouts with my son in 1948 and he promptly left when I took |
over as scoutmaster in 1950. Considering it a civic duty, I car |
ried on but am now rather frantically searching for a way out
short of death or moving to Siberia. i

Despite being the son of an Episcopal minister, I began attend-
ing Christian Science churches in 1946 and have to date found
science to answer all my needs. The freedom it demands and
gives from smoking and drinking as well as peace of mind, hv-
mility, and love make me fully believe the atom bomb, hydro
gen bomb, and whatever is next will have as little final effect a
did the fiery furnace on Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.

THOMAS ENGENES WIDEROE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Route 1, Box 1940, Golf Road, Des Plaines, Il. *

BorN: March 21, 1901, Chicago, Ill. parents: ‘Simon Kildahl Wideroe +
Engenes Ingeborg.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927, 1932-1933.

MarRiED: Zula M. Zeigler, Dec. 3, 1928, Galesburg, Ill. camp: Ann M,, 1938

OCCUPATION: Publishing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files,

[ 1300 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KENNETH WELLS WILCOX

HOME ADprREsS: 364 S. Fourth St., Fulton, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: §9 S. First St., Fulton, N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 16, 1906, Fulton, N. Y. parents: Charles David Wilcox, Gertrude
K. Wells.

PREPARED AT: Fulton High School, Fulton, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: S.B. magna cum laude, 1929.

marriep: Alainie Margaret Mitchell, Nov. 8, 1941, Fulton, N. Y.

occupation: General insurance agent, Wilcox Insurance Agency.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Hiram Lodge No. 144, Free and Accepted Masons,
Fulton, 1938; president, Fulton Kiwanis Club, 1947.

MEMBER OF: Hiram Lodge No. 144, F. & A.M.

THE year 1929-1930 was spent at Harvard Business School.
From July, 1930, until March, 1939, 1 was employed in various
capacities at the Sealright Company, Inc., here in Fulton. These
people were, at the time, the largest manufacturers of paper milk
bottle caps in existence. They were also well up toward the top
in the sanitary milk closure and paper ice cream container field.
The experience gained there was varied and valuable, covering
just about the whole usual routine from accounting and statistics
to office sales work.

For the remainder of the year 1939 I was associated with the
County of Oswego, New York, in connection with the purchase
of insurance for the county and in the processing of claims filed
against the county under the Workmen’s Compensation Law of
New York State.

Since January, 1940, I have been a partner in the Wilcox In-
surance Agency here in Fulton, performing the functions usual
to this vocation. My father and I were together in this venture
until his death in October of 1950. Since that time I have been
the only active member of the partnership.

About the only interruption in the normal course of the events
outlined above occurred during the war. I served with the Army
Signal Corps Air Warning Service from January, 1943, unul
October, 1945. Most of the time here in the States was put in
at Drew Field, Tampa, Florida. Early in 1944, we moved to
Hawaii and later to Saipan, where I was connected with the
Headquarters Company of the s99th Signal Air Warning Bat-
talion, which served as the air warning unit for the Marianas.

[ 1301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

There is not much more to report, except what is to be expected
— that I am a little on the gray side, considerably heavier, and
much shorter of breath than I was twenty-five years ago. There
are no noticeable signs of senility yet — at least, not to me. Let's
hope that such will remain the case until the Fiftieth Anniversary.

+ WILLIAM HAMLIN WILDER, JR.

BORN: June 1, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: William Hamlin Wilder, Carol
Rothschild.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

pieD: Sept. 25, 1931, near Towagani, Ont., Canada.

AFTER Wilder received an A.B. he taught for a year at Loomis
Institute in Windsor, Connecticut. He then entered the Univer-
sity of Chicago Medical School where he was enrolled at the
time of his death.

JAMES OTIS WILDES

MAILING AppREss: U.S.S. Surfbird (A.M.383), % F. P, O., San Francisco,

Calif.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1908, Roxbury, Mass. PARENTS: Llewellyn Wildes, Ruth Curts
Tibbetts.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1025-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MarRieD: Edith F, Anderson, Aug. 4, 1930, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Caroline Ruth, June 6, 1931; James Otis, Jr., June 19, 1933; Susan Ellyn,
Nov. 1, 1937.

OccUPATION: Navy.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’ s files.

JOHN } NICHOLAS WILHELM

HOME appress: 15 Rugby Rd., Mattapan 26, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Price, Waterhouse & Co., 75 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Oct, 2, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Wilhelm, Annie E. Mayet.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

MARRIED: Marguerite E. Bradley, September, 1944, Boston, Mass.
OCCUPATION: Certified public accountant.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants.

[ 1302 ]

-

POE Ne AIR ae URAL AP el lL cape vat vat
Te A REA NP ETRE EIA RC ENE AEN OSA ERY ECON A OBS IMENTS ERP ORIGIN ae Ne Mg Sette hans

Se at ere en Spin ae gwereretamnenwen

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT ORMOND WILKINSON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 106 Robins Rd., New Rochelle, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 17, 1905, Santiago, Cuba. parents: Samuel Irving Wilkinson,
Ray Ormond Fox,

PREPARED AT: New York Military Academy, Cornwall, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; M.B.A. (New York Univ.),
1946.

marriED: B. Louise Milne, Feb. 17, 1934, New Rochelle, N. Y.

occupation: Certified public accountant.

OFFICES HELD: Member Committee on Petroleum Industry Accounting,
New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants: New York State Society
of Certified Public Accountants.

WARREN ARTHUR WILKINSON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Park Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 28, 1907, Bethany, Ill, parents: Warren Alvin Wilkinson, Ida
Scott.

PREPARED AT: Bethany Township High School, Bethany, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1929. DEGREE: 8.B, cum laude, 19209.

occuPpaTIon: Self-employed.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; Scarsdale Golf Club;
Farmington Country Club; Metropolitan Controlling Association.

SINCE graduation I have spent one year in a bank, seventeen
years in retail merchandising, four years on active duty in the
Navy (lieutenant commander, U.S, Naval Reserve, when re-
turned to civilian status), and two years self-employed.

FREDERIC BERTRAM WILLIAMS, JR.

HOME ADpRESS; 22 Redington Rd., Needham gz, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 675 South St., Roslindale, Mass.

BORN: June 27, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frederic Bertram Williams,
Dorothy Foster.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).

marriep: Ethel L. Prescott, June 28, 1933, Boston, Mass. cHitpreN: Edward
Prescott, May 9, 1934; Dorothy Foster, July 9, 1936.

HARVARD SON: Edward Prescott Williams, ’56.

[ 1303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

occupation: President and treasurer, F. B. Williams, Jr., Inc., wholesaler

of eggs.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director, Roslindale Codperative Bank, since
1942; president, Putterham Civic Association, 1948-49, Roslindale.
West Roxbury Kiwanis Club, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Four Masonic organizations, Aleppo Temple.

IT may be remembered that in our freshman year our Class broke
with tradition and showered the seniors with eggs instead of
money on the steps of Widener. From then on eggs were a re-
curring feature in my life. They stopped the show on the open-
ing night of the University Theatre in our sophomore year and
were an inspiration for the name of my group, “A Dozen Good
Eggs,” when we applied for rooms in our senior year. The
egg business I started in my sophomore year grew into a full-
time retail-wholesale business after graduation. The retail end
had to be discontinued when World War II started, due to the
scarcity of help. Uncle Sam classified me in the group of those
necessary for the production and distribution of food, so my
contribution to the war effort was an unglamorous one on the
home front. Those were days of hard labor and long hours
topped off with air raid courses in Brookline, where Sam Bums
and I were honor students. In 1940 I was in the wholesale gro-
cery business in addition to eggs and found my popularity reach-
ing phenomenal heights with coffee and butter to distribute. |
hope we never see another ration stamp! After the war I gave
up the wholesale grocery business because the independent gro-
cers were losing ground to the chain super markets. Since then
my wholesale egg business has grown and I now sell to most of
the colleges in Greater Boston and to many hotels and restau-
rants as well as to grocery stores.

In 1949 I sold my home in Chestnut Hill and had the once-in-a-
lifetime (I hope) experience of having a house built. After much
deliberation we chose Needham for its location and are much
pleased with our house and the town. My golf game has suf-
fered due to a constant struggle to persuade grass to grow under
oak trees.

My wife has her Twenty-fifth Reunion at Mt. Holyoke this
June. I have been working on the idea that husbands should be
included but with little success. My son, Ted, a sophomore at

[ 1304 ]

deg rte ewe TER
dovtcy ee me EE gE ae
get a nana eT pe Te BE TS

sextape pantie pT MMEUR I IMEI a SENET a" ae

ae Peete TORTS

gehayet cent fee pea Bae OOO
ace aE TREN ee See TE BEI! fet Nas eta TE et

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard, played on the winning Winthrop House football team
at Yale this year. He is secretary of the Harvard Flying Club and
has his private pilot’s license. My daughter keeps the house and
telephone humming with her social activities and is looking for-
ward to entering college next year.

Shortly after graduation I took a trip to Europe and in subse-
quent years have travelled to Yellowstone Park, Seattle, Van-
couver, Lake Louise, Bermuda, North Carolina, and the Middle
West, travels which serve to convince me that New England is
the best place for a permanent home. In politics I am a Repub-
lican and, as an expert on eggs, have a low opinion of the “egg
heads” so prominent in the last election. I have followed the
Harvard football teams continuously in their ups and downs
since 1929. When the football season is over, a good bridge game

is my favorite social activity.

ROBERT OSGOOD WILLIAMS

HOME AppREsS: Easy Street, East Falmouth, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Falmouth Trading Post, East Main Street, Falmouth, Mass.

BorN: June 1, 1906, Newton, Mass. parents: Arthur Shepard Williams,
Carrie Almira Fisher.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

mMarkieD: Dorothy Justice Axford, April 14, 1951, Philadelphia, Pa.

HARVARD BROTHER: Shepard Fisher Williams, °17.

occuPATION: Owner, Falmouth Trading Post.

NOW hear this (if you care to do so). I went to Harvard Busi-
ness School, foolishly specialized in accounting, and, on graduat-
ing in 1931, took a job in public accounting in Boston. I be-
came a Certified Public Accountant (Massachusetts) in 1934. By
1937 I was thoroughly bored by working on ancient history so
went to Buffalo with National Gypsum Company. I was doing
fairly well as assistant secretary there when, after December 7,
1941, I tried to get in the FBI. Before any action was taken the
U.S. Navy took me in as a lieutenant. I had the once-over quickly
at Quonset, Rhode Island. On finishing indoctrination I told
the U.S. Navy “warm climate preferred, ” and was sent to Coco
Solo, Canal Zone. Knowing nothing about retail selling and

[ 1305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

caring less, I was put in charge of Ships Service Store. I rather
enjoyed this only independent job in the Navy and rode it up
to district ships service officer and lieutenant commander in 194,
when I was sent back to the States.

I decided no more rat race for me in business in general or
National Gypsum in particular, so I resigned and returned to a
cottage on Cape Cod. I was fairly content; I bought another cot-
tage and built a third; rented them out and worked a bit now
and then. Come 1950, after waiting some twenty-five years, I
met that one and only gal. I was married in 1951 and we live
a very happy if unique life. For six months we live in one of the
cottages in Falmouth; I run a trading post and the good wife a
gift shop. After a little hunting in the fall we load our gear and
two dogs into our house trailer and head for “warmer climate
preferred.” Two years ago it was Florida, last winter Mexico
City, and this year New Orleans and the Mardi Gras. Look us up

in Falmouth and we’ll make you work on the latest cottage, then

give you a good swim and maybe lobster.

ELLIOTT HENRY WILSON

HOME ADpREss: 71 Morton Way, Palo Alto, Calif.
BORN: Nov. 21, 1906, Salem, Mass. parents: Abraham Wilson, Sophie Bea-
tice Goldberg.
PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Peabody, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1929(47); a.m. (Stanford Unuv.),
1950,
MarrigD: Mary Oken, Aug. 6, 1929. CHILDREN: Karl C., March 10, 1945 (died
- April 17, 1945); Piers Sand, Oct. 14, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Retail and wholesale stamp, coin, and curio dealer.
OFFICES HELD: Founder, first president, Boston Air Mail Society, 1928-29,
_ New York Aerophilatelic Society, 1930-31; member State Committee,
American Labor Party, New York, 1938-43; member Executive Com-
mittee, American Labor Party, Richmond County, New York, 1937-4}.
MEMBER OF: Society of Guatemala Collectors; Maritime Postmark Society;
United Postal Stationery Society; Sociedad Numismatica de Mexico;
Jamaica Philatelic Society.
PUBLICATIONS: Standard Airpost Catalog, 1929, 1931.

I GUESS I left Harvard as sanguine as any convervative. I had a
good job editing the Standard Airpost Catalog (a periodic listing
of air mail stamps and covers). The climb upward didn’t seem as

[ 1306 ]

DIA ba too 8s

8 re AN SA REI ART OTRAS EAP OEY RE IATA TRM IM INE! ETE Ne OPE TRC MA He Seyi!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

steep as some old fogies said, and I had already scaled a couple
of rungs. In the heady 1929 summer, I married almost as a matter
of course, a precipitate action that is still unregretted. For two
years I managed to stay upright on the tightrope but finally fell,
in the summer of 1931. For several years we lived a rough life
and the ascent from the depths was slow and uncertain. These
years still appear as nightmares, even after the prettifying effect of
time.

During these lean and skimping years, I acquired one valuable
asset that will probably forever save me from the old weakness of
Blimpian unreality: a fairly well-grounded radicalism. I saw,
after heroic resistance to having my blinders removed, that we
lived in an economic jungle that had seen its best days and that
now suffered from old-age diseases such as continuous economic
crisis, imperialism, and the need for war. I learned the hard
way, from personal exeprience, and better days haven’t permitted
me to indulge in a new round of pollyannaism. In general, I can
say that the present disturbed and unstable world and the great
pendulum swings of our times have fitted in well with the social-
ism I learned in the hungry thirties.

The next few years had their ups and downs, but our basic
necessities were never threatened and I occasionally made modest
killings. Hope of what a radical would call real progress (I hate
to think of what term a conservative would use) was fairly com-
mon in those days because so were radicals and liberals (without
quotes). As I see it, progress was made (not enough but at least
a significant amount) so that it would be difficult to return to
the pre-1933 jungle days, economically. The clock has been
turned back a lot since then (and the powers-that-be are still
enthusiastically marching backward at the double) but in bread-
and-butter matters it’s got a long way to go.

In the search for suburban quiet, we lived in every New York
borough but Manhattan. When we reached Staten Island, we
thought this was it. We arrived in 1934 and were comfortable
enough to make only a couple of shifts within the county before
leaving in 1949. These years included the war which had quite
an effect on me. I gave up my stamp shop (which wasn’t too
great a hardship) and went to work at Hamilton Standard Pro-
pellers in East Hartford, Connecticut. I felt strongly about the

[ 1307 ]

Oe a THOR REFTEE- REPORT HERIOT THR THTPREFOTTEFHTRRMERONENHENTIETPO SITTIN INTE II FO Tenet tn es

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

persecuted for their opinions, for their inconformity with official
policy, for their advocacy of peace, for other decent things that
have been made unpopular. In every case, the defendants are
“little” men but their cause is as big as the future of our country,
The very future of our university is bound up on their successful
defense of the most profound human right, that of free expres-
sion. I feel that such funds as 1 can dispose of must be earmarked
for this most elemental cause. I feel badly to exclude myself
from participation in the fund but I feel that I have no other
choice.

JAMES RAYMOND WILSON

AppREsS: Veterans Hospital, Canandaigua, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1907, North Adams, Mass, PARENTS: Raymond Edgil Wilson,
Helen Roche. :

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.D. (Duke Univ.), 1934.

OCCUPATION: Medicine. —

WILSON’S mother writes that he has been ill since his discharge
from the Navy. |

NORMAN WINER

HOME ADDRESS: 1185 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 295 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1910, Chattanooga, Tenn. parents: Harry Winer, Jennie
Abelson.

PREPARED AT: Chattanooga High School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; LLB.
1932,

MARRIED: Bertha Jacobi Cerf, Dec. 29, 1939, New York, N. Y. camp:

- Joanne Jacobi, April 19, 1944. .

occupation; Lawyer, partner, Nathan, Manheimer, Asche & Winer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Fairview Country Club; Associa-
tion of the Bar of the City of New York; Harvard Law School Asso-

- . cation; Temple Emanu-el Men’s Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Proposing a New York ‘Close Corporation Law,” Cornell
Law Quarterly, 1943; “Jurisdiction over the Beneficiary Corporation
in Stockholders’ Suits,” 1935; “Legal Rights of the Jews against the
Mandatory,” Brandeis Annual, 1932; articles in current publications
and in Opinion Magazine,

[1310]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOR years now I have been striving to write literary, interesting,
concise briefs. With devastating regularity, after wasting much
energy on each of them, I have concluded that the place to start
is the beginning, that the facts should follow chronologically and
simply, and that I should end with a prayer.

Thus warped, my mind returns to the year 1929 when I en-
tered Harvard Law School, wondering whether it would lead
me to law or business. A modicum of success in College and Law
School enabled me to migrate to New York in 1932 and to start
with a job and a living wage.

In 1933 I elected to stay here rather than to join the New Deal
in Washington. Aly newness here was a major factor in my de-
cision. That is how I became a lawyer for rugged individualists,
who cried about taxes and Deals, while they did not badly at all
and who, now in 1953, are wondering a bit. However, as a lot,
they are rather reasonable about tax-deductible legal fees, which
is surely a redeeming trait.

In our firm, my domain is business structures and advice and
draftsmanship connected with contracts, deeds, and deals, as
well as litigation which inevitably arises in business. I have ap-
peared in state and federal courts in a number of states and have
been seen but not much listened to in the Supreme Court of the
United States. In terms of amount, some of my bigger cases
have been versus Uncle Sam, anti-trust suits (unjust ones, natur-
ally), and claims back and forth.

The armed services did not want me even for a desk job — be-
cause, without glasses, I am nearsighted. The combination of
their rejection and the three years I spent in the New York Guard,
created in me an unprintable regard for the military mind.

It is high time I reached the more important matters, particu-
larly since, after me, the likely readers of this piece are my wife
and daughter. My wife comes from North Carolina, which gives
us a common outlook on New York, at least. Our daughter, who
will barely make the weight for the Reunion, knows precisely
when to direct a barb at Carolina or Tennessee. We are much
pleased with one another, live happily in a Manhattan fortress,
and have managed together to see pretty much all of this con-
tinent and many islands to the South.

Thus, as grayness and baldness continue their contest for

[1311]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ascendancy above me, I shall defer giving my golf score, bridge
rank, and other depressing things until the Reunion to which the
three of us look forward eagerly.

+k GEORGE LANE WINLOCK, JR.

BoRN: April 28, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: George Lane Winlock, ’8,,
Sara Carmalt Mulford.

PREPARED AT: Ridgefield School, Ridgefield, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1923-1928.

MARRIED: Constance Snyder Hayden, May 29, 1939, Friendsville, Pa. cu-
DREN: George Lane, 3d, 1941; Rachel P., 1944; Anne C., 1948.

piep: March 5, 1950, Philadelphia, Pa.

AFTER leaving college, Winlock became assistant director of
Camp Choconut in Friendsville, Pennsylvania. At the time of our
Decennial Report he was a partner and director of that summer
camp for boys, positions which he still held in 1949. During the
winter months he sold insurance and Ford cars, and travelled.
He was at one time program chairman of the Private Camp Divi-
sion, Pennsylvania Camping Association. His wife and three
children survived him.

WALTER THACHER WINSLOW

HOME ADDRESS: 3432 Newark St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1262 New Hampshire Ave., N. W., Washington 6, D.C.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1907, Newton, Mass. parents: Andrew Nickerson Winslow,
’96, Gertrude Laverack.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1929.

marRieD: Frida K. Frazer, June 24, 1938, McLean, Va. cHitoren: W.
Thacher, Jr., May 20, 1943; Belinda Leigh, May 25, 1945; David Laver-
ack, Nov. 4, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Sears Winslow, ’30.

occupation: Director, Washington Branch Office, International Labor
Office, specialized agency of the United Nations,

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club; Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.

PUBLICATIONS: Youth: A World Problem, 1937; American Youth: An En-
forced Reconnaissance, Harvard University Press, 1940.

I CAN vividly remember when my father told me that his
Class at Harvard was about to celebrate its Twenty-fifth Re-

[ 1312]

nan . 7 -_ abibinemmanias cnteanniaeiieeanmenenmineneimedaisien aime ineteiaanadin ate aati tails ANNIE: . i i AN he AONE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

union. Although I was thirteen at the time, it seemed to me
that even the announcement of this event made my father be-
come years older in my eyes. Twenty-five years out of college
seemed then such a long time, but now how short a space of
time it really is, after all. One hates to think that the next twenty-
five years may go as swiftly.

But there is one thing about the next twenty-five years, and
that is that they are bound to be richer and happier than the
first. After all, when I think back on it, the first ten years after
graduation were years of uncertainty, of trial and error, of try-
ing to find a suitable wife for oneself. In both major undertakings,
after some ten years in the wilderness, I was unusually lucky
and successful.

When I graduated from college, I thought teaching was my
dish, but this illusion was soon dispelled. Then circumstances
forced me into the real estate business at its worst point, and this
was not a happy experience either. Research and writing, first
on the staff of the Council on Foreign Relations in New York,
and then with Oswald Garrison Villard who was at that time
publisher of the Nation magazine — proved much more con-
genial occupations. But it was not until several years after be-
coming a Washington bureaucrat, working on various projects
concerned with the general welfare of the country, that I found
myself in a stimulating and rewarding type of occupation.

The climax of my U.S. governmental experience was eight
years with the U.S. Department of Labor, during which time I
was on various occasions the Department’s legislative liaison with
Congress, the deputy administrator of the Wage and Hour and
Public Contracts Divisions, and deputy to the under secretary
of labor responsible for international labor affairs. In this latter
post my two major interests— foreign affairs and labor rela-
tions — were perfectly fused. It was not surprising therefore
that after the under secretary of labor was elected the director-
general of the International Labor Office, I soon followed him
into that international organization as director of the U.S. office
of the ILO. My duties involve close contact with the Labor and
State Departments, as well as with the labor and emplover or-
ganizations, which play an active part in the ILO.

As for that other difficult problem — finding the perfect wife

[ 1313 ]

EDP TD Sa TP TRF TOTO TTEUTEREIRUNHENHTTI TTI EENETC TRU OPN ERETRNIEIRERRRENMNEMR iT cn OTTO Ai) i eRS ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

—this was wonderfully solved for me some sixteen years agp
when a fellow Harvard man — later president of the Associateq
Harvard Clubs — introduced me one evening to his date, who -
turned out to be the most charming, gay, intelligent, and lovely .
creature alive. Our three children are also a constant joy and de.
light, and what I did without them all for so long I cannot uy. —
derstand. It is they who make those first ten years after gradu.
ation seem such a wasteland at the present time, and make th —
coming years so wonderful to look forward to.

OWEN LLOYD WINSTON

HOME ApprEss: 3 Park Pl., Saratoga, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 47 Kearny St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: March 2, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Owen Winston, ‘4
Margaret D. Lloyd.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marrieD: Caroline Buckner, Sept. 2, 1931, Fisher’s Island, N. Y. cumores:
Owen Lloyd, Jr., Oct. 4, 1932; Pamela, March 7, 1934; Buckner, Nov. 2,
1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Lloyd Winston, ’28; Francis Lloyd Winston, *:
(deceased).

occupATION: Staff representative, The United Crusade of San Francisco,

fund-raising agent.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, troop committee, Boy Scouts of America; director,
Saratoga Swimming Club.

MEMBER OF: Saratoga Men’s Club; Saratoga Swimming Club.

AFTER having lived happily in Gladstone, New Jersey, and in
New York all my life, I came to the west coast on Naval duty in
1942. We stayed here because, when I returned from carrer
duty in the Pacific, I found my family leading the kind of life
we had always wanted, in the small town of Saratoga, in the
Santa Clara Valley.

Without its seeming a grim civic duty, we take an active part
in the life of the town, especially the public school system and
other youth activities. My job with the San Francisco United
Crusade is a gratifying one, with a lot of hard work and interest-
ing contacts. My golf is better than it was in college days, and
I have a lot of fun playing the year round on good courses—

[1314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

though its importance seems to decrease as we work harder on
our place and join our kids in swimming, etc. Briefly, the life
here is a healthy and a very happy one. Due to a family wedding
(Pamela’s marriage to Ensign Rolland A. Langley, Jr. U.S.
Navy, is planned for May 15th) and other complications, I shall
feel far away from Cambridge in June—so many friends I
should like to see.

HENRY CLEMENT WINTRINGHAM, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 18 Windsor Cr., Maywood, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 28, 1905, Millerton, N. Y. parents: Henry Clement Wintring-
ham, Ella May Beedie.

PREPARED aT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MarrieD: Evelyn June Jordan, Nov. 28, 1929, Norfolk, Va. (divorced,
1946); Julia Marie Szira, Feb. 15, 1947, Newark, N. J. curpren: Henry
Jordan, Oct. 19, 1930; Henry Clement, 3d, Nov. 23, 19473 Edward
Lawton, April 8, 1950; Robert Beedie, Feb. 18, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Tylee Wintringham, ’24, John Sidny Win-
tringham, "30.

occupation: Head, Crude Oil Selection and Evaluation Group, Refining
Department, Texas Company.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago the portals of the university closed
behind a youth who had a smattering of book knowledge along
with certain idealistic views of life as it should be, tempered to
a small degree by experiences somewhat akin to those so widely
attributed to the supposedly unrestrained late 1920’s. As did many
others, I found pre-crash conditions a definite deterrent to imme-
diate application of the engineering training received; however,
after a few months’ search, employment was secured with the
Texas Company in what might be regarded as a very minor post
yet which eventuated in the interesting work it is my present
pleasure to perform. |

It would be tiresome to recount details, step by step, of my
duties during the intervening years which have been spent with
- a single company. Suffice it to say the work of manually assist-
ing in handling refined oils in bulk and of assisting the stillman
on facilities making asphalts from crude oil, soon gave wav to

[ 1315 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

the office work of maintaining time, cost, and then stock record
and controls; this finally led to office management of i Increasing
importance. There followed a period of special assignment toa
three-man committee designated to make a detailed investigatiog
of methods and costs involved in manufacturing, packaging, anj -
shipping of lubricating oils and greases. In 1948 I was brough ©
into New York to devote my time to intercompany relations in
regard to petroleum products. Thence I came to my presen
position under the assistant to the vice-president of the Refining
Department. My specific duties involve the study and selection
of crude oils for running at selected refineries the world over
on the basis of their relative economic value after application
of well prices, transportation costs, and refining expense agains
value of products which theoretically may be obtained there
from.

As was my father, I have been blessed with four sons. My
first boy, now twenty-three, unfortunately has been estranged
as a result of circumstances, misinformation, and misunderstand-
ing which I hope adult vision eventually will overcome. The
other three, now at ages of six, four, and two respectively, main-
tain life at such an optempo as to lend considerable justification
to the expression “the office is a place of relaxation and rest.”
Three healthy boys, their activities and awakening curiosities
certainly tax the combined ingenuities and capabilities of both
my wife and myself at times. Despite this there is great enjoy-
ment in watching and guiding their development and in answering
their continuing queries as to what, why, when, where, and how.

My wife, Julie, is a person of rare inner beauty with the cham
warmth, and instinctive understanding of life and the male animal
(as needs she must with four of us) which has been ascribed to
a few women of the fuller cultures through the ages, bringing
to each day a delight and joy of living that is a never-ending
revelation to me. Ours is a simple life, without complexines
which is extremely pleasurable.

For several years my spare hours were devoted to seeking out
and translating the lesser-known works of obscure French phi-
losophers and of writers of curiosa. My library of these items
many of which were rare and irreplaceable, as well as a mint col-
lection of stamps of France and the French Colonies, was dis-

[ 1316 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

persed in 1946. At present I am reviving the 1920’s and recaptur-
ing the 1930's when I was out of touch with the jazz scene, by
haunting old record shops and by listening to LP re-issues, search-
ing for and obtaining those items of particular interest to me.
Thus far my collection is relatively small, yet contains some
distinctive gems.

Ir is a bit difficult to specifically state one’s convictions and
belicfs,; however, in part mine are as follows: The prime value
of a formal education, over and above the attainment of an es-
sential comprehensive background on which to build, is in learn-
ing to use the powers of thought, of learning how to think, not
what to think. Life’s return is essentially commensurate with
what one puts into it; that, within reason, a person may realize
his sincerest ambitions and wishes, if he so desires, by directed
application, A free economy under an American form of gov-
ernment in its better aspects, unfettered by the imposition of any
“isms” is preferable, since it is my considered opinion the best
of all worlds is one in which an individual may have the freedom
of selecting on his own initiative, his own destiny, again within
reason, as long as he does not infringe on his fellow man.

PARKER STEVENS WISE

HOME AppREss: 62 N. Mountain Drive, Ardsley Park, Dobbs Ferry, N. Y-

OFFICE ADoREss: 26 Broadway, New York 4, N. Y.

porn: Dec. 16, 1906, Malden, Mass. parents: Paul Tower Wise, Alice
Madeleine Stevens.

prepARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§~1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

margirp: Rebecca Phifer, Sept. 26, 1932, Spartanburg, S. C. cuiLoren: Paul
Tower, 2d, March 23, 1937; Mary Hardy, Sept. 28, 1942; Parker Ste-
vens, Jr., Feb. 7, 1947.

occupation: General manager, Marine Transportation Department, Socony-
Vacuum Oil Company, Inc., petroleum products.

orrices HELD: Member Board of Councillors, American Petroleum Institute,
1953; alternate director, National Federation of American Shipping,
1953.

mMemsBer or: A. D. Club; Ardsley Country Club; India House; Society of
Naval Architects and Marine Engineers; Propeller Club; Transporta-
tion Club of the Petroleum Industry.

IT was only a week or so after graduation that I embarked on a

[ 1317 ]

aL ee in eemamaeneeiaiaemmemat TT ee

os kame

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929 —

there is certainly nothing to complain about even though p,
physical activities have been substantially limited in recy
months.

JOSEPH WOLF

HOME ADDRESS: 255 Russett Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 16 Piedmont St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Wolf, Etta Cohen,

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

marRiED: Gertrude Cottler, Jan. 23, 1932, Brookline, Mass. cHiLpreN: Barhin —
Myra, June 5, 1933 (7. Alvin Role, Aug. 30, 1952); Phyllis Elin
March 8, 1937; Janet Susan and Judith Helen (twins), Sept. 23, ig;
GRANDCHILD: Charles Michael Role, Oct. 20, 1953.

occupation: Motion picture sales executive, branch manager, Embassy Px.
tures Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1945-47, treasurer, since 1948, New England Moun -
Picture Salesmen’s Club; director, 1949-51, treasurer, 1952-53, Heck .
House, Dorchester, Mass. :

MEMBER OF: Brotherhood Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Sentry Lodge, B'nai Bra,
Massachusetts State Guard Veterans Association; Variety Chub d |
Boston,

THE years 1929 to 1954 have been truly a span of years ful -
of history-making events, both national and international. Phe
nomenal advances were made in every field of endeavor: sciet-
tific research explored the unknown fields in medicine; the far-
reaching effect upon the world of nuclear fission and the Atom
Bomb; and — television!

The year 1929 was quite an eventful year for a young man
fortunate to have secured a foothold in that enterprising field of
amusement called the motion picture industry. First associated
with regional chain theatres as the buyer and booker for five
New England theatres, I continued to climb the ladder of suc-
cess and gained valued experience in the field of motion pictur
distribution by becoming associated with Warner Brothers Pic-
tures Corporation and Columbia Pictures Corporation as booket
of motion picture film and subsequently as a sales represents
tive covering the entire New England area.

The year 1948 for me was a year of great decision. I finally
rebelled against a system which called for “millions of produc-

[ 1320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion” and “peanuts” for distributions, and associated myself with
Embassy Pictures Corporation, an independent organization dis-
tributing worthwhile re-issue pictures, as well as numerous for-
eign productions. The acquisition of the Rex Theatre in Central
Square, Cambridge, further augured well for my financial en-
deavors, when along came television, creating an upheaval in
an industry which had considered itself almost impregnable.

The years 1952 to 1954: the motion picture industry strikes
back in an effort to secure again popular favor. Third Dimension
with glasses, Third Dimension without glasses, Cinerama, Cine-
mascope — all are mediums to help re-open those closed palaces
of entertainment throughout the country.

In the interim my many problems have been greatly eased
by the constant encouragement of a wonderful mate and four
lovely daughters. The blessed happiness of becoming a grand-
daddy was mine several months ago (a grandson — should you
be inquisitive). I still have great faith in that industry which
provided so much joy and pleasure to multi-millions of peo-
ple throughout the world for well over fifty years. My experi-
ences have been many. I have no regrets, and am looking for-
ward to that day when I shall be able to report an era of even
greater accomplishment in my chosen field of endeavor.

+ DUDLEY FRANCIS WOLFE

porn: Feb, 8, 1896, Irvington, N. Y. parents: Dudley Wolfe, Mabel Florence
Smith.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930, DEGREE: A.B., 1929(30).

marriep: Alice Damrosch, 1934, Switzerland (divorced).

DIED: July 30, 1939, Tibet.

WHEN he graduated from Harvard, Wolfe was occupied with
family estate work and became treasurer and director of the
George Warren Smith Corporation of New York. During
World War I, he was a member of the Ambulance Corps in
Italy. A well-known sportsman, he belonged to many yacht
clubs and sailed both in the transatlantic race to Spain in 1928
and the transatlantic race to England in 1931. He entered the
Silon Ski Race in the Parsenne Derby in Switzerland in 1938, and

[ 1321 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

crossed Mt. Blanc on skis in the same year. In March, 1939, he
sailed for India with a party whose object was to scale Mt. God.
win Austen in the Himalayas. He was killed while mountain
climbing in Tibet.

HAROLD ARNOLD WOLFF

OFFICE ADDRESS: 9 E. 47th St.. New York 17, N. Y.

BorN: March 29, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: David Bernard Wolff, Minna
Bonfeld.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B. 7agna cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Selma Strauss, June 19, 1932,. Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter,
May 4, 1937; Anthony, Oct. 7, 1938.

occuPATION: Public relations counselling, Harold Wolff and Associates.

FROM 1929 until 1932 I continued my studies at Harvard Uni
versity. Later, in 1940-1941, I attended the New School for
Social Research in New York. I was an educational counsellor
from 1931 until 1942 when I joined the overseas branch of the
Office of War Information. I remained with this branch until
1945 and from then until 1951 worked as a magazine writer and

public relations counsel. I now do public relations counselling
with Harold Wolff and Associates.

ABRAHAM WOLPER

HOME ADpREss: 56 Cook Ave., Chelsea 50, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 217 Everett Ave., Chelsea 50, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1907, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Wolper, Bertha Satin-
ofsky.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Frieda Rose Chates, Oct. 15, 1933, Chelsea, Mass. CHILDREN:
Judith Ann, Sept. 24, 1935; Ben Sholem, Oct. 23, 1938.

occupation: Industrial engineer, A. L. Smith Iron Company.

THE depression of 1929 took its usual course with me. How-
ever, in 1932, after three confusing years in the wool waste busi-
ness, two events took place which changed things considerably.
First I launched out for myself in that same business and sec-
ondly I met, and shortly thereafter married, the “right girl.” Both

[ 1322]

LL

ous

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ventures turned out eminently successful. By 1938, however,
the political storm clouds began to bank ominously upon the
horizon. I decided war was inevitable and a new course indi-
cated. I proceeded to liquidate my business and chose industrial
engineering as my new field. After taking some courses in the
general field I entered war work specializing in production plan-
ning and control. The choice proved a happy one, as I have
thoroughly enjoyed the work. After sampling several different
industries and firms I finally berthed with my present company
and found things congenial enough to stay on. I am engaged in
the manufacture of fluorescent fixtures and still specialize in
production planning and control.

Aside from my work, what have been my other hobbies and
interests? As I look back I realize that what I found in my own
family life was so rich and varied that I had neither the need
or inclination to look afield. It is good to be able to say that I
took advantage of the bounty set before me. At present a major
subject is college. Judith has entered Simmons but is an ardent
booster of Harvard. Consequently she is assiduously grooming
her younger brother for that haven of excellence.

What of the future? life does begin at forty. I look forward
to our Fiftieth Reunion with more interest than I do to our
Twenty-fifth. The stage is vast — nothing less than the universe.
The actors are without number. The play is exquisite. The moral
and assurance lies in the Psalmist’s declaration, “The earth is the
Lord’s and the fulness thereof.” The human privilege is the
ability to look about while participating.

DUDLEY PHELPS KING WOOD

HOME apprEss: 122 E. 76th St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 385 Madison Ave. New York 17, N. Y.

BoRN: March 12, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Arthur King Wood,
Marguerite Richardson.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928. DEGREE: A.B. 1929(28),

MarRIED: Emilie B. Merriman, Jan. 30, 1935, Providence, R. I; Martha
Kountze, June 19, 1941. cHILp: Cathy, Aug. 15, 1943.

occupation: Capital investment, partner, Henry Sears & Company.

[ 1323 ]

SET STEP EPH RERVUPTEEOPOYFTIRGAYTNOTTFNTHTTUPE=VRpreT Treen EIRETTFFTERONYE TUTE SINTON ORETUENENIDPAR EN Ee NRL e een. ceowimctigi afr pete utens yw —wurwee pie

,—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Metropolitan Club of Washing.
ton. . :

UPON leaving college in 1928 I spent two years learning all about

the tobacco industry. During the course of these two years |
had to work in various cigar and cigarette factories, always with.

out pay. Asa result, I cannot stand the sight of a cigar. In March,
1930, I became a salesman for the American Machine and
Foundry Company whose main business was building and selling

or leasing machinery to the tobacco companies. This took me

all over the United States wherever tobacco products were |
manufactured. In 1932 I was sent to Germany to introduce the,
benefits of American mechanization to the German tobacco in
dustry. The time was not very propitious because no dollars
were available and Germany was about to enter into the most
shameful period of its history under Hitler. In 1934 and 1935 |
lived in London as the head of the foreign subsidiary of the
parent company and with London as a base, peddled tobacco
machinery throughout Europe, Africa, and the Near East. From
1936 on I spent at least half of the time in Europe still trying to |
contend with very rough competition from English, Swedish, :
Czech and French rivals. I returned for good to the United States

in 1939 just before the curtain went up in Europe and spent a year

in Washington as adviser to the Secretary of Commerce. My
job there was to find sources of supply outside of the war zone

to replace those cut off by the war. This led to Latin America
and the development of its trade with the United States.

In 1940 I became vice-president of the American Export Air-
lines which was a struggling, young company trying to break
the monopoly of Pan-American Airways in United States inter-
national air transport. The fight was rough and carried finally
into the halls of Congress. With Pearl Harbor all this became
academic, and the company was in effect taken over by the U.S.
Navy.

I entered the Army air forces early in 1942 and became an in-
structor in the Air Intelligence Schoo] in Harrisburg, Pennsyl-
vania. After many months of teaching I finally was shaken loose
and went to Africa, Sicily, Italy, and Southern France on a per-
sonally conducted tour for several years. I ended up my nilli-

[ 1324 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tary career in Washington in the Planning Division of the air
forces, my main job being to find ways and means of disposing
of several thousand surplus aircraft.

After a short rest period I joined the Radio Corporation of
America and was in charge of their Latin American operations.
This involved considerable travel and the supervision of four
fairly run-down companies in Mexico, Argentina, and Brazil. I
later became director of sales which extended my activities
throughout the world this side of the Iron Curtain.

In 1953 I left industry at last and became a partner in Henry
Sears & Company, whose aim in life is to show that capital is a
growing thing and that it can make small businesses prosper and
contribute to the general economy at the same time returning a
profit to the partners in the firm.

I am sure that enlightened capitalism is the only workable
system thus far devised by the human mind and I also think that
it has reached its greatest flowering in the present-day United
States. I am a liberal Republican with a hatred for the extreme
views of Senator McCarthy, et al., but at the same time having
no sympathy whatsoever for the unrealistic and stultifying at-
tempts to socialize the United States made by the left win
the Democratic party. I still think there is a middle road.

g of

EVERETT ALDEN WOOD

HOME ApprEss: Winnetuxet Road, Plympton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Carr-Consolidated Biscuit Co., 270 Baker St., West Roxbury,
Mass.

BorN: April 20, 1906, Hopedale, Mass. PARENTS: Everett Silas Wood, Ella
Howes.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

MARRIED: Marion Ruth Seavey, Oct. 19, 1929, Hyde Park, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert Carlton, June 17, 1931; Douglas Alden, May 22, 1936.

occupation: Mercantile business.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 1325 ]

FTP Pea ary TRRREERpSERIEREESIUUREENCROTEFNCHINFONNETTNORIENTN SPREADS TSF TT =

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ALFRED SKINNER WOODWORTH

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Lee Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 111 Franklin St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 10, 1907, Framingham, Mass. parents: Arthur Vernon Woo. —

worth, ’91, Margaret Kennard.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1929; M.B.A., 1931.

MARRIED: Beatrice Hardon Gelatt, 1947, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Richard
M. Gelatt, 1941 (stepchild); James S. Gelatt, 1942 (stepchild); Alfred
Skinner, Jr., 1948; Virginia, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Kennard Woodworth, ’26; Arthur Vernon Woodworth, _

Jr., °33.
OCCUPATION: Senior vice-president, Second National Bank.
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, board of managers, Norfolk House Centre; trea-
urer, trustee, Chestnut Hill School, Boston Legal Aid Society.
MEMBER OF: Union Club; The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

SOMEONE once told me there was no point in working mn
Boston as it would just be a continuation of the old faces around
Harvard Yard. I like the faces around Harvard Yard, so I did
go to work in Boston and have been there ever since, more or
less. I stopped off for a couple of years at the Business School
where I discovered among other things that a lot of people go
to institutions of learning primarily to study. I also found out
that as a preparation for the banking business, the Harvard Bus-
ness School is tops.

The change to a sea-going naval career, after ten years behind
a desk in a bank, is not easy to make. This is particularly true
if you find yourself the skipper of a mine sweeper without a
trace of nautical experience behind you. I learned slowly, often
the hard way, always with large doses of boredom in between.
The last year of the war I spent escorting convoys in the Pacific,
still quite a way from the big time. My navy career gave me only
limited satisfaction, but I did manage to do many things that I
had not believed possible before I started.

Because of my affiliation with a bank, I suppose, I find myself
connected with sundry philanthropic, educational, and social
organizations, always in the rdle of treasurer. There is one thing
these organizations have in common — they all operate at 4
deficit. Fortunately the people who run these organizations

[ 1326 ]

cc aiten Pom sity ttn Th HE Eg SN CINED BD ag shoe
pone APB ere VIE Ta TR Ae FEI ID

ahtete oe

ALONE He RAMEE AABN TE)

Fay emu pneu tte EO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

listen to the treasurer only occasionally and they go along in
their modest ways supplying some quite worthwhile needs.

The life of a loaning officer in a commercial bank in Boston
could be quite humdrum. But it just hasn’t turned out that way.
We lend money on commodities whose value at times increases
rapidly and at other times drops even more rapidly. We have
customers with imagination and daring who would like us to
join with them in their projects and sometimes we do. If you are
interested in people and curious about businesses, life in the bank
can never be humdrum.

Far too much of my spare time is spent on the golf course
trying to improve a game that has resisted the best of instruc-
tion. Fortunately my wife is devoted to golf and as a partner
she is excelled by none. She sinks all the putts — both on and off
the golf course.

CHARLES CHAMBERLAIN WOOLLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 2372 Loma Vista Pl., Los Angeles 39, Calif.

orrice appress: Hans E. Kaufmann Co., 740 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 14,
Calif.

Born: Dec. 13, 1908, Madison, Wis. Parents: Edwin Campbell Woolley,
Isabelle Chamberlain Reid.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1928.

MarRriED: Barbara Roberts.

OCCUPATION: Advertising.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files. Woolley is
now in the East, but his present address is unknown.

JAMES HARDON WRIGHT

HOME AppreEss: 14 Sylvan Circle, Lynnfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Federal St., West Lynn, Mass.

BORN: July 10, 1907, Newton, Mass. Parents: James Hayden Wright, 92,
Margaret Hardon.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. 1929; S.M., 1931; S.M. IN EE,
1932; S.D., 1936.

[ 1327 ]

“TERR TREE APHERRREPRECRRREINR CORR IET ART BA MI I ite iene oe ocitremeqecen dees a eens os “om

7

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

marriep: Mary Caltha Stigall, Aug. 15, 1938, Kansas City, Mo. cig,
James Stigall, May 17, 1942; John Oliver, April 20, 1945. .

occupation: Electrical engineer in charge of standards for General Fy,
tric Measurements Laboratory, General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Various committee chairmanships, Lynn Section, Amerig
Institute of Electrical Engineers, 1941-45; member board of map.
ment, 1949-53, chairman, 1952-53, First Universalist Church, Lyn

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Massachusetr §,
ciety of Professional Engineers; Harvard Engineering Society; Tha —
son Club (Lynn General Electric); various local couples’ clubs.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles in technical periodicals; contribu |
to forthcoming book, Principles of Measurement by Electrical Mem —
I. F. Kinnard (editor).

A TWENTY-FIFTH Reunion comes as something of a shod
to one who has actually been away from Cambridge only eighteen -
years. If any medals are to be awarded for length of services
a student I can probably qualify for top honors. .
It is not that I set about deliberately to establish a record. Tr _
employment situation in the early thirties undoubtedly evoks
painful memories for most of the Class of ’29. Having stayed #
Harvard to study engineering for two years after College, I fex
somewhat frustrated in the summer of 1931 to find no jobs at a
in my chosen profession. Somewhat reluctantly I signed up for
more graduate work, which led to research and part-time teach
ing in the Engineering School (yes, Harvard had one in thow
days). With a couple of Master’s degrees and a Doctor of Scienct
degree I took final leave of my cloistered surroundings in 1936
In the improving economic climate of that year I started work
in General Electric’s Meter and Instrument Department at Wes
Lynn, Massachusetts. This proved to be the beginning of a very
satisfying career devoted largely to the technical engineerng
aspects of electrical measurements. Occasional assignments if
teaching company courses or speaking at technical meetings pro-
vide interesting contrast to my usual preoccupation with mag-
netics, measurement standards, instrumentation problems, and
sundry other topics which are of doubtful interest to any fellow
classmate. It was nevertheless the kind of work for which I fet
best suited. a i
The last seventeen years have seen no violent dislocations inmy
professional career. I have no imposing list of different employes

[ 1328 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

served or major reassignments of job and location. A gentle
evolution process seems to have nudged me into a series of ever
more interesting positions and responsibilities. If [ am in a rut,
at Icast it is a pleasant one. During the war years my occupational
deferment kept me doing business at the same old stand, only
working longer hours on products for defense. The transition
into this period and back to peacetime normalcy was relatively
painless as far as | was personally concerned.

In 1938 having found employment with some prospect of per-
manence, I ventured into matrimony. The other party in the af-
fair was a young lady from Kansas City (Missouri, that is) whom
I had met in Cambridge some years before. Having seen each
other only rarely in the interim we both took something of a
chance, but after fifteen years we still agree it was a good idea.
Our family of two boys is not large by old time standards, and
should, I suppose, be simple to manage. Still I should like to find
more tine than I do to give to their interests and counteract the
tendencies towards juvenile delinquency, which are so alarming
in the television generation. Home makes other demands, which
I don’t resent. Having an unsuppressible urge for tinkering and
puttering I devote odd hours to yard work, home repairs, minor
carpentry projects, and fixing toys. An old Connecticut farm
house which serves as the family’s summer quarters presents a
disturbing field for expansion in this direction.

Away from work and home, community projects come in for
their share of attention, A small community may have its limita-
tions, but in this one I am impressed with my fellow citizen’s in-
terest in local affairs and his willingness to serve where his talents
can be used. For my part I have served on committees for school
surveys, town reports, and church management. Along with the
little lady I have worked for P.T.A. organizations, couples’ clubs,
and Cub Scouts.

I am not sure I have any hobbies in the sense that the serious
philarelist or angler understands the term. I used to count pho-
tography among my interests, but in recent years have done little
with it. The same goes for tennis, the only competitive sport I
ever took seriously. My favorite summertime recreation is swim-
ming, in which I indulge as often as circumstances permit. In
winter I manage occasionally to take a turn around a skating

[ 1329 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ager). Here is something that needs must be done. Here is
action, now. Here we slug it out each day and every night
across the short-wave frequencies, matching strokes with the
misguided men in the satellites who have betrayed their patri-
mony in Prague, Warsaw, Sofia, and in Budapest. Here the
cold war is hot. And here it is that the things I began to learn
in 1926, the later experience acquired in station administration
and in public relations, are being put to the plow in earnest.

It is a fulfillment and a privilege; and it is to be noted that,
added into the pot with the know-how of hundreds of others,
supported by countless well-wishers at home, these combined
efforts will one day prevail. Then I shall come back, and prob-
ably one of the first things on the agenda will be to go and listen
to Arthur Fiedler conduct a Roy Anderson tune or two, which
I shall terribly miss hearing this spring.

WALTER FRANCIS WYETH

HOME appress: Clinton Road, Bedford, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bedford-Rippowam School, Bedford, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 11, 1907, Newton Center, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Francis Wyeth,
"99, Josephine Hall Shailer.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 192§-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929.

marRIED: Hope Bennett, Aug. 29, 1931, Newport, R. I. cHipren: Joan,
June 22, 1933; Elizabeth, Feb. 6, 1945.

occuPATION: Headmaster, independent coeducational country day school.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant headmaster, Country Day School, 1936-39; head-
master, Buckley Country Day School, 1939-42, Bedford-Rippowam
School, 1946-54.

MEMBER OF: Bedford Golf and Tennis Club.

HAVING an office less than one hundred yards from one’s
front door has many advantages, particularly when that office
provides a haven of comparative peace and quiet on Saturdays
and Sundays, surrounded as it is by empty classrooms, classrooms
full — five days of the week—of the younger generation. I
hasten to add that this younger generation, contrary to the per-
ennial cry of each succeeding older generation, is not on the old

[ 1332 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

route to the hot place in a hand basket, although there |

been occasional late F riday afternoons when I might make
statement with some reservations.

In any event, it seems that the time has come when [ r
stop making a collection of Hutchinson’s Goads, they get be
each time, and the temptation to wait for those following ni
ber five is strong and is made even stronger now that I find
above mentioned quiet not as conducive to the hoped-for flue:
as anticipated. I cannot write of steady progression in the m:
of trade; “from office boy to president” has no application
my last twenty-four years: I cannot list an imposing group
directorates; all 1 can do is to state in a few words that for
there is and could be no satisfaction as great as that of work:
with children.

This satisfaction has been mine for nineteen years now,
though accuracy demands a reduction of four years in that to:
when Uncle Sam called the tune and provided me, if not n
family, with travel under the supervision of the Navy.

Six years after graduation found me in my first teaching jc
at Country Day School of Boston and perhaps those six yea.
were good preparation; certainly the activities in which I er
gaged were sufficiently varied: two years with a travel compan:
during which I missed visiting hardly a continent or country, :
year and a half with a bank, another year and a half of factors
work with a large bakery. In all these jobs I bore the same re-
sounding title — that of trainee. There followed a few weeks

in a special session at the Harvard Business School and an ex-
tended series of courses at Boston University School of Edu-
cation.

The first five years at Country Day were most pleasant and
profitable (in every way other than monetarily). It was hard
to leave Boston and our many friends but when the opportunity
came in 1939 the family, then consisting of my wife, one daugh-
ter, and myself, moved to Long Island, where I took over as
headmaster of Buckley Country Day School. In early 194: I
submitted my resignation to accept a Navy commission, and
these early war years were a period when I caught only an occa-
sional glimpse of my family until early r9y5. An ultimate sta-
tioning at Glenview Naval Air Station brought on both my fam-

[ 1333]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ily and a series of mad moves from house to house in the areg
north of Chicago, moves which were further complicated by the
arrival of our second daughter. Finally in desperation we pur-
chased a house in the little town of Northbrook, Illinois.

What little time I could get from my duties, which consisted
for at least half the time of attempting to persuade the admiral
that the civilian population could not do without me, was de-
voted to searching for a new school position, and in what was
probably a subconscious urge to return to the East, we invested
heavily in improvements to our new home in the Midwest. The
bill for the extensive landscaping and planting had no sooner
been paid than I received an invitation to come to Bedford as
headmaster of the Rippowam School.

Here I have been for over seven years in this small community
which up until now has managed to resist the — to me — blights
of suburbia. Vacations in the summer have taken us to Maine,
Cape Cod, and more recently to Vermont. I compare my fif-
teen-second commute, with considerable condescension, to the
average three hours consumed by most male residents here-
abouts; in fact, we have become so thoroughly rusticated that a
trip to the big city has come to assume almost monumental pro-
portions. I have been here long enough to see some of those |
taught as children married and many others entered upon suc-
cessful college careers, and the satisfaction derived therefrom is
only slightly tempered by the accompanying feeling of being
pretty ancient by the standards of these young people.

My hobbies are the school, and again the school, although I
find that I must now finally face up to taking up golf as a sport
befitting those of us on the verge of dignified old age.

Contacts with Classmates have not been as close as they were
when we lived in Boston and on Long Island, but there have been
some by virtue of the fact that there have been as many as eight
children of ’29 men in the school at one time and presently two
classmates serve on the Board of Trustees.

It does not seem so long ago when, observing predecessors of
ours at their Twenty-fifth Reunion in Cambridge, I used to pity
them. It was a source of amazement to me that so many men
of such advanced age were able to make an appearance and ap-
parently even enjoy being present. Now that I find myself about

[ 1334 ]

precepts neste Desh An Remains techcecanenepnsnetaaensatees Sie IENoiele Nene sae thee a ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to participate in the same thing, I realize that all those platitudes
built around the basic “you are only as old as you feel” are pretty
valid after all.

_ JOHN PATRICK YAKUBISIN

HOME ADDRESS: 815 E. Jersey St., Elizabeth, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Weston Electrical Instrument Co., Newark, N. J.

BORN: April 30, 1906, Oneida, Pa, parents: Joseph M. Yakubisin, Mary
Batcho.

PREPARED AT: Hazelton High School, Hazelton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1927.

MaRRIED: Mary A. Lacko, May 30, 1932, Elizabeth, N. J. cumpren: John R,
May 7, 1933; Robert E., Feb. 10, 1936; Alice M., Sept. 15, 1940; Kenneth,
Nov. 8, 1948.

OccUPATION: Expediter, production control, Western Electrical Instrument
Company; jewelry salesman.

OFFICES HELD: President, St. Joseph’s Catholic Lyceum, 1940-45.

MEMBER OF: St. Joseph’s Catholic Lyceum, B.P.O.E. 289, Elizabeth.

AS a sickly boy I had undergone three operations without bene-

fit of expected results which robbed me of participation in my

favorite sport, baseball. As my time was spent sitting in the gar-

den under the large apple tree, I dreamed of the day when I

might perhaps travel. The uniform was always a symbol of

honor to me and with the diplomatic service my goal I studied
hard so that I should go to college and realize this dream. In my
senior year at Hazleton High School I lost both parents and my
hopes were shattered. With encouragement from my teachers

I competed for the scholarships being granted around the coun-

try. Imagine the thrill when I was summoned to Philadelphia

to be awarded the Harvard Scholarship. I shall never forget my

first days on the campus at Cambridge. They are so fresh in mv

memory that I have made many trips back to relive the good old

days.

In 1927, after completing my sophomore year, I came back
to Pennsylvania to do some part-time work to fortify myself with
some money for the coming school year — only to be stricken
with a severe case of stone in the kidney. I had to undergo a
major operation which took many months to put me on my feet.
My funds were exhausted and I was forced to seek emplovment
and put off finishing school to a future date. Things went from

[ 1335 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

bad to worse as unemployment mounted in the ensuing years,
I came to New York to live with my sister and became associ-
ated with the Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company. One fine stroke
of luck I did have —I fell in love and my sweetheart and I took
the fatal step. During the first seven years of our marriage I be-
came manager of several A & P stores throughout the Bronx. |
decided to go into business for myself and settled in Elizabeth,
New Jersey. We did quite well. I stayed in this business for
twelve years. During this time the second World War broke
out and the rationing and point system drove me mad —I knew
I wouldn’t be drafted so I applied for a position with the De-
partment of the Army, New York Ordnance District. I was
appointed resident 1 inspector of material in several defense plants.
With the Korean situation developing, I was recalled to New
York Ordnance as a production specialist in the Engineering
Corps. This lasted until “Ike” cut the appropriations. With the
rift in view and not wholly in agreement with my chief on some
matters, I saw the handwriting on the wall and decided to con-
nect with Weston Electrical Corporation, Newark, New Jersey,
and also become a part-time jewelry salesman.

I made a few bad investments in stocks — result, lost a bit of
money. We were blessed with three boys and a girl. We had
the usual heartaches and anxieties intermingled with the joys of
parenthood and managed to weather the storm. We gave the
children all we could in music, dancing, and the schools of their
choice. Our older sons, John Raymond and Robert Eric, pre-
pared at Seton Hall and Staunton Military Academy, Staunton,
Virginia, from which they graduated. John Raymond entered
Johns Hopkins University to study chemical engineering. He
is the pivot man on the varsity basketball team and is helping it
to get into the finals for the season. He is very active in all school
functions and is a member of the Cotillion Board. He is now a
junior and hopes to be out in 1955 when he will go into the
service, as he is a member of the Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps.

Robert entered Seton Hall University. He is studying busi-
ness administration and is very much interested in going into a
business of his own. He would rather play baseball and basket-
ball than eat, and is a good pitcher for the Police Athletic League.

[ 1336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Alice has entered her first year of high school and hopes some
day to be a sportswear buyer. Wherever she arrived at this
choice we'll never know, but it is one of her pet ambitions.
Kenneth Rodney has just entered kindergarten — so, Lord, we

can’t get old. There is a difference of eight years between Alice

and him and he will be completing his first grade when his oldest
brother will finish college. We still have one big moment to live
for — to see Kenneth graduate from Harvard.

I have exhausted my spare time in such hobbies as bowling —

there is plenty of room for improvement — and a pinochle game
is something I should sit up for any night. I have done a bit of
charity work with the Veterans Administration for the hospitals,
as I have a love for my fellow man and thank God for the op-
portunity to be of service. My religion is Roman Catholic and
I am a registered Republican but wouldn’t hesitate to split my
vote if it would result in better government.

JULIAN LEON YESLEY

HOME ApprEss: 21 Rose Garden Circle, Brighton 35, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Tremont St., Boston 11, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1908, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Louis M., Bessie Hurwitz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; LLB. 1932.

MARRIED: Selma Muroff, June 21, 1936, Brooklyn, N. Y. cuitpren: Michael
Stephen, June 16, 1939, Joel Martin, March 12, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Herschel Irwin Yesley, ’30, M.B.A., 32; Shepard Henry
Yesley, '35, M.B.A. "37.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Harvard 1929 Class Committee; vice-president,
1947-49, president, New England Region, 1946-49, National Federa-
tion of Jewish Men’s Clubs; member Board of Directors, United
Synagogue of America, 1949-51; member Board of Trustees, Temple
Emeth, Brookline, Mass., 1950-52; vice-president, Alexander Hamilton
Home-and-School Association, Brighton, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts: Bar; Federal Bar.

IN June of 1929 I came out a Harvard man, but hardly an edu-
cated man. I had picked up a lot of specialized information but
gained little knowledge, for example, of ancient cultures or the
thinking of great men of history. Perhaps the reason was that
although Harvard invited you to enter its gates to “grow in wis-

[ 1337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Selma grows younger as I grow older, or so it seems. The elder
of my two sons is toiling at Boston Latin School, while the
younger is still in the elementary grades; they won't let me re-
tire yet from our informal exercises with bat, ball, racket, etc.,
although I do steal away for an occasional round of golf. For
extra-curricular activities, I have been active in temple affairs and
in the men’s club field, with particular interest in adult educa-
tion. I served several terms as vice-president of the National
- Federation of Jewish Men’s Clubs and on the Board of Directors
of the United Synagogue of America. I have also interested
myself in the doings of our local Home-and-School Association,
being presently a vice-president thereof. I have derived much
pleasure in Class activities as a latter-day member of the Class
Committee. It has been truly inspirational to watch Terry Col-
lens almost single-handedly instill an esprit de corps in the Class
that will immeasurably help to make for an outstanding and
spirit-full T'wenty-fifth Anniversary Reunion.

WILLIAM STERLING YOUNGMAN, JR.

HOME AppREssS: 778 Park Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 102 Maiden Lane, New York 5, N. Y.

BoRN: May 25, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: William Sterling Youngman,
’95, Helen Isabel Yerxa,

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925~1929. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1929; LL.B.
magna cum laude, 1932.

-MarrigD: Elsie Hooper Perkins, April 17, 1937, Framingham, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: William Sterling, 3d, Jan. 1, 1939; Robert Perkins, 1940; Steven
Gray, 1943; Elsie Forbes, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; insurance; president, C. V. Starr & Company, Inc.;
chairman of the Boards of Directors, Globe and Rutgers Fire Insur-
ance Company, American Home Fire Assurance Company, Insurance
Company of the State of Pennsylvania.

OFFICES HELD: General counsel, Federal Power Commission, Washington,
D. C., 1940-41; trustee, Weld Boat Club, Cambridge.

MEMBER OF: St. Botolph Club; Badminton and Tennis Club; Longwood
Cricket Club; Harvard Varsity Club; Chevy Chase Club, Washington;
Metropolitan Club, Washington, Down Town Association; River
Club; Harvard Club of New York, Lawyers’ Club; Essex County
Club, Manchester; Manchester Yacht Club; Singing Beach Club, Man-
chester.

[ 1340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FIVE years have passed since I wrote a Class report. In that time
my life has changed a good deal in that I have moved from Wash-
ington to New York, and have attempted to add the career of an
insurance man to that of a lawyer. While my Vicennial prophecy
that our negative postwar policy in China would get us into
trouble has been more than fulfilled by the Korean War, I now
take a somewhat more optimistic view of our chances of avoid-
ing war, and of winning it, if we do not.

After College, I went to Harvard Law School and participated
in my father’s political campaigns in Massachusetts. He was re-
elected lieutenant governor in 1930, but as Republican nominee
was defeated for governor in the Democratic landslide in 1932.
After Law School I was law secretary to Judge Learned Hand, a
distinguished judge, with whom I spent a most stimulating year.
From 1933 to 1939 I practised law in Boston with Palmer, Dodge,
Barstow, Wilkins & Davis, working principally with Robert G.
Dodge, a trial lawyer. These years afforded a broad legal ap-
prenticeship, as well as the inimitable joy of life in and around
Boston.

Owing to my support of President Roosevelt in 1936, and my
interest in public utility law, I was asked to come to Washington,
D. C., in 1939, to advise Mr. Harold Ickes, then Secretary of the
Interior and public works administrator, in matters relating to
public utilities. As a result of this work, I] was made general
counsel of the Federal Power Commission in Washington, D. C.,
early in 1940. The day I started work for this agency, I attended
a large government dinner at which no one present had ever heard
of the commission. This year, speaking of the Federal Power
Commission, Barron’s said it “exercises a vast authority over large
sections of the U.S. economy,” and added that its personnel are
“in fact, empire builders and breakers.” This commission, be-
cause of its far-reaching authority in interstate electric utility and
natural-gas matters had cases in all U.S. Circuit Courts of Appeals,
many U.S. District Courts, and frequent appeals to the Supreme
Court of the United States. I spent two very exhausting, re-
warding years helping the commission judicially define the
statutes delegated to it to administer. I travelled into almost every
state and worked with such agencies as the T.V.A., the Bonne-

[ 1341 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

ville Power Administration, Grand Coulee Dam Authority, Boul-
der Dam Authority, and the like.

After the war broke out in Europe and before it started in
Japan, I left the government, with the approval of President
Roosevelt, to assist Dr. T. V. Soong in his efforts to build up
General Chennault’s Flying Tiger Air Force to stop Japanese air
attacks on undefended Chinese cities, and to procure war supplies
for his government in its fight against Japan. Dr. Soong, shortly
thereafter, became foreign minister of China and as his principal
American assistant, I worked for four years in nearly every as-
pect of the Chinese-American war effort, both in India and in
China, as well as in the United States. The Air Transport opera-
tion over the Himalayas, or the “Hump,” was one of the projects
in which my associates and I participated. The Chinese govern-
ment was kind enough to decorate me for this work during the
war.

At the close of the war, I became a member of the law firm of
Corcoran & Youngman, Washington, D. C., in association with
Thomas G,. Corcoran. Corcoran is the greatest advocate I have
ever seen in action, and is far more altruistic and public-spirited
than his critics credit. I specialized particularly in international
business matters. Our interests ranged from postwar airlines in
China to the pharmaceutical business in Latin America, news-
papers in France, and bananas in Central America. We did not
always prevail, although we often did, and we always had fun.

In 1949 Cornelius V. Starr, one of my clients, asked me to join
his organization as president of C. V. Starr & Company, Inc., the
owner of American International Underwriters Corporation
which deals in insurance on risks overseas. Mr. Starr, an imagina-
tive American overseas-businessman, has built up from a small
beginning in China in 1920 the principal competitor of the British
in fire, marine, and casualty insurance in countries outside the
United States. In this work, I have travelled to scores of insur-
ance offices in most of the countries and continents of the world,
and have acquired many friends and associates of many different
nationalities of whom I am very fond. Our organization has
grown rapidly, and when it recently acquired control of Globe
and Rutgers Fire Insurance Company, American Home Fire As-
surance Company, and the Insurance Company of the State of

[ 1342 ]

ren rinse ging pe Rigen Ree nese UPA neem SEH

neni Bement.

Jess

BELA a IN Co RONNIE Sa UR Tg PT ELE PY

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Pennsylvania, I became chairman of the boards of directors of
these three companies.

As a lawyer, I am a member of the bars of New York, Massa-
chusetts, District of Columbia, and the Supreme Court of the
United States. In spite of my insurance business activities, I still
think of myself as a lawyer, and have not outgrown a very real
desire for further public service.

LAZARUS SIMON YUDIN

HOME ADDRESS: 4§ Plainfield St., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: R. H. White's, Boston 11, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1909, Salem, Mass. parents: Ydel Yudin, Gertrude Sklar-
sky.

PREPARED AT; Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: S.B. cus laude, 1929.

MARRIED: Genevive Goldberg, May 31, 1936, New York, N. Y. cHILpReN:
Elinor Barry, Sept. 10, 1940; David Eliot, June 22, 1943.

occupation: Merchandise manager, main floor departments (intimate

- apparel and shoes), member Executive Committee, R. H. White’s.

OFFICES HELD: Member Department Store Committee, Federation of Jewish

Philanthropies of New York, 1945-52.

HAVING selected department store work as my field after
graduation, I find myself, after all these turbulent years of depres-
sion, war, and postwar “peace,” still in the same field. In fact, I
am now back at the same store, R. H. White’s, where I started
shortly after graduation. After spending four years there as a
trainee and assistant to various merchandise managers, I went to
New York in 1933 to Stern Brothers as an assistant merchandise
manager. The economies of the depression eliminated this posi-
tion in six months and so I chose fortunately a position at Hahne
and Company in Newark, New Jersey. I say fortunately, for
here I met and married Genevive, who was a buyer there. After
all these years she remains still the best “buy” in all my years of
buying and merchandising. From Hahne’s, where I became a shoe
buyer, I went to F rederick Loeser and Company, Brooklyn, New
York, as shoe buyer, then merchandise manager of various divi-

sions, for fourteen very happy years. The death of the owner

forced the sale of the business in 1950 to a group of investors who

felt they could make more money liquidating the business than

[ 1343 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

running it. This they did, and so I transferred my activities to
S. Klein’s as merchandise manager. This highly promotion] .
type of operation I found not to my liking. After a year, lac. -
cepted an offer to come back to Boston to White’s. Thus after —
twenty years away, I find myself again living on the banks of —

the Charles — at Waban — and loving it.

My only regret about department store work is that it isso —
demanding of time and energy that it has left very little of either »
for outside activities and civic affairs. My consolation has been |

the civic work that my wife was able to do in Freeport, New
York, during the ten years we lived there. We have the typical
“American” family — Elinor who is thirteen and fast becoming
a pretty talented young lady, and David, ten, who is not typical,
but lovingly individual. Our summer vacations in Lake Placid
and our other trips together, baseball games with the children
and their friends and their friends’ parents, our family tennis
doubles, provide lots of fun and relaxation together. Tennis—
doubles of course by now— remains my principal form of ex-
ercise. Ping-pong, bridge, pinochle, and gin rummy serve as ad-
ditional forms of recreation. Gardening and being Mr. Fixit
around the house I enjoy when time and energy permit.

After being turned down for a commission in the Navy be-
cause of faulty eyesight, I was eventually drafted but not called.
While waiting to be called, I joined the New York State guard
where I served two years.

I belong to Temple Shalom in Newton, a reformed Jewish
congregation. My politics are definitely not fixed in view of the
fact that the distinction between Democrats and Republicans is
not very clear, particularly between conservative Republicans and
reactionary Democrats. I feel that the economic welfare of the
country is strongly dependent upon the economic welfare of the
“little man.” The party or office-holder who advocates and
practises this is the one whom I shall support — be he Republican
or Democrat. As I write this, the controversy of Senator McCar-
thy versus Harvard is raging. The potential danger of such 2
demagogue attacking this institution with its traditions and record
of accomplishments over the centuries, is frightening. Our need
to protect our institutions, their freedoms and independence is
obvious. More power to you, “Nate!”

[ 1344 ]

cee wang ibe cate awthchet g enenecragese ELE ES Tem
shat ate SRA SAO GREY Eee

Lae AERA RMT TSE IAN TRAE RSS
. __ je ee nH BEPC ND ISM I IED
nla NEDA eee IE SSE

a
¥
z
‘

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD ZAKON

HOME AppREsS: 34A Park St. Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Zakon Associates, 27 School St. Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: June 29, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: William Zakon, Elizabeth
Berkman.

PREPARED AT: Huntington Preparatory School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1929,

MARRIED: Lillian F. Rubinstein, Jan. 17, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Alan James, Dec. 26, 1935; Joan Irene, Oct. 25, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Alan James Zakon, ’57.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Zakon, °34.

occupaTION: Liquor business; investments.

MEMBER OF: Boston Club; IOOF; KIB.

FONDLY deciding to go into the business world after gradu-
ation, I kicked around several jobs after the stock market crash,
getting nothing but experience. I finally innovated, manufac-
tured, and marketed a transparent sleeve cuff protector for office
girls, a product which fortunately met with an astonishing suc-
cess in a small way.

Since youth is easily encouraged, I immediately made plans to
marry the girl I squired to the senior affairs, Lillian Rubinstein.
On returning from our honeymoon, I found a National Bank
Holiday which resulted in an almost total loss of business from
which we recovered very slowly but surely. With the advent
of repeal in December, 1933, I left that business in order to enter
the liquor business with my father and brothers and have re-
mained in this business since.

With the arrival of son Alan James in 1935, I settled down to
the role of a devoted father and have spent many happy days
with him on trips, on the water, on the golf course, and over his
geometry books. A particularly proud day for me was when, at
the age of thirteen, Alan in company with me and my friends
hooked and brought in after a terrific twenty-five-minute strug-
gle, a beautiful trophy sailfish off the gulf measuring six-feet-six-
inches and weighing forty-four pounds. Another proud day for
me was when I walked through the Harvard Yard to visit Alan
at Thayer where he is in residence as a freshman.

My wife and I were again blessed in 1945 with the birth of our
daughter Joan Irene who completed our little family and who is

[1345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

a constant source of happiness to us as we both approach the
milestone towards our Twenty-fifth Reunions (Lil’s next year)
and our twenty-fifth wedding anniversary.

EDMUND IGNACE ZAWACKI

HOME ADDRESS: 1415 Vilas Ave., Madison 5, Wis.
OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Wisconsin, Madison 6, Wis.

BoRN: Feb. 1, 1908, Easthampton, Mass. PARENTS: Andrew Zawacki, Kazi.
miera Albertowicz.

PREPARED AT: Easthampton High School, Easthampton, Mass., Williston
Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1929; A.M., 1930; PHD,
1942.

mMarrieD: Maria Akst, Oct. 9, 1934, Wabrzezno, Poland (died Aug. 29, 1949);
Helen Baycar, June 24, 1950, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Ian Edmund,
Feb. 18, 1941; Janice Katherine, April 29, 1951; Andrew Paul, Jan. 11,
1954.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of Slavic languages and literatures, chair-
man, Department of Slavic Languages, University of Wisconsin.
OFFICES HELD: Corresponding member, 1945-50, member, since 1950, Polish
Institute of Arts and Sciences in America; U.S. Foreign Service officer,
1947; president, American Association of Teachers of Slavic and East
European Languages, 1948; trustee, Kosciuszko Foundation, since 1950,
cubmaster, Cub Scout Pack 321, Madison, 1951-54; program chairman,

Longfellow School P.T.A., Madison, 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: Madison Literary Club; ABC Club; Fourth Monday Club;
Madison Art Club; Madison Mushroom Club; Polish Roman Catholic
Union. . .

pusLications: “The Polish National Spirit” (chapter in Poland, United Na-
tions series, University of California Press, 1946, “The Utopianism of
Stefan Zeromski,” in American Slavic and East European Review, 1943;
“Nicolaus Copernicus, the Man and His Times,” Bulletin of the Polish
Institute of Arts and Sciences in America, 1944; numerous reviews in
various periodicals; numerous articles in local newspaper, Wisconsin
State Journal.

I HAD the good luck to find the profession I like without any
false starts. Teaching has given me a gratifying life even if, at
times, a hard one. I went to Poland to my first teaching job out
of College, and remained there long enough to travel about east-
erm Europe, get married, and save enough money to bring my
wife back to America with me. Those six years in Europe went

by fast.
[ 1346 ]

tah) Rieter “Tame

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It was my Polish wife—may the soil of America rest
lightly on her — who influenced me to return to Harvard for a
Doctorate in Slavic studies. I took it finally in 1942, the first
one granted by Harvard, as I understand. By that time I was a
lecturer in Polish at the University of Wisconsin. Regular pro-
motions, for merit I trust, have since made me an associate pro-
fessor. My longer publications are not yet entirely out of the
inkwell, but my department has grown vigorously into one of
the relatively few in the country with the distinguished staff
and library collections attractive to Ph.D. studies in particular.
After the war, for reasons not very clear to me, my name was
found on a list of American scholars slated for liquidation by the
Nazis.

My two marriages have given me more than just my three
children. A man is blessed if he marries well, and I have done
that twice. If a mortgage adds respectability to marital blessed-
ness, then we have that, too, and a nice little house to live in.

My political convictions are as strong as they are unorthodox,
and I do not hesitate to act on them by the means available to me.
Since I have come to believe that the Communist Party of the
Soviet Union and Communism everywhere can be overthrown
far more easily than most of the experts, even at Harvard, imag-
ine, I have done some work towards this end. As I write
this “life” — one of the much goaded ones I am ashamed to say
— the Javits bill is about to be introduced in the 83rd Congress,
a piece of legislation formulated on a series of unpublished anal-
yses of the cold war made by me. Fantastic as the provisions
of this bill may appear at first sight, they make plain common
sense in the glare of the H-bomb, which is, after all, the light
by which our foreign policy must make sense now and in the
future.

My understanding of what constitutes scholarship has, in this
connection, led me to take even Harvard University Press to
task over the book Poland: White Eagle on a Red Field. Those
responsible for the assessment of this book as scholarship worthy
of Harvard’s name and prestige, should be hung on a hook for
a while, at least until they themselves recognize that the atomic
age is upon us. I hope President Pusey will forgive me the extra

[ 1347 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

headache inflicted on him at a time of considerable other trouble
from Wisconsin, I had no part in the latter.

These remarks bring this “life” right up to my present activi-
ties. It occurs to me, in conclusion, that our Fiftieth Reunion
will be something really to look forward to in this strange and,
I hope, brave new world.

JOHN WALLACE ZELLER
HOME ADDRESS: 272 Oakland St., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1180 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: June 21, 1906, Sault Ste. Marie, Mich. parents: Simeon Zeller, Jenny
Wallace.

prePARED AT: Central High School, Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1929; M.D., 1933-
MarRiED: Ruth Anne Kurts, March 9, 1945, Bath, Somerset, England. cum-

prEN: Martin Ellsworth, Jan, 17, 1946; Walter Christian, March 17, 1947.
occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Associate visiting physician, Massachusetts General Hospital;
visiting physician, House of the Good Samaritan, Boston; consultant in

rheumatic diseases, Lakeville State Sanatorium; instructor in medicine,
Harvard Medical School.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; American Rheumatism Associa-
tion; Aesculapian Club of Boston.
PUBLICATIONS: Papers related to rheumatic diseases.

MY history since graduation from College falls naturally into
three phases. From 1929 till I began Army service in 1942, most
of my time was spent obtaining training in internal medicine and
doing some modest research work at the Massachusetts General
Hospital. Actually I had been in private practice in Boston for
about eight months before going into the Army. The second
period was one of military service. It was not too unsatisfactory
professionally. I was able to keep up with current medical prob-
lems as ward officer, and later as a medical service chief in a
general hospital. The principal value of this period, however,
was domestic in nature. I emerged from the Army in 1946 with
a wife and a very young son. Since that time I have made a sec-
ond belated start in practice. For me, then, this last stage of earn-
ing a living and having a family started only nine years ago.
For most of the members of the Class of 1929, this phase of ex-
istence began during the 1930’s, at least ten years earlier. ] am

[ 1348 ]

espeest ee rmoucee ton gene bee amr ee SS .
ae sem een ar re Ma PBEM SE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sure everyone has difficulty accepting the fact that he is old
enough to have a Twenty-fifth Anniversary College Reunion.
In my own Case, it is especially hard to realize, because of my
late start as a family man.

As with most doctors, my activities of the past few years have
centered mainly about work and family. Every year or two we
spend a few weeks in northern Michigan during the summers.
Both my wife and I maintain an ardent interest in skiing. For
the past six or seven years a week in New Hampshire around
the middle of March has never failed to convince us that we
have not yet developed the expert abilities we stubbornly feel
we possess. Ice skating and gardening are other seasonal activi-
ties which continue to interest us.

I have always felt a great debt to Haravrd College for the valu-
able four years I spent there. At times since graduating, how-
ever, I have thought that a broader understanding of people, in-
cluding myself, should have resulted from my College studies
and activities. Knowledge of this type is necessary for everyone,
but indispensable for a practising physician. Possibly it can be
gained only by experience. I regret though that I was unable to
appreciate its importance twenty-five years ago.

LOUIS ZETZEL

HOME appress: 14 Hubbard Park, Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 17 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

Born: March 11, 1909, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Morris Zetzel, Rebecca
Kristal.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1929. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1929; M.D 1934.

MARRIED: Muriel T. Bashlow, Feb. 22, 1934, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. (died July
18, 1947); Dr. Elizabeth Rosenberg Guttman, June 26, 1949, London,
England. curtpren: Ellen Louise, Sept. 13, 1940; Judith Ann, March
16, 1942; James Eric Guttman, March 26, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Physician with special interest in gastroenterology.

OFFIcEs HELD: Clinical associate in medicine, Harvard Medical School; con-
sultant in medicine to surgeon general; associate visiting physician, Beth
Israel Hospital, Boston; attending in medicine, Boston Veterans Hos-
pital; vice-president, Boston Chapter, American Jewish Committee;
member Editorial Board, Quarterly Review of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Gastroenterological Association;

[ 1349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

Massachusetts Medical Society; American Federation for Clinical Re.
search.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles on internal medicine and gastroenterology,
. . ° . ’
“Diseases of Gastro-intestinal Tract” (co-author), History of Medical
Department Activities in World War II (prepared for surgeon gen.

eral, U. S. Army); progress reports on treatment peptic ulcer and
colitis, New England Journal of Medicine.

MY decision to study medicine delayed the necessity and means
of earning a livelihood for almost ten years after College gradu-
ation. In the interim I spent four months between terms in Medi-
cal School as a member of a joint Harvard-Rockefeller expedition
studying the anemia of hookworm infestation and sprue in Puerto
Rico. Here I narrowly escaped the wrath and consequences of an
international incident when the doodlings of a senior member of
the group were misinterpreted to fan the flames of insular na-
tionalism. After graduation from medical school, several years
of postgraduate study culminated in visiting selected clinics of
gastroenterology in England and Scandinavia. My interest in
this sub-specialty of internal medicine came from an early associ-
ation on a research project as a medical student with Dr. William
Castle of Boston. He had earlier demonstrated the relationship
of various types of anemia to defects in the stomach — the crucial
experiments involving the feeding of regurgitated gastric con-
tents (sic), without flavoring or other disguise, from the normal
to anemic stomachs! |

My war service was all spent in this country, and I served ulti-
mately as chief of medicine in Army hospitals in the Southwest.
I am afraid my record as a soldier would not reflect credit on our
drillmaster. In fact so ludicrous was the example of my “‘march-
ing and drilling” to the more junior enlisted men, that the whole
attempt to indoctrinate our medical officer contingent into the
Army life of line officers was quickly forsaken!

I returned to Boston to resume my practice of medicine and
faculty affiliation with the Medical School, in May, 1946. In a
little over a year after returning to Boston, my wife succumbed
to a rapidly progressive malignancy. ‘wo years later I married
my present wife, also a physician. Our home is less than a mile
from the Harvard Yard. Here I can enjoy my favorite hobbies
of gardening and tennis, whenever a fickle back permits.

[ 1350 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARLAND WILLIAM ZIMMERMAN

HOME AppRESs: 15 S. W. Second St., Delray Beach, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Paul’s Church, Swinton Avenue and Second Street, Del-
ray Beach, Fla.

BORN: July 1, 1907, Shamokin, Pa. parents: William Francis Zimmerman,
Hattie Roberta Srahl.

PREPARED AT: Philadelphia Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1925-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1929(31); BD. (Drew Theologi-
cal Seminary), 1938.

MarRiIED: Elinore G, Burns, Feb. 23, 1929, New York, N. Y. campren:
Richard Frederick Hensyl, Jan. 3, 1930; Carol J., Aug. 4, 1939.

HARVARD SON: Richard Frederick Hensyl Zimmerman, ’51.

occuPaTION: Priest, Episcopal Church, rector, St. Paul’s Church.

OFFICES HELD: Rector, St. Peter’s Church, Clifton, N. J. 1940-41, St. John’s
Church, Southampton, Long Island, 1941-44, Zion Church, Douglaston,
Long Island, 1944-48, St. Mark’s Church, Cocoa, Fla, 1948-52, St.
Paul’s Church, Delray Beach, since 1952; member Church Charity
Foundation, Diocese Long Island, 1946-48; member Cathedral School
Board, Diocese South Florida, 1950-32; member Board of Diocesan
Endowment Trustees, since 1951; visiting chaplain, professor of
biblical studies, Graham-Eckes School, Palm Beach, Fla.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia (formerly); Harvard Club of
Central Florida.

+ GEORGE LYNCH ZORN

BORN: June 24, 1905, Hobart, N. Y. parents: William Zorn, Amy Burroughs
Lynch.

PREPARED aT: Hobart High School, Hobart, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: S.B., 1929.

piep: Aug. 26, 1931, Hobart, N. Y.

BEFORE entering College, Zorn had spent a year in the Harvard
Engineering School. While with our Class he held a Parmenter
Scholarship and served as editor of the Phillips Brooks House
“Handbook,” advertising manager of the H. A. A. News, and
advertising manager of the Harvard-Yale Regatta program.
After graduation he entered Craigmyle & Company, investment
bankers in New York City. He later joined the Delaware,
Lackawanna & Western Coal Company.

[1351 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

In Memoriam

* Deaths reported since 1949
*Abraham Martin Aloff, April 28, 1954, Boston, Mass.
Francis Edwin Beatty Anderson, Jan. 1, 1946, Chicago, Ill.
Hyman Alexander August, Jan. 20, 1944, Ogden, Utah.
Theodore King Babcock, June 16, 1942, Boston, Mass.
*George Kennedy Bailey, July 10, 1951, Easton, Md.
James Knox Barre, Nov. 19, 1946, Cleveland, Ohio.
*Bruce Hilton Beal, Nov. 25, 1953, Hartford, Conn.
Norman Jacob Beisel, Jr., June 21, 1933, Philadelphia, Pa.
*Henry Adolph Boeckeler, Sept. 6, 1953, Tucson, Ariz.
Paul Conroy Bradley, Dec. 29, 1930, New York, N.Y.
Elton Augustus Breil, Aug. 28, 1948, Boston, Mass.
Isham Carpenter, Sept. 10, 1926, Chicago, Ill.
Creighton Marcellus Churchill, Nov. 3, 1940, Huron, S.Dak.

George Crawford Clark, Jr., July 6, 1932, Southampton, Long

Island, N.Y.
Nathaniel Stone Clifford, Aug. 5, 1943, Guadalcanal area.

*Louis Cohen, April 18, 1954, Passaic, N.J.
Irving Abraham Colpak, June 28, 1928, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Joseph Potter Cotton, Jr., Jan. 5, 1945, Rome, Italy.
Edgar Jacobs Davis, Jan. 2, 1949, Merrimac, Mass.
Leonard Johannes de Groot, March 10, 1944, Japan.

Lincoln Chadbourne Denton, Sept. 14, 1935, Mt. Beacon, N.Y.

Smith Owen Dexter, Jr., Nov. 25, 1939, Annapolis, Md.

William Harold Donehue, Feb. 10, 1936, Lowell, Mass.
*William Moody Dow, Sept. 18, 1952, Napa, Calif.

William Lukens Elkins, Sept. 3, 1933, Penllyn, Pa.

Elbridge Gerry Emmons, Jr., Nov. 19, 1931, Glendale, Mass.
* James Joseph Faggiano, Dec. 30, 1953, Boston, Mass.

William Garbose, Aug. 31, 1940, near Lovettsville, Va.

Allen Moore Geissler, Sept. 5, 1942, Garden City, Long Island,

N.Y.
Gunnar John Gelotte, March 7, 1937, Bombay, India.
Robert Boit Gierasch, Jan. 15, 1930, Lexington, Mass.

[ 1353 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1929

*J. Lesser Goldman, March 2, 1951, St. Louis, Mo.

Walter Chapman Goodwin, March 31, 1937, New York, N.Y,

George Denver Guggenheim, Nov. 9, 1939, New York, N.Y,

Robert Bruce Harkness, Jr., Dec. 17, 1933, Boston, Mass.
*Erwyn Henry Harriman, May 11, 1950, Oakland, Calif.

Thaddeus Andrew Hepke, Sept. ro, 1930, Cambridge Springs,

Pa.

Philip Hichborn, June 9, 1936, Los Angeles, Calif.

Mark Elroy Hilliard, Dec. 24, 1935, Manchester, N.H.

David Howard Holzman, July 1, 1940, Boston, Mass.

*David William Houck, Sept. 6, 1950, New York, N.Y.
*William Jay Iselin, April 10, 1951, near Vienna, Va.

Reginald Francis Johnson, Aug. 27, 1934, Boston, Mass.
*Daniel Fiske Jones, Jr., March 5, 1951, Matunuck, R.I.

Charles Crane Leatherbee, Jan. 29, 1935, New York, N.Y.
*Donald Merriam Leith, Nov. 27, 1950, Chevy Chase, Md.

Tobias Levinson, May 15, 1944, Sheppard Field, Texas.

Joseph Rowe Little, April 11, 1938, Rutland, Mass.

*Thomas Francis Lydon, Jan. 5, 1951, Winchester, Mass.

John Henderson McKesson, April 25, 1927, Norwalk, Conn.

James Proctor Mandell, July 24, 1929, Norwood, Mass.

William Wayne Neff, June 4, 1928, Stonington, Conn.

Thomas Donato Petrella, 1937, Spain.

Henry Harrison Proctor, July 6, 1948, off Marblehead, Mass.
*Edmund John Repetto, Sept. 19, 1953, Charlotte, N.C.
*Joshua Sands, Jr., Aug. 30, 1951, Buffalo, N.Y.

*George Alfred Sawin, Jr., Sept. 21, 1950, Newton, Mass.
*Lawrence Milton Shapiro, Aug. 26, 1953, New York, N.Y.

Gordon Hutchins Shaw, March 10, 1926, Brookline, Mass.

Norman Blondel Smith, Feb. 18, 1946, Cambridge, Mass.
*Edwin Henry Steiner, July 5, 1952, Woodmere, Long Island,

N.Y.

Francis John Sullivan, April 28, 1926, Boston, Mass.

James Keith Symmers, Jr., Dec. 3, 1928, Charlottesville, Va.

Archibald Gourlay Thacher, Jr., Oct. 17, 1944, Lakeville, Conn.

Richard Waterman Thayer, Nov. 2, 1932, Albany, N.Y.

George Shepley Tiffany, Jr., Jan. 6, 1944, at sea.

John Tudor, Aug. 19, 1929, Fall River, Mass.

Gustave Henry Umbsen, March 6, 1935, San Francisco, Calif.

[ 1354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Robert Harding Weatherhead, Aug. 23, 1947, Rome, Italy.
Roger Denison Whedon, Jan. 1, 1931, Darien, Conn,
Robert Murray Whittemore, Nov. 23, 1937, Boston, Mass.
William Hamlin Wilder, Jr., Sept. 25, 1931, near Towagani,
Ont., Canada.

*George Lane Winlock, Jr., March 5, 1950, Philadelphia, Pa.
Dudley Francis Wolfe, July 30, 1939, Tibet.
George Lynch Zorn, Aug. 26, 1931, Hobart, N.Y.

Addendum

After this Report went to press, the Secretary learned of th.
deaths of Dr. Louis Cohen on April 18, 1954, at Passaic, Nev
Jersey, and Abraham Martin Aloff on April 28, 1954, at Boston
Massachusetts, too late to substitute obituaries for the biographie:
which they had sent in for the book.

[1355]

