*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

AARVARD CLA
OF 1939

cy fifth Anniversary Re

 

CAMBRIDGE

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1930
Records of the Class

CHARLES HOWSON ABBE

HOME ApDpRESS: R.D. 2, Newtown, Bucks Co., Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harrison & Abramovitz, 630 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1907, Plainfield, N. J. parents: William Abbe, '98, Louisa
Hart Howson.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; B.ARCH. (New York Univ.),
1934.

MARRIED: Virginia Junggren, April 27, 1935, Schenectady, N. Y. (died
March 8, 1953); Frances Berry Spencer, May 15, 1954, Swarthmore, Pa.
CHILDREN; Cassandra Junggren, Aug. 10, 1936; Charles Junggren, Apnil 1,
1941; Elma Junggren, Jan. 1, 1944.

occupPaTION: Architect.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Pennsylvania Society of
Architects.

PUBLICATIONS: New Houses from Old, 1948, Home Mechanics Outdoor
Handbook, 1950 (both with R. R. Hawkins).

TWENTY-FIVE years of practising architecture, raising chil-
dren, educating them, living on a farm in Bucks County, commut-
ing to New York City to work, should, I suppose, be so full of
interest that there wouldn’t be space enough here to write it all.
As it is, I am not an autobiographer. Perhaps, at the end of the
second twenty-five years, I shall have learned how to be one.

WILLIAM ANDERSON ABBOT

HOME Appress: Riverside Avenue, Riverside, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Streat Coal Co., 149th and Exterior Sts. New York, N.Y.

BORN: March 9, 1908, Yarmouthport, Mass. parents: Henry Ward Abbor,
*86, Isabel Anderson.

[1]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

PREPARED AT: Stuyvesant School, New York.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Mildred D. DePoe, May 1, 1937, New York, N. Y. cHILpREen:
William Anderson, Jr, June 20, 1939; Richard Leach, Feb. 29, 1941;
Cynthia Gair, Nov. 28, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry W. Abbot, ’25.

occuPaTION: Coal Salesman.

NOW let’s see what I have to say for myself twenty-five years
later. Tama happy man, and for the past fourteen years I have
been living in a pleasant little section of Greenwich called River-
side, I have been reasonably quiet — or as quiet as two boys and a
girl will allow one to be.

As a commuter I ride the N.Y.N.H. rails every day, and in
the withdrawn atmosphere of an early morning commuters’ train,
I read the papers. Often I am staggered by the new philosophy of
our country and the rising national debt, especially in relation to
me.

Streat Coal Company is still my master and has been since 1932.
However, May ist we merged with the Sinram Reading Coals.
As you may know, anthracite — alas — is no longer the leading
fuel, but there is still a lot of coal to be sold in a city as large as
New York. I am optimistic about the coming year. We do hope
to go to the Twenty-fifth Reunion. My boys are especially
thrilled, and I can’t wait to see my beaming face mirrored on the
pates of my 1930 Classmates.

HAIG GREGORY ABDIAN

HOME apprEss: 76 School St. Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Compt. Div., Hq, U.S. EUCOM,, A.P.O. 128, P.M., New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1910, Springfield, Mass. parents: Gregory Nazareth Abdian,
Emma Ophlia Bridges.

PREPARED AT: Troy High School, Troy, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

occuPATION: Military service.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files,

[2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT MARYSON ABEL

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Summit Ave., Larchmont, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1910, New York, N. Y. parents: Samuel Abel, Dorothy
Maryson.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

MarRIED: Esther Frank, Aug. 24, 1936, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Court reporter.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

WARREN ALLEN ABRAHAMSON

HOME ADDRESS: 86-24 Grand Ave., Elmhurst, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Consolidated Edison Co. of N. Y., Inc., 4 Irving Pl. New
York 3, N. Y.

BORN: June 13, 1908, Brockton, Mass. parents: Abraham Abrahamson, Jen-
nie Allen.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: S.B. magna cum laude, 1931.

MARRIED: Hazel Laura Dahlborg, Nov. 1, 1936, Brockton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Warren Allen, Jr., April 12, 1939; Robert Carl, Feb. 24, 1943.

occupation: Engineer.

AFTER bidding “so long” to my classmates in June, 1930, I re-
turned to Cambridge for another year. Earlier I had chosen to
take advantage of the opportunity to combine several of the
fundamental courses offered by the Business School with the
regular Engineering School program, thereby extending my resi-
dency at Cambridge to a total of five good and valuable years.

However, as June, 1931, approached, certain economic forces
were making themselves felt with vengeance and it was evident
that new entrants to the nation’s labor force were not going to
be welcomed with open arms — quite the contrary. I count my-
self fortunate in that I was able to find a niche in the public utility
industry and to begin immediately the practical application of the
fundamentals and theories that had been so carefully and thor-
oughly instilled during the preceding academic years. I went to .
work for the Brooklyn Edison Company, at that time an affiliate
of (and now merged into) the Consolidated Edison Company of
New York, Inc.

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

This began a business association which has continued to the
present. Starting as a cadet engineer, I have, for varying periods,
become involved in several phases of the system’s operations —
including plant operations, large power sales, purchasing, finance,
and accounting. At present, I find myself concerned with engi-
neering-economic analyses in connection with both day-to-day
and long-term operating and administrative problems. Not the
least of these has been the continuing defense of our business —
managed utilities, It is encouraging to hear enunciated a national
power policy which does not presume that all wisdom and know-
how hes with the federal government.

The story of our family is the usual mixture of happiness,
hopes, and irritations found in the typical family. In 1936, the
gal in my life agreed to make my life happier — how she could
work with the “raw material” which she got, I shall never know,
but succeed she has! In a few years our “hopes and irritations”
arrived: Allen in 1939 and Bob in 1943. The family problems of
the moment seem to revolve about the proper balance between
study and extra-curricular activities for teen-agers. Basketball and
track practice, Glee Club rehearsals, and preparations for réles in
amateur theatricals seem to be crowding out algebra, physics,
history, French, et al., understandably — but problematical. We
are fortunate to be able to spend a part of each summer at Cape
Cod — fishing, swimming, and other relaxing activities, which
only the Cape can provide.

At the present, most of my own free time is taken up with the
duties of assistant district commissioner in the Queens Council of
the Boy Scouts of America. There are few as satisfying hobbies:
try it and find out!

WILLIAM REYNOLDS BEAL ACKER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 27 Everett St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

_ Born: Oct. 17, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Ernest Acker,
Alice Beal.

PREPARED AT: Sidwell’s Friends School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1930(29); pR.PHIL.
(Univ. of Leiden, Holland), 1940.

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Mignon Sherley, Burks Falls, Ont. Canada (divorced 1954);
Deborah Stowe, Sept. 11, 1954, Geneseo, N. Y. cHILDREN: Mignon
Alice, Aug. 11, 1935; Reynolds Beal, Aug. 11, 1937; Lewis Sherley,
June 2, 1940.

OccuUPATION: Orientalist.

OFFICES HELD: Cadet in the field, Leiden, Holland, 1929-32, Kyéto, Japan,
1932-37, Leiden, 1939-40, Washington, D. C., 1940-43, Freer Gallery of
Art, Smithsonian Institution, member Office of War Information,
Chungking, 1943; staff member, Freer Gallery of Art.

PUBLICATIONS: Fundamentals of Japanese Archery, Kyoto, 1937; The Wall-
paintings of Hérytigi, by Naité Toichiro, translated and edited with
Benjamin Rowland, Jr., Baltimore, 1943, T’ao the Hermit, sixty poems
by T’ao Ch’ien (365-427 A.D.), Thames and Hudson, New York, 1952;
T’ang and Pre-T’ang texts on Chinese painting, E. J. Brill, Leiden,
Holland, 1954.

DOUGLAS PAYNE ADAMS

HOME ApDpREsS: 6 Bellevue Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3-338 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39,
Mass. |

BorN: April 14, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Luther Payne Adams, Grace
Adele Park. .

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1933-

marRiED: Marian Harmon Stanwood, July 15, 1937, Rindge, N. H. CHILDREN:
Hope Freeman, Oct. 23, 1942; Louise Harmon, Dec. 13, 1945; Douglas
Park, Aug. 27, 1947.

occuPATION: Associate professor of engineering graphics; teaching and re-
search in graphics — specialty of nomography.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, 1938-43, assistant professor, 1943-48, associate pro-
fessor, since 1948, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; visiting lec-
turer in applied science, Harvard University, 1947; chairman, Commit-
tee on Engineering and Scientific Charts for Publication, American
Standards Association, 1949, Committee on Nomography, Engineering
Drawing Division, American Society for Engineering Education, 1954,
Administrative Services, 1948, 1949, Census-Tracting Committee, 1948,
Cambridge Community Federation; deputy director, 1943-45, member
staff, since 1945, Cambridge Civilian Defense; member Mavor’s Citizens’
Committee for a Cambridge School Building Program, since 1951; vice-
chairman, Disaster Committee, Cambridge Chapter American Red Cross,
1946, 1947; director, Central Consumers’ Codéperative of Cambridge,
1947; president, English High School Alumni Association, Inc. (20,000),
1949, 1950; member New England Committee, Harvard Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar; Boston Bar Association; American Society

[5]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

for Engineering Education; American Society of University Professors;
American Association for the Advancement of Science (fellow); Bos-

tonian Society; Veteran Motor Car Club of America; Civil Defense
Research Associates, Inc.

pusLicaTions: Elements of Nomography, with R. D. Douglass, McGraw-Hill,
1947; An Index of Nomograms, Wiley and the MILT. Press, 1950;
Advanced Nomograpby (manuscnipt form); numerous publications,
frequently in nomography, in technical periodical journals.
AS soon as I got through with the Law School, I married a girl
whom I met at a party given by one of the math professors. My
odd career to date seemed to strengthen, rather than weaken, her
confidence in me; she continued to show this confidence and I
do hope always will. I rewarded her by switching immediately
from law to M.-T., as a means of providing her wtih carfare so
that she could continue to help support me while I pondered
careers. At M.I-T., however, the teaching of graphical mathe-
matics quickly became a hobby as well as a livelihood. That part
of it known as nomography turned out to be relatively unknown
in this country, except for elementary aspects. In case you are
wondering what nomography is, I recommend that you read my
elementary text (McGraw-Hill, 1947), which will bring me fifty
cents and you the utmost confusion. I find this an ideal way to
discourage fresh competition. Should you survive, however, I
will gladly provide you with a copy of my advanced manuscript,
portions of which are still Greek to me whenever I reread them.
One benefit of teaching at M.L-T. is that I seldom lack for students
who can tell me what I had in mind.

Another benefit of this amazing place is that a man’s brothers
or nephews or sons are apt to go there on the strength of his rec-
ommendation. The first day you find in your class a student
whose father you taught will also find you doing a little quiet
reflecting. The panorama of the years spreads out with horrify-
ing clarity and you realize that your Twenty-fifth is almost here.
The thought of that son’s son and your Fiftieth raises an intri-
guing possibility, however technical.

A specific for overindulgence in such directions is to be faculty
chairman of M.I.T. biennial Open House Day. For three months
ahead, the thought of 30,000 people beating a pathway to the
door suggests that, indeed, a better mousetrap has been invented
and you are in it. Another cure is to show up on time for M.1.T,

[6]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Choral Society practice, whereby, standing alone at this early
hour, it is clear that you need a great deal more practice with the
bass (there’s reason — you sang tenor at Harvard). So you move
on as inconspicuously as possible to the Staff Players’ reading
where, as Androcles in Shaw’s Androcles and the Lion, your
every gyration is bound to make sense —there being no lion.
Such experience qualifies you to counsel the incoming freshmen,
especially as you enjoyed doing this very much at Harvard
twenty years ago; only now they do it with a couch. If a chance
comes to be a Visiting Lecturer at your Alma Mater, consulting
work is bound to move over some.

Every American should participate in civic affairs. This is
especially appealing when you are blessed with the local reform
movement which, history suggests, is notorious for maintaining a
titanic head of super-heated zeal for years and years and years.
You work before, during, and after elections. You work to get
your candidate to do the things he said he would when you
worked for him. You work especially for better schools, hoping
delicately that your own school building will be replaced by
something out of Architectural Forum. The great day comes
when some new schools are actually voted, when sites are settled,
and good architects employed. This is progress — you and I can
stand today and look at those lovely, vacant lots where those
schools are going to rise. We can stand and look at them tomor-
row, also.

Any “Cambridge career man” who was kept at M.LT. during
the war was apt to work some at Civilian Defense. They said the
“dimout” was important and they wrote laws for it. I acquired
the title, “Chief Enforcement Officer for the City of Cambridge,”
with a sustaining badge admirably adapted to impede free motion.
I always looked forward to wearing it once in some parade while
seated quietly in a car with equal dignitaries, but this event never
came off. The brilliance of the Cambridge dimout operation,
however, was never in question. The Army referred to it through-
out the eastern seaboard and it was alleged by the legal expert of
one recalcitrant merchant that Cambridge umbrage actually ab-
sorbed light from the surrounding communities.

For rest, for diversion, you always have “the farm” —a rustic
haven of solitude and quict. The 1938 hurricane traded one

[7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

corner of your barn roof for the Cathedral in the Pines, one and

a half miles away, and your blood pressure has never been quite

the same since. A city boy, you naturally aspire to “live off the

land” like your iron predecessors, for you are blessed with power
and no Indians. You learn to paint, paper, and carpenter with
imperfections that only a novice would detect. You get to do
your own plumbing, roofing, plowing, cultivating, mowing, and
clearing, or else watch the weather and forest tenderly crush you.

You defeat the neighbors’ cows by mending their walls, you de-

feat the woodchucks with a portable two-foot fence, the swifts

with chimney screens, the crows with crow-tar, the robins by
not planting strawberries, the deer by moving the garden close
to the house and praying. Any night you are awakened by a
porcupine at lethal work on a favorite shade tree, you realize it
must be defeated also. You order a gun from Sears Roebuck and
borrow one for the interminable interlude. At 2 a.m. you and
your wife hit the dewy trail. She points the light in a direction
that should really be detected by sonar and she also shines it on
the — uh — uh —sights, and you fire. By the time the village
clock strikes the next hour, whatever is left up there decides to
fall down and you are a hero — until the next morning when the
cat, the Dalmatian, nine pups, two ducks, three geese, and the
children of your guests start pulling the quills from their feet.
However, little remains now to defeat except the freezer, a de-
lightful twelve-month process.

In highlighting how one has sought for twenty-five years to
interpret and requite the odd privilege of life, it seems entirely
appropriate to mention children, of which I have three. Here,
fortunately, words forsake me and 1 must simply say that mine
appear to me completely perfect. However, a reading of these
pages might suggest that certain defects and deficiencies could be
visited upon them and theirs unto the seventh generation.

EUGENE GORDON LEE ADAMS

MAILING apprEss: 710 Fay St., Fulton, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 16, 1908, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Eugene Bonaparte Adams,
Annie Webb.

PREPARED AT; Philips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

[8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marrieD: Eleanor Huff, Sept. 8, 1934, Buffalo, N. Y. cuitp: Gordon Lee,
Jan. 4, 1937.

occuPATION: Mercantile business.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

HAROLD CAMPBELL ADAMSON

HOME apprEss: 704 N. Alpine Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 10, 1906, Greenville, N. J. PARENTS: James Harold Adamson,
Marion Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MARRIED: Julia Eastmond, Nov. 27, 1935, Beverly Hills, Calif. (divorced
1941); Gretchen Davidson, Dec. 18, 1947, Beverly Hills, Calif. cum:
Eve, Oct. 30, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Song writer.

MEMBER OF: Dramatist Guild; American Society of Composers and Publish-
ers, Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences; Harvard Club of
New York.

pusLicaTions: “Time on My Hands”; “Tony’s Wife”; “Manhattan Serenade”;

“Daybreak”; “You're a Sweetheart”; “Woodpecker Song”; “Ferryboat
Serenade”; “It’s Been So Long”; “I Couldn’t Sleep a Wink Last Night”;
“A Lovely Way to Spend an Evening”; “The Little Man Who Wasn’t
There”; “It’s a Most Unusual Day”; “Comin’ in on a Wing and a
Prayer.” ,

IN 1930 I wrote the score with Vincent Youmans for Florenz
Ziegfeld’s production, “Smiles,” starring Fred and Adele Astaire
and Marilyn Miller. The following year I wrote the score with
Burton Lane for the tenth edition of Earl Carroll’s “Vanities.”
I came to Hollywood in 1933 and have written scores for some
forty motion pictures, including “Dancing Lady,” “The Great
Ziegfeld,” “Mad About Music,” “Higher and Higher,” “Some-
thing for the Boys,” and “Four Jills in a Jeep.”

_ [have returned twice to the Broadway scene. In 1942 I wrote
the songs for Eddie Cantor’s show, “Banjo Eyes,” and in 1948 I
wrote the score with Jimmy McHugh for “As the Girls Go,”
which starred Bobby Clark and ran a year at the Winter Garden
in New York City. During the war years, I wrote the official
War Bond songs for the U.S. Government and for Canada. My
most recent activities include writing songs for “Gentlemen Pre-

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

fer Blondes,” with Jane Russell and the ex-Mrs. DiMaggio, and

doing the score for “Jupiter’s Darling,” with Howard Keel and
Esther Williams.

I live in Beverly Hills. My wife, the former Gretchen David-
son, Was an actress who appeared i in “My Sister Eileen,” “The
Man Who Came to Dinner,” and “The Return of the Vagabond.”
My daughter, Eve Adamson, is in her senior year at the Chadwick
School in Palos Verdes, California.

BENJAMIN ALEXANDER

HOME AppREss: 30 Amory St. Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: Beth Israel Hospital, 330 Brookline Ave., Boston, Mass.

Born: March 20, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Alexander, Ida Shuman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: AB. summa cum laude, 1930; M.D.
magna cum laude, 1934.

marriep: Marie Martha Mayer, June 25, 1937, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:

Millard Henry, Feb. 17, 1943; Judith Lee, Dec. 30, 1944; Robert Eugene,
March 37, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Josef Alexander, ’37, A.M. 38.

occupation: Associate professor of medicine, teaching and research.

OFFICES HELD: House Officer, medicine, 1935~36, junior visiting physician,
1939-46, associate in medical research, since 1939, associate visiting
physician, 1946-47, visiting physician, since 1947, associate director of
Medical Service, since 1949, Beth Israel Hospital; Moseley travelling
fellow, Harvard, 1937-38; teaching fellow, Department of Biochemistry,
1936-37, assistant im medicine, 1939-41, instructor in medicine, 1941-46,
associate in medicine, 1946-49, assistant professor of medicine, 1949-53,
associate professor of medicine, since 1953, Harvard Medical School;
consultant, Gas Protection, Office of Civilian Defense, U.S. Govern-
Ment, 1943; consultant in medicine, Children’s Hospital, since 1949;
member, Subcommittee on Coagulation Factors, Commission on Plasma
Fractionation and Related Processes, American National Red Cross,
since 1950; member, Subcommittee on Coagulation, National Research
Council, since 1950; member Josiah Macy, Jr. Conference Group on
Blood Clotting, 1950-52; consultant in medicine, Veterans Hospitals,
Boston and Brockton, since 1953; member, Medical Advisory Council,

Hemophilia Foundation, since 1953, member, Commission on Plasma
Fractionation & Related Processes, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: New York Academy of Science, 1951,

PUBLICATIONS: Over sixty articles, among the latest being: “Recent Advances
in the Determination of Prothrombin,” American Journal of Medical

[10]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Technology, 1952; “Pathologic Bleeding, SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS,”
with Cyril MacBryde, Ed. Lippincott Co., 1952; “Ac-Globulin and
SPCA: Two Plasma Factors Affecting Prothrombin Conversion. A
Clinico-Laboratory Study and Review,” Revue d’Hematologie, 1952;
“Stability of Human Plasma Prothrombin Fractions” (with G. Land-
wehr), Fed. Proc., 1952; “Dual Hemostatic Defect in Pseudohemophilia”
(with R. Goldstein), Journal of Clinical Investigation, 1953; “Medical
Progress: Coagulation, Hemorrhage, and Thrombosis,” New England
Journal of Medicine (in press).

HOW strong can an umbilical cord be? Should it be cut in all
instances, even if one has been fortunate to find Alma Mater
always Alma? If I were Thurber, the answer would be both
amusing and simple. Certainly it would be entertaining. But un-
fortunately I have no literary talent, so I won’t attempt to answer
these questions.

For me the cord has never been severed. Since 1936 I have been
separated from Harvard only during an internship at the Beth
Israel Hospital following my M.D. degree in 1934. Even this was
not a true break since this hospital is one of Harvard Medical
School’s important teaching institutions. Thus, for the past
twenty-nine years Harvard has been a major force in my life.
After my internship I spent several years obtaining further train-
ing in biochemistry at the Medical School and abroad (Cam-
bridge and Copenhagen), and I soon learned how perilously close
we are to boundless ignorance. Answers from our instructors,
which at College and Medical School had seemed complete, were
upon reexamination no longer satisfying. Consequently, with the
restless curiosity characteristic of the young investigator, I was
drawn into research and became a member of the faculty of
medicine in 1938. Having been profoundly influenced by the late
Professor Kohler (affectionately called the “Old Man”), I cen-
tered my work around certain chemical aspects of medicine, con-
vinced that the future development of medical knowledge lay in
this direction.

The rest of this part of my story describes some of the details
of this full-time academic career consisting of teaching, research,
patient care, and administrative activities. For me all was made
possible and continues under the wing of Harvard, the details
truly reflecting the magnificent role played by the University in
our democratic society. The other wing is the Beth Israel Hos-

[11]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

pital, deriving its vitality from the Boston Jewish community. |
serve both institutions as associate professor of medicine and asso-
ciate director of the Medical Service, respectively.

There has been a steady stream of receptive yet provocative
medical students, continuously challenging dogma and narrow
pedagogy. The thrill of arousing and handing over the torch to
the exceptional ones cannot be adequately described, at least by
me. Moreover, after many years of teaching in medicine I still
have difficulry in defining the attributes essential for a good stu-
dent and a fine physician, as well as the best way of making a
superior doctor out of potentially good material.

My research activities have simply been obtaining fragments
of new information, added painstakingly and expensively to the
meager harvest of knowledge gleaned by many others over cen-
turies: a little about yeast growth, about thiamine and amino acid
metabolism, and a decade devoted to the mystery of how and why
blood clots — or fails to clot. This has resulted in many papers
published, talks given before “learned” societies, committees
membered as presumed expert, and frequent fencing with col-
leagues about this or that interpretation of experimental data.
Also, I often wonder how it all fits into the scheme of things, and
I am constantly being awed by the grandeur of nature as each
phenomenon becomes revealed. But these spiritual musings do not
prevent my frustration at the difficulty and slowness with which
useful information is acquired while those with disease die be-
cause they can’t wait.

The personal excitement and gratifications derived are, I sup-
pose, no different from those encountered in many other areas.
Each concept formed and sustained by experimental observation,
each fact discovered, each patient helped and each student well
taught and trained has brought emotional rewards undoubtedly
experienced by others in the well consummated business deal, in
the well played tennis match, in the engineered structure taking
shape and substance, in the musical score conceived or performed,
or in the imaged reality effectively caught on canvas.

For better or worse, my family teams up with me on this road.
First comes my wife, literally and figuratively a girl from Mis-
souri, who landed in Boston via Wellesley and Columbia. After a
year of honeymoon in Europe, during the time I held a Moseley

[12 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Travelling Fellowship, she woke up to the increasingly rigorous
demands required of a wife to an investigator — teacher — doc-
tor — administrator — and of a mother to a boy-girl-boy com-
bination of energetic and independent youngsters. Among other
things, she provides enough understanding, poise, equanimity,
common sense, and efficient know-how to keep our enterprise
going, notwithstanding a fair number of challenges and trials.

Concerning the children there is much I could write, but as a
restrained parent I check the urge. As Robert is introduced to
grammar school, as Judith finishes grade school, and with Millard
in junior high school, we all pause to catch our breath, for the
Fiftieth and the rest of the journey.

GEORGE COPPELL ALEXANDER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 857 State Rd., Princeton, N. J.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Walter Alexander, °87,
Grace Harper Coppell.

PREPARED AT: Asheville School, Asheville, S. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Higbie, April 7, 1934, Rye, N. Y. (divorced 1938); Elsa
Jane Gruber, Dec. 11, 1945, Newton, N. J. cumpren: George Coppell,
Jr., Aug. 7, 1948; Matthew Duncan, May 18, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Craftsman; furniture designer and maker.

MEMBER OF: Military Order of Foreign Wars; Reserve Officers Association.

AFTER about seventeen years — with time out for World War
If — in the real estate and mortgage business in New York, San
Francisco, and Washington, in private, institutional, and govern-
ment service, it occurred to me that there must be a more satis-
fying if not necessarily easier way to make a living. So for two
grim years I worked and studied under the GI Bill with Tage
Frid in Rochester, New York, and briefly at Pratt Institute in
Brooklyn; turned a hobby into a vocation and now, since last
year, have a studio and shop in Princeton where I design and make
contemporary furniture and do odds and ends of custom wood-
working.

We're struggling, busy, and happy as clams in a screwy house
which we hope in time to tame into a semblance of a dwelling.
The shop out back is coming along, and should be “fitten” in

[13]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

another couple of years. We're pleased as can be with Princeton,
an entirely pleasant community which “has everything but salt
water” to recommend it.

Our boys are growing up fast, roaming our woods in search of
bears and tigers, and wetting their feet many times a day in the
brook. At four and six they are still too young to be influenced
by one of the nearby institutions of higher learning, and we hope
they'll be able to keep open minds on the subject of colleges for
the next dozen years.

Spurred on by Senator McCarthy, ex-Congressman Fred Hart-
ley, and such representative characters, we find ourselves on the
verge of leaving the Republican party. We are disappointed, too,
that we don’t have an Eisenhower Republican in the White House,
especially after we voted for him. Maybe it’s just that as we have
more time to read, and to go to church, and better to understand
Christianity, we turn slightly left toward what for lack of a better
label is called liberalism — maybe even egg-headedness.

With a brand new business and two small boys, we find it diffi-
cult to travel very far or long, but we have promised our cow-
boys a trip West in a few years. Until then, you are apt to find
us here if you come to Princeton for a game, or crew races, or just
to visit a delightful place.

FREDERICK MOULTON ALGER, JR.

MAILING Appress: U.S. Embassy, Brussels, Belgium.

BorN: Aug. 3, 1907, Detroit, Mich. parents: Frederick Moulton Alger,
Mary E. Swift.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MarkiED: Suzette de Marigny Dewey, April 30, 1929, Warsaw, Poland. cHi-
DREN: Suzette, Aug. 8, 1930 (m. Reese E, Howard); Frederick Moulton,
3d, Dec. 20, 1934; David Dewey, Dec. 15, 1943.

occupation: U.S. Ambassador to Belgium.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary of State for Michigan, 1946-52; president, Wayne
County Republican Precinct Organization, 1937-41.

MY first direct contact with European economic problems was
made in 1928 when, at the age of twenty-one, I became assistant
to the American adviser to the Polish Government, Mr. Charles S.

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Dewey. After two years in Poland, I returned to the United
- States and with my brother organized the Allen Corporation for
the manufacture of ventilating equipment. Successively, I was
treasurer, vice-president, and president of the corporation during
its sixteen years of operation. I was also associated with banks,
investment houses, and other business enterprises in my home
state of Michigan.

While at Detroit, my interest in good government brought me
to the presidency of the Wayne County Republican Precinct Or-
ganization, which worked for clean and efficient local administra-
tion. I served with them from 1937 to 1941. In 1946 I was elected
Secretary of State for Michigan and was re-elected to this post
in 1948 and 1950, serving six years in all. In 1952, I was the Re-
publican candidate for the governorship, but lost by a narrow
margin.

During World War II, I served in the U.S. Navy, entering as
a lieutenant and attaining the rank of commander. My tour of
duty from 1941 to 1945 took me all over the Pacific theatre of war.

In 1929 I married Suzette de Marigny Dewey, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Charles S$. Dewey, whom I met in Poland. On her
mother’s side, my wife is descended from the Norman family of
de Marigny. During the 1930's, the Deweys bought and restored
the ancestral place — “L’Abbaye Ste. Marie” — on the coast of
Normandy, which they use as their summer home.

I have always been an avid sportsman and acquired a love of fine
horses from my father, who had racing stables in England and
the United States. Before the war I had my own racing stable,
and in 1935 one of my horses won the first Santa Anita Handicap.
I have been a “gentleman jockey,” a master of fox hounds, and a
polo player; my ‘hobbies are golfing, swimming, and shooting.

CHESTER BOICE ALLEN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 224 N. Mountain Ave., Montclair, N. J.

OFFICE ADpREss: 248 Lorraine Ave., Upper Montclair, N. J.

BORN: July 21, 1907, Holbrook, Mass. parents: Chester Boice Allen, Wini-
fred Bernice Simmons.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

. [15 ]

— LL LET SRA OEM On ny

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D., 1934.

MARRIED: Jane Reeve, June 8, 1935, Melrose, Mass. cu1LpreN: James Reeve,
May 7, 1939; Chester Boice, 3d, March 20, 1941; Susan Harriott, Oct. 12,
1953

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Associated Physicians of Montclair; associate
attending physician, internal medicine, Mountainside Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Essex County Medical Society; Harvard Medical Society of
New York; Associated Physicians of Montclair.

FOLLOWING college graduation, I spent four years in Har-
vard Medical School, then four years in hospital internship and
residency in New York City and Montclair, New Jersey. In
January, 1939, I began practice in Montclair, but entered the
Navy on active duty in May, 1942, returning home in December,
1945. Since that time, I have carried on the practice of medicine
in Montclair. I have failed to acquire fame, but I have also escaped
notoriety and I enjoy the life I lead.

My interests aside from my work and my family have narrowed
down to the intriguing art of fly fishing, usually completely in-
dulged in during the last of August and September. So far, it
has not led to divorce, but I have been threatened.

My political and social connections have changed very little.
I think of myself as an enlightened New Englander, but I wonder
how enlightened I really am. I still don’t like social security,
F.D.R., nor any of the New Deal; yet I am disturbed by the fail-
ure of leadership shown by the present Republican party.

The best of good wishes to all of you. I shall try to be in
Cambridge in June.

STAFFORD ALMY

HOME AppREss: 42 Clarke Rd., Barrington, R. 1.

OFFICE appress: Plantations Bank of R. I. 61 Weybosset St., Providence, R. I.

BORN: April 15, 1907, Fall River, Mass. parents: Frank Stratton Almy, ’96,
Marion Stafford.

PREPARED AT; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

MargigD: Sarah Morton, Oct. 10, 1942, Fall River, Mass. cup: Stafford, Jr.,
June 20, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, credit manager, Plantations Bank of Rhode
Island.

[ 16} .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILTON VASIL ANASTOS

HOME ADDRESS: 1703 — 32nd St., N.W., Washington 7, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harvard University, Dumbarton Oaks, 3101 R St., N.W.,
Washington, D. C.

BORN: July 10, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Vlassios Anastos, Stella
Spartali.

PREPARED AT: West New York High School, West New York, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926—-January, 1930, 1930-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 7agna cu
laude, 1930(31); S.1.B. summa cum laude, 1935; PH.D. 1940.

MARRIED: Sept. 7, 1935 (divorced 1938). cHiLp: Milton Vasil, Jr., June 30,
1936.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of Byzantine theology.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Harvard Foundation for Advanced Study and
Research, Arts and Sciences Branch, Washington, D. C.; member, Board
of Scholars, Dumbarton Oaks, Harvard University.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Historical Association; Mediaeval
Academy of America.

PUUBLICATIONS: Pletho’s Calendar and Liturgy; The lmmutability of Christ
and Justinian’s Condemnation of Theodore of Mopsuestia; Pletho,
Strabo, and Columbus; about forty-five papers and reviews on Byzantine
history, literature, science, philosophy, and theology in Dumbarton
Oaks Papers, Speculum, Traditio, American Historical Review, Orien-
talia Christiana Periodica, Byzantinische Zeitschrift, Annuaire de l’In-
stitut de philologie et @bhistoire orientales et slaves, Church History,
Cambridge Medieval History (vol. 4, new edition), Ricerche Religiose,
Collier’s Encyclopedia, Encyclopedia Americana, Harvard Slavic Studies,

etc.
|

IT is a bitter disappointment for me not to be able to attend the
Twenty-fifth Reunion of the Class, to which my son and I had
long been looking forward. But I am in Europe on sabbatical
leave (1954-55) on fellowships granted by the Fulbright and
Guggenheim foundations, which are supporting my studies of the
intellectual history of the Byzantine Empire. Before I return to
my duties in the University, I hope to finish at least an analysis
of Byzantine civilization (to be published by Doubleday in the
Anchor Books and provisionally entitled The Mind of Byzan-
tiumm) and most of the preliminary research for two other books,
one on the intellectual history of the age of Justinian I (527-65),
and another on the iconoclastic period (717-843). These books
form part of a series of works I am preparing on Byzantine
thought (literature, philosophy, political theory, science, and the-

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ology), with special emphasis on the last named as the heart and
most characteristic feature of Byzantine culture.

Deprived of the pleasure of taking my degree with the Class
because of illness, I was graduated in 1931, as of 1930, and deliv-
ered the Latin oration at Commencement. My subsequent career
can be summarized as follows: travel and teaching in Cuba, 1931-
32; instructor in Biblical History, Wellesley College, 1937 (spring
term); Harvard University: Law School student, 1932, Divinity
School, 1933-35, graduate study, 1935-36, librarian, 1936-39,
Ph.D. in history, 1940, assistant in English, 1939-40, assistant in
history, 1935-37, 1940-41; Dumbarton Oaks, junior fellow, 1941-
43, fellow, 1944-46, assistant professor of Byzantine theology,
1946-51, associate professor, since 1951, member of Board of
Scholars, since 1953; U.S. Government, research analyst, Office of
Strategic Services, 1943-45.

Though I am a “research professor,” I enjoy teaching and had
great Satisfaction (spring, 1952) in giving two courses in Cam-
bridge on Byzantine history. ‘To my surprise and joy, eighty stu-
dents (forty-nine of whom were regularly enrolled) attended my
course and eight took my seminar. At Dumbarton Oaks we do
only research; all our teaching is done in Cambridge.

My son, Milton, Jr., who was eighteen on the last day of June,
was admitted to Harvard but has received permission from Dean
Bender to spend the year in Europe with me. We hope to visit
the major churches, museums, and archaeological sites in Italy,
Greece, and beyond before we return. Milt’s paternal grand-
mother, who has accompanied us, served in the Central Intelli-
gence Agency in Washington until she was over seventy and
would have remained at her post several years longer had she not
broken three vertebrae in her office.

As an undergraduate I exhibited a portrait of Calvin Coolidge
in my room; in 1928 I campaigned for Herbert Hoover in Massa-
chusetts and collected $4.00 election night as a Republican poll-
watcher. In 1936 Mother even ran on the Landon ticket in New
Jersey. But Franklin Roosevelt converted me from political error
in 1933, and we have been Democrats ever since. 1 belong to the
Greek Orthodox Church and have been ordained a “reader,” a
title conferred upon laymen who take an active interest in the
Church, |

[18 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Here in Rome, where we shall remain most of the time, we have
a fine apartment on the Janiculum with a beautiful panoramic
view of the city. Nevertheless, we miss America and Harvard
very much. It is vital for my work that I visit monuments and
inspect MSS at first hand, but the resources of the Harvard libra-
ries in printed books (especially Widener, Dumbarton Oaks, the
Divinity School, and the Law School) are unrivalled, and I find
myself tramping all over Rome — sometimes vainly — in search
of books which I have myself at home. Still, there is much ma-
terial, especially in the Slavic languages, that we lack and which
is not available in America. Actually, libraries interest me very
much, and I have spent at least half of my time at Dumbarton
Oaks preparing lists of desiderata for the library and struggling
to acquire them. |

Having missed the Twenry-fifth Anniversary of the Class, I
live in anticipation of the Thirtieth, the Fortieth, the Fiftieth, and
whatever Providence has in store for the Class and me.

EDWARD PARK ANDERSON

HOME appress: 36 Old Farm Rd., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Vick Chemical Co., 122 E. qgznd St, New York 17, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 12, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Cocus Anderson, Ida Mackey.

PREPARED AT: Allegheny High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Mary Elisabeth Edwards, April 29, 1933, West Newton, Mass.
CHILDREN: Hope Hallam, Feb. 2, 1934; Elisabeth Park, Nov. 9, 1937; Sarah
Jane, March 22, 1943.

OccuPATION: President, International Division, Vick Chemical Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Scarborough School, 1943-46; chairman, Citizen
Advisory Committee, Briarcliff School, 1946, board member, Briarcliff
Manor Public Schools, 1947-51; director, Export Managers Club of
New York, 1946-48.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Ox Ridge Hunt Club, Darien.

A FEW weeks before graduation, I talked with a man at the place-
ment office who was recruiting trainees for Vick Chemical Com-
pany. The work seemed interesting, has proved so, and — except
for one year — I’ve been associated with Vick since. This com-
pany merchandises pharmaceutical products in 116 foreign coun-
tries and manufactures in twenty-one of these countries. My title

[19 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

has changed from time to time (for about seven years it was vice-
president of an advertising agency), but basically I’m still a
trainee, learning about the fascinating and fairly complex job of
running an all-over-the-world business. This has brought oppor-
tunities to get a knowledge of how the rest of this “one world”
lives and thinks, to see some of it, to learn over and over that most
people everywhere are men of good will, and to develop a lot
of stimulating friendships. None of my accomplishments has
been earth-shaking, but my guess is that few people have had
their written words (advertising words, in my case) printed or
spoken more times, in more foreign countries, in more languages.

Soon after getting started on the job, we made our wedding
plans in the closed-bank and apple-selling days of early 1933.
We're still “young married people” —and are just a little sur-
prised to have a daughter graduating from Wellesley this June,
another about to enter college, and a third going into junior high.

My extra-curricular activities have been fairly limited. Most
satisfying was a period of four years of helping with directing
Scarborough School, followed by four years on the Briarcliff
School Board, where we set and pretty well carried out an aim of
making the education standards of a public school as high as
those of a private school. .

All in all (despite my protesting ulcer), it has been for me
pretty placid and amazingly short twenty-five years.

JOHN ALBIN ANDERSON, JR.

HOME apprEss: W. First Street, Palisade, Colo.

OFFICE Appress: Main Street, Grand Junction, Colo.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: John Albin Anderson, Anna
Bohleen Anderson.

PRepaRED aT: McHenry Community High School, McHenry, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1935.

MarRieD: Janet Dougall Elder, May 16, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. cHitDREN:
Karen, April 27, 1940; Kristine, Dec. 26, 1942, John Albin, 3d, Sept. 6,
1945.

occupaTION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Mayor, 1943-45, alderman, 1942-43, Springfield, Mass.; presi-
dent, Future Springfield, Inc., 1945; treasurer, Springfield Republican
City Committee, 1945-46; director, American Red Cross, Springfield,
1946-47; director, secretary, Springfield Symphony Association, 1945-

[20]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

49; president, 1947, treasurer, 1948-50, Nordic Club of Springfield; vice-
president, Hampden County Association for Retarded Children, 1953-54;
president, Adams Playground Association, 1949-50.

MEMBER OF: Hampden County Bar Association; Springfield University Club,
Nordic Club; Springfield Lodge, AF. & A.M.

HERE goes another daily theme for good old English A. After
college, I went to the Law School; I received a Master’s degree
in matrimony in 1932 and a Bachelor’s degree in laws in 1935. I
practised law in Chicago one year before the scenic lure of New
England overcame my wife and me. Then I returned east to
Lynn, Massachusetts, to practise with a lawyer who happened to
be the treasurer of the Essex County Democratic Committee.
As a disciple of the Taussig theory of economics as taught by
Professor Gay and my tutor, Dr. deChazeau, I became increas-
ingly unhappy about the New Deal theories and practices pursued
by another Harvard man who happened to be the President, lo!
these many years. I had been taught, among other things, that
the capitalist system, as represented by Big Business, was the har-
monious relationship of three elements: managers, workers, and
capital, that a wise and efficient management applying unem-
ployed labor to unemployed capital would result in adequate
compensation for each element, with society enriched by the
product as well. The New Deal took the side of the worker be-
cause that was where the votes were; it announced the policy of
“Tax, tax, tax; spend, spend, spend; and elect, elect, elect.” It
condoned sit-down strikes; it poisoned the minds of many with
such phrases as “malefactors of great wealth,” “Tories of Wall
Street,” “princes of privilege,” “economic royalists,” and similar
drivel. Its whole attitude and tax program were directed at dis-
crediting profit, the source and only source of renewing worn-
out capital and of compensating it for its use. I had been taught
that compensation to capital was measured by the risk involved:
the higher the risk, the higher the return. Without a profit incen-
tive, no new risk capital would come forth. But the New Deal
taxed this idea to death; it promoted the theory that there was
something anti-social about seeking a profit. We know now that
Communist-minded people held influential positions in the New
Deal administrations. One can conclude that the attack on two of
the elements of the capitalist system (managers and capital) for

[21 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the seeming benefit of the third (labor) was inspired by the polit.

ical side of the New Deal in a shrewd play for votes and by the

left-wing segment of the party in an attempt to undermine th
capitalist system of free enterprise, which undergirded the
strength of the United States. Revulsion at the tactics of th

Democrat party was an influence that motivated me more tha

was proper in the years to follow.

I left Lynn in 1937 and associated myself with an attorney jin

Springfield, Massachusetts, who had an extensive practice defend.
ing for insurance companies. I entered politics (always as a Re.
publican, of course), and was elected an alderman of Springfield
in 1941; in April of 1943, I became Acting Mayor of Springfield
when Roger Lowell Putnam, ’15, resigned as mayor to enter the
Navy on a commission. A physical disability precluded my being
drafted or getting a commission. I was then thirty-four, only
five and one-half years a resident of that fine and proud, old city:
some of the citizens were chagrined to learn that I was from the
Middle West, the son of immigrant parents. I had two Republi-
cans opposing me in the primaries in October, 1943: one with the
name of Anderson, in an attempt to confuse the voters by the
idem sonans device; and the other a descendant of Deacon Chapin,
a founder of Springfield in 1636. The “other” Anderson received
620 votes, the descendant received 4600 votes, and I received 5900
votes. In the November election, I won over my Democrat oppo-
nent by 18,000 to 12,000, I gave the city an efficient and progres-
sive administration, BUT when I came up for re-election, I was
defeated by disappointed political hacks, the conservative Repub-
licans, socialistic-minded groups with whom I had warred, and
apathetic voters who felt I was sure to win without their votes.
I carried the torch of public service for a couple of more years
and though I handily won the primary against two opponents,
I was trounced just as handily by the incumbent Democrat in the
election.

I had learned the hard truth of that old saying: “Honestly, one
cannot make a living in politics.” I began, again, the slow process
of building up a law practice. Oh, I continued to work on civic
matters like Red Cross, building up a symphony orchestra, en-
couraging municipal planning, and working for revision of the
city charter, but a growing family of three children caused my

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wife and me to take stock. We concluded that the rustic environ-
ment (horses and all that) was not to be found on a 50 by 100 foot
lot in a crowded city; the climate appeared to be changing so
that it was no longer conducive to either winter or summer sports
and activities; and, my, wasn’t trafic jamming the highways on
weekends in New England! We spent the summers of 1951, 1952,
and 1953 traveling about these United States. After checking our

o
impressions and doing some ground surveys, we decided to settle

in western Colorado, where the climate is equable, the opportuni-
ties for outdoor living are wonderful, and the prospects of my
law practice are sufficient unto our needs.

Wee departed from Springfield on August 4, 1954. We bought
a four-acre peach ranch (that’s what they call it) near Grand
Junction, Colorado; we have a comfortable, modernized old farm-
house and a barn, stables, and corral occupied by a dog, a few
cats, and a horse. Thus, on the threshold of 1955, I expect mo-
mentarily to be adinitted to the Bar of Colorado, so I can take up
the practice of law in Grand Junction, the largest city (and
situated midway) in the s00-mile stretch from Denver westward
to Salt Lake City. Traffic? Oh, yes, we have five cars per square
mile here, compared to 150 per square mile in Massachusetts.

I have been on vacation for nearly six months now, and I do not
see how I can leave my newly-nurtured practice to attend the
Class Reunion in June; I suppose there will be others who will
be unable to attend — so will all of you bend one elbow, at least,
in remembrance of those of us who will be absent?

CAMILLUS ANGEL

HOME ADDRESS: 1770 E, Anderson St., Pensacola, Fla.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Temple Beth El, 800 N. Palafox St., Pensacola, Fla.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1907, Alsace-Lorraine, France. parents: Nathan Angel, Rachel
Mayerowitz.

PREPARED AT: Woonsocket High School, Woonsocket, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: a.B. cum laude, 1930; Rabbi (Hebrew
Union Coll.), 1935.

MARRIED: Shelma Greenberg, July 18, 1946, Pittsburgh, Pa. cump: Naomi
Robin, Aug. 28, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Rabbi.

MEMBER OF: Central Conference of American Rabbis.

[23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MY father was a rabbi. His other sons had the good sense to
choose more practical careers, but being the youngest and most
callow of the lot I was beguiled into walking in his footsteps,
Not even the four years at Harvard when I was exposed to the
winds of critical and libertarian doctrines were able to dislodge
me from that course. And so I found myself after graduation en-
rolled at the Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati. Five years in
the company of scholars and students devoted to the love and
traditions of Judaism and the people of Israel served only to con-
firm me in the conviction that ] ought to serve in the rabbinate.
On the day of my ordination, when I was given a final opportunity
to say no to the charge, I put all doubts behind me and marched
right up and said yes. I've never regretted the decision. It has
been a full and exciting, even if exacting, life.

My first pulpit in Lake Charles, Louisiana, gave me the chance
to make my first mistakes in the midst of a kindly and tolerant
congregation. From this quiet backwater, 1 was called after two
years to the teeming slums of Whitechapel in the East End of
London. The St. George’s Settlement Synagogue was a challenge
and an inspiration. Bringing the message of liberal Judaism to the
immigrant families crowded together in the East End was one of
the most vivid and throbbing experiences I was ever to encounter.
After all too brief a period in this field, the gathering war clouds
in Europe sent me scurrying back to America.

In June, 1942, I joined up as a chaplain in the Army. During
the sixteen months I was stationed at Miami Beach, I found myself
apologizing for my too comfortable assignment. Then I was
ordered overseas to serve with the 15th Air Force in Italy. When
I got back to the States after the fighting in Europe ended, my
last station before being separated from the service was at Ama-
rillo Army Air Field. Here I met Shelma Greenberg, recreational
director at the Veterans Administration Hospital. One day we
lunched together to discuss a service at the hospital. Six months
later we were having all our meals together and Shelma was begin-
ning to learn that being the wife of a civilian rabbi was not quite
what she had imagined when she was dazzled by the brass buttons
of an Army chaplain.

After I doffed my uniform in May, 1946, I organized a Reform
Congregation in Greensburg, Pennsylvania. Two years later I

[24]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was called to Hazleton, Pennsylvania, to fill the pulpit of Temple
Beth Israel. I remained there for seven good and fruitful years.
Our daughter, Naomi, was born there.

For a number of years my Methodist colleagues in Hazleton
invited me to occupy their pulpits during the depths of the winter
while they went down to Florida to bask in the sunshine for a
few days. ‘That set me to musing and I, too, began to hanker for
the day when I might take a midwinter holiday in the sunny
South. Then Temple Beth El in Pensacola, Florida, let it be known
that its pulpit was vacant. The lure proved irresistible, and so
here I am freshly arrived this very winter in this northwest cor-
ner of Florida in the City of Fire Flags. We like it here. We hope
the townsfolk will like us, because this time we mean to stay put!

SALVADOR ARANA SOTO

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 276 Tapia St., Santurce, Puerto Rico.

BORN: March 20, 1908, San Sebastian, Puerto Rico. parents: Salvador
Arana Roig, Panchita Soto Ferrer.

PREPARED AT: Mayaguez High School, Mayaguez, Puerto Rico.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; M.D. (Univ. of Toulouse),
1935; S.M. IN PHYS. MED. (Northwestern Univ.), 1944.

marRRIED: Blanca Martinez, March 25, 1937, Quebradillas, Puerto Rico
(divorced 1942); Maria Sylvia Guzman, April 26, 1943, Rio Piedras,
Puerto Rico (divorced 1946); Raquel Vélez, Aug. 19, 1949. CHILDREN:
Salvador, March 10, 1938; Blanca Lucia, March 27, 1939; Circe, 1944;
Psique, 1945; Emma Raquel, July 8, 1950; Francisco Guillermo, Aug. 13,
1952.

occupation: Doctor of rheumatology and peripherovascular diseases.

OFFICES HELD: President, Mayaguez District Medical Association; chairman,
Committee on Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Puerto Rican Medi-
cal Association; consultant in physical medicine, Bayamon District Hos-
pital, Hospital of the School of Tropical Medicine; former vice-presi-
dent, Lions Club of Rio Piedras.

MEMBER OF: Puerto Rico Medical Association; American Society of Phys-
ical Medicine and Rehabilitation; Latin-American Congress of Physical
Medicine; former member: Lions Club of Piedras; American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science; L.LD.; American Congress of
Physical Medicine; American Trudeau Society; National Tuberculosis
Association, etc.

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers on medicine; many on popular subjects in the
insular press.

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

half-naked, delvered at Lot of telephones, electric bulbs that are
aiwavs buming out, modem plumbing, music boxes, stale air
smelling of gas, undesired calls, hundry, mail, and milkmen, and
such other well-intentioned agents of progress. All that will not
he'p against atomic bombs (against which our government is
taking the necessary precautions); but before this tropical Eden
i blown out of evistence, | shall have enjoyed it to the last drop.
I already have the land — twenty-five acres of mountain — and I
only need now some money to ‘build some sort of habitation. I
shall be glad to receive in it any of the Elarvard classmates who
could thrive on bananas and avocados and without iccboxes, wash-
ing machines, moving pictures, automobiles, radios, and other
such happiness-producing devices. That might not be a bad place
for Jimmy Roosevelt to calm down his spirits. He is hereby
invited on the condition that he leave politics behind.

JOHN STERLING BEARDSLEY ARCHIER

HOME AND OFFICE aDoress: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. HH

Born: Dec. 13, 1908, Salem, Mass. parents: Charles Augustus Archer, '97,
Sarah Locke.

preparep at: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. Demis: AB, 1930; AM. (Middlebury Coll.),
1939-

Manutp: Margaret Tyler, June 29, 1937, Balumore, Md. cittowen: Eleanor
Margaret, April 22, 1939; Phebe Waldo, Oct. 25, 1942; Susan Locke,
July 7, 1935; Charles Tyler, July 19, 1949.

oocupaTion: Head of Modern Language Department, Se. Paul's School.

orcas HEL: Vice-president, New Hampshire Chapter, American Associa-
ton of Teachers of French, unce 1954, member, Special Modern Lan-
guage Commurttee, Secondary Education Board, 1954-55.

MeMbra or: Amerkan Asociation of Teachers of French, Cum Laude
Suciety, Center Harbor Yacht Club.

PRESIDENT LOWELL'S pronouncement at Commencement

thar we were now adnutted into the company of educated men

shocked me into realizing that Thad wafted through four y cars
of undergraduate life under arather slight breeze. The breeze
freshiened under the impact of Mr. Lowell's words and pushed
me on to Graduate School,

ry March of 31, P was happily cutting my fint wisdom tooth

[ 28}

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on a shelf of books assigned me by Professor Babbitt when, be-
fore I quite realized what had happened, I found myself in charge
of a dormitory at St. Paul’s School and wondering how my eight
years of French could possibly be stretched to last for forty-five
minutes. Although I had never planned to teach, it wasn’t long
before I wished that I had, a sentiment that also came to be
shared by the school.

So the problem of my education was shifted to St. Paul’s School
which has now been generously contributing to it for the past
twenty-four years. The process was helped along by summer
work on the East Side of New York and with the Grenfell Mis-
sion in Newfoundland, study in France and at Middlebury Col-
lege, and two years in the Army. I owe a further debt to Middle-
bury College Summer School, of which the success as a matri-
monial agency ranks second only to its successful training of
teachers of foreign languages.

It’s a common remark that the more a man learns, the less he
feels he knows, Concerning their father’s education, this senti-
ment would be shared by the teen-agers of my four children.
They have cheerfully undertaken a task which they feel has some-
how been woefully neglected. I am hoping to have earned a new
degree before my Fiftieth Reunion.

LAWRENCE BAKER ARGUIMBAU

HOME apprEss: R.F.D. 499, Foxboro, Mass.

BORN: March 25, 1906, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Reginald DeCourcy
Arguimbau, Grace Lillian Baker.

PREPARED AT: Westfield High School, Westfield, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. cust laude, 1930.

MarRiED: Elinor Horne Clapp, Sept. 7, 1940, Philadelphia, Pa. cru pres:
Edith Grace, Nov. 9, 1941; Ellen Hubbs, March 10, 1945; Nicholas Clapp,
Jan. 6, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Reginald George Arguimbau, "32.

occupaTion: Radio engineering consultant,

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; Eta Kappa Nu; Tau Beta Pi, Parent-Teachers Asso-
ciation; East Foxboro Community Club.

PuBLICATIONS: Technical papers; radio textbook, Afonograph on Frejuency
Modulation (in preparation).

PERIIAPS I had better write a little more than you asked for, as

[29]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

in my case graduation was not a sharp transition. Before fresh-

man year I had already had three years of radio experience and

art-time college training. Asa result, I started as a freshman in
Math 5a and Phy sics 1, and got acquainted with more graduate
students than freshmen. Dunng my four years at Harvard I had
a job for twenty hours a week ‘designing instruments at the
General Radio Company. My graduation merely involved drop-
ping twelve hours of study and ‘adding fifteen of work.

My graduation wasn't marked by any sharp changes in polit-
ical interests either, as I joined the student contingent of the 1928
Hoover parade and in 1932 supported Hoover against Jim’s pa.
In 1933, though, I got a fifty per cent pay cut and a few years
later my support temporarily shifted to a man named Earl
Browder. In 1953 I had quite frank talks with two men named
Velde and McCarthy about these past activities of mine, but when
I refused to talk about other people’s deviations, our Congress
unanimously passed H. Res. 537 concerning me, and as a result I
may not be able to attend the Reunion.

For fifteen years I did research and taught at M.IT., but at
the time of the present w riting I am acting as a consultant to a
small radio factory in New Y ork.

In spite of what you and others may think of me, I am, and
always have been, in favor of the directly responsive democratic
governments I have come to know in Massachusetts towns, “the
spirit and type of our ancestors’ worth” we like to sing about.
I do not feel that this should be at all related to what I at one time
thought concerning the relative merits of public and private
ow nership of industry. I have always done my best to find em-
ployment that as closely as possible fits with the general welfare.
Whether or not I can do so in future remains to be seen.

In case I'm not on hand in June, I hope some of you will give
my three cheers for Harvard —and a bit less for Yale.

HARRY ATAMIAN

HOME apperss: 10 Payson Terr., Belmont, Mass.

orrice appeess: Ararat Co. Inc. 150 Commercial St, Boston, Mass.

BoKN: Dec. 28, 1908, Worcester, Mass, paresrs: Sarkis Harry Atamian,
Lillian Mooradian,

purpaven at: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

[ 30]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

HARVARD BROTHER: Elliott Atamian, M.B.a., 48.

OccUPATION: Treasurer, Ararat Company, Inc., wholesale grocers.
OFFICES HELD: Captain, Army Reserve Corps, 1946-52.

MEMBER OF: Knights of Vartan (Armenian fraternal order).

IT is difficult for me to analyze the first ten years following gradu-
ation because it is a curious mixture of hope, promise, disappoint-
ment, and frustration. My primary concern, outside of youthful
pleasures, was to find employment of some permanency and
monetary promise, and it appears personnel managers had me
pegged fairly right as I have as yet to attain a position of
respectability in the economic world. However, the depression
years were a trial for everyone and, like many, I endeavored to
forget my woes by following the fortunes of the sports world,
namely, baseball, football, track, hockey, and horse racing. The
fate of the Crimson elevens, the Red Sox, the Bruins, the Glenn
Cunninghams, and the War Admirals were a source of great in-
terest and helped in part to assuage the frustrations of postal
work, editing a foreign weekly, and selling food specialties. The
strongly idealistic and naive youth who emerged with an A.B. in
1930 and who voted for Hoover in 1932 (Democrat thereafter,
except for Ike) was quite ready for the Draft when it came in
1941 — any change was acceptable and marriage still a remote
possibility. :

My five years in the military were divided equally between
this country and the European Theatre of Operations and led to
several sociological discoveries. Common fear reduces racial and
religious discrimination to insignificance and a superior standard
of living does not necessarily make for a superior people. My
preconceived notions of the English, French, Belgians, Dutch,
Germans, and Italians had to undergo considerable reappraisal.
I was quite impressed with the courage and sense of fair play of
the English, the warm individualism of the French, and the marked
competence of the Germans, and it was with misgiving that I
listened to German officers relate we were pitted against the
wrong foe. My military service was mainly with the Military
Police — chiefly prisoner of war work — and I emerged at watr’s
end with a Certificate of Merit and a rank of captain, convinced of
one thing — that the peoples of Europe want only to live well and

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

in peace —a fact that makes the prospect of world peace not the
visionary dream as some would have it.

The year 1946 has significance. [ took a little “flyer” in the
market and found I had anticipated the “bulls” by a considerable
margin. Also J made a short trip to Edmonton, Canada, returnin
without the vaguest inkling that oil wells would be filling the sky
line in the next few years. However, hard work and application
to duty help to overcome the loneliness of bachelorhood and
when faced with the inevitable question “why I never married,”
I invariably parried with “lack of courage,” though it could be
“lack of love.” Bridge, pinochle, and classical music seem to oc-
cupy my time more and more and I admit an honest fear of golf,
for it masters the individual rather than the reverse. I think
Bernard Baruch sums it up pretty well in one word for those

who are looking for some meaning in this existence and that is —
WORK. .

CHARLES TILLINGHAST ATWOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 1130 5. Oakland Ave., Pasadena 5, Calif.
orFice appress: Lever Brothers Co., 6300 E. Sheila St, Los Angeles 22, Calif.

BORN: June 14, 1908, Arlington, Mass. parents: Charles Fenner Atwood, ’96,
Mo., 00, Adah Caroline Gorton.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.
MARRIED: Evelyn Webster Wright, June 15, 1931, Haverhill, Mass. CHILDREN:

Charles Tillinghast, Jr., Sept. 11, 1932; Richard W., April 20, 1935;
Nancy Claire, Dec. 24, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Greene Atwood, ’35, M.B.A., 37.
occuPaTION: Plant manager, Lever Brothers Company.

TWENTY-FIVE years later, I'm still working for the company
that employed me in 1930. My first fourteen years were spent
in the technical division on new products and production research.
Since that time I have devoted my efforts to the manufacturing
organization, and at present, am manager of the new plant that
Lever Brothers Company built in Los Angeles. It takes a long
time to learn the technical and manufacturing side of our business,
and the years have been filled with hard and steady work with
no spectacular high points worth relating,

My job is most interesting and I find the manufacture of prod-

{ 32]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ucts requiring a chemical engineering background to be the most
fascinating kind of work I know.

I have been happily married for twenty-four years and have
three fine children. My older son is a senior at the University of
California (Berkeley); major, liberal arts. My younger boy is a
junior at Stanford; major, nuclear physics. Nancy is in the sixth

rade.
. Besides living in several towns around Boston, we have made our
home in Baltimore, Maryland, Ridgewood, New Jersey, and Pasa-
dena, California. My biggest interests are family and home. My
hobbies include reading, piano, travel, and swimming. Time has
been kind to me and I remain in good health.

I was born a Republican and expect to die one. Those long
years after 1932 were hard to take. We find California a wonder-
ful place to live and hope to be there a long time.

JOHN EDWARD AUCHMOODY

HOME ADDRESS: 335 Charles River St., R.F.D., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Simplex Wire and Cable Co., 79 Sidney St., Cambridge, Mass.

BoRN: April 30, 1909, Succasumma, N. J. PARENTS: Lester Deyo Auchmoody,
Clara J. Van Gorder.

PREPARED AT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; S.M., 1932.

MARRIED: Elaine Plishker, Jan. 6, 1933, Flushing, N. Y. cHitpren: Alice Arlen,
March 22, 1946; Evian Rose, 1951.

occupation: Controller; certified public accountant, New York, Massachu-
setts.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants; Controllers Institute.

GEORGE WINSLOW BABB

MAILING ADDRESS: 62 Bradfield Ave., Roslindale, Mass.

BORN: May 12, 1906, Roslindale, Mass. parents: Edwin Augustin Babb, Amy
Winslow Baxter.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[33]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

FRANK OTTO BAGLIONE

HOME appREsS: 114 Wilson Ave, Weymouth, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: New Amsterdam & U.S. Casualty Cos., 153 Milk St., Boston,
Alass.

porn: March 7, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Anthony Baglione, Mary
Ansaldo,
PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; Lu.B. (Boston
~ Coll. Law School), 1934.

MARRIED: Frances Livoti, Sept. 6, 1936, Oakwood Heights, Staten Island,
N.Y. CHILDREN: Marie A., Nov. 21, 1938; Diana F., March 25, 1942.

occupation: Attorney; claims supervisor.

IT is only with a disconcerting realization of the speed of tenzpus
fugit that I find it possible to look back, appraisingly, over twenty-
five years of living and, then, not without a wish that the years
to come please slow down and linger a little longer. Someone
once sought to define success in terms of the ability of the indi-
vidual to derive real, enduring pleasure and satisfaction from his
daily achievements, whether they be sensational or merely medi-
ocre as measured by unimportant objective standards. As time
passes by, I find myself more keenly aware of the need for con-
servation of “human resources” and of the real profit to be de-
rived from cultivating a deeper and more frequent desire for such
simple things as fresh air, sunshine, exercise, music, etc., and, yes,
less work and more play for the later years.

After receiving my LL.B. and gaining admission to the Massa-
chusetts and Federal Bars, I didn’t do anything that seemed really
important until I married Frances. Yes, Niagara Falls was some-
what crowded that season, but, nonetheless enjoyable. I recall
the hard work of the early years as a lawyer, the frequently elusive
fee, and the time devoted for charity’s sake. Frances and I have
never forgotten our first winter trip to Miami in 1938 — it was
such a pleasant change from frigid New England that we almost
became permanent residents.

My daughter Marie is a junior at Weymouth High School,
preparing for college, and is fond of music and dancing. Her
younger sister, Diana, attends Weymouth Junior High School,
and is an ice skating enthusiast, although her greatest desire is to
become a research chemist.

[34]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The disadvantages of living in a busy, crowded city became an-
noyingly apparent and in 1953 we purchased our home in Wey-
mouth Heights. I commute daily, a twenty-five-minute train ride
to Boston, where I am employed as attorney and claims supervisor
for the New Amsterdam and United States Casualty Companies.

My hobby is trying to keep up with Marie and Diana in sports,
and in helping them with their studies — all in all, a most pleasant
way to start one’s second childhood. Whenever time permits the
family enjoys taking motor trips to various parts of the country.
The most enthusiastic passenger on these occasions is our six-year-
old collie, “Wags,” who by her conduct has always made it clear
to us that she is an important member of the family.

+ GORDON LINCOLN BAKER

BORN: Oct. 21, 1908, Winthrop, Mass. PARENTS: Eben Lincoln Baker, Har-
riett Gordon Adams.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MarRRIED: Lucy Evelyn Eldredge, Aug. 5, 1930, Harwich, Mass. CHILDREN:
Beverly Anne, July 21, 1931; Anita Louise, Oct. 31, 1938.

piepD: May 2, 1953, New York, N. Y.

IN 1931 Baker gave a mailing address in West Dennis, Massachu-
setts, and at the time of our Tenth Anniversary reported that he
was engaged in the grocery business there. With the start of
World War II he joined the Shipbuilding Division, Boston area,
of Bethlehem Steel Company. In 1944 he entered Westinghouse
Electric Corporation in New York City and became a welding
engineer with that corporation. At the time of his death he held
the position of eastern district supervisor of the Welding Division.
He died at his home in Jackson Heights, New York.

JAMES TILESTON BALDWIN

HOME ADDRESS: 104 W. Main St., Oyster Bay, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: S. D, Fuller & Co., 39 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 6, 1908, Chestnut Hill, Mass. parents: James Clarke Tileston
Baldwin, Alice Cromwell Smith.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

[35]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

marrieD: Marie Brooke Heck, Oct. 16, 1937, Lattingtown, N. Y. cum:
Barbara Brooke, Nov. 16, 1948.

oocupation: Co-manager, Buying Department, S. D. Fuller & Company,
investment securities.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, treasurer, Christ Church, Oyster Bay, N. Y.; secre-
tary, trustee, Society of St. Johnland; past president, Army and Air
National Guard, Naval Militia Association of New York State; former
chief of staff, New York Naval Militia; former vice-commander,
Quentin Roosevelt Post No. 4, American Legion.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Military-Naval Club; Down-
Town Association; Reserve Officers Association; Piping Rock Club;
Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club; Beaver Dam Winter Sports Club,
Buckram Beagles; Naval Militia Association of the U. S.; Naval Order

of the U. S.; Veterans Association of the Second Battalion, N.M.N.Y.;
Young Men’s Christian Union.

THE fact that my father had been a telephone man for many
years after he graduated from M.LT. in 1888 led me in the same
direction in June, 1930. So I left Cambridge, came to New York,
and have lived in or near there ever since. I started with the Long
Lines Commercial Department of the American Telephone &
Telegraph Company in June, 1930, and continued there in many
minor capacities until October, 1940.

In the depression, a little money would go a long way and I
tried to stretch mine just a bit further by living in Brooklyn,
which I found to be full of maidens on the make. These shoals
I cleared by a narrow squeak and the one I would have gone for
turned me down flat. To Brooklyn, however, I owe my career in
the Naval Reserve. On a cold Tuesday evening in January, 1932,
I joined the old 5th Fleet Division of the Second Battalion,
U.S.N.R. — New York Naval Militia. In those days, Brooklynese
was to me a foreign language, and I am sure they couldn’t under-
stand my Bostonese. That long and pleasant association continued
until about two years ago. I am still in the Naval Reserve and
Naval Militia, but have graduated from Brooklyn.

In the mid-’30’s, I moved back to New York City and lived for
some years at the old ZZYX Club alongside the Harvard Club.
During this period, most of my spare time was devoted to the
Naval Reserve with little time for social activities, but matrimony
finally beckoned and I volunteered joyously. I met her in a
football game — it was touch football, but I was tackled and have

[ 36 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

never regretted it. She was Marie Heck, sister of our classmate

George Heck. We were married in October, 1937, and shortly

thereafter moved to Oyster Bay, where we now live.

Active duty in the Naval Reserve came in October, 1940, and
terminated my career with Mother Bell (the Telephone Com-
pany). Our parting was long overdue.

My first ship was the U.S.S. Bluebird, a converted fishing
trawler, designated a minesweeper, which I joined in November,
1940, took command of in June, 1941, and was finally detached
from in January, 1943. We operated off Boston, out of York-
town, in Bermuda, in Chesapeake Bay, and finally in June, 1942,
went to Greenland. There our outstanding event consisted in
salvaging an Army transport which had run aground and sunk.
This we did without help from any other ship.

We also did every other job possible, except minesweeping.
There were no enemy mines. We transported passengers and
cargo to the great discomfort of the passengers, we explored and
constructed charts; and we enjoyed it all. Then in the middle
of December, 1942, we recrossed Davis Straits in a howling north-
wester at a temperature of 8° above zero, and finally made Boston
after thirteen days of storm.

The Bluebird experience led to my next command, the U.SS.
Bear. This was the seventy-five year old wooden vessel that made
history for many years in the Coast Guard. We returned to
Greenland and there did hydrographic survey work just south of
the Arctic Circle. From Greenland we went to the Canadian
Arctic, Hudson’s Bay, Baffinland, and Labrador. There we di-
rected merchant vessels in the logistic support of the Arctic air-
bases.

Finally, in the winter of 1943, we returned to Boston to decom-
mission the old ship. That completed the government service of
the Bear, which had begun about 1888 when she rescued the
Greeley Expedition in Ellesmere Land. From the frozen Arctic,
[ went to the South Pacific for my next command, the U.S.S.
Cygnus, an ex-United Fruit refrigerator vessel, which I joined
n Espiritu Santo, New Hebrides.

For the next two years we carried fresh vegetables and meat

rom New Zealand to the Solomon Islands, Admiralties, and
inally Okinawa. I was detached from the Cygzus in Guam in

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

April, 1946, and rushed back to Ovster Bay, which has been my
rmanent home ever since.

In November, 1948, Marie gave birth to our only child, Barbara,
the apple of my eve. She is now in Greenvale School and may
some day, if she has her mother’s ability, become one of those
practising Harvard co-eds.

My active association with the Naval Reserve and Naval Militia
continued until last May, when I returned to private business in
the investment banking firm of our classmate Steve Fuller, who
has proved to be for many years a very faithful friend.

Marie and I live the routine suburban life. In the summer we
try to sail as much as possible in our 25-foot sloop, the Nanortalik.
In the winter we follow the Buckram Beagles on Sunday after-
noons, or go frost-biting in a 9-foot dinghy. The weekday eve-
nings seem always to be filled with meetings or concerts or din-
ners, leaving entirely too little time for reading and sleeping. I
enjoy particularly my work with the church, where I teach
Sunday School, besides being treasurer and vestryman. I find that
my need for religion is growing with each year and I am eter-

nally grateful to Marie for showing me what can be gained from
the spiritual life.

PRESTON pe GRAUW BALDWIN

HOME appress: Maxim Drive, Hopatcong, N. J.

OFFICE AppRESSS: Baldwin Belting, Inc., 483 Washington St., New York 13,
N. Y.

BORN: May 11, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Ernest Love Baldwin,
Frances Louise de Grauw.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MARRIED: Hazel Ross, Dec. 31, 1931, Cleveland, Ohio (divorced 1945); Eliza-
beth D. Ney, April 8, 1946, Milford, Conn. cumpren: Preston de Grauw,
Jr., Dec. 7, 1947; Elizabeth Ney, Feb. 12, 1951; Richard Ney, July 27,
1953.

OccUPATION: President, Baldwin Belting, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Power Transmission Council, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Westside Men’s Club, National Industrial Leather Association;
Harvard Club of New York, Society of the War of 1812, Saalan
Temple, Society of Colonial Wars; Veteran Corps of Artillery; Down-
town Athletic Club; Lake Hopatcong Yacht Club; New York Railroad

[38]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Club; Picatinny Golf & Tennis Club; New York Rotary Club, Knee
Deep Hunting & Fishing Club; Machinery Metal & Export Club; Sons
of the Revolution.

CONTINUING from the Twentieth Anniversary Report, I am
still living on Lake Hopatcong and am glad to say that the house
is now finished. Since we are directly on the lake, I do quite a
bit of swimming this summer and get around the lake with my
family in a motor boat. There is quite a bit of sailing on the lake
and my friends are trying without success as yet to interest me in
this sport. Lake Hopatcong is the biggest lake in the state and,
although the depth is only about eight miles, there are many coves
and islands and the total shoreline is over forty-five miles.

Although I had not played golf in over twelve years, I am again
developing an interest and have been playing quite a few week-
ends recently.

Home is approximately forty-five miles from the office, but
since I spend most of my time calling on customers and go into
the office only once or twice a week, this is no problem. Actually,
the car is my office, as it is equipped with a phone and a dicta-
phone which is connected to the Bell system by the radio.

FREDERICK STEPHEN BALL

HOME AppREss: 815 Glendalough Rd., Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia 18, Pa.

OFFICE AppRESS: S.K.F. Industries, Inc., Front & Erie Aves., Philadelphia 34,
Pa.

BORN: June 6, 1907, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Frederick Michael Ball,
Helen E. McGee.

PREPARED AT: Lower Merion High School, Ardmore, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MARRIED: Wilhelmina Kunkel Holman, Oct. 8, 1938, Ithan, Pa. CHILDREN:
Stephanie Louise, Oct. 28, 1943; Frederick Stephen, 3d, March 19, 1947:
Andrew M., Aug. 28, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Engineer, in charge of Railway Division, $.K.F. Industries, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Franklin Railway Supply Company; Licensed Pro-
fessional Engineer, State of Pennsylvania.

MEMBER oF: A.S.M.E.; National Rifle Association; National Afuzzle Loaders
Association; Railway Maintenance Officers Association.

PuBLicaTions: Articles in Railway Age, Railway Mechanical Engineering and
Diesel Progress.

I LEFT the University in 1929 due to a variety of reasons which

[39 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

included low marks, among other factors. In spite of the obvious
conclusions which could easily be drawn from my scholastic
record, I was still determined to be an engineer. It was my good
fortune to know Dr. William F. Kiesel, then mechanical engineer
of the Pennsylvania Railroad, who, when he heard of my diffi-
culties, offered me a job on his staff. Besides the opportunity of
working very closely with one of the great locomotive designers
of the era— and he was a great inspirational character as well —
I was sort of water boy to the design team who created the
motive power for the Pennsylvania’s electrification project.

In 1932, due to the depression, additional work on this program
was greatly curtailed, but I was fortunate to obtain a position with
General Stee] Castings Corporation, largely due to my experience
with the Pennsylvania. The work here was largely confined to
the design of steel castings for locomotives and cars.

S.K.F. Industries, Inc. offered me a job as assistant railway
engineer in 1935, and since then I have advanced to railway en-
gineer in 1943 and senior railway engineer in 1950. This was still
the same job, just more title and more administrative headaches.
I have four patents to my credit, all being devices for railroad
journal box equipment.

I sat out the war as one of those indispensable so-and-so’s, in
spite of several attempts to get in the Navy. In the meantime,
Iam doing my best to raise a family and the family debt. In the
course of my work with S.K.F., I have the United States to cover
on railroad applications and I act as a consultant for our associated
companies in Canada, Central and South America. This doesn’t
leave me as much time at home as I should like to have, but it
sure makes it tough on the bill collectors.

When at home, I work at designing and building target fire-
arms, having earned a gunsmith rating with the National Rifle
Association. This work has brought me a very pleasant and legal
association with the various police departments in the area as a
ballistician and chief range officer. While it doesn’t pay anything,
it has been useful in fixing my wife’s parking tickets.

The family now consists of my one and only indulgent wife,
one daughter, and two sons,

[40]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD HANSON BARBOUR

HOME ADDRESS: 111 Chapman St., Canton, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Barbour Welting Co., Brockton, Mass.

BoRN: May 22, 1908, Braintree, Mass, PARENTS: Perley Ernest Barbour, Mary
Augusta Graham.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MARRIED: Olive Howard Dunbar, Dec. 1, 1928, Canton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Hanson, Jr., Dec. 19, 1929 (mm. Jane Barclay, Aug. 25, 1951);
Benjamin Howard, Dec. 19, 1933; Nathaniel Sumner, Oct. 17, 1942;
Olivia Howard, April 27, 1945. GRANDCHILDREN: John Howard Barbour,
June 6, 1952; Nancy Wister Barbour, Oct. 23, 1953.

occuPaTION: President, Barbour Welting Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, National Association of Woolen Manufacturers,
1940-42; industry consultant, War Production Board, Wool and Mohair,
1941-43; trustee, Howard Seminary, Bridgewater, Mass. 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Milton Hoosic Club.

IT’ seems to me a lot has happened in the world since I was born
in 1908. In contrast to the development of the airplane, my life
has been more or less routine and normal.

Most of my recollections really begin with the First World
War, when I vividly remember sitting in class in the Lower
School at Milton Academy every morning watching our headmis-
tress, Miss Thatcher, change the battlefront with pins on a map.
I was ten years old when the war ended. The next eight years,
until I graduated, though uneventful, were packed with every
activity a school such as Milton provides. Somewhat better than
average marks, made possible by what I remember as having
seemed too many hours of home-work, more than the average
amount of baseball, and especially three months in Europe during
the summer of 1924, with two teachers and three other fellows
from school, highlighted my years before college. I realize there
are many other fine schools, public as well as private, but in my
case “hats off” to Milton. Incidentally, I have other happy mem-
ories of summer camps, especially of two summers spent in the
wilds of Canada, north of Toronto, Ontario.

My college career probably would have been quite normal
except for the fact that I met my present wife while a freshman,
although she had attended Milton two years while I was there.
In spite of constant, ardent attention to my new-found love, I did

[41]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

manage to successfully get through two years at Cambridge with
reasonably good marks before getting married in the fall of 1928.
I suppose | should have struggled through even though married,
but it didn’t seem practical at the time, and as it has turned out,
I wouldn't have missed a year of my married life.

My eldest son, Richard, Jr. made (I think!) the sad mistake
of going to Yale, but received his degree in 1951. He married
shortly thereafter, and we are now proud grandparents twice
over. Three other children have kept us more than busy during
the years. (Natty will be Harvard, 1965, 1 hope! )

After two fascinating years in the newspaper business, 1 went
into our family leather business in Brockton, Massachusetts. In
1933 my father started a knitted fabric business; it progressed
slowly, and became my baby in 1935. In 1936 we had ten or a
dozen employees, and did $98,000 gross. In 1944 it had grown to
360 employees, and grossed over $5,000,000, but I had developed
ulcers in the process—typical during these days as you may
know! However, it had some compensations as I invented a spe-
cial blanket for the Navy, and made several hundred thousand of
them in addition to miles of Army drab glove fabric — all subject
to renegotiation, of course!

Meanwhile, we lived in Milton during the first twenty-one years
of our married life, and I performed the usual community activ-
ities, such as Warrant Committee, United War Fund (chairman
for Milton, 1944), Red Cross (co-chairman for Milton, 1944),
Civilian Defense, etc. Two years ago we built a new home in
Canton, and have a camp in Jaffrey, New Hampshire.

After the war, the whole woolen business collapsed, and we
wisely liquidated the Barbour Mills. Meanwhile, the Barbour
Welting Company, of which I was still a partner, had come
through in good shape, and I found myself back in the leather
business, where | am today.

One of the thrills of unexpected events occurred when our
exceptional classmate, Monk Mason, thought well enough of our
setup to buy my father’s stock last spring. We are having a great
time, he as treasurer, myself, as president, which I have been for
the past two or three years.

While quietly pursuing my way though the years, I have had
a great interest in Harvard and, of course, have attended many

{ 42 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

games and reunions, etc. I had the great pleasure of helping run
our Twentieth as chairman, and now find myself deeply en-
grossed with our Twenty-fifth as general chairman, a job which
has its compensations in new friendships and renewal of old ones,
and a spirit of codperation, which would be difficult to duplicate
except at Harvard! It is my earnest desire that 1930’s Reunion
will be an outstanding event in our lives.

That’s about all except that ’'m a Unitarian, I play golf, tennis,
like to ride horseback, but never do; I fish both fresh and salt; J
like to travel and have been to Europe on business three times in
the last two years, I read most of the Book-of-the-Month Club
selections and spend the rest of my reading time on astronomy,
which has been my hobby for the last twenty years. We enjoy
and have attended Boston Symphony on ‘Tuesday evenings for
almost twenty-two years. I have definite ideas on world affairs,
McCarthyism, wars, atomic power, etc., and I am a Republican.
If I started to sound off on these, as well as the present state of
the financial and business world, nobody would read it, and I'd
never finish, so I'll just end by urging everybody to start packing
their bags for a triumphant return to Cambridge next June!

WALWORTH BARBOUR

HOME ADDRESS: 4664 Reservoir Rd., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: June 4, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Lewis Barbour, ’o2,
Clara Maria Hammond.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Deputy assistant secretary for European affairs, Foreign Serv-
ice, Department of State.

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club; University Club, Washington, D. C.

HAVING spent virtually all of the twenty-five years since gradu-
ation as an officer of the Foreign Service of the United States, I
assume that, in view of the public opinion of such a career which
has prevailed recently, I should approach the recital of my Vicissi-
tudes with a measure of diffidence. On the contrary, despite
service at such posts as Baghdad and Moscow, where disagreeable,
although dissimilar, atmospheric conditions made life trying, I

[ 43 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

am persuaded that—in the words of a periodical report — the
“period under review” has been both profitable (though not
financially) and, I hope, fruitful (though not progenitorially).
Aside from Baghdad and Moscow, I have served at Naples,
Athens, Sofia, Cairo, and Washington. My principal hobby has
been golf and a principal interest the sea. Without reflection on
the personnel system, I may note that of these seven posts only
four have golf courses and four are landlocked. As to the future,
after some fifteen years in or close to the Near East and nine years
in Washington and Moscow, I am looking forward with confi-
dence (qualified but not circumscribed by, I hope, a full apprecia-
tion of the difficulties) in the success of our efforts to combat the
Soviet menace and to ensure that the United States continues to

enjoy the freedom essential to Twenty-fifth Anniversary Class
Reunions.

GRANVILLE OLDFIELD BARCLAY

HOME ADDRESS: 215 Garden Rd., Palm Beach, Fla.

Born: Nov. 22, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Julien Stevens Ulman,
Gertrude Oldfield Barclay.

PRFPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

marriep: Margaret Wendell Thompson, Nov. 15, 1934, New York, N. Y.

(divorced 1941); Florence Carr Marston, June 26, 1946. cuit: Hunting-
ton Barclay, Feb. 25, 1939.
occupation: Retired.

I SPENT eight years in the brokerage business after leaving col-
lege and from 1938 until entering the Army in 1941 1 was secre-
tary and treasurer of the General Tung Oil Corporation. I served
in the Armored Field Artillery ending up in the occupation of
Korea in 1945 and was discharged in 1946. I moved to Florida in
1947 and have made this my base from which I have travelled ex-
tensively. As 1 write this, we are packing to leave for Mexico,
afterwards going to the West Coast for a time. From there I
expect to be coming East for the Reunion. My son, Hunt, is at
St. Paul's and entering Harvard in the fall of 1956.

[ 44 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BERNARD BARNES

HOME apprEss: “Shandon House,” North Broadway, Hastings-on-Hudson,
N. Y.

OFFICE appRESS: TIME, Inc., 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

BoRN: March 21, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Earl Barnes, Anna Kohler.

PREPARED AT: Friends’ Central School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-10930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marriED: Carolyn Huff Payne, Dec. 3, 1936, Greenfield, Mass. cHILDREN:
Timothy Earl, May 22, 1938; Mary Payne, April 19, 1940; Peter Grover-
man, March 20, 1943; Frederick Payne, Jan. 21, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Barnes, ’27.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, TIME, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Magazine Advertising Bureau,
Dobbs Ferry Hospital; director, Publishers Information Bureau, Village
League.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club, New York;
Washington (Conn.) Country Club.

ONE of the things I learned while working on the Crimson at
college was that, after seeing the way that fellows like Vic Jones,
Dick Sherman, and Geof Parsons wrote, I wasn’t a top flight
writer. My decision in the spring of 1930 was that when I went
to work [d try my hand at almost anything else. So after a few
months in the toy department at Macy’s, I became a copywriter at
Macy’s and Bamberger’s, a promotion writer at Time and, succes-
sively, promotion manager of Fortune and the Ladies Home
Journal, promotion director of Life, and editor and publisher of
a group of American psychological warfare magazines for the
_ government during the war. Such, I guess, is the long and lasting
impact of what one did in four years at Cambridge.

In more orderly fashion, 1 have spent my business life since
college in “communications.” Except for four years before the
war with the Curtis Publishing Company (Ladies Home Journal)
in Philadelphia and two war years in London, I have worked all
the time for TIME, Inc., in New York City. It’s been exciting and
it’s been fun.

My war stint was with the O.W.I. ending up a Deputy Director
of Northern European operations and helping dissolve an organiza-
tion of 2,000 people. ‘The magazines we produced were in six
languages and one, Voir, made over a million dollars for the
government. Volume 1, No. 1, of Voir was sixteen pages of pic-

[45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

tures of the D-Day assault on the beaches and a half million copies

of it were air-dropped i in northern France within thirty-six hours
of D-Day. All the magazines were temporary and were folded
as soon as local publishers could get started on their own oper-
ations.

I am now involved in slightly more intangible activities such
as personnel, staff relations, publicity, and public relations for my
company. -

I have been married for eighteen years and have a family of
four children, three boys and one girl. We live in a big old house
overlooking the Hudson River. When I say big, I mean it — we
have never counted the rooms but it does have eight fireplaces.
It is best characterized by the old gag that when you slam the
front door, all the Johns flush.

We've had two baby goats born in the front hall and there is
no known record of the number of cats and dogs that have been
part of the Barnes’ menage. We spend the summer months in
Bethlehem, Connecticut, where I indulge in my favorite hobby
—gardening, and sport — croquet.

I am a non-conformist politically, and even though I was party
to a so-called “radical” organization known as the Village League
locally, I have become more and more conservative as I have
grown older.

We, my wife and I, have divided up the various areas of doing
good in the world and tend to apply ourselves, individually or
collectively, to most of those that we think are important. The
range is obviously quite wide but dominant in it are the local
hospital, Planned Parenthood League, the local school (all of
our children attend public school), and the usual complement of
national organizations devoted to problems of equal rights for
Negroes, better teams in the second division in the American
League, and how one can insure getting one’s children into the
college of their first choice.

[ 46]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE WINFIELD BARNES

OFFICE ADDRESS: 65 Oliver St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1906, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: Harold Goff Barnes, Flor-
ence Mary Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Mary E. McPherson, Aug. 11, 1951, West Bridgewater, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Owner, Priscilla Sears Confectionery Company, candy manu-
facturing and sales.

JOHN PINDAR BARNES

HOME ADDRESS: 51 Summer St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Mutual Life Insurance Co., 501 Boylston 5t.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1908, Hingham, Mass. parents: Charles Benjamin Barnes, ’go,
Josephine Lea Low.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).

MARRIED: Alice Weston Mutch, March 31, 1934, Newburyport, Mass. cuit-
DREN: Joanna, Nov. 15, 1934; Alice, March 22, 1940; Judith, Oct. 16,
1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Benjamin Barnes, Jr., ’24.

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, New England Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany; manager, investment department, municipal and Canadian securi-
ties portfolio, secretary, finance committee.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Third Congregational Society, 1935-39, secretary,
Hingham Republican Town Committee, 1936-46; member, Hingham
School Committee, 1941-46; president, director, Hingham Cemetery
Corporation, since 1953; director, member finance committee, Hingham
Mutual Fire Insurance Company, since 1946; trustee, Hingham Institu-
tion for Savings, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, 1930-35; University Club, 1931-34:
Somerset Club, 1950-53; Beverly Yacht Club, since 1949.

FROM June, 1930, to February, 1931, I worked as a messenger in
the New England Mutual Life Insurance Company and left, re-
solved never to work for another insurance company.

I attended Harvard Business School from September, 1931, to
June, 1932, and — you guessed it — I entered the auditing depart-
ment of the New England Mutual. In 1934 I transferred from the
auditing department to the investment department, and from
bachelorhood to marriage: Alice W. Mutch of Newburyport.

[ 47 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

That same year I started six years as chairman of the New North
Parish Committee in Hingham, and our first daughter, Joanna, was
born.

In 1936 I began sixteen years as secretary of the Republican
Town Committee.

In 193g, although my wife was not a sailor, we purchased our
first boat, a nineteen square meter. In 1940 another deckhand
appeared on the scene, our daughter Alice, and I was made as-
sistant treasurer of the N.E.M.

From 1941 to 1948 I was a member of the Hingham School
Committee — nuff said, During these years I was too blind for
the services, so the Coast Guard (T.R.) had to suffice.

The third time never fails —in 1943 another daughter, Judith,
arrived to add plenty of zest and pep to life.

In 1945 I became a director and member of the finance com-
mittee of the Hingham Mutual Fire Insurance Company; in 1947,
a director of the Hingham Cemetery Committee and in 1952,
president; in 1954 I was made a trustee of the Hingham Institution
for Savings.

Meanwhile, cruising (an Alden coastwise cruiser, and now an
Oxford “4o0”), three daughters, and a wife who now has her sea
legs and loves sailing, have kept me well occupied. This past sum-
mer finds me in almost as bad shape as Brownell — my eldest
daughter is engaged to a Princetonian!

+ JOHN MUNROE BARNUM

BORN: Jan. 24, 1908, Worcester, Mass. parents: Dana Dwight Barnum;
Mary Caroline Munroe.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31).

pieD: June 18, 1942, Long Beach, Calif.

AFTER Commencement Barnum became a receiving clerk for
Houghton and Dutton Company of Boston. During 1932-1933
he attended the Harvard Business School. Later, as he wrote, he
held “some twenty-five ‘depression jobs,” from being a seaman
on a coal boat to forming the National Liberty League for Ad-
miral Richard Byrd. In 1940 he was engaged in research for the
Gallup Poll, the American Institute of Public Opinion, and Public

[ 48 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Opinion Surveys, Inc. He made analyses and time studies for the
Douglas Aircraft Company in Santa Monica, and wrote radio
scripts. At the time of his death, he was associated with Lock-
heed Aircraft Corporation in Burbank, California.

JAMES ELMER BARRETT

HOME ADDRESS: 200 E. 66th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Joseph P. Day, Inc., 7 Dey St., New York, N. Y.

porN: April 4, 1905, Ayer, Mass. parents: James Barrett, Margaret Kirk-
patrick.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Laura Day, Dec. 27, 1930, Short Hills, N. J. (died March 3, 1941);
Teresa Chalmers, May 29, 1943 (divorced 1952). CHILDREN: Laura,
Nov. 14, 1931 (am. Mr. Boggio, Dec. 29, 1952); James Elmer, Jr.,
April 17, 1934.

HARVARD SONS: James Elmer, Jr., '55

OCCUPATION: Vice-President and treasurer, Joseph P. Day, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-President, Treasurer, Joseph P. Day Florida Realty
Corp.; director, vice-president, treasurer, Joseph P. Day, Inc.; vice-
president, treasurer, director, Joseph P. Day West Virginia Company;
director, Value Line Fund, Inc., Value Line Income Fund, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Varsity Club; Military
Order of the Foreign Wars; Society of American Wars,

LIKE many other bright-eyed classmates, the lure of Wall Street
and the brokerage business attracted me as a means of earning a
livelihood. Together with some of my classmates, I entered the
employ of a New York brokerage company as a trainee to learn
the intricacies of the business. The aforementioned career ceased
abruptly after a “slight” business recession that started in 1929.

The next field of endeavor was the real estate profession, and I
can truly say that, after twenty-three years, the associations and
experience have been happy and highly satisfactory.

Four years spent in Naval R.O.T.C, during college days put me
in the first-call list prior to declaration of war in 1941. Early in
1941, the Navy Department refreshed my memory that I was an
ensign in the Naval Reserve and called me to active service. I
passed through channels and duties starting first at 90 Church
Street; Brooklyn Navy Yard; Oakland, California, three advance

[49 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

naval bases in the Pacific Area, San Diego; and back to New York
for release from active duty in March 1946.

To be perfectly frank, my athletic activities in recent years
have been most definitely conversational. [ find that it is much
easier nowadays to talk a “good game rather than play one.

My daughter and son-in-law are enthusiastic cattle raisers in
the State of Montana, which affords me an opportunity to spend
summer vacationing in the wide open spaces riding the range.

James, Jr., Class of 1955, and I have taken several trips over the
past few years visiting through the West, and more recently a
short trip to Bermuda, Jim, Jr. will enter the Harvard Medical
School in the fall in preparation for a medical career.

The thought of covering the past twenty-five years of one’s life
at first sounded somewhat foreboding, however, it has been en-
jovable to put down a few thumb-nail details of activities in the
past. In closing, let me say it will be more interesting to write
our resumes for the Fiftieth Reunion!

ROBERT EDWARD BARRETT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 92 Woodbridge St., South Hadley, Mass.

OFFIcE apprEss: 1 Canal St, Holyoke, Mass.

BoRN: May 12, 1909, Framingham, Mass. parents: Robert Edward Barrett,
‘os, Grace LeBaron Esty.

PREPARED AT: Holyoke High School, Holyoke, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: $.B. IN E.B. cum laude, 1930.

Marie: Edeltraut Christel Proske, Sept. 10, 1938, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN:
Elisabeth Proske, April 15, 1941; Ingrid Anna, June 30, 1944; Robert
Edward, 3d, June 15, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Park Barrett, ’37.

occupation: President and treasurer, Holyoke Water Power Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, treasurer, director, Holyoke Water Power Company;
director, Third National Bank and Trust Company of Springfield,
Phoenix Insurance Company, Connecticut Fire Insurance Company of
Hartford, Nonotuck Manufacturing Company of Holyoke; trustee,
Mechanics Savings Bank of Holyoke; director, Holyoke Chamber of
Commerce.

MEMBeR oF: American Society of Mechanical Engincers; Western Massa-

chusetts Engineering Society, Harvard Club of Boston, Rotary; Colony
Club; Masons, Shrine.

UPON graduation from college, I went to work as an electrical
engineer with my present employer, the Holyoke Water Power

[50]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Company. Since 1945 I have been president and treasurer of this
company.

The Holyoke Water Power Company has been developing the
water power resources of the Connecticut River at Holyoke
since 1859 and has been largely responsible for the development
of the city as an industrial community. At present, our company
owns and operates a dam and canal system which serve a group
of mills with water for hydraulic power and process uses. We
also have hydro-electric and steam electric plants generating
electricity for sale to most of the industries in Holyoke, to the
Town of South Hadley, and to the City of Chicopee. In addition,

our company owns several mills which we lease to small indus-
tries.

In 1938 I married a member of the faculty at Mount Holyoke
College who had come to this country in 1933 as an exchange stu-
dent from the Free City of Danzig. Ever since our marriage we
have been fortunate to live in South Hadley where we enjoy the
many advantages of bringing up our children in this college town.

ROBERT WALKER BARRETT

HOME apprEss: 91 Hill St., Bristol (R.D. 2), Conn.
OFFICE appREss: William L. Barrett Co., 30-38 School St., Bristol, Conn.

BORN: April 30, 1909, Bristol, Conn. Parents: William Lawrence Barrett,
Martha Pearl Pardee.

PREPARED AT: Bristol High School, Bristol, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 19303 LL.B., 1933.
MARRIED: Barbara Mary Ingersoll, April 30, 1942, Franconia, N. H.
HARVARD BROTHER: Richard C. Barrett, ’25.

OccUPATION: Manufacturer; secretary-treasurer and general manager, Wil-
liam L. Barrett Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member Bristol Board of Education, since 1950; corporator,

Bristol Savings Bank, since 1951; director, Rotary Club of Bristol, 1950-
53; director, various corporations.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; Franklin Lodge No. 56, A. F. & A. M.; Town
Club; Chippanee Country Club; American Bar Association; Bristol Bar
Association; Harvard Club of New York; Gulquac Salmon Club.

THE three years following graduation were happily spent ac-
quiring a Harvard law degree, after which the business of earn-
ing a living during the mid-thirties was the primary problem. A
job was waiting for me in a smal] State Street office upon gradu-

[51]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ation, but in the next five years there the salary scale moved
upwards at a barely perceptible rate. So, in late 1938, Jack Carter
(with whom I had roomed both in college and in Law School and
who was in the same office with me) and I started up an office of
our own across the street, and hung out our shingle. We didn’t
throw any of the big Boston offices into a state of panic, but we
got along and had a lot of fun in the process.

Then in 1941, with the war boom under way, the family busi-
ness (contract manufacturers of metal parts and assemblies) back
in Bristol decided that it needed my talents and with extreme re-
luctance I said goodbye to Boston and — more or less ——to the
practice of law. I have never regretted the move because I have
rediscovered the many advantages of small town or rural life over

big city dwelling—and the material rewards have been all I
could ask. I miss the academic atmosphere of Boston and Cam-
bridge, and I miss seeing my friends and classmates around there,
but I have tried to keep in touch with many of them and hope to
do better in the future.

My marriage in 1942 to Barbara Ingersoll of Madison, Wis-
consin, was surely the best thing that ever happened to me. Al-
though we are apparently not destined to raise a family, still we
share so many interests, hobbies, and activities that our life to-
gether has been rich and rewarding. In addition to seeing as much
of this continent as we can — as often as we can — we do some
amateur gardening in the summer, record collecting the year
round and, during the winter season, get to New York a few times
to recapture the thrill of the city. In addition, I play a notably
poor game of golf, do a little fishing and hunting, and fight a los-
ing battle to keep up with all the reading material which descends
on my home and office with each mail.

HENRY BREMFOERDER BASSETT

MaILtNG appress: Old Albany Post Road, Garrison, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 8, 1907, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: George Pomeroy Bassett
Ada Bremfoerder.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31),
OCCUPATION: Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files,

[52]

ge 6 toe i wen Fi tmereren

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN AUSTIN BASSETT

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: P, O. Box 946, Joshua Tree, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 4, 1906, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: William Austin Bassett, ’o1,
Grace Hachenburg Loring.

PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1927-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930(31).

OCCUPATION: Owner, retail drug, sundries and fountain grill.

THE span of twenty-fie years — how to bridge it? By no single
structure nor over any direct superhighway is the goal of the
present reached. I do not feel old enough to linger in reminis-
cence along the bypaths, nor young enough to rhapsodize on the
beauties of the view from the peaks, or to mourn over the depths.
Sufficient to say that I have rambled several times from coast to
coast On our continent and am at present poised on the edge of
the Mojave Desert in California, unmarried as yet, a fugitive from
smog and city tension after living seventeen years in the City of
the Angels.

Three years ago I came as a matter of health to this little com-
munity of Joshua Tree, located in the High Desert, forty miles
north of more famous Palm Springs. The story goes that the old
Mormons in their wanderings in the wilderness were undecided
as to the way. Pointing to a weird, spiny tree of the desert with
a grotesque limb outstretched like an arm, one of the brethren
said, “Joshua points the way!” Just where they were led the
story does not tell, but the Joshua tree thus got its name (so they
say); and history seemed to repeat itself by beckoning me to
Joshua Tree.

Here I have a pleasant desert home complete with traditional
patio. I share my home with my aunt, a transplanted Bostonian,
who seems to thrive in the desert atmosphere. My chief hobby
in connection with my home is concerned with the locating and
the sawing up of sufficient wood to supply the voracious appe-
tite of my large fireplace.

For occupation I opened up a fountain-grill, drug and sundries
store, a business completely outside my experience which for the
previous ten years had been concerned with personnel work in
the Los Angeles branch office of the Real Silk Hosiery Mills. I
have managed to increase the business about 200 per cent in two

[53]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

years and to get head over heels in debt, which is about normal
for a pioneering business. If my creditors do not close down on
me, I may end as a restaurant tycoon of the desert, as the location
is ideal for growth as a recreational area and a refuge from smog.
Yes, I am on the board of directors of the local Chamber of Com-
merce and a minor pillar of the Community Church,

+ EDWARD TRUMBULL BATCHELDER

Born: April 13, 1906, Salem, Mass. parents: Samuel Henry Batchelder,
"99, Mabel Augusta Trumbull.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. C17 laude, 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

marrieD: Wilma Eliza Hemenway, Feb. 25, 1933, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: William Henry, June 27, 1937; Stephen Hemenway, March
21, 1940.

piep: April 17, 1950, Tarrytown, N. Y.

wow: Mrs. Edward T. Batchelder, 215 Farrington Ave., North Tarrytown,
N. Y.

WHEN he graduated from the Business School, Batchelder joined
the Hampden Manufacturing Company as a salesman of tacks;
he left the company in 1933 but later became its vice-president and
director. He then served asa section hand with B. Altman & Com-
pany. From 1934 to March, 1936, he worked successively as as-
sistant to the chairman and to the sales manager of Hygrade
Sylvania Corporation, as a consumer survey taker for Jersey Cen-
tral Power and Light Corporation, and in a chemical business. In
1936 he became associated with the staff of the Association of
National Advertisers, he became secretary in 1944, and at the
time of his death was also a vice-president. He served as a director
of the Brand Names Foundation.

Batchelder was active in Harvard Business School alumni af-
fairs, as president of the New York group (1944-1945), and as a
member of the executive council of the Harvard Business School
Alumni Association for four years. His wife and two sons sur-
vived him.

[54]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN LANGDON BATCHELDER, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Robin Hill, Washington, Conn.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1907, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: John L. Batchelder, Grace
S. White.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

marrieD: Mildred M. Hayden, June, 1937, New York, N. Y.

occupPaTION: Artist; Designer.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in life drawing, painting, composition, perspective,
School of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, 1936-38; assistant State
Supervisor, U.S. Passive Defense Project, 1941-42; camouflage designer,
US. Army Engineer Board, 1942-43; engineer, Capitol Airlines, 1943-
45; industrial designer, Warren McArthur Corporation (aircraft seating),
1946-47.

MEMBER OF: St. Botolph Club, Boston, Mass.; Lions Club, Washington, Conn.

I AM in a mood of profound cynicism as regards my chosen pro-
fession as artist — art just isn’t very important any more! How-
ever, my training and experience in the fields of portrait and
mural painting, architecture, and industrial design have left me a
sustaining faith in the creative power of the human mind. Per-
haps the idea of God as the sublimation of the collective human
ego and symbolic guardian of man’s conceptual inheritance may
prove useful. I do believe that the foreseeable future of humanity
will be determined by the quality of research science. This is a
brief substitute for a formal biography — but then, what I have
done and the ideas I have held no longer seem very significant. I
shall spare you the details.

DONALD FRANCIS BAUM

HOME ADDRESS: 150 Secatogue Ave., Farmingdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ApprEss: B. H. Aircraft Co., Inc., Eastern Parkway, Farmingdale, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 18, 1909, New York, N. Y. Parents: Seymour Jesse Baum, Anne
Margaret Lynch.

PREPARED AT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Marguerite Theresa Smith, June 29, 1935, Flushing, N. Y.

occuPaTION: Vice-president, secretary, B. H. Aircraft Company, Inc,, aircraft
parts manufacturing.

On graduation day, the year 1955 seemed to be in the dim, almost

C55]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

unforseeable future, and the Twenty-fifth Reunion Class was
composed entirely of rather ancient, grandfatherly, kindly old
gentlemen who made their way through the Yard unassisted but
obviously with effort.

And now 1955 has arrived with amazing speed and we either
are not, or will not confess to being ancient, grandfatherly, or
kindly, and the boy scout who offers to help us across the street
lays himself open to a good possibility of getting kicked in the
teeth.

During the initial ten years, satisfactory shelter from the de-
pression was provided by a large electric light and gas utility. I
then joined B.H. Aircraft where I progressed to my present posi-
tion as a result of natural ability, hard work, and the fact.that my
father owned the corporation.

I am completely dissatisfied with all politicians, my golf game,
and high income taxes.

BEAUVEAU BORIE BEALS

HOME apprEss: Bristol Road, Churchville, Bucks Co., Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Beauveau B. Beals, Fox Bldg., Philadelphia 3, Pa.

BorN: March 27, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: George William Beals, 83,
Emily Ewing Borie.

PREPARED AT: Lhe Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928, 1929-1930.

MarrigD: Beatrice Irving, Nov. 19, 1932, Abington, Pa. cHILprEN: Douglas
Irving, Dec. 15, 1943; Susan Borie, Jan. 3, 1946.

occupation: Advertising: president, account-executive, copy-writer in ad-
vertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Northampton Township Zoning Commission, 1947;
president, West Bucks Lions Club, 1949; finance chairman, Northampton
Township Parent-Teacher Association, 1950, pack chairman, Church-
ville Cub Scouts, 1954, 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Franklin Institute, Eastern In-

dustrial Advertising Association, Poor Richard Club; West Bucks Lions
Club.

FIRST two years after college were spent as a chemist in the
laboratories of the American Viscose Company in Marcus Hook,
Pennsylvania. Left Viscose and chemistry in general to enter
advertising, and the front door of N. W. Ayer & Son, Philadel-
phia. Was there nearly ten years learning the business and work-

[ 56]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing on such accounts as Lincoln Motor Company, Ford, Atlantic,
and — of all things — my old friend, American Viscose. One day
in 1938 Ford left Ayer. The next day Ayer left me.

In 1939 (remember that year?) I was publicity director for
Chestnut Hill Academy. In September of that year, I joined the
Philadelphia Inquirer as production manager for the promotion
department. Joined the Army of the United States in 1943; took
basic at Fort Bragg and left in a hurry for overseas. Learned
then the truth of that old Army maxim, “Hurry up and wait,”
because I spent a pleasant ten months in the United Kingdom
waiting with the sword of Damocles overhead.

Found that my poor teeth were my best friend, since a severe
case of osteomyelitis of the jaw kept me in base hospital on
D-Day, when my outfit hit Omaha Beach. Caught up to my
outfit in Luxembourg, and took the grand tour of Europe under
General Patton with the roth Armored Division. Was gunner on
a self-propelled 105 mm. howitzer, barrelling across southern Ger-
many, the Bulge, Trier, Metz, Heidelberg, and finally into Ba-
varia. Six months of occupation with Division Headquarters as
Orientation Lecturer and editorial writer and columnist for the
Division newspaper, and home through Marseille and Gibraltar.

Joined a small advertising agency in Philadelphia in 1946 as ac-
count executive and copywriter, learning how the other half of
the (advertising) world lives. Early in 1951, I decided to free-
lance. This is sometimes a paraphrase for “out-of-work,” but
in this case, was the McCoy. Free-lancing didn’t last long.
Opened my own agency, instead, specializing in industrial and
technical accounts. This peculiar status enables me to still do
free-lance copy for other advertising agencies where technical
knowledge is a requirement. This is a successful and happy ar-
rangement for all concerned — including the advertiser.

We live in an old farmhouse in lower Bucks County — the
other side of the tracks from George Kaufman, Paul Whiteman,
and Pearl Buck. When we moved in 1949, it was farming coun-
try. Today, with the flight to the suburbs, there are fewer back-
yards and more patios; not so many cows, and a lot more
commuters. Even so, we have about twelve acres of fine old
shade trees and fine old poison ivy. “We” consist of my wife,
my mother, our two children, Doug and Susan, and myself. Ar -

[57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the present writing, there are also three ducks, five cats, three
goats, a dog, and a few itinerant field mice who prefer central
heat this time of the year.

We make no attempt to farm the ground: a neighbor pastures
about a dozen head of Jerseys from time to time on the upper
six acres; the Cub Scout baseball diamond takes up another acre,
and the honeysuckle and poison ivy take over the rest. All except
a terrific expanse of lawn which is always in the sun when I have
to mow it!

The matter of hobbies baffles me. One can’t count the Boy
Scouts, the Brownies, and the P.T.A. as hobbies — but they take
time. So does an old farmhouse: something always needs paint-
ing, planting, or pruning. Or repairing! The number of repairs
required to house, toys, bicycles, fingers, and the trees after as-
sorted hurricanes pass through would astonish an apartment
dweller. Perhaps living in the country is a species of hobby in
itself.

Certainly I do not intend to sound complaining. Living as we
do has many joys, all of them exacting a price. We feel the prices
are at bargain rates. We hold the curious theory that somewhat
of a return to a rural type of existence is more apt to provide
greater rewards in relaxation in a happier way of life, in better
citizens, both young and old. Happier kids, too, I bet!

Sure, we've got a T.V. set — but when the snow needs shovel-
ing or the goats need watering, the electronic program will have
to wait — Mr. Peepers will be back next week!

ALLYN COPP BEARDSELL

HOME appress: One Homestead Court, Short Hills, N. J.

OFFICE appress: Container Laboratories, Inc., 45 E. 22nd St., New York 10,
N. Y.

BorN: March 9, 1909, Somerville, Mass, parents: William Lee Beardsell, ’oo,
Edith Frothingham Mandell.

PREPARED aT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930,

MARRIED: Virginia Lee, June 29, 1930, Concord, Mass. cHILDREN; Ann,
Feb, 2, 1932 (m. Slover King Hollister, Jr, May 7, 1954); Allyn Lee,
Oct. 19, 1934.

occupation: Vice-president, manager New York Division, Container Lab-
oratories, Inc.

[58]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, New York University, Division of General Educa-
tion, since 1949; vice-president, New York Chapter, Society of Indus-
trial Packaging and Materials Handling Engineers; chairman, Packaging
Committee, The American Ordnance Association, since 1952; member
Technical Operating Committee, Packaging Institute, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Cold Storage Advisory Committee, Department of Agriculture,
Republican Club of Short Hills.

PUBLICATIONS: Series of articles on packaging in Distribution Age, contribu-
tions to Modern Packaging Encyclopedia, packaging series of American
Management Association (two articles).

FOR no other reason than that a job was available, I accepted a
position before graduation in May, 1930, with the Hinde & Dauch
Paper Company, located at Allston Station, Boston. This con-
cern manufactured, and still does today, corrugated fibreboard
shipping containers. This job served as my introduction to pack-
aging, which, according to the Assistant Secretary of Commerce,
has become the second largest industry next to the automotive in
the United States today. In 1934 I was transferred to the Ho-
boken, New Jersey, plant and covered the Eastern Division plants
until September, 1942, at which time I resigned to become the
Headquarters Staff Co6rdinator of Military Packaging for West-
ern Electric Company, Inc., 195 Broadway, New York.

From 1946 to 1949 I acted as supervisor of packing, shipping,
and warehouse methods for Western Electric. In 1949 I accepted
my current position with Container Laboratories, Inc., doing re-
search, consulting, testing, and development. Believe me, chang-
ing from the largest corporation in the world to one of fifty-odd
employees required a good deal of adjustment, but I have never
regretted it for a moment, and I am enjoying my work more than
at any other time.

As a family we have nothing spectacular or exciting to report.
Jinny and I struggled along the first few years and finally in 1946
built our present house in Short Hills, which we believe is one
of the finest residential communities in the Fast. Ann and Allyn
Lee both went to Millburn High Schoo]. Ann attended Ohio
Wesleyan and Wheelock Colleges and is now married to a rugged
second “looey” in the Marines and stationed at Quantico, Allyn
is a junior at Trinity in Hartford, Connecticut, where he is ex-
tremely happy and well adjusted. Jinny and I are a bit subdued
at the present time, trying to adjust ourselves to a quiet household.

[59]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

SAMUEL BERNARD BEASER

HOME AppREss: 44 Chatham Rd, Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 Bay State Rd. Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Maurice L. Beaser, Ray Salvin,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: AB. Cum laude, 1930; M.D. (Columbia
University), 1934.

MARRIED: Shirley B. Castleman, Jan. 2, 1948, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN: Rich-
ard Seth, April 22, 1951; Robert Harry, May 29, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Herbert Wilton Beaser, '34, L1.B., '37.

occUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting physician, head of Diabetes Clinic, Beth Israel Hos-
pital, Boston; instructor in medicine, Harvard and Tufts Medical
Schools.

MEMBER OF: American and New England Diabetes Association.
PUBLICATION: Articles and chapters in scientific journals and books on in-
ternal medicine and diabetes.

IT is hard to realize that I am being asked to describe a full quar-
ter-century of my life. The interval has been both busy and, at
times, exciting. Four years of medical school at Columbia were
followed by a similar period of internship and residency in New
York (Presbyterian Hospital and Bellevue) and Boston (Beth Is-
rael Hospital). Those were years of really hard work but ade-
quately compensated for by fascinating interest and a constant
and even kaleidoscopic variety of experiences.

Then began four years of practice in Boston in internal medi-
cine, combined with part-time research and teaching at Tufts
and Harvard Medical Schools. Together with the usual attempts
to keep up with a voluminous medical literature, these activities
easily spanned a sixteen-hour day. At the same time I pursued a
special interest in diabetes, both clinically and in research,

From 1942 to 1946 I saw service in the U.S. Army in the
U.S.A. and the Caribbean. 1 emerged with an unflattering opin-
ion of the regular Army and its Medical Corps, but grateful to
have been spared hardship or worse,

Shortly after return to practice in 1946, my mother died fol-
lowing a long illness. The practice which had vanished during the
war had to be painfully reconstructed. In the process 1 was ap-
pointed head of the diabetes out-patient department of the Beth

[ 60 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Israel Hospital and edited the special bi-annual progress section
in that subject in the New England Journal of Medicine,

In 1948, after a whirlwind courtship, I married Shirley Castle-
man of Salem, Massachusetts, and settled down in the staid garden
city of Newton. In the interval, Richard Seth (aged four years)
and Robert Harry (aged one year) arrived to make life both in-
teresting and worth while, even though a bit noisy at times.
Gardening and the pursuit of the will-o-the-wisp of hi-fi music
also provide welcome relaxation from the daily tension of prac-
tice. Teaching of students, writing, and lecturing add interest,
but constitute a drain on the all too meager leisure time.

By religion I am a conservative Jew, and by political convic-
tion, a New Deal Democrat. Neither have helped in viewing the
arrival of the Atomic Age with anything but apprehension.

STANLEY MARVIN BECKERMAN

HOME ADRESS: 1345 Jefferson St., Hollywood, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS:* 1943 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood, Fla.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Henry Alfred Beckerman,
Tillie Edith Kline.

PREPARED AT: Milford Preparatory School, Milford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B. 7#agna cum laude, 1930; LL.B.
(Western Reserve Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: Lilyan Wolk, May 11, 1937, Miami Beach, Fla. camp: Ross Pat,
Aug. 27, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Joseph Beckerman, ’ 34.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Hollywood, Inc., Hollywood, Fla., Jewish Welfare
Federation of Hollywood, Broward County Bar Association, 1952; direc-
tor, Bank of Hollywood.

AFTER graduation from Harvard in 1930, I attended Western
Reserve University in Cleveland for three years and obtained my
LL.B, degree in 1933; served as president of my law school class;
received the Order of the Coif.

After practising law in Cleveland for a little over a year, I
moved to Miami Beach, Florida, and engaged in a business enter-
prise in South Florida. I was admitted to the Florida Bar in 1937
and have been practising law in Hollywood, Florida, ever since.
In addition to my general practice, I am chief executive officer

[61]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

for a large real estate development company. Throughout the
years I have been quite active in bar association activities, com-
munity work, welfare and charitable organizations.

Happily married since 1937, I have one son, aged fifteen and a
junior in high school, who plans to enter Harvard in 1956 as a
member of the Class of 1960.

LAWRENCE BURKE BELKNAP

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Lefavour Ave., Beverly, Mass.

OFFIcE appress: United Shoe Machinery Corp. Elliott Street, Beverly, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1909, Beverly, Mass. parents: Lawrence Belknap, Ethel
Gardner Burns.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1932.

marRiED: Elisabeth Cummings Guinivan, Oct. 12, 1938, Beverly, Mass.

OccUPATION: Accountant.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, United Shoe Machinery Athletic Associa-
tion, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Cost Accountants; Beverly Industrial
Management Club; United Shoe Country Club. .

I ENTERED the employ of the home town United Shoe Ma-
chinery Corporation in 1933 and am still with them. I married in
1938 and have lived happily ever after. I play golf in a mediocre
fashion (break 80 about once a year), but well enough to beat
my wife with the use of excellent judgment on my part as to the
number of strokes I will not give her.

I had no war record. |

I enjoy good bourbon, good jazz (NOT cool), and am a good
(?) Republican. Am still rooting for the Crimson and the Red
Sox with greater enthusiasm than results.

CONRAD BELL, JR.

oFFice appress: Hillyer & Bell, Inc. 5 W. Fighth St., New York 11, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1907, Waltham, Mass. parents: Conrad Bell, ’oo, Elizabeth
Dudley.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MargiED: Roberta Burbridge, Sept. 27, 1929, New York, N. Y. cuipren:
Roberta Elizabeth, Sept. 3, 1930; Conrad, 3d, Aug. 21, 1932. :

occuPATION:; Real Estate.

[ 62]

ete LNT 8 UIP PT LN”

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE goads and telegrams are finally taking effect. I understand
that Dillinger passed through Harvard Square once so the Class
of ’30 would probably be goading him if he were alive.

I am a little country boy who arrived in the Big City, now
president of a little real estate office and trustee of a little Savings
Bank, officer of many little real estate corporations, who has not
yet become stuffy enough to have a little secretary to ask who is
calling when he is called on the telephone.

On my annual sail to New England last summer, I met our
charming classmate, Waldo Howland, who has a real eye for a
buck. He had sold an old boat which did not leak to Monk Mason
for an exorbitant price and naturally Monk wanted to unload it
for an exorbitant price. Waldo, being interested in making a
second exorbitant commission, sold the boat to me. Waldo, being
a boatsman and a perfect weather seer, knew that we were due to
have some hurricanes this fall. He told me about this, but did not
tell Monk; so, I thad the benefit of the insurance payment rather
than Monk — much to Monk’s disgust. Rumor has it that he has
made another exorbitant commission by selling the wreck to
another unsuspecting sailor (probably another classmate). ‘Too
bad our Class was so small. Now the sharpie is trying to sell me
a Concordia yawl. I hope he won't be successful.

ROBERT BOGUE BELL

HOME AppREss: Smith Ridge Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pan American World Airways, 135 E. 42nd St, New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1908, Chicago, Ill, parents: Marcus Lafayette Bell, Ruth
VanDoren Bogue.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

MARRIED: Julia Lane Alexander, May 18, 1938, Darien, Conn. cyiLp: Fontaine
Alexander, Oct. 2, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Marcus Lafayette Bell, Jr., ’29.

occuPATION: Assistant to system vice-president, Pan American World Air-
ways.

MEMBER or: Harvard Club of New Canaan; U.S. Marine Corps Reserve
Officers Association.

AFTER graduation, I spent one year at Harvard Law School.
[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Then in 1932, bitten by the aviation bug, I started my own air-
line on Cape Cod, fiving berween New Bedford, Woods Hole,
Martha’s Vineyard, and Nantucket. This was continued for sev-
eral summers, after which I discovered the necessity of eating in
the winter, too, so joined TWA in 1935. Between 1935 and 1940,
I did a variety of jobs, all in aviation, which gave me an unusually
broad basic experience. In May, 1940, 1 joined American Air-
lines, thus starting an association which has continued indirectly
until the present.

Having learned to fly at Squantum, Massachusetts, in 1928, I
continued active flying until 1945. I received a commercial license
at Boston in 1929, and in 1936 was commissioned a second lieu-
tenant in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve, joining the Organized
Reserve Squadron at Floyd Bennett Field, New York. I con-
tinued as a “weekend pilot” with this unit until December, 1940,
when we were mobilized for continuous active duty. 1 was then
assimned as a primary flight instructor at Floyd Bennett Field
until June, 1942, at which time I was checked out in Transport
Aircraft,

In October, 1942, I went overseas and spent the next eighteen
months flying DC-3’s (as Squadron C.O.) in air evacuation and
supply operations throughout the Solomon Islands Campaign
(Guadalcanal, New Georgia, Bougainville), and was awarded the
Air Medal with four clusters and the Distinguished Flying Cross
for this work. I returned to the U.S.A. in 1944 and was released
from active duty in September, 1945, with the rank of lieutenant
colonel, U.S.M.CR. I have continued my association with the
Reserve and was promoted to the rank of colonel in 1952.

In September, 1945, I rejoined American Airlines and worked
on the staff of the vice-president, sales, until September, 1950. At
this time, in connection with the merger between American Over-
seas Airlines and Pan American Airways, I had a chance to join
PAA, and did so in the belief that in this generation foreign affairs
hold the promise of particular interest and significance.

From October, 1950, through June, 1952, I served with the
Atlantic Division Operations Staff of PAA, and from July, 1952,
through December, 1954, was assigned to Beirut, Lebanon, in
charge of operations and sales for one of Pan American’s affiliated
companies — Middle East Airlines. This company operatcs air-—

[64]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

craft all over the Middle East area, and a more interesting assign-
ment and experience would have been impossible.

In December, 1954, I was reassigned to New York, with the
job of assistant to one of the senior vice-presidents in the PAA
System, and this job, too, promises to be of utmost interest.

Married in 1938, with one son now fourteen years old, Judy and
_ I have owned our own home in New Canaan, Connecticut, since
1945, and have a rich family life in every way. Our experience of
living two years in the Middle East was very interesting and stim-
ulating to us all, but we are glad now to return home, where we
are active in church and community life and have our roots put
down. For the first time, in fact, we now feel that we are really
getting our feet on the ground and settling down.

As for the next twenty-five years, I hope that in some ways
they will be less arduous than the last twenty-five; but on the
other hand, if they have in them even half the interest and richness
of the last twenty-five, I shall be well satisfied, and I look forward
to them eagerly.

+ WILLIAM LEONARD BENEDICT

BORN: Oct. 14, 1860, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: William Gardner Benedict,
Frances Wheeler.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MARRIED: Maud Benson. cuttp: Edward W.

DIED: June 6, 1935, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

IN 1876 and 1877 Benedict studied at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology. He joined our Class when he was sixty-eight
years old and remained with it for less than a year. He was for
many years associated with Kidder, Peabody & Company, first in
New York and later in the Boston office. At the time of his death,
he was retired and living in Chestnut Hill.

FRANKLIN PIERCE BENNETT

HOME ADDRESS: 1101 Woodside Drive, Flint, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, 711 S. Saginaw Sc., Flint, Mich.

BORN: June 2, 1907, Saugus, Mass. PARENTS: Franklin Pierce Bennett, Jr., ‘oo,
Irene May Willard.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Excter, N. H.

[ 65 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; B.D. (Episcopal Theological
School), 1934.

MarRIED: Florence Concordia Young, June 30, 1934, Brockton, Mass. crm
preN: Franklin Pierce, Sept. 5, 1935; Peter Arthur, May 6, 1937; Timothy
Parker, March 12, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Franklin Pierce Bennett, ’57.

occupation: Rector, St. Paul's Episcopal Church.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1944-49, secretary, 1948-49, Diocese of Central New
York; deputy, General Convention, 1949; member, 1952-55, vice-presi-
dent, 1954-55, Executive Council, Diocese of Michigan.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club of Syracuse, N. Y., 1937-50; Rotary Club of Flint,
Mich.

THE first year after graduation, spent in the employ of a large
electrical manufacturing corporation, was sufficient to validate an
earlier sense of vocation summoning me to the Christian ministry.
Hence my enrollment in, and subsequent graduation from, the
Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge. An eight-month
curacy was spent in St. Paul’s Church, Syracuse, New York,
where, upon the death of the rector, I remained for fourteen years
as his successor. They were very happy years in which Mrs.
Bennett and I rejoiced in both our professional activities and the
birth and growth of our three sons. But fourteen years very easily
drift into twenty-four, thirty-four, or even forty-four years, and
it is indeed a rare clergyman and an even rarer parish that does
not suffer when such a pastorate becomes almost a tradition.

Hence in 1950, after much thought and searching of soul, |
accepted an invitation to become rector of St. Paul’s Church,
Flint, Michigan, and after five years in this automotive city where
all Buicks and most Chevrolets are manufactured, I know what is
meant by “the vigor and drive of the Midwest.” I never expected
to participate in extensive church construction, but most of the
past four years has been spent in just that procedure.

During this time, the three sons have flourished mightily.
Franklin, having graduated from Exeter, is now in his second
year at Harvard. Peter is attending the Governor Dummer Acad-
emy. And Timothy hopes to enter Exeter a year hence. It is in
the boys that Mrs. Bennett and I locate our happiest expectations
for the future.

Meanwhile, I rejoice in my profession; I should have been
happy in no other. It is my conviction that all men have more

[ 66 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

faith in God than most are prone to confess, but I have been most
fortunate in having the confidence and support of business and
professional men who were also active churchmen.

JOHN BENSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Brooks Hotel, Brattleboro, Vt.

BorN: March 31, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: John Benson, Cora Macon
Handy.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield-Shields High School, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JOSEPH MORRIS BERGER ,

HOME ADDRESS: 2905 Dean Blvd., Superior, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1225 Tower Avenue, Superior, Wis.

BORN: March 4, 1909, Cloquet, Minn. parents: Morris Berger, Esther
Milavetz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MarRiED: Irene Mary Louise Rigg, June 11, 1941, Chicago, Ill. (divorced
1949). CHILD: Aimee Jo, July 16, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

I GRADUATED from the University of Minnesota in 1932. I
majored in Greek there and was supposed to teach Greek there.
The depression hit the Middle-West hardest just at that time so
the University had to economize, too. The departments of Latin
and Greek were consolidated into the Department of Classics,
and instead of adding to the staff, some were eliminated.

I returned home to help my father in his business. In 1941 I
went into the general insurance agency business. I married later
(forever, I thought!) and remained in Superior, Wisconsin, until
September 16, 1942. At that time I began training in the Marine
Corps. I was a private and runner for a long time (long enough
to realize that I should at least rate PFC and other duties) and
finally (after two years) became PFC and in the Intelligence (a
catch-all name, I am firmly convinced). Though I had tried to
enter the Navy Language School to study Japanese, I was told
in 1942 (I was then thirty-two) that I was far too old, but was
admitted in 1945 (I was then thirty-five).

[ 67 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I returned from the Marshalls, Saipan, and Tinian to the United
States. We had returned to Hawaii after the Marshalls and Saipan
and Tinian, so 1 took advantage of the opportunity to study
Japanese and Chinese at the University of Hawaii. I then con-
tinued schooling at Boulder, Colorado, where I graduated from
the Navy Language School in the Japanese course. Unfortunately,
or fortunately, the war in the Pacific had ended, so my services
were no longer needed and I was discharged in March, 1946.

I returned home and tried to revive a business and home. Our
daughter, Aimee Jo Berger, was born in Duluth, Minnesota, on
July 16, 1946. My daughter and my wife meant much to me, but
my wife was unhappy (I still don’t know why, except that I de-
voted too much time and effort and attention to my business! ).
She was granted a divorce on September 16, 1949. I have never
accustomed myself to the break, so I am unmarried.

On March 1, 1954, I entered the employ of the Leo Wolk Com-
pany at Minneapolis, as a risk analyst for property and casualty
insurance. I have been consulted in the past by large firms and
municipalities for insurance advice and insurance counsel. This
has been my most interesting work and the pay for pure advice
has been gracious. However, of late, I have been so very busy
with other insurance work that I have recently declined any ad-
ditional counselling work. In addition to my work in Minneapolis,
I still maintain an office in Superior, Wisconsin, which I direct
and control, although I have a manager for the insurance work
there.

My earnings have increased to the extent that I may again
venture into matrimony (if only I could find any applicants!)
My plans for the future are indefinite; I suppose that is part of the
difficulty I have had in the present.

HERBERT AUGUSTUS BERGSON

HOME AppreEss: 2015 Plymouth St, N.W., Washington 12, D. C.

orrice appress: Ford, Bergson, Adams & Borkland, 918 16th St., N.W,,
Washington 6, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1909, Boston, Mass, parents: Harry Bergson, ’o4, Augusta

Preparen AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

[ 68 ]

eg OE OE 1 eee Og @ at eareni nent eect

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Bernice A. Weber, Sept. 22, 1933, Boston, Mass. cHtLpreNn: Barbara
Cook (died Jan. 22, 1941) and Richard Weber (twins), Nov. 21, 1935;
Paul Coles, May 31, 1944, Mary Kristine, May 29, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Harry Bergson, Jr., ’32; Philip Bergson, ’34, LL.B., "37.

OccUPATION: Lawyer, member of firm.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Attorney General of United States, 1948-50; general
counsel, Office of Defense Mobilization, 1950-51; council member, Anti-
trust Section, American Bar Association, since 1952; editor, Federal Bar
Journal, 1946-47.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Federal Bar Association; District of
Columbia Bar Association; Harvard Club, Army-Navy Club, National
Press Club, Washington, D. C.; Lawyer's Club, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: “Enforcing Antitrust,” Fortune, 1949; “Bigness in Business,”
1950, “Proof of Damage in Antitrust Cases,” 1952, Commerce Clearing
House, Antitrust Law Symposium; “Enforcement and Administration
of Federal Antitrust Laws,” Institute on Antitrust Laws and Price Regu-
lations, Southwestern Legal Foundation, 1950; “How Cooperative Can
You Be,” Dun’s Review, 1951, “Manufacture Abroad and the Sherman
Act,” Federal Antitrust Laws, University of Michigan, 1953.

SITTING down to write a brief personal history of one who has
led a relatively unexciting life reminds me of the drowning man
who died of boredom as the events of his life flashed by between
successive immersions. Tu, therefore, confine myself to a few
salient items.

Four years at college failed to drive me out of Cambridge. I
spent three more years there at the Law School. In September of
1933 I married Bernice Weber, an alumna of the Garland School,
Class of 1930. Shortly thereafter we moved to Washington where,
except for a couple of years of military service during World
War II, we have lived ever since.

For several years my professional life was spent in the Depart-
ment of Justice, where I served in various capacities, including
that of Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust
Division for about two and one half years. I resigned from that
position in September, 1950, to enter private practice in Washing-
ton. This respite from government service proved to be short-
lived; by the end of the year I was asked to return as the first
general counsel of the then newly-created Office of Defense A{o-
bilization. That job fully occupied my time until July of 1951,
when I again returned to private practice which, except for some
political irritations, I am enjoying immensely.

My family life has been even more rewarding than my pro-

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

fessional one. The family of which Bee and I were the charter
members has now expanded to five. We have two sons, aged nine-
teen and ten, and a little girl, aged three, who is the apple of our
collective eves. I don’t know yet whether Paul, my second son,
is Harvard bound or whether he will succeed in evading my pres-
sures as Dick, the older one, did. Dick is now a sophomore at
Georgetown. Both my father and I are working hard to redeem
him and hope that he will take his graduate work in Cambridge.
As for Mary — maybe she'll marry a Harvard man, thus assuring

herself of honorable mention in the Twenty-fifth Anniversary
Report of the Class of 197?.

 

EDMUND CALLIS BERKELEY

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Otis St, Newtonville 60, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Edmund C. Berkeley & Associates, 36 W. zith St., New
York 11, N. Y.

BorN: March 20, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: William Nathaniel
Berkeley, Clara Helene Barker.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. summa cum laude, 1930.

marriep: Ruth Janet Pirkle, June 9, 1934, Cumming, Ga. (divorced 1948);
Suzanne Slocum Wallace, March 19, 1949, Newtonville, Mass. CHILDREN:
Laura Helen, Oct. 16, 1940; Charles B. Wallace (stepchild), Nov. 5,
1936; Sally Suzanne Wallace (stepchild), March 22, 19383 William
Wallace (stepchild), Feb. 8, 1941, Robert Lamb, March 20, 1952.

occupation: President, Edmund C. Berkeley & Associates: consulting; pub-
lishing; manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Association for Computing Machinery, 1947-53,
American Pension Conference, 1949-52.

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries (fellow); Association for Computing
Machinery, Institute of Radio Engineers, Operations Research Society
of America, American Pension Conference, Association for Symbolic
Logic, Actuaries Club of New York, American Cryptogram Associa-
tion; Boston Actuaries Club; Phi Beta Kappa; Prudential Actuarial Soft-
ball Association, member committee, Norumbega Council, Troop 16,
Boy Scouts of America, New York Mineralogical Club; Boston Mineral
Club; Instrument Society of America, Association of Yeachers of
Mathematics of New England.

pusticarions: Giant Brains or Machines that Think, John Wiley & Sons,
1949; “2150 A.D.— Preview of the Robot Age,” “We Are Safer Than
We Think,” The New York Times Magazine, editorials in Computers

and Automation, about twenty articles and papers in Scientific Amer-
ican, Science, Astounding Science Fiction, Radio Electronics.

[70]

reenenereere Eee TERA

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE first ambition I ever had was to paint black fences orange.
In New York in the East Sixties when I was a child being taken
to the park, I used to see every now and then men in white suits
transforming dirty iron fences into radiant red-orange glory.
Some time after that, I knew that what I wanted to be was a
mining engineer, so as to find mineral specimens in exotic places.

That lasted until the end of my freshman year at Harvard, when

I had found out how much hard work was the lot of your mining

engineer, the disadvantages of your distance from civilization, and

how distressingly inaccurate your data and your conclusions had
to be,

A much more accurate field, where you could really be sure of

our conclusions, was mathematics which I liked a great deal and

did well in; so my next goal was a career as a creative mathemati-
cian. But this was sublimated, by repeated parental urging, into
the applications of mathematics in business: actuarial work in the
life insurance business. Also, “Go to work in a big business where
you can be secure and your income will rise year after year to a
good figure, never mind what you really want to do,” said the
Circe of being practical.

In 1930, therefore, after graduating I went to work as a clerk
in the actuarial department of a life insurance company on Nassau
Street, New York. For the next few years I felt as if the wide
beautiful world of ivy and myrtle of two and twenty had been
completely shut in by green carpets, mahogany desks, dim shafts
of daylight between the skyscrapers, and excessively simple arith-
metic. My assignment was to calculate rates for people who
wanted odd kinds of annuities and insurances not in the rate book
by putting numbers into company formulas and operating a desk
calculating machine.

Having inherited some money (four figures) in 1934, I broke
out of this cocoon and went abroad for three and a half months
visiting ten countries of Europe: Norway with its snow fields;
the Soviet Union with its new society, Greece with its Parthenon,
and Italy with its Vesuvius; and more countries besides. I was
living once more instead of only surviving; it set me wondering
how work could be combined with what you really wanted to do.

Again that autumn and for another eight years, more work in
the life insurance business: this time in another company in their

[71]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

now, and nearly all of my life is very satisfying. And one of these

days we shall change the color of all our small robots from black
to red-orange.

JOSEPH BERKOWITZ

HOME ADDRESS: §42 Page St., Stoughton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 232 Main St., Brockton, Mass.

BorN: May 16, 1909, Newark, N. J. parents: Frank Berkowitz, Peppi
Gropper.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Sadie Ruth Kushner, June 11, 1933, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN:
Susan Dorothy, July 29, 1936; Roslyn May, May 1, 1940.

occuPaTION: Physician and Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Brockton Medical Society.

MEMBER OF: Brockton Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American Medical Association, American Proctologic Society; Greater

Boston Medical Society; Thorney Lea Golf Club; American Board of
Proctology (diplomate).

PUBLICATIONS: Pacific Island Legends, New Caledonia, 1944; scientific articles
on granuloma inguinale, pilonidal sinus, rectal procidentia, and anaphy-

lactic shock.

THE narrative I’m about to relate is true . . . exaggerated in
spots, but fundamentally a depressing, lack-of-success story. My
lot was not to be a vice-president of some big corporation, nor
to be a director of some bank, nor even to marry a rich girl. Col-
lege was followed by medical school, hospital training, and then
finally the practice of medicine. I had already taken a large dose
of matrimony .. . plenty of “matri” and very little “money.”
However, I was an eager beaver and by 1940 had acquired two
new Berkies and an adequate practice. Perhaps things may have
worked out well, if time hadn’t suddenly run out.

I imagine our Class and contemporaries suffered the brunt of
World War II. My sentence was five years... Australia,
New Zealand, New Caledonia, New Hebrides, Solomon Islands,
and finally back to the U.S.A. Late in 1945 I got my walking
papers and I was a civilian again . . . unscathed, unharmed, just
broke and in debt. With these dubious resources I started practice

again, restricting my work entirely to proctology (the doctor
you call a rear admiral).

[76]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

How anybody can be as miserable as I am and still have so many
friends is difficult to understand. One explanation is the fact that
I’m such a cookie at extra-curricular activities. At golf 1 chop
around in the middle 80’s. A fellow could win with that score if
he were a good business man on the first tee. When it comes to
bridge, my friends tell me they’d like to have me on a slow boat
to China. And I’m bright enough to know that’s no compliment.
As for billiards . . . well, geometry was never my forte.

In between wars, sickness, and diversion, I’ve found time to
write a small arbeit entitled Pacific Island Legends, published in
New Caledonia. The only regret I have is that I didn’t call the
book Tales of the South Pacific, so that I could have made a deal
with Michener. I have also written some scientific articles pub-
lished in the New England Journal of Medicine and in the Amer-
ican Journal of Surgery ...mnone of them of earth-shaking
importance. At the present time I have in rough sketch a laugh
for golfers, entitled “On Killing Snakes or how to get a preferred
lie in the rough.”

I can honestly state that I have never made the big time, and
that I have made no substantial contribution to society or to
medicine. At age forty-five my coronaries already have been
twitching with tension. However, as the patient says, no matter
how much I suffer I never complain. [ve had a full life and a
good life with my share of good and bad breaks. I thank God for
giving me the kind of wife who has been able to put up with me
during the many trying years.

ELIOT PIERSON BEVERIDGE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: North Haven, Maine.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1908, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Orris Lyford Beverage,
Rose Emma Pierson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1931; ED.M.,
1934-

MARRIED: Dorothy Gattrell, June 9, 1934, Newburyport, Mass. cur:
Charles Eliot, May 17, 1935.

HARVARD SON: Charles Eliot Beveridge, ’56.

[77]

‘ HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lyford Pierson Beveridge, ‘22; Arnold Pierson Beveridge,
24; Lowell Pierson Beveridge, '25, Albion Pierson Beveridge, Divinity
School, 1936-38, Norwood Pierson Beveridge, 32.

OCCUPATION: Artist.

AFTER graduation I taught art in the schools for seventeen years,
latterly in Camden, Maine, thinking that the pleasures of a three
months’ vacation overbalanced the tensions and frustrations of a
teacher's life. I wished away three-quarters of each year, looking
forward for summer to come. Finally, I became chairman of the
P.T.A. School Improvement Committee, shortly thereafter found
myself out of a job, and decided to stick it as an artist rather than
move away from Penobscot Bay. Now I begrudge each passing
day, as it gives only half enough hours for the many. and varied
tasks to which I turn my hand, I have been “out of work” eight
years now and hope with all my heart I can stay out of it.

My watercolors have been acquired by a number of museums,
including Fogg and the M.F.A., Boston, and a very generous
number have gone to private collectors. Over a million full-color
reproductions have been sold in stationery form.

In the spring of 1953 I bought the old 120-acre farm on the
island of North Haven, where my father was born. Dorothy and
I have spent the past two summers repairing and improving the
old house, and we are now established here (with plenty more to
do) and here we plan to stay. We shall farm, and garden, and
work in the woods. We shall cruise Penobscot Bay and nearby
waters, and I shall continue to paint, leaving for the “continent”
only briefly and occasionally for lecture tours with my colored
slides and exhibits. A wonderful prospect!

My son Charles will graduate from Harvard in ’56, majoring in
American history. If lobstering or skiing had been offered, I’m
sure he would have chosen one of those.

WILLIAM CLYMER BIDLACK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 243 18th St., Santa Monica, Calif.
oFFice apprEss: Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Calif.

BoRN: June 11, 1910, Lancaster, Pa, parents: William Clymer Bidlack, Emily
Fox.

PREPARED AT: Franklin & Marshall Academy, Lancaster, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31),

[78]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRRiED: Ruth Budd Pullen, Nov. 30, 1935, Portsmouth, N. H. (divorced
1946); Betty D. Lasky, Dec. 12, 1948, Brentwood, Calif. (divorced 1951);
Coleen Gray, July 14, 1953, North Hollywood, Calif. campren: Bruce
Robin, June 1, 1954; Susan Amateau (stepdaughter), June 10, 1946.

occupation: Department manager, office facilities.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Research Committee, Publishers Advertising Club,
New York, 1946-47; member Public Relations Group, Los Angeles
Chamber of Commerce, 1949-50; member board of directors, Harvard
Club of Southern California, 1949, 1950.

MEMBER OF: U.S. Figure Skating Association (member-at-large); All-Year
Mercury Figure Skating Club, Skating Club of Los Angeles (resigned
1949); Harvard Club of Southern California.

PUBLICATIONS: Manual of Forms Control; various articles in sports magazines
(principally skating), newspaper and trade paper articles, various sys-
tems manuals.

WHAT a difference a few moments can make! After being di-
vorced in 1951, I’d decided that marriage wasn’t for me. With
two goes at it, one lasting eleven years and the other about three,
I just wasn’t having any. In 1952 I’d done a prodigious amount of
work, carved eighteen pieces of wood sculpture and freeform
tables, bowls, etc., out of myrtle, mahogany, walnut, and other
woods — I'd written a manual of forms control and developed a
functional index — these in addition to holding down a regular
job at Lockheed during the day. [Id a little studio house with a
skylight in Hollywood, just one room and a bath, but com-
pletely self-sufficient. I managed to do my own cooking and I
entertained my friends there. Seems to me I managed to read
about fifty books that year too. Sleep just didn’t seem to be neces-
sary; four hours a night was the regular amount, with a little more
on Saturdays and Sundays.

Then, one unexpected moment in June of 1953 I met Coleen,
and five weeks later we were married. The couple who intro-
duced us stood up for us and George O’Brien played the record-
ings of “Greensleeves” and Tartini’s “Violin Concerto in D,” two
of our favorite selections. We honeymooned at Santa Barbara and
Big Sur. About a year later our son, Bruce, was born. As you can
imagine, our planets now orbit about him! Quite a revolution
from the earlier years. A revelation too, I might add.

And somehow those earlier years now seem empty and fruitless
by comparison. How does one put down into cold logical state-
ments the emotions, the thoughts, the triumphs and disasters of a

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

quarter-century? One is born. One lives. One dies. It is as simple
as that. But is it? In the “one lives” can be hidden a single, a
thousand, or a thousand-thousand things, as all of us who. here
display our memoirs (and our certain epitaphs a» wen must surely
know. .. . Page Mr. Pulham!

For me, then, the record resolves to an observation. I observe
that there are balances—the purely mental life balances the
purely physical; the “inner stillness” of which Charles Morgan
writes derives not so much from inaction as from intense action,
intense motion and emotion; the aberrations flatten out into meas-
urable curves along the abscissae of time and distance; today’s
seedlings flourish on the dead leaves of last year’s autumn.

But among the notable souvenirs of those years are these:
watching and hearing blind Louis Vierne play the organ of Notre
Dame in 1 Paris; the rose window of Chartres cathedral at sunset;
the roar of surf above Big Sur; the wake of a torpedo crossing our
bows and disappearing without harm; the clatter of a troop of
horse in Sofia; the bronze Buddha of Kamikura; the deep rumble
of the temple bells of Nikko resounding across an ice rink; a
lonely road near Karuizawa; Seoul’s Bun Chung at night; climbing
Mount Chocorua with Dr. Howard Maynadier; the smell of Oc-
tober night in Maine; my son’s squalling cry as he was being born,
the feeling of utter exhaustion two years ago when our Harvard
Club of Southern California beat Yale, Princeton, and a pickup
team (27 innings of baseball’s too much at one time after these
years); the small triumph of earning both the bronze and silver
ice dance medals in one evening; carolling through the streets of
Tokyo on Christmas Eve; the sudden routing of fear when I
realized I'd captured a very-much-alive bald eagle in my two bare
hands; the feeling of being a Roman at the outposts of Britain as
I watched our tremendous power afloat and aloft in Tokyo Bay
that September morning in 1945 when the Japs tossed in the
towel, These are but a few; and since one can’t recall them all,
or begin to relate all that can be remembered, let these stand, like
X, for the number to the nth power.

For me, then, the record of the past twenty-five years is one of
countless encounters, in many places, and some were good. For
me, as for many of us of the Class of 1930, ’'m sure the record is
not to be found in where one worked or how, or for how much

[ 80

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but in the progression, no matter how slow nor with what cara-
pace, along that rough road to the becoming of a HUMAN being.
Let those who will — search within, and, with the Greeks, gnothi
seauton!

ARTHUR BURNHAM BIGELOW

MAILING ADDRESS: 370 Highview Road, Englewood, N. J.

BORN: Nov. 6, 1908, Whitinsville, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Arthur Bigelow,
Katherine Tibbetts.

PREPARED AT: Northbridge High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1030. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Frances Nicholson, April 9, 1938, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

EDWIN JAMES BILTCLIFFE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Woodstock Drive, Indianapolis, Ind.

BORN: July 8, 1907, Fall River, Mass. parents: James Henry Biltcliffe, Ada
Thayer Buffington.

PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

MarRRIED: Dorothy Lee Baker, Nov. 15, 1941, Dedham, Mass.

occuPATion: Musician.

OFFICES HELD: Pianist, Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, since 1942; organist
and choir director, Second Presbyterian Church, 1943; organist and
choral director, Scottish Rite Cathedral, Indianapolis, since 1946; as-
sociate director, Indianapolis Symphonic Choir, 1947; conductor,
Indianapolis Matinee Musical Chorale, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Oriental Lodge 500, A. F. & A. M., Indianapolis; Ancient
Accepted Scottish Rite, Walley of Indianapolis, American Guild of
Organists; Indianapolis Choir Directors’ Association, Athenaeum Club,
Lambs’ Club.

I AM writing backstage during a rehearsal of the Indianapolis
Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Fabien Sevitzky, who has
been my friend since college days. You may remember his con-
ducting at the Metropolitan Theatre when we were attending
Harvard. He has been conductor here the past eighteen years.
For eleven of those years, I have been official pianist of the or-
chestra and once again will be soloist, this time in the MacDowell

[ 81 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Concerto. In addition to the organizations listed above, I teach
and coach piano and voice, give concerts, and appear on radio and
television.

But to go back a little. Immediately after college I was engaged
as American pianist for four successive seasons. So New York
became musical headquarters. I began playing for Metropolitan
Opera Stars such as Steber, Pierce, Weede, and others. I returned
to Boston in 1941 to marry Dorothy Baker of Cambridge. The
following summer we moved to Indiana. In the summer of 1953
I toured Curope, playing concerts in the capitals of France, Spain,
Portugal, Austria and Germany.

I returned to this country after three months to be soloist with
the Detroit Symphony Orchestra on their summer series. I was
immediately re-engaged for the next summer. Last September I
received the Masonic honorary thirty-third degree in Boston. My
cup runs over. I have a lively schedule of activities ahead of me.

The future is rich with opportunity to serve in my chosen field
of music.

ALEXANDER LESLIE BLACK

HOME ADDRESS: 2863 Pacific Ave., San Francisco 15, Calif.

BoRN: Dec. 3, 1908, New Orleans, La. parents: Alexander Leslie Black, Vir-
ginia Bullitt Grant.

PREPARED AT: The Potter School, San Francisco, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. IN ENGIN., 1930.

marrigp: Emily Burchell, Feb. 20, 1937, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1949);
Sykes Richardson Wise, Feb. 11, 1950, San Francisco, Calif. CHILDREN:
Richard Hungerford Wise, Jr. March 1, 1937, Sykes Adell Wise,

March 21, 1942 (stepchildren); Alexander Leslie, Jr., Feb. 8, 1951.
occuPATION: Engineer.

SINCE graduation, in the work line I have been connected for
varying lengths of time with the Louisiana Highway Commission,
the U. S. Coast & Geodetic Survey, Ford, Bacon and Davis, Inc.,
Metcalfe-Hamilton-Kansas City Bridge Companies, General Elec-
tric Company, and the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission. Al-
most all of the work was associated with substantial bits of travel.
Travel appears to be the lot of the engineer, and one reason that

[ 82 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am not working now is that I am tired of travel. I want to
remain in the City by the Golden Gate.

From May 1, 1943, to December 9, 1945, I served in the Navy,
emerging as a lieutenant, USNR.

My family is a source of great enjoyment to me. In the course
of the homework we do, I have learned a good bit of arithmetic,
but I am stumped by seventh-grade English in which transitive
and intransitive verbs have no place. It inclines me to the belief
that in education we have at last reached the point of too much
progress. Another subject that awes me is “Social Studies,” which
appears to be a conglomeration of the less appetizing parts of —
geography, meteorology, economics, and sociology. I am pleased
to report that arithmetic and spelling are as I remember them.

We in this family, with the exception of Rick, the Princeton
’59 man, are reactionary Republicans. Rick’s views are inde-

endent, but not radical.

As to hobbies, we take numerous pictures and from time to
time I vow that I will recommence work in the darkroom.

The principal work of as much of the family as I can interest in
it is the maintenance of our fifty-year-old house, where we live
by consent of the bank. I am versed in the arts of roofing, brick-
laying, plumbing, painting, glazing, carpentry, floor sanding and
refinishing, and am on the way to becoming a competent elec-
trician.

I had thought that Alec might reasonably expect to be the Class
baby, but I have been greatly surprised at the rate that my lecher-
ous old classmates are producing in their declining years. He will
no doubt be an old man at four, in comparison with the progeny
of some of my contemporaries.

JAY THEODORE BLACK

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Saint Stephen’s Rectory, Eight Mile Rock, Grand
Bahama, Bahamas, B.W.I.

BORN: Dec. 20, 1908, Toledo, Ohio. parents: Jay Claud Black, Eleanor Doro-
thy Richardson.

PREPARED AT: Allen Preparatory School, Portland, Oregon.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930, 8.1.8. (General Theological

Seminary), 1934.

[ 83 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

UNMARRIED.
occuPaTIoN: Eptscopal priest.

AFTER graduation I went to the General Theological Seminary
in New York and graduated in 1933, taking the degree of Bach-
elor of Sacred Theology the following year. I was ordained a
deacon on June 11, 1933. and priest on March 11, 1934, by Bishop
Sumner of Oregon in Saint Stephen’s Cathedral (Episcopal) in
Portland, Oregon. For two years I worked in parishes in Oregon
and Nevada, then tried my vocation as a Benedictine monk in
Nashdom Abbey, Burnham, Bucks, England, and later in the
newly established American Priory, then at Valpariso, Indiana.

When my temporary vows had expired, it had become obvious
that my vocation was not to the monastic life and I left the order
instead of taking life vows, After working for two years in
Jersey City and Philadelphia, I came to the Bahamas in 1944 and
until recently was priest-in-charge of the largest parish in numbers
(but not in territory), Long Island, with the oversight of twelve
churches. I have recently been transferred to the northernmost
island, Grand Bahama. A fuller account of the kind of life here
can be found in the Twentieth Anniversary Report.

CAMERON BLAIKIE, JR.

HOME AppREsS: 137 Church St, West Englewood, N. J.

OFFICE apprEss: Engineering Dept, Erie Railroad Co., 168 Provost St.,
Jersey City, N. J.

BORN: June 19, 1907, Englewood, N. J. parents: Cameron Blaikie, ’99,
Cornelia Alling Miller.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).

MarRieD: Marie Thérése Elise Eugénie Hugo, Oct. 5, 1946, Paris, France.
CHILDREN: Louise, Nov. 14, 1947; Cameron, 3d, Jan. 27, 1949; Charles
Hugo, Jan. 15, 1952.

occvpation: Levelman, Civil Engineering Department, Erie Railroad Com-
pany.

orFices HELD: Vice-president, Northern Railroad Company of New Jersey,
1940-43.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; Englewood Field Club; Associa-
tion Francaise des Amis des Chemins de Fer,

GETTING to start this report of the era from “So’s your old
[84]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

man” to “So what” has been as tough as a super-market steak.
The guy whose ambition was to have a flivver, a flapper, and a
flask now has had to settle for baldness, bifocals, bridgework, and
bulges. As I lacked the courage to take on the depression and a
woman simultaneously, I only dated for a while, particularly
Long Island girls (preferably Great Neckers), and did not marry
until nine years ago. She is a French girl of my own physical
height and well worth waiting for. Now I take paternal pride
in a tomboy and two boys whose chief occupations are dirtying
the living room and cleaning out the refrigerator.

Since 1934 I have worked in various capacities for the Erie
Railroad. Two and a half years ago, I transferred to its Engineer-
ing Department, giving me a type of work much to my liking.
As part of it involves Jand measurements, there are some closer-
than-prudent encounters with copperheads and chrome bumpers,
evoking outbursts of profanity from otherwise civil engineers.

As for my World War II record, I fought hard, but my draft
board insisted I go. After three months of induction, injections,
indoctrination, infiltration, inspection, and in transit, I found my-
self serving with the sth Group Regulating Station in London,
and later in the 13th Traffic Regulating Group in Paris, both being
chairborne units of the Transportation Corps.

Including the above-mentioned government-sponsored excur-
sion, I have been to Europe four times since 1930 (by boat every
trip) and have circulated in seven countries there (by rail). I
have visited forty of these sometimes United States (all by rail)
and have been to the shores of the Atlantic, the Pacific, the Gulf
of Mexico, and Hudson Bay (at Churchill). It is my goal to have
a look at the remaining eight states and Alaska some day.

For a hobby I used to take locomotive pictures. The advent of
Diesels stopped this, for while they beautify a railroad’s operating
Statistics, they are hardly photogenic. In my occasional spare
moments during the past two years, I have constructed a railroad
to 20-inch gauge in and around my back yard. The single unit
of rolling stock is pedal-powered, that being best comprehended
by its juvenile passenger trade.

I believe in Americanism as expressed by the late Senator Taft,
General MacArthur, and Senators Jimmy Byrnes and Joe Mc-
Carthy. However, I do not see how we can oppose Communism

[ 85 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

with a straight face when this country uses the progressive income
tax prescribed by Karl Marx (to which we must all pay tribute
every pay day) and tolerates the compulsory union shop.

I believe that the automobile (few types excepted) is over-sized,
over-powered, and over-rated as a mass transport vehicle. As it
has killed more people in fifty years than all our wars have in 180
years and now needs a HUNDRED BILLION dollars from the
Federal Government just for more highways to partially extri-
cate itself from the mess it has created, it is not economically
justified.

I believe that the rate of population increase in this country
should be stabilized, if not reversed. This subject has many rami-
fications, but the increasing difficulty in finding adequate water
supplies along the eastern seaboard, particularly here in New Jer-
sey, is one. This progressively plundered land of ours simply can-
not support an increasing number of humans in the ever more
elaborate style to which they want to become accustomed.

JOHN ELLWOOD BLAIR, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Chewelah, Wash.

BorN: Dec. 12, 1906, Spokane, Wash. parents: John Ellwood Blair, LL.z., ’98,
Elsie May Bushee.

PREPARED AT: Lewis & Clark High School, Spokane, Wash.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: s.B. (Univ. of Idaho), 1933; M.D.
(Northwestern Univ.), 1938.

marriep: Mary Lee, August, 1935, Palo Alto, Calif. cHitpren: John Ellwood,
3d, Jan. 23, 1942; Robert Lee, May 11, 1943.

occupation: Physician; surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1948, president, 1949, Stevens County (Wash.)
Medical Society; president, Kiwanis Club, 1953; chairman, local Red
Cross Drive, 1952; secretary, 1947, chief of staff, 1950, St. Joseph’s Hos-
pital, Chewelah, Wash.; member, Chewelah School Board.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Spokane, Wash.; Chewelah Ski Club; Athletic
Round Table, Coeur d'Alene, Idaho.

AS some would know, I did not graduate from Harvard, due to

an altercation between several of us and the local denizens of the

law. Since the newspapers got wind of the affair and printed
same, it was decided by the Harvard fathers that we need not

[ 86 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

attend Harvard College further. My popularity with my own
father was on a par with that of my Harvard fathers, and as a
consequence, I spent some time in Alaska working as a lineman for
the Alaska Public Utilities in Cordova.

While there, the realization came to me that I wasn’t getting
ahead very fast; so I returned to college at the University of
Idaho and graduated with a pre-medical degree. My medical
education was obtained at Northwestern University; my intern-
ship in Spokane, Washington, my pathological and surgical resi-
dency in Chicago.

During the war years, I served as orthopedic surgeon with the
12th General Hospital (Northwestern University Unit), spending
thirty-four months overseas in the North African and Italian
theatres.

Following discharge from the Army, I opened my office in
Chewelah, a small 2,000 population community some sixty miles
north of Spokane, Washington. This area is noted principally for
its dairy farming, farming, mining, stream and lake fishing, and
hunting; the latter includes upland birds, ducks, and deer.

My hobbies have to do with what the outside has to provide.
My family and I enjoy skiing, and we are fortunate in having an
excellent chair and rope lift some six miles out of town. In ad-
dition, my family and I most generally make a trip to British
Columbia to fish for Kamloop trout and to the coast for salmon.
In the fall, along with several other men, I either go to northern
Idaho in the pursuit of elk or to British Columbia for moose. In
the interim at home on my “day off,” it’s hunting with my boys
for birds or deer.

FRANK WICKES BLATCHFORD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 180 Linden St., Winnetka, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 723 Elm St., Winnetka, IIl.

BORN: Oct. 27, 1908, Winnetka, Il]. parents: Frank Wickes Blatchford, ’g9,
Frances Greene Larned.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1026-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; M.D. (Rush
Medical Coll.), 1935.

[ 87 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Marrigp: Maude Alethe Bakke, Apnl 20, 19yo, Winnetka, Ill, cHitpREeN:
Frank Wickes 3d. June 27, 1041; Suzanne, Mav a1, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Lared Blatchford, °31.

occupaTion:; Physician.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Medical Society; Chicago Society of Internal Medicine.
AFTER graduating from Harvard I took my medical school work
at the University of Chicago and Rush Medical College, and on
its completion served my internship and medical residency at
Presbyterian Hospital, Chicago. I then entered into the private
practice of internal medicine in the town in which I was born
and raised, Winnetka, Illinois, in association with my father and
a small group of fine and congenial physicians which he had
formed, In a limited way this represented one of early experi-
ments in group practice which has since become so widespread.

I was married in April, 1940, and our first child was born about
a year and a half later. Immediately after “Pearl Harbor,” I ap-
plied for a commission in the Medical Corps of the U.S.N.R. and
soon found myself a lieutenant. Almost immediately thereafter,
in April, 1942, I was sent out to the Pacific with one of the first
naval hospital units to go into that area and spent eighteen months
on the Island of Efate in the New Hebrides where we took care
of some of the early Guadalcanal casualties. While there I had a
slight coronary occlusion and was sent home on the sick list. After
a period of limited duty in this country, I was finally placed on
the retired list in January, 1945.

Since then I have been engaged once again in the private prac-
tice of medicine in this North Shore community. I am on the
staff of the Evanston Hospital and on the faculty of Northwestern
University Medical School. I do some teaching and have made a
few minor contributions to medical literature. However, my
primary interest lies in clinical rather than investigative work. In
1945 1 became a diplomate of the American Board of Internal
Medicine and in 1951 a fellow in the American College of Physi-
cians.

All in all I have enjoyed a satisfying professional life and an
unusually happy home life with my wife and two children. You
might say that my family and home are my hobby,

[ 88 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH WILLIAM BLAZEK

HOME ADDRESS: 12609 Miles Ave., Cleveland 5, Ohio; 356 W. 34th St., New
York 1, N. Y. (temporary).

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1202 Chrysler Bldg.. New York 17, N. Y.; Public Relations,
Inc., 522 Fifth Ave., New York 36, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1905, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Frank Blazek, Frances
Macan.

PREPARED AT: South High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

occuPATION: Industrial analyst; management consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Associate Industrial Service, secretary, Execu-
tive Engineers, Inc., Public Relations, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Society for Advancement of Management, Industrial Engineers
Society; Harvard Club of Cleveland; Antioch College Associates,
Y¥.M.C.A. Counseling Service (volunteer); La Tourette C. C.

PUBLICATIONS: “Vocational Training and Apprenticeship Programs — Vari-
ous States,” “Economic Rehabilitation Program for Czechoslovakia,”
“Productivity in Garment Industry,” “Productivity in Textile Industry,”
“Human Relations Letter,” associate editor.

IMMERSED in other peoples’ problems and the handling of their
solutions, I found myself unprepared when confronted with the
necessity to state my personal deeds, acts, and thoughts of the past
twenty-five years, even though a continuing study of MAN, his
conduct and nature, as to what makes ‘him think, act, and do, how
he does, what he does and why, has been both my vocation and
avocation.

Leaving Harvard with a basic knowledge of ethics and econo-
mics and the desire to better man’s status, my first jobs involved
studying the worker and his job for establishing systems and
methods in offices and plants. At first hand, I saw man, the work-
er, limited in his personal life ambitions and ideals by the econo-
mic and social restrictions of his job. This experience convinced
me that industrial engineering and management, then coming to
the fore, would be my life work.

Then for several years as a business consultant and research
economist, I made surveys and installations; established policy for
management and labor; also did social and economic research in
vocational work and productivity in industry for firms adjusting
themselves to the social and economic changes that were taking
place.

[ 89 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

conforming types of work done, but it has proved to be the an-
swer and major concern of business, labor, and government, also
the individual, as the trend in the humanities during the recent
fifteen years has revealed.

Material possessions have been minimized, but after twenty-
five years of counselling and making surveys and installations af-
fecting the lives of many thousands of people, the intrinsic value
and satisfaction of knowing my effort has helped my fellow man
has enriched my life. I consider success today (there is no secu-
rity) that which one gains from the kind of integrated life I have
led, while observing the inter-relation and integration of man’s
human values and qualities with his physical material needs and
wants. Also it gave me a reward and compensation far greater
than any personal gains that might have been acquired.

Socially, as a bachelor I have managed to enjoy life without
any entanglements. In sports my major interest is golf, played
as frequently as jobs permit, with walking and dancing my second
choice for keeping fit. As to religion, I have carried on that of
my parents, Roman Catholic. Politically, 1 have tried both the
liberal and conservative groups and now am an independent.

Early in life, to avoid trouble, I adopted the principle to never
discuss or express views and opinions on religion, politics, and
women, since no two persons can agree, due to their internal,
inherent personal nature.

As I look forward to other Reunions, my hope is that they
will be as welcomed as the Twenty-fifth, and will still find me
sponsoring human relations and the betterment of my fellow man.

Thus endeth to date my Life Story.

MARIUS BLESI

HOME AppRess: Emory, Va.
OFFicz Appress: Emory & Henry College, Emory, Va.

BorN: July 21, 1908, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Arthur Blesi, Cora Ellen
Bucher.

PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1930; A.M.. 1923-
(Univ. of Virginia), 1938. > 1932, PHD.

[92]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriED: Marjorie Louise Thurber, Aug. 26, 1933, Louisville, Ky.; Lucille
Zelma Thompson. cuitp: Emily Ellen, Feb. 28, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Professor of English and dramatics,

MEMBER OF: Alpha Psi Omega.

I HAVE been a college teacher of English since 1930 at Syracuse,
Louisville, Virginia, Marshall, and (since 1947) Emory & Henry
College.

My chief extra-curricular duties have been in connection with
college dramatics and journalism.

I am a member of the Methodist Church.

In the summer of 1954 my family and I were in England and
Holland. I was enrolled in the summer term of the University of
Birmingham’s Shakespeare Institute at Stratford-upon-Avon.

My chief hobbies have been model railroading, photography,
and gardening.

My best memories of Harvard are Professor Bliss Perry’s Eng-
lish classes, my worst are a series of dull afternoon classes in
psychology taught by a visiting professor from Yale.

DERK BODDE

HOME ApprEss: 29 W. Phil-Fllena St., Philadelphia 19, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Graduate School, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 4,
Pa.

BoRN: March 9, 1909, Brant Rock, Mass. PARENTS: Theodore Bodde, Mar-
garet Peddle.

PREPARED AT: De Veaux School, Niagara Falls, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Ct077t laude, 1930; PH.D. (Univ. of
Leyden), 1938.

MARRIED: Galia Speshneff, July 9, 1935, Peiping, China. cump: Theodore
Alexis, Nov. 27, 1939.

OccuPATION: Professor of Chinese.

OFFICES HELD: Monograph editor, Far Eastern Association, 1948-54; chairman,
Committee on Far Eastern Studies, 1951-53, member Committee for a
Review of Oriental Studies, since 1953, American Council of Learned
Societies, vice-president, University of Pennsylvania Faculty Research
Club, 1953-55; president, Oriental Club of Philadelphia, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: American Oriental Society; Far Eastern Association; Institute
of Pacific Relations; Oriental Club of Philadelphia; University of Penn-
sylvania Faculty Research Club; American Civil Liberties Union; Amer-
ican Association of University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Shakespere and the Ireland Forgeries; China’s First Unifier;

[93 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

standing, than from struggles for survival or original sin. As such,
they can be eliminated, * provided enough people can be taught
to think in terms of the larger community and the world, rather
than merely of themselves. their local group, or the particular
country to which they happen to belong. This by no means im-
plies that all men should be taught to think alike. On the con-
trary, I am convinced that it is not only possible but imperative
for differing racial and religious groups, or differing political and
economic systems, to coexist on this shrinking planet of ours.
Much of the knowledge that could achieve this end is already
available to psychologists, anthropologists and other social scien-
tists both here and abroad. Unfortunately, it is rarely adequately
reported to the general public, and above all it is commonly dis-
regarded by politicians and other holders of power. In recent
years, in particular, the anti-intellectual movement known as
McCarthyism has given great setbacks to it here.

Speaking more specifically of us Americans, while it is true
that we have made enormous strides in knowledge during the past
quarter century, it is also true that we have been less successful
in universalizing and actualizing what has been learned. Both as
a nation and as individuals, therefore, i it is imperative for us always
to retain intellectual humility before the major tasks that still
confront us.

WALDEMAR HARRIS BOLDT

HOME ADDRESS: 104 Fairview Ave., Binghamton, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 116 Fairview Ave., Binghamton, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 19, 1908, Hinsdale, N. H. parents: August Adolph Boldt, Mary
Grace Day.

prePaRED At: Central High School, Binghamton, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930, M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1934-

Marriep: Wilhelmine Helen Callahan, July 2, 1934, New York, N. Y.
cuitpren: Waldemar Harris, Jr, Aug. 1, 1937; Carol Anita, Feb. 18,
1941; Marjorie Ann, March 19, 1943.

occupation: Neurologist; psychiatrist; director, Binghamton Training
School.

MEMBER oF: American Psychiatric Association, American Association on
Mental Deficiency; Stony Point Lodge No. 313, A. F. & A. M.; Harvard
Club of New York City.

pusications: A mild sprinkle of papers on my medical specialty,

[96]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
IT has been said that the late Sigmund Freud made two major
contributions to modern living: he brought to the dinner table
discussions of the world the refreshing idea that there were, after
all, two sexes, and he emphasized the importance of the common
or garden variety of dream. In this latter connection, I have had
my share of such events as walking into the open elevator shaft
at the Empire State Building or appearing nude in front of St.
Patrick’s Cathedral at the height of the Easter Parade. However,
nothing can compare with recent experiences in which battalions
of goads keep chasing me — each one armed with a big, black
cigar with the enigmatic word “Cross” emblazoned in neon lights
on the glowing tip. |
Now that I have actually taken pen in hand, I really must admit
that this is a healthy, if confusing, experience. It is healthy be-
cause I can’t even begin without stopping, at least momentarily, to
ponder over what really has happened during the course of the
past twenty-five years. It is confusing because, having pondered,
I, for one, still wonder what it’s all about. I’m inclined to believe
that, whereas certain members of our Class will try (and suc-
ceed!!) in contributing something stirring and profound to this
report, I shall probably be counted among those who will be
amazed at the reality of the passage of time, will still be uncertain
(but curious) as to where they are going and will, over a couple
of beers, admit that if they were twenty years younger and knew
what they know now — WOW! !

I recall that on my eighth birthday, I came to the momentous
conclusion that I wanted to be a doctor. This ambitious project
paid its first dividend as early as September, 1930. Instead of
having to try to find a job in the great depression, I submerged
myself in the relative security of Columbia Medical School. How-
ever, inside of a very few weeks, I suffered my first (and probably
greatest of many) medical disillusionment — the Department of
Dermatology didn’t know any more about what to do for my
falling hair than did I! ! !—and after I had looked forward to
“The Great Cure” ever since a hectic year in Matthews, when my
comb and mirror first revealed the awful truth. Naturally, as the
field of medicine unfolded, I wondered about choosing a partic-
ular specialty. In my third year, I attended lectures on obstetrics
given by a most distinguished professor. His opening remarks

[97]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

State Senator aided and abetted stealing my long-time, attractive,
efficient secretary from my office, 1 tumed Democrat. As a result
of such evidence of political chicanery and skulduggery, I have

developed a firm political philosophy, based upon the fact that
“those rascals have got to go!”

BENJAMIN PATTERSON BOLE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: Route 2, Sperry Road, Mentor, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Biology Dept, Western Reserve University, 2080 Adelbert
Rd., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. PaRENTs: _Betyamin Patterson Bole,
Roberta Holden.

PREPARED AT: Hawken School, Lyndhurst, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1930(31); A.M. (Western Reserve
Univ.), 1936.

MARRIED: Nancy Adams, Sept. 22, 1934, Manchester, Mass. CHILDREN: Ben-
jamin Patterson, 3d, Aug. 6, 1935; Jonathan Adams, May 12, 1938; Helen
Boylston, March 3, 1943; Richard Holden, Jan. 3, 1945.

occuPaTION: Teacher of biology.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of biology; trustee, Hawken School, Cleve-
land Museum of Natural History, Lake View Cemetery Association;

trustee, chairman of the board, Three-Corner-Round Society (a boy’s
camp).

MEMBER OF: Kirtland Country Club; scientific societies such as Sigma Psi,
etc. .

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous technical papers in fields of mammalogy and
ecology — none recent,

UPON graduation (I had to send Harvard postage before they'd
send me my degree), 1 joined the staff of the Cleveland Museum
of Natural History as laboratory assistant and forthwith travelled
widely. By 1938 I had become one of the four seasonal directors
of the institution — its board of managers. 1 functioned as such
until November, 1942. Enlisting in the war on that date as a buck
private, 1 came out of it in 1946 as a second lieutenant. I saw
overseas duty in the Far Eastern Theatre, but my only close
shaves came from typhoons, which I am fond of. I also like

watching trees grow, tropical fish, Cardigan Corgi dogs, chickens,
donkeys, green algae, and being let alone.

[ 100 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES ALBERT BOLESKI

HOME ADDREsS: 18 N. Vine St., Mount Carmel, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Mount Carmel High School, Mount Carmel, Pa.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1907, Mount Carmel, Pa. parents: Peter Jacob Boleski, Anna
Vaichulonis.

PREPARED AT: Mount Carmel High School, Mount Carmel, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),

1931.

marrieD: Dorothy Louise Kiefer, Aug. 14, 1936, New York, N. Y.

occuPATION: Assistant principal, Mount Carmel High School.

OFFICES HELD: Director, First National Bank of Mount Carmel, Pa.; secretary,
board of directors, Ashland-Shamokin Auto Bus Company.

MEMBER OF: Rotary; Fountain Springs Country Club.

AFTER Harvard I spent a year at Columbia University, where
I took an A.M. degree in English literature. After trying a few
jobs in New York between 1931 and 1933, I took a teaching posi-
tion at the high school in Mount Carmel, Pennsylvania, my home
town. I am still employed there and am listed in the Student
Manual as assistant principal, senior boys’ guidance adviser, direc-
tor of recreation program, and social studies instructor.

Some business interests have become extra-curricular duties
that take an increasing amount of my time. I am a member and
secretary of the board of directors of the Ashland-Shamokin Auto
Bus Company and one of the directors of the First National Bank
of Mount Carmel.

Since 1936 I have been married to Dorothy Louise Kiefer, with
whom I’ve shared a colorful life. We have no children and so are
free to take advantage of travel opportunities during summer
vacations and sabbatical leaves. After several trips in the United
States and Canada, we extended our travel to Central and South
America, three visits to western European countries, then a mar-
velous journey to South and East Africa, the Belgian Congo, the
countries of South Asia (except Iran) and the Middle East. To
this experience I can add a year’s residence in Japan, September,
1946, to October, 1947, when I interrupted my teaching in Mount
Carmel to take a position with the Army Education Program
sponsored by the War Department. We hope to take a swing
around the Pacific in a future sabbatical year if that part of the
globe isn’t atomized before we get started.

[ ror ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

To round out the picture on the domestic and civic fronts, |
must mention that I do some public speaking to civic organiza-
tions — primarily on the globe-trotting — and am a member of
the local Rotary Club and of the Fountain Springs Country Club.
Somehow I manage to find time for music and reading, some
gardening, and occasional hikes in the countryside.

KIRK BOND

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: Hotel Lucerne, 201 W. 79th St., New York 24,
N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 28, 1908, Baltimore, Md. parents: Thomas Bond, ’98, Lida
Virginia Kirk.
PREPARED AT: Friends School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; B.L.S. (Columbia Library
School), 1938.

occuPATION: Writer.
PUBLICATIONS: Various articles and reviews on films for film and general
magazines.

WHEN I graduated in 1930 I had, I believe, a notion that I
wanted to write. In the next few years I did. I had become in-
terested in serious film criticism and I had a number of articles
and reviews published, some in film magazines, some in general
magazines. It was fun, though not very remunerative.

In the course of this work, I found myself more and more in-
terested in — concerned over, rather—the future of old films.
This led to a Library School course at Columbia and film library
work at Pathé News. I was in Washington during the war and
did, briefly, film brary work there.

The years since have been very generally a time of swinging
around to writing again. It has been quite a stretch, somewhat
more difficult than 1 wanted, somewhat more inactive than I
wanted, but I seem to be on the way now. I have an article on
old films coming out shortly, and 1 have a book on old films in
the research stage. This will be a comprehensive, one-volume
history of silent films, in particular making use of all the recent
research that has been carried on in this country and abroad.

Along with this I have become interested in television. Whether

I become active in the field remains to be seen, but I see great
possibilities.

[ 102 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am still single, but that condition may change yet. I could
talk of hobbies, but I find it hard to make a separate category.
Everything is grist to the mill and running the mill is still fun.
I am not an outdoor man —I have occasional moments of aber-
ration when a good brisk walk around the block seems just the
thing, and at times I weakly yield to the temptation. I like chess,
but have not played a game for some time. I am a devoted slave
to Pogo, who encourages me to think our time may not be so bad
after all.

These days I live here in New York. For better or for worse
you get to like the place and feel an exile if you go to Jersey City.
I did get to the coast once, and once saw a tiny bit of Canada on
a cruise to Halifax. My real travels are, I hope, still ahead of me.

I feel reasonably hopeful about world events. I think the things
to strive for are real codperation (which of necessity must be
two-sided) abroad, and the preservation of real freedom at home.
With these basic aims we ought to do well enough.

ALEXANDER GALT BOOTH

HOME ADDRESS: 506 N. Hubbard Lane, Louisville 7, Ky.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Booth, Booth & Humphrey, gos Washington Bldg., Louis-
ville 2, Ky.

BORN: May 4, 1908, Louisville, Ky. parents: Percy Newhall Booth, ’96, Flor-
ence Curd,

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933 (34).

MaRRiED: Emily Tryon Hoge, June 9, 1938, Louisville, Ky. cuitp: Julia
Mengel, April 18, 1940.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

AS the numerous goads have arrived from John Cross, I have on

so many occasions tried to pull myself together to do this job of

autobiography. I have become a real expert at finding excuses;

up until tonight when Emmy said, “This is it, boy,” something

else has always conveniently come up that seemed more important

at the moment. The root of my difficulty is the rather dishearten-

ing feeling I had the first time I started to write. I conscientiously

read the previous jobs I had done for the Tenth, Fifteenth, and

Twentieth Anniversary Reports and realized that, as for cold

facts, I had little more to say. The same may be true of many of

[ 103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

us. but that makes it no easier for me. The Tenth Report shows
the results of trying to establish a way of life. Then came the war
years, with excitement and new experiences, set out in the Fif-
teenth Report, Then five years of getting back to normal, taking
on added responsibilities as to family and community, all recorded
in the Twenaeth Report. The last five years have been, I’m at
once sorry and glad to say, more of the same.

] remember a saying that “a lawyer's life is writ in water.” The
law cases which come and go are tremendously interesting to a
lawyer, but have no place in his report to his College Class. The
good thing about a lawyer's life is that each case is different, and
requires him to study some new subjects, so that he often becomes
more expert in the client’s business in relation to the particular
case than the client himself. Then the case is over, by settlement,
by court decision, or after various appeals to higher courts, and
the lawyer goes on to something completely new and different.
It is, 1 believe, an interesting and challenging life, and one which
is more apt to keep the mind alive than most business or pro-
fessional endeavors. One good part of it is that, given health, there
is no shut-off date, and a person who likes it can continue to be
useful through the autumn weather.

The opening paragraph in my Twentieth Report still stands un-
changed as to home address, office, wife, daughter. I see no point
in setting out the various business and civic organizations of which
Ihave been an officer, director, trustee, etc. I have been president
of the Harvard Club of Kentucky for the past ten years, but intend
to turn that job over to someone else this spring. It has been satis-
fying to try to help the Harvard tradition go forward in this part
of the country where it is not so well known.

JAMES RANDOLPH BORZILLERI

HOME apprEss: Nixie Farm, North Evans, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 300 Niagara St. Buffalo 1, N. Y.

Born: Oct. 31, 1907, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Charles Randolph Borzilleri,
Emily Charlotte Klein.

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-27, 1928-29. DecREe: M.D. (Univ, of Buffalo), 1934.

Maxkiep: Elizabeth Cusick, May 26, 1952, Buffalo, N. Y. crip: James
Randolph, Jr, Nov. 18, 1954.

[ 104 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OccuPATION: Surgeon; chief surgeon, Buffalo Columbus Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: President, Buffalo Columbus Hospital, 1940-55, Western New
York Hospital Council, 1940-41; director, First National Bank of
Buffalo, 1937-45, Western New York Hospital Service Corporation,
1937-45, Council of Social Agencies, 1939-42; member committee on
fractures and other trauma, A. C. S.

MEMBER OF: Buffalo Academy of Medicine, Erie County Medical Society,
New York State Medical Society; American Medical Association; Bac-
celli Medical Club; Nu Sigma Nu; Buffalo Club; Harvard Club of
Buffalo.

UPON leaving Harvard, I entered the University of Buffalo
Medical School and received the degree of Doctor of Medicine
in 1934. I did a surgical residency at Buffalo Columbus Hospital,
1934-37, with postgraduate work at Massachusetts General Hos-
pital and Columbia University. During World War II, I was a
member of a general surgical team with the rst Auxiliary Surgical
Group with active duty in the United States, United Kingdom
and Europe. Following the war, I returned to the private practice
of general surgery in Buffalo, New York.

On May 26, 1952, I married Elizabeth Cusick, graduate of
Wellesley College, Skidmore, and Columbia University School
of Social Work, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. James T. Cusick of
Hammondsport, New York. Our son, James Randolph, Jr., was
born November 18, 1954. At the present time we are living at
800 West Ferry Street, Buffalo, and have a country home, Nixie
Farm at North Evans, New York, where we do dirt farming.

At the present, I am practising general surgery in Buffalo and
am contemplating taking some postgraduate work in my field in
the near future.

MAX BOVARNICK

HOME ADDRESS: 353 Elm St., West Hempstead, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Brooklyn V. A. Hospital, Brooklyn, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 15, 1909, Malden, Mass. parents: Harry Bovarnick, Bess
Bunshaft.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B. 1930; M.D. 1934; PH.D. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Marianna M. Richards, July 21, 1939, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Murray E. Bovarnick, ’44, M.B.A., ’49.

[ 105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

becepaTion: Medicine.

orrices HELD: Chief of laboratory service, Brooklyn Veterans Administration
Hospital, clinical associate professor of medicine, State University of
New York, College of Medicine at New York City.

MEMBER OF: Various scientific societies.

puBLicaTioNs: “Preparation of Cell Free Solutions of Hydrogenase,” pro-
ceedings of the Society of Experimental Medicine and Biology, 1941;
“Preparation from Human Red Cells of a Substance Inhibiting Virus,”
Journal of Expertmental Medicine, 1948; “Preparation, Determination,
and Excretion of Glutamyl Polypeptide and its Polymers,” Journal of
Biological Chemistry, 1954.
AFTER graduation, four years were spent at Harvard Medical
School acquiring an M.D., followed by six years at Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, which yielded a Ph.D. in
biochemistry, plus some years in medical research and teaching.
During this period I met and married Mrs. Bovarnick, who was
a student at P. & S., and is now a distinguished scientist.

In one form or another, research and teaching have been the
pattern ever since. The locale has varied and has included various
positions and posts at New York State Public Health Laboratory,
another period at Columbia University, the Rockefeller Institute
for Medical Research, the U.S. Army Medical Corps Biological
Warfare Service at Camp Detrick, Maryland, Harvard Medical
School, and the Veterans Administration. The fields of activity
have included cancer research, bacteriology, virology, blood
substitutes and others. The most significant contributions to date
include the first preparation of a cell-free hydrogenase enzyme,
identification of a polysaccharide as a virus acceptor substance
in red cells, and the development of what presently appears to be

a first-rate “blood substitute.” Hobbies are reading, music, tennis,
and loafing.

FREDERICK PRESCOTT BOWDEN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 108 Country Club Rd., Melrose, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: J. G. Bowden & Son, Inc., 79 Essex St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1908, Melrose, Mass, parents; Frederick Prescott Bowden
Mary Burnham.

preparen AT; Berkshire School, Shefficld, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: AB. 1930(31); M.B.A.y 1932.
margiep; Hope Bradford, June 6, 1931, Cambridge, Mass.

[ 106 J

CHILDREN:

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Frederick Prescott, 3d, Dec. 28, 1932; George B., May 12, 1934; Richard
G., March 29, 1937; Paul C., Jan. 30, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Burnham Bowden, °22, M.B.A., ’23; John Warren Bowden,
36, S.M., °38.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, J. G. Bowden & Son, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, J. G. Bowden & Son, Inc. since 1933, Arbeka
Webbing Company, Pawtucket, R. I. since 1954, Prescott Corporation,
Pawtucket, R. I, since 1950; president, Fitch Home for the Aged,
Melrose, Mass., since 1953; trustee, Franklin Savings Bank, Boston, since
1949.

I AM still treasurer and general handy man at J, G. Bowden &

Son, Inc., manufacturers of narrow fabrics (tapes, braids, web-

bings). I now have four boys and no girls; this is an age of

specialization. My hobbies are sailing in summer and skiing in
winter. :

DELOSS H. BOWERS

HOME ADDRESS: 917 S. Second St., Alhambra, Calif.

OFFICE AppREss: Los Angeles City Schools, Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1904, Vinita, Okla. pareNTs: Lon H. Bowers, Effie C. Title.

PREPARED AT: Manual Arts High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Southern California),
1930; A.M. (tbid.), 1931.

MARRIED: Janice Jean Dwiggins, April 12, 1933, Los Angeles, Calif. (died
May 17, 1936); Mary Geraldine Rush, Jan. 27, 1943, Los Angeles, Calif.
CHILDREN: Stanley Lowell, Sept. 26, 1934; Gene Deloss, Nov. 13, 1943;
Donel Alfred, Dec. 1, 1944, Gerald Wayne, Oct. 25, 1947.

occuPATION: Codrdinator, public education, in the field of unadjusted boys.

MEMBER OF: Masons.

PUBLICATIONS: Material for the Los Angeles Juvenile Court and Probation
Department.

I AM interested in travel; my hobby is collecting stamps, leather-
craft; my life work has been to educate and help problem children.

FRANK RICHARD BOWES

HOME Appress: 171 Leroy Ave., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Television Network Sales Co., 370 Lexington Ave., New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Maurice Bowes, Harriet
Elizabeth MacGregor.

[ 107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

prepare At: Noble and Grecnough’'s School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.
scarrizD: Medora Gale, 1030 (divorced 1035); Dorothy Healy, Feb, 21, 19
Plymouth, N. H.; Elizabeth Crawford Harris, to49. ctipren: Be.
jamin Franklin Harris, 193:; John Crawford Harris, 1934; Anthon
McCallister Harris, 1944; Elizabeth Ann Harris, 1945 (all step-children}.
HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas William Bowes, °32. °

occupation: President, Television Network Sales Company.
MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Wee Burn Country
Club; Masons (through the Roval Arch Chapter).

I LEFT college at the end of my freshman year with the belief
that I could make a lot of money and a college education wasn’t
necessary. As a matter of fact, I did well until the depression hit
in 1932. The Business School allowed me to enroll in the Class of
1934 0n the basis of my business experience.

In 1936 I joined the Yankee Network in Boston as a radio time
salesman, and at the end of that year I went with the National
Broadcasting Company as a salesman for WBZ in Boston. The
following year I was made commercial manager and held that
position until 1943, when I was drafted into the Army. I spent
twenty-one months overseas, taking part on D-Day in the invasion
of Normandy. I received the Spearhead, five battle stars, and the
Silver Star, while a sergeant in the 238th Combat Engineer Di-
vision.

On my return to the States, I was transferred to Station KYW
in Philadelphia, where I stayed for ten months, after which I re-
turned to the National Broadcasting Company in New York City.

In 1949 I married Elizabeth Crawford Harris, a Smith girl, and
thereby secured a family of three boys and a girl. The two older
boys are away at college while I have been learning the pleasures
and pains of trying to bring up the two younger children, now
aged ten and eleven. One of the pleasures was taking Tony to see
his first Harvard-Yale game this year.

For the past five years I have been associated with various phases
of the television industry, one of which was the successful Jaunch-
ing of a new magazine for the trade, called Television A ge. At
present, I am president of a new company, Television Network
Sales Company, a company formed to represent television stations
for sales and service in New York and Chicago,

My family go to the Episcopal Church. At the present time,

[ 108 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am Republican, being a great admirer of President Eisenhower.
While I don’t feel any older than I did twenty-five years ago, and
sometimes my wife says I don’t act it, those photographs certainly
show it.

ARTHUR GERHARD BRADLEY

HOME ADDRESS: Box 365, Route 9, Birmingham, Ala. (Fultondale, Ala.).

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Moss & McCormack Coal Co., Inc., 1905 First National Bldg.,
Birmingham, Ala.

BORN: Aug. 27, 1906, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Arthur William Bradley,
Elizabeth W. Judge.

PREPARED AT: Stone School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MARRIED: Kathleen Allen, April 6, 1931, Anniston, Ala. campren: Arthur
Gerhard, Jr., July 7, 1932 (mm. Mary E. Rouse, Dec. 27, 1952); Diane E.,
Feb. 18, 1934; Anthony S. A., Nov. 29, 1935; James H. A., Aug. 24,
1938; Kathleen, May 8, 1945.

OccuPATION: Auditor.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Birmingham.

AFTER fifteen years of shoe manufacturing, I moved to Connecti-
cut in 1943 to work for United Aircraft Corporation, and then in
1945 we meandered on southward to. Birmingham. Our life is
quiet, but time startles us by rushing on. Our children are mostly
grown. We live in the country — about ten miles out of Birming-
ham — and our leisure is pretty well involved with the raising of
pheasants (ringneck and ornamentals) and quail.

JOEL LEE BRENNER

MAILING ADpREss: Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Aberdeen, Md.

BORN: Aug. 2, 1912, Roxbury, Mass, paRENTs: Samuel Brenner, Anna
Aronie.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; A.M. 1931; PH.D.
1936.

OCCUPATION: Education.

‘THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

FRANKLIN NOURSE BREWER, JR.

MAILING aporess: P.O. Bow 2:62, Carmel, Calif,

sors: December 20, 1907, Movlan, Pa. parents: Franklin Nourse Brewer,
Juha Billings Root.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.
occupation: Letters.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

DONALD CALEF BRISTOL

HOME appress: 10 Vale St. Peterborough, N. H.
OFFICE aDpRESS: Frosted Foods, Inc. Manchester, N. H.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1908, Seattle, Wash. parents: Leland Emerson Bristol, ’98,
Alice Pemberton Calef,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Frances Lillian Hopkins, June 25, 1938, Greenfield, N. H. cut-
prEN: Mary and Susan (twins), July 23, 1939; Leland Emerson, 2d,
July 6, 1938.

oocuPATION: Salesman.

OFFICES HELD: Cub scoutmaster, Greenfield, 1946, selectman, Greenfield, 1946-
50, deacon, treasurer, Greenfield Congregational Church, 1946-50;
Worthy Patron, Adantic Chapter, Order of the Eastern Star, Frances-
town, N. H., 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: Guild of Former Pipe Organ Pumpers; Harvard Club of New
Hampshire; Pacific Lodge, F. & A.M., Francestown, N. H.

HOW to sum it all up in these paragraphs and give an interesting
account which will not be merely a chronological listing of dates,
places, and firm names — that is the question. Not many of us can
retreat to that ideal, distant spot from which we can review our
lives objectively and philosophically, but we can try. Even amid
the confusion of children being put to bed, telephone calls for the
twins, and the thought that later in the evening some sort of start
should be made on that work brought home from the office. . . .
I wonder how many of you have similar preoccupations?

Those first few years I batted around a bit, with a trip to
Europe and a sojourn as tutor-companion in the White Mountains
as the main events. In 1933 I] began a ten-year connection with
Socony Vacuum Oil Company in Cambridge, and operated a

{ 110}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

station opposite Mount Auburn. I suppose that anyone in business
for himself feels independent after a while — it was that way with
me. Besides, it was a healthy if somewhat arduous life — outdoors
all the time and plenty of exercise. I came to enjoy the position of
confidant that my customers seemed to confer upon me.

In July, 1938, I carried my bride over the threshold of our
apartment in Watertown. How our wives ever manage to keep
their families functioning on even keel always amazes me, par-
ticularly in the case of double blessings, as with us. Fran did a
superb job with twin daughters. I helped as best I could, fre-
quently took over the 2 a.m. feeding, sitting between two baskets
with a bottle in each hand!

When I entered the Army, Fran and the twins moved to Green-
field, New Hampshire, to be with her folks. I was sent to Camp
Bowie, Brownwood, Texas, and was assigned to an Ordnance
Heavy Maintenance Tank Company. After basic, I became plans
and training non-com, and was also technical data librarian. 1
used to spend some time out in the field servicing vehicles, so that
my buddies didn’t look upon me wholly as one of those orderly
room men. Frankly, I rather enjoyed military life; our company
was a congenial group of men, mostly in the same age bracket and
regardless of background, we respected each other for the share
he contributed toward the common goal. After a year in Texas,
we shipped out of Seattle for Hawaii and spent a half year at
Schofield Barracks near Honolulu, where we operated a salvage
depot in addition to our regular ordnance work. On off hours
I was frequently the guest of our classmate, W. Tait Robinson,
whose family deserves many thanks for the hospitality they
showered on us service men.

I was one of the many returning who wanted to change occupa-
tions, so I taught grammar school for a half year. Four grades in
one room was quite a task for a beginner; even though I did not
stay in the profession, I was grateful for the insight it gave me
regarding public school problems. For one thing, I am in favor
of more attention to the three “R”s and less absorption with the
frills. My wife and I are on the membership committee of the
Peterborough P.T.A., where we now live.

Re-entering business, I spent five years as manager of the
Frozen Food Locker of Peterborough. At present, I am salesman

[ rrr ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

in the Monadnock region for Birdseye, General Foods institutional
products, and the F-F.V. Cookie line. What is it like being out on
the road selling a multiple line? It is challenging work, and I get a
kick out of cracking tough accounts, breathing life into dead
items, and building up new territories. Several days I make over
thirty calls each and have to hustle to put up the advertising
posters, make a collection, and come out with an order.

When I was persuaded to run for selectman at Greenfield, my
predecessor told me “it would take only a few hours a week.” |
found myself spending countless hours administering the timber
tax program, conferring with citizens over assessments, and walk-
ing the town lines. I enjoyed it all immensely — it was a reward-
ing experience. My wife reminded me of this several weeks ago
when our own taxes were raised considerably this year!

Family life centers on our home being open house for all our
children’s friends. The twins’ main concern just now is to do
well in driver training so that, come sixteen, they can have the
family car. Lee and I are inseparable and can’t wait until next
spring to try out our new fishing tackle. We attend the Y.M.C.A.
Indian Guides program for dads and their sons, It’s tops.

As for hobbies, the recent acquisition of an electric drill set
should have made me an expert home repair man, but I confess
to postponing those jobs which should be done. I am more con-
tent to pick up a historical novel or tune in a classical recording.
Then there is preparation time to be spent in anticipation of being
installed as Worshipful Master of our Masonic Lodge next year.

I would class myself politically as a middle-of-the-road Republi-
can and think that Ike is doing a good job. Already there is a
clamoring for free government spending, as against economy and
increased private enterprise. I'll not attempt to predict the result.

When I have more leisure, there is a never-ending list of subjects
I should like to investigate, such as the history of towns I visit
and the turnpikes I travel, or a bit of genealogical research. I am
indebted to Harvard for my interest in leading what I hope is a
well-rounded life. With search for truth as our objective, I be-

lieve that we Harvard men have an obligation to society to impart
to our fellowmen the fruits of our legacy.

[112 ]

Le RRR ET

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK JAMES BROADHURST

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Lenox St., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 2, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. parENTs: Frank Shafts Broadhurst,
Christina Nevin.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENG., 1930.

marRieD: Margaret Ann Curley, Sept. 19, 1936, Newton, Mass. CHILD:
Richard Nevin, Feb. 25, 1942.

occuPATion: President, Turbine Equipment Company of New England.

MEMBER OF: Society of Naval Architects; Marine Engineers, Harvard En-
gineering Society; Registered Professional Engineer, Massachusetts.

I HAVE only one hobby and that is photography. I own a Leica
3F, a 4X5 Speed Graphic, a 3.5 Rollieflex, a Polaroid, a Revere
16 mm. magazine load movie camera, and down to a Brownie box
unit. I do all my own black and white work, but leave the color
to the manufacturers, particularly as the cost is included in the
price of the film.

I sold a 35 mm. slide of a package store that had burst into
flames, due to a short circuit in the wiring of the display, making
it possible for the owners of the store to prove insurance respon-
sibilities, and a duplicate to E. Lietz for production i in the Leica
Journal.

I have bought a summer home in Centerville, Massachusetts, on
Cape Cod, and hope in time to make it a more than part-time
home.

PAUL FRANCIS BROPHEY

HOME AppREsS: 41 Crehore Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Charles F. Rittenhouse & Co., 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 9, 1908, Brighton, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Francis Brophey,
Alice Frances Donohue.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MarRigp: Margaret Hayes Tracy, June 29, 1940, Boston, Mass. cup: Alicia
Tracy, Oct. 1, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Certified Public Accountant: partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Corcoran Motor Sales Company, Inc., since 1945,

[113 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Southern Tackle Distributors, Inc. since tg51, Ted Williams, Inc., since
19§:, Dixieland Sports, Inc, since 19s4, Finure Reel Company, since
1934; treasurer, Ted Williams Enterprises, since 1946; president, Com-

monwealth Country Club; member board of governors, Catholic Ac-
counrants Guild.

MEMBER OF: American Insutute of Accountants, Massachusetts Society of
Certified Public Accountants.

TIME has flown very quickly for me since graduation from
college and I feel almost as young in 1955 as I did in 1930. In
business I have been associated with Charles F. Rittenhouse &
Company for eighteen vears, and it has been a very happy and
satisfying association. But it was not always easy. During my
early years with the firm, I found myself going to accounting
school two nights a week and spending the remaining nights, to-
gether with the weekends, operating a three-store retail ice-cream
business. My progress with the firm was reasonably rapid, how-
ever (perhaps because one of the principal partners was a Harvard
man), and it soon became possible for me to dispose of my stores
and confine all my efforts to accounting. Eventually, in 1950, I
was invited to become a partner in the firm, which is one of the
most outstanding accounting organizations in New England.
Needless to say, things have been much softer since then.

I first met my very lovely wife, Peggy, in 1932, at which time
she was a student at Boston Teachers College. She has been my
girl for twenty-three years and my better half for fifteen; but she
still looks as young as she did when we were married. We have
one little girl, Alicia, who is nearly as pretty as her mother and
who is now running the family at the age of seven.

One of my really great enjoyments over the last fifteen years
has been golf. Although I played very little during the thirties,
I have certainly made up for this lapse since, and now I get out
on the course at every opportunity. I love the game and its as-
sociations, and wonder how anyone could possibly pass up the
ideal exercise and complete relaxation it affords. My game is not
good, but is respectable in that I can still play to an eight handi-
cap. After many years as a member of Commonwealth Country
Club, I was this year elected its president, which is a special honor
to me because I caddied there as a boy.

Among my most interesting experiences over the years has been
a close relationship with some of the great professional athletes

[114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of this era including, particularly, two of the greatest hitters of
all time, Ted Williams and Sam Snead. Ted and I have been
friends for ten years, during which period I have handled most of
his financial affairs. My friendship with Sam is of about six years’
duration. Currently, Ted and Sam are in the fishing tackle business
together in Miami and have interests in several related companies,
in each of which I am a member of the board. The outlook for all
of these companies is excellent. I could spend pages of this report
discussing my experiences with Ted and Sam, but would prefer
to leave this for a better place and time, so J shall only say that I
like them both immensely and value highly their friendship. It
has been a unique experience to know them so well and to be
familiar with what they are actually thinking during the periods
of tremendous publicity covering their careers.

Of passing interest to the members of our Class might be the
fact that for the last ten years I have been conducting evening
courses in federal income taxes at Harvard Hall under the auspices
of the Massachusetts Division of University Extension. Strangely,
I still feel like one of the students as I wander through the Yard
for my nightly lectures.

ALAN WILLARD BROWN

HOME AppRESS: 690 S. Main St., Geneva, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: Coxe Hall, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, Geneva,
N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1910, New York, N. Y. parents: Carroll Neide Brown, ’91,
pH.D., 00, Agnes Hood Hutton.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1932; PH.D.
(Columbia Univ.), 1945.

MARRIED: Beatrice Simpson, June 24, 1933, Park Hill, Yonkers, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Janet Lawrence, April 10, 1935; Diana Hutton, Dec. 23, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Andrew Hutton Brown, 734.

OccUPATION: President, Hobart and William Smith Colleges (The Colleges
of the Seneca).

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in English, 1934-46, adviser to students, 1939-44,
assistant to dean, 1944-48, assistant professor of English and comparative
literature, 1946-48, executive officer, Colloquium, 1943-48, Columbia
College; part-time teacher, National School of Adult Education, 1943-
44, American Reno Institute, 1945-46, Sarah Lawrence College, 1946-47;
reader of manuscripts, Macmillan Company, 1938-40; president, Hastings

[irs]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Democratic Club, rags trostee, Village of Hastings-on-Hludson, 1946~
a8. Asocrated Contcges of Upper New York, toga 51; member, Geneva
Industries, Inc, since to48, director, Geneva Community Chest, 1951-54;
vice-president, rqgo-s2, preudent, 1992-54, New York State Citizens’
Council, presdent, Hobart and Willham Smith Colleges, since 1948;
member Commission on Academie Freedom and Academic Tenure,
Association of American Colleges, toag-513 member Subcommittee on
Pre-professonal Education of the Survey of Medical Education, 1949-
st member Advisory Committee, American Academic Freedom Project
(sponsored by Columbia Univ.), 19st- $4; member Platform Committee,
Democratic Party of the State of New York, 1950; secretary-treasurer,
1949-52, Vice-president, 1952-54, president, 1954-56, Association of Col-
leges and Universities of the State of New York; member of board,
Finger Lakes Council, Boy Scouts of America, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Flastings Democratic Club; Men's Faculty Club (Columbia);
University Club of New York, University Club of Geneva; Hastings
Lodge No. ti07, F. & AAP; Geneva Rotary Club; Seneca Yacht Club;
Hobart and William Smith Chapter, Phi ‘Beta Kappa (Zeta of New
York); Rochester Museum of Arts & Sciences (fellow); American
Academy of Political Science, Newcomen Society of England (in North
America); New York State Citizens’ Council.

pugiicaTions: Classics of the Western World (Bibliography, with Introduc-
von), Chicago, American Library Association, 1943; The Metaphysical
Society: Victorian Minds in Crisis, 1869-1880, New York, Columbia
University Press, 194°; “The Columbia College Colloquium on Im-
portant Books,” Journal of General Education, June, 1948, review of
Robert Frost's The Masque of Reason, in Kenyon Review, 1945; several
published speeches and addresses.

AS remarked by our Ivy Orator twenty-five years ago, we are all
members of a Harvard Class which is “the last of its particular
kind.” But at Harvard, perhaps more than in the rest of the world
and for better or for worse, “plus ¢a change, plus e’est le méme
chose.” And vet we are the last Class that lived most of its college
life in that decade of “the Tw enues,” now so often critically or
nostalyically appraised by historians and old grads alike. How-
ever, we were also in a very real sense a “first” — members of one
of the first youthful generations to come face to face with a double
responsibility, posing a real dilemma: how to resist the pressure
of personal, regional, and parochial commitments in the interests
of the nation as a whole, ina word, how to be true Americans,
culturally and economically; and at the same time how to cope
with the onward march of history and recognize our individual
and national involvenents with a smaller and increasingly troubled

[116]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

world, The careers of hundreds of our classmates, in peace and
war, illustrate this dilemma, forced upon most of us, welcomed
and resolved with personal courage by many.

One who, like myself, has spent virtually all his life since in-
fancy in school or college may seem insulated from the all-embrac-
ing series of crises faced by our generation. But constant contact
with young men and women between the ages of sixteen and
twenty-four sharpens one’s sense of history and puts in con-
stantly changing perspective both the fundamental human prob-
Jems of adult maturity and the complex social and economic
factors which influence, if they do not determine, the pattern and
fabric of our lives. In our time the notion of the cloistered pro-
fessor, living a life of contemplative scholarship, protected by the
security of classroom walls from the hurly-burly of worldly life,
has quite literally ceased to have any reality whatever. Although
this notion is still encountered among laymen who, especially if
they are alumni, should know better, and is still often met in the
form of envious and even snide references to academic vacations,
no teacher, whether in school or college, can accept such mis-
guided impressions without protest. I myself have had not more
than few weeks’ holiday since 1939 and not many longer before
that time. The economic and professional pressures upon the
teacher have so multiplied with the accelerated tempo of modern
life and the rapidity of growth and change within our society
that the teacher’s day is now not unlike that of the over-worked
general practitioner of medicine, if in some cases it does not share
the hectic compulsions of the travelling salesman. The rewards
of teaching have never been smaller in relation to the income of
other professions, and the conflict between the necessity of paying
the family bills and the demands of professional growth was
never more acute. The teacher who, at his best, has always been
involved in a thoughtful consideration of human destiny, viewed
as objectively as possible in the light of his knowledge of the past,
his experience of the present, and his hopes for the future, has
thus been drawn, often not without a struggle, into the vortex
of social, economic, and even political activity.

My own life, like that of most of us, has been largely condi-
tioned by a small number of important decisions made during
college and in the years immediately following. Convinced early

[117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

of both ends and means as the mark of greatness in a democratic
society. T hope I am not a troglodyce, but if am facing extinc-
tion, I don’t vet know it.

CHARLES GARRETSON BROWN

HOME appress: Woodlawn Avenue, Lawnherst, Easton, Pa.

BorN: Feb. 5, 1906, Staten Island, N. ¥. pareNts: Clare Herbert Brown, Alida
Estelle Garretson.

PREPARED aT: Long Beach Polytechnic High School, Long Beach, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Retired.

MEMBER OF: Foreign Policy Association of the Delaware Valley.

SINCE my report appeared in the Harvard College Class of 1930
Twentieth Anniversary Report, I have been unemployed or re-
tired. It has been my good fortune never to have had to work
very hard for a living and ill fortune never to have made very high
wages. I have been warehouse foreman for Richmond Storage
Warehouse & Van Company, an agent of Allied Van Lines on
Staten Island; 1 numbered and listed goods coming in for storage
and checked them off on their leaving. Very seldom did I earn
over a $1000 a year, and now my income from investments is
about $800 a year. I read about billion-dollar corporations and
million-dollar investments, but I have never been a $3000-a-year
man or a one-dollar-a-year man.

Many say that I am lazy. Doctors at Battle Creek Sanitarium
were more kind and told me that my para-sympathetic nervous
system which controls metabolism leaves me at times after little
or no physical exertion as exhausted as a man who has just run the
Marathon.

To get down to facts: on May 23, 1954, I bought a 1947
Luscombe, Model 8A, airplane, for $850. It is all metal with a low
frequency radio receiver and transmitter, a very vital piece of
electronics for an old Army Link Operator. In June I flew with
my sister to my twenty-fifth class reunion at the University of
Maine. This private plane trip was less expensive than the trip
would have been by automobile, the flight was also quicker, easier,
and far more exciting.

[ 122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD FREEMAN BROWN

HOME ApDprEss. R.F.D., South Sudbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peabody Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 26, 1908, Holyoke, Mass. parents: Wilford Chapman Brown,
Alma Louise Schuster.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1930; A.M., 19353 PH.D.,

1955.

MARRIED; Linda Easton Smith, July 24, 1948, Sudbury, Mass. cHmpren:
Linda Marshall Staples, May 27, 1951; Alexandra Spencer, June 4, 1953.

occupation: Archaeologist; research.

MEMBER OF: Archaeological Institute of America, American Anthropological
Association.

PuBLicaTions: Book on Neolithic and Bronze Age cultures of Italy, an
article on the search for Sybaris, and an article on “Favella,” a neolithic
village site in southern Italy (all to be published shortly).

IT all started when as a boy I was fascinated by tales of the sink-
ing of the ancient (alas, mythical) continent of Atlantis with its
golden cities and transparent temples, authoritatively reported in
the Sunday supplements. With such an attitude, I was easy prey
for a chapter in the Wonder Book of Horses, which was devoted
to the story of the dancing horses of Sybaris. This fabulously
wealthy Greek city situated in southern Italy was inhabited by
people who spent most of their time inventing new ways of
enjoying their leisure hours. They had great natural resources,
slaves instead of washing machines, a lively and lucrative trade
with both the eastern Mediterranean and Italy, and their dollar
was a large silver coin stamped with the figure of a bull, a sign
that their stock market was always sound. You may possibly see
a certain parallel with a well-known country of modern times.
But to get on with the story: after they had banned noisy occupa-
tions from the confines of the city, had invented a system of
piping wine to the city from their country estates, and had estab-
lished the custom of awarding a golden crown each year to the

cook who concocted the fanciest recipe for cooking eels or baking

cakes, they sought diversion in other directions. The fatal step

was the training of their cavalry horses to dance to the tunes of

shepherds’ pipes. During this time a cold war with Croton, a

rival and less prosperous city to the south, suddenly became hot.

The Crotoniates advanced with a force of 1oo,ooo0 foot soldiers,

[ 123 ]

mines 1 hart nk 8 Phas Mle ih Set gntician eh DN CnaniptaemeiAlll, Le

HARVARD CLASS OF I930

LEO PHILIP BROWN

HOME ApDpREss: 901 Grosvenor Rd., Rochester 18, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Sears, Roebuck & Co., 920 Exchange St., Rochester, N. Y.

Born: April 19, 1909, Pawtucket, R. I. parents: Abraham Brown, Anna
Needle.

PREPARED AT: Pawtucket High School, Pawtucket, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

arrieD: Sylvia M. Yoffa, Sept. 1, 1947, Lynn, Mass. cuirp: Andrea Joyce,
Dec. 8, 1949.

occupation: Merchandising manager.

MEMBER OF: Saint Matthew’s Lodge, AF. & A.M., Andover, Mass.; Regis-
tered Professional Engineer, Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

THERE was a time when the thought of celebrating twenty-five
years out of college seemed too remote to even dream about.
Now, here it is.

It is not too difficult to review my career during the span of a
quarter century since most of these years have been spent with one
firm: namely, Sears, Roebuck & Company. Except for the period
during the depression and, later, in World War II when I was
engaged in designing fire-fighting and smoke-screen equipment
for the U.S. Navy, all of my business attachments have been with
Sears.

It all began in 1934. At that time, Sears in New England con-
sisted largely of Mail Order business. The retail organization was
in its early development. Fortunately, I developed along with it;
and after nine years in Boston, a short period in Hartford, Con-
necticut, and later in Lawrence, Massachusetts, I was transferred
to my present assignment in Rochester, New York, as manager in
charge of a unit. Along with merchandising for twenty-five retail
stores, I am also involved in budget and payroll control, operating
expenses, personnel work, and materials handling. These are all
diversified but highly interesting subjects, and very far removed
from my field of concentration during undergraduate days (fine
arts). The closest I ever came to this was in the pursuit of some
of my hobbies which have included pen and ink drawings, pencil
sketches, and working sheet copper into decorative plaques.

My marriage in September, 1947, and the birth of my daughter
in December, 1949, were the two outstanding events during the
years. We are all devoted to one another, although at times my

[126 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wife and I do have serious competition from Roy Rogers and
Howdy-Doody (at this writing my daughter is still under age
five).

As for happiness, I certainly claim my share. My family, our
health, my home, my occupation, my associates — they all com-
bine to make life worth living. Could I expect more?

PHILIP STODDARD BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 1404 N. Pegram St., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 712 Jackson Pl., Washington 6, D. C.

BoRN: Aug. 12, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Arthur Edward Brown,
Mabel Warner Stoddard.

PREPARED AT: Harrisburg Academy, Harrisburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B, Cum laude, 1930; M.B.A., 19333

D.C.S., 1937.
MarRiED: Adele K, Smith, Oct. 12, 1939, Washington, D, C. cHILDREN:

Timothy, Dec. 20, 1942; Carin Courtney, Dec. 20, 1945; Rexford, May

30, 1948.
HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Edward Brown, ’39.
OCCUPATION: Economist.

AFTER college, I taught for a year at the William Penn Charter
School in Philadelphia, and then returned to Cambridge for
graduate study. Actually, study was often secondary to tutoring,
helping on some research project, running a small firewood busi-
ness, or whatever would help pay expenses.

A fellowship at the Brookings Institution, applied for toward
the end of my graduate work at Harvard, brought me to Wash-
ington, where I have lived for twenty years. It wasn’t planned
that way.

My first job was at the U.S. Treasury. It was a good job; good
associates. I married. Soon aferwards, my wife and I bought
land across the Potomac and built a house, as did Joanna and
Emile Despres with whom we became neighbors, I laid brick,
chopped trees, transplanted laurel, and grew a few roots of my
own. Washington in the late 1930’s and early war years was vital
and vibrant. Most of us worked hard and were pretty intense
about our jobs.

Then I went off to Army camp, leaving Adele (my wife) and
Tim (my first born, just born). Later I was sent to England by

[127]

emranaasgaes mec" I lal,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the O.S.S. Though far luckier than most others, the war seemed

very long.

Upon return, I taught for a vear at Swarthmore College, worked
again for the government, and then set up shop on my own. It’s
a bit difficult to describe briefly what “private practice” involves
in my case. Some of the work approximates economic analysis,
but mostly it’s simply writing, trying to say things a bit more
succinctly than others may have said them.

Life is “more better” than it was twenty-five years ago. Less
anxiety. Days are fuller and more productive. Home and family,
at the day's end, are a welcome contrast to those long evenings
of forced labor during graduate school years.

However, this Reunion prospect is a formidable threat. Just
as I am taking up tennis again and still feeling that anything my
son can do I can do better, I hear rumors that some of my class-
mates are slowing up a bit. Confirmation of this might lead to
self-doubts. Also, I figured I had another ten or fifteen years to
make it look as though Harvard hadn't wasted its investment in
me, but the sight of classmates already men of distinction and
sober mien create other more serious doubts.

This calendar-way of reckoning time is plausible, but years —
like dollars — go faster these days. I’m sure it hasn’t been twenty-
five “honest” years since I departed Matthews Hall. But just to
oblige John Cross who has been most persistent, I send along this
note about myself, minus comment on “social, political, and re-
ligious convictions.” We in Washington don’t go around these
days voicing “convictions.” For even convictions that are safe
today may be out of fashion in June, 1955. Failure to anticipate
next year’s dogma may result in one’s being adjudged “indiscreet
and lacking judgment,” and to lack judgment may lead to the tag
of “security risk.” So, by association at Reunion, such “guilt”
might taint the entire Class of ’30. Cotton Mather forbid!

SPENCER BROWN

HOME apuress: 343 Old Sleepy Hollow Rd., Pleasantville, N.Y,
oFfice apowrss: Ficldston School, Ficldston Road, New York gt, N.Y.

been: Oct. 16, 1909, Hartford, Conn, parents: Walter Spencer Brown, Anna
Geraldine Hall.

[128]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1932.

marrigp: Elizabeth Borden Boyle, Dec. 23, 1935, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Thomas Sheill, Nov. 22, 1936; Margaret Spencer, Sept. 20, 1941.

occuPATION: Teacher of English; chairman, upper two forms, Fieldston
School.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive board, New York Teachers Guild, 1941-
42; delegate to American Federation of Teachers convention, 1939-42.

MEMBER OF: Committee for Cultural Freedom; New York Teachers Guild,
Local 2, American Federation of Teachers.

PUBLICATIONS: They See For Themselves, a study in intercultural education,
Harper’s, 1945; poems and critical articles in The New Yorker, Com-
mentary, Partisan Review, Poetry, American Mercury, New World
Writing, Modern Writing, Classical Journal, etc.

AFTER graduation I spent a summer in Europe on a Sheldon
Fellowship, then taught English and Latin at the Loomis School
fora year. I returned to Harvard to take my A.M. Then followed
two years of teaching Latin at the Taft School and four of Latin
and English at Loomis. In 1938 I came to the Fieldston School to
teach English and have remained ever since, becoming chief ad-
viser to the upper two forms in 1943.

During the summer of 1944 I worked in the laboratory of a wire
factory in Yonkers, and in 1945 I taught in the Horace Mann-
Lincoln summer school. My only contact with the war came in
the factory work; I was remotely involved in testing the flexible
lead pipes that carried oil and gasoline under the Channel in 1944.
They seemed all right.

My wife, a Vassar graduate and a former English teacher, is an
excellent cook, a competent musician, and a person of sufficiently
varied talent to augment the family income by teaching, editing,
or clerking. Her judgment in politics and her taste in literature,
art, and music are, like my own, sound. My son’s tastes run to
popular music, my daughter’s to painting and ballet. My own
hobbies are writing, talking, listening to classical music, reading,
and carpentry.

During the last two years, we have built about half our house,
moving in when the shell and plumbing were completed and
camping in while building interior walls, hanging doors, finishing
floors, making cabinets, and painting. It has been a busy time, but
the reward has been life in the country and in a house we could
not otherwise have afforded, even with a mortgage thar will be

[129 ]

Aelia,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

paid up in to71. The house is now in some danger of completion,
An independent liberal or radical, 1 have somehow had the luck
or judgment to escape being befuddled by the Communist cor-
ruption of liberal thought. Though I abhor McCarthy, I do not
suffer from the current liberal terror of the Dread Name; nor am
I so crazy as to think there is no choice between American de-
mocracy, occasionally distorted, and consistent Russian totalitar-
ianism. What little I have done in politics has been devoted to
exposing and fighung Communist infiltration into the American
Federation of Teachers and the American Labor Party. (When
the Communists finally captured the latter, I joined the Liberal
Party; and I helped to expel them from the A.F. of T.) In my
critical writing, I have tried to fight them whenever the oppor-
tunity has arisen.

In the Freshman Yearbook of our Class, I indicated my intended
profession as “epic poet.” Time has thawed this somewhat icy
ambition, and teaching literature to a long procession of quite
extraordinary students has been a more human and satisfying
substitute. Besides, my poems turned out to be lyric and elegiac,
with the distinct handicap of being comprehensible to the moder-
ately literate. The publication of some of them, after they had
been rejected three or four times by the very magazines that
finally printed them, has led me to believe that they will some
day be collected by some publisher who needs to lose money for
tax purposes. At that point, I will settle for being a good minor
poet, which seems a better aim. There are so few of them.

SUMNER EUGENE BROWN
HOME aporess: West Swanzey, N, H.

OFFICE abpress: Homestead Woolen Mills, Inc. West Swanzey, N. H.

BouN: Dec 1, 1906, Newport, N. H. parents: Henry Wheeler Brown, Emily
Richards Coffin.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MAkkiED: Barbara Platts, Sept. 15, 1934, Swanzey, N. H. CHILDREN: Timothy,
April 26, 1937; Nancy, July 18, 1938, Cynthia, July 11, 1940; Barbara,
July 13, 1942. -

HakvARD BkoTHER: Gordon Kenneth Brown, '28,

occupaTION: Treasurer, Dartmouth Woolen Mills, Inc, Homestead Woolen
Mills, Inc.

[130]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STARTED work in ’29 and survived the crash. Flew own plane
until ’34 when I married. Ranched in Arizona about three years,
and then back to woolen manufacturing, where I have been ever
since. I am associated with my brother in two mills.

Hobbies are hunting, fishing, and farming. No war service —
not wanted.

MORRIS RUGGLES BROWNELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 200 W. Mermaid Lane, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia 18, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Philadelphia National Bank, Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: May 10, 1907, Fairhaven, Mass. parents: Morris Ruggles Brownell,
’o2, Laura Delano Hitch.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Gwladys Bigelow, May 2, 1931, Brookline, Mass. (died July 28,
1952); Mary Alice (Borie) Kerr, Aug. 29, 1953. CHILDREN: Lawrence
Dickey, Feb. 19, 1932 (7. Sarah Metcalf Whiten, Sept. 11, 1954); Morris
Ruggles, 3d, Nov. 19, 1933; Martha F., June 3, 1940; Frederic Hitch,
June 6, 1954; Alice B. Kerr, April 14, 1943s J. Renwick Kerr, 3d, March
20, 1945 (stepchildren).

HARVARD SON: Lawrence Dickey Brownell, ’54.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederic Hitch Brownell, *38.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, Philadelphia National Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Chestnut Hill Academy, Middlesex School, Philadel-
phia Textile Institute; director, Community Chest, United Fund, South-
western Pennsylvania Chapter, American Red Cross, Philadelphia Di-
vision, American Cancer Society; member board of managers, Travelers
Aid Society.

MEMBER OF: The Philadelphia Club; Philadelphia Cricket Club; Sunnybrook
Golf Club; Harvard Clubs of Philadelphia and New York; Racquet
Club, Chicago; Detroit Club; Newcomen Society; Reserve City Bankers’
Association.

WARNING! Proceed at your own risk! For friends who care;
others beware!

One could hardly find a more beautiful view of the Adiron-
dacks. There was Whiteface Mountain peeking over Saddle-
back’s shoulder at the Saranac River, winding through the valley
on its way to Lake Champlain. Overnight the mountains had lost
their hungover look and were now bright and flushed. It was
September.

I’m sure I looked neither bright nor flushed! Our eminent class-

[131]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1 930

weck “honeymoon” with the bride occupying a “clean” room

(for non-TB cases) down the corridor.

How wrong can one be! Time flew at Trudeau. It seemed
only a little while before I was put in a cottage; then Christmas
came with a houseparty for the older boys. Then Mitchell let
me “out” for two weeks in February to fatten me up for surgery,
(I couldn't let Malice get ahead of me —I'd never have heard the
end of it... or was it chivalry?) Next, the Infirmary again;
the cottage and, in May, home! Walks, Little League baseball
for the bovs, fishing, painting, and a trip to New London for the
race. Suddenly it was all over and time to leave. We couldn't
believe it! What a far cry from that first lonely night almost a
year before. It all augurs well for the entire family — we all
gained immeasurably from the experience.

Now I’m back at work with a new sense of values. (We'll see!)
At first, it was only untl noon. Now it is an hour for lunch, an
hour for nap, and home on the 3:30. But that’s too good to last!
I'm now a specialist at doing nothing in this age of specialization!

Perhaps, if I'd not become such a good specialist, this report would
have been done sooner.

NORMAN HULL BRUCE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 193 Fuller St, West Newton 65, Mass.

BORN: July 30, 1909, Brighton, Mass. pareNts: Norman Cranswick Bruce,
Barbara MacEachern.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; M.D., 1934.
marriep: Mary Ramsay Palmateer, Oct. 30, 1936, Auburndale, Mass. cCHIL-

DREN: Joanna, Oct. 19, 1937; Barbara Ramsay, Jan. 9, 1941.
oocuPATION: Surgeon.

oFrices HELD: Surgeon, Newton-Wellesley Hospital, surgeon, president of
staff, 1947-48, Waltham Hospital; assistant surgeon, Hygiene Depart-

ment, since 1948, Harvard Athletic Association, 1950-52, Harvard Uni-
versity.

MEMELR op: American Medical Society; American College of Surgeons
(fellow); Massachusetts Medical Socicty, Aesculapian Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various papers on carcinoma of breast, axillary thrombosis,
gallstune ileus, etc.

AFTER graduation from Harvard Medical School in 1934, I
[134]

rr

amide tet in PN ARETE ay BOY
“oer mE wn

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spent two years as surgical house-officer at the Boston City Hos-
pital and a slightly longer period as surgical resident at the Pond-
ville Hospital. I have been in the practice of general surgery in
the Newtons since 1940, with four years out for service in the
United States Naval Reserve. During the latter period, two years
were spent as senior medical officer of a construction battalion at
various areas in the Pacific. There are no family changes: same
wife and two girls. My elder girl, seventeen, graduates from Dana
Hall Schoo] this year and enters college — Wellesley, we hope.
My younger girl, fourteen, enters high school in the fall.

Outside of professional work, I find myself gardening and
generally tending my tiny estate, and I have surprised myself with
a few accomplishments since joining the Do-It-Yourself School.
I enjoy sailing and golf (very so-so), but have dropped tennis
despite Mal Hill’s assurances that I'd be SOMETHING if I'd only
try. Politically, I guess I’m a Republican, but no McCarthyite. I
am filled with pride when I recall the come-uppance given Joe by
Mr. Pusey and Harvard, and firmly believe that yielding to his
arrogant and vulgar demands would have set American college-
level education back to the Dark Ages. I am reactionary to the
extent of spurning the Dior Look, be-bop, the wrap-around wind-
shield (give me the old Franklin any day), and most of television
and radio. Let’s bring back Fred Allen. Those were the days!

It is hardly conceivable (although a glance in the mirror in-
creases the plausibility) that twenty-five years have gone by. It
seems increasingly good, however, to see one’s classmates wher-
ever, like Mrs. Calabash, they are. We look forward eagerly to
the Twenty-fifth!

ROSCOE CONKLING BRUCE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Grove Street, New York 14, N. Y.

BORN: May 10, 1906, Tuskegee, Ala. parents: Roscoe Conkling Bruce, Clara
Washington Burrill.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

OccuPATION: Mercantile business.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[135]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

EDWIN VICTOR BULLEIT
HOME ADDRESS: 163 Fairmont Sc, Jackson, Tenn.
OFFice aporess: Williams Street, Jackson, Tenn.

por: Oct. 31, 1908, Corvdon, Ind. parents; Victor Joseph Bulleic, Laura
Reader.

PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

MarrieD: Kathryn Habermel, Oct. 7, 1933, Corydon, Ind. cuttpren: Donald
Victor, Feb. 18, 1936; Robert Edwin, Aug. 12, 1939.

occtpaTion: AMfanager, Wood-Mosaic Company plant, Jackson, Tenn;
member board of directors, Wood-\Mosaic Company.

orFices HELD: Director, Louisville Credit Man's Association, 1945-46; presi-
dent, Purchasing Agents Association, Louisville, 1946-47; Grand Knight,
Jackson Council No. 1101, Knights of Columbus, 1954-55; navigator,
Jackson Assembly, Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus, 1952-55; presi-
dent, South Central Lumbermen’s Club, 1954-55, Kentuckiana DU Club,
1946-47.

MEMBER OF: Louisville Boat Club; Purchasing Agents Association of Louis-
ville; Louisville Credit Men; Knights of Columbus; Rotary Club, Jack-
son Golf & Country Club; Conversation Club; South Central Hard-

wood Club; Delta Upsilon Fraternity; Harvard Club of Kentucky;
Confraternity of Christian Doctrine; Kentuckiana DU Club.

AFTER graduation I went to work for the Penn Mutual Life
Insurance Company in Louisville, without too much success, as we
were right in the midst of the great depression. After a few
months of that, I signed on with Wood-Mosaic Company, Inc., as
credit manager. On October 7, 1933, I married Kathryn Haber-
mel at Corydon, Indiana. After a few years with the company,
I assumed the duties of purchasing agent for the entire company,
and shortly after that took over the engineering duties, which
dovetailed in with the above.

When World War II broke out, our company went 100 per
cent into war work, making gun stocks, aircraft veneer, ship
timbers, and so forth. At that time I was appointed director of
priorities and handled all the priority work for all six of our
plants. Since I had not had a vacation for the entire duration of
the war, the company gave me a five-weck holiday in 1947. I
bought a new car, loaded up the wife and two boys, and headed
west. During that five weeks, we covered every National Park
in the book and had a wonderful time.

In March, 1949, the company asked me to go to Jackson
[ 134 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Tennessee, as manager of our plant at that point, which offer |
accepted, and have been there now for about six years. My
principal hobbies here are golf and fishing. The whole family
enjoys the South because the climate is much milder, the people
are more friendly, and the pace is much slower.

ARTHUR MORRIS BULLOWA

HOME ADDRESS: 1065 Lexington Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: §5 Liberty St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1909, New York, N. Y¥. parents: Arthur Bullowa, Sylvia
Alice Marks.

PREPARED AT: The Lincoln School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. cut laude, 1930; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1932; LL.B. (ibid.), 1938.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

FOR a great many years I ignored all correspondence from the
War Department relating to my Reserve commission. Finally, I
received a letter which said that if I did not reply, my name
would be dropped. The same system has not produced the same
result from the Class of 1930, although my four years at Harvard
seem infinitely more remote than the four years I spent in the
Army. I learned a great deal more in the Army, but that is per-
haps because I was older. But I do not want to disparage the
opportunities offered at Harvard. I am glad that I went there. It
is true that I have only a very weak sense of membership in the
group designated as “Class of 1930.” I believe this is not due
entirely to remoteness in time, but was true in 1930 — not only
of me, but of many of our classmates and of the members of other
classes.

FRANCIS RAMON BURKE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 750 E] Cerrito, San Mateo, Calif,

OFFIcE apprEss: Dura-Bond Bearing Co., 715 Loma Verde, Palo Alto, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1909, Quincy, Mass. parents: Francis Ramon Burke, ’98,
Jane Childs Reed.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930} M.B.A., 1932.

MarRiED: Dorothy Connell, March 21, 1934, Braintree, Mass. (died March,

[ 137 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

19:61; Cathenne Helen Brown, May 20, 1938, Brookline, Mass. cry:
Francis Ramon Burke, 3d, May 7, 1940. ,

occuPATION: Treasurer, Dura-Bond Bearing Company, Dura-Bond Engine
Parts Company, Automotive Products Company.

semper oF: Harvard Club of San Francisco; Harvard Business School Club
of San Francisco,

AFTER Business School, I went to work for United Shipyards,
Inc., in New York (1933-38), and in 1938, after Bethlehem Steel
bought United, was sent to Quincy (Bethlehem’s Fore River
Yard) as assistant works accountant; in 1940 they sent me to San
Francisco as works accountant of the Beth-West Coast Shipyards,
which position I held until June, 1946, when I was fired.

I loafed for six months and then together with three other West
Coasters formed the Dura-Bond Bearing Company for the purpose
of manufacturing and selling engine bearings for autos, trucks,
and tractors. We now also make cylinder sleeves (cast iron) and
cvlinder sleeve assemblies (sleeves, pistons, piston pins and piston
rings) for the same field.

Our son is in his freshman year at Cate School in Carpinteria,
California, complete with Harvard blanket, banner, and pillow.

If he continues to feel as he does now, Harvard will have another
Burke undergraduate in 1958. |

THOMAS JOSEPH BURKE, JR.
HOME appress: 17 Clark Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

oFFice appress: General Electric Co., go Federal St., West Lynn, Mass.

Born; May 17, 1908, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: “Thomas Joseph Burke,
Josephine Riley.

prepare AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.
occuPaTION: Industrial engineer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Knights of Columbus, Thompson
Club; American Legion, American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
TO reduce twenty-five years to capsule form, a summarization in
three phases seems most practical. After five years of department
store and specialty store merchandising, I commenced twenty

years of service (less military) with the General Electric Com-
pany. Launched in 1935 as an accountant in the Bridgeport, Con-

[138]

aegeaeemengernaccennerap FT

spe sea Hote
eampecncnpremnc a ree sein nea '
aetna PEE

Ret PTE ENE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

necticut, Works, I subsequently switched to the production de-
partment and became an industrial engineer with the West Lynn
Works. Presently, I am on the production managerial staff there
with special assignment. I am a trouble shooter of sorts and poke
my nose into all phases of the industrial operation, giving special
attention to bottlenecks and new developments.

This industrial activity was interrupted for five years by special
invitation of Uncle Sam. Drafted long before Pearl Harbor as a
private in the Field Artillery, I was lucky to escape the mule-
drawn outfits and lived high as a $21 per month private in a
motorized unit. Following the surprise visit of the Nipponese
Air Force to our Navy, I decided it was prudent to acquire a
commission. A tour of duty on a staff assignment at an Artillery
Training Center fell to my lot. From there I was detailed to
Harvard University as an artillery instructor in the Military
Science Department. Miss Cunningham remembered me from my
one year of military science as an undergraduate. We both com-
miserated on the ironical circumstances that prompted my tutor
to persuade me to abandon the military program under the pro-
tective wing of the Peace and Disarmament Program of the
Twenties. The war’s end found me as a section chief in the
Military Personnel Division at the Pentagon under direction G-I
WDGS. My function was to correlate, with the Air, Ground
and Service Forces, procurement of casual military personnel and
to supervise allocation of such individuals for overseas’ assignment.

As we approach our Twenty-fifth Anniversay, I am still a
bachelor. My fiancee, Katherine S. Morgan, is known to many of
our classmates through local reunions. She would like to be with
us next June. If we can find a place to pitch our tent somewhere
on the North Shore, I think she will make it. In my early years
out of College, I was very active in civic affairs. But now the
rigors of daily commuting prompt me to confine my extra-curricu-
lar activities to the Army Reserve. As a major in Artillery, I am
executive officer of the 356th Field Artillery Battalion. Although
the unit is commanded by a Yale man, we are strongly tinged
with crimson, both officer and enlisted, and make our headquarters
in the Harvard ROTC area.

[139]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ANSON BURLINGAME

HOME aporEss: 63 Weed St, New Canaan, Conn.

orrice aporrss: Singer Sewing Machine Co. 149 Broadway, New York ¢
N.Y. ,

BorN: Feb, 25, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Frederic Anson Burlingame
‘g>. Charlotte Sanger Gannett. ,

prepare aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B. 1930,

Marriep: Elizabeth Harlow Hussey, Oct. 9, 1933, Portsmouth, N. H.

cupreN: Edward Livermore, Jan, 21, 1935; Susan Harlow, Sept. 21,
1930.

HARVARD SON: Edward Livermore Burlingame, 57.
HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Gannett Burlingame, ’3 4.

occupation: Foreign trade, assistant vice-president, Singer Sewing Machine
Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York, Boston, and New Canaan,
Country Club of New Canaan.
ON my desk is a pewter match-box holder with an inscription
on its cover: “The world is a book and he who stays at home
reads only one page.”

Some such thought used to run through my mind even in
college days. I was not sure what I wanted to do for a career, but
I was determined that before I started to do it, I was going to see
the world. Our classmate, John Swope, felt the same way and
after college we set off together for the Far East on a trip that
lasted nearly a year and took us around the world. I did not
think very much about what I was going to do afterwards, but

in all sorts of out-of-the-way places on our travels, I kept seeing

the stores and agents of the Singer Sewing Machine Company and
I came home with the feeling that Singer would be a good com-
pany to work for. I applied to them for a job and was accepted in

the summer of 1932 after I had completed a year at the Harvard
Business School.

I have been with Singer ever since, except for the war years,
and J still think it is a good company to work for. Before the war

Singer gave mea succession of jobs in sales and financial work in
Philadelphia and New York, In 1941 I resigned from the com-

pany and went to Washington to work as a civilian in one of the
government war agencics, From there I went into the Army Air

y
Corps and served for nearly two years as a ground officer at one
of the pilot training fields in Georgia, For the last fifteen months

[140 J

— ert tt AO ROE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the war, I was stationed in London doing intelligence work.

After my release from military service in the autumn of 1945,
I rejoined Singer and was given my present job which involves
supervising some of the company’s foreign branches and sub-
sidiaries. I have my headquarters in New York and spend part of
each year in Europe, travelling all over the continent from Portu-
gal to Finland and out to Turkey, checking up on some of those
Singer stores and agents in out-of-the-way places that I ran into
the first year after college. My trips usually last several months
at a stretch and during those months I seldom see another Ameri-
can, as my business associates are all nationals of the countries
which I visit. In the course of my work I have the chance to get
to know some of these people very well and to gain an under-
standing of their views and their ways of doing things. At the
same time, I often have opportunities to explain and interpret for
them some of our American ideas and methods, It is these efforts
towards understanding and codperation between people of differ-
ent nationalities that give my job its special appeal and fascination
for me.

Between trips abroad, I commute to an office in downtown
New York from my home in New Canaan, Connecticut. My wife
and I moved to New Canaan in 1936 when we got tired of
wheeling our son’s baby carriage to the park from a New York
apartment. I found that lots of Harvard men live in New Canaan,
although it is on Yale’s doorstep. (“The Harvard men are very
dense here” is the way some people put it.) For many years
there has been an active Harvard Club in the community and I
have held various offices in this organization.

Now that our son is at Harvard and our daughter will soon be
going away to boarding school, my wife and I sometimes consider
moving back to the city. I doubt that we ever will, for we have
become firmly wedded to country life. The weekends are never
long enough to do all the things we want to do around our place.
When I begin to feel comfortably established in the life at home,
it is time for me to set off on another long business trip abroad.
As I leave home, I glance back at our old house with its big trees,
stone walls, and fields across the road, and I repeat to myself:
“The world is a book and he who stays at home reads only one

page.”
[141 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

FREDERICK WILLIAM BURNHAM

HOME anoress: rogo Pine St, Winnetka, HL.
OFFICE appress: Northern Trust Co., 50 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Hl.

porx: March 30, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Frederick Knebel Burn-
ham, Lilhan Richardson Baldwin.

preparep aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

marrieD: Dorothy Hamilton Quin, Aug. 27, 1938, Amsterdam, N. Y. cum-
prex: Lee Norton, Jan. 7, 1930, Ann Lindsay, May 4, 1944; William
Hamilton, April 10, 1937 (died April 14, 1947).

oocuPaTONn: Second vice-president and credit manager, Northern Trust
Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Chapter, 1946-48, treasurer, Chicago
Chapter, 1952-53, Robert Morris Associates, treasurer, Newton Tax-
paver's Association, 1948-49; secretary, 1945-46, treasurer, 1946-48, vice-
president, 1948-49, president, 1939, Harvard Business School Club of
Boston; treasurer, Harvard Business School Club of Chicago, 1953-54;
assistant vice-president, 1937-45, Vice-president, 1946-49, Second Na-
tional Bank of Boston; second vice-president, Northern Trust Company

of Chicago, since 1949; member, Harvard Business School Association
Executive Council, 1947-50.

MEMBER OF: Inverness Golf Club; Harvard Club of Boston.
PUBLicaTIoNs: Occasional articles on banking or philatelic subjects.

MY brief contribution to the 1950 edition of this Report covered
seventeen-plus years of banking in Boston, following the Business
School. Now there are five years of even more stimulating, al-
though similar, work in Chicago to add. Credits rather than debits
have been my field.

Our two fine daughters, who will probably follow their mother
at Wellesley, are now busily making plans for the Twenty-fifth
Reunion. But with no potential Harvard sons, my outlet for such
energies has to be the Chicago Harvard Club’s Schools Com-
mittee activities on the North Shore —a fertile field.

My hobbies are simple: travel, golf, stamp collecting, and
bridge, in none of which has any distinction been attained. For
example, Parisian waiters still beg, “Monsieur, parle Anglais, s'il
vous plait?” I've yet to play up to my golf handicap away from
the home course. Even service as treasurer of a national stamp
exhibition resulted in a surplus, rather than the substantial deficit
Thad predicted. As to bridge, no master points are in my armory.

However, besides unrivalled facilitics for most hobbies in

[142 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Chicagoland, there is plenty of room for community and church
work in this suburban village of 12,000. So there’s never a dull
moment for the whole family, other than the fact that we see our
classmates too infrequently.

ALAN TURNER BURR

HOME ADDRESS: 114 South St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Envelope Mfg. Co., 237 Chandler St., Worces-
ter, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 25, 1910, Willimantic, Conn. parents: Henry T. Burr, ’99, Ada
Harding.

PREPARED AT: New Britain High School, New Britain, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MaRRIED: Grace Hardendorff, Aug. 20, 1932, North Amherst, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Salesmanager. .

ONLY change of life since 1950 Report is recent change of job
from district manager of American Paper Goods Company of
Boston to sales manager for the New England Envelope Manu-
facturing Company of Worcester. Still living at the same Hing-
ham address, however, and so hope to continue, since I seem to be
getting more and more salt water on the brain the longer I stay
here, and I like it. So does my wife.

We finally acquired a small sea-going boat this past year and
have given up most other sports in favor of that, which is a way
of life as good as any and better than most.

SYDNEY HARRISON BURRELL

HOME apprEss: 5 S. Main St., Acushnet, Mass.

OFFICE appREsS: Roy Paper Co., 211 Dean St., New Bedford, Mass.

BORN: March 3, 1908, Providence, R. I. parents: Sydney Bates Burrell, Edith
Adella Brightman.

PREPARED AT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: S.B., 1930; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1936.

MarrieD: Beulah Rita Champegny, Nov. 28, 1934, Providence, R. I. cup:
Sharon Lee, Sept. 4, 1943.

OccuPATION: Managing owner: wholesale groceries and paper.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Town Finance Committee, since 1946,

MEMBER OF: New Bedford, Massachusetts, and American Bars.

[ 143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I] TELESCOPED the tour years after graduation by doing a year
at Harvard Law, a stint with Swift & Company, a short grind
with New England Gas, and a tour of duty with the CCC as a
Reserve Officer. I followed this with two years at Boston Uni-
versity Law to complete studies for my LL.B. It was here that I
won my sole claim to distinction by winning my shingle at the
Massachusetts Bar by being admitted — before graduation from
law school — in the December lists of 1935. ,
Setting myself up in practice where angels fear to tread, |
yearned and strove for a probate practice. Such an ambition
proved to be rugged, not only financially (first year’s earnings
from practice: $359.00), but because it left much time on my
hands. And so] became interested in fur farming. After six years
of this, both were approaching the moderately successful stage
only to be totally wrecked by a combination of my Reserve
commission and a guy named Hitler. Or was he to blame? It
was during this period that I engaged in politics four times, now
as an Independent nominee and then as a Republican. Came close
enough to winning to get my bellyful for all time.

For four years as an overage in grade of first lieutenant, I
served in the SOS, AGF, and the AAF in the capacity of what
came to be popularly known as an arm-chair commando, variously
as an adjutant, courts martial officer, reclassification officer, con-
tract termination officer, but principally as a lone wolf inspector
of very much | know very little about in all the services, trying
to cut the red tape and chicken, but withal getting more and more
involved in it. In retrospect, much of it was extremely interesting .
and I like to think I helped a little. On V-J Day someone decided
I had probably earned a promotion and so I came out as a captain
in 46, with no combat record but with many, many very set ideas
concerning our military establishment about which the less said
the better.

After this amazing interlude, I reopened my law office to pick
up the pieces for about forty-eight hours, when I was forced to
close it in view of the fact that my controlling interest in a whole-
sale concern which handles approximately 8,000 items became
jeopardized and I was compelled to take over and really find out
what made it tick. And this is where I am today, as principal
owner and operating manager, practising my profession on the

[ 144 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

side you might say, and keeping myself extremely busy in this
rough, competitive world. They say the successful executive
works from ten to four, with two hours for lunch. Apparently,
I have become very unsuccessful, since my day constantly runs
from six to six with after hours being devoted to such things as
other business.

Naturally I belong to the ABA, the MBA, and the New Bed-
ford Bar Association, although I am not a joiner and my only extra-
curricular activity publicly is that of having held the chairman-
ship of my local finance committee for the past eight years.

Oh yes, and NOT incidentally, we were married some twenty
years ago, have one daughter, wished for more, and they say we
make a good team. TRYING to keep ahead of them keeps me
from getting too dull. Photography, bridge, and summer weekend
cruising are my hobbies. We're crazy about travel, but so far have
only covered the U.S., parts of Canada and South America, and,
of course, the Caribbean. Our time-table calls for Hawaii next,
then Alaska, and finally Europe; you can have Africa, Asia, and
the Communistic world.

Generally speaking and on the whole, I’m about as happy as a
clam at high tide and the world doesn’t owe me anything. How-
ever, I think the country’s going to hell at all levels, socially,
morally, and politically, with so much paternalism and so much
of the “me first and the devil take the hindmost” attitude. I think
McCarthy knows what he’s about. I think that our overstaffed
(could be spelled with a “u”) government is wasteful as hell and
in a fair way of falling from its own weight. I appreciate Pegler’s
aims and convictions, but deplore his barbs at Fair Harvard.

And so go twenty-five years.

ARTHUR A. BURROUGHS

HOME ADDRESS: 152 Aspinwall Ave., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE appress: American Mutual Liability Insurance Co., 332 Main St.
Worcester, Mass.

BoRN: April 2, 1908, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Samuel Harry Burroughs, Lena
Laiter.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH, ENGIN,, 1931.

[145]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

searniep: Ia Lapidus, Aug. 19 1074 Brookline, Mass. cHitpren: Marjorie
Elen, March 1, 1941; Robert Harold, May 21, 1948.

occuPaTION; Safety engineer, district enginecring manager, American Mutual
Liability Insurance Company.

orrices HELD: Director, Institute for Safer Living, member board of control,
Worcester Safety Council.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Safecy Engineers; Harvard Engineering
Society; Worcester Safery Council; Insticuce for Safer Living.
PUBLICATIONS: Several articles on safety, protective clothing, etc.

I'VE been fooled! Misled! Born in 1908, and had a very good
life up to 1930. Graduation came on the heels of the 1929 de-
pression. Then life changed considerably. Had worked two
summers (1928 and 1929) at Nash Motors in Milwaukee, Wiscon-
sin, and was promised an engineering position at graduation. At
graduation, the man who promised the job was looking for one
himself. Then I decided to accept a position at R. H. Macy’s in
New York City. Everything went well for a while; then the
depression caught up with them, too. I saw no decent future, so
I came home again to accept a position with Municipal Securities
Service. With the closing of the banks (Bank Holiday), our
highly successful business closed also.

At that stage of life, I decided that things couldn’t get worse,
so I got married. Things improved slightly, but not enough. Then
the magnificent fraud! Everyone told me that “Life begins at
forty.” Suddenly realizing that I had been premature in my
expectations, I decided to start over again, work hard, and wait
for “forty.”

I accepted a job with the American Mutual Liability Insurance
Company as a junior engineer in their New York City office.
Less than four years later, in April of 1941, I was transferred to
the Newark office as district engineer. In 1948 I came east again
and worked in the Boston district until June 1, 1951, at which
time 1 was promoted to district engineering manager of the
Western Massachusetts District, with headquarters at Worcester.
I am still there working and plugging.

During these events, I arrived at the age of forty. In fact, I
passed it. I realized for the first time that my friends had only
given me part of the story. Sure, “life begins at forty.” It begins
to slow up. I can still do the things I did when I was younger —
but not as much — not as often — with less ease and more work.

[146 ]

pers gure canceevngngna ite SE URIBE Hp OMOAITDEL NAT ST NE TN
acd Ba LATE SAM OY

In EERIE ETN GTO TENT He 8!

ceenne rp senee tae ere

ee EE ET

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The word “moderation” has taken a new meaning. I guess those
of you who have read thus far have some idea of what I’m talking
about without greater details — or pictures.

Seriously, though, I have a lovely wife, a wonderful daughter,
and a smart son. I enjoy my work, my friends, and my family. I
won't be the richest man in the cemetery, but I'll be one of the
happiest — until I get there.

Right now, 1955 has two high spots on the horizon. I’ve been
invited to give a speech at the Greater New York Safety Council
in April, and am looking forward to the week of June 12th.
Saving my mind for the former, and my body for the latter, we'll
be seeing you!

ARTHUR PIERCE BUTLER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 445 Hoyt St., Lakewood, Colo.

OFFICE AppREss: U. S. Geological Survey, Denver Federal Center, Denver,
Colo.

BORN: June 23, 1908, Morristown, N. J. PAreNTs: Arthur Pierce Butler, ’88,
Lydia Raguet Farnham.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; M.B.A., 1932;
A.M., 19373 PH.D., 1947.

MARRIED; Josephine Mendenhall, April 10, 1948, Washington, D. C. cum-
DREN: Priscilla, Oct. 21, 1949; Arthur Emery, March 2, 1952; Sarah,
April 19, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Farnham Butler, ’31.

OccUPATION: Chief, Uranium Resource Compilation Section, Geologic Divi-
sion, U. S. Geological Survey.

MEMBER OF: Society of Economic Geologists; Geological Society of Wash-
ington, D. C.

PuBLicaTions: “Artifacts Made of Glassy Andesite of San Antonio Mountain,
Rio Arriba County, New Mexico,” with Kirk Bryan, University of
New Mexico Bulletin 349, 1940; “Tertiary and Quaternary Geology
of the Tusas-Tres Piedras Area, New Mexico,” Geological Society of
America Bulletin, 1946; “Relation of Sand Deposits at Tip Top, Ken-
tucky, to the Meramec-Chester Boundary,” with L, L. Ray and C. S.
Denny, Geological Division Bulletin, Kentucky Department of Mines
and Minerals, 1947; “The Geological Survey’s Work on the Geology
of Uranium and Thorium Deposits,” U. S. Geological Survey Trace
Elements Investigation Report 207, Technical Information Service, U. S.
Atomic Energy Commission, Oak Ridge, 1953.

[ 147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

HARVARD had a hold on me that some of my acquaintances
were afraid might be perennial and keep me trying to collect de-
grees all my life. All but two-and-a-half years of the first decade
after college were spent there — two at the Business School and
five studying geology. The interval not spent at the University
was filled by a short period of selling (which was not my talent),
shipping as an ordinary seaman long enough to collect an un-
limited Third Mate’s license, and working with my brother,
Farnham, 31, in taking over a small yacht repair yard which he
has continued to develop at Mt. Desert, Maine. Highlights in-
cluded three Bermuda races (one as navigator of the winning
boat), a transatlantic race and a transatlantic cruise in sixty-foot
schooners.

Don't ask me just what sent me back to study geology in 1935.
The subtle motivating stimulus is lost in the haze of the horizon
astern, but it was not entirely without misgivings that I tacked
off on a completely different career five years out of college.
The change, however, was sufficiently attractive so that I am still
in the profession. The geologic faculty offered much not only in
scientific leadership but also in human personal inspiration.

An opportunity to join the U.S. Geological Survey appeared
in 1941 and I have been doing work, more or less geologic, for that
organization since then. This opportunity delayed finishing my
final academic task, submission of a thesis, but in due time the
training and inspiration of working with one of the country’s
finest scientific organizations helped in the last push to finish that
work.

Geology has taken me into many parts of the West, some places
in the Middle West, and eastward to Liberia, mapping and study-
ing general geology and the geology of ore deposits, near-ore
deposits, and mere prospects of iron, vanadium, and uranium. It
has also included a goodly share of desk work in trying to promote
the summary and useful synthesis of a variety of investigations by
others and in trying to give reasonable answers to the public’s
questions about a spot for a mine that will make them rich.

After several years of numerous moves, Josephine Mendenhall
found me staying in one spot Jong enough to lure me from a
bachelor existence in 1948. We have accumulated a family of
three in the six, short-seeming years since then. They keep US

[148 J

joker yas yet

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

generally busy, and alternately apprehensive or entertained, but
always interested. Priscilla, who will just be getting ready for the
first grade as the Class rings up its Twenty-fifth Anniversary
shows signs of being an intelligent and increasingly satisfactory
daughter. The two younger ones are assisting in this composition
by making a bedlam as they take the kitchen cupboards apart in
the next room, At their ages, the dominance of the wonderful
features of normal growth obscures our views as to how they
may develop.

Activities connected with the demands and needs of a very
young and growing family, and demands of places that require
some attention have superseded many of the recreational sports.
of former years. Bridge is the recreation in which we indulge
most frequently. But sailing remains my favorite recreation as it
has been for thirty years, though it mixes rather poorly with
geology and can be participated in for only short periods.

I consider myself a political independent, but my political and
social views are general rather than specific. I feel rather strongly
that if we wish to survive as a nation we must strive to combine
and apply the best qualities of the Christian philosophy and the
best features of our American traditions. We have good ideas,
but so do others. We have to recognize that we cannot develop
and retain the friendship of other nations by insisting that our own
beliefs and aims are best for all and the only way of existence. We
have increased in size, strength, and perhaps greatness, domesti-
cally, by willingness to espouse change. Innovation with respect
to material things is still encouraged by economic reward. But
we are showing signs of becoming foolishly scared of indepen-
dence in thought and belief. Unless we allow the dissenter and
innovator to be heard, we shall betray our national heritage and
wither through conformity.

LYMAN HENRY BUTTERFIELD

HOME appreEss: 360 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1154 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 8, 1909, Lyndonville, N. ¥. parents: Roy Lyman Butterfield,
Ethel Marguerite Place.

PREPARED AT: Charlotte High School, Rochester, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. swonma cum laude, 1930; A.M.

[ 149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
1034; Litto. (Franklin and Marshall Coll.), 1952; umtp. (Bucknell
Univ.) 1953.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Anne Eaton, June 15, 1935, Royalston, Mass. cHitpren:
Fox, July 8 1939; Hester Lee, July 26, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Coe Butterfield, °37.

occupation: Historian; editor-in-chief, The Adams Family Papers.

OFFices HELD: Member advisory committee, Papers of Thomas Jefferson,
Princeton University; member editorial committee, Papers of Benjamin
Frankiin, American Philosophical Society and Yale University; member
of Editors, Weillizm and Mary Quarterly; member advisory Committee
of Historians, Jamestown-Yorktown Celebration of 1957.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences (fellow); American
Antiquarian Society; American Civil Liberties Union; American His-
torical Association; Bibliographical Society of America; Colonial So-
ciety of Massachusetts; Cosmos Club, Washington; Historical Society
of Pennsylvania; Massachusetts Historical Society; Mississippi Valley
Historical Association; National Parks Association (life member); New
York State Historical Association, Phi Beta Kappa; Virginia Historical
Society.

pusuicarions: Richard Tickell’s Anticipation (editor), New York, 1941;
The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, vols. 1-5 (editor with others), Prince-
ton University, 1950-52; Letters of Benjamin Rush (editor), two vol-
umes, Princeton and Philadelphia, 1952; John Witherspoon Comes to

America, Princeton, 1953; articles and reviews in literary and historical
journals.

eo

THE course of my professional life, after seven years of mixed
graduate work and teaching in the English Department at Har-
vard, 1930-37, has moved steadily away from beautiful letters
to American history, where it is now fixed. Depending on your
point of view, I am a brand plucked from the burning or a
maverick. The simple truth is that I have found grubbing for
historical facts and writing them up more congenial and reward-
ing than I found literary scholarship and teaching. I realize that at
any other time it might not have been so easy for me to have
followed my bent rather than my training. During the past decade
or two there has been a great upsurge of interest in the American
past, as witness the springing up of historical restoration projects
and the launching of a series of major publications documenting
the careers of American statesmen. I have been a beneficiary
of these trends, and insofar as they spring from a desire better

to understand the forces that have shaped American life and not
from mere nostalgia, I approve of them,

[150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After nine years teaching English and American literature at
Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, 1937-
46, and five years on the editorial staff of the Jefferson Papers at
Princeton, 1946-51, I came to Williamsburg as director of a
small organization with too long a name, the Institute of Early
American History and Culture. The Institute is jointly sponsored
by the College of William and Mary and Colonial Williamsburg,
Inc., as a research and publishing center for American studies to
about 1815. My three and a half years in Williamsburg serving
two masters but actually running my own little show have been
crowded with pleasant and sometimes exciting events, providing
plenty of work of the kind I like and the freedom to do it.
Though much of the work has been administrative, I have had
unusual opportunities of getting about the country to centers of
historical research, and I have done a fair amount of writing,
mostly in the form of articles and reviews relating to the Revolu-
tionary and Jeffersonian periods. Williamsburg as a tourist mecca
deserves an essay in itself that | may some day write, but will not
impose on my classmates here.

As I write this sketch, I am about to return to New England and

a close connection with Harvard. By the end of 1954 I shall be
established at the Massachusetts Historical Society in Boston
taking the first steps toward a multi-volume edition of the in-
comparably rich and extensive archives of the three Adamses
(John, John Quincy, and Charles Francis), who did so much
toward creating, extending, and preserving the American Union.
The publisher, appropriately enough, will be the Harvard Univer-
sity Press, but no guess can be made at this time about the size of
the publication.

I enjoy and am extremely proud of my family, but I would be a
hypocrite if I boasted or even implied that I am a good family
man. The greatest aid to scholarship, I have found, is a devoted
and capable wife who, with scarcely a murmur, keeps other things
from interfering with it.

My war service was entirely in a civilian capacity, principally
several years of teaching English composition and United States
history to Navy and Marine officer-candidates on the Franklin
and Marshall campus. Summers I have for the most part spent
with my family on an ancestral farm near Cooperstown, New

[3151]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

York, indulging in increasingly mild forms of exercise and poking
about the countryside. If [have a hobby, it is collecting American
books and reading them.

In politics I have steadily become a more decided Democrat

over the years, and during recent election campaigns I have taken
some part in political activities. I] am a Democrat because I con-
sider the Republican party at best uninspired in its leadership, at
worst intellectually bankrupt. The vaunted crusade of 1952 turns
out to be an attempted retreat to the simple philosophy associated
with the little red schoolhouse, grandma's cookies, the pickle barrel
in the country store, and the sermons of the kindly village par-
son—all of which come in for frequent praise by Republican
orators. This brand of thinking might be written off as harmless
except that it seems clearly to reflect an urge to escape from the
heavy responsibilities thrust upon the American people in the
middle of the twentieth century.

And along with it goes the new know-nothingism, suspicion of
all but the safest and most conventional ideas, and the flourishing
cult of the informer. The spirit of our time has been only too
well represented by the cartoonist Herblock in a drawing show-
ing a super-patriotic Congressman climbing a ladder toward the
torch in the hand of the Statute of Liberty; he is carrying a
bucket of water and shouting, “Fire!” Of course, no political
party has a monopoly on this form of demagoguery, but our
present national administration has been singularly backward
in recognizing and combatting its evils. Meanwhile, it is eating
away at values that have been traditionally and expressly Ameri-
can from colonial days until our own age of fear. These include
the values that Harvard has always stood for and still splendidly

stands for — free competition among ideas and the indispensable
right of dissent.

THOMAS HUGH BYRD

HOME abbress: 203 Walnut St, Englewood, N. J.
orrice Apouess: Byrd Brothers, Go Broad St, New York, N. Y.
boun: Oct. 22, 1907, Hartsville, S.C. parents: MacDuff Byrd,

Tan:
pusvanen at; Hartsville High School, Hartsville, 8, C. lian Coker,

YEARS IN COLLELE: 1926-1930, DELKHE: §.B., 1930,

[152]

seen NEMPL TSE AE te ME EY

eS BCE Rg same EE

at AA A EP ANP MRR PI ESS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Eleanor Cochran Deland, Oct. 25, 1930, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Caroline Adams, Nov. 11, 1934; Beatrice Ethelind, Nov. 14, 1936.
OCCUPATION: Investment banker.

IN June, 1930, I went to work for the Guaranty Trust Company
of New York. In October of that year, I married Eleanor Deland
of Boston. This was a sound basis on which to operate. However,

I found after three years that I wanted to venture into a business

of my own. Thus, for twenty-two years, with time out for World

War II, in which I served as a naval officer, I have operated the
investment banking firm of Byrd Brothers, where I am the senior
partner. |

I have two daughters who, following the example set by their
mother and grandmother, enrolled at Smith College. Caroline,
the older one, is spending her junior year at Geneva University in
Switzerland, a country which we all visited during the summer
of 1953.

We live out in Englewood, New Jersey, which is an interesting
community. I was a candidate for mayor there on the Democratic
ticket three times, but I never was elected. Politics and the Naval
Reserve are my hobbies, and gardening (including lawn mowing)
is my physical exercise.

I am not quite sure what I should say about social convictions.
I like people whether they are rich or poor, Republican or Demo-
crat, Chinaman or Eskimo — just so long as they behave and leave
their neighbors alone. |

My political convictions are Democratic, although I voted once
for Herbert Hoover. I do, however, grow more impressed with
Lord Bryce’s observation that political campaigns are waged by
organizations for the purpose of turning the party in power out,
and once in to try to stay in. |

As for religious convictions, I say everyone to his own taste,
but I attend the First Presbyterian Church in Englewood.

In retrospect, I recall how proud I was to have been admitted to
Harvard, and four years later, to graduate. Nothing has changed
my mind since that time, and as long as men like Lowell, Conant,
and Pusey are its leaders, nothing will. In my opinion, the new
University is a far better one than the old.

[153]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

JULIAN CONNOR BYRNE

HOME ADDREsS: 15 Walton St. Dorchester 24, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Telephone & Telegraph Co., 245 State St,
Boston g, Mass.

BORN: July 30, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Thomas William Byrne, Mary
Agnes Connor. °

prePaRED AT: Dorchester High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Telephone directory advertising sales promotion.

] ENTERED Harvard College with the Class of 1930 in the fall

of 1927 after completing two years at College Park, University

of Maryland.

Since leaving Harvard, except for occasional attention to a
manufacturing business founded by my father and recently
liquidated by. me, I have been in the advertising business: first,
in the advertising department of a Boston newspaper for eight
years; from then on in the telephone directory advertising work.

I am still single and live with my mother in the old family home.
A married brother and sister live on the west coast.

Trips abroad have included a visit to Europe and a half-dozen
trips to Cuba and Central America.

As for politics, it seems to me that most of the laws enacted in
the interest of social betterment since we were in school have
worked out well. If you believe as I do that not everyone can
meet the requirements for economic survival, our new role of
“brother’s keeper,” even though no longer optional, does not seem
to demand too much from those of us who have had somewhat
better luck.

And this last word of appreciation —I believe that Presidents
Conant and Pusey have been uncommonly effective in answering
Harvard's critics in the public forum. It must be reassuring to
people everywhere, who cherish the right to seek the truth with-
out penalty, to know that in Harvard they have so fearless and
powerful an ally.

[154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALAN ALBERT ALEXANDER CAMPBELL

HOME ADDRESS: 422 E. soth St., New York 22, N. Y.

oFFice ADDRESS: Finders Co., 422 E. soth St., New York 22, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 27, 1908, St. Paul, Minn. parents: David Alexander Campbell,
Gina Smith.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

maArRiED: Agnes Elizabeth Wilcox, Aug. 31, 1930 (divorced 1939); Josephine
Fish, December, 1939, Pittsburgh, Pa. (died February, 1945). cuttp:
Gina Wilcox, June 19, 1931.

occuPATION: President, Finders Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; H. Y. P. Club of Pittsburgh
and Harvard Club of Boston (formerly).

UPON receipt of John Cross’s “Frantic Goad No. 5,” which
“pleased” me no end, I determined that now was the time to dis-
turb all my classmates with recitals of fact and fancy which some-
how managed to blunder into my gruesome past. Congress has
given the President permission to disturb the peace of the world,
and that gesture means to me, ipso facto, that they included the
Class of 1930, therein. Now, this commission I am attempting
really shouldn’t result in anything as titanic as that, so I proceed —

Let’s see, the summer of 1930 I spent cranking airplanes, clean-
ing them, and learning to solo as a Naval Air Cadet in the tiny
backyard even then known as the Naval Air Station, Squantum,
Massachusetts. I followed in the wake of Harry Sturges and
Breezy Lewis, who had washed out most of the smaller buildings.
Fortunately for me, they gave me a seaplane with a single pontoon
and insisted that I make certain there was a large expanse of water
available when I came down. Even so, on my first solo flight I
jazzed a four-masted schooner in Boston Harbor and I have
always been positive that right at that moment my grey hairs
started preying. At the very end of the summer, life became
more complicated in that Agnes Wilcox, a senior at Radcliffe,
accepted my proposal of marriage. She had spent the summer
parachute jumping — held No, 2 Women’s Pilot License in the
U.S.—and even succeeded in inveigling me to be her first
passenger. So I didn’t follow Harry and Breezy to Pensacola to
finish my training. Instead, in the spring of 1931, after a sojourn
in Cambridge and Toronto, Canada, we migrated to Colon in the
Republic of Panama.

[155]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

pany, a large book and catalogue manufacturing firm, and re-
mained with them in New York City for three years until they
were purchased by Rand, McNally.

For the past several eons, my struggles to survive in my own
enterprises have caused huge udal waves on New York’s Lower
Bay and the shores of its East River —I sell industrial supplies
and equipment, contract for roofing, waterproofing, and steam
cleaning of buildings; do career consulting and personal resumes;

foo)
and recently have commenced to sell all brands of mutual funds.

Diversification! It keeps one a little busy.

Looking towards our Fiftieth Reunion, I am anxious for two
things: first, a World Police Force which, until then, will keep
us all from being blown to hell; and second, an ambition to find
some unsuspecting lady who will put up with me and, if I survive
our Twenty-fifth, will help me spend the time until 1980.

+ ROBERT WARREN CANFIELD

BorN: Sept. 15, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: George Folger Canfield,
**5, Frances Maynard Marshall.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(32).

marrieD: Camilla Hooper Brown, Oct. 14, 1933, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
George Folger, Aug. 13, 1935; Camilla, Jan. 29, 1937; Pamela, March 8,
1944

piep: Aug. 12, 1943, near Cologne, Germany.

wow: Mrs. Robert W. Canfield, Carmel, Calif.

DURING 1930-1931 Canfield was a special student at Harvard.
For three years he was then a statistician with G. M. P. Murphy
& Company, New York, for two years was with the Sales Di-
vision of the International Business Machines Corporation, and
from 1936 to 1938 was a statistician and economist for Keswick
Corporation in New York. In 1938 he joined the Differential
Wheel Corporation and two years later was secretary, treasurer,
and a director of both this corporation and Pressurelube, Inc. He
served also as a director of the Bronx Refrigerator Company and
of the Greater New York Cold Storage Company. In 1942 he
received a commission as captain in the Army Air Force and had
charge of organizing skeet shooting in the Flexible Gunnery

[ 158]

1 ARR OU PRES, Peete Tei OF

ah es gmc PN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Course. He was stationed at Fort Worth (Texas) and later at
Fort Myers (Florida), where he was assistant director of training
at the Central Instructors School. As a major, he was sent to the
United Kingdom on a special gunnery mission in July, 1943. He
was killed when the plane in which he was waist-gunner crashed
after a daylight raid.

Canfield was a nationally famous skeet shot and at one time
held the world’s long-run 20-gauge record. Under his direction
the Hilltop Skeet of Holliston, Massachusetts, held all the world’s
records and all the major eastern championships. His wife and
three children survived him.

WENDELL PHILIP CANFIELD

HOME aApDpRESS: 212 Wilbur Blvd. Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Bearings Co., Inc., Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 13, 1906, Everett, Mass. parents: Charles Edward Canfield,
Mary Barbara Patterson.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Renée C. Giguére, Nov. 23, 1937, New York, N. Y.

OccUPATION: Chief fiscal executive, Federal Bearings Company, Inc.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles in professional and trade publications.

FREDERIC FOSTER CAREY, JR.

HOME apprEss: Sea Horse Motel, Delray, Fla.

BORN: July 20, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Frederic Foster Carey,
Alice Madleine Lewis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MARRIED: Virginia Kernochan, Aug. 7, 1938, Elkton, Md.

occupation: Motel manager.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

GUSTAVE ERIC CARLSON

HOME ADDRESS: 779 East St., New Britain, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Britain High School, New Britain, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1907, New Britain, Conn. parents: Edward Frank Carlson,
Ada Larsen.

[159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

PREPARED AT: New Britain High School, New Britain, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: $.B. cur laude, 1930; B.E. (Teachers
Coll. of Connecticut); a.m. (Yale Univ.)

occupation: Teacher of mathematics.

AFTER graduation, I held several engineering jobs and eventually
changed to the field of education, in which I have continued until
the present time — except for the war years. During World War
II, I served in the Army for four years. Part of that time was
spent as a company commander in China.

DANIEL BERNARD CARMODY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 83 Deerfield St. Bergenfield, N. J.; (legal address) 10 Aber-
deen St., Boston, Mass.

oFFice appress: Indemnity Insurance Co. of North America, 99 John St,
New York, N. Y.

BorN: April 20, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Daniel Bernard Carmody,
Frances Genevieve Spillane.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. (Boston Coll. Law
School), 1936.

MaRRIED: Irene Margaret Murphy, July 2, 1938, Newport, R. I. CHILDREN:
Daniel Bernard, 3d, June 18, 1941, Kathleen M., Jan. 3, 1944.

occupation: Assistant superintendent, Casualty Claim Department, Indem-
nity Insurance Company of North America.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, local chapter, National Association for Re-
tarded Children; administrative director, insurance advisor summer day

camp for retarded children; delegate to the State Council for The
Association for Retarded Children.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I was employed as an order clerk in
a stock brokerage firm in Boston and later as credit manager of
an importing house in Boston while busily engaged in attending
night law school. On receiving my law degree in 1936, I im-
mediately became associated with The Travelers Insurance Com-
pany at their Boston office, 147 Milk Street, as an investigator and
adjuster of casualty claims. Fourteen months later I was fortunate
enough to be promoted to a supervisor’s position and thereafter
directed the efforts of a group of ficld representatives in the in-

vestigation and adjustment of such claims, as well as the adminis-
tration and direction of litigation associated therewith.

[ 160 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Early in 1942, after the outbreak of World War II, I was trans-
ferred by my company to the Hingham Shipyard, where I pro-
ceeded to set up and administrate the Workmen’s Compensation
Claim Office. Here I labored in a dual capacity for The Travelers
Insurance Company and the United States Navy, which controlled
and operated this shipyard. I also supervised the care, cure, and
rehabilitation of the injured workmen, being associated with the
yard hospitals set up for that purpose. This was a tremendous
operation since there were 30,000 men employed at this yard. It
was truly a small city in itself. We handled thousands of industrial
accidents, running the gamut from scratches on the finger through
the entire range of traumatic injuries and industrial deaths.

Early in 1945 my company took over the operation of the
Hospitals and Workmen’s Compenstion Claims Offices in the ship-
yards of the U.S. Steel Company at Kearney and Port Newark,
New Jersey. I was then transferred to the Port Newark Yard.
This was a larger operation than the Hingham Yard since I had to
administrate, as well as the claim office, the operation of four first-
aid stations and a main hospital. And here we handled the entire
operation — hospitalization, care, cure, rehabilitation of the in-

jured workmen, payroll, accounting, and the like. The experience
business-wise, of course, was invaluable. When Japan surrendered
in 1945, the need for fighting ships sloughed off and the end of the
year I came back to the Boston office. I had also worked in the
Lynn, Lowell, and Worcester offices of the company.

Later on it was indeed with some regret that I made the decision
to accept the position of assistant superintendent of claims with
the North America Companies in New York City and thus sever
my association with the Travelers. I had been associated with a
fine group of men throughout the various offices of the Travelers,
but progress and advancement can never be denied and thus I

made the change. I must say that the change has indeed been a
happy one. I am presently associated with a fine group of sound
American businessmen and we look forward to the future with
faith and trust in our American system and way of life and know
that it must prevail. My position here, as assistant superintendent
of the Casualty Claim Department, includes administration and
direction of investigation and adjustment of all types of casualty
claims and claims in admiralty, and administration and direction

[ 161 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

of suits and trals of the same type of litigation. So much for busi.
ness, and now to the family.

Thad met the girl who is now my wife during my law school
vears and in 1938 I marred this very wonderful person, Irene M,
Murphy of Providence, Rhode Island. We thereafter set about
the business of building a career and raising a family. Our life
together has been, and continues to be, a spiritually and materially
delightful experience. We have had our share of the burdens of
life, but working together we have been able, with the grace of
God. to cope with them and bring to ourselves much of happiness.

We have been blessed with two children, a son and a daughter.
The children are rapidly growing up, sometimes, we think, too
rapidly. Each June we pack off to Middletown, Rhode Island,
which is on the Island of Aquidneck in Narragansett Bay, where
the family spends summers with Mrs. Carmody’s father. I rush
back and forth weekends and manage to spend my vacation there.
The rolling countryside is quite beautiful and peaceful, rather
well removed from the helter-skelter pace that is New York City.
We are enthusiastic “beachers,” and spend a great deal of time in
the broad Atlantic and on the beach, known as either Second
Beach or Satchuset. In our time we have been blown around a bit
by various hurricanes, but we have weathered them well. How-
ever, this year “Edna” rather damaged the beach extensively, but
we are sure that the good town fathers will have it ready and ship-
shape for the coming summer season.

We live a rather quiet and sedate home life with many cookouts
on the back yard grill with myself playing the chef, and feel that
all in all our life is replete with happiness, doing the things that
the average American family does. Unfortunately, our beloved
son does not enjoy these pleasures with us since he is necessarily
continually away at school, God, in His Infinite Wisdom, having
sent to us an angel on earth—a retarded son. This, indeed, at
times has been a material burden, but the spiritual privilege that is
thereby ours has brought to us both much peace of mind and soul;

and, we trust, a much deeper and humble understanding of the
purpose of this life.

[ 162 ]

peg eon att Took

pean een 2 pte SA NT
ets tr TONNE *
Facet an

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR THORLEY CARPENTER

HOME ADDRESS: 325 Brookmere Ct., Ridgewood, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bell Telephone Co., 540 Broad St., Newark 1, N. J.

BorN: Aug. 11, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Joseph C. Carpenter, Anna
Leola Thorley.

PREPARED AT: Langley High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cunt laude, 1930.

mMarRRiED: Mary Tait Conklin, April 11, 1934, New York, N. Y. cum:
Lynne Conklin, June 26, rgqo.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president: personnel, labor relations, and collec-
tive bargaining.

MEMBER OF: Society of Harvard Chemists; Telephone Pioneers of America;

Alpha Sigma Phi.

WITH the exception of eighteen months with the A. T. & T.
Company, my entire business career has been with the New
Jersey Bell Telephone Company in a variety of assignments,
principally in the operating end of the business. Most recently
I have been engaged in the labor relations field and in the bargain-
ing of agreements with the unions representing our employees.

During World War II, I spent a substantial portion of my time
assisting the State of New Jersey organizing communications in
the Civilian Defense services. Outside activity has been concen-
trated largely in church work and in community activities such
as the Community Chest. At present I am a member of the
Session of the Westside Presbyterian Church of Ridgewood. My
only hobby is gardening, to which I seem to devote an inordinate
amount of time with indifferent results.

DONALD KINGERY CARROLL

HOME ADDRESS: 1919 Naldo Ave., Jacksonville 7, Fla.

OFFICE appRESS: Milam, McIlvaine, Carroll & Wattles, 1200 Greenleaf Bldg.,
-P. O. Box 1226, Jacksonville 1, Fla.

BORN: April 16, 1909, Hartington, Nebr. parents: Charles Eden Carroll,
Blanche Elsie Kingery.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cui laude, 1930; J.o. (Univ. of
Florida), 1935.

occupation: Lawyer; member of firm.

[ 163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

orrices HELD: Assistant Attorney General of Florida, 1941; president, Jack-
sonville Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1942, Jacksonville Bar Associa-
ion, 1940, Civic Round Table of Jacksonville, 1950-51, Florida Bar
Association, 1955-56; commander, American Legion Post No. 9, Jack-
sonville, 1948-40 American Legion, Department of Florida, 1950-51;
member executive council, Junior Bar Conference, 1940-42, member
House of Delegates, 1932-56, American Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: American and Jacksonville Bar Associations, Florida Bar,

, American Judicature Society, Institute of Judicial Administration,
American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars; Masons; Shrine; Elks;

Jacksonville Chamber of Commerce; Torch Club of Jacksonville; Phi
Kappa Phi.

THOSE of us of the Class of 1930 who, as typical young Ameri-
cans, expected that by the time we had been out of college
twenty-five years we would have been President or, at the very
least, Secretary of State, must get something of a shock when we
look back in 1955 and see what actually happened. At least I did.
While the view doesn’t look too entrancing, this is “My Story,
1930-1955”: .
"Having the “writing bug” when I graduated in °30, I obtained,
despite the depression days, a job as assistant to the editor of The
National Magazine in Boston at the munificent salary of twelve
dollars a week. As I look back, I doubt I was worth that, in view
of the high value of the dollar at that time. I did, though, get some
of the “bug” out of my system.

In 1931 my father, who was a minister, was transferred to a
church in Miami, Florida, and I decided to go with my parents
to the “Sunshire State” (as I, as a Chamber of Commerce member,
devotedly call my adopted State). First I tried my hand at free-
lance writing (‘“free” is right, for all I received for my efforts,
outside of the usual pink rejection slips, was a series of notices of
creditors’ meetings from the referee in bankruptcy after the old
Judge Magazine accepted a joke I had submitted and then
promptly folded).

Thinking that teaching would be a more profitable venture, |
enrolled at the University of Miami and took enough courses in
education to entitle me to a certificate to teach English and the
social sciences in the high schools of Florida. This certificate |
never used, for shortly after I received it, 1 returned to “my first
love” — law —and took a few law courses at the University

of
[ 164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Miami, then transferred to the University of Florida, where I was
given the degree of Juris Doctor in 1935.

Since 1935 I have been practising law in Jacksonville, Florida,
with the firm that is now known as Milam, Mcllvaine, Carroll &
Wattles, except for the year of 1941 when I served as an Assistant
Attorney General of Florida in Tallahassee and except during
three and one-half years in the Army in World War II. As to my
military service, I started about as low as one can get, yardbird
gth class, and ended up as a captain in the Judge Advocate Gen-
eral’s Department in the European Theatre of Operations. Most
of my time was spent in or around the “fighting front” in Paris,
France, examining court-martial records, etc.

As I look back over the last several years, it seems that I have
been spending quite a bit of time, in addition to practising law,
in various civic, veterans’, and professional organizations. Some
years ago I served terms as president of the Jacksonville Junior
Chamber of Commerce, the Civic Round Table of Jacksonville,
and the Jacksonville Bar Association, and commander of the Amer-
ican Legion Post No. g, as well as having numerous minor offices or
chairmanships in these and other organizations. More recently I
served as commander of the American Legion, Department of
Florida, and, as this book goes to press, I shall be serving as the
president of the Florida Bar.

That’s the story up to date. Next installment in the Fiftieth An-
niversary Class Report.

ELLIOTT COOK CARTER

HOME ADDRESS: 31 W, 12th St., New York 11, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: American Academy, Via Angelo Masina, 5, Rome, Italy.

BORN: Dec. 11, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Elliott Cook Carter, Flor-
ence Doris Chambers.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M., 1932.

MarrieD: Helen Frost Jones, July 6, 1940, Chatham, Mass. cxip: David
Chambers, Jan. 4, 1943.

OccuPaATION: Musician; composer of concert music.

OFFIcES HELD: Member board of directors, League of Composers, since 1939,
American Composers Alliance, since 1940, New Friends of Music,
1952-53, Central Committee, International Society for Contemporary

[ 165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Music. rosg-ssi president, 192-53, member board of directors since
1g American Section, International Society for Contemporary Music:
Guggenheim Fellowship, 1945-46, 1950-51, American Academy in Rome
Prize, 1933-34; chairman, Music Department, St. John’s College, An-
napolis, Md. royo-gt; teacher of composition and theory, Peabody
Conservatory of Music, 1946-48; associate in music, Columbia Univer.
sity Graduate School, 1948-50.

pueuicatioxs: “Pocahontas” (ballet), Juilliard Award for the Publication

of American Music, “Piano Sonata,” “Emblems,” “Musicians Wrestle
Everywhere,” “The Defense of Corinth,” Mercury Music; “Holiday

Overture.” Independent Music Publishers’ Prize, Arrow Music Press;
“Sonata for Violincello and Piano,” Society for the Publication of
American Music; “Woodwind Quintet,” “The Harmony of Morning,”
“String Quartet,” Associated Music Publishers; commercial recordings:
“Piano Sonata,” plaved by Beveridge Webster, “Sonata,” played by
Greenhouse, released by American Recording Society; “Woodwind
Quintet,” played by New Art Wind Quintet, released by Classic Edi-
tions; “String Quartet,” played by the W alden String Quartet, to be
released by Columbia Records; articles on music: “Music in the Twen-
tieth Century,” Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1950 revision; “La Musique
aux Etats Unis,” Syntheses, July, 1954; “Walter Piston,” Musical Quar-

terly, August, 1945; numerous reviews in New York Herald Tribune,
Modern Music, Saturday Review of Literature, etc.

MY twenty-five years since I left Harvard have been largely spent
on music — composing, teaching, writing articles and serving on

committees of concert organizations and of groups giving fellow-

ships, awards, and prizes. This quarter of a century has been the
most interesting and lively quarter of a century, musically, that
America has seen. During it an American school of composition
has emerged which is recognized all over the world. Indeed, since
World War II it has come to be considered one of the most im-
portant by many critics. This development, so exciting to live
through, comes not only as a result of the appearance of a number
of very talented composers, but also as a result of the activities of
many musicians. 1 have been very busy in all the different fields
which have contributed. The most important thing we have ac-
complished is to create a climate in which composers could devote
their best efforts to their own work, This meant founding and
participating in organizations such as the League of Composers,
sive bard member for many seagate ae been a
stantially improved the comport finanei | pos ‘on have sub-

: ancial position, and have

[ 166 J

pgreanvergi maT At

reagent MRE
gn ME REN TAO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

introduced the works of many to the public and have educated a
portion of the public to be receptive to new music. Then, as a
critic, I have written much on new music and especially new
American music to aid in its understanding. As a teacher at Co-
lumbia, at the Peabody Conservatory, I have made my students
thoroughly familiar with the contemporary music scene. The
rapid fruits of such efforts as mine and many others during these
years have been most exciting to witness, and this past year, which
I have spent at the American Academy in Rome, has made me
realize how mature and varied and accomplished American music
now is by comparison to that of present-day Europe.

Besides all of these activities, I have found time to compose a
fair amount of music. I write music as fast as I can, which is very
slowly, and find that the works I have spent most effort and time
over prove eventually to be the most satisfactory from every
point of view. These musical offspring, like children, have a way
of being very disconcerting and their careers unpredictable. Since
I generally stick to the idea that if my music is any good it will
eventually find performers and public, and if it is bad no amount
of salesmanship and publicity will help it, I don’t plug my music
much. In fact, I have often submitted pieces under pseudonyms
to prize contests where they have to stand on their own. I have
won all the contests I have submitted to but one. But, around
1945, I began to find that prize contests had a way of being very
disappointing for they never seemed to lead to performances.
In that year, my “Holiday Overture” was awarded first prize in a
contest in which Dr. Koussevitzky and Aaron Copland were
judges. This led to no performances and the work was played by
the efforts of a friend in a number of places in Germany and twice
here. It will be released soon on a recording.

After this, I did not try for prizes for a time and wrote a
number of chamber music works, such as my piano sonata and
’cello sonata — pronounced by my musical friends as too hard to
play and too hard to take. Fortunately, these works attracted
excellent performers who were so enthusiastic that they played
them at every opportunity and finally put their performances on
an American Recording Society disc.

But my day with prize contests was not over because during
the year 1950-51, while I had my second Guggenheim Fellowship,

[ 167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I wrote a work, my “String Quartet,” of what seemed to me such
advanced character that as a last resort, I decided to let it try its
face in a European contest. In it I had put all the unusual ideas
I had been having for a number of years which did not fit into
other works. After about a year, I produced forty minutes of
string quartet music that was immediately called the hardest piece
for the combination ever written — which I could not believe
since I had spent so many hours trying to put across my ideas as
simply as I could. One excellent string quartet ensemble was in-
vited to the house for dinner and then presented with the music.

They could hardly get through the first page (or any other) after

a number of hours of struggle. I began to have severe doubts but

sent scores around, one to the Walden Quartet in Illinois and an-

other to an international prize contest for string quartets given by
the City of Liége in Belgium. To my utter surprise, the Walden
Quartet learned the work and it won the Liége Prize in September,
1953. The story of the Liége Prize has delighted me all this
winter. Of the 150 scores submitted, eighteen were chosen to be
played, under pseudonyms of course, and recorded on tape so that
the judges would know the works very thoroughly. My work
was submitted under the pseudonym of “Chronometros,” since it
dealt with unusual divisions of musical time; and after winning, I
received the following letter from a young American musicologist
living in Liége at the time:

“] don’t know if Feldbusch, the ’cellist of the Li¢ge Quartet,
has written you, but if not, here’s his story which may please you.
He and Koch, the leader, detested the quartet all through rehear-
sals and the first performance. The eve of the final decision, the
judges listened to tape recordings and for the first time F and K
were able to listen, not play. They were overwhelmed, and F, a
big hulk of an extrovert, not at all given to romanticism, I assure
you, said he found himsclf on the verge of tears, and K also was
moved. Meeting an old friend the day of the final concert, F in-
sisted he come, deliberately telling him he must hear “Chrono-
metros,” a terrible work, nonsensical, no rhyme or reason. Now
the old friend was a coal miner, a guy who went down in the pits
at the age of fourteen and has done nothing else in his life, is now
forty-five, and goes once a year or so to the opera for Manon or
Carmen. He came to the concert and the next day looked up F,

[ 164 |

pager MS PEE
pa patented RARE eee EE

sae ctergane SEI AO
RR BE MIO ERED

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

threatened to bash his nose in, called him every dirty name in the
Walloon vocabulary, said F knew nothing about music and de-
served to hear nothing better than Manon or Carmen if he couldn’t
understand “Chronometros.” Says he: “This is the first time I
have felt in music that a man was talking to me like a man, the
guy who wrote that understands the fear I experience when I
get down into a new mine not sure whether or not it is going to
cave in on me; he’s got guts and muscle, and he digs in his music
like I dig in hard rock; he sweats like I do, he’s a worker like |
am; and you, Feldbusch, you’re nothing but a goddamned fool of
a musician if you can’t understand that.’ ”

My commissions included: “Pocahontas,” Ballet Caravan, 1939,
“The Minotaur,” Ballet Society, 1947; “Variations for Orchestra,”
Louisville Symphony, 1953; “Sonata for Two Pianos,” Kousse-
vitzky Foundation, 1953; “Second Symphony,” League of Com-
posers, 1952. My awards include: the Juilliard Publication Award,
1941; ACA-BMI Prize, 1942, 1943; Independent Music Publishers

Prize, 1944; Concours Internationale de Musique pour Quatuor a
Cordes-Liége, Belgium, 1953.

FRANK BURTCHAELL CARTER, JR.

HOME AppDRESS: 820 Boston Post Rd., Weston 93, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Coombs Motor Co., 66 Galen St., Watertown 72, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1908, Dedham, Mass. parents: Frank Burtchaell Carter, ’98,
Katherine Bailey.

PREPARED AT: Noble & Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.
OccuPATION: Treasurer, Coombs Motor Company.

AFTER leaving college during the depression, I worked at various
jobs until 1936, when I started with the Coombs Motor Company
of Watertown as a salesman selling Fords, which in those days
could be bought for $600. I became treasurer of the company in
1940, and have had all the headaches of the business ever since.

We supplemented our business with a machine shop for much
of this time and J operated one of the turret lathes during the
second World War. My partner and I started this business with
no knowledge of machining, and with his mechanical ability we
developed a useful and successful machine shop.

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

IT bought my home in Weston in 1940 and have lived here with
my father and mother ever since. My hobbies have always been
chickens, pigeons, and other types of livestock. I have bred and
hunted English basset hounds for thirty years and have judged
them at various shows. I am secretary of the New England Fan-
tail Pigeon Club and have judged and shown Fantails all over this
country and Canada. At present, 1 keep about two hundred. |
also have a small flock of Dorset sheep and about twenty-five
colonies of bees which I rent for pollination of the orchards in

southern New Hampshire. I keep most of the bees on an old
farm in New Boston, New Hampshire, which I bought in 19409.

I have always been an Episcopalian and am a regular com-
municant at the Cowley Fathers Monastery on Memorial Drive
in Cambridge. I have never been married, but I am living in hope
that it may not be as late as I think.

JOHN KELLEY CARTER

HOME ADDRESS: 355 Gilbert Ave., Eau Claire, Wis.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 316 S. Barstow St., Eau Claire, Wis.

BoRN: Jan. 31, 1909, Eau Claire, Wis. parents: Archibald Burton Carter,
Angie B. Kelley.

PREPARED AT: Eau Claire High School, Eau Claire, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGRFES: $.B. magna cum laude, 1930; LLB.
1933.

maraieD: Hilda Richardson, July 2, 1937, Portland, Maine. CHILDREN: Wil-

liam Swift, May 10, 1943; Alden Richardson, April 7, 19475 Cynthia
Anne, Sept. 3, 1949.

occupation: Lawyer; real estate management.
Memper or: Harvard Club of Boston; Masonic Lodges; local and state Bar
Associations,

FOR some years following graduation from Harvard College, |
remained close to the Harvard community, first as a student at
Harvard Law School, from which I obtained my degree in 1933.
There were a number of college classmates in my Law School
class, some of whom survived to the point of graduation, A num-
ber of us took up the practice of law in Boston, and maintained
a close association for some years, with frequent get-togethers at
the Harvard Club, on football weckends, and socially, The years
1933 to 1938 1 spent with a small law firm in Boston and then

{170 ]

REIN fH RTE TS.

nesihe oa a macen SOFA

penne vie neenTt coaprnminenpe menace 9

ea egT NH ETRE TS

4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

formed a partnership for the practice of law with Robert W.
Barrett, ’30, with offices at 53 State Street. We continued this
association for slightly over three years, until such time as our
respective family businesses made it appear wise to discontinue
the office and remove ourselves to our respective places of origin.

In 1937 I was married, and my wife and I lived from then until’
1941 1n sight of Memorial Hall clock and Harvard Yard, main-
taining a keen interest in Harvard and its development during
those years. A trip to Europe in the summer of 1937, where we
joined the George Edsons for some memorable weeks in London
and Paris, stimulated our interest in travel, and one of our fondest
dreams is to return to Europe and the Mediterranean for a year’s
sojourn with the family we have acquired.

In 1941 we moved to Eau Claire, Wisconsin, which may be de-
scribed as an attractive small midwestern city on the Chicago &
Northwestern line between Chicago and Minneapolis. Here I
maintain a law office and am engaged in the management of
commercial real estate. I have found myself connected with the
management of a number of local corporations, either represent-
ing my Own interests or those of clients, and the variety of prob-
lems presented is always interesting. My wife and I enjoy fre-
quent trips to Chicago and Minneapolis, and so we are able to
refresh our point of view with the advantages the big cities have
to offer. |

Fau Claire seems to us to be a good place in which to raise our
family, which consists of Bill, eleven years old, Alden, seven, and
Cynthia, five. The older boy’s activities have involved me in ad-
ministrative work with the Boy Scouts, and the younger one
can’t wait to enter the Cub Scout phase. I find they also involve
me in building everything from model railroad locomotives to
motor cruisers (model also). This year we invested in power
tools, which may lead to almost anything. The interests of the
older boy have led us into reading together Gods, Graves and
Scholars, The Sea Around Us, and tales of mountain climbing and
Arctic exploration; while the younger one has persuaded me to
read aloud many pages of American history dealing with Kit
Carson, Indian lore, and the Battle of Gettysburg. The daughter
is not quite so demanding of her father’s time as yet, though it
looks as if she would be beating him at checkers before long.

[171 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

So far we remain one of those “peculiar” families which do not
have a TV set, and the pressure has not been too tough to date,
However, we do have a 2000-volume library and a record collec-

uon that includes such varied items as “The Teddy Bear’s Picnic”
and the latest by Benjamin Britten.

In the summer the family interest centers in our log cabin on
the Flambeau River, where the children are gradually being intro-
duced to the pleasures of swimming, canoe trips, fishing, and ex-
ploring the woods. The Bob Barretts have visited us twice on
the Flambeau in the past few years. Recently my interest in con-
servation has been rewarded by seeing this area incorporated in
the Flambeau State Forest, where extensive replanting of pine is
going on to replace the forest growth logged off many years
ago. In addition, we have taken the entire family on two mem-
orable motor trips to Maine by way of Ottawa, Montreal, Quebec,
and the Gaspé, on both occasions visiting the George Edsons on
our return journey through New Hampshire.

My politics have, on the whole, been Republican, but not with-
out many serious questions along the way. This does not include
Support of the junior senator from Wisconsin in any respect.
As I grow older, | become more convinced that the less one be-
lieves of what is said in connection with political matters, the
more nearly one approaches the truth.

I look back upon my many years in Cambridge as one of the
most satisfying periods of my life and regret that my association
with the College, my Class, and classmates has not been closer in
more recent years. Perhaps in another ten to fifteen years there

may be sons in Harvard and the association will again be more
intimate.

JOHN JAMES CARVER

HOME AbpRESS: 155 Lovell Rd., Watertown, Mass,
OFFICE appress: 185 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

BORN; Sept. 28, 1906, Boston, Mass, parents: Amos Bushby Carver, Margaret
Ann Quigley. 6

puepaneD aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Excter, N. H,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930, DEGREE: 8.B., 1930,

[172]

ne reg oa pee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Mary Janet MacGillivray, June 16, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. cuit-
DREN: Janet, Feb. 25, 1939; John Dudley, April 29, 1941; Barry Michael,
Aug. 16, 1943; Kerry Ann, Jan. 30, 1947; Irene, July 4, 1948; Kathleen,
Oct. 9, 1951; Mary Denise, May 12, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Executive assistant, New England Telephone & Telegraph
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, City Council, 1937-38, School Committee, 1938-42,
Cambridge, Mass.; trustee, Cambridge City Hospital, 1932-43; chairman,
Red Cross, 1944, Tuberculosis Health Association, 1945, Community
Fund, 1943, Cambridge, Mass,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Cambridge Lodge of Elks; Gridiron
Club of Boston; Catholic Alumni Sodality.

pusLications: “The Community Side of Public Relations Problems.”

IN the 1946 Report, I had three reasons for being late in submit-
ting my autobiography — namely, two boys and a girl. In 1950
I had five reasons for being tardy —three girls and two boys.
Now comes 1955 and I have seven excuses for late reporting —
five girls and two boys. Too bad I didn’t get married sooner! I
might have challenged Tommy Mayers for the honor of having
the most children in the Class of 1930,

I entered the employ of the New England Telephone & Tele-
graph Company on July 7, 1930, intending to work a year or two
to get enough money to go to Harvard Law School. When two
years had elapsed, I had become a manager and prospects looked
so promising in the utility field that I abandoned my ambition
to go to Harvard Law School, although I did study law for two
years, evenings, at Boston College Law School. These studies were
interrupted by frequent transfers which took me to twelve dif-
ferent locations ranging from Providence, Rhode Island, to Port-
land, Maine.

Finally, I was transferred to Boston from Maine, in 1948, as
public relations supervisor, and in 1949 I became commercial
assistant. Now I am executive assistant, which is a fancy title but
leaves me far short of the promising future which I envisioned in
1932. However, the job has its compensations, since I am per-
forming work which I enjoy immensely. Aside from handling
negotiations for state regulatory commissions, I am a sort of
trouble shooter for the officers of the company. These activities
enable me to become familiar with all phases of our business, and
each day brings something new and challenging. So much for
business. Now to politics!

[173]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

For twelve years I was intimately identified with politics in
Canbndge, my nanve city. I served terms on the Cambridge
Civ Council and on the Cambridge School Committee. While I
leave an appraisal of my accomplishments j in this field to others,
I do claim the distinction of never having lost an election, chiefly
because I knew when it was time to retire, and this I did when
family and business duties left no time for politics. I do, how-
ever, maintain a keen interest in political affairs and I remain a
Democrat despite the pleas of some of my classmates to change
my views.

Mv athletic pursuits came to a peremptory halt in 1937 when I
found difficulty in circling the bases in less than forty seconds.
In that vear I ‘also found 2 a wife—a darn good one, too — and
was elected to the City Council. Since then, except for brief
skirmishes with golf and softball, I have had little exercise except
walking and now and then throwing a few passes to my boys,
who are now thirteen and eleven. Life with me is one round of
Parent Teacher's Meetings, Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, Cub Scouts,
and Brownie activities; and it looks as though this will continue
for many years more, since my children are aged fifteen, thirteen,
eleven, seven, six, three, and eight months. This sort of a life 1s
to my liking and I wouldn’t change a bit of it. Who could ask

for more: Our Heavenly Father has certainly been good to me.

GEORGE TROWBRIDGE CARY

HOME appress: Lines Road, Woodbridge, Conn.
oFrFice aporess: Concord Burner Co., 301 Lincoln St., Marlboro, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 31, 1907, Westhampton, N. Y. parents William Harris Cary,
’94, Katharine Beers Thomas.

prepanen at: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

MakniED: Pauline Powell, June 6, 1931, Cambridge, Mass, (divorced 1937);
Martha Gertrude Hotton, Oct. 10, 1940, Richmond, Va. CHILDREN:

Katharine Thomas, March 8, 1946, Richard Trowbridge, April 13,
1948.

Harvarp BroTuERs: William Harris Cary, Jr. 21; Francis Frothingham Cary,
s o
34

occupation: Manufacturer, manufacturer's representative

[174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: New England Gas Association; Liquified Petroleum Gas Asso-
ciation; Harvard Clubs of New York City and Connecticut, United
States Naval Reserve. ,

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to trade journals.

AFTER selling on the road for fourteen years, about 180 days a
year, I am just now beginning to realize that it would be a wel-
come change to become a member of a local community and to
participate in some town activities. During the war, which split
the fourteen years, I didn’t travel much, but right after it 1 was
back behind the wheel. So I had hoped to have something differ-
ent to write, but having received the entire file of postcards from
John Cross, I must go to press.

During the war I collected two and a half stripes in adminis-
trative work at Norfolk Naval Shipyard. In 1953 I redesigned a
small gas burner used in converting appliances and obtained list-
ing by American Gas Association Laboratories. In 1954 some im-
provements required that it go through again.

My chief hobbies are the family, sailing small boats, taking
movies, and following Harvard football, The latter becomes an
obsession and by the Yale game, I can recite statistics on both
lineups three deep much better than I could reel off something
which might bring in a buck. Regarding sailing, I designed and
built a small Catamaran last summer, but did not have time to
correct faults developed in its first trials.

We won’t miss June festivities if it can be helped.

SAMUEL CAUMAN

LAST KNOWN ApRESS: 27 Shepard St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: June 29, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Myer Cauman, Anna Waldstein.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(32); A.M., 1938.

MARRIED: Leigh Davis Steinhardt, Oct. 13, 1940, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Thomas Edward, Dec. 1, 1944; John Henry, June 12, 1948.

CAUMAN has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1954.

[175]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

FENNER ALBERT CHIACE, JR.

Howe anoress: 6 Leland Cr, Chevy Chase 15, Md.
orrice anoress: U.S. National Museum, Washington 25, D. C.

poax: Oct. 5, 1908 Fall River, Mass. parents: Fenner Albert Chace, ‘on,
Marv Dean Buffington.

peepirsD at: B.\.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.
VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930, A.M, 19315 PH.D. 1934.

marrigD: Janice Dexter Grinnell, Sept. 1, 1934, Tiverton, R. I. cup: Linda
Dee, Dec. 14, 1944.

occupation: Curator, Division of Marine Invertebrates, U. S. National
Museum, Smithsonian Institution.

oFFices HELD: Member board of directors, Bourne Mills, Fall River, since
1952.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Amer-
ican Society of Limnology and Oceanography; Bermula Biological
Station for Research, Inc.; Biological Society of Washington; National

Audubon Society; Society of Sigma Xi; Society of Systematic Zoology,
Washington Academy of Sciences.

PUBLICATIONS: Various papers on the systematics of decapod crustaceans.

LIKE most of those who spend their working hours in a natural
history museum, I unknowingly began training for my job long
before my first class in Sever. Unlike most boys who go through
the pockets-full-of-earthworms stage, the butterfly collecting pe-
riod, and sometimes the taxidermy year, only to turn finally toa
more financially rewarding profession, I found it impossible to
become fully interested in any other life work.

Shortly before graduating from Harvard, I sought the advice
of Tom Barbour, who was then director of the Museum of Com-
parative Zoology, and of H. B. Bigelow, who was soon to become
the first director of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
Somewhat to my disappointment T. B. informed me that ornt-
thologists, mammalogists, and entomologists were drugs on the
market and suggested that I shift my attention to the crustacea, a
group that was completely unknown to me. H. B. B. contributed
the additional distasteful advice that there was little opportunity
today for a position in any major museum without the Ph.D.
“union card.” Thanks to the patient counsel of my graduate ad-
viser, HLL, Clark, and to an over-sympathetic examining com-
mittee, who unquestionably weighed my consistently wrong an-
swers azainst the realization that Dr, Clark had not had another

[176]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

student during his preceding twenty-five years at Harvard, I not
only managed to acquire the degree but made the discovery that
crabs, lobsters, and shrimps are far more fascinating than birds
and butterflies.

As soon as my formal academic studies were finished in 1934,
I lost little time in marrying the girl who used to pass my window
in Matthews on her way from the Lesley School to practice teach-
ing assignments. She was just the extrovert to keep me out of the
deepest parts of my private little rut. Now we happily share the
rut. In 1945 we emerged from it long enough to adopt Linda, an
extrovert who will probably never be otherwise. That was the
most successful excursion of our lives. The graft has healed well
and gives evidence of developing into one of the strongest and
most beautiful branches of our family tree.

A couple of years after Pearl Harbor I finally found a spot in
an Air Corps oceanographic unit in the Pentagon where I might
contribute a tiny bit to the war effort. After indoctrination at
Miami Beach’s Roney Plaza (maid service and all for a dollar a
day), I returned to Washington to find my unit dissolved. After
a short period of indecision I was assigned to a similar outfit in
the Navy Hydrographic Office, as the only Army officer regu-
larly detailed there. No one had a more comfortable service as-
signment. No duty watches or other routine annoyances, and
“Captain Chace” had a much more profound effect on a Navy
telephone extension than it did on an Army line. Three years
were devoted to plotting the ocean currents of the western Pacific
and to preparing survival literature and handkerchief charts for
aviators who might be forced to ditch in the open sea. Luckily
I was permanently grounded and never had to sample my own
medicine.

After my discharge I fully intended to return to Cambridge,
but Opportunity to join the Smithsonian staff was too attractive,
particularly at a time when the future of the M.C.Z., following
Tom Barbour’s death, was temporarily uncertain. There was no
assurance that anyone else could perform the minor miracles with
the budget and his own pocketbook the way T. B. did in order
to pay even a third of the staff there. During the past eight years
I have made the most of the little administrative experience gained
during the war; I have learned to accept the routine paper shuf-

[177]

|
|
stg 2 ae NS ORR LARA tr ie aN OTN een inisneh ante teitils: UntaliaMaitiid, .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

fling of a government job as a part of the price one has to pay for
access to the finest collections in America and for personal con-
tacts with professional colleagues from all parts of the world who
at one time or another spend a few hours or a few days in Wash-
ington.

‘Maintaining a home in Maryland can become a full-time hobby.
There never seem to be enough weekends, holidays, and daylight-
saving evenings to keep yesterday’s sapling from becoming to-
day’s unw anted shade tree and to add those needed coats of
fresh paint to the kitchen and guest room. At least once a year the
tennis racket is removed from its case in the hall closet so that
I can fool myself into believing that I can still hold my own with
my contemporaries and can even give a few of the younger gen-
eration a workout; it may be poison for the body but it is wonder-
ful medicine for the spirit.

Although I am not locally affiliated with any political party
(the Hatch Act can sometimes be used as a feeble excuse for not
participating more actively), Republican philosophy usually re-
flects my concept of what is good for America,

GEORGE ATHERTON CHAFFEE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Warwick, Mass.

BoRN: June 15, 1909, Medford, Mass. parents: Wilbur George Chaffee,
Annabel Susan Atherton.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Lau School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: AB., 1930; A.M., 1032.

MagrieD: Frances Lenora Eastman, Nov. 10, 1934, Portsmouth, N. H. cuHit-
DREN: George Atherton, Jr. May 27, 1938; Susan Ann Caldwell, April
20, 1941 (died Feb. 18, 1943); Rufus Jackson, Sept. 25, 1943.

occuPATION: Free-lance editor.

OFFices HELD: Instructor in English, Northeastern University, 1950; assistant
in English, Harvard University, 1949; assistant professor, Curry College,
1444-50; lieutenant, communications duty, U. §. Naval Reserve, 1943-46.

[178 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH WILLIAM CHAMBERLAIN

HOME ADDRESS: 84 Prescott St., Cambridge, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Mass. Dept. Public Welfare, 600 Washington St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1906, Boston, Mass. ParENTs: William Joseph Chamberlain,
Nora Quealey.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marrigD: Ethel Alice Mattson, April 1, 1932. CHILDREN: Patricia Ann, 1933

(died 1934); Pamela Ruth, 1948.

occupation: Director of research, Massachusetts Department of Public
Welfare.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Boston Chapter, American Association of Social
Workers, 1953-55, Boston Chapter, Social Work Research Group, 1951-
53, Boston Committee, Inter-Association Council, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: National Committee on Publications, A.A.S.W., 1953-55; Amer-
ican Public Welfare Association; various committees with United Com-
munity Services, Boston; Massachusetts Conference of Social Work;
Longfellow School P.T.A.; church, etc.

WHAT I’ve had is not a “career,” but I guess it is a “life.” In
college I thought I was getting knowledge. I soon found that
what I got was an index to knowledge and using it has been my
life.

In 1930 I wanted to be an investment counsellor, what I got
was statistician in a manufacturing concern. I went to Graduate
School of Business Administration to learn to do better work.
Came the depths of the depression, family responsibility, and
whittled income.

By 1936 the first job that opened I took: statistician in social
work. I went to graduate schools of social work to learn to do
better work. Came the war and drums beating and blood racing.
None of the services could find a commission for the secretary
of the Budget Committee of the Greater Boston Community Fund,
so I said, “The heck with it,” and was promptly drafted.

In early 1945 I wanted to get home to work, so I was trans-
ferred to UNRRA and ran camps in the British Zone, keeping me
away until the end of 1946.

Back home I was certain the State Department or the United
Nations needed me to do international welfare work. They didn’t
say, “No”; they didn’t say, “Yes.” So to buy the baby shoes, |

[179]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

took a job with the Massachusetts Department of Public Welfare
and here I am.

That's how I've earned my way,

Reflect mvself and my points of view? Well, I have seized
every opportunity I've recognized, the most successful in con-
tentment being mv wife and family. I have lived each job and
hobby I've had. Aggressive ambition gave way to adjustment to
whatever befell. In the struggle of convictions, even if they are —
unhappily ly — emotional or irrational, I advocate practical com-
promise. Hypocrisy, cy nicism, and skepticism irritate me; intel-
lectual dishonesty saddens me, even in myself. I like to like people
and I guess I like myself.

Looking forw ard, I shall contribute profoundly to my field,
I shall catch up on printing my films, I shall try out my new spin-
ning ourfit, I shall finish Toynbee, and I shall glory in my daugh-
ter, “confounding with her genius the Harvard Annex of 1968.

HARMON PAINE CHAMBERLIN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS; Southport, Maine.

BORN: June 4, 1908, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Harmon Chamberlin,
"95, Armida Moja Michetti.

PREPARED aT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929, DEGREE: a.B. (Univ. of North Carolina), 1932.

markieD: Emily Ann Mattus, Nov. 2, 1936, Nantucket, Mass. (divorced
1943); Katharine Greeley Forbes, June 22, 1945, Boothbay Harbor,
Maine. cuitpreN: Margaret Ann, Nov. 8, 1939; Patty Brown Coletti
(stepchild); Jonathan Brown, 4th (stepchild); Shirley Brown Haselton
(stepchild); Norman Brown (stepchild); Joan Forbes (stepchild).
GRANDCHILDREN: Six,

OCCUPATION: Owner, operator, seasonal shopping center and hotel.

MEMBER or: Beta Theta Pi; St. Petersburg Yacht Club; Boothbay Harbor
Yacht Club; Southport Yacht Club; Lakewood Country Club at St.
Petersburg, Rod and Gun Club, St. Petersburg, Sports Car Club of
America, Army and Navy Club, St. Petersburg, State of Maine Hotel

Association.
DIRECTLY on leaving Harvard, I went to work for an invest-
ment brokerage house in Boston. I remained there for about a
year and a half. At that time the depression was getting bad and
I seemed to be getting nowhere. I decided to return to college

[ 180 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and get a degree, which I did at the University of North Carolina.
When I graduated I went to the Harvard School of Business
Administration for one year. At the end of that time I became
interested in the possibilities of renting rooms at a summer resort,
which within a year started me in the hotel business on a small
scale. I had my own business in the summer, and during the
winter would take any kind of hotel job I could get, in order
to learn the buiness.

March, 1942, brought an end to the hotel business for four
years. I joined the U.S. Navy as a lieutenant (jg). After five
months of training, during which time we formulated an attack
doctrine for escort vessels and destroyers to use against sub-
marines, I was transferred to Eastern Sea Frontier and was sent
to Little Creek to set up a training unit, Some months later I was
sent to East Boston for the same purpose. I remained in East
Boston for about six months and was then sent to Oran to take
charge of a new training unit there. After six months in Oran,
I returned to New York and then was assigned to the Port Direc-
tors Office in Boston, where I was executive officer in charge of
personnel and materiel for about a year and three months.

My orders to inactive duty became effective in November, 1945.
At about that time we were able to purchase an old hotel which
we rebuilt into the shopping center and hotel. It was opened in
June of 1946 and has been doing very nicely ever since. Our sea-
son lasts about four months, which leaves plenty of time for our
camp on Lake Nicotous in northern Maine; and still we are able
to spend the worst months of the year at our home in St. Peters-
burg.

FRANK McMINN CHAMBERS

HOME aDpREss: 59 Oxford Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: D. C. Heath & Co., 285 Columbus Ave., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 2, 1910, Tyler, Texas. PAreNTs: Benjamin Franklin Chambers,
Nettie McMinn.

PREPARED AT: Port Arthur High School, Port Arthur, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. sauna cum laude, 1930; A.Ma
1932; PH.D. 1935.

MarRieD: Alice Ann Kessler, Sept. 7, 1946, Evanston, II]. cHitpren: Ann
Franklin, April 4, 1948; John Borden, May 12, 1952; Lydia McMinn,
June 21, 1953.

[ 181 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

oocypaTion: Associate modern language editor,
sewtner oF: Modern Language Association of America; Mediaeval Academy

of Amenca, Phi Beta Kappa, American Association of Teachers of
French.

pusticaTions: Tbe Poems of dimeric de Peguilhan (with W. P. Shepard),
Northwestern University Press, 1950; articles: “Some Legends Con-
ceming Eleanor of Aquitaine.” Speculum XVI, 459, 1941; “Lucan and
the Anuquites de Rome,” PMLA LX, 937, 1945; “Langan chanton li
auzeil en primier,” Romance Philology Il, 83, 1948; “The Troubadours
and the Assassins,” .Modern Language Notes, April,. 1949; “Pascal's

Montaigne.” P.ILA LXV, 790, 1950; “Matfre Ermengaud and Pro-
vencal MS C,” Romance Philology V, 41, 1951; “Imitation of Form in

the Old Provengal Lyric,” Romance Philology V1, 104, 1953.

THE first year after graduation I spent in Europe on a Sheldon
Travelling Fellowship, and I have never ceased to bless the gen-
erous wisdom which made these fellowships available. Frank
Wood and I rode on or with our bicycles from Paris to Vienna.
We ate cheese and drank wine; we spent days turning cranks
and pushing buttons in the Deutsches Museum in Munich; we
were becalmed at sunset on the Starnberger See and had to
be towed in; we saw the “Passion Play” at Oberammergau, we
thumbed Czech phrase-books and rode on the left-hand side of
the street in Prague; we visited art museums. Then, leaving Frank
in Vienna, I went back to Paris for the winter — an interminably
gray, drizzly, cold season that remains one of the bright spots in
my life. I lived in a seventh-floor hotel room, went to classes at
the Collége de France and the Ecole des Hautes Etudes, saw a
good deal of Melvin Mansur, caught occasional glimpses of other
classmates, and absorbed French and France like a very eager, if
somewhat immature, sponge. Then in the spring, off to Spain to
see the king deposed. 1 was late for that, but was consoled in my
disappointment by a bullfight, Toledo, and Majorca. Slowly
northward again: Holland, England, and finally the boat for home.
All that, and much more, I owe to Mr. Sheldon, plus $500 my
parents added to his ante. Many, many thanks!

The next four years I was back at Harvard, doing graduate
work in Romance languages, along with half-time tutoring. The
depression (and various other facts of life) passed over my head.
But I acquired a lot of information, deepened a few friendships,
made new ones, and developed a lasting fondness for Montaigne,

[ 182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Du Bellay, Pascal, and the Provengal troubadours. These played
a considerable part in my later life; but not right away.

The first consideration, once the Ph.D. was fairly in the bag,
was to find a job. Discovering to my surprise that Harvard itself
had not reserved a place for me, I offered my services to a select
list of outstanding universities. To a man, the accredited repre-
sentatives of these universities replied that,while my qualifications
were excellent, they were not contemplating any additions to their
staff in French. I lowered my sights to colleges of lesser stature;
and they, too, were sitting tight with the teachers they already
had, Then in June, 1935, the president of Colorado College (to
whom J had not written) summoned me to Boston for an inter-
view. A week or so later he offered me an instructorship at $1800
a year. I took it. —

Colorado Springs, the home of Colorado College, comes as
near as any town I know to being heaven on earth. The keen,
crisp, sunny, deep blue weather is lazy, but with an invigorating
snap. It keeps tugging at you to come out and ride horseback
through the foothills of Pikes Peak, to hike up some mountain
trail, to ski, to drive up Ute Pass with your convertible top down,
or just to strip and soak up the sunshine in some lonely spot. You
have boundless energy (or I did in those days), but it’s all directed
outdoors. So neither I nor my students worked very hard. I did
what I was paid to do, but little in the way of scholarly research.
It was only toward the end of my ten years at C. C. that my
academic conscience pricked me into publishing a couple of
articles.

During the war, the armed services found my eyes unsatisfac-
tory, though I had always managed to get along pretty well with
them. While the Navy’s BuPers was thinking over a waiver that
never came through, I worked as a civilian at the old Navy Build-
ing in Washington. My job was a hush-hush affair, but I was
spared the danger of spilling any beans by the fact that I never
found out much about it myself. After eight months of this, I
gave up, exposed myself to the draft once more, was rejected,
and went back to teaching at C. C. — this time on a twelve-month
basis with an assortment of bluejackets and marines in my classes,

In 1945 an offer came from Northwestern University — same
rank (assistant professor), a little more pay, and the prospect of

[ 183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

big-umiversity, big-hbrary, big-city life. I took it. I found the
clases not very diferent from the ones I had left, the facul
scattered and aloof, and the big city not to my liking. Never-
theless, [ did buckle down and write a number of “learned” articles
(on the troubadours, Pascal, Montaigne, etc.), plus one book,
a critical edition of a troubadour, which the Northwestern Uni-
versity Press published for me.

And it was there that I met my wife. Of course, she wasn’t my
wife at the ame, but a few months remedied that. She also was
teaching French at Northwestern, and a colleague once told me,
“We can learn a lot from Miss Kessler.” I have found that to be
true—to my great profit and pleasure. So we settled down,
bought a house, had a daughter, made a few friends, joined a
square-dance group, played the recorder with a very amateur
orchestra. Life seemed all mapped out and predictable.

But the map changed and the predictions were broken. In 1950
I accepted a job as associate modern language editor with D. C.
Heath & Company. Early in 1951 we moved t to Boston, where we
have been ever since. We have bought a house in a pleasant,
middle-class, rwenty-minutes-by-train suburb. We have added a
boy and a girl to the family, making a total of three wonderful
children. Ann, the oldest, is now in first grade; and to think that
some of you are grandfathers! “Children,” I used to repeat glibly,
“change 1 your life.” But it came as quite a shock to discover that
they really do. Once you get used to it, though, the new life is
far pleasanter than the old, and it’s only occasionally that we get
impatient as we look forward to “just one month” in France,
“just one week” to ourselves

My job is to read, accept or reject, edit, revise, and process
manuscripts so that the end results are textbooks which modern
language teachers will use in their classes. Apart from junkets to
a few meetings, I sit at a desk eight hours a day, five days a week.
Ir’s hard to accept that routine after the relative freedom of a
teaching job. I also find that I have less time and energy for re-
search. It’s true that there is no pressure on me to engage in this
activity, as there was while I was teaching; but I had grown fond
of it, and I miss it. Sull, I like my job, I like my associates, and
I kind of like being back in Boston.

So we are settled down to a quict, suburban life, raising vege-

[ 184]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tables, playing recorders with a group of friends, trying to raise
the children properly, spending a couple of weeks at the beach
by way of vacation, pretty well satisfied with our lot and happy.
Once again, life seems all mapped out and predictable.

JOHN AUGUSTUS CHANDLER

HOME ADDRESS: 31 W. 11th St., New York 11, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Telephone Co., 140 West St., New York 7, N. Y.

BORN: June 2, 1909, Mishawaka, Ind. parents: William Leason Chandler,
Eunice Scott.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1930.

occuPATION: Accounting methods supervisor.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers (associate member); Association
for Computing Machinery.

MY job history is quite simple. Since 1930 I have been in the
accounting department of the New York ‘Telephone Company,
mostly in staff jobs. For about the last five years I have been con-
nected with mechanization of billing for toll calls, using specialized
paper tape equipment and standard punched card equipment. In
the next few years I expect to work with computers and related
electronic data processing equipment.

Still being single, I have no family history to recount. Until
increasing laziness caught up with and passed me, I used to spend
vacations climbing in the White Mountains, an inexplicable but
pleasant activity. I also have designed some photographic and
radio equipment. Some of it I built, and some of that worked.

In 1942 “Uncle” drafted me on the third try (nearsighted).
After an interesting time repairing aircraft gun turrets (on the
ground), I spent June, July, and August, 1943, in Miami Beach
as a relatively elderly officer candidate. Wound up on paper-
work, as adjutant of the Third Aircraft Repair Unit (Floating).
This was one of six such units, installed on modified Liberty
ships to repair the more portable portions of planes. So as an Air
Corps man I spent about a year aboard ship in the Philippines.
More sea time than some Navy men. No action, though. In fact,
lying at anchor for a few months gets a little boring.

Have you noticed the neat little trap I have now got myself

[ 185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

into? Having unwisely covered last things first, I now am forced
to leave our hero lying at anchor, and bored, ten years ago, instead
of striding confidently into the future. Next time I do a biogra-
phy. [think chronological order might be worth trying — don’t
you:

+ JOHN GIRARD CHANDLER, I

BORN: Jan. 29, 1907, Afalden, Mass. PARENTS: Ernest Lyon Chandler, Emma
Mason.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MaRRiED: Marion Nottage, 1935, Medford, Mass. cuitp: Clark, Oct. 14, 1942.
DIED: June 27, 1944, Boston, Mass.

wwow: Mrs. John G. Chandler, 2d, 74 Lawson Rd., Winchester, Mass.

AFTER graduation, Chandler was associated with Jackson and
Curtis, brokers, until 1932. He was then in the real estate business
and was a salesman with Underwood Elliott Fisher Company.
In 1934 he entered the statistical department of the Federal Re-
serve Bank of Boston. The following year he became a partner
in the Durgin-Park concern, and remained in active control of the
business until his enlistment. His grandfather was the founder of
the Durgin-Park Restaurant in Boston. In 1943 he joined the Coast
Guard and was placed in charge of the mess for the Boston Dis-
trict personnel. He was later assigned to the transport ship
Wakefield, and after making several crossings, died as the result of
a fall on the ship. His wife and son survived him.

CHARLES GREENOUGH CHASE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 High St., Wiscasset, Maine.

BORN: June 3, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Walter Greenough Chase, ’82,
M.p., 00, Fannie Scott Hubbard,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).

Makait: Betty Lewis Carrington, April 3, 1948, Richmond, Va. (died
Nov. 3, 1949). cHtip: Carter Carrington, Jan. 29, 1949 (died Novy.

1
1949).

[ 186 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Sculptor of birds carved in wood.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in mathematics, St. Paul’s School, 1932~34, mathe-
matician for W. Starling Burgess, 1935-36; leading man in charge of
testing hull machinery, Bath Iron Works, 1939-41; treasurer, Brunswick
Flying Service, 1947-52.

MEMBER OF: Wiscasset Fire Society; Quiet Birdmen; Civil Air Patrol, Har-
vard Club of Boston, 1931-36.

PUBLICATIONS: Exhibitions at American Museum of Natural History, New
York; Farnsworth Museum, Rockland, Maine; Mint Museum, Charlotte,
N. C.; Art Alliance, Philadelphia; Currier Gallery of Art, Manchester,
N. H.; Audubon House, Boston; Berkshire Museum, Pittsfield, Mass.;
Detering Galleries, Houston, Texas; Everhart Museum, Scranton, Pa.;
DeCordova and Dana Museum, Lincoln, Mass.; Vose Galleries, Boston;
Detroit Institute of Arts; Canton Art Institute, Ohio.

AFTER a year at Harvard Law School, a summer in Labrador on
a MacMillan Expedition, a winter in a brokerage house in Boston,
and two years teaching mathematics at St. Paul’s School in Con-
cord, New Hampshire, I took up residence at the family home in
Wiscasset, Maine. Having always loved an outdoor life, it was
natural to settle here in the habitat of my maternal ancestors.

At this time, the middle thirties, I was able to get a job com-
mensurate with my education (A.B. in math) doing engineering
calculations for the ship designer, W. Starling Burgess, This led
to employment with the shipbuilding firm, the Bath Iron Works,
where I started as a shipfitter’s helper on the last America’s Cup
Defender, Ranger. From 1937-41 I worked in various capacities
as a shipfitter, designer of ventilating equipment for welders, a stu-
dent of arc welding, and leading man in charge of testing hull
machinery on destroyers.

At the start of the war, training in mathematics, teaching ex-
perience, and familiarity with destroyer construction were able
to get me a commission in the Navy. The job there was teaching
anti-submarine warfare and sonar at Guantanamo Bay, Casa
Blanca, Palermo, and Midway Island.

After the war, while living in Maine and spending my G.I. Bill
of Rights “Vocational and Rehabilitation” money on flying
courses, I bought into the Brunswick Flying Service, operating an
airport on the former Brunswick Naval Air Station. I took an
active part as treasurer in this organization from 1947 to 1952.

In April, 1948, I married Betty Lewis Carrington of Richmond,
Virginia, and we had a son, Carter Carrington, in January, 1949.

[ 187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

On November 1 of that vear they were in the airline accident at
the Washington Airport.

Twenty-two years ago, while teaching mathematics at St. Paul's,
a bov — Bill Vaughn — showed me a little model of a duck he'd
carved in wood. Not to be outdone, I carved a model of a stuffed
partridge I had, in pine. This was the first of the 176 I’ve done
in the last twenty-two years, During the thirties, bird carving
became a hobby with me. A few were sold and Bob Canfield
with whom I used to hunt every fall, became my most encourag-
ing customer. His family still own all my early efforts.

However, it took a sensitive and discerning wife to understand
and to make me understand that sculpture was my job in life —
not operating a flying business in an area where private flying is
non-existent six months of the year. Coincidently, in the spring
of 1949 a neighbor of mine showed photos of the birds to the
director of special exhibits at the American Museum of Natural
History in New York. An exhibition was scheduled for Decem-
ber, 1949. The accident occurred while Betty was en route to
arrange the show. Friends then took over and planned the exhibit.
Since then, exhibitions in Philadelphia, Manchester, Boston, Dallas,
Houston, Scranton, and Richmond have convinced me that my

goal in life is to produce in sculpture what was produced in paint-
ing by Audubon. |

ISAIAH CHASE

HOME ADDRESS: 336 High St. Westwood, Mass.
orrice aporEss: Westwood High School, Westwood, Mass.

BorN: June 17, 1907, Harwich, Mass. parents: Christopher Columbus Chase,
Kate Mayo Baker.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; DIPL. (Univ. of Bordeaux),
1931; AM. (Harvard Univ.), 1933; ca.c.s. (Boston Univ.), 1952.

MarkigD: Priscilla McIntosh, Dec. 28, 1935, West Roxbury, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Principal, Westwood High School.

orFices HELD: Master, Bethany Lodge, AF. & A.M., 1946-47.

MEMeER oF: Constellation Lodge, Bethany Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; American
Legion,

I SPENT the year following graduation as a student at the Uni-

[ 188 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

versity of Bordeaux in France and returned to Harvard to work
for the A.M. degree the following year. By that time I had made
up my mind that teaching in the public schools was the career
which needed whatever talents I possessed, and that I would de-
vote my services to it even though my chances of gaining much
worldly wealth were practically nil. I believed then that as long
as I kept my wants within my income, I could find happiness.

By 1935 I had persuaded a wonderful girl to share my lot in
life, and we were married during my Christmas vacation. Our life
together went along uneventfully until World War II. Then I -
became restless as I saw so many of the young fellows who had
been my students getting into uniform and going off to the wars.
I felt a little better when I joined the Naval Reserve and became
a gunnery instructor with the rank of Chief. It was my fate to
spend three years in the service without leaving the country.

When the military job was done, several things combined to
modify my civilian job, Inflationary prices made it pretty near
impossible to keep wants within income, but I still had faith in
public school work and enjoyed it. As soon as the opportunity
presented itself, I took a position as high school principal; have
been working at that job for several years, and enjoy it. The
rewards are not measured in dollars, but in the satisfactions I get
from helping young people find themselves in the chaos of mod-
ern life. Sometimes a potential delinquent threatens the even tenor
of my way, but a proper solution of any individual problem is
reward enough when it comes.

I believe that liberal arts colleges can generally do a better
job in steering properly qualified young men into the teaching
profession. There are plenty of goals to strive for in that field.
The happiness of being a vital part of the community is just one
of them. I further believe that the colleges may be stimulated
into that kind of guidance as soon as the great American public
realizes the need of making the pecuniary rewards of the teaching
profession such that average wants can be kept within the income.

As a principal I can meet my material needs, and the work is
bringing satisfaction and happiness in a sense of accomplishment.
What else matters?

[ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

RALPH ADAMS CHEEVER

HONE ApeRgss: Taunton Avenue, Norton, Mass.
orFice aporess: Wood Lumber Co., Framingham, Mass.

Bors: April 14, 1906, Walpole, Mass. parents: William Cheever, Maude
Buckman.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; LL.B. 1933.

margiep: Helena Syndonia Crosman, April 24, 1932, Providence, R. ],
cuup: Malcolm Hubert, Oct. 23, 1933.

oocpaTion: Retail lumber.

MEMBER OF: Tonic Lodge, A. F. & A. M.; Lodge No. 150 B. P. O. Elks,
Taunton, Mass.

. THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

WESTCOTE HERRESHOFF CHESEBROUGH

HOME aDpRESS: RFD. Succotash Road, South Kingston, R. I.

OFFIcE ApoRESS: Tillinghast, Collins & Tanner, 15 Westminster St., Provi-
dence, R. I.

BorN: March 16, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Albert Stanton Chesebrough,
Emma Russell Bullock.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. 1933.

MARRIED: Nancy Wall Read, June 8, 1940, Providence, R. I. CHILDREN:
Stephen W., Feb. 7, 1941; Frederic R., Nov. 25, 1942; Constance, Dec. 26,
1945; Ebenezer W., May 1, 1947; John Brown W., 1950.

occupation: Lawyer, partner, Tillinghast, Collins & Tanner.

OFFICES HELD: Director, A. T. Wall Company, Providence, R. I.,, since 1051,
Everett Corporation, New York, 1954-55, Newall Manufacturing Com-
pany, Chicago, since 1952; trustee, treasurer, Providence Lying-in Hos-
pital, since 1948; trustee, Rhode Island School of Design, since 1950,
Moses Brown School, 1953-55; president, Rhode Island Historical So-
ciety, 1951-52, member executive committee, Rhode Island Bar Asso-
ciation, 1938-49, chairman, other bar association Committees.

MEMBER OF: Agawam Hunt; Hope Club; Providence Art Club; Turks Head
Club; Point Judich Yache Club.

HAVING just endured two hurricanes in a flimsy summer house
with our whole family pressing their respective noses against the
weaving “picture windows,” it is hard to remember anything as
far back as 1930 or even in the 1940's; but if my memory serves
me, I, like many of our Class, have been through other hurricanes,
a war, a depression, an inflation, worked, married, had children,

[ 190 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

had relatives and friends die, got along somehow and also managed
to have quite a lot of fun.

During the 1930’s I went to Law School, became a lawyer, came
to Providence as a law clerk with the firm I am still with, stayed
a bachelor, played games like tennis, squash, and golf, skied,
sailed, drove cars fast, and went to parties.

Around 1940 I built myself a house and then found a bride, and
had hardly begun to work into new routines than the war inter-
rupted things by taking me away for almost three years with
the Air Force to England, as a wholly chairborne administrative
officer. After the war I went back to the same firm but, as my
former seniors die or work less, there always seems to be more to
do in both volume and responsibility. Meanwhile, stairs get
steeper, drinks get weaker and less fun, and strange girls look less
entrancing.

In the words of a recent song, “Little things mean a lot,” and
most of my recollections of the years since our graduation are of
little things which mean a lot to me maybe, but can’t mean much
to anyone else; sometimes they are petty annoyances, but more
often are various little enjoyments. Our five little things (Le.,
children) also mean a lot, including a lot of work keeping them
going, and they are also mean to each other a lot in passing argu-
ments. Maybe we are over the hump now with our little things
(meaning children), as they have begun to go away to camp and
boarding school and our house— which we have had to keep
adding to now from time to time — has an empty bedroom or two.

I often wonder why we work so vigorously at the daily routine
with all its repeated irritations, but everyone seems to go on;
maybe in spite of the irritations it is enough fun. It certainly has
been for me.

FREDERICK ROBBINS CHILDS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1220 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1908, New York, N. Y. Parents: Frederick Robbins Childs,
’oo, Constance Crimmins.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

[ror]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

searnipp: Sandra Hitchcock, May 23, 1932, Cleveland, Ohio. cHitpren:

Nicholas Hitchcock, April 7, 1934; Danicl, Aug. 20, 1935; Alexander,
June & 1930; Jeffrey, 1946.

warvarD sos: Nicholas Hitchcock Childs, *56.
OCCUPATION: Arust.

I WORKED for a vear after college as a reporter on the New
York World, then entered Art School, studying in the United
States and Europe. I met my wife while we were both studying
painting in Paris. I have done illustrating for Town & Country
and other magazines.

During the war I was with the American Field Service in Africa,
then was a private in the U.S. Infantry, serving in France and
Germany. Since the war, I have had two one-man shows at the
Passepoit Gallery in New York and hope, in a year or two, to
have enough material for a really big show.

I'm interested in interracial work and am an editor of the

Catholic Interracial Review, where Father John LaFarge is the
guiding spirit.

ROBERT KERR CHISHOLM

HOME AppRESS: 61 Remer Ave., Pleasantville, N. Y.
orrice appress: Duncan & Chisholm, Harwood Bldg., Scarsdale, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 17, 1906, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: George Herbert Chisholm,
Ethel Hollister.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; B.F.A. (Yale Univ.), 1934-

Margiep; Margaret Covey, April 6, 1935, Torrington, Conn. CHILDREN: Alan
Laird, Jan. 6, 1937; David Hollister, Aug. 30, 1940; Robert Covey,
Dec. 7, 1944.

occupation: Architect.

HAVING received my AB, degree from “Prexy” Lowell in
June of 1930, I found myself wondering just what this document
entitled me to and whether, as the parchment implied, I had
really Icarned enough to know when to come in out of the rain.
After some severe taxing of my mental capacities, I came to the
conclusion that I did not —at least, in-so-far as earning a living
was concerned. I did find, however, that I had acquired a strong
liking for the academic life, and when I was offered an oppor-

[192]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tunity to go as surveyor and draughtsman with the Harvard
Archaeological Expedition to Mesopotamia, I felt that my career
was assured. I even visualized myself as a future professor. Then
came a letter. “We regret to inform you that because of a cur-
tailment of funds for the expedition, we shall be unable to pay
for your services — we should very much like to have you with
us if this is of no consequence.” I gulped, consulted the chancellor
of the family exchequer, and decided still to go under these terms.

Then came a second letter! “We regret that due to further
curtailments, etc., we shall be very glad to have you with us if
you will pay all your own expenses.” ‘This time the chancellor
said no.

My bubble had burst; and feeling very low indeed, I began to
wonder whether I could do any better at Yale where, one was led
to believe, the standards were very inferior. After a brief corre-
spondence, I was gratified to learn that Yale would be delighted
to have “anything” from Harvard. Consequently, I was enrolled
in the Yale School of Architecture in the fall of 1930; and with
some effort, received a degree in architecture from that minor
institution in the spring of 1934.

This time the bubble really burst, as you all know. Each time
I was turned out of an office where they had no work and would
employ only experienced men if they did get busy, I thought
about my two parchments. I decided that neither the greater nor
the inferior institution of learning was much good; that is, until
one day when I ran into a friend who told me about his Uncle
Franklin in Washington.

Uncle Franklin seemed to be a man involved with a great many
enterprises of all sorts. He first put me to work doing hydro-
graphic charts for the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and when I
had satisfied him on this, he finally allowed me to design some
log cabins, barns, pig-pens, and sanitary (?) privys for his Alaskan
venture. He liked my work so much that later on he even let
me do the same thing for the farmers of this country. The whole
project was known as “Resettlement,” and it worked something
like musical chairs. You told a man he had to leave his farm be-
cause the grass wasn’t green enough and that you would build
him a new farm with lots of green grass, where he could live until
his old place got green enough to go back to. This was quite edu-

[ 193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

cational, because everyone got pushed around two or three times

and really became familiar with his country.

About this time, with the contidence of Uncle Frank’s backing

; g,
I decided IT could get married and asked Margaret Covey to share
two rooms on “I” Street. She is a very fine portrait painter and
mural painter, whom [ had met during my sojourn at Yale.

There was one very nice thing about Uncle Frank — he gave
more vacations than I have ever been able to find since, and these
we spent travelling in the South and learning something of our
country’s history. This, I felt, was quite valuable, because Har-
vard had taught me the histories of all the other countries, but
somehow it forgot about the United States of America.

In January, 1937, our first child, Alan, was born; and because
of this new responsibility and because I was beginning to wonder
just how far I was going to get designing farm communities for
Uncle Franklin, I decided to try my luck again in New York.
Getting out of the government is like getting out of the Army;
but I finally made it and started designing houses for James
O'Connor in New York.

Two years later, Uncle Frank’s influence was still felt by us,
because at this time Margaret won a competition for a Post
Office mural painting which was subsequently installed in Living-
ston, Tennessee. Following this, our second child, David, was
born. With a mural painting in progress, a three-year-old child,
and a baby in our apartment, we found life fairly hectic and
crowded.

New war was brewing and I started designing power plants
for Gibbs & Hill in New York, where I worked right through
until April, 1945. I have been sorry that I did not have experience
in any branch of the armed forces, but the work we were doing
was of a high priority — especially the power plants that were
shipped “lock, stock, and barrel” to Russia!

Since the war I have been in several New York architectural
offices duing work ranging from college buildings, industrial
laboratory buildings, and low-cost housing projects to houses,
service stations, etc.; and a few years ago I started working with
a friend of mine, Malcolm Duncan, in Scarsdale, A vear and a

half ago, we formed the partnership of “Duncan and Chisholm,
Architects.” We have done 2 number of motor courts, a large

1 194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

motor hotel, quite a number of country houses, and recently have
been doing churches. We hope to get back into school and college
work and although we are a young firm, we intend to be a good
one.

On December 7, 1944, our third and last (?) child, Robert, was
born, Now I feel that we have done a good job and I should be
well supported in my old age! But right now I seem to be doing
the supporting, with twelve consecutive years of college to look
forward to. Alan, our eldest, is a freshman at Amherst this year.
David is a freshman in high school, and Robby is in fourth grade;
and we all live in a big Victorian house in Pleasantville, New York,
surrounded by schools. The high school is next to us, the junior
high school right behind us, and the elementary school a few
blocks away. I simply cannot get through with education (and
the noise it generates). Besides involvement with P.T.A. and
other parent groups, our home occupations have included sketch-
ing, painting and ceramics by Margaret; a strong interest in music
by all of us— Margaret and David both play the piano, we all
sing, and I have exhibited myself in an operetta — some wood-
working, and the limitless job of holding together an old house.
This, incidentally, includes the old problem of cat vs. rat.

We have spent vacations in various parts of Maine, and on the
Cape, but I still am searching for the benefactor who will provide
me with a nice, roomy sloop and the “ballast” to keep her.

Finally, I am looking forward with great pleasure to renewing
this June some of the friendships that I have unfortunately left
dormant too long.

PHILIP CHURCHILL

HOME aApprEsS: Main Street, Atkinson, N. H. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: B. B. Chemical Co., South Middleton, Mass.

BorN: April 23, 1908, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Herbert Brideau, Lotta
Churchill.

PREPARED AT: Punchard High School, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-19209.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Baker, June 23, 1930, Melrose, Mass. curb: Philip Baker,
April 21, 1931 (7. Marilyn J. Chase, June 21, 1953). GRANDCHILD:
Wendy Louise Churchill, March 31, 1954.

OccUPATION: Chief chemist.

MEMBER OF: Masons.

[ 195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

| TOOK a pesition with the American Woolen Company in 1929
gs a chemist in the main laboratory, Worked as chemist at the
Washington Mill and the Shawsheen Mill of the American Woolen
Company until 1942. Could sce no future in the textile business
aiter thirteen vears of service, so decided to accept a position with
the B, B. Chemical Company, a subsidiary of the United Shoe
Company. I have worked for them ever since and have advanced
to chief chemist. My present position I find a pleasant one and
the firm excellent to work for.

In 1953 I moved from Andover, Massachusetts, to a country
home in Atkinson, New Hampshire, just over the line from Haver-
hill, Massachusetts. This old brick farmhouse was built by my
great, great grandfather around 1800. It has been my pleasure to
restore this old homestead and grounds. This old home has brought
great happiness and interest to me. Atkinson is a typical small
New Hampshire town of historical interest, having the land and
building of Atkinson Academy. The Academy was the first co-
educational prep school in the United States. Many of the famous
men of early New England days went to this school; then, m
tun, went on to Dartmouth or Harvard. This Atkinson Academy
building was in very bad condition when I moved to Atkinson,
and I have devoted considerable effort to help restore and preserve
this historical landmark. However, much more work on this
building is desperately needed.

As a hobby, I have become very much interested in the collec-
tion of antique clocks, which I try to restore to their former
beauty and accuracy. I have quite a collection of these old clocks.

As a future, I can see a pleasant time to be had in enjoying my
little nine-months-old granddaughter.

OLIVER SWIFT CHUTE

HOME ADDRESS: 302 Adams St. Milton 86, Mass.
OFFICE AvoREss: French Worsted Co., Woonsocket, R. I.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1907, Boston, Mass. parests:; Arthur Lambert Chute, m.p,,
‘95, Eliza Robinson Swift.

PuEPauen at; Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLFLE: 1926-1931,

Mawurn; Edith Bullock, April 15, 1933, Worcester, Mass, CHILDREN: Chris-
una, July 21, 1934; Judith, May 24, 1938, Arthur, April 10, 1945.

[ 194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Chute, ’22, M.D., 27.
OccuPATION: Assistant salesmanager.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Milton Club; Textile Association.

MY story has been as commonplace as many of my classmates’,
Since college, my work for a livelihood has been entirely con-
nected with business. For the first eighteen years I worked for
a large textile machinery manufacturing concern, Then there
were five years of trying to prove I could beat the cycle of de-
clining New England textiles —I was wrong! Now I am eating
regularly, though anyone can see I don’t need it, on a salary as
assistant sales manager of the French Worsted Company in Woon-
socket.

War experiences, none; I was working with the Maritime Com-
mission program on auxiliary engines in many of the shipyards
on all coasts.

My family continues to surprise and please me, with my wife
doing professional monologues. My eldest is graduating from
Smith College this June and going to Europe for the summer.
The next, a teenager, is at Milton, a female, and wrapped up in
dramatics. Then my constant weekend companion, aged ten,
male, helps me with problems of boating, fishing, construction,
photography, nature, weather, etc.

Social life is pleasant and constant, especially with our work
in conjunction with the Twenty-fifth Reunion, where we see
many classmates and wives whom we ordinarily would miss.

Political activity is limited to regular voting, as I happen to see
it, and lending a helping hand canvassing for funds, etc. Re-
ligious life consists of very poor church attendance, but I hope
following the word with deeds.

* TRUMAN ROSS CISSEL, JR.

BORN: July 13, 1910, Colesville, Md. parents: Truman Ross Cissel, Helen
Fawcett.

PREPARED AT: George Washington University, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(31); LL.B., 1934.

prep: April 30, 1954, New York, N. Y. |

AFTER graduating from the Law School, Cissel joined the firm
of Sullivan & Cromwell, New York City.. During World War II

[ 197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

he was with the State Department, and from 1944 to 1946 was in
the Army as an enlisted man. He served with the occupation
forces in Europe. In 1950 he was a foreign trade consultant with
International Hudson Corporation in New York, importers and
exporters. At the time of his death he was also a partner in
Lambert & Company, investment brokers,

* RICHARD HOMER CLAPP

BorN: Sept. 25, 1907, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: John Cotton Clapp, Amy
Leah Crosby.

PREPARED aT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marriep: Mildred Elsie Marsden, March 1, 1941, Lawrence, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Crosby, March 31, 1943; Barbara Lee, Nov. 13, 1944.

piep: Feb. 15, 1951, Beverly, Mass.

wipow: Mrs, Richard H. Clapp, 26 Chestnut St., Danvers, Mass.

IN 1930 Clapp jomed the Hygrade Lamp Company of Salem,
Massachusetts, as a chemist and electrical engineer, manufacturing
incandescent lamps. In 1946 he was head chemist of Sylvania
Electric Products Company in Boston, and remained with this
company until his death. His wife and children. survived him.

PERCY HAMILTON CLARK, JR.

HOME apprEss: Welwyn Road, Wayne, Pa.
OFFICE appress: Continental Can Co., Devon, Pa.

porn: Aug. 27, 1908, Chelsea, N, J. parents: Percy Hamilton Clark, ’96,
Elizabeth Williams Roberts.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: AB. 1930(31).

MARRIED: Edith Earle, Oct. 12, 1946, Bryn Mawr, Pa. cumtpren: Mary Evans,
Nov. 14, 1947; Percy Hamilton, 3d, June 7, 1949; Edith Earle, Feb. 11,
1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Roberts Clark, ’32, m.B.4., 34; Thomas Williams

Clark, 34; William Lincoln Clark, ’36; John Roberts Clark, ’ 38; David
Williams Clark, ’42.

occupation; Eastern District sales mana

ger, Flexible Packaging Division,
Continental Can Company. ging Divisio

L198] -

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFices HELD: Director, S. E. Chapter, American Red Cross, 1938-42, Com-
munity Chest of Philadelphia, since 1952; vice-president, Atlee Civic
Association, since 1953; president, Public Health Nursing of Wayne,
since 1952; board member, 1947, vice-president, since 1954, Wayne
Neighborhood League; chairman, agency operations, Budget Committee
of Community Chest, 1954; member board of trustees, St. Timothy’s
School, Maryland.

MEMBER OF: First Troop Philadelphia City Cavalry, Philadelphia Club,
Gulph Mills Golf Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia, The Courts,
Mill Dam Club.

WHAT intrigues me most in looking back over twenty-five years

is not how far I have come, nor how knowing I am, but rather

how far back and unknowing I was twenty-five years ago. My
life’s pattern followed a rather mundane course, rarely challenged
by a mind ready to challenge, nor perhaps equipped to challenge.

What others have done and how they had done it was pattern

enough.

I studied law but not with sufficient success to be rewarded
with a degree. Banking was my next endeavor and here I was
successful in my particular field, but unaware of how to couple
this success with the over-all field of banking. As some dawning
of this point of decision arose, the war came and I went into the
service for some four and one-half years. I went in as a top
sergeant of a National Guard Cavalry Troop and spent thirteen
months living on or off and around a horse. Then came Pearl
Harbor, The Army took the horses away and frowned on send-
ing to OCS those characters who were over twenty-eight. To
be sure, this changed very soon, but not before I got transferred
to a Naval Reserve commission, which I once held after our
NROTC at Cambridge. This took me to NAS Quonset, to Special
Services in Washington, to the USS Bunker Hill for two and one-
half years, and then back to the War College at Newport, when
V-J Day came around and I retired as a lieutenant commander.

It was in the service, perhaps as much as anywhere along the
way, I found an ability to make and to reason out a decision and
its impact. I gladly accepted my employers’ decision upon my
return from service, “to seek some other employment if I did
not know just what I wanted to do in the bank.”

I did find an ideal job in a small paper converting business into
which I was able to make a token investment — sufficient to be

[ 199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

considered a “minority stock holder.” At the same time, I turned
from the path of bachelorhood and set off to be a family man,
Afrer eight vears I can boast of two daughters and a son, and a
wife who handles the lot of us with tact and dispatch.

Last year my firm was bought out by a large national concern
and now I find myself once more challenged and faced with the
decision of where do I want to go. I like to think that twenty-
five years of experience has finally brought me what I want to do
and how I want to live my life. It’s been a slow process for the
naive freshman at Persis Smith Hall and, though my children may
think I still have a lot to learn, I know I have improved consider-
ably — in fact, I think I'll fool them one of these days.

ROBERT ALFRED CLARK

HOME ADDRESS: 4312 Centre Ave., Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
OFFice appress: Western Psychiatric Institute, Pirtsburgh 13, Pa.

BorN: Oct. 28, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Alfred Pugh Clark, Anna
Gibson.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; M.D., 1934.

MaRIED: Braxton Magruder Guilbeau, June 3, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Allen Magruder, Nov. 15, 1938; Mary Honoré, Nov. 22, 1940; John
Rosslyn, June 10, 1942.

oocuparios: Psychiatrist; director, Mental Health Clinic, Western Psychi-
atric Institute, associate professor of psychiatry, University of Pitts-
burgh School of Medicine.

orrices HELD: Member, Committee on International Relations, American
Psychiatric Association, 1948-51, since 1954; member board, Alcoholic
Information Center of Allegheny County, Planned Parenthood Clinic
of Pittsburgh. .

MEMBER oF: Allegheny County Medical Society; Pittsburgh Neuropsychi-
atric Society; Pennsylvania Psychiatric Society (fellow), American
Psychiatric Association (fellow); American Psychopathological Asso-
ciation; Analytical Psychology Club of New York.

puBLications: Six Talks on Jung’s Psychology, Boxwood Press, Pittsburgh,
numerous papers in professional journals; “Cosmic Consciousness in
Catatonic Schizophrenia,” Psychoanalytic Review, 1946.

THE respectable part of my life, I find, comes in two packages,
one labelled “inside,” and the other “outside.” Let’s begin with

the latter, since it is the one we usually hear about. In college

[ 200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I had intended to be a Ph.D. in psychology till Dr. H. A. Murray
advised medicine and psychiatry, for which advice I am eternally
grateful. So I sweated out four years at Harvard Medical School,
pushing surgery and obstetrics and the like into my reluctant
head. After a year of neurology at the Boston City Hospital, I
journeyed to Cleveland (far west for a Bostonian) for an intern-
ship. In 1937 I returned to Boston for a residency in psychiatry
at the Boston Psychopathic Hospital. From 1939 to 1942, I was
in charge of the Adolf Meyer Building at the Rhode Island State
Hospital, for Mental Diseases. In 1942 I adventured again into
the distant West, this time to Pittsburgh, where [ve been ever
since. Thank God, the smoke has been cleared away, so that now
we can see what a spectacular city we have. I’ve also come to
know Wally Harper and Jack Evans here.

In Cleveland I succumbed to romance and married a south’n
gal from Louisiana, who was teaching French up North. (Coin-
cidence: the Duke and Duchess of Windsor were married the
same day.) We have three of the finest children alive, the older
two now being taller than their mother. Allen is manager of the
swimming team in his high school (also swims the breast stroke)
and plays the trumpet. Mary keeps us up with the latest jazz.
John has talent at drawing, but prefers to play chess and other
assorted non-remunerative games. My wife is an ardent volunteer
in the Y.W.C.A. —a fine organization, by the way. I’m an asso-
ciate member myself, becoming such so we could take dancing
lessons last year.

Our travels were limited to spots between Boston and Louisiana
‘till 1948, when I was awarded a fellowship by the Rockefeller
Foundation to study at the C. G. Jung Institute in Zurich, Switzer-
land. By selling the car and living mostly on bread and cheese,
the whole family managed to go there for an entire year. We
all got to England, France, and Italy, and I made excursions into
Denmark and Austria as well. We also saw a lot of mountains,
glaciers, and waterfalls, and got to know a good many fine repre-
sentatives of the Swiss nation. Just incidentally, I learned a good
deal of psychology. Meeting Dr. Jung himself (of the famous
trio, Freud, Jung, and Adler, and speaker at the Tercentenary
in 1936) was a high point. Since then, I have been back to Switzer-
land for three more months in 1954, on a Bollinger Foundation

[ 201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Fellowship. My wife and I went to an International Mental
Health Congress in Mexico City in December, 1951. She Says
she'll never go on that highway again— too many curves and
clouds,

While in the White Mountains in 1938, I was attracted by the
beauty of the flowers and ferns that grow there, Since then I]
have tramped a good many miles identifying species and taking
photographs of them — in Europe as well as at home. Recently
I have been advocating the translation of valuable European psy-
chiatric books into English, in a systematic manner and not hit-
or-miss as is done now, in order to promote the growth of learn-
ing and research among our colleagues in America, as well as
better relations among the world’s psychiatrists. I have had pub-
lished Six Talks on Jung’s Psychology, Boxwood Press, 4357
Schenley Farms Terrace, Pittsburgh 13 ($1.50 per copy, royalties
to author), and numerous papers (no royalties), most not worth
reading.

Inner life began in College with the study of philosophy and an
attempt to find a meaning in our existence and my own place in it.
Because of an experience in the summer of 1930 — as much philo-
sophical as religious — I began reading in the literature of mysti-
cism — William James, C. G. Jung, and various Hindu and Bud-
dhist writings. This eventually led to the membership in the
Society of Friends (the Quakers) in 1941. Since then I have been
active in the Friends Conference on Religion and Psychology, a
member of the Commission on Pastoral Service of the National
Council of Churches, and a participant in several conferences of
clergymen and psychiatrists.

Starting a personal analysis in Zurich has some of the flavor of
discovering horse-thieves among one’s ancestors, but I have per-
sisted, with increased self-understanding and more skill at psycho-
therapy.

The Great Depression led to considerable delving into eco-
nomics (on the thin foundation of Ec.A.). I emerged from this a
ew Deal Democrat. In the last election my wife and I worked
ardently for Stevenson and were sorely disappointed; in the out-
come, not the candidate. The question we ask our Republican
friends is: “How can we have continued prosperity without war
or preparation for wart” We have tried to uphold the wobbling

[ 202 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Bill of Rights by belonging to the American Civil Liberties Union
and the N.A.A.C.P.

Let me conclude by saying that I most enjoy a good talk —
preferably lubricated by a few cold beers. May there be plenty
of both talk and beer among us all for years to come!

ROBERT UPHAM CLEMENCE

HOME ADDRESS: 69 Dresser St., Southbridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hyde Mfg. Co., Southbridge, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 14, 1906, Southbridge, Mass. PARENTS: Myron B. Clemence, Eliza
S. Upham.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth W. Rees, Oct. 7, 1932, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN: Sarah
Jane, Sept. 29, 1936; Richard Rees, Dec. 20, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Hyde Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, member board of managers, since 1938, president,
since 1954, Harrington Memorial Hospital; trusteee, since 1935, member
board of investment, since 1951, Southbridge Savings Bank, director,
Southbridge Water Company, since 1946, Southbridge Chamber of
Commerce, since 1932.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester, Mass.; Southbridge Club; Cohasse
Country Club, Southbridge, Mass.

“YOUR memoirs will be fascinating,” say the Class of ’30 in-
structions, which is undoubtedly the overstatement of the year!
To condense the past twenty-five years into approximately that
many sentences seems a tough assignment — but here goes!

The first two years after college, I worked at many different
jobs in a small industrial cutlery factory, learning the methods
and operations involved. With this accomplished, the next step
was the formidable “sales road” which has taken me, and still
does occasionally, to all parts of the United States and Canada.
The past few years, however, I have been assigned more to the
home office in Southbridge, where I am vice-president in charge
of sales of the Hyde Manufacturing Company, makers of indus-
trial cutting tools, industrial cutting knives, and home repair tools.

“The happy family is the basis of a happy life” and this I
established in 1932 when it was easier than it is today to prove
the mathematical formula that two can live as cheaply as one.

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Our daughter Sarah, after two years at Walnut Hill School, is
now enjoving Colby Junior College where — besides the usual
academic work — she is learning the fine points of skiing and
other sports. Also, Sarah has enjoved camp life for eight delight-
ful summers at Camp Wyonegonis, Maine, the past two as
counsellor’s aide. Dunng this time, she became a senior Red Cross
Life Saver and excelled in water sports. The young man in the
family, Dick, also is a camper, and last year was graduated from
Fessenden School and is now attending Proctor Academy. He is
particularly clever in manual arts and is in the process this winter
of building a 12’ skiff. Proctor is famous for its skiing instruc-
tion, so he is getting his share of this as well as sailing —weather
permitting — which is his first love. Time will tell; for, with all
his nautical background, I hope to see him rowing some day on
the Harvard crew!

To touch on the lighter side of life, in order to relax and get a
change from business pressures, ten years ago I purchased a cottage
in Marshfield, Massachusetts, where we go for weekends and
vacations. This restful spot affords good boating, swimming, and

o>
other outside activities for the entire family.

In conclusion, the past twenty-five years I consider have been

exceedingly kind to me and right now I’m looking forward to
1980.

DANIEL SARGENT CODMAN

HOME apouess: Fletcher Road, East Greenwich, R. I.

OFFIce AppaEss: Rhode Island Hospital Trust Co., Providence, R. I.

porn: April 13, 1905, Boston, Mass. parents: Alfred Codman, ’96, Lydia
Eliot.

prepared at: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

Magsiep: Laura Holdredge Brewer, Sept. 10, 1932, Weston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Daniel Sargent, Jr, May 20, 1934, Lydia E., July 27, 1936; Charles B.,
April 14, 1947-

Hasvakp peoruees: Alfred Codman, Jr. ‘25, Eliot Codman, 27; Samuel
Eliot Codman, °31.

occupation: Trust officer, Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company.
miMere ov: To Kalon Club, Pawtucket, R, 1
FOLLOWING the example of my brothers, I decided to leave

[ 204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

college at the end of my sophomore year to go to work. Two
years was certainly better than none.

In July, 1928, I started sixteen years of hard labor at the Strate
Street Trust Company for the fabulous pay of $750 a year. Ob-
viously, I should have stayed in College.

In July, 1930, I took a two-month’s leave of absence to travel
alone abroad. I met Pindar Barnes in Paris. ‘Together we hired
a car and went to Munich where we spent three weeks. On the
boat coming home, I met Polly Brewer, who was a mere child and
would have nothing whatsoever to do with me. Her father is
the famous quarterback, Harvard ’96, a classmate of my father.
Her passion being tennis, I arranged a match in her home town
of Weston. After a long courtship, which included helping her
with her school work, she finally accepted.

About a year before Pearl Harbor, the First Motor Squadron
was formed in Boston when the National Guard was called out.
This was a great group and a great experience. When the Town
of Dover (Mass.) wanted to form a State Guard unit of over
sixty men, I resigned from the First Motor Squadron and became
captain of this new unit, a most unforgettable experience in my
life. I was turned down by the Navy prior to the war for color
blindness, Later I passed the color-blind test for the Marines, but
the previous Navy turn-down killed my appointment.

At this point, I decided that I was definitely in a rut in the
banking business, so in 1945 I went into a training program with
the United Drug whose headquarters were then in Boston. This
involved working as a clerk for six months in a dozen different
drug stores —a real work-out after a soft desk job — then as
assistant manager of a few stores in the next six months. I was
the first man, not a pharmacist, to be made manager of a drug
store in Massachusetts. My next assignment was to open and man-
age a super Liggett Drug Store just outside of Providence. Be-
lieving that this was the end of my training program and that
my next step would be to the business offices, which had now
moved to Los Angeles, I decided not to go further in this field.
Tam a New Englander at heart, and I like Rhode Island. On ac-
count of sixteen years of trust experience, the Rhode Island Hos-
pital Trust Company found a use for my services. The six years
that I have been with this company have been most enjoyable. I

[ 205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

have had a chance to learn and further myself in the administra-
ton of estates and estate planning. In January, 1952, I was made
an assistant trust officer, and in January, 1954, a trust officer.

Three vears ago, we bought a farm in Fast Greenwich, very
near the Quonset Naval Air Base. Here my wife runs a Riding
School, mostly for young children. The number of horses varies
from six to eight. She has about forty children and ten adults in
her school. Horse shows, Gymkhanas, and Paper Chases add
variety to the riding, On the side, she teaches tennis. “I'wo years
ago she was permitted to enter the annual MEN’S singles tourna-
ment in East Greenwich, She won it.

My hobbies on the farm include: stone wall building, Jand-
scaping in general, and raising ducks. A pond on the place affords
pleasure for the ducks, and the children enjoy the skating, sailing,
and swimming. The fishing has yielded one fish.

Hurricane Carol raised havoc with three of our old out-build-
ings, destroying two. The barn was pushed over to a precarious
angle and the front blown in. It was declared a total loss until
“Edna” came along and pushed it up straight again.

I regret to report son Dan selected Dartmouth over Harvard.
He is a junior, majoring in history. He may regret his choice
at the Reunion. Charlie, aged seven, the “now or never” kid, has
definitely decided on Harvard, however. His sweater and banners
proudly proclaim the fact. Lydia is at Beaver Country Day School
and is coming out in Boston this year. She should have a “time”
at the Reunion.

’ ALAN SIDNEY COHEN

HOME appress: 8 Longfellow Rd. Cambridge, Mass.
orFice apvress: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 28, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Edward Cohen, Sonia
Rottenburg.

prepanea at: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B. 1930; 8.M, (New York Univ.)
1931; aM. (Boston Univ.), 1942. ,

Maxurp: Minna Elsa Askowith, Aug. 26, 1937, Boston, Mass, CHILD: Daniel
Robert, Oct. 16, 1945.

HARVARD BkoTHER: Nathan Newton Cohen, ’27.

cocupaTion: Mathematics teacher,

{ 206 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Cambridge Latin School Teachers Council, 1947;
secretary, Men Teachers’ Club, 1949; leader, Great Books Club, 1952;
coach, High School Tennis,

MEMBER OF: Masons; Handel and Haydn Society; Great Books Club; Zion-
ists, Cambridge Men Teachers’ Club; Temple Israel Brotherhood,
Temple Israel Brotherhood Glee Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Essentials of a Camp Program,” Jewish Advocate, 1939.

A. LAWRENCE LOWELL told us as freshmen in 1926 that we
were at Harvard to enrich our minds, Four years later with a
mind enriched by the study of German literature, I began to
realize that I would also have to eat. Hence, | enrolled at the
N. Y. U. Graduate School of Retailing and in June of 1931, armed
with an S.M. in retailing, I offered myself to the highest lucky
bidder, L. Bamberger’s, Newark, New Jersey. After selling sports-
‘wear and sporting goods for three or four months, I advanced
mainly because of my enriched mind to the position of assistant
buyer of misses’ coats. But a year or so of this was enough, and in
the spring of 1933 I decided to give up the notion of merchan-
dising Macy’s and Bamberger’s single-handed, and returned’ to
Cambridge.

I had always enjoyed counselling at children’s camps during
the summers of my college years; hence, I felt that 1 would try
school teaching. In 1933, however, the situation was the reverse
of today—more school teachers than jobs, and a permanent
appointment, a precious event. The following September with
preparation consisting mainly of counselling during the summer
at a boys’ camp, and a naive, youthful optimism, I took the sub-
stitute examinations in English literature in Cambridge. Here I
must give due credit to President Lowell, for it was largely due
to my Harvard education and the stimulus therefrom that I was
able to do well enough to land myself a job as a substitute teacher.
After some night school teaching and a bit of day school work,
I made my decision which I have never seriously regretted. In
1936 I took my examination for permanent teacher, and in Sep-
tember, 1937, I was appointed a teacher of English at the Cam-
bridge Latin School. That same year, in August, I married Minna
Elsa Askowith. During the summers of 1938, 1939, and 1940 I
Directed Camp Emoh, a boys’ camp in Alfred, Maine, I gave this
up, however, so that I could devote more time to travel and study.

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

During the summer of 1941 we travelled to and in Mexico, and
in August of 1942 I completed work for my A.M. in English
literature at B. U. In 1947 because of the need for mathematics
teachers, I brushed up on my math, went back to school again,
and volunteered to take some classes in algebra and geometry,
Since then I have had a full program in mathematics. Last year |
became interested in guidance and took several courses in the
field at B. U. Graduate School of Education. Recently I was
granted a sabbatical for the coming second school semester for the
purpose of continuing this study and I hope to take a graduate
degree either in 1955 or 1956.

To fill in some of the gaps in this sketchy outline: I coach the
hich school tennis team, played on the Harvard Graduate B
League Squash team, sing in glee clubs, take piano lessons for
amazement, go to the Boston Symphony concerts religiously
every Saturday —am not sure yet whether to accept Munch as
a worthy successor of Koussevitzky —led a Great Books club
for a year, and practise theories of teaching and guidance on
Danny, aged nine. Needless to say, practice is always trying to
catch up with theory. Recently I took up golf and have been both
fascinated and frustrated by it. I’ve given up hope for the Red
Sox, despite the probable return of Ted Williams. And as for
politics, I'm a solid Democrat, though if I have to take a Repub-
lican, I'll take Ike.

DAVID JACOB COHEN

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Beachmont Ave., Gloucester, Mass.
OFFIce ADDRESS: 83 Middle St. Gloucester, Mass.

BORN: June 21, 1910, Clarkes Harbor, N.S. Canada. parents: Abraham
Isaac Cohen, Rachael Smofsky.

prepareD aT: Cambridge High & Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. Decrees: 8.8, cum laude, 1930; M.D. (Tufts

Coll.), 1934-

marziep: Viera Greenberg, May 9, 1954, Cambridge, Mass. cuitp: Richard
Alan, Jan. 26, 1955.

oocupaTION: Physician,

FOLLOWING graduation, I entered Tufts Medical School.
After appropriate internships I came to Gloucester to practise

[ 208 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

medicine and have been here ever since. I classify myself as a
country doctor.

As would be expected of a person born and reared in Nova
Scotia and who has lived for eighteen years in Gloucester, I am
a boatman from way back. The good little ship Salar II presently
carries me up and down the coast summers, as did her predeces-
sor, Salar I, and before her the Tudor Rose.

I think I may have the distinction, as far as the good Class of
1930 is concerned, of being the last man to get married. It finally
happened on May 9, 1954, to Miss Viera Greenberg of Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, Radcliffe, ’40. And I’m pretty sure that
I have the youngest son — Richard Alan, born January 26, 1955 —
who already has clothes with a nautical design, who will be my
second mate aboard Salar II, and who is a very great joy to me
anyway. Naturally he will go to Harvard.

_ JACK COHEN (formerty JACOB COHEN) |

HOME ApprRESS: 38 Cresswell Rd., Worcester, Mass.

OFFicE apprEss: C. IT. Sherer Co., Worcester, Mass.

BorN: April 12, 1909, Leominster, Mass. parENTS: Samuel Cohen, Mamie
Feinberg. :

PREPARED AT: Leominster High School, Leominster, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Beatrice Cohen, July 2, 1933, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: ‘Edith
Paula, April 9, 1938; Sidney Joseph, July 14, 1941.

occuPATION: Divisional merchandise manager.

AFTER graduation, I set out in the field of retail distribution and
began to specialize in “ready-to-wear.” My work has taken me
to many parts of the country, so that I’ve lived on the east coast,
west coast, and points in between. I am now associated with the
C. T, Sherer Company, a department store in Worcester, Massa-
chusetts.

A college romance, still as bright as ever, blossomed into mar-
riage in 1933, and then blossomed twice more: first, a daughter in
1938; second, a son in 1941. Just a quarter-century elapsed be-
tween graduation and my daughter entering college.

The piano was, and still continues to be, a favorite of mine.
People enjoy listening to music and I enjoy playing — so I imag-

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ine this hobby will continue for some time. About 1940 I delved
into color photography, armed with camera and light meter; it’s
been a wonderful pastime filming, editing, and projecting the
finished product on the screen.

Looking backwards twenty-five years is easy, and I don’t be-
lieve our civilization can be too proud of the record; looking ahead
is dificult, requinng thought, patience, and understanding among

the peoples of the world. Let's hope our Atomic Age will serve
rather than destroy mankind.

VICTOR LLOYD JOSEPH COHEN

HOME Appress: 30 Walnut Park, Roxbury, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 108 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

por: May 4, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Hyman Cohen, Hannah Levine.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927. DEGREE: LL.B, (Northeastern Univ.), 1931.
occuPATION: Treasurer, Elm Stationery Company.

CHARLES H. COLE, II

HOME appreEss: 4 Franklin Rd., Lexington, Mass.
OFFICE appRESS: 55 Waltham St., Lexington, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1908, Portsmouth, N. H. parents: Edward Ball Cole, ’o2, Mary
Elizabeth Welsh.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930(31); M.ARCH., 1936.

Maraiep: Mary Sayward, Aug. 22, 1936, Cambridge, Mass, CHILDREN: Carolyn
Sayward, Nov. 27, 1941; Diana, March 15, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Ball Cole, Jr., ’32, u1.B., "36.

occuPATION: Architect.

orFices HELD; Member, Board of Health, Lexington, Mass. since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Association of Architects; Boston Society of
Architects, American Institute of Architects.

TWENTY-FIVE years after graduation finds me still polishing
my shingle which “hangs high” in Lexington, Massachusetts.
After a long pull getting there, it has stayed up for four years
and what with a boost from Lady Luck, a fervent hope for no
more wars, no more depressions, and a good strong constitution,
I hope to keep it there. My office consists of a small nucleus of

[210 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

highly trained men and the work at present consists primarily of
schools — an obvious fact, considering the recent growth in the
population.

At present, there doesn’t seem to be much time for hobbies,
although I must admit to succumbing to more and more frequent
“shutter bug” spells. The camera was bought primarily for busi-
ness in order to have records of buildings at various stages of con-
struction. It has been used for that, but also for everything else
under the sun at various stages (children, for instance! ).

In Lexington my civic and church activities are restricted to
the Board of Health and the Maintenance Committee respectively,
and if that sounds like a “busman’s holiday” — well, it is!

CHARLES THEODORE COLE

HOME ADDRESS: 464 Painter St., Norfolk, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Staff, Commander Air Force, U. S. Atlantic Fleet, U. S.
Naval Air Station, Norfolk, Va.

BoRN: Aug. 29, 1908, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Wilton Francis Cole, Elizabeth
Lyle McMahon.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Webster City, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cui laude, 1930; LL.B., 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Wilton Donald Cole, °24.

occupation: U.S. Naval Officer; Staff Legal Officer, Commander Air Force,
U.S. Atlantic Fleet.

MEMBER OF: New York Bar Association.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY has been called the modern substitute for
auricular confession. Accordingly, writing for the Class Record
offers me the nearest approach to a Jocus poenitentiae which I am
likely to encounter. As I ponder over the ravages wrought by
time, I am forced to confess, unwillingly, that the past twenty-five
years have left me with the feeling that I failed to avail myself
to the full of the opportunities offered during my years at Har-
vard. As an undergraduate, I was vaguely aware that the catalogue
listed courses in Naval Science. At the time such studies seemed
to me as remote from the practical as the study of Egyptian
hieroglyphics. Now after twenty-five years, I find that both of
those subjects would have been helpful to my subsequent career.

In common with many others, the exigencies of World War II
impelled me to foresake civilian pursuits (in my case the practice

[211 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

uines feel a certain lack of rapport. They remind me of the com-
rrent of Dr. Julian Huxley that modern man has become a peculiar
hybrid — part ostrich, hiding its head in the sand, and the rest
stork. engaged in producing large numbers of babies — thus lead-
ing to a “dangerous combination of ac tive overproduction with
refusal to face the facts. My classmates appear to me to be unduly
preoccupied with the prosaic details of diapers, dishes, divorces,
and catching the 5:15 commuters’ train. On the other hand, |
probably seem to them to be far removed from reality. In a sense,
a professional naval officer leads a somewhat cloistered existence.
As I struggle with the problems of writing Japanese without
gender, Russian without articles, and Egyptian without vowels,
I am not quite sure which of us is the hybrid. If you accuse me
of the modern vice of escapism, I can only refer you to the Rus-
sian proverb, “Don’t spit in the well, for you may have to drink
from it yourself some day.”

As of the present tme I remain single. My married friends
seem to feel that I owe a biological debt to society to contribute
to the reproduction of the human race. At least one of them keeps
urging me to plunge my adventurous prow into the vexed waters
of the sea of connubiality. To them I reply that the average
American husband appears to me to be in the position of the drone
who has mated with the queen bee and is now being sys-
tematically devoured alive. Although I am pretty well frayed
around the edges, there remains a possibility that I may have to
retract these words at some future date. Until then I shall con-

tinue to drink from the well of illusion and remain faithful in my
fashion to Pharaoh’s Nefretete.

IRVING SALTER COLE

HOME Appress: 205 Tremont St., Malden 48, Mass.
orrice appness: Malden Public Library, Malden 48, Mass.

bom: Feb, 3, 1907, Malden, Mass. paxents: Walter Irving Cole, Hattie B.
Mitchell.

renpanea at: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, DEGKEE: AB, 1930,

Magaino: Charlotte Isabelle Serafin, May 25, 1936, Nassau, N. Y, CHILDREN
Anne Kinwball, June 9, 1943; Walter Irving, 2d, Feb, 14, 1950.

[214]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Chief librarian, curator of three art galleries, manager of
Robinson Free Lecture Course, Malden Public Library.

OFFICES HELD: Former vice-president, treasurer, Newburyport Rotary Club;
treasurer, Malden Historical Society; secretary, former president, Uni-
versity Club of Malden; president, Malden Tuberculosis and Health
Association, trustee, Malden High School Scholarship Fund; member
of the corporation, Malden Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Library Association, Massachusetts Men’s Li-
brarians’ Club; Malden Rotary; Family Service of Malden.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions of news items, special features, and a library
column to local newspapers.

MY chief interest, professionally, has been ‘to extend library serv-
ices to the public. This has been accomplished, somewhat, by
adding media of communication other than books, such as Jend-
ing of phonograph records, microfilms, motion pictures, opera
lectures, radio concerts, and projected books. However, books
still remain our chief stock in trade and used by 18,000 borrowers.

Domestically I cope with a wife harassed by a knowledgeable
inquiring daughter of eleven (all A’s in school) and by an ener-
getic son of four. Meanwhile, I struggle with a newly acquired
old house, garden, and the damage wrought by Hurricane Hazel.
One result, a fall requiring twelve stitches,

As a librarian’s recompense is even less than a schoolteacher’s,
my travels and social activities have been limited for some time.

FRANCIS LOUIS COLLINS

HOME ADDRESS: 212 Hamilton St., Dorchester 22, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peat, Marivick, Mitchell & Co., 79 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 25, 1909, Scranton, Pa. parents: Francis Bernard Collins, Mary
Teresa Clifford.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

occuPATION: Accountant.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[215]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

JAMES ANDREW COLLINS

Howe aporess: 16 Bndle Path, Lexington, Mass.

OFFRE anoaess: New England Power Service Co., 441 Stuart St., Boston 16
Mass. .

BorN: Jan. 23, 1909, Somerville, Mass. parents: John A. Collins, Ellen L.
Deacon.

preparep at: Leungton High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1930.

margieD: Helen A. Tavlor, Sept. 21, 1942, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy
Deborah, Dec. 7, 1944; John Frederick, Jan. 17, 1947.

occupaTion: Rate Engineer, New England Power Service Company.

I AM a member of the Rate Department of the New England
Power Service Company, This department deals with all prob-
lems relating to the rates of the various subsidiaries of the New
England Electric System, I have been with the New England
Electric System and its various subsidiaries since graduation. My
first job was as a student engineer. I completed this course in
1932 and, engineering being at a standstill, 1 joined the accounting
department. From then until 1942, I held various positions in the
accounting and treasury departments.

In July, 1942, I entered the Navy as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the
Supply Department, After three and one-half years of active
duty, I was released to inactive duty as a lieutenant commander.

Upon returning to civilian status, I held several positions in the
treasury department before assuming my present position in the
rate department in 1952.

My home life is that of the typical suburbanite, with my princi-
pal interests being my family and home. I hope that by the time

my children are old enough to take any interest in tennis, skiing,
etc., I shall still be able to join them.

CHARLES WILSON COLMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 3147 S. goth St, Lincoln 6, Nebr.
OFFICE aboxess: 314 Burnett Hall, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebr.

BoRN: Sept. 22, 1909, Brookfield, N. H. parents: Wilson Colman, Helene

P, Chamberlain.
PuLPARED AT; Brewster Academy, Wolfeboro, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; PH.D. (Cornell Univ.)

1938.

[216]

eT TREFOIL
SP YEE PTTL ET

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Ruth Irene Thompson, Dec. 26, 1935, Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Charlotte Anne, Feb. 6, 1937; Martha Sue, July 22, 1938;
Charles Wilson, Jr., Aug. 27, 1939; John Dudley, Nov. 8, 1941.

occuPATION: Associate professor of Romance languages.

OFFICES HELD: President, West Central Chapter, American Association of
Teachers of French.

MEMBER OF: Pi Delta Phi; Phi Sigma Iota.

PuBLIcATIONS: Articles on language teaching; a manual for the teaching of
French to elementary school children; a textbook edition of André
Maurois’ La Machine a lire les pensées, in collaboration with Edward P.
Shaw, 734.

THE Class Album listed my intended career as “business.” For-

eign trade would have been more accurate. After a year at the

Université de Bordeaux on a Franco-American scholarship, I

soon returned to Europe as an interpreter for an American busi-
ness man. There were three delightful months in Heidelberg.

That was the closest I ever came to foreign trade. By the time we
returned to the States, in the spring of ’32, foreign trade was in a
sorry state and I settled for the first job available — teaching
French at the Longwood Day School of Brookline. Two years
were enough to convince me that if I were to continue in the
teaching profession, I should prefer the college level. For three
years I taught at Cornell while working for my Ph.D. It was a
new and pleasant experience to be associated with a coeduca-
tional institution. I made the most of the situation and, in Decem-
ber of 1935, I married Ruth I. Thompson, Cornell, ’35. We were
both convinced that it was better to have our children early and
close together. Charlotte, Martha, Bill, and John came in quick
succession,

In 1937 we moved to the University of Illinois in Urbana and
have been Middle-Westerners ever since, except for a brief inter-
lude at Ole Miss: nine years at the University of Illinois, one at
the University of Mississippi, and the last eight at the University
of Nebraska. I cannot honestly say that I have any serious regrets
over the change in my original plans. It is trite but quite true
that the academic life has compensations that outweigh its obvi-
ous material disadvantages.

Life has been precarious at times, but never dull. We have
finally acquired a big, old, rambling house with yard to match —
just right to accommodate our family and a constantly fluctu-

[217 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ating collection of pets —a cat, two black cockers, two para-
keets, eight chickens, and a rapidly increasing family of rabbits.
My wite and all of the children play at least one musical instru-
ment — clarinet, trumpet, trombone, saxophone, violin, piano,
etc. Fortunately, our only near neighbor is slightly deaf. Our
most urgent immediate problem is to finance the children’s edu-
cation. To this end Ruth has gone to work temporarily as a die-
tidan. Charlotte is already a sophomore at the University of
Nebraska. Next fall Martha will enter Cornell. The boys haven't
vet made a definitive choice.
My hobbies include tennis, squash, golf, and shortwave radio.
One other activity should probably also be classified as a hobby —
promoting a program for teaching foreign languages to elementary
school children. The children come to the University for an
hour’s class every Saturday morning. We have been fortunate
enough to be able to use native teachers almost exclusively. The
program, now in its fourth year, has an enrollment of over 200
children in French, German, and Spanish. We expect eventually
to add Italian and Russian. We hope that, in a small way, we are
fostering international understanding.

May the next twenty-five years be as much fun as the last!

CLYDE NELSON COMSTOCK

HOME ApprEss: 18401 Shaker Blvd, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

OFFICE Appress: Arter, Hadden, Wykoff & Van Duzer, Union Commerce
Bldg, Cleveland, Ohio.

BoRN: Feb. 26, 1908, Petoskey, Mich. parents: Roy H. Comstock, Dorothea
Linnea Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Petoskey High School, Petoskey, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1930; LL.B., 1933-

Maggirp: Adclaide Houghton Mason, Oct. 4, 1941, Grosse Pointe, Mich.
CHILDREN: Christine Mason, Oct. 14, 1942, Stevens Mason, Sept. 10,
1934; Clyde Nelson, Jr. Dec. 18, 1948, Elizabech Mason, July 13, 1951.

occupaTios; Lawyer, partner in firm.

IN June of 1933 the law offices of the country were not clamor-
ing for my services. Things haven’t changed much in this re-
spect. Thinking I might as well go broke on my own, I prac-
tied law by myself in my home town, getting in a couple of
terms as County prosecuting attorney, until the Navy pulled up

{218}

sialic are

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my roots for me in the spring of 1942. Three years and fourteen
moves later, I landed in Cleveland with the firm of Andrews,
Hadden & Putnam. On the dissolution of this firm in 1951, we
merged with McKeehan, Merrick, Arter & Stewart to become
renowned as the firm with the hardest name in Cleveland to re-
member. (See data above if you don’t believe it.)

All lawyers are expected to specialize and I have through one
circumstance after another managed to narrow down my field
to corporations, narrowing that to mining corporations, further
narrowing that to iron ore mining corporations, and again nar-
rowing that to iron ore mining corporations of the Lake Superior
district. How narrow can a man get?

On the other side of the coin, my personal life and my person
continue to broaden and broaden. My frivolous frau and my four
growing children keep me so broadly involved that I am building
up a great wealth of happy and hectic memories, but not much
else. We are caught in a maelstrom of home-work in subjects in
which I have, so I say, forgotten some of the minor details. (Can
you get away with that? If so, please write.) Wielding a paint
brush in one hand and an iron rule in the other, balancing a few
legal points in my head, and worrying about the mortgage, it all
adds up. To what? I can tell you better at our Fiftieth, but at
the moment I think it adds up to a lot of fun for us and mighty
dull reading for you.

RICHARD FREDERICK CONNELLY

HOME ADDRESS: 67 Greaton Rd., West Roxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Eugene J. Connelly, Rose
Driscoll.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1935.

marrieD: Abigail C. Murphy, Oct. 12, 1941, Boston, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Commander, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Post No. 6646, 1946-
48, .

MEMBER OF: Veterans of Foreign Wars; American Legion; Naval Reserve
Association (legal unit); Catholic Sodality of Boston; Holy Name
Society.

[ 219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

AFTER graduation from law school in 1935, 1 practised law in
Boston uno 1942. Then I entered the U.S. Navy and served
through five major operations in the Pacific Theatre as a gunnery
otheer and first heutenant on a destroyer, the U.S.S. Bennion. On
return to civilian life in 1946, | entered government service with
the Veterans Administration (Adjudication and Loan Guaranty
Divisions). I transferred in 1949 to the position of attorney on
the staff of the Public Housing Administration in Boston. In
June, 1950, 1 assumed my present position with the Civil Service
Commission as an investigator and evaluator in the government's
lovaltv-security program.

WALTER JAMES ALEXANDER CONNOR

HOME AporESS: 22 Colony Drive, Summit, N. J.
orFice appress: Celluplastics Corp. 50 Ave. L, Newark, N. J.

poas: Oct. 31, 1901, Liverpool, England. parents: William Connor, Ann
Jane Crowder.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930, DEGREE! A.B. 1930(31).
Mazaiep: Rebecca Roberts, Sept. 7, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Judith,

March 1, 1935; Susan, Sept. 5, 1940; Pamela, June 23, 1942; Walter James
Alexander, 3d, April 14, 1950.

occuPATION: Plastic packaging and molding; general manager, vice-president,
director, Celluplasucs Corporation.

orFKES HELD: Member various committees, Society of Plastics Industry,
United Campaign, Red Cross, Rotary, etc.
MEMBER oF: American Management Association; Harvard Club of New

York; Canoe Brook Country Club; Society of Plastics Industry; Sales
Executive Club of New York.

pusticatioss: Articles on plastics for Journal of Commerce, Iron Age,

Plastics Magazine, brochure on “Cellulose Acetate, Polystyrene, Ethyl
Cellulose.”

AFTER graduation, | worked in the retail field for a short time,
long enough for me to realize I was in the rag business of Amer-
ican industry. Fortunatcly, the plastics business was in its very
early stages and I had an opportunity to join it. 1 became associ-
ated with the Celluloid Corporation (now Celanese Corporation)
in 1936. Since then I have been in managerial positions in the
plastics industry with Celanese, Koppers, and currently with
Ceiluplastics Corporation. 1 am now in the process of establishing

{220}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my own company to produce a wide variety of plastic articles.

My life since graduation has not been confined to business. I
have kept alive my interest in music, particularly vocal. I have
been baritone soloist in many churches and have given many con-
certs here in the East. In the religious musical field, I have spe-
cialized in oratorio, and in the secular, chiefly sixteenth and
seventeenth century English music.

Like many others, I find that the chief interest in my life is
being with my wife, Rebecca, and my four wonderful children.
My oldest daughter, Judith, graduated from Lasell Junior Col-
lege last June. Susan is entering the first year in the Upper School
and Pamela is finishing the last year of the Lower School at Kent
Place School here in Summit. My son, Wally, enters kinder-
garten next year. I sincerely hope he will be a member of Har-
vard, 1970, not simply because of me, but my experience has led
me to believe that Harvard offers so much to begin the maturing
of the spiritual, physical, and mental aspects in the life of a man.
Much do I owe to Harvard.

FRANCIS LOWELL COOLIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: 2905 32nd St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1906, Concord, Mass. PARENTs: Sidney Coolidge, ’86, Mary
Laura Colt.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MaRRIED: Helen Read Curtis, May 17, 1940, Concord, Mass. cHtLpREN: Mary,
May 21, 1942; Georgina Lowell, Oct. 5, 1943; Ellen Randolph and
Francis Lowell, Jr. (twins), Aug. 4, 1945.

occupation: U. S. Government.

MAXIMILIAN COONEN

HOME ADDRESS: 743 E. Carson St., Long Beach 9, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1908, Worcester, Mass. parents: Benjamin Israel Coonen,
Minnie Dworkin.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

MaRRIED: Sylvia Freeman, June 22, 1935, Long Beach, Calif.

OCCUPATION: Owner-builder, real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Temple Israel, Long Beach, Calif.

[ 221 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

‘CHARLES MUHLENBERG COOPER

HOME anowess: sgt Arbutus St. Philadelphia 19, Pa.
oFFice aporrss: 12:8 Spruce Sc, Philadelphia 7, Pa.

poas: Jan. >, 1909, Lima, Ohio. parents: Frederick Eugene Cooper, Rosa
Muhicnberg Richards.

prepared aT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1030. DEGREES: A.B. curt laude, 1930; B.D. (Lutheran
Theological Seminary at Philadelphia), 1935; Pr.p. (Dropsie Coll. for
Hebrew and Cognate Learning), 1941; po. (Muhlenberg Coll.), 1954.

Marnie: Alta Ernestine Peterson, May 29, 1934, Philadelphia, Pa. cHILpREN:
Charles, Jan. 12, 1936 (died Jan. 13, 1936); Jeremy, May 15, 1937;
Catherine, Apnil 4, 1939.

Hanvarp BROTHERS: William Henry Cooper, ’23; Matthias Richards Cooper,
27, AML, "29.

occuparios: President, Evangelical Lutheran Ministerium of Pennsylvania
and the Adjacent States.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant pastor, Trinity Church, Akron, Ohio, 1933-365 in-
structor in Old Testament, 1936-41, assistant professor of Old Testament,
1941-45, Norton Professor of Old Testament, 1945-53, Lutheran Theo-
logical Seminary at Philadelphia; president, Lutheran Ministerium of
Pennsylvania, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Classical Club; Oriental Club of Philadelphia,
Society of Biblical Literature and Exegesis; Historical Society of
Ministerium of Pennsylvania; Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

pusiications: “Deuteronomy,” Old Testament Conmmentary, Muhlenberg
Press, 1948; contributing editor, The Westminster Study Bible, West-
minster Press, 1948; The Uniform Lesson Commentary, Muhlenberg
Press, 1953; papers and reviews, Journal of Biblical Literature, The

Lutheran Quarterly, The Crozer Quarterly, The Jewish Quarterly
Review, Tbe Lutheran.

MY cutor in classics assured me in sophomore year that either
teaching or the ministry was a sensible career for me to choose.
The man was a prophet. Three years in seminary, three in a
parish church, seventeen on the seminary faculty, and two, so far,
in the episcopal office (which we stubborn Pennsylvania Luther-
ans have termed “President of the Ministerium” since 1748) tell
the tale.

It has been enjoyable and most of it arduous. In seminary |
took all the Hebrew courses that were offered. In Akron I served
a congregation that was growing at a tremendous pace. Back at
the scminary to teach, | plugged away at graduate work in
Semitics until now Tam the senior among some dozen Gentiles

[ 222]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

who hold the degree of Ph.D, from Dropsie College. (A few
years ago they elected me president of our seventy-six-man, one-
woman alumni association.) In those same years of teaching and
study I started some writing for learned publications. Member-
ship and offices in several societies and constant activity in supply
preaching, summer assembly lecturing, and faculty and church
committees crowded the years.

All this eventuated in May, 1953, in a surprise election to an
episcopal throne (invisible, but very venerable, stiff, and some-
times hot). Our Lutheran churches in Pennsylvania originated
with the Palatine immigrants whom the Penns encouraged at the
close of the seventeenth century. They remained mostly German
until my grandfather’s time. They still include thousands of the
Pennsylvania Dutch. But many who anglicized during the past
century formed a new synod which seceded from the parent
body. My last committee assignment as a theological professor
was to induce some 200 such churches to realign their synodical
affiliation in the interests of better order and stronger organiza-
tion. Others had been trying this for some ninety years past and
I was merely successful in building upon their ruins. ‘The realign-
ment came about and my grateful brethren cheerfully put me
on the spot. There was never a more sincere noli episcopari than
I felt. But only a saint like Ambrose ever expresses it at the time.
And even then it did him no good. So I accepted.

Now I roam the hills of eastern Pennsylvania to shepherd a
flock numbering about 358,000 gathered in some 4oo parishes,
half of which are rural. We have 551 clergy on the roll. We do
a nine-million-dollar annual business of which nearly two million
dollars are for benevolences which I and others administer; the
rest is for local chuch expenses. My first year required eighty-
five Sunday services and fifty-one weekday evening meetings of
local church councils occasioned by vacancies or trouble. Don’t
suppose that church people never give trouble! An eighteenth-
century ancestor of mine who had this job called himself “The
Lord’s Sheep Dog” — always barking at strays. One of my three
immediate predecessors has lived to retire. The other two expired
in office. The term is five years and the tradition is re-election
until either you reach sixty-eight or the Lord takes you — which-
ever comes first. And the Lord is quick!

[ 223 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Unel 1933 we really had a happy home. Our two children
grew up on the seminary campus in Mr. Airy. I was there all the
te, even if a bit preoccupied. Summers were wonderful with
three months to enjoy complete external freedom and to fight
internal compulsions to get that course prepared, those books
read. and this and that manuscript completed. Cathy had boy
friends among the seminarians who rather proudly mention the
fact when I come visiting them these days. Jeremy pitted his
athletic prowess on ball teams of the local congregation against
seminary teams. With some ten other faculty homes on the
campus we made up one, big, happy family. My wife loves
housekeeping, cooking, entertaining, besides antiquing, the
theatre, music, and talk. We had them all, in good company —
and together,

Now we are buying a house: there’s no palace with this
bishopric. I usually sleep at home, after midnight. Otherwise it
belongs to the other, more sedentary members of the family. But
they do a good job with it and on rare occasions the old life
blossoms forth. I have no kicks: no time for politics — except
ecclesiastical; no more reading or writing in my chosen field —
except in my month’s vacation; no time for relaxation — except
one round of golf in 1954; but a full and varied career of service,

human and divine, and a happy home (when I’m there) satisfy
me altogether.

GEORGE RICHARDS COREY

HOME appress: Wilderwood Avenue, Whalom, Fitchburg, Mass.
OFFICE aporess: Simonds Saw & Steel Co., Intervale Road, Fitchburg, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1909, Winchester, Mass. PARENTS: James Edward Corey, Rosa
Crawford Mack.

preparep at: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

Mazuitp: Mary Josephine McInerney, March 29, 1937, Fitchburg, Mass.
ouccpaTion: Quality control inspector, Simonds Saw & Steel Company.

MEMEER OF: Massachusetts Audubon Society; Whalom Men’s Club; Daniel
Simonds Recreation Club. |

AS one of those who graduated in 1930, I really was at loose ends,
to put it mildly. Fortunately or otherwise, I had been playing

[224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

piano with dance orchestras through my undergraduate years,
and that was my salvation. I spent some years in a footloose sort
of life; was brought to my senses very suddenly and fortunately
by the very grand person I married in 1937.

After medical disqualification — due to diabetes— when I re-
ported to Fort Devens during the war, I went to work for Simonds
Saw & Steel Company in Fitchburg, Massachusetts, and am still
with this good organization, which gave me a leave of absence
from July, 1953, to October, 1954, when I had a little fight of
my own with tuberculosis. Since then, I have been back with
Simonds enjoying my work and looking forward to the Twenty-
fifth Reunion.

My Airedale dog and I spend many pleasant hours around the
Fitchburg area. She scares up the rabbits and I try to find birds,
usually ending up with English sparrows. If you see an odd-
appearing person peering fixedly through a binocular, that will
be Corey looking for a strange bird — not necessarily from the
Class.

JOSE BAUTISTA CORTES

HOME ADDRESS: 126 Beats, Pandacan, Manila, P. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tuguegarad High School, Tuguegarad, Cagayan, Manila,
P.I.

BORN: Aug. 27, 1901, Batan, New Washington, P. I. parents: Abdon
Cortes, Severa Bautista.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; A.M., 1943.

OCCUPATION: Education.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JOSEPH M. CORWIN

HOME apprEss: 11 Park Drive, Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Tremont St., Boston 8, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 5, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Max Cohen, Fannie Rosen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(29); LL.B. 1933.

MaRrRiED: Sally G. Alpert, Jan. 30, 1942, Washington, D. C. cuitpren: Linda
Fay, Oct. 20, 1943; Laura Jane, March 13, 1945.

[225]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
accupaT~Os: Lawyer.

EMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Federal Bar Association; Law and

Social Acton Committee of the American Jewish Congress; Newton
Squash and Tennis Club.

I NEVER was one for writing, and I haven't changed a bit; but
the missus savs I must get this out, so here goes.

My college course was a hurried one. I completed my require-
ments for the A.B. degree in three years and then found it didn’t
help much for job hunting in 1929. Broke I was, and by selling
Fuller Brushes, magazines, and other items, with a little postoffice
work thrown in and some other odd jobs, I was back at the Law
School in 1930 with enough to get me started there.

Three years of hard work, and I was job hunting again in
1933, now a bachelor of laws. Not much better luck here and,
early in September, my good friend, Dean Pound, suggested
that the New Deal needed help. Down I went with classmate
Ed Schneider and we both landed jobs there. Then followed
nine years of Washington life—hard, but challenging work:
Department of Justice and enforcement of the early New Deal

laws, Resettlement Administration and social experiments, Inter-
state Commerce Commission inaugurating trucking regulations,
Public Housing Administration and the building of homes for
low-income and war workers, a turn at the OPA and industry
regulation (I was partly responsible for those gasoline and tire
rationing woes you swore at), and finally back home to the Public
Housing Administration in Boston from 1942 to 1947.

Then came the step of opening my own law office. Uncle Sam
wasn't doing much about public housing, but Massachusetts, Con-
necticut, and New Hampshire inaugurated their own programs
and kept me busy for several years, These programs turned my
practice into the construction and municipal bond fields and there
1 am today — with contractors, subcontractors, and municipali-
ties as my principal clients.

January 30, 1942, still stands out as my brightest day. That’s
the day I turned in my bachelor’s card of thirty-three years’
standing and took unto mysclf a wife, Sally Alpert, a lawyer and
administrator, charming, efficient housewife, wonderful mother,
and for eight years my partner in the office. I couldn’t ask for
anything more and I still pinch myself and wonder why I was so

[ 226}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fortunate. Yes, I do that even when she takes that pile of pending
matters off my desk and insists that I follow her example of a
clear desk with only the immediate matter on top.

Linda came first in October of 1943. She looks like her father,
is slow and thorough like him, but certainly didn’t inherit her
lovely voice or her writing talent from my side of the family.
At eleven she is rapidly becoming a young lady (much too rapidly
for us), but with a genuine feeling for the underdog. Much as
we like to take credit for this refreshing development, we both
confess a good deal of the credit for this goes to those “ole
genes.”

Laura followed Linda in seventeen months. She has the Alpert
family looks, is quick and bright like her mother, and is just as
meticulously efficient. So close is she in age to her sister, we tend
to forget that seventeen months is a long bit of time for children.

Our law practice keeps us much too busy. Two years ago, we
had a house built in Newton (our present home) without any of
the trials and tribulations suffered by most of our friends, and
well within our budget. We are both still trying to find a way
to take care of our practice, do justice to the yard, spend time
with the girls, take part in community activities, and I, to get in
some tennis and squash. Moving to Newton was a godsend to my
“wind,” as I walk about three miles a day to and from the trains;
hence, the tennis and squash continue fairly well.

In politics we were both brought up with the New Deal in
Washington from 1933 and we are both registered Democrats.
Sally is a member of our City Committee, and the Democrats are
becoming increasingly stronger in this former Republican strong-
hold. Having lived through the glorious Roosevelt days (Sally

was a secretary to Ben Cohen of the Cohen-Corcoran team), we
both believe that it takes inspired and courageous leadership in
Washington to attract able and devoted government personnel to
direct the affairs of state — and we are looking for such leader-
ship under Adlai Stevenson in 1957.

[ 227 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

FERDINAND WILMERDING COUDERT

woME apoarss: Sto Fifth Ave, New York ar, N. Y.

orrick annress: Coudert Brothers, 483 Madison Ave. New York 22, N. Y
pon: Feb. g rong New York, N. Y. parents: Frederic René Coudert,
Alice Tracy Wilmerding.

paerarrD at: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. miagna cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1933;
us. (Columbia Univ.), 1937.

margiep: Helen Fraser Carey, Oct. 14, 1942, Greenwich, Conn.
occupanon: Lawyer, parmer in finn.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pans American Club, 1952-54; vice-president,

Humaniues Fund, Inc, since 1951; secretary, Committee for the Promo-
ton of Advanced Slavic Cultural Studies, Inc., since 1952, the C. T. Loo

Chinese Educational Fund, Inc., since 1951; member Committee to Visit

the Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures at Harvard, since
1952.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York, New York
County Lawyers Association; American Society of International Law,
University Club; Century Association, New York Chapter of Confrérie
des Chevaliers du Tastevin and Paris American Club, New York;
Metropolitan and Army & Navy Clubs, Washington, Harvard Club,

Boston, Union Interalli¢, Paris.

AT the time of my graduation I had decided on an academic
career in the field of modern languages and literatures. | had
majored in Romance languages, had studied comparative litera-
ture with Professor Irving Babbitt and had even taken a course in
Russian with Professor Leo Weiner, whom many will remember
as one of the more picturesque figures to be encountered in the
Yard during our undergraduate days. Therefore, on leaving col-
lege, I went abroad for two years of study and travel. My first
two semesters in Europe were spent at the University of Berlin.
An otherwise intellectually and culturally stimulating year in
Berlin was marred by Nazi- and Communist-induced student dis-
orders and the general political tension preceding Hitler’s rise
to power. There followed a year in Paris at the Sorbonne and the
Ecole des Langues Orientales, where I continued my Russian
studies.

In the fall of 1932 I returned to Harvard to do work in Slavic
languages and literatures under the late Professor Samuel Cross.
I spent two years taking most of the available courses in this and
related ficlds and obtained my Master's degree in the process.

[228]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

However, the depression had a way of altering the best laid plans.
In the spring of 1934 the prospects for a career in Slavic studies
did not appear bright. Consequently, I decided to switch to
law and — having spent six years in Cambridge — entered Colum-
bia Law School.

Except for the war years, I have practised in New York. Our
practice being international in character — we have a Paris office
— provides us with more than our quota of difficult cases and
unusual clients. I specialize in estate administration, which can get
pretty complex when the deceased left property in five or six
_ countries, each with differing laws and tax systems and most of
them with strict currency controls. So far I have been fortunate.
I have escaped both boredom and ulcers.

In 1941, after Pearl Harbor, in order to put my previous lin-
guistic training to good use for Uncle Sam, who was about to
call me, I took a leave of absence from my firm and started ant in-
tensive course in Japanese. This had two important results. I
was commissioned first lieutenant in the Signal Corps and I met
my future wife. We were married ten days before I was called
to active service. I was stationed in Arlington, Virginia, during
the war and on my discharge from the Army in 1946, resumed the
practice of law.

I have never lost my interest in languages. Recently I took up
modern Greek and was pleased to find during my first visit to
Greece in the spring of 1952 that I was quite able to travel about
on my own in that storied land so rich in monuments of the past
and haunting landscapes, but so woefully lacking in modern

creature comforts. .

In 1950 my wife and I bought a summer home in Lyme, Con-
necticut, surrounded by hemlock woods and situated on a ledge
with a view down the Connecticut River to Long Island Sound.
We enjoy the walks through the woods and the opportunities
we have to observe animal life. The occasional glimpses we get
of a doe and her fawns quietly munching on our lawn more than
compensate us for the damage inflicted on our shrubbery. To
strike a balance, we also have copperheads. As radio reception is
unusually good, I can listen in on my Hallicrafter to the propa-
ganda battles of the cold war conducted throughout the world in
a babel of tongues.

[ 229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

On the lehter side, TP have, thanks to some of my French
friends, leamed to appreciate good Burgundy and have become
a Chevalier du Tastevin. Fortunately for my constitution and
girth, dinners are held at infrequent intervals. The French have
taught me, however, chat the pleasures of the palate are definitely
worth culavating, [ hope soon to cultivate them further by
making a gastronomic tour through Burgundy.

As I look back over the last twenty-five years, what strikes me
most is how little my basic interests have changed since college
days. My years at Harvard developed in me intellectual and
spiritual resources which have been an inestimable asset ever since.

CLINTICE LUTHER COWAN

HOME appress: Hancock, N. H.
OFFICE aporess: Dublin Consolidated School, Dublin, N. H.

Bors: June 3, 1908, Schoolton, Seminole Co, Okla. parents: John Luther
Cowan, Clara Ida Kennedy.

prePARED AT: Okemah High School, Okemah, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; ED.M., 1936.

mareizp: Bernice Katherine Lacount, June 17, 1933, Cambridge, Mass.
Guiprex: Carl Edwin, Aug. 2, 1939; Ray Stanley, Sept. 16, 1941.

occupation: Teacher-principal, eight-grade elementary school.

oFFices HELD: President, Muskogee Educational Association, 1938-39, Ele-
mentary Principal Department, Northeast District, Oklahoma Edu-
cational Association, 1942-43; superintendent, Church School, St. Paul's
Methodist, Muskogee, Okla., 1936-42; lay-leader, Lynn District, Meth-

odist Church, 1946-48; secretary, 1949-52, president, 1952-53, Boston
Methodist Social Union.

MEMBER OF: Boston Kiwanis,

SEPTEMBER, 1930, found me attending classes again, in Gar-
rett Biblical Institute, Evanston, Illinois. This pattern was to
persist, as student or teacher, until 1947. After one year at
Garrett, I transferred to the Harvard Divinity School, as part-
time student and part-time assistant director of the Wesley Foun-
dation (Methodist) at Harvard. This was a memorable year. In
it | had courses with Dr, Pitirim Sorokin and Dr. Richard Cabot,
but more important, 1 became engaged to Bunnie Lacount. For
two more years | was around Harvard, working as assistant direc-
tor of the Wesley Foundation and studying in the Harvard

[230]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Graduate School of Education, summers and winters. In the sum-
mer of 1933, the middle of the depression, 1 borrowed money to
get married and go to summer school! Having completed course
requirements for the Ed.M. by June, 1934, I began a four-month
search for that “first” job. The trek led over New England,
to Oklahoma, and back again to Cambridge. In late September,
I had just agreed to start work with Morgan Memorial, Boston,
when I had a telephone call from Oklahoma. I accepted the job,
teaching social studies in West Junior High School, Muskogee,
and on borrowed money Bunnie and I went again by Greyhound
bus the 2,000 miles to Oklahoma. What a job! I taught six periods
a day, four preparations; a home-room class and a Junior Hi Y
Club; two hundred kids a day —and ninety dollars a month for
eight months. Yet I sincerely felt that finding the job was provi-
dential!

We spent ten good years in Muskogee: three years as teacher;
seven years as elementary principal, first of one then of two
schools, with a class in junior college history thrown in for good
measure. There we bought our first home, and there our sons were
born. These were the war years also. My “service” contributions
were on the home front: bond drives, scrap drives, rationing, hot-
lunch programs, after-school activities for the kiddies. One sum-
mer I helped an electrical contractor do his part in the building of
Camp Gruber, near Braggs, Oklahoma. Other summers I spent
working for an ice company (and crushed my foot), for the R.C.
Cola Bottling Company, selling World Book Encyclopedia, and
attending Harvard Summer School.

In the summer of 1944 we succumbed to the lure of the East,
gave up our work in Muskogee, sold our home and car, and came
back to Massachusetts, without a position or location. We
“camped” in Watertown in the parsonage of the late Dr. Edgar
J. Helms, founder of Morgan Memorial and Goodwill Industries
of America. Harvard Placement Office (Mr. Dana Cotton) and
the teacher agencies went into high gear, and soon I was chosen
as principal (military substitute) of the junior high in Marble-
head, Massachusetts. After a year and a half, the veteran re-
turned, took his position as principal in the middle of the school
year. I took this opportunity of trying “greener?” pastures, and
hereby hangs the tale of the next eight years, 1946-1954.

[ 231 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

For the first owo vears of this period of wandering we lived
in Martichead, and T waded about the edges of the turbulent
waters of the sea of business. Specifically I was a direct salesman,
frst of the World Book Encyclopedia (full-time for fifteen
months) and then of life insurance, with the Carter Agency of the
Fquitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, Boston
ofice, no less! Between these two jobs, the summer of 1947 was
one of the best we can remember: a quick motor trip to Okla-
homa to visit relanves and friends, then a summer in Maine near
Waldoboro, where Bunnie and I were cooks at the Butter Point
Farm Inn, with our family cabin, ample time off, and a young
“governess” for the boys!

Throughout our lives the “service motive” has always been a
directing factor. For both of us, church attendance and “church
work” with choirs, church schools, official bodies, etc., have been
the rule. So, before I got safely into the business realm, a call to
full-time missionary service unexpectedly came my way. In
August, 1948, we sold our home in Marblehead, moved into the
Lucy Stone Home in Dorchester, and I began five interesting years
as managing director of the Goodwill Industries of Morgan
Memorial, pioneer social service agency of Boston, and mother of
102 Goodwill Industries now all over America and Canada. In
the midst of this work, as with all previous jobs, a persistent dream
with us was one day to have and operate a home-school in a rural
setting to minister to needy boys.

Out of the blue, this dream became a reality in the summer of
1953, when we were chosen as resident directors of the newly-
established Brookhaven Home for Boys in Chelsea, Vermont.
Not only were we directors, but cook, housekeeper, gardener,
yard-man, business manager, publicity agent, and the total staff as
well! It was an informative year, although a trying one, which
proved too much for Bunnie’s health. On advice of her doctor,
we resigned in August, 1954. |

Since then, with Somerville, Massachusetts, as a base of opera-
tions and Dana M. Cotton of Harvard Placement Office as con-
fidant and guide, we have “travelled intensively” in New Eng-
land (over 3,600 miles). After eight years of wandering down in-
teresting by-paths, I ain ready “to go to school again,” and this
time perhaps it will be “for keeps.” Starting in September, I

[ 232]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

shall be the teacher-principal of the Dublin Consolidated Ele-
mentary (eight-grade) School, in the wonderful Monadnock
Region; and our home will be in Hancock, New Hampshire, one
of Samuel Chamberlain’s “Six Typical New England Towns.”

So, although my last twenty-five years since graduation have
been manifestly far below the “typically Harvard” pattern, they
have been happy and rewarding years and at least “typically
American.”

DANIEL FINCH COWLES

HOME ADDRESS: 321 N.E, 15th Ave., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1908, Glens Falls, N. Y. parents: Daniel Howard Cowles,
Isabel Finch,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

OCCUPATION: Business.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

LESTER SIMON CRAMER

HOME ADDRESS: 1572 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 3, 1908, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Max Cramer, Bessie
Pontinovitz.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cu72 laude, 1930; LL.B. 1954.

MARRIED: Freeda S. Cohen, April 24, 1929, Pawtucket, R. I. cuitp: David,
July 14, 1930 (a2. Laurel Jones, Oct. 3, 1951).

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Wage director, National War Labor Board, Region I, June-

_ December, 1945; chairman, National Wage Stabilization Board, Region

I, March, 1946-February, 1947; Greater Boston Council, American
Jewish Congress, 1949-50; lecturer, Northeastern University, since 1947.

MEMBER oF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Economic Association; Harvard
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: The Ancient Epic, 1949; Suits and Suability Under the Taft-
Hartley Act (co-author); Labor's Right to Organize (co-author).

[ 233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ROBERT STUART CRAWFORD

HOME Aporess: 14 Forest Rd. Wavne, Pa,

oer apoerss. Gaunt Portland Cement Co, Architects Bldg., Philadelphia,
Pa

pas: Aug. 15, gio, New York, N.Y. parenrs: Gustavus Chambers Craw-
ford, ‘o:, Georgina Lily Urquhart.

PREPARED AT: East Orange High School, East Orange, N. J.

VEARS [NS COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. 1930; S.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1932; CPA. (New York), 1938.

marrizD: Mary Byrd Newcomer, June 15, 1946, Clarksburg, W. Va. cup:
Sarah Byrd, Aug. 19, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Chambers Crawford, 735.
oocuPpaTioN: Treasurer, Giant Portland Cement Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Philadelphia; St. Davids Golf
Club.

AT this moment, I can certainly sympathize with the poor chap
in the Class of 1927 who found himself surrounded with tax re-
tums and governmental regulations. Not only do I find myself
in a similar situation, but in addition my office is full of revenue
agents checking and rechecking my company’s tax returns.
How does one whose father and mother originally wanted him
to follow either’s professional footsteps into engineering or medi-
cine wind up trying to protect the financial interests of a cement
company? Peculiarly, it seems to have happened in a series of
four-year cycles. These cycles started in College where a slight

difficulty with chemistry, integral calculus, and advanced physics
made a temporary economist of me.

Business being what it was in 1930, I was confronted with quite

a problem when one of the deans at the Harvard Business School
told me I was too young to enroll. Consequently, I entered the
Columbia University School of Business rather than wait. The
following two years of graduate work and my subsequent ap-
pointment as an instructor in accounting kept me from being too
badly scarred by the depression.

In 1934 the desire to see if I could “practice what I taught”
took me from teaching into public accounting. For the following
four years | worked for Arthur Andersen & Company in New
York City. However, it was not long before I changed the

ue ” or, . .
“working for” to “learning from” — for the pastures of private
accounting soon began to appear greener,

[ 234]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When I received my C.P.A. in 1938, I bid public accounting

goodby to become controller of Max B. Miller & Company, Inc.,

a New York engineering firm specializing in oil refinery construc-

tion. Then followed four pleasant years.

In the war year of 1942, I was informed by a Navy doctor that

I was too decrepit to be an officer in the Supply Corps. Never-
theless, the Army took a different view and decided I was not
too decrepit to be an infantryman — thus the gqth Division. This
difference in viewpoint still puzzles me at times. It was perhaps
less puzzling how it was decided that, after four years at Harvard
and four at Columbia, I needed more education. At any rate, I
later found myself spending nine months at the University of
Chicago studying German. Logically, after completing this
course, I was sent to England and joined the ist Civil Affairs
Regiment (French). Even this regiment ultimately would have
ended up in Germany, but before this happened the Army dis-
covered my accounting background and shipped me back to do
Contract Termination (English).

During the preceding four years it was easy to think that the
finest piece of paper in the world was a “Greetings” letter in re-
verse. This came along in due course in 1946, but by this time
another piece of paper, namely a marriage license, had far super-
seded it in value. The girl who came with the license in that year
keeps telling me that, since she was once a newspaper reporter,
she could do a much better job writing this than I— but don’t
they always! In business during this four-year period, it was
back with Max B. Miller and more or less the same thing as before
the war, except for dabbling a bit in purchasing and finance in
addition to accounting. When Mr, Miller, the president of the
firm, became ill in 1950, it soon became apparent that the com-
pany would not catty on without him, and thus ended another
four years.

The year 1950 also. saw the birth of our only child, Sally. I
must admit that all they say about children is true, although some-
times I wish I weren’t so close to my Twenty-fifth Reunion when
it comes to handling a four-year old. In 1951, after helping liqui-
date my old firm, we moved to Philadelphia so that I could trans-
fer my affections from the oil industry to the cement industry.
The latter industry may not be so spectacular as the former, but a

[ 235 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

g'awe at the financial page will indicate that everything is not
necessarily always to the spectacular.

All in all, it doesn’t seem like twenty-five years — but it does
add up to that, doesn’t it!

MARK THOMAS CREHAN

HOME apoeess: 39 Firth Rd. Roslindale 31, Mass.

orrice aporrss: Girls High School, Boston, Mass.

poRN: Jan. 25, 1904, Boston, Mass. parents: John Joseph Crehan, Ellen Kelly.

preparep aT: High School of Commerce, Boston, Mass.; Boston College High
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).

Maggiep: Agnes Marie Robichaud, Nov. 28, 1934, Cambridge, Mass.
cHTDREN: Rathleen, Sept. 21, 1941; Paula, May 2, 1944.

occupanrion: Teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, New England Association of Football Officials,
Boston Chapter, Eastern College Officials, member, Executive Com-
mittee, Schoolmen’s Association.

MEMBER oF: Gridiron Club of Boston; Massachusetts High School Coaches;
New England Association of Football Officials; Boston Chapter, Eastern
Intercollegiate Football Association; Massachusetts Basketball Officials
Association, Boston High School Track Officials.

RALPH CREWS

HOME appress: Mfill Neck, Long Island, N. Y.
oFFice. aporess: Corporation Trust Co., 120 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BoRN: May 26, 1909, Riverside, Ill. parents: Ralph Crews, Elizabeth Stuart
Sherman.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1933.

Magrriep: Dorothea Whiting, April 12, 1935, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced
1943); Magali Leuba, April, 1951, Geneva, Switzerland. cup: Seth,
Jan, 31, 1936.

HARVARD $0N: Scth Crews, '57,

occuparion: Lawyer; general counsel to Corporation Trust Company.

REFLECTING on the well-known number of years since we
graduated, it seems to be harder to sum them up (Ed.: and to take
almost as long) than to live them out. Historically, I went to the
Law School and my grades missed by a hair; I cleared the default,
but decided to finish out at Boston University Law School. I had

[236]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an opening in New York and started practising there in the fall
of 1933 with Shearman & Sterling at 55 Wall Street. For the first
two years most of my work was in litigation, after which both I
and my employers realized that my tastes lay in the business, or
so-called corporate, side of the law, and that has been my trade
ever since.

I was married in 1935 to Dorothea Whiting from Cambridge,
and we had one son, Seth, the following year. (Seth is now in the
Army.) From marriage until the war I lived in city apartments
with the consequent limitations on recreation. Hours of work
were long and vacations were always uncertain; one brief journey
to Germany and occasional sailing and skiing trips were the best
I could manage. |

The enormous issues presented to us all by the war brought also
a Clearer light on our own personal situations, I believe, and when
I signed up in the Navy in the summer of 1942, my wife and I
separated, and were divorced the following year. My years in
service were in the anti-submarine business, on small craft, and
except for three months more or less as an apprentice in the
chilly Atlantic, in the Pacific area. It was not a period to dwell
upon at any length on the occasion of this happy Reunion, but it
was too long to forget completely and must have left an imprint
on all of us (to say nothing of those it took from our midst).

In February, 1946, I went back to my law firm, now changed in
name to Shearman & Sterling & Wright. Part of my work was in
banking law and part in the field of aviation transport. In the
spring of 1949, I received an offer to go to Geneva as counsel to
the shipping division of the International Refugee Organization
and, after concealing from prying eyes my ignorance of maritime
law and putting my trust in the good Lord, I lived for nearly two
happy years in that blessed city, my boy being with me in a local
day school for the first year before returning to Milton. My
last year there was taken up largely with a successful siege to the
heart of a representative of one of the country’s most exportable
products, and I brought her back to New York in May of 1951.
That summer saw me reviewing the various untasteful ways of
paying the rent and ending up luckily in my present post.

In the summer of 1953, we bought a house in the village of
Mill Neck, paying the price of riding the poor old Long Island

[ 237 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Railway in return for the blessings we have; I shall not spell them
out here in hopes of luring others who may read this to come visit
us. There are enough classmates in the vicinity at least to make
up a foursome, which has vet to be tried, so far as I know.

You find a lot of things to worry about when you are forty-
five (forty-six when we reune), different from the apprehen-
sions of our undergraduate days. You also find a lot of different
satistacuons. My personal debt to the College lies —I fervently
pray — in that it helped me along the path toward proper evalua-
tions of the two. [ll never forget President Lowell’s remarks to
our Class as we entered upon our freshman year, generally to the
effect that he did not expect us to go forth into the world after
four years at college as educated men, but that he did expect
us to graduate as men prepared to educate ourselves in the con-
tinuing process. I would be a happier man if I thought Id lived
up to his enlightened expectation. More tangibly, I look forward

to this coming June eagerly to revel in the associations college
brought to us all.

+ LEONARD MORRIS CRIPPS
BoRN: March 25, 1908, Salt Lake City, Utah. parents: Bert Leonard Cripps,
Edith Morris.
prepare aT: East High School, Salt Lake Ciry, Utah.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31).
DIED: Sept. 15, 1950, New York, N. Y.

UPON graduation from Harvard, Cripps became a free-lance
story analyst and literary and historical researcher for several
Hollywood movie studios. In 1936 he joined Universal Pictures,
Inc., as chief story analyst; the following year he became associ-
ate story editor and a year later, story editor (head of the story
department). He enlisted in the photographic division of the
Army Signal Corps in 1942 and took part in the invasion of
Algiers. He served in the Mediterranean Theatre and at General
Clark’s forward headquarters in Italy before separation after
three years’ service. He returned to his former position with Uni-
versal Pictures, Inc., where he remained until 1948. He then
became head of the literary department of Berg-Allenberg, Inc.,

[ 238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a Beverly Hills agency for artists. He resigned to conduct his
own search for literary material in association with a Hollywood
agency and Curtis Brown, Ltd., of New York, and for this pur-
pose spent some months in Europe.

FREDERICK EUGENE CROCKETT

HOME ADDRESS: 58 West St., Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hunneman & Co., Inc., South Hamilton, Mass.

BORN: July 20, 1907, Ipswich, Mass. PARENTS: Eugene Anthony Crockett,
M.D., 91, Elizabeth Le Bourgeois.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MARRIED: Charis Denison, June 21, 1934, Williamstown, Mass. (divorced
1949); Patricia Landon, May 3, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Charles Crockett, ’32.

OCCUPATION: Real Estate broker.

AM at present in the real estate business: a country broker, in-
dependent, much in the open air, and happy though claiming no
riches. Surprisingly enough, I believe that even my subconscious
has achieved complacency after much buffeting. My hobbies are
puttering at home, travelling about the country, and political dis-
cussions.

Emerging from sophomorism, Dr. Crockett’s little boy jostled
his way into becoming a member of Richard E. Byrd’s first South
Polar Expedition in 1928. Ed Goodale, ’28, Norman Vaughan,
"29, and I were selected as dog team drivers. We were, then, until
the spring of 1930 the guardians of 100, more or less, Husky dogs.
The best ones, victors of numerous fights, dragged us and our
baggage to within 300 miles of the Pole itself. This was a trek of
1500 miles and for three months without re-supply.

Upon the return of the expedition and until June, 1934, the
Crane Company, manufacturer of plumbing and heating equip-
ment, employed me in various capacities. In 1933, still with
nickels and dimes jingling in the pay envelope, I took a part-
time hitch with CBS in New York as commentator for the 2d
Byrd Antarctic Expedition’s Grape-Nuts-sponsored radio pro-
gram. Because of not enough fan mail, I guess, it was terminated.

In 1934 gold went up to $35 an ounce and its glitter caught my
fancy. Off and on for the next two years I explored the ‘South-

L 239 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

west, The life of a desert rat prospector was fascinating but,
cand:div, not remunerative.

In 19361, together with my wife’s keenest urging and support,
successfully promoted an expedition to the South Seas with the
codperation and under the auspices of the Philadelphia Academy
of Natural Scicnces and Peabody Museum, Harvard. For more
than the next two years the expedition party reconnoitered, by
means of a 60 foot schooner, the remoter regions of the South
Pacific from the Galapagos Islands through Polynesia, in and
around the Selomon Islands, New Britain, and along the north
coast of New Guinea. Prewar reminiscences of this vast island-
dotted ocean is chronicled in Charis Crockett’s book titled The
House in tke Rain Forest, regretfully out of print.

After 1940 calamities, I was ripe for federal service — only
postponed while I helped pioneer propaganda shortwave radio
broadcasts, a forerunner of the Voice of America. In the sum-
mer of 1941 the Navy gilded me with a stripe and a half — osten-
sibly to send me out for a liaison and intelligence job to the
Solomon Islands. Lucky me—I landed instead on Greenland’s
east coast some weeks later. My job, as officer in charge of a small
exploratory party, was to explore that portion of the Arctic for
aircraft operations. I was also directed to evaluate German capa-
bilities in North Greenland and, as well, provide the weather serv-
ice with four hourly synoptics. Other details of my naval, then
military, endeavours are recorded in the Fifteenth Anniversary
Report.

Almost immediately after the war, I settled in California.
There, ironically, Joe Mankiewicz selected me as his expert on the
Boston tradition in the filming of “The Late George Apley.”
This was a brief interlude before assuming my main occupation as
lemon grower. Sandwiched in here should be brief mention that
in 1948 I ran for the California legislature, but was not success-
ful in unseating the rock-ribbed incumbent.

After the outbreak in Korea, because of special Southeast Asian
knowledge and experience, the Central Intelligence Agency re-
cruited me and I was assigned to Washington. There I performed
classified work, the details of which cannot be divulged, except
to say that during this time I promoted to at least this person's
complete satisfaction, my present happy marital status.

[240]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAROLD FRED CROSS

MAILING ADDRESS: 1820 Jefferson Pl., N.W., Washington, D.C.

BorN: Aug. 12, 1907, Hyde Park, Mass. parents: Fred Cross, Carrie Maud
Davis. |

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Hyde Park, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

OCCUPATION: Art.

FOR some time past my professional career and life have been at
a kind of impasse which I am now in the process of resolving. Al-
though this is our twenty-fifth year out of college (I also studied
at the Graduate School of Architecture, 1930-31, and at the Grad-
uate School of Arts and Sciences, 1936-37), I find myself still
looking forward to the opportunity of experiencing for the first
time some of the more fundamental and usually routine accom-
plishments and satisfactions of adult life, such as many of our
classmates have long since been reporting to you and which I
want and intend to report myself before it is too late. The words,
“The past is prologue,” which are inscribed on one of the govern-
ment buildings here in Washington, seem almost to have been
written with my present situation in mind.

With the exception of the four years that I was active as a
Naval Reserve officer during World War II, I have been engaged
in professional work more or less as indicated under “occupa-
tion,” the ramifications of which in art and in other fields are too
numerous to mention here. In the field of conservation of works
of art I saw, early in the depression, an opportunity to carry out
in general the kind of independent professional career that I had
previously been planning in more creative aspects of art and archi-
tecture. In the last twenty years, however, conditions in the field
have been changing radically and it has become increasingly ap-
parent to me that this sort of rewarding independent career in it
is no longer possible, and other avenues open in the field have
never had any attraction for me. In spite of the fact that I have
the very best of background and training, and have achieved what
I believe to be a not inconsiderable reputation in the conservation
field and am a founding fellow of the definitive professional or-
ganization in it, I am, therefore, at the moment in the process of
expanding my sphere of activity and turning professionally to

[ 241 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

other fields. However, perhaps “returning” would be a better
word to use since the ficlds in question are art and architecture,
ora Ge-up between some phase of art and architecture and busi-
nex, ficids of my original and long-continued active interest.

The net result of all this is thac I seem to have arrived at the

ume of our Twenry-fifth Reunion with a very considerable
reputation ina field that I am about to leave, with a background
of training and experience that can be turned productively and
prontably in the general directions indicated and perhaps in
others, and with a start made towards making such a change, but
with nothing actually settled as yet.

There! So much for the long “prologue”! Now, on with the
play itself. First report, next year; and regular ones, thereafter.

JOHN CROSS

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Fayerweather St, Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 82 Newmarket Sq., Boston 18, Mass.

por: Feb. 8, 1908, Groton, Mass. parents: Albert Cross, Anne Sargent.
prePaneD aT: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

margiep: Barbara Ballantine, Dec. 19, 1931, Washington, D. C. CHILDREN:

Virginia Gay, Aug. 19, 1934; Joan Winthrop, May 4, 1937; Linda Ballan-
tine, March 13, 1940.

occupation: Manufacturer's representative.

MEMBER OF: Brookline Country Club; Duxbury Yacht Club; Harvard Clubs
of Boston and New York; Society of Colonial Wars.

TWO weeks after graduation, I joined the Dewey & Almy Chem-
ical Company of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and have been associ-
ated with it in one capacity or another ever since, except for a
short stint in the Navy.

Three years ago, I left the payroll of the company and set my-
self up as an independent manufacturer’s representative. My ties
with Dewey & Almy are just as close, however, as I am the New
England representative for their Cryovac Division, which sells a
special transparent packaging film and the packaging machine to
handle it. This last venture has made life more interesting, if per-
haps somewhat more precarious, being out on my own. The

business has grown steadily over the past years, and I have high
hopes for the future.

[242]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We still live in Cambridge at the old stand, where we have been
for the last fifteen years, except for the summers when we move
to our small cottage in Duxbury.

As for sports, tennis has practically gone by the board. |
played about three sets of mixed doubles last summer — mixed,
mind you, not men’s. In place of it, my wife and I spend most of
our summer weekend hours on our small powerboat chasing the
highly elusive and almost, to me, mythical striped bass. The
trouble is that we like to fish in the dayhght when the sun is
shining and when it’s nice and warm. Last summer also included
several short cruises. On one of them we circumnavigated the
Cape. The trip up the outside from Chatham to Provincetown
with one foot on the beach was interesting, but made me think
of the advantages of twin engines. Next summer we are going to
take the boat to Maine — after she gets rebuilt, that is, thanks to
Carol!

Two years ago my wife and I took a three weeks’ trip to Eu-
rope in the spring of the year and enjoyed it so much that we
devote considerable time trying to figure ways and means of do-
ing it again — the whole process being complicated by the desires
of our daughters to do likewise. Gay went last summer, and Joan
goes this.

Gay graduates from Briarcliff Junior College this spring, and
Joan from Beaver Country Day School. Joan is headed for Brad-
ford College here in Massachusetts in the fall. Linda, the young-
est, has three more years at Beaver.

Politically, I am a Republican with some major reservations.

FRANK EDWARD CUMMINGS

HOME apprEss: Old Lyme, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: Drake, Startzman, Sheahan & Barclay, Room 1400, 41 E.
42nd St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1908, Boston, Mass. pArEnts: Thomas Henry Cummings,
Agnes Baxter. .

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926~1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MaRRIED: Matilde Rosalind Lucas, Oct. 18, 1940, Fremont, Ohio. cHtLp:
Judith Baxter, Sept. 29, 1946.

OccuUPATION: Consultant on physical distribution and materials handling.

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
ora tres HED. Preadent. Mile Creek Club.

vervtsra op: A ALA. SANE: Harvard Clubs of New York and Connecticut,
Ond Lyme Country Club.

rertacaTons: Papers on “Physical Distribution and Materials Handling” in
this country and abroad, published by the sponsoring association.

MY life since graduation has been closely tied up with industry
ina field which has narrowed to the specialized category of con-
sulung on physical distribution and materials handling. I am a
principal of our firm and find the life extremely fascinating and
intriguing, especially since each new problem has its own peculi-
arities,
T can't sav that I selected my profession, because in 1930 it was
non-existent and came into being immediately after the war. If
I had to point out those factors in my past which have prepared
me for this, I would find it impossible to isolate them. In 1930
my only wish was a job. During the next two or three years none
appeared to which I was particularly suited. September, 1933,
provided me with an opportunity as a punch press operator in an
automotive accessory plant. This exposure to industrial life
opened up to me an interesting life in industrial engineering
which becomes more intriguing each day. My experience cov-
ered both large and small companies and various jobs from press
operator to general manager in a small company. ‘This broad field
of experience has been extremely valuable in my present work.

The characteristics of my work — which requires considerable
travel in supervising teams of engineers — do not allow a great
deal of time for outside activities. These usually consist of tennis
and skating on weekends and an oversize garden which I am now
returning to its original state by alternate and gradual application
of winter rye and clover.

My wife, through the League of Women Voters, P.T.A., and
the Women’s Republican Club, has more than assumed whatever
time I feel should be given to our community life. This has been
very fortunate because when I return home after a week’s atten-
tion to clients’ problems, 1 am more in the mood for a walk in the

woods with my daughter and the dogs than for an attack on the
problem of regional schools,

[244]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES HENRY CURTIS

HOME AppRESS: 25 W. Holly St., Phoenix, Ariz.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Miami Copper Co., Box 100, Miami, Ariz.

BoRN: Feb. 14, 1909, Colorado Springs, Colo. parents: George Selsor Curtis,
Mary Edna Armstrong. .

PREPARED AT: Phoenix Union High School, Phoenix, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: 8.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

occuPATION: Metallurgist.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Ore Dressing Division, Arizona Section, 1951,
National Committee on Concentration, MBD, 1954-55, A.L.M.M.E.

MEMBER OF: A.I.M.M.E.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers.

TRYING to write about oneself is much like walking uncon-
cernedly along the street and suddenly coming face to face with
a mirror. Having been requested, so to speak, to describe this
“stranger” takes a bit of study. What really HAS happened to me
in the twenty-five years since I left the Harvard Yard?

I went to work for the Miami Copper Company as soon as I had
hung my cap and gown in moth balls. I am still with the Miami
Copper Company; which, in this day and age, must constitute
some sort of miracle — or else a rut! However, I have found my
job as metallurgist both interesting and satisfying.

As the ads would say, I have often been the Best Man, but
never a Bridegroom. My family live near enough for me to spend
frequent weekends and holidays at home. In my own comfortable
quarters, I find music and reading entertaining and restful with
“no arguments, please.” Any spare hours are spent in my rose
garden. I find it good for my back and soul. Occasional trips
to New York and other cities yield pleasant renewals in contacts
with friends, also an opportunity for such pleasures as the opera,
visits to museums and other sources of culture denied us in most
parts of the Southwest — except, of course, through the media of
radio and television.

[245]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

+‘ ROBERT CUSHMAN, JR.
mas: Sept. 1, 1905, Brookline, Mass. parents: Robert Cushman, Mary
Poland.

parpareD AT: Choare School, Wallingford, Conn.
YEARS [N COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930,
pirp: June jo, 1931, Boston, Mass.

AFTER graduation and until his death, Cushman was associated
with Harris, Forbes & Company, Boston investment bankers.

JOSEPH LEROY CUSHWA

HOME apprEss: 15 Finch St., Ramsey, N. J-
OFFICE apprEss: Grace Line, Inc, 10 Hanover Sq., New York, N. Y.

Bors: Apmil 23, 1908, Newark, N. J. parents: Oscar Hunter Cushwa, Ethel
Powell Hunter.

PREPARED AT: Caldwell High School, Caldwell, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cia laude, 1930.

marriep: Georgia Evangeline Nelson, Nov. 28, 1939, East Orange, N. J.
cHitpreN: Elizabeth Hunter, Feb. 15, 1941; Susan Roberta, Jan. 9, 1946.

OccuPATION: Assistant to assistant vice-president in charge of Caribbean
operations, Grace Line, Inc.

oFFIces HELD: Treasurer, Sunday School, secretary-treasurer and vice-presi-

dent, Married Couples Club, St. John’s Episcopal Church, Ramsey, N. J.
MEMBER OF: Married Couples Club, St. John’s Church.

JOHN CROSS started all this business by saying “We may not all
have been ‘big shots’... .” Well, John, you are right. Mine
hardly qualifies as a sketch of a modern Ben Franklin, but rather
as an average New York commuter living in a quiet North Jersey
community with three blondes. Shame on you — with my wife
and two daughters!

I started working in September, 1930, with Congoleum-Nairn
in hard-surface floor coverings, including four months in Cleve-
land and the Jast two in Philadelphia, until March 15, 1932. The
depression continued, but the job didn’t. I decided I wanted
transportation work — lost two days off payrolls — started work-
ing March 18, 1932, with Grace Line in New York City, where
I have remained. Have worked in various departments: passenger,
purchasing, claims, also insurance, and since June, 1943, in the
operating department. Saw no war service, but my operating

[246]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

department duties required close coéperation with the War

Shipping Administration in vessel operations. My immediate su-

perior today is assistant vice-president in charge of Caribbean

Operations,

In leisure time, I prefer quiet evenings at home with my fam-
ily, including reading aided by cigars and potable refreshments,
plus a fireplace in season — and on weekends, indulge in the usual
house-painting chores in the open months and the fun of wood-
chopping and sawing in the cold months. Have served as secre-
tary-treasurer, also vice-president, of the Married Couples Club
of St. John’s Episcopal Church, and have served the last two
years as treasurer of the Sunday School (this business of rolling
pennies could easily become a lifetime job).

My wife, who is a graduate of St. Mary’s Episcopal Girls
School in Faribault, Minnesota, is the socializing force in our
household: active in church work, Woman’s Club, and County
P.T.A. Incidentally, Jim Barrett lost a damned good secretary
when I married Georgia, because she was working for him in
Short Hills, New Jersey, when I met her and proposed the first
night. P.S. We have just celebrated our Fifteenth Anniversary.

Vacations vary: West Virginia, Gettysburg, Maine, Martha’s
Vineyard. If circumstances permit, my wife and I would like
to buy waterfront acreage on the Eastern Shore of Maryland with
an eye to eventual retirement.

MEMORIES OF HARVARD —the fondest, always. AC-
TIVITIES — practically non-existent, but occasionally see old
friends. SONS — none to dedicate to Fair Harvard. DAUGH-
TERS — would like to see my elder daughter go to Radcliffe,
my younger to row stroke oar on the Wellesley crew. P.S. You
find the money.

In a few words: nothing sensational— varied by occasional
excitement — but at all times a substantial sense of the enjoyment
of wholesome living. As my wife and I sit back and study things
together, we work around to the conclusion that it sort of suits
us.

We have our Blessings — and Harvard was one of the earliest.

[ 247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

t+ KENNETH BOYNTON DAGGETT
mas: Nov. t, toor, Chester, Conn. parents: Arthur Phincas Daggett, Lillian
Ross.

parparrp at: Afamaroneck High School, Mamaroneck, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1030, DEGREE: A.B, 1930(31).
mp: Jan. 3.1939, New York, N.Y.

IN the year following graduation, Daggett was employed as a
salesman for the New York Life Insurance Company. At the
time of his death he was in the publishing business in New York

City.

RAYMOND EDWARD DAME

HOME ADDRESS: 3005 San Rafael St. Tampa, Fla.
OFFICE appress: Peninsular Telephone Co., Tampa, Fla.

pos: April 12, 1908, Portland, Maine. parents: Edward Lawrence Dame,
Katherine Lavina Gunn.

prepareD AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1930.

MarrieD: Frances Jean Winstead, May 22, 1945, Cambridge, Mass. cHILp:
Roderick Winstead, May 16, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Clement Dame, ’27.
occupation: Traffic supervisor, Peninsular Telephone Company.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Massachusetts Society; Sons of the
American Revolution.

I LIVED in New England before the war and engaged in the
telephone business. I volunteered for service before Pearl Harbor,
entered the Army as a private, and left the Signal Corps six years
later as a major.

I returned to Harvard on three significant occasions: to attend
the Tercentenary in 1936; to receive training in electronics at
Cruft Laboratory in 1942; and to marry Frances Jean Winstead
of Herrin, Illinois, at Appleton Chapel in 1945.

I relocated in Florida after the war and resumed telephone
work. Summer travels take us back to Harvard territory for
visits with my father and mother in Portland, Maine. My prin-

cipal interests are family, fishing, and the ventures of our son
Ricky, now in his eighth year.

[ 248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT DAVID DANA

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Hamlin Rd., Newton Centre 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wald & Dana, 40 Central St., Boston 9, Mass.

porN: Feb. 24, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Leon Dana, Rebecca
Hannah Siskind.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930, M.B.A., 1932.

MaRRIED: Frances M. Goldman, June 23, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Kenneth Roger, July 13, 1940; Clare Louise, Dec. 18, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lester Henry Dana, ’22.

occuPATION: Certified public accountant.

OFFICES HELD: Auditor, member executive and various committees, Massa-
chusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants; member various com-
mittees, American Institute of Accounts; officer and director, Temple,
Brotherhood, and charitable organizations.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants; Ameri-
can Institute of Accountants, New Century Club; University Club;
Temple Israel.

I REMEMBER very vividly my older brother’s horrified reaction
when I congratulated him on being a “quarter of a century” old.
Then at commencement I remember looking upon those alumni
returning for their Twenty-fifth Reunion as aged men. Now as
we return to Cambridge after a “few years,” I suddenly think of
those earlier reactions and say (grammatically), “That’s I, but
it can’t be twenty-five years!”

After graduating from the Business School, I entered public
accounting practice. Perhaps the fact that our present partnership,
which was formed in 1939, is an outgrowth of my original firm
association has given my professional life a certain continuity in
which the passage of time has lost some of its significance. I do
remember those early years when our efforts were expended to a
great extent on behalf of clients who were striving to overcome
the effects of the depression. Then the subsequent war years
brought increased demands for our services and we were soon
enmeshed in problems of taxes, renegotiation and termination,
various letters of the alphabet, and assorted headaches. The pat-
tern has remained generally the same, with new revenue acts,
pressures, and dead-lines symptomatic of our profession, which
are unfortunately the rule rather than the exception.

[ 249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I have served on various committees of the Massachusetts So-
ciety of Certified Public Accountants and the American Institute
of Accountants. I have been active for many years in the cam-
parms of the Associated Jewish Philanthropies and have also
parucipated in those of the United Community Services, Red
Cross, and many other charitable organizations. I have also served
as an officer and on the board of directors of Temple, Brother-
hood and other communal and philanthropic organizations.

Since mine is a service profession and service invariably requires
much too much time, Fran and I have generally preferred in-
formal types of vacations. We have had much pleasure in New
Hampshire in the fall, in Maine in the summer and, especially, on
short cruises which we have found completely relaxing. Un-
fortunately, I have not yet come up with the magic formula for

a southern vacation during the tax season. Theatre, symphony,

opera, and social evenings (without television and card games)
have been our principal diversions. Our family loyalty to the
Harvard football team remained steadfast throughout the years
and this has been rewarded by the pleasure derived from the suc-
cessful games of recent vintage. The football games have been a
wonderful outlet for me and I'd let my hair down if I had any.
My grandstand quarterbacking has continued to be top-grade. I
am respecting the numerical significance of my age by limiting
my tennis to playing with Ken and Clare. As soon as the com-
petition becomes too keen, I expect to make a fast retreat. I had
virtually given up golf in order to spend more time with the
children, but last year I started my comeback and was pleasantly
surprised.

Fran has many talents and considers oil painting as her favorite
hobby. Iam very proud of the “original Danas” which grace our
walls. Her favorite color is blue, but any similarity to Eli Yale is
purely coincidental.

We have found the development of our children to be a most
alsorbing experience. Ken graduated from the Fessenden School
last year and is now at Exeter. This year I have found that the
Fxcter of my memorics has become once more a living reality.

Ken is our “Mr. Reliable” At Exeter he is following family
tradition in his educational pursuits, and his loyalties and aspira-
tions to Harvard are deep-rooted.

[ 250 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Clare is now in the seventh grade (Upper School) at the Beaver
Country Day School. She is a petite young miss with excellent
codrdination and a passion for ballet. At the tender age of
twelve, she is being encouraged by her dancing teachers to set
her sights on a ballet career. Her parents are withholding com-
ment until after her formal education has been completed.

Our children are still in the growing years and, as we look
ahead, the family emphasis will still be on their development. We
have found the years that have passed most happy and rewarding.
In spite of the troubled times in which we live, we are looking
ahead with anticipation and confidence.

ARTHUR C. DANIELS

HOME ADDRESS: 128 Vanderbilt Ave., Manhasset, Long Island, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Institute of Life Insurance, 488 Madison Ave., New York 22,

N. Y.
BoRN: March 31, 1908, Richmond Hill, N. Y. Parents: Edwin Newton

Daniels, Minnie Lou Cogswell.

PREPARED AT: Richmond Hill High School, Richmond Hill, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Hortense K. Backus, June 26, 1933, Brockton, Mass, CHILDREN:
Ronald B., July 25, 1935; David A., March 29, 1937; Robert E., Oct. 1,

1940.
HARVARD SONS: Ronald Backus Daniels, ’57; David A. Daniels, 58.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Institute of Life Insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Club of Long Island, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Society of Life Office Management Association Graduates
(founder); Public Relations Society of New York; American As-
sociation for Public Opinion Research; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Handbook of Life Insurance, co-author; various public rela-
tions and life insurance articles.

THERE are those who bounce along through life with seeming-
less effort and no apparent goals. Fortunate fellows, indeed! But
I have to feel that life is strenuous to be happy — and it has been.
Master of my fate? Oh no, what really spun me around and
started me living was a little girl I met in 1928. Hortense is an
odd name, but it still sounds good to me. Yet it was 1933 before I
could find the money for two to live on. Oh yes, there was a
one-year detour while I attended the Harvard Law School and
found ten good reasons why law was not the career for me.

[251 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

When TP looked for a job, TE wanted it to be with a business
which had a sense of public interest and one which presented some
real chauenzes. The life insurance business with its concept of
social service and its mystical mathematical-economic foundations
appealed tome. I started in 1932 as an apprentice in consulting ac-
tuarial work — taking the business apart and trying to put it back
together again. They shipped me as live freight to trouble spots
or on regular assignments to life insurance companies around the
United States. Good experience and lots of fun seeing America.

My wife travelled with me until the family came along. In 1939
I made a transition to public relations work. Since then I have
been away less, but have travelled more.

Once I said I would never work for the federal government.
But from 1944 to 1946 I was in Washington trying to survive as
a lieutenant (j-g.), U.S.N.R., among and between senior officers
of the regular Navy. I was later a lieutenant. Tam eternally grate-
ful to the people who will endure the frustrations of governmental
Service.

College years — getting started on a career —the early years
of marriage, establishing a home and a family — are in my opin-
ion the ten most interesting years of life. No one should miss the
span from age eighteen to age twenty-eight. Our Class went
through these ten years and fifteen more — in other words, from
vouth to middle age — experiencing the most severe economic
depression, the worst world war, and then into this present era
which is marked by tremendous increases in economic productiv-
ity in the U.S.A. We should be versatile by now.

My work in the life insurance business since 1939 has furnished
me with a living and moving dramatization of these fantastic
years. It is the story of American families and their efforts to
keep the freedom of the individual and to maintain the home as
the true center of life. I have spent my time trying to explain and
interpret the role of life insurance in this picture to the American
public, at the same time, I have tried to help keep this business
as aware of the public's wishes as possible. The Institute of Life
Insurance is a voluntary association of life insurance companies
serving as the public relations organization of the business.

With three sons, my wife and [ have lived more in the atmos-
phere of the Jocker room than that of the boudoir. Cub scouting

[252]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lasted for years for all five of us. Time marches on and now
our two eldest sons have chosen Harvard and face the most chal-
Jenging years of life, with military service added as an extra
hurdle. It is good these years come while one is young.

Helping a church build itself back into community life took
several years of my spare time. But my favorite hobby for more
than fifteen years has been that of fund-raising and interviewing
boys for Harvard on behalf of the Harvard Club of Long Island
— fellows who need scholarships and couldn’t get there without
them. I was one of them. |

My social, political, and religious convictions are simple. ‘They
center around an interest in strengthening the growth of the indi-
vidual and family life.

Hobbies — the everlasting struggle of keeping home as it should
be in this do-it-yourself era; learning to speak French, despite
the fact that Harvard said I could; and getting into any grass root
community activities which will let me in and where I think I
can help.

Travels — my wife and I were mighty lucky to get a business
trip and holiday in France in 1952. This past summer, 1954, the
whole family drove through the mountains, deserts, national
parks, and cities of the western and Pacific states. It gave us a real
concept of a mighty country. Shall we make a tour of Europe in
1956? 1958? In any event, the future seems full of many opportu-
nities to pursue happiness.

JOSEPH WARREN McNAB DARLING

HOME ADDRESS: 8765 Stenton Ave., Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia 18, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2232 Fidelity-Phila. Tr. Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: May 5, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Joseph Robinson McNab
Darling, Charlotte Kelsey.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-28, 1930-31. DEGREES: S.B., 1930(31); M.B.A. (Univ.
of Pennsylvania), 1934; LL.B. (George Washington Univ.), 1954.
MaRRIED: Helene Manley. Beal, May 29, 1943, Washington, D. C. CHILDREN:
Mary Beal (stepdaughter), Jan. 5, 1928; Albert Reynolds Beal (step-
son), Dec. 30, 1929 (7. Ann Milburn, April, 1952); Venie Helene
McNab, March 21, 1944. GRANDCHILD: Albert Reynolds Beal, sth, Dec.
28, 1952.

HARVARD SON: Albert Reynolds Beal (stepson), ’53.

[253]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

a@ripar~os: Financier, attomev; bureaucrat; entreprencur,
osrers trip: Administrator, Philadelphia Field Economic Mobilization
Course, U.S. Army, 19¢i-s45 chief, European Branch, Department of
Commerce, 1951-52; U.S. Land Observer, North Rhine Westphalen,
Department of State, 1949-50; chicf of ordnance, Production Service
Division, 1042-44, Lieutenant colonel, U. S. Economic Division, Office of
Miltary Government, 1944-48, Berlin Sector, 1948-49, U. S. Army,
1942-49; financial coordinator, auditor, office manager, Socony Vacuum
Oil Company, 1937-42; bank examiner, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
1935-37; director, Chestnut Hill Investment Corporation, Darling In-
vestment Corporation; financial adviser to A. W. Kelsey and C. C.
Washburn estates; former member Board of Regents, American Uni-
versity Club of Berlin, School Board, Thomas A. Roberts School,
executive committee, P.T.A.; former acting S-3, adjutant, 7973d Com-
posite Group, Officers Reserve Corps; former president, Rhein Ruhr
Chapter, R.O.A.; 1st vice-president, Zoning Committee, Wyndmoor
Community Association; new members committee, Chamber of Com-

merce of Greater Philadelphia.

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club; Harvard Clubs of Boston, Philadelphia,
Washington, D. C., Philadelphia Cricket Club; American Club, London;

Sons of American Revolution; Penn Club; Masons (32d degree); So-
journers.

A QUARTER century in retrospect. A period world-shaking as
to history, when all the values were to be tested, both financial
and spiritual. A period started by our Class full of ideals, rela-
tively untried ideas, and new theories of banking, economics, gov-
ernmental place and responsibility in the lives of its citizens. 1930.
Study of the stature of wills, with every fourth house being sold
at sheriff's sale in Philadelphia. An episode when the wrong
house was purchased to defend a second mortgage, so rapid were

the distressed sales. Legally shaking mortgage moratoria. New-

fangled ideas as to managed currencies, business cycles. The New

Deal and new experiments. Kassel of Sweden’s theories of man-
aged currencies, White, and finally the great English financier,
Lord Keynes, whose economic ideas as to over-investing and over-
saving still have to be disproved, though they have been distorted
by politicians either way, saying deliberate inflation is justified,
or saying his theories cause inflation. Yet as a tool to try to under-
tand the phenomena of capital formation and how the cycles of

optinism and pessimism and the resulting capital booms and busts

occur, there is no better over-all gauge,

Perween 1934 and 1950— education and the vagaries of job

[254]

erie TPT

eee
pore PT Te ”

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

assignment took this Harvard graduate from the coal fields of
Pennsylvania and their banks which required examination to the
mountains of Czechoslovakia, the llanos of Venezuela, and the
fogs of Hamburg. International Oil takes one to most interesting
places: Holland and The Hague, the nearest thing to living in
Philadelphia, where after saying good day, one asks about Uncle
Otto and his niece and Cousin Jan, and where directors’ meetings
are broken up for coffee pause by the office boy.

The news of Pearl Harbor was heard on the short wave broad-
cast near Pariaguan in Venezuela, which led through Trinidad to
the office of the Chief of Ordnance in the Pentagon and then to
England, SHAEF, Versailles, Frankfurt, Berlin, and finally
Diisseldorf, both as lieutenant colonel and land observer for the
High Commissioner. The grim business of destroying the Nazi
organization and its logistic background and industrial supporting
set-up. Then the realization that with our Christian ethical back-
ground we could not let our defeated enemies starve to death as
a result of the complete breakdown of the old, bad Nazi system.
The difficult years of 1945-48 when it was nip and tuck
whether cold and hunger would set off disease which would
cause so much unrest that Western Germany would fall, because
of its hopelessness and feeling that their western democratic
friends had abandoned them, into the waiting hands of the Com-
munists. The wondering interest of the first trip to Leipzig Fair
in the East Communist dominated zone of Germany. The facade
of free and democratic propaganda visible, a complete distorting
of every ideal we in the free world had been brought up to think
of spiritual worth and value. The crystallization of this complete
falseness when Alexandrof, chief of the Soviet Economic Com-
mittee at the Allied Control Authority in Berlin signed an agree-
ment to feed the German civilian population in Berlin and the
next day the Blockade of Berlin began, and the fresh milk of
10,000 Berlin babies was cut off!!! The stimulus of Berlin during
the blockade, the constant drone of the planes bringing in life-
giving food, medicines, essential raw material, and finally coal —
coal that cost $100 per ton airlifted to keep the electricity going,
the water works flowing, sewerage moving out of West Free
Berlin into the East, and then fifty-five pounds per family for the
entire winter to heat their homes, yes, only fifty-five pounds for

[255 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
ecoouneg the rks pesibly deprecating the cost, and overem-
porns the rewards,
Mu geaad wife spins between housekeeping, doing moderately

cand works at the church and hospital, participating in the League

uf Woren Voters affairs, the English Speaking Union, etc., and
aa occasion baby-sitting for her grandson or administering to
the various want of numerous nieces or nephews who pass
throuch our town on their way hither and yon, whilst your re-
porter smiles patnarchally as sv -nthetic grandfather and parent of
uch grown-up children.

The threat of hydrogen bombs, etc., leaves us cold. We have
gone through the nine months of the Berlin blockade. We must
d.e some day anyhow. Let us so live that if the Lord takes us now
we are ready; perhaps there will be loose ends and difficulties,
bur what we could not accomplish here, perhaps will be carried
on by others if good and there is no one who can prove we shall]
noc hereafter have the satisfaction of know‘ ing good continues.

Of course, with present life expectancies, there i is a tremendous
amount of work ahead for all of us. Meetings of various organi-
zations, jobs to be done, organizations to be built up or improved,
etc.

With God's grace, I shall turn up at the Twenty-fifth Reunion
with entire brood, real or synthetic, and paper-work grandsons.
These paper-work relations and cousins are good fun. Never a
dull moment

CLARENCE GAGE DAVENPORT

HOME ApowEss: 652 Orange Grove Ave. South Pasadena, Calif.

ofr amass: The McCarty Co. 840 Bendix Bldg., Los Angeles 15, Calif.

wan: Oct. 1, 198, Fall River, Mass. parents: James Franklin Davenport,
Jessie Gage.

revasip at: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGES 1424-1930, DEGKER! A.B. 1930.

Hakvann eect: James Franklin Davenport, ’25.

ocivation: Vice-president, The McCarty Company.

ones wisp: Treasurer, National Industrial Advertisers Association of
Southern Califomia, member Projects Committee, American Association
uf Adverising Agencies, Southern California Council,

mivieen of: The Val ley Hune Club, Pasadena; University Club of Los
Angeles.

[258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

puBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to the advertising and industrial
trade press.

FOR one who has earned his living for the past twenty-five years
by being a copywriter, now — if ever — would be the time to be
articulate enough to convey concisely the whats, wheres, and
whys of twenty-five years out as a non-native Californian (after
all, I was born in Massachusetts), as a bachelor (one, they say,
who has never made the same mistake once), and as an advertising
man (advertising agency members are, it is descriptively stated,
the kept women of industry).

And so with business before pleasure, politics, and so on, it may
be perhaps a paradox, in a profession noted for its notorious job-
switching, for me to be still in the employ of the same advertising
agency upon whose door I knocked looking for a job just after
graduation. Mine is the field of industrial advertising, not the
ulcer-making consumer advertising business. Industrial advertis-
ing, where you trade glamour for nuts and bolts, is the art of
helping make an efficiency-minded chief engineer spend a hun-
dred grand for a battery of pumps and motors, rather than con-
juring up the magic phrases to get a six-year-old to stuff himself
with or from an eighteen-cent package of crackle-pop-snaps.
And it has been good to me, too, not because I’m an agency vice-
president (who isn’t one of the merry throng in an advertising
agency? ), but because it has been real fun to be a part of, and
feel that you have contributed toward the growth of fabulous
Southern California — growth that has seen our agency reverse
the philosophy of Horace G. and “Go EAST,” this year opening
our sixth service office, this time in New York.

As for Southern California, we can— you know — play golf
on the nineteenth of January even though, as you already know,
they subtract a hundred dollar bill from your pay for the winter-
time privilege. On the political side, because of an inherited tend-
ency to be a Yankee Republican, I am one of the 2’s in this 3 to 2
Democratically registered state, which for some unexplained rea-
son continues to vote Republican in local, state, and national elec-
tions — last fall’s election of our contemporary and classmate to
the contrary notwithstanding.

Some personal ideas that “superlatively” reflect my twenty-five-
years-out attitudes are: breaking 80 is the toughest; selling by the

[ 259 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

prated word is the challengingest, entertaining clients is the ex-

hanstingesn soding with McCarthy is the crusadingest; the new

Boiks are the gas hoggiest, and on community projects I'm the

lagest.

Fer the record, PE should also account for three years during
1gg3 and 195. Starting off (on the basis rhat I recalled some of
that college Mil. Sci.) as what I thought was the oldest second
lieutenant in the Army, after two years’ training in the U. S. and
one vear fichting in the European Theatre of Operations, I was
separated from the service as a captain. No hero, the Field Artil-
lerv was undoubredly set back a score of years by my recorded
activities in the battles of France, the Bulge, and Central Germany.

Of interest may be that my assignments were, in order, to the
staffs of the Division Artillery of the 104th, 87th, and the qth
Infantry Divisions.

That's j just about the size of it, Los Angeles is a big and busy
place in which to work, Pasadena is a convenient and friendly
city in which to live; and California is a pleasant and large place
in which to play. With the latter, perhaps, I take one exception.
Now I just happen to be a trout fisherman, and I just happen to
know a place on the Madison River, a few miles up-stream from
Ennis, Montana, And it just happens that there, all the brown
trout along the banks weigh about three pounds up, and all the
rainbow out in the rifles weigh about two pounds up. And even
though it’s real rough to wade, there’s a limit waiting there to be
taken any August afternoon. Here’s what you do. You just drive
south from Ennis on Montana 1, and when you come to a beat-up
brown sign, a couple of miles past the Indian Creek fork that
savs .. . waita minute! You're entitled to keep a little informa-
tion to yourself in this Report, aren’t you!

J. LEROY DAVIDSON

HOME aummrss: 13 West Slope Lane, Hamden, Conn.

Gren avwerss: Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

bees: March 36, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS:
Dasidwn, Mary Susser.

verparsp at: Brookline Pgh School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IS CALILE: 1926-1930. DEMEESS AB, 1930; AM. (New York Univ.),
64:4, min. (Vale Univ.), toss.

[ 260 }

Edward Abraham

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marRiED: Martha Aginsky, Aug. 28, 1932, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. camp:
Gregory Edward, Sept. 5, 1945.

occuPATION: Assistant professor, history of art (Oriental).

OFFICES HELD: Assistant director, Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, Minn.,
1939-43; research analyst, War Dept, Washington, D. C., 1943-45;
visual art specialist, Dept. of State, Washington, D. C., 1945-47;
assistant professor, Yale University, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: American Oriental Society; Far Eastern Association, College
Art Association; Connecticut Academy; New Haven Oriental Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various periodicals since 1936; associate editor
and contributor, Harper’s Encyclopedia of Art, 1938, Catalogue of Jade
Collection, Walker Art Center, 1943; The Lotus Sutra in Chinese Art,
Yale, 1954.

THE year 1930 seems several avatars in the past. In reconstructing

the so-long-ago, I vaguely remember an unproductive year at

the Business School, and a couple of instructive years in New

York working in Macy’s and Gimbel’s and running a button fac-

tory. Then marriage and a new direction to my life which led to

graduate work in art history at the Institute of Fine Arts, New

York University. After several years of study there, in Paris,

and various other colleges, including Mills in California where I
was the first male student, I went to Minneapolis as assistant direc-
tor of the Walker Art Center in 1939. Four years there, spent in
transforming a moribund institution into one of the most active
museums in the United States, was stimulating and pleasant.

The war interrupted this phase of my career, as I suppose it did
with most of us. From ’43 to ’47, I served as a civilian in Wash-
ington, first with the War Department, finally ending up in the
State Department. |
“Ending” is pretty much the correct term, I had been in

charge of the department’s art program, a position which included
the selecting and distribution of art exhibitions overseas. One of
these showing the more advanced forms of painting (it seems
quite conservative after seven years) drew down upon my
head the wrath of Congress, President Truman, and our more
demagogic radio commentators and newspaper columnists. De-
spite the success of the program and strong support by the art
world and the more enlightened columnists, the program was
killed. For a few months I had a certain national notoriety. And
I learned about government there. I am at least thankful that
the junior senator from Wisconsin was not in power then.

[ 261 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Save “47 Thave been in comfortable seclusion in the ambiguous
rs cen of a Harvard man teaching at Yale. Here I have been

‘le to devote most of my time to. writing and research on Far
Pas erm art. Afy last book, published this year, The Lotus Sutra
in Chinese Art, is not quite so formidable as its title indicates.

A vear in India, 1953-54, as a Fulbright Fellow was exciting.
The archeology was superb, the changing pattern of life a chal-
lenge. Minor “adventures covered the inevitable cobras and the
equally inevitable, if somewhat less lethal, classmate — this time
Paul Sherbert into whose office I stumbled in the Madras USS.
Information Service.

At the moment I am collaborating with my wife on two books
on Indian art. We hope to return to that country in a year or
two. My problems are mainly those of survival on the academic
salary and the training of an active nine-year-old. Neither is easy
to solve,

ASHTON FISKE DAVIS

HOME appress: 18 Granite Rd., Saugus, Mass.

OFFICE aporess: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass.

Boax: June 13, 1906, Saugus, Mass. parents: Edward R. Davis, Marguerite
A, Tuttle.

PREPARED AT: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930; ED.M., 1940.

Maggio: Theodora Raddin Hunt, Dec. 19, 1931, Saugus, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jean Audrey (adopted), Nov. 8, 1930 (7. Charles Holden, Jr.); Bruce
Owen, May 24, 1935. GRANDCHILDREN: Stephen George Holden, May 15,
1952; David Bruce Holden, Jan. 27, 1954.

occupation: Head of English Department, Saugus High School.

orrices HELD: President, Saugus. Teachers Association, 1932-34; charter
director, Saugus Credit Union, 1936-39, trustee, Saugus Public Library,
1543-46; president, Saugus Secondary Teachers Guild, 1954-55; chair-
man, Saugus Business and Industrial Development Commission.

MiMeer of: Phi Delta Kappa; The Exchangers; National Council of

Teachers of English, New England Association of Teachers of English;
National Education Association.

L HAVE been asking that question, too. Where have the last
twenty-five years gone?

Recently I took off the shelf several yearbooks from my col-
lection that date back to my first year of teaching. As I looked

[ 262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at the pictures of former students and recalled faces, names, and
incidents, usually pleasant, sometimes otherwise, I found the
answer to my question. The years spread out again, time has
lengthened, days and hours were re-experienced. I guess that,
being a teacher, I’ve had my full measure of living since 1930.

It is commonly recognized that the American public schools
are indispensable for preserving and fostering the democracy
that we cherish, and I have found satisfaction in contributing a
part, however meager, to our educational system. Yet I cannot
help being disturbed by the realization that some of the problems
in my profession are no nearer solution today than they were
decades, perhaps centuries, ago. And I deplore the fact that,
generally speaking, the most capable college graduates, whose
genius is so desperately needed for scientific investigation in this
field, are being attracted to other branches of education or to
other vocations offering better salaries and working conditions.

But enough of my pet worry.

I enjoy travelling even when it means taking the annual pil-
grimage on a bus with over-jubilant seniors to Washington, D. C.
Somewhat more relaxing than my “educational” travels was the
trip that Teddy (Mrs. D.) and I took last summer around Quebec
and the Gaspé. And when Bruce is working in New York under
the codperative system at Northeastern, we plan a weekend in
the vicinity of Broadway and Forty-fifth Street.

I have had my share of hobbies, none of which has permanently
enslaved me—camping, gardening, movie photography, oil
painting, ship modeling, the basement “do-it-yourself” urge, and
others, excluding the collection hobbies. I have no acquisitive
instinct or talent, least of all where money is concerned. At home
Tam usually occupied with correcting papers and reading. Pres-
enly, the writing of specifications for the equipment and furnish-
ings of a new high school is my principal pursuit.

I am chairman of the pastoral relations committee and charge
lay leader of the Cliftondale Methodist Church, which is cur-
rently one of the fastest growing and most friendly Protestant
parishes in Massachusetts.

The other grandfathers of the Class will understand how much
pleasure I experience from the visits each weekend of Stevie, my
two-year-old grandson. The two of us religiously watch his

[ 263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

other grandvather’s television pregram on Channel 4 every Sunday
ata ne-thirty.

DWIGHT FILLEY DAVIS, JR.

Hote anparss: Southampton, N.Y.

men: July 51, 1907, Se. Louis, Mo. parents: Dwight Filley Davis, ’oo, Helen
Brooks.

parpaxsp at: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLELE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

margeD: Dorothea Gay, May 17, 1934, New York, N. Y. cuitpren: Dwight
Filey, 3d, June 17, 1935; John G., Sept. 9, 1936.

Harvarp sons: Dwight Filley Davis, 3d, 57; John Gay Davis, ’58.

OFFKES HELD: Trustee, Boys’ Club of New York.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club of New York; Racket Club of
Montreal, National Golf Links of America; Meadow Club.

UPON graduation I headed for the Philippines where I spent two
vears working in the National Bank—not too hard. Actually
[hada grand | time visiting ev ery country in the Far East, a most
interesting experience in view of what has happened there since.

Returned to the U.S. in 1933 and spent a couple of years in a
Philadelphia brokerage house. Times were dull and so was my
job. Quit in °35; immediately thereafter the firm was forced to

sell out to Merrill, Lynch, etc. I tried my hand at drawing and
painting but, while it was fun, I found that I hadn’t the makings
of a Rembrandt and that being color-blind didn’t exactly help.

Worked thereafter for the Fusion Ticket headed by former
Mayor La Guardia and after our victory over Tammany, I joined
the city’s Department of Inv estigation, where I stayed until the
War. Had some participation in digging up material on Murder,
Inc., and the Jimmy Hines case — interesting work.

Came the War and, having been foresighted or lucky enough to
anticipate it, joined a fighter squadron as second lieutenant in 5-2.
Being all of thirty-five, I was called “Grandpaw” by the pilots.
Was with the first landings in North Africa, had quite an excit-
ing time for a while, being with Major Phil Cochrane while he
was running his own gucrilla-type warfare in Algeria. Derived
a great deal of respect for and pride in the American mechanics
who, with little or no supplics, made planes fly on tin cans and
for the kid pilots who, in inferior planes, outmaneuvered and

| 264]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

outfought the Germans. Through North Africa and Italy to
Florence; and after two years, back as captain to a cushy job on
Long Island for another year.

There followed a few years with several publications which
either never were published or which were published, but un-
fortunately not for long.

Am now trustee of the Boys’ Club of New York, one of the
finest charitable institutions I know of, which takes care of 7,000
kids in the poorer and tougher sections of the city. I was partly
responsible for taking eighteen of our kids to London two years
ago to box their counterparts of the London Boys’ Clubs. The
fact that we won 9-8 was not half as gratifying as the behavior
of our kids, the favorable impression they made, and the goodwill
they promoted between the two nations. A return trip by the
English a year ago was equally successful.

- As for sports, I’m still a baseball nut and I guess always will be.

Have pretty much quit tennis for golf (just in time, as I fear my
two sons, now at Harvard, were about ready to trim me). Play
racquets in the winter. And I guess that’s about it!

FOSTER STONE DAVIS

HOME aDpREss: Star Route, New Hope, Pa.

OFFICE appREss: American Seal-Kap Corp., Long Island City 1, N. Y.

BorRN: Feb. 17, 1908, Pittsfield, Mass. PARENTS: Earl Clement Davis, Annie
Foster Dodge.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

MarRigeD: Alice Merritt, Feb. 17, 1934, West Barrington, R. I. cHi~pREn:
Deborah Whitney, July 5, 1937; Foster Stone, Jr. Jan. 28, 1940; Sue
Whiting, Nov. 16, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Clement Davis, ’28.

occuPaTion: Manufacturing: salesman, American Seal-Kap Corporation.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York City.

FROM 1930 to 1936, I worked successively for the Guaranty
Company of New York, the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance
Company, and the Frank G. Shattuck Company. All changes
were dictated by economic forces. In 1936 I went with the
American Seal-Kap Corporation and, with the exception of twen-

[ 265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

tv-eche months in the Navy, I have been employed by them

nee. For the most part, | have worked in sales.

Recent!v my company has expanded its scope of operations to
products other than milk bottle closures, whose market has been
atiected by the increased use of paper milk cartons. The prospects
for these new products, which include paper hot drink cups and
fibre cans in all shapes and sizes, look promising.

The requirements of my job have necessitated moving to dif-
ferent areas. In September, 1951, we moved for the sixth and,
we hope, last time. We settled in Solebury Township, outside of
New Hope, Pennsylvania, in upper Bucks County on a few acres
of poison ivy and “honey suckle. We built on this site which in-
cluded a brook, aw oods, and a view. The house, plus trying to
push back the poison ivy and honeysuckle with the aid of a
rotary mower, a pair of sheep, and hand tools, has kept us busy
and broke.

Our activities include usual community activities of parents
and citizens: home workshop, gardening, square dancing, reading
(but no TV), and occasional get-togethers with new friends and
visits from old. Our children have both pleased and plagued us
on occasion. Our oldest is a freshman at Middlebury and she
seems to be majoring in skiing. The other two are at home and
attending public school.

GEORGE BANCROFT DAVIS

MATING appress: % Merchants National Bank, Attn: Mr. Ewart, Boston 9,
Mass.

pax: Oct 15, 1905, Dover, Mass. parents: Arthur Edward Davis, Mary
Cheney.

purvaxen aT: St. George's School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 266 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN MOORE DAVIS

HOME ADDRESS: 1260 N. Dearborn St., Chicago, Il.
OFFICE appRESS: City National Bank & Trust Co., 208 S. LaSalle St., Chicago,
ll

BORN: Jan. 22, 1909, Winnetka, Ill. parents: Percy Boyd Davis, LLB., ’oo,
Elizabeth Paine.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, ILL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Percy Boyd Davis, ’28, DeForest Paine Davis, 734.

OCCUPATION: Banker.

JOHN PASCHALL DAVIS

HOME ADDRESS: 1039 Tyne Rd., Nashville 5, Tenn.
OFFICE ADpREss: Waller, Davis & Lansden, 1200 American Trust Bldg., Nash-

ville 3, Tenn.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1908, Havana, Cuba. parents: Norman Hezekiah Davis,
Mackie McPherson Paschall.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

marrieD: Evelyn Ames, July 1, 1933, North Easton, Mass. cHiLpren: Blanche
Ames, Aug. 10, 1934; John Paschall, Jr., Oct. 9, 1936; Evelyn Ames,
April 15, 1941; Ames, Feb. 20, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Maclin Paschall Davis, ’21; Norman Paschall Davis, ’22;
Goode Paschall Davis, ’29.

OccUPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer at law, Vanderbilt Law School; various positions in

local charitable organizations.
MEMBER OF: Bar associations and local clubs.

IN the 1950 Report I gave a pretty lengthy account of my life
since graduation. On reading this over, I find there is very little
to add except surprise at what little there has been to record in
the last five years. For the past two months I haven't been
smoking — everything else seems rather insignificant by compari-
son. Of course, my wife and I and our four children have devel-
oped and pursued various new or extended hobbies which are
more interesting than the telling of them. One of the favorite
hobbies of my waning years is listening to good music and, fortu-
nately, J.P.D., Jr., an expert in electronics, is able to build Hi-Fi
sets and keep them in good working order. (Perhaps I shouldn't
mention this son in a report such as this because he has decided

[ 267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

to ca to Amhert this vear instead of Harvard.) While listening
to good music, I frequently model in clay, from which I have
demved more permanent satisfaction, The other members of the
family, besides me, are talented musicians and so I listen while
they play.

We always have all sorts of pets in and around the house. The
usual ones are dogs (four), ponies (one), cattle (eight), ducks
(nwo), chickens (seventy), and one parakeet who flew away
for rwo weeks and came back. Our pride ar the moment is a
deskunked baby skunk, named Taboo, who is the pet of the
neichborhood. We had a baby bat earlier this summer, named
Dracula, and fed it milk with an eyedropper for several weeks, but
it died. Unul yesterday we had a ring-necked snake.

Aside from such friends and episodes, my family and I appear

to lead a rather normal and happy life, as expected of a Harvard
graduate.

PAUL SPRAGUE DAVIS

HOME aporess: 4840 Reservoir Rd, N.W., Washington, D. C.

orrice apprrss: U.S. Securities & Exchange Comm., 425 2d St., N.W., Wash-
ington 25, D.C.

Boex: July 11, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Michael Marks Davis,
Euphemia Janet Hayes.

parparin aT: Roger Ascham School, White Plains, N. Y. »

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: a.B. cum laude, 1930; J.D. cum laude
(Univ. of Chicago), 1932; LM. (Catholic Univ. of America), 1952.

HaRvarp BrorHER: Burnet M. Davis, "32, M.D., ’36.

occupation: Lawyer, special counsel, U. S. Securities and Exchange Com-
Mussion.

oFFices HELD: Post Commander, Securities and Exchange Commission Post
No. 65, 1948, department vice-commander, District of Columbia Depart-
ment, 1951-52, American Legion.

MEMBER oF. American, Federal, and Chicago Bar Associations; Bar Associa-
tion of the District of Columbia, Pennsylvania Institute of Certified
Public Accountants, Judge Advocates Association; Order of the Coif,
American Society for Public Administration, American Academy of
Political and Social Sciences, American Legion; Forty and Eight; Har-
vard Club of Washingron, D. C.; University of Chicago Alumni Asso-

ciation, Quadrangle Club, Chicago, English-Speaking Union; Delta
Theta Phi.

Pi nuicatioss: Various legal briefs,

[ 268 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduating from the University of Chicago Law School,
I was admitted to the Bar in 1933, and then practised law in Chi-
cago for several years, specializing in corporation law, reorganiza-
tions, and tax matters. In 1938, I joined the legal staff of the US.
Securities and Exchange Commission, where I have remained ever
since, except for period of Army service. As attorney and, more
recently, as special counsel for the Commission, I have handled
various reorganizations and other corporate matters under the
various laws administered by the Commission.

During World War II, I entered the Army as a private and,
after basic training and some service at a port of embarkation, was
commissioned as an officer in the Judge Advocate General’s De-
partment. I served in 1943 in the office of the Judge Advocate
General in Washington and thereafter, 1944-1945, in the European
Theatre of Operations, receiving campaign stars for Normandy,
Northern France, Rhineland, and Central Germany. I was assist-
ant staff judge advocate, Advance Section, Communications Zone,
and staff judge advocate, 30th Infantry Division. In 1945 I was
promoted to major. After relief from active duty in 1946, I ac-
cepted appointment in the Army Officers’ Reserve Corps and
presently hold the rank of heurenant colonel, Judge Advocate
General’s Corps Reserve.

I have travelled considerably throughout the United States and,
to some extent, in Europe and in the Caribbean area. My hobbies
include mountain climbing, horseback riding, hiking, photog-
raphy, and occasional tennis and golf. Also, I have been active in
the American Legion and other organizations.

E. PAUL DEGARMO

HOME ApprEss: 299 Grizzly Peak Blvd., Berkeley, Calif.

OFFICE ADpDREsS: Engineering Bldg., University of California, Berkeley, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1907, Lucerne, Mo. parents: Arthur DeGarmo, Editha Snider.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREES: s.B. (Univ. of Washington), 1930;
s.M. (California Inst. of Technology), 1937.

MarRiED: Mary Elizabeth Turner, Dec. 26, 1934, Seattle, Wash. cHILDREN:
Richard William, Nov. 9, 1938; David Arthur, April 23, 1943.

occupation: Assistant dean of engineering; professor of industrial engineer-

ing.
[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

wecvenra of: Sma Alpha Foulon, Sigma Xi; Phi Bera Kappa; American
Soacty of Mechanical Engineers, American Institute of Industrial En.
geen, Amencan Ww clding Society.

moeaations: (aisroducnon to Engmeering Economy, Macmillan; Technical
Lettermen, Macmillan.

AFTER receiving my S.B. degree, I worked as an industrial
ensincer for the Converse Company of Seattle for one year. |
returned to the Univ ersity of Washington to do some graduate
work, then worked for the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company
in Las Angeles for over three years. During my last year I also
finished the work for mv S.M. degree at the California Institute
of Technology.

In 1937 I came to the University of California to teach, and
[ am now assistant dean of engineering and professor of industrial
engineering. I have devoted a great amount of time to developing
one of the finest industrial engineering departments 1 in the country
and organizing and supervising a codperative engineering pro-
gram.

I have written two well-known textbooks and a considerable
number of technical publications based upon my research work.
One of these earned me the Lincoln Gold Medal of the American
Welding Society | in 1948.

My main hobbies have been my boys, building a city home and
a summer cabin in the Santa Cruz Mountains, “and trying to do
my share in my church. Have spent considerable time in con-
sulting work, including such diverse fields as welding, gambling
machines, and settling labor disputes. Politically 1 am a liberal
Republican. Main outside interests at present are trying to finish
another book and looking for some way to have more time to loaf.

+ GUY JEAN LOUIS MARIE pe ta GROUDIERE

Buus: Aug. 25, 198, Magny, France. parents: Olivier de la Groudiére,
Antonette Achew de Bonvoula.

YEARS IN COLLELE: 1926-1927.
bisa: July 12, 1928, Carteret, Manche, France,

AFTER leaving Harvard, de la Groudiére returned to France and
resided in Paris.

[270]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YANN ALPHANT pe PIERREFEU

HOME appress: Merrimac, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1905, Sewarren, N. Y. parents: Joseph Daniels Leland
(step-father), Elsa Tudor.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927. .

marrigD: Ellen Taintor, July 12, 1930, Manchester, Mass. cup: Alain,
July 30, 1931.

OCCUPATION: Historian.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

ARTHUR JAMES DERBYSHIRE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1977 Hawthorne St, Detroit, Mich.

BoRN: March 23, 1909, Beverly, Mass. parents: Arthur James Derbyshire,
Jane Howe.

PREPARED AT: Utica Free Academy, Utica, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1930; PH.D. 1935.

OCCUPATION: Education.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

WALTER JOSEPH DESMOND, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2505 E. First St., Long Beach 3, Calif.

OFFICE. ADDRESS: Desmond & Desmond, 614 Heartwell Bldg., Long Beach 2,
Calif.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1909, Long Beach, Calif. parents: Walter Joseph Desmond,
’99, LL.B., or, Margaret Gertrude Lyons.

PREPARED AT: Long Beach Polytechnic High School, Long Beach, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930; LL.B. (Stanford Univ.) 1933.

MARRIED: Virginia Marie Daugherty, March 14, 1942, Los Angeles, Calif.
CHILDREN: Walter Joseph, 3d, March 12, 1943; Dennis Patrick, March 10,
1944; Timothy Michael, May 11, 1947; John Bernard, Oct. 14, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Gerald Edward Desmond, us., ’40; Richard Robert
Desmond, 8.M. IN C.E., 40.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: California State Bar Association; University Club of Long Beach.

AFTER graduation from college, I had planned to attend Harvard
Law School, but during the summer vacation got detoured to
Stanford, whence I emerged with an LL.B, degree in 1933. I en-

[271 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

gized in private law practice in Long Beach and Los Angeles

unnl 1939 When T was appointed a deputy in the office of the

Commissioner of Corporations, dealing with enforcement of the
lifornia Corporate Securities Law.

In toyz the Navy got me back into the Ivy League for a few
months in the Indoctrination School at Dartmouth. Later I was
attached to the 12th Naval District Intelligence Office in San
Francisco, and took a short tour to Okinawa before emerging into
civil life as a lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R.

Mv brother Gerald (Harvard Law, ’40) and I formed a law
partnership in 1947 and have continued that very pleasant asso-
ciation to date.

The Tenth Reunion was such a felicitous and enjoyable occa-
sion that, ever since, I have been awaiting the Twenty-fifth with
anticipation. Since, however, it now seems that I shall not be able
to get to Cambridge this June, I shall have to experience the events
vicariously through the Class Reports.

EMILE DESPRES

HOME aporess: Gale Road, Williamstown, Mass.

oFFice appress: Dept. of Economics, Williams College, Williamstown, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: Emile Despres, Irma Helen
Rosenthal.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, Riverdale, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: $.B. miagna cum laude, 1930.

MargigD: Joanna Eakin, Dec. 22, 1939, Chevy Chase, Md. cxt~pren: Lami,
May 25, 1941; John, Oct. 14, 1942; Charles, June 19, 1945.

occupation: William Brough Professor of Economics, chairman, Depart-
ment of Economics, Williams College.

ON looking over the biographical notes which I wrote for our
Twentieth Anniversary Report, I find that there are few new
facts to report, At that time I still thought of myself as a novice
at teaching, having started that career in 1946; I am now a fully
committed professional who has settled down to stay. In the
summer of 1951, I reverted to my former field of government
work, serving temporarily as economics attaché at the American
Embassy at Belgrade in connection with the launching of an aid
program to Yugoslavia. It was a highly stimulating experience,

[272]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but I was also glad to get back to Williams. Our new house in
Williamstown, designed by my wife and built last year, commands
a view of incredible loveliness and interest.

Since moving to Williamstown, I have visited Cambridge a
few times each year and, in this way, have been able to keep
somewhat in touch with Harvard affairs. I have been enormously

roud of my Alma Mater’s correct and courageous defense of
intellectual freedom against the sustained, sordid and virulent
attacks of recent years.

ARTHUR LITHGOW DEVENS, JR.

HOME AppREsS: 1 Valley Rd., Nahant, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Howes Leather Co., Boston, Mass. ;

BORN: Feb. 15, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Arthur Lithgow Devens,
’o2, Wenonah Wetmore. °

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

MARRIED: Leanice Martin, Feb. 28, 1941, Seabrook, N. H. cuitpren: Arthur
Lithgow, 3d, Nov. 3, 1941; Peter Martin, Aug. 19, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Devens, 32; David Wetmore Devens, ’42.

occuPATION: Assistant buyer of hides and tanning materials.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I went to work with Kidder, Peabody
& Company for a couple of years. In 1933 I became associated
with Howes Leather Company of Boston and, with the exception
of four years on active duty with the U.S. Navy, have been with
them ever since.

My wife and I, with our two boys, live in Nahant, Massachu-
setts, where we enjoy seaside activities the year round.

MAURICE AMBROSE DEVINNA, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 232 N. Santa Fe Ave. Tulsa 6, Okla.

OFFICE appREss: Tulsa World, World Bldg., Tulsa, Okla.

BoRN: April 12, 1907, Tulsa, Okla. Parents: Maurice Ambrose DeVinna,
Etta May Pruitt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; BREVET p’ART (Sorbonne),
1933: 7

OCCUPATION: Fine arts editor,

[ 273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

LIKE manv of our classmates I spent the year following gradua-
ten in Lurepe. I was in Vienna when the depression finally
cauzht up with me and I scurried back to the paternal roof. In
1933 [received a Camegie Art Scholarship for further study at
the Institue dArt et dArchcologie which I had attended in 1930.
I returned from the summer in Europe to Harvard for a year’s
graduate work. In t934 I began writing art criticism for the
Tuka World, and in 1936 was named assistant state supervisor of
the WPA Art Program for Oklahoma. Drafted into the Army in
1942. Twas sent overseas in March of 1945 and found myself at
the end of the war in Antwerp, but was soon transferred to Paris
as interpreter and editor with the Education Section. I was dis-
charged from the Army in January of 1946 to take a position with
the Monuments Fine Arts and Archives Section of Military Gov-
emment. I was with this program all of 1946.

I was then in Nurnberg with the trials for a year and a half
and was for two years with the Combined Travel Board of
OMGUS and HICOG in Munich and Frankfort. Leaving Ger-
many in August, 1950, I spent six months in England and Italy and
arrived in New York in February, 1951, after an absence just a
few davs short of six years. My plans have been affected by my
father’s loss of his sight shortly after my return to Tulsa. I have
resumed my work with the newspaper, of which I am now Fine
Arts Editor.

BERNARD FRANCIS DEVLIN

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Rustlewood Rd., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

orrke appeess: William Barton Rogers School, Hyde Park, Mass.

Bors: Oct. 1, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Richard Bernard Devlin, Mary
Ryan Casey.

PxEPAxeD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; A.M. (Boston Coll.), 1931.

Makgizp: Margaret Genevieve Scanlan, Aug. 9, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Kathleen, July 21, 1936, Richard Bernard (deceased); Bernard Richard,
July 9, 1945-

osuPaTion: Education, submaster, junior high school.

orpuzs HED: Grand Knight, Mt. Pleasant Council, K. of C., 1934; president,
Boston Teachers Alliance, 1950-52.

membin ov: Knights of Columbus; Boston Teachers Alliance; Catholic
Alumni Sodality.

[274]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I RECALL that one of the reasons I chose to teach was so that I
might have time to travel and perhaps to write, but up to this
time I have done neither. As a matter of fact, I guess I have be-
come quite provincial. For the failure to write, I cannot find an
excuse without rationalizing, but the inability to see the world
stems out of the miserable pittance which the American public is
willing to pay for the education of its children. I have been teach-
ing in the Boston public schools for twenty years, the last ten of
them as a junior executive, but I’ve had to work on a farm sum-.
mers just to make both ends meet. Compensations? I suppose so

. some five thousand boys and girls, most of whom I hope
remember me with some degree of fondness and most of whom
are financially better off than I am. And I guess I can count
some two thousand acquaintances among the Boston staff, and
possibly one friend. My life seems to have been spent in helping
others to grow, without growing much myself, at least in the
ways most people think of as growth. After eighteen years I
finally own a modest little home of my own and manage to keep
one of the “lower-priced three” on the road, and that’s about it.

Family? Tight little group. Kathleen, aged eighteen, keeps
reminding me that the world has changed a great deal since I
left Cambridge and I cannot but agree whole-heartedly. Dick,
aged nine, thinks ’m quite a guy, book or no book, God bless
him! And my wife, Margaret, is still as loving and patient as ever,
so I guess things could be a lot worse.

Say, who is the genius who dreamed up the “before and after”
photos? Pretty gruesome reminder of the passage of time. Until
I saw them side by side in my mind’s eye, I didn’t feel any older
or wiser than I did in 1930 —I still don’t feel any wiser.

JOHN CHARLES pe WILDE

HOME AppREss: 2921 Argyle Drive, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
1818 H St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BorN: May 24, 1910, Boskoop, The Netherlands. parents: Roeland de
Wilde, Laurina Rosbergen.

PREPARED AT: Hopewell Township High School, Shiloh, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: s.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

[275 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
acuuuep: Martha Millar, June 24. 1939, Rockaway Beach, Long Island, N. Y.
cuipeeN: Jan, Apnil ro, 1936, Richard, March 21, 1949.
eactparion: Economic Adviser, Department of Operations, Asia and the
Middle East, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
puBucariovs: Co-author: “Governments of Europe,” “Handbook of the
War,” “Economic Development of Iraq,” “Economic Development of
Jamaica,” “The Economy of Syria”; numerous publications of the
Foreign Policy Association, for periodicals, etc.

SINCE leaving Harvard I have led an interesting (at least, to me)
and rather varied, though not highly lucrative, career. During
a year of graduate study at the University of Kiel in Germany, I
watched the rapid growth of the Nazi party. Then I joined the
staff of the Foreign Policy Association in New York City while
continuing graduate work at Columbia University. I labored at
the F-P.A. for over ten years, doing research, writing, and lec-
turing on the increasingly turbulent international scene. My work
enabled me to explore Europe rather thoroughly.
After we entered the war I “enlisted” in the government. Since
I was judged qualified for only limited military service, I was
kept on civilian assignments for the duration. Most of my time
was spent advising the military on the selection of economically

attractive bombing targets, too often with indifferent success.
But my work was carried on in a fascinating variety of locations —
Washington, England, and India. Before the end I was glad to
accept a job in the State Department to help prepare for the peace.
There I put in a stint of four years trying to settle the German
and Austrian question. Obviously, these questions are still un-

settled, yet I don’t regret the experience, which also brought me

face to face with “the Russian problem.”
P

In 1948 I moved over to the Economic Coéperation Administra-
tion to make my small contribution in starting the Marshall Plan.
I stayed with it for two years and still think ic was a boldly
conceived and generally well-executed program. Since then |
have Lecome an international civil servant, functioning as Eco-
nomic Adviser to the Asia and Middle East Department of what
is popularly known as the World Bank. I am now preoccupied
with the challenging problems of underdeveloped countries. My
work entails a lot of travel which is an endless source of fascina-
tion, even though it often separates me from my family.

In 1939 I took time out to marry Martha Millar, which frankly
[276]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

has given me more satisfaction than anything else I have done.
She flattered me during the war by pursuing me to India, which
took her on a strange and weird odyssey, including an encounter
with a sunken ship, a month in drydock in Durban, South Africa,
and a flight across the “hump” to China. We deferred all thought
of children until after the war, but we now claim two young sons,
aged six and nine. We think they are smarter and more talented
than their parents, which indicates, at least in our slightly prej-
udiced opinion, that there may be some hope for world improve-
ment after all. |

After a long period of mild agnosticism, I now find consider-
able satisfaction in organized religious life. My wife and I are
both active members of a church and I even occasionally make
a doubtful contribution to its choir. We also take a great interest
in politics, but my status as an international civil servant precludes
active participation.

WILLIAM ALTON DEWITT

HOME AppREss: 79 Horation St., New York 14, N. Y.

OFFICE appREsS: Cue Magazine, 6 E. 39th St., New York 16, N. Y.

BORN; Sept. 26, 1907, Michigamme, Mich. parents: Clyde Alton DeWitt,

~ Katharine Dunn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MaRRIED: Frances Rankin, Nov. 7, 1930, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1949);
Veda Clark, Feb. 23, 1952, Baltimore, Md.

occuPATION: Writer; editor.

PusLicaTions: Magazine articles; newspaper features; UN: Today and
Tomorrow, Harper, with Eleanor Roosevelt; Drinking and What to
Do About It, Grosset & Dunlap; Illustrated Minute Biographies, Gros-
set & Dunlap; History’s Hundred Greatest Events, Grosset & Dunlap.

SINCE I spent more time at Princeton and the University of
Virginia than at Harvard, my undergraduate recollections aren’t
always dependable: I’m in danger of confusing the Yard with the
Lawn, or the stern face of Dean Hanford with that of Dean
Gauss. And I feel a little like an intruder in this Anniversary
Report.

At least my first real editorial job has a New England connota-
tion. The North American Review, which I ran for five years or

[277]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

sa, never scemed at home in New York, and continued to sel]
mere Copies (though never enough) in Boston than anywhere
ee, Later magazines ta which I attached myself got away from
the academic altogether. They've had a descending scale of
gravity — Reader's Digest, Esquire and now Cue, for which I
wine and dine out most evenings. The theory of the Cue job,
of course, is to provide Icisure for more serious work, and in 1953
I did turn out a couple of books, but royalties are always disap-
pointing and there are so many pleasanter things to do than pound-
ing a typewriter.

[ had a pretty mild and monotonous World War II, about half
of it in the Pacific. The high point, in retrospect, was becoming
a citation expert for the militarily fine, but not very literate, In-
fantry division numbered the twenty-fifth. From Pearl Harbor
on it probably saw more sustained action than any other Amer-
ican division and got fewer decorations simply for lack of expert
citation writers. I filled the gap pretty heroically, at least for the
64th FA BN.

In politics my only faintly professional activity was as a delegate
to the 1932 Democratic National Convention that first nominated
Roosevelt. I still shudder to think what might have happened if
my choice of candidates, Al Smith, had won. The New Deal
surprised and heartened me, and I approved most of FDR's and
Truman's program, though not by any means all of their actions.
I'm always pessimistic over the economic effects of Republican
notions and the idea of any military man in high public office is
perhaps unreasonably abhorrent. Nevertheless, Republicans as a
group strike me as a necessary and even tolerable evil.

For my brief interlude at Harvard I should say that, though I
was anything but a dedicated scholar, it did teach me to read a
little, and when foolish parents of suitable aged sons ask my advice
I always recommend this particular Alma Mater —a gender, in-

cidentally, that couldn’t be more inappropriate in view of the
University’s intellectual independence,

[278 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ LAWRENCE WITHERSPOON DICKEY

BORN: April 12, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Denston Dickey,
Louise Whitney.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

DIED: Jan. 1, 1932, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

WHILE at Harvard, Dickey was prominent as a member and |
captain of the varsity crew. He served as chairman of the Fresh-
man Entertainment Committee, was a member of the Junior Prom
Committee and the Undergraduate Athletic Council, a member of
the executive committee of the Varsity Club, vice-president of
the Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770, and deputy marshal of the
Porcellian Club. In 1931 he reported that he was with the City
Bank Farmers Trust Company of New York.

ROBERT RUSSELL DICKEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1002 E. Second St., North Platte, Nebr.
OFFICE ADDRESS: % The Judge Advocate General, Hdqts. U. S. Air Force,

. Washington, D. C.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1906, Colorado Springs, Colo. parents: Robert Russell
Dickey, Marie LaVanche Gaines,

PREPARED AT: North Platte High School, North Platte, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Virginia Hamilton, June 13, 1931, Cambridge, Mass, (divorced
1948). cHiLp: Robert Russell Dickey, 3d, Feb. 2, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Staff Judge Advocate, Hdqts. Strategic Air Command, U. S.
Air Force, Offutt Air Force Base, Omaha, Nebr.

MEMBER OF: Pi Eta Club; Harvard Club; Phi Delta Theta Fraternity
(Nebraska University); Air Force Association; Judge Advocate Gen-
eral’s Association (Washington, D. C.).

AT the end of my first year in law school I married Edna Virginia
Hamilton on June 13, 1931. Upon graduation from law school I
became associated with the law firm of Withington, Cross, Park
and McCann, 73 Tremont Street, Boston, Massachusetts, and was
engaged in the general practice of law with that firm until August
15, 1942, when I entered the military service as a captain in “the
Judge Advocate General’s Department, United States Army.
In September, 1942, I was sent to the Judge Advocate General’s
School at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

[279 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

EDWARD CARL DIECKERHOFF

MAILING Aporess: 1n39 Madison Ave, New York 28, N.Y.

BRN: Nov. 21, 190, New York, N. Y. parents: Ewald Carl Dieckerhoff,
la Louise Fechreler.

prrparrp at: The Hill School, Portstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLFGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B, 1930(31).

cectpanton; Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

SALVATORE ANTONIO DiPIETRO

HOME aporess: 118 E. Francis Ave, Brentwood, Pittsburgh 27, Pa.

orFice apoxess: US. Steel Corp. Clairton Works, Clairton, Pa.

poan: Feb. 2, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Joseph DiPietro, Michela
Bertolami.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: $.B. IN E.E. cu? laude, 1930.

Marup: Helen Genevieve Caruso, Jan. 31, 1938, Greensburgh, Pa. CHILDREN:
Michela Teresa, Nov. 23, 1938; Francesca Maria, April 21, 1941; Joseph
Thomas, Dec. 26, 1946.

occupation: General supervisor of electrial engineering.

MEMBER OF: Association of Iron & Steel Engineers; Pennsylvania Professional
Engineering Society.

IN July, 1930, I started work as a tracer in the engineering de-
partment of the U.S. Steel Corporation, Clairton Works, which
is a by-product coke plant, steel mill, and engaged in river trans-
portation. I am still at this plant and now listed as “general
supervisor of electrical engineering.” The work is varied and
interesting, as I direct, supervise and am responsible for all plant
electrical engineering work.

I received my professional engineer’s license in 1946.

During the war period our work weck was stepped up to forty-
eight hours in this vital war production plant. In addition to
plant engincering work, I taught night war training classes in
industrial electricity, fundamentals of electrical engineering, elec-
tric motor control, and electronics for Pennsylvania State College
extension services. Before the war I had taught night classes in

electricity for four years.

I have invested in stocks and was “badly burned” in the 1937

{ 282 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and 1946 market recessions. I hope my stock investing classmates
were more fortunate, I like golf, notwithstanding poor scores in
98 to 115 range, bowl regularly, and am interested in most sports
—and poker. I find much relaxation and satisfaction in being a
“fix-it-yourself” addict.

My wife had planned a medical career and was studying at the
University of Rome until our marriage changed her plans. Our
three children are a considerable source of happiness — and
headaches.

RALPH DOMINIC DITANO

HOME ADDRESS: 1960 Downington Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah.

BORN: Oct. 6, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTs: Nicholas Ditano, Giovannina
Alferano.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

marrieD: Mary Catherine Keating, June 6, 1936, Wellesley, Mass. (sep-
arated 1939); Eleanor F. Ryan, Dec. 24, 1947, Ogden, Utah. cHILb:
Ralph, May 28, 1938.

occupation: With the Post Office Department.

MY life has been rather uninteresting. I’ve worked for the same
outfit since I got out of school, with the exception of about three
and one-half years which I served in the Army during World
War II. My hobbies — gardening, photography, and woodwork-
ing — take up all of my spare time.

WILLIAM HATFIELD DODGE, JR.

HOME apprEss: 483 Pleasant St., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 106 Main St., Brockton, Mass.

BORN: May 20, 1906, Montclair, N. J. parents: William Hatfield Dodge,
Cecelia Cook.

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MaRriep: Catherine Clifford, August, 1936, New Jersey. cHiLp: Pamela
Clifford, Nov. 27, 1943-

OccupATION: Real estate, insurance; self-employed.

OUTSIDE of working, my only hobbies are fishing, hunting, and
gardening. I haven’t found time or money for much else.

[ 283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

CHARLES FREDERICK DOLAN
wow aneagss: 37 Calumet Sc, Wollaston 70, Mass.

cerne apoaess: Lang Idand Hospital, Boston 69, Mass.

mas: Aug. 1a, too7, Boston, Mass. parests: Charles Bernard Dolan, Mary
‘Francs Bovle.

parpansp At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Dorchester High School,
Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.
maraep: Dorothy R. Padula, Aug. 11, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:

Kerry Michacl, Mav 18, 1933; Maman Louise, April 11, 1950; Elaine
Teresa, Jan. ti, 1953.

oocupaTion: Principal clerk, payroll-personnel.

WITH only a half-year at the Yard, feeling a distant cousin
rather than a son, I write with some reluctance. But the urge is
there to relive some quiet hours at Widener, some exhilarating
trots up the River and over the bridge, where, en route, a tall,
thin lad named Dooley offered kindly advice on how to run the
course, and the struggles on the mat, the pat on the back, or the
presentation red apple from Doc Lewis for a good bout, when
winter came. But shame on me—the names on that freshman
wrestling team have gone vague, except for that of Captain Evans.
An illness and the depression then ended the college chapter for
me.

A slight academic background was in no great demand in the
business world at the time. I worked at undertaking, truck driv-
ing, in a laundry, in a library; then started my present connection
with the city in office work, interrupted only by service in the
Seabees from 1943 to 1946 as a disbursing storekeeper. ‘Then fol-
lowed a year of studies in accounting.

With a preference for the quiet life, and some distaste for the
mass production era, I enjoy my new home (we moved in this
year a few days after the hurricane), and church, with some bicy-
cling, swimming, and fishing thrown in for variety.

LOUIS FERDINAND DOMMERICH

HOME avowess: 164 E. 72d St, New York 21, N. Y.

ous: May 4, 14, New York, N. Y. panests: Otto Louis Dommerich,
Caroline Charlotte Clausen.

petearey aT: Mesa Ranch School, Mesa, Ariz.

[ 284]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928,

marrieD: Margaret Whitehead, Oct. 13, 1927, Baltimore, Md. cuitp: Louis
Alexander, Jan. 2, 1929.

HARVARD SON: Louis Alexander Dommerich, ’52.

OCCUPATION: Trust manager.

RODGERS DONALDSON

HOME ADDRESS: 10831 Wilshire Blvd., Apt. 2, Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Legal Dept., Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: John Speer Donaldson, Isla
Flora Rodgers.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: Leslie Robinson Fisher, Oct. 26, 1940, Boston, Mass. cut:
Rodgers, Jr., Sept. 1, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Speer Donaldson, ’27, M.D., '31.

occuPATION: Lawyer; assistant chief counsel, Lockheed Aircraft Corpora-
tion.

AFTER graduation from law school I went to work for a Boston
law firm and subsequently opened my own office in Pittsfield,
Massachusetts. During the war and thereafter until 1948 I was
with Lockheed Aircraft Corporation negotiating contracts for
the sale of military and commercial aircraft. In 1949 I went with
American Optical Company, Southbridge, Massachusetts, as gen-
eral counsel and secretary. In February of 1954 1 resigned from
that company and have now resumed my association with Lock-
heed, my title being assistant chief counsel. I have moved my
family, which consists of my wife and son, aged thirteen, to Cali-
fornia. This involved a major uprooting, but I think we shall be
very happy in this sunny climate. We drove across the country,
covering about five thousand miles and seeing a lot of the points
of interest. We are looking forward to Cambridge in June.

At this late date in my career I have taken up private flying as
a hobby and hope to be able to continue it out here. At the present
time I have almost enough hours for my private license.

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

PHILIP DONHAM

HOME anoress: Pines Lane, Chappaqua, N. Y.
orfice aporrss: Bullard Co.. Bridgeport 2, Conn.

Boas: May 8 1008, Newton Center, Mass. PARENTS: Wallace Brett Donham,
°9, Mabel Clara Higgins.

PREPARED AT: The Rivers “School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; M.B.A. cum laude 1933;
D.CS. 1936.

marrieD: Flora Best, Aug. 10, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Michael Brett,

Nov. 21, 1935; Ann, June 13, 1938; Mary Gage, Nov. 2, 1940; William
Parker, Aug. 27, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Donham, ’27, M.B.A., "30, D.C.S
"36, MBA, 738.

occtparion: Afanagement consultant, partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, secretary, treasurer, Electro Refractories &
Alloys Corporation, Buffalo, N. Y. 1941-46; manager, cost department,
Nashua Gummed & Coated Paper Company, Nashua, N. H., 1938-41;
junior executive, First National Bank of Boston, 1936-38; research
assistant, Harvard Business School, 1933-34.

MEMBER OF: Controllers Instirute of America; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles on the subject of management controls.

» 33; Paul Donham,

AFTER an undistinguished academic record in college, a year on
or about the bench at Simonds Saw & Steel Company in Fitch-
burg got me off to a good start at the Harvard Business School.
Four and one-half years there superimposed the hallmarks M.B.A.
and D.C. on that record, and I set about trying to earn a living.

This had become important because by this time I had a wife
(Flora Best of Cleveland and Smith College, whom I married in
1934) and we were about to have our first child. The job and
a boy came at about the same time — late in 1935. Michael has
progressed through various public and private schools as we
moved from place to place and is now a sophomore at Haverford.
He is heading for a scientific career, either in medicine or chem-
istry.

The First National Bank of Boston took a little off my rough
comers from 1936 through 1938. I hold my friends there in high
esteem and regard them and the bank itself with real affection.
But banking in those days was a slow-moving occupation and I
yearned for something more active.

Again, a new child and a new job came close on each other’s
hecls. Ann was born in June, 1938, the first girl in my family ina

[ 286 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

couple of generations. From the beginning she has been an attrac-
tive extrovert of the first order. As early as one year old, she
began an interest in men. The first object of her affections was
Bill Mann, whom she got on his knees and then knocked out cold.
Ask him about it. She is more subtle now, if not more discrim-
inating.

The new job at that time was with Nashua Gummed & Coated
Paper Company in the cost department —an activity I had to
learn about after getting into it. Life in Nashua was easy-going
and fun. Another little girl, Gay, joined the family in 1940, look-
ing enough like her older sister to quiet the sinister doubts of my
brothers (who had no girls of their own) about the paternity of
Ann. It takes a lot to impress some people! Gay is sweet as they
come and very musical, which often helps to bring us together.

Making fancy papers seemed like a small contribution as Pearl
Harbor drew near, so I moved into war work in October, 1941,
joining Electro Refractories & Alloys Corporation in Buffalo. My
mother, who has always lived near Boston, wrote an old friend
in Michigan that she was sorry to see me move “out west.”
Buffalo has a lot of fine people who never learned how much
pleasanter it is to live where there is sunshine and clean air. During
the war, at least, Buffalo was a dirty and dreary place. But the
job filled the bill; my small company made products without
which the war could not have been fought.

The war cut into our planned schedule of children. Parker
came along in 1945 as the shooting died down. I don’t know
whether there is any connection, but is he a pistol at the age of
nine!

Leaving Buffalo in 1946, I next joined the New York office of
the management consulting firm of Booz, Allen & Hamilton. This
has been a stimulating experience with exposure to all kinds of
people doing vastly different things in various parts of the coun-
try. It has presented many surprises and obstacles, but when we
can give a real lift to someone with a problem, there is a lot of
satisfaction in it. The urge to do it myself instead of telling some-
one else how I think he should do it has just taken me back to
industry. I have joined the Bullard Company, a fine old machine
tool company in Bridgeport, as assistant to the president. My

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

as curent is long-range planning, and maybe by our Fiftieth
Reuniea well all know how I've done.

We live in Chappaqua, New York, a surprisingly country-like
susurd about thirty-five miles out in Westchester County. My
outside activities have included church work, boy scout work,
tennis, Sailing, domestic forestry and very crude carpentry. Un-
fortunately, the demands of a consultant's life have not permitted
me in recent years to be as active a participant in community
attairs as 1 should like. We are now looking around for a place in
Wilton, Connecticut. This is a small New England town just far
enough out of New York to have escaped the blight that so often
aifects commuter communities. We already have friends there
and look forward to the move with enthusiasm.

The years may have mellowed but have not changed my funda-
mental belief in my fellow man and my distrust of those who wish
to circumscribe him with arbitrary, but fashionable, prejudices.
For that reason, with many other Harvard men, I often find my-

self in the minority and rarely espouse currently popular political
philosophies.

EDWARD CALVIN DONNELLY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Farm St., Dover, Mass.

orrice aporess: John Donnelly & Sons, 3134 Washington St., Boston 19,
Mass.

Bors: April 9, 1907, Dedham, Mass. parents: Edward Calvin Donnelly,
Mary Julia Mahoney.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

marrieD: Sheila Frances Odom. cuitpren: Edward Calvin, 3d, June 12, 1947;
Stephen Christopher, Dec. 26, 1949; Frederick Charles, Dec. 4, 1950;
Gregory Chrysan, Oct. 25, 1951.

occupation: President, John Donnelly & Sons, outdoor advertising.

orywzs HELD: President, Outdoor Advertising Association of America;
president, 1953-54, Vice-president, 1952~53, Advertising Club of Boston;
director, The Advertising Council, president, Standard Outdoor Ad-
vertising, Inc.; colonel, Massachusetts Militia; chairman, Suffolk County
March of Dimes, 1951, vice-chairman, Massachusetts State Committee
March of Dimes, since 1951.

memere or: Surf Club; Key Largo Club, Anglers; Miami Beach Yacht Club;
Norfolk Hunt Club; Ancient and Honorable Order of Artillerymen;
Red Cross, Massachusetts Association for Crippled Children and Adults.

[ 288 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pusLications: Chairman of committee which published “Your Outdoor
Neighbor.”
UPON the death of my father, I left Harvard College to assume
active management of the family business. I am president of John
Donnelly & Sons and affiliated companies, which now operate
from Maine to Miami, and am a former president of the Outdoor
Advertising Association of America, in which capacity I organized
a Public Communications Program for the government in 1941.
This program placed the facilities of each medium at the disposal
of the various wartime agencies in promoting the drives for War
Bonds, Scrap Drives, Recruitment, Information-Security, etc.
One hundred and five years ago, the firm of John Donnelly &

Sons, pioneers in outdoor advertising, was founded in Boston.
Today, the third generation of the oldest advertising family in
America is directing the business activities of John Donnelly &
Sons and affiliated companies. The Donnelly Way of outdoor
advertising has expanded into many eastern market areas with
offices stretching from Maine to Florida. Modern outdoor adver-
tising, nationally recognized as a dynamic force in the American
economy, has an impressive record in its commercial progress.
Equally impressive is its progress in the field of structural design,
artistic treatment, traffic analyses, construction techniques, main-
tenance facilities, and the development of enlightened policies in
the public interest.

In 1951 I served as chairman of the Suffolk County March of
Dimes and since then as vice-chairman of the Massachusetts State
Committee for this organization. I am also active in the Massachu-
setts Association for Crippled Children and Adults, the Red Cross,
and numerous other state and local civic agencies. —

JAMES LEO DONOHUE

HOME ADDRESS: 289 Brookline St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Michael Donohue, Ellen
Kelly.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High & Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.B.A. (Boston Univ.),

1945.
Occupation; School teacher: business subjects.

[ 289]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ANDREW EDMUND DONOVAN, II

ore Anparss: State Dept, Washington 25, D. C.

pan: Mav 1, 1908, Fort Riley, Kans. PARENTS: Andrew Edmund Donovan,
Johanna Mullins,

rerpuup at: Balboa High School, Balboa, Canal Zone.

YEARS IN COLLELE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

ooctPaTION; Forcign Service officer.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Washington, D. C.

MY appointments include: clerk in the American Consulate-Gen-
eral at Warsaw, June 6, 1931; vice-consul at Warsaw, August 27,
1931, Foreign Service officer unclassified, vice-consul of career,
secretary in the Diplomatic Service, December 17, 1931; vice-
consul at Warsaw, January 2, 1932; Foreign Service School, Au-
gust 19, 1932; vice-consul at Yokohama, December 22, 1932 (can-
celed); at Mexico City, March 20, 1933; at Mérida (temp.),
December 4, 1934; at Mexico City, March 2, 1935; vice-consul and
third secretary at La Paz, November 27, 1935; to the Department,
April 27, 1938; class eight, April 1, 1939; vice-consul and third
secretary at Bogota, June 9, 1941; class seven, August 16, 1941;
second secretary at Bogota in addition to duties as vice-consul,
December 9, 1941; second secretary and vice-consul at Ciudad
Trujillo, April 5, 1944; class six, July 16, 1944; second secretary
and vice-consul near the Government of Poland established in
England, November 18, 1944; consul, December 19, 1944; consul
near the Government of Poland established in England in addition
to duties as second secretary, December 29, 1944 (canceled); to
the Department, May 29, 1945; class five, August 13, 1945; first
secretary and consul at Guatemala, December 27, 1945; Foreign
Service officer of class four, November 13, 1946; first secretary
and consul at Buenos Aires, May 28, 1947 (canceled); first secre-
tary and consul at San José, October 23, 1947; class three, April 21,
1949; first secretary and consul at San Salvador, August 27, 1951;
class two, February 21, 1952; counselor of embassy, 1952.

[ 290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH LEO DOOB

HOME aApprEss: 208 W. High St., Urbana, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Illinois, Urbana, Ill.

BORN: Feb. 27, 1910, Cincinnati, Ohio, paRENTS: Leo Doob, Mollie Doerfler.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1930; A.M.,
1931; PH.D., 1932.

mMaRRIED: Elsie Haviland Field; June 27, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. cH1LpRen:
Stephen, June 16, 1942; Peter, Jan. 2, 1945; Deborah, July 14, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Professor of mathematics.

OFFICES HELD: President, Institute of Mathematical Statistics, 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Institute of Mathematical
Statistics.

PuBLICATIONS: Stochastic Processes, Wiley & Sons, 1953; articles in mathe-
matical journals.

I CONTRIVED to find myself a good spot at the University of
Illinois a few years after graduation and, aside from sabbatical
leaves and such — including membership in the chairborne bat-
talions in Washington during the War—lI have been too smart
(lazy?) to move.

WILLIAM GERMAIN DOOLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Doane St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Museum of Fine Arts, Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: July 6, 1904, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: Dennis Coleman Dooley, Rose
Connolly.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.; Huntington
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

MarRRiED: Clarice Burgess Clark, May 22, 1934, Boston, Mass.

occuPATION: Educator, Boston Museum of Fine Arts.

OFFICES HELD: Associate editor, art critic, Boston Evening Transcript; chair-
man, Art Commission, Commonwealth of Massachusetts; codérdinator,
Lowell Institute Cooperative Broadcasting Council; trustee, member
of the corporation, Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston; founder,
Pewter Collectors Society of America.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York City; Cambridge
Club; Wedgwood Club; China Students Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional book reviews for The New York Times and New
York Herald-Tribune.

AFTER leaving college, my main attempts were to get into jour-

[ 291 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

nalism. I wrote some free-lance articles for the Boston Transcript,
then one of the most distinguished newspapers in the country.
For years the Transcript had been the training shop for some of
the finest news writers in the country. There were also some
rather unusual departments, such as one called “Diverse Good
Causes.” and a page devoted to notes about genealogy, and another
to news for antiques collectors. When this latter position sud-
denly became vacant, the publisher discovered that there was no
such thing as a labor pool of “antiques editors.” So, on the basis
of my Fogg Museum courses, I got the job.

That was the beginning of a long and somewhat exciting num-
ber of years that saw me serving at one time or another (or at the
same time) as Transcript art critic, editor of special issues (such
as the Harvard Tercentenary), and such sundry side jobs as a
brief turn as foreign correspondent in Germany, France, and Eng-
land in 1937. Later, I also served as acting chief editorial writer,
roto editor, jokes editor (they were pallid ones), interim book
editor, and finally as associate editor, Such a career could only
have happened on a declining daily, but it was a hectic, liberal
education in journalism. The Transcript closed down in 1941.

Those of the Class who took that very popular survey course,
Fine Arts 1d, will remember Professor G. H. Edgell as a brilliant
lecturer. In the 1930’s he had left Harvard at the height of one
career to begin another at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, an
insutution of international distinction. In 1941, when the Tran-
script expired, he was director of the Boston Museum of Fine
Arts and he offered me a post in a section of the museum’s work
that is called “education,” but which actually covers a variety of
other activities, all of which attempt with a varying success to
explain the museum and its rich collection of treasures to the
community.

Outside of my museum work, I have written occasional book
reviews for The New York Times and Herald-Tribune, and
locally have done some seasonal articles for the Boston Globe.
My other writings or honorary positions held have been few and
scattered,

My wife and I live quictly in Cambridge, not too far from the
University, where among other things we occasionally find it a

privilege to sample a few of the concerts, movies, lectures, and

[292]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

exhibitions. Mrs. Dooley is a distinguished amateur silversmith
with her workshop in our house. Our summers have been very
simple: a lazy life on Buzzards Bay in a remote part of Wareham
that was unfortunately made even more remote this year by the
destruction of the hurricane, Carol. My wife and I like to swim
and loaf, cycle and boat—and in Cambridge read and work
around a house and garden.

GORDON DOUGLAS, JR.

HOME AppreEss: 16 E. 65th St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 111 E. 54th St.,. New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: James Gordon Douglas, Anne
Ward Kountze.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Middletown, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

MARRIED: Margaret H. Phipps, Oct. 2, 1930, Garden City, N. Y.; Adelaide
Moffett, Sept. 11, 1954, Southampton, Long Island, N. Y. cHiwpren:
Dita Gordon, July 4, 1931 (a2. Harcourt Amory, 45); Gordon, 3d,
Aug. 16, 1935. GRANDCHILD: Dita Grace Amory, Feb. 6, 1954.

HARVARD SON: Gordon Douglas, 3d, ’57.

OCCUPATION: President, Federal Gas, Oil & Coal Company, Ashland, Ky.

OFFICES HELD: President, Federal Gas Oil & Coal Company, since 1945,
Kycoga Land Company, since 1945; partner, Shearson, Hammill & Com-
pany (stock brokers), 1939-41; research analyst, Clarke, Sinsabaugh
& Company, 1937-39; governor, Racquet & Tennis Club, 1939-42.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club; The Brook, N. Y.; Southampton Club.

AFTER leaving Harvard in June, 1930, I spent the summer on a
trip to Europe, was married in October, and saw my first job in
Kidder, Peabody & Company crash in November.

Settled in Westbury, Long Island, from where I commuted to
New York through the years, beginning with the Guaranty Trust
Company Bond School, then a shift in commercial real estate be-
fore settling down in the investment business via investment coun-
sel to a partnership in Shearson, Hammill & Company. In 1941,
after a tour of Army training in Plattsburg, I received a commis-
sion in the Naval Reserve, retiring as a lieutenant commander in
1945.

I have recently remarried and am now living in New York City.

For the past twelve years I have owned a cattle farm outside of

[ 293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Washington, D.C, in Virginia, which is now for sale, cattle busi-
ness and he!p being what it is.

Most of my hobbies I share with my wife, such as golf, skiing,
reading, photography and music. In addition, skin diving, some
tennis, and plaving grandfather.

Since my son entered Harvard in the fall of 1953 after being
headed for Yale, I have found my way back to Cambridge more
frequently to see a football game or two and to act as a Marshal
for Commencement Day last June. My wife and I look forward
to the day we can enjoy a simple life in the country upstate.

GEORGE DOVE

HOME ADDRESS: 1633 Roselawn Rd. Mayfield Heights 24, Ohio.

OFFicE aporEss: Pesco Products Div. Borg-Warner Corp., 24700 Miles Ave.,
Bedford, Ohio.

Bors: Oct. 11, 1905, Andover, Mass. PARENTS: Percival Dove, ’98, Alice
Loring Barker.

prepareD AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MannieD: Ruby Lee Miles, April 12, 1930, St. Louis, Mo.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Percival Dove, Jr. ’28; David Dove, ’37.

occupation: Development Engineer.

MEMBER OF: Singers Club of Cleveland; First Baptist Church of Cleveland,

International Brotherhood of Divot Transplanters and Blue Language
Resistors Unorg.

 

“THE class wants to know all about 1” Matey! That's a
large order and could well interfere with my early spring tune-up
on the local waterlogged turf with my trusty “7” iron; or even
delay the posting of this “thing” until time for the Fiftieth. So
all brave readers must forego the pleasure of all the details of
“all about” and revel in the simple brevity of what I shall try to
make a “shorty.”

My “career history” reflects the results of modern business
practice of hire and lay-off according to the commencement and
completion of orders. Consequently, my path has been a tortuous
one, yet gratifying in that my experience background is quite
comprehensive and is very useful in a city where industry is so
diversified as it is here. Several major production organizations
have been blessed (quiet please) with my talents and in turn each

[ 294 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

opportunity has added to my “tool kit.” During the twenty-eight
years since Harvard, having completed freshman year only, I
have had mass production experience in plant layout, conveyor
and equipment design, estimating, scheduling, processing, pro-
cedure writing, editing, design study and layout drafting, lofting
and loft supervision, supervisory liaison and expediting, technical
codrdinating and project administration, other experience includes
sales, auto mechanics, truck and bus maintenance, and trouble-
shooting.

My “family” remains the same. In fact, we shall be celebrating
our twenty-fifth wedding anniversary on April 12, when this is
“a-pressing.” Ruby Lee Miles was her maiden name, hails from
Kansas, said “Yes” in St. Louis, Missouri. ‘There are no blessed
events to record so we remain the twain. Also sharing our house-
hold, and a great source of amusement and comfort, is Victoria. A
pedigreed English bulldog, Golden Brindle, five years old, she’s
the most loving and lovable pet we’ve ever known. She joined
the “Act” at the tender age of ten months and has never ceased
to beg for food, fondling, and frolic. She’s strong and rugged,
weighs fifty pounds, and we never worry about the house or car
when she’s on guard, for her unfriendly appearance is hardly
conducive to encroachment.

For travels, we have only taken vacation time to visit either
Ruby’s folks in Wichita and vicinity or mine in New York City
and Beverly, Massachusetts. We were quite amused, when we
lived in Buffalo, to find so many globe trotters who had never
seen Niagara Falls! We wonder how many New Yorkers there are
who have never seen the Lady of Bedloe’s Island or Wall Street!
The entire period of the war years was spent in Buffalo, New
York, where I worked for Curtiss-Wright Corporation and the
United States Air Forces. We built C-46 “Commando” transports,
which helped make history on the “Hump” flights to China, and
P-4os (used by both the British and U.S. Air Forces) which were
the ruggedest fighters in use. My functions with Curtiss-Wright
started in St. Louis in 1940 as loftsman, and continued, after trans-

fer to Buffalo, as loft supervisor, liaison supervisor, technical
coérdinator and finally Assistant Project Administrator-Factor
Manager Staff in 1946.

Hobbies are now quite extensive, since in 1950 we bought our

[ 295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

own home. Thad always dabbled at a few things, but found that
gardening, house painting, paper hanging, carpentry, plumbing,
house wiring, masonry and cement work require more than a
casual acquaintanceship if they are to be well done. I continue to
do the mechanical work needed to keep our car “clicking,” and
also the body work and painting when we get “creased.” Singing
has been a very enjoyable hobby and through it I have been
privileged to meet many delightfully interesting people. We have
made many good friends in the course of thirty-some years of
singing in church choirs, glee clubs and civic choral organizations,
and in guest soloist appearances before club and group meetings
and in many cantata and oratorio performances. As a result of
this activity, I am now embarked on a project to record on discs
some of the performances which were tape recorded.

Since I am determined to keep “this thing” short, [ll not list all
of my convictions. Please understand I have never been arrested,
thus my convictions are not any of them related to that procedure
except I might easily have done things, which might have been
classified as “assault,” to hairbrained drivers and roadhogs, in-
considerate neighbors, nosey gossips, the parents of obnoxious
children, that “pressing” foursome behind, fair weather friends,
“bucky” people, unqualified climbers, gilded “lilies”, etc. I
believe in and try to abide by the Golden Rule philosophy of the
truly genuine men who have taught it and practised it.

And this truly is thirty.

PAUL LEO DOWD

HOME appeess: 49 Highland St, Holden, Mass.

orFicy, apuvess: Filene’s, Main & Federal St., Worcester, Mass.

Bas: May 5, 1909, Charlestown, Mass. paReNts: Joseph Dowd, Theresa
Elizabeth Dineen.

Pyepasip at: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930,

Maruinp: Mary Elizabeth Maguire, June 15, 1935, Brockton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Paul Leo, Jr, April 11, 1936, Mary Anne, July 22, 1937; Joseph James,
Jan. 1, 1939; John Maguire, Nov. 2, 1941, Thomas Brown, May 30, 1944;
Dennis Michael, May 31, 1947; Nora Ellen, Nov. 12, 1949.

Ham avy ws; Paul Leo Dowd, Jr. 58.

[ 296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Manager, Filene’s, Worcester, Mass., member Management
Board, Filene’s, Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1950, chairman Mercantile Bureau, 1950-52,
Worcester Chamber of Commerce, Worcester Better Business Bureau,
1949-51, Worcester Trade Promotion Committee, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester.

THE large city store kind of retail business has been my career
since the day after Commencement in 1930. All of these years
have been spent with one employer, as the stores I have worked in
have all been owned by William Filene’s Sons Company, Boston,
a division of Federated Department Stores, Inc. As a trainee I
started in the basement store of R. H. White Company, Boston,
until 1944 owned by Filene’s. At one time or another I worked
as stock boy, clerical worker, refund clerk, and floor walker. My
first rise in the retail business was to the fourth floor where I
became a furniture porter during the February furniture sale.
Apparently I was found to be quite talented in that work, as I
was left in it until the front of my only suit was virtually worn
away.

I then became assistant buyer of toys and luggage, and survived
and benefited from the inconceivable pace of Christmas toy
action, I then was made assistant buyer of linens, blankets, and
domestics for a year. In January, 1933, I became buyer of these
departments and remained in that position until January, 1941,
when I was appointed a divisional merchandise manager of a
group of home furnishings departments with ten buyers reporting
to me. Later, I moved to a divisional manager’s position directing
children’s departments, intimate apparel, and house dress depart-
ments.

While I was in the Navy during 1944 and 19455 F ilene’ s sold
R. H. White’s, and I was invited to join Filene’s in Boston. After
a refresher year as an assistant divisional manager to a most bril-
liant ready-to-wear merchandiser, Mr. H. K. Gross, I became
again a divisional merchandise manager in the Boston store. In
June of 1948 I was moved to Filene’s Worcester store as manager.
This is where I still am, performing all the general management
duties of this independently bought and operated Filene unit. In
November of 1952 1 was appointed a member of the management
board of Filene’s, where in a weekly meeting in Boston I par-
ticipate in the discussion of over-all Filene problems.

L 297 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Mary Maguire of Brockton entered the retail business via the

wife. aftera ashort experience selling as a trainee at the R. H. White
Company. We have seven children — five boys and two girls —
from four to eighteen in age. Mary and I, of course, find that
us family of ours is our most enjoy -able and principal interest in
Lie at the moment. When we lived near Boston we enjoyed
the theatre and eating places there to the utmost. Our social life
has alwavs been along the lines of informal round-the-neighbor-
hood visiang with frends who like to sit around and talk.

During the early war years I took part in the usual civilian de-
fense activities and had a fine time participating in the competi-
ben among four well-trained auxiliary fire companies in Canton,
Massachusetts. My Naval service was as a Supply Corps officer,
winding up as a lieutenant (senior grade). Two other members
of the Class of ’ 30 were in my training group — Preston Ela and
Charles Eiseman. We were sent to Babson Institute and then to
a special War Adjustment Course at the Harvard Graduate School
of Business Administration. For four months we learned how to
act in the best interests of the Navy in the termination of War
Contracts, disposition of War Surplus, and decommissioning of
stations. One speaker very aptly told us that in this assignment
the only medal we could hope to get might be a “Congressional
Investigation Medal.” He was right. The Mead Committee in-
vestigated the Naval Advance Base Depot at Davisville, Rhode
Iland, while I was assigned there! Of course, they found every-
thing shipshape.

In matters of religion we are Roman Catholic.

So far as politics go, I would describe myself, until the last two

elections, as a liberal non-partisan who was strongly in back of

Franklin Roosevelt. The best way to describe my more recent
inclinations would be to say that I wish I could have helped elect
Dwight Eisenhower one term sooner.

Our vacations have always been spent on Cape Cod and more
recently on Nantucket and Martha’s Vineyard. We hope that the
years ahead will allow us more and more time in that direction.

My civic activitics have been principally connected with efforts
ta cope with the Worcester version of the problems common to
the downtown business areas of large cities everywhere, So I

[ 298 }

a1 dali il inl dma

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have served on many committees for the Worcester Chamber of
Commerce and on two for the city government on problems of
traffic, off-street parking, urban redevelopment projects, and the
like. It happens to be my belief that the downtown areas of cities
will regain much of the ground they have lost as access roads and
parking facilities improve. This is because of the hard-to-beat
power of the combined services and goods offered by a typical
downtown area which cannot all be economically provided in
suburbia on a downtown scale.

PAUL EDMUND DOWLING

HOME appREss: go1 Greenleigh Rd., Baltimore 12, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sparrows Point High School, Baltimore 19, Md.

BORN: June 4, 1909, Dorchester, Mass. parents: William Thomas Dowling,
Caroline L. Regan.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1933; ED.M.,
1934

MARRIED: Elizabeth Stuart Dunn, June 29, 1943, Towson, Md. cHitpren:
Paul Edmund, Jr., Dec. 20, 1945; Dorothy Woodward, March 15, 1947.

OccUPATION: Teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Modern Language Group, Maryland State Teachers
Association, 1952-54; secretary, Supervisory Committee, Teachers As-
sociation of Baltimore County Credit Union, since 1953; second vice-
president, Maryland Chapter, American Association of Teachers of
French, 1953-54; chairman, Foreign Language ‘Teachers, Baltimore
County, 1949-52; vice-president, 1951-54, governor, since 1954, chairman
of Schools Committee, since 1948, Harvard Club of Maryland.

MEMBER oF: National Education Association.

PUBLICATIONS: History of Naval Air Station, Cape May, N. J. Naval History
Project, 1945; contributions to Know-How, publication of Associated
Public School Systems, New York City (Operation Renovation —
1954 — of School Library) ; assisted in writing of Wordell-Seiler-Ayling’s .
Wildcats Over Casablanca, Little, Brown, 1943.

FROM 1930 to 1934 I was at various Harvard graduate schools.
I spent the summer of 1930 with Harris, Forbes (bonds), Boston,
and the summers of 1933-35 at the Middlebury Foreign Language
Schools in Vermont. From 1934 to 1938, I taught French, Latin,
and Ancient History at Portsmouth, Rhode Island, at the Priory
School. Spent the summer of 1936 in Spain, Italy, Greece, and
Yugoslavia. This was the second of my two trips to Europe: the

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

tat trp to France in 1926 involved Alan Brown, Tom Robinson,

Hanichen, and Hedge as shipmates. Unable to be in Cambridge

dunng the momentous month of September, 1936, I did the next
best tung by visiung the church in London where John Harvard
was bapuzed. Alan Brown's father, Carroll N. Brown, ’91, was
mv AMtiddicbury classmate in 1934.

I taught French in the Boston Public School system from 1938
to 1945. My summer travel was: 1939, Western National Parks
and Golden Gate Exposition; 1940, Appalachians from the Lauren-
trans to the Smokies; 1941, the Southwest and Mexico City.

From 1942 to 1946 I was in the U.S. Naval Reserves. In the
summer of 1942 at NTSI, Quonset Point, Rhode Island; August,
1942, to Mav, 1943, U.S.S. Ranger Air Group (VF 41); May,
1943, to June, 1943, Oxygen School, NAS, Jacksonville, Florida;
July, 1943, to September, 1944, Fleet Air Wing Four Hedron;
November, 1944 to December, 1945, NAS, Cape May, New
Jersey; January and February, 1946, Chemical Warfare School,
Edgewood Arsenal, Maryland. Lieutenant (j.g.), June, 1942;
lieutenant, May, 1943; lieutenant commander, October, 1945.
Classmates at Quonset were Ted Russell, Harold Cross, and Staf-
ford Almy; in the Aleutians, James Roosevelt, Malcolm Hill,
Theodore Galland, and Lithgow Devens, and at Cape May,
Morris Brownell and J. P. Davis.

In 1946 I became a teacher in the Baltimore County Public
School system. I have taught mainly French, but also at various
times Latin, English, citizenship, economic geography, and science.
About half my time is now spent in the work of the junior high
school coordinator in charge of discipline and attendance prob-
lems. In addition, I am currently occupied with such matters as
the over-all supervision of the Commencement Program, American
Education Weck activities, responsibility for a P.T.A. panel dis-
cussion on homework, a French Club (formerly I sponsored a
Yearbook and a Hi-Y Club), and participation in a county-wide
Principalship Training Program. There have been, of course, the
usual Jocal field trips with students and chairmanships of faculty
committees when the school was evaluated some years ago by the
Middle States Association of Schools and Colleges.

The Schools Committce of the local Harvard Club has been one
of my chicf outside activities. Especially rewarding was the

[ 300 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

receipt of a McKay National Engineering Scholarship by a Balti-
more High School boy last spring. A recent Glee Club concert
here has also been of great value for good Harvard publicity.
Maryland boys do well in Cambridge and more of them should
go there. When a Naval Reserve Officers School was recently
activated at Fort McHenry, I signed up for a refresher course
and now spend my Thursday evenings there.

JOHN RODGER DRYDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 279 Roosevelt, Grosse Pointe, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 12501 Dequindre St., Detroit, Mich.

BorN: Aug. 23, 1907, Dayton, Ohio. PARENTS: John Lester Dryden, Helen
Louise Ackley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; Detroit University
School, Grosse Pointe, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

MARRIED: Eunice Lee Evans, Oct. 8, 1932, Washington, D. C. (divorced
19§§). CHILDREN: Joan; Susan; John.

OccUPATION: Chairman of the board, Long Manufacturing Division, Borg-
Warner Corporation.

LAWRENCE EDWIN DUANE

HOME ADDRESS: 85 Fairway Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John C. Dowd, Inc., 212 Park Sq. Bldg., Boston, Mass,

BORN: July 13, 1906, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: James Chatham Duane, Mary
Lehnemann.

PREPARED AT; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MarRigeD: Katharine Hickey, Sept. 24, 1941, Derry, N. H. cuitpren: Law-
rence Edwin, Jr., Aug. 13, 1942; Kathleen, Sept. 27, 1943; Maniye, Aug.

Il, 1947-
occupation: Advertising, account executive.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Massachusetts Heart Association, 1953, 1954.

FIRST of all, comparing my photograph today with the one that
appeared in the 1930 Album will show a considerable difference
to even the casual observer. At college, I was pretty skinny and
was considerably underweight — weighing only 125 pounds.
Since it took me considerable time to completely recover from a
severe spinal injury suffered when I was a student at Exeter, and

[ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Cur they are al doing a good job. Actually, advertising plays a
rest important part in our nanonal economy because without it,
manufacturers’ products would nor sell and the national income
would suver greatly. At times a man in advertising is under ter-
rie pressure and has to suffer certain setbacks and other discour-
aging thincs, but somehow or other he is almost always able to
bounce back and go ahead. Of course, the competition is also
severe.

There is no doubr about it, the work I do today is much differ-
ent from that of the early days on the newspaper and, of course,
it pavs a great deal more. However, even after twenty years in
advertising, I cannot forget many of the old friends I met years
avo and I like to renew my acquaintance with them from time to
time. |

Recently I bought a home at Cataumet on Cape Cod where the
family spends the summer and I spend my vacation and all the
weekends Ican. While we like our home very much in Chestnut
Hill, we all find so much to do on the Cape; and yet it is a place
where one can also relax. I consider myself very lucky in having
three healzhy, normal children and a wife who is extremely patient
with me, even at times when she shouldn’t be, and now that
I am at the middle-aged stage, a reasonably quiet and happy
life with my family is about all I desire in life.

NICHOLAS MORTIMER DUCHEMIN

atantss: General Flectric Co. 212 King St, W., Toronto, Ont., Canada.

was: March 30, 1895, New York, N. Y. parents: James Brian DuChemin,
Harriet Wadden.

YEARS TS CANLELES 1925-1927.

Mansity: Florence Conner, July 4, 1924, Lynn, Mass.

orveanos: Vice-president, Gencral Electric Company.

[ 304 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES DREW DUDLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 47 Parker St, Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 8, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Augustus William Dudley,
’91, Alice Mary Cheney. |

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass., Cambridge High and Latin
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: S.B. IN ED. (Boston Univ.), 1933; ED.M.
(Boston Univ.), 1937.

marRigD: Lillian Cardwell Gilmer, Feb. 1, 1932, Kingsport, Tenn. cuizp:
William John, Aug. 21, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Augustus Dudley, ’32.

occupation: Teacher.

SINCE the Twentieth Anniversary Report of 1950, the only hap-
pening of any importance in the family was moving the furniture
and other household utensils to a home in Lexington in 1951. The
new environment is quite invigorating in many ways because,
among other things, one has to rise at 6:30 mornings to make con-
nections for the Cambridge High and Latin School at 8:15!

In addition to the High School work, I am employed by the
Lexington Recreation Department during the summer and winter
months. I also am selling a first-rate encyclopedia, Comzpton’s
Pictured Encylopedia, if any of your youngsters have a thirst for
knowledge.

DYSON DUNCAN

HOME appress: Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lea & Perrins, Inc., 241 West St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1908, New York, N. Y. Parents: Stuart Duncan, Jermain
Stoddard.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

marrieD: Mildred P. S. Hooker, Aug. 27, 1932, Upper St. Regis, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Jermain, Dec. 26, 1933; Mildred, March 23, 1935; Ransom
Hooker, Nov. 25, 1937; Diana, Sept. 13, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Paterson Duncan (deceased), ’25.

OccupaTION: President, Lea & Perrins, Inc., food manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Commodore, St. Regis Yacht Club.

MEMBER oF: American Alpine Club; St. Regis Yacht Club; Arctic Institute
of N. A.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on mountaineering.

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MEY wate. budding a home, and raising four children kept me
out of mischief for ten years. The war gave me a chance to in-
dize in my hobbies of mountaineering, skiing, travel, hunting,
and —ves—shooting! Also, K.P. Four years with the roth
Mountain Division and its predecessors; private, corporal, sergeant,
lieutenant, captain, foxhole warfare in Italy.

Now the Duncan family climbs and skis together again. My
wife, daughter, Mildred, and I crossed the High Alps from

Zermatt to Chamonix last spring.

Harvard classmate, Wally Ryan, and I make Worcestershire
Sauce; borh commute to Westchester. Ami still a “lone wolf” and
happiest with two or three people only and far out in the wilder-
ness. Science and philosophy continue to constitute a large part
of my recreational reading.

RICHARD LEE DUNHAM

MAILING aDoRESS: Buckley School, 120 E. 74th St, New York, N. Y.

Boax: Feb. 5, 1908, Leominster, Mass. parents: Francis Lee Dunham, Eliza-
beth Rebecca North.

pxepansp at: Gilman Country School, Roland Park, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

Manuiep: Alta Slifer, Dec. 21, 1939, Baltimore, Md.

occuPaTION: Education.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

CHARLES EDWARD DUNLAP

HOME abuass: 7431 Hampson Sc, New Orleans, La.

ovree avuesss: Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, La.

wax: June 8, 168, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Bates Dunlap, ’89,
Mo. ‘44. Anna Weld Carrct.

Purranin at: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. Dichres: as. cum laude, 1930, M.D., 1934.

Masatto: Lorna M. Alfred, Sept. 29, 1937, Chicago, Il]. crmpren: Elizabeth
Nawn, July 7, 1939, William Petrie, March 14, 1941; Charles Dawes,
April 15, 1942, John Alfred, June 1, 1944.

wsrpenion: Pathologist-in-chief, Tulane Unit Charity Hospital; professor,

chairman of Department of Pathology, Tulane University School of
Medicine.

[ 306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, Louisiana Association of Pathologists, 1947-48; con-
sultant, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, since 1952, Veteran’s Ad-
ministration Hospital, New Orleans, since 1949, U. S. Public Health
Service Hospital, New Orleans, since 1950; member Pathology Study
Section, National Institute of Health, since 1954, member editorial board,
AMA Archives of Pathology, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: American Association for Cancer Research; American Society
for Experimental Pathology; Society for Experimental Biology and
Medicine; American Association of Pathology and Bacteriology; Col-
lege of American Pathologists (founding fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific publications, chiefly on cancer and the effects of
radiation, including: “The Effect of Radiation on the Blood Hematopoi-
etic Tissues, Including the Spleen, the Thymus, and the Lymph Nones,”
Archives of Pathology, 1942; “Medicolegal Aspects of Injuries from Ex-
posure to Roentgen Rays and Radioactive Substances,” Occupational
Medicine, 1946; “Effects of Radiation,” in Anderson, W.A.D. Pathology:
C. V. Mosby, 1948.

AFTER finishing college and Medical Schoo] at Harvard and an
internship at the University of Chicago, curiosity led me to spend
a year in the study of pathology. That one year has stretched to
twenty and I now consider myself a pathologist. Chicago is a
cold town, but I have a warm feeling for it since it was there I
found not only my calling but my wife. We were married in
1937 and came back to Boston. For the next five years I worked
for Dr. Shields Warren on experimental cancer and the biological
effects of radiation, and also taught pathology at the Harvard
Medical School. Late in 1942 I learned that there was an opening
for a pathologist at the Tulane School of Medicine, and I took off
from Boston with the temperature at 19 degrees below zero in the
midst of a fuel oil shortage. On New Year’s Day of 1943, the
grass was green in New Orleans, the flowers were in bloom, the
air was balmy, and the people were wonderful. I have been teach-
ing pathology at Tulane ever since.

It was a surprise to find so little real difference, barring the
southern accent, between the students at Harvard and Tulane.
There was the same five per cent or so of geniuses and near-
geniuses, the same great middle group of steady, solid boys, and
the inevitable lunatic fringe. After watching students grow up
for some time, I still don’t know whether the fringe is a liability
or an asset. It provides some arresting characters as well as a
number of uncommonly fine physicians. My interest in the qual-

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

es that go to make a good physician has been sharpened by five
ve inven the medical school admissions committee. For anyone
who stands in need of having his humility sharpened, I recom-
read the job of picking 130 new medical students each year
from tooo candidates, followed by four years of watching his
prze sciections perform. The job also includes thinking up a That.
ful of plays and counterplays 1 in response to such questions as:
“Do vou happen to recall just what was on your mind the day you
let so-and-so get into this medical school?” Overlooking such
occasional mistakes, the record shows that medicine in general
is making real progress. We need only compare our own class-
mates, still in the full vigor of mature youth, with those broken
and pathetic old devils who shuffled about Harvard Yard with
their silw hats and canes celebrating their Twenty-fifth Reunion
IN 1930.

Getting back for a moment to the main subject of this auto-
bituary, I can record myself as one of the lucky winners in the
great matrimonial grab-bag. My wife is a bit smarter than I am,
but doesn’t rub it in. She is decorative, considerate, and capable,
and she doesn’t like to argue. Thus, through no fault of mine,
our four children are growing up in a happy and relatively peace-
ful home.

CHESLEY MERRIAM DUNLAP

HOME ADoRESS: 225 Waltham Se, Lexington, Mass.

Fre apoetss: Massachusetts Hospital Service, Inc., and Massachusetts
Medical Service, 38 Chauncy St, Boston, Mass.

was: Feb. 1, 198, Waukesha, Wis, parents: William Pope Dunlap, Bernice
Tyler.

pusvansp at: Franklin High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLELE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: 8.B. 1930.

mMakicep: Hiclen Cummings, June 20, 1931, Woburn, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joanna Louise, Feb. 9, 1933, Daniel Cummings, May 6, 1935; Susan
Elsabeth, Oct. 25, 1938, Louise Ellen, Sept. 22, 1940; Sally Jean, Jan.
16, 1935-

wstpanos: Salew representative, Blue Cross-Blue Shield Plan; instructor,
Peering College of Commerce, Boston University.

(ars itap: Director, Woburn YMCA. 1936-43; president, Woburn
Gavnunity Fund, 1942-45, director, Greater Boston Community Fund
Carga gn in Woburn, 1943, member, 1937-42, chairman, 1942, Pru-

[ 308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

"dential Committee, First Congregational Church in Woburn; residential
director, Greater Boston Community Fund Campaign in Lexington,
1948; member, 1946-52, chairman, 1954, Troop Committee, Troop 19,
Boy Scouts of America, Lexington; member, 1949-54, chairman, 1954,
Religious Education Committee, Hancock Congregational Church,
Lexington, president, Lexington High School P.T.A., 1950-51, member,
Town Meeting, Lexington, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Hancock Church Men's Club; Lexington Historical Society,
two P.T.A.’s.

IN the winter of 1925-26 I was a senior at Franklin High School
in Los Angeles, planning to enter nearby Occidental College the
following fall. One day Mr. Joseph Sniffen, ’oo (or thereabouts),
and boy’s vice-principal at Franklin, called me into his office and
asked if I would consider going to Harvard. It developed that
Mr. Sniffen was that year chairman of the Harvard Club of South-
ern California scholarship committee. In the next few months I
filled out forms, was interviewed, had luncheon at the Los Angeles
University Club several times, and was accepted at Harvard.

Today, as the father of two college students, I can understand
the pride with which my mother and father showed me off to
anyone and everyone all that spring and summer. Then, in Sep-
tember just before I was to leave for the East, my mother and I
went to the local bank to buy travelers’ checks. Because for her
this was an occasion, Mom asked for Mr. Clyde Church, the bank
president. We were ushered into his presence and Mom intro-
duced me as her son and a scholarship student about to leave for
HARVARD. I suppose Mr. Church was somewhat impressed
because, before we left, he suggested I look up his eastern rela-
tives, a Mr. and Mrs. Edward Cummings of Woburn, Massachu
setts,

Along about Thanksgiving of my freshman year I guess I was
mildly homesick. I had just been whittled down to size by the
November hour exams. I looked up Edward Cummings in the
phone book, called, and was invited to dinner. I found that Mr.
and Mrs. Cummings were pleasant, kindly people and that their
daughter, Helen, was completely charming. By senior year, Helen
and I had an understanding. After graduation I went to work
for the International Business Machines Corporation, and a year
later in June we were married.

After five years with I.B.M., I spent eight years as man of all

[ 309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

work With a suburban general insurance agency, then to Blue
Cross-Blue Shichi, where I have been personnel manager and sales
representative.

We have five, fine, bright, healthy children. Joanna is a senior
at Radclitfe. Danis a sophomore at Brown, Sue and Louise are at
Letington Ech School, and Sally is a fourth-grader in the ele-
mentary schools.

We live in a big, old house on two acres of land. I have a
power lawn mower. We play some indifferent bridge. We square
dance. We work in the church. I am involved in town affairs.
We never seem to have enough money, but somehow we get by.
We ger into a stadium football game once or twice a season.

Sometimes I get to dreaming about what if Joseph Sniffen, ‘oo,
hadn't been boy's vice-principal of Franklin High School, or what
if bank president, Clyde Church, had been out the day Mom and
I called on him and we'd had to buy our travelers’ checks from
some vice-president. We're both glad they were on the job. |

WILLIAM McKEE DUNN

HOME aporess: 623 Lincoln Rd., Grosse Pointe 30, Mich.

orFice apoxess: Riegel Paper Corp., 111 W. Washington St., Chicago, Ill.

Bors: Oct. 15, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: Morrill Dunn, ’93, Anna Chapman,

prepartp AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

Mange: Aileen Keena, Jan. 19, 1940, Detroit, Mich. cuttpren: Morrill, 34,
Dec. 5, 1941; Aileen Keena, Jan. 3, 1945; Deborah Ann, May 3, 1950.

oocupaTios: Sales representative.

orrices HELD: President, 1932-38, director, 1939-41, 1952-55, Harvard Club
of Michigan; chairman, Program Committee, Society Industrial Pack-
aging and Material Handling Engineers, 1947~49; fleet captain, Crescent
Sail Yacht Club, 1953; member United Foundation, 1948-53 (all Detroit).

MEMBER oF: University Club of Detroit, Economic Club of Detroit; Cres-
cent Sail Yacht Club.

OUR family consists of Morrill, Keena, and Debbie. Morrill is
in the eighth grade at the Grosse Pointe University School and
may well help Harvard 63 win its intercollegiate sailing events.
He follows his grandfather in having a real fecling for the water

and sailing. Our daughters are two smart girls who look and act
like their mother — what more can one ask?

[310]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Business has entailed so much travelling that we have had no
desire for further expeditions during vacations, even had the
children been old enough to enjoy it. As a result, aside from two
visits in Nantucket, we have spent our recent summers at Pointe
Aux Barques, a beautiful spot on the tip of the “thumb” of
Michigan.

Most of my business life has been spent in sales — principally
in paper products.

After two years in the Detroit Savings Bank, I worked as an
industrial engineer in the McCord Radiator and Manufacturing
Company. Eventually, this led to sales engineering for refrigera-
tion components, sold to original equipment manufacturers. A
few months with the Eddy Paper Corporation followed, designing
and selling corrugated containers.

In 1939 I became the Michigan representative for Kimberly
Clark Corporation and established distribution for Kimpak cellu-
lose wadding for packaging and special end uses. Probably my
most interesting contribution was the design of the pack for the
Sperry Bomb Sight made for Great Britain in 1944.

When allocations made this job non-productive, 1 was com-
missioned a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Container Section of the
Supply Corps, the billet being specifications work. For the two
_ years prior to this, I had been vice-commander of a Flotilla in the
Coast Guard Reserve in Detroit and had far more active duty
operating 38-foot patrol boats on the Detroit River than writing
specifications for the Navy in Washington!

After the war I returned to Kimberly Clark. The experience in
packaging and printing papers served well as preparation for my
new connection with the Riegel Paper Corporation of New York.
This is one of the finest old companies in the industry, and is
planning a considerable expansion; so the future looks bright.

Sailing is my favorite hobby. I have sailed three Port Huron-
Mackinac races and many long distance and overnight races. A
good friend and I are partners in a Lightning Class sloop moored
a mile from home, and we have spent many fascinating days
racing, cruising, and sailing on Lake St. Clair. Morrill and I took
short cruises the last two summers in one of the unique cruising
spots in this country —the delta of the St. Clair River. Only
twenty miles across the lake from Detroit, this is wild and marshy,

[311]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

crossed by several deep channels which form the mouths of the
nver, Cruising in a 19!4-foot open sailboat with a boat cover for
shelter really brings you close to nature.

Acting as Detroit chairman for the Class has been rewarding,
and I hope results will surprise us. I am looking forward to the
Reunion with great anticipation — if it lives up to the advance
publicity, it will be the event of a lifetime.

ARTHUR LINCOLN DURKEE

HOME appress: 35 Fifth Ave, New York, N. Y.
oFFice appress: Bell Telephone Laboratories, 463 West St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 24, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. paRENTS: Ralph Everett Durkee,
Mynnee Alice Lincoln.

PREPARED AT: Greenfield High School, Greenfield, Mass.; Deerfield Academy,
Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B, IN ENG. magna cum laude, 1930.
occuPATION: Engineer.

ROBERT LEE DUTTON

HOME apprEss: 83 Winter St., Mansfield, Mass.

Bors: March 29, 1909, Pumam, Conn, parents: Milton Pinkham Dutton,
Lula Elvira Smith.

prepARED aT: Attleboro High School, Attleboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: a.B. cum laude, 1930; B.D. (Andover
Newton Theological School), 1936.

MarRgiED: Doris Miriam Palser, Dec. 27, 1941, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:

Robert Lee, Aug. 13, 1944; Judith Ann, Jan. 29, 1946; Nancy Jean,
April 19, 1948; Richard Craig, Nov. 17, 1951.

OccuPATION: Minister; Protestant Chaplain, Myles Standish State School,
SINCE 1952.

oFFices HELD: Minister, Holden, Massachusetts, 1936-46, Pueblo, Colorado,
1946-1949, Taunton, Massachusetts, 1949-54.

MEMBER OF: Institute of General Semantics; International Society for General
Semantics.

SELECTING the proper words to interpret my life in brief com-
pass is difficult because ready-made classifications are inade-
quate. I am an ordained minister of the Congregational Christian
Churches, but for a long time have believed that a scientific ap-
proach offers more hope of “salvation” than the customary theo-

[312]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

logical methods. As for science, I agree in general with much in
the psychiatric and psychoanalytic points of view, but since 1944
have concentrated upon the employment of formulations that go
under the heading of General Semantics, introduced in 1933 by
Alfred Korzybski in his Science and Sanity.

My life is now devoted to learning, exploring, and applying the
methodology of General Semantics, which has helped to resolve
more problems than any other method that has ever come to my
attention. Because of a modest financial competence, it became
possible in 1954 to leave the routine of parish work at least for a
while, For the first time, the Duttons are living not in a parsonage,
but in their own home, an old colonial on seven and a half acres
of land in Mansfield, twenty-five miles south of Boston. I am not
now the minister of any church, but do retain a part-time chap-
laincy in a nearby state institution for the feeble-minded.

There is more time now to devote to some writing in the area
of my chief interest. The crucial problem is the matter of
“method.” It is much easier to declare what would be desirable
than to demonstrate how to achieve any specified goal. The years
have taught me some lessons about method, and I have to try to
present these in book form.

What led to this present course of action? After Commence-
ment in 1930, I spent three pleasant and instructive years in office
and sales work. In 1933 I was selling electrical appliances in
Boston and during this period the fact was crystallized that my
basic interest, for which roots were deep, lay elsewhere. After
one sales interview in which I spent one and one-half hours try-
ing to get my potential customer to forgive his wife, from whom
he was estranged, I decided I was in the wrong line and went to
theological seminary. There I found the greatest hope for helping
people not so much in learning the usual ways of the clergy as
from insights gained in clinical training spent in institutions. In
the summer of 1935 three months at the State Prison Colony in
Norfolk, Massachusetts, was a turning point, Here is one case
where a fellow may be said to have found himself in prison.

Actually, the course was set at Harvard, where great minds
taught me to seek the truth. I left Harvard convinced that one’s
purpose in life must be to try to bring intelligence to bear in
whatever area one’s life is cast. The result might have been fore-

[ 313 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ted had Thad a more adequate understanding both of the human
scene and of my own nature.

As long as it is financially possible to do so, I shall probably
remain Lirgely outside the ecclesiastical framework. While I feel

happy abour my usefulness in eighteen years of Sunday preaching
and parish ministry, I now feel that I can be of more value in
our world free from the limitations imposed by parish routine.
One important reason for leaving the active ministry is to lift a
burden that lies heavy upon the 1 ministers wife. With this goes
the need for giving more of myself to my family. Once I was
going to save ‘the w orld, or at least help mightily. Now I feel I
may “be able to be of use to a few people, and not the least of
these are within my own home.

Back in 1930 I looked to 1955 as marking some sort of fulfill-
ment, as if that were the terminus of one’s vision. The year 1955
does stand for fulfillment, but in a very real sense once again for
commencement.

MARSHALL DWINNELL

HOME ADDRESS: 13 Robin Rd., Weston, Mass.

oFFice appress: Dwinnell, Harkness & Hill, Inc., 70 State St., Boston g, Mass.

BorN: Sept. 27, 1907, West Newton, Mass. parents: Clifton Howard
Dwinnell, Elisabeth Adamson Marshall.

PREPARED AT: Noble & Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

Marazieo: Priscilla Simonds, Oct. 8, 1932, Marblehead Neck, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joanne, July 23, 1938; Carol Adamson, Aug. 11, 1944; Priscilla Marshall,
Feb. 15, 1947.

orcupaTioN: Finance: dealer in securities, specializing in Municipal Bonds,
treasurer of corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant manager, First National Bank of Boston, 1940-52;
treasurer, Roadside Corporation, 1941-47; trustee, Catrock Trust, since
1952, Weston Roads Trust, 1943-54; assessor, Town of Weston, since
1951, treasurer, 1945-47, president, 1948-50, board of trustees, Meadow-
brook School.

Mimura oF; Weston Golf Club; Duxbury Yacht Club; Farmington Country
Club, Ponte Vedra Club.

BACK in college days I spent considerable time in Widow Nolan’s
trying to have crammed into my thick skull what I had supposedly

[314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

learned over a three-months’ period. Now my work-tired mind
has to review a twenty-five year span!

I might classify myself as a typical Bostonian, not stuffy, but
outside of a couple of trips abroad, I have been self-sufficient in
my own surroundings. My first trip took place immediately after
college, when four wild Indians certainly gave added strength to
European’s reasons for dislike of Americans. I was forced into
numberless cathedrals, for two of our tribe had taken fine arts.
I was pushed and pulled up a couple of mountains. We bailed
one of our classmates (anonymous) out of a bedbug-ridden jail
and ended up seeing all the sights of Paris at night. Back home —
broke-—I immediately started in the lowliest position of the
First National Bank of Boston and, as I came from a banking
family, I thought it would be my lifetime work. Over a period
of years I worked up to a good position. Then wanderlust struck
and two of my friends and I divorced ourselves from our previous
connections and started our present firm in January, 1953. The
timing was extremely opportune, and we have enjoyed a year and
a half of extremely successful business — no ulcers yet.

On the side, at one time I invested successfully in a Howard
Johnson stand in New Jersey, but more recently I have kept my
interests nearer home, delving into a little real estate.

Now as to family life, my wife and I moved to Wellesley Hills
and had a gay but uneventful five years. We then moved to
Weston and immediately had our first daughter. A few years
went by and two others followed, which we hope is finis. My
eldest daughter just received her driver’s license and thus far has
been generous in allowing us occasional use of the cars. She plays
a pretty good game of tennis, but the old man playing periodically
can still beat her. My wife’s and my first love is golf, primarily of
the weekend variety. We go North and South annually for this
purpose, but I am still a rotten golfer. Our indoor recreation is
cards of almost any kind, but preferably bridge at which we are
not too bad.

I have become involved in the usual civic affairs: I headed the
Community Fund Drive in 1945; was president of the board of
trustees of Meadowbrook School, a small private school, for sev-
eral years; just finished an eleven-year stretch as secretary of the
Weston Golf Club; and am in my second term as Town Assessor.

[315]

ee tee nasa scl atts Nn lied eahanmeestaa aaa saeteasadantnnnsniiopien

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

We spend our summers in Duxbury where life is gay and very
enjovable. We spend very little time on the water, but a great
deal of time in it. In the winters we still do quite a bit of skiing,
mostly locally where there is a tow, Both of us enjoy gardening,
and while the results of our endeavors are somewhat pleasing, we
do not have the so-called green thumb.

As I look back on my twenty-five years out of college, I can
think of few things to regret. May be a son would be nice, but
then I should start losing my neckties and other wearing apparel.
Looking ahead, now that our children are growing up, my wife
and I look forward to seeing more of this country along with
them. In the past, most of our travels have been concentrated out-
side of the United States.

EDWARD HYDE EARLE

HOME aporess: 40 Old Farm Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.
OFFICE aporEss: Conroy & Earle, 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

Bors: March 17, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Walter Frank Earle,
Elizabeth Hyde. .

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; LL.B., 1933.

MARRIED: Nancy B. Hutton, Oct. 6, 1934, Wellesley, Mass. CHILDREN:
Edward Hyde, Jr, July 2, 1936, Nancy Hutton, Jr., and Elizabeth
Hyde (twins), March 1, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, 1948-51, treasurer, since 1951, St. Andrew’s
Church, Wellesley; rear commodore, 1951-53, vice commodore, 1953-

54, treasurer, since 1954, Bucks Harbor Yacht Club, South Brooksville,
Maine.

MeMber or: Duxbury Yacht Club; Bucks Harbor Yacht Club.

IN reviewing the past twenty-five years for the purpose of mak-
ing this report, I can find nothing spectacular or extraordinary
to chronicle, Psychologists would probably say it is the result
of a natural subconscious repression of the unpleasant that makes
these years appear from this vantage point to have been on the
whole largely very happy ones. Among the highlights are my
marriage to a wonderful girl; the building of our home coincident
with the birth of a fine son, followed in a few years by twin

dauvhters, certain motor trips and yacht cruises with one or more
of the fanily.

[ 316]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The chief problems have been the common ones of striving to
please enough clients to keep the butcher, the baker, and candle-
stick maker happy, civilizing the children, and soothing my ulcers.
These latter appeared when Roosevelt was elected to the third
term. I have, in turn, been carpenter, plumber, painter, gardener,
etc., to the point that golf and tennis are forgotten sports. Activ-
ities apart from business and outside the home — largely in the
church — while satisfying do take up so much time that it is
increasingly difficult to do many things that at college I had hoped
to do afterward. I have become almost illiterate from lack of
reading —- the record-player is idle 99% of the time, while that
abomination TV is strictly for the kids.

I do, however, indulge in one hobby — sailing. Weekend races
in July at Duxbury amongst stimulating competition have brought
somewhat better than average results. Then the last few Augusts
have been filled with day sailing and cruising Down East,

++ ROBERT MEADER FASTON

BORN: April 16, 1908, East Providence, R. I. parents: Frank Tourtellot
Easton, Emily Meader.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. ,

pieD: May 1, 1930, Central Falls, R. I.

DURING our freshman year, Easton was a member of the staff
of the Red Book and in 1928-1929 was “Pegasus” of the Advocate.

L. LASZLO ECKER-RACZ

HOME ADDRESS: 1318-24th St, S., Arlington, Va.

OFFIcE Appress: U.S, Treasury, Washington, D. C.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1906, Backov, Czechoslovakia, parents: Ignatz I. Ecker,
Teresz Racz.

PREPARED AT: Rochester High School, Rochester, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. cur laude, 1930; PH.D., 1935.

MaRRieD: Cornelia Bruere Rose, May 12, 1934, Katonah, N.Y. cHILDREN:
Maria, July 19, 1937; Nicholas, March 17, 1940.

OccUPATION: Fiscal economist, U.S. Treasury Department; lecturer, Amer-
ican University.

[317]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
perk fs wip: Chairman, Citizens’ Fiscal Advisory Committee, Arlington,
Va. North Virginia Fiscal Study Committee; fiscal adviser, Michigan
State Tax Study Commission, professorial lecturer, American Univer-
sity, Washington, D.C.
MteMtRER OF; Army-Navy Country Club, Arlington, Va.
puRLCcATIONS: Miscellaneous articles in the professional journals.

TWENTY-FIVE years! It's been a good show, but how is one
tro convey the quality of it? Speaking of the excitement felt b
the common man during FDR's first few months in Washington,
Gerald Johnson wrote some sixteen years later that “the young
fellow of today can hardly be expected to understand it, much less
to experience anything like it.” Quite right!

After three years of graduate study, centered on Harvard but
including Columbia and abroad, I came to Washington in 1933,
working successively with four New Deal agencies, and in 1936
joined the U.S. Treasury. This is my nineteenth year with that
department, not subtracting the four years spent in military and
Foreign Service abroad. My work has related primarily to ways
and means of financing a growing national budget with occasional
detours into international and Federal-State relations and other
special problems, As director of the Treasury’s Tax Advisory
Staff, surrounded by some first-class minds, the opportunities for
intellectual excitement were frequent and reached a kind of climax
at the start of the Korea affair. We had a small part seeing to
it that for once the U.S. covers the cost of a national emergency
out of taxes, on time, and without recourse to increased public
debt. When the change in administrations caught me exposed at
the head of a “key” staff group, I relinquished that post and re-
turned to staff level, to the relief of the New Team and to the
benefit of personal health.

The war provided a stimulating tour of duty through North
Africa, Sicily, Italy, and Western Europe. My army assignment,
somewhere between G-5 and G-z, fitted into none of the TO’s.
At the request of the State Department, the Army demobilized
me overseas in December, 1944, to permit assignment as economic
adviser to the U.S. component of the Allied Control Commission
in Hungary. That was Voroshilov’s own show but the rest of us
(US. and U.K. contingents) had an early preview of what has
since come to be called the “Russian problem.” We went there

[ 318 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

when fighting in Europe was approaching a climax, with official
instructions “to dispel the Russian’s distrust of the U.S.” and
returned at the close of 1946 confirmed in the need for arousing
U.S. appreciation of the true nature of that problem.

In the background, too, considerable preoccupation with com-
munity problems and the realization gained from some twen
years of experience that any time my interest in some phase of
county affairs begins to wane, Cornelia will not be long in selling
the merits of another “civic cause.” After sixteen years in one
spot, roots begin to take hold even in Virginia soil.

GEORGE ALDEN EDSON, II

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Jackson St., Littleton, N. H. |

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Depot Store, Inc., Littleton, N. H.

BORN: Dec. 27, 1907, Littleton, N.H. parents: Harold Alden Edson, Amanda
Ingalls Symonds.

PREPARED AT: The Stearns School, Mont Vernon, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930. ;

MARRIED: Elizabeth Gray Jackson, Jan. 8, 1933, Clinton, Mass. cHiLpren: Fay,
June 15, 1941; Susan, March 30, 1943; Gail, June 12, 1946.

occuPaATIoN: Vice-president, The Depot Store, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Franconia Ski Club, Littleton Chamber of Com-
merce; director, vice-president, Littleton Rotary Club; incorporator,
Littleton Savings Bank; selectman, Easton, N. H.

MEMBER OF; Second Marine Division Association; Marine Corps Reserve
Officers’ Association; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Burns Lodge, No. 66,
F, & A.M.; Franklin Chapter, No. 5, R-A.M.; St. Gerard Commandery,
K.T.; Harvard Club of New York City; Authors’ League of America. —

SOON after college, I became a magazine fiction writer, follow-
ing the well-worn route through the pulps of those days. I trav-
elled quite a bit, mostly abroad, on the also well-worn pretext of
searching for material. In 1933 I acquired a fine wife who comes
from Cambridge and a staunch Harvard family. We lived in or
near New York City for a number of years, but finally, on a trip
back home to the White Mountains, we bought a house near
Franconia and Cannon Mountain. With the exception of the war
— World War II — we have lived in the north country ever since.
In 1942 I went into the Marine Corps and had a comprehensive
tour of the Pacific with the Second Division from Tarawa to

[ 319 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Okinawa. I came to agree with Bob Sherrod about the virtues of
the Marines and am still a major in the Reserve.

Following the war, with three children by this time, the writing
business seemed like a slightly unsure way of building up a back-
log against school, camp, and college expenses. I had a chance
to be the third generation of Edsons in a grain and lumber business
which had been operating successfully since 1836 and grabbed it.
I have never been sorry for making the shift and may eventually
find time to do both.

My hobbies, in contrast to some other phases of the past twenty-
five vears, have always remained quite constant. I still love to ski,
hunt, and fish, although I take the trails a good bit slower than
in the old days and hike far fewer miles back into the mountains
after a deer.

My children are all girls. I also seem to have followed a straight
trail there. Inaw ay, I'm sorry not to have a boy who could have
the pleasure of looking forward to and back on four years at
Harvard. However, I can testify that there are plenty of com-
pensations and again | am completely satisfied.

All in all, it has been a swell twenty-five years and I only hope
the next twenty-five are as good. See you in June.

ROBERT WILLIAM EHRICH

HOME appgess: 285 Garfield Pl, Brooklyn 15, N. Y.
OFFice appress: Dept. of Sociology-Anthropology, Brooklyn College, Brook-
Ivn 10, N. Y.
eax: April 23, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: William Joseph Ehrich,
Adelaide Price.
paipaneD at: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929, 1930-1931. DEGREES: A.B.. 19313; A.M., 1933; PH.D.,
1945,
Masstzp: Ann Marie Hoskin, March 12, 1937, Beirut, Syria. CHILDREN:
Judith Ann, July 9, 1939; Holly Ann, Dec. 4, 1941.
Gra pation: Assistant professor of anthropology.
memeee of: American Anthropological Association; American Association
of Physical Anthropologists, American Society for Human Genetics;
Archaeological Institute of America; Royal Anthropological Institute
of Great Britain and Ireland; American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science, American Association of University Professors, Sigma
Xi, Alpha Kappa Delra,

[ 320]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pusLicaTions: Relative Chronologies in Old World Archeology (editor);
contributions to American Anthropologist, American Journal of Physi-
cal Anthropology, American Journal of Archaeology, Science, Scientific
Monthly, Harvard Educational Review, Journal of Higher Education,
Bulletin of the American School of Prehistoric Research.

DURING the winter of 1929-30 I was in Irag on an archaeological
expedition, and consequently I did not graduate until 1931. Even
before going to college I had picked archaeology as a profession,
partly, at least, because I wanted to see some of the world at some-
body else’s expense. Beginning as an undergraduate and continu-
ing through 1933, I worked mostly in Czechoslovakia and Jugo-
slavia while abroad, and at the Peabody Museum when at home.
From 1934 to 1939 I was a member of the excavation staff at
Tarsus, in Turkey. My wife was also a member of this expedi-
tion, and we were married in Beirut, Syria, in 1937.

Coming home in the spring of 1939, we had everything care-
fully figured out. We were to go back to Turkey in the spring
of 1940. Judy would then be a year old, and I should have taken
my Ph.D. exams. Judy appeared, and my examinations were com-
pleted on schedule. The war abroad, however, prevented our
return to Turkey, and we retired in not so genteel poverty to a
farm we had bought at Royalston in northern Massachusetts.
This has served us variously as a refuge and a summer home.

During the summer of 1940 I got a job as the National Park
Service archaeologist at the Saratoga Battlefield National Park,
where I served as C.C.C. (not Commodity Credit Corporation)
foreman, and stayed until after Pearl Harbor, when I felt that I
could be more usefully occupied. I spent the better part of 1942
with a civil engineering company surveying on war contracts,
airfields, training camps, and the like.

The Marine Corps accepted me in 1943 and assigned me to close
air support work. I participated in five central Pacific landings
and came back to civilian life in the fall of 1945, having learned
a good deal about myself. (I went in a first lieutenant and came
out a captain; present status, major in the inactive stand-by re-
serve.) Part of the time I was in the same organization as John
Pratt of our Class, whom I had not previously known.

While in the Pacific I decided that I should probably stop
being an expedition bum, at least while the kids were growing

[ 321 ]

a, alta ele lading eames

saat DOTA le Aa

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

up. The Department of Anthropology coéperated, and I finally
tnished mv thesis and took my degree in June, 1946. For the
winter of 1946-47 the Rockefeller Foundation granted me a Post-
war Fellowship in the humanities in order that I might prepare
mvself for teaching. In 1947 I started to teach at Brooklyn Col-
lece, and in pursuit of the slow buck I have for the last six and
one-half years been teaching two nights a week at Hunter College
as well,

Since I had spent thirty vears carefully keeping out of New
York, twenty years swearing I w ould never teach, and my entire
professional life in archaeology and physical anthropology, rather
than in cultural anthropology, my present post of teaching mostly
cultural anthropology in one of the Greater New York colleges
would seem to present a backdrop for a sense of utter frustra-
tion. However, I was simply appalled to find out how much ham
seems to lie latent in most of us, including me, and I have for the
most part been enjoying it. Brooklyn College, incidentally, is a
good school.

I wonder, of course, as to the value of going on talking about
things I don’t know to people who are not particularly interested.
On the other hand, this is probably no more futile than writing
obscure articles and treatises which practically no one reads
Generally I regard myself as an anthropological craftsman who
teaches in order to eat and do his own work.

As for the rest: I am subject to most of the exasperations that
parents of ’teen-agers are heir to, and I find no comfort in the
reflection that these too shall pass, for I expect to be a gibbering
wreck before they do.

I really don’t know why anyone should be interested in all this,
but it scems to be the kind of thing requested. Selab.

LOUIS EINSTEIN

BoME avoarss: 4/04 Allott Ave., Sherman Oaks, Calif,

orice apusrss: Los Angeles Mirror and Daily News, 145 S. Spring St., Los
Angeles 53, Calif.

was: May 17, 19, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Einstein, Sarah Klay-
han.

tesxseiy at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

VENT IN GALELE: 1925-1930.

[ 322 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Rosanna Schonberger, April 15, 1932, New York, N.Y. (divorced
1943); Ann Kaye, Feb. 23, 1946, Las Vegas, Nev. cHitpren: Kenneth
Charles, March 7, 1948; Susan Terry, Jan. 8, 1952.

occupation: Advertising, Times-Mirror Company, Los Angeles; retail ad-
vertising manager, Los Angeles Mirror and Daily News.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California, Menorah Lodge, AF. &
A.M., Los Angeles; Greater Los Angeles Press Club.

TWO significant things have happened to me recently. First, I
am glad to say that I have finally “bought” my first house, located
in the San Fernando Valley, and complete with lawns, shrubs, and
mortgages. You can see that a Harvard education pays. When I
left college, I had no money at all. Now I owe $20,000.

The second important event occurred on December 18, 1954,
when the Los Angeles Mirror, where I am retail advertising
manager, bought the name, features and circulation lists of the
Los Angeles Daily News, and our newspaper is now the Los
Angeles Mirror and Daily News. This has been an exciting de-
velopment in our business, but more about that in a minute.

I started in newspaper advertising while in college, working
part-time for the Boston American, and later on, the Boston
Record. In the fall of 1930, 1 went to New York and for six years
was an advertising salesman on the New York Journal. During
that period, I married in 1932 — separated in 1935. In 1936 I came
to California and for the next ten years I was on the advertising
staff of the Los Angeles Examiner, with a couple of interruptions:
for about six months in 1937 I wrote the Al Jolson radio show,
and for about seven months in 1943 I was in Reno, Nevada, where
I got a job on the Nevada State Journal, was divorced, and rejected
by the Army (poor eyesight).

In 1946 I remarried and, at about the same time, I left the news-
paper business. For three years I sold silverware out of the Los
Angeles office of the National Silver Company.

In 1948 the Times-Mirror Company, publishers of the Los
Angeles Times, started a new afternoon newspaper, the Los
Angeles Mirror. With the economics of the newspaper business
as they are, this may well prove to be the last new metropolitan
daily ever to be started in America. J started to work at the Mirror
in early 1950 on the display advertising staff. I’ve been here ever
since. The paper has made remarkable progess in six years, and
with our recent acquisition of the Los Angeles Daily News, we

[ 323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

can reasonably expect soon to become the leading afternoon Los
Angeles newspaper, both in circulation and advertising volume.

Ll have a wonderful wife and two small kids. I’m a Democrat.
I didn’t vore for Eisenhower, but I think he’s doing a sound job.
I chink the country is in great shape and can look forward to con-
tinued and increasing prosperity. I think California is wonderful.
I think chat Harvard stands pre-eminent among all American
universities, and I am hoping that in a future questionnaire, I may
one day be able to list Kenny’s name following the line reading
“Harvard sons.”

CHARLES WEIL EISEMAN

HOME aporess: Puritan Lane, Swampscott, Mass.

OFFIce aporess: Gilchrist Co, Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 1, 1908, Boston, Mass, paRENTS: Ludwig Eiseman, Selma Weil.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass., Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

MakrieD: Alice Lee March, April 20, 1939, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN: Julie
Ann, Feb. 28, 1940; Jeffrey Weil, March 31, 1941; Wendy Lou, April
15, 1943; John March, Sept. 26, 1944; Jennifer Lee, Sept. 19, 1946, Jill
Maria, Aug. 7, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Eiseman, ’25, M.B.A., ’27.

occupation: Vice-president, director of merchandising and publicity, Gil-
christ Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Associated Jewish Philanthropies Drive (for R. H.
White Co.), 1941, vice-chairman, 1943, 1944, group chairman, 1948, Re-
tail Stores Division, Community Fund Drive; chairman, Department
Store Group, Red Cross Fund Drive, 1952.

MY plans to embark on a career in the motion picture industry
when I graduated from Business School were changed by the
economic climate in 1932, combined with my father’s illness.
Instead, I got a job in a department store in Boston, where to my
surprise 1 was given a broom and told to sweep rather than solve
the cosmic problems that were my daily responsibilities at Grad-
uate School.

On vacation in Bermuda a few years later, I met my bride-to-be.
We were married in 1939 and have had a happy and eventful life
since, including the raising of our six children — four girls and
tua boys,

[ 324 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Most of my business life has been in the retail business, except
for two years during World War II in the USNR, during which
I was stationed in Hartford, Connecticut, and one year in the con-
sulting business on management-employee relations in New York.

We live on the seashore in Swampscott, Massachusetts; and two
years ago, as the city moved out to the suburbs, we bought a lodge
on a secluded pond in Springfield, New Hampshire —in the
mountains — where we weekend frequently both winter and
summer. As to sports, I find the emphasis shifting from tennis
and some golf to family skating frolics, umpiring the children’s
baseball games (occasionally called in as a pinch player when they
are short-handed), and sometimes sailing a fifteen-foot sloop, so
new it is still called The Yacht.

Travelling vacations have continued to be an exciting adventure
for us and we have had a glimpse of some fascinating places, in-
cluding most of this country, the Canadian Rockies, Mexico,
Hawaii, a Mediterranean cruise, the West Indies, and last year
both coasts of South America by plane.

Religion. Born a Jew, raised as a Christian Scientist, married to
a Methodist, with the children — according to their wishes —
going some to the Congregational and some to the Episcopalian
Sunday Schools, I am convinced that the principles by which we
live are not determined by the name of the church in which we
worship.

Hobbies. In college my main hobby was music and instru-
ments. Five of the children have taken, or are taking, piano,
trumpet or violin lessons. I sometimes play along in spite of the
yowls of our German Shepherd and Collie pups and the three
cats. My most vicious hobby is taking colored movies, and trying
to show them to the unsuspecting guest at my wife’s urging. This
shortens the visit and gives us time to take more movies.

PRESTON CARLETON ELA

HOME appress: Union Street, Marshfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: George O, Jenkins Co., Bridgewater, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1907, Quincy, Mass. parents: Walter Preston Ela, Pauline
Louise Jones.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

[ 325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Meuxcceo: Barbara Higgins, Sept. 23. 1933. CHILDREN: Janet, May 10, 1936,
Nancy, Dec. 11, 1037; Barbara, Aug. 14, 1939; Constance, May 12, 1941.

accu ation: Sales director.

orricrs HELD: Chairman, Red Feather Drive, Filene’s, 1946; superintendent,
Customer Service, Filene’s, 1947-52; executive director, New Hamp-
shire Society for Crippled Children, 1953, administrator, Crotched
Mountain Rehabilitation Center, Greenfield, N.H., 1953-

MEMBER OF: Marshfield Country Club; Marshfield Marching and Chowder
Club; Peterborough Country Club.

IN June, 1930, just two weeks after graduation, I joined the train-
ing squad for merchant hopefuls at Filene’s in Boston, where |
received my basic in merchandising in both the main store and
the famous Bargain Basement. During this hectic mid-thirties’
period of striving for the right niche in business affairs while
simultaneously bailing out the budget boat, my wife helped keep
equilibrium by means of developing a joint interest in a two-
hundred-year-old house in Marshfield. The enjoyment of associa-
tion with Class friends and raising a family of four enthusiastic
daughters in this friendly community has kept the proper balance
between business and social life for the twenty-five years since
graduation.

A two-vear tour of duty with the United States Naval Reserve
as sales officer for disposal of surplus government inventories at
the Bethlehem Ship Building plants at Quincy and Hingham,
Massachusetts, brought about the realization that it was not neces-
sary for one to do exactly the same type of work indefinitely.
Consequently, since 1946 I have held positions at Filene’s in mer-
chandising, service, and operating divisions. In 1953 I left the
position of customer service superintendent and moved to Peter-
borough, New Hampshire, as executive director of the Crotched
Mountain Foundation and administrator of their Rehabilitation
Center for Crippled Children. Although this work was extremely
absorbing and worth while, I was happy to accept an opportunity
last June for me to return to the field of competitive business and
for us all to resume our life in Marshfield. I am sales director of
the Lefatex Division of the George O. Jenkins Company, of
Bridvewater (leather products for the shoe industry).

Now on the eve of our Twenty-fifth, with Janet a freshman at
Briarclif Junior College, Nancy planning to enter college next
fail, and Bobbie and Connie due to follow shortly, Barbara and I]

[ 326 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

shall have the next ten years to wonder why we extolled the
benefits of a college education within the confines of our own
home,

JOHN DOYLE ELLIOTT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 5500 Quincy St, Villa Heights (Hyattsville), Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 305 Pennsylvania Ave, S.E., Washington 3, D. C.

BORN: June 12, 1907, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: John Doyle Elliott, Vera
Mauline DeWolfe.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930,

MARRIED: Ruth Ellen Bowdey, Aug. 27, 1947, Rochester, N. Y.

occuPaATION: Economic consultant: research, lobbying.

MEMBER OF: ‘Townsend Clubs of America; American Legion.

I GRADUATED from Harvard College, A.B. (Philosophy),
June, 1930. I entered the Harvard Law Schoo! in the autumn of
1930; but, I was only able to pursue work there for a few months,
the pressure of matters economic, at that time, precluding the
pursuit of the work at the Law School.

During the following years, I made several tentative attempts
to resume the study of law; but I found the necessities of business
and conditions too demanding to render my commitment to any
regular curriculum practical. During the 1930’s and until entry
into military service in early 1943, I was engaged in management
of family business (real estate and building contracting).

Concurrently, adapting my actually available time, I made ex-
tensive studies, readings and researches into matters economic;
those matters being particularly pertinent to my business interests
and, as I found it, particularly interesting in terms of principle and
affording application of my learning in philosophy, the subject
in which I “majored” at college. These studies and interests re-
sulted in my reaching conclusions and convictions which, to say
the least, were at variance with what appeared to be the dominating
sense of affairs economic and political generally prevailing. I
shall attempt to clarify this subject under my explanation of my
post-war activities, hereunder. For present purposes, I may simply
say that my studies, reading, and thinking brought me to the
conclusion that the full and complete solution of what became

[ 327 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the burden of that being the net, final result for most people too

len.
-

GEORGE HENRY ELSASS

MAILING APORESS: 318 Fairway Sc. Chillicothe, Ohio.

PoRN: Jan. 23, 1908 Chillicothe, Ohio.

parpareD at: Chillicothe High School, Chillicothe, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1930; M.B.A., 1932 (33).

MaxrigD: Helen Frances Snvder, May 7, 1935. cHitp: George Brandle, Jan.
8, 1945.

occupation: Finance.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

EUGENE DAVY EMIGH, JR.

HOME apprEss: 345 Monroe St. New Britain, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Hardware Corp. New Britain, Conn.

BoRN: Jan. 17, 1908, Baltimore, Md. parents: Eugene D. Emigh, Maude
Morlev.

prepared at: Richmond Academy, Augusta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Katherine Stewart, April 21, 1934, Windsor, Conn. CHILDREN:
Margaret Helen, April 21, 1937; John Stewart, Sept. 3, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Wilbert John Emigh, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Purchasing agent.

orricks HELD: President, 1950, education chairman, 1948-49, Purchasing
Agents Association of Connecticut, national director, National Associ-
ation of Purchasing Agents, 1951; Neighborhood Commissioner, 1947-
52, cubmaster, troop chairman, Boy Scouts, vice-president, 1955, ed-
ucational chairman, 1954, Toastmasters of New Britain; president,
Couples Club, chairman of Scouting, community activities, Congrega-
tional Church; president, P.T.A., Spring Glen School, 1948-50; director,
P.T.A. New Britain Senior High, 1953-55; treasurer, South Mountain
Community Association, 1952-54.

mMeMpeR oF: High Lane Neighborhood Club, 1944-52; P.T.A., Spring Glen
School, P.T.A. New Britain High School, South Mountain Com-
munity Association; Rotary Club of New Britain, 1953-55; Harvard
Cub of Connecticut.

PUBLILATIONS: “Womanpower in Industry,” 1942; articles on purchasing.

I LOOK forward to the Class Reunion with considerable interest
as I have seen very little of Harvard or of our classmates since
graduation. This may be due in part to my being located in Yale

[ 332]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

territory, but probably more to the demands of business and a
growing family. In business I have had a varied experience in
sales promotion and merchandising, a very interesting assignment
on the staff of Manufacturers Association of Connecticut, and
twelve years of industrial purchasing and materials management.
Our family life is on the quiet side, but not too quiet for too long,
with a couple of teen-agers to keep it lively.

In politics I started out as an Independent, but have turned out
to be an unbiased Republican. Events that stand out in my
memory are the stalling of government after the election of 1932,
the packing of the Supreme Court, the man-made “recession” of
1938, and the failure of our foreign policy. Too bad that our
State Department failed to understand the widely-published
teachings of Communism. Have we dug the hole so deep we
can’t climb out?

In my spare time I mind other people's business — organizing
people to do the things they want to do. This hobby has kept me
busy and I shall always marvel at the capacity of people to do
things once they are organized. My interest has been in com-
munity activities such as Scouts, P.T.A., church, and neighbor-
hood. I have enjoyed a variety of assignments in the Association
of Purchasing Agents and my most recent activity is the Toast-
masters, which I enjoy very much. Maybe when I reach retire-
ment age, my hobby will be more of same.

While our family cannot report any extensive travels, we might
have established some sort of a record by virtue of the fact that
we have lived in ten different houses in five different cities during
the past twenty years. We have made up our minds to stay where
we are for a while. Our summer vacations are usually spent on
the Connecticut shore, but last summer we made a trip to the
White Mountains. We enjoyed the mountains so much we plan
to go back again.

Like most families our activities center around our young
people. Peggy is a senior in high school, enjoys her studies, and
does well with them. Her major interests are youth fellowship,
writing, and art. She plans to go to Swarthmore next year. Our
son, John, is in 8th grade, active in Boy Scouts and High-Y, in-
tensely interested in politics, and plans to be a lawyer and politi-
cian. My wife is a Connecticut girl, who showed rare courage

[ 333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

marrving a rebel like me, and deserves a decoration of some sort
tor devotion to duty as wife and mother.

WILBERT JOHN EMIGH

HOME ADbRESS: 254 Henry St. Manchester, Conn.

OFFICE apoREss: G.E. Supply Co. 2964 Main St., Hartford, Conn.

porn: Oct. 15, 1909, Charlotte, N. C. parents: Eugene Davy Emigh, Mar-
garet Mf. Morley.

prepared AT: Richmond Academy, Augusta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEUE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. cuz? laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Beatrice Chapman, Nov. 1, 1941, Glastonbury, Conn. CHILDREN:
Carol, Nov. 3, 1943 (died December, 1950); Richard Chapman, Dec. 8,
1945; Jacqueline Patricia, March 3, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eugene Davy Emigh, Jr., 30.

OCCUPATION: Sales representative, General Electric distributing organization.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut; Manchester Country Club.

MY experience after graduation was probably quite similar to
that of many other classmates who earned their way thru Harvard
and faced the depression without benefit of supporting capital or
business connections. In due course, events led me into the electri-
cal appliance business in which I am still active. It started in 1933
in the appliance sales organization of the Alabama Power Com-
pany. In 1936 the opportunity came to test the economic princi
ples learned in the purely academic atmosphere of Harvard —
when brother Gene and I organized a corporation in Connecticut
for retail distribution of appliances. After two years of diligent
and broadening experience, we decided that the future opportunity
lay with large corporations having unlimited capital resources.
Since 1940, I have been with the General Electric Company in
wholesale appliance distribution, finding a satisfying business en-
deavor, and the means of realizing what most of us work for: a
fine family and home.

During the war interlude, appointment as 2d lieutenant in the
Air Force was received in April, 1942. Assignments included one
year in the Arizona desert in connection with pilot training, a
year at Logan, Utah, involving pre-cadet college training, and —
after completion of the Air Staff course at Fort Leavenworth,
assignment to Headquarters, AAF Training Command, Ft. Worth,
Texas. I concluded military activities in December, 1945, with the

[ 334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rank of major, after one year as deputy chief of the Flight Opera-
tions Division, Headquarters, AAF Training Command.

Life outside the business sphere revolves around the lovely girl
I married in 1941, and our two children (young for a codger
approaching his ‘Twenty-fifth Reunion): Rickey, a perfectly
normal American eight-year-old; and Jacquie, a little blonde doll
of three. Our time is divided between home in Manchester, and a
summer place on the Connecticut shore at Groton Long Point
(incidentally, still standing after the two hurricanes of 1954).
Hobbies revolve around almost anything out-of-doors, par-
ticularly near the aroma of salt water: boating, fishing, swimming,
etc. Occasionally, I can be spotted on some hill in New Hampshire
or Maine, waiting for a lively buck to gamble with his life.

Basic philosophy seems much simpler than it did in Cambridge
classroom after an all-night debutante party. The fundamental
principles of truth, love, and understanding are what we are try-
ing to impart to the offspring, with complete freedom in religious
thinking; and a high code of ethics being fundamental.

In the political field, it was with considerable relief that we saw
the abrupt end of the rapid trend toward a corrupt state, socialism,
supported by depreciation of the dollar annually through arbitrary
wage increases. We are looking forward to a period of free
dynamic American enterprise under the fine statesmanship of
President Eisenhower and his capable staff, hoping that the atomic
and H-bomb will serve to revolutionize living to the same extent
that electricity has done.

ALFRED BRADLEE EMMONS

HOME apprEss: Sandy Pond Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Little, Brown & Co., 34 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 17, 1908, Brookline, Mass. parents: Alfred Page Emmons, ’90,
Helen Curtis Bradlee.

PREPARED AT: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

MARRIED: Judith Reed, Aug. 7, 1948, Little Compton, R.I. cuipReN: Eleanor
Bradlee, May 27, 1949; Caroline Eddy, Jan. 15, 1951; Patricia Weld,
July 15, 1953.

Occupation: Director, in charge of manufacturing, Little, Brown & Com-

pany.
[ 335 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
cernys HELD: President, The Bookbuilders of Boston, 1953-54; secretary,
The Society of Printers, 1949-$15 chairman, The Bookbuilders Work-

shop, toar~4 . ; .
ursizen of: The Bookbuilders of Boston, Socicty of Printers; American In-

surute of Graphic Arts, Appalachian Mountain Club; White Mountain
ij Runners; Thursday Evening Club.
THE facts are simple enough. No one of them alone is mo-
mentous or unusual — just the sort of things that happen to every-
one. Yet, taken together, they add up to a large part of one man’s
wie.
! 1931-1932. Harvard Business School.

1933. Sold books at Jordan Marsh Company. Did sales pro-
motion work for Bruce Humphries, Inc., a small “vanity” book
publisher. Took short trip to Italy. Took up skiing.

1934. Sales work for the Merrymount Press, Short trip to West
Indies. Played a little low-grade competitive golf.

1935-1937. Production manager for Lothrop, Lee & Shepard
Company, a publisher of children’s books. Lots of golf and skiing.
Trips to West Indies and Bermuda. A little dog training.

1937-1939. Assistant to president of Lothrop, Lee & Shepard.
Also did sales work for C. B. Fleming Company, a book binder.
More West Indies trips. More golf and skiing.

1939-1942. Assistant production manager of Harcourt, Brace
& Company in New York — another book publisher. Not much
golf, but lots of skiing, Earned an “A” rating in Downhill Racing
in 1940. Dislocated shoulder in 1941. ,

1942-1946, U.S, Army Signal Corps. From private to captain
by easy stages. An administrative war fought mostly in Dayton,
Ohio, and Philadelphia, where I lived at the Yale Club. »

1945-1952. Assistant production manager at Little, Brown &
Company in Boston —a book publisher, of course.

1948. Married. Bermuda honeymoon.

1549. Number 1 child—a girl. No more travel.

1950. Moved from Beacon Hill to Lincoln, Massachusetts.

1951, Number 2 child —a girl, No more golf.

1953. Number 3 child—a girl. No more skiing. Production
Manager, Little, Brown & Company.

1454. Bought house in Lincoln and moved in just ahead of two
hurricanes, Learned a lot alout axes and saws. Made a director

Of Lite, Brown & Company.

[ 336 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1955. Sweated out autobiographical questionnaire for Twenty-
fifth Anniversary Class Report.

Well, there it is for what it is worth. I am working for the
company I like best in the industry I like best. I live in my
favorite location in my favorite town. I am married to my
favorite girl and have the best of all possible families. What more
could a man want — except, I suppose, a little money and time to
enjoy it.

LEWIS LIBMAN ENGEL

HOME ADDRESS: 93 Woodland St., Natick, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Adolph Engel, Esther
Libman.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. CU7 laude, 1930; PH.D. (Columbia
Univ.), 1936.

MarRiED: Margaret Fisher Knox, Nov. 21, 1938, New York, N. Y.

OccUPATION: Biochemist. .

MEMBER OF: American Society of Biological Chemists; American Chemical
Society; Endocrine Society; American Association for Cancer Re-
search; American Association for the Advancement of Science, New
York Academy of Sciences; Irish Water Spaniel Club of America;
Holliston Dog Training Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Approximately forty papers on various aspects of organic
and biological chemistry in the technical press.

UPON graduation, I enrolled in the Graduate School of Columbia
University to pursue the study of biochemistry. Finally I wound
up my thesis in 1935 and went abroad for two years. The first
year, in Ziirich, was divided between the laboratory and the ski
slopes. In the second, in London at the Royal Cancer Hospital, I
met my future wife and developed an interest in the cancer prob-
lem. Following these two years abroad, I spent four and a half
years at Johns Hopkins in the Department of Medicine working
on the hormones of the adrenal cortex.

At the beginning of World War II, I found myself transported
to the Mayo Clinic to work on the cortisone problem which was
then of some interest to the Government. After about a year and
a half, I was commissioned a first lieutenant in the Sanitary Corps

[ 337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

and ordered to Washington to serve with the Army Veterinary
School as chief of the Research Section. Viruses occupied me
until mv discharge in 1946.

Upon my release, I was given the opportunity of returning to
Harvard to work on endocrine aspects of cancer in the Hunting-
ton Laboratories. I am assistant professor of biological chemistry
at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
tutor in biochemical sciences, and on the Board of Freshman Ad-
visers at Harvard College. Research, combined with teaching of
medical students, graduate students, and undergraduates has
proved to be stimulating and challenging. It has been particularly
interesting in the present framework of change and development
in educational practices in which Harvard is pioneering.

Diversions are a small amount of photography, enjoying the
beauties of the New England landscape, and dog training. Irish
Water Spaniels are my breed and I recommend them as dogs with
a sense of humor.

ISADORE SAMUEL EPSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 2860 Van Aken Blvd., Cleveland 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10308 Euclid Ave., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BoRN: June 15, 1908, Koseritz, Russia. PARENTS: Benjamin Epstein, Seema
Liefschitz.

prepareD AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D. (Western Reserve
Univ.), 1934.

MarRiED: Margaret Landesman, Dec. 11, 1938, Cleveland, Ohio. cm:
Edward Jerome, April 17, 1943.

oocupaTion: Physician: pediatrician.

MEMBER oF: Academy of Medicine of Cleveland, Ohio State Medical
Society; Active Staff, St. Luke’s Hospital of Cleveland.

PUBLICATIONS: “Poisoning due to Methyl] Salicylate (Oil of Wintergreen),”
Ohio State Medical Journal, (co-author, John L. Work), 1942.

AFTER graduation from Harvard, I attended the School of
Medicine of Western Reserve University, receiving the degree
of M.D. in 1934. Then followed one year of a general rotating
internship, and one as medical resident at St. Alexis Hospital of
Cleveland, Ohio. I left that institution in 1936 and then served as
assistant resident in pediatrics for one year at the Children’s

[ 338 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hospital of Michigan in Detroit. My experiences there made me
decide to limit my practice to pediatrics right from the start, and
I have done so ever since 1937, except for a brief interruption by
Army service in 1942, which was as a first lieutenant in the Army
Medical Corps.

From 1938 to 1942, I was instructor in pediatrics at the School
of Nursing at St. Alexis Hospital. After my retirement from the
Army, my life has consisted mainly of attending to professional
work, devotion to family, and the usual outside social and religious
interests which are part of any individual. Although I play no
musical instrument, my hobby is music, and I have made a rather
extensive collection of records, in the classical field mainly. I have
transferred the desire for a musical instrument to my son who is
now busying himself with the trials and tribulations of the violin,
after once trying his hand at the clarinet.

My wife has been an integral and indispensable part of my
professional life. For she has sort of acted as a liaison between the
folks of my little patients and myself. During my absences from
home while attending to duties elsewhere, she has been able very
expertly to allay their fears, reassure them in their anxieties, and
offer them temporary advice about medical and handling problems
for their children until I myself could contact them.

The last twenty-five years of my life have been saddened by
the recent passing of both of my parents, and of my father-in-law,
Mr. Gerald Landesman. All three of these individuals were born,
reared, and lived a large portion of their lives in countries which
are today teeming with elements subversive to our own way of
life and to our very existence. And yet they were able to come
to the United States, reject their former allegiances, and despite
their own limited education, were able to rear and educate their
own children in institutions the like of which would have been
impossible and unheard of in their countries of birth. For this,
my family and I are deeply thankful.

[ 339 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

NORMAN L. EPSTEIN

HOWE aomrss: 3222 Village Drive, Louisville 5, Ky.

oFrtce annarss: Will Sales, Inc, got S. Fourth Sc. Louisville 2, Ky.

max: Acg. 2g 1909, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Joseph William Epstein,
Bessie Celia Levy.

psrpuep at: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. (Western Reserve
Univ), 1034

Mammen: Goldve Rose Sales, Mav 31, 1939, Louisville, Ky. cHtLprEN: Rich-
ard Sales, Apnil 1, 1943; Nancy Willa, Jan. 13, 1947.

Harvanp BrorHERs: Harold Charles Epstein, °34, M.p., 738; Lloyd Stanley
Epstein, "43, Mp, "46.

occuPATION: Vice-president, in charge of operations, three retail jewelry
stores, secretary-treasurer and director, four affiliated electric appliance
stores.

orFices HELD: President, Western Reserve University Chapter, 1933-34,
treasurer, Cleveland Graduate Chapter, 1936-37, Tau Epsilon Rho;
member board of wustees, Temple Adath Israel, 1947-54, board of di-
rectors, Standard Country Club, 1949-52, executive committee, Louis-
ville Conference of Jewish Organizations, 1952-54, National Council

Joint Defense Appeal, 1951-54; chairman, Louisville Chapter, American
Jewish Committee, 1953-54.

MEMBER oF: Louisville Chamber of Commerce; National Jewelers Associa-
uon; Louisville Advertsing Club, Standard Country Club; American
Jewish Committee; Louisville Conference of Jewish Organizations; Tau
Epsilon Rho (legal fraternity).

IT is fortunate that I am not pessimistic enough to feel that two
important events in my life, appearing to be anti-climactic, are
not typical of what has happened to me since graduation. The
two events to which I refer are going from Harvard College to the
law school of Western Reserve University, and leaving the city
of Cleveland after twenty-nine years of residence there to make a
new home in Louisville, Kentucky.

Attending a very fine, but small, law school like Western
Reserve was quite a change from Harvard, and going to school
in Cleveland, my home town, was very different from going to
school amidst the cultural opportunities that surround Boston and
Canibridge. One learns, however, to adjust and I was soon able to
create a very happy environment for myself.

While at law school, one of my classmates persuaded me to
tane up handball as a means of keeping in physical condition, I
found that [ had a natural aptitude for the game and enjoyed

[ 340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

playing very much. I also had the added satisfaction of discover-
ing that I could take quite a few inches off my waist-line by play-
ing regularly. I teamed up with my “classmate instructor” to win
the doubles championship of the university, and, ironically
enough, met and defeated him in the finals for the university
singles championship. Naturally, I got quite a kick out of the fact
thar an “old man” from a graduate schoo! could vanquish the best
that the undergraduate school had to offer.

Another hobby I developed while in law school was duplicate
contract bridge. I teamed up with classmate Mark Nagusky and
friend A. S. Goldsmith, Yale, ’30, for some interesting evenings
of competition in which I discovered, even though I had fancied
myself quite a bridge player at college, that there was quite a bit
that I did not know about the game of bridge. I gave up serious
tournament bridge upon graduating from law school, but I still
play occasionally as a social pastime. My erstwhile partners, re-
lieved of the burden of carrying me, went on to acquire consider-
able national fame and stature in the bridge world.

After passing the Ohio Bar examination, I was lucky enough to
get a job with a law firm that believed in “paying a living wage
despite financial conditions.” Naturally, I was very flattered to
get a job that paid a starting wage of $25.00 a week. In retrospect,
I think that it was quite a handsome salary in those days for a
young lawyer just out of school. After practising law well over
three years, I came to the conclusion that I was not making too
much progress. Ever on the alert for a good business opportunity,
I discovered a chance to invest in a young, but growing, retail
chain drug business, and I accordingly decided to abandon the
honorable profession of law and move to Louisville, Kentucky,
to go in the drug business.

This was probably the biggest decision in my life. Not only
did I leave a community in which I was fairly well known and in
which my family was prominent, both professionally and civicly,
to come to a city in which I was a complete stranger with no
family or social ties, but I also left a profession with all its in-
tellectual environment to go into a retail business with its com-
mercial outlook, Besides this, I left a comparatively fast moving
northern environment and came to Louisville, which was then a
very overgrown and backward southern town with ideas radically

[ 341 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Lousvile and I was very easily convinced that I should remain
ene. [an not afraid of communism, but do not trust the expansion
aims of Russian nationalism. Unfortunately, I think, the distinc-
tion berween the two is often confused in the public mind with
the result that in attempting to defend ourselves, we destroy the
verv liberties that we think are threatened.
I look back upon my days at Harvard with nostalgic pleasure.
I am realistic enough to know, as I eagerly look forward to our
coming Reunion, that the faces that I remember will look strangely
ifferent, and that the image and recollection that I have of Har-
vard and Cambridge will not be reproduced. Even though the
pleasant memory of 1926-1930 may suffer a rude jolt, there is a
certain something that will bring me back.

WILLIAM MICHAEL EPSTEIN

MAILING aporESS: Hotel Suburban, East Orange, N. J.

BORN: May 6, 1907, Newark, N. J. parents: Harry Benjamin Epstein, Rose
Negbaur.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: aB. (Rutgers Univ.), 1930; M.D.
(Temple Univ.), 1934. |

occupation: Medicine.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JOHN EDGAR EVANS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 4559 Norwin Rd., Pittsburgh 36, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Evans, Ivory & Evans, 711 Frick Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa.

Bors: Dec. 23, 1907, Ebensburg, Pa. parents: John Edgar Evans, Frances
Sarah Shoemaker.

peepaxep at: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; LL.B., 1932.

margiep: Elizabeth Alden Carpenter, Aug. 28, 1933, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
aiipeen: John Edgar, 3d, March 27, 1936, Claire Louise, Jan. 2, 1940.

occypaTion: Attorney-at-law.

ovs «zs HELD: Partner in law firm, Evans, Ivory & Evans, since 1947; instruc-
tor, Duquesne University Law School, 1939-47; member Medico-Legal
Committee, Pennsylvania Bar Association, 1952~54, secretary-treasurer,
Pine Township Coal Company, since 1949, Heilwood Fuel Company,
since 1950, president, Baldwin Manor Garden Club, 1948-49.

[ 344]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Allegheny County Bar Association; Pennsylvania Bar Associa-
tion; U.S. Court of Appeals, Third Circuit Judicial Conference, 1954;
Baldwin Manor Garden Club; Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania.

. AT the time of graduation in June of 1930, I had completed my
first year at Harvard Law School. By way of suggestion, I do not
recommend to others such a scholastic plan, for it means missing
the most glamorous phase of one’s college career, the senior year.
Two more years of Law School and I took off for Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, for a short concentrated course on Pennsylvania
law, then the State Bar Exams.

After a year of law practice, Betty Carpenter of Hudson Falls,
New York, and I were married. She had been graduated from
Radcliffe in 1932. Our son arrived in March, 1936, just as the
famous Ohio River flood was receding. He is now a freshman at
Williams (of course, I urged upon him the advantages of Har-
vard). Our daughter, now in her first year of high school, ar-
rived January 2, 1940.

Pittsburgh was new to me, for I was almost completely un-
acquainted in 1930. After twenty-four years we feel well rooted
and are thoroughly pleased with our choice of domicile.

The law practice in almost any urban center is quite specialized
today. Almost from the beginning, mine has been largely limited
to trial work in civil actions. Primarily, I have represented indi-
viduals and corporations who were seeking damages for personal
injury or property damage suffered by them.

In the year 1941 we built a home and moved to a suburban de-
velopment known as Baldwin Manor. In this now well-populated
area we have acquired many friends. Both my wife and I have
actively participated in the local garden club and in the park de-
velopment undertaking in the community.

Our summer vacations have been spent travelling to new and
diferent places each year by car, train, plane, and ship. These
have included all the states, eastern and western Canada, Bermuda,
the Bahamas, Haiti, Honduras, and Mexico.

[ 345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

KELLOGG FAIRBANK

MOM ADDRESS: 124g N. Seate Se, Chicago 10, IIL.

ortice aporEss; 228 N. LaSalle St, Chicago 1, Ill.

ors: Oct. 24. 1906, Chicago, Ill. parents: Kellogg Fairbank, ’90, L1.., ’93,
Janet Ayer.

peeparrp at: Afilton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930,

starzirp: June Cornell, Sept. 28, 1935, Lake Geneva, Wis. cHILDREN: Mar-
garet Aver, Sept. 11, 1936; Laura, July 10, 1939; Kellogg Fairbank, 3d,
Sept. 18, rogt; Susan, Aug. 9, 1943; Elizabeth, Oct. 20, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Ayer Fairbank, °31.

occtuPaTion: Industrial real estate broker.

orrices HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1945-48, president, 1948-49, Harvard Club
of Chicago; director, Harvard Alumni Association, 1951-52; director,
since 1944, president, 1949, Travellers Aid Society of Chicago.

MEMBER OF: Clif Dwellers, The Casino.

FOR the first eight years after college, 1 worked at The Fair, a
Chicago department store, learning merchandising; then two years
as a salesman for a building contractor who specialized in indus-
trial construction; and now on my own as an industrial real estate
broker, still in Chicago. No special excitement to report, as I was
found to be 3F during the War and, therefore, remained at home.

More vacation trips to Wyoming and Colorado than else-
where, although to Europe for a quickie in ’51 and again in ’53
for a motor trip from Beirut, Lebanon, through Turkey and
Yugoslavia to England. With our oldest starting at Radcliffe
twenty-three years after I entered Harvard, I find that my greatest
interest is in our kids; also, in our friends.

WILLIAM EDWARD FAULKNER, JR.

HOME appress: 109 Hampton St., Cranford, N.J.
orice appaess: Esso Standard Oil Co. 15 W sist St.. New York, N.Y.

Boax: Sept. 1, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: William Edward Faulkner, '87,
Elizabeth Rosalie Edwards.

yurpanip at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. pecrre: 8.B. (Univ. of N.H.), 1952.

mMaknitd: Lois Appleton Dunn, Jan. 24, 1936, Dublin, N.H. cxi_pren: Peter
Dunn (stepson), July 1, 1933, William Edward, 3d, Nov. 8, 1938; Alaric,
Jan. 12, 1945.

[ 346 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Edmund Baker Faulkner, ’33; Frederic Faulkner, (de-
ceased), "31.

occuPaTION: Technical editor, Esso Standard Oil Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director, Faulkner & Colony Mfg. Co., Keene,
N.H., 1938-50; selectman, other local offices, Dublin, N.H.

MEMBER OF: Raritan Yacht Club, Perth Amboy, N.J.,; Elizabeth Town &
Country Club, Elizabeth, N_J.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles dealing primarily with decentralization
and published largely by Free America, New York.

IN the college days with which most of us are familiar, it was
the parents who checked on the students’ grades, Junior was sure
to hear from pa and ma, as well as from the dean, if classroom
grades weren’t all that they should be. Then, in the postwar era
of the student GI, parental authority had been pretty well shucked
off, and it was the little woman who assumed responsibility for
her husband’s scholastic standing. To judge from the results, she
did a highly commendable job.

In my own latter-day college career, it was my children to
whom my academic success was of greatest concern. These are
the hardest taskmasters of all. Not that they’re hypercritical —
quite the contrary; they are always ready with an alibi for any
shortcoming on daddy’s part. “A’s” and “B’s” are conclusive evi-
dence of the old man’s intellectual prowess; grades involving other
portions of the alphabet are attributed to laxity and discrimination
on the part of the faculty. But the unspoken disappointment on the
part of the small fry over any mark that falls below par sets a
standard that is hard to live up to. Lois has a more philosophical
realization of the fact that the guy she married is subject to
ordinary human limitations. But the faith of small children is
such that they expect their dad to excel all other dads in all
respects.

Due, perhaps, to this incentive, I graduated from the University
of New Hampshire in June, 1952, with an S.B. degree in me-
chanical engineering. My decision to spend three years finding
out what makes the wheels go round had been the culmination of
a long period of free-lance writing along with other pursuits.
During this time my interests gravitated unmistakably in the di-
rection of technological subjects. In a world where too many
laymen write about medicine and too many urbanites write about

[ 347 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

szreulture, [ decided to be properly qualified for the field of my
Own aUVitien
Ereincering has the well deserved reputation of being a narrow
sudy. For my own purposes, however, I found that physics and
trathematics ht into tidy patterns that are pleasing, if somewhat
corples, There is no occasion to remember names and dates, no
need to arcue over matters of opinion. Be this as it may, my back-
cround seems well suited to my position of technical editor for
Esso Standard Oil Company, where I currently hold forth in
Rockefeller Center. As an engineer, I take pleasure in working
for an organization whose high position in the petroleum world
is not based on fantastic or meaningless claims.

During my academic sojourn, I associated almost exclusively
with members of the younger generation. Though I didn’t par-
ticipate in some of their more questionable activities, I did play
tennis, sail, and work with them. It got to be something of a
habit. As a result, it perturbs me to find so many of my own
contemporaries too preoccupied with polishing the car or trim-
ming the lawn to run the Delaware Rapids or to rush up to the
mountains with us for a weekend of skiing.

ALPHONSE ROLAND FAVREAU

LAST KNOWN aponEss: % Elgin State Hospital, Elgin, Ill.

Boe: June 25, 1908, Wollaston, Mass. parents: Joseph Arthur Favreau,
Chrona Core,

Parpapep aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. Cu7 laude, 1930.

Manuirp: Winifred Hall, April 14, 1945, Ann Arbor, Mich. cutp: Paul
Arthur, May 28, 1947.

FAVREAU has been carried as a “lost”? man on our records since
1954

NATHANIEL CONANT FAXON

WOME AvURESS; Farm Road, Marlboro, Mass.

Orbe AtiuEss: Marlboro Hospital, Marlboro, Mass.

Bas: Feb. 12, 14-8, Stoughton, Mass. parents: Nathaniel Wales Faxon,
‘or, Mb, ‘us, Marie Bassett Conant.

rusbausn at: Noble and Grecnough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN CALEB: 1426-1930. DELKKE: ALB, 1930.

[ 348 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marRIED: Thelma Tinklepaugh, Oct. 5, 1935, Rochester, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Nathaniel Peter Root, March 19, 1937; Conant Reed, July 8, 1941;
Jane, April 19, 1948; William Tinklepaugh, April 27, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Otis Faxon, °32.

OCCUPATION: Hospital administrator.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 5th Ward Republican Club, Rochester, N. Y., 1932-
33; vice-president, 1947-49, president, 1949, chairman, legislative com-
mittee, 1946-49, New Hampshire Hospital Association; member pro-
gram committee, New England Hospital Assembly, 1948-49.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Rochester, N. Y., 1933-35; Cambridge Rotary
Club, 1943-46; Concord (N. H.) Rotary Club, 1946-49, Edgewood
(R. L) Yacht Club, 1950-52; Marlboro Rotary Club; American College
of Hospital Administrators; New England Hospital Assembly, Ameri-
can Hospital Association; Hospital Administrators’ Correspondence Club;
Hospital Association of Rhode Island, 1950-52; Hospital Superintend-
ents’ Club; Council on Hospital Planning and Plant Operation, 1951-52;
Massachusetts Hospital Association, 1942-46, 1953.

AFTER trying banking and business, I started in hospital admin-
istration in 1942 and found out the truth of the ditty that goes:
“And if you have a son and do not wish him well, Make him a
hospital super, a substitute for hell.”

Fortunately, hospital administration is somewhat this side of
hell and I have enjoyed the work immensely. Hospitals are big
business: assets of eight billion; spending four billion a year. It is
the only business I know that is trying to run itself out of business
(by preaching health rather than sickness).

My business career started in 1930 with the bookkeeping depart-
ment of the Security Trust Company in Rochester, New York.
From 1933 to 1938 I was in the budget and methods department
of the Bausch & Lomb Optical Company in Rochester, and for
the next four years was purchasing agent for the Colonial Optical
Company of New York City. I started in hospital administration
as assistant director (under Dr. Frederic A. Washburn) at the
Cambridge Hospital in 1942; served as director of the Concord
(N. H.) Hospital from 1946 to 1949; and in 1950 became special
assistant, New Construction, Rhode Island Hospital (serving with
Oliver G. Pratt). At present I am hospital administrator of the
Marlboro Hospital.

My summers are spent on the Cape — forty-seven so far —
fishing, sailing, swimming. I do some gardening and am interested
in farming. I am a Republican.

[ 349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ROBERT DURANT FEILD

HOME apamrss: t212 Broadwav, New Orleans 18, La.

one anoarss: Tulane University, New Orleans, La.

Bas: Sept, A183, London, England. parents: Thomas Littlejohn Feild,
Mfeeta Armistead Capehart.

parraerp aT: Elarrow School, England.

YEARS IN COLLELE: 19:8-1930. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

stumuiro: Helen Sucknev, Feb. 5, 1924, New York, N-Y.

occt PaToN: Professor of fine arts.

orrmrs Herp: Instructor in fine arts, 1927-33, assistant professor of fine arts,
1934-39, Harvard University.

Merupen oF: Harvard Club of New York; The Explorers Club; The Authors
Lesgue.

posnicaTions: Tle Art of Wale Disney, Macmillan, 1942.

ALTHOUGH I had the honor of graduating with the Class of
"30, [ have never felt I really “belonged” since my age, alas, put
me a whole generation ahead of my confreres. In fact, I had
already been an instructor for some years and, consequently, had
the peculiar pnvilege of graduating with a number of my students!
All of which may account for mv failure to have been more co-
operative with my Class — for which I hope they will forgive me.
And there is very little of interest to report. I have happily
continued in the teaching field, utterly convinced that it would
be a wonderful way of life if only the profession had retained
its traditional integrity. As it is, my wife and I have much to be
grateful for. Helen has been in the medical social work field
ever since we have been married, and together we are still finding
Lfe an inspiring adventure.

MILTON MYRON FEINBERG

home aerss: 25 Plymouth Ave. Belmont 78, Mass.

orre® armiss: Empire Box Corp. 79 Cambridge St., Boston 14, Mass.

was: Aug 8, 149, Boston, Mass. parents: Benjamin Feinberg, Goldie
Sedar.

pei pavsa aT: The Manlius School, Manlius, N.Y,

VEAPS IN CONT ELES 1925-1930, DELKEES A.B. 1930.

mMipiiny: Mesly Soluamon, Nov. 2, 1935, York, Maine. crip: James Alan,
Ont. 16, 1955.

[350]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Sales representative.
MEMBER OF: Germania Lodge, AF. & A.M., Boston, Mass.

SPENT the summer of 1930 travelling in Europe, returning in
September to enter Harvard Law School. Convinced that law as
a profession was not for me, in June of 1931 I entered my father’s
business, railway track supplies. There, under depression con-
ditions, I learned the practical workings of business: administra-
tion, purchasing, and sales.

The glamor of Broadway and an opportunity to invest in a
theatrical enterprise lured me to New York in July, 1935. Within
eight months I lost my investment and, with it, my zest for Broad-
way and the theatre, except as a paying spectator. Returned to
Boston to re-engage in the railway track supply field on my own.
For the next two years, I experienced the problems and headaches
involved in running a one-man business with limited capital,

In August, 1938, I accepted an opportunity to learn the packag-
ing business and become New England sales representative for
Interstate Folding Box Company, Middletown, Ohio, a leading
manufacturer of folding boxes and specialized packaging ma-
chinery, During the war years I was instrumental in the develop-
ment of improved packages for ordnance items. I also served as
packaging adviser for the First Naval District. I remained with
Interstate until September, 1947, when I became associated with
Empire Box Corporation, Garfield, New Jersey, manufacturers
of paper folding boxes and boxboard. I am New England and
Fastern New York sales representative.

My business requires considerable travel and leaves me with
little or no time week-days to devote to civic, religious, or fra-
ternal interests. Spare time is necessarily limited to weekends,
when I become re-acquainted with my lovely wife and nine-year-
old son, Jimmy. All three of us are Red Sox fans and we fre-
quently go to the ball games.

Prior to 1952 I was a fairly ardent weekend golfer, but with the
purchase of our own home, gardening supplanted golf as a hobby.
We also indulge in bridge and reading.

[351]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

OSCAR FEINSILVER

HOME Qormews By Mumungude Rd. Worcester 2, Mass.
CF Hce apoarss: ggo Main Se, Worcester 8, Mass.

Bes: Oot. ra. rook Worcester, Mass. parents: Samuel Feinsilver, Ida
Leah Alpert.

Parserep at: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN CLUE! 1926-1927, DeEcREES: AB. (Clark Univ.), 1930; a.m. (ibid.),
1o;t, Mp. (Tufts Coll.), 1935

meareip: Golde Ruth Gans, Sept 4 1932, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: David
Bacr, Nov, 11, 1939; Rachel Eve, Feb. 28, 1943; Samuel, Jan. 10, 1946.

oceUpaTios: Physician.

orricss HELD: Physician, St. Vincent Hospital, Worcester; physician and
chairman of Department of Pulmonary Diseases, Belmont Hospital,
Worcester; physician-in-charge, Rutland (Mass.) Training Center;
consurant and bronchoscopist, State Sanatorium, Rutland, Mass.

MEMbER OF: American College of Chest Physicians (fellow); American
Heart Association; American Academy of Allergy.

PUBLICATIONS: A number of papers on subjects related to diseases of the chest.

GOING through school, I studied wherever I could find a job
teaching Hebrew. Hebrew was always an important part of my
cultural life. I studied medicine at Tufts, interned in medicine at
Beth Isracl Hospital in Boston, and served a residency in tuber-
culosis at Rutland State Sanatorium. I studied bronchoscopy with
Dr. Benedict at the Harvard Medical School Graduate Courses,
and have been certified by the American Board of Internal
Medicine in internal medicine and by the Sub-Specialty Board in
pulmonary discases. I am now engaged in full-time, private prac-
tice of internal medicine and pulmonary diseases.

Hobbies have been travel and photography. I have been to
France, England, Isracl, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Chile, Argentina,
Uroguay, Brazil, and Trinidad, and expect to leave on October
14, 1454, by plane for Isracl, Italy, and Spain. There is nothing
Ine travel and recording one’s impressions by film. Photography

‘aht be expensive, but it 1s cheaper than liquor and other less
fying directions in which money is commonly diverted.

E08.

cd

[352]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN WHITE FELLOWS

HOME AppREsS: Scar Hill Road, Boylston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Baxter, Fellows, Pierce & Barnes, 311 Main St., Worcester,
Mass.

BORN: June 20, 1909, East Walpole, Mass, parents: Frank Marshall Fellows,
Bessie Brackett Frame,

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; LL.B., 1935.

marrieD: Clara Louise Kelley, June 28, 1936, Worcester, Mass. cuiLpren:
Barbara Louise, Sept. 17, 1941; Clara Joan, July 29, 1944; June Beth,
June 20, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer. ;

OFFICES HELD: Member, Baxter, Fellows, Pierce & Barnes, attorneys, since
1941; town counsel, Boylston, Mass., since 1940; member Massachusetts
Emergency Recess Finance Commission, 1947-48; Master, Rose of
Sharon Lodge, A.F. & A.M., 1947-48; county treasurer, County of
Worcester, 1943-49; commanding officer, Headquarters Squadron,
Marine Aircraft Group 12, First Marine Aircraft Wing, U.S. Marine
Corps, 1945; commanding officer, MAD, U.S. Naval Pre-Flight School,
Wooster, Ohio, 1944; member, Norman & Campbell, attorneys, 1935-
41; history instructor, basketball coach, assistant football coach, Proctor
Academy, Andover, N.H., 1930-31.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; Harvard Alumni Association;
Harvard Law School Association; Massachusetts Bar Association;
Worcester County Bar Association; Massachusetts Association of ‘Town
Counsel and City Solicitors; Massachusetts Republican Club; Worcester
County Republican Club; Masons; Military Order of the World Wars;
Marine Corps League; Veterans of Foreign Wars; American Legion;
University Club of Worcester; National Grange; 200 Sportsmen Club.

EVEN during undergraduate days some of you classmates will
remember I was talking about going to Harvard Law School. |
finally made it, although times were hard in the early Thirties and
I had to spend one year as a teacher-coach at Proctor Academy
(a beautiful New England school in a central New Hampshire
setting) and one year working for the American Oil Company
before I could graduate from the Law School in 1935.

During Law School days some extra-sensory stimulus seemed
to keep telling me that I should practise in an industrial area where
there was country living, and there being no special attachment
for me legally in any special section of the country, I chose
Worcester because it was New England and because it combined
an active and progressive industrial center with country living

[ 353 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

has ever known in the very profession that concerns itself with
wal change. Concerning the law’s reaction to social change, I
tdethe linen “Fair larvard”: “Let not moss-covered error moor
thee by irs side, while the w orld on truth’s current glides by.”
You arght sav Tam talking like a country lawyer. You would be
reoht

“These thoughts are being typed on Thanksgiving night and I
know after twenty-five vears that I am very thankful for many
Liesings. [have just been reading a concept in Governor Herter’s
Thanksgiving Proclamation: “We ask no soft existence, secure
from ditficul tv or perplesity. We fully accept the challenge of
life as God gives it.” I am thankful for that. And I am very
thankful for my classmates in Harvard, ’30.

SHERMAN FRANKLIN FEYLER

Howe apoxess: 79 McClellan Circle, Buffalo 20, N.Y.

orice apowess: School of Business Administration, University of Buffalo,
Buffalo, N.Y.

oes; June 20, 1909, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Ernest Feyler, Katherine Gan-
son.

purparep at: South Park High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1930; M.B.A. Cum
laude, 1932.

UNM SXRIED,

occupation; Assistant professor of finance and economics.

orricss HELD: Vice-president, treasurer, Harvard Club of Buffalo, 1947-49;
president, South Park High School Alumni Association, 1947-49; secre-
tary, 1953-54, member Governing Council, 1947-50, 1951-55, University
Club of Buffalo.

MrMsea of: American Association of University Professors; American Ac-
counting Association; University Club of Buffalo, Harvard Club of
Buffalo, Reserve Officers Association; American Finance Association.

euRsicaTions: Formula Plan Investing — A New Approach to Investment
Toning, spring, 1955.

AFTER graduation, my father took the family to Europe for the
summer and not only was this a pleasant relief from the recent
pressure of divisional and comprehensive examinations and all the
things one had to do to graduate, but it also temporarily obscured

some of the dark, economic clouds looming on the horizon. Bliss-
faly convinced that this was only going to be a short depression,

[356]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

it seemed like a good idea to go back to school for a couple more
years and thus be in a position to capitalize on the wave of pros-
perity which would hopefully be returning about that time, I
came back to the Harvard Business School and was graduated in
June, 1932, facing the stark and brutal fact that economically
things were about as flat as they could get. Moreover, at the
Business School I had majored in banking and finance, two fields
which were perhaps the hardest hit of any, and looking for a job
in the banking field seemed, I must admit, like the height of
optimism when, particularly, most of the banks were getting
ready to close down indefinitely. .

Nevertheless, good Republican that I am, I still voted for
Hoover in the fall of 1932. Well, the political upheaval that
followed and the rapid changes that were being made, seemed to
breathe some new life into certain segments of our economy, and
prospects in the investment business seemed to heighten consider-
ably. In 1933 I managed to make a connection with a local invest-
ment company here in Buffalo and was considerably relieved to
be doing something again. I “took” to the investment business
with much enthusiasm — I guess it has always been in my blood in
some degree or other — and the years that followed were profit-
able and satisfying not only from a financial but also from an
educational and productive standpoint. As the years went along,
I did make some progress and in 1937 became vice-president and
treasurer of the firm, a position I held until April, 1942, when —
being single as I was— Uncle Sam felt he had other ideas about
my immediate future.

I was commissioned in the Finance Department of the Uz S.
Army as a first lieutenant and was ordered to report to Fort
Benjamin Harrison in Indiana for training as a disbursing officer.
After three months of midwest heat, I finished the course and was
ordered to report to Washington, D. C., for duty with the Office
of Chief of Finance. My particular assignment here was to the
division processing dependency allowances and allotments. It
wasn’t long before our office was growing so rapidly that our
Washington office space proved totally inadequate, and toward
the end of 1942, we moved to Newark, New Jersey, and organized
the Office of Dependency Benefits, handling all family allowance
claims and Class E allotments. This turned into a pretty good-

[ 357 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

sized epcranion, for we grew into an office of 10,000 people, and
procoxd at the peak over 8,000,000 checks a month, aggregating
over $sexoo0,000, Twas Deputy Disbursing Officer and Cashier
of the ODB, and when the war was finally over, and my turn
cane to get out, I was separated with the rank of lieutenant
coloncl. This was in March, 1946.

I had an idea T would go back in the invesement field again, but
fele I'd defer it until I had used up all my terminal leave. When I
did become active again in the fall of 1946, the bull market was
over (a four year spectacular rise which I had missed entirely),
and I faced the prospect of practically starting from scratch again
with a brand new bear market on my hands. The intervening
years until 1949 were far from encouraging and I began to wonder
whether I had made the right decision to go back to stocks and
bonds again. It seemed I always had the uncanny facility for doing
the rght thing at the wrong time, or vice versa. During this time
I was associated as an account executive with the firm of Doolittle
& Company, a member of the New York Stock Exchange and
other exchanges. Like most firms in the trade during those in-
decisive post-war years, it too had to grapple with the problem
of rising costs and ever dwindling volume. It was not enough
to sav — raise commission rates. That was not the answer. The
answer was supposed to lie in more production, more pressure,
more needling of customers. At times, under the guise of pressure,
deals were arranged which did not even attract one’s own personal
CONVICTION, Vet one was supposed to get out and sell them, or get
out, period. I chose the latter alternative in the middle of 1949,
thus resolving in my favor, I believe, an inner conflict between the
dictates of my conscience and those of my pocketbook.

The field of education at this time was over-crowded with
students (mostly veterans) and understaffed with faculty. During
this period of my indecision about the brokerage business, a very
attractive —yet totally unsolicited — offer was made to me by
the University of Buffalo. I was asked to teach finance, a subject
for which both by education, experience, and I might even add,
heredity, I felt I had a definite propensity. From all standpoints —
Fnancial, material, spiritual, mental — this sort of thing, I felt,

had broadening aspects, and in addition there was always that
Com penating advantage, the long summer vacation. I went with

[ 358 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the university the fall of 1949. In this respect I must admit that I
have made in my life few choices which have proved more satis-
factory and gratifying. My only regret may lie in the fact that
circumstances hitherto prevented my entering the academic pro-
fession sooner than I did.

I am now in my sixth year of university association. During
the years, my initial faculty assignment has broadened into such
related fields as accounting, economics, investments, international
finance, and business policy, While carrying a full-time teaching
load, I have also had occasion to make some progress toward the
badge of the profession — the Ph.D. degree — which I expect to
attain in June, 1955. While I do not deny that this whole process,
coming im my case perhaps somewhat later than usual, has at
times been something of a struggle, it has nevertheless presented
a definitive objective in life —a worthwhile goal which has made
life well worth living.

In politics, I suppose I should consider myself an inveterate
Republican, principally because I cannot remember at the moment
ever having previously voted for a Democrat. I was extremely
glad to see that one of my presidential votes at least was on the
winning side in 1952, before it was too late. As for recreation, I
like to play golf as much as I can up here during our brief Buffalo
summers, even though I don’t make much progress from year to
year; and during the long winters, I still like to think I keep in
shape by playing squash, which is much more a source of exercise
and fun now than it was in earlier years when it involved the some-
what more serious business of tournaments, team matches, and

intra-city league competition.

E, OLSEN FIELD

HOME ADpRESS: 38 Hilltop Rd., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 16 Court St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 19, 1906, Weston, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Blake Field, Grace
Rebekah Olsen.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B, (Boston Univ.), 1937.

MarRRiED: Harriet M. Jacobs, June 18, 1932, Chestnut Hill, Mass, cHILpREN:
Charles Leicester, Jan. 24, 1935; Edward Olsen, Jr., July 10, 1939; Henry
Frederick, June 3, 1941; Joseph Hooper, Dec. 28, 1946.

[ 359 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Hereags aw: Charles Leicester Field, ‘56.

Haun cup geoTHeRs: Joseph Blake Field, "25; Erlund Field, ’28.
mariPranos: | awyer,

Ofrays HELD: Member Weston Planning Board, until March, 1954.
supvenra oe: \fiwellancous onganizations.

PUBLICATIONS: Assist in publication of the Massachusetts Reports.

FOLLOWING graduation, I went once again to Mc. Rainier
Natienal Park as a temporary park ranger for the summer and
autumn months. That winter I went to Nadina River, British
Columbia, for the hunting and trapping season. On promise of
lucrative job in Chile, I went to South America. Revolution!
No job! No lucre! Took advantage of favorable rate of exchange
and depression prices to visit many parts of the Continent with
distinguished fellow-classmate, Adam Rhodes.

Soon after my return to Weston, Massachusetts, where I have
lived since birth, I married my charming present wife and took a
honeymoon trip to Europe. On return, I started in law school,
pursuant to deferred ambition to become a lawyer. On receipt of
law school diploma from Boston University and upon admission
to the Bar, I became associated with various law firms and lawyers
for a varied practice. In 1939 I became associated with the office
of Reporter of Decisions of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
where IT am now employed.

War activity was limited to defense plant work, Coast Guard
(T.R.), and miscellaneous commitments.

Four sons with four extremely varied characteristics and ener-
gies keep me constantly trying to go four different directions at
once. so now I have no social, political, or religious convictions.

ROBERT DEEHAN FIELDING

HOME AND OFFICE ADDKESS: 47 Fenwood Rd., Boston, Mass.

mas: June 25, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Henry Patrick Fielding,
Lauise Dechan,

parparep at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLELE: 1926-1930. DecKeE: LLB, (Boston Univ.), 1935.

Mase: Helen R. Techan, June 3, 1939, Boston, Mass,

cost panios: Lawyer.

THIEF. aleve sratistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 360 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH FINER

HOME ApDREsS: 45 Alberta Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Starr, Finer, Starr & Co., 161 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Kalman Finer, Rebecca Gutman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; C.P.A.4 1935.

MARRIED: Beatrice Spigel, June 18, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHipren: Louise
Gail, Sept. 17, 1942; Richard Allan, May 4, 1946.

occuPATION: Certified Public Accountant; partner in firm.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants; Amer-
ican Institute of Accountants; New Century Club.

FROM 1930 to 1933 my occupation varied from that of musician
all the way to that of a factory production specialist. I finally
entered the public accounting field in early 1933 and have been
at it ever since, I became a C.P.A. in 1935, and since 1938 have
been associated with Max Starr, C.P.A. We employ approximately
twelve employees. The tremendous strides made by the public
accounting profession, the steady stream of new Revenue Acts,
and now the new Internal Revenue Code of 1954 have left me
little time for extra-curricular activities.

I was married to Beatrice Spigel in 1939. We have two lovely
children and trying to keep up with them athletically and educa-
tionally has been a great joy and a chore.

The rigors of public accounting have left very little time for
hobbies, but I have still found time to try to get down in the low
nineties. At my present rate, I should break ninety by our Fiftieth
Class Reunion. Reading, music, Hi-Fi, gin rummy, do-it-your-
self, complete the list of my hobbies.

Being one of those who believe that it’s nobody’s business as to
whether I am a Republican or Democrat, I have never declared
my party affiliations and have never voted in the primaries. How-
ever, I don’t expect my resistance to change our primary system.

After a short career as a “four-effer,” I assumed the responsi-
bilities of a home owner. So, for the past several years, I have
been engaged in that great national pastime known as paying off
the mortgage.

We did manage to squeeze in a few trips to Bermuda, Florida,
etc., in between Revenue Acts and child raising. Nothing elab-
orate, but adequate.

[ 361 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Playas :
ene lived throuch the notable events of the Twentieth

: To fehnsaating in that phenomenon known as the Atomic
fone = Be iy convinced thac mankind is in need of some kind
7 oa ation to cure its ills, For a while I thought “Ike” might
“PE Moxscah, but the realities of politics, Joe McCarthy, etc.,
“” ‘t dspeted this illusion. The new wonders of science may
Cond us to the need fora panacea, but I am sure we can all use
“Te prescription, Perhaps we all need a dose of religion.

Iam looking forward to the Reunion to renew old acquaint-
mees. Tecan only sav it doesn’t scem like twenty-five years.

PETER FISHMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1610 Metropolitan Ave, New York 62, N.Y.

OFFICE apparss: Div. of Employment, N.Y. State Dept. of Labor, 1440 Broad-
wav, New York, N.Y.

BoRN: Dec. 22, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Nathan Fishman, Leah Aver-
bach.

perpaxed at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1931; PHD,
1934+

Manrisp: Sadcile Woolf, Feb. 2, 1936, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Stanley
Karl, Aug. 21, 1937; William Lawrence, Aug. 9, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Senior office manager.

COMPARATIVE philology and unemployment insurance have
Leen mv close interests since graduation. Both have served me
well, the former as my wine, the latter as my bread. For five years
after 1930. I enthusiastically absorbed Indo-Iranian, Classical, and
Romance Philology (four of these years at Harvard, and one as a
Si.cldon Fellow in Paris and Vienna), but I never did find a way
of converting Persian, Sanskrit, Greck, or Hittite into a livelihood.
The public service, more specifically the Roosevelt-inspired un-
eeployment insurance program, saved me; and so for the last
seventeen years I have given it my all, garnishing the day’s work
with etymologies that the office force should have found en-
Varhrening, if not interesting. The state of suspension in which
nv philological studies find themselves is but an interlude, to be
ended on reurement from the public service. It may well be that
in 1463 (at age fifty-five) the conversion of Vulgar Latin and Old

1

Church Slavonic into a cash income will be a simpler matter than

[ 362]

‘
25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the depression years that followed my return from study abroad
in 1935. At any rate, it will be refreshing to pick up again the
tomes on Vergleichende Sprachwissenschaft.

And now as to the family: my devoted wife has recently re-
turned to teaching (abandoned perforce in Boston upon our
happy marriage in 1936) Saturdays at Temple Israel in New
Rochelle, New York, and during the week at our local PS,
106. The older boy, Stanley, has just entered Cornell for what is
now believed to be a pre-medical career. He brings to Cornell a
hot trombone, nurtured for several years along more symphonic
lines at the local High School of Music and Art. Billy, now
thirteen, is the vocalist of the family. If, despite present leanings,
he can be persuaded not to blindly follow his brother into Cornell,
I may yet have a son adding his decibels to the output of the Har-
vard Glee Club.

JOHN CODMAN FISKE

HOME ADDRESS: 517 Welch Ave., Ames, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa.

BORN: Feb. 8, 1910, Chestnut Hill, Mass. PARENTS: Redington Fiske, Susan
Welles Codman.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; A.M. (Columbia), 1940;
PH.D. (Harvard Univ.), 1954.

MARRIED: Janet Steele Murray, Sept. 14, 1940, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. CHILDREN:
Janet Lindsay, July 5, 1941; Jonathan Redington, Jan. 20, 1945; Anne
MacMaster Codman and Frederick Murray (twins), Aug. 4, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Redington Fiske, ’20; Francis Fiske, ’23,

occuPATION: Assistant professor of Romance languages.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in newspapers and learned journals, the latter
chiefly connected with Russian and American literature.

MY two Harvard degrees bridge the entire Conant regime; so I
think I may say I’ve taken this wild quarter-century rather slowly,
at least along professional lines. On the day after Commencement
in 1930, I set out to explore Europe. I found it full of the Class of
1930 from various familiar institutions. There were reunions in
Vienna, as well as London, Paris, Munich, and other such spots;
It was not until Venice that I burned my bridges and caught the
boat for Istanbul for a three-year teaching stint at Robert College.

[ 363 |

" HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Those three vears gave me more education than Harvard had.
Trauzhe ba lly, read widely, and dabbled at every language that
care my wav. Lalso found that there was a world outside Boston.
I saw a black fox in the temple at Luxor, spent one delighted

summer as a hanger-on at Fontainebleau, talked philosophy under
Greek olive trees, and nearly fell off a mountain in Andorra.

Then I came home. I was going to write, and in one year my
pea had netted me a cool twenty-five dollars; so in ’34 I went to
teach the sixth grade at Saint Albans School in Washington. From
"3s to “39 I raughr French in a little prep school in Princeton.
There I learned to teach and discovered that even Princeton
University had its points. I finally broke away to do graduate
work.

At Columbia I got me an A.M. and an Iowa wife, whom I met
at International House. We spent a second year in New York,
where we produced a baby but no more degrees. In ’41 I went to
teach at Coe College in Iowa, and in the summer of ’42 applied
for a Naval commission and took Sam Cross’s speed-up Russian
course at Harvard. The Navy took me from Coe in January, 1943.

I never learned to talk Navy. For nine months I was attached
to a floating drydock on the west coast and even commanded a
section of it at the end of a towline for six weeks at sea; but I re-
turned safely to Washington before the drydock pulled out for
Manus in the spring of ’44. The rest of my war was in the Navy
Building or in my Fairlington victory garden.

In the spring of °46 I was at my usual Washington desk, but in
civvies as a P-5, waiting it out ’till the next academic year should
start; but I was tempted by a job in our attacheé’s office in Moscow,
and started a new adventure in August.

Russia has been pretty well written up by a great many people.
I spent something over a year there and my wife and two children
joined me for the last four months. People were moving up slowly
from the lowest standard of living I have yet encountered; but |
became interested in their language and their pre-revolutionary
litcrature. In spite of good theater and ballet, inherited from
earLer times, I found Sovict cultural life to be stereotyped and, in
general, aby smally dull. We lived well and pleasantly under the
protection of our embassy,

In October, 1947, [came home and in January started work

[ 364 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the Russian Research Center at Harvard on a Fellowship
that lasted until June, 1951. It was a fine three years with a very
intelligent and congenial group. In ’51 I came to Iowa State to
teach French and Russian, but have found an excuse to get back
to Widener and the East every summer.

In politics and religion I am a died-in-the-wool Confused
Liberal. My hobbies are all too many. My leisure is spent either
with my wife and four children, or in my garden, or looking for
birds and wild flowers, or riding the Cape Cod surf, or writing
doggerel. ,

HOWARD NAYLOR FITZHUGH

HOME ApprEss: 3001 Fifteenth St., N.E., Washington 17, D. C.

OFFICE ADDREss: Howard University, Washington 1, D. C.

BoRN: Oct. 31, 1909, Washington, D. C. parents: William Hiram Fitzhugh,
Lillian Ophelia Naylor.

PREPARED AT: Dunbar High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: S.B. cu laude, 1930; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Thelma Evelyn Hare, Amherst, N. H., June 11, 1938. CHILDREN:
Howard Naylor, Jr., Dee. 1, 1939; Richard Hare, Nov. 29, 1944; Judith
Ellen, May 7, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Howard Uni-
versity.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Administrator, New Negro Alliance, D. C., 1933-
36; co-founder, Washington Society of Accountancy, 1934-44; member
Board of Management, Y.M.C.A., 1935-37; faculty adviser, Business
Club, Howard University, since 1935; auditor, Potomac Codperative
Federation, 1936-38; director, Youth Choir, Lomax A.M.E.Z. Church,
1942~48; D. C. director, National Business Study Project, 1944-46; re-
search director, Affiliated Business Associations, D. C., 1947-50; co-
founder, president, National Business Education League, 1948-53; faculty
adviser, Howard Student Marketing Club, since 1949; chairman, Com-
mittee on Population & Housing, Citizens Advisory Committee to the
Arlington Planning Commission, 1950-51; auditor, Burgundy Farm
Codperative School, 1951-52; codrdinator, D. C. Distributive Education
Program, Div. 2, 1951-52; executive secretary, National Association of
Market Developers, since 1954.

MEMBER oF: American Marketing Association; Harvard Business School
Club of Washington; National Association of Market Developers;
Alpha Phi Omega; Beta Gamma Sigma; National Business Education

eague.

[ 365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

roatmatiass: “Negroes in: Consumer Coéperatives,” Chap. 6, in Pierce:
Necre Bucness and Business Education, Harper, 1947; editor, The
Port-Wiar Ouslook for Negroes tn Small Business, Howard University
Pres, rog8, “Business Management Brief” (a series), Journal of the
Nasional Plarmaceutical Association, beginning June, 1954.

THOUGH I entered Harvard College with a medical career in

mind and took my S.B. in the biochemical sciences, I became con-

vineed, during college years, that medicine was not my forte.
Meanwhile, some rewarding experiences in the selling field during
the summer months had heightened my interest in business; hence
I entered the Harvard Business Schoo] upon graduation from
college. In 1933, my year of graduation from B-School, there
were not too many encouraging opportunities for the auspicious
launching of a business career. I did become self-employed as a
representative for several commercial printing houses, but I also
devoted a great deal of volunteer effort to a citizens’ group estab-
lished to dissuade certain large enterprises — notably chain stores
— from their racially discriminatory employment practices. In-
cidentally, the organization was able, among other things, to
effect, through a U.S. Supreme Court decision, a new definition
of the presumptive employment interest of the citizens of a com-
munity in which a business enterprise operates.

There was a considerable shortage of teachers of business sub-
jects in my immediate community at the time, and, although I
had vowed that I would studiously avoid a career in the teaching
field — and had flatly rejected a couple of attractive offers at the
secondary level —I eventually took a college post, consoling my-
self with the thought that the assignment would be part-time and
temporary. I was surprised to find that I was thoroughly happy
at the work; I have been at the same university ever since, despite
occasional tempting offers from other schools, government, and
private industry.

My job does permit a limited amount of part-time consulting
work, which I naturally find quite stimulating. There has also
Leen a terrific amount of community activity — civic, religious,

business, and educational. We spent a dozen exciting years in the

eat * a " * e ° ° . °
rapidiy expanding neighboring community of Arlington, Virginia
— 1941 through 1952. During most of that period I lived two
lives in one, with a full complement of community assignments in

[ 366 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Arlington, another in Washington, and still another group of
activities on wider fronts. It happened that I was occupationally
deferred from military service and, I suppose, out of sheer grati-
tude (I’m really pacifist at heart) I willingly “worked myself to
death” on the home front, consciously neglecting certain academic
pursuits which would have considerably advanced my own pro-
fessional standing. Those years included a good deal of work
with consumers coéperative enterprises, among them an inter-
racial elementary school in Virginia, in which two of my children
were the first Negro students. I also devoted considerable effort
to organizations and programs concerned with the steady improve-
ment of the adjustment of Negro youth to expanding opportuni-
ties in American business.

We moved back to Washington nearly three years ago, and
there has been an accompanying re-alignment of activities. I have
drastically narrowed my field of activities and plan, for a while,
at least, to concentrate on teaching, research, and closely related
duties, including student guidance and business consulting work.
It’s a matter of beginning to feel somewhat “mellow” rather than
getting old, I believe; plus the fact that there are some problems of
stepping up the family income to provide for the impending
higher educational needs and other expanding requirements of
our three children.

My wife, who largely stuck by the fireside during our first
fifteen years, has recently been taking on a number of community
responsibilities. She has remained an understanding companion to
this queer, stubborn Harvard grad. The entire family shares one
of my few hobbies — music of the home-spun variety; the boys
also enjoy my other principal hobbies — sandlot sports and swim-
ming. In addition, my older son is an ardent Explorer Scout, an
avid amateur botanist, and a member of the Junior Academy of
Science. Richard, the second boy, is quite proud of his post on
the schoo] patrol, is a rather bright scholar, and a rather diligent
student of the piano and tap dancing. Judith is an accomplished
charmer; she excels in all of her school subjects, dances well, and
takes to music like a duck to water. All three of them are a pretty
affable bunch — fairly free and easy, yet quite manageable.

I must take this occasion to express my deep gratitude for the
terrific, yet subtle, impact which Harvard has had upon my work

[ 367 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

and eurioek, chough a college instructor's stipend has not permit-
td me fo express my appreciation in tangible forms nearly as
often as T have wished. I humbly believe that I have tried con-
scicntious!y to repay some of my debt through my relationships
with the students and other young people w ith whom I have been
in contact over the years.

JOHN WILLIAM FLEMING

HOME ADORESS: 4930 Western Ave. Chevy Chase, Md.

OFFICE aDbRESS: 1511 K Sct, N.W., Washington 5, D.C.

Bors: Nov, 20, 1907, West Orange, N.J. PARENTS: Joseph Fleming, Anna
Elizabeth Reid.

PREPARED aT: \Vest Orange High School, West Orange, N.J.

YEARS [N COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1934; PH.D,
1938.

Marup: Eleanor Harwood Churchill, Sept. 3, 1934, Penn Yan, N.Y. cxm-
preN: Diana Churchill, April 15, 1946; Jonathan Reid, Nov. 5, 1948.

occupation: International merchant.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York City.

COLLEGE teaching, 1930-1936; government service, 1936-1943;

military service, 1943-1944; international merchant, since 1945.

LAWRENCE WALDO FLINT

HOME ADpress: 19 Morningside Rd, Wakefield, Mass.

oFFice appress: L. B. Evans Sons Co., Wakefield, Mass.

Bems: Oct. 28, 1904, Wakefield, Mass. parents: Albert W. Flint, Lillian L.
Jelly.

purpaueD at: Manter Hall, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

Mapairp: Elizabeth Morse, Feb. 8, 1929, Saylesville, R. I. (died 1951); Alice
EF. Kerwin, Cape Elizabeth, Maine. crirp: Robert S., Jan. 16, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Sales.

MY son, Robert S. Flint, is now attending Proctor Academy at
Andover, New Hampshire.

[ 368 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL HARRY FLINT

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Edison Ave., Medford 55, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tufts College, Medford 55, Mass.

BorN: April 3, 1908, Methuen, Mass. parents: Harry Doane Flint, Mary
Ann McClellan.

PREPARED AT: Methuen High School, Methuen, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M. (Tufts Coll.), 1932;
A.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1937; PH.D. (ibid.), 1947.

marRieD: Emily Pauline Riedinger, Aug. 18, 1935, New York, N.Y. cui:
Paul Harry, Jr., Oct. 24, 1942.

occuPATION: Associate professor of English; assistant dean, Graduate School,
Tufts College.

OFFICES HELD: President, Eastern Middlesex Chapter, Reserve Officers As-
sociation, Tufts Navy Club, Medford Consumers Cooperative Society,
Technical Writers Society, 1954.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors, A.S.E.E.; Re-
serve Officers Association.

MY principal interest is in the history of the English language,
and I do get to give a semester course in it at Tufts, but so many
inviting distractions keep crossing my path, I get diverted.

My tour as naval officer in World War II opened new horizons
for me. I’m not sure I had ever even fired a shotgun before I got
into aerial gunnery and served as officer in charge of gunnery
schools, including the Aviation Gunnery Instructors School at
Pensacola. My Navy experience, work with an electrical en-
gineering company, and teaching engineers, have combined to
lead me into the field of technical writing. And association with
scientific gentry, especially psychologists, at ‘Tufts, has led me,
after a year’s commuting to the Naval Research Laboratory in
Washington in connection with systems analysis, to additional
duty as Assistant Dean of Tufts’ Graduate School.

Summers, my wife and son and I spend as much time as we can
on Bremen, Long Island, in Muscongus Bay. But, as I say, my
principal interest is in the history of the English language.

Politically, I’m a registered Republican and do wish we Re-
publicans would nominate some national candidates I could vote
for.

My wife’s activities as managing editor of the Azlantic add a
dimension to my reading of contemporary literature.

[ 359 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

EDMUND BENNETT FLYNN

HESTE Aposess: 243 Winter Se, Norwood, Mass.

oerice apoarss: Nortolk Asphalt Co, Inc. P.O. Box 707, Islington, Mass.

pan: Sept. 1, 1997, Cambndge, Mass. parents: Edward James Flynn, ’95,
are. S. Hazcl Bennett.

psspaxtp at: Lynn Clawical High School, Lynn, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).

mauuep: Abce Gertrude Rich, Oct. 4, 1930, New York, N.Y. cnizp: Claire
Abce, Aug. 27, 1934

waxy arp BxoTHER: Fletcher Richard Flynn, °32.

occupation: General manager, Norfolk Asphalt Company, Inc.

I HAVE been continuously employed with the same people,
manufacturers of road pavement, since graduation — with the
exception of the war years when I enjoyed extensive travel at the
taxpayers’ expense in the Southwest Pacific.

I have no message for the Class of 1930 other than that I have
been fortunate in the last twenty-five years in my family, friends,
and work, and hope to be around for the Fiftieth.

JOHN LEO FOLEY

HOME aporess: 48 Edison Green, Dorchester, Mass.

OFFice appress: 6 Beacon St. Boston, Mass.

Boas: July 29, 1903, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Patrick Joseph Foley, Delia
Bridget Gill.

PREPARED at: South Boston High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927. DEGREES: LL.B. (Suffolk Univ.), 1938; LL.M.
(ibid.), 1948, Pace & Pace School of Accounting, 1951.

UN MARRIED.

occuvarios: Lawyer and tax consultant.

sit.MeER OF: Knights of Columbus; American Legion.

pusucaTions: A short history of Boston, 1935; “Section 2, Internal Revenue

Code,” 1948.

ROGERS FOLLANSBEE

Worse ammess: 6123 Ridge Ave. Evanston, Ill.
wsvun aawess: Mechanical Home Systems, Inc., 1791 Howard St., Chicago
24, Lk

was, March 25, 1408, Chicago, Ill. parents: Mitchell Davis Follansbee, ’92,
Julia Rogers McConnell.

[ 370]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Kemper Hall.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31).

marrieD: Nancy Eddy Avery, Sept. 23, 1937, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Lenore,
Oct. 3, 1938; Rogers, Jr., May 22, 1941; Nancy Avery, July 26, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Mitchell Davis Follansbee, Jr., ’29.

OCCUPATION: President, general manager, chief engineer, Mechanical Home
Systems, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, R. Cooper, Jr., Inc., Chicago, 1935-38, Kehm
Corporation, Chicago, 1938-41; president, Mechanical Home Systems,
Inc., since 1945; trustee, member of corporation, Roycemore Girls
School, 1947-51, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Glenview Club; University Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles on heating and air conditioning subjects
for Heating-Air Conditioning-Sheet Metal Contractor, American Ar-
tisan, Small Homes Guide, and Home Modernizing.

WHILE I was a sophomore I met the beautiful wife of a Chicago
architect. She (not he) suggested I should study architecture and
go to work for her husband. This led to all sorts of complications
like staying on for a couple of years at architectural school and
later getting into the heating and air conditioning business. The
architect and his wife were later divorced, but IJ never have been
able to shake off a consuming interest in construction and design,
including mechanical design, which I first started acquiring in
architectural school — Harvard.

In 1932 the depression seemed to be deepening, and it seemed
like a good idea to leave architectural school to take a job in the
Works Department of the Chicago World’s Fair (The Century
of Progress) which was then building. It is lucky the Fair was a
success because we were paid solely in bonds which would have
been worthless had it been a failure.

In July, 1933, I went to work as a salesman for R. Cooper, Jr.,
Inc., distributors for G.E.’s major appliances like electric ranges,
refrigerators, etc. General Electric was just then coming into
the market with heating and air conditioning equipment. The air
conditioning industry was going to lift us out of the depression.
Remember? My main effort was with architects and engineers.
Became fascinated with the application side of the heating and air
conditioning industry. At this time my fascination was not too
great to prevent me from having a fairly decent sales record which
was rewarded by some small increases in salary and by my being
named vice-president. Yes, we had LOTS of vice-presidents.

[371]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

In rg38 General Electric decided to divide up the distribution
of their heating and air conditioning lines instead of concentrating
it with one company. So I left and went with another heating
and air conditioning equipment distributor. This turned out to be
a bust because I foolishly invented a fine little heating system.
Got patents on it and introduced it into the market — but never
made a dime on it. Infringers ran away with the gold while I was
in the service.

By this time I was married and had a couple of children, But
the Draft Board was breathing down my neck, so I applied fora
commission in the Navy. The commission came through in June,
194:, and I was indoctrinated in the first class at Dartmouth.
After being stationed in Washington for a while, I was moved to
New York where I held forth as executive officer in the New York
branch of the Otfice of Naval Research.

Our of the service in November, 1945, I established this heating
and air conditioning business. Unfortunately, it has not done too
well because I keep getting preoccupied with application engineer-
ing problems and trying to find solutions for them.

For instance, we were the people who did practically all the
pioneering on so-called “perimeter heating and cooling.” We
were the ones w ho made the layouts for the tests at the University
of [linois, “wrote the book” on the subject, etc. Managed to
revolutionize the whole industry without making a penny on it
ourselves. But hope springs eternal, especially when the future
looks bright for us — as it does just now (November 22, 1954).

I am afraid I don’t spend quite enough time with my children,
but otherwise we seem to have a very happy family life. My
very lovely wife has done a nice job of bringing us up and we all
seem to like the way she does it, We have a summer place near
Traverse City, Michigan. However, we do not spend much time
there during the summer. Instead, we look forward to winter
Vacations at Nassau, if possible. Sometimes we bring the children
and have Christmas there.

As to sports and hobbies, we are not much of a sporting family.
We don't play golf or ride or shoot or hunt. Used to play a little
tennis and sjuash rackets, but gave up both a long time ago.

Hobbies? Cannot think of a one unless it’s dreaming up some
new heating and air conditioning gimmick.

[372]

°

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD WINFIELD FORDYCE

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Lenox PIL., St. Louis 8, Mo.

BORN: July 4, 1907, Hot Springs, Ark, parents: John Rison Fordyce, Lillian
Powell.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

marriED: Jane Noland, June 12, 1935, St. Louis, Mo. (died Nov. 11, 1950);
Adele Dwyer, July 11, 1954, Ladue, Mo. cuttpren: Edward Winfield,
Jr., Sept. 23, 1941; Jane N., July 7, 1948; Paris Garoway (stepdaughter),
March 20, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel Wesley Fordyce, 3d, ’21; Clifton Powell Fordyce,
23; John Rison Fordyce, Jr. (deceased), ’26.

occuPATION: None.

IRETURNED to my native habitat of Little Rock, Arkansas, with
the idea of conquering the state economically, and found a few
there before me. Somehow it seemed logical to go to St. Louis for
greener fields where there would be more opportunity. Quickly
learning basic economics from the industrious residents, I have
managed to stay a few jumps ahead of the sheriff most of the time.

In 193§ I married the first time and had a son and daughter. In
1950 my wife was killed in an auto accident, and for a couple of
years I tried to operate alone. After that experience, I went
looking for, and found, the present Mrs. Fordyce.

Like most of our Class, for several years I did almost anything.
From 1936 to 1950 I worked for Liggett-Myers. Since then I
have been looking for a business of my own.

ROBERT ROY FORRESTER, JR.

HOME apprEss: River Road, Rumson, N.J.

OFFICE appREss: The Wilcolator Co. 1001 Newark Ave., Elizabeth, N.J.

BORN: Nov. 1, 1909, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: Robert Roy Forrester, Helen
Louise Rowe.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930,

MaRRieD: Katherine Elizabeth Collin, Aug. 21, 1933, Kennebunkport, Maine.
CHILDREN: Robert Roy, 3d, Nov. 26, 1935; George C., March 16, 1938;
Peter C., Oct. 20, 1939.

HARVARD son: Robert Roy Forrester, 3d, ’57.

Occupation: Executive vice-president, Wilcolator Company.

[ 373 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

geraas Hrid: Trustee, Rumson Country Day School, since 1946; vestryman,
Sc. George by the River, 1947-1953; member various committees, Gas
Appiunce Manufacturers Association, Institute of Appliance Manu-
facturcrs.

atures of: Harvard Club of New York; Essex Club, Newark, N.J.; Rum-
son Country Club; Scabright Beach Club; Kennebunk River Club,
Navesink Rod and Gun Club.

AFTER graduation in 1930 and working my way over to Europe
and rerun, I entered Columbia Law School, Class of 1933, and
studied there for one and a half years. The depression was here,
my marks low “C's” and when I was offered a job in manufactur-
ing. I was delighted to take it. I did sales work until 1939, event-
ually becoming sales manager of a department. In 1939 I had the
epportunity to become an associate of a well-known insurance
brokerage firm in New York City and I joined them.

Shortly after Pearl Harbor I volunteered for the Navy, receiv-
ing my commission as a lieutenant (j.g.) in February, 1942. I
had forty -six months of sea duty, Atlantic and Pacific, becoming
inactive with the rank of lieutenant commander in 1946. I com-
missioned and commanded two different fleet minesweepers, was
commander of Mine Division 4o, and received two bronze star
awards for different actions in the Pacific. After the war, I re-
turned to manufacturing (thermostatic controls), to the firm with
which I am now associated. Eventually I became assistant to the
president and for the last few years have been executive vice-
president and director.

Our three sons are now attending Harvard, Exeter, and Fessen-
den. We have a little acreage in the country on the banks of the
Navesink River. My chief interest and hobby is boating and
cruising. We have just sold our second power boat and are look-
ing forward to our new Concordia Yawl (39), delivery in June,
1455. Another hobby is photography; I collect better and more
expensive Cameras and take poorer and poorer pictures! Over a
period of years I have also enjoyed tinkering around and taking

apart forcign cars; these have included two M.G.’s and a Jaguar.
T alsa enjoy short-wave radio, but on a very amateur scale.

Sports have been generally restricted to golf, fishing, and duck
shooting (we are fortunate to have a blind on our own property).
Palticall 'y bam an Eisenhower Republican, religiously, an Episco-

[ 374]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

palian. Since our marriage in 1933 in Kennebunkport, Maine, we
have managed almost every year to return there sometime during
the summer. We love it and the people there.

WILLIAM HENRY FORT, II

HOME ADDRESS: 2712A Meharry Blvd., Nashville 8, Tenn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ford Greene Elementary School, 904 26th Ave., N., Nash-
ville, Tenn.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1911, Nashville, Tenn. parents: William Henry Fort, Jane
E. Benson.

PREPARED AT: Dunbar High School, Okmulgee, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B. (Fisk Univ.), 1928; 8.8. (Harvard
Univ.), 1930.

marrieD: Geraldine Phillips Bennett, June 30, 1936, Nashville, Tenn. cumt-
DREN: Jane Geraldine, Aug. 27, 1938; Dorothy Kathryn, Nov. 27, 1944.

occuPATION: Supervising principal, Ford Greene Elementary School.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Teachers’ Benefit Association, 1954-55, presi-
dent, Principals’ and Supervisors’ Association, 1954~55, Nashville Public
Schools; president, Tennessee Principals’ Association, 1953-54; parlia-
mentarian, Tennessee Education Congress, since 1954; member execu-
tive committee, General Alumni Association, Fisk University, since
1953, J.C. Napier Division, Boy Scouts of America, since 1943; member
education committee, Pride of Tennessee Lodge No. 1102, 1.B.P.OE. of
W., since 1952; chairman, Promotion Committee, Hella Temple No.
105, A.E.A.O.N.MSS., 1952-54; first lieutenant commander, Council of
Deliberation, Valley of Tennessee, A.A.S.R., Southern Jurisdiction,
since 1953; member, Deacon Board and Choir, First Baptist Church,
since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Alpha Psi.

WHAT with wars, depressions, continuously high prices, in-
creased taxes, illnesses, deaths, and births, my twenty-five years
since Harvard have been little short of one long nightmare. Yet,
through it all, occasional rays of hope shone forth and enabled me
to keep plugging, Maybe life really does begin at forty!

Iam now in my twelfth year as supervising principal of Ford
Greene Elementary School, and if present plans materialize, I
Shall probably remain here until retirement.

My elder daughter, Jane, is in her second year of a five-year
program for early entrants at Fisk University. The younger,
Dorothy, is a sixth grader, and my wife, Gerry, is associate pro-
fessor and head of the Department of Clothing and Textiles at A. &

[375 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I. Scare University. With schedules such as ours, life is anything
ber dail’

My civic and fraternal activities have kept me in close touch
wich che local community and have aided materially in my at-
tetpts to understand the motivations of our pupils and their
parents, Although these responsibilities have left me a minimum
of opportunity to enjoy family life, I feel that the values derived
thus far have ourweiched the disadvantages. Recently, however.
I have resolved to spend more tme with the three women in my
Life and one of the next “specials” which we hope to share to-
gether is the pleasure of participating in the coming Reunion.

LEONARD MUNN FOWLE

Home aposess: Gravledges, 36 Norman St. Marblehead, Mass.

oFFKE apuress: Boston Globe, 243 Washington St., Boston 7, Mass.

psoas: Feb. 16, 1904. Woburn, Mass. parents: Leonard Munn Fowle, ’06,
Grace Agnes Cummings.

prepaniD at: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: $.B., 1930.

Makaiep: Nancy Kimball, Oct. 1, 1949, Marblehead, Mass. cuitp: Roger
Kimball Stone (stepson), March 16, 1940.

Ouct PATION: Newspaper and Free-Lance Writer.

OFFKES HELD; Secretary, 1934-49, executive vice-president, 1949-55, Inter-
Collegiate Yacht Racing of North America, graduate secretary, New
Fngland Intercollegiate Sailing Association, 1949-55; member Race
Committee, 1929-31, 1946, member Junior Program Committee, 1939-55,
Fasten Yacht Club; vice-commodore, 1921-23, senior adviser, 1927-48,
president, 1949-51, member board of directors, 1949-55, Pleon Yacht
Club; member Committee on Junior Yachting, North American Yacht
Racing Union, 1936-55; member U. S. Olympic Hockey Committee,
igs2, member executive committee, Yacht Racing Union of Massachu-
xetts Bay, 1949-55; sponsor, Friends of Harvard Sailing, 1954-55.

war sinem of: Hlarvard Club of Boston, Fastern Yacht Club; Pleon Yacht
Club; Martlchead Frosthite Sailing Club, M.LT. Nautical Association;
North American Yacht Racing Union; Y.R.U. of Massachusetts Bay;
Harvard Yache Club, American Hockey Coaches Association (honor-
ary), New England Intercollegiate Sailing Association (honorary); The
After-guard.

LOOKING backward, I know the summer of 1930 charted the
cours of a pleasant — [hope productive — life even though it has

[ 376 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

not greatly endowed me with worldly possessions. Its effect was
left-handed but no less certain.

In June, when most classmates were rushing into jobs which
company representatives painted glowingly in Yard conferences,
though many lasted only a few months, I chose to resume a “Sum-
mer” job of covering yachting for the Boston Globe as an assist-
ant to my father. It proved an experience, for — though litrle I
realized it — I was witnessing the end of an era from the inside
as a sports writer and as a member of the Eastern Yacht Club’s
Race Committee. Tom Lipton was making his last challenge for
the America’s Cup and glamorous Newport had no thought of
becoming one of Cleveland Amory’s “Last Resorts.”

It was a never-to-be-forgotten spectacle with 200-foot steam
yachts by the dozens churning the waters off Brenton Reef along
with a thousand smaller yachts, plus half our Coast Guard’s and
Navy’s vessels. Though the competition was much better when
Tom Sopwith tried in 1934 and 1937, the “side-show” in the
Depression years never compared with 1930 when this youngster,
fresh out of college, rubbed elbows with Harold S. “Mike”
Vanderbilt, the incomparable Sherman Hoyt, Grantland Rice,
and Damon Runyon.

But — when the glamour had passed in the fall of 1930, no jobs
were waiting in the preferred field of magazine writing where
publications were starving from canceled advertising. Efforts at
fiction brought only rejection slips; so, after another summer of
yacht reporting, I came back to Harvard as a special graduate stu-
dent to take American history courses which I’d missed in the
field of English history and lit. Professor Samuel Eliot Morison
failing to persuade me that I was cut out for a teaching career, and
with “Mr. Hoover’s Prosperity” still around that corner, 1932
brought no brighter prospects than 1930. Thus, when my father
became ill and I was asked to take over his work, I could only
accept. Against previous advice of my grandfather, who had been
managing editor, and of my father to shun newspaper work as
far from remunerative, I became the third generation of my family
on the Boston Globe’s editorial staff.

Although, on occasion, I’ve questioned the wisdom of the deci-
sion, newspaper work on the whole proved fascinating even to
the extent of nearly burning to death when the Harvard Stadium

[377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

nation’s oldest junior vacht club; and, for che lase fifteen years, a
menber of the Faster Yacht Club’s Committee on Junior Nauti-
cal Inseruction. These, in turn, Ied to continuing membership on
the Nerth American Yacht Racing Union’s Committee on Junior
Yachang, which conducts the Scars Cup junior championship on
a continental basis. In 1949, at N.A.Y.R.U.’s request, I assisted in
the formation of a Vache Racing Union of Massachusetts Bay and
currently serve On its executive Committee.

I've not been able to stay out of things in hockey either — the
U.S. Olympic Hockey Committee, 1952 (also a finger in the
O'ympic sailing selections for both ’48 and ’52), chairmanship of
the local hockey wniters’ association, and heading the Records
and Publicity Committee of the American Hockey Coaches As-
sociation — an organization which tendered honorary membership
lat March. Perhaps some of my written words furthered the
reaization of the long overdue indoor rink on Soldiers Field —
at least I hope so. 'm— not unwillingly — one of the sponsors
of the Fnends of Harvard Sailing, which I hope will eventually
produce Harvard sailing facilities comparable to those of many
rival schools, rather than our being dependent on M.I.T.’s gen-
erous Joan of facilities. A good cause, my classmates, for any
gifts to Harvard!

I've ver to write the great American historical novel — of
which I once dreamed — but I have been contributing two regular
columns, plus occasional features, to Yachting and sometimes
other periodicals. Maybe some day I'll get around to finishing a
book on sailing which I’ve been urged to write for some years.

Book collecting and travel — especially by train, for, like Lucius
Peche, I'm fascinated by the Iron Horse-— have been other
major hobbies. As yet I haven't found the time to reach Europe,
but have gained a pretty good picture of North America. We're
al Episcopalians, though my work and hours do not lend to
church-going. Roger, however, tries to make up by being an
avtar boy at old St. Michacl’s where our classmate, Rev. David
Norton, is rector, In politics, I'm (and, I think, we’re) independ-
ent and hiberal — my pet hate is, or rather was, until he became
a “hasbeen,” Joe McCarthy, I never have voted, or expect to

sore, a strarche ticket.

Pin glad | was alive in 1929 — bur I don’t think the USS. is

[ 3X0 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

going to Hell, or back to those days either. Also, I’m glad that
I lived — despite a heart attack a year ago — until 1955. In col-
lege, being a romanticist, I once bemoaned the fact I lived in

uiet times rather than the Elizabethan Age. After living through
two World Wars, an age of glitter, the Great Depression, and a
decade of uncertainty, I chuckle at ‘my naiveté,

Despite all, they’ve been a good twenty-five years and (to be
trite — a sin to which no Harvard man should ever admit) we’ve
had a world of fun.

WALLACE ADAMS FOWLIE

HOME AND OFFICE AppREss: Bennington College, Bennington, Vt.

Born: Nov. 8, 1908, Brookline, Mass. parents: Wallace Bruce Fowlie, Helen
Adams.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1933; PH.D.,
1936.

OccuPATION: Teacher of French literature.

OFFICES HELD: Advisory editor, Poetry Magazine.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Mallarmé; Rimbaud, Rimbaud’s Angelism, Age of Surrealism,
Pantomime, The Clown’s Grail; Clowns and Angels, Jacob’s Night;
Sixty Poems of Scéve.

JOHN ADAMS FOX

HOME ADDRESS: 350 Elmwood Ave., Wollaston, Mass.

oFFick appRess: U.S. Naval Ammunition Depot, Hingham, Mass.

BORN: Jan, 22, 1909, Dalton, Mass. parents: Richard K. Fox, Eunice Adams.

PREPARED AT: Dalton High School, Dalton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930, LL.B. (Univ. of Chicago),
1933.

MARRIED: Helen D. Callahan, June 1, 1938, Boston, Mass. cuitp: John Adams,
Jr., Aug. 30, 1944.

occuPATION: Industrial relations officer, Navy Department.

OFFICES HELD: Member President's Commission on Personnel, 1940; chair-
man, Federal Personnel Council of Boston, 1946-48, member, Personnel
Committee, National Citizen’s Committee for Hoover Report, 1948-50;
consultant, Massachusetts Commission on Structure of State Govern-
ment, 1950-51, Massachusetts Senate Committee on Ways and Means,
1950-51; sometime consultant, Boston Municipal Research Bureau,
Massachusetts Federation of Taxpayers’ Associations.

[ 38: ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Wis of forte ght class and lab hours per week, week in and week

enh they tumed out a respectable product in six months. We

fitered these men into field training and on into places through-

at the word where the Amy needed them. The basic recruit-

- ef tegh technical skills was pretty well completed with logis-

tes— the business of service and supply along ever-lengthening
cares Gf Miltary movement.

os sun was born in 1944. Tam glad that he will have no mem-
ores of the ten vears that preceded him.

Ac the end of the war [ continued in personnel management
for the First Army. In tgs1 I was drafted by the Economic
Stauiization Agency to set up the controls machinery in New
Fretand, and served as deputy director of price control for the
rea until 1933. Price control was an unpopular repeat of wartime
OPA, but there was no alternative to economic stabilization after
six months of the Korean fiasco. In government one accepts un-
Preasant assignments without a murmur, but with the usual hope
that they w il net endure. OPS served its purpose and is now his-
tory. After it folded in 1953, I returned to the field of industrial
roations, this tme with the Navy. Iam stationed at the Hingham
Ammunition Depot, a great sprawling conglomeration of filling
houses, magazines, and assembly plants from which there flows a
constant stream of munitions — bombs, warheads, fuzes, shells,
rockets, and other shiny agents of death and destruction.

War is a steady business — like sin. And nobody has a monop-
oly on it. Almost any body can start a war, and almost everybody
gers into the act sooner or later. The only peaceful people are
the dead.

JEROME DAVID FRANK

wow aucanss, Goy W. University Pkwy. Baltimore, Md.

onrwe scoeess. Henry Phipps Psychiatric Clinic, Johns Hopkins Hospital,
| mare, Md,

was “Say je, ie, New York, NY. parests: Jerome William Frank, Bess
Bene steam,

werzeain at. bearace Mann School for Boys, Ficldston, N.Y.

Tha IN OAGR Igiteig}a, bens: AB sina cum laude, 1930; AM,
i4:i, Wb, 1456, MD, Cun laude, tp he.

[ 384]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriepD: Helene Schneider, December 1932, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1947); Elizabeth Kleeman, January 4, 1948, New York, N.Y. cHILpren:
Deborah Alice, Oct. 25, 1948, David William, Oct. 22, 1949; Julia Bess,
July 17, 1951; Emily Frances, March 22, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Alfred Frank, 34.

OccUPATION: Psychiatrist; associate professor of psychiatry; psychiatrist-in-
charge, Henry Phipps Psychiatric Clinic.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1953, president-elect, 1954, Committee on Com-
munity Affairs, Maryland Psychiatric Society; member board of direc-
tors, chairman of Public Education Committee, Mental Hygiene Soci-
ety of Greater Baltimore, since 1951; member executive board, since
1951, president, since 1953, Baltimore Ethical Society; chairman of Re-
search Committee, American Group Therapy Association, since 1954;
consultant to National Advisory Mental Health Council, Mental Health
Study Section (U.S.P.H.S.), since 1951; member Committee on Therapy,
American Psychiatric Association, since 1949; member Committee on
Group Psychotherapy, American Psychoanalytical Association, since
1951; member Committee on Medical Education, Group for the Ad-
vancement of Psychiatry, since 1953; member Baltimore City Commis-
sion on Aging and the Problems of the Aged, since 1952; member Citi-
zens Advisory Committee to the Section on Alcohol Studies, Maryland
State Department of Health, since 1953; member, Advisory Board for
Defective Delinquents, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: American Psychiatric Association (fellow); Maryland Psychi-
atric Society; Group for the Advancement of Psychiatry; Society for
the Psychological Study of Social Issues; American Medical Association;
American Psychological Association; American Group Therapy As-
sociation; Baltimore City Medical Society; Mental Hygiene Society of
Greater Baltimore; Harvard Club of Maryland; Baltimore Ethical Soci-
ety.

PUBLICATIONS: Group Psychotherapy; Studies in Methodology of Research
and Therapy, with Florence B. Powdermaker, Harvard University
Press, 1953; numerous scientific articles.

AS a psychiatrist, I find it easier to write about other people’s
lives than my own. Following graduation I took an advanced de-
gree in psychology, then went to medical school. Seven years of
medical and psychiatric training were followed by three years
in the Army. This experience paid unexpected dividends, includ-
ing a visit to Australia and the Philippines and the opportunity
to round out my professional development as a psychiatrist. Psy-
chiatrists were more fortunate than many other specialists in that
their military duties were usually relevant to their civilian work.
After a brief postwar period doing research with the Veterans
Administration, I received an appointment to a senior position on

[ 385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
' ne . - me al school at just about the same age as if I had
wah ms ne a academic ranks. Becoming thus suddenly
cre ia ein a us age, | was bombarded with requests to
noadte nthe oatds and committees and lacked the presence
: fuse fast and often enough. So life often seems to be
practi Aav a Continuous committee meeting punctuated by fleet-
ms Vacts ta the family. As most of my medical colleagues seem
ta dead the same sort of existenc ¢, I sometimes wonder “if, in dis-
eng "g Peatal health, psychiatrists should not place more em-
Poas's on the need for solitude.

After a fate start, [ have been very fortunate in my present
marnacze. Four young children Icave lirtle time for other hobbies.
Morr neday when the children are old enough to serve as crew and
I have succeeded i in resigning from a few things, we hope to ex-
pieit a dormant interest in sailing.

Re! gton plaved no part in my ‘life until recently when the need
for participating in a group expression of religious feeling has
emerced and I have become active in the American Ethical Union,
a group which manages to fuse a humanistic with a religious orien-
tation. Politically [am a liberal and internationalist, a viewpoint
strengthened by several trips abroad in the earlier years. To me,
the supreme irony of human existence is our propensity for beat-
ing each other up over differences which are trivial in the light of
our common fate, Except when contemplating the serious risk of
race suicide which this foible entails, I find life thoroughly en-

jovatle at this landmark.

HIRSH FREED

peonsty atoosss: 18 Jacger Terr. Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.

cry avons: Brown, Rudnick & Freed, 85 Devonshire St. Boston 9,
Save.

was, fan. sy, 190, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Meyer Freed, Esther Rose
Salt ae k.

posed at Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

gpare ss CEL: 14:6-1930. bioaes: As. cunt laude, 1930; LL.B. 1936.

wae Reraied Inca Blac, June 17, 1934, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jorn Mh «tack, Jan. 30, 1934, Kenneth Laurence, April 26, 1942.

ww Jaca Miuhacl Freed, "57.
Lawyer, partner in Brown, Rudnick & Freed.

[ 344 ]

Hees *8D *
Ee et RAL EES

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Assistant corporation counsel, City of Boston, 1939-45; com-
missioner, Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities, 1946-47, mem-
ber, Examining Committee, Boston Public Library, 1953-54, Boston
Committee, American Jewish Tercentenary, Harvard 1930 Class Com-
mittee; secretary and counsel, 1930 Reunion Advisory Committee.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Kappa Nu, Boston and Massachusetts Bar As-
sociations, Temple Emeth; Massachusetts Bay Lodge, B'nai B'rith;
Jewish Publication Society of America; Blue Hill Golf Club; various
community and philanthropic organizations.

EARLY this year John Cross was tearing his hair because only
484 out of 854 classmates had yet sent in their lives. But that was
to be expected: we didn’t know whether to write retrospectively
or introspectively; chronologically or biologically; to reveal or
conceal, John could have speeded up the process, lightened every-
one’s load, and saved $10,000 in postage if he had instructed all as

follows:

(1) Remember, you are not writing for posterity, so don’t try
to impress us with your literary style. You have none.

(2) Those of your classmates who dimly recall you know you
for a very shallow creep, so lay off the deep philosophy.

(3) In fact, no one besides you and your family and the proof-
reader will ever glance at your stuff. But be careful what you
say about your wife — women have no sense of humor in these’
situations — and play it down for your kids, lest you confirm their
suspicion that you are an old windbag.

(4) Finally, please make it short. We can’t spend $250 printing
your two-bit life.

So here goes, for posterity only: I am forced to conclude that
I was only semi-conscious when I entered Harvard, and substan-
tially the same when I left. I was glad to be there, but didn’t know
why. The depression didn’t bother me. I didn’t know it was
going on. In fact, I don’t think I woke up until after I got mar-
ried, but that was a very pleasant and welcome awakening, even
if somewhat startling.

Despite many periods of enormous work and activity, my life
has been chiefly spectatorial, observing from the sidelines: watch-
ing, rather than doing. This helps to develop a critical faculty,
if not a critical taste. And one thing I can do is criticize. You
know the type: full of suggestions and instructions, but let some-

[ 387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

HASKELL CHARLES FREEDMAN

HOME ADpDRESS: 325 Langley Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 85 Devonshire St., Boston 9, Mass.

Born: Aug. 2, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Morris Freedman, Minnie
Marcus.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1930; LL.B., 1933435).

ararrieD: Beatrice Hausman, June 30, 1935, Boston, Mass. cuito: Jeffrey
Mark, March 4, 1943.

occupATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Mfember, Newton School Committee, since 1950; chairman,
Area 2, 1953-54, vice-president, 1954-55, Massachusetts Association of
School Committees; vice-chairman, 1951-53, chairman, 1955, Newton
Red Cross Fund Drive; member, Board of Trustees, Temple Shalom of
Newton, 1951-54; member, Committee on Civil Procedure, Boston Bur
Association, 1952-55; member, New England Regional Board, Anti Defa-
mation League of B’nai B'rith, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations; Harvard Law
School Association; Massachusetts Bay Lodge, B’nai B'rith, Frankba
Lodge No. 6, F. & A.M., Lebanon, N.H.; Massachusetts Council for the
Public Schools.

PUBLICATIONS: “How to Conduct Yourself in a Courtroom,” Read, Apc.
1945.

MY text for this narrative is from the Book of Ecclesiastes:
“Better is a handful of quietness than both hands full of labor and
striving after wind.”

As we all remember, 1930 was not the best time to grapple with
the world and its many problems, and so I welcomed the op
portunity of going under cover for three years and this time |
spent at the Law School.

I would have preferred a longer course, but it was not to be
and in June, 1933, the world and I met. It was a very casual mect-
ing and it resulted in volunteer work in the domestic relations
department of the Boston Legal Aid Society. It soon developed
that although lawyers were not in demand, social workers were.
As my night work while at college and law school was working
with transient men, I felt 1 had acquired a secondary profession.
This served me well and in January, 1934, I left Cambridge (where
I was born and educated from kindergarten through law school)
and went to Lebanon, New Hampshire, where I assumed the
duties of executive secretary of the Northern District of the

[ 390 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Federal Transient Bureau of New Hampshire, a division of the
Federal Emergency Relief Administration. It was a grand title
but the thirty-five dollars a weck and five cents a mile travelling
allowance made it even better.

Good old Lebanon! [arrived on January 15, 1934, and for the
firsts three weeks the temperature never went above zcro! |
worked wich homeless men and families and although I could
possibly prove I was helping them (with Uncle Sam's cash), I
frequently had doubts as to whether | was helping myself. Powell
and Constitutional Law and Maguire and Evidence seemed far
remote from feeding and housing the homeless, Lebanon was and
sa lovely place to live in, but L knew I was only marking time,

In the meantime, boy had met girl, boy held on to girl, and
on June 30, 1935, boy marned girl. And so in September, 1935,
Lexchanged my ttle and regular income for the opportunity to
start @ private practice of law with income uncertain.

The Boston Legal Aid Sociery, in recognition of my non-com-
mercial attitude towards the law, was good enough to put my
name on its list of referral attorneys. From 1935 until igs0, when
the lise was discontinued, I involuntarily became a specialist in
Massachusetts domestic relations law. During that time and up to
the present I have appeared in over two thousand domestic situa-
tions. [could well devote a monograph to the subject of marriage,
children, and divorce; but why bother? Assuming you are happily
marned, [think you would find it hard to understand, and if your
domestic hfe is “rough, you probably are not interested in the
tnbulations of others.

We moved to Newton in October, 1942, and Jeff, quite late
but welcomed the more, joined us in March, 1943. (According
to my calculations, the Class of 1965 would suit him well.)

As Jeff approached school age, I became aware of that unique
phenomenon, the public school, and became interested in and de-
voted time to our Parent Teachers Association and its problems,
including the then primary one of a new building. Soon there-
after Princeton paid Harvard an appreciated honor when David
W. Tibborr, Princeton ’17, then chairman of the Newton School
Committee, came to me and, suggesting that he did not intend to
run for re-election, asked me if, “with ‘his support, I would be a
candidate.

[391]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I was elected in November, 1949, and began to serve in Jan-
uarv, 1950. Since then I have been re-elected twice and I am now
serving my third term. I believe in the public schools, Our
schools are by no means perfect, but they truly are America’s
strongest line of defense against all enemies, foreign and domestic,
and are worthy of the support and interest of all of us, Construc-
tive criticism of any of our institutions is always in order. But
many of the attacks on the public schools during the past few
years have been dishonest and destructive. The facts and the truth
are available, and when you hear or read something about your
schools, I suggest that you get all the facts and analyze them be-
fore you decide.

This skeleton outline of my past twenty-five years, in truth, is
quite ordinary, But the flesh, sinew, and blood of this time has
been my family and my own philosophy of life. And thus my
text.

Man is essentially good. However, man’s goodness is constantly
threatened by insecurity, manifested in various ways, which seeks
compensation by acquisition. I would suggest that peace of mind,
happiness, call it what you will, cannot be reached for, paid for,
or acquired. It is within us all only if we would get off the
merry-go-round and relax. Easy to say, but hard to do. To re-
spect the dignity of individuals is a desirable human value; let us
also respect our own dignity.

+ MARTIN FREEDMAN

BoRN: Jan. 7, 1910, Springfield, Mass. parents: Joseph Freedman, Lena
Sackowitz.

PREPARED aT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

pigD: July 11, 1928, Springfield, Mass.

AS holder of the Connecticut Valley Harvard Club Scholarship,
Freedman came to Harvard where he was a member of the
Lacrosse Squad and the Menorah Society. He received the Detur

Prize in 1928 and held a Bowditch Scholarship during his sopho-
more year. He died that summer.

[ 392 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH THEODORE FREEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: Presidential Apts., City Line Avenue and Presidential Boule-
vard, Philadelphia, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1530 Locust St., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: May 25, 1908, McKeesport, Pa. parents: Henry Friedman, Anna
Roth.

PREPARED AT: McKeesport Technical High School, McKeesport, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1026-1930. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930; M.D.
(Jefferson Medical Coll.), 1934.

MARRIED: Mildred Lewis, June 30, 1935, Philadelphia, Pa. (died 1941);
Beverly Heend, Sept. 10, 1943, Philadelphia, Pa. cup: Jane Anne,
April 17, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Morley Sidney Friedman (deceased), ’24.

occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, American Geriatrics Society, 1949-52; chair-
man, Committee on Geriatrics and Gerontology, Philadelphia County
Medical Society; member Commission on Geriatrics, Pennsylvania State
Medical Society, Executive Council, Gerontological Society; clinical
assistant professor of medicine, Woman’s Medical College, Philadelphia.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia County Medical Society; Pennsylvania State Medi-
cal Society; American Medical Association; American Geriatrics Soci-
ety (fellow); Gerontological Society; American College of Physicians
(fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: A rather goodly number of publications in medical and medi-
cal historical journals. With the exception of a few research projects,
practically all of these publications are devoted to the subject of geri-
atrics and gerontology, including a chapter entitled, “Geriatrics,” in
Modern Treatment.

FOR an individual entering medicine there is more scholastic
continuity than for those who enter active competitive existence
directly from college. There is nothing about medical school and
two years of subsequent internship at Philadelphia General Hos-
pital which has not been done, and a little overdone, in latter-day
literature. Dr. Holmes of the Harvard Medical School said in one
of his views on medicine that (paraphrased) a physician is a social
tool to be used and then discarded. There is more truth in that
than one wishes to accept. It remains for a physician, then, to
have two lives, The first is his place in public health as a respon-
sible member of the community, treating illnesses. The second
is that rather cloistered existence which his patients would never
recognize, in research, teaching, and the innumerable minutiae
which comprise a medical career. In the meantime, one gets mar-

[ 393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ried and undergoes the usual vagaries. Wasn’t it Christopher
Morley who said that by age forty -five everyone wears a crown
of thorns, and those w ho have a sense of humor and a sense of
humility have learned to wear it slightly askew?

In particular, I have maintained my interest in the fields of
geriatrics and gerontology as they emerged from the nebulous
state of an unformed science into a full-formed field of knowl-
edge. In this field I was able to participate in the founding of one
of the first American geriatrics clinics, and began a course in the
subject at the Woman’s Medical College dating back to 1944.

The rather even tenor of a career in geriatrics was pleasantly
interrupted by the arrival of a pediatric problem at a time when
classmates have attained to the grandparent role. This event, plus
the attendance at the International Gerontological Conference
in London in 1954, gave the lie to the seemingly smooth progress
toward desuetude.

Certainly about the only lesson that has been learned is that
individuals basically are immutable despite physiologic or even
pathologic lacquerings, and with the passing of time, Harvard
takes on a sort of Taj Mahalian grandeur.

MALCOLM TROWBRIDGE FREEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Plandome Drive, Plandome, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: Roosevelt & Cross, Inc. go Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: July 13, 1908, Flushing, N.Y. parents: Alfred Granville Freeman,
Adele Trowbridge.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MarrieD: Virginia Moody Neal, Sept. 8, 1934, Flushing, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Alice Neal, April 13, 1938; Neal Blackwell, July 5, 1940.

occupation: Dealer in tax-exempt bonds; secretary, director, Roosevelt &
Cross, Inc.

orricys HELD: Chairman, Advisory Committee to Manhasset Board of Edu-
cation, 1952-1954.

MiMbeR or: Plandome Fire Department, Plandome Field and Marine Club,
Manhasset Bay Yacht Club.

MY World War II career was chair-borne all the way. Some
highlights were Fort Sill’s Oklahoma weather, six months at Yale

[394]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

learning some Japanese, and nine months in a peaceful South
Korea of not speaking Japanese.

As to business, I’m really in a rut. Archie Roosevelt, Harvard
17, gave me my first permanent job after graduation, and we've
been together ever since. The present firm was formed April 1
(honest), 1946, and I joined up the following fall on being released
from the Army. What with all the new schools, sewage works,
turnpikes, fire houses, etc., that have been built since World
War II, our business has been gratifyingly hectic and has contrib-
uted many gray hairs to my head.

While you cannot depend on the weather’s being good, the
water warm enough to swim in, or the fishing good enough to sup-
ply breakfast for sure, Ginna and I find Moosehead Lake, Maine, a
wonderful place for relaxing. The kids are very decent about
coming along, although they prefer home where there is always
something going on. Our favorite Maine fishing guide looks and
acts like William S. Hart in his prime but we were astounded to
find that he has developed ulcers. While he has guided lots of
others, we can’t help wondering how much our ineptness con-
tributed. It’s disillusioning, too, to find ulcers in such a beautiful
and remote spot.

Politically I feel quite lonely, especially since Bob Taft died.

CHARLES STACY FRENCH

HOME appRrEss: 170 Lowell Ave., Palo Alto, Calif.

OFFICE ADDREss: Carnegie Institution, Stanford, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 13, 1907, Lowell, Mass. parents: Charles Ephraim French,
Helena Stacy.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.; Lowell High School, Lowell,
Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. 1930; A.M. 1932; PH.D. 1934.

MarRiED: Margaret Wendell Coolidge, Dec. 10, 1938, Cambridge, Mass.
CHILDREN: Helena Stacy, Nov. 16, 1941; Charles Ephraim, Oct. 30, 1943.

occupaTION: Scientific research: director, Department of Plant Biology,
Carnegie Institution of Washington; professor (by courtesy), Stanford
University.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of Minnesota, 1945-47; member Edi-
torial Board, Plant Phystology, 1948-53; chairman, Western Section,
American Society of Plant Physiologists, 1954; vice-president, Society
of General Physiologists, 1954.

[ 395 ]

coe ange cet Asm tat ASA Deere

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Amer-
ican Botanical Society; American Society of Biological Chemists; Amer-
ican Chemical Society; Society of General Physiologists; American
Society of Plant Physiologists, American Society of Naturalists; West-
em Society of Naturalists; Sierra Club; Appalachian Mountain Club;
American Alpine Club; Harvard Clubs of San Francisco and Santa
Clara Vallev.

pusLicaTions: About thirty-five technical papers, often jointly with col-
leagues or students; subjects include respiration of algae, photosynthesis
and pigments of purple bacteria, a device for disintegrating bacteria,
etc. absorption and fluorescence spectra of plant pigments, oxygen evo-
lution by isolated chloroplasts, a review of photosynthesis research, a
grating monochrometer, a general purpose graphical computer.

AFTER graduation I stayed around four more years for a Ph.D.
in biology and teaching assistantships i in general physiology. Then
a year at California Tech in Pasadena as a research fellow provided
such excellent opportunities for extended skung and climbing
trips that very little time was left for science. The next year in
Berlin, at the Kaiser Wilhelm Inst. f. Zellphysiologie, showed
clearly that a college education was fine for developing under-
standing and theoretical knowledge, but weak on practical train-
ing in the art of experimental investigation.

The next two years as Austin Teaching Fellow in Biochemistry
at the Harvard Medical School gave me time to learn more bio-
chemistry, to finish the experiments on photosynthesis m purple
bacteria, started in California and Germany, and to get more
teaching experience. In 1938 I moved to the University of Chi-
cago Chemistry Department as a research assistant of an ambitious
project set up to find out how green plants manage to use the
energy of sunlight for converting atmospheric carbon dioxide in
organic compounds useful as food. This process of photosyn-
thesis cannot yet be made to work except in living plants and its
understanding has for many generations remained one of the
major unsolved problems of natural science. From undergrad-
uate days up to the present time it has been my main interest.

Also in 1938 1 persuaded one of Professor Julian Coolidge’s
daughters to come to Chicago with me after appropriate cere-
monies at the Harvard Chapel. Life has since been much brighter!
After three years of Chicago, we moved to Minneapolis where
I taught plant physiology in the Botany Department of the Uni-
versity of Minnesota and with graduate students kept up the

[ 396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

photosynthesis experiments. During the war I also taught ele-
mentary physics and worked on a research project contributing
to improvements in the method of penicillin production.

After six years at Minnesota I left in 1947 for the present posi-
tion and intend to stay here. The pioneers crossed the country
within a year in a covered wagon, but it took us nine years to
work across by the academic route. The photosynthesis work
here has involved experiments with the photochemical activity of
plant extracts, the large scale culture of unicellular algae for possi-
ble use as future food, the fluorescence spectroscopy of plant pig-
ments and energy transfer between pigments in plants. I have
been particularly interested in building spectroscopic equipment
for use in these investigations, and have recently completed a gen-
eral ‘purpose graphical computer. We usually have one or two
young research fellows in the laboratory who generally are Furo-
peans. They keep us from growing old too soon.

I have worked in five trips to Europe for travel, mountaineer-
ing and science. One of these involved visiting fifty scientific .
laboratories, and several have included international congresses of
botany and of physiology. Family life revolves around back-
yard badminton, with dogs and cats underfoot at all times. For
summer vacations we go camping in the California mountains
looking for gentle climbing and incidental fishing. State parks
for weekend camping are within an hour’s drive from home.

JAMES WILLIAM FRICK

HOME apprEss: 648 Chelham Way, Santa Barbara, Calif.

OFFicE ADDRESS: Psychology Dept., University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, Calif.

BORN: March 30, 1908, Seattle, Wash. PARENTS: William Henry Frick, Mabel
Park.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of California), 1952; A.M.
(Univ. of Southern California), 1954.

MarRieD: Agnes Collins Parker, Aug. 30, 1940, Clarendon, Va.

OccuPATION: Psychologist; captain, U.S. Marine Corps, retired.

MEMBER OF: St, John’s Lodge No. 4, AF. & A.M., Kingston, N.C.; Psi Chi
(Univ. of Southern California chapter); American Psychological As-
sociation; Retired Officers Association.

[ 397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

puaicarions: Arncles in psychological journals; papers presented at Psy-
chological Associaton conventions.

AFTER leaving Harvard in the dark days of 1929, went to Cali-
fornia and wound up in 1931 as a private in the U.S. Marine Corps.
Spent the next ten years in various parts of the world. Taught at a
Marine Corps Engineer School during the first part of the war.
Finally got to the South Pacific with the rst Marine Division. Was
invalided out of Okinawa and wound up the war as assistant en-
gineer officer, Fleet Marine Force, Pacific, at Pearl Harbor. Was
retired as a captain in 1946 due to physical disability. Miulitary
decorations: Asiatic-Pacific and Battle Star; American Theatre,
American Defense; China Service; Presidential Unit Citation;
Marine Corps Good Conduct; and Victory.

Returned to the ancestral domain in Santa Barbara, California,
and went into the outdoor advertising business, an enterprise
which did not last long, due to a serious illness and the sudden
realization I was working not for myself, but for the State of
California, the unions, and Truman.

Decided to return to college, and took an A.B. in psychology
from the University of California at Santa Barbara in 1952. Be-
came interested in the subject and moved on to the University of
Southern California, where I took an A.M. in January, 1954. At
present, am working on my dissertation and nope { to receive my
Doctor of Philosophy i i 1955.

Particular area of interest is the mathematical treatment of psy-
chological data, and the preparation and analysis of tests for per-
sonnel selection in the armed forces and industry. Will probably
try to find a niche in writing and research work after the Ph.D.

Manage to take time from study and research for a little fish-
ing now and then, the amusement of a Boxer dog, and even find
a few minutes to spend with my wife. Have neither the time nor
much inclination for “joining,” and remain a staunch Repub-
lican (wife is a Democrat, bless her vote-balancing little heart).
No strong religious convictions, though in my palmier days |
inclined toward the Mohammedan, principally because this dis-
couraged proselyters and the Mohammedan Heaven seemed like
a good deal.

[ 398 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NATHAN BARUCH FRIEDMAN

HOME AppRESsS: 263 S. Arden Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: Cedars of Lebanon Hospital, Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Emanuel David Friedman,
Rose Borgenicht.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1930; MOD.
(Cornell Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Helen Eugenie McFrancis, Jan. 1, 1942, San Francisco, Calif,
CHILDREN: Mary Louise, May 9, 1944; Emily Ann, July 28, 1947.

occuPATION: Pathologist, director, Division of Laboratories, Cedars of
Lebanon Hospital; associate clinical professor of pathology, University
of Southern California School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in pathology, Stanford Medical School; professorial
lecturer in pathology, George Washington Medical School; senior
pathologist, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology.

MEMBER OF: Cosmos Club; Association of Pathologists and Bacteriologists;
Society for Experimental Pathology; Association for Cancer Research;
Endocrine Society; and others.

PUBLICATIONS: Monographs and papers on endocrine pathology, urologic
pathology, radiobiology, pathology of tumors, pathology of wartime
thermal injuries.

LIEUTENANT to major, Medical Corps, Army of the United
States, 1942-46; service at Army Institute of Pathology in Frank-
lingrad (also known as Washington), chief, genitourinary and
endocrine pathology sections, Armed Forces Institute of Pathol-
ogy, 1946-48; registrar, Bladder and Kidney Tumor Registries of
American Urological Association, American Registry of Pathol-
ogy, Washington, 1943-48.

I met a Texas (Fort Worth) girl in Chicago, married her in
San Francisco, at which time a war was started mainly to separate
me from San Francisco, which has been a permanent separation,
although a return to California was managed, We have worn out
several sets of tires on Route ror, since a weekend’s drive for a
dinner in San Francisco or at Mission Ranch in Carmel is not con-
sidered an excessive investment. We have two California gals,
slightly reddish-haired. One is a glamour girl and was born ex-
pecting any nearby male to do her bidding, and is generally
successful. The other enslaves both male and female without any
effort and takes care of everything for everybody. The two of

[ 399 ]

NE Ree na aE Dg indies Aenea nbadel 5

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

us are barely hanging on until the nwo of them consign us to our
dorage. They think California wonderful.

Helen paints the house, weeds the rose beds, makes Halloween
costumes for the girls, drives the car-pools to school, from school,
to dancing class, from dancing class, to art school, from art school,
to Sunday School, from Sunday School, to piano teacher, from
piano teacher, to swim class, from swim class, to Girl Scouts, from
Girl Scouts, to Brownies, from Brownies, Shopping, and rewrites
my papers after the girls are not asleep, but in bed. Our dinner
is generally around nine-thirty. We get to bed around one-thirty,
are chronically ured but happy. Between the hospital, school,
and the research labs, life is never dull. We even managed a two-
dav vacation this year, giving me a chance to fill in this account
of our doings.

VARIAN MACKEY FRY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 321 WV. 78th St., New York 24, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1907, New York, N.Y. parents: Arthur Varian Fry, Lilian
Rachel Mackey.

prepared AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.; Taft School, Watertown,
Conn.; Riverdale Country School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).

mMarrieD: Eileen Avery Hughes, June 2, 1931, Boston, Mass. (died May 12,
1948), Annette Troth Riley, Nov. 11, 1950, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia,
Pa. cxrpren: Thomas Varian, Jan. 4, 1952; Sylvia Woodbridge, May
6, 1953.

occupation: Writer, teacher of writing.

oFFices HELD: Editor, The Living Age, 1935-37, Headline Books, Foreign
Policy Association, 1937-40, European representative, Emergency
Rescue Committee (in France), 1940-41; occasional consultant, Office
of Strategic Services, since 1942; assistant editor, The New Republic,
1942-43; execuuve director, American Labor Conference on Interna-
tional Affairs, 1943-46; editor, Common Sense, 1945-46; vice-president,
1945-48, president, 1948-52, Cinemart, Inc.,; president, Cinemart Inter-
nauional Corporation, 1951-53; director, American Civil Liberties Union,
since 1944, International League for the Rights of Man, since 1946, mem-
ber, executive committee, director, American China Policy Associa-
Gon,

MEMbER OF: Linnaean Society of New York, National Audubon Society;
American Ornithologists’ Union; Torrey Botanical Club; Hawk Moun-
tain Sanctuary Association, American Civil Liberties Union; Interna-

[ 400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tional League for the Rights of Man; Council on Foreign Relations;
Wine and Food Society; Harvard Club of New York City.

puBLicATions: War in China; Bricks Without Mortar, the story of interna-
tional codperation; The Peace That Failed; War Atlas, The Good
Neighbors, the story of Latin America (co-author); Surrender on De-
mand,

HORACE WILLIAMS FULLER

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Skoufa St., Athens, Greece.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1908, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Gorham Fuller, ’o4,
Genevieve Morrill.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass, _

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Sara Clucas Von Stade, December, 1947, New York, N.Y. (di-
vorced 1951); Dosia Karaiskakis Leonidas, March, 1952, Athens, Greece.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Morrill Fuller, ’36, t..3., ’39.

OccUPATION: Import-Export business.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Special Forces Club, London;
Royal Hellenic Yacht Club, Jockey Club, Athens; Cruising Club of
America.

SHORTLY after graduation, I was fortunate enough to make a
two-year round-the-world cruise as a member of the amateur
crew of the eighty-five foot auxiliary schooner, Pilgrim, of Boston,
owned by Donald C. Starr, ’23, and skippered by the late Harold
Peters, ’ro.

On my return I went to work for the shipbuilding division of
the Bethlehem Steel Corporation until World War II broke out
in Europe in the fall of ’39. I then left for France where I was
with the French Army as an ambulance driver until the debacle
in June of ’40, when I was demobilized and given a fine French
suit and a hundred francs and thanked for my part in their war
effort.

April of ’41 found me back in the U.S.A., where I joined the
U.S. Marine Corps and as a company commander took part in the
landing at Guadalcanal in August, 1942. In ’43 I was sent to
England, where, with a group of American volunteers, we trained
with the British for the Jedburgh Operation and in small teams
were parachuted into France several months before the invasion.
Our own particular group operated in the foothills of the Pyrenees
Mountains south of Tarbes and Pau, where we worked with the

[ 4or ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Resistance Forces, harassing the occupation troops. After V-E
Dav I served in Burma and China with native troops on guerrilla
operations. I was demobilized in April, 1946, as a lieutenant colo-
nel, Decorations include the Silver Star, Purple Heart, French
Legion d'Honneur, French Croix de Guerre with Palm, French
Croix de Guerre with Bronze Star, British “Mentioned in Des-
patches.”

After an unsuccessful attempt to settle down in the U.S.A,, I
went to Greece in 1949 as a member of the E.C.A. Mission and
have made my home ever since in this lovely little country, where
I am now engaged i in the import-export business.

My hobbies are cruising with my wife on our little twenty-
eight-foot cutter in the Aegean, where we have made many friends
among the fishermen in the islands, underwater spear fishing,
shooting, and skiing whenever I am lucky enough to get to Switz-
erland or Austria,

I vote Republican and am a legal resident of York, Maine, and
am — I hope —a good Christian.

The past twenty-five years have gone too quickly and too much
has happened, and there were times when I couldn’t believe I’d
sull be around for our Twenty-fifth Class Reunion.

+ JAMES CONSTANT FULLER

Born; Sept. 13, 1906, Andover, Mass. parents: Samuel L. Fuller, ’98, Con-
stance Greenough.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928,

Margiep: Julia Pirie, April 19, 1936, New York, N. Y. cHmLpReNn: Samuel
Pirie, July 14, 1937; James Robert, Nov. 16, 1938, Katherine, Sept. 26,
19.40.

DIED: Nov. 17, 1940, Port Chester, N. Y.

AFTER leaving College, Fuller embarked on his career in the

investment brokerage business by joining Hornblower & Weeks

of New York. Shortly thereafter he left to enter the firm of

Kissel, Kinnicutt & Company, New York, in which his father was

a partner. In 1929 he obtained a seat on the New York Stock

Fxchange and the following year became a partner. When the

firm was dissolved in 1932, Fuller accepted a position as floor

[ 402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

partner with the firm of Fuller, Rodney & Company, in which
his father was the senior partner. He remained with this firm
until his death. His wife and children survived him.

STEPHEN DOW FULLER

HOME ADDRESS: Moores Hill Road, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: S. D, Fuller & Co., 39 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BoRN: May 10, 1908, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Ernest Michael Fuller, ’o6,
Miriam Dow.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marRIED: Emily Clarkson Hurry, Aug. 2, 1940, New York, N. Y. cHiLpren:
Emily Rutgers, Aug. 9, 1941; Ann Brewster, Sept. 12, 1944; Stephen
Washington, July 29, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Paul Alden Fuller, ’31; Ernest Michael Fuller, Jr. “39.

OCCUPATION: Investment banker.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, secretary, chairman, Membership Committee of vari-
ous organizations; director, General Homes, Inc., Lunn Laminates,
Regal Plastics Company, Amuranium Corporation, British Western
America Uranium Company.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club; Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club; Racquet
and Tennis Club, Down Town Association, Society of the Cincinnati;
Society of Mayflower Descendants, Society of Colonial Wars.

THE Twenty-fifth Reunion — how far in the future that seemed
when we graduated from college. I well remember going to
father’s Twenty-fifth Reunion in 1931. The boys had a wonderful
time, but I felt sorry for them because they were so advanced in
years. I figured that their party was probably their last big cele-
bration and that all they had to look forward to was to go home
and retire. Now here I am at their age, feeling just as young
as I did twenty-five years ago, finding life considerably more en-
joyable, with retirement completely out of the question.
Harvard has always meant a great deal to me and I have always
tried hard to repay the University for the education I received and
the many friends and acquaintances made possible. In looking
back over the years I have found that there were three things that
I learned at Harvard that had a material influence on my own
career. When we were thinking about our field of concentration
during freshman year, President Lowell said: “It is not what
you study, but how well you do it that matters.” A prominent

[ 403 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Aiverican prints and American antique furniture, many of which
are museum pieces.

I view the future with confidence, both for my family and the
country, in spite of the war threats. There is no doubt that the
country is better off than it has ever been. I work very hard and
at the same time have learned how to relax and conserve my en-
ercv. Retirement and a life of ease offers no attraction. I am
sure the desire to build and help people will continue to be a
dominant factor in my philosophy of life.

THEODORE HEXTER GALLAND

HOME ADDRESS: 2604 5. Denver St. Spokane 10, Wash.

OFFice appress: Finucane & Galland, Rookery Bldg., Spokane 8, Wash.

Born: April 5, 1910, Spokane, Wash. parents: Samuel Galland, Edith Hexter.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1930; M.B.A. cum laude,
1932.

MarrieD: Elinor hKittridge Coues, Nov. 16, 1932, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan Kittridge, March 8, 1935; Robert Pearce, Aug. 9, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Lewis Galland, ’29.

occupation: Commercial real estate, property and investment tt management,
insurance, commercial mortgage brokerage; managing partner, Finucane
& Galland.

orFices HELD: Director, Spokane Realty Company, since 1933, Galland
Brothers Corporation, since 1933, Roundup Grocery Company, since
1938, McClintock-Trunkey Company, since 1953, Brown Trailers, Inc.,
since 1951, Land Title Company, since 1953, Davenport Hotel, Inc.,
1951-53, Washington Children’s Home Society (president, eastern
Washington branch), since 1935, Washington State Conference of Social
Work (president, 1939), 1937-40, Spokane Community Welfare Fed-
eration (acting president, 1953), since 1948, Spokane Kiwanis Club,
1939-50, Spokane Y.M.C.A., 1950-51, St. Luke’s Hospital, 1950-51,
Spokane County Republican Central Committee (treasurer, 1954), since
1948, Better Parking Association (president, 1952), since 1948, Building
Owner's and Manager’s Association (president, 1951), 1945-52, Spokane
Chamber of Commerce (chairman, Industrial Development Committee),
1952-53, Taxpayers’ Association of Inland Empire (vice-president since
1952), since 1947, Lay Commission for Public Schools, since 1954, Com-
mittee to Reorganize State Government, since 1952.

MEMHER OF: Spokane Kiwanis Club, Garden Club, Badminton Club, and
Transportaion Club; Athletic Round Table; Spokane County Sports-
mans Association, American Legion Post No. 9.

[ 406 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WHAT events in my life would be of interest to at least a few
classmates twenty-five years after? I’m damned if I know!

Although my business career has been varied, I think that I
have finally found a niche for the balance of my working life.
On graduation from the Business School, I worked briefly in
Chicago as an investment analyst. Then, with repeal of the 18th
- Amendment, I remodeled and put into operation a Spokane brew-
ery in which my family had an interest. Since Harvard had
spoiled me for the life of a beer baron, I sold the brewery in
1935 and spent two years as an investment counselor. Spokane
seemed too small for a truly professional type of operation, so I
took a job as eastern Washington representative of the State De-
partment of Social Security. |

Pear] Harbor and the war brought a commission in the Naval
Reserves, I was landlocked supervising ordnance logistics in
Seattle — except for special assignments in Adak, Attu, and Wash-
ington, D. C.— until 1944 when I was ordered to duty on the
USS. San Juan (CL54). I had hinted to Captain Jerry Donovan
that I’d like to go to sea and, when he got his command, he re-
quested orders for me. So I went to sea in a fighting ship without
a day’s training of any description. After a few months I qualified
for general service underway, stood watches as O.O.D. and assist-
ant gunnery officer, and saw action with Task Force 38 (58) in
all the final campaigns in the Pacific, as well as in the typhoons of
December, 1944, and April, 1945. In many ways I considered
my naval career as a crime against the taxpayers, but it was an
experience I would not have missed. I am an expert on The Caine
Mutiny, Mr. Roberts, The Deep Six, and expressive, foul, and
obscene language.

A life-long friend, Charlie Finucane (Yale ’28), and I threw
our lots in together after the war and organized a commercial real
estate — property management firm. As a sophomore I had cut
two finals to go to Charlie’s wedding in Stamford, Connecticut,
and felt he owed me something since the Dean disapproved. We
have done well, and in addition to our commercial real estate
business, we manage a number of investments, have a good insur-
ance business, place commercial mortgages, and have sold various
businesses — from maternity dress shops to wholesale grocery

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

companies. Recently, Charlie was appointed Assistant Secretary
of the Army.

] met and began courting Elinor Coues when I was a sophomore.
We were married in November, 1932, and have been ideally
happy. Our daughter Sue is a junior at Stanford, and our son Bob
is a sophomore at Lakeside Academy in Seattle. Now that the
children are away from home, we are beginning to think of travel. -
We hope to be wending our way westward to Hart Wood in
Honolulu in the near future. Unlike me, my wife has kept her
figure and her disposition over the years.

Trout fishing in the spring, duck and upland bird shooting in
the fall, and flower gardening and tennis make up my sports and
hobbies. We have a fine, black Labrador retriever, and my son
Bob, who is 6’3” at fourteen and looks like a used soda straw, is
a better shot than I. We have a summer place on Coeur d’Alene
Lake in northern Idaho, and I commute to work daily in forty-
five minutes. Slaves living in congested cities please take note.
We play fairly good bridge at least twice a week, and I am the
Thirsty Beach scrabble champion.

I am a lifelong Republican and have been active in the party
locally. My chief social conviction is that the world is going to
hell.

Hic jacet T.H.G. RDP.

IRVING JOSHUA GALPEER

HOME AppRESS: 135 Lakeview Ave., Hartsdale, N. Y.
OFFICE aDpREss: Jaffin, Schneider, Kimmel & Galpeer, 285 Madison Ave.,
New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 1, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Moses Galpeer, Eva Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; LL.B. cum laude,
1933-

Marriep: Lillian Jaffin, June 6, 1937, New York, N. Y. cHILpREN: Moss
Andrew, June 5, 1940; Nina Mae, Jan. 5, 1945; Carla Ann, Nov. 9, 1948.

OccuPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm.

OFFices HELD: Director, Huntingdon and Broad Top Mountain Railroad and
Coal Co. Utica Transit Corporation, Virginia Dare Stores Corporation,
Shartenberg’s-New Haven, Inc.; assistant regional administrator, New
York regional office, U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 1945-
46; member Committee on Bankruptcy and Reorganization, Association

[ 408 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the Bar of the City of New York, 1947-50; member executive com-
mittee, New York Chapter, American Jewish Committee, since 1950.
MEMBER OF: Bar Association of the City of New York; American Jewish
Committee; Hartsdale Dad’s Club; Harvard Club of Westchester.
PUBLICATIONS: “Report on investigation in the Matter of McKesson & Rob-
bins, Inc.,” co-drafter, U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 194,

AFTER graduating from the College, I continued my enjoyable

sojourn at Cambridge by enrolling in the Law School from which

I graduated three years later, in what is considered par for the

course. While there, I was an editor of the Harvard Law Review

which furnished the basis for many valued friendships and interest-
ing experiences.

After graduating from the Law School, I worked for private
law firms for two years, after which I joined the legal staff of the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Like “the man who came
to dinner” I spent ten years with the Commission, but was well
rewarded in many varied and interesting experiences. Among the
unusual cases which I handled was the investigation into the
financial frauds perpetrated by Coster-Musica on McKesson and
Robbins. During the war I helped establish the S.E.C.’s Economic
Warfare Unit and for a while had charge of its liaison office in
Washington, D. C.

In March, 1946, I resigned as assistant regional administrator
of the New York office of the S.E.C. to become a partner of the
law firm of Jaffin, Schneider, Kimmel and Galpeer. While I have
handled a good deal of securities work in private practice, my
specialty, like most lawyers, has been in my clients’ problems.

Since graduating from college I have not been inactive on the
home front either. I married Nicki Jaffin in June, 1937 (the only
thing I am sure I have done right), and now we have three chil-
dren, a son now fourteen, one daughter just ten, and another aged
six. My own hobby is my wife’s singing. She has given two Town
Hall concerts, which were not only well received by the critics,
but were not hard to listen to at all. Said the New York Sun,
“A singer of admirable gifts and no little cultivation.”

Until five years ago we enjoyed being cliff dwellers in Manhat-
tan but when, with double parking, the kids could not even play
in the streets, we decided it was time to pull out. We moved to
Westchester for their sakes, but needless to say we have enjoyed

[ 409 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

five vears to the pattern of terpsichorean grace we accomplished
to the strains of Ruby Newman, Jackie Marchard, and Bert Loew?
What does Chuck Read Harding have to say about this?

Item 2. History. Probably the high point of so-called “good
umes” in contemporary history occurred during our undergrad-
uate vears in college. It was the age of champions — Dempsey,
Jones, Tilden, Nurmi, Boston Bruins, Lindbergh, Kreisler, Heifetz,
Paderewski, and Gershwin. American Telephone & Telegraph
reached 300, and prohibition was honored in the breach. Deb
parties were like Roman festivals. Our exposure to all of this was
tempered by certain inflexibilities observed in Back Bay, Milton,
and the North Shore, as well as by certain traditions of our own
institution. However, enough of this jazz era was inculcated in
us to influence our future. Thus, football games, parties, music,
bridge, and bull sessions continue to occupy much of our time.

Item 3. The $64 Questions. Has any one of us grown up since
graduation? Is personal long-range planning at all worth while?
Are we capable of controlling our own destinies? Are we men-
tally or spiritually prepared for this age of uncertainty and in-
stability? I am hoping to get the anwers to these questions at our
Twenty-fifth Reunion in June.

SAUL SAMUEL GANICK

HOME Aporess: 21 Greycliff Rd., Brighton, Mass.

orFice appress: S. S. Ganick Corp., 739 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: July 15, 1910, East Boston, Mass. PARENTS: "Gershon Ganick, Dora
Schochet.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: $.B. IN ENGIN. magna cum laude, 1930.

marrigp: Adele Bramson, March 2, 1936, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. CHILDREN: John
Gershon, Nov. 10, 1939; Dorothy Joan, Oct. 9, 1943.

occuPATION: President and treasurer, S. S. Ganick Corporation, general build-
ing contracting.

orrices HELD: President, Congress Associates, treasurer, S. S. Ganick Cor-
poration, engineer consultant to military posts in New England, 1944-46,
member Buard of Civil Service Examiners, Boston, 1942-48.

MeMeer of: American Jewish Committee; Tau Beta Pi; Massachusetts Bay
Lodge, B'nai B'rith; Harvard Engineering Society; American Civil En-
gineering Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Review report, Columbia River Basin; “Cape Cod Canal His-
tory”; numerous reports for river and harbor developments.

[412 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE moment needed to review the past twenty-five years seems
like a pleasant relief from business papers demanding attention.
A quick look over this period —I find much to be thankful for.
The stock market crash of 1929 that preceded our Commencement
had no significance for me; the subsequent depression I can re-
member in detail. My engineering career started in a fine building
design office in Cincinnati, In 1931 I taught structural engineer-
ing at Rutgers University in New Jersey while doing some grad-
uate work in mathematics and engineering. I enjoyed teaching
very much and the return to further study — New York is only
an hour away from New Brunswick. As I recall now, I was sure
that the world was going to pot then.

I took a job at Filene’s famous underground store, eventually
became something of an assistant buyer in ladies’ furs. A high-
light of this experience occurred when I helped engineer the big-
gest fur coat sale in modern merchandising. Filene’s sold about
1,000 fur coats at $29.90 each. This was 1935. Even then, $29.90
was a bargain for a fur coat. My employer told me I had a prom-
ising career in merchandising (I liked the work pretty much),
but I left in 1936 to accept a job offer by the Federal Govern-
ment. If Filene’s had been paying me only a few bucks more,
I believe my career and history would have been much different.
The government offer provided the elusive quality, rare in 1936,
of security; it seemed very important then.

My decision or advice today would be different. But I wonder
now about our roaring stock market and state of business. The
Class celebrates its Twenty-fifth Reunion in about the same stock
market background as when it was concluding its undergraduate
days. I don’t believe it’s the same, though.

I got married in 1936 to a promising concert pianist and we
share the usual pleasures and provocations of a family. John was
born in 1939, a fine boy with an extraordinary interest in sports,
Statistics, and trivia about them, and he works hard at Boston
Latin. I can still provide him with an occasional assist in mathe-
matics home-work. Dorothy is an enthusiastic eleven-year-old
and, of course, has a well-developed mind of her own. She won
the puppy at the Class picnic at Guy Holbrook’s place, and is
hoping there are more picnics and puppies to win.

I spent fifteen years with the government (Corps of Engineers)

[ 413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

here in Boston, including the war years. I had a small part in the
huge expansion of military construction in New England; was
civilan-engineer-consultant to the commanding officers of posts,
camps, and airfields in New England. I concluded my service
with the government in 1948 with a stay in the Pacific Northwest,
helped write the report on the Columbia River Basin for flood
control, irrigation, and hydro-electric development. My govern-
ment service was satisfying, but World War II made some big
changes in government. The Hoover Commission on Reorganiza-
tion of the Government has some truly important work to do,
especially in the field of government water resource management.

Since leaving the government, I started my own general con-
tracung business and I like it. We have commercial, industrial,
and government contracts for construction; no private residential
work.

My wife and I play an occasional superb game of bridge (we
love the game) and attend symphony concerts. I had no luck
trying to teach her duplicate. I played it in Seattle with some
success; earned a few ASBL master points. Since the arrival of
the television menace, bridge players have disappeared. I left the
game of golf shortly after taking it up.

I sull enjoy the great luxury of discussing politics and poli-
ticians. I voted for FDR four times and thought he was a great
president; I wish now he had only wanted to be president for two
terms. I admire the quiet efficiency of Mr. Eisenhower (1 did
not vote for him), and hope his good health sustains him for many
years.

JOHN FEYLER GANSON

HOME Appress: 12 Cazenovia St., Buffalo 20, N. Y.

OFFICE avogess: First National Bank of Buffalo, Buffalo, N. Y.

Bers: July 16, 1908, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Henry James Ganson, Emma
R. Feyler.

prepariD at: South Park High School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

Magia: Florence E. Hall, June 5, 1945, Tampa, Fla.

GOCLPATION: Assistant vice-president, First National Bank of Buffalo.

ores HELD: Member and secretary of board, Buffalo Sewer Authority,
194-54, member board of directors, Mercy Hospital of Buffalo, 1952~
s§, Harvard Club of Buffalo, 1953-55; member board of deacons, St.

[414]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Paul’s E and R Church of Buffalo, 1949-55; member of board, treasurer,
Western New York Chapter, National Multiple Sclerosis Society,
1954-55; vice-president, Optimist Club of Buffalo, 1952-53, chairman,
Christian Committee for Rosa Coplon Home Building Drive, 1952, Fund
Raising Campaigns, Mercy Hospital, 1954, 1955; deputy director of Civil
Defense, Buffalo Sewer Authority, 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Buffalo; Financial Public Relations Associa-
tion; Group I New York State Bankers Association; Optimist Club of
Buffalo, Optimist International; American Cancer Society; National
Multiple Sclerosis Society; Mercy Hospital Men’s Sustaining Society;
United States Army Reserve.

AFTER graduating and starting out very bravely with my sheep-
skin as my shield, I ran into the same opponents many of you
fellows did and received the same kicking around. One thin
Harvard or any other school— except the fabulous School of
Hard Knocks— did not teach us was the magic formula for
licking a depression, Fortunately, through the time-old medium
of knowing the right people, I was able to get a job as clerk in
. Buffalo’s largest bank. How else could anyone get a job in those
black days of the early ’30’s? Valuable experience was my reward
for several years, because, as some of you know, when you're a
mere cog in a big machine, the pay is not an executive’s salary by
any means. But I ate well, got by all right, and in retrospect had
my full share of fun.

And then in ’33 it seemed the whole world would crumble be-
neath my feet, for I lost the grandest Dad a guy ever had. The
greatest steadying influence I have ever known was taken from
me. This was the first big turning point in my life. It was only
through this tragedy that I realized this old game of life is a
pretty serious man’s game after all. And tragedy changed my
philosophy about many things. My family, which I had taken for
granted as millions do, became a close, dearly bound alliance; a
new job in the bank became a terrific challenge to my education
and training; and for the first time in my life, I realized the mean-
ing of true values.

My mentor during the years 1934 to 1942 was my good friend,
Homer Browning, a genius in the field of municipal finance. His
vast experience, wise counsel, and gentle patience were my foun-
dations as I learned to cope with municipal finance problems which
affected the lives and pocketbooks of fellow Americans in hun-

[45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the old job was impossible. My service experience had opened up

a new ficld for me, a ficld heretofore little explored by business,

namely, public relations. But Marine had no place for me in its

P.R. Department. So T began to look and inquire elsewhere. I
was in no hurry to change but had resolved that when oppor-
tunity did knock, 'd be ready. And then one day in August, by
chance I met one of my friends and former associates at the
Marine Trust Company. We hadn't seen each other since my
return to Buffalo so we had quite a bull session over lunch. This
brilliant young banker, Jim Oddy, had come a long way in the
ten vears after leaving our training place. He was the vice-presi-
dent (now executive vice-president) of the small, but rapidly
growing, First National Bank of Buffalo. We discussed my dis-
content and maladjustment, whereupon he told me he was de-
lighted to hear it and asked me to seriously consider joining the
First National Bank i in, believe it or not, the developing of public
relations and customer relations for this bank.

There it was, a fond dream coming true. In twenty-four hours
mv decision had been made. In September of 1947 I joined the
staff of the First National Bank and what a terrific association
this has been for the past seven, wonderful years. Today, just as
seven years ago, I get the same thrill out of each day. My en-
thusiasm, zeal, and pride in this fine, young, aggressive, and human
institution burn just as brightly today as the day I joined it. I’m
truly happy and thankful for this fine association. I hope all of
you fellow ’30’s can say the same.

Regarding my social, political, and religious convictions, may
I say that in all fields I carry the same philosophy. I try to pattern
my life’s conduct according to the philosophy contained in the
prayer of St. Francis of Assisi. And it works too—Tve found
out. I’ve found out almost invariably that if youre decent to
people, if you take the time to understand, if you sincerely try
to be of helpful service, and each day sincerely try to give of
yourself just a little bit more than is required or expected, and
if you sincerely try to like people and look for the good in them,
well, j in all fields of living and working, folks are mighty decent
too, You don’t have to live with people all the time, but ever
minute of your life you have to live with yourself. "Nuff said!

So Jong, it’s been nice chatting with you!

[ 418 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE HENRY GARDNER, JR.

HOME apprEss: 4 Hamilton Ave., Yonkers, N. Y.

BORN: June 18, 1908, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: George Henry Gardner, Eva
McMichael.

PREPARED AT: Lake Forest Academy, Lake Forest, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MARRIED: Eleanor Rubidge Cohoe, Oct. 5, 1935, Riverdale, N. Y. cHtLpren:
Patricia, Nov. 14, 1936; Barbara Cohoe, Oct. 31, 1938.

occupATion: Accounting.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

EDWARD LEIGH GATES

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Sea St., Manchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, 80 Federal St., Boston,
Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 1, 1907, Elyria, Ohio. parents: William Nahum Gates, Ada Laura
Cook.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: J. Jane Powning, Sept. 2, 1930, Manchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Timothy George, Nov. 10, 1933; Edward ‘Leigh, Jr., July 15, 1935;
Henry Powning, Jan. 31, 1938.

HARVARD SONS: Timothy George Gates, °56; Edward Leigh Gates, Jr., ’56
(leave of absence).

HARVARD BROTHERS: ‘William Nahum Gates, ’24; Geoffrey McNair Gates, ’27;
John Monteith Gates, ’27; David Edgerly Gates, 736.

OCCUPATION: Staff accountant, Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Manchester Taxpayers Association, since 1954; treas-
urer, Manchester Yacht Club, 1952-55.

MEMBER OF: Manchester Yacht Club; Massachusetts Society of C.P.A.’s,
since 1948; American Institute of Accountants, since 1952.

GRADUATION in June, 1930, found me still in the silver spoon
stage with prospects — which became fulfilled — of getting mar-
ried in September and spending nine months abroad, most of it in
Paris where I had a job at the Chase Bank. We did take an ex-
tended tour at the end of our visit, meeting up with Ed Weist
in Athens and John Fiske in Constantinople. This sojourn abroad
left us with two fixed conclusions, One, we had no desire to live
abroad permanently, thus killing any notions of a romantic career
in the diplomatic corps. Iwo, we wanted to take another trip

[419 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

to Europe as soon as possible, a wish not fulfilled for twenty-three

years.

On our return in June, 1931, We were enticed by the glamorous
living of New York. However, the silver spoon had begun to
tamish and there were no jobs available in my chosen profession
of banking. That left me a choice between a job in a different
field, merchandising, or a bank job in a different locality. I chose
the latter and set up in Cleveland. I sometimes regret not having
tried the different field, bur I am very glad now that we aren't
living in New York.

By 1932 the silver spoon had turned to lead, and I found myself
not only out of a job in my chosen profession, but out of a job
in any profession. I spent one term at Western Reserve Univer-
sit, then had a succession of short jobs, finally ending up at a
different Cleveland bank. Outside of this certain amount of finan-
cial tribulation, we spent a very pleasant seven years in Cleveland.
We saw quite a bit of Jim Weir and Teddy Tudor of the esteemed
Class of ’30, and I enjoyed the weekly lunches of the Harvard
Club and the annual Harvard-Yale picnics at the Mathers’. Our
three sons were born there.

In 1938 we had a chance to buy our dream house in our dream
town of Manchester-by-the-Sea, Massachusetts. Actually, we
bought the house next door, but we did get the dream house a
few years later, moved into it after the war, and are still there.
We have never found a lovelier place to live, though we some-
times have reservations during the January snows and March
thaws.

My business career here was rather chequered, starting out first
as a broker, then in business for myself making and distributing
specialties as a broker, then in business for myself making and
distributing specialties for the auto and plumbing trade. I quit in
1942 to try for a commission in the armed forces. I got turned
down all around for poor eyesight. In fact, the only place that
would take me and my eyes was the State Guard. As a permanent
civilian, I got a job with a bank again, but shifted in 1943 to ac-
counting. I went back to school via U.S, mails and got my C-P.A.
in tgso. Tam still doing business at the accounting stand after
twelve years, and still finding the profession of absorbing interest.

For sidclines, I do quite a lot of carpentry and other handyman

[ 420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY. REPORT

work about the house, a bit of tennis, and considerable sailing
of the small craft variety. I have been active in the Manchester
Yacht Club and its treasurer for the past three years. However,
I am looking forward to retirement at the next annual meeting.
I am hoping my then new-found leisure won't be all taken up
with new duties as director of the Manchester Taxpayers Asso-
ciation.

The sideline I should like most to become accustomed to is
travel. With the boys growing up, we did get in one trip with
complete family to the Caribbean in the summer of 1951. How-
ever, Uncle Sam got our second son who volunteered for the
Marines in 1952 after his freshman year at Harvard, and presum-
ably will get the oldest after he graduates this year. With the
middle boy in Japan, we took the other two to Europe last sum-
mer, touring France and visiting friends in England. Having done
our duty by our children, in the future we can travel by ourselves,
However, I suspect it may not be so much fun.

DONALD GAY

HOME ADDRESS: 170 Brewster Rd., Bristol, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bristol Brass Corp., 580 Broad St., Bristol, Conn.

Born: April 12, 1908, Malden, Mass, parents: Fritz Walter Gay, ’98, M.D.,
’o2, Millie Louise Dunbar.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Florence Luella Milliron, Sept. 8, 1934, New York, N. Y. cHILpREN:
Sally Louise, June 23, 1935; Linda Dunbar, June 2, 1940; Roger Eliot, 2d,
July 9, 1946.

_ HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Eliot Gay, ’28.

occupaTion: General sales manager, Bristol Brass Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Town Club, Inc., Bristol, Conn., Onondaga Yacht
Club, Bristol Family Welfare; vice-president, Chippanee Country Club,
1945-46; president, Bristol Community Chest, 1948-49; chairman, execu-
tive committee, Bristol Chapter, American Red Cross, 1951-53; member
publicity committee, Copper & Brass Research Association, distribution
committee, National Association of Manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: Lodge 1010, B.P.O.E.; Copper & Brass Warehouse Association;
Bristol Clock Museum, Inc.; American Ordnance Association; National
Sales Executives Association; Sales Executives Club of Waterbury, Con-
necticut; Harvard Club of Connecticut; Connecticut State Association
of Chiefs of Police; Copper Club, Washington, D.C.

[421 ]

La net mee Siti ne NAN,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

THE resumé above gives a fair general summary of my activities,
so there is little I can add here. I am general sales manager for the
Bristol Brass Corporation, selling brass mill products, brass, copper
and bronze — sheet strip, rod, wire, shapes and forgings.

I feel I have done my stint in non-political community activities
and hope to be able to devote more of my time to my job, which
iS complicated by expansion and a more competitive market than
we have had in many years.

Since I travel on business approximately 50,000 miles per year,

my vacations are spent quietly at Sunapee, New Hampshire, where
the Gavs have been summering for over seventy years. Hobbies
are limited to occasional golf, sailing , bridge, and puttering. Per-
haps I should add Very Dry Gibsons, but I may have to give
these up for something less lethal.

My elder daughter is on the Dean’s List at Colby Junior College.
This is better than I did at Harvard, so she must take after her
mother. My other daughter and son are both growing up fast and
are healthy and reasonably intelligent, for which we. are very
thankful.

We are all looking forward to the June festivities.

ALFRED CARLISLE GELDERT

HOME aporess: R.F.D. 2, Brandon, Vt.

OFFice appress: Red Rocker Workshop, Brandon, Vt.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1907, Leominster, Mass. parents: Albert L. Geldert, Alice
Lillian Tilden.

PrePansp at: Allen-Chalmers School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

Massirp: Bettie Ann Philips, Oct. 3, 1933, Riverside, Calif. curtpren: Alfred
Carlisle, Jr, Sept. 27, 1935; Melinda Ann, March 30, 1939; Susan Ann,
Jan. 21, 1947, David Edward, Dec. 6, 1948.

OLOUPATION: Art.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 422 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOLLIS GUPTILL GERRISH

HOME ADDRESS: 60 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Squirrel Brand Co., 10-12 Boardman St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 23, 1907, Berwick, Maine. parents: Perley G. Gerrish, Grace B.
Guptill.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MaRRIED: Catherine G. Ruggles, Sept. 10, 1946, Cambridge, Mass.

occuPATION: President, Squirrel Brand Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Cambridge Y.M.C.A.., director,
Cambridge East End Union Settlement House, Cambridge Homes for
the Aged, Cambridge Civic Association; trustee, Lesley College, St.
Peter’s Epsicopal Church of Cambridge.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Cambridge Economy Club; New
England Confectioners’ Club; Harvard Faculty Club; Episcopalian Club
of Massachusetts; Norfolk Trout Club; Wildfire Conservation, Inc.;
Massachusetts Audubon Society; Museum of Fine Arts; Cambridge

' Historical Society; Cambridge Rotary Club; Cambridge Chamber of
Commerce; National Tax Association; Reserve Officers’ Association.

ON leaving college in 1930, I entered the Harvard Business
School. Here I spent one of the busiest and most profitable of
my years in school. At the end of one year, as you all know, the
depression was in full swing; so, I decided not to go on with the
second year of the Harvard Business School, even though my
scholastic record would have permitted me to do so. I really felt
that I had been supported long enough by my good father and
that I should get out and go to work in the family business — the
Squirrel Brand Company. This was a candy manufacturing and
peanut and nut processing company that my father had started
in 1900. So, in the summer of 1931 I came out of the Business
School to give my father a hand and to help turn the tide of the
depression. In 1932 business became worse and in 1933 the banks
closed. By this time I was sure that I was more of a liability than
I had been back in school.

But we soon learned the secret of doing business, a secret
learned at great expense. At this late date, I pass it along at no
charge. We merely made all our products twice as large as usual
and sold them for half as much. Needless to say, we didn’t make
much money, but we were certainly busy and somehow forgot
about the depression. By 1937 when the NRA chicken lost its

[ 423 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

feathers, business was rolling along fine, and I had time for a few

tops which included the West Indies and Labrador.

In 1939, my father — Perley G. Gerrish — passed away the
same weck that Hitler marched into Poland. And then began a
new phase of my life. I became president of the Squirrel Brand
Company. These years saw the first of wartime shortages. Finally
in July of 1942, the war became my war and I entered the U.S.
Navy as a lieutenant in the Supply Corps. The family company
was left in the capable hands of the general manager, Steve Rich,
“rg, an uncle, Hollis R. Guprill, plane superintendent, and Emma
J. Moore, treasurer. This group, with my mother as vice-presi-
dent and with many faithful long-time employees, brought the
company through the trying war years, while I became a pur-
chasing officer in the Purchase Division of the Bureau of Supplies
and Accounts. This break-away for three and a half years from
my own business was really a “sabbatical.” It does a fellow a lot
of good to find out how the rest of the world runs.

In 1946 I left the Navy as a lieutenant commander and returned
to the Squirre] Brand Company. Since the war I have continued
in the Naval Reserve and at present hold the commission of com-
mander in the Ready Reserve.

In September, 1946, I married my college best girl, Catherine
Ruggles. Catherine and I had “met again” while she had been
with the Bureau of the Budget, which is in the Executive Office
of the President. At that time, Catherine was on leave from her
position of assistant professor of economics at the University of
Iilinois, We were married in Appleton Chapel and left on a honey-
moon which included a trip to Mexico and the Middle West. Then
back to a hard-to-get apartment at 60 Brattle Street in Cambridge.
We are still there and would love to have you drop in. Currently
we are working on house plans which progress all too slowly.
For summertime living, we have a camp at Little Neck, Ipswich,
which looks out over Crane’s Beach. It really is a pretty spot.
For outdoor sports, | am always ready to go duck shooting or
fishing for anything from minnows to tuna. Actually, I prefer
trout.

[424 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALBERT SAUL GERSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 5919 Onondaga Rd., Washington 16, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Monetary Fund, 1818 H St, N.W,, Washing-
ton 6, D. C.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob Gerstein, Miriam Tuttle,

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 19303 LL.B. 1033.

MARRIED: Jean Armes, May 11, 1949, Washington, D. C. cHiLpREN: John
Richard, May 5, 1951; Carol Susan, Oct. 29, 1952.

occuPATION: Counsellor, International Monetary Fund.

MEMBER OF: Boston and Massachusetts Bar Associations, American Judica-
ture Society; American Society of International Law; Judge Advocates
Association, Reserve Officers Association; Rockport Country Club.

UPON graduation from Harvard Law School in 1933, I became
associated in the practice of law with Philip A. Hendrick in Bos-
ton. Between then and 1943, when I entered military service, I
was engaged in the general practice of law and also gave courses
in commercial law, banking, and real estate law at Northeastern
University and at the American Savings and Loan Institute. Dur-
ing the war, I served in the Army, first with the 42d Infantry
(Rainbow) Division, and later with the Judge Advocate General’s
Department, stationed at the Pentagon. After military service, I
returned to the practice of law in Boston.

In September, 1948, I joined the International Monetary Fund
in Washington, where I am at present. At the Fund the legal
aspects of international finance have proved to be mighty interest-
ing and have shown incidentally what an entirely different world
we live in from the “gold standard” days of our time in the Ec, 3
class of Professor Williams. The Fund was established at the end
of the second World War, principally to stabilize currencies of
its member governments and to eliminate restrictions on exchange
transactions. It is a big order but involves fascinating work with
most interesting people from the four corners of the world.

As for travel, aside from a European sight-seeing trip with my
wife in 1949, my travels have been confined to several missions
for the Fund: London and Paris in 1950; Mexico City in 1952;
and also in 1952, Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro. That is actually
not much travel for one who is constantly dealing with people
leaving on missions for parts all over the world,

[ 425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Our home is in the suburbs of Washington. Our children, who
sport part New England and part southern accents (Bostonese
from me and Mississippian from my wife), keep us on the hop and
leave Little me for extra-curncular activities, Mfy principal hobby
(and since last year, that of my wife) is golf. I am a weekend
golfer, That describes my game, too— but despite the absence
of brilliant scores, trophies, or other warrant for devotion to the
game, I do manage to play almost all the year ‘round. Washing-
ton is a good place for that!
I look forward to attending the Twenty-fifth Reunion with
much anticipation.

CUMMINGS MICHAEL GIARDINO

HOME ADDRESS: 27 State Park Rd., North Cohasset, Hull, Mass.

orFice aporess: Home Carpet Cleansing Co., Inc., 167 Pemberton St., Cam-
bridge, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 1, 1907, Woburn, Mass. parents: Louis H. Giardino, Agatha
Albiani.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

Margie: Viola T. Colarullo, Nov. 11, 1940, Newtonville, Mass. cuiLp: Gail
Ann, April 24, 1945.

occupaTion: President-owner, Home Carpet Cleansing Company, Inc.,;
owner, Tudor Venetian Blind Laundry Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1930-34, president, since 1935, Horne Carpet Cleans-
ing Company, owner, Tudor Venetian Blind Laundry Company, Holy
Name Society, 1952-53.

MeMbex oF: Knights of Columbus, 3d Degree, New England Institute of
Rug Cleaners; Cambridge Chamber of Commerce, Holy Name Society;
Amerita Club.

TO the men of the Harvard Class of ’30, I extend my personal
hello and good wishes for continued good health and success.
The years have slipped by rather quickly and with the passing
of a quarter-century a change in appearance: a little fatter around
the middle, which goes with clean, shining domes. (According
to the photographer at Sargent Studio, a change for the better
in most cases.) I wonder: I think the old boy wants me to buy a
dozen pictures.

After my college days, I entered the field of rug cleaning under
the name of Home Carpet Cleansing Company, Inc., situated in

[ 426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Cambridge. I found it exceedingly difficult to ride through the
depression years, but somehow I managed to survive. I have ©
weathered all storms and now, after purchasing new machines
and renovating my plant, can turn out the very best in rug clean-
ing. So, come on, you Harvard men, let’s have those rugs.

Venetian blind work — washing, repairing and manufacturing
— is closely related to rug cleaning; so I ventured into that field
in the early forties by founding and heading a company under the
name of Tudor Venetian Blind Laundry.

In 1940, tiring of single-blessedness, I married Viola T. Colar-
ullo of Newton, Massachusetts. A happy choice, my wife pos-
sesses all the sterling qualities that make an ideal partner. After
fourteen years of married bliss, I still like to take my wife ro-
mancing. We both love people and social gatherings. In April,
1946, a daughter, Gail Ann, was born. Our only child and very
precious to both of us!

Like most people, I look forward to taking a trip no matter how
short or how far it may be. To date, my travels have been limited,
due in great measure to business pressure. Some day I hope to
fulfill my desires and see both the Holy Land and Europe.

As far as my religion is concerned, I follow the Catholic faith
of my fathers and, as I get older, feel that my love of God be-
comes stronger. That is as it should be. For, if I can reverently
and sincerely love my God and my neighbor, which embraces all
people, then I in turn have a chance to gain the love of my God.

JOHN BERNARD GIBBONS, JR.

ADDRESS: 9829th Tech. Serv. Unit, Engineer Center, Fort Belvoir, Va.

BORN: May 31, 1908, at Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: John Bernard Gibbons,
Margaret Sheehan.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

Marrigp; Helen Margaret McCarthy, May 16, 1936, Winthrop, Mass. cHIL-
DREN: Helen Emma, Feb, 22, 1937; Margaret, Nov. 21, 1942; John
Bernard, 3d, May 29, 1944.

OccUPATION: Military service.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files,

[ 427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

RENE FRANCIS GALBRAITH GIDDENS

HOME aporess: “Salcombe,” Farley Green, Albury, Nr. Guildford, Surrey,
Ergiand.

OFFKE ADoREss: The Thomson Co. of Canada, 63 Fleet St.. London E.C. 4,
Ergland.

porn: March 15, 1906, Ortawa, Canada. parents: Francis William Giddens,
Mane Lepage.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Ottawa University, Ottawa, Canada.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

Marriep: Margaret Hickman, June 13, 1953.

occupation: Managing director, Ice Hockey World, Ltd., London.

pusLicarions: Ice Hockey the International Game, Foyles.

+ DAVID MERCER GIERASCH

Bors: July 5, 1908, Hingham, Mass. parents: Walter Siegfried Gierasch,
‘oz, Georgia Mercer Boit.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

pied: July 13, 1930, Scituate, Mass,

AFTER leaving College, Gierasch joined the Employers Fire
Insurance Company of Boston. He had been a member of the
freshman squash racquets team. With five companions, he was
drowned when the boat in which he was sailing capsized off
Scituate, Massachusetts.

IRWIN TAFT GILBERT

avpness: 720 Riverside Drive, New York 31, N. Y.

Bors: Nov. 8, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa, parents: George Meyer Gilbert,
Florence Gaylord.

prepare at: Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

occupaTion; Writing: editorial and advertising.

I LEFT Harvard at the end of my sophomore year to transfer to
the University of Pennsylvania, and later, took a Master’s degree
at Columbia. So I have had the pleasure of living and studying at
three fine universities. The transfer created a harrowing schism
in lovalty. In my sophomore year I sat in the stands at Cambridge

[ 428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and pleaded with Harvard’s warriors to massacre the men from
Pennsylvania, The very next year I sat with the Pennsylvanians
and somewhat half-heartedly and shamefacedly encouraged the
Quaker footballeers against the Crimson. Also, I played freshman
tennis at Harvard and varsity tennis at Pennsylvania. In my senior
year I was compelled to bear arms against my former team mates.
Time, however, has closed the schism and today I look with warm
and affectionate regard upon both schools. When they play each
other, I root for a tie.

Since leaving school, I have spent the years writing editorial and
advertising copy and, occasionally, grinding out a piece of non-
commercial copy. Driven by necessity, I have written such di-
verse material as dust jackets and a by-lined sports column; a
couple of motion picture scripts and technical textbook material,
an occasional magazine piece and the copy for double-truck
color spreads in Life, Look, and The Saturday Evening Post.

I am still hoping to write a fine play, a good novel, or a short
story that will be included in an anthology of the year’s best. I’m
still hoping to get married and raise a family. And, just once,
I'd like to break eighty on a golf course.

During the war I served with the Judge Advocate General
Division of the 1ozd Infantry Division and spent three years in
the European Theatre of Operations.

CLEVELAND GILCREAST

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Bartlett St., Andover, Mass.

OFFIcE appREss: H. P. Hood & Sons, s00 Rutherford Ave., Boston 29, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 28, 1907, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: John Flisworth Gilcreast,
Florence Adelaide Colgate.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude, 1930; M.B.A, 1932.

MaRRIED: Harriet Janice Williams, Sept. 1, 1933, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Betsey Cleveland, Dec. 4, 1939; Judith Webster, Oct. 24, 1941; Christo-
pher, Dec. 26, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alden Colgate Gilcreast, °32.

OccUPATION: General manager, foods division, H. P. Hood & Sons.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Northeastern Poultry and Egg Distributors,
1937-39; chairman, Council of New England Egg Codperatives, 1939-41,
Consumer Marketing Committee, Boston Chapter of American Market-
ing Association, 1954-§5; member Church Finance Committee.

[ 429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

\ieMnea ar: American Marketing Association, Masons; Harvard Club of
Andover, Ipswich Bay Yacht Club.
WITH 19<5 actually here, it is hard for me to remember how we
all felt in 1930. I do recall that those of us going on to Business
School were considered “lucky.” By 1932 — everyone believed
— that little recession (so-called) would be over and al! Business
School men would again graduate into vice-presidencies of large
corporations.
Events did not turn out exactly that way, and we M.B.A.’s of
1932 were glad to take almost any position offered. Somehow, I
found my self in agricultural marketing and I have remained in
the food business ever since. The first twelve years were spent
managing two New England Egg Cooperatives. In 1944, I joined
H. P. Hood & Sons as general manager of their newly-organized
Feg Division. We are a New England-wide concern selling milk,
ice cream, cheese, and a variety of other food products. After five
years, I became assistant director of public relations, and two
years later was named general manager of the Foods Division.
Here we have all the headaches, and the fun, of originating, test-
ing, promoting, and selling new food products. It’s stimulating,
exacting, and sometimes even a bit discouraging, but I like the
challenge of something new.

JACK GINSBURG

HOME ADDRESS: 1666 - 35th Ave., San Francisco, Calif.

oF rice appress: Angroshair, 209 Post St, San Francisco, Calif.

poms: March 31, 1913, East Boston, Mass. parents: Albert Ginsburg,
Florence Friedman.

PurPaReD aT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: $.B. IN CE. cum laude, 1930.

magsirp: Devona Cecily Kapstein, Dec. 2, 1938, San Francisco, Calif. cHIL-
oars: Kenneth Nathaniel, Oct. 21, 1941, Cathie Earleen, April 4, 1945;
Ronald Abbott, Nov. 30, 1949.

Havas srotiem: Abraham Ginsburg, °27, M.D. '31.

occupation: Proprietor, Angroshair.

weruas Het: Director, Zionist Organization of America, 1950-52.

MiMite of: American Association for the United Nations; Harvard Club
of San Francisco, Men's Club, Temple Eman-uel, San Francisco.

TSPENT the first few years after graduation from the Engineer-

[ 430 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing School in local construction work. I soon found myself being
engulfed by the gathering depression of the early thirties. To
continue employment, I found it necessary to move to the State
of Washington where, through influential contacts, I expected to
find employment on the Grand Coulee Dam construction.

I never was particularly fond of engineering and with engineer-
ing jobs scarce, and while waiting for my Coulee Dam job to
materialize, I started looking around for other opportunities. A
few presented themselves, but I wasn’t interested in them.

Gradually, my interest turned towards my hair. I was losing it,
and I decided to do something about it. I read all the literature
on the subject which I could get. I realized then that all the
questions about baldness had not been answered. Using myself
to experiment upon, | developed a type of treatment for the hair
and went into practice in San Francisco.

During the war years, I closed my office and went to work in
a shipyard. I started as a shipfitter, and at the war’s end, I was a
hull planning engineer.

I returned to my scalp treatment work little realizing what a
big job I had undertaken. Slowly, very slowly, I changed my
treatment to its present form. It is a successful one. Many of
my patrons send members of their family and friends to me for
treatment. I have letters and cards from many parts of the world
from satisfied patrons. My wife knows and understands my treat-
ment and very often helps out at the office. Come up and see
me sometime!

IRVING WARREN GLANTZ

HOME AppRESS: 3500 Labyrinth Rd., Baltimore 15, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Southern Neon Supply Co., 1210 W. Baltimore St., Baltimore
23, Md.

BORN: May 1, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Nathan S. Glantz, Ida Jacobs.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.B.A. 1932.

MARRIED: Jeanette Zerwitz, Dec. 24, 1936, Brooklyn, N. Y. cHitpren: Richard
Steven, Sept. 5, 1937; Ronald Alan, Nov. 24, 1941.

MEMBER OF: Bonnie View Country Club; Tau Epsilon Phi.

IN writing my autobiography for the Twentieth Anniversary

[ 431 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Report, i¢ was business accomplishments which seemed then to be
the sion-posts of my career since graduation. However, five years
have matured my outlook considerably.

I have two grown sons of whom I am proud. It is the progress
of their careers which is uppermost in my mind now. My older
son is a student at M.LT., and my younger son expects to enter
Harvard. This is being written on the Ile de France, as my wife
and I return home from a trip to South America. Distance does
help one’s perspective and, in reflecting upon the past twenty-five
vears, I am not too unhappy because my earlier ambition to be
one of Harvard's illustrious sons has not been fulfilled. After all,
in our forthcoming Reunion, it is not the most famous I look
forward to seeing again, but those of our classmates who were
most considerate and understanding and showed the character de-
serving respect during our undergraduate days.

PRENTISS CUMMINGS vas KLEECK GLAZIER

HOME ADDRESS: 2169 Main Sc, Glastonbury, Conn.

orFice appress: Hamilton Standard Div. United Aircraft Corp., Bradley
Field, Windsor Locks, Conn.

Box: July 12, 1908, Tacoma, Wash. parents: Harlan Ezra Glazier, A.M.,
‘og, Florence Edna Chamberlain.

preparrepD at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

Marzizp: Jeannette B. Milligan, June 30, 1945, Brookline, Mass. cumop:
Prentiss Cummings van Kleeck, Jr., May 3, 1946.

occupation: Coordination: supervisor, jet fuel controls.

MeMaeR oF: Harvard Club of Connecticut; Connecticut Historical Society.

IT took a few years of the New York City rat-race to face up
with the fact that I was a “small-towner” at heart and always
would be. I did something about it. Result: contentment.

My wife and I, with eight-year-old son, live in a big, 196-year-
old colonial house adjoining the First Church on the elm-lined
Main Street of a small suburb of Hartford. Our six acres run to
the banks of the Connecticut River, and our Hale Homestead
has frequently been pictured in national magazines (most recently,
they tell us, in the Connecticut Calendar for 1955). We are
frankly fanatic about the “authentic” in restoring it and in add-
ing to our antique collection. Down the road “a piece” is another

[ 432 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lovely, old house which I had the satisfaction of restoring: and of
subsequently “selling” to Bob Merritt. |

Summer weekends and vacations find us at Lake Sunapee, New
Hampshire, in a lodge which I designed and personally built in
"go and ’41.

Hobbies? An over-large garden, carpentry, record collection,
tree-felling, wood-chopping, stone-work, amateur theatricals —
just about everything except stamps. Last summer we took u
water-skiing; this winter, snow-skiing is on the agenda. Add the
average Community activities and we have a full program, and a
full life.

Religious and political beliefs? Staunch Congregationalists and
firm Eisenhower Republicans, we hold that no one church has a
monopoly on The Almighty; no one segment of thinking, a cor-
ner on Righteousness. We are more than a little concerned with
the gyrations of those who demand for themselves the rights and
the prerogatives which they as violently deny others (I would be
more specific, but I don’t have senatorial immunity).

My work is challenging, though not inspiring; my associates
there, superiors as well as subordinates, The Best. All in all, I
wouldn’t trade with anyone. Buried in a small town? Yes, and
most happily. “Hic Jacet Glazier, spun in a cocoon of Content-
ment.”

JOHN HOWES GLEASON

HOME ADDRESS: 512 Baughman Ave., Claremont, Calif.

OFFICE AppREss: Pomona College, Claremont, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 6, 1908, Newton, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Bemis Gleason, ’94,
Helen Zabriskie Howes.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930; B.LITT.
(Oxford Univ.), 1932; 4.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1936; pu.p. (ibid.), 1938.

MarRiep: Mary Adelaide Easton, Dec. 15, 1940, Los Angeles, Calif. cHitpReN:
Jane, Oct. 1, 1942; Richard Hubbard, June 9, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Francis Howes Gleason, ’34; Donald Howes Gleason, ’35;
Sidney Gleason, °36.

OccuPaTION: Professor of history.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, History Department, Pomona College; member of
the Council, Pacific Coast Branch, American Historical Association;
president, Claremont Chapter, American Association of University

[ 433 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Professors; deacon, chairman, Building Committee, Claremont Church,
commanding omicer, Volunteer Naval Reserve Unit.
\IEMRBER of: Amencan Historical Association; American Association of Uni-
versity Professors, Claremont Church; U. S. Naval Reserve.
prBLicAmtoONs: The Genesis of Russophobia in Great Britain.

THE life of a college professor is often thought to be dull and
unimportant, though perhaps somewhat inconsistently the breed
is also believed to be underpaid and frequently subversive. To
me the life has brought surprising variety. Until the end of junior
year, IT had hardly been outside New England. Ten years Jater,
after two years at Oxford University and seven more in Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts, I was transformed into a Californian and,
indeed, a resident of Los Angeles County who, while he actively
dislikes the city of Los Angeles, greatly enjoys living in a small
town, relatively smog-free, at the base of a ten thousand foot
mountain in a ranch-house with orange trees in the front yard.
There is much which is actually very ‘dull, particularly the grad- -
ing of students’ papers, and a good deal which seems even more
frustrating, notably the interminable committees. But what I re-
member is quite different — more participation in athletics after
graduation than before, in the bumping races between the Oxford
colleges, and sull later as a member of the Eliot House crew, to
the astonishment of my tutorial students; a small dinner party at
Oxford at which Winston Churchill was the guest of honor and
speaker, sunrise far up on the slopes of Mont Blanc; camping in
the High Sierras.
Pomona College is a very good small college, probably in the
same class with Amherst and Williams. In the last two years
our seniors have made a per capita record in competitions for
graduate scholarships better than that of almost all American col-
leges. On our faculty there are men of great ay: In the course
of my duties here, I have had as colleagues W. K. Jordan, now
president of Radcliffe, and N. M. Pusey, ’28. The college has had
as visiting lecturers Roscoe Pound, Edward Weeks, Sumner
Slichter, A. M. Schlesinger, and Crane Brinton (among Harvard-
ians}; but also, Philip Jessup and Owen Lattimore. The closest
[ have come to possible subversion, however, was in Economics A,
when J was taught by Harry Dexter White, who incidentally dis-
couraged any interest I may have had in socialism. A few years

[ 434]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ago I had the, to me, formidable task of citing Arnold Toynbee
for an honorary degree. With many of these visitors there has
been ample chance for good, informal discussion,

In a college town, faculty members are expected to do a good
deal besides teaching, They are stand-by speakers at Rotary and
Kiwanis meetings, ordinarily without fee. They may be urged
to run for municipal office or to serve on civic or church com-
mittees. I resisted the temptation to run for elective office, but I
have accepted my share of other local responsibilities, perhaps
the most interesting one being the chairmanship of the building
committee for a good-sized church. I have spoken at hearings be-
fore the City Council against the freedom of a property owner
to make a profit through a variance in the zoning ordinance and in
favor of the freedom of dogs to roam unimpeded by leashes. I
have done my bit in cub scouts and in a small Naval Reserve unit.
The ivory tower is just a myth.

Then there have been leaves of absence. During the war 1 did
nothing which could be regarded as directly contributing to vic-
tory, but residence in Washington was interesting and among the
odd duties which came my way was that of working out the
phraseology of the plaque which commemorates the signing
aboard the Missouri of the formal surrender of Japan. My last
sabbatical leave took me back to Cambridge to work in Widener
and to teach in the Harvard Summer School. My next leave, in
1955~56, will enable me and my family to spend most of a year
in England, where I shall be finishing up the research for a book
on the Justices of the Peace in Elizabethan and early Stuart times,
and it will begin with another stretch in the Harvard Summer
School. To my great regret, however, it appears that the grading
of final examinations in Claremont will make it impossible for us
to reach Cambridge before the Reunion is over.

ROBERT CULBERTSON GLENN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 285 N. Maple Ave., Lansdowne, Pa.

BORN: Aug. 30, 1909, Lansdowne, Pa, parents: Oliver Edmunds Glenn, Alice
Thomas Kinnard.

PREPARED AT: Lansdowne High School, Lansdowne, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cunt laude, 1930; A.M. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1939.

[ 435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

stagarrp: Nanev Jean Simphinson, June 20, 1942, Piqua, Ohio. cHiLp: Janice
Scort, Apni ja. 19043.

Heaven seorHta: William James Glenn, '28.

accupatron: Salesman; translator.

THE writing of memoirs or an autobiography is surely properly
done at the close of one's career, not while it is in process. How-
ever. since the Class wishes some details from my years since
graduation, here are the essentials. But a few short weeks after
that final day in June, 1930, I found myself face to face with a
strance heap of financial documents at an obscure desk in an in-
surance company. After wandering from department to depart-
ment for some two years, I opened ¢ one more door and set out on
a road leading to a classroom at a boys’ preparatory school in the
suburbs of Philadelphia.

Four vears later, after a certain effort at school to instruct the
youngsters in the intricacies of French, German and basketball,
and an equally intensive effort at the University of Pennsylvania
and Middlebury College to keep a few jumps ahead of them, I took
up my quest again. This time I passed through two boys’ schools
and Lafavette College, adding Spanish and English to my reper-
toire—a period which was interrupted by a two-year interlude
in a sanatorium and a further year of rest and graduate work at
home.

Finally, I landed on my feet in a preparatory school i in Massa-
chuserts as head of the Modern Language Department. Reinforced
by a most charming wife and an inquisitive year-old daughter, |
was settled in the type of work and the position I had been work-
ing toward, At least, I thought I was and started to put down
roots for the duration. |

But life doesn’t always yield to our wishes, and after a year I
was put back on the shelf. So we all moved back to Pennsylvania
for another try at regaining my health and new efforts in some-
what unrelated ficlds — translating and selling. At present, in the
midst of raising a family, making a home (with the usual mort-
gage, amateur repairs, renovations, etc.), I find nothing further to
add. So this interim report will await completion for another
twenty-five years. P.S. I should include in the family roll two
cats and some five hundred black veiltail guppies, since it is un-
Lhcly they will attend my Fifticth Reunion.

[ 434 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MAXWELL BENJAMIN GOLD

HOME ApprEss: 475 Engle St., Englewood, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harcord Manufacturing Co., 125 Monitor St., Jersey City 4,
N. J.

" porn: Qct. 5, 1909, Jersey City, N. j. PARENTS: Arthur Gold, Bertha Ben-
jamin.

PREPARED AT: Stevens School, Hoboken, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. cunt laude, 1930; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1934.

marRiED: Irma Burroughs, Jan. 8, 1935, Boston, Mass. cup: Peggy Bur-
roughs, Sept. 29, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Herbert Arthur Gold, ’27.

occuPaTION: President, Harcord Manufacturing Company, Inc.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Brennan Affidavit,” London Times Literary Supplement,
1934; “Swift’s Admission to Mrs. Whiteway Confirmed,” publications
of the Modern Language Association, 19345 Swift's Marriage to Steila,
Harvard University Press, 1937. :

AS I look back, the years since leaving college seem quite un-
dramatic. Perhaps others who have led a conventional life feel
the same way about the last quarter-century. There are, | sup-
pose, several things I would change, yet on the whole it has been
a satisfying existence despite its normalcy.

When I graduated from Harvard, I entered my father’s business.
This was a local chain of drug stores, which, together with my
brother, I ran for fifteen years, Meanwhile I had maintained an
interest in 18th century English literature, which had been my
major field at Harvard and in 1934 took an A.M. at Columbia.
Actually it must be admitted that probably an equally compelling
reason for my attending Columbia was the fact that my future
wife was then attending Barnard. In the same year a few articles
of mine appeared and in 1937 the Harvard University Press pub-
lished my book, a specialized treatment of a specialized subject
which even my loved ones find dull. For several years thereafter
I collected books in this field until the economic facts of life, to-
gether with a gradually lessening interest, encouraged me to dis-
continue this hobby. I also helped establish, from manuscripts I
had found at Harvard, some minor points in certain of Swift’s
works which eventually saw the light in the Clarendon Press
edition of the Poems and the Shakespeare Head Prose Works.

In 1945 I got out of the drug business and took a vacation for a

[437]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

few years. Those were probably the happiest years of my life.

I was able to spend a great deal of time with my wife and daughter

and to live as I wished, without pressure or care. However, in

1949 | became interested in my present business, canister manu-

facturing, and have since become enmeshed in the same daily

grind from which most of us find it impossible to escape for long.

Perhaps, actually, we don’t wish to escape. It provides us with the
occasional sense of accomplishment and the excuse for being that
we need so desperately and usually look for in vain.

My family consists of my wife and daughter, and I suppose we
must also include our two dogs (a Great Dane and a cocker) since
they require more care than the rest of us put together. My
daughter Peggy is now approaching seventeen and long past the
stage where ‘she expresses wonder at the fact that her father has
managed to live so long without being run over by a truck or
taken advantage of by glib strangers. Despite this low estimate
of my intelligence, however, she will occasionally permit me to
voice an opinion and sometimes even asks my advice. I will say,
though, that she is smart enough never to follow it. She is, never-
theless, my best audience; she laughs at my jokes, groans at my
puns, and all in all makes each day an adventure. My wife after
twenty years still seems to be able to adjust to my idiosyncrasies
which, I am afraid, takes a lot of doing.

I have no hobbies except that I am a mechanic at heart and
succumbed a long while back to the do-it-yourself urge. My
pride and joy is a small three-room cottage complete with porch,
bar, plumbing and electricity, which I built myself. This type
of activity provides me with exercise and the aforementioned
sense of accomplishment. It also makes me stand out in the crowd
since | am always the one with the freshly bandaged finger.

In 1952 I was treasurer of the Englewood Volunteers for
Stevenson and am still in love with the man.

RICHARD MAX GOLDFRANK

Howe apowsss: 22 Cambridge Lane, Manhasset, Long Island, N. Y.

ovvee aumss: Clover Leaf Paint & Varnish Corp. 43-43 Vernon Blvd,
Long Island City 1, N. Y.

wes: Anril 2, 1gio, New York, N. Y. parents: Lionel Goldfrank, Hilda
Abraham.

[ 438 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Brenda Howe Richards, May 7, 1943, Brookline, Mass. cHILDREN:
Diane Richards, April 18, 1938; Richard Bruce, April 21, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lionel Goldfrank, Jr., ’27.

occuPATION: Production manager, secretary of corporation, Clover Leaf
Paint & Varnish Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Clover Leaf Paint & Varnish Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Shorehaven Association; Masons.

AFTER leaving college in 1930, I was one of those fortunate
beings who was able within a few months to get a job. This was
in the woolen business and lasted several years. In 1933-34, I
decided there were fresher fields, and after looking about, I got a
position with the Clover Leaf Paint & Warnish Corporation of
Long Island City, with whom I have been continuously associated
in various capacities ever since. There was a period of about ten
years of selling, then I had the good fortune to be transferred back
to New England; for the last seven years, I have been located at
the factory in charge of production. I also double as secretary of
the corporation.

As a matter of record, I am married and have two lovely chil-
dren: a girl of sixteen and a boy of eight. They keep us very
much involved in all of the community activities in Manhasset.

ARTHUR L. GOLDMAN

HOME ApDprESS: 75 Clinton Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: London Clothing Corp., 984 Main St., Brockton 37, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 7, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Simon Goldman, Rachel Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 19303; LL.B. 1933.

MarRiED: Charlotte Katz, July 5, 1936, Brookline, Mass. cuitpren: Alan
Richard, May 8, 1938; Gerald Carl, Jan. 2, 1941.

OccuPaTION: Apparel retailer, theatre owner; lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, London Clothing Corporation, since 1937, Gold-
man-Nasher Company, since 1942; vice-president, The Dolly Drive-In
Theatres, Inc., since 1954, Hebrew Progressive Lodge; associate, High-
land Industrial Park, Dallas, Texas, since 1954; executive-secretary, board
of trustees, Allerton Hospital; chairman, Textile Group, Brockton
United Appeal.

MEMBER oF: Thorny Lea Country Club of Brockton; Temple Israel; Boston
and Federal Bars.

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Eurepe, the Mediterranean, and North Africa. We saw the pitiful
Spanish refugees trying to break through into Gibraltar and we
were too North American to realize we were witnessing the pre-
view of World War II. We have visited the Virgin Islands and
Jamaica and compared the natives in each. Little wonder the
American Colonies rose against England in 1775, while today
there is no chance that Hawaii will want to leave us. The reason
is clear when one witnesses the inferior feeling of the British
Jamaican native compared to the native of the American Virgin
Isles.

Last summer our little family took in a fair portion of this
continent by automobile, west to Los Angeles and its smog, north
to verdant Banff and its abundant wild “life, and home through
Chicago. Comment: fair sized country, bigger even than Texas.

My religious affiliation is Reform Judaism and I am a member
of Temple Israel of Boston, the pulpit of the late great Dr. Joshua
Loth Liebman, author of Peace of Mind.

My political support goes to those who advocate the greatest
degree of free economic enterprise. ‘Ihe more government inter-
ference there is, the less free is the individual. Communism and
McCarthyism are more akin to each other than the supporters of
the latter realize. They both would destroy freedom of thought
and action, so a plague on both, and here’s to a happy Fiftieth

Reunion.

SPENCER BURTON GOLDSMITH

MAILING appREss: Wiest Nyack, N. Y.
Bax: Oct. 17, 1909, Nyack, N. Y. parents: Howard Goldsmith, Florence

Stuart,
PELPARED AT: Nyack High School, Nyack, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.
Maruitp: Eleanor Ruth Slagle, April 16, 1933, Nyack, N. Y. cumpren:
Laurens B, Nov. 24, 1933; David S., Sept. 18, 1938; Merrilee, Dec. 19,

1944,
ou paTION: Government service.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ SAUL GOLDWASSER

porN: March 16, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: David Goldwasser, Lillian
Diana Greenberg.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

pep: Aug. 3, 1930, Boston, Mass.

AT Harvard Goldwasser held three scholarships: the Benjamin
D. Greene Scholarship in 1927, a Saltonstall Scholarship in 1928,
and the Henry Bromfield Rogers Scholarship in 1929. He was
elected to the Phi Beta Kappa Society in his junior year.

THOMAS FRANCIS GOOD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 45 Standish St. Cambridge 38, Mass.

MAILING ADpREss: I.G. Section, Hq. Seventh Army, APO 46, % PM, New
York, N. Y.

BORN: June 3, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Thomas Francis Good, Mary
E. Crowley.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

marRiED: Muriel Blanche Senesac, July 31, 1933, New Bedford, Mass. cuip:
Martha Ann, March 25, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Military service.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JAY STEPHAN GOODMAN

HOME apprEss: 4744 N. Lake Drive, Milwaukee, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 945 N. 12th St., Milwaukee 3, Wis.

BORN: Nov. 10, 1908, Milwaukee, Wis. PARENTS: Joseph Goodman, Sara
Goldstein.

PREPARED AT: West Division High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; S.M. (Univ. of Wisconsin),
1932; M.D. (ibid.), 1934.

MARRIED: Fanny Prudowsky, Jan. 21, 1944, Milwaukee, Wis. CHILDREN:
Joseph Jay, Jan. 7, 1945; William Martin, Feb. 18, 1946; James Allen,
Jan. 27, 1949; Janice Beth, May 27, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Pyzer Goodman, ’31.

Occupation: Physician.

THE questionnaire requesting my memoirs is somewhat resented.
Memoirs should be reserved for the Fiftieth Reunion when senility

[ 443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

has a firmer grasp of one’s brain and at which time, if I am still
Present, I shall therefore account for my longevity with the usual
ilusions that it is a result of hard work, good clean living, no
drinking and no smoking, instead of having the right grand-
parents.

For the present it is, therefore, more proper to state that since
graduation I have spent most of my time preparing for and practis-
ing internal medical diagnosis, then reproduction, and now pro-
duction. The reproduction was all confined to the last ten years
and resulted in three wonderful boys and one lovely girl, and I
now proceed with the production hoping to grow with my
family, to prepare ourselves to think and behave and to acquire
and create and enjoy a better world to live in.

JULES ECKERT GOODMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 239 E. 93d St, New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Parade Magazine, 285 Madison Ave, New York, N. Y.

Bors: Mav 13, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Jules Eckert Goodman, ’99,
Mai Farr Pfouts.

PREPARED AT: Pawling School, Pawling, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).

OCCUPATION: Editor.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

I SPENT the first two years after graduation as a household
appliance salesman, and subsequently joined the editorial staffs
of such magazines as Story, Sport Pictorial, Sports lustrated,
The American Golfer, Mademoiselle, and Town & Country,
where I served as associate editor for twelve years.

During World War I, I served with the XV Corps in ETO as
public relations specialist and combat reporter attached to G-2
Section. I worked for four years subsequently as feature writer
and assistant editor on the Daily News, but left the paper in 1953
to enter public relations with Carl Byoir & Associates, Inc. Re-
cently I left Byoir to join the editorial staff of Parade Magazine.
I have written feature articles for national magazines and syn-
dicates, co-authored a book, Esme of Paris, Appleton-Century,
1444. and the Broadway play, Many Mansions, 1939. I live alone
and \ike it — at Icase half of the time.

( 444]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN DOZIER GORDAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 113 E. 78th St., New York 21, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Berg Collection, New York Public Library, 476 Fifth
' Ave, New York, N. Y.
BoRN: Nov. 11, 1907, Norfolk, Va. parents: John Dozier Gordan, Lucy
Latané Baylor.
PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. C47 laude, 1930; A.M., 1937; PHLD.,

1939.

MARRIED: Phyllis Walter Goodhart, June 16, 1938, New York, N. Y. cuit-
DREN: Marjorie Walter, Nov. 15, 1942; John Dozier, 3d, Sept. 14, 1945;
Lucy Latané, Jan. 28, 1948; Virginia Baird, Oct. 9, 1950.

occuPATION: Librarian; curator of collection of English and American liter-
ary research material (first editions, authors’ manuscripts, autograph
letters).

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Bibliographical Society of America; treasurer,
- Keats-Shelley Association of America; trustee, The Town School, New
York City.

MEMBER OF: The Century Association, New York; Grolier Club, New York.

PuBLIcATIONS: Joseph Conrad, Harvard University Press, 1940; short biog-
raphies of Thackeray, Poe, Wordsworth, Emerson, Gissing, Hawthorne,
New York Public Library, 1947-1954.

THE anniversary of the Class of 1930 finds those of us who have
survived the wear of twenty-five years and a world war living
uneasily in the middle of a century we are ill-equipped to deal
with. I, for one, was born into the nineteenth century; and as I
am a Virginian, I was born into a society that didn’t want it to be
later than 1850. I was sent north to a school catering to a social
group that wanted it to be later than 1850, but not so late as rgoo.
When I entered Harvard in 1927, it took considerable imagination.
and initiative for a student to educate himself for the twentieth
century, especially as the nineteenth was still supreme in Metro-
politan Boston. I hadn’t the imagination or the initiative. Since
I stayed on in Cambrige teaching and working in the Graduate
School until 1939, I was able to avoid some of the twentieth-
century experiences of my contemporaries. Then Conant’s “up-
or-out” policies ended my career at Harvard in a fashion more
characteristic of twentieth-century ruthlessness than nineteenth-
century amenity.

Thanks in no way to my ability to cope with the twentieth-
century world, I was still able to remain luxuriously in the nine-

[ 445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

teenth. I became a curator of a collection of rare books and manu-
scripts in an institution that even in 1940 was running by nine-
teenth-century economics. Though the institution is now wrest-
ling with the twentieth-century budgets, the donor of the collec-
tion endowed it so munificently that it can still operate with
nineteenth-century spaciousness. Even during eighteen months of
sea duty in W orld War II, I was aboard a transport and saw no
tw entieth-century warfare. Circumstances for which I deserve
no credit have enabled my wife and me and four children to live
and to travel in a way that is strikingly nineteenth-century.

T enjoy my luck w ith the guilry feeling that those who live out-
side their ume seem generally to have. L. suppose I feel like a man
under a comfortable roof during a hurricane. A lot of damage has
been done all round him and over there across the water there’s
hardly a house like his left standing. He can’t stop the hurricane.
He can't build the house again if it blows away. But he can
thank the good Lord that the roof is still on.

JOEL GORDON

MAILING ADDRESS: 249-39 61st Ave., Little Neck, Long Island, N. Y.

Bors: Nov. 5, 1909, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Abraham Gordon, Anna
Lebowich.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1932.

MAgRIED: Sara Sicgel. cuiLp: Julie, Dec. 30, 1939.

occupaTion: Library work.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JULIAN GORDON

HOME apperss: 105614 N. Oxford Ave. Los Angeles, Calif.

orrice avosess: Sonncy Enterprises, Inc. 1656 Cordova St., Los Angeles,
Calif.

wax: April 4, 1909, Malden, Mass. parents: George Goldstein, Frances
Stein.

vesyakep at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLise: 1926-1928, 1929-1931. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930(31).

Masuibp: Emily Richards Beeson, July 20, 1940, Santa Ana, Calif.

[445 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Motion picture distribution.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California.

FOLLOWING Harvard, I studied at Christ’s College, Cam-
bridge, England, for a term and then at Madame de la Rive’s
Ecole at La Babiniere near Tours, France, This was in prepara-
tion for a position at the Bank for International Settlements in
Switzerland. But then came the moratorium on war reparations
from Germany to the Allied Powers, and this plan collapsed.

Monte Carlo seemed like a nice place to go, but Julian didn’t
do so well at the tables (even with only one zero).

I came back to this country and wound up in Los Angeles
where I worked for a number of years on local newspapers, the
Times and the Examiner, and then the Chamber of Commerce (no
smog then).

After a couple of years in bed curing T.B., teaching looked like
a good, quiet profession, and a year at the University of Southern
California got me a credential. [ taught English and social studies
at the Douglas School for Girls in Pebble Beach, California, until
the war, when I went to work for Technicolor in Hollywood.

In 1947 Emily and I went to Paris for a year, where I helped to
set up the first motion picture color process in France at the
Eclair Laboratory in Epinay-sur-Seine.

I am now doing advertising and publicity for an independent
west coast distributor of motion pictures.

Most of my spare time the past few years has been spent in
preparing a correspondence course in English for Spanish-speak-
ing people. I taught at Berlitz for two years. Since then I have
devised a system of written phonetics for the most common Eng-
lish words — enough to give the beginning student some confi-
dence to speak the language aloud from the start. The course is
designed to bolster the morale of a grown person suffering the
experience of a baby learning its mother tongue. It really doesn’t

matter how bad the grammar is at the start; after the student gets
the cocky feeling that he can communicate in English in an ele-
mentary fashion, he will always find hapless people to practise on.
The response of students who have taken the course here and in
Mexico has been very appreciative. I am hopeful of expanding my
activities in this field and that it will help a little in cementing our
Good Neighbor policy.

[ 447 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

LUDWIG PETER GORDON

HOME ADDRESS: 329 Inwood Rd., Ardmore, Pa.
orFics appress: United Parcel Service, 2320 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

pors: Dec. 29, 1907, Somerville, Mass, PARENTS: Walter Peter Gordon, Mary
Elizabeth Hoffman.

prepareD aT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: $.B., 1930.

maraigeD: Mane Virginia La Fleur, June 5, 1937, Belmont, Mass. cHILpREN:
Peter, Mav 6, 1939, Mary Ellen, May 10, 1941; Walter, July 20, 1942.

occtpatioN: Consolidated retail delivery service; vice-president, Philadel-
phia plant manager, United Parcel Service.

OFFIcES HELD: Director, Pennsylvania Motor Truck Association, Motor

Transport Labor Relations, Inc.; member Mayor’s Urban Traffic and
Transportation Board.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia, Overbrook Golf Club.

NATHAN GORDON

HOME appress: 1201 Valley Ave. SE. Washington 20, D. C.
OFFICE Apbress: Bureau of Public Roads, Dept. of Commerce, Washington,

D.C.

Bors: May 7, 1908, Brockton, Mass. parents: Hyman Gordon, Anna Segal.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. IN C.E., 1930.

marriep: Helen Sherman, March 4, 1951, Brookline, Mass. cHILDREN: Allan
Bruce (stepson), Nov. 23, 1944; Irene Emily, Jan. 1, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Gordon, 27.

occuPATION: Highway engineer.

MEMBER oF: Institute of Traffic Engineers; Highway Research Board, Regis-
tered Professional Engineer, D. C.

THE peripatetic life for a fledgling civil engineer is as predictable
as growing old. A depression makes it more so with variety to
boot. The early years found me chasing jobs from Boston to
Hawaii and then back to Bar Harbor: in Boston, designing an
indoor golf driving range, using a “Paul Bunyan” canvas curtain
with a landscape for the course, an electric beam for a ball in
flight, with provision for a slice or hook, foreman on highway
construction in Brockton, Massachusetts, at Camp Devens in
charge of construction of officer’s quarters for War Department,
locating and designing beacon sites and emergency landing fields
from Amarillo, Texas, to Los Angeles for Uncle Sam; at Pearl

[ 448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harbor for the Navy; at Hawaii National Park as resident en-
gineer on a highway around an active volcano (volcano erupted
after I left, but highway remained); at Washington, D, C,, on
public parks and buildings, including Washington Monument, on
survey, design, and construction of many miles of highways in
California, Nevada, and Maine in national parks, designer and
resident engineer of bridges in same parks; during the War, on
bridge design for War Department, after the War, settled in
Washington, D. C., concentrating on urban highway federal aid
administration for Bureau of Public Roads, and am still at it.

As “Flash Gordon,” I was moving too fast to settle until my

wife caught me out of breath (but still enough for a whistle). We
have Allan Bruce, nine, and now Irene Emily, born January 1,
1954, at 12:38 A.M.! [Pll teach her about income tax deductions
when she gets older. She’s a little gem. Even Bruce thinks so.

I’m one who finds more interests than he knows what to do
with. This has been going on for years. Taught first aid to
hundreds; active in Cub Scouts; taken courses in advanced design
of structure, law, public speaking, how to be a simple writer,
painting, sculpture, city planning, automobile mechanics, radio
and TV, and even self-teaching of piano, Once a fiend for skiing
and tennis; now not such a fiend for golf. But as my boy Bruce
grows older, I find I’m starting the cycle again — baseball, foot-
ball, soon back to tennis, with golf as the ultimate. My wife
Helen, a golfer with convincing potentiality, is a constant
challenger to any boasting I may do on the badminton court. She
swings a mean racket and I’m glad it isn’t a club.

I have stopped looking for many of the “answers” and now try
to live and accept things as they come, but hope to make the
world just a little better for the next guy; and also, I hope my wife
and I can teach our children the same.

4sDONALD J. GOSS

BoRN: Oct. 21, 1905, Bay City, Mich. parents: Arnold Harris Goss, Gertrude
EF. Mercer. |

PREPARED AT: Nolan’s School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

pieD: Feb. 6, 1942, Ann Arbor, Mich.

[ 449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

AFTER Goss left Harvard he joined J. S. Bache and Company,

brokers, and W. W. Townsend Company, bonds. In 1929 and

1930 he was associated with the legitimate theatre as an actor and
stage manager of Broadway and stock companies. He then spent
a vear as a stvlist and advertising copywriter with Gimbel Bros.,
leaving to enter the motion picture business. He worked in New
York and then in Hollywood, in 1933 returning briefly to the
theatre business. In 1936 he joined the Textile Banking Company
as a contact man, and two years later became a slidefilm salesman
with Brobuck, Inc. In 1940 he was associated with Advertising
Services, Inc., in Detroit, and at the time of his death was with
the American Blower Company. His father was the founder and
president of the Kelvinator Corporation. Goss died from injuries
received in an automobile accident.

ROBERT GORDON GOULD

HOME appRESS: Las Ramadas, Route 1, P.O. Box 98, Santa Fe, N. Mex.

orFice appress: Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, University of California,
Los Alamos, N. Mex.

BorN: June 24, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: Robert Gordon Gould, Anne
Vallette.

PREPARED aT: Lincoln School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1930; PH.D. 1933.

Margiep: Edda Vincent Adams Renouf, June 24, 1939, Belchertown, Mass.
cHrLpreN: Andrew Gordon, Sept. 21, 1941; Katherine Anne, Dec. 7,
1943.

occupation: Biochemical research.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor and tutor in biochemical sciences, Harvard, 1931-34;
National Research Fellow, Columbia, 1934-35; assistant in pharmaceuti-
cal chemistry, Rockefeller Institute, 1936-42; research fellow, Harvard,
1942-43, 1945-47, captain, A.U.S. 1943-46; associate attending bio-
chemist, Presbyterian Hospital, Chicago, 1947-52; associate professor of
chemistry, University of Illinois, 1947-52; biochemistry section leader,
Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, University of California, since 1951;
consultant, Argonne National Laboratory, 1947-49; U.S. Public Health
Service, 1954; director, American Society for the Study of Arterio-
sclerosis, since 1954.

MEMbiR oF: Signet Society, Sigma Xi; American Society of Biological
Chemists, Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine; Harvey
Siety, Federation of American Scientists; United World Federalists;
American Society for the Study of Arteriosclerosis.

PLbLications; Scientific papers and reviews.

[ 450 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘THE first three years after graduation I spent at Harvard, taking

a Ph.D. in organic chemistry under the immensely stimulating

direction of Dr. James Conant. I also did some teaching, in-

cluding being an assistant to the late Professor L. J. Henderson,

one of Harvard’s great scholars. After a year as a resident tutor
in Adams House, memorable for many pleasant associations, I
spent a year at the medical school of Columbia University on a
fellowship, where I was deeply influenced by the late Dr. Rudolf
Schoenheimer, one of the really great pioneers in biochemistry
of our time. After teaching for a year at the University of Iowa,
I settled down at the Rockefeller Institute, and worked on the
structure and synthesis of ergot alkaloids, a problem Professor
Woodward has recently completed by his brilliant synthesis of
lysergic acid.

In 1939 I married Edda Renouf, Smith, ’30, sister of Edward
Renouf, ’28; we were married on my birthday, which has greatly
facilitated remembering anniversaries. After Pearl Harbor the
Rockefeller Institute seemed too much of an ivory tower for
me, so I left to do a war research problem in bacteriology at the
Harvard Medical School. This problem concerned the gonococ-
cus, which turned out to be much less of a problem in this war
than in previous ones, thanks to penicillin. One of my fondest
memories of the war years at Harvard was playing bassoon in
the Pierian Sodality which, under the inspiring direction of the
late Mal Holmes, was a really satisfying orchestra to play in.

In 1943, abandoning my wife and one and a half children to
the rigors of the home front, I joined the Army; and I must con-
fess the Army was better to me than to most. I had two interesting
and highly rewarding assignments in this country in malaria
research, and in 1944 I went to the Pacific on a medical intelli-
gence assignment. This involved taking in the Marianas, Iwo
Jima, and Okinawa operations and resting comfortably in Oahu
the rest of the time. I came back laden with medals, all of which
were Japanese, except for the Bronze Star. One of the Japanese
ones was awarded to pilots who bombed Pearl Harbor and is,
as far as I know, unique.

After being separated from the Army, I taught biochemistry
at Harvard Medical School for about two years and was privi-

[451 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

leced to be associated with Professor Baird Hastings, who intro-

duced several of us into the mysteries of using radioactive isotopes

in biochemical research, a pastime I have been indulging in ever
since. Unfortunately, Harvard's sad financial plight made the
future of the younger staff members at the Medical School not
only dim burt ‘quite invisible, so in 1947 we moved to Chicago.
I did research at the Presbyterian Hospital and taught at the
University of [linois Medical School. The hospital, having many
Harvard graduates on its research staff, was a wonderful place
to work and to learn; I developed an interest in studying the
biochemistry of arterial disease by means of radioisotopes, an in-
terest I am still av idly pursuing. This was one of the most for-
tunate decisions I have made since graduation for a number of
reasons, including the fact that arterial disease, being responsible
for more than half of all deaths, has finally become a fashionable
research field. In consequence, I am invited to give lectures at
far distant points and to write reviews quite frequently.

In 1951 we came to Los Alamos on a year’s leave of absence
partly because Chicago’s miserable climate had caused my daugh-
ter to be ill most of every winter and partly as a temporary relief
from the squalor of the world’s largest slum. We found life in
the mountains of northern New Mexico not only much healthier,
but so thoroughly interesting and enjoyable that we decided to
stay indefinitely. My work here is partly on classified projects
and partly on my own problems; the Los Alamos Laboratory has
been too well described by Tom Lehrer in his song, ‘““The Wild
West Is Where I Want To Be,” to need any further description.
Iam able to travel a good deal and to participate as a consultant
to the Public Health Service in the allocation of many millions
a year for research in heart disease, and in other scientific ac-
uvitics that keep me from feeling too isolated.

My wife and [ and our two children (Andrew, thirteen, and
Katherine, eleven) live in an old adobe house near Santa Fe in an
irngated valley with magnificent 13,000-foot mountains on both
sides and good skiing only an hour’s drive away. In our neigh-
borhood live Puchlo Indians, Spanish-Americans, many of whom
speak no Fnglish, and Anglos, including many well-known writ-

rs, panters, architects, and just plain characters. We spend most

[ 452 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of our time out-of-doors, working on our place which includes
seven adobe buildings (some allegedly dating back to pre-Spanish
times, and all slowly and quietly crumbling away, on five acres
of irrigated land, exploring the Southwest (exclusive of Texas,
naturally), and going to parties in “The City Different”; the
parties are different, too. I am much interested in the activities
of the Federation of American Scientists, particularly the prob-
lems concerned with the present incredibly bad personnel security
policy both in the AEC and in the Public Health Service. We
also like to travel and occasionally get back to New England to
spend a month in an old farmhouse in southern New Hampshire
that we partly own, to Mexico, and this summer we hope to go to
Europe for the first time since 1939, if possible taking in the
Reunion on the way.

*k FREDERICK RANDOLPH GRACE

BORN: Sept. 21, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Lee Ashley Grace, Virginia
Fitz Randolph.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude,
1930; A.M., 1935; PH.D., 1938.

MARRIED: Priscilla Bartol, Dec. 21, 1935, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN: John Sebas-
tian and Judith (twins), Jan. 30, 1937; Nicholas Adam, Feb. 7, 1939.

DIED: Nov. 23, 1942, near Absecon, N. J.

IN 1930 Grace accepted a position with the Chase National Bank
in New York, where he remained for three years. He then re-
turned to Harvard where he earned two more degrees and became
an instructor in fine arts. He was the author of Archaic Sculp-
ture in Boeotia, published by the Harvard University Press in
1939. He served as director of the Robertson Bleachery and Dye
Works (New Milford, Connecticut), as treasurer of the Archae-
ological Institute of America, and as trustee of the Cambridge Art
Center for Children. At the time of his death in a plane “crash,
he was a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy.

[453 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

S. STEWART GRAFF

mown anoarss: Hibide Terrace, Irvington, N.Y.
ose apearss: Svnthene Organic Chemical Manufacturers Association,
at Fo a:d &. New York, N.Y.

pas: May & 1g8, Worthington, Pa. parents: John Francis Graff, Martha
Grrr Swewart.

purranrp ar: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.
VES IN COLLELE: 1925-1010, DFURFES: AB. 1930; LL.B, 1936.
siuatrp: Polly Anne Colver (Harris), March 3, 1945, Jacksonville, Fla.

cHiparN: Jeremy M. Harms (stepson), Dec. 13, 1935; Kate Stewart,
March §. 1044.

ovcy pation: Executive secretary, Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturers
Associaton.

Mestaea of: New York County Lawyers Association.

AFTER graduation, | worked for a couple of years with Con-
sumers’ Research, which I believe was the first of the services
rating products solely from the point of view of the ultimate
user.

Farly in 1933 I took an extended trip to Venezuela and spent
some time on a cattle ranch in the back country. I entered the
Law School that fall and graduated in 1936. Until 1942 I was
associated with the firm of “Sackett, Chapman, Brown & Cross in
the general practice of law in New York City.

In April, 1942, | went into the Air Corps as a private and was
ass:gned to one of the psychological research units, whose func-
tion it was to classify cadets for training as pilots, navigators, or
bombardiers. In December of the same year I went to the Ad-
jutant General's Department, O.C.S. at Fort Washington, Mary-
land, and was commissioned in February, 1943. After graduation
I was assigned for duty with the Air Corps and subsequently
detailed fram AGD to the Air Corps. I served as assistant classi-
fication and assignment officer (personnel assignments) for a
short time at Hendricks Ficld, Sebring, Florida, and thereafter
as classification and assignment officer at Craig Field, Selma, Ala-
bama (advanced pilot training), and at Buckingham Field, Fort
Myers, Florida (flexible gunnery school). In March, 1945, I be-
came assistant classification officer for the AAF Training Com-

rand at Fort Worth, Texas, and served there until separated in
Noven Ler, 1945, with rank of captain.

In January, 1946, I returned to the general practice of law with

[454]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Sackett, Chapman, Brown & Cross (later Brown, Cross & Hamil-
ton), and continued there until May, 1948. At that time I took
on my present job as executive secretary of the Synthetic Organic
Chemical Manufacturers Association, also in New York City.

Outside the business of earning a living, I guess my activities
qualify as typically suburban, except short on the civic (there,
I am ashamed to say, I just encourage my wife). But around the
house I am a devoted handyman, gardener, part- and small-time
bon vivant, and have a wonderful time with my family. Sports-
wise, I manage a lot of solid fun out of swimming and ice-skating.
Since athletically I never moved beyond the fundamentals of
keeping my feet untangled, 1 now enjoy a fine illusion of lack of
deterioration. .

It is a pattern that twenty-five years ago would have seemed to
me no less than dull, I suspect. I wonder which one of us was
right! Politically, between parties as of now — ex-Democrat —
and just voting them as I see them.

CHARLES D. GRAHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 15 President Ave., Providence 6, R. I. (temporary).

‘OFFICE ADDRESS: Karpeles Rosary Co., 73 Dorrance St., Providence 3, R. I.

BORN: June 5, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Thomas Francis Graham,
Lucie E. Heintze.

PREPARED AT: Yonkers High School, Yonkers, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(34); LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),

1933-
MARRIED; Marguerite (Karpeles) Williams, April 5, 1951, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Manufacturer of religious jewelry.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City.

SETTING forth the facts concerning me in the middle of January
of our Reunion year, I am at a true turning point. For I am in
the throes of shaking off the dust of New York City and emigrat-
ing to Providence in the great Commonwealth of Rhode Island
and Providence Plantations. Moreover, after having practised law
for more than twenty years in White Plains and New York City,
except for two years’ time in the U. S. Internal Revenue Service,
Tam becoming a manufacturer.

The cause of it all is, to a great extent, a woman—my wife.

[455 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

To her, the change is a return to her original home. Since our
marriage, or shortly after, [ have had a finger in the family business
and it has become increasingly desirable that I take an active part
in it. So, [ finally succumbed. To me the change is welcome, and
I expect to enjoy the new kind of work in spite of being familiar
with the headaches of the small business man. I do believe I am
bringing to it an earnestness and determination that will serve far
beter than youthful enthusiasm.

My interest in politics continues. For five years I have been a
Tammany captain, after long service in the opposition in West-
chester County, New York, where I believe I accomplished some-
thing in my own little bailiwick. It is a matter of some regret that
Iam leaving New York when I might have accomplished some-
thing further in this field. For my days as an amateur politician,
or any kind of politician, are at an end.

For years, until my marriage not very long ago, I have had no
family. In marrying, I acquired one! I have not only a lovely
wife, but also a lovely mother-in-law and a step-son who is a great
guy. So I anticipate that the future will be a very happy one.

JOHN RUSKIN GRAHAM

HOME aporess: 100 High St, Brookline, Mass.

orFice appress: Faulkner Hospital, Boston 30, Mass.

Boa: Feb. 13, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: John Hilliar Graham, Myrtle
Louise Belyea.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS [N COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930; M.D., 1934.

Mangirp: Patricia Fitz Randolph Parfitt, July 3, 1937, Liberty, N. Y. cutt-
DREN: Janet, Feb. 15, 1939; Sarah Randolph, Oct. 26, 1940; Charles
Parfirt, Oct. 23, 1944; Edward Laurence, Sept. 23, 1950.

OO-UPATION: Physician: chief of medical service, Faulkner Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical associate in medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital;
director and founder, Headache Research Foundation, Boston, Mass.,
councillor, Norfolk District Medical Society; member board of trustees,
Roxbury Latin School; member board of directors, Boston Tuber-
culosis Association, Brookline Friendly Association; assistant in medi-
cine, Harvard Medical School, 1937-54.

‘emMnea or: American Medical Association, American College of Physi-
cians; Massachusetts Medical Society; American Clinical and Climato-
Ingical Association, Norfolk District Medical Society; Aesculapian Club
of Boston.

[ 456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on medicine: on the subject of wound diphtheria,
tetanus, the treatment and mechanism of different kinds of headache,
especially migraine, the most important being a paper in collaboration
with Dr. Harold G. Wolff of New York, entitled, “The Action of
Ergotamine Tartrate and the Mechanism of Migraine.”

AFTER leaving Harvard College, I went on to the Harvard
Medical School. I soon found that the study and practice of
medicine were satisfying to my aims and needs in life. I was
greatly influenced in Medical School by the example of several
prominent figures amongst our professors who were mostly -
famous for their research achievement — Cannon, Zinsser, Minot,
and Weiss. While still a fourth year student, I developed an
interest in the study of headache and, consequently, after an in-
ternship in medicine at the Massachusetts General Hospital, I
considered myself — and was — very lucky in being able to work
on this problem with Dr. Harold Wolff at the New York Hospi-
tal, Dr. Wolff’s vigorous and imaginative and logical approach
to the investigation of a problem stirred in me a spark which
would not be put out in the course of a busy practice for the
following ten years in the office of Dr. George Minot.

Throughout this period, I was busy trying to earn a dollar and
to learn more medicine, and to keep my teaching associations
with the Medical School and the Massachusetts General Hospital
in repair. The dollars had become very necessary, since in 1937
I had finally married my patient wife to whom I had been engaged
since my second year in Medical School and her second year in
Wellesley, and the family was beginning to increase.

I worked for Dr. Bock at the Harvard Hygiene Clinic for two
years, for Dr. Minot as one of his assistants, and in 1939 became
the school doctor for Milton Academy, filling the interstices with
some teaching and developing my own practice. I also kept the
flame of interest in headache alive by working with Dr. F. Den-
nette Adams in the Headache Clinic at the Massachusetts General
Hospital.

By May of 1942, Janet and Sally had entered our family circle
and the war was really upon us. I left with the Sixth General
(MGH) Hospital Unit, but soon was detached to the 160th
Station Hospital and went to Ireland and England. I remained
overseas for thirty-two months, became the chief of the medical

[ 457 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

service of the 302d Station Hospital, and eventually returned to
occupy the same position at the Oliver General Hospital at
Augusta, Georgia. I left the service as a major, without experi-
encing shot or shell, but having acquired several English friends,
a great appreciation for the English countryside, a realization
that the Army is a broadening experience, and a feeling that the
nations of the world have a long way to go in the direction of
subduing their nationalistic tendencies in the interest of joint
cooperation.

At the end of the war, I came back to practice, tending veter-
ans, and enjoying further pleasant association with the medical
problems of the adolescent at Milton Academy. I took over the
running of the Headache Clinic at the Massachusetts General
Hospital and received a fillip toward further headache research
when a grateful patient donated some money for this cause.

When Dr. George R. Minot died, our medical office, which
has been built around him, began to break up; and in 1950 I ac-
cepted the position of chief of the medical service of the Faulkner
Hospital.

I should have mentioned that by this time Charlie had ap-
peared on the scene and Larry was on his way. Our family had
moved into a Charles Addams type of house on “Pill Hill” in
Brookline, and the children were beginning — after six years of
public school—-to eat up their father’s earnings in_ private
seminaries for young ladies. My wife was studying and enter-
taining Portuguese and taking modern dance to preserve her
youthful figure, while my own chest was slipping slowly but
surely into the abdomen.

The job at the Faulkner led me into many of the interesting
problems of medical education in a private hospital and broad-
ened my medical experience tremendously. Along with this
came some more money for headache research and the start of
the Headache Research Foundation, an organization with an im-
pressive title but only one person in its complicated incorporate
structure, plus a number of grateful and willing patient-subjects.
The way we stand now is that I am too busy ever to be home;
the family is scattered in a diversity of schools, car pools, and
social interests, but still managing to live with only minor quar-
rels under one roof, amidst the cadenzas of music lessons; the

[458 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

life-like vocal imitations of rocket guns and zooming space ships;
the interminable telephone conversations about home lessons or
dates; and the steady drone of the radio programs as my wife
patiently does the dishes into the night.

We have acquired an old house in New Hampshire to which
we repair happily for a month in the summer and spasmodically
and frigidly for weekends in the winter (nothing like Christmas
in the country, you know — nothing, not even at the North
Pole). Now my wife and the kids are beginning to act in the
Footlight Club, Charlie is absorbed in the Cub Scouts, and I —
well, I keep trying to buy the shoes, keep the hospital medical
service on the up and up, and most of all— pursue that most
elusive and intangible of medical and social problems — the cause
and cure of the common headache.

WINSOR HUFFMASTER GRAVES

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Walsingham Road, Largo, Fla.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1905, Weston, Mass. PARENTS: Harold Symmes Graves, Edith
Frances Winsor.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MARRIED: Kathleen Barron. cHILDREN: Winsor Huffmaster, Jr.. and Edith
Charlotte (twins), April 30, 1941; Isabella M., February, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gilbert Lincoln Graves, °31.

occuPATION: Drug salesman.

In the past twenty-five years I have gained a net of ten pounds,
lost three teeth and perhaps ten percent of my hair. I served in
the Army during World War II with no particular distinction.

AUSTEN TOWNSEND GRAY

HOME appreEss: Motts Cove Road, Roslyn Harbor, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ApprEss: New York Trust Co., 10 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20,
N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Austen Gray, ’03, Alice
Munroe Burnham.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930; Graduate School of Banking
(Rutgers Univ.), 1953.

[459]

0 sete dpm mm ial dena: metacieieinseeaeaapianmititaDiaesienidnaetsacs isi TiiiianieenAitilinitea dese EEA

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MARRIED: Laura Hazard Holmes, June 14, 1932, Brookville, Long Island,
N. Y. (died Nov. 13, 1940); Beatrice Dorothy Gray, June 5, 1941,
Locust Valley, Long Island, N. Y. campren: Phyllis Duncan, May 29,
1933 (m. Alexander C. Schwartz, Jr., Sept. 18, 1952); Alice Burnham,
May 3, 1935; Pamela Audrey, Feb. 2, 1943; Austen Townsend, Jr., July 2,
1945. GRANDCHILDREN: Laura Gray Schwartz, 1953; Alexander C.,
Schwartz, 3d, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, New York Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Wheatley Hills National Bank, Westbury, N. Y.,
the Green Vale School, Green Vale, N. Y.; chairman, executive com-
mittee, director, treasurer, Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Children, Nassau County, Inc.,; clerk-treasurer, Incorporated Village
of Roslyn Harbor, N. Y.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club; Piping Rock Club, Locust Valley, N. Y.

MY banking career, to be interrupted several times, started after
graduation with two years spent mostly “running” for the House
of Morgan, followed by five years with the Manufacturers Trust
Company of New York, which involved a lot of credit work and
a lot of on-the-road activity taking me to many states. In 1937
with three partners we formed a real estate operating company,
Windholme Realty Corporation, and went on to build so-called
low cost housing projects under F.H.A. financing. No windfalls,
no profits, and consequently no investigations of our activities
have resulted.

In 1942 three of us joined the Armed Forces and we sold our
assets to Bill Zeckendorf, who, from what he tells me, has been a
more successful operator than we were. I entered the Naval Re-
serve as a lieutenant (j.g.) and came out as a lieutenant com-
mander. Most of these four years were spent in the small boat
Navy. P.C. 555 was my responsibility for over two years and
she and two subsequent vessels got me safely through the Atlantic
and Pacific, returning me to civilian life in late 1945.

In early ’46 I returned to banking with the New York Trust
Company and am presently an assistant vice-president in our
Rockefeller Center office. I am in the commercial end of the
business, which involves lending money to people and companies
for the purpose of creating the type of goods and services most of
us require and getting repaid after the cycle has been completed.
That is not a dull job and it gets you around. If you like people
and can get absorbed in their efforts to turn an honest dollar, why

then banking can be really vital. My bank in the trade is known

[ 460 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as a Yale bank with most of our directors, officers, and many of our
customers even, being Elis. As the only Harvard man in their
employ, I am looked upon as a unique specimen.

I have three daughters and a son. My oldest daughter married
in 1952 and I am twice a grandfather. Another daughter, nine-
teen, is with the New Yorker magazine and two young students
aged eleven and nine complete the picture.

As for hobbies, I seem to have enough to require more time
than my annual vacation permits. Golf, shooting, sailing, work-
ing around my place keep me busy. Only this last spring I made
my first Bermuda Race and hope to do it again several times be-
fore our Fiftieth rolls around. I have lived in Nassau County
since 1934 and am much interested in local municipal affairs and
county banking activities.

JOHN CHIPMAN GRAY

HOME ADpREsS: 19 Fairhope Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hunt & Hunt, 14 Winchester St. Brookline, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 12, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Roland Gray, ’95, Mary Tudor.

PREPARED AT: Ojai High School, Calif.; Noble & Greenough School, Dedham,
Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; A.M., 1933-

MARRIED: Helen Coggeshall Lingenfelter, May 31, 1941, Shepherdstown,
W. Va. cHILDREN: John Chipman, Jr. April 23, 1942; Edward Cogge-
shall, Dec. 15, 1943; Roger Whiteley, June 3, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Christopher, ’37, PH.D., 51; Roland Gray, Jr., LB, 38.

OCCUPATION: Engineering.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Weston Town Forest Committee; assistant scout-
master.

MEMBER OF: Speakers Club, Harvard Mountaineering Club, American As-
sociation for the Advancement of Science; Federation of American
Scientists; P.T.A.; Weston Forest and Trail Association; Civil Liberties
Union of Massachusetts.

PuBLicaTions: Collaboration on classified reports on government ordnance
developments.

AFTER taking a Master’s degree i in 1933, I taught six years at
Phillips Academy, Andover, Massachusetts, physics and science
with coaching during all seasons.

In 1940 I began to work for the Naval Ordnance Laboratory
in Washington, D. C. The Lab was just tackling the problem of

[461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

defense against the magnetic mine, that German secret weapon
which had almost defeated England a few months before.

In 1944 my ordnance development work continued at the Johns
Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory in Silver Spring,
Maryland.

I first met my wife, Helen, on arriving in Washington although
she had been in my vicinity for years, and knew half my Massa-
chusetts friends. She is Radcliffe, 732.

With our three sons we moved in 1952 and settled in Weston.
Our choice of Weston was determined primarily by the fine
reputation of the public school system. I worked as a consultant
for Harvard Apparatus Company of Dover and later as a con-
sultant for the Polaroid Corporation of Cambridge on problems of
3D movies. I now work with a designer-builder, specializing in
authentic restorations, remodeling, and special problem jobs.

Helen passed the Massachusetts bar examinations last summer.
It took a lot of study because she had done no law work for the
twelve years since her three years of practice in Washington.
Since last fall she has been giving her mornings to the Boston
Legal Aid Society.

Weston is so small that almost everybody is needed for civic
activities. Helen is in Cub Scouting and I am a sort of assistant
scoutmaster. I am secretary of the committee appointed to con-
sider a town forest. There seem to be too few nights in each
week for the continual round of civic, scouts, P.T.A., and social
activities, Summers we stay in Hancock, New Hampshire.

We support the First Parish (Unitarian) Church, where the
boys attend Sunday School with the familiar lack of enthusiasm.
We occasionally go also to Friends’ Meeting in Cambridge.

My hobbies are mostly in abeyance, all except a token vegetable
garden and continuous house maintenance, and minor construc-
tion projects. Mountaineering I can read and talk. When the boys
are older we may try a little. They all took to tree climbing from
infancy, as I did. An old hobby is my collection of logical and
conversational problems, which requires no financial investment
at all and is kept in one large envelope. Exchanging a few prob-
lems with an acquaintance often turns up a new puzzle to write
out on any scrap and toss in with the other one hundred fifty or

so. Old friends are also my pipe lines.

[ 462 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My interest in the mathematics and philosophy of life insurance
is completely amateur but has taken me far beyond most agents,
I find distressing the prevalence of prejudices, myths, and abuses
in so potentially useful a feature of civilization.

Our three boys are all so naturally athletic that I enjoy coach-
ing them in football, baseball, track, skiing, tennis, swimming, and
more to come, such as lacrosse.

We are much interested in politics in the sense that we read
widely and argue with friends about everything from local to
international controversies. The same can be said for our religion
and philosophy. We find that in voting we consider mostly other
qualities than the candidates’ parties or the parties’ platforms.

We believe the atmosphere in which many people feel they
must be careful what they say is one of the country’s greatest
dangers. McCarthy is censured, but the China Lobby is still
rampant.

PAUL ELIOT GRAY

MAILING ADDRESS: Hotel Chelsea, W. 23rd St. at 7th Ave., New York 11, N.Y,

BoRN: July 9, 1906, Machiasport, Maine. parents: Lee Thomas Gray, Carrie
Trafton.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

marrieD: Alma Carey, April 23, 1930, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Art.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary's files.

CARLETON GREEN

HOME ADDRESS: 2943 Kalakaua Ave., Honolulu, T. H.

OFFICE appREss: University of Hawaii, Honolulu, T. H.

BorN: April 23, 1909, Troy, N. Y. PARENTs: Crawford Richmond Green,
Helen Fish Waterman. .

preparen aT: Albany Academy, Albany, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M. 19333 PH.D. 1036.

OCCUPATION: Education.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 463 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

+} EARLE DAVIS GREENE

porN: June 15, 1009, Pittsfield, Mass. parents: Samuel Earle Greene, ’96,
Isabelle Jane Tratter.

prepared aT: Pittsfield High School, Pittsfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Morrison Knowles, Sept. 29, 1939, Newton, Mass.

piep: July 2, 1945, Czechoslovakia.

FROM 1931 to 1940 Greene was associated with James B. Berry
Sons’ Company, oil distributors, in Oil City, Pennsylvania. In
1940 he was assistant New England manager of the company,
assigned to Boston. Later, he became vice-president of the Oil
Service Company of New England. He entered active service in
1941 with the Field Artillery and served in eight major campaigns,
receiving the Croix de Guerre, the Legion of Merit, the Silver
Star, and the Bronze Star. Shortly before his death, he became a
member of the headquarters staff of his division and was made a
lieutenant colonel. He was killed when the jeep in which he
was riding crashed. His wife survived him.

JEREMIAH EVARTS GREENE

HOME ADDRESS: 499 Winchester St., Newton Highlands, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 Bay State Rd., Boston, Mass.

Bors: July 29, 1908, Milton, Mass. parents: Daniel Crosby Greene, 95,
Marion Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D., 1933.

marriep: Alice Popham Durant, April 19, 1938, Lee, Mass. CHILDREN: Jere-
miah Evarts, Jr, Jan. 22, 1939; Katharine Sedgwick and Alice Popham
(twins), Oct. 2, 1940; Roger Sherman, Aug. 2, 1946; Mary Baldwin,
July 27, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Daniel Crosby Greene, 32; Roger Sherman Greene, '34.

OCCUPATION; Physician.

orricks HELD: Assistant in medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, phy-
sician and chief, Dept. of Allergy, Mt. Auburn Hospital, courtesy staff,
New England Baptist Hospital, Newton-Wellesley Hospital.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Charles River District Medical Society; Boston Medical Library;
American Academy of Allergy.

PUBLICATIONS: Author and co-author of several articles on allergy in various
medical journals, “Regional Allergy of New England,” Regional Al-
lergy, M. Samter (editor), C. C. Thomas, publisher.

[ 454]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ON leaving college, my first five years were spent in preparation
for a medical career: at Harvard Medical School, Boston City,
and Stanford-Lane (San Francisco) Hospitals. It was hard to
leave the carefree spirit and balmy weather of the bay city, but
I returned to Boston in the summer of 1935 to begin the private
practice of medicine.

My twenty years in practice have been devoted almost ex-
clusively to the study and treatment of allergic patients. I was
fortunate to begin with a five year hitch as office assistant to Dr.
Francis Rackemann, a circumstance providing much experience
in my chosen specialty. During this period, I married and we
became parents of a son and twin daughters.

Since 1940 I have been established in practice by myself; but
from 1942 to 1945 I served in the Army Medical Corps which
took me away from home for forty-three months. I had a busy
time spent mostly in the Southwest Pacific and entirely as a
member of the staff of a Harvard-affiliated general hospital.
Foreign ports visited included Wellington, N. Z., Melbourne,
Sydney and Brisbane, Australia, Milne Bay and Hollandia, New
Guinea, Biak, N.E.I. and Honolulu.

In 1945 I returned to home and family and resumed private
medical practice. Since that time, another son and daughter have
arrived to swell the ranks. In 1949 a need for more space and air
to accommodate the expanding family dictated a move from our
suburban duplex to an old farmhouse on an acre of land a little
further out of town, where we hope to stay. :

In politics I have migrated steadily to the right from my Demo-
cratic party sympathies of college days, and have voted for losing
presidential candidates consistently, except for the present in-
cumbent. In religion I have progressed from Episcopalian to
Roman Catholic.

My spare time, which used to be occupied with tennis, squash,
and occasional small boat sailing, is now taken up with bringing
up the younger generation, involving such fields as bird study,
gardening, rough carpentry and house painting.

I continue to find medicine a rewarding, if sometimes an exact-
ing, profession. I am more convinced than ever that its backbone
is the devoted family doctor. In spite of the staggering costs of

—6«1 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

medical, nursing, and hospital care, I believe that voluntary means
can and should be found to meet them.

RICHARD ORVIS GRISDALE

HOME appress: 22 Overlook Terr., Short Hills, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., Murray Hill, N. J.

Born: Oct. 5, 1908, Minneapolis, Minn. parents: Charles Grisdale, Francis
Ruth Orvis.

prepareD at: Central High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1930.

MarriED: Marjorie B. Griswold, March 4, 1932, New York, N. Y. cyt:
Michael Lauren, Jan. 23, 1940.

occupation: Engineer: member of technical Staff, Bell Telephone Labora-
tories, Inc.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in technical journals.

THERE were those who said, when I left Harvard and joined the
Bell Telephone Laboratories, that it was a great mistake for an
embryonic chemist to enter a business which is primarily electri-
cal. Now, after twenty-five years, I know as I felt then that this
is a mistaken view if the chemist is, as am I, broadly interested in
the physical sciences. Specialization in increasingly narrowed and
complex individual branches of the sciences is essential for many
today, but this concentration often leads to a loss of a broad per-
spective. Ir is from fusion of the various sciences or branches
of them that many of today’s promising developments have arisen;
and the intuitive linking together of similar phenomena, be they
chemical, physical, mechanical, or electrical, is increasingly neces-
sary to progress in communications as it is in other fields. Often,
it seems to me, there is too great an emphasis on the purely
quantitative aspects of phenomena and too little realization that
a qualitative differentiation and selection provides the essential
basis for a quantitative evaluation. The synthesis of qualitatively
new concepts generally requires a wide familiarity with diverse
phenomena or a broad background and I should like to believe
that recognition of this is one reason for Harvard’s current con-
cern with education in breadth as well as in depth.

For six years I lived in New York, all of them during the de-
pression. These years, with little money, were in some ways the
best of all, for a Harvard friend of mine introduced me to a young

[ 456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

woman who liked red hair sufficiently to marry me during the
darkest of them. Our first anniversary came on the day the banks
closed but, aside from the fact that we had little in the bank any-

way, by this time we had become expert at finding inexpensive
amusement at public golf courses, museums, or in theatre balconies.
When we moved to Westchester the worst was over and we
settled down to an interesting country life. In this period I ac-
quired some tools and began my continuing cultivation of the
cabinetmaker’s art, particularly in the “care and feeding” of
antiques.

Just prior to Pearl Harbor, when Michael was going on two,
the Laboratories opened their Murray Hill showplace and we
moved to Short Hills, where we have been ever since. Mike is
now in his second year in Deerfield Academy, but whether or not
he will choose Harvard for his further education is not yet clear.

Our vacations, except for a hurried European visit in 1937, were
spent nearby until after the war, but since then we have gone
further afield. Four of these years we have gone to Bermuda and
have been very sorry to see its rapid evolution from a peaceful
tree-shaded island to a modern motor madhouse unrelieved by the
lovely old cedars which fell victims to a blight. The motor age
has not been kind to Bermuda, which now has more cars per mile
of road than any country in the world, to say nothing of the
countless noisy motor bikes.

Two summers, 1951 and 1953, we motored over Europe paying
particular attention to France. This is the only way to see the real
Europe and we have developed a great fondness for the slower
tempo of European life and a sincere appreciation of their less
materialistic sense of values. We look forward, conditions per-
mitting, to renewing our acquaintance in the years ahead.

FRANK X. GROSSI

LAST KNOWN appress: South Postal Annex, Boston, Mass,

BorN: March 24, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Michael Grossi, Maria Cen-
trella.

PREPARED aT: Commerce High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31),

GROSSI has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since

1949.
[ 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ABRAHAM GROSSMAN

HOME apoRESS: 710 Junior Terr., Chicago 13, Ill.

orricé appress: 30 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 2, Ill.

sorN: June 7, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Grossman, Bessie Zager.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cut laude, 1930; M.D. (Columbia
Univ.), 1934.

scarriep: Ruth Gilbert, Aug. 7, 1936, Chicago, Il]. cHttprReEN: Peter Simeon,
May 9, 1943; Katherine Ann, June 2, 1947.

occupation: Physician and surgeon, specializing in radiology.

orrices HELD: Radiologist, Loretto Hospital, University of [linois Hospital,
Chicago; assistant professor of radiology, University of Ilinois College
of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Roentgen Society; Radiological Society of North
America; American College of Radiology; Quadrangle Club (University
of Chicago); Lincoln Park Tennis Club.

pusLicatioxs: Articles in medical journals, dealing primarily with various
phases of x-ray diagnosis, x-ray and radium therapy, and neoplastic and
allied diseases.

UPON graduation from Harvard, I attended the College of

Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University. The pleasant

cosmopolitan life of New York was not too conducive to scholarly

deliberation, but after four years I managed to squeak through
with an M{.D. degree. I then spent a year doing experimental sur-
gery at the Presbyterian Hospital in New York City. My re-
search was primarily in certain phases of the peptic ulcer problem.
This investigative work did not rid the world of the ulcer problem,
but did gain for me a certain amount of experience in dog surgery.
I then came to Chicago for a two-year rotating internship at the

Michael Reese Hospital, followed by a three-year residency in

radiology. While at Reese, I met my present wife (nee Ruth

Gilbert) and Chicago became my home by adoption. After com-

pleting my training at the Michael Reese Hospital, I was appointed

to the staff of that institution and started to practise radiology.

My orderly plans were soon interrupted with the advent of World

War II, and I found myself in the Navy early in 1942, sporting

two gold stripes on my sleeve. I was in service for four years,

during which time I retained a token affiliation with my chosen
medical specialty of radiology, but actually did very little work,
medical or otherwise.

[ 468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During the first two years of service, my wife and I enjoyed the
wonderful California climate, which also brought us great happi-
ness with the birth of our son, Peter. My final two years of ser-
vice were served mainly in the South Pacific. During this time I
became quite interested in South Sea Island history, tapa cloths,
and acquired familiarity with certain tropical diseases, such as
filariasis and schistosomiasis. I was situated in forward areas, but
saw no real military activity and did not win a Purple Heart,
despite a fracture of an ankle sustained during a tennis game in
Bougainville. I was promoted to heutenant commander while
overseas, and was separated from the service with this rank in
1946. A year later our second child, Katherine Ann, was born.

Since that time I have led a relatively busy life, In addition
to carrying on a private practice of radiology, I serve as radiologist
in charge of the x-ray department at the Loretto Hospital in Chi-
cago and am also radiologist at the University of Illinois Hospital.
I hold a part-time post as assistant professor of radiology at the
University of Illinois College of Medicine and find my teaching
duties the most interesting and most satisfying, though the least
remunerative. I manage to find time for considerable tennis, with
rapidly diminishing athletic prowess. My son’s tennis stroke is
already far better than mine and rapidly improving, and I hope
that he may prove a great asset to a possible Harvard tennis team
along about 1960.

We have frequent chamber music in the form of a string
quartet composed of three professionals and one very amateur
violist (myself). This busy life leaves little time for reflection or
grumbling about the state of the world, except during the re-
curring periods of income tax payment. Both of my children lead
an equally busy and interesting existence, attending the Francis
W. Parker School. Mrs. Grossman devotes most of her free time
to related activities at the latter instirution. We have a recent
addition to the family, a Boxer puppy named Dutchess. She has
a most engaging personality and has become the center of interest
in our domicile. She recently graduated with high honors from
the beginner’s obedience class at the Midwest School for Boxers.

[469]

= a es Siegler rnin SRN tno I ORO MeCN TIN CUlaCS GROAN, ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

+ BOLIVAR MERINO GUEVARA

Bors: May 7, 1906, Rio Camba, Ecuador. parents: Vincente Guevara,
Maria del Carmen Merino.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MarrieD: Luisa Vernaza de Guevara, Jan. 30, 1932, Guayaquil, Ecuador.
cHiLD: Beatriz, April 15, 1935.

piED: Nov. 24, 1950, Guayaquil, Ecuador.

ABOUT 1938 Guevara moved from Riobamba City to Quito,

Ecuador, where he conducted an import and export business. He

was a wool exporter and distributor for several American firms.

He was also occupied with a sheep and cattle ranch, and had

imported from the United States pure-bred Holstein heifers.

During the war he aided the war effort through his work in

rubber.

EDWIN PERCY GUNN

HOME ADDRESS: 684 Country Way, North Scituate, Mass.

OFFicE apprEss: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley 5St.,
Boston 17, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 28, 1906, Calais, Maine. parents: Percy Pickard Gunn, Alice
Sawyer Townsend.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930. -

MarkieD: Marion Lucas Bragdon, July 3, 1937, Middletown, Conn. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth, March 25, 1939; Jean Bragdon, March 6, 1941; Jonathan
Edwin, April 3, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Townsend MacNicol Gunn, ’31; John Martyn Gunn, ’33;
Thomas Guthrie Gunn, ’37.

occupation: Director of field training.

orrices HELD: Member Education and Training Committee, Committee on
Management Training, Life Insurance Agency Management Associa-
ton; member executive board, P.T.A., Advisory Board, School Com-
mittee, Scituate.

MEMuER oF: Society of Chartered Life Underwriters, First Baptist Church.

ALMOST twenty-five years with the same company, and
eighteen with the same woman, who added two daughters and a
son to our menage, sum up very quickly, but hardly adequately,
what has happened to me since I left Harvard. I now understand
completely and fully what the word “commencement” means —
since I’m still at it.

[ 470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I'm rather proud of the University for its stand on many things,
among others in particular, the Fifth Amendment and intercol-
legiate football. I’m also grateful for the opportunity to live and
work for a short time in the Middle West. This is an experience
any native New Englander should have, if only to open his eyes
to a different kind of beauty in the countryside, and the tremen-
dous friendliness of the people. I had heard about both from my
wife, who hails from that section, The actual experience bore out
all she had said.

The influence of Doc Davison, whom I first met in 1927, still
persists, because I still like music. I hope he sees this, even though
he may be horrified to learn that I’ve deserted voice and gone
into woodwinds with my daughters, joined recently by my
son, who provides the brass. We now have a quartet, flute, two
clarinets, and a trombone, My wife threatens to take up the drums
in self-defense.

Last year I was appointed to the School Committee in my town,
where I attempt to repay in small measure what the schools give
the kids. By the time you read this, I shall have survived or been
defeated in my first political venture, since I must be elected to
stay on the board.

My job deals with the training of salesmen and managers,
located in the northern two-thirds of the country. In that capacity
I have a speaking acquaintance with the railroad terminals, air-
ports, and hotels in most of the major cities in that area. They
say travel is broadening; can’t say I agree in my case — it doesn’t
add to MY weight.

DONALD PACKARD GURNEY

HOME ADDRESS: Townshend, Vt.

BORN: May 33, 1908, Whitman, Mass. parents: Allston Dyer Gurney, Fannie
Eleanor Packard.

PREPARED at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

A QUIET life, but with its private satisfactions. No wife, no
child, but various godchildren. No job, but many books, much
travel, and a few friends. Health of a perfidious turn, but not

[471 ]

7-0 TTR REC vi

» HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

such as to prevent a reasonably agreeable existence oscillating
between a hillside in Vermont and an apartment in Paris.

SIMEON LEONARD GUTERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 511 W. 232nd St. New York 63, N. Y.

oFFice Appress: Yeshiva University, New York 33, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 25, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Henry Guterman, Lena
Hurwitz.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Scranton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: a.B. cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1932; PH.D.,

1944.

MarRiED: Bette G. Adler, Sept. 1, 1952, Lawrence, Long Island, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Abraham Solomon Guterman, LL.B., °36.

occupation: Dean, Yeshiva College.

OFFices HELD: Head, History Department, Central High School, Scranton,
Pa., 1935-45; professor of history and political science, Ohio Northern
University, 1945-46; professor of history, State Teachers College, East
Stroudsburg, Pa. 1946-53; visiting professor of history, University of
Idaho, summer, 1953.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association, Medieval Academy, etc.

PUBLICATIONS: Religious Toleration and Persecution in Ancient Rome, Lon-
don, 1951.

LOOKING back over the years since college, a few landmarks
stand out in an otherwise uneventful career: my decision to go
into teaching, and my marriage to a charming girl from Baltimore.
I went abroad after one year of high school teaching, seeking
stimulation of the scholastic variety in Paris and, curiously, finding
it.

I have taught history in the far West, the Midwest, and in the
East, experiences that I would not swap for all the tea in China.
I am now an academic dean in a liberal arts college, trying to do
for my students what several good souls at Harvard strove to
bring nigh to the generation of 1930. A study, Religious Tolera-
tion in Ancient Rome, was spawned in London in 1951. I regret
that I have not maintained contact with the Class of 1930, but per-
haps the next twenty-five years will be different. I have become
increasingly aware of the intellectual debt I owe to the Harvard
of our day and the men who made it what it was.

[472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FREDERICK HACKENBERG

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 143 N. Front St., Milton, Pa.

BoRN: May 27, 1906, Milton, Pa. parents: John Peter Hackenberg, Emmie
Johanna Kurtz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930,

OCCUPATION: Owner-manager, residential and commercial real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Milton Public Library, Milton Symphony Orchestra.

MEMBER OF: The Harvard Club of Philadelphia, Nantucket Historical As-
sociation; Steamship Historical Society of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Newspaper and magazine articles.

My life has been almost entirely plain, quiet, and uneventful,
and I have no intention of trying to make it appear vital and full
of accomplishment.

After graduation, I took some courses in education at the
University of Pennsylvania and then taught English for two years
at a small Naval Academy prep school in Washington, the Bullis
School (no longer in existence).

Upon the death of my father, I came home to take over the
management of his real estate, and I’ve been doing that ever
since. |

The only major interruption was a period of Army service
in the Field Artillery at Fort Bragg. It was a career distinguished
only by illness. There were two attacks of pneumonia, six months
in the hospital with pulmonary and bronchial complications, and
finally an honorable discharge followed by several more months
of convalescence.

Politically, I can say only that I weathered the astonishing
years from 1933 to 19§2.

Religiously, as a Protestant (Presbyterian), I feel that the
Church in general is moving farther and farther away from simple
Christianity, losing its effect in a maze of organization and stale
dogma.

Shifting abruptly to hobbies, I have two that are quite unrelated.
The first, a life-long matter, is the steamship and its history from
the beginning to the present. The second, much more recent, is

the plain, domestic short-hair cat. Five years ago, two kittens, a
male and a female, were brought to me unexpectedly by their
mother, a stray. Ever since then, they have been the center of

[ 473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the houschold — endlessly interesting, diverting, amusing, and
charming.

As for travelling, I had done very little until recent years.
Through the thirties, I went to Nantucket almost every summer,
and there were occasional short trips to the West Indies, Bermuda,
and Canada. Then, in the summer of 1950, I went to Europe, and
I've gone every year since then. I’ve motored several times
through most of western Europe, and last year I extended the trip
to Algeria and French Morocco.

I think Italy will always be my great favorite; on the west side,
the Portofino peninsula; on the east side, the Adriatic shore from
Venice to Pesdara; and in the south, Taormina on the high Sici-
lian coast looking out over the Ionian Sea.

I hope to live somewhere in Italy some day.

But in the meantime, this is my life.

NORMAN KIRKNESS HACKLAND

MAILING appress: New Suffolk, Long Island, N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 17, 1907, East Orange, N. J. Parents: William Hackland,
Elizabeth Billard.

PREPARED AT: East Orange High School, East Orange, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

marrieD: Alice K. Gutmann, Oct. 9, 1937, South Orange, N. J. cHILp:
Norman Kirkness, Jr. Sept. 21, 1939.

occuPaTion: Public utilities,

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

+ FRANK HADA

Born: April 26, 1909, Cleveland, Ohio, parents: Ambrose Hada, Barbara
Beres.

prepared at: West High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: a.B. cum laude, 1930(31).

DIED: 1936 OF 1937.

UPON graduating from Harvard, Hada joined Billings-Chapin
Company in Cleveland. He later moved to Wilmington, Dela-
ware, where he was associated with a paint concern at the time of
his death.

[474]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD WALDEN HALE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 352 Hammond St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston University Junior College, 688 Boylston St., Boston,
Mass.

BorN: Aug. 5, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Richard Walden Hale, ’92, Mary
Newbold Patterson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1930; B.A.
(Univ. of Cambridge), 1932; pu.o. (Harvard Univ.), 1937; a.m. (Cam-
bridge Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Elisabeth Fairbanks, Aug. 9, 1940, Pointe au Pic, Quebec, Canada.
CHILDREN; Peter Robert Edward, Oct. 2, 1941; Thomas Henry, July 15,
1944; Frances Mary, March 5, 1947; Martha Priscilla, Feb. 20, 1949.

occuPATION: Chairman, Department of Social Relations, Boston University
Junior College; associate professor.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Antioch College, 1932-33, Princeton University,
1935-38; conference director, School of Public Affairs, Princeton Uni-
versity, 1938-40; reference librarian, Newberry Library, Chicago, 1941-
43; head of History Department, Roxbury Latin School, 1943-47;
lecturer in education, Wellesley College, 1948-52; curator of Canadian
history and literature, Harvard College Library, since 1953; trustee,
Howard University, since 1943; delegate, Republican Pre-primary Con-
vention, 1934; member Committee on Documentary Reproduction,
American Historical Association; former president, Urban League of
Greater Boston; president, treasurer, Dover Green Water Company;
trustee, Public Reservations, Hancock County, Maine.

MEMBER OF: Tennis and Racquet Club, Boston; Century Association, New
York; Chicago Literary Club; Savile Club, London; Lac a Gravel Fish-
ing Club, Murray Bay; Canadian Historical Association, Colonial So-
ciety of Massachusetts, Massachusetts Historical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Democratic France, 1941; The Tercentenary History of the
Roxbury Latin School, 1946; Milton Academy, 1798~1948, 1948, The
Story of Bar Harbor, 1948; Britain, Her Peoples and the Commonwealth,
with Robert Eckles, ’32, 1954.

THERE is no need here to repeat the biographical details printed
above. Whoever Jooks at them will see that the Trinity College,
Cambridge, Antioch, the Harvard Graduate School, Princeton,
the Newberry Library, the Roxbury Latin School, a trusteeship
of Howard University, Wellesley College, a curatorship at Har-
vard, and heading a department at Boston University Junior Col-
lege have provided the usually varied career that is likely to be
typical of those in the educational profession. Authorship and

[475 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

membership in learned and semi-learned societies are occupational
hazards, which have been incurred.

It goes without saying that I have strong opinions about Amer-
ican education. I might add that I think that teaching is the
most important profession in America today, since it is doing the
most sorely needed job, and that I am very glad to be doing my
bit in it.

FRANK BRIGHAM HALL

HOME apprEss: 31 Old Colony Rd., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lee, Higginson Corp., 50 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 12, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Lyon Hall, Anna King
Brigham.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-27.

MarriED: Priscilla Goddard Hoyt, Aug. 22, 1936, Hingham, Mass.

occupation: Investment banking.

I WENT to work in June, 1927, with Wrenn Brothers & Com-
pany and stayed with them until March, 1937. Since then, I have
been with Lee, Higginson Corporation in their Boston office.
My life has not been particularly eventful, but on the whole I
have enjoyed myself fully.

THEODORE HALL

HOME Appress: 8 Shelton Rd., Willoughby, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 501 City Hall, Cleveland, Ohio.

BoRN: Aug. 5, 1905, Ashtabula, Ohio. parents: Theodore Hall, May Church-
ill Bearish.

PREPARED AT: Punahou School, Honolulu, T.H., Western High School,
Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

Marnie: Florence Rosalind Bacon, June 24, 1938, Auburn, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Timothy, March 10, 1942; Stephen Bacon, March 12, 1944; Deborah
Beamish, Oct. 16, 1948.

occupation: City Planner for Public Information, City Planning Commission,
Cleveland, Ohio.

MeMbeR OF: Rowfant Club (book-lovers); Novel Club (literary); American
Institute of Graphic Arts, New York (typography).

YOU have before you, gentlemen, a definitive specimen of the
magpie or jackdaw mind: the picker-upper of almost every sub-

[ 476 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ject under the sun, what theater people call a “quick study,” com-
bined with the convenient built-in forgetery. When I think of
what has gone in and out of this head in twenty-five years as a
writer by trade, I appall myself. Let me do the same to you.

Here’s a sampling, begining at the green or 1930 end; assistant
editor of the Harvard Graduates Magazine wnder Bernard
DeVoto; writing on such subjects as Harvard through the years
in fiction, and the inner workings of Widener Library; up-front
anecdotes in the New Yorker; miscellaneous. Research assistant
to Mark Sullivan on the World War I volume of Our Times. My
writing: the Lusitania; the Ford peace ship; the draft; canton-
ment life; conscientious objectors; Bergdoll, the death of Roose-
velt.

Three years as book editor of the Washington Post, doing a
daily column and Sunday articles. These ran to a million words
and dealt with exactly 1,434 books. Say two-thirds were non-
fiction, that means about goo separate subjects. (List will be
furnished on receipt of a self-addressed packing-box and $3.50 in
stamps. )

Later, special correspondence for the Post: the small-town side
of Columbus, Ohio; Army maneuvers at Ft. Knox, Kentucky; our
first with all-mechanized “Reds” against foot-slogging “Blues”;
Chautauqua, New York (old family summer home there), as a
center of culture and light.

_ Poetry: two love sonnets won me a first prize at Chautauqua,
and I started the poetry clinic in the Summer Schools there.

Book of inspirational essays with my brother-in-law, Dilworth
Lupton, a Unitarian minister in Cleveland (in 1937, and I’ve been
in Cleveland ever since).

Advertising leaflets for Carling’s Ale, made in Cleveland. You
know the privileges inside a brewery?

Nature study for children in a radio series for the Cleveland
Museum of Natural History: the kinds of houses that creatures
build, the ways they camouflage themselves, and so on; writing it,
and acting it with half a dozen youngsters— very good fun.
Promotional literature for Park School, a progressive private
school here. It promptly died.

War-time radio plays for the Office of Civilian Defense in the
Cleveland headquarters for Ohio, Indiana, West Virginia, and

[ 477 J

baeeteencaye”
pine NEB 214s SOLE EE HL AAS TET, /

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

big committee meetings, and other examples of the endless human
voice. I like living in a small house twenty miles out of Cleveland
with a sterling wife and three bright, cheerful children, me knee-
deep in the impedimenta of the young. These things are also
pretty interesting, as I have found. Airplane models, doll furni-
ture, model railroads, sky maps, fly-tying. . . . Why, where did
evervbody go?

SAMUEL McCLINTOCK HAMILL

HOME appRESS: Carter Road, Princeton, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. P. Stevens & Co., Inc., 1460 Broadway, N. Y.

BorN: March 6, 1906, Schenectady, N. Y. PARENTS: Samuel McClintock
Hamill, Maria W. Baldwin.

PREPARED AT: Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

marrieD: Margret LaFarge, Nov. 4, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Samuel A{cClintock, Jr. Jan. 24, 1939; Oliver LaFarge, Jan. 4, 1943;
Wilham Henry Baldwin, Oct. 29, 1946.

occupation: Salesmanager, Cotton Dry Goods Division, J. P. Stevens &
Company, Inc.; chairman of the board, Marion Manufacturing Com-
pany, Marion, N. C.

MEMBER OF: Union Club, Brook Club, Merchants Club, Harvard Club (all
of New York); Nassau Club, Princeton, N. J.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I became associated with Ridley Watts
& Company, a textile commission house. In 1930 this firm was
consolidated with J. P. Stevens & Company, Inc., also a textile
selling agency. I have been with this firm ever since, with the
exception of the war years when I served with the Navy as a lieu-
tenant, lieutenant commander, and commander.

GEORGE RUSSELL HAMILTON

HOME Appzess: 79 Arlington Ave., Berkeley 7, Calif.

OFFICE appress: 13th & Harrison, Oakland 12, Calif.

BorN: June 28, 1908, Watseka, Ill. parenrs: George Henry Hamilton, ’96,
Anna Russell.

Parparen at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931, DEGREES: A.B, 1930(31); M.D. (Univ. of Chi-
cago), 1937.

Mapnep: Ruby Lillian Owens, June 18, 1949, Highland, Ind, camp; Lee Ann,
Sept. 13, 1954.

[ 480 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member Town Board, Hartsburg, Ill., 1947-51; member Board
of Deacons, Arlington Avenue Congregational Church, Berkeley,
Calif.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Association of American Rail-
way Surgeons; B.P.O. Elks; Sigma Alpha Epsilon (life member);
Lincoln (Ill.) Country Club; Richmond (Calif.) Golf Club, Northern
California Golfers Association.

AFTER leaving the “Halls of Ivy” I spent the next several years
in newspaper work pursuing the elusive greenback to further my
work in graduate education. Fate was kind even during those
depression years and finally a medical degree was forthcoming.
Following the usual hospital training, I hung out my shingle in
downstate Illinois and practised medicine and surgery in the two
towns of Lincoln and Hartsburg, until the next war to end all
wars interrupted a fairly active rural practice.

In June, 1942, I was commissioned a first lieutenant in the
Army Medical Corps and began a new experience. After spend-
ing nine months, or thereabouts, in various posts in California,
when I learned to love the state, I was shipped to the Pacific
Theatre of Operations where I spent the next three years with
the famous 13th Air Force. Name the island and I believe I can
say I was there. On leaving the service in 1946, I returned to
Chicago and took postgraduate work at Cook County Hospital
and the University of Illinois.

Active practice of medicine was resumed in my previous
locality in downstate Illinois and at this time, in addition, I was
appointed a district surgeon for the Illinois Central Railroad,
which (though not especially remunerative) gave me a pass and
other privileges such as riding the locomotive And this was
most gratifying in satisfying my hobby of railroading.

Eventually I met an attractive high school teacher from the
University of Illinois and this acquaintance ripened until we
were married in June, 1949. This union made me very cognizant
of the powerful football teams at Champaign and many of our

Saturday afternoons were spent there during the football season.
Of course, while we were admiring the athletic prowess of my
wife’s Alma Mater, we did find time to journey back to Cam-
bridge on several occasions, so that my wife could see the “seat of

[ 481 ]

— ceed ORR LET ZTE a alana ins temtemmcenannmannteltl, |

HARVARD CLASS OF I930

learning.” Needless to say, during those excursions, football was
a taboo subject.

While on a vacation trip through the West in the summer of
i951, my wife fell in love with San Francisco and there was
nothing that we could do but migrate to the Golden Gate. Our
arrival in California was perfectly timed to witness the Illinois-
Stanford “track meet” in the Rose Bowl during January, 1952.
Since that date, we have daily become more enamoured of the
west coast and plan on residing here permanently.

This past fall we had a small addition to our household and,
though that is old hat to my classmates who now have grand-
children the same age, we feel better late than never, and now we
appreciate what they have gone through. Possibly, in the future,
a small son will be along to go back to dear old Harvard. In
closing, I think that a world of credit goes to Tom F. Mason for
rounding up and getting the Class of 1930 together and on the
ball for the Grand Old Twenty-fifth.

GEORGE PEABODY HAMLIN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Box 1565 Aramco, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.

OFFICE Appress: Arabian American Oil Co., Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.

BORN: July 13, 1906, Marion, Mass, pARENTs: George Peabody Hamlin, Mary
Tappan. |

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Edelgard Kohkemper Meza, March 8, 1939, Guatemala City,
Guatemala. cHipreNn: Mary Elizabeth, Dec. 28, 1939; Priscilla, March 21,
1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Tappan Hamlin, ’32.

occupation: Oil producing and refining; co-ordinator of Planning Division,
Arabian American Oil Company.

OFFices HELD: Member of Visiting Committee to Board of Overseers, Har-
vard University, to Departments of Sociology and Summer School,
during 1930's; director, Community Services, Inc., secretary, Lagunillas
Club; vice-president, Lions Club, Lagunillas, Venezuela; commander

(retired), U.S.N.R.

MEMBER OF: Systems and Procedures, Saudi Arabian branch.

FOLLOWING college, I worked in the State House in Boston
for Governor Ely’s Committee on Unemployment, Mr. William
Philips, chairman. During this same period I took some business

[ 482 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

courses at Boston University, sold insurance, and served on the
boards of a number of charitable organizations.

My first experience in foreign employment was with the United
Fruit Company in Honduras. I was transferred to Colombia and
subsequently to Guatemala. I met and married my wife in this
latter country. We were on our way to the United States for
vacation when the Pearl Harbor attack came. Before reaching the
States, I received orders to report to the 15th Naval District in
Panama and was kept at this post throughout the war, probably
because of my knowledge of Spanish and Latin countries.

After the war and following a vacation in Mexico, we went to
Maracaibo, Venezuela, with the Creole Petroleum Corporation.
I was in charge of industrial relations in districts such as
Lagunillas. The work was extremely interesting and involved
relations with our own employees, with the unions, and with
government officials. Subsequently, we were transferred to the
Maracaibo Division Headquarters of Creole, where we had the
coérdination of the industrial relations of five districts located
in two states.

While on vacation at Marblehead during the summer of 1950,
I was asked to transfer to the Arabian American Oil Company in
Saudi Arabia. I am located at the Dhahran Headquarters of this
company and spend most of my time in basic research, the evalua-
tion of programs, and the development of both short- and long-
range basic policies in the field of industrial relations. It is about
the most interesting type of work I can think of and is especially
important in foreign operations where our success and per-
manency of stay is primarily dependent on our relations with our
employees.

BERNARD DAVID HANIGHEN

MAILING ADDRESS: 476 Central Pk. W., New York, N. Y.

Born: April 27, 1908, Omaha, Nebr. parents: John Joseph Hanighen, Agnes
Cleary.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MaRRIED: Minerva Pious, July 1, 1939, New York, N. Y.

occuPATION: Music. |

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.
[ 483 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

WALTER STAUFFER HARDIE

HOME apprESS: 1506 Jackson Ave. New Orleans 13, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1148 S. Peters St., New Orleans, La.

BorN: March 15, 1907, New Orleans, La. parents: Lewis Hall Hardie,
Alice P, Stauffer.

PREPARED aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. ‘

MarrieD: Shirley Baer, December, 1935, Far Hills, N. J. (divorced 1938);
Dorothy Thomas, Feb. 6, 1948, New Orleans, La. cHILDREN: Eve,
March 15, 1937; Alice S, Sept. 27, 1948; Walter Stauffer, Jr., May 8,
1950.

occupation: Salesman, wholesale hardware.

MEMBER OF: Boston Club, New Orleans.

AFTER I left college, I started working for Kidder, Peabody &
Company, investment bankers in Boston. When they had to
liquidate after the 1929 crash, I was fired. My next venture into
business was in 1931 when I commenced to work for O’Brion,
Russell & Company of Boston, insurance brokers. In this field I
was able to earn a living until I volunteered for the Army Air
Force in November, 1940, as an aerial gunner. My rank was a
private. I became a second lieutenant in August, 1941. After
Pearl Harbor I was an observer patrolling the Atlantic coast for
German subs. November, 1944, found me on a ship bound for
the South Pacific as the briefing officer for a squadron of P 51
pilots, We were in all the large engagements with the Japanese:
Leyte, Manila, Okinawa, and Japan. I was discharged in March,
1946, when I was commissioned in the Air Force Reserves. My
present rank in the Reserves is major.

I started to work at my present vocation in January, 1947. My
wife and I like travelling, shooting, and fishing; we take our
children with us as much as possible whenever we indulge in these
activities. I have found that by adding side interests such as read-
ing, raising game chickens, and bird dogs, that the time flies,
especially when I attempt to do my share of charitable and civic
work,

[ 484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RAY IRVINE HARDIN

HOME appreEss: 22 N. Beechcroft Rd., Short Hills, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood, 31 Nassau St.,

New York 5, N. Y.

poRN: Aug. 22, 1908, Latonia, Ky. parENTS: Rowan Robert Hardin, Evelyn
Byrd Ray.

prepareD AT: Withrow High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 19303 LL.B., 1933.

MARRIED: Ruth Bowen Jillson, Nov. 17, 1940, Leonia, N. J. cHmpren: Ronald
Hunter, Sept. 10, 1941; Elizabeth Rowen, July 6, 1944; Douglas Ray,

April 30, 1947.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Johnson & Hardin Company, Cincinnati, Ohio.

MEMBER OF: Adirondack Mountain Club; American Bar Association; Amer-
ican Mathematical Society; American Radio Relay League; Association
for Symbolic Logic; Interstate Hiking Club; New York State Bar

Association,

FOLLOWING graduation from the Law School, I was em-
ployed by the firm of Root, Clark, Buckner & Ballantine, where
I have been ever since, although there have been several changes
in the firm name For the past nine years I have specialized in tax
law and, consequently, have found the recent enactment of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954 to be an event of almost too
absorbing interest.

Before my marriage in 1940, I found time to enjoy the hobbies
of music (singing in the Dessoff Choirs and in the New York
Oratorio Society), hiking, photography, and radio. The appear-
ance of a family and the resulting move to the suburbs put quite
a damper on such activities, but, as the children grow bigger and
able to participate, there is some chance to resume these hobbies
with even greater satisfaction. We have been spending our vaca-
tions in the Adirondacks and even the youngest can get along
nicely on the mountain trails, climbing Mt. Marcy at the age of
five (an ascent of more than 3000 feet and a round-trip of thir-
teen to fourteen miles). The older boy became interested in
amateur radio, so that two years ago we both obtained operator’s
licenses and each of us now operates transmitters under the
respective calls KzDQA and K2DQB. We have a family wood-
wind quartet (my daughter plays the oboe and others the alto,

[ 485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

tenor and bass recorders) with the youngest sometimes joining
with the piano.

We have recently had the opportunity to participate in the
organization of a new and rapidly growing Congregational
Church in Short Hills. My wife has been quite active in the
organization and operation of the Sunday School and I took part
in drafting the new church’s by-laws and am a member of the
board of deacons, the music committee, the architectural and
construction committee, and the church choir. —The members of
the church are very active participants in the church program
and we find working with them a highly rewarding experience.

FRANCIS APPLETON HARDING

HOME apoREss: Westfield Street, Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State House, Boston, Mass.

Born: March 21, 1908, Dedham, Mass. parents: Charles Lewis Harding,
‘oo, Harriette Appleton Knowles.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31).

marrieD: Caroline Goodwin Read, Oct. 3, 1930, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN:
Francis Appleton, Jr., Oct. 19, 1931; May Parker, Oct. 12, 1934; Caroline
Robinson, Jan. 6, 1939; Read Parker, Oct. 3, 1943; Henry Lewis, March
2, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Francis Appleton Harding, Jr., ’53.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Lewis Harding, Jr. 26; John Briard Harding, ’34.

occupation: Representative to the Massachusetts General Court.

OFFICES HELD: President, Dedham Rotary Club, 1941; member of the cor-
poration, Children’s Medical Center, member, Dedham Republican
Town Committee, Republican State Committee, 1949-54; chairman,
Committee to Elect Republican Representatives, 1954, member execu-
tive committee, Norfolk County Republican Club, 1950, Middlesex
Club, 1952.

MEMbER OF: International Order of Odd Fellows; Republican Club of
Massachusetts, State Club; General Council, 1953.

A SHORT while ago some one asked my eleven year old son,
Read, what his father did for a living, and he replied, “He’s a
Republican.”

This comment lacks nothing by way of accuracy, for since
graduation | have been chiefly concerned with partisan politics.

[ 486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I did work for F. L. Dabney & Company, stock brokers, for
two years; went to Law School for a year; and worked with
Francis Willey & Company, wool brokers, for two years. But
in 1936, my business career came to an abrupt end when I joined
the staff of the National Economy League.

This long-forgotten, non-partisan organization had the des-
perately forlorn objective of urging economy in government,
and out of my experience in it, I have never since had faith in the
effectiveness of non-partisan political organizations —at least
those interested in economy in government! During this time I
did a good deal of writing on political subjects both free-lance
and as a staff writer on a small international newspaper. Since
the war, I have been a member of the Massachusetts House of
Representatives, and have devoted full time to that and to the
organization of the Republican Party in Massachusetts.

No state representative can claim to have changed the world
much, but I am proud of two legislative achievements: the pas-
sage of the nation’s first law establishing a governmental organiza-
tion for the rehabilitation of those injured in industrial accidents,
which has attracted notice from as far away as New Zealand; and
a law signed last spring by Governor Herter establishing an execu-
tive government organization for the employment of the aging
—I am told another national first. My political life has been
filled with much activity, some successful, much frustrating —
but these two laws seem in my own mind to be my most enduring
political accomplishments.

My war service lasted four years. I entered the Army in 1942
as a private of Infantry, becoming a second lieutenant upon
graduation from the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia,
in 1943. I served overseas with the Office of Strategic Services
(OSS) and was assigned to the headquarters of the combined
American-British underground resistance in London, supervising
the war room. While doing this, I saw a great deal of Trilby
Coolidge and Hod F uller (both ’30), who were later engaged in
the field operations with the Maquis. For my service with the
combined headquarters, I was awarded the Order of the British
Empire, Military Division. I was later assigned to the United
States Strategic Bombing Survey, travelled extensively through
Germany and wrote that organization’s estimate of the effect of

[ 487 ]

Red

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

strategic bombing on one of Hamburg’s major submarine-build-
ing vards. I was discharged as a captain in 1946.

Bv far the most interesting thing about me is my family. If,
as I believe, the most and perhaps the only worthwhile task any
of us can do is to marry and raise a family, I have certainly shone
in that respect. My wife, Caroline, and I have five children, three
boys and two girls. My oldest son, Francis A., Jr., ’53, is now a
lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy and is doing barrel-rolls, Immelmann
turns, and the like at the aviation school in Pensacola, Florida.
Polly, my eldest girl, is to marry Daniel Pierce, ’56, this June;
Caroline is at Milton School; and as for Read, eleven, and Henry,
seven, they are just beginning the first painful steps toward be-
coming Harvard men.

Any man in politics, having a family of five children, ought to
have a hobby, even though he has neither the time nor the money
for it. Some collect stamps; others, African idols; I collect boats.
Beginning with an aluminum sailing pram bought off Macy’s
floor in 1946, the Harding Navy now consists of two prams, an
outboard fishing skiff, and a twenty-foot sailboat, which a lady
on the dock of the Cohasset Yacht Club described as a “miniature
yacht,” a description I cannot improve on. And yesterday I was
looking at a six-foot kayak at the boat show! These craft present
an upkeep comparable to that of about as many women, and, I
suspect, are hardly more popular with Caroline; but they keep
my mind off hydrogen bombs and election results very efficiently.

JOHN FRANCIS HARDING

HOME appress: 126 E. 61st St. New York 21, N. Y.

orrice appress: Cowles Magazines, Inc. Look Building, 488 Madison Ave.,
New York 22, N. Y.

BorN: April 25, 1908, Pittsfield, Mass. parents: Clark James Harding, Clara
Loretta Decker.

PuEPARED aT: Pittsfield High School, Pittsfield, Mass.

YEARS JN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1930} LL.B. 1934.

massizp: Anita Hutchinson, Sept. 2, 1934, Pittsfield, Mass. cHitp: Deborah
Ann, Aug. 8, 1940.

oucupation: Lawyer; publishing executive.

orricrs HELD: General counsel, member board of directors, since 1944, secre-
tary, since 1947, vice-president, since 1952, Cowles Magazines, Inc.

[ 488 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: University Club of New York City; Harvard Club of New
York City; Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Stock-
bridge Golf Club; Harvard Law School Association of New York.

pusLications: “Libel and Right of Privacy Problems Involved in the Publi-
cation of National Magazines,” University of Chicago Law School
Conference Series, Chicago Press, 1952.

AFTER graduation from Harvard Law School in 1934, I became
associated with one of the better-known New York City “Jaw
factories,” Cravath, deGersdorff, Swaine & Wood, where I prac-
tised for roughly — and I mean roughly — ten years. While with
that firm, I specialized in trial work and became concerned prin-
cipally with communications law, including radio, motion pic-
tures, and periodicals. Among other activities, I had the good
fortune to defend a number of important libel cases for most of
the leading magazine publishers, including Time, Inc., Curtis
Publishing Company, Esquire, Inc., and Cowles Magazines, Inc.
Two of the more widely publicized censorship trials in which I
was associate counsel involved the Life magazine “Birth of a
Baby” cases in 1938 and the Esquire magazine sparsely clad
“Varga Girls” and more down-to-earth “dirt” (as the Post Office
Department claimed) prose proceedings, first held in the Post
Office Department and later carried through the various Federal
Courts, successfully ending up in the United States Supreme
Court, 1943-46. |

In 1944, when Gardner Cowles, ’25, and John Cowles, ’20, ex-
panded their holdings to include several eastern radio stations and
additional publishing properties, it seemed good sense for me to
devote my efforts to acting as eastern counsel for all of the Cowles
properties. Since 1944, I have also served as a member of the board
of directors and general counsel of Cowles Magazines, Inc., which
publishes Look magazine bi-weekly (every other Tuesday).
Since 1952 my activities have been less strictly on the legal side
and more generally on the executive side. In that year I was
elected a vice-president and a member of the executive committee.
I do, however, keep my hand in litigation and get to try a case or
two every now and then.

My sports activity is still rather of the non-participant type,
although I do a fair amount of ice-skating.

[ 489 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

DAVID PERRY HARMON

HoME aporEss: 31 Condit Rd. Mountain Lakes, N, J.

porv: Jan. 20, 1907, Yonkers, N. Y. parents: George Howard Harmon,
Marion Grant Leslie.

prepakeD at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

miarriep: Marie-Louise Baumann, June 22, 1935, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
David, Sept. 7, 1937; Mary Louise and Victoria (twins), July 2, 1941.

occvpation: Public accountant.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

GORHAM BACON HARPER

HOME appREsS: Summer Street, Yarmouth Port, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Capeway TV Service Co. South Yarmouth, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Richard M. H. Harper, ’o1,
Mabel Simpkins Bacon.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, 1934-35. DEGREE: S.B., 1930(35).

MargigD: Ravmah Allen Davis, Nov. 27, 1936, Maryland. campren: Gorham
Bacon, Jr, July 15, 1937; Constance, April 11, 1939.

occupation: Teacher; parmer in TV-Radio sales and service company.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher, Ridgefield School, 1934-38, Avon Old Farms School,
1938-44, Trinity College, 1944, Barnstable High School, 1945-46; tax
collector, Town of Yarmouth, 1948-52.

AFTER college I worked a year with Dewey & Almy Chemical
Company in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Then I served fifteen
years in the teaching profession. These were happy years and
carry a multitude of good memories. In 1945 we moved to
Yarmouth Port, Cape Cod, where my wife and I live now (and
the children when they are home from school). Gorham, Jr., is
a junior at Avon Old Farms School, and Constance is at House
in the Pines School in Norton, Massachusetts.

At this point, I am looking forward to resuming my career as a
school teacher down here on the Cape. My hobbies include sail-
ing, swimming, and fishing, as well as repairing old clocks! Eight
vears ago, I became a student of Christian Science and am a mem-

ber of the branch church in Hyannis and the Mother Church
in Boston.

[ 490]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALLACE RUSSELL HARPER

HOME ADDRESS: 1226 Murrayhill Ave., Pittsburgh 17, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: One Gateway Center, Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

BoRN: Oct. 27, 1909, Ottumwa, Iowa. parents: Clarence Samuel Harper, ’9g,
Elisabeth Chamberlain.

PREPARED AT: Ottumwa High School, Ottumwa, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930,

MARRIED: Marybeth Lowenberg, Sept. 1, 1931, Ottumwa, Iowa. . CHILDREN:
Wallace Russell, Jr., Feb. 14, 1933; John Christian, Feb. 10, 19343 Ann,
March 17, 1935; Thomas Houston, June 6, 1948.

HARVARD SON: John Christian Harper, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Rayner Harper, ’28.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of glass sales, Pittsburgh Plate Glass
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Boston Executives Association, 1945-47; Chairman,
Republican Town Committee, Hingham, Mass., 1944-46, Boston Resi-
dent Committee, 1936-46; president, Glass Employees Group of Boston,
1945-46; trustee, Derby Academy, 1943-47; corporator, Western Penn-
sylvania School for Blind Children, since 1951; member, 1950-55, vice-
chairman, Regions, Class Committee, 1954-55; director, Harvard Alumni
Association, 1953-55.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and Western Pennsylvania; Harvard-
Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh; University Club of Pittsburgh; Pitts-
burgh Golf Club; Duquesne Club.

IN August of 1930, I reported to work for the company by whom
[am still employed. I was engaged in a training course, so that by
May of 1931, when I was sent to St. Louis, I had worked in
Baltimore, Maryland, Clarksburg, West Virginia, Ford City and
Creighton, Pennsylvania, and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In St. Louis
it was good to become reacquainted with Archer O'Reilly, Sr.
and Jr., his brother Noel, and Virgil Rule, all good Harvard men.

Marybeth and I were married on September 1, 1931, with my
roommate, Vic Nissen, Arch O'Reilly, and Virg Rule in attend-
ance. As the Depression deepened, our family grew, but we
were very happy. Our two boys were born in St. Louis and Ann
in Birmingham, Alabama, where we had moved in 1934.

On January 1, 1936, I was transferred to Boston as assistant
manager of our branch and was made manager on December 1,
1937. After living in West Newton and Norwell, we settled in
Hingham for the next nine most enjoyable years of our lives. My
work and my family were my hobbies during this period, but I

[4or ]

Se ne oe eae aN ANd idan ce oeanneamiae thane ton tememsnaanmnidiedtlas LL ”

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

also enjoved outside activities, mainly civic, such as being a
member of the Hingham Advisory Board, trustee of Derby
Academy, and being chairman of the Hingham Republican Town
Committee. Hingham was a small town but we exercised a great
deal of influence in reorganizing the State Committee and its
work. After taking several defeats, we finally put Bradford into
the governorship over Tobin (Dever was elected after I left
Massachusetts! ).

One of the most rewarding experiences during this period was
that of reorganizing our Class Committee following the Sixth
Reunion, assisting in the holding of our Tenth and Fifteenth
Reunions, and getting started for the long pull of preparing for
this, the Twenty-fifth, I was supposed to be more important at
my job than in the service, so missed that which played an im-
portant part one way or the other in the lives of so many of you.
Barrett Hoyt and I] ““pinch- -hit” for Lewey Wadsworth as Class
Agent and I have had great respect for that position ever since!

We enjoyed the seashore and Hingham Yacht Club, and finally
acquired a sailboat in 1936. We had just bought a lovely old house
on Hingham Harbor when I learned I was to be transferred to our
headquarters in Pittsburgh, April 1, 1947. Frankly the move was
a tough “wrench.” Life was different, in that we lived in the city,
and I travelled a great deal, especially during the first few years.
One advantage, however, was the chance afforded to see various
classmates and other friends throughout the country, and on
several occasions to be the guest at Class luncheons or dinners
organized in advance. We were blessed with the birth of Tommy
in June, 1948, and he is now enrolled at Shadyside Academy.

Having been manager of plate glass sales, 1 was made vice-
president in charge of glass sales on July 1, 1952.

Each summer since coming to Pittsburgh we have gone to
Canada, at first to Timagami where Wally was in camp, and the
last five years to Ahmic Lake, Ontario, We enjoy swimming,
fishing, and sailing. I have acquired a Three-D camera as an
additional hobby.

Have been a Presbyterian all my life but, marrying an Episco-
palian and now with four Episcopalian children, I was confirmed

in May of 1953. The church means more to us as we grow older
as I'm sure many of you have found. Pittsburgh is becoming a

[ 492 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

great, as well as a clean city. Its population is serious, essentially
religious, and interested in people. The Harvard-Yale-Princeton
Club here is unusual as well as delightful. It could almost become
a hobby!

Another hobby of Marybeth’s and mine is following Harvard
football. It was much easier to do from Hingham than now, but
whereas we took in all of the games then, even during the “in-
formal” days of wartime, we still see one or two a year, and par-
ticularly the Yale gare. I am an enthusiastic supporter of Lloyd
Jordan’s fundamental single wing football. Now, as a member of
the Schools and Scholarship Committee of the Harvard Club of
Western Pennsylvania, I take pardonable pride in “our boys” —
Joe Ross, Bill Meigs, Dick Oehmler, Sammy Fyock, Art Painter,
Matt Botsford, ‘Ted Metropoulos, etc. (we hope).

Our two boys attended Shadyside Academy in Pittsburgh, and
Ann, the Ellis School, Westover, and Sanford at Hockessin;
Delaware. Wally, Jr., is now at Bowdoin (Class of ’55), where he
blows a mean trumpet in the Polar Bear Five Dixieland Jazz Band,
and has earned trips to Bermuda, the Azores, Europe, and Africa.
John is at Harvard, Class of ’55. If our luck holds, we shall have
. three graduations and a Reunion in the space of a long week.

We'll see you all in Cambridge! -

GERALD WALLACE HARRINGTON

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Mathewson Rd., Barrington, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Edwards & Angell, 15 Westminster St., Providence, R. I.

BoRN: Jan. 31, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George Wheaton Harrington,
‘oo, Marian Augusta Andrews.

PREPARED AT: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926—1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

MarRiED: Catherine Habich Phillips, Oct. 6, 1934, Providence, R. I. (divorced
1947); Eleanor Meredyth Springer, Jan. 1, 1949, Fall River, Mass.
CHILDREN; Gerald Wallace, Jr., April 17, 1937; Phillips, April 25, 1939;
Brian Amory, March 18, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carroll Harrington, ’24.

OccuPATION: Trial attorney; partner in firm,

OFFIces HELD: Member Steering Committee, Charter League; treasurer, Sail-
ing Unlimited, Inc.; vice-president, Big Brothers of Rhode Island, Inc.;
director, Howard Realty Company, Somerset Realty Company, Wins-
low Realty Company, Providence Y.M.C.A.; past president, Tiverton

[ 493 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Lions Club; past zone chairman, Zone III, District 4z (R. I.) Lions
International, past deputy district governor, Zone HI for Lions Inter-
national, district governor, District 42, 1953-54; member Fire Prevention
Committee, Providence Chamber of Commerce, deputy fire co-ordi-
nator, State of Rhode Island, 1941-42.

MEMBER OF: Delta Sigma Rho; Rhode Island Bar Association; Barrington
Yache Club; Harvard Club of Rhode Island.

pustications: Co-author of Auxiliary Fireman’s Manual, State of Rhode
Island; co-author of Citisen’s Defense Manual, State of Rhode Island.

UPON graduation from Harvard Law School in 1933, in common
with so many of my Class, I trod the streets looking for a job.
Finally I was lucky enough to be taken in from the cold blasts of
an economically inhospitable world by Edwards & Angell in
Providence, Rhode Island, where I have remained continuously
since 1933, with the exception of approximately three years on
active duty in the Naval Reserve during World War II. From
about 1935 to 1940 I worked with Charter League, a small citizen’s
group in the City of Providence, to bring about a change in the
outmoded form of city government which then existed. After a
prolonged campaign for a City Manager P.R. system, we finally
indulged in the white man’s alleged virtue and compromised with
the politicians on a strong mayor council plan of government.
We now have one of the best municipal systems of fiscal control
in the country and things have definitely taken a turn for the
better as a result of the work of this group. This whole thing was
done on a non-partisan basis which meant that each party charged
us with sabotage and secretly being members of the opposite
party. We really believe that near the climax we could hear
Boss Brayton rolling over in his grave.

Following Law School, I took up skiing (which I was very
fond of) for several years, but had to give it up due to a knee
injury

When World War II came along, I started out working in
Civilian Defense; went through the War Department’s Civilian
Protection School at Amherst, Massachusetts, and was Deputy
Fire Coérdinator of the State of Rhode Island. 1 wrote a citizen’s
defense manual and also, in collaboration with a deputy chief of
the Providence Fire Department, a training manual for auxiliary
firemen.

I was commissioned a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Naval Reserve

[ 494 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on October 12, 1942, and went on active duty on December 22,
1942, being placed on inactive status with the rank of lieutenant
commander in October, 1945. I was aide to two successive com-
manding officers at the United States Naval Air Station, Quonset
Point, Rhode Island, with collateral duty as deputy fire marshal
and then security officer at the Naval Operating Base, Midway,
with collateral duty as legal assistance officer for about 10,000
men. I became a specialist in the training and command of avia-
tion crash and rescue crews, in analyzing “Dear John” letters
for the dungareed, non-paying clients, and bailing them out of
an endless variety of messes with the least possible damage to
purse and personality. Shore time was spent consorting with the
gooney birds who have been much maligned and overrated as a
flight hazard by the Air Force.

In 1945 I became interested in a community sailing project for
underprivileged children in Providence, called Sailing Unlimited,
Inc., and served as its first treasurer. In 1947 I was appointed to
the Fire Prevention Committee of the Providence Chamber of
Commerce, in which capacity I served some six years.

Upon my return from the wars, I became interested in Lions
International and joined the Tiverton, Rhode Island, Club. I
finally wound up as president of this organization, then holding
successive state and district offices until I served as District Gov-
ernor for the forty-second District (R. I.) during the years 1953-
54, with some 3000 men and thirty-two clubs under my jurisdic-
tion. I have found this work rewarding, interesting, and leading
to an appreciation of my fellow man.

In 1953 I was elected to the board of directors of Big Brother
of Rhode Island, Inc., and I am now vice-president of this organi-
zation. I have also been much interested in the local Y.M.C.A.
and serve on its board of directors.

During my checkered career I have tangled with a number of
hurricanes in one way or another. In 1938 I moved into the City
of Providence as soon as the waters had subsided, armed with an
old quarry pump which I had hired out in the country and car-
ried into town in a station wagon; then spent four or five days
pumping out my family’s buildings.

In September, 1944, when the then current hurricane was prac-
tically upon us, I — as the reserve officer nearest and most quickly

[ 495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

at hand — was appointed Damage Control Officer at Quonset.
I had quite an evening on that occasion. This year we bought a
new house right on the edge of the Barrington River so were
ensconsed with all our goods and chattels when “Carol” came
into the front parlor and really jobbed us. It took about five
months to clean up the mess, but the good aspects of the situation
were ten pounds loss of weight and a bona fide income tax deduc-
tion, which anybody could well envy. You should have seen us,
squeegees in hand and casting a weather eye for displaced wharf
rats.

The house we now live in was originally built by a brick
tycoon and is quite a place. It is kind of a cross between the
Taj Mahal and the ruins at Stonehenge. However, the best that
“Carol” and “Edna” had to offer did not even riffle the founda-
tion. There is plenty of room for visiting classmates, sundry
children and others, and the welcome mat is always out. It also
affords a pleasing echo when you play on the slide trombone.

I am now a partner in my law firm and specialize in the trial
and preparation of litigation. I am a member of the Bar of the
United States Supreme Court, Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit, the United States District Courts for the Districts of
Massachusetts and Rhode Island, the Massachusetts Supreme Judi-
cial Court, and the Rhode Island Supreme Court. I am a member
of the Rhode Island Bar Association.

My prinicipal hobby now is boating, and Pat and I charter a
good-sized craft and go off for a cruise about every other year.
In 1952 we had a delightful trip to Europe and fell in love with
Austria, and hope to return at the earliest possible moment. In
1949 we went to Mexico and later to Labrador and Newfoundland.

In perspective, my life has been a rewarding one and if I had to
live it over again, I would still like to follow my profession as I
have. But I guess it is true that most lawyers live well and die
poor. :

As I look back on Harvard, I cannot cease to marvel at the
temerity and forbearance of those who were responsible for
giving me two Harvard degrees. In the day when the big lie
seems to be valued so highly as an instrumentality both of inter-
national relations and domestic politics, the desire to pursue
truth which was inculcated in us at Harvard becomes the more

[ 496 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

refreshing and fundamentally valuable with each passing day.
As far as I can make out, nobody has yet found a satisfactory
substitute for common or garden integrity; the progress that I
see made by some accompanied by violation of all of its prin-
ciples seems to me gained at the same ultimate cost as the finan-
cial ease achieved by marrying a rich but ugly widow. In the
long run, both things earn you your money the hard way.

We are looking forward to the coming Twenty-fifth upon
which we shall descend en famille, with full expectation of re-
viving old friendships, acquiring muscular and other aches, and
receiving multiple injections of sundry intellectual stimuli which
are probably long overdue — until then, then!

JOHN GODFREY HARRIS

HOME AppREss: 76 Blake Rd., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Globe, 244 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: March 7, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George Harris, Mary Winifred
Casey.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MaRRIED: Margaret D. Owens, July 15, 1932. cHiLDREN: Margaret, July 1,
1937; Charlotte, Sept. 1, 1939; Mary, Oct. 20, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Political editor.

MEMBER OF: National Press Club; Clover Club of Boston.

WORKED for the Boston Globe in the Sports Department while
at college, and went on city staff there on graduation. Entire work
has been in enjoyable newspaper world. Have covered every sort
of story from an upside-down baby to the atom bomb blast at
Bikini. For years have reported local, state, and national politics;
covered national conventions since Roosevelt’s second; covered
campaigns and elections; travelled the country with presidential
candidates, F, D., Truman, Eisenhower (Dewey, Truman, and
Adlai in one memorable year); covered the Bermuda Conference;
for past few years have been Washington correspondent.
During World War II, spent two years plus in the Navy, PRO,
mainly in Washington; now a lieutenant commander in the Navy
Reserve. Newspaper has been my hobby as well as my work, a
swell combination. You really get to see some of this planet and

[ 497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

its leading personalities, a great show, Relaxation has been home
with mv wife and children — when I can get there — and time 1
manage to spend in conversation with friends.

ALBERT GAILORD HART, I

HOME appREss: 45 Circle Drive, Hastings on Hudson, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 504 Fayverweather Hall, Columbia University, New York 27,
N. Y.

BorN: March 9, 1909, Oak Park, Ill. parents: Hastings Hornell Hart, Joseph-
ine Newton.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N. Y.; South High
School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1930; PHD.
(Univ. of Chicago), 1936.

MarkieD: Ann Webster, July 28, 1936, Estes Park, Colo. CHILDREN: Josephine

Webster, May 5, 1937; Mary Gailord, April 20, 1940; Stephen Albert,
Feb. 14, 1946.

occupation: Professor of economics; editorial adviser, Harcourt Brace &
Company; consultant.

OFFicés HELD: Member editorial board, 1943-46, executive committee, 1951-53,
Amenican Economic Association.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association, Royal Economic Society;
Econometric Society; Century Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Debts and Recovery, 1938; Expectations, Uncertainty and
Dynamic Planning, 1940 (1950); Paying for Defense (with E. D. Allen),
1941; Money Debt and Economic Activity, 1948 (1953); Social Frame-
work of the American Economy (with J. R. Hicks), 1945; Defense
Without Inflation, 1951, Financing Defense (with E. Cary Brown),
1951; Defense and the Dollar, 1953.

THE economist’s life might be rather unexciting except for his
built-in alarmism. True, he may get in a jam (as one friend of
mine has) if the FBI hears from some high-grade moron what he
thought was said when the economist put an end to a boresome
lunch on the excuse he must attend a meeting of economists. But
his main fascination is to watch a succession of events that look
as if they may go catastrophically wrong, and enjoy a series of
pleasant surprises. War inflation petered out in 1942 despite the
failure of taxes and monetary policy to pass a level that the OPA
certified would “insure the disregard of law.” The plausible
forecast of eight to ten million unemployed in 1946 was falsified.
Just as we had got used to a perspective of successive inflationary

[ 498 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“rounds” of wage and price increases in 1948, they stopped. The
recession of 1948-50, after teetering some months at the upper
edge of the zone regarded as serious, started to fix itself in early
1950, and Korean hostilities barred a fresh downturn. The
threatened breakdown of government farm policy through ac-
cumulation of surpluses was postponed by World War II and
again by the commodity boom of 1950-51. The renewed infla-
tion of 1950-51 never picked up momentum again after its check
in early 1951. The recession of 1953-54 proved very gentle and
apparently stabilized at a tolerable level in 1954.

Naturally I wasn’t one of the economists who managed to be
wrong about all these developments; but I was one of those who
managed to be worried about all of them. Now we can worry
about the question whether this country is really capable of a
perpetual building boom, or (contrary to all its history) is now
capable of sustained prosperity without a building boom.

Economic theory and madrigal singing (two hobbies that mix
better than you might think) were already established among my
central interests in sophomore year. They were confirmed by
my year in Europe as Sheldon Fellow in 1930-31; and I also dis-
covered a need for outdoor life and an occasional spell in the
mountains. My new-found craving for mountains I immediately
took to the flats of the Middle West, where I was based for fifteen
years, as graduate student and instructor at the University of
Chicago down to 1939, as associate professor and professor at
Iowa State from 1939 to 1943, and as research economist with the
Committee for Economic Development in 1944-46. This flat-
land existence was punctuated by a summer in New Deal Wash-
ington in 1934, two terms at London in 1934-35, summer in the’
mountains and a semester at Berkeley after I captured myself a
wife in 1936, a slummy autumn in New York on a Twentieth
Century Fund job in 1937, several trips to the Rockies while in
lowa, and a year of tax-policy work at the Treasury in Washing-
ton in 1943-44.

Going to lowa State supposedly as economic theorist, I soon
found myself getting wrapped up in economic-policy questions.
At the start of the war inflation, our group of economists got
excited enough to produce a joint book on ways to check it; and
I got involved also in a jumbo professional-opinion-cum-monster-

[ 499 ]

—rerinensapon tt nicht eet St ela Da ARAN NARA eA a, Mencia nag

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ALVIN VINCENT HART

HOME aporess: 165 Upland Rd. Waban 68, Mass.

orice aporess: Davis Square Mattress Corp., North Cambridge, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 2, 1906, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: John P. Hart, Elizabeth P,
Sullivan.

PREPARED at: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.,; Public Latin
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

Marriep: Anne Virginia Sawtelle Bradbury, Dec. 29, 1938. CHILDREN: Alvin
Vincent, Jr. Oct. 23, 1939; Penelope Anne, Sept. 13, 1942; Bradbury
Sawtelle, Jan. 10, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Howard Francis Lester Hart, ’28.

occupation: Treasurer, Davis Square Mattress Corporation.

orFices HELD: Treasurer, Waban Troop 9, Boy Scouts; district representative,
Cub Scouts.

WE, as a family, have spent most of our time living contentedly
here in Waban. Our three nice children have followed the normal
pursuits of normal children, and Mrs. Hart and I have tried to
keep abreast of them by serving on Boy Scout and Girl Scout
committees, Cub Scouts, Halloween organizations, and numerous
other local groups. Since the time is drawing near when our
children will be married and away from us, we intend to make the
most of what is left.

I am treasurer of a company which manufactures bedding and
upholstered furniture for hotels and institutions.

FRANK FRAZER HART

HOME ADDRESS: 350 N. Pleasant Ave., Ridgewood, N. J.

OFFice appress: 101 Willoughby St., Brooklyn 1, N. ¥.

BorN: Dec. 23, 1907, Union Springs, Ala. PARENTS: James Joel Hart, Lola
Hannah Frazer.

PREPARED AT: Barton Academy, Mobile, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

Makritp: Dorothy Bates Webb, Dec. 30, 1933, Brooklyn, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Frank Frazer, Jr. Feb. 15, 1937 (died April 21, 1937); Helen Diana,
Dec. 14, 1939; Curtis Webb, Feb. 7, 1946.

ovpation; Accounting supervisor, results analysis, New York Telephone
Company.

osvices HELD; Chicf Feather Awards Distributor, Cub Pack 21, Ridgewood,
N. J.

[ 502 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MEMBER OF: Jackson Heights Horticultural Society (defunct).
puBLicaTions: “Perchance to Dream,” Harvard Alumni Bulletin, Feb. 7,
1953-

THE owls were bearing the banks away when I began working in
New York after graduation and now that the banks are back
filled to the gunwales with quasi-Confederate money, it is hard for
me to note any difference. What a bunch of tender apple blossoms
we were, we who studied economics under Lauchlin Currie and
Harry Dexter White or learned about the rites of spring from
Farnest Hooton,

Although I have difficulty remembering Mama, I recall clearly
that President Lowell told us in his baccalaureate that there was not
enough wisdom in the world. At the time it seemed like a truism,
something I could have said myself, but it was not true then or
now. There is plenty of wisdom in the world if we will only take
the trouble to dust it off and use it and not be distracted by
scream-shriek journalism or the raucous bleating of the politician
selling a panacea that will not last out the week.

In my own case, I have been able to sublimate a corroding
Commissar-Complex that I had in the "30’s that demanded that I
get festooned with all manner of civic garbage conferred for good
community works. Now that my hearing is not bad enough to
warrant the use of a hearing aid or good enough to pick up
mumbles accurately, I have accidentally developed a penchant
for mishearing which often makes more sense than what is actually
said. An advertising friend of mine, addicted to Kipling, puts a
bevy of models recruited from Madison Avenue and Minsky’s
on a plane bound for the Midwest to dedicate a brewery. I
stood by him as, overcome with emotion, he waved the plane off
with “Far called their navels melt away.” A customer man’s
speaking of interest bearing blondes adds to the happy confusion
of my world.

My work is now related to the analysis of efficiency indices
and quite interesting even though I am surrounded by Bachelors
of Science in arithmetic who admit they don’t know how Hamlet
turned out and are proud of not knowing.

I have found one wife to be sufficient. Though she is no longer
active in the ballet, she continues her interest in it, but most of
the time she can spare is devoted to oil painting and hobnobbing

[ 503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

with artists among whom the acid differences churned up by
money are muted. When she sold some paintings recently, she
became difficult to live with for a while, but she is now inured to
such triumphs. Sometimes there is a faint suspicion of turpentine
in the food, but we are grateful that she has not taken up after-
noon bridge or joined up with the sleeping pill crowd. Her
knowledge of Shakespeare, while awesome in scope, is joyful by
nature and so much better than that learned in the Kittredge
dissecting room.

As for a hobby, I have done assumed writing under my own
name. For the Republican Party I offered the milking stool as a
campaign symbol for use in 1952 through the New York Herald-
Tribune. To the New York World-Telegram I pointed out that
its crusade against noise at airports had missed the main effect
which was overpopulation in Jackson Heights due to the planes’
waking up innocent people in the middle of the night. At present
I am engaged in a study of “micro- and macro-mastia according to
geographical distribution on the North American continent.” It
is intended for use by the hep boys in the garment foundation
indus

Life in the suburbs is good but for one thing —I get nervous
watching middle-aged, fat men panting after their power mowers.
I should get used to that, too, before long; but now, right now,
I am grateful for this chance of whinnying onto fields usually
reserved for self-praise.

CHARLES FREDERICK HARTNETT

HOME appress: Meadow House, Dover, N. H.

oFFice aporess: Masonic Bldg. Dover, N. H.

noan: Sept. 13, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: John Edward Hartnett, Anna
C. Foley.

pasparep aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; LL.B. 1933.

mMansizp: Helen F. Gillespie, June 3, 1939, Auburndale, Mass. CHILDREN:
Charles Frederick, Jr., March 8, 1940, John G., Oct. 6, 1942; Mary Anne,
Dec. 28, 1947; Anthony §. May 5, 1950.

wauvanD buoTHER: John Edward Hartnett, Jr., ’29; LL.s., 732.

occupation; Lawyer; trustee, banker,

[ 504 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, chairman of the board, Lakeport National
Bank, Laconia, N. H.; member, 1949-52, majority leader, 1951-52, New
Hampshire Senate; member, 1947-48, chairman Dover delegation, New
Hampshire Legislature; vice-chairman, New Hampshire Legislative
Council, 1950-51; Dover city solicitor, 1940-42; Republican candidate
for Mayor, 1943; county solicitor, 1940; trustee, Wentworth Hospital,
1952-54; clerk and counsel, 1953-54; director and officer, Dover Com-
munity Concert Association, 1942-55; director, Rochester Community
Concert Association, 1940-42, Rotary Club, 1941-43; officer and director,
Dover Recreation Association, 1942-46; member and committee chair-
man, American Bar Association, New Hampshire Bar Association; mem-
ber Rationing Board, Dover, 1941-44; adviser, Dover Draft Board, 1943-
48; counsel to Dover Area Civilian Defense Council, 1951-54; director,
Cochecho Country Club; member, Mountain View Golf Team, White-
field, N. H., 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Cochecho Country Club; Union Boat Club, Boston, 1935-45;
Harvard Club of Boston, 1933-40; Boston Opera Association, 1946-55;
Mountain View Golf Club; Oyster Harbors Golf Club; Piping Rock
Club.

MY oldest son is at Andover. My travels include trips to Ber-
muda, Haiti, Cuba, Saguenay, and the usual treks in the United
States. My most recent hobby, 1951-1954, has been opposing
(along with Louis de Rochemont, Bill Saltonstall, Thomas La-
mont, et al. of Exeter) the political mislocation of the Portsmouth-
Newington Air Base — with interim success but ultimate loss to
Senator Bridges. I am still living on twenty acres or so in the
country. Last year we attended my wife’s reunion at Radcliffe.

HARRY MATTHEW HARTNETT

HOME ADDRESS: 133 Washington St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: General Dyestuff Co., 85 Tockwotten St., Providence, R. I.

BORN: Aug. 3, 1908, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Hartnett, Ella J.
Power.

PREPARED AT: Franklin Academy, Malone, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930,

MarRigeD: Katherine Grace Lynch, July 17, 1937, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Anne C., Dec. 3, 1938; Harry D., June 23, 1942; Mary C., May 26, 1946.

occupation: Salesman of dyestuffs and chemicals.

OFFICES HELD: National counselor, American Association of Textile Chemists
and Colorists, 1940-42.

[ s05 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MEMBER OF: American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists; Dry-
salrers Club of New England, Napachi Gun Club.

SHORTLY after graduation I joined the General Dyestuff Cor-
poration, and spent the first two years in training at their Boston
and New York offices and laboratories. I was then given a job
in sales, mainly dyestuffs and chemicals, for the textile trade in
New England. As the “cub” salesman of the Boston office, the
accounts assigned to me were by no means the most lucrative in
the territory; and the 1932 depression caused a sharp drop in
textile production. However, our sales organization was kept
intact, New England's textile mills gradually came back to life,
and the world began to look much more attractive. Sales work
has continued to prove most interesting. Despite the travelling,
reports involved, etc., it has never proved boresome and it would
still be my first choice again.

Our three children, tw. o girls and a boy, are healthy individuals,
who certainly can pack a lot into each day; but somehow, their
competent and lovable mother keeps up with their many activities.
My son, aged twelve, is greatly interested in sports and has the
physical requirements necessary for a good tackle, so maybe I
shall obtain some good seats later for future football games.

Vacations, except for a family trip to Bermuda, have been
mostly spent at Cape Cod, which, despite its steadily growing
popularity, still retains in some spots its old charm. I still play
some golf, but with decreasing frequency each year it seems, and
I do some skeet shooting whenever my schedule and that of the
Gun Club are in agreement. Occasional trips to Cape Cod for
duck shooting round out my somewhat limited sports program.

My political beliefs are quite generally Republican, particularly
after viewing some of the experiments and fallacies of the New
Deal era. However, I have considerable respect for some Demo-
crats of the type exemplified by Senators Byrd and George, who
would —in my humble opinion—be a credit to any political

party.

[ 506 j

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ FRANCIS BROWN HATHAWAY

BoRN: Sept. 18, 1907, Berlin, Germany. parents: John Gael Hathaway,
Claudia Church.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

pieD: Feb. 9, 1935, New Bedford, Mass.

IN 1931 Hathaway reported that he held a position with Charles
S. Ashley & Sons. He died after a long illness.

FREDERICK HAWKINS

MAILING appRESS: 66 Fifth Ave., New York 11, N. Y.

Born: April 23, 1909, Trinidad, Colo. parents: Eugene Gilbert Hawkins,
Myrtle Minnie Cunning.

PREPARED AT: Northeast High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929, 193!-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(32).

occupaTion: Theatre. .

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

RUSSELL GEORGE HAWORTH

HOME appREss: P.O. Box 255, Carlsbad, N. Mex.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Potash Co. of America, P.O. Box 31, Carlsbad, N. Mex.

BoRN: April 29, 1910, Parkman, Wyo. PARENTS: Robert Elwood Haworth,
Preppa Belle Halepeska.

PREPARED AT: Sheridan High School, Sheridan, Wyo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: S.B. IN M.E., 1931.

MARRIED: Lucille Hendricks, June 14, 1933, Sheldon, Iowa.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of production, resident manager,
Potash Company of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional papers for mining magazines.

IT has been an unusually quiet, hot New Mexico evening and in
lieu of something better to do, I idly approached a desk piled high
with debris with the firm intent of clearing things away. An inch
or two below some recent bills, which can wait a few more days,
I was shocked to find a reminder that the first twenty-five years
of a career needed summarizing.

It started with a letter from a professor to the general manager
of a mining company, recommending the bearer, who was polite

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

enough, or naive enough, not to read it. The day after presenting
the letter, I found that I was to start as a mucker for the Home-
stake Mining Company in Lead, South Dakota. During the first
three years, | worked up to a job as contract miner. In retrospect,
this three-year course proved to be of more value than a Ph.D,
degree. |

After a few years as a mine shift boss for the same company,
I moved on to mine gold in the Philippines, copper in Arizona,
coal in Washington, chrome in Montana, and potash in New
Mexico. Via the commercial fertilizer route, potash from New
Mexico is in the food you eat, the cotton you wear, the cigarettes
you may smoke, and the bourbon you may drink. It seems safe
to assert that molecules of Carlsbad potash are churning vigor-
ously in the bloodstream of every member of the Class of ’30. In
order that this supply will not diminish, we are now working on
design of new continuous mining machines and on planning of
freezing of water-bearing ground to over 2000 feet in depth to
sink a shaft for more.

My wife has the faculty of enjoying life and has always a long
list of projects. She panned for gold in the Black Hills, raised
pineapples, papayas and tropical flowers in the Philippines. Now
she is an enthusiastic hunter of arrowheads, and a gardener.

Although we still like to travel, there has been little opportunity
to do so in recent years. But we are looking forward to a trip
to Cambridge in June, 1955.

SHERMAN STRONG HAYDEN

HOME Appress: 68 Moore Ave., Worcester 2, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Clark University, Worcester 10, Mass.

BORN: Feb, 9, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Warren Sherman Hayden,
Elizabeth Strong.

PREPARED AT: Hawken School, Lyndhurst, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B, 1930; LL.B., 1933; AM. (Columbia
Univ.), 1936; pH.v. (ibid.), 1942.

MakkieD: Marjorie Kearsley Mallett, July 5, 1932, London, England. cy-
bREN: Clare, March 2, 1935; Lorna, Nov. 13, 1936; Christopher Mallett,
Dec. 8, 1938.

occupation: Associate professor of international relations.

[ 508 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in government, Columbia University, 1938-42; assist-
ant to president, Foreign Policy Association, 1942-44; assistant professor,
1946-50, associate professor, since 1950, Clark University; chairman,
Worcester Foreign Policy Association, 1951-54.

MEMBER OF: American Political Science Association; Academy of Political
Science, American Society of International Law, Foreign Policy Asso-
ciation; Americans for Democratic Action; American Civil Liberties
Union; National Audubon Society; Century Club.

PUBLICATIONS: International Protection of Wild Life; number of articles.

I WENT directly from college to law school and was married at
the end of my second year. I returned with my wife to Cleveland,
my home city, and got a job with Squire, Sanders & Dempsey,
a large law firm. There I remained two years, during a good part
of which I was attached to the local loan agency of the RFC as
one of counsel — apparently because I had not much background
in banking law, I enjoyed most of the work, when I caught on
to it, but came to believe that a long-run career in the law would
be less congenial than I had supposed. The idea of teaching had
a strong appeal for me. I decided to spend a year at Columbia
and see if this interest persisted. The possession of a modest
fortune made this experiment practical, and it proved a complete
success, By the time our third child was born, I had completed
much of my work for the doctorate in international law and rela-
tions, and had become an instructor in the college.

When the war came, there wasn’t much left of the college, and,
believing that there was a real task of public education to be done
on the causes and probable results of international conflict, I ac-
cepted a position as assistant to the president of the Foreign Policy
Association in New York. This two-year tour of duty was per-
haps more instructive than successful, as far as reaching the public
was concerned. In 1944 I went on duty as a lieutenant in the
Naval Reserve and was stationed two years in Washington, as a
personnel officer and as an administrative historian of the Bureau
of Personnel.

The war over, I came to Clark, It is a small university, but
when allowance is made for size (thus avoiding comparison with
Harvard), as good as there is. My life has been richly filled, not
only with teaching, but with all kinds of work with students and
on university problems, as well as a fair amount of community
service. I do not get as much written as I probably ought to.

[ 509 ] ;

ne iO nme seemtonsbvnasa-emaecutinantaatamaceisashensipemenentsccccrteisensas settee cAaA AA NNtaindata

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

My children are almost grown now: our elder daughter is a
junior at Pembroke, our second just entering Radcliffe. The
young man is in the third class at Noble and Greenough, and
refuses to commit himself on his plans for college. My wife is a
psychiatric social worker and holds a position of responsibility at
the Worcester Youth Guidance Center; she has a Master’s degree
from Simmons. We spend as much of the summer as we can
spare at our seaside place in South Bristol, Maine. I enjoy sailing,
walks (less long perhaps than formerly), bird study, good com-
pany in not too large doses, and books — almost any good books.
I never did master bridge and gave up trying to improve my
tennis long ago.
I am a practising member of the Episcopal Church. In politics
I vote Democrat, not without some ticket-splitting, especially in
state elections. I supported the New Deal and am a strong be-
liever in public responsibility for the general welfare, fundamental
ersonal rights and liberties, and race equality. I also believe in
the United Nations, an alert national defense, and a vigorous but
generous foreign policy; I think the Truman-Acheson record
was mostly pretty good.
For me, if not for the world, the last quarter-century has been
so good and so rewarding in a quiet way that there is not much
more I can say about it.

ALFRED HAYES

HOME AppRESS: Brushy Ridge Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The New York Trust Co., 100 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 4, 1910, Ithaca, N. Y. parents: Alfred Hayes, Christine Grace
Robertson.

PREPARED AT: Buckley School and Browning School, New York, N. Y5
Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927. DEGREES: A.B, (Yale Univ.), 1930; B.Litr. (New
College, Oxford Univ.), 1933.

Maknigp: Vilma F. Chalmers, Dec. 30, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Anita R., Feb. 16, 1940; Thomas C., Jan. 29, 1943.

occupation: Vice-president in charge of Foreign Division, the New York
Trust Company.

offices HELD: Vice-president, since 1949, assistant vice-president, 1947-409,
assistant seerctary, 1942-44, N. ¥. Trust Company; bond analyst, Na-
tional City Bank of New York, 1940-42; investment analyst, City Bank

[510 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Farmers Trust Company, 1933-40; president, trustees of Lingnan Uni-
versity, Canton, China, 1947-54, member Foreign Exchange Committee,
New York Money Market; director, Bankers Association for Foreign
Trade; member International Finance Committee, National Foreign
Trade Council, director, Netherlands Chamber of Commerce in the
United States.

MEMBER OF: Council on Foreign Relations, New York; Century Associa-
tion; Down Town Association, New York; University Club, New York;
The Country Club of New Canaan; Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi.

DURING much of the time I spent in college — both at Harvard
and at Yale—the academic life appealed strongly and I had
thoughts of being a research scientist, among other possible pur-
suits. Gradually, however, economics came to have a stronger at-
traction, and in its more practical phases, as well as pure economic
theory. By the time I had spent a year at the Harvard Business
School and two years enjoying a Rhodes Scholarship at New Col-
lege, Oxford (studying economics), I was convinced that banking
was the field for me. As this decision took place around 1932-33,
the opportunities in banking at the moment were not what they
had once been, nor what they are now; but, fortunately, I found
a good job with the City Bank Farmers Trust Company, doing in-
vestment analysis work there until 1940, when I joined the Na-
tional City Bank of New York in a similar capacity. In 1942 an
opportunity came to go with the New York Trust Company as
assistant to the vice-president in charge of investments, and I
made the move. There I have remained ever since, though the
character of my work has changed considerably in the interim.
Foreign countries have always interested me since several boy-
hood trips to Europe with my family. This interest was power-
fully stimulated by my stay at Oxford and the delightful vacation
side-trips to Italy, Austria, etc., which were an accepted adjunct
of a Rhodes Scholar’s life. Then in 1937 the City Bank Farmers
Trust Company sent me on a business trip around the world with
principal stops in Japan, China, India, and the Philippines. Partly
because of this background, I became interested in Lingnan Uni-
versity in Canton, one of the Christian colleges in China, serving
as a trustee and later as president of the board of trustees. In
World War II, I obtained a commission in the U.S. Naval Reserve
working in the Military Government Section in Washington,
with particular emphasis on the Far East. A little later, when the

[511]

sev apna Alles tain Nene veasircnaan anne... etennenneneneeneet iting

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Foreign Liquidation Commission was organized to dispose of sur-

plus Army and Navy property abroad, I was assigned to the first
ficld mission to the Mediterranean Theatre, and I spent six most
interesting months in the American Embassy in Rome. Not long
after returning to The New York Trust Company in 1946, I was
given an opportunity to switch from investment work to the For-
eign Division, which has been occupying my close attention ever
since. Not the least attractive phase of my work is the necessity of
frequent trips to Europe, South America, and other areas to visit
our foreign correspondent banks —so that the thirst for travel
which commenced in my boyhood and which is still strong in me,
is being gratified. Often my wife accompanies me, and having
spent sev eral years at school in Italy and having an English- -Italian
mother, she shares fully my enthusiasm for travel. It is always
fine to return from a trip to our home and children in New
Canaan, but invariably, after a few months, we begin to feel the
“wanderlust” and to look with renewed interest at ship schedules
and travel brochures.

My war record has been pretty well covered above. Suffice it
to say that I emerged as a lowly lieutenant, U.S.N.R., after a
thoroughly fascinating, if rather unmilitary, tour of duty.

My two children have gone to school in New Canaan for the
most part. This year Tita, who is nearly fifteen, is in her first
vear at Milton Academy, where Father prepared for Harvard.

I seem to be rather deficient in the matter of hobbies. About
the only one to which I have a legitimate claim is photography —
and I mean just the pleasure of taking colored movies and stills
and looking at them afterwards — not the technical side of pho-
tography. Of course, the foreign trips which my wife and I often
take offer a wonderfully fertile field for photographic efforts —
and I found an equally wonderful field in the Wyoming ranch
which we visited this summer with our children, to our great de-
light. This was about our first summer vacation in which salt
water played no part.

While I have never been active in politics, I am not without
political convictions, They are not inextricably linked with any

one party, for although I am a registered Republican, I have often
strayed into the Democratic fold, especially when international
issues have been involved. Thus I am frank to confess to being

[512]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an “‘internationalist” and at the moment feel we could go a good
deal farther in the way of lower trade barriers and enlightened
foreign aid, to the benefit of ourselves and the world. At the same
time, it seems axiomatic that we must keep in the strongest pos-
sible military position, budget considerations notwithstanding. My
greatest gripe with the American people is their inclination to
concentrate too heavily on new cars, TV, movie stars, etc., and
not enough on our responsibilities as the strongest nation in the
free world.

Would I change things much if I could re-live my life? Prob-
ably not a great deal, though there are moments when I feel an
academic life would have been vastly rewarding. As for Har-
vard and the other leading colleges, I hope for the sake of their
undergraduates that they will get steadily tougher and more de-
manding intellectually.

ROBERT HAYES

HOME apprEss: Belden Hill Road, Wilton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Doherty, Clifford, Steers & Shenfield, 350 Fifth Ave, New
York 1, N. Y.

BORN: June 2, 1907, Ashland, Mass. parents: Alfred Samuel Hayes, ’91, Sara
May Bartlett.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; MBA, 1932.

MARRIED: Rena Suzanne Ciullo, Nov. 26, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Josephine, May 18, 1939, Pamela, Jan. 10, 1943; Mary, March 24, 1947;
Samuel, April 9, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, advertising agency. .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Wee Burn Country Club, Darien,
Conn.

WRITE a book or else brief it’ — words that cling from some
class in 1929 or 1930. Who has time to read a book? So——
Out of Business School in the apple selling days—
Wall Street security analyst and a share
of a penthouse on Park Avenue at $22.50
per month.
On to the Queen City of Cincinnati with Procter & Gamble
The soap business — and the soap opera

[513 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

marriage to Sue, at the chapel in Cambridge.
Welcome vacations east
Daughter +1 — Dodie
Sociable living in Southern Ohio.
Then to Chicago, butcher of hogs and maker of men.
The advertising agency business at
Young & Rubicam
At home in Winnetka on the
North Shore
Daughter +2 — Pam
More vacations east.
Back in New York —
Hazardous commuting from New Canaan,
Connecticut.
One more year at Young & Rubicam
The king size operation
Change to Duane Jones Agency —
Younger, more lusty — on the way
Daughter #3 — Mary
Son +1 -— Sam
President of Duane Jones — Now in
Top twenty-five out of 3,000 agencies extant
Heap big corporate fight with
Chairman and dominant stockholder
No more Jones Company.
The other side of the Agency
Business — Relative peace and calm
at DCSS
Exhilarating flights to the Caribbean —
Nassau, Jamaica, Haiti, Puerto Rico
Now settled down with a fine sense of permanence
house on a lake in Wilton, Connecticut.
Politics? independent.
Philosophy? The future still looks
exciting and full of promise
this side of those iron
and bamboo curtains.

[514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM ANDERSON HAZELL

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Ridge Rd., Delmar, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Office Bldg. Albany, N. Y.

BorN: March 31, 1907, Norwood, Pa. parents: Charles Edwin Hazell,
Hannah Mary Valentine.

PREPARED AT: Glen-Nor High School, Norwood, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1030. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Emilie Mary Pollard, June 29, 1929, Taunton, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Anderson, Jr., May 23, 1931; Elisabeth Ann, Feb. 2, 1937; Mary
Louise, Aug. 1, 1940.

OccUPATION: Mediator and arbitrator, New York State Board of Mediation.

OFFICES HELD: Permanent arbitrator, Commercial Printers of Albany, 1953-55,
Fulton County Tanners Association, 1951-55; lecturer, Cornell Univer-
sity School of Industrial and Labor Relations, 1952; public member,
Wage Stabilization Board Disputes Panel, 1952; member executive com-
mittee, Nathaniel Adams Blanchard Post, American Legion, 1949-55,
Plant Needs Committee, Bethlehem School District, 1953; secretary-
treasurer, 1953-54, member Schools and Scholarship Committee, 1952—
55, Harvard Association of Eastern New York; area chairman, Perma-
nent Class Committee. .

MEMBER OF: National Panel, American Arbitration Association; Harvard
Association of Eastern New York; American Legion; U. S. Naval
Reserve.

DURING the 1930’s, I was in the real estate management business
in the Grand Central area of New York City. As assistant oper-
ating manager and later as operating manager, a great deal of my
time was taken up with labor relations and the handling of the
problems of newly unionized industry. Since the war, that has
become my full-time vocation,

My three years in the Navy in World War II were highlighted
by a year or so on a Carrier, during which we captured intact a
German U-boat off the west coast of Africa. The capture took
place just about the time of the Normandy landings and proved
to be an intelligence bonanza. In September, 1954, I attended the
ceremonies in Chicago when the U-boat was installed in the Mu-
seum of Science and Industry as a memorial to all who lost their
lives at sea in all wars. During my time on the U.S.S. Guadalcanal,
I had the pleasure of serving with classmate Mason (Tommy, not
Monk). I still belong to the Naval Reserve with the rank of lieu-
tenant commander.

During our Navy days, being uncertain of the duration of the

[515 ]

«uh ial a elle ieee inna inte tate agen inalnmapeaiapaaiaenaaaamuassaeia teasanammyapamigassnianmneaiamemmmauaauaunadas

sas ees s0 mnt i Si Nella ea aA Ebi achalasia

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

contest, we moved the family to Norfolk, Virginia, and later to
Belmont, Massachusetts. Perhaps it was the contrast with New
York that led us to look elsewhere for our post-war home and
thus we chanced upon our present position and location.

There are many satisfactions in being the impartial man in the
middle of controversies and even after eight years of it, with
some graving of the hair, I continue to be amazed at the ability
of emotional and seemingly irreconcilable disputants to resolve
their differences through full and free discussion and to find the
means to accommodate and conserve important elements of con-
flicting views in compromises that appear to satisfy both sides.

Meanwhile, the children have grown considerably. Bill, Jr.,
graduated from U.V.M. and now is a lieutenant (j.g.),
U.S.N.R., guarding Tokyo Bay. Betsy is a freshman at Wellesley
with ultimate hopes of becoming an M.D. Mary Lou is a fresh-
man in high school and has successfully made the transition from
tom-boy to young lady. The girl I married at the end of my
junior year hasn’t changed a bit in twenty-six years as far as |
can see. Life in a small town seems to agree with all of us.

+ ALFRED PARTRIDGE HEBARD

BoRN: July 3, 1905, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Alfred Partridge Hebard, 89,
Daisy Brookmire.

PREPARED AT; Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925; 1926-1928.

MaraieD: Frances Neves Sleepter, Sept. 18, 1934, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Son and daughter.

pip: Aug. 15, 1946, Bridgewater, Conn.

AFTER leaving College, Hebard studied painting under several
artists. In 1933 he was an art director in the field of motion picture
short subjects, and did illustrations for books. During 1936-1937
he completed a series of watercolors in Italy. He later settled in
Bridgewater, where he was a portrait and landscape artist. He
received a medical discharge from the Army in 1944, after fifteen
months’ service. His wife and children survived him.

[ 516 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+- GEORGE CALLENDINE HECK, JR.

porn: Nov. 10, 1907, Orange, N. J. parents: George Callendine Heck,
Helen Brooke.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

marrieD: Margaret G. Spence, June 13, 1931, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1945); Florence Marie Maggio, May, 1945, Gardnerville, Nev. cHmtprEN:
Margaret Elise, Dec. 19, 1932; Martha Callendine, April 25, 1937; Helen
Cora, April 3, 1942; George Callendine, 3d, June 19, 1947.

prep: Oct. 1, 1951, Locust Valley, Long Island, N. Y.

AFTER receiving his LL.B., Heck joined the firm of Stone &
Jones in Boston. He left in 1934 to become an associate in the
office of Duryee, Zunino & Amen, where he remained for four
years. He then accepted the position of partner in the New York
firm of Parker & Duryee, which he continued to hold in 1940.
During the war he served as a first lieutenant with the Eighth
Air Force and later with Headquarters, Army Air Force, in the
Pentagon. Following his discharge, he set up a legal practice in
Locust Valley, Long Island. His wife and children survived him.

ELLIOTT RUSSELL HEDGE

HOME AppDREss: Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Trust Co., 135 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Henry Rogers Hedge, Eadith
Heath Doliber.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

marrieD: Mary Fessenden Atwood, Aug. 9, 1941, Worcester, Mass, CHILDREN:
Lydia Russell, Sept. 23, 1942; Sarah Clement, Oct. 31, 1944; Priscilla
Heath, Oct. 25, 1947; Abigail Towle, Sept. 4, 1949 (died Dec. 9, 1949).

OccuPATION: Vice-president, senior credit officer, Banking Department, New
England Trust Company.

OFFIcEs HELD: Member board of management, Charlestown Armed Services,
Y.M.C.A.; director, Chicago Belting Company; treasurer, Massachu-
setts Chapter, Jackson Laboratory Association; member board of officers,
Massachusetts Commandery, Loyal Legion; deputy governor, member
Finance Committee, Massachusetts Society of Mayflower Descendants;
trustee, treasurer, Mayflower Society House Endowment Fund; trustee,
Pilgrim Society; secretary, treasurer, Chetolah Yacht Club.

[517]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Banking; Appalachian Mountain Club,
Baker's Dozen; Concord Country Club; City Club Corporation; Har-
vard Clubs, New York and Boston; Newcomen Society; Plymouth
Yacht Club; Robert Morris Associates, St. Botolph Club; Wardroom
Club; White Mountain Ski Runners, Wine & Food Society.

IT is surprising to realize, on careful consideration, how little
of general interest has developed in the twenty-eight years since
the dean concluded our paths were to diverge: one wife, one
family, one job (starting at ten dollars per w eek), one war (Exec.
LST 398 Solomon Islands, 1943; C.O. LST 682 Normandy, 1944;
Okinawa, 1945), lots of skiing and sailing, some travel, a few good
turns done, some friends made, my share of mistakes. These add
up to an experience generally satisfying, sometimes rewarding,
but not at all unique.

GEORGE PAUL HEFFNER

HOME ADDRESS: 1204 Summit Drive, Charleston, W. Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1115 Quarrier St., Charleston, W. Va.

BorN: Feb. 10, 1909, Wapakoneta, Ohio. parents: Edward Frederick Heff-
ner, Ida Orel Collins.

preparrD aT: Wapakoneta High School, Wapakoneta, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cuz laude, 1930; M.D., 1934.

marrieD: Muriel Raleigh, June, 1934, New Hampshire; Eileen Mae Van
Giesen, Nov. 20, 1942, Charleston, W. Va. cHILDREN: Judith Anne,
Sept. 3, 1943; Carol Sue, Dec. 20, 1944; Mary Kay, Aug. 22, 1947.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Attending physician, 1st Medical Service, Charleston General
Hospital, past president, West Virginia Diabetes Association; past
secretary, Kanawha Medical Society; governor, American Diabetes As-
sociation for West Virginia; director, Radio Isotope Laboratory, Charles-
ton General Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Kanawha County Club, Kanawha Medical Society; West Vir-
ginia, American, Southern Medical Associations; American College of
Physicians (fellow); American Diabetes Association; West Virginia
Diabetes Association, American and West Virginia Heart Associations.

pusLications: “The Use of Thiouracil in Hyperthyroidism; Sulfamerazine in
Pneumonia, Camp Kno-Koma,” a follow-up report on West Virginia’s
first camp for diabetic children, in West Virginia Medical Journal,

1946-52.

FOLLOWING graduation from college, I found it my good
fortune to be able to spend four years in the Harvard Medical

[ 518}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

School. After four years of close association with Harvardians,
I left Boston and went to Philadelphia for a two-year internship
at the Lankenau Hospital, where I obtained excellent training.
Then, after a summer at a camp in New Hampshire, I came to
Charleston, West Virginia, where I spent eighteen months work-
ing as a physician for the duPont Company, with a part-time
outside private general practice.

After a short sojourn in Plainfield, New York, I returned to
Charleston, West Virginia, where again I set up practice doing
internal medicine, passing my American Boards of Internal Medi-
cine in 1945 and becoming a fellow of the American College of
Physicians in 1946. While at Charleston, I have become attending
physician on the first medical service of the Charleston General
Hospital, plus courtesy services at several other hospitals in
town.

It has been my good fortune to be instrumental in starting a
summer camp for diabetic children for the State of West Virginia,
and in organizing the West Virginia State Diabetes Association
and the Charleston Diabetes Association. Having been parti-
cularly interested in metabolic diseases, I have pursued along this
line and recently have been able to get authorization from the
Atomic Energy Commission to set up a radio isotope laboratory
at the Charleston General Hospital.

During the war years, it was my misfortune to be left at home,
after trying to enlist in both the Army and Navy. During this
period, most of my time was spent filling in the vacancies of the
medical services at the hospital, plus taking care of some private
patients in this vicinity.

In 1942 I married Eileen Van Giesen; since then I have had
three little girls now aged eleven, ten, and eight. At the present
time we have a modest home in the Edgewood section of Charles-
ton, and I have a modest practice in internal medicine, having
my office down-town. Any social, political or religious convic-
tions which I have or have had in the past have been very meager
and hardly worth mentioning in a report of this sort.

[519]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

HERBERT GIRARD HENCHEL

Home aporess: 125 Meadow Lane, Grosse Pointe Farms 36, Mich,

orFice appress: United Forge Co. 277 Du Bois St., Detroit 7, Mich.

Bor: April 26, 1909, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Herbert Henry Henchel,
Agnes Hammersly Gitford.

prepared aT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: $.B., 1930.

marriD: Mary Constance Prince, June 22, 1935, Windsor, Ont., Canada.
cuitpreN: Herbert Alan, June 5, 1937; John Gifford, Dec. 13, 1938.

occuPATION: Secretary-treasurer, United Forge Company, steel forgings.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, director, Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan,
1950; treasurer, Riverfront Property Owners Association, 1951-523 sec-
retary, Steel Forging Association, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Detroit Boat Club; Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan; Kings-
ville Golf Club; Essex-Scottish Officers Mess.

THE first five years after graduation were chiefly characterized
by a variety of employers, mostly occasioned by a desire for
better opportunity. These included General Motors Acceptance
Corporation, Detroit, Campbell-Ewald, Ltd., Toronto, General
Motors Truck, Windsor (Ontario), Wayne Colorplate, Detroit,
and Birmingham Eccentric, Birmingham (Michigan).

After marriage in 1935, my employment continued to change,
but after longer periods. I was with Evans, Winter, Hebb, Inc.,
Detroit, the British Purchasing Commission, Washington, D. C,,
and since 1940 have been with United Forge Company of Detroit.

Additional education was required to understand better my
present occupation, so I attended Wayne University for two years
at night, studying metallurgy. Then I spent three years at Walsh
Institute, studying accountancy and business law.

I have been interested in boating, but last year sold my small
cruiser, due to lack of interest by the family. My sons preferred
sailing and golf. My wife, for reasons of health, had to avoid
sun. My recreational enthusiasm now centers on cribbage in the
winter and golf during the summer.

I have been a member of the Republican party for some years,
but take pride in the fact that this membership did not stop me
from voting on occasion for someone of another party when I felt
he was the betrer man.

Both my sons attend Gilmour Academy in Gates Mills, Ohio,
where they have shown better-than-average athletic ability. Alan,

[ 520]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the elder son, will be ready for college in the fall of 1955. Neither
son has shown any interest in Harvard, unfortunately.

VINCENT LAWRENCE HENNESSY

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Scott Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1908, Brookline, Mass. parents: Michael Edward Hennessy,
Sarah Josephine Keady.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

mMaRRIED: Mary Louise Young, Aug. 10, 1935, Fairfield, Conn. cHILpREN:
Kathleen, July 29, 1936; Vincent Lawrence, Jr., Jan. 24, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF; American, Massachusetts, Boston, and Cambridge Bar Associa-
tions; Harvard Club of Boston, Badminton and Tennis Club; Belmont
Tennis Club; Harvard Law School Association, Harvard Varsity Club.

I SPENT the three years following college in the shelter of the
Harvard Law School and entered the general practice of law in
Boston in 1933. I was associated with a Boston lawyer of Danish
descent who had a large Scandinavian clientele. Later we formed
a partnership, which was terminated by his sudden death in 1946.
We had other lawyers in our office associated with us. We are
now nine in number, but only four of the original group remain.

I spent two years in the Navy during World War II. I had
thought that my small boat sailing experience would immediately
be recognized as qualifying me as a deck officer. But the Navy
has its own ways, and following indoctrination at Fort Schuyler
in the Bronx, I was sent to Harvard Communications School for
three months. While there, I lived in Hollis. Needless to say,
things were different from the old college days. After Com-
munications School, the Navy gave me shore duty, first at 7th
Fleet Headquarters at Tolosa, Leyte, P.I., and later with a small
unit at Batangas about seventy-five miles south of Manila, where
I was when V.J. day arrived.

I went into the Navy as a lieutenant (j.g.) and by virtue of an
AlNav, eighteen months thereafter, became a lieutenant along
with all the others who had been in grade that length of time.
What did I learn in the Navy? That the United States is a
wonderful place.

[ 521]

doce nama a ES Na

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

The transition in the law business from a young fellow, con-
cerning whom clients may have some doubts because of his youth,
to the role of the practitioner who is regarded by clients as having
more experience and wisdom than he actually has, comes sud-
denly, and one realizes then that he has lost his youthful looks.

I have enjoved the practice of law and the associations I have
formed over the years. My practice, though general, is prin-
cipally in corporation and probate law. I am quite closely con-
nected with several businesses as officer and stockholder.

We have two children, a girl and a boy. My daughter is now
a freshman at Smith, following in the footsteps of her mother and
grandmother. In view of this family inclination to adhere to tra-
dition, my son feels that Harvard will be his “choice.” His inter-
est in Harvard has been stimulated lately by the fact that his
cousin played freshman football at Harvard this year.

Although I play golf occasionally and even frequently during
vacations, tennis is still a more satisfactory form of exercise and
relaxation to me. I play tennis the year round, but confine my
plaving to doubles.

This past summer I took a get-acquainted vacation with my
family by taking a six-weeks’ automobile trip to the west coast.
We visited ten National Parks, going to the coast through the
Southwest to Los Angeles and coming back by a northerly route
from Seattle. The trip, which took us over 11,300 miles, was a
great success. 1 recommend it to all. Our purpose was to get
acquainted with our country, but we found that it also resulted
in our getting better acquainted with each other.

JOHN DEAVENPORT HERBERT

HOME ADDRESS: 2880 Midvale Ave., Los Angeles 64, Calif.

oFrice avoress: Blue Diamond Corp., 1650 S. Alameda St., Los Angeles 54,
Calif.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1905, Magdalena, N. Mex. PARENTS: John Duevenport
Herbert, Minnie Alice Randol.

PREPARED AT: Manual High School, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: 8.B., 1930(31).

MakkitD; Katherine Byrne Jagerson, Oct. 7, 1932, Long Beach, Calif,
(divorced 1944); Alice Marie Pack, Feb. 16, 1944, San Bernardino,
Calif. Goren: Elore Marie, June 30, 1934; John Deavenport, Jr.,

[ 522 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Oct. 7, 1935; Peter Robert (stepson), May 21, 1938; Jon Jay, Aug. 23,

1946.

occupation: Chemical engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Council member, American Society of Testing Materials,
since 1953; scoutmaster, Troop 76, Crescent Bay Area, Boy Scouts of
America, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: American Concrete Institute; American Society for Testing
Materials, American Chemical Society, Alpha Chi Sigma; Sigma Alpha
Epsilon; Papermakers and Associates; Toastmasters International.

FOR at least two months I have been trying to fit appropriate
words about John Cross and his endeavors to the tune, ‘Poor
Jud is dead. A candle lights his head,” with no success. I am no
poet and the situation is hopeless. I am, therefore, forced to
plunge into the past without an astonishing introduction.

During the chastising years of the early ’30’s, I held various field
jobs hoping to bolster the strength of Fort Knox. I worked my
way up from mucker to superintendent to mining engineer.
When the pay vein ran out, we worked the dumps on hominy
grits and sulphur water for a fortnight, but it was just a lot of
rock.

I then established residence in this great city. Here I shoveled
dirt to beautify the parks until a tension reflex of the earth opened
cracks in buildings (the Southern California earthquake of
1933), and at the same time, opportunities for advancement. I
advanced from shoveling dirt to mixing mud for plasterers. (The
pay was much better.) This led to my learning the plastering
trade with all the oaths and union labels becoming thereto. In
due course, I contracted plastering and lathing until the fall of
1938. At that time I obtained a position in line with my academic
training with the Blue Diamond Corporation, where I am now
the chief chemist and chemical engineer.

We mine gypsum near the fabulous city of Las Vegas, Nevada,
and manufacture a complete line of building materials based on
this mineral. We also partially manufacture Portland cement,
produce rock and sand products, and ready-mix concrete. It may
surprise you, but my job is never dull. New problems arrive with
every dawn. If the sales department is not faced with a crisis, the
production department is.

In the hours called my own, I flail away at numerous hobbies,
under an exasperating, desperate spell. In them I live my unhappi-

[ 523 ]

inact sninsk wes, wien eased, oot HS cece ted Malad is L ma ; a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ness. I mean no harm. Nor am I trying to make money. I am
just curious. (Did our Class develop a single good psychiatrist?) I
have projects, largely in the undone state, going all the time and
all at the same time, ranging from violin making and repairing to
porcelain compositions, and painting with synthetic resins. When
mv hobbies become too complex, I go fishing.

There are six in our family circle. Elore will finish college in
June, 1956, and John, Jr., in 1957. After that, with just two more
to “collegiate,” Alice and I will guide the sled into the valley.
We hope by the gentler slopes.

At present, we never have steaks of the buttermilk mule, but
the substitutes have not been too bad thus far.

BEAUMONT ALEXANDER HERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 28 Pleasant St., Whitinsville, Mass.

OFFice apprEss: High School Bldg., Linwood Avenue, Whitinsville, Mass.

BorN: March 24, 1909, Lunenburg, N. S., Canada. PARENTS: Beaumont
Gaetz Herman, Mary May Hebb.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1931; PH.D.
(Boston Coll.), 1937.

Marriep: Winifred Elizabeth Small, Aug. 21, 1937, Somerville, Mass.
CHILDREN: Natalie Winifred, May 18, 1941; Kenneth Beaumont, Jan. 23,
1944-

occuPATION: Superintendent of Schools, Northbridge, Mass.

orFices HELD: Director, Whitin Community Association; incorporator,
Whitinsville Social Library; corporator, Whitinsville Savings Bank;
secretary, Worcester County School Superintendents’ Association;
president, Whitinsville Kiwanis Club, 1945-47.

MEMBER oF: National Education Association (life member); American As-
sociation of School Administrators, New England School Superinten-
dents’ Association; Massachusetts Schoolmasters Club; New England
School Development Council; Granite Lodge, AF. & A.M.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles for The Nation’s Schools, Massachusetts
Teacher, and other professional journals.

UPON graduation I decided to continue in education as a pro-
fession, at first with a view to college teaching and research, and
then, because of interest in community and religious activities,
in the broader field of public education.

I spent two years in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences,

[ 524]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

These years proved rather unrewarding and, although the recipi-
ent of a fellowship, I withdrew to teach public schools in Somer-
ville, Massachusetts. I retained some connection with Harvard by
serving as research assistant to the late Professor E. K. Rand in
the preparation of the Harvard edition of Servius. I taught in
Somerville until 1945.

During the years in Somerville I was active in the Methodist
Church. I served as teacher, Sunday School superintendent, fi-
nance committee member, and local preacher of my home church;
and as secretary, and later president, of the Boston Methodist
Social Union. Finding Harvard unsympathetic to part-time stu-
dents who were actually working in the field, I enrolled at Bos-
ton College Graduate School in 1934 and received the Ph.D.
degree in 1937.

In later years I have taken courses in the graduate schools of
education at Tufts and Boston University. It seemed strange to
find three centers of learning all more concerned with providing
opportunities for the practising journeyman than Harvard. As a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, I have always been active in the
pursuit of knowledge; and as a professional educator, I have
been desirous of keeping abreast with current developments in
the field. Harvard, however, I find offers little consideration for
those who must undertake studies on a part-time basis.

The war years which caused disruptions in so many lives were
rather uneventful for me. Although I volunteered for naval serv-
ice, my superiors requested my exemption as a mathematics
teacher. The only scrap I was involved with was that which I
collected as treasurer of the Salvage Committee for the City of
Somerville.

After a stint as junior high school principal in Westminster
and as high school principal, and then superintendent, at West-
ford, I became superintendent of schools in Northbridge in 1948.
My predecessor, Harrie J. Phipps, ’03, remained here twenty-six
years. Having completed six years myself, I, too, find the com-
munity very pleasant. We have the advantages of small-town
life and also fair proximity to Boston.

In 1937 I married Winifred Small of Somerville. Our two chil-
dren, Natalie (now thirteen) and Kenneth (now eleven), manage
to keep us busy. I have become quite engrossed in the local Girl

[525]

tienen si oan I ene sl tall lltbls.. tll

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Scout, Boy Scout, and Little League activities. Like others in
their forties, I take vicarious enjoyment in the children’s activi-
ties. Certainly they seem to have both opportunities and prob-

lems which we missed.
Community activities in Whitinsville keep Winifred and me

quite occupied, We are both officers of our local Methodist
church. All civic organizations, it seems, claim us and we enjoy
it. Formerly priding | myself on not being a “joiner,” I have been
president of the local Kiwanis Club and a director of our Whitin
Community Gymnasium, and a member of numerous civic, pro-
fessional, and fraternal groups.

Although we have taken time off to travel in almost all the
states, as well as in Mexico and in all the Canadian provinces,
summers usually find us relaxing at our place on the shore in
Gloucester. Here I watch the children developing a poise and
skill in the water which I never had, and I bask in the sun and in
the freedom from telephone calls. The past twenty-five years
have been kind to me and my family. I have never felt that my
years at Harvard benefited me financially, but I cherish them and
look forward to aiding my children through their college experi-

ences.

ABRAM WALTER SCOTT HERR

HOME apprEss: Furnace Road, Wernersville, Pa.
Born: Dec. 10, 1907, Reading, Pa. parents: Walter S. Herr, Ella Judith

Potteiger.
PREPARED AT: Reading High School for Boys, Reading, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cu7 laude, 1930; A.M. 1934.

6s s 8 w 3 ‘ a 9
Yyuivew pev dprotovdvopt Garo.

Vivitur parvo bene cui paternum

Splend et in mensa tenui salinum;

Nec leves somnos timor aut cupido
Sordidus aufert.

Laetus in praesens animus quod ultrast
Oderit curare et amara lento
Temperet risu; nihil est ab omni

Parte beatum.

[ 526 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Abstulit clarum cita mors Achillem,

Longa Tithonum minuit senectus,

Et mihi forsan tibi quod negarit
Porriget hora.

Te greges centum, Siculaeque circum

Mu giunt vaccae, tibi tollit hinnitum

Apta quadrigis equa; te bis Afro
Murice tinctae

Vestiunt lanae, mihi parva rura et

Spiritum Graiae tenuem Camenae

Parca non mendax dedit et malignum
Spernere volgus.

MARTIN FRANCIS HESTER

HOME ADDRESS: 193 Greeley St., Clinton, Mass.

BorN: March 26, 1901, Clinton, Mass. parents: Patrick Edwards Hester,
Catherine McDonald.

PREPARED AT: Clinton High School, Clinton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

MARRIED: Katherine A. Mullen, Aug. 10, 1934, Boston, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

HENRY BIXBY HILL

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Francestown, N. H.

BoRN: Sept. 8, 1905, Manchester, Mass. parents: Edward Burlingame Hill,
94, Mary Alison Bixby.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Needham, Mass.; New Prepara-
tory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926—1928.

MaRRiED: Esther R. McGuire, Nov. 28, 1940, Cambridge, Mass.

OccuPATION: Dairy business.

OFFICES HELD: Senior trustee, George Holmes Bixby Memorial Library.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of Boston, New Hampshire, Sarasota, Florida.

HAVING found it difficult to discover a satisfactory field of con-
[527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

centration, I decided to leave college to take up employment in
the field of mechanics, which had interested me ever since I could
remember. I entered a Ford factory in Somerville, where various
jobs at different hours defying any system of living finally pro-
duced a nervous breakdown. After successful treatment, I looked
about for something like occupational therapy and found it at
Widener Library, where I remained for eight years or more. I
acquired a good ‘deal of information as to the details of library or-
ganization, besides a vast number of shelf numbers distributed over
many different departments. The best result of this experience
was that at Widener I met my future wife, Esther McGuire, whom
I married in 1940.

Having been advised by several supposedly qualified persons to
establish a goat dairy for the sale of milk, my mother built for me
a goat barn. The house “Hillside” could not be made comfortable
for winter residence; therefore, my father bought a small house
in Sarasota where we have since passed the winters. The distance
of this house from the town of Sarasota has caused me to repeat
my role as manager in all its aspects, besides some of the functions
of a landscape gardener. Thus the years pass with a continued
repetition of the same responsibilities, often interesting, but some-
times arduous.

My mother presented a library, an early nineteenth centur
house, to the Town of Francestown in memory of her father. I
was named to the board of trustees and have continued in this
position for almost twenty-five years, and am now the senior
trustee. The library has prospered extraordinarily to the extent
that it is considered among the best of the small town libraries in
the State of New Hampshire. I may also add that a two months’
trip to Italy for my wife, my father, and me in 1953, was a revela-
tion as to the beauties, natural and architectural, of this justly
famous country.

Without an established profession, I still may claim that, in
many and varied capacities, | have always been useful and con-
cerned for the welfare and comfort of my nearest.

[ 528 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MALCOLM TURNER HILL

HOME ADDRESS: 139 Hancock St., Auburndale 66, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hastings Products, Inc., 171 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Feb. 12, 1908, Waban, Mass. parents: Donald Mackay Hill, ’98,
Annie Turner. ;

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31).

MARRIED: Welthea Stark, Feb. 16, 1935, Newington, Conn. CHILDREN:
Malcolm Turner, Jr., April 15, 1937; Welthea Anne, March 27, 1947.

OccuUPATION: Sales manager.

MEMBER OF: Waban Neighborhood Club.

BEFORE the war, I ran my own sporting goods business — in
Boston until 1939, then in Exeter, New Hampshire, from 1939
until the summer of 1942, when I entered the Navy. We enjoyed
the life in Exeter, but sold our house there in 1943 when my fam-
ily came out to join me in Seattle, where I was stationed.

I was a lieutenant commander in the Air Combat Intelligence
Branch of the Navy, and spent the year 1943 in Seattle, 1944 in
Guadalcanal and Saipan, and 1945 with Air Group 18. During
these years I bumped into many of our Class and had many
chances to talk over college days.

After the war, we settled in Auburndale, the best village in
Newton to our way of thinking, and very handy to fine schools.
Before becoming associated with Hastings Products, I was New
England distributor for S. G. Adams Company of St. Louis,
metal fabricators, and for various municipal supplies. When your
pennies run out for parking meters, blame me.

My son and IJ are having a lot of fun playing tennis together.
We have done fairly well in the Father and Son Tournaments,
and hope to make a real showing in the National Father and Son |
Championships this coming summer. Mal hopes to go to Har-
vard this fall; Anne is happy in the second grade at the Williams
School in Auburndale, Welthea keeps busy with Sunday School,
Brownies, Wheelock College affairs and community drives, not
to mention housework and bringing up a family.

Our whole family had a wonderful time at the first Pre-Reunion
Get-Together at Marshfield in the spring of 1953. If the at-
tendance and enthusiasm there was any criterion, our Twenty-
fifth should be a great success.

[ 529 ]

1 settle i PRERENDER AAR N AI ahha heeimammneeT eens aye

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

WILLIAM EDWARD HINES

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 156 North St. Hingham, Mass.

BORN: May 11, 1907, Lee, Mass. PARENTS: Martin Leonard Hines, Mary
Elizabeth Harding.

preparep aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: M.D. (Tufts Coll.) 1932.

MARRIED: Kathryn Frances O'Connor, May 9, 1935, Salem, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Edward, Jr. Feb. 13, 1938; Judith Ann, Sept. 7, 1942.

occupsTION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Massachusetts Medico-Legal Society; legisla-
tive councilor, Massachusetts Medical Society; member of staff, South
Shore Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Norfolk South District Medical Society; Massachusetts Medi-
cal Society; American Medical Society; Massachusetts Medico-Legal
Society; Massachusetts Academy of General Practice; American
Academy of General Practice; Guild of St. Luke; Knights of Columbus
(qth degree).

THE practice of medicine takes up the greater part of my time,
but I manage a few hours on my cruiser, Venture, cruising in
South Shore waters. I am active in the various medical societies.

JOHN VAN NOSTRAND HITCH

HOME appress: 1620 E. Eighth Ave., Denver 18, Colo.
OFFICE apprEss: Aurora Public Schools, Aurora, Colo.
BoRN: July 28, 1907, Denver, Colo. PARENTS: Joseph Delano Hitch, ’9s,
Adeline Van Nostrand Dorr.
prePareD at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: AB. (Univ. of Denver), 1950.
marrieD: Mary Owen McGugan, April 11, 1931, Medfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mary Owen, March 25, 1932 (7. James A. Bowles, Sept. 4, 1954);
Sarah Hathaway, Dec. 1, 1933; Catherine Van Nostrand, Oct. 7, 1935;
Rosalind Carden, March 1, 1941.
HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Delano Hitch, Jr., ’27.
occUPATION: Principal, elementary school. *
orrices HELD: Director, Rhode Island Coal Exchange, about 1940; treasurer,
member scholarship committee, 1939-43, Rhode Island Harvard Club;
member Governor's Committee on Fair Practices, R. I., 1941; treasurer,
Propellor Club of Providence, 1940-43; president, Aurora Drama Guild,
1954; alternate director, Denver Area, Council of Educational TV,
Channel 6, 1954, member scholarship committee, Rocky Mountain Har-
vard Club, 1y50-52; representative from Colorado Mountain Club to

[ 530 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Denver Adult Education Council, 1950-52; member Parent’s Council
for Newton (Mass.) Schools, 1944-45.

MEMBER OF: National, state, local education associations; Phi Beta Kappa;
Rocky Mountain Harvard Club; Cactus Club, Denver, Colorado Moun-
tain Club; Rotary Club of Aurora; Aurora Drama Guild.

JOHNNY CROSS’S desperate goading and final appeal to my
wife is responsible for this. However, each of his goads is so
intriguing that I hate to stop them coming.

I have embarked on two careers these twenty-five years,
neither of which approaches what Doc Lewis claimed for me as
a natural — that of a country gentleman. Just to get the jump
on the Class, having foreseen the great depression, I left Harvard
in 1928 to start a long session in the coal business. By the time the
1930 A.B.’s were given out, I had spent a year in the coal mines,
fractured a skull, attended the University of West Virginia, and
reached the purchasing department of a Boston wholesale house.
From this point, including the joys of establishing a family (in
direct proportion to the increase in volume), low pay, no bonuses,
and the solid experience of selling at such a time, I weathered the
depression in fairly good order. I spent ten years, mostly as
manager, with the firm’s retail and wholesale branch in Provi-
dence, returning to Boston in 1943. I think the thirty-two regu-
latory bodies under which we were operating at this time, plus
the headaches in trying to allocate coal justly during the war
years, helped bring to a head my interest in education.

In 1945 with the support and real encouragement of my wife,
I chucked the whole business and started my second career.
Both of us are Colorado-born with a love of our mountains and
prairies that couldn’t be downed, in spite of recent infiltration by
Texans and others who talk of their beloved homeland but are fast
depopulating it. We could now take home our poor New Eng-
land-born children and establish ourselves where exciting things
are happening in all fields from music, art, literature, and skiing,
to uranium mining.

I started teaching in a country day school in Denver, reaped
the reward of my 1928 procrastination by struggling nights and
summers to finish college. There are some advantages to such late
college matriculation: I could take courses just for fun — such
as geology (this part of the country quickly devclops a yearning

[$31 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

for it). Also, my eldest daughter and I could enjoy our gradua-

tion together, she from high school. I suppose that some of the

Class who knew me best will laugh, as my wife and children did,

when I tell you that I made Phi Beta Kappa. I do not understand

such amusement. I think that when twenty-four years elapse in
attaining such heights, it should be taken seriously.

It is nearly ten years since starting in the field of education.
During five of them my wife taught also, an important factor in
adjusting to this interesting but hardly remunerative work. It did
have the advantage of making our venture a family affair, al-
though bringing up the four girls rather doubled the burden for
her. The last five years I have been in the public schools, some-
times frustrating and exasperating from financial, educational,
and philosophical standpoints, but also very satisfying to me as
Jong as I can remain free from too much “administration.” One
thing that interests me about teachers, at least in this area, is that
communists are very hard to find, nor are teachers particularly
inhibited by the search—thank goodness! Moreover, though
most are without the broad background of education that we
would like to see, they have a serious desire “to know” and an
enthusiasm matched by that of most parents — very stimulating
to work with.

Meanwhile, life with father has not been dull—nor with
Mother, Mahay, Sally, Cath, nor Rosalind. The glory of being
engulfed by five lovely females is something few of you can
know, though I did, many years ago, have to ban any discussion of
clothes at the dinner table. Now, of course, the teenage thousands
are dwindling, the litter of skis, mummy bags and evening
dresses is falling off. They are not gone yet, for our thirteen-
year-old is with us still. But three have been away at college; in
fact, Mahay has finished and is married, planning to follow her
husband (Lt. James A. Bowles, Air Force) overseas if possible.
Sally graduates from Wells in June with a leaning toward inter-
national affairs, using her love of languages and people. Cath is
a sophomore at Colorado College, unsettled and liking it.

For us at home, there is too much going on to concentrate
on any “hobby.” We live with the mountains, we explore the
early history of the arca, and we find ourselves involved in all the
currents of this small but vigorous city. We are not so com-

[532]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

placent, however, but that we feel the tugs from New England
and are looking forward to going back this summer.

FRANCIS TRAILL HODGES

HOME ADDRESS: 48 Sunshine Ave., Sausalito, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2299-19th Ave., San Francisco 16, Calif.

BoRN: Aug. 17, 1907, Indianapolis, Ind. parents: Fletcher Hodges, m.p., ’o2,
Rebecca Traill Andrews.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927. DEGREES: 8.B. (Indiana Univ.), 1930; Mo.
(Indiana Univ.), 1933.

mMarRiED: Alice Lyon, March 10, 1939, San Francisco, Calif. CHILDREN:
Edward Lyon, April 5, 1941; Susan Jane, Nov. 11, 1942; Victoria, July
8, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Fletcher Hodges, ’28.

OCCUPATION: Physician and surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: President, California Physicians Services, 1952-55, California
Academy of General Practice, 1952-53, Western Conference, Medical
Prepaid Care Plans, commissioner, 11th District, National Blue Shield
Commission, 1953, 1954, 1955; member board of directors, Medical
Indemnity of America, San Francisco.

MEMBER OF: Commonwealth Club; Olympic Club (San Francisco); Cali-
fornia Lodge No. 1, F. & A.M.; California Bodies, Scottish Rite; Islam
Temple, AAONMS; American Medical Association; California Medi-
cal Association; San Francisco Medical Society; American Academy of
General Practice.

puBLIcaTIoNS: “I Am a Family Doctor,” Colliers, Aug. 6, 1954; numerous
articles in medical publications.

MY Harvard stay was brief and abortive. I have always regretted
my early withdrawal from the College, and secretly nurture the
ambition to return to Cambridge for a pre-senility course, natur-
ally leading to a summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa.

Until that day I shall continue in the private practice of medi-
cine and surgery in San Francisco, hoping that may aid in fur-
thering the intention of my fourteen-year-old son Edward to
attend Harvard, eventually to win his M.D. He is now in the
third form at the Kent School.

Satellite medical interests have embraced a good deal of work
in the prepaid medical care movement, Blue Shield, etc. Hobbies
and other endeavors have too little attention. This may be just
as well, for I still detect deep stirrings of the thus-far effectively

[ 533]

8 5 aA then SRR tata cena in Eada ett nantes iaentimindlimsimaneiiitts.. ETE tet a sags

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

repressed tendencies that appeared as Harvard Square katzen-
jammers in 1926.

GEORGE ATKINSON HODGES

HOME apprEss: 149 Valley St, Beverly Farms, Mass.
oFFicé aporess: Selector Corporation of Boston, 93 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 19, 1906, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Edward Hodges,
Mary Elizabeth O'Neil.

PREPARED AT: Ridgefield School, Ridgefield, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

marrieD: Eleanor Hawkins, 1933 (divorced 1939); Constance Southgate,
Apmil 4, 1941, Providence, R. I. cuttpReN: George Atkinson, Jr., May
25, 1935; Jonathan Blake, Aug. 13, 1943; Mary Elizabeth, Feb. 17, 1947.

HARVARD SON: George Atkinson Hodges, Jr., ’58.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Edward Hodges, Jr., ’19.

oocuPaTioN: Advertising: president, Selector Corporation of Boston.

MEMBER OF: Iroquois Club, Manchester Yacht Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years have certainly seen many changes in the
world, this country, and even in Harvard. My son, George, Jr.,
was admitted as a freshman last fall (1954) and received a beauti-
ful certificate of acceptance almost as elaborate as a diploma —
suitable for framing in any case. I didn’t receive anything like
that when I entered — or when I left either.

As far as my business career is concerned, perhaps the less said
the better. I’m sure from an income standpoint, I wouldn’t be
any assistance in raising the Class average. However, about a
year ago I started a small advertising business of my own and
while I am not getting rich, it is making progress and I enjoy the
independence it gives me.

My family, quite naturally, is my chief joy in life. I was mar-
ried for the second time in 1941 and have a wonderful wife and
two obstreperous but personable children in addition to George,
Jr., from my first marriage (who also lives with us). We have a
small home in Beverly Farms with a little brook running through
the backyard where we occasionally catch a few trout.

My hobbies are fishing, sailing, an occasional game of golf, and
following sporting events. I believe in the policy of live and let
live, vote Republican, and am a member of the Episcopal Church.

[534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEE HODGES

HOME ADDRESS: 2236 Colquitt, Houston 6, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rice Institute, P.O. Box 1892, Houston 1, Texas.

BORN: Jan. 18, 1908, Oakman, Okla. parents: Joseph Lee Hodges, Cynthia
Viola Jones.

PREPARED AT: Okemah High School, Okemah, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. “lagna cum laude, 1930; A.M.
(Rice Institute), 1934. .

MarRRIED: Léone Camus, Aug. 27, 1935, St. Augustine, Fla. cHILpREN:
Laurent, Jan. 16, 1940; Louis, Jan. 21, 1943; Lee, Jr., June 21, 1947;
Lucille, June 23, ros50.

OccuPATION: Assistant professor of Romance languages,

PUBLICATIONS: “Mexican Notes and Personalities of the Struggle for Texas”;
“The Aftermath of San Jacinto.”

MY record shows me to be a conservative, not only politically,
but also in my living habits. I still have the same job I took in
September, 1930, the same wife I acquired in 1935, the same
house I bought in 1940. If we had Class statistics, I imagine I
should be slightly above average in number of children, consider-
ably below in income. In addition to the formal education which
the children are getting at school, we maintain a laboratory of
three parakeets, two hives of bees, and a flower garden for off-
the-record instruction.

We are strong on scouting, preferring that activity to athletics.
We have one Life Scout and one Second Class, both advancing
well, while I am committee-chairman, seeking a demotion.

PATRICK HENRY HOEY

HOME AppREss: 807 Somerset Pl., N.W., Washington 11, D. C.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Office of the Surgeon General, Hq. U.S.A.F., Washington,
D. C.

BORN: July 24, 1908, Oswego, N. Y. parents: Henry Clay Hoey, Elizabeth
Ursula Martin.

PREPARED AT: Oswego High School, Oswego, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935.

MarriED: Elizabeth Marion Costella, 1941, Fort McClellan, Ala. CHILDREN:
Patrick Henry, Jr., Oct. 20, 1942; Christopher Dennis, July 17, 1948;
Mary Lizbeth, Oct. 24, 1952.

occupation: Flight Surgeon, U. S. Air Force, colonel, U.S.A.F. Medical
Corps.

[535]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
MEMBER OF: Westchester County Medical Society; New York State Medical
Society; American Medical Association; Association of Military Sur-
geons; Aero Medical Association; Alpha Kappa Kappa (medical).

FOLLOWING internship at St. Vincent’s Hospital, New York
City, entered private practice at Scarsdale, New York. Joined
military service in 1940 and served as physician with Infantry,
then Army Air Corps. Attended School of Aviation Medicine at
Randolph. Air Force Base in 1941 and have been assigned with
Air Force to the present time. Served with a Heavy Bombard-
ment Group in England during World War II. A second over-
seas tour was spent in French Morocco, North Africa, in 1953
and 1954. Have held positions as ward surgeon, flight surgeon,
resident in surgery, and hospital commander.

Married Betty Costella, dietitian at Station Hospital, Fort
McClellan, Alabama, in 1941. Have three children: Patrick
Henry, Jr. born in Biloxi, Mississippi, in 1942; Christopher
Dennis, born in Pictsburgh in 1948; and Mary Lizbeth, born in
Washington, D.C, in 1952.

Have a planned career in aviation medicine with the ‘United
States Air Force. Presently assigned to the Office of the Surgeon
General, Headquarters United States Air Force, Washington,

D.C,

GUY CONSTANT HOLBROOK, JR.

HOME appress; Plain Street, Marshfield, Mass.

oFFice appress: Houghton Mifflin Co., 840 Memorial Drive, Cambridge 38,
Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 21, 1907, Somerville, Mass. parents: Guy Constant Holbrook,
Carrie Leonard Weitzel.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

Marritp: Mary-Estelle Palmquist, March 24, 1933, Bryn Mawr, Pa. cHuLp:
Guy Constant, 3d, Sept. 15, 1936.

occupation: Book manufacturing: assistant production manager.

ovries HtLo: Chairman various committees, Marshfield Board of Trade,
i426; president, Marshfield P.T.A., 1947, 1948; vice-president, 1948,
president, 1949, director, 1950-51, South Shore Industrial Engincers
Association.

MeMbsm ov; South Shore Industrial Engineers Association; American ‘So-
ciety for Quality Control; Society for the Advancement of Management,

[ 536]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IT was just twenty-five years ago this February that I received a
letter from Waldron Belknap, one of the vice-presidents of the
Farmers Loan & Trust Company of New York, for whom I was
to start working in June, suggesting that I seriously consider
teaching for a couple of years until the unstable economic situa-
tion cleared up. This made good sense, particularly since my
only qualification for the banking business was in being able to
help Belknap bring home his new Atlantic one-design sloop first
about every week in the various races up and down Long Island
Sound. Teaching jobs were anything but plentiful then as I
found out the next day from George Washington Cram. How-
ever, within a week or so there was a call from Mr. Cram’s office
asking me to come right over to University Hall and talk to
Seaver Buck, headmaster of the Berkshire School. This I did and
was offered a teaching job, I suspect, because I was the only
candidate who knew how to skate. Hockey was Seaver Buck’s
love and Berkshire had been losing too many games to Hotchkiss,
Kent, and Taft not to have something done about it. I took the
job and had moderate success as a teacher-coach there for a
couple of years.

Just when I was becoming acclimated to the daily routine of
boarding school existence, helped to be sure by junkets to Lake
Placid and Bermuda with Malc Hill, something happened in the
late spring of 1932 which altered this adjustment process. We had
just taken our regular places at our tables in the dining hall for
the noon meal and were awaiting the benediction by the head-
master when it occurred. I heard footsteps behind me and then
a familiar voice saying to me, “Here she is.” Turning around I
saw one of the masters’ wives, accompanied by a breathtakingly
beautiful girl, make her way to an adjoining table. I didn’t hear
the grace but a tug at my coat reminded me that it was over and
that I was the only one in the room still standing. Thus I met
Polly. We were married in less than a year and by this time I
was teaching and coaching in a country day school in Great
Neck, Long Island.

For the next eight years I continued in the teaching profession
on Long Island and in Buffalo. In the latter place, classmate Don
Waterman was head football coach with all the attendant worries,
but I had fun as his assistant. This was the life, and so far as I was

[ 537]

— : eR

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Houghton Mithin Company at The Riverside Press in Cambridge
and am still there.
After four years of commuting from Marshfield to Cambridge,
I thought how wonderful it would be not to have to make a
seventy-mile trip each day. This, plus Polly’s concern lest she
vegetate (that will be the day), caused us to take an apartment
in Newton on a three-year lease. For a while it was dandy liv-
ing intown, as it were, and coming back to the country week-
ends. But before the three years were over, we had our fill of
apartment living and came back to Marshfield, vowing we would
never leave the place, long commuting or not, vegetate or not.
Reviewing again these last twenty-five years since the shirred
egg breakfasts at the Pudding, I find them to have been very kind
to me. Mv health has been excellent, I have a wonderful wife
and a swell son, who is all set for college this fall. For what more
can one ask?

HERBERT TENNEY HOLBROOK

HOME ADDRESS: Baldwin Road, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE abpress: Standard Packaging Corp., 551 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BorN: July 9, 1908, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Arthur Tenney Holbrook,
‘92, Bertha Matson Andrews.

PREPARED AT: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1026-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

Marriep: Betty-Wynno Rugee, July 7, 1934, Milwaukee, Wis. CHILDREN:
Timothy Tenney, April 28, 1935; Frederic Rugee, Dec. 24, 1937.

HARVARD BRroTHERS: Arthur Andrews Holbrook, ’28; Matson Holbrook, ’34.

occupation: Vice-president and general manager, packaging division,
Standard Packaging Corporation.

offices HELD: President, Harvard Club of Milwaukee, 1939-40, Forest
Products Packaging Council, 1951-52; director, Family Welfare Associa-
tion, Milwaukee, 1938-42; director, 1952, vice-president, 1953, Packaging
Institute.

Member or: Bedford Golf & Tennis Club, Harvard Clubs of New York and
Westchester, Army Ordnance Association; National Flexible Packaging
Association.

PusLicaTions: “Papers for Packaging,” The Packaging Encyclopedia, 1949,
1960, 1951, 1952, 1953, 1954; various articles on packaging matters,
principally published in Modern Packaging.

WE left our life-long home of Milwaukee in 1942, along with

[ 540 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

millions of others who became D-P’s in that turbulent year, land-
ing in Alexandria, Virginia, where we rented a house handy to
the Pentagon. And in the Pentagon — znd floor, Ring D, Section
5, Room 1548 —I did my stint for three and one-half years as an
industrial packaging “specialist” in the Office of the Chief of
Ordnance. Interesting and absorbing work it was, at least for one
gradually becoming convinced that this field of packaging held
allure and promise and the important things to come post-war
were being conceived and brought forth in the tremendous effort
of preserving, containing, and shipping of war materiel. And in-
terestingly enough, it has proved to be a field with some sort of
special lure to members of Harvard ’30, as a little riffing through
the pages of this Report will prove: just check A. Beardsell, P.
Clark, J. Cross, W. Dunn, and C. Mason, to mention a few.

Came V-J Day, and we did exactly the thing we had told each
other we would never, never do MOVE! Why of course, if
we must — but please, anywhere, but New York!

But here we are and here I hope to be when it comes time to
write the 1975 Report. The lovely countryside, the nice people,
the convenience to New York, and the endless fascination of the
Atlantic seaboard can’t be matched. And that’s the unanimous
opinion of my bride, and my two boys who find it convenient to
their schools (Brooks School and Trinity College), for vacation,
and as a jumping-off point for skiing and visiting friends — and
to me, who finds its attractions more than offset a fifty-mile com-
muting drive each day each way to a factory in New Jersey,
whence cometh the wherewithal to keep it all going somehow.

CHANDLER HOLT

HOME ApprEss: R.F.D., Interlaken, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bourjois Mfg. Corp., 33 Capron St., Rochester, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 16, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: William Abernathy Holt, ’97,
Grace Morton Chandler.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Florence Geraldine Rice, April 20, 1935, Bayside, Long Island, N. Y.

OccuPATION: Cosmetic chemist; research director.

MEMBER OF: Toilet Goods Association; Society of Cosmetic Chemists.

[541 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

LIKE many of my classmates, my occupation was chosen largely
in desperation during the black days of the early ’30’s. However,
I have stayed in the field of perfumes and cosmetics over twenty-
three years and have found it interesting, if not highly profitable.

My war record extends only as far as the induction center,
where it was cut short by bad feet, in spite of my willingness to
serve in the Cavalry. ,

In 1940 I purchased a tract of land on the shores of Cayuga
Lake near Interlaken. Since the living quarters were in an ad-
vanced stage of decay, I immediately took up carpentry and
masonry as hobbies and, as the work progressed, changed to
plumbing and electricity until we now have year-round facilities
including concrete block garage and recreation room. Since we
live close to a large body of water, it was only natural to become
interested in sailing, fishing, and swimming. My travels have con-
sisted largely in commuting: to Rochester, and an annual trip
to visit our factory branches in Cuba and Mexico.

ALEXANDER HOMONOFF

HOME apprEss: 87 Allen Ave., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Spinning Wheel, Inc., 1592 Hancock St., Quincy, Mass.

BorN: March 8, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Morris Homonoff, Eliza-
beth Gross.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930: LL.B., 1933.

MarrieD: Pansy Siegel, Dec. 28, 1941, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN: Richard,
May 20, 1943; Emily Rose, March 16, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Homonoff, ’37, M.B.A., "39.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer and manager, Spinning Wheel, Inc.,; president and
manager, M. Homonoff, Inc.

BEING the boss’s son has many advantages and I recommend it.
Except for the few months spent in a law office after my gradua-
tion from Law School, I have been associated with our family
textile business. It has been very gratifying to participate in the
building of a business that bears our family name and was started
by my father with no capital and only a determination to oper-
ate his own business. We have had times of prosperity when
everything that we did seemed right, and periods of depression
when everything went wrong; but we worked together and we

[ 542 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

always managed to come through intact. After his graduation
from the Harvard Business School, my brother Louis joined our
team. At one period our principal business activity was the
manufacture of women’s apparel. In recent years we have been
engaged in the retailing of textiles and women’s apparel.

Working as a member of a family business team has given me a
sense of security, independence, and satisfaction that I don’t
believe I could have achieved if I had to account to superior
officers, directors, or stockholders. We have no one whom we
can blame for our mistakes, and we reap the benefits of our
progress.

The happiest period that I can record for the past twenty-five
years of my life began with my marriage to my wife, Pansy. We
have two children, Dick and Emily, who at times are the pin-
nacles of perfection, and at other times are just like our neighbors’
children. My greatest pleasure comes from doing things and
going places with my family. We have been spending our summer
vacations in Maine. This summer we plan to make a trip to
Canada and the following year we hope to take a leisurely auto-
mobile trip across the country.

An injured back condition has restricted my physical sports
activities. I have limited my outdoor activities to gardening, for
which hobby I buy the best gadgets and equipment that my wife
can handle, My wife and I are generally engaged in community
drives and charities. Politically I have always voted for the man
and on the issues rather than for a party.

Living close to Cambridge and having the opportunity to hear
President Pusey and Harvard professors express themselves freely
on public issues makes me proud to be a Harvard graduate.

4+ROLAND PETER HONIGSBERG

BORN: Jan. 31, 1907, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Hubert Honigsberg,
Madeliene Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

DIED: June 8, 1941, St. Louis, Mo.

FOR several years after graduating, Honigsberg was associated
with Honigsberg and Son, Studebaker distributors in Shanghai,

[ $43 ]

sical Kg 8 nrg t:cinnnntnaty massac tchsiesianinscammeneniaiai EEE Ie ag”

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

China; he was treasurer in 1931. He died while visiting a friend in
Sc. Louis.

WALTER ELISHA HOOK

OFFICE aporgss: 450 Sutter St San Francisco 8, Calif.

Bors: Dec. 25, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: Elisha I. Hook, Nellie Mary
Montgomery.

PREPARED AT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; M.B. (Northwestern Univ.),
1934; MD. (ibid.), 1935.

MARRIED: Jeanne P. Diehl, Dec. 26, 1942, Chicago, Ill. cuitp: Terrence E,
June 1, 1944.

occupation: Medicine.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

ROBERT ALAN HOOPER

HOME ADpRESS: 114 Montague St., Brooklyn 1, N. Y.

oFFice appress: Long Island College Hospital, 340 Henry St., Brooklyn 1,
N. Y.

BoRN: Sept. 4, 1909, Biddeford, Maine. parents: William Howard Hooper,
Jennie Waite McIntyre.

PrepareD AT: Biddeford High School, Biddeford, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

MARRIED: Emeline Howe Cowdrey, Oct. 25, 1935, Passaic, N. J. CHILDREN:
Phoebe Ann, May 27, 1939; Alan Bartlett, Oct. 27, 1941; Lucinda Maxim,
Dec, 8, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lucien O. Hooper, 717.

OcUPATION: Personnel director; assistant secretary of the corporation, Long
Island College Hospital.

ovricés HELD: Executive director, Brooklyn Civil Defense Organization,
1942-46; member executive committee, co-chairman of Public Informa-
son, Brooklyn Civil Defense, since 1950.

AFTER graduation I did a tour in the moving picture business,
but I was too much a New Englander to be happy in Holly-
wood, That was so long ago that some of the movies I was in are
playing on children’s programs on television today. Through a
series of coincidences, I have since been personnel director and
advertising manager of Brooklyn Borough Gas Company, director
of Civilian Defense Volunteer Offices in Brooklyn during the war,

[544]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and am now in hospital administration as personnel director and
assistant secretary of Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn.

I am up to my ears in committees for this and that, most of
them ramifying out of my interest and background in civil de-
fense and public relations work. Leisure time activities are mostly
learning to paint, and reading, with some bowling and the like
thrown in.

‘ PAUL ELLIOTT HORD

HOME ADDRESS: 8 Fordyce Lane, Ladue, St. Louis 24, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lynnwood Farms, Tebbetts, Mo.; 709 Cotton Belt Bldg., St.
Louis, Mo.

BORN: July 31, 1906, Tebbetts, Mo. parents: George Minor Hord, Josephine
A. Sorrells.

PREPARED AT: Fulton High School, Fulton, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

MARRIED: Jane Louise Luehrmann, May 29, 1954, St. Louis, Mo.

OccUPATION: Inventor; manufacturer, gentleman farmer.

MEMBER OF: University Club of St. Louis; Harvard Club of New York; Phi
Delta Theta.

I VIVIDLY recall graduation day at Harvard, especially noticing
the twenty-five-year-olds, and thinking that is a long way off for
me. But alas! Those twenty-five years have passed all too quickly
and in many ways not nearly as I had planned them at that time.
Instead of leading a normal life, which includes marriage shortly
after graduation, raising a family and settling down to a typical
routine commuting existence between home and office, I chose
to remain single and, as a result, I eventually became a successful
entrepreneur. 7

Being a product of depression days, I found that working for
Standard Oil as bulk plant manager, which was my first job, IBM
in New York, St, Louis Union Trust Company, Union Electric
Company, and even department stores, was very dull and unin-
teresting. I finally found my niche as midwest representative of
the Polaroid Corporation with headquarters in Chicago. Here
was a new company with a wonderful product which fired my
imagination. As a result I was successful and content to travel
constantly selling Polaroid and its products.

Due to Polaroid’s very active contribution to the war effort,

[545 ]

essere non cineneaneuncinatatie thine aes itenntttiN et NASD LENE CTT TEE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

aiong scientine lines, I worked with the Army, Navy and Air

Force in various parts of the United States, Alaska, the Aleutian

Islands, and England as technical representative. Most of this

work centered around the use of stereoscopic film for use in aerial

and ground reconnaissance in the third dimension. This work
took me to many secret and highly placed stations of the military
services both here and in England.

A short time after V-J Day and while still working for Polaroid,

I developed and secured the patents on a window exhaust fan.
I am glad to say that now it is one of the leading lines of exhaust
fans in the country.

Discovering this innate talent for invention led me to other fields
such as air-conditioning, milk and food vending through auto-
matic machines, So far I have only developed practical and salable -
items and products. Each product is marketed as it is developed.

Being a gentleman farmer has its headaches: however, since I
have excellent personnel, I find a farm very restful and balancing.
There is no place which makes you feel more secure than good
rich black soil in which you can solidly plant your feet. We pro-
duce about one ton of milk per day, which is processed through
our own bottling plant and sold locally. We also raise, in addition
to our regular farm crops, about 2,000 mink a year, including all
the varieties that women love: dark, platinum, pastel, white,
palaminos, etc. During my bachelor days, the mink farm proved
helpful in many ways.

I am afraid that in the process of leading such a busy life, which
kept me constantly on the go, I neglected taking part in various
community activities. I have even been too busy for hobbies,
outside of the farm and some quail shooting,

I have also been too busy to marry — or at least I thought so.
However, in the fall of 1953, I finally met that “sweetest girl in
the world” and the fateful event happened this past May 29. She
was Mrs. Jane Louise Luehrmann, one of St. Louis’ nicest and
most attractive widows. After a honeymoon at the Broadmoore
in Colorado Springs, we are very comfortably living in a delight-
ful house in Ladue, which is a suburb of St. Louis.

We feel we are slightly past the age of children; however, it is
sulla possibility ¢ adoption), Our friends say it works out very

well. At present, however, we must be content with two fine

[ 546 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dogs: Butch, a mischievous English Bull, and Prince, a huge
Boxer. In addition, we have Katherine, the cook, Burt, the house-
man, and Gus, the gardener, so there is always considerable ac-
tivity around the household.

As time goes on, we plan to travel rather extensively seeing
what makes the rest of the world tick. We usually cancel each
other’s vote, however not always, and we attend the same church,
the Second Presbyterian. We think Ike is doing a good job, and
especially John Foster Dulles. We are not sure that we shall
have a peaceful world during our lifetime, but we hope to con-
tribute our share in making our community a better place in
which to live and leave some legacy for the betterment and prog-
ress of mankind.

ALEXANDER BATES HORSFALL

HOME appREss: P.O. Box 308, Bedford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Billerica News, 95 Bridge St., Lowell, Mass.

BORN: July 30, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Arthur Ernest Horsfall, Lu-
theria Bogdasarian.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.B.A., 1939.

occuPATION: Associate editor, The Billerica News.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Teamwork and Productivity in a Shoe Factory,” Horsfall
and Arensberg, in Human Organization, quarterly of Society of Applied
Anthropology, 1949.

I THINK probably that I have tried to do too much in life thus
far, resulting in accomplishing not much in a quite varied and,
at times, hectic career. Beginning with a telephone company
training course, in preference to teaching, I continued on — after
a year at Harvard Business School —to community fund work,
in preference to returning to the telephone company, and be-
cause one year did not equip me for teaching. My disbursement
accounting work with the Telco resulted from the necessity of
staying in Boston. I enjoyed campaign organization work for
five years, but didn’t want to become a professional money-raiser.
I went back to Business School to get a Master’s degree in one
more year, having become interested in social anthropology

[ 547 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

when with the Community Fund, doing a study on my own, and
hoping to continue on in the new field of human relations.
However, when in the Community Fund, I fell into what
might be called a simply complicated situation, and this situation
continued while I was studying and longer. Due to difference
of opinion and viewpoints, and worse, I spent some time in-
voluntarily studying our mental hospital setup, and wrote a brief
report on it. Some day I shall hit that system hard. All-in-all,
this post-postgraduate course in dealing with evil men — so highly
recommended by Plato —left me with a sense of wasted time.
when there was so much doing outside, too, and a feeling that
ignorance was a root cause of evil, and further that there are men,
even in high places, who simply lack within themselves, probably
as the consequence of corrupt and cruel thinking habits, under
one verbal guise or another, the means of higher human processes.
Only thus can one account for their behaviour. Whether human
progress can be completely characterized as a race between edu-
cation and catastrophe, I doubt, but at least education gives an
open mind, or prompts people to go through the motions, which
inadvertently may bring similar results.

I continued during the war working for Raytheon and then
went to Florida and taught for a couple of years, economics and
insurance, liking this work and the South very much, even though
it's somewhat tame and ordinarily calls for less activity there,
unless this is purposefully avoided. To me Florida seemed to be
the free state, as well as the sunshine state. Its future seemed
more to it than its past. Fifty years behind New England, it
would bridge that gap in a decade, it seemed. It’s a good place
to work, as well as to play. Now newspaper work is OK, in-
fluencing a community as it does and being the final safeguard
of the public good; and so writing has its satisfactions.

I play the piano a little, like Dixieland better than symphony,
(which is my own fault) like the woods and the water, keeping
up outdoor exercise. Although living right now somewhat like
Thoreau, I am not at all a nature boy. Conservation interests me,
trees and clean water.

My observation is that the universities are still the hope of
America, and that equal to them in influence are our great news-
papers. The independence of both are our best guarantees for the

[548 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

future. Civil rights are more nearly absolute than any other
claims to that.

I find that I am a liberal in politics and in religion, too. I
believe the scientific approach can help solve our social problems,
so there I’m a scientist. I certainly do not believe in any mora-
torium on it. I’m optimistic, and look eastward without mis-
givings. I’m all for United Nations and don’t think the ideal of
one world impracticable.

CHARLES STAVER HOUSE

HOME ADDRESS: Westland Street, R.F.D. 3, Manchester, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: County Bldg., 95 Washington St., Hartford, Conn.

Born: April 24, 1908, Manchester, Conn. parents: Herbert Bissell House,
’02, Sophia Glover Staver. |

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. 1933.

MARRIED: Virginia Brown, Aug. 5, 1938, Harrisburg, Pa. CHILDREN:
Carolyn Staver, Oct. 17, 1940; Arthur Herbert, July 21, 1942; Elizabeth
Anne, June 16, 1947.

occuPATION: Judge, Connecticut Superior Court.

OFFIces HELD: Member, Connecticut House of Representatives, 1941-43;
Assistant States Attorney, 1942-46, Connecticut State Senator, 1947-51;
legal adviser to Governor John Lodge,. 1951-53; delegate, Republican
National Convention, 1952; member, Connecticut Republican State
Central Committee, 1950-53; chairman, Manchester Board of Education,
1943-53; trustee, Williston Academy, 1947-52; partner, Day, Berry &
Howard (law firm), 1938-53; Manchester Town Counsel, 1948-50; chair-
man, Manchester Town Charter Revision Committee, 1946-47; director,
since 1933, president, 1933-54, chairman board of directors, since 1954,
C. E. House & Son, Inc. (men’s clothing store); director, since 1935,

- chairman board of directors, since 1954, J. W. Hale Corporation (de-
partment store); director, Manchester Trust Company, since 1949,
Manchester Savings & Loan Association, since 1933; member Connecti-
cut Board of Bar Examiners, 1946-53, since 1954. |

MEMBER oF: American, Connecticut, and Hartford County Bar Associa-
tions; American Judicature Society; University Club of Hartford;
Harvard Club of Connecticut; Manchester Country Club; Manchester

~ Lodge, No. 73, A.F. & A.M.; Sphinx Temple (Shriners).

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard Law School in 1933,
I returned home to Manchester, Connecticut, and commenced
the practice of my profession in Manchester and in Hartford,
where I was associated with the firm of Day, Berry & Howard.

[ 549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I carly took an active interest in Republican politics and served
in various local positions until 1941 when I was elected a repre-
sentative in the Connecticut General Assembly. At the end of
my term, I was appointed by the judges of the Superior Court
an Assistant States Attorney and spent four very busy years prose-
cuting criminals of all sorts and types.

Since prosecution work left little time for civil practice, I re-
signed this position in 1947 to devote full time to private prac-
nce. My interest in public affairs generally and Republican poli-
tics particularly induced me to run for the Connecticut State
Senate. I served two terms, the second as Republican Leader of
the Senate during the administration of Democrat Governor Ches-
ter Bowles. There was a substantial divergence in our political
philosophies.

At the end of my second term (during which I also served as
chairman of the Connecticut Legislative Council), I firmly re-
solved to leave public life and celebrated with a beautiful bonfire
of collected legislative reports, files, and used campaign speeches.
That year, however, we nominated John Lodge, ’26, for gover-
nor, and my resolutions went for naught.

After Governor Lodge’s inauguration, he invited me to serve
as his legal adviser, which I did for two very full years which
ended in 1953; at which time, he appointed, and the General
Assembly confirmed, me as a Judge of the Superior Court — the
trial court of highest jurisdiction in Connecticut. While the ap-
pointment is for a term of eight years, reappointment is tra-
ditional in Connecticut until the Constitutional retirement limit
at age seventy. As the youngest member of this bench, with one
year of service now passed, I look forward to many years of in-
teresting and challenging judicial experience.

My judicial appointment required me to terminate one of my
most rewarding extra-curricular activities as chairman of the local
Board of Education. During my ten years in that position, our
school enrollment doubled and in the last few years we planned,
fought for, and built four new schools with a total of seventy
classrooms. 1 was able to hold off my resignation until after a
public referendum approved our plans for one additional eight-
een-room elementary school and what will be one of the largest
high schools in the East, accommodating 2400 students.

[ 550 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1938 I married Virginia Brown, Wellesley, ’33, sister of
our classmate, Phil Brown. We have had a very happy life to-
gether and she has been a great help to me in all my activities.
My public services, together with my private practice, left me
altogether too little time to be home with her and our three chil-
dren and no time for hobbies, except for a little travelling when
we could get away.

One of the chief attractions of my present position is that I
can be home more regularly and work at the rough grading, gar-
dening, and woodcutting around our sixteen-acre hill in the
country, where the whole family joins in trying to keep the trees
and scrub brush under control and the stone walls in repair. The
manual labor in old clothes is a fine antidote for my new seden-
tary, robed, judicial career, and I find that life is good.

LAWRENCE LYFORD HOWARD

HOME ADDRESS: 761 Main St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1908, Randolph, Mass. parents: Harold Fuller Howard,
Mollie Forbes Kingsbery.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B., 1930; C.L.u. (American Coll. of
Life Underwriters).

marriepD: Evelyn H. Shoring, Oct. 9, 1936, Sudbury, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sally, Sept. 3, 1940; Jane, Oct. 30, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Forbes Howard, ’39.

occupATION: General Agent, Massachusetts, Fidelity Mutual Life Insurance
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Hingham Institution for Savings, since 1953, Thayer
Academy, since 1953; member Town of Hingham Advisory Com-
mittee, 1947-52, General Agents & Life Managers, 1945-47; life mem-
ber, Million Dollar Round Table, since 1943; director, Boston Life
Underwriters Association, 1946-48; vice-president, Fidelity Mutual
C.L.U. Association, 1954.

MEMBER oF: Hingham Tennis Club; Cohasset Golf Club; Hanover Hunt
and Riding Club; South Hingham Men’s Community Club; Green

Mountain Horse Association.

1930. All spring I worried about two things. First, I worried
about whether or not I'd get my degree. Secondly, I worried
about getting a job to begin on after June. I got the job —

[ss1]

caigen ,f0.59 saekiea Neebisatin SteoncPmaahel mum OA Melamine aiietceaaaeati teint. |. adalat /

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

1939. Worked and saved to improve my share of above men-
tioned cozy arrangement with bank.

1930. Daughter Sally arrived Labor Day. Now my expenses
were going up. I worried about how I could make more money
than my steady, but modest, position could pay me. Noticed
that life insurance salesmen were earning considerably more than
I, so decided to give up said “position’ > and strike out for myself.

1ogi. Started ‘Howard Insurance Agency in May. Learned to
run fast from morning to night— from prospect to prospect.
Designed and installed one of the earliest insurance pension plans.

i942. Stull running. Extremely lucky. Earned first of neces-
sary three consecutive yearly legs on life membership in indus-
try’s top sales club, the Million ‘Dollar Round Table. Require-
ment: sales of $1,000,000 life insurance in twelve consecutive
months. Tried for U.S. Navy. Turned down for poor eyesight,
but informed I would be acceptable for draft. Called for draft
exam. Asked for sixty-day deferment to get business in shape to
leave. Granted; but was warmed this was only temporary.
Turned over business to associates and waited for call. And
waited. And waited. Call never came. Went back to work.

1943-1944. Sweated out the war. Like every man at home,
both glad and sorry I wasn’t taking active part. Organized War

Bond Campaigns with some success and considerable satisfaction.

1945. Trick or Treat. Second daughter, Jane, born Hal-
lowe’en. Felt we could afford a bigger mortgage, so moved from
small house to one slightly larger in same town of Hingham.

1946. Still running. Worried about effect of post-war condi-
tions on future business. Not smart enough to see all the oppor-
tunities to get rich in such things as automobiles, real estate, com-
mon stocks, etc. Still remembered my earlier stickings.

1947. Realized one of my life’s ambitions. Bought my first
horse, a Palomino mare. In spite of her occasional displays of
temperament, I thoroughly enjoyed owning her and practically
gave up the tennis and golf which, up to then, had been my recre-
ation.

1448-1953. Still running. Worried about how long prices
could keep going up. Struggling to keep income within shouting
distance of ever increasing costs. Convinced each year must see
some business setback. Wrong, as usual,

[554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1954. Reunion approaching. All of a sudden aware of tremen-
dous job to be done. Happy to be nearby Cambridge and help
Dick Barbour’s Reunion Committee in some small way.

1955. Reunion. Hope to be still running afterwards.

KENNETH TAPLEY HOWE

HOME ADDRESS: 63 Beatrice Circle, Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jenney Mfg. Co., Box 100, Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

BORN: July 23, 1907, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Herbert Chester Howe,
Mildred S. Tapley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

MARRIED: Virginia Hodson, June 22, 1932, Dayton, Ohio (divorced 1948);
Rosamond Frost, June, 1950, Lexington, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy,
Feb. 17, 1937; Richard, Oct. 6, 1938; Robert, June 22, 1940.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Jenney Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Massachusetts Petroleum Industries Committee,
American Petroleum Institute; director, Independent Oil Men’s Associa-
tion; trustee, Plymouth Church, Belmont; member Executive Council,
Belmont Hill School.

MEMBER OF: Advertising Club of Boston; Lexington Arts and Crafts
Society.

IF you are relatively normal, you started with the first biography

(after reading your own, of course) and are now about half

way through, so here is change of pace. I have dutifully read the

sample lives, looked at the before and after pictures (thrown
them on the circular file), dug out our Freshman Year Book and
looked in a mirror.

All of which brings me back to the many Alumni Day meet-
ings I have attended in the Yard. If you have never watched a
Class roll call, take time out and do so. In one place you are face
to face with a cross-section of life — from ninety-plus down to the
fuzzy-faced graduate of yesterday. The sorriest looking, most
bedraggled Class is always the T'wenty-fifth — of course, this is
the last day of the Reunion which may have something to do with
it. And now WE are the T'wenty-fifth Reunion Class and prob-
ably no better or worse than these before us and those to come.
We are a good half way through our mature life — too late to
start over and yet with a wiser and broader understanding to
enjoy and profit from the years ahead.

[555 ]

fash tak 29 9 ie TEINS AN cy AIO ERI aad ts peaalaeimamasinaiaiie ratio... ieea emma miaatbaen nag

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

After Harvard, a two-year stay across the Charles in the
Business School prepared me for the business world and the more
serious job of earning a living. My business career has been with
one company — Jenney. Here comes the commercial, “Jenney
Gasoline — Year after Year the Quality Leader.” It has been an
interesting and exciting career, for the petroleum industry is
alwavs moving ahead at an ever faster pace, truly a stimulating
challenge!

We have three children, Yesterday the two boys returned to
Belmont Hill School and next week our daughter heads for
Wellesley. So these are the years that keep one pretty well tied
down. Add the usual community projects such as church trustee,
school council, local charities, extra-curricular business activities,
and a summer home on the Cape, and the days, weeks, months,
and years go by pretty fast.

Cape Cod is a pretty good place to relax and enjoy some of the
luxuries of life such as sailing, swimming (72 degrees), sun
bathing, and just plain living.

And what of the future? Three more years sees our daughter
out of college; five years, one son; and seven years, another son.
Or three years to a freer, but quieter, household — a little more
time to devote to the good little woman and her whims; to go
places, see things, and do things at the adult level is to live for
today and pray for a better tomorrow!

STEPHEN RAND HOWE

MAILING ADDRESS: County Road, Pocasset, Mass.

BoRN: June 16, 1907, Newton, Mass, parents: Liverus Hall Howe, Adelaide
Rand.

prepanrD at: Woodstock Academy; New Preparatory School, Cambridge,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

Magniep: Margaret Osgood, June 16, 1932, Yarmouth, N. S., Canada (di-
vorced 1939), Marie Gelhausen, Jan. 7, 1945, Manitowoc, Wis. cHILD:
Stephen Rand, Jr. Nov. 27, 1934.

TO Johnny: It is a long time since that football game on Brown
and Nichols’ field when I first got my nose smashed. Do you re-
member? You played a whale of a game that day, and your team

[556]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

won, but I don’t remember the score. That was in 1922, or was
it 1923?

After several years in the wool and silk noils, I went to work
for the Marine Trust Company of Buffalo. Let’s just call it a
Buffalo bank, because I left them after a little more than a year.
Reason: congeniality with the other employees became impossible
after it was discovered that I was nephew of the president and
cousin of the chairman of the board. I learned that lesson early in
life, you might say.

I had always liked the ramifications of putting before the public
the products beneficial, time-saving, and which filled a real need.
So, I looked around for a merchandising opportunity. The de-
pression was really hitting its full stride by then. However, life,
health, and accident insurance were (and still are) commodities
of which most people had all too little; and so I tackled that field
with enough success to buy the necessities and a few of the small
luxuries of life.

Came Pearl Harbor one Sunday afternoon as I was listening to
the radio. Having divorced status at the time, with no one who
would suffer from a lack of my earning power, and being a fairly
sound-of-limb-and-mind thirty-five-year-old, I decided to leisure-
ly offer my services to the Navy. This I did at 8 a.m. on the 8th.
After a month of futile effort to have my old age waived, in order
to get a commission, I took what was available and was assigned
to a DE as a storekeeper (never did understand why no basic
training). I was given a dime subway fare to the Navy Yard and
my orders, and away I went. Within a month of four years of
service in the Atlantic and Arctic — no Pacific — I ended up with
a discharge (honorable, of course) from the Philly Naval Hos-
pital late in 1945 (trouble was peripheral neuritis of the legs).
These damned things have been giving me trouble ever since.

I met my lovely wife while enjoying my only Stateside duty
(five months at the Submarine Base at Manitowoc, Wisconsin).
Unfortunately we have not been blessed with any children, which
we both love so much; but e’est la vie, ne c’est pas?

After the war, insurance legwork was too much for me, so I
did two things as follows: (1) I undertook, through rehabilita-
tion program, to regain strength in legs by outdoor life: Cape
Cod, plus raising poultry; (2) when feed got too high, I sold off

[557]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the stock, took about eighteen different U.S. Civil Service exams,
passed all but one with good marks — which proved to myself
that mind had not gone back on me like the legs. My first job
Was temporary librarian work at FWS in Woods Hole; my second
was with the Security Police at Camp Edwards. This position is
about to fold, as the ‘Amy i is in process of turning the base over
to the Air Force. And at the present writing, I am hoping to be
taken aboard by Ous Au Force Base somew here in the Supply
Department.

Stephen Rand Howe, Jr., graduated from Moses Brown in
Providence in 1952 and is now a junior at Williams (Class of
1956). I did my best, but that is the school he picked, and it is
a good one we ‘both know. (Remember Curt Hutchins and Bill
Blaney and some other good fellows we know who went there?)

I had intended to go to the Harvard Club of Cape Cod dinner
recently, but ruptured an Achilles tendon the day before. How-
ever, I hope to get cast off in time for whatever event comes up
in the near future for the Harvard Class of 1930.

WILLIAM WHITE HOWELLS

HOME ADDRESS: 274 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.; Kittery Point, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peabody Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 27, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: John Mead Howells, ’91,
Abby MacDougall White.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 19303; A.M. 19313 PH.D., 1934-

Margiep: Muriel Gurdon Seabury, June 15, 1929, New York, N. Y.
cuipreN: Muriel Gurdon, Dec. 30, 1930; William Dean, 2d, Sept. 13,
1932.

HARgvaRD son: William Dean Howells, 2d, 54.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Noyes Mead Howells, ’34.

occupation: Professor of anthropology; curator of somatology.

orrices HELD: President, American Anthropological Association, 1951; sec-
retary, American Association of Physical Anthropologists, 1939-43.

MEMbra or: Century Association, River Club, of New York; American
Anthropological Association, American Association of Physical An-
thropologists, Society for American Archaeology; American Society
of Naturalists, American Society of Human Genetics, Society for the
Study of Evolution, American Ethnological Society; American Society
of Naturalists, American Institute of Human Paleontology.

[558 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pusicaTions: Mankind So Far, Doubleday, 1944; The Heathens, Doubleday,
1948; Back of History, Doubleday, 1954; editor, American Journal of
Physical Anthropology, 1949-54, approximately thirty scientific mono-
graphs and papers, various newspaper and magazine articles.

TWENTY-FIVE years, and I am back where I started. In my
last year as an undergraduate | decided, one February morning
listening to Professor Hooton, that I would be an anthropologist.
In May of 1954 Dr. Hooton died and I was appointed to succeed
him. It is an odd and pleasant feeling to be fixed in these sur-
roundings again, though a pleasure dampened by the deaths, in the
same year, of both E. A. Hooton and A. M. Tozzer, my teachers
and my friends.

All the time, of course, water has been going under the bridge.
I took enough courses to have leave of absence my senior year and
go to Graduate School, and so I was able to get married in June of
1929, an ambition I had been harboring for a couple of years.
That means we have had our Twenty-fifth Anniversary before
our T'wenty-fifth Reunion; and while I don’t know the rules and
regulations about the Class Baby, I think we managed that too.
My wife was wonderful in those days, but she is older now and
more wonderful still, and we have raised a daughter and a son
whom I find fascinating, frankly. They kept us on our toes all
those years, without ever being exactly naughty or difficult; and
they grew up rather strong-minded, but always entirely reason-
able, to our great satisfaction. My daughter Gurdon went through
Bryn Mawr and now she has a job in New York (the place cer-
tainly seems to be her blue-point). My son Dean was a regular
NROTC midshipman in Harvard, and got a degree, a commission,
and orders all at once; he has been at Naval Air Stations in Florida
this year in flight training, since he belongs bodily to the Navy
for three years. |

As for us, we started life in Cambridge and then settled in New
York. I began my professional career in a mild way as a research
associate at the American Museum of Natural History, doing re-
search on the racial types of the Pacific especially. In 1935 we
spent the summer in County Offaly, Ireland, exhuming and study-
ing a large number of Early Christian monks for the Harvard
Irish Survey. I found these dead Irishmen instructive: they indi-
cated to me that the population of Ireland has been essentially the

[559]

ie
" . . ne
re eed a EN ACHR I Ne _s gianna oacapnctaieaceeimetaliaaaiaalial.|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

same since the early Bronze Age, without some of the additions

England got. | found the living Irishmen more instructive still.
By wav of moving ahead professionally, I got a job at the Uni-

versity of Wisconsin in 1939 as assistant professor, rising in early

1943 to lieutenant (j.g.) and going to ONI in Washington for

three vears, where I kept track of Japanese ships afloat and asunk,
hearing of the handiwork of people like Rusty Crews. I went back
to Wisconsin as associate professor in 1946, and in 1948 became
professor of anthropology, and also of liberal integrated studies
as one of the inaugurators of a general education course for fresh-
men and sophomores. To my disgust, I began to find out that, in
my profession anvhow, one works more and more instead of less
and less as time goes on. I have had a variety of professional odd
jobs, especially as editor of the American Journal of Physical
Anthropology, a position which has let me get a lot of my lucubra-
tions into print without any backtalk from the man in charge. I
have published three books in the last ten years (two of them
translated into French, and one published in the Armed Forces
edition, and translated into Spanish and Japanese also). And now
Iam back in the Peabody Museum. :

My interests in anthropology are general, though my specialty
is physical, which pays dividends in professional excitement from
new fossil discoveries, or such a revelation as the marvelously
clever exposure of the marvelously clever Piltdown fake, My
own work is the attempt to understand the variation of physique
in living men. How do people really differ? We all know they
run to different kinds of face and figure, and “So-and-so” looks like
“What's-his-name.” Would, perhaps, such simple factors as
different sizes of brain and different lengths of face fitted to
different sizes of skull explain most of the variety of individuals
taken all together? Where do the basic factors lie? Nobody
knows, and I am trying, by some complex statistical devices, to
pinpoint the important “measurements” and distinguish them
from the secondary ones, and so work out a system that will help
with the study of growth, heredity, and other problems.

Not a bad life. We have an apartment on Beacon Street; our
children are out on the world and we are left with only Louis (cat,
aved five). We have always kept Kittery Point, Maine, as home
base, and so things seem pretty well arranged, knock wood! Per-

[ 560 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

haps you will recognize this as the point at which one of Mar-
quand’s people, doing the biography for his Twenty-fifth,
begins to think back a little more carefully, takes his hair down,
and then tears off a whole novel. Unfortunately, a happy life
makes no narrative at all, or else a pretty gooey one, from the
dramatic point of view. I couldn’t even make Norman Vincent
Peale’s column. I am extremely glad I went to Harvard, and ex-
tremely glad to be back. I am pleased with my profession and my
life, and wouldn’t have it different at all. Sorry. Try the next
man. :

McCLURE MEREDITH HOWLAND

HOME ADDRESS: 18 E, 82d St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1906, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Dulany Howland, Mar-
guerite McClure.

PREPARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.; St. Paul’s School,
Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MARRIED: Jane Robb Murdoch, June 6, 1939, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Grafton Dulany, March 9, 1943; Louisa Meredith, Jan. 25, 19483
Katherine Murdoch, Sept. 14, 1951,

OCCUPATION: Free-lance writer.

OFFICES HELD: Founding member, president, 1928-29, Harvard Club of Spain,
historian, Mayflower Descendants; president, Pilgrim John Howland

Society, 1946-54.

MEMBER OF: Knickerbocker Club; River Club; Tuxedo Club; Harvard Club;
Colonial Wars Society; St. Nicholas Society; Veterans of the 7th Regi-
ment, New York City.

DURING the war and afterwards, 1942-48, I served in the New
York Guard, 7th Regiment. I have written and published short
stories, articles on people, and on history and genealogy. The
magazines in which my pieces have appeared include Town and
Country, Railway Progress, Washington, D. C., and the New
England Historical and Genealogical Register, I have also done
public relations work.

My chief interest is my family. I have travelled fairly ex-
tensively in France, England, Spain, and Italy, and have been in
Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Ireland, and Canada, as well as
other countries. During the late 1920's, I lived in Spain a good

[ 561 ]

oe iaseeannattnins

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

part of four years when my stepfather, Ogden Hammond (a
Coolidge appointee), was ambassador there.

My hobbies are reading, historical and genealogical research,
bridge, dancing. tennis, and golf. The golf courses on which I
have play ed the most are Puerta d'Hierro in Madrid, Spain, Somer-
set Hills in Bernardsville, New Jersey, the Newport Country Club
in Newport, Rhode Island, and the Van Cortlandt Park public
course in New York City. I have done quite a bit of horseback
riding. hacking, polo and jumping, but not in recent years. I am
fond of dogs.

I have reviewed movies with the Exceptional Committee of the
National Board of Review, a critical group which reviews the
better movies when they are first released.

Usually Iam a Republican, but at first I voted for Franklin D.
Roosevelt, for whom I have a high regard. Among other things
that hold my interest are beer, ale, and good food — and also my
waistline.

WALDO HOWLAND

HOME ApprEss: 55 High St., South Dartmouth, Mass.
oFFice appress: Concordia Co., Inc., South Dartmouth, Mass.

Bors: May 1, 1908, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: Llewellyn Howland, 00,
Hope Waldo.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).

MapRiED: Katherine Sue Kinnaird, Feb. 1, 1940, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Charles Child, Sept. 7, 1942; Kinnaird, June 9, 1944; Thomas Baker,
Sept. 12, 1948; Katherine Sue, April 27, 1950; Waldo, Jr., April 7, 1952.

HaRvann BroTHER: Llewellyn Howland, Jr., ’34.

occuPATION: Yacht business: president, Concordia Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, W. & L. Howland Insurance Agency, Howland &
Howland Real Estate Agency.

MEMBER OF: New Bedford Yacht Club; Cruising Club of America, Hasty
Pudding Club; Royal Ocean Racing Club of Great Britain; Delphic Club.

THE winter season of 1930-31 I spent most pleasantly and profit-
ably as an instructor and floor master at Milton Academy. I
learned a great deal from the boys in the class-room and also en-
joved working with them on the hockey rink and track. By some
studying on the side, I finally picked up enough additional infor-
mation to receive my degree from College.

[ 562 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Gold prospecting ventures in northwestern Quebec taught me

the very simple lesson, easy come—easy go. Since that time I

have worked on the basis that hard come will be hard go. Al-

though I did not get rich in Canada, I did strike gold in unexpected

form. It all happened this way. I went out of the prospecting

business with all its rum and rigours and went into the boat

business, or more correctly speaking, the yacht game. As Con-

cordia Company, so State Street, C. Raymond Hunt and I pro-
duced a number of yacht designs, sold a number of these, and
had the boats built, sold used boats on a brokerage basis, and other-
wise eked out a meager living. At this stage, an increasing number
of opportunities came my way to join sailing expeditions, Bermuda
races, Cape May, Gibson Island, a Transatlantic race, the Fastnet
and others. Then came the sale of Concordia plans for the 43’
ketch Prospector, which involved a final inspection trip to
Florida and an end of my bachelor days. This was 1940 and
shortly after the wedding my wife and I moved to South Dart-
mouth, my old summer home, and set up housekeeping. At the
same time we bought the old Padanaram Town Dock and became
boat-yard operators. ‘These projects and a partnership with my
brother in the insurance and real estate business have kept me
occupied ever since.

In 1942 I had the mystifying experience of being in Washing-
ton, D. C., for some months. To this day I do not know what I
was paid to do down there, but paid I was until Uncle Sam let
down the last bar and accepted me as lieutenant (j.g.) in his
Navy. Cornell, then Ohio State, and finally Great Lakes Naval
Training Station took a whack at me before I was shipped off on
the Queen Mary for a two-years’ stay at the Royal Naval College
in Dartmouth, England. Here I learned to mistrust mustaches and
all forms of work, and to love the Devon countryside and cruising
harbors, to say nothing of the Imperial Hotel in Torquay.

The year 1945 allowed me to come back to my family and
boat yard, both of which institutions have flourished since that
time. I cannot quite figure out how the income from my business
is going to educate my four boys and one girl in the lavish form
to which I myself have become accustomed. However, they have
many valuable advantages in living in the country and being in
touch with the many friends, new and old, who stop in to see us.

[ 563 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Resides the usual boat-yard facilities, Concordia owns the pro-
duction and sale of two very popular boats. The 12’ wooden
Beetle Cat is a class that has flourished for thirty-five years. Many
true vachtsmen have had their first training in a Beetle and are
now buving one of these boats for their children. The 4o’ Con-
cordia Yaw is a newer class, dating back only to 1938, but it has
a very conunuous and loyal backing.

In short, I am currently ina frame of mind to count my blessings
here at home and to hope that sometime in the not too distant
future I shall have health and leisure to get away and visit with
old friends.

BARRETT HOYT

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Cummings Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFice appress: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., Boston 17, Mass.
BorN: Nov. 6, 1907, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Harrison Hoyt,

Eleanor Barrett.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929, 1930-1931. DEGREE: A.B. cu7 laude, 1930(31).
oocupaTion: Administrative staff assistant, Liberty Mutual Insurance

Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

DURING our undergraduate years, we were counselled to be
imaginative and to look ahead. Now, in connection ‘with the
Twenty-fifth Anniversary of our graduation, we are requested
to look back, presumably with exactitude rather than imagination.
Limited thus to historical facts, this account will be neither excit-
ing nor lengthy.

Actually 1 was not graduated with the Class, having devoted
the normal senior year to a polio immunization program under
the pre-Salk method. I returned to Sever, Widener, et al., the
next fall to complete the requirements for an Artistic Bachelor-
hood; and not until the following June did I set out after my
claswmates in the depression-wracked world.

On the Lasis of a good grade in Accounting I, and some advice
that Insses as well as profits nceded to be recorded and audited,
I elected public accounting as my line of endeavor and secured
employment with a venerable Boston firm in that field. The part-

[ 564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ners were five gentlemen who seemed to accept me as passably
bright, and the pleasant association might have endured except
for the scarcity of clients with either profits or losses requiring
our services.

Despite this indication of instability, accountancy still appealed
as a trade, and after a comparatively short interval by 1933
standards, I was again auditing financial records. This time the
work was associated with casualty insurance which most business
concerns carry, irrespective of the phase of the business cycle, so
that the market was more secure; and the connection has lasted
to the point where it is probably permanent. In due course I
moved into supervisory, then research, duties, and am now a
member of an administrative staff dealing with the statistical
aspects of our operations. This area of business is becoming more
and more interesting because of the rapid strides being made in
the development of automatic data transmission systems and
electronic machines for keeping records and preparing reports,

The war years were a strain in our family as in most, but the
usual pattern was reversed. I stayed on to keep the home fires
burning for our mother while my sister went into service as a
Wave officer. I did participate in the war effort on my own part
to the extent of serving at the Air Defense Center, where we
plotted some mighty erratic flights over the New England area,
all apparently by friendly aircraft, but quite possibly with a few
large birds intermixed. During this period I also attempted a
victory garden, but any excess weight I now carry is in no way
attributable to the caloric content of my self-raised produce. Not-
withstanding the obvious lack of natural fertility in my home
soul, gardening has become my principal hobby and I hopefully
plant the seeds, bulbs, and roots appropriate for each season. The
blooms are not much more profuse than the vegetables, but they
seem to nourish the insects equally well and are somewhat more
decorative. -

Now it is time to resume forward looking, for the new seed
catalogues are arriving and this is the year when, so help me, I
am going to grow asters and zinnias that show some resemblance
to the delightfully tinted pictures of their presumed parents.

[ 565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

HAVEN HUBBARD

HOME aporESS: 97 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn 1, N. Y.

Bors: Alay 17, 1908, South Bend, Ind. parents: Arthur Lucius Hubbard,
LLB. ‘98 Afary Orth Ford.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Chicago); a.m. (ibid.),
1934-

marriep: Anne Cappie, Feb. 11, 1954, Brooklyn, N. Y.

occuPATION: Writer.

THIS is no ume to write my memoirs — having just got married
— but you can check with me for the Fiftieth Anniversary, if
vou're still interested and still around. You see, I’m only be-
ginning. I got off to a slower start than most of us. In 1930 when
I was a banker’s son, I was offered a dazzling choice of positions
presumably for being such a promising young man. In 1931 when
the bankers were dead, the same people who had offered such an
array of opportunity (e.g. head of the export department of a
great industrial firm or the presidency of a bank) — these men
could no longer see any promise at all — perhaps they were too
busy hanging on to their hats.

My first job was teaching Shakespeare at three dollars per night,
one night a week. At that time I could claim only two years of
college and I thought I was pretty lucky to get another school job
in return for board and room. After two years at this rate, I
decided that I enjoyed teaching and that if I got a college degree,
I might even rate a salary. So, I borrowed money and went to
the University of Chicago for a year and picked up three years of
credit and an A.M. degree in educational administration. This
degree apparently ended my teaching career; at least, I’ve never
been offered a teaching job since.

My own education, however, continued apace; there was em-
ploy ment — shoveling dirt on roads, mixing cement for houses,
tearing down barns, nailing on roofs, sweeping up floors in
factories —and there was unemployment. There was a variety
of sclling jobs from door to door on foot, and later from city to
city by plane; some personnel work; a good deal of travel through
all the forty-eight states, usually by thumb, and through most
countrics of Europe and Asia. In 1927 I traveled through — Sh-h-
h! — on the Trans-sh-sh! Railroad. Five years later I took a party

[ 566 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of college boys through Sh-h-h!, and they all turned out to be
damned capitalists. “he third time I asked for a visa to Sh-h-h!
it was refused, and so I had to travel by truck through Iraq, Iran,
and Afghanistan to get around Sh-h-h! on my way to India.
Before I got through I wished I'd stayed home, but I’ll spare you
the details.

In recent years I have furthered my study of education and
human society at three more great universities right here in the
U.S.A. — University of California, New York University, and
Columbia.

It was on that first world-circling trip between years at Har-
vard that I first realized that of all lucky things that have happened
to me, the luckiest was having been born in the United States, I
still think so. In this country, however far we may be from
heaven, at least we have the boon of conflicting ideals, the newer
struggling ones of the Declaration and the Constitution as against
the older, stronger ones of the class system. With the young ideals
already written into basic law and sometimes even into practice,
I am hopeful that the American creed may in time erode the
American system. The system under which the condition for
getting a loan is not needing it. The system Id like to see is free
enterprise.

In politics I was for Roosevelt, Truman, and Stevenson. I’m
proud of being one of those liberals, the fellow who is called a
Fascist by one side and a Communist by the other, because he
believes in hearing all sides. In religion I place my faith in the
scientific spirit of inquiry, the method of observation and veri-
fication, and the authority of evidence. By democratic, I mean
the attempt to equalize opportunity, for which one precondition
is the approximation of understanding of each other through
continuous argument, with free expression of conflicting opin-
ions, especially subversive ones. This implies minority right and
majority rule.

To finish the story —in 1945, after various changes of draft
status, my occupational deferment because of writing was ended
when an advertising firm rented me out by the week as an expert
on reorganizing and promoting diaper services (which I had
never heard of before). At the end of that year, having saved
some money, I retired from business to write a play. Then I

[ 567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

wrote another. Then I wrote another. And as Shaw said, you
don’t write three plays and then stop.

One playscript which I sent to the Harvard Dramatic Club got
lost and the Post Office finally traced it to Widener Library
sitting up there between Shakespeare and Sophocles. That’s as
near as I've come — vet — but if you want to change your tax
bracket (one way or another), please send me a wire and we'll
give the old bovs some competition.

HENRY LEA HUDSON

HOME aporEss: LeBoutillier Road, Paoli, Pa.

oFFice aporess: Lea & Febiger, 600 S. Washington Sq., Philadelphia 6, Pa.

BoRN: Nov. 13, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Percy Kiersted Hudson,
Marjorie Vaughan Lea.

prepare AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B., 1930(35).

aarriep: Mary Kathleen Mason, June 22, 1935, Chestnut Hill, Pa. cHiLpRen:
Charles Lea, Sept. 24, 1936, William Clarke, Aug. 11, 1938; Ann Lea,
Aug. 30, 1941; Mathew Carey, April 12, 1946.

oocupaTion: Parmer in firm of Lea & Febiger, medical book publishers.

orFices HELD: Secretary of the Vestry, St. Peter’s Church, Paoli, Pa.; presi-
dent, Babies Hospital of Philadelphia, Skin and Cancer Hospital of
Philadelphia, Great Valley Association, member Township Zoning
Committee.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Club, Rittenhouse Club; Franklin Inn; Harvard
Club of Philadelphia.

A REVIEW of a quarter century calls for time to look about
and draw breath, an increasingly difficult contortion. Yet these
twenty-five years seem short enough, so short that some events
don't yet stand out and take a proper perspective. Immediately
on leaving college, I was fortunate in taking a year and a half to
travel about the world, a good part of the time with classmate
C. S. Petrasch. This experience leaves many fond memories and
a certain feeling of familiarity when in later years history via the
newspapers recounts the changing political events which have
overtaken so many of the people and places visited. Settling in
Philadelphia 1 started on the bottom rung in a medical book
publishing firm of ancient lineage, Lea & Febiger. With some in-
terruption, that has been my daily stint since January, 1932. It
has been my lot to do much travelling for the firm, visiting

[ 568 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

medical schools and other medical centers at which it is the aim
to find new writing talent, as well as the more utilitarian aim to
encourage the sale of textbooks which we publish. In time, 1946,
I became a partner in the firm, but that merely means an increase
in the effort expended.

Shortly after settling in Philadelphia, I was encouraged to join
the Frst Troop Philadelphia City Cavalry, a horse troop, a com-
ponent of the Pennsylvania National Guard under different
designations at various times. That took care of my summer
vacations for many years — the locale always prescribed by Gen-
eral Orders. Still, it was a rewarding and enjoyable experience.
The year 1941 thus found me in the Army, and just after the
Japanese so rudely shattered the dream world of the U.S.A., we
exchanged our horses for scout cars and jeeps. My eventual trans-
fer to O.C.S. and a rugged course of study there led to a com-
mission and to being shipped off to India for service for the next
two and a half years as an adjutant in the CBI theatre.

Marriage has been the outstanding occurrence of this quarter-
century. Mine is one of those made in heaven. Four inquisitive
and energetic children have kept us jumping since they started
coming on the scene. They too moved us into larger houses until
five years ago we landed on our dream farm on which we hope
to remain. But the farming is minimal. It resolves itself into
trying to keep up with the seasons which roll around all too
rapidly. I do not recommend weekend farming to others, but
still I like to think I can do it, which obviously I can not.

The travelling I’ve done for business, for pleasure, and for
Uncle Sam has brought me in contact with a great many Harvard
men, of my Class and of others, all over the world. It is remark-
able how Harvard spreads itself around the world. May it con-
tinue to do so, and lead us to a concept of Christian action that
will eventually straighten out and solve the problems of this old
world.

THOMAS JOHN HUGHES

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Bayview Rd., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Statistics, Inc., Statler Bldg., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Roger Hughes,
Theresa Anna Johnson.

[ 559 ]

scam Ak a Ms oh al aaa bile | TNL ay, ag

HARVARD CLASS OF I930

prrparrp at: Milford School, Milford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREES: 8.B. (Trinity Coll.), 1931; M.B.a.
(Harvard Univ.), 1933.

MarrigD: Florence Hiniker, 1946, Boston, Mass. cH1tpren: T. John; James R.

cocupaTion: Financial research.

WALTER TREADWAY HUNTINGTON

BORN: Oct. 23, 1908, Windsor, Conn. parents: Henry Arthur Huntington,
Afary Clark.

PREPARED aT: \WWindsor High School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

pep: May 7 or 8, 1929, Windsor, Conn.

HUNTINGTON died during our senior year. His body was
found in a field near his Windsor home; he had apparently been
slain.

JACKSON K. HURD

LAST KNOWN appress: 415 City Bank Bldg., Kansas City, Mo.

BorN: Dec. 29, 1908, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Asa Dolsen Hurd, Lottie
E. H. Jackson.

prepareD aT: Central High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

HURD has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1954.

LEO T. HURWITZ

HOME ADoRESS: 43 W. 93rd St., New York 25, N. Y.

BoRN: June 23, 1909, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Solomon Hurwitz, Eva
Katcher.

purparep at: New Utrecht High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. Sunrma cum laude, 1930.

Maggiep: Jane Dudley, July 5, 1935, New York, N. Y. cxuitp: Thomas Dud-
ley, Feb. 5, 1947-

occ.Lparion: Motion picture and television director-producer.

ornicrs neLo: Managing editor, motion picture editor, New Theatre and Film
Magazine; founder, vice-president, Frontier Films, Inc. (pioneer pro-
ducer of documentary films in the U.S.); producer, director, news and
special events department, CBS. Television, film production for the
United Nations, TV production for the Souvaine Company; instructor
of photography, film, and television techniques, Sarah Lawrence College,

[ 570]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Professional Training Program of American Theatre Wing, New School
for Social Research, Schoo] of Radio and Television Techniques.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; New York Screen Directors’ Guild; Local 771,
1.A.T.S.E.; Radio and Television Directors’ Guild; National Council
for the Arts, Sciences and Professions.

puBLications: Articles in New Theatre, Creative Art, Photo Notes, etc.;
introduction to Portfolio of Mexico, by Paul Strand; the motion pictures,
“Hunger,” 1932, “Plow That Broke the Plains,” “Heart of Spain,”
“Native Land,” “Strange Victory,” “There Shall be Peace”; docu-
mentary films for the United Nations, Reingold Beer, Health Insurance
Plan, General Motors; television: format for C.B.S. News Show, “Car-
men and Traviata,” C.BS., “An Evening for Richard Rodgers,” N.B.C.

~

EDWARD FISKE HUTCHINS

HOME ADDRESS: 107—22 31st Ave., East Elmhurst 69, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Basil Frasier Hutchins, Eva
Roosa Hutchins.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Lillian Dotson, June 17, 1947, Baltimore, Md.

occupaTION: U.S. Government clerk.

MEMBER OF: Omega Psi Phi; Y.M.C.A.; Masons; Young Affiliated Demo-
crats of New York.

THE deadline was punctuated by an urgent telegram sent by the
New York committee. The day after graduation found me work-
ing my way up from the bottom in my dad’s funeral business
(started in 1895), and in a new venture —a garage business, that
was not the year for successful garages — not even for college
grads. The uncertainty of those depression years cautioned me to
accept a government job in '38, to which I returned after the
war. In ’42, I joined with Uncle Sam and spent two years in the
glorious Southwest: during one of those years I learned to be a
G.I. pharmacist at El Paso, Texas; during the other at Fort Hua-
chuca, Arizona, with twenty other boys I taught combat-swim-
ming under the American Red Cross system. Then there was a
year in sunny Italy, where at the white sandy beach resort at
Viareggio ten of us lucky GIs rated special duty as life-guards.
Rough duty!

In June, 1947, I married Lillian who was doing a fine job as
director of a nursery for children, aged two to four, in New York

[571]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Citv. My hobbies center around the local Y.M.C.A. and its
swimming pool. Currently, I swim at Hotel St. George’s pool
and the Flushing Amphitheatre, where last summer’s Aquacade
was held. Horseback riding and seeing the Broadway shows and
plays are my other interests. My religious affiliation is with
St. George's Episcopal Church in Flushing. Politically I have
always been an F.D.R. Democrat; however, I was very happy to
see the Republican Chief Justice Warren make the segregation
ruling for public schools.

WILLIAM EDWARD HUTTON

HOME apprEss: Wheatley Road, Westbury, Long Island, N. Y.

orFice aporess: W. FE. Hutton & Co., 14 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BorN: May 23, 1907, Cincinnati, Ohio. paRENTs: James Morgan Hutton,
Sarah Johnson.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Joan King Chapin, Oct. 15, 1938, Grosse Pointe, Mich. CHILDREN:
Wiliam Edward, 3d, July 30, 1939; Thomas Johnson, Jan. 26, 1942;
Inez Chapin, Oct. 13, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Investment banker: senior partner, W. E. Hutton & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of governors, 1950-54, vice-chairman of the
board, 1953-54, New York Stock Exchange; co-chairman, New York
City Cancer Committee, 1951-54; Wall Street chairman, New York
City Heart Fund, 1950; member board of managers, New York Botanical
Garden Society, 1950-54; chairman, North County Community Hospital
Fund Campaign.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis, Links, Stock Exchange Lunch, Meadow-
brook, Piping Rock, National Golf, Nantucket Yacht, Sankaty Head
Golf, Seminole Golf, Palmetto Golf, Mill Reed Clubs.

THE past quarter of a century viewed over the shoulder, so to
speak, presents a vastly different picture than that which I
imagined I saw in June, 1930. A pleasant haze lingers over most
of the years prior to World War II, which tends to foreshorten the
scope of my picture. A few milestones rise above the haze to
remind me of my various activities and changing locales during
these years.

With the exception of the time spent in the Navy from early
1942 to late 1945, I have earned my keep with the investment
banking firm of W. E. Hutton & Company. The fact that my

L572)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

grandfather was the founder of the firm and that my father was
the senior partner, for the first ten years after my graduation, in
no way lessened my opportunities for advancement with this
company. I fully realize the important réle which luck and good
fortune have played in any modest achievement I might have ac-
complished. The will to carry on a successful family enterprise
has kept me hard at work over the years.

After eight years of quiet bachelorhood, during which time I
worked in our offices in Cincinnati, Lexington, Kentucky, New
York, and Detroit, I married Joan King Chapin of Grosse Pointe,
Michigan, She is ten years my junior, an age difference I can
heartily endorse as I feel it has retarded my erosion and de-
terioration a bit. We have three wonderful children, two
Harvard hopefuls and a darling little daughter.

Since the war, Old Westbury on Long Island has been our
permanent residence, Commuting is a terrible bore, but country
life compared with that of the city more than compensates for
the Long Island Railroad. The leisure hours of our life are pleas-
ant ones, but I am afraid my interests are spread too thin to be
proficient in any one field. At the present, horticulture is in the
ascendency with golf being neglected a bit, I fear. During the
past five years the Hutton clan can boast of planting over 30,000
spring flowering bulbs and shrubs that required a lot of perspira-
tion and parental persistence I can assure you. Through my
interest in flowers, I have become associated with the New York
Botanical Garden Society, on whose board of managers | have
served for the past four years.

The pursuit of game bird shooting has Jed us to such places as
plantations in the deep South, the woods of Maine and northern
Michigan, the Scottish moors, and the mountain passes of the
Pyrenees.

Fishing both underwater with a spear and from the beach with
a rod and reel has taken us to many of the islands in the Virgin
and Leeward group in the winter and Nantucket in the summer.
One other hobby I have enjoyed over the years has been collecting
wines and old liquors from all over the world. My friends, I find,
enjoy the results of this pastime equally as well as I.

Activities in a serious vein, other than my endeavors with
W. E. Hutton & Company, have occupied a good deal of my

[573]

vein Daa RAINIER AE St site A ENTER OTN lt.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

time very profitably. Four vears on the board of governors of
the New York Stock Exchange and one year as the vice-chairman
were vitally interesting to me in my business. For the past six
years I have been associated with the New York Cancer Com-
mittee, the last four of which I have served with Mr. Alfred P.
Sloan as co-chairman for raising funds. Our local hospital in Long
Island, hke every other hospital today, has an insatiable appetite
for funds. I have served as a local chairman for five years with this
fine organization.

Since the war, I have worked with many other classmates to
raise our Class gift to Harvard. This has renewed very pleasantly
many college “friendships which otherwise might have been
neglected i in the rush of our daily life. Iam looking forward with
a great deal of pleasure to our Twenty-fifth, when these friends,
plus many others, will all make for a wonderful Reunion.

HOWARD LANSING HUXTABLE ©

HOME appress: 45 Beach Bluff Ave., Swampscott, Mass.

oFFice aporess: Lynn Institution for Savings, 25 Exchange St., Lynn, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 1, 1909, Wareham, Mass. PareNts: John Percival Huxtable,
Charlotte Burgess.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MagrieD: Virginia Thompson, Nov. 28, 1934, Manchester, N. H. cHip:
Peter Burgess, June 3, 1940.

occupaTion: President, Lynn Institution for Savings.

orFices HELD: Director, Essex Trust Company, Greater Lynn Community
Chest and Council, Bay Shore Council of Boy Scouts of America,
Greater Lynn Heart Fund; member of board, Lynn Hospital, treasurer,
Amoskeag Savings Bank, Manchester, N. H., 1946-53, New Hampshire
Association for the Blind, 1950-53, New Hampshire Chapter, Arthritis
and Rheumatism Foundation, 1951-53; member advisory board, Salva-
tion Army, 1945-53, Manchester Chamber of Commerce, 1949-50;
director, New Hampshire Savings Banks Association, 1949-51, Man-
chester Chapter, American Red Cross, 1947-53, Manchester Y.M.C.A.,
1952~$3.

Misbex of: Harvard Clubs of Lynn and New Hampshire; Harvard Varsity
Club, Tedesco Country Club, Massachusetts Savings Banks Officers
Club, Newcomen Society, Lynn Historical Society.

AS was the unhappy case with so many of us who graduated into

[574]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a depressed economy, my career in the business world got off
to a slow and inauspicious start as a representative of the New
England Telephone & Telegraph Company in New Hampshire.
My two years in that capacity were highlighted chiefly by (1)
playing a rare and informal kind of ball with a group of nearly
defunct Harvards and Dartmouths known as the Amazing Amer-
ican Athletes, and (2) getting married one memorable day in
November, 1934, after a certain miss surprised me by choosing
matrimony over the Harvard-Yale game. We couldn’t afford
both, and I am still impressed by her courage, if not her judgment.

Shortly thereafter, I joined the savings bank fraternity and
enjoyed a pleasant association with the Amoskeag Savings Bank
in Manchester before being attracted to my present happy spot
here on the North Shore.

The intervening years have been replete, not only with good
hard work but also with good fun, good friends, and the reward-
ing experience of bringing up a son. An important interlude,
much happier in retrospect, was my three and one-half years in
the Navy during World War II. As a communications officer,
I had a chance to see the world from Naples to Okinawa, and I
am still defending the right of free men — and universities — to
run their own affairs.

With health that is better than average, except for a natural
degeneration evidenced by a sometimes unpredictable sacro-iliac,
I am pleased to be able to answer “here” when the roll is called
for our “Twenty-fifth,” and to hope that the coming years will
continue to be kind to us all.

FREDERICK BILL HYDE

HOME apprEss: F-r Stoneleigh Courts, Tuscaloosa, Ala.

OFFIcE ADpREss: University of Alabama, Box 2876, University, Ala.

BorN: May 23, 1908, Springfield, Mass. parents: Frederick Smith Hyde,
Matilda Strang.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; A.M. (Yale Univ.), 1942;
PHD. (ibid.), 1954.

UNMARRIED,

occuPATION: Assistant professor.

[575]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Srudent Center in the University, which enables me to work with

a small volunteer choir. .

My main hobby, the ownership of and performance upon old-
tvpe clavier instruments (such as the clavichord and harpsichord),
is, of course, of prime importance in my work in music history.
Outside of music, however, I have maintained a love of the out-
doors which inclines me to hiking and similar pursuits. This
summer I have even tried my hand at fishing, but this has been
of the most amateurish sort. While still in the North, I was en-
joving a little activity skiing. Needless to say, I have seen none
of this since taking up work in the South. The “fine art” of walk-
ing, however, can be pursued anywhere and at any time; and I
try not to let a year go by without at least one trip of several
days carrying a pack along Vermont’s mountain trails, several
miles from civilization and in command of the excellent views
from the mountains there.

This June, after bringing to completion a dissertation, I was
finally able to obtain at Yale the Doctor’s degree for which I have
been working since 1946. During the weeks since then I have
been taking advantage of what I consider (in the light of this
accomplishment) the well-earned privilege of doing nothing.
This can’t last, of course; but it is an occupation which has much
to recommend it at times.

RICHARD WHITNEY HYDE

HOME Appress: Laurel Hill Road, R.F.D. 1, Norwich, Conn.

OFFicE apprEss: Foto-Lab, Inc., Taftville, Conn.

BORN: June 18, 1909, Hartford, Conn. parents: Clement Callester Hyde, ’92,
Edith Ladora Risley.

PREPARED AT: Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1930; A.M.
1933.

magniep; Nfary Elizabeth Reed, Oct. 14, 1939, Norwich, Conn. CHILDREN:
Peter Davies, Nov. 5, 1940; Gordon Clement, Nov. 17, 1942; Meredith,
April 28, 1944; Everett Allen, Sept. 9, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Allen Risley Hyde, ’34.

oceuPATION: Photo-finishing.

MEMbER OF: Classical Association of New England, New London Chapter,
American Guild of Organists, Phi Beta Kappa.

[ 578 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pusLications: The Menaechmi of Plautus, an undergraduate translation
(with E. C. Weist, ’30), Harvard University Press, 1930.

PROFESSIONAL AND COMMERCIAL. For four years fol-
lowing graduation, I was a member of the faculty of Brooks
School (boarding, for boys, founded in 1927) in North Andover,
Massachusetts, where I taught Latin and Greek, gave piano
lessons, and played the organ for chapel services. During the
third of these years I lived in Cambridge, working for my
Master’s degree in classics at Harvard and visiting the school two
days a week to supervise piano pupils. From 1934 to 1949, at
Norwich Free Academy (private, day, co-educational, enrollment
about 1900), I taught Latin and mathematics, directed the school
chorus, and performed a number of administrative chores.

Fletcher Hyde Furniture, in which I was a partner, once shipped
knock-down chairs to most of the eastern states; the only tangible
reminder of this is a houseful of good modern furniture, Foto-
Lab, Inc., with which I am now associated, sells and repairs
cameras, and supplies twenty-four-hour photo-finishing service to
stores in this part of the state.

MUSICAL. Although I gave up long before graduation the
aspirations for becoming a professional musician with which I
had entered College, I indulged myself in the early thirties by
taking Dr. Davison’s course in advanced choral composition and
Woodworth’s in choral conducting, both of which have proved
extremely valuable. Nowadays, most of my spare time is occupied
with the sort of musical activity I enjoy — conducting, accom-
panying, and, now and then, arranging and composing. I am
musical director of Mystic Congregational Church, where I
exercise all the freedom a church musician could expect and even
operate in a choir loft of my own design, the Nemrod Grotto
Glee Club, twenty Norwich men who have no artistic pretensions,
but who love to sing and sometimes really do, and the Norwich
Choral Society, which claims to be the oldest secular mixed
choral group in the state, and has recently presented some rather
remarkable performances. I also direct the Men’s Chorus of the
Electric Boat Division, General Dynamics Corporation, in Groton.
All this adds up to something less than a brilliant musical career,
but it has at least served to keep what talent I possess in circula-
tion.

[579 ]

oR ona NM CRE il ks ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MARITAL, PARENTAL, RESIDENTIAL. A dozen years
avo some statistician or other came up with the statement that
the most successful marriages between college-trained people
occurred among the Bryn Mawr-Harvard pairs. Whatever his
criterion for a successful marriage may have been, Betty (Bryn
Mawr, 37) and I are inclined to agree with the general idea.

Our oldest child, Peter, who is almost ready for high school,
passed me in height soon after his thirteenth birthday and is ap-
parently aiming at six-feet-two or -three; in most other respects
he is much like me — sometimes alarmingly so. Gordon fancies
himself as an artist, a magician, and a producer of plays. Meredith
is all girl (I mention this fact because certain classmates who have
never seen her have misconstrued her sex), and is presently de-
voted to the study of ballet. Everett keeps busy after school
digging a stupendous chain of earthworks in the garden.

In 1942 we moved into our present home —a thirteen-room
house, buile in 1890, solidly but without benefit of architect and
located on two acres of land with a fine view up and down and
across the Thames River, a few miles north of the site of the Boat
Races. We have remodeled the place by degrees, so that it now
sults us very nicely.

EVENTUAL. The one task that has brought me more satis-
faction than any other is a rather prosaic one — the construction,
during each of my years at Norwich Free Academy, of the daily
schedule, which is supposed to bring pupils and teachers together
at the best times and places for carrying on the work of the school.
This is a more important and a more complicated procedure than
the layman would imagine, and is a part of the science of school
administration which is crying for research. During the past two
or three years I have been preparing, by extension work at the
University of Connecticut and otherwise, to make a personal at-
tack on the problem. I am already convinced that it would be
possible for a majority of high schools, by discarding antiquated
methods of scheduling and adopting businesslike ones, to save
much of the expense and at the same time to effect a vast im-
provement in classroom conditions.

[ 580 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR INGRAHAM, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 350 Olney St., Providence, R. IL.

oFFice appress: Wanskuck Co., 725 Branch Ave., Providence, R. I.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1907, Oakland, R. I. parents: Arthur Ingraham, ’96, Elizabeth
Williams White.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marriED: Eleanor Macomber, June 21, 1930, West Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Christopher Clark, Feb. 13, 1933; Arthur, 3d, Nov. 1, 1937; Jane
Macomber, Sept. 8, 1941.

HARVARD SON: Christopher Clark Ingraham, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William White Ingraham, ’25; Andrew Clark Ingraham,
"31.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Wanskuck Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Berkshire Fine Spinning, 1945.

MEMBER OF: Sakonnet Golf Club; Agawam Hunt Club; Hope Club, Turks
Head Club.

I WAS married immediately after graduation and shortly there-
after went to work for the Wanskuck Company who are manu-
facturers of men’s wear worsted cloth. The company, like the
whole textile industry, has its ups and downs and for the last
year or two, we have been going through a decided down period.
[ have three children — two boys and a girl, The elder son is in
the Class of 1955 at Harvard.

I gave up tennis, which I have played all my life, about two
years ago and have now become an ardent, but not very good,
golfer. We have not travelled very much and my hobbies are
reading and watching the children grow up. I am Republican
mostly and am very much sold, at the moment, on Mr. Eisen-.
hower’s Constitutional approach to the presidency.

HOLLIS STEADMAN INGRAHAM

HOME AppREss: 291 McCormack Rd., Slingerlands, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: New York State Health Dept., State Office Bldg., Albany,
N. Y.

BoRN: March 1o, 1908, Brookline, Mass. parents: Alward Freeman In-
graham, Grace Ethel Steadman.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: A.B. cuz laude, 1930; M.b. cum laude,
1933; M.P.H. cum laude, 1935.

[ 581]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Manziep: Helena Mi. Johnson, June 1, 1931, Nashua, N. H.
Priscilla, June 27, 1975; Trad, May 23, 1937
Jan. 12, 194.
HARVARD BROTHER: William Irad Ingraham, "38.
eccupariox: Public Health: First Deputy Commissioner of New York
Saute Health Department.
orFices HELD: Chairman board of directors, vice-president, Health Research
Inc.; member board of directors, Associated Hospital Service of Capital
District, executive board, Fort Orange Council of Boy Scouts; chair-
man, Medical Section, New York State Public Health Association.
MEMBER OF: Amencan Board of Preventive Medicine and Public Health;
American Public Health Association; American Epidemiological So-
ciety; American Medical Association, Society of American Bacteriolo-
gists, New York State Public Health Association, New York State
Fpidemiological Society; Medical Society of the State of New York;
New York State Academy of Preventive Medicine, Albany Medical
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in medical journals.

CHILDREN:
; oylvia, Dec. 21, 1938; Mark,

LEAVING college, I went to Harvard Medical School, graduated
in 1933, interning for a year in New York City, and coming back
to Harvard once again for an M.P.H. at Harvard School of Public
Health in 1935. Since 1935 I’ve been working for the New York
State Department of Health. In the earlier years my professional
interest was in communicable diseases. Made no world-shattering
discoveries in that field, but have a couple of small firsts in the
medical literature. In recent years I have been primarily a medical
administrator as First Deputy Commissioner of a department
with over 4000 employees and a $64,000,000 budget.

Was married while in Medical School to Helena Johnson and
in due time we have had a daughter, and a son, and a daughter,
and ason: Priscilla, Irad, Sylvia, and Mark. The two eldest are
now in college, but neither in Cambridge. The two youngest are
yet in high school.

IT was commissioned in the U.S. Navy as lieutenant in 1942,
being later promoted to lieutenant commander and yet later to
commander. Was on active duty just under four years. Spent
most of the time in Washington teaching preventive medicine at
the Naval Medical School. In between classes did research on
prevention of respiratory infections in submarines, and cruised
for some wecks under the Atlantic secking the answers thereto.
Decided the answers were more easily found in a Naval Training

[ 582 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Station and transferred the project to Sampson. In 1944 was sent
to Cairo with the U.S. of America Typhus Commission; and for
control work in French Morocco and Saudi Arabia and research
in Cairo was awarded the Typhus Medal.

Live on a nine acre plot just outside of Albany and get both
my recreation and exercise in cutting grass, gardening, odd
jobbing, and in maintaining and using a tennis court and small
swimming pool which the children and [ built. In the winters, do
a little second-rate carpentering and gunsmithing. I devote the
November weekends to tramping through the woods with a gun
in hand. Don’t shoot too much, but have a lot of fun.

Most of my travel is in New York State, visiting our biggest
city several times monthly and other parts of the state less fre-
quently. Fortunately, I can get to most places in the state from
Albany and return the same day, so almost invariably can get
back to the farm in time for sleeping.

Politically am a mugwump— have tried to be a Republican
which is easy on a state and local basis, but couldn’t subscribe to
the GOP’s policies nationally for many years.

Religiously can’t claim much — do attend the Protestant Church
with fair regularity.

Am not sure just where we are going in this world, but fear
that history indicates clearly that there will be wars and hence
that atomic warfare is inevitable; just hope it is long deferred and
that we will not be caught napping.

The only member of the Class of 1930 I see regularly is Bill
Hazell, who lives in the same town. He just called to urge me to
send this sketch, rough-hewn though it be.

HARRY FINLEY JACKMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 4326 Homestead Drive, Prairie Village 15, Kans.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Goffe & Carkener, Inc., 1147 Board of Trade Bldg., Kansas
City, Mo.

BoRN: Aug. 18, 1909, Minneapolis, Kans. parents: Harry Finley Jackman,
Myra Belle Parker.

PREPARED AT: Minneapolis High School, Minneapolis, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marriep: Lucie Lee McDonald, May 14, 1938, Kansas City, Mo. cHiLpREN:
Alan Parker, April 23, 1941; John Middleton, July 31, 1942.

[ 583 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
occvP rion: Secretary, Goffe & Carkener, Inc., grain commission merchants,

FOR one year I was at the Harvard Business School, then settled
down to the three meals a day problem. I started to work for a
grain firm and have been working for the same firm ever since.
Ac the present time I am secretary of the company, Goffe &
Carkener, Inc., whose main business is grain, both cash and
futures, with a sideline of listed and unlisted securities.

In 1938 I acquired my nearest relative, formerly known as
Lucie Lee McDonald of Kansas City. Statistically speaking, she
attended Sweet Briar and Connecticut College. We have two
bovs, aged twelve and thirteen, who inform me already that they
are as big as, and smarter than, their father.

Enough for that department; let’s get down to the fun. Perhaps
you operate the same way, but we live eleven months for one
month in Michigan in the fall. Alw ays the same place-—a
cottage in Michigan at Sylvan Beach on White Lake and Lake
Michigan. There we swim, boat, fish, play tennis, and golf. Here
I have a chance to spend some delightful hours with the boys, and
I anticipate they will continue to be delightful until they can
beat me at golf (and i it won't be long).

As a hobby, I acquired a nearby farm a few years ago and for
several years I have rather enjoyed the pleasures of a country
squire. This has been much fun, and several trees got sawed into
fireplace lengths; but I guess all good things bring their problems,
and I have recently disposed of the place mainly because I find
that professional tenants (several of them) are more cunning
and shrewd than I.

JOSEPH BERNARD JACOBSON

HOME aposess: 123 Moraine St., Brockton, Mass.

orricz apoerss: Gary Simson Battery Sales, 15 N. Main St., West Bridge-
water, Mass.

teas: Sept. 30, 1908, Brockton, Mass. parents: Samuel N. Jacobson, Fannie
Giezer.

parparrp at: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YRARS IN COLLELES 1926-1930. DPGREE: A.B. 1930.

Maxgipp: Rose Miller, July 24, 1934, Sharon, Mass, cHitpren: Gary Simson,
Aug. 21, 1937; Ann Ruth, March 18, 1942.

ues paTion: Battery manufacturer, president, sales and production.

[ 584]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, Gary Simson Lead Works, Inc., West Bridgewater,
Mass., since 1947, Brockton Hebrew School, 1942-50; member board of
directors, Central Grocers, Inc., 1944-54, Congregation Agudas Achim,
since 1940; vice-president, Lions Club.

MEMBER OF: Association of Harvard Chemists; Lions Club; Y.M.H.A.;
Brotherhood of Congregation Agudas Achim; Brockton Orchestral
Society; Civic Symphony of Boston; Masons (Blue Lodge, Chapter,
Council, Consistory, Shrine).

AFTER my years at Harvard, I studied at the University of
Berlin and at the University of Freiburg in Breisgau, Germany.
I have also taken evening courses at Boston University. The year
1933 with its depression was the same for me as for many others
starting a fresh life. A short way out was to become a grocer with
my parents, yielding a meager but dependable return for labor.
When I married Rose, we all pulled together to build some kind
of a pleasant future, and succeeded. Our family life, children,
health, and community standing in our little society of friends and
neighbors were the measuring stick for the future, and along this
twenty-four inch gage for the hours of the day, I became a very
busy man — much too busy to make money in large quantities.
To this day I have kept the Faith, following Hillel’s interpreta-
tion of the Golden Rule, constantly searching in the quarries for
truth, always carrying high the background of my education as
I endeavor to walk uprightly before man and God. Oh, I sup-
pose that some day I shall have enough money to catch up with
my present social position, but I do not think so. I seem to spend
it as fast as I make it, but it sure is lots of fun.

Through the years I have had long periods of participation in
Boy Scout work as scoutmaster and commissioner, Hebrew School
as president; Synagogue as officer material; Central Grocers, Inc.,
as a member of the board of directors; Lions Club, where I shall
probably be president next year after having held every office in
the club; committee chairman of dozens of small committees on
which I was required to serve in various capacities; Temple
Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Satucket Royal Arch Chapter (a bit of an
officer); Brockton Council of Royal and Select Masters; Massa-
chusetts Consistory in the Valley of Boston; and Aleppo Temple.

Musically I have not disgraced the Pierian Sodality. Free to
good and progressive children I have given viola lessons, and still
do. I have filled many a chair in the Civic Symphony of Boston,

[ 585 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the Whitman Orchestral Club, and the Plymouth Philharmonic,

besides holding down first chair in the viola section of the Brock-

ton Orchestral Society since its start. This orchestra can be

watched closely as a community group, filling the house with 1000

people every concert.

The bright star of my life has always been my wife, Rose, who
has been most gracious in her relationship regarding my outside
or extra-curricular activities mentioned above. She could have
been so different and still be a good wife that I thank the powers-
that-be every day for giving me this wonderful mate. We have
done the best we could with our limited knowledge to rear our
two children, Gary is seventeen and growing up to be a fine
young man, and Ann Ruth is a lovely little twelve-year-old. Of
course, their future is just beginning. I guess everything will be
all right if we have our health. Rose takes her interests in com-
munity life seriously on her own and tries to participate with me
in as many of my endeavors as possible.

During the last six or seven years I have found a much better
medium for the application of my scientific background, limited
as a degree in chemistry may be. I have been building storage
batteries in a little factory which I started. After losing my shirt
to get into the competition, I have gradually begun to buy back
some of the parts of that same shirt. So far, I own the buttons,
the sleeves, the tails, and the pockets. When I shall have the entire
shirt I shall be able to state with more decisiveness at our Fiftieth
Reunion. My goodness, did I say Fiftieth?

If I were running for some office, I suppose I would say that
I am young, healthy, bald, honest, patient, happy, satisfied, not
smug, interested primarily in the upbringing of a nice family, and
soon. My family still belongs to the old Orthodox Synagogue and
so do I. In fact, 1 am considered one of the pillars. I even sing in
a little male choir with our cantor, so even the Harvard Glee Club
did not get entirely wasted. Politically, I have done very little
more than vote at the elections. This field does not seem to in-
terest me too much, even for the honor involved. Now for con-
victions, wow! Those have changed as many times as the odors
in the chemistry lab at Boylston, if it’s still there. I’m flexible, even
if nota milksop,

Since this is my Reunion and also the reunion of my family

[ 586 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with some families of classmates whom we have seen from time
to time, it would be most interesting to discuss the others in my
group, but I think that if anybody wants to go any farther than
the mess of phrases above and wants to become more intimate with
my children, my wife, or me, we would be much better off if we
wrote each other a letter and continued from there, so I guess
I'll end here.

HAROLD LINTON JANUARY

HOME ADDRESS: 215 Richmond Drive, S.E., Albuquerque, N. Mex.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lovelace Clinic, 4800 Gibson Ave., Albuquerque, N. Mex.

BORN: Oct. 17, 1909, Osawatomie, Kans. PARENTS: Dick Ashe January, Anna
Martha Linton.

PREPARED AT: Osawatomie High School, Osawatomie, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D., 1934.

MaRRIED: Betty Diana Clark, June 5, 1936, Derry Village, N. H. cHipren:
Nancy Ann, March 4, 1937; Richard Linton, Sept. 14, 1938; Susan Carol,-
Nov. 9, 1947; Katherine Clark, Oct. 12, 1950.

OccUPATION: Physician: head of department of internal medicine, Lovelace
Clinic.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of: governors, treasurer, Lovelace Clinic;
secretary, New Mexico State Medical Society, 1947-51; member board
of directors, New Mexico Heart Association, 1954; associate, American
College of Physicians; consultant in internal medicine, Sandia Base
Hospital, Veterans Hospital, Albuquerque, N. Mex.; member, active
staff, president, 1952, Bataan Memorial Methodist Hospital, active staff,
president, 1948, St. Joseph Hospital; colonel, Medical Reserve, USAR;
secretary-treasurer, American Association of Medical Clinics, 1954;
delegate from New Mexico, American Medical Association, 1955-56;
president, Harvard Club of New Mexico, 1954.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Mexico, Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club;
Bernalillo County Medical Society; American Heart Association,
American Diabetes Association, Albuquerque Country Club.

GRADUATION was followed by four years in the Harvard
Medical School. Two of the summers while at Medical School
were spent in Europe, climbing a few mountains in Switzerland,
floating down the Danube, and attempting to improve my Ger-
man in Heidelberg and Munich.

Before finishing hospital training in New York, Betty Clark

[ 587 ]

ees ease naar hammer ais aE i oes SNE enigma niin dbiniliiatNtel als.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

(Radclitfe, 33) and I were married. When honeymooning in
Bermuda, we planned to return there every five years for our
anniversary, but the war and four children led us in other di-
rections. Albuquerque, in the sunny Southwest, attracted us and
is sull our home. Believing that group practice offered an oppor-
tunity to practise better medicine, I associated myself with the
Lovelace Clinic in Albuquerque.

Then the war took us away for five years. My address for two
and one-half of those years was Chinaman Ridge Road, Ora Bay,
New Guinea, where I established a station hospital and, as the
commanding officer, had the challenge of running a hospital and
maintaining morale under the most unfavorable living conditions
possible.

Since the war I have continued to be head of the Department
of Internal Medicine at the Lovelace Clinic. Being a member of
the board of governors and treasurer of the clinic has given my
interest in organizational activities an outlet. Four years as secre-
tary of the New Mexico Medical Society and being on the board
of directors of the New Mexico Heart Association have taken up
any time I might have left over from professional work. At the
moment, my extra time is spent in the organization of a teaching
program for residents and fellows at the Lovelace Clinic, in con-
junction with the research activities of the Lovelace Foundation.

My hobby and recreation has been the building of a mountain
cabin in Cochiti Canyon, sixty miles north of Albuquerque. Here
on weekends I am able to enjoy life with Betty and the four
children.

The twenty-five years since graduation have taught me the sad
fact that there are bounds to what I can accomplish and have
clearly revealed my limited capabilities. The two events that
have brought me the greatest happiness in the past twenty-five
years are my marriage to Betty Clark and my locating in Albu-
querque. We are especially looking forward to the Twenty-fifth
Reunion, since our oldest daughter, Nancy, is a freshman at Rad-
cliffe this year.

[ 588 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WENDELL LAWRENCE JAQUITH

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Exeter Park, Cambridge 40, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis, 24 Federal St. Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Feb. 25,'1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Fred Alexis Jaquith, Alice .
Winifred Toye.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

marRRIED: Florence L. McCarthy, June, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. (died April,
1947). CHILD: Lawrence Charles, Jan. 12, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Registered representative, Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis.

OFFICES HELD: President, Boston Young Men’s Christian Union Camera Club,
1948—5 1.

MEMBER oF: Union Camera Club of B.Y.M.C. Union; Ward Seven Republi
can Committee.

I HAVE been with Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis, members of
the New York Stock Exchange, for the past twelve years, and I]
have enjoyed my work very much. The securities business has
been very good and extremely interesting. I believe it has pre-
sented a fascinating picture of the economic development of our
country.

My avocation has been photography and the activities of the
Union Camera Club. I have also been active in community af-
fairs and in the ward committee of the Cambridge City Commit-
tee.

JAROSLAV ALEXANDER JAROSI

HOME ADpRESS: 3058 Livingston Rd., Cleveland 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Overseas Shipping, Inc., 1032 Standard Bldg., Cleveland 13,
Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. PARENTS: Leopold Alexander Jarosi,
Susanna Rigan.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marrigep: Mary Maglosky, June 14, 1952, Cleveland, Ohio. cxuttp: Alexander
John, April 28, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to manager, Overseas Shipping, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, Slovak Luther League (church youth organization),
1935-41.

MEMBER oF: Slovak Luther League; Cleveland Orchestra Chorus; Singers’
Club of Cleveland (formerly).

[ $89 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

THE early years after graduation were spent in banking with a

view toward specializing in its foreign aspects. This was mollify-

ing, in a sense, my ambition to enter upon a career in the diplo-
matic service, W hich dream was unattainable when financial means
were lacking. Leaving the banking field, a victim of the Great
Depression along with many others, there was a most welcome
job with a food manufacturer which, however, did nothing to
enhance the attainment of a goal in some foreign aspect of com-
mercial life.

The long awaited opportunity arrived when, shortly after com-
mencing employment at the Arco Company, I began work in the
foreign sales department, where I was able to utilize to better
advantage my knowledge of languages. It seemed as though one
had just become settled i in a satisfy’ ing endeavor, when the War
Department began to pass out serial numbers and Pearl Harbor
accelerated the process.

I was inducted into the Army of the U.S. on March 25, 1942,
and assigned to the Signal Corps in the famous 82d Infantry Divi-
sion. After a few months I was sent as a member of the cadre to
activate the 98th Infantry Division, with which I remained until
its deactivation in Japan on March 1, 1946. Shortly after joining
the g8th Division, I received appointment as warrant officer (j.g.),
and a few months later, a promotion to chief warrant officer, the
rank held until my discharge from service on March 21, 1946.

After this involuntary interlude, not wholly without its little
bits of recompense, there was a return to the former position in
foreign sales, with a later promotion to manager of the depart-
ment. However, the Korean War again interfered and a decline
in exports necessitated a change — this time to the late lamented
Office of Price Stabilization, as a business analyst in services, ex-
ports, imports, and paint manufactures. Upon the termination of
this agency, I joined a foreign steamship agency, which again
brought me into contact with a foreign aspect of commercial life,
this time the handling of foreign vessels calling at Great Lakes
ports, which has proved most fascinating and interesting. I am
assistant to the manager, representing the ship owners in dealings
with U.S, Customs, immigration, Public Health Service, and book-
ing cargo, documentation and solicitation.

As one of the latest, I am sure, to leave the ranks of bachelors

[ 590 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in our Class, I deserted the state of single-blessedness in June, 1952.
We have one son, whose demands on whatever spare time remains,
increase almost daily, and are a vital factor in maintaining the
spirit of youthfulness in both parents.

During all these years I have kept alive my interest in music,
not only as a listener, but as an active participant in male chorus
singing with the Singers’ Club of Cleveland, and in mixed choral
work with the Cleveland Orchestra Chorus. As a member of the
Lutheran Church, it has been my privilege to serve for several
years as president of the Slovak Luther League, a church youth
organization, and in recent years as Sunday School superintendent
and chairman of Christian Education in the local church.

Although golf and following local college sports activities have
been superseded by more homelike endeavors, | still like to main-
tain my interest in international affairs not only through reading,
but also by means of courses offered by the Council on World
Affairs.

JAMES STANLEY JENNISON

HOME ADDRESS: 106 Marion St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bethlehem Steel Co., Quincy, Mass.

BORN: July 7, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Stanley Jennison, Hilda
Winther.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cut laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Frances Loraine Sibley, Feb. 14, 1933, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Nancy Page, Jan. 19, 1934; Barbara Loraine, March 16, 1937.

OccUPATION: Supervising ratesetter in charge of Time Study and Wage
Incentive Application.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Industrial Engineers; Fore River Leading-
men’s and Quartermen’s Association; The Amateurs, Inc., Brookline,
Mass.; Massachusetts Church Service League.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to trade journals,

IT seems to me that people with a natural flair for autobiography
fall into two categories. The first, and most numerous, is com-~
prised of those who have derived such satisfaction from their
chosen way of life that they feel urged to record their experi-
ences for posterity’s stimulation and incidental admiration. The

[591 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

CLAIR HARVEY JOHNSON

HOME aporESS: Caracas, Venezuela.

orFice aporess: Y.\{.C.A., Apartado 2914, Caracas, Venezuela.

porN: April 19. 1906, Huntley, Nebr. parents: Oscar Harvey Johnson,
Esther Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Nebraska Wesleyan University.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-27. DEGREE: B.B.A. (Northeastern Univ.).

Marriep: Helen Anderson, Aug. 12, 1929, Lincoln, Nebr. cHILpREN: Joann,
Aug. 3, 1935; Loren Scott, Nov. 29, 1944.

occupation: Representative of International Committee, Y.M.C.A,, on
loan to Venezuela as technical adviser.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Poleo Hospital, Caracas, Youth
Center of Eugenio Mendoza Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Epsilon Rho; Phi Kappa Tau; Masons; Rotary Club de ~
Caracas; various professional societies.

PUBLICATIONS: “La Pastora as a Neighborhood,” “Catia — Third City of
Venezuela,” “Children’s Playgrounds,” Community Social Study;
articles for professional magazines.

PROMOTION and membership, Y.M.C.A., Boston, to 1935; real
estate and insurance, Allied Securities, Norfolk, Nebraska, to
1936, men’s program secretary, Y.M.C.A., Pittsburgh, to 1937;
downtown executive and associate general secretary, Y.M.C.A.,
Portland, Oregon, to 1945; member, International Staff,
Y.M.CA.,, to present.

Founder of So-Ed (Social-Education), adult informal educa-
tion program; organizer of first Y.M.C.A. in the Latin part of the
northern half of South America; founder of School of Recrea-
tion, Centro de Estudios, Caracas, Venezuela.

Graduate courses at Harvard University, Boston University,
University of Pittsburgh, and the University of Oregon.

Hobbies: reading, badminton, volley-ball.

ERMA OSSIP JOHNSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1376 E. 26th St, Tulsa, Okla.

OFFICE AtuRESS: 209 Medical Arts Bldg., Tulsa, Okla.

was: Jan. 17, 5908, West Plains, Mo. parents: Everett Stebbins Johnson,
Ida Baer.

purpaxeo at: Grafton High School, Grafton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: $.B. 1930; S.B. IN MED, (Univ. of
Oklahoma), 1932; M-b. (Gibid.), 1934.

[ 594]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Kathrine Welch Burton, May 10, 1935, Henryetta, Okla.
CHILDREN: Dale Ossip, Sept. 20, 1938; Sarah Ann, Nov. 27, 1941;
Jocelyn Welch, Jan. 11, 1946; Karen Gail, July 6, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Bertrand Ellwood Johnson, Law School, ’26; Everett
Stebbins Johnson, M.B.A., 728; Pat Orr Johnson, °33.

occuPATION: Physician: gynecology and obstetrics.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1946, president, 1947, member board of trustees,
1948-49, Tulsa County Medical Society, member, Advisory Board of
Salvation Army, 1949-54; chief of Staff, Salvation Army Home and
Hospital, 1949-54; instructor, Postgraduate School of Medicine, Uni-
versity of Oklahoma, 1952-53, Nurses Training School, St. John’s
Hospital; secretary, vice-president, president, Harvard Club of Tulsa,
secretary, Harvard Clubs of Oklahoma, 1934.

MEMBER OF: Tulsa County Medical Society; Oklahoma State Medical As-
sociation; American Medical Association; Oklahoma City Gynecological
and Obstetrical Society; Southwestern Surgical Congress, American
Academy of Obstetrics and Gynecology; American Rose Society;
Sequoyah Yacht Club; National Rifle Association; Tulsa Gun Club,
Oklahoma State Archaeological Society; Oklahoma State Historical
Society; Philbrook Art Center; Little Theatre of Tulsa; Harvard Club
of Tulsa; Association of Harvard Chemists, Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
Alpha Kappa Kappa; Sigma Xi; Men’s Rose Club of Tulsa; The
Tulsa Club; Southern Hills Country Club; Men’s Dinner Club of
Tulsa.

PuBLICATIONS: “The Precipitation of Nitrogenous Substances of Alkaline
Mercuric Reagents, with Special Reference to Urine,” Journal of
Biological Chemistry, Jan. 1934; “Studies of the Liver Function of
Dogs,” American Journal of Physiology, Oct., 1932; “The Use of X-rays
in Obstetrics,” Oct. 1939, “Stillbirths,” May, 1938, Journal of the
Oklahoma State Medical Association, articles published in medical
publications: “Bleeding in Pregnancy,” “Congenital Pneumonia,” “Tu-
mors Complicating Pregnancy,” “Appendicitis— A Statistical Study,”
“Caesarean Sections in St. John’s Hospital.”

ANY detailed reminiscences of the past at my age would be only
an admission of the senility which will inevitably follow. For
that reason I prefer to dwell little in the past, but write more of
the present. |

After leaving Harvard College I entered the University of
Oklahoma School of Medicine, from which I received an S.B.
degree in medicine in 1932 and an M.D. degree, with honors, in
1934. All extra time from the usual medical curriculum in these
years was spent in research, for which I was elected to Sigma Xi.
After a short courtship, I married a very musically talented girl,
Kathrine Welch Burton, in Henryetta, Oklahoma, on May 10,

[595 ]

. ca masse ARES OIC ALATA. Ahlen aati”

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

1935. One year was spent in a rotating internship in St. John’s
Hospital, Tulsa, followed by residency at the Woman’s Clinic,
Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore.

Our marriage has been blessed by four healthy children. The

oldest, a boy, Dale, is now a junior at Culver Military Academy,
after spending his first two years of prep school at Cascia Hall.
I have personal sentimental ambitions for him to attend Harvard
and to enter the medical profession, but his present tendencies
are to become an engineer and to attend Stanford. The three -
girls, Sarah Ann, Jocelyn Welch, and Karen, are in the 8th grade,
gth grade, and kindergarten, respectively. They have all at-
tended Monte Cassino School for girls until this year, when they
changed to the local public schools of Edison and Lee. My am-
bitions for the three girls are the same, namely, to be good wives
and mothers. This may be simply stated but it is meant with all
its implications which are not so easy to attain in the present
social status of American women. As a gynecologist, it is very
distressing to see daily the confused emotional status of American
women.

Both by the nature of my specialty and the economic necessity,
I have pursued my profession diligently for the past few years,
leaving little time to travel. I have made a few short trips to deep-
sea fish and to scenic areas such as Cuba, Old Mexico, and parts
of the United States: California, Florida, and the Rockies. All
other trips have been to medical conventions in various parts of
the United States.

My war record was a brief one and without color. At the on-
set of World War II I was a captain, M.C., and commanding
officer of Company G, 120th Medical Regiment of the 45th Divi-
sion, which was a field hospital. With the early mobilization of
the 45th Division, I was one of the first medical officers to be
called in this community and also one of the first to return. On
returning I was assigned to the local Army Induction Center, and
was physician to the local Draft Board, which took a great deal
of my time for several years.

The hobby age has arrived. The nature of my profession has
caused a great neglect of my paternal duties with my family.
Prompted by the mutual benefits from a closer association with
my children and the basic need for a hobby for myself, I sought

[ 596 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to choose ones which would fulfill both purposes. Growing roses
has occupied much of my time for the past few years. Although
Dale, my son, looks upon it as some sort of perversion of “Ferdi-
nand,” my daughters have helped me to win ribbons in the local
shows and twice in the national show. Dale, however, joins Sarah
Ann and me in pistol shooting, Jocelyn and Karen being too
small to participate in this sport. Sarah Ann gives both of us stiff
competition in the 22 and 38 caliber class. Fishing has always been
a favorite pastime for me, but I have found that it is of only
meager interest to the children. We have compromised by all
four of the children going to the lake where I do a little fishing
and they do a lot of swimming and water skiing. Even Jocelyn
and Karen participate in the water sports. We have ambitions
to get a new Snipe to sail next year on Lake Sequoyah, which will
attract all four of the children’s interests. My wife does not join
us in any of these hobbies. Photography, with the usual family
movies, has had a place in our family for years.

My social activities are few with limited attendance to the local
Country Club and Town Club functions, the Harvard Club meet-
ings, and medical conventions’ social affairs. I have preferred to
spend any spare time from my profession with my family. I
have had no political experience or ambitions. Of all the religions
there are, I believe that the Christian religion is the best, but I
believe that it is almost impossible to be a good Christian in our
complex society of today.

"+k EVERARD HATHAWAY JOHNSON

BoRN: April 5, 1907, Milton, Mass. parents: Laurence H. H. Johnson, ’80,
Lelia Amanda Miller.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

DIED: Sept. 15, 1936, Philadelphia, Pa.

DURING the year Johnson was with our Class, he rowed on the
freshman crew. He was afterwards engaged in banking and was
a member of the staff of the National Economy League in Boston.

[ 597 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

JOHN MARTIN JOHNSON

HOME aporess: 31 Alexander Pl, Oceanside, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE Apress: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., 130 Clinton St., Brooklyn,
N. Y.

BorN: Feb. 2, 1908, Millville, Mass. parents: John Johnson, Mathilda
Anderson.

preparreD aT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

Margie: Phyllis Long, Nov. 6, 1937, Milton, Mass. cxitp: Russell Wayne,
Aug. 6, 1941.

occtPATION: Sales manager, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, Brooklyn,
N. Y.

OFFices HELD: Secretary, Liberty Mutual Club, Brooklyn, 1954; city Sales
manager, Radio City, 1941-42, Buffalo, 1946-49, member Home Office
staff, Boston, 1949-52, district sales manager, Long Island, since 1952,
Liberty Murual Casualty and Fire Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Somerville Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Camp Becket Dad’s Associ-
ation, Couples Club, St. Mark’s ME. Church, Rockville Centre, N. Y.

PUBLICATIONS: Organization and Sales Management (two volumes), a com-
pany publication.

I WAS associated with Kidder, Peabody & Company directly
after graduation. In February, 1931, I joined an organization
selling commercial bodies and school buses in New England. |
joined the Liberty Mutual as salesman in April, 1940, working in
downtown New York City, and was promoted to sales manager
in July, 1941.

In November, 1943, I entered Army service, and was assigned
to research and development work with the Quartermaster Corps
at Camp Lee, Virginia (Quartermaster Board); I was discharged
in December, 1945-

I am active in Methodist church work. Also I am interested in
my son’s progress at Camp Becket (for boys), and am a com-
mitteeman for the Boy Scouts. I believe in the Republican Party;
am active in amateur theatricals, own my home and like to putter
around it; go on a diet annually and still remain overweight, This
is not exciting, Pll admit, but satisfactory.

[ 598 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL JOHNSTON

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Ridge Drive, Birmingham 9, Ala.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cabaniss & Johnston, goo First National Bldg., Birmingham
3, Ala.

BorN: Feb. 6, 1908, Birmingham, Ala. PARENTs: Forney Johnston, Clara
Cocke.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. (Yale Univ.), 1933.

marrieD: Isabelle Berry, April 23, 1938, Rome, Ga. cHILDREN: Forney, 2d,
Dec. 6, 1940 (died June 14, 1944); Thomas B., March 31, 1942; Paul C.,
Dec. 4, 1943; Caryl, Oct. 22, 1947; Isabelle (died June 1, 1954) and John
H. C. (twins), May 24, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Forney Johnston, LL.B. ’30.

occupation: Lawyer; partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Birmingham Civic Symphony Association,
1947~49; director, 1951-54, vice-president, 1954, Jefferson County (Ala.)
Tuberculosis Sanatorium Society; chairman, Citizens Committee for
Fluoridation, Birmingham, 1954; director, 1954-55, president, 1955-56,
Alabama Association for Mental Health; chairman, Mental Health Com-
mittee of P.T.A., Crestline Heights School, 1954-55; associate member,
National Fund for Medical Education; member Birmingham Committee
on Foreign Relations; director and treasurer, Birmingham Foreign
Policy Association, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: Birmingham, Alabama State, and American Bar Associations;
Harvard Club of Birmingham; Downtown Club; Mountain Brook
Club.

FROM Yale where I received my LL.B. in 1933, I moved into the
Washington of early New Deal days. My particular spot there
was the RFC, where in the fall of 1933 I assumed legal duties in
connection with rehabilitation of the banks, many of which at
that time — as we all recall — were in precarious financial condi-
tion. The emissaries of Professor Frankfurter were dominant in
the new agencies of the federal government in those days and
Washington was, therefore, quite an interesting place. For-
tunately for my peace of mind during the current McCarthy era,
distinguished public or private service rather than involvement
in subversive activities or organizations characterized the later
career of those of this elite group with whom I became friendly.

I left Washington in 1935 and joined my present law firm in
Birmingham. Over the years I have been specializing, more or
less, in federal tax law. From time to time I lecture on different
phases of this subject.

[ 599 ]

NYT aI ae a

2.2. za A tee MO Ni tA Ete ean ares anatiocaasneaaiahdiineisitlta alii hl. 1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Mv greatest stroke of good fortune came in 1938. The en-
during marriage contracted in April of that year proved a stead-
fast anchor to windward in those past periods when the sailing
was anything but smooth. We have four lively children and hope
that at least one of the three boys will be able at the proper time
to meet the high standards for admission to Harvard.

In 1943. following indoctrination at Quonset Point, I was put
to practising law in uniform: first, in Navy aeronautical procure-
ment in Washington, and later in contract termination on the
west coast. Our able classmate and my good friend, John Noble,
retuming from a much more illustrious career afloat, relieved me
as BuAer Contracting Officer in May, 1945, and I returned east
with family after about a year in Los Angeles.

Next followed a tour of duty with Mr. Justice Jackson in his
precedent-making mission to implement civilized concepts of
peaceful co-existence and humanity by bringing the major Axis
criminals to the bar of justice. We were first in London and then
in Nuremberg assembling the evidence and preparing the case
against the defendants which was presented to the four-nation
International Military Tribunal beginning in November, 1945.
An intimate look at and realization of the appalling cost in human
life and suffering of the Nazi “solution” to their shibboleth —
the “Jewish question” — was one of the more important experi-
ences derived from this assignment.

A couple of months after the trial got under way, the point
system rescued me from further service and I returned to the
United States and discharge from the Navy early in 1946.

The post-war period was in due course interrupted by prob-
lems of health which necessitated a drastic revision in the ac-
customed pattern of living. Tuberculosis was the symptom of
primary significance. (The word “symptom” is used advisedly
as it seems rather clear in the light of hindsight that a psychogenic
factor of significant proportions was operative in this picture.)
In any event, I “cured,” first at Gaylord Sanatorium in Connect-
icut and later at Trudeau (Saranac Lake) under the inspiring
tutelage of our classmate, Roger S. Mitchell. This enforced so-
journ away from business and family extended over a period of
about a year and a half.

In retrospect, it is impossible to over-emphasize the important

{ 600 J}

- 11 alka cA arc RL a ase

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

part this experience played in contributing to a net, over-all
betterment in perspective and health. For me, the months of
“bed rest” could be alleviated only by extensive reading. That
has inevitably led to broadened interests. And most important of
all, “if a man will not study himself when well, he must when ill.”
This process of mental streamlining received an invaluable assist
in the form of psychotherapy during rehabilitation period at
Saranac. Thus, first-hand experience with this problem is re-
sponsible for my present belief in the great importance of the
mental health movement and my activity in its behalf, and in
behalf of public health in general.

In any event, recovery on all fronts has been so complete that
life insurance agents currently consider me a fit target for their
salesmanship efforts without any conditional rating. And my
golf score is better than it was prior to my three and a half year
hibernation from that favorite diversion.

Out of this crucible, with further leavening imparted by the
tragic death of two splendid children at childhood’s most be-
guiling age, there has emerged, I believe, a more tolerant and
mature outlook. Complete accessibility to reasoning on the basis
of available facts and at the expense of emotional coloration (often
unconscious or unrecognized) may be suggested as a relevant
factor here. A bona fide belief in the dignity and essential worth
of human beings — irrespective of degrees of visibility—is a
necessary concomitant. If such a frame of reference is fostered
by the modern concept of a liberal education, and I’m sure it is,
the present “management” at Harvard can count on me for solid
support in their adherence to and emphasis upon that educational

policy.

BRADFORD JONES

HOME ApprEss: Seascape, Marblehead Neck, Mass.

OFFIcz ADDRESS: Jones & Granger, Inc., 115 High St., Boston 10, Mass.

BoRN: March 26, 1904, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Everett Jones, M.D. ’96,
Elisabeth C. Lowe.

PREPARED AT: Fessenden School, Newton, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: S.B,, 1930; M.BA., 1932.

[ 601 |

el

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

marrieD: Helen Floyd Shannon, Aug. 29, 1929, Manchester, N. H. CHILDREN:
Elisabeth Lowe, April 3, 1933 (7. John David Ricker, July 30, 1952);
Carolyn Lane, March 11, 1935.

occuPaTION: President, Jones & Granger, Inc., manufacturers agents,

OFFICES HELD: President, Metropolitan Fire Associates, 1938-39, New England
Yachtsman, 1939-40; member, dog watch committee, Boston Yacht Club,
1938-39, membership committee, Illuminating Engineering Society,
1954-55; southeastern sales manager, Lamp Division, Sylvania Electric,
1941-42; chief expediter, Sylvania Electric Products, 1942-43; general
sales manager, Luminous Engineering Company, 1945-47.

MEMBER OF: Corinthian Yacht Club; Off Soundings Club; Royal Nova
Scotia Yacht Squadron; Delta Upsilon Fraternity; Harvard Club of the
North Shore; Sports Car Club of America; Veteran Motor Car Club of
America; Lincoln Continental Owners Club; Jaguar Owners Associa-

tion; Electrical Manufacturers Representative’s Club, Massachusetts
Building Congress; Illuminating Engineering Society.

“WHO I am and why I came to Harvard” was a theme that I

never did have to write. I have often wondered how I would

have written it. It now appears that, nearly thirty years later, I

am about to have a chance — at least to some extent — to satisfy

that curiosity.

During my last year at Harvard Business School, I chanced to
read in Time Magazine the life of Erit L. Cord. He had started
his career and his fortune by selling automobiles. Automobiles
were a hobby of mine and so, depression or not — being stuffy
by nature —I decided that I would start to acquire my fortune
that same way by selling automobiles — this in 1932. I started.
There it seems the parallel between my life and Mr. Cord’s ends.

From this precarious and damn-fool beginning I have come, by
devious and rather halting steps, to my present position, I am
head of a small business which acts as selling agent in the six
New England States for a number of manufacturers of electrical
and electronic equipment. I work harder, longer, and take less
time off than were I working for someone else. But, I also have
more fun, more independence, and more control over my own
destiny. I am a very big frog in a very small puddle.

During the war I was chief expediter for Sylvania Electric
Products on the proximity fuse project. It was the job of my de-
partment to see that the factory never ran out of the various com-
ponent parts. Somehow we always made it— production was.

[ 502 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

never interrupted — but we had some very narrow squeaks and,
when I think about it, I still knock on wood.

I believe that our greatest problem today and the greatest
single threat to this country and to our way of life is Communism
in the form of infiltration: infiltration in key places in the gov-
ernment, the Armed Services, the press, the radio, and in educa-
tional institutions. That way, if ever, is the way it will come, at
least in part. Or perhaps it has already come, at least in part! It
is my considered opinion that, methods be damned, Joe McCarthy
has done more than any other man to expose this danger. He is,
by this simple logic, in my opinion the greatest living American.
If that be treason, make the most of it.

My hobbies are automobiles, ocean racing, cursing Truman, and
boosting McCarthy. My wife and my two daughters to a greater
or less extent share these four hobbies with me; all three being
good drivers, good sailors, fair cursers, and good boosters in. their
own right.

My elder daughter is with her husband who is stationed in Ger-
many. By reason of his accumulation of fifty days’ leave before
she joined him, they are at present touring Europe. My younger
daughter, as crew, is currently engaged in cleaning up every-
thing in Marblehead in the International One Design Class.

Of the several places where I am gradually learning that I am
no longer a kid (physically at least), one is in Ocean Racing; the
Newport-Bermuda, Marblehead-Halifax, etc. As one of the three
men to have raced all the Halifax Races, the most consistent blow
to my ego (a reflection in part on my non-sylphlike figure) goes
something like this: “Brad, my God, I never expected to see you
handling sail on the foredeck in a storm in the middle of the night.
.. I didn’t think you could even get out of the cockpit! ”

 

3
j

ecg 8

knees Sector EEL a pete sew

DELKIN JONES

HOME ADDRESS: 2522 Habersham Rd., N.W., Atlanta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 708 Jefferson St., N.W., Atlanta, Ga.

BORN: April 13, 1906, Macon, Ga, PARENTS: John Paul Jones, Julia Elizabeth
Kelly.

PREPARED AT: Duval High School, Jacksonville, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: 5.B., 1930.

[ 603 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MARRIED: Helen Chastine Bach, Dec. 29, 1934, Atlanta, Ga, CHILDREN: Carol
Delkin, May 28, 1938; Chastine Woodward, May 2, 1941; Christian Bach,
Nov. 16, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, sales manager, Guardian Chemical Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, treasurer, junior warden, senior warden, Cathedral
of St. Philip, 1938-1950; Neighborhood Committee, chairman Troop
Committee, Cub Pack, Boy Scouts of America; vice-president, P.T.A.,
North Side High School; chairman, Athletic Committee, Gya-Y Com-
mittee, Young Men’s Christian Association.

BORN in the South and reared there, I took a fling at living in
the North and Middle West after leaving Harvard. Four years
convinced me that life was too short to spend it living above the
Mason and Dixon Line. On coming back to Georgia I met and
married an irresistible “Damyankee” and have enjoyed life here
in Atlanta ever since. We have two beautiful girls and a boy who
throws a mean baseball, and a great many of our activities nat-
urally center around the children and their interests,

I have spent my business life selling and directing sales. My
present sales organization operates in six southern states. We
make and sell maintenance and sanitary supplies to schools, insti-
tutions, industrial plants, and public buildings. I helped establish
the business twenty years ago and have nursed it through many -
aches and pains to its present healthy state.

Wine, women, and song have never bothered me. Fishing is
my weakness. Come around tomorrow and I| will drop my busi-
ness and take you where the big ones lurk. Trying for Rainbow
and Native “Specs” in the north Georgia mountains is my great-
est pleasure. However, I'll “set and drown a worm” with you
any day.

In 1952 I was one of the few who would admit to voting
for Stevenson. I am not a hide-bound Democrat and would like
a second party in the South, but cannot accept the Republican
Party until it becomes honest with itself.

Living this far south, we don’t see too many classmates. In
recent years a number have come to know this great part of our
country and migrated here. We are more than we were and we
are still growing. You all come to see us.

[ 604 ]

net lie apabcctig ase tS AA PLR be link sD ala

Asst!

secs tat me Meta ble aii tee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK NICHOLAS JONES

HOME ADDRESS: 48 Mill St., Athens, Ohio; 2 Shepard Pl, Granville, Ohio.

oFFice apprEss: Ohio University Library, Athens, Ohio.

BORN: Nov, 19, 1906, Reading, Pa. parents: George Miller Jones, Mabel
Catherine Lutz.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M. 1941; 8.B. in Library
Service (Columbia Univ.), 1941.

marRiED: Ilmi Anna Saari, June 30, 1934, Fitzwilliam, N.H. (separated 1939,
divorced 1951); Leona Wise Felsted, June iz, 1951. cup: Eleanor
Elizabeth, June 28, 1935.

occupation: Librarian; assistant professor of library science, Ohio Univer-
sity.

oevtons HELD: President, Ohio Library Association, 1953-54; various com-
mittee assignments in American Library Association.

MEMBER OF: American Geographical Society; John Carter Brown Library,
Providence, R.I.; Bibliographical Society of America; American Library
Association; Ohio Library Association; American Association of Uni-
versity Professors.

puBLicaTiIons: Articles in Harvard Library Bulletin, Bulletin of Ajmerican
Library Association, Journal of Cataloging and Classification, etc.; oc-
casional contributions to “Topics of the Times” column in New York
Times.

SHORTLY after I came to my present position in 1949, an in-
quisitive undergraduate in the University asked me, “Mr. Jones,
have you ever written a book?” The answer was (and still is)
that I had not. “Well,” said the lad, “how did you ever get to be
a librarian?” “The answer to that one still puzzles me, too.

My decision to be a librarian was made before we graduated
from College, and all but four of the intervening twenty-five years
have been devoted to that profession. I have served in various
capacities in public and university libraries in New York City,
New England, and now in Ohio, where I am sometimes classed
as a Pennsylvania Dutchman who acquired the Buckeye view-
point in New York and Boston. My last assignment before com-
ing to Ohio was at Harvard, I spent the final year helping with
final plans and the initial occupation of the Lamont Library. Dur-
ing the past two summers, my daughter has assisted at ‘Lamont
before and following her freshman year at Colby College in
Maine; tradition, you see, has already begun to follow us as the
years advance.

[ 605 ]

em

.

HARVARD CLASS OF I930

Having earned three academic degrees the hard way, in 1951
I became a member of a relatively small and distinctive group of
men, and acquired a Ph.D. by marriage; I find it a highly satisfac-
tory arrangement. My wife is dean of women at Denison Uni-
versity in Granville, Ohio, where we have built a small house and
“put down roots” — to say nothing of countless loads of fill, three
or four inches of topsoil, and a good many pounds of grass seed.

In the early autumn of 1942 the Army announced in despera-
tion that they were going to have to draft illiterates in order to
keep up the quotas; two weeks later, I received my call and in
October began three years in the service. This enabled me to see
something of Indiana, Tennessee, and Kentucky, not to mention
London, Paris, Brussels, Luxembourg, Innsbruck, Pilsen, and
Berchtesgaden, partly with the 83d Division, later with the XXI
corps. In both outfits I was an operations master sergeant in the
G-3 Section of staff headquarters. Before returning to the US., I
was permitted to spend six weeks in England getting acquainted
with British libraries.

The only concrete observation I can offer at this traditional
milestone marked “AB plus 25 years,” is that I find myself just
about twenty-five pounds heavier than on that distant day when
President Lowell welcomed us into the company of educated
men. Considering that we have all since passed through a depres-
sion, survived hot and cold wars, lived under Democrats and Re-
publicans, witnessed the development of television and high taxes,
marvelled at the downfall of Beria and the rise of McCarthy, per-
haps a net gain of a pound a year is as substantial a record as I
could hope to make. I hope now that I can hold myself down
and make no further achievements in this department; walking,
swimming, bowling, and the care of 7800 square feet of seeded
ground ought to help a little, anyway. Maybe I should try to
write that book after all, but I don’t believe it would explain how
I got to be a librarian.

[ 606 }

|
|

sr Sa RM ee ENP Pa ad cat Oe Me

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAROLD MARSHALL JONES

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Leicester Rd., Marblehead, Mass.
office ADDRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., Boston, Mass.
porn: Aug. 15, 1908, Natick, Mass. parents: Harold Marshall Jones, ’o4,

Gertrude Alma Heath.
pREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: s.B. in Engin. cum laude, 1930.
marriep: Marjorie Blanchard, June 26, 1937, Swampscott, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carolyn Marshall, March 3, 1940; Nancy Elizabeth, Nov. 3, 1942.
oocuPaTION: Group analyst, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.
MEMBER OF: Lambda Chi Alpha; Fellow of Casualty Actuarial Society; as-

sociate member, Life Office Management Association.

THAT I am a member of the Class of 1930 probably explains why
an engineering training led me into the insurance business. Per-
sonal finances and national employment conditions were a com-
bination that forced me to take almost any job I could find. I
was fortunate enough to find employment with an insurance com-
pany as an underwriter. By the time employment in the engineer-
ing profession had improved, I was so established in the insurance
business and too long away from engineering to make a change.

During the depression years progress was slow, but by 1937 I
believed I could afford a wife, so I proposed and was accepted.
Carried away with my success at supporting a wife, I cast caution
to the winds and made the down-payment on two children and
a home,

In December, 1943, I joined the Navy where I spent the next
couple of years. Although these were not very happy years, I
really didn’t have too bad a time and I did visit some far away
places I never would have seen otherwise.

About a year after my return to civilian life, I joined the John
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, where I am now em-
ployed in the Group Research Division, engaged in assembling
and analyzing group insurance statistics, making rates, preparing
reports for management and supervisory authorities.

My leisure time is spent working around my home and garden
where there is always something to be done. I lead a fairly quiet
life, but with my daughters in junior high and high school, I can
see that this condition is due to change. My only ambition is to
provide a decent living for my family and to live quietly and
comfortably.

[ 607 ]

| | —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ROBERT HAYDON JONES

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Appletree Trail, Westport, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: Marschalk & Pratt Co., Inc. 535 Fifth Ave.. New York, N.Y.

BorN: July 15, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Haydon Jones, Emma Mer-
cedes Voos.

PREPARED AT: Fessenden School, Newton, Mass.; Jamaica High School, New
York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930..

MARRIED: Joan Shaw, May 15, 1937, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Robert Haydon, Jr., Feb. 9, 1938, Christopher Shaw, Oct. 28, 1940;
Jeffrey Owen, April 26, 1944; Jeremy Mary, Jan. 31, 1948; Judith Anne,
Jan. 28, 1952; Pamela Catherine, Oct. 5, 1953.

occuPaTION: Vice-president, Marschalk & Pratt Company, Inc.

oFFices HELD: Member, Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia’s Committee of Pub-
lic Information, 1942, 1943, 1944; member, Westport Republican Town
Committee, 1952, 1953, 1954; president, Saugatuck Father’s Club, 1948-

49.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Association of Squadron A
Ex-Members; Weston Gun Club; Cedar Point Yacht Club.

THE morning sun has burst through the clouds and the Saugatuck
is a glistening river of gold pouring its wealth into Long Island
Sound. The 8:12 has just left Westport, where I live with my
wife and our six children on a lane by the shore called Appletree
Trail. I have forsaken my regular morning bridge game to write
this. After a decade of air-conditioned commuting between a
charming Connecticut town and the soaring spires of Manhattan,
I have found the peopled privacy of a train ideal for bridge or
work — and I do a lot of both. And skeet shooting. And water-
color sketching. And walking with my children. And going
places with my wife who is still one of the best looking blondes
in Fairfield County — and one of the best dancers, too, My work,
which keeps my three sons and their three sisters fed and clothed
and a roof over my bald head, is as near to fun as anything I
know. Even when it gets sticky. Which it does. Often, Like
scads of other guys in the advertising agency business, I am a
veep ... responsible for the radio and television advertising of
Esso Standard Oil Company and its parent, Standard Oil Com-
pany (New Jersey). Unique among agency V.P.’s, I don’t have
an ulcer and don’t expect to have one. Sure, it’s like living on the
top of a volcano which rumbles frequently and ferociously. But

[ 608 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

every eruption is a challenge and the scene from my perch is ever
changing and generally fascinating. So is the view from m
office: 32nd Floor, 535 Fifth Avenue. It’s only a half block from
the Harvard Club, where Bill still makes the best Dry Martinis in
town. Mmmmm. . . Speaking of Martinis, come up and see me
sometime. We'll walk that half block together.

 

JOHN LEONARD KABLE, JR.

LAST KNOWN ADpRESS: 1013 N. George St., York, Pa.
BorN: Nov. 16, 1907, York, Pa. PARENTS: John Leonard Kable, Mary Edna
Herring.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

KABLE has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since
1944.

HAROLD CHESTER KAGAN

HOME AppRESS: 25 Dorr Rd., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 85 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 20, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Kagan, Dina Thom-
son.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; LL.B. (Boston Coll. Law
School), 1934.

MARRIED: Sylvia Hilda Zabarsky, June 17, 1945, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Diane Alexa, April 17, 1946; Debra Sue, March 31, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, United States District Court.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association; Massachusetts Bench and Bar
Golfing Society; Variety Club of New England.

THE years have sped by so quickly that it is very difficult to be-
lieve that I have reached the brink of a Twenty-fifth Reunion
at Harvard. After weathering the depression years, during which
period I completed my law school training and early education,
I moved along with no specific goal except to keep going until
the advent of World War II. I served briefly as an instructor
with civil status in the United States Air Corps while my two
brothers were doing their share in the service of Uncle Sam.
While I was at home taking care of my widowed mother subse-

[ 609 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

FIAR VARD CLASS OF I930
on 1 A ernment work, I held together

gu nly, ane a Teg. oT practice When VE Day finally arrived
vigorously returned to the practice of law. The uMPetus to thi.
‘or was impelled by my martiage on June 17, 1945, to Sylvig H.
sky, aPbt Bera Kappa alumna of the University of Vermont,
of 1938. The following year our home was blessed with the
x of my older daughter, Diane Alexa. The ensuing years
= busily occupied with a civil practice of the law involy-
' problems concerning clients of the motion picture in.
‘the motor transport industry. In 1952 Debra Sue came
zAten our Itfe again, so that though I do not have any
vard, our family has been blessed with two lovely,
, | am sure, will keep many a Harvardian alert and
ec and I have spent most of our time preoccupied
our family.

ties in sports have declined from an Interest in
olf to a weekend golf practice with the elusive
nety. The rest of my exercise has been rele-
sit to the gym. My young children have
mung, and often very tired. From an early
Juded an avid interest in contract bridge,
occasional family bridge game with a
tear on the blood pressure, The fact
trends refuse to tax their minds too

lo wing the easy line of resistance in
modern menace called gin rummy,

deal of conversation, constant rib-

) the children along proper fam-
1th, not being strictly orthodox
rsulng a middle course in the

the Twenty-fifth Reunion
some old friends whom |
eing engrossed with the
the necessary shortness
ghters, These mattel>

14 moderate amount,
y functions, 1 hope

TE mee FR Fe aby eat a8 a aee or - eee re ae a

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

j mature, my wife and 1 wil)

in the neat ane that ke up the “social threads and renew old
have chips which are the core of good fellowship and happiness

en
in life. 1 activities have consisted of yearly wisits to the Cape

Our travel ac e, for we have a summer home which is wonder-
since our me ildven on Point Independence which is on Cape Coad,
ful for thee h e Canal. We have had several pleasant trips to
this side © A as trips to Canada and the entire eastern part of
Florida as we We are looking forward to a Canbbean eruise in
the country. re, but we will probably defer that pleasure in the
the vee years while we enjoy and set up the new ranch house
next

chased.
which we have rec Pennion with my wite and, perhaps, my
oe hter. Although 1 have attended each Commencement
older aug vadvati on and have enjoyed seeing some of my old
nee ves the idea of getting closely together for four ot iwe
‘ we provides a very pleasant prospect which | am antcpanng,

will prove most pleasant and memorable.

GEORGE REUWEER KARHIOL

HOME appRess: 15 Westfair Drive, Westport, vee
OFFICE ADDRESS: Sikorsky Aircraft, Bridgeport, Conn.
BORN: Sept. 30, 1907, London, England. parests. Bernard Karhol, Mat-

guerite Reuwee.

PREPARED AT; Townsend Harris Hall High School, New York NX. -
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931, DEGREES: SB. 1g{0(g1); AML. (Cohn Uns),

1934 |
MARRIED: Margaret Fogg, April 2, 1937, Brooklyn, NA, cantores, Margaret

Edna (Kate), Dec, 5, 1941; George Bernard, Sept, 4 19:
XcuraTION: Lofting, engineering department, Sikorsky Aireraht,

AFTER a somewhat erratic history, affected by depremons wars,

World's fairs, and other calamities, 1 am now on a Lay KEY
Course, My present work 1s in the NIKO CNTINLCIING, ARTA
Tent, where we look forward to More, Waser and Herter ino.
S. The plant is in Bridgeport to which commute tom Weg.

POtt, a nice town with a wood Latte League ( LY ANNHOTANL to
“Orge Bernard, who seems to have 4 wens Lor real, aq
t Dleasant beach (very tnnpottant to Kate, who we wy te

\ ou

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

water). We lve in a small Cape Cod type house — n
dream” house; but it is fine for the present and close eno or the
wohbors to suit the kids. "gh to
ty present hobby, until caught up, is home repairs and dd;
. When I advance as far as a darkroom, I'll get outa can i-
9 again (photography was my business until I got back in
). f threaten to get my violin out of mothballs, too ., r°
days » ONe
une flies on, {1m still not too decrepit to sling a basebal]
4 my son (fact is, I don’t think I’ve ever done More
zan tls summer), play tennis, golf, and swim.

vei, I feel sad about the use of “anti-intellectua ]
; . . .
emagogic explottation, especially by the Senator
._ f shudder at the “good enough for General
f government. In spi : id, i
‘ gove spite of what has been said, in

cheads,” I am in favor of the triumph of the

’ SAMUEL KARGER

, White Plains, N.Y.
0, 24th Floor, 120 Broadway, New York,

PARENTS: Samuel Isaac Karger, Gertrude

vs, Chicago, Ill

- AB. Cit laude, 1930.

12, 1935, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Samuel, April 17, 1945.

schild & Company.

mn House, New York, 1949-5?
Iniversity Club of White Plains.

void of unpleasant, jatting
years since allege seem
- memories of Harvat

5 that | spent only my
ur (Amherst College,

Rothschild & © "h
the Chicago 2

Exchang

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ec. In March of 1931 the firm sent me to New York as
ew York Stock Exchange member, where 1 remain to this
older, but not — it seems to me — too much wiser, partioa-

iy as regards the effect of the economy on the stock marker,
Jar ). ce versa, OF what stocks will go up or down, or why ot when.
if there ever was an inexact science, this is it! Besides acting as
foot proker, 1 am, and have been, conducting a small investment
pusiness for the same firm.
In 1935 I married Eleanor Goldsmith of New York and in 1939
we moved to White Plains so that by commuting 1 could have
ime to read the newspaper in the morning and to sleep going
home at night. We promptly learned about lawns, trees, and fow-
ers and for a while became hard-working gardeners. The arriwal
of the children, Ann in 1942 and Tom in 1945, more or \ess
ended my wife’s participation in the gardening, but she still con-
descends to pick what I try to grow.

Later hobbies have been one hooked rag (1 Keep Promising
myself to do a second) and a very rough type of WOOdWOTKANG,
about as rough as one can get with a recently acquired power
tool. Then, of course, there has been the usual spate of doar

yourself tasks, partly to save money and partly yust to be able to

say I did them. a
Socially, 1 have tried to be “public spirited” when occasions

have arisen. As Ethel Barrymore, | believe, once sand dhout her-

self, Lam inclined to get “indignant ovet cmases,’ Varying al the

way from urging new schools In My COMMUNIY WHO a tehacann

school board to arguing before the White Plans Gry Counell for

better sanding of icy streets. To do any of this, \ have neatly

overcome my original fear of speaking in public, For the pas

twenty years I have worked at, or been on the board of Handton,
House, now renamed Hamilton-Madison, a settlement howe on,

the lower east side of New York City, 1 do this beemse adhere
Such an agency to be closest to the people rt serves anda rg
hem in the greatest number of differen ways, Unborrunargdy,

the necessity for constant fund raising TeMOvES WHEN A hy rw

Pleasure of service, For sey etal years Was Header ah thelygga

trom which post | finally anh gratefully received any Lenton,
Politically, T am a Willkie and Viserlvowey Korte,

Pincipally in the iggo President Campton, To ang

\ by

1tS
days

Way

X

em

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

wing is almost as great a threat to our Bill of Rights as are the left
wing liberals who would set up standards and controls to which
they would intolerantly demand adherence, Though both parties
are afflicted with politicians of both stripes, the fundamental dif-
ference between the two can hardly be ignored. Republicans
generally are the party of free private enterprise, while the Demo-
crats would take us down the “road to serfdom.”

As to religious convictions, I am a Jew, affiliated with the
Jewish Community Center of White Plains. I am repelled by
temporal militancy by, or in the name of, any creed.

My contacts with Harvard in recent years having been all too
few, I experienced a moment of triumph by finally overcoming
my wife’s dislike of football (she is a Giant fan) enough to assem-
ble my entire family at the Harvard-Princtton game this fall.
The triumph was short-lived. Compelled to say a regretful “no”
to his queries first as to whether I had played football for Harvard
and later, when the band paraded by, whether I had played on the
band, I was finally floored by my son’s scornful, “Well, what did
you do, anyhow?”

DAVID KARP

HOME ApbREss: 85 Dimmock St., Quincy, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 59 Coddington St., Quincy, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Karp, Sarah Karpas.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1934.

marrieD: Leona G. Feldberg, Nov. 3, 1940, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan Barbara, April 4, 1947; Charles Steven, Nov. 2, 1948; Nancy Ruth,
June 12, 1952.

occuPaTION:; Physician, specializing in pediatrics.

OFFices HELD: Chief of Pediatrics, Quincy City Hospital; instructor in pedi-
atrics, Tufts Medical School; treasurer, Temple Beth El, Quincy, Mass.;
president, Quincy Child Guidance Association; consultant in polio,
Massachusetts State Health Department.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Academy of Pedi-
atrics, New England Pediatric Society; Child Guidance Association,
Harvard Club of Quincy.

AS I sit down to write this biography, I think of the first theme I
wrote as a freshman. It discouraged me no end. It was an auto-
biography and I made a terrible mistake writing “My Autobiog-

[ 614]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

raphy.” The young English instructor with all his youthful en-
thusiasm and lack of sympathy wrote on top, “Whose else could
it be?” — and he used so much red ink on this masterpiece of mine
{that Icould hardly recognize the paper. His mark of D minus on
my first paper was not very encouraging to a young worried
freshman. Thank goodness, in this masterpiece there will be no
discouraging comment. (I wonder what has happened to that dear
instructor.)

In the fall, after graduating, I started at Tufts Medical School
to launch my career. After four uneventful and rather pleasant

ears at medical school, I first interned at the Quincy City Hos-
pital, following which I served as resident in pediatrics at the New
York Foundling Hospital and Boston Floating Hospital. With
this training as a background, I started to practise pediatrics in
Quincy in September of 1937, having first tasted a little practice
in the summer resort of Hull during the previous summer.

As is usual, the first year was rather slow, but I kept busy by
going to pediatric clinics and doing some teaching in pediatrics at
the medical school, a practice which I have continued to do up
to the present time. Of late, this sometimes makes me rush
around a bit, but I feel it is important in medicine to maintain
teaching affiliations. It keeps you young and up with the newest
advancements in pediatrics. I can truthfully say that I shall never
become a millionaire doing pediatrics, in spite of the public’s idea
that all doctors make millions in practice, especially since I picked
this specialty that always rates lowest of all specialties in financial
surveys. However, I have been happy in my practice and have
never had any financial worries,

In November, 1940, I finally took the step and married Leona
Feldberg, who had just graduated from college the previous June.
This marriage took place, incidentally, the same year that my
parents celebrated their Golden Wedding.

In December, 1942, I entered the armed forces, and was assigned
as medical officer in the Coast Guard by the U.S. Public Health
Service. I was able to have my wife with me while stationed at
Rehoboth and Wilmington, Delaware. I was able in these places
to see a little pediatrics by treating the children of the various
armed forces in the vicinity. In 1946 I was assigned to the Navy
and went out on a patrol frigate doing convoy duty in the

[615 ]

 

TRE Te ere RR pe ee RP

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Atlantic. This, for some reason or other, did not agree with my
stomach, and I lost about twenty pounds the first three months
out, My commanding officer did not think it a good idea having

a seasick doctor, and I was assigned to a radio training station in

Atlantic City until the end of the war.

Instead of resuming practice, I took a six-months’ refresher
course at the Children’s Hospital in Boston, became a diplomate
of the Board of Pediatrics and started practising again.

After being married seven years, we finally had a premature
baby who died on his third day, which was quite discouraging
after this long period. However, things became brighter when
we adopted our first child, Susan Barbara, in November, 1947.
Having had another maternal mishap the following year, we
adopted Charles Steven (Chucky) at the age of fourteen months
in 1950. Things were beginning to hum a little at the Karp house

when Nancy Ruth was born to my wife, a little premature but
healthy, in June of 1952. My only regret is that none of them
will be old enough to go to the Harvard Reunion. So my advice
to young people today is: get married when you are young, have
your babies fast, and have a big crowd at the Harvard Reunion.
I find that having young children and treating other young chil-
dren keeps me feeling quite young.

During the last few years I have taken up golf and my game
seems to get worse each year. I have become interested in the
Quincy Child Guidance Association, which has been growing by
leaps and bounds during the last few years, and I am at present
president of the association. This work, along with attending
-pediatric clinics and medical meetings, teaching pediatrics, and
lecturing to P.T.A.’s and other organizations, keeps me rather
busy, but I still have free time for a very pleasant social life.

As I look back, I can say that when I was at Harvard I was
not as enthusiastic as I am now about the College. I felt, at the
time, that I would send my sons to other schools. As the years
have rolled along, and I have returned to Cambridge in June to
roam around Harvard Square (where I buy bow ties to last all
year), and as I have read about what Harvard has accomplished,
and about the firm stands former President Conant and President
Pusey have taken on many controversial matters, I am firmly con-
vinced that there is no other college for my son, but Harvard.

[ 616 |

Jetathalls Abs batetaneasratiomiiteatih vetnetih samiacnaie, Ml,

preven PETITE RR TETHER RTs ry rep EP Hee tt TT Pry TREE TEPFHRNPT gPPPET PROPOR POI PHY

|

"8,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

POWER WITHAM KARR

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 921 Grace Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind.

porn: Dec. 17, 1906, White County, Ind. PARENTS: James Power Karr, Otie
Belle Witham.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

KARR has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1936.

CLARKE HIROSHI KAWAKAMI

HOME ADDRESS: 10300 Naglee Rd., Silver Spring, Md.

BorN: Oct. 22, 1909, Momence, Ill. parents: Kiyoshi K. Kawakami, Mildred
Augusta Clarke.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Chieko Susuga, Aug. 7, 1941, Washington, D. C. cHitpren: Chris-
topher Clarke, May 31, 1947; Clarke Kiyoshi, Aug. 3, 1948, David
Hiroshi, Sept. 8, 1950.

occuPATION: Government service: intelligence research.

MEMBER OF: National Press Club, Washington, D. C. Harvard Club of
Washington, D. C.; Kenwood Golf & Country Club; Japanese-Amer-
ican Citizens’ League.

PUBLICATIONS: Foreign correspondence from London and Washington pub-
lished in Japanese press, 1939-41; feature articles for Washington news-
Papers, 1942-43; recent contributions to The Reporter and U. S. Naval
Institute Proceedings.

GERRY KEENE

HOME ADDRESS: 106 Tedesco St., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raymond Holdsworth & Co., 15 State St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 14, 1907, Lynn, Mass. parents: William Gerry Keene, ’94,
Susan P. Newhall.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Doris Martin, Oct. 14, 1932, Woodbridge, N.J. cumpren: Carolyn,
Oct. 14, 1933; William Gerry, 2d, May 25, 1938.

OccuPATION: Certified public accountant.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, several committees, Massachusetts Society of Certi-
fied Public Accountants, 1946-50; treasurer, Marblehead Junior-Senior
High School P.T.A., 1950-55; director, Marblehead High School Band

Parents Association, 1950-54.

[ 617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants; Amer-
ican Institute of Accountants; National Association of Cost Account-
ants; Lynn Historical Society; Marblehead Junior-Senior High School
Parent Teachers Association.

IN the fall of 1930, I returned to Harvard as a freshman in the
Business School. However, by spring I was completely fed up
with studying and, as a young man’s fancy was turning toward
love and matrimony, I did not return for the second year. In
October, 1932, I married Doris Martin of Woodbridge, New
Jersey, and Wellesley College. We had a very pleasant honey-
moon cruise in the Caribbean, ;

That winter I started working for Raymond Holdsworth, a
certified public accountant, and I have been working for or with
him ever since. In 1943 it seemed about time to become a certified
public accountant, if possible. During the summer I took an
intensive seventeen-week evening course in advanced accounting
and related fields. This course included a four and a half hour
practice examination every Saturday afternoon. Those Saturday
afternoons were hot and no fun, and the studying — after a
thirteen year layoff — was hard work. This concentrated effort
and my previous experience paid off and I passed the C.P.A.
exams that fall. I received my C.P.A. certificate in 1944 and
became a partner with Holdsworth in carrying on our public
accounting practice in Boston.

Doris and 1 began our co-existence in a small apartment in
Lynn, but after Carolyn and Bill were born, we moved to Marble-
head and have remained in the same house ever since. For many
years we maintained a good but simple garden, but, of late, there
are usually more weeds than flowers in it at the end of the sum-
mer. As the children have been growing up, I have picked up and
put aside various temporary hobbies such as stamp collecting,
model (H.O. gauge) railroading and, recently, home movies.

During World War Il, the Army decided I would be of more
assistance to the country helping clients fill out forms than I
would be in the Armed Services. As a result I was deferred and
my only minor contribution was walking around dark streets
occasionally as an air-raid warden.

When the children were little, Doris and I took many short
motor trips around New England and New York and got in one

[ 618 ]

:
|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

short vacation on the ocean. While the kids were at camps in
Maine, we regularly hibernated at a delightful lodge on Lake
Sebago, Maine, for a vacation of eating, sleeping, and swimming.
Last summer all four of us were free at the same time and we
took a very interesting motor trip in Colorado, Wyoming, Utah,
New Mexico, and Arizona. Before leaving Denver for home, we
had a very pleasant visit with my college roommate, Mal Pitts,
and his family.

Carolyn is a senior at Wellesley where she has majored in polit-
ical science. She will be graduating the day before our Reunion
and Doris starts her Twenty-fifth Reunion the day after ours
closes. Bill is a junior at Marblehead High School, where he keeps
busy in many extra-curricular activities, including five years in
the bands. Doris and I are still having a lot of fun trying to keep
up with the children and taking part in various civic and club
activities. However, we notice that we are gradually slowing up,
but not enough to keep us away from the Reunion.

CHARLES HENRY KELLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 57 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Columbian National Life Insurance Co., 77 Franklin St,
Boston, Mass.; Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., 175 Berkeley St., Boston,
Mass.

BorN: Aug. 26, 1906, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Thomas Joseph Kelley, Mary
Elizabeth Galvin.

PREPARED AT: Boston High School of Commerce, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-26, 1927-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930.; M.D., 1934.

MARRIED: Helen M. Stanley.

occuPATION: Physician: medical consultant and cardiologist, Columbian
National Life Insurance Company; director of Health Service, Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; Massachusetts Heart Associ-
ation.

SINCE finishing Medical School, I have been interested in all
phases of internal medicine, but in recent years I have become
more and more concerned with the preventive aspects and now
devote most of my time to health examinations and health coun-
selling. This is a neglected but important branch of internal medi-
cine, which is due to receive much more attention in the years

[ 619 ]

TR mm we pm tee a a amp

HARVARD CLASS OF I930

ahead because of the greater numbers of older persons who are
living today due to the sharp decline in deaths brought about by
the use of antibiotics and other medical advances of recent years.
I still get a kick out of recognizing and treating full-blown disease
states, but I also find a great deal of satisfaction in discovering
conditions in their early stages when they are correctible or more
amenable to treatment. The detection of cancer in a curable
stage, the finding of coronary disease in an asymptomatic phase,
or the detection of hypertension and its correction before it has
caused injury are stimulating and rewarding experiences. One of
the greatest challenges to medicine today lies in its ability to
recognize at an early stage the person who is prone to develop
coronary disease, since the striking down of men in the forties is
not only a heavy burden for the persons and families, but it is
often a severe blow to the community since the individual affected
is usually at his productive peak. I am convinced that regular
health examinations can check some of this tragic loss. Industry
has a big stake in this program and is taking a leading rdle in its
development. Lest this concept of health preservation appear to
be something quite new, let me hasten to add a quotation from
Lemuel Shattuck written in 1850: “The sciences of preserving
health and preventing disease should be taught as one of the most
important sciences, It would be useful to all and particularly to
the student of curative medicine.”

As for hobbies, I have but one and that is my camp in New
Hampshire. This camp is situated on the side of a small mountain
beside a brook which tumbles down a fifty-foot gorge located in
the middle of sixty acres (more or less), and provides an ideal
refuge from the noise and confusion that is Boston. Here I putter
around in my garden in the middle of dense woods and amaze
myself by raising whatever flowers the woodchucks, porcupines,
rabbits, deer, etc., will permit,

* RALPH MacKENZIE KELLOGG

BorN: Oct. 14, 1908, Plattsburgh, N. Y. parents: George Caspar Kellogg,
‘94, Grace Vernon Olyphant.

PREPARED at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31),

[ 620 |

tah td ob Aa ete Seat conic

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Kathryn Sydney Fox, Sept. 18, 1937, Haynesville, La. capren:
Susan Vernon, Jan. 31, 1939; Ann Cameron,
pip: May 23, 1943, Africa.

FOLLOWING graduation, Kellogg studied at the Business School
until January, 1933. He then joined an investment counsel firm,
leaving to spend a year with the Boston Municipal Research Bu-
reau. He next entered the Regular Army Air Corps, becoming a
first lieutenant in 1935. During World War II he received the
Air Medal for operational flights over enemy territory. It was on
one of these flights that he died; at that time he held the rank of
lieutenant colonel. He was survived by his wife and children.

WALTER FRANCIS KELLY

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Plainfield St., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thompson Water Cooler Co., 832 Commonwealth Ave.
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1909, Waltham, Mass. Parents: Martin E. Kelly, Mary
Gertrude Coye.

PREPARED AT: Natick High School, Natick, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude 1930; LL.B., 1934.

MarRieD: Alice Mary Hatch, Sept. 21, 1938, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Peter Corr, Aug. 5, 1939; Mary Alice, June 11, 1940; Walter, Aug. 3,
1943; Christopher, May 31, 1949.

OCCUPATION: President, Thompson Water Cooler Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

AFTER attending Harvard Business School for one year, 1930-
31, I entered Harvard Law School from which I was graduated in
June, 1934. Then I took the Massachusetts Bar examination and
was admitted to practice in October, 1934. During that summer,
I worked at Harvard Law School under Professor George J.
Thompson who was preparing a new edition of Williston on
Contracts, my specific job being to up-date the annotations of a
certain few sections of the treatise. In September of that year, I
entered the employ of a Boston law firm — Tyler, Eames, Wright
& Reynolds (now Tyler & Reynolds). The people in that office
were fine men as well as fine lawyers and treated their newest
“greenhorn” with great kindness and understanding.

In December, 1935, after considerable soul searching, I left that
firm and entered the employ of W. L. Thompson, Inc., distributor

[ Gar ]

ea el

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

in eastern Massachusetts for electrical appliances and commercial
refrigeration products, as an assistant to the general manager. In
August, 1936, I became commercial sales manager, in which posi-
tion I supervised a small engineering department and two sales
departments, one covering the sale and rental of electric water
coolers, and the other covering the sale of commercial refrigera-
tion products. In August, 1938, W. L. Thompson, Inc., discon-
tinued the distribution of electrical appliances and commercial
refrigeration products, changed its name to Thompson Water
Cooler Company, and concentrated its activity on the rental, sale,
and servicing of electric water coolers throughout New England.
At that time, I became general manager. In September, 1942, I
was elected vice-president and a director, in which latter capacity
I have continued to serve to date. Since November, 1953, I have
also served as president.

My travels have been limited to a few business trips to Cleve-
land and Detroit, family vacation sojourns to various parts of
Maine and Cape Cod, and one honeymoon in Bermuda.

My family and my hobbies are practically synonymous terms.
Alice and I are happily married and blessed with four healthy
children: a charming daughter of fourteen, and three splendid
sons, aged fifteen, eleven, and five. While they are as energetic as
others in their age group and have their full quota of mischievous-
ness, they have an essential goodness which we consider to be the
true reward of our parenthood.

.While I am nominally a Republican, 1 am essentially a non-
political person. I am more inclined in each election to vote for
the man, not the party. Generally, I gravitate toward the con-
servative and less extreme point of view. Quite frequently, I find
my vote to be a choice for the less unsatisfactory of two not
wholly satisfactory candidates. This I do not consider as frustrat-
ing, but rather, when thought about, as natural and expected.
Were I called upon to set forth a primer of action for people in
political life, I would urge them to focus their efforts upon a
renascence of the ancient virtues of fidelity to one’s God, one’s
country, and one’s family. These are the foundation stones of

our republic. Only the impact of their revival will overcome the
present day secularism and materialism which exists in much of
modern thought and life.

{ 622 |

4
i
j
5
d
$
3
¥
3
2
i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As a child and a youth, I was brought up by my fine parents as
a Roman Catholic, the religious faith of my Irish forbears. As an
adult, 1 remain in that faith from strong conviction,

This is a “re-cap” of twenty-five years. The important events
seem to center around work, family, religion, and friends. I recog-
nize my mistakes of this period and I derive consolation from the
thought that they and their consequences might have been worse.
Except for these, as I reflect back, there is not much about the past
quarter-century that I would change, had I the power to do so.

DELANO MUNROE KENNARD

HOME ADDRESS: 157 Main St., Wenham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Salem Evening News, 2 Main St., Peabody, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1907, Peabody, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Delano Kennard, ’95,
Jennie Munroe.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926~1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).

MarRIED: Ellen Quincy, Sept. 12, 1931, Salem, Mass. cnrtpren: Delano
Quincy, Dec. 11, 1932; Janice, July 15, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Calvin Kennard, ’25.

occuUPATION: Branch office manager, correspondent, Salem Evening News.

OFFICES HELD: Member Wenham School Committee, chairman every 3d year,
1936-55; member Board of Health, chairman every 3d year, Wenham,
1935-45; chairman, board of trustees, 1942~46, church moderator, 1953-
55. First Church, Wenham; president, Wenham Men’s Club, 1934-36;
member executive committee, North Shore Boy Scout Council, 1938-
40, North Shore Harvard Club, 1938-42; chairman, Wenham School
Building Committee, 1951-54; member of corporation, Warren Five
Cents Savings Bank of Peabody; president, Salem News Unit, Ameri-
can Newspaper Guild.

LIFE has followed about the same courses as reported in 1950,
except that in spite of an ostrich attitude, I am forced to admit I
am getting older, In the past five years I had the satisfaction of
Serving as chairman and general pilot of a new $445,000 elemen-
tary school building project. Those classmates who live in small
towns, population under 2500, know this is a feat requiring a tough
hide, an ability to out-talk those who believe “what was good
enough for dad is good enough for the kids,” a sense of humor,
patience, and a willingness to let everyone else take the credit for
the work you alone have had to do. It was fun, a sort of sadistic

[ 623 ]

em

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

self-torturing recreation for four long years, concluded with the
satisfaction of seeing “mission accomplished.”

Rounding out nineteen years on the school committee, I am this
year going “‘up or down.” In the interim between writing this and
witnessing its publication, I await the decision of my fellow citi-
zens as to whether they will allow my service to the town to be
concluded, or will promote me to the office of selectman. I am
at this writing uncertain which action would be the better
service to me.

I am still employed by the Salem Evening News, average daily
circulation 25,250 (up 1,000 from my 1950 report), but am begin-
ning to wonder if I can maintain the pace of night after night
coverage of events that once were entertaining, but now after
twenty-one years are becoming more monotonous each week.

I am blessed with a happy family life with a wife and two chil-
dren whose energies more than offset my natural tendency “to
sloth and procrastination.” Ellen’s interests, ranging from opera-
tion of an antique business to raising rabbits are matched only by
my son who served his eighteen months in the Navy without losing
a session of his courses at Northeastern night school, and holding
a part-time job on the side. As to my sixteen-year-old daughter,
her vivacity and attraction for the opposite sex transforms my
home into a madhouse of jive on her brief vacations from Gould
Academy in Maine. My number one hobby continues the same
as developed in college days, fire department activities. As a mem-
ber of the local fire company, and one of those living closest to
the engine house, I still can beat the younger fellows in the race
for a truck, and thereby continue to thrill behind the wheel of
siren-wailing red engine. 1 may grow old, but probably never
grow up.

As a member of a CIO union and of the corporation of a savings
bank, as an officer of a Protestant church, yet working in a strong
Catholic community, as a resident of a town that considers Demo-
crats an unnecessary evil, yet employed and working in close
harmony with politicians in a city that years ago buried the last
Republican, I maintain an interesting broad-minded outlook that
still believes “Life can be beautiful” — and is —if you can only
understand the other fellow’s viewpoint.

The only trouble with this contented sort of life is that I can

[ 624 ]

t
$
i

ta 0) desl edhd i date tab wi ici

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

not be numbered among the §1,000 contributors to the Class Re-
union. But the sheriff has not done more than breathe on m
shoulder a couple of times, and I have no ulcers. As I look back
on the past twenty-five years, while the accomplishments are far
less than that of a large number of my classmates, I have a certain
satisfaction that I have in a small way contributed something both
to the community in which I live, and to the rugged industrial
city where I work.

i LLOYD WESTON KENNEDY

BorN: Feb. 21, 1907, Sioux City, Iowa. parents: James LeClan Kennedy,
Myrtle Lloyd.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.; Norfolk High School,
Norfolk, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: S.B. ct laude, 1930, LL.B. 1933-

MARRIED: Lois Waite, June 29, 1929, Manchester-by-the-Sea, Mass. cum-
DREN: James Waite, Sept. 23, 1937; Judith Waite, April 2, 1939.

DIED: Sept. 25, 1954, Boston, Mass.

wwow: Mrs. Lloyd W. Kennedy, 874 Valley Rd. Glencoe, IIL.

KENNEDY entered the practice of law immediately upon re-
ceiving his law degree in 1933 and became widely known as a tax
attorney in Chicago, where he was a partner in the law firm of
Kennedy & Kennedy, He was a member of the Tax Advisory
Board of the American Law Institute, special consultant on the
A.L.I. Income Tax Project, and chairman of various committees
of the Tax Section of the American Bar Association. He was a
former editor of a tax service journal, wrote numerous Law Re-
view articles, and was author of Federal Income Taxation of Es-
tates and Trusts, published by Little, Brown & Company. He was
a member of the American, Illinois, Pennsylvania, and Chicago
Bar Associations, American Law Institute, American Judicature
Society, Fortean Society, Union League Club of Chicago, Skokie
Country Club, Erie Club of Erie (Pa.), and the Harvard Club of
Chicago. Shortly before his death, he had written for this Class
Report:

“J set out to see the world at age seventeen, was chief account-
ant of the Hong Kong division of the Texas Company in Hong
Kong at age nineteen, worked on ships, beach-combed, and gen-

[ 625]

_ —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

erally got it out of my system on a three-year trip. I returned to
the United States in 1927 and entered the University of Nebraska
as a freshman. I transferred to Harvard in the fall of 1928 and was
classified as a freshman again in the Class of 1932, but obtained my
degree, cum laude, in 1930. Being out-of-course and having mar-
ried in June, 1929, just before the crash, I know very few of my
1930 Classmates. I have hopes that the coming Reunion will make
up in part for this.

“J settled in Erie (Pa.) following graduation from Law School,
and was in and out of general practice there until 1944 when I
moved to Chicago: first, as a research editor of a new federal tax
service; then, in practice with the Chicago law firm of KixMiller,
Baar & Morris; since 1948, as a partner in my own firm with
Joseph C. Kennedy, LL.B., 34 (no relation), specializing in federal
tax matters, corporation law, trusts, and estate planning.

“Being shy on one kidney, I could not convince the Army that
I was fit for combat intelligence, though I spent the summer of
1940 at the Business & Professional Men’s Training School at Fort
Meade, Maryland. Hence, no war record.

“Political convictions are basically Republican, but I am active
neither in politics nor religion, though I would be labeled a
Protestant, I suppose. I am a member of the Glencoe Union
Church.”

Kennedy died suddenly while on a business trip to Boston, and
was survived by his wife, a son, and a daughter.

KENDRICK KERNS

HOME aApprEss: 909 Avenida Cielito, N.E., Albuquerque, N.Mex.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Mesilla St. N.E., Albuquerque, N.Mex.
Born: Dec. 8, 1908, Newton, Mass. parents: Shirley K. Kerns, ’98, Jeanie
Noyes Richardson.
PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.
MARRIED: Virginia Westwood, Nov. 28, 1942, Ross, Calif, critp: Pamela,
Dec. 11, 1944.
occupation: Owner of mail order business.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Mexico.

RIGHT after I left college, I went to work in the fall of 1929
[ 626 J

am FUNC mason lion Dub dnd Sete reat ea cebiney

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for Stone & Webster and Blodget, Inc., the investment firm con-
nected with Stone & Webster. This was immediately after the
stock market crash and for the following six years the investment
business was a discouraging and uneventful one. Besides that, I
wasn’t cut out to be a bond salesman. Therefore, in 1936 I went to
work for American Airlines in their Boston office, being almost
immediately transferred to New York and Chicago.

In 1937 | came up with the title of field assistant to the super-
intendent of reservations and ticket offices. My job was to cover a
territory (about one-third of American’s fifty-nine cities), seeing
that things were being done the right way in the traffic depart-
ment. In this job I was first based in Chicago. Then I had a year
in Fort Worth and about a year in New York again, making about
four years of consistent travelling. At first it was fun because I
was still a bachelor; but even so, at the end it became very tiresome
and I never wanted to see another hotel bed or eat another hotel
meal. However, I learned a lot about American Airlines and saw a
lot of the United States.

As it became more and more evident that the armed forces were
going to get me, I joined up with the Air Transport Command.
Knowing the airline business, I was taken in as a first lieutenant
and sent to Los Angeles as a priorities and traffic officer, charged
with granting priorities for domestic air line travel, based on
credentials presented to me. Shortly thereafter, I was sent to
Hamilton Field, just north of San Francisco, the airport of em-
barkation for the Pacific Theatre, and was made foreign air prior-
ities officer, responsible for seeing that cargo and passengers were
moved out to the Pacific area in accordance with priorities granted
in Washington. While I was at Hamilton Field I was married to
Virginia Westwood in November, 1942, having met her in Los
Angeles two months before. We were fortunate enough to find
a house — an impossible thing to do in those days —and settled
down uncertainly, knowing that any day I’d be sent overseas,
as I was two months later in early February. My tour of duty
overseas consisted of doing practically nothing in the priorities
and traffic division, for three months at Hickam Field in Hawaii
and for five months at Brisbane, Australia. Then I was transferred
back to Washington, where I sat out the war in command head-
quarters to be finally released — with relief —as a major in Feb-

[ 627 ]

TR ep eee ep

__ —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ruary, 1946. Pam, our nine-year-old daughter, was born in Wash-
ington in the Walter Reed Hospital—total cost, $7.00— in
December, 1944.
My problem was now the same as millions of others — what to
do? My desire to be my own boss and to stay in one place made
me give up my seniority with American Airlines and, incidentally,
another travelling job. After much talking, training, and hemming
and hawing, I leased a service station in Waterbury, Connecticut.
Up to a point, the venture was successful, but the terms of the
lease offered for the second year were so prohibitive that I vowed
never to have anything more to do with the big oil companies.
I then went to work for the Lux Clock Manufacturing Company
in Waterbury. .

The New England climate wasn’t good for Pam, who has in-
herited allergies from her father, and she was bothered terribly
with asthma. Consequently, we packed up in 1950 and moved
to Albuquerque (after investigating Phoenix and Tucson) where
the high, dry climate has done wonders; no sign of asthma now,
and Pam is the picture of health. It’s the best thing that we ever
did. There’s never any snow to shovel, and there are none of
those energy-sapping, hot, humid summer days that we knew
back east.

Moving to Albuquerque meant a new means of making a living
and I’m not sure that I’ve found it yet. P've been operating a mail
order business, selling gifts and gadgets at retail through a catalog,
and through advertisements in national magazines (House Beau-
tiful, House & Garden). The competition is very stiff but the
business is a fascinating one. We go on like others twenty-five
years out, I guess. Things hum fast enough with only one child,
and we wonder how we'd survive if we had to keep up with any
more. Music lessons, Girl Scouts, skating, band, movies, birthday
parties, and just play can sure keep a nine-year-old going and
leave her parents far behind. However, most of the time the years
have moved by without our noticing them and it seems impossible
that twenty-five of them have gone.

Most of the time we’re occupied with PTA — that’s for Mrs.
K.—and trying to maintain a home and a lawn, both of which
are at the mercy of much sun and many bugs, and require con-
stant attention. However, we have had time to see this beautiful

[ 628 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

country and we've covered practically all of New Mexico and
Arizona. In spite of being a New Englander, I think that there's
no place like it!

JAKWAYS DAVIS KESLING

MAILING ADDRESS: Timber Lake, S. Dak.

porn: Aug. 3, 1908, New Carlisle, Ind. parents: Elmer O. Kesling, Flossie
Jakways Smith.

PREPARED AT: South Bend High School, South Bend, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931.

MARRIED: Mabel Eleanor Moore, Nov. 18, 1933, Timber Lake, S. Dak. crm-
DREN: Jack, Oct. 7, 1934; James, Dec. 13, 1939.

occuPATION: Mercantile business.

 

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

|
i
i
3

JOHN DAVID KIDD

HOME ADDRESS: 3421 Berry Ave., Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John G. Kidd & Son, Inc., 626 Vine St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: Dec, 1, 1906, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: John Goodwin Kidd, Olive
Statter.

PREPARED AT: Withrow High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Mary Jane Hermann, March 26, 1938, Covington, Ky. CHILDREN:
John Davison, March 7, 1940; David Brockwell, May 25, 1941; Thomas
Hermann, May 2, 1944, Mary Jane, Feb. 4, 1948, Richard Statter, April

19, 1951.
occuPATION: President, John G. Kidd & Son, Inc., retail book and stationery

store.
MEMBER OF: Cincinnati Rotary Club; Cincinnati Harvard Club; Masons.

I HAVE been in the book business, in one phase or another, all
my working life. Before coming to Harvard, I worked summers
and Saturdays in my father’s book store. After graduating from
college, I went into the retail book business, where I worked until
early 1943. From 1943 to 1949 I worked in the college text-book
field, where I scouted for manuscripts, and sold college texts. In
1949, upon the death of my father, I took over the management of

the family business.
I expect and hope to run the business until one of my four sons

[ 629 ]

21 oe RR RRRRTE PT PHF MEE MF

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

is foolish enough to take over, at which time I'll gladly relinquish
the reins and Jet him worry about how to make an adequate living,
and at the same time persuade twenty employees (mostly women)
that the mental and moral satisfaction of being among books more
than compensates for the higher salaries and sick leaves granted
by such industrial giants as Procter & Gamble (soap) and General
Electric (Uncle Sam’s engines).

I'm a Presbyterian by marriage, an Episcopalian by birth, and
a Christian (all churches are good) by belief.

Hope to see you all again in 1980!

HAROLD TAYLOR KING

HOME apDpRESS: Schoolhouse Lane, R.D. 1, Morristown, NJ.

OFFIce appRESS: Bell Telephone Laboratories, 463 West St., New York, N.Y.

porn: Noy. 20, 1908, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Cyrus Ambrose King, ’97,
Myre Ella Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Jessie Stimson Dombrouskie, Sept. 12, 1931, Greensboro, Vt. (di-
vorced 1948); Ruth A. Aitken, 1949, Brooklyn, N. Y. cup: Elizabeth
Sumson, Aug. 27, 1940.

occuPATION: Telephone systems development engineer.

MEMBER OF: Holly Society of America; New Jersey Federation of Shade
Tree Commissions.

AS everyone seems to feel, it’s hard to look back over nearly a
quarter of a century and tell what happened to you during that
time. The situation is further complicated if your doings have
been technical as mine have. I have been a member of the tech-
nical staff of the Bell Telephone Laboratories during this period,
specializing in the development of high frequency telephone sys-
tems. I have taken part in the devising and developing of most
of the types of long distance telephone systems that link the coun-
try today. ’ve had fun but, of course, I would have liked to have
made a million while doing it, which like a lot of others, I didn’t.

I was pretty active in Army Reserve affairs back in the thirties,
and was called in as a first lieutenant in early 1941 to spend five
long years, coming out as a lieutenant colonel. Two of these five
were spent overseas in Europe where I started in on the “soft”
underbelly — in Italy and after almost a year familiarizing myself

[ 630 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the Apennines, I went into southern France and wound up
on V-J Day about as far east as I could go at the time, near Linz,
Austria. I had collected nine or ten battle stars and a Bronze Star
Medal with an appropriately flowery citation. I had a battalion
of 240 mm. howitzers which for a while also sported a brace of
8 inch rifles. The battalion, as a matter of fact, put the first 240s
and the first 8 inchers into action in the war. We fired more
rounds of 240s than any other battalion (more tonnage than the
Mighty Moe fired as a matter of fact). I look back on those years
quite naturally as the most exciting. We had an awful lot of fun
in spite of the circumstances and, of course, now after nearly ten
years the grimmer aspects have faded, leaving one with a tendency
to recall all these happenings with nostalgia.

Since the war I’ve been back with the Labs, and we are sull
going strong building telephone systems over which America can
chatter.

I have had various hobbies through the years, but have grad-
ually turned toward horticultural pursuits. I have been doing
some amateur experimenting in plant propagation and am espe-
cially interested in the many forms of holly. As a matter of fact,
1am thinking of turning my hobby into a retirement pursuit. I
guess we all have retirement in the back of our minds and when
I get a chance to break loose, this seems to me to be something
that will keep me busy as well as bring a return on my time.

FRANCIS PARKER KINNICUTT

HOME ApprEss: 15 Larch Rd., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Old Court House, Somerset Street, Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 29, 1908, New York, N.Y. parents: Gustav Hermann Ninni-
cutt, 98, May Appleton Tuckerman.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1934.

MaRRiED: Sybil Kane Jay, Feb. 13, 1937, Westbury, Long Island, N.Y. cxi-
DREN: Sybil Kane Jay, April 25, 1938; May Tuckerman, Nov. 27, 1940;
Elizabeth Morgan, Oct. 4, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: G. Hermann Kinnicutt, 34.

OCCUPATION: Probation officer, Boston Juvenile Court.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Boy’s Club of New York, Institute of Contemporary
Art, Boston.

[ 631]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Tarratine Yacht Club, Dark Har-
bor, Maine; Midget Ocean Racing Club. .

LAW School followed college; several years practice in New
York City; marriage, three daughters, four years in the Navy
during the War; eight very happy years at Harvard in various
administrative jobs; and now with juveniles in the Boston courts.
My chief interest has been in people and their various machina-
tions.

Trips abroad, many summers in Maine, a good deal of rather
undisciplined reading, an interest in fine arts, amateur sports, my
family activities, and my friends have provided fun and a con-
tinual curiosity about life.

I have had little or no interest in business as such, and only
slightly more in politics. A Republican by inheritance, I am now
almost a Democrat.

If I have grown a little wiser and more tolerant through the
years, I attribute this to certain (not all) influences and attitudes
I encountered at Harvard, both as an undergraduate and more
recently.

WILLIAM van HOUTEN KIP

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Summer St., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tucker, Anthony & Co., 74 State St., Boston 7, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 11, 1908, Somerville, Mass. parents: Herbert Zabriskie Kip,
Nona Bonjourant Murrell.

PREPARED AT: Bulkeley School, New London, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Jean Schmolze, May 21, 1938, Larchmont, N.Y. cHitp: Nicholas
van Houten, Sept. 17, 1941.

OccUPATION: Investment analyst.

MEMBER OF: Boston Security Analysts Society, Eastern Yacht Club.

STARTING out at the bottom of the Big Depression at nothing
per week, it was inevitable that things would get better. I worked
for four years in the investment counsel field with Anderson &
Cromwell, Inc. Then in 1936 I joined Tucker, Anthony & Com-
pany and am now on my nineteenth year with that firm, Our
business is not like the hectic boom days of the twenties, There

[ 632 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

are no Rolls Royces at our door, The capital gains tax has reduced
public interest in trading securities so that the business has come
down mainly to serious investing. My work is chiefly along these
lines.

During World War II my eyesight didn’t seem quite good
enough for the U.S. Navy and I was darned if [’'d join the Army
voluntarily. I served in the Coast Guard Auxiliary and Tem-
porary Reserve, patrolling our local waters, and rose to the exalted
rank of BMIC. The war ended just as the draft was about to tap
my shoulder.

One of the advantages of working in Boston is that there are
many attractive and interesting places to live within commuting
distance. When Jean and I were married in 1938, we chose Mar-
blehead because we both like the seashore and sailing. It has
been fun in winter as well as summer. Our house is in the middle
of the old town. It was built in 1790 by a sea captain and is not
far from the famous Lee Mansion. Keeping up with repairs is a
chore at times, but there is lots of charm in old houses which
(Jean says) more than makes up for the work I do. We have a
small garden which takes a lot of Jean’s time, but I like to look
at it.

I have kept up an interest in sailing and have owned six sail-
boats and two motor boats since we have lived in Marblehead.
People often ask why I don’t stick to one boat but to me it is
part of the fun to try different types. I served on the Race Com-
mittee of the Eastern Yacht Club for five years, three as chairman.
We have an active badminton club, the Gut’n Feathers Club,
which provides diversion in the winter months.

Nicholas, aged thirteen, has taken to sailing pretty well and has
raced his Brutal Beast catboat, Flying Dutchman, the past two
seasons. He also fancies outboard motors and racing bicycles. He
is in his second year at Marblehead Junior High School and plavs
drums in the band and orchestra. His nautical life is being looked
over by Leonard M. Fowle, ’30, and his spiritual life by David W.
Norton, ’30; so, -it’s hard to see how he can miss.

[ 633 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

LINCOLN EDWARD KIRSTEIN

HOME AppDRESS: 130 W. 56th St., New York 19, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESsS: Schoo] of American Ballet, 637 Madison Ave., New York,
N.Y.

BorN: May 4, 1907, Rochester, N.Y. parents: Louis Edward Kirstein, Rose
Stein.

prepareD AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.; Berkshire School,
Sheffield, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Fidelma Cadmus, April 4, 1941, New York, N.Y.

occupation: Theatrical producer, general manager, City Center of Music
and Drama.

pusuicaTions: Dance: A Short History of Theatrical Dancing, The Classic
Ballet: Ballet Alphabet.

IN 1934 I founded with Edward Warburg, ’30, the School of
American Ballet for the eminent choreographer, George Balan-
chine, I have directed various ballet companies, served in the 3d
U.S. Army in France and Germany, and established the New York
City Ballet Company at the City Center in 1947. In 1952 I was
appointed managing director of the Center, which has four per-
manent units: the ballet, opera, drama, and light-opera companies.

FRANKLIN HAASE KISSNER

HOME ADDRESS: 24 W,. 55th St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: Lever Brothers Co., 390 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1909, Mauch Chunk, Pa. parents: James Leonard Kissner,
Emily Haase.

PREPARED AT: Liberty High School, Bethlehem, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: A.B, Summa cum laude, 1930.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Comptroller.

MEMBER OF: Union League Club, New York.

_ ELIJAH ALLEN KIVETT

HOME AppREss: R-2, Martinsville, Ind.

OFFICE ApprEss: Wilbur, Ind.; Martinsville, Ind.

BORN: June 19, 1908, Morgan Co, Ind. parents: William Walter Kivett,
Minnie Whitaker.

PREPARED AT: Martinsville High School, Martinsville, Ind.

[ 634 ]

mh,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926~1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marriep: Sarah Margaret Kennedy, July 25, 1930, Plymouth, Ind. (died
Oct, 10, 1933); Helen Carter, Aug. 9, 1951, Princeton, Ind. cHitpren;
Sally Ann, April 23, 1931 (72. Maxwell Boyd, 1949); Ellen Louise
(died 1933) and Eleanor Jean (72. Raymond Boyd, 1950), Aug. 22,
1932 (twins); James Allen, Oct, 2, 1933. GRANDCHILDREN: Trudie Boyd,
1952, Cindy Boyd, 1953 (children of Eleanor); James Boyd, 1953 (child
of Sally).

occuPATION: Retail merchant; owner, Hall General Store, Beechgrove Store;
owner, manager, Wilbur Trading Post Super Market.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1950, director, 1951-53, Wilbur Community Center;
committeeman, Republican Precinct, 1942-50; secretary, School Board,
1938-q2.

MEMBER OF: Eminence Masonic Lodge No. 440, AF. & A.M.; Wilbur Com-
munity Center.

AFTER graduation in 1930, I got married and went broke at
about the same time. The next three years were spent gaining
very little money, but three children. My wife died in October,
1933, just after the birth of our son. Then, with three small chil-
dren under my feet most of the time, I purchased a small store at
Centerton, Indiana. In the next year or so we moved to Wilbur,
Indiana, and have been here ever since. The children grew up,
going to school and working in the store, I grew older watching
after the children, working in the store, and trying to make the
income equal the outgo.

The Wilbur Trading Post is probably the most modern coun-
try store in Indiana. Ir is a self-service general store. The grand-
children know it has the best candy and ice cream. I do a little
fishing, but catch few fish and on vacations (very few vacations)
we just go to some lake to loaf. ‘This year we hope to see Harvard
again,

HARRY HERBERT KLEINMAN

HOME appreEss: 12 Pilgrim Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 57 Pratt St., Hartford, Conn.

BoRN: Sept. 18, 1908, Hartford, Conn. parents: Nathan Kleinman, Esther
Mogodovitch.

PREPARED AT: Weaver High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; UB. (Yale
Univ.), 1933.

MarrieD: Gladys Ruth Nestor, Jan. 14, 1940, Hartford, Conn, cyitpren:
Daniel Eliot, Nov. 8, 1944; William Nathan, Sept. 23, 1948.

[635 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

occupation: Lawyer, self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Alderman, 1937-43, majority leader 1942-43, Board of Alder-
men, City of Hartford; member Metropolitan District Commission,
1943-49; president, Ararat Lodge, No. 13, B’nai B'rith, 1942-43, Hart-
ford Zionist District, 1948-50; secretary, Beth El Temple, West Hart-
ford, 1953-55; member Board of Directors, Hartford Jewish Federa-
tion, since 1949; Justice of the Peace, 1937-39, 1955-573 precinct captain,
1935-37, ward chairman, 1947-49, Democratic Party.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut; Yale Law School Association;
Connecticut and Hartford County Bar Associations; Beth El Temple,
West Hartford; Agudas Achim Synagogue; B’nai B’rith; Zionist Or-
ganization of America.

LIKE the rest of our Class, graduation found me in the bottom

of the Great Depression. However, by the dint of hard work, I

graduated from Yale Law School in 1933. I was then admitted to

the Bar in Connecticut and have practised law in Hartford ever
since.

Liberal by persuasion, I cast my first vote for Roosevelt. My
activity in the Democratic Party continued. I served as a Justice
of the Peace, precinct captain, and member of the Board of Alder-
men of the City of Hartford, where I served a total of six years,
including two years as majority leader. My service in the civic
field included being named by Governor Robert Hurley to the
Metropolitan District Commission for six years.

During the war years I served as an Air Raid Warden, par-
ticipated in war bond drives, and was a blood donor. My general
community activities include having been a scout-master, helped
in Community Chest and Red Cross drives, and aiding religious
and cultural institutions. Most recently my wife and I were
among those who helped create and form Beth El Temple of West
Hartford.

My family takes my undivided time — especially my wife and
two lively and growing boys—and they are my only hobby.

OLIVER JOHN KLINE

LAST KNOWN apprEss: 1811 N. Wilcox St., Hollywood, Calif.

BORN: May 23, 1908, Burbank, Calif. parents: Charles Henry Kline, Lucy
Ward.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

KLINE has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since 1952.

[ 636°]

“A

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR AUGUSTUS KLIPFEL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Glynwood Road, R.F.D. #3, Wapakoneta, Ohio.

oFFICE ADDRESS: Willipie Street, Wapakoneta, Ohio.

porn: Dec. 5, 1908, Wapakoneta, Ohio. parents: Arthur Augustus Klipfel,
Elsie O. Haman.

PREPARED AT: Blume High School, Wapakoneta, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

marRgieD: Miriam Ruth Rentzsch, Oct. 8, 1935, Celina, Ohio. cuitp: Arthur
Augustus, 3d, March 2, 1938.

- occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: City Solicitor of Wapakoneta, Ohio, 1938-42; Federal Con-
ciliation Commissioner, Sec. 75, 1942~44; clerk, Board of Education,
Wapakoneta City Schools, 1948-51; trustee, Auglaize County Law and
Bar Association, 1946; trustee, Blume Memorial Library, since 1946;
director, Auglaize Aberdeen-Angus Breeders Association since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Hamer Masonic Lodge, Rotary International; Ohio Aberdeen-
Angus Breeders Association; American Aberdeen-Angus Breeders As-
sociation; Wapakoneta Chamber of Commerce.

GRADUATING from Law School in 1933 at the depth of the
depression, I returned to my home town and hung out my law
shingle. At that time the principal concern was to be near friends
and ‘relatives where one might get a square meal just in case the
cases were too few. I have remained in general practice here in
Wapakoneta through choice and, I may add, a choice I have not
regretted. After the first few rough years, I have enjoyed a suc-
cessful law practice. Successful not so much in the size of remu-
neration, perhaps, as in the infinite variety of cases and the intimate
friendly associations with clients and other members of the bar,
which the general practitioner has in a small community and
which I enjoy.

By 1935 I had acquired several paying clients and married
Miriam R. Rentzsch of Celina, Ohio, Radcliffe College, "34.
Now, for you of the East, Celina is only twenty miles from
Wapakoneta and yet I first met Miriam in Cambridge. May we
note in disproof of the rule, or at least exception thereto, that Har-
vard can be happily married to Radcliffe. We have one son,
Arthur, 3d, now a preparatory junior classman at Western Re-
serve Academy, Hudson, Ohio. Further, if Harvard after de-
emphasis, yet has a football scout about, Arthur played a verv
creditable first string varsity tackle last season.

[ 637 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

*k CHARLES DOLESE KLOTZ

Born: Alay 1, 1906, Winnetka, Il]. parents: Charles Arthur Klotz, Laura
Dolese.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MARRIED: Nancy Doris Cochran, Oct. 6, 1928, Richmond, Va. cup: Charles
Dolese, Jr., May 18, 1930.

pieD: May 14, 1937, Emporia, Va.

IN 1931 Klotz reported that he was vice-president and general
manager of Virginian Limestone Corporation in Ripplemead,
Virginia,

WALTER FREDERICK KOETZLE

HOME ADDRESS: 45 Summer St., Forest Hills, Queens, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Kasper & Koetzle, Inc., 563-7 Bushwick Ave., Brooklyn 6,
N. Y.

Born: April 9, 1908, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Frederick Koetzle, Louise T.
Schaefer.

PREPARED AT: Jamaica High School, Jamaica, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. summa cum laude, 1930.

marrieD: Viola M. Schubart, May 8, 1936, Forest Hills, Queens, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Richard Walter, Sept. 13, 1939; Thomas Frederick, Oct. 15,
1943.

occupaTion: Vice-president, Kasper & Koetzle, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Brooklyn Rotary Club; Wheatley Hills Golf Club; American
Steel Warehouse Association; National Association of Industrial Supply -
Distributors.

AFTER graduation and several months spent in Europe, I entered
the family business which since 1901 has been engaged in the dis-
tribution of industrial supplies and steel products. In 1935 I
became vice-president and active head of this firm.

My happy marriage to Viola Schubart (A.M., Michigan ’32),
has been blessed by two fine sons, at least one of whom we hope
will come to Harvard some day. All of us actively worship at
St. Luke’s Protestant Episcopal Church in Forest Hills, Long
Island, feeling a deep need of religious faith in these difficult years.

As an independent business man, I distrust extremes in politics
and economics and believe our country well guided under the
progressive moderation of Dwight Eisenhower. At leisure, my
interests lie in music and historical literature; in sport, in golf and
bowling. Believing in the duty of the adult man to constructively

[ 640 ]

i idasilledid said a”

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

aid in training youth for service to the community, I have for the
past five years been very active in the work of the Boy Scouts of
America.

ARTHUR KORB

HOME ADDRESS: 63 Myerson Lane, Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 618 Little Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: June 21, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Lewis I. Korb, Bessie Kaplo-
witch.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M., 1932.

MARRIED: Rose Doris Levenson, May 20, 1945, Beachmont, Mass. CHILDREN:
Ellen Ruth, April 22, 1948; Robert Lewis, May 26, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Musician; songwriter; teacher.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Composers, Publishers and Authors
(ASCAP); Songwriters Protective Association; Musicians Union,
AFL.

PUBLICATIONS: How To Write Songs That Sell; some popular songs.

SURE been a battle since that long gone day in June, 1930. In
this corner, coming out for the twenty-fifth round, little old me,
beat up and battered but still in there, In the far corner, Ole
Devil Bug, mean, tricky, packing a powerful wallop in both bacilli.
Had me down for a nine count in ’31, again in °34, "39, and just
when I thought I had him, he nailed me again in ’49. Talk about
that Dempsey-Tunney long count— each one of these took a
year. But like I said, I’m up again and coming out fighting.

Had to switch from longhair music to the close-to-the-scalp
kind in the meantime. A feller’s got to eat. So I write a mess of
songs, some good, some bad, some published, some collecting dust.
And I write some jingles (all bad) that help bring in the stuff
that pays for the chicken and noodle soup. Even wrote a book
called How To Write Songs That Sell, now in a third printing.
Gonna read it myself some day.

Biggest success in my life is Rose. Starting in 1945, it was just
Rosie and me; and Ellen made three in 1948. Robbie got into the
act in °53, and then we bought that little white house in the coun-
try, Oak Hill Park in Newton, that is, and ya know, that corny
old routine makes for some terrific living!

Hey, what do you mean asking a guy about his political ideas?

[ 641 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Don’t you know you can get heaved into the hoosegow for think-
ing wrong thoughts? Think this is 1930 or something? Boy, those
were the days! We used to boast how over here a feller could get
up on a soapbox and shoot off his face. Try that today, and
they'll shoot his face off for him. Yup, you’re advocating some-
thing, and you're an advocator, and that rhymes with agitator,
which it’s a crime to rhyme like that. If you say Fifth Amend-
ment, that’s a dirty word, and if you don’t say it, you’ve got
to be a name-namer, maybe even get rich making up new names,
or off to the hoosegow for contempt. Why, those fellers in Con-
gress were falling all over themselves passing new laws to trap
pink dentists, and the new laws were falling all over the old laws
’til the whole mess looks like it’s got to fall flat on its unconstitu-
tional face.

Maybe by the time we're all together again chewing over old
times, the Constitution will be legal again and a feller can really
say what he thinks, the way we could when we were in school.
(Got to say I’m proud of the way Harvard stood up to them,
though.) But until then, you ain’t gonna get me to tell you what
I'm thinking. No sir, I’m playing it safe.

Guess that’s it. Nothing much more to tell. Got to go out and
paint the trim, putty the windows, put the lawn-mower up for
the winter, haul out the storm-windows, plant some bulbs, cement
down a few shingles, put out the barrels, fix a couple of faucets,
and feed the ants a little chlordane, Like I said, I’m really livin’.

FLOYD LEWIS KRISMEYER

HOME aDprEss: 283 Manning Ave., River Edge, N.J.

OFFICE apprEss: Air Reduction Co., Inc., 60 E. qznd St., New York, 17, N.Y.

BORN: July 4, 1908, West End, N.J. parents: William Krismeyer, Lillie
May Lewis.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1930.

marrieD: Hester English, Jan. 26, 1935, New York, N. Y. cuixp: Lois, Feb.
20, 1942.

OccuPATION: Industrial relations, Air Reduction Company, Inc.

AS I recall it, one of our first assignments in English A was to
Write an autobiography. As the clock on Mt. Auburn Street tolled

[ 642 ]

taal

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

away the remaining few quarter-hours before the deadline, I
struggled to put down on paper the story of my life. Since Eng-
lish was never one of my better subjects, I was not at all sur-
prised to find that the instructor did not consider it engrossing
reading. Having just received Goad 2, I feel that history is re-
peating itself. Time has neither improved the subject matter nor
my literary style, but since you insist... .

Despite the fact that I majored in economics, my first venture
into the business world turned out to be a very unhappy experi-
ence. Nevertheless, it did provide an income and things looked
pretty dark in the spring of 1932 when I was laid off. However,
this turned out to be the best thing that company could have
done for me. Through the efforts of the Harvard Club of New
York and a Harvard man, Class of 1905, I secured a position with
the Air Reduction Company and am still with this concern, in
the business of industrial gases, oxygen, acetylene and welding
supplies,

I began in the cashier’s office, but was transferred to the payroll
department, where I progressed to the head of the department.
In 1952 an industrial relations department was formed and I was
given the opportunity to head up a section on employee benefits,
the administration of the company retirement income and group
insurance plans being the main function of this section. I thor-
oughly enjoy this work and sometimes feel that I would have
been very happy in the insurance business, although I am sure I
would never have been a success at selling insurance.

In 1931 I took a girl out on what was almost a blind date. This
date was so successful that many more followed and it was not
long before I decided that this was “the” girl. However, because
of the depression and my conservatism, we were not married until
1935. From a small apartment we have progressed to a nice home
in the suburbs. A daughter was born in 1942 who we think is a
very nice person. She seems to have inherited many of her
mother’s good qualities. She has so many projects going that there
is never enough time. Moreover, she is a good mixer, something
her father never was. ,

I guess you might say that my hobby is travel, especially if a
train is involved. However, until after the War, my travelling
was limited to an annual visit to my wife’s home in Columbus,

[ 643 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Ohio. After the War, when cars became available again, we were
able to gratify this interest to a greater extent. We have visited
Williamsburg several times and covered a great part of New Eng-
land. For the last five years we have vacationed at Wolfeboro,
New Hampshire. We think it a lovely place and the surrounding
area offers many interesting trips.

Since Air Reduction was engaged 100 percent in the war effort,
I was not called into service and so I have no war service to
report. My social, religious, and political life has been that of
an average person and I doubt if it would be of interest to anyone
else. .

CHARLES CHACEY KUEHN

HOME ADDRESS: 220 S. Ridgeland Ave., Oak Park, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Creosoting Co., Louisville, Ky.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1906, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Alfred L. Kuehn, Anna
Olive Chacey.

PREPARED AT: River Forest High School, Oak Park, Il].,; Lewis Institute,
Chicago, UL

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: &.B., 1930; M.F. (Yale Univ.), 1934.

occuPATION: Executive vice-president, American Creosoting Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member National Advisory Board, American Forest Products
Industries, since 1953; member Service Bureau Board, 1950-53, several
committees, since 1936, American Wood Preservers Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Harvard Club of New York City;
Missouri Athletic Club, St. Louis, Society of American Foresters; Amer-
ican Wood Preservers Association; Forest Products Research Society;
American Pulpwood Association; Railway Tie Association.

RIGHT after Commencement, I was accepted by the Yale School
of Forestry, and before starting work at New Haven I took two
months’ summer work at the summer camp near New London.
Upon completion of one year’s work, I went to work for a sub-
sidiary of the American Creosoting Company, the Georgia Forest
Products Company, on their Satilla Forest in Camden County,
Georgia, to get some practical experience before taking my final
year for my Masters degree in forestry, After two years I re-
turned to New Haven in the fall of 1933 and received my Mas-
ters degree in forestry in 1934. After that I returned to work for
the American Creosoting Company in their sales and buying de-

[ 544 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

partments and have spent all my business life there since. In t940
I was made eastern sales manager and in charge of procurement
of untreated material for the eastern plants. In 1943 I was made
vice-president of several of the subsidiary companies. In April,
1950, | was made a vice-president and director of the American
Creosoting Company and subsidiaries. On January 1, 1952, I was
made executive vice-president in charge of sales and procurement
of forest products. This is my present work.

My work has required a great deal of travelling in the South
and areas from Kansas City east. While I maintain my residence
at Oak Park, Illinois, I am rarely there as I am on the road over
half my time with sales and buying problems. When I do get
some spare time, I get away to my ranch in northwestern Wyo-
ming; it is a cattle ranch and I have had it since the fall of 1939.

I come from a Republican family and the Republicans had
tough sledding for the first twenty-two years after graduating
from Harvard. However, in local politics they did better. Due
to my being on the road much of my time, my activity has been
for the most part financial in Illinois, Wyoming, and other places.

I am Congregationalist, and have been all my life.

My work in business and ranching has brought me into contact
with people in many walks of life in most parts of our country
and it certainly makes me wide-awake to the problems facing a
person in the future. All has been interesting and helpful and I
know the future holds much in store.

JOSEPH WILLIAM KUKAS

LAST KNOWN aporEss: 563 Boston St., Lynn, Mass.

BORN: June 18, 1908, Lynn, Mass. PARENTS: Peter Kukas, Josephine Stre-
kauskas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930,

KUKAS has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1951,

[ 645 ]

al

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

NICHOLAS IGNATIUS LACHNO

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 504 W. 111th St., Apt. 35, New York 25, N. Y.
porN: April 11, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Ignatius Ivan Lachno, Anna
Micheal Moroz.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Scranton, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1928-1930, 1931-1932.

LACHNO has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since
1952.

WILLIAM POTTER LAGE

HOME ADDRESS: Tuxis Farms, Madison, Conn.

OFFicE abpress: Fennelly, Eagan, Nager & Lage, 48 Wall St.. New York 5,
N. Y.

BORN: May 27, 1909, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. parents: Frederico Lage, Anne
Potter McKenney.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. (Yale Univ.) 1936.

marrieD: Charlotte Low, July 8, 1930, New Haven, Conn. cHiLpren: Wil-
liam Potter, Jr, Feb, 26, 1941; Barbara Anne, Jan. 28, 1943; Elizabeth
Bonticue, May 12, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer. .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Whitehall Club, N. Y.; Associ-
ation of the Bar of the City of New York; Maritime Law Association
of the United States, American Society of International Law; Amer-
ican Bar Association.

PusLications: Neutrality for the United States, co-author, Yale University
Press, 1937; second edition, 1939.

BY and large, life’s “breaks” have been with me — at least until
now. And my crystal ball still appears unclouded, although this
phenomenon may be due to failing eyesight.

Right after college, Charlotte agreed to take her chances with
me, and she’s still doing it after twenty-five years, with the same
graciousness and fortitude as in 1930. In due course, we have
produced three fine children after a mishap — to put it gently —
deprived us of a boy who would, in ordinary course, have been
in the Harvard graduating class this year. Bill, Jr., however, is
headed for Harvard eventually, unless the Army intercepts him;
and as for the girls, we are just beginning to work out tentative
plans for boarding schools, etc.

[ 646 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

That jealous mistress, the law, was not acquired easily. It was
only after two years in Wall Street — not too attractive in 1930
and 1931 — and a year teaching school, that I decided to go to
law school. For the benefit of those who haven't tried it, I can
vouch for the difficulty of effecting the transition back to study-
ing from books and attending classes after a three-year break.
Amusingly enough, however, I found that one of my classmates
at law schoo] was none other than my lordly Harvard tutor during
sophomore year. In any event, Yale finally graduated me in 1936
and I spent the next six years in general and admiralty practice
with a large New York law firm.

Meanwhile, at Yale Law School I had come to know the late
Professor Borchard, one of the outstanding authorities on inter-
national law, as well as one of the few inspiring teachers I have
ever been exposed to. Eventually our friendship and association
produced Neutrality for the United States, which the Yale Uni-
versity Press published in 1937 and followed up with a second
and enlarged edition two years later. Unfortunately, the powers
that be in Washington were not interested, except by way of lip
service, in neutrality. Our subsequent complete involvement in
the war has, I am sorry to say, curtailed the demand for additional
editions of this great work. However, if you look hard enough
in a really good library, you will probably be able to find a copy,
which I recommend that you peruse before taking up the recent
disclosures of events immediately preceding Pearl Harbor.

But I am getting away from the narrative. In late 1942, I was
called down to Washington to be general counsel to a small gov-
ernment-owned shipping concern — my first, and I hope my last,
experience as a government civilian employee. The Battle of
Pennsylvania Avenue raged furiously — so much so that after the
normal period of gestation, I could stand it no more and promptly
accepted a commission in the Coast Guard Reserve when that or-
ganization was saddled with supervision of the merchant marine
following the Okinawa difficulties, When I was sent over on a
staff job to the Mediterranean, my good wife and children — two
at that time — took up permanent residence in our old house in
Madison. (It’s really a beauty, too: built in 1675, and has never
been sold —a rather unique distinction, I believe, among the few
remaining 17th Century houses.) There they sweated out the rest

[647 J

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

of the war under travel and other restrictions, while ] Wander
rom Casablanca to Algiers, Bizerte, Naples, and back to Ora “
2 capacity of what amounted to a separate and detacheg co a

I,

“ a my liberation, we decide te

a PoP ip, We kad a wonderful sme in Ro pe the
ght months, and the children were actually talking Porta,
y the time we left. But the economic necessities of life
at they are, we eventually had to return and £0 to work
{ hung out my own shingle, subsequently joined y as
z small firm and, more recently, helped organize our
where we engage in general practice.

es: in addition to preoccupation with my family, |
/ quite an aftinity for tools, particularly machine
to handle them. This was partly the result of
In’t want to go broke keeping the old house in
for the fun of doing things with m 'y hands as a
on from legal chores. Last summer got in-
y-odd years’ absence, onto a golf course, and
fit ever since as I have developed a great yen
gh, unfortunately, such fondness is not yet
However, it’s a lot of fun and gives me

tat I feel that squash has become a bit

at disconcerting to my friends of the
r mine are somewhat to the right of
\ly dabbling in the game of politics,

‘the local Madison level, so that few

streets of New York again.

AN LAKIN

ye, Pa, ‘

ig Co, Pennsylvania Bldg, Phila-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

non: Bituminous coal mining and distribution.

ae of; Franklin Institute, Racquet Club, Philadelphia Skating Chub,

Pumane Society.
ARMED with A.B. and M_B.A. sheepskins indicating master of
french literature and business administration, 1 set forth in Jone,
1932, to improve the bituminous coal industry. Those were hard
nes (remember?) and $80 per month as a trainee in the mines
was good pay. The two years 1 spent in and around the mines,
Joading piers, and coal burning power plants benefited me in a
way that Harvard did not and could not, 1 am sali on the same
mission and with the same company, in charge of traffic, shipping,
and inspection departments. My career started in a serious Een-
eral depression. It was particularly bad in the case of bitaminous
coal, which alone of the major industries is today suffering a
serious depression. If the present rate of increase in demand for
electrical energy continues, 1 believe that bituminous coal will be
called on to supply the major part of the fuel for its generation.
The immediate outlook is poor, but the ten to twenty Year out-
look is good, irrespective of atomic energy.
After living in mining communities in Pennsylvania and West
Virginia for almost two years, 1 returned to New York GQiry
where I was occupied with industrial sales and distribution of
coal until I entered the armed services as a draitee in November,
1943. In June, 1944, on graduation from OCS, \ was assigned
to 0.Q.M.G., Washington, D. C. In December, iggs, upon te-
lease from the Army, | returned to my former employer's Piha
delphia office as a coal buyer for export to cod-tnungry Europe,
Asia, and South America. As the export market dwindled, 1.
moved into the eight-ball position — larson. hetween sales and

Operations,

The brief outline of my occupation fails to describe my work,
Which varies from economist and analyst to coal inspector amd
Tanager, depending on the needs of the moment. While the
“Ompany is large, it is owned by one family and conrdlled yy

Oe member of it. The type Of Organization is fhnd, varying Wh
Changes in conditions and personnel, In this industry there ate

188 } ==. 0 ruts to roll along in, There are no “normal” conditions. Each
} MBA, 1932 ’y brings a different type of problem, Lhasa fascination whieh

SS, ' C0 re "
NS In large measure from the mature of mining and ‘ts Case

\ O49 |

rs: Herbert Conrad Lakin, 94:

a,
rs

aoa

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

TT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

relationship with basic industries, such as steel, railroads
rilities —in fact, all industry. My satistaction comes not and
4iry or accumulated wealth, but from associations in Wor nm
different problems as a member of a management team ng
nce our marriage in 1937, Mary and I have lived in N, ew y

Darien, Connecticut, Washington, D. C., and Wayne, Pen

4 We tend to think of Darien as our “home town,” ey
en

day; perhaps because it is a cosmopolitan communit

tions in recent years have been spent on Isle ay Hae.
inaccessible island located approxima tely forty m iles
, Desert and east of Camden. We have taken tr;

{ California, where Mary’s father and mother lime

‘sed on Lake Ontario and motored through eastern
2w England on other vacations, but the peacefyl-
Haut lures us from more populated and modern
vacation spot.
ower, not a McCarthy, Republican, I believe
hum the Republicans would have been finished
4s it 18, they may be finished in 1956. I own
‘gage has seven years to go), and we have
han from my earnings since graduation. |
265 and endeavor to keep my weight and
that I may keep on enjoying life fully.
’s consist of gardening, tennis, figure
| dabbling. with oils and water colors.
nal social activities. I still have all my
reads. The wrinkles are prominent,

orward to our Fiftieth Anniversary,

DON LAMB

ey College, Wellesley 81, Mass.
ley 81, Mass, ,
ts: Arthur Lincoln Lamb, Eat

4 Park, Md.

t Iau, 1930. Hot
aris, France, CHILDREN:

frey, March 28 1938} LU)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AnD BROTHER: Arthur Motter Lamb, ’19.
A ATION? Composer; professor of music, Wellesley College, instructor
ee of music history and theory, Longy School of Music.

CES HELD: Chairman, Department of Music, Wellesley College, 1946-

oFF!
48, 1954-S5* . ;
MEMBER OF: American Meteorological Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Toccata for Organ”, “Six Scenes from The Protevangelion”

IN the fall of 1930, as John Knowles Paine “‘Yravelling Fellow, 1
went to Paris where | studied theory and composition with Nadia
Boulanger. Returning to this country in 32, 1 joined the faculty
of Belmont Hill School, teaching music, algebra, and Latin. In
34 1 was appointed instructor of music history and theory at the
Longy School of Music in Cambridge, and the following, Veat
came to Wellesley, where from 1946 to 1948 1 was chairman of
the Department of Music, and in 1950 attained a full professorship.
In the spring of 48 1 took part in the Festival of Contemporary
Arts at the University of Illinois, and that year also L was awarded
a Guggenheim Fellowship for creative work im music. At the
present time I am again department chairman at Wellesley, and
I give a seminar course at the Longy School, with which my con-
nection has remained unbroken since ’34.
Most of the time that the demands of teaching have allowed me
for other purposes has gone into composition, with which 1 have
been consistently concerned since the mid-thirties. Though | have
at times dealt with a large ensemble, as in the “Voccata Sinton”
for full orchestra, 1947, and in “Six Scenes from The Protevan-
gelion” for chorus, soloists and orchestra, 1949, 1 have found

chamber music in general more congenial to my purposes and

have worked largely in that field. It is perhaps worth while in.
reporting on this phase of my activity to mention the “Recitanrve

and Variations for Flute Quarter.” gaz, the “Concerto da
Camera,” for harpsichord and small ensemble, 193, the “Capne-
Clo” for strings and the “String Trio,” both 1946, “Whe lorervale
Variations” for violin and piano, 1950, and “Innocenti Car

mina” for baritone and wind quintet, 1962. L single out these
Works because each of them constituted for me a Very rewanding,
‘dventure, and in each the intention seems to have been wt Lert
‘dequately realized,

The problem of pursuing two dbyectwves at once NAS NOLIN Te
tral led to Complications, Tt 1s posstble to tech a8 2 Comoe

\ 651 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930.

without composing as a teacher. I have found that the two func-
tions, sharing certain fundamentals of perception and evaluation,
constitute together, despite their dissimilarities, a rather nicely
balanced binary system in which each function is enriched and
guided through the existence of the other. The college environ-
ment has proven most congenial, The Wellesley community de-
mands little and gives much. It is both a vital social entity in
itself and a shelter against intrusion, somewhat after the manner
of the princely establishment of the past in which music found
itself so fortunately situated.

There has been neither time nor inclination for the pursuit of
hobbies. I was at one time — for financial reasons — concerned
with developing a new technique in portrait photography; and
my son and I, with the help of a friend in Maine who has a sense
of humor and a facility with the saw and hammer, have built a
house facing west across Penobscot Bay to the Camden Hills. The
result is a working-place where the summer months can be put
to best use.

It is not a habit with me to look back. Whenever, as in the
present instance, it happens that I do so, I am keenly aware of
abundant satisfaction and happiness given to me in a time of wide-
spread dissatisfaction and unhappiness. I find inspiration and ful-
fillment in my work; my children are of a sort it is a joy to share
things with; and my wife remains for me the most sympathetic,
understanding, encouraging and forgiving of people. Need I say
more?

EDWIN HERBERT LAND

HOME ADDRESS: 163 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREss: 730 Main St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

Born: May 7, 1909, Bridgeport, Conn. parents: Harry M. Land, Matha F.
Goldfaden.

PREPARED AT: Norwich Academy, Norwich, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1929-1932. DEGREES: HON. scp. (Tufts Coll.),
1947; HON. Sc.D. (Polytechnic Inst. of Brooklyn), 1952; HON. LL.p. (Bates
Coll), 1953.

MarRigD: Helen Maislen, Nov. 10, 1929, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Jennifer,
Jan, 25, 1940; Valerie, Jan. 20, 1943.

occupation: Chairman of the Board, president, director of research, Polar-
oid Corporation.

[ 652 ]

Me,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1951-53;
director, Optical Society of America, 1950-51; member Editorial
Board, Physics Today, 1952; member Advisory Committee, Technical
Research and Development, American Foundation for the Blind, Inc.
SINCE 1953.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; National Academy of
Sciences; Optical Society of America; Photographic Society of Amer-
ica; Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Faculty Clubs of Har-
vard and M.I.T.; Friday Evening Club; Examiner Club; St. Botolph
Club.

puBLICATIONS: “Dichroism and Dichroic Polarizers,” in Colloid Chemistry,
J. Alexander, 1946; “Some Aspects of the Development of Sheet Polar-
izers,” Journal of the Optical Society of America, 1951; “Polaroid, and
the Headlight Problem,” Journal of Franklin Institute, 1937; “Polaroid
for Prevention of Glare from Automobile Headlights,” Journal of the
Society of Automotive Engineers, 1937; “Near Infrared Transmitting
Filters,” Land et al., Journal of the Optical Society of America, “Vecto-
graphs: Images in Terms of Vectorial Inequality and Their Application
in Three-Dimensional Representation,” Journal of the Optical Society
of America, 1940, “A Color Translating Ultraviolet Microscope,” Land
et al., 1949; “A New One-Step Photographic Process,” Journal of the
Optical Society of America, 1947; “One-Step Photography,” Photo-
graphic Journal, 1950; “Application of the Land Method of Film
Processing i in Roentgenology,” with L. L. Robbins, Journal of the Amer-
ican Medical Association, 1951.

TWENTY-FIVE years out, twenty-five years married, twenty-
five is the sum of my daughters’ ages. What the world should
know about a fellow is by now pretty well known — this is hardly
the place to say the rest. The year 1927 to the war: polarized
light, During the war: sights, rangefinders, missiles. After the
war: photography. Right now: photography (as science, and as
industry), and how to make Polaroid Corporation a model Ameri-
can company, and how to find time for a family increasingly
precious and important — quite unbelievably, more important
than polarizing headlights, three-dimensional movies, or beautiful
instantaneous photographs. There’s the fun of riding and home-
work with Jeffie and Valerie; and this, says Terre, is at last the
summer we should visit the south of France. But what do YOU
do for time? One hundred and fifty million pictures is a lot, but
still a small percentage — there’s really no excuse for any kind of
photography but ours: what camera should we next make so that
every one will just naturally use it as part of everyday life?
“When, they all ask, will you have color? — you mean you really

[ 653 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

COULD have it?” There are so few years left to work on the
problem of the good life in industry.

Industry, so runs our fantasy, is the ultimate expression of
America: in industry, scientist, artist, artisan, engineer, and econo-
mist work in clusters not just to produce things, but to find full
personal expression in the MAKING of things. In America we all
work for each other. The new meaning of a high standard of
living will be that we all ENJOY working for each other. Each
company is a separate culture in which a different experiment is
conducted — possibly for different kinds of people —to solve
the problem of how you create new products and manufacture
them efficiently and profitably, and do all of this in such a way
as to make the working day deeply satisfying. America (even
Harvard!) must be proud of America’s producing. Thus runs the
fantasy to be made real in the next twenty-five years.

DAVID LOUIS LANDY

HOME appress: 95 Middlesex Rd., Buffalo, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Moot, Sprague, Marcy & Gulick, goo Erie County Savings
Bank Bldg., Buffalo 2, N. Y.

porn: Feb. 18, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Joel Benjamin Landy, Helen
Williams.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: $.B. cum laude, 1930; LL.B. magna cum
haude, 1933.

marriep: Dorothy Kaufman, Aug. 23, 1936, Buffalo, N. Y. cHitpren: Joan
Barbara, March 7, 1940, Susan Roberta, Aug. 29, 1942; Lawrence Kauf-
man, Sept. 19, 1946.

occupation: Lawyer; partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: President, editor-in-chief, 1932-33, editor, 1931-32, Harvard
Law Review; member of bar, New York, Massachusetts, federal courts
of New York, Massachusetts, Iowa, and Indiana; lecturer on corpora-
tions and taxation, University of Buffalo Law School; director, various
businesses, social corporations, and fraternal organizations.

MEMBER OF: American, New York, Erie County, Western New York, Fed-
eral Communications, City of New York Bar Associations; American
Law Institute, Greater Buffalo Advertising Club; Westwood Country
Club; Montefiore Club; B'nai B'rith.

IN my tender years, a wise wag impressed me that “You are born;
you get married; and you die!” Presumably he meant biographies

[ 654]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

may be long or short; this one will be short. After being born,
raised, and educated in Boston and at Harvard and taking my
Massachusetts Bar examination, I left Boston about July 14, 1933,
to go to Buffalo to seek fame and fortune with Moot, Sprague,
Brownell, Marcy, Carr & Gulick.

The practice of law in Buffalo, as an associate and then a part-
ner, with my distinguished and stimulating partners, has been
interesting and rewarding. I have worked on many responsible
matters in Buffalo, and all over the country, in Canada, and in
Mexico. I have earned a reasonable living — except that inflation
has thwarted my plans for family financial security, and corporate
pension plans arouse my jealousy —I yearn for the days of the
earned income credit and removal of the tax discrimination against
personal earnings and in favor of property profits fostered by in-
flation. I have made many good friends and participated in com-
munity life. Life on the whole in Buffalo has been reasonably
rounded out.

In 1936 I married Dorothy, who had come to Buffalo from
Mason City, Iowa. We have had a very happy married life and
are blessed with three lovely children. Larry has his “Harvard
1966” sweater already.

Badminton, golf, bowling, and bridge have become our chief
recreational activities, combined with a determination to main-
tain the slender (?) figure.

Teaching corporate and tax law at the University of Buffalo has
been extremely interesting, but it is very difficult concurrently
with a demanding private practice. Hence, after several years of
teaching, I have decided to forego its pleasures and rewards.

Dorothy and I have travelled reasonably in the United States.
Our present ambition is to travel in Europe next year in celebra-
tion of our twentieth wedding anniversary. Uncle Sam and
Bulganin (yesterday it was Malenkov) willing, we hope to make it.

CHARLES AUGUSTUS LANE

HOME Appress: 310 Elm St., Fayetteville, N.Y.

OFFICE appRess: Smith-Corona, Inc., Syracuse, N.Y.

BoRN: August 16, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Chester Lane, ’04,
Emily Bouvé Osborn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

‘ [655 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931.

marrieD: Margaret Blanchard Smart, Feb. 11, 1940, New York, N.Y.;
Katharine vanB. Liecty, Dec. 29, 1951, Philadelphia, Pa.

occupation: Sales manager, Office Typewriter Division, Smith-Corona, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York City; American Insti-
tute of Graphic Arts; Syracuse Museum of Fine Arts; Syracuse Ad-
vertising and Sales Club.

AT the time when we were in college, I thought that I wanted to
be an architect and with that in mind spent the next three years at
M.LT. School of Architecture, One of the most important things
that I finally learned there was that architecture was NOT for me.
At the same time, however, I became very much interested in the
fields of printing and advertising — particularly from a design
standpoint.

A series of “apprenticeship” jobs (as a printer’s devil, a house-
organ editor, and layout-man for a now-defunct magazine) led
back to Cambridge as assistant art director for the Barta Press,
which at that time was located at 209 Massachusetts Avenue.
About two years later I became a salesman for the same company,
and a couple of years after that, I went to New York to the
Crowell-Collier Publishing Company.

Two years in the Army during World War II produced noth-
ing more exciting than a bad case of pneumonia and a free ride
to the Philippines with a Field Artillery Observation Battalion.

Shortly after reverting to civilian status, I joined Newell-
Emmett Company, a long-established advertising agency, since
reorganized under the name of Cunningham & Walsh, Inc. My
stay there was not for long, however. Several years ago I moved
to Syracuse, New York, to become advertising manager of Smith-
Corona, Inc., manufacturers of office typewriters, portable type-
writers, adding machines, and cash registers. More recently I have
moved up from advertising manager to the position of sales man-
ager of the Office Typewriter Division. The typewriter business
is, from my point of view, an unusually interesting one. Like all
businesses it has its problems and its opportunities. It also has
characteristics of its own that make it a singularly rewarding line
of endeavor. For me, it has a real fascination.

My hobbies include: (1) the typewriter business; (2) collect-
ing — on a very modest scale — books pertaining to printing and

[ 656]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the graphic arts; and (3) photography — on an even more limited
scale,

My wife and I have just lived through a remodeling of our
house. There have been times when we hardly thought that we
would survive, but somehow we did! The experience was har-
rowing in a number of ways, but it did make me rejoice, once
again, that I had decided not to go into architecture.

DONALD BRUCE LANE

MAILING AppREss: North Court, Roslyn Heights, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1903, Charlestown, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Beamish Lane,
Nettie Baxter.

PREPARED AT; Rutgers Preparatory School, New Brunswick, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

OCCUPATION: Public utilities.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

+ THOMAS JONES LANIGAN

BORN: Sept. 30, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Walter Farnsworth Lani-
gan, Josephine Jones.

PREPARED AT: Long Beach High School, Long Beach, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

DIED: Jan. 21, 1939, Garden City, N. Y.

THE year after graduation, Lanigan reported that he was travel-
ling and studying abroad. Later he taught for several years at
Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.

DANIEL WOLFORD LaRUE, II

HOME ADDRESS: 10332 Morrow Circle S., Dearborn, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ford Motor Co., Chassis Parts Div., 23500 Mound Rd., De-
troit 32, Mich.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1908, Middletown, N. Y. Parents: Daniel Wolford LaRue,
A.M., 07, PH.D., ’11, Mabel Scudder Guinnip.

PREPARED AT: East Stroudsburg High School, East Stroudsburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; M.B.A., 1934.

marrieD: Florence Gwendolyn Field, March 21, 1942, Chicago, Ill.

OCCUPATION: Divisional controller, Chassis Parts Division, Ford Motor Com-

pany.
[657 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

The stork? I have surveyed this bird and report that he shoulg
u

form a partnership with Santa Claus. The old Saint Comes
the stork has someh Tegu.
larly to our house, but the OW missed us.

One of my chief hobbies is high-fidelity, From boyhood Ih
been interested in music and radio construction. My friends
(who are given to hyperbolic speech) say my home-built instru,

ment is a whiz-bang. But I find that developments keep well
ahead of a busy business man. Oh yes! I am now — believe ir or
10t — inventing a target-secking golf ball guaranteed to hole our
2 one. When that is completed, I propose to work out an unfail.
g method for predicting the daily gyrations of the stock Mar-
t three years in advance.

convictions! What do you mean — convictions? They’ve
er convicted me. Not that I was innocent; but they failed to
up all the evidence. So I denied the allegation and defied the
ator.

social convictions I agree with Pat: “One man is as good as
er. By gorry, he’s even betther.” My political convictions
ggested by the title of Professor Roger Williams’ book,
nd Unequal; and from that stem many prodigious conse-
s of all sorts. My creed is much like that of the Unitarians,
ve no creed. That is, every man is his own creed-maker.

EARL GANSON LATHAM

‘ss: 22 Orchard St. Amherst, Mass.

‘ss: Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.

9, 1907, New Bedford, Mass, parents: Artemas Leroy Latham,
rence Ganson.

Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

“EGE: 1926-1929, 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude,
PH.D. 1939; HON. A.M. (Amherst Coll.), 1949. y
garet Victoria Perrier, Aug. 21, 1935, Ticonderoga, N.*
eter Samuel, July 23, 1940; Susan Gail, Nov. 4, 1945:

airman, Department of Political Science, Joseph B. Eastman
Political Science, Amherst College. us
esident, Amherst Chapter, AAUP, 1949-50; member exe 4
tee, 1951-52, vice-president, 1952-53, president, 1953 5
d Political Science Association; member Committet on
i, 1950-51, member Committee on Social Science eect
chairman, Committee on Social Science Personnel, 5!

[ 660 ]

 

e

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1952, director (representing the American Political Science Asso ci

ation), 1955-573 Social Science Research Council; member executive
committee, 1953-555 member executive board, 1953-54, American Politi-

cal Science Association, director, Western Massachusetts Citizenship

Clearing House, since 1954.

MBER OF: Cosmos Club, Washington, D. C.; Pocumruck Valley Harvard
Club; American Political Science Association; American Association
of University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Federal Field Service,” Public Administration Service,
Chicago, 1946; “The Declaration of Independence and the Constitu-
tion,” D. C. Heath, Boston, 1949; “John D. Rockefeller” D. C. Heath,
Boston, 1949; “Ihe Group Basis of Politics,” Cornell University Press,
Ithaca, 1952.

ME

NICHOLAS GEORGE LAURIS

HOME ADDRESS: 1739 W. 85th St., Los Angeles, Calif,

BorN: March 18, 1905, Crete, Greece. parents: George Lauris, Anna Proes-
takis. .

prepareD AT: Carbon High School, Price, Utah.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Tuberculosis research work; retail spice and coffee business.

OFFIcEs HELD: Agent, U.S. Treasury Department, 1933-39.

MEMBER oF: B.P.O.E,

PUBLICATIONS: A paper on poliomyelitis, relating the importance the tonsils
play in warding off the disease, University of Utah, 1936.

IDO not feel like putting down my memoirs, but I will say this:

my proudest moment was when I entered the U.S. Army, Feb-
Tuary, 1941; and my happiest one was when I got discharged on
October 12, 1945.

CECIL MILTON LAUTERHAHN

HOME ADDRESS: 2510 S. College St., Grand Rapids, Mich.

OFFICE aDprEss: Kindel Furniture Co., roo Garden St., Grand Rapids, Mich.

BORN: May 23, 1907, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Ernest John Lauterhahn,
Florence Amelia Blaisdell.

PREPARED AT: Grand Rapids South High School, Grand Rapids, Mich,

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930,

MArRieD: Helen Marjorie Flitcroft, June 12, 1934, Grand Rapids, Mich.
CHILD: Cynthia Janet, April 15, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Factory representative, Kindel Furniture Company.

[ 661 |

On sana
94 mansion,
a

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
OFFICES HELD: Former secretary-treasurer, Harvard Club of Wes
igan; director, Furniture Salesmen’s Club of Grand Rapid
Exposition. —
aremBer or: Harvard Club of Western Michigan; Furniture Salesmen’s Cun
of Grand Rapids.

tern Mich.
SF UNiture

AFTER several false starts during the depression, I eventually be.
came entrenched in the furniture manufacturing business here in
Grand Rapids. My work in this field for the past twenty-odd
ears has been of sales nature and the territory has been extensive
nging from Virginia in the South to Canada in the North, and
far west as Ohio.
Despite absence for at least six months out of the year, I fal]
er the classification of a family man with a dear wife and a
-age daughter who overnight has become an adult complete
a mind of her own, This mind has become of real concern
r parents in these formative years. At the moment, afore-
oned mind is so engrossed in first-year Algebra, Latin, and
scholastic subjects that the parents’ influence is of the
y-come-lately” homespun variety. It is still our secret
at a finer generation is in the offing.
‘th most everyone else, the war years were the most mo-
since leaving College. Fate dealt a most peculiar hand and
not to my liking. Inadvertently, I helped increase Michi-
‘y automobile accident statistics by becoming involved °
’ about a half-dozen blocks from my home. After
1s’ painful convalescence, I discovered the armed forces
aterested in what I had to offer and my war contribu-
sd of production work on the CGAAAA Troop Car-
. One-time members of the Grand Rapids Industries,
recall that the first glider to land in Sicily and in
vere made here in the Grand Rapids shops. They
marvels of laminated wood construction and reason-
when airborne and in expert hands,
the war brought an even greater demand for fine
onsequently more and more road work. Iam now
’ S

of the “older peddlers” on the travelling maf

, . et-
h spots of these frequent trips are infrequent g

e es 4 : O

nany classmates in numerous cities. Like ™

; he
furniture fraternity, I have succumbed to

[ 662 ]

 

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Mgntique collectors” bug, and I now spend my precious spare time
prowsing through antique shops whenever possible. ‘The tangible
result, thus far, is a realization that the term “antique shop” is
misleading and they are more correctly described as junk shops.

The future that lies around the corner, may well be more
pectic than these past twenty years, but come what may, it is my
hope that this future will be kindly to the extent that many more
families will want to continue buying much more fine furniture.

BYRON CHESTER LEACH

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Chapin St., Brattleboro, Vt.

oFFICE ADDRESS: Pocconock Gardens, Brattleboro, Vt.

porn: July 25, 1908, Hyde Park, Vt. parents: Chester Sylvester Leach,
Lillian Jennie McGinnis.

PREPARED AT: Brattleboro High School, Brattleboro, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

OCCUPATION: Piano teacher, nurseryman.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Brattleboro Lodge of Elks, since 1941, Vermont

State Elks Association, 1944-45.

MEMBER OF: Elks; Harvard Club of Vermont.

THIRTY days after graduation, I won a three-man round of
“miniature golf” and presidency of a corporation. The runner-up
became vice-president, low man was clerk, The business was a
music store, which promptly folded when our cash ran out.
Piano teaching then seemed preferable to permanent unemploy-
ment, although I had promised myself it was something 1 would
never do.

Today I'm still teaching and enjoying it very much. Quite un-
expectedly I found that I liked kids and they liked me. I have
also been able to work at the piano quite a lot myself. Last season
I was fortunate enough to have lessons with Claude Frank, a
brilliant young concert pianist who teaches at Bennington College
and is associated with Rudolf Serkin at Marlboro College's Sum-
mer Music School. For a few years I was a church organist and
Music director, There was a good chorus choir and it was a joy
tO Work with them.

In the war years an early hobby of growing flowers in the back

yard exploded into a two acre “victory” garden, This, in turn,

| 663 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

more or less accidentally developed into a nursery which,
still small, seems to be getting bigger all the time.
Hobby today? I guess it’s my Elks Lodge. In *941 I becam
secretary “temporarily.” I haven t missed a meeting in thirten
years and I’ve been able to maintain roo per cent paid membersh;
each year. We have a fine clubhouse, complete with a
Estey pipe organ and Steinway grand piano. What m
I ask?

althoy gh

beautify]
Ore could

GEORGE CONRAD LEAVITT

OME AppREss: Greensboro Road, Hanover, N.H.

“FICE appress: Chrysler Sales Corp., Box 21, Hanover, N.H.

RN: Sept. 5, 1906, Omaha, Nebr. parents: Heyward Gibbons Leavitt, ’8,
Alvina Weller. ,

PARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

RS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

RIED: Violet O. Dusenbury, July 14, 1934, Cape Elizabeth, Maine. cut.

pREN: James S., July 22, 1938; Louise V., Feb. 15, 1950.

aRD BROTHERS: Heyward Lathrop Leavitt, ’23; David H. Leavitt, ’26,

2aTION: District manager, Chrysler Sales Corporation, for Vermont,

Jew Hampshire, and Northwestern Massachusetts.

EDWARD LEE

DRESS: 19 Maplewood Rd., Hartsdale, N.Y.

sprEss: Eisman, Lee, Corn, Sheftel & Bloch, 271 Madison Ave., New
16, N.Y.

y 4, 1908, New York, N.Y. parents: Louis Franklin Lee, Selma
Praag Lee.

\r: Horace Mann School for Boys, Fieldston, The Bronx, N.Y:
SOLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B, sumoma cum laude, 1930; 1-8
nbia Univ.), 1933.

laine R. Link, April 22, 1842, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Donald
ug. 7, 1947; David Stephen, June 12, 1951.

THER: Stephen Van Praag Lee (deceased), '25-

Lawyer; partner in firm. ,

: President, Men's Council, member board of trustees, Jewish
‘ity Center of White Plains; member national executive boare
Federation of Temple Brotherhoods, The Jewish Chautavd

, e
member executive board, Metropolitan Conference of Temp
ods,

[ 664 J

 

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pen oF; Bat Association of the City of New York; Hartsdale Council
of Civic Associations.

CATIONS! “History of Jewish Community Center of White Plains,”

puauicrning serially in the Temple Bulletin.

ONE June evening, twenty-five years ago, ‘five of us sitting on
the steps of Straus Hall tried to feel what it was like to be grad-
yates. We regretted the completed college years and speculated
jbout the future. We weren't too positive of anything except
Hoover’s correctness in forecasting prosperity around the corner
and that our classmates who studied “Military Science” had wasted
alot of time in an age when peace was guaranteed. Then we felt
nostalgia for the past — even as now I feel nostalgia for then. So
many dear to us then are gone. And yet, so many dear to us now
were then unknown or unborn.

The next fall I started an anticipated three years at Harvard
Law School. But in the spring of 1931 my brother — who had
spent five and one-half years in Colorado and California seeking
a cure for tuberculosis, who the doctors said was so far recovered
that in June he was to marry the girl who had waited nearly seven
years — in the spring of 1931, my brother died. After attending
the California funeral, I participated in my last Harvard academic
function — the first year law final exams — and then removed to a
Westchester family home and Columbia Law School. At Colum-
bia I duly completed my legal academic training, but because I
preferred Harvard’s teaching methods I consider myself a Harvard
Law School grad who happened to get his degree from Columbia.

As by 1933 the Hoover depression had changed into a Roosevelt
“Tecovery,” I found a job at ten dollars per week. That was just
ten dollars better than a lot of my classmates. In 1936 I became
associated with my present firm — one established by my father
and H. Seymour Eisman in 1898 (and in which, at the date of this
Writing, both my father and Mr, Eisman are sull actively en-
gaged),

My meanderings among marriageable maidens lasted longer
than with most. To each who proved that for her I was a misfit, 1
4M most grateful, for thereby was my single state preserved
Until the magic evening of July 3, 1941, when | met the she for
mé, the nonpareil. When we married on April 22, 1942, there

Ww * . .
a a double change in status, for now I was in uniform.

[ 665 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

The Army, after teaching me how to make a bed and KP and
giving me a furlough for my wedding, introduced me anew to
academic training, First at basic training camp, then at Officers’
Candidate School, it taught me and other peace-loving citizens
how to be military policemen. Here for the only time my Har-
vard training stood me in poor stead, for no one so much as an
answerless army officer abhors a skeptical, “Why?”. After some
hesitation, the Army confirmed I was a gentleman and permitted
me to buy gold bars. Only a second lieutenant (or equivalent)
knows how fine it is to have silyer bars among the gold.

My army jobs were more varied than military. They in-
cluded teaching American military training to Italian prisoners
of war (I learned to give close order drill in Italian), running
Army Hotel Reservation Bureaus in Seattle and Portland, and
investigating how American airmen who parachuted to German
soil were killed. It is not a pleasant duty to disinter a year-old
corpse of a young aviator. It adds an edge when there is taken
from the moldered finger of the uselessly murdered man a gold
ring inscribed: “I love you, Toni.”

Eventually (how long it seemed) the Army released me (I was
then a captain), and I returned to my wife, to the Westchester
home we bought, to law, and to procreation. Two sons (too
young, I regret, to bring to the Twenty-fifth) are our constant
companions and delight. What doubts we have for their future
concern not their fitness, but the fitness of what will be their
world.

From a desire as an American soldier to identify myself with
fellow-Jews has sprung a new faith in Judaism. My idea of God
corresponding to definitions of Spinoza and Einstein, while not
shared by my Rabbi, is not objectionable to him; and study of
and devotion to other phases of Jewish ethics, history, and syna-
gogue activities make life more resonant.

At all times in life devotion to American democracy and Har-
vard training have been respectively the main spring and the
balance wheel. Grateful to country and College am I, and proud
that Pusey is no pussy-footer when it comes to McCarthy and
other un-American activities. In providing the means for in-
tellectual honesty and freedom, unprejudiced judgment, recog-
nition of duty, and respect for these in all others regardless of

[ 666 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

whence they come, what they look like, or what they believe or
espouse, may Harvard continue among America’s leaders as the
very first.

GLEASON BRUCE LEE

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Massasoit Ave., Barrington, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Engineers, Inc., 29 Massasoit Ave., Barrington, R. I.

BORN: Dec. 27, 1906, Salem, Ill. PARENTS: Mitchell Lee, Carrie (Lee) Steed.

MaRRIED: Martha L. Drew, May 2, 1937, Providence, R. I. crip: Barrie D.

OCCUPATION: Sales engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Sales manager, Weatherall Engineers, president, Federal En-
gineers.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

WILLIAM BUTLER LEE, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: 938 S. Lake St., Los Angeles 6, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1909, Dallas, Texas. parents: William Butler Lee, Mabelle
Ingram.

PREPARED AT: North Dallas High School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31).

occupaTion: Advertising.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

RICHARD KEITH LEONARD .

HOME ADDRESS: 1220 21st Ave., N., Seattle, Wash.

MAILING ADDRESS: Headquarters, 36th Field Artillery Group, A.P.O. 162,
% P.M., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 10, 1905, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Alton William Leonard, Annie
A. Keith. .

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: S.B. 1930(38).

MARRIED: Veera Leede, Aug. 10, 1941, Gardnerville, Nev. ciitp: Richard
Keith, Jr., Dec. 12, 1942.

occupation: Military Service.

LEONARD'S father reports that he is a major in the Field Artil-
lery and is now stationed in Germany. He has been in the mili-
tary service since 1940; he served three years in Japan and fifteen

[ 667 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I930

months in Korea. He has several citations for outstanding service.

He is an expert marksman with the pistol and rifle, and has
taught fencing, skating, and skiing. While at Harvard, he was
on the fencing and flying teams. His principal sports are hunting,
fishing, and polo.

JAMES LEVENSOHN

HOME apprEss: 269 Clark Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Tremont St. Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 3, 1909, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Max Levensohn, Ida Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

marRieD: Rosamond Strauss, April 14, 1946, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert Mark, Dec. 12, 1948; John Edward, Aug. 18, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Attorney. °

OFFICES HELD: Director, member executive committee, Brookline Federal
Savings & Loan Association, since 1936; member board of directors,
Jewish Vocational Service of Boston, Jewish Community Center of
Brookline; district director, Red Feather County Fund Drive, Brook-
line; captain, Lawyers Division, Combined Jewish Appeal of Boston.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Federal Bars; Massachusetts and Norfolk
County Bar Associations; Massachusetts Conveyancers Association;
Jewish War Veterans, Shawmut Lodge, A-F. & A.M.; Sigma Alpha Mu,
Harvard Law School Association.

I AM confident that the majority of us, in writing our personal
histories of the past twenty-five years, might feel that very little
of moment has transpired during the period. As I take stock, I too
concur with the majority. Upon graduation from the College in
1930, I entered Harvard Law School from which I graduated the
possessor of an LL.B. degree in 1933. Little did any of us then
know what lay ahead. The bank holiday had just been declared,
and the most encouraging advice that our professors could give
us was that conditions could not be worse for the young lawyer;
we were actually starting on the ground floor.

The next ten years passed somewhat routinely with their full
share of disillusionment and enlightenment, I was learning that
the practice of law and the study of law bore, at times, some
resemblance to each other, but not too frequently.

In 1943 L answered Uncle Sam’s call and spent a few years in the
United States Army. Upon becoming a civilian again, I married

[ 668 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and have since had two children. Apparently, it is the protective
instinct in most lawyers that their sons avoid the practice. Al-
though in due sincerity, I can truly voice no complaints, still sub-
consciously I too again concur with the majority. However, Iam
informed by many of our more experienced classmates that pa-
rental wishes or ambitions bear very little weight in the final anal-
ysis, so far as children’s decisions are concerned. At this writing,
since my two beloved problems are, respectively, aged six and
four, I must first await their decisions to give up the firemen’s jobs
and the Indian outfits before any advice can be propounded.

The years since the end of the war have rushed past. There has
been the usual amount of time devoted to work, community ac-
tivities, and diversion. If some of the years were to be relived,
possibly more emphasis would be placed on the last category,
before it is too late. Somehow, so many of the things we planned
or wanted to do never get done, since something more urgent has
invariably arisen. In this respect, at least, I have been advised
(by my wife) to turn over a new leaf, get my second wind, and
dig into the next twenty-five-year lap that lies ahead.

JOSEPH LEVIN

HOME ADDRESS: 235 W, roznd St. New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jayell Management Service, 235 W. roznd St.. New York,
N.Y.

BORN: May 19, 1909, Stoughton, Mass. parents: Jacob Levin, Annie Weis-
man,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. C172 laude, 1930; M.B.A. 1932.

MarRRieD: Ann Casher, Jan. 17, 1943, New Haven, Conn.

OCCUPATION: Management consultant,

AFTER graduating from the College, I entered the Harvard Busi-
ness School, from which I graduated in 1932. Until the war I was
in the advertising field. I was called into the service by Uncle
Sam, with a stretch of overseas duty in the Pacific theatre. For-
tunately I came home spared and unscathed.

After the war, I entered the administrative ficld. I was office
manager and controller until r951. T then entered business for
myself as a management consultant. My change in residence to

[ 669 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Miami Beach is prompted bya business enterprise in the Plasticg
field. . .
Tam marvied and we have no children. My wife shares m

siness interests and is my ardent golfing companion, My hob

-olf, and asa voter I probably would be classed as an in de v
- Aly present outlook on life is that the country has done
up to now, and will do even better in the future.

CARLISLE NATHAN LEVINE

: 1921 Commonwealth Ave. Auburndale 66, Mass.

Dept. of Public Works, 100 Nashua St., Boston, Mass.
1908, Sherborn, Mass. parents: Michael Arthur Levine
ansky.
na Academy, Sherborn, Mass.

1926-1930. DEGREE? A.B., 1930.

Lunuansky, Oct. 10, 1937, New Bedford, Mass. cunp:
May 1, 1941.

, engineer.

ig societies of New England, Massachusetts; Profes-
merican Legion; A.F. & A.M.; Naval Reserve Avia-

rd Varsity Club; Boy Scouts of America; Massa-

ets Association; Association of Highway Officials

States,

during the last quarter century that it is
) begin, The hot war, the cold war, the
against depression; all these we have
1¢ grace of God, survived. In this re-
none with my classmates. In most
sonably normal; in fact, I believe
‘the average man. I like baseball,
joy the Pops and some operas; |
ad Rogers and Hammerstein, |
ng very relaxing, and even Po
~asional Harvard football game
sonal life I have not deviate
¢ Harvard man I succumbe

"CC
> ereen and wooed and W

on,
45 produced our one 5

oo as mmo

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Marshall, 9G ora no undue interest in Flarvare maxes
wy herein I differ from my classmates is in the profession 1 have
chosen. Tam neither scholar, stockbroker, fellow traveler Or sales-
man, Lama highwayman. Through the ages this term thas had
yarious connotations, but as of today it refers strictly to the design
and construction of the expressways upon which our mobile
A joagh my werk iS confined mainly to the building of Massa-
chusetts highways, 1 have on several occasions acted as con-
sultant for engineering firms on highway projects in other sections
of the country. Iam a member of the Hludel Company, consulting,
engineers, of Boston and have been affiliated for more than twenty
years with the Massachusetts Department of Public Works,
working on the modernization of the Massachusetts highway
system. 1 am happy to report to those who may ‘be familiar with
Metropolitan Boston highways that 1 headed the group of en-
gineers who designed the East Boston Expressway, which serves
the Logan Airport and the North Shore areas. “his facility was
the first elevated expressway in Massachusetts and has become the
standard for all our expressways.
Presently, I am the project manager in charge of the deagn and
construction of the Southeast Expressway, an eight-lane divided
highway of limited access which, on its completion six years hence,
will permit uninterrupted traffic flows from downtown Boston to
the South Shore and Cape Cod areas.
Though to most people | fear that highways and bridges ate but
cold masses of steel and concrete, to me they ate a symphony of
man’s accomplishments. They are the symbols of out age and
temperament and represent the one medium of communcation
Which gives mobility to our entire society and tends toward the
Wwentieth century integration of out social structure, Ratio,
TV, and the press teach us how the other halt lives, bat the igh:
Ways have put us on wheels to take us to the other hall.
As you have perhaps surmised, 1 love my work and if you
4 consider my occupation somewhat queet, be assated that
{ ‘ e e » 6 ‘
‘re 1s but slight differentiation between an engineer amd a crack
0 e 06 ‘ 8 v
Pot. My one deviation from highway engineering occured dur-

Ing World War IL, when the Navy decided to make me a pseudo:

\ 671 |

*\, .

Fane ORNS me sie

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

electronics officer via five months at Princeton and five m
at MILT. Though I spent three years digging into the bow gaths
SG radar and SO radar and APS—6 radar and ARC-_ ra dio of
zrious IFF equipments, I was not really happy until | and

“ ; retu
civilian life with my family and my blueprints of tomorrow
1Ways. s

RICHARD LEO LEVIS

ess: gt Arundel Pl, St. Louis, Mo.
3s: Missouri Paper Stock Co., 2207 Scott Ave., St. Louis, Mo
7, 1908, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: Walter Edward Levis, Claudie

. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

E: 1926-1928.

Hortense Itkin, July 15, 1934, Seattle, Wash. cuttprey:
Ict. 21, 1936; Richard Leo, Jr., Sept. 3, 1940.

executive.

-d Club of St. Louts.

cals in all kinds of coarse papers, wrappings,
r specialties.

ttle for everyone else!”

LEO LEVISON

Rd, Brookline 46, Mass.
rmacy, Inc, 417 Warren St. Roxbury; Mass.
Mass, parents: Max Levison, Leah Schlos-

Boston, Mass.

LE: A.B 1930. tut
”, 1936, Dorchester, Mass. CHILD: a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DUDLEY CUSHMAN LEWIS

HOME ADDRESS: 3939 Old Pali Rd., Honolulu, Hawaii,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lewis, Buck & Saunders, 1060 Bishop St., Honolulu, Hawai.

BORN: March 26, 1909; Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Abraham Lewis, |r.,

Alice Hall Jones.
pREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
pS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LLB. 1934.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Sullivan Seymour, June 28, 1932, Cleveland, Ohio. can-
preN: Peter Cushman, June 9, 1934; Leilani, Jan. 28, 1943.

occuPATION: Lawyer; financial agent.

OFFICES HELD: President, Bar Association of Hawaii, 1952, member board of
directors, Hawaiian Flectric Company, Ltd, Hawaiian Agricultural
Company, C. Brewer & Company, Ltd., Hutchinson Sugar Plantation,

Ltd., Hilo Sugar Plantation Company, Ltd., Pepeekoo Sugar Company,
Ltd., Wailuku Sugar Company, Ltd., Inter-island Steam Navigation
Company, Ltd., Overseas Terminal Company, Ltd., Hawaiian Aislines,
Ltd.; chairman, Committee of Management, Honolulu Armed Services,
Y.M.C.A.; Hawaiian Islands representative, International Game Fish
Association; president, Harvard Club of Hawatt, 1937, 1946-8, Pacific
Club, 1953, Hawaii Big Game Fishing Club, 1939, 1947.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association, Harvard Qub of Hawan, Pacific

Club; Hawaii Big Game Fishing Club.

FOLLOWING graduation, 1 began the first of three fairly well
defined periods of my post-college lite. The first period began
with the summer of 1930 when, in company with Staft Almy,1
toured Europe and England. Armed with our new degrees and
still full of undergraduate spirit, we spent an interesting, educa-
tional, and hilarious summer ranging from bistros to bas-relief,

The next four years at Law School resulted im acquiring my
wife, Betty, my son, Peter, born the day of my final examination
at Harvard Law School, and an LLB. degree,

Thereafter, 1 returned to Honolua where | entered the prac-
tice of law, first in the office of my father, next as a Deputy
Attorney General for the Territory of Hawa, and then back to
private practice. My ambition to be a trial lawyer resulted in 4
Concentration on this phase of law practice, which was rough
to an abrupt halt when 1 volunteered for active duty inthe US

T ,
Naval Reserve as a lieutenant (1.g,), in February of rgan,

Thus began the second period of my life in setving a eayse.

The war years were exciting and | ike to think that) Conttivared,

673 |

’
Oe a AEP T OO pene VRE: a ~
Yarn IE oy

Oe ee

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

in part to the ultimate victory. Although there Were severa]
-lassmates who were also on active duty in the armed serv; Other
ecember 7, 1941, I believe that I was the only one are On
rbor that day and bear the distinction of being the first m

2e Class of 1930 to have been actually shot at by the Ni ember
1943 our daughter, Letlanit, was born, a “war baby".
scribes herself. | she
ond of the war found me at Manila after almost
nwest Pacific Theatre, where I had the most in
tant assignment of my naval career as administratj
the Chief of Staff, Commander, 7th Fleet. For
there I was awarded a Commendation Ribbon, | left
vice in late 1945 as a commander, U.S.N.R.

riod of my life began with the end of World War
ned to the practice of law as a Deputy Attorney
Territory of Hawai and, later, as special prose-
of sensational police bribery cases. At the suc-

of the most important of these cases, m 'y father

a Year in
terestin

eginning of a change in my career as a trial
19 the duties and responsibilities of financial
sents whom my father had served. In late
law firm — now Lewis, Buck & Saunders
y Jaw practice with a shift in emphasis
ork in the fields of corporations, trusts,
slaw. I have also found myself serv-
‘sugar plantations, a steamship com-
rest public utility in Hawaii. Like
ken on more work than I should,
resolution to slow down a bit and

merely made the resolution and

been involved in many ext
5
en soul-rewarding as well 4

as president of the Harve
ident of the Bar Associatl”
sociation had many ™] or
airman of the Commuttte
ned Services ¥. MC

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
which, incidentally, is the largest Armed Services “VY” in che

world. . . ee .
My favorite extra-curricular activity, which 1 hope to pursue

for the rest of my life, is deep sea fishing. This fascinating and

expensive sport has many rewards which can be best appreciated

by those who are victim to its contagion, ln this connection, 1

have been active im the Hawaii Big Game Fishing Club as its
resident and have for many years been the Hawaiian Islands tep-

resentative of the International Game Fish Association. Since
1936, with the exception of the war years, | have operated my
own boat in the Hawaiian waters. 1 don't profess to be the greatest
angler in the world, but there are none who are slave to this
wonderful sport with more ardor or enthusiasm.

FREDERIC WARD PUTNAM LEWIS

MAILING ADDRESS: Harvard Club, 374 Commonwealth Ave. Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 14, 1908, Minneapolis, Minn. parents: John Hart Lewis, Exhel
Appleton Putnam.

PREPARED AT: Minot High School, Minot, N. Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.
occupation: Music.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary's files.

FREEMAN LEWIS

| HOME AppREss: Wolver Hollow Road, Glen Head, NA.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Pocket Books, Inc. 630 Fifth Ave, New York, NA,
BORN: Jan, 6, 1908, St. Cloud, Minn. parents: Claude Berard Lewis, Wi.

helmina Rosalia Freeman.
PREPARED AT: Technical High School, St. Cloud, Minn, Plaltgs Exeter

Academy, Exeter, NH.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: 8B, cum nile, 1930.
MARRIED: Julia Wight Jennison, Jan. 20, 1934, Bay Gry, Mich, cannes,
Jennifer, Nov, 7, 19353 Jeremy, Jari. 19, 19395 Bradord, Aud 5, ga.
Occupation: Executive vice-president, Pocket Books, \nc.
MEMBER of: University Club, New York, Sean antaka- Contin Lady

Club,

AFTER raduation 1 was fortunate, despite the NEPTESHON, W TAL
Job in the book publishing business, “This had been my anton,

\ O75 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

a re

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

but jobs in the spring of 1930 were just non-existenr, A
man amed Earl Ne wson, then co-head of the John Day Con terfal
gave mea job to the extent of $100 for one month “and th ent any,
2e.” I've been in the book publishing business, ha PPily, ever SA Il
I stayed with the John Day Company doing Practically Since,
mportant thing from September, 1930, to late 1937, ee
ched to a new and very vigorous reprint firm, Blue Ribs, I
s, Over a number of years doing a wide assortment of ; on
to become executive vice-president. In 1939 the com a
J to Doubleday. At that time I was involved rather ie ‘
Js in a scheme to publish low-priced books for distrib,
igh 5¢ and 10¢ stores. Nelson Doubleday kept me at
nd I was placed mn charge of a division of Garden Ci
Company, publishing a line of 39¢ reprints called
aks and Jater a line of 69¢ non-fiction called the New
y. In 1945 I left Doubleday to work for Marshall
ie course, became involved with Pocket Books, Inc
9

publishing firm he had purchased, There I have

obs,

ed Jula Jennison in Bay City, Michigan, and we
1 Jenny will graduate from her mother’s alma
or College, by the time this Twenty-fifth An-
published. Jerry will be read ly for his third
school and Bradford will be in the eighth

even years in Manhattan, then moved to
‘y, where we occupied a remodeled barn
am for some four years, Ten years ago
use in Upper Brookville, Long Island.
hat go with owning an old house (200
floats summertimes at its mooring off
aka Yacht Club. We are surrounded

pS, ancient traditions and new de-

/a member of our village boar ° of |
lected. It is an interesting c1V!¢
antly more active as this cor

to land
cn vacationing on one jslan

os
af

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

between the Bahamas and Trinidad. We've had some
wonderful times in such out-of-the-way places as Tobago, Grand
Cayman and Eleuthera, and Yve indulged in a middle-aged way

in the sport of spear-fishing. . .

M connections with Harvard since graduation have been few.
m a member of the Visiting Committee of the Harvard Uni-
Press, but the visits have not been many. 1 dropped out of

or another

J a
versity

the Harvard Club of New York when it became apparent that 1
dom went there except for a haircut. Most of the men 1 knew
best at College are elsewhere and, except for occasional meetings,

sel

I do not see much of the Class of 1930.

The impressive category, “Publications,” 1 have left blank,
not because there have been none, but because 1 wouldn't know
how to list them. I have written rather extensively for trade publi-
cations and have done a considerable amount of speaking. In
1952 I was honored to give the R. R. Bowker Lecture at the New
York Public Library. The subject was “Paper Bound Books in

America,” and the lecture was printed in a pamphlet.

My major ambition, aside from the personal aspects of life,
remains what it has been for many years—to find ways to im-
prove the distribution of books to the largest possible public at the

lowest possible price.

GARDNER LOTHROP LEWIS, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Venture Farm, Norwich, Vt.
BORN: Sept. 23, 1908, Swampscott, Mass. Parents: Gardner Lothrop Lewis,

Florence Abbe Chesley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N-H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Cecilia Belmont, June 2, 1934, New York, NAV. cuipress Ceatha
Belmont, March 30, 1935, Gardner Lothrop, 34, May 35, 19375 Bavoara
Caroline, April 20, 1942; John Chesley, Aug. 2

OCCUPATION: Dairy farmer,

OFFICES HELD: Various town offices, sclectman, ete.

IN the spring of 1930 L had signed wp as. a so-called trance with

the National City Bank of New York. Although L had planned to
tart with the bank immediately atter
Called me up in May of that year to tell ine of a summer WOT

47 \

eraduation, With Yung

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

happy, have a nice family, and have always been very thankful
for my four years at Harvard.

GEORGE MURRAY LEWIS

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Kipling Rd. Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.
oFFiceE appress: Pope & Talbot, Inc., Pier 38, San Francisco, Calif,

BoRN: Dec. 21, 1907, Boston, Mass. pAreENTs: Charles Ervin Lewis, Lizzie
Susan Holbrook.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

occupation: Aferchant Marine deck officer.

JOHN GREENOUGH LEWIS

HOME ADDRESS: Box X, Ross, Marin Co., Calif.

OFFICE appRESS: % Chief of Naval Personnel, Navy Dept., Washington 25,
D.C.

BorN: Aug. 5, 1908, New York, N.Y. parents: Edison Lewis, 02, Edith
Greenough.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Natalie Greene, April 28, 1941, Ross, Calif. crttpren: John Green-
ough, Jr., April 28, 1942; Edison, June 23, 1944; Natalie Coffin, May 23,
1946; Stephen Crawford, Oct. 13, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Pendleton Lewis, ’33.

occupation: Captain, U.S. Navy; naval aviator,

OFFICES HELD: Various duties commensurate with rank.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; University Club of San

Francisco.

ISTARTED flight training in the Navy in September, 1930, and
was designated a naval aviator and commissioned an ensign,
USNR, in July, 1931. I served one year of active duty in Scouting
Squadron ONE attached to the USS Langley, the Navy’s first
aircraft carrier. I started to work for the Shell Oil Company of
California on January 2, 1934, and remained with that company in
sales until May, 1939, when I went on active duty at the Naval
Air Station, Oakland, California, as a flight instructor. I was com-
missioned a lieutenant in the regular Navy in March of 1941 and
am still on duty, having been promoted several times.

On April 28, 1941, [ was married to my present and only wife,

[ 680 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and since then we have had four wonderful, healthy children.
She does not seem to mind the nomadic existence which com-

liance with Navy change of duty orders entails. I served on the
USS Saratoga (CV-3) in the South Pacific for the first two years
of the war, then commanded the Naval Auxiliary Air Station,
Watsonville, California, until February, 1945, when I was ordered
as executive officer of the USS Kalinin Bay (CVE-68), on which
I was serving when the war ended. Since then I have served
mostly on the West Coast.

I recently completed a two-year tour of duty in New York
City, where I renewed contacts with many classmates and
thoroughly enjoyed doing so. At this writing, I am the com-
manding officer of the USS Greenwich Bay (AVP-41), and have
almost completed a six-months cruise in the Persian Gulf and Red
Sea-Arabian Ocean area where I visited Mfassawa, Aden, Karachi,
Bombay, Colombo, Trincomalee, Muscat, and several Persian Gulf
ports. I ran into George Hamlin and family at Dhahran, Saudi-
Arabia, and exchanged memories which made the occasion very
enjoyable.

Tam hoping to make the Reunion, but can’t be certain at this
time, as I have no idea where or what my next duty will be.

FRANCIS MORDEN LIGHTBODY

HOME ADDRESS: 59 Robbins Rd., Watertown, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Brookline Citizen, 108 Harvard St. Brookline, A\fass.

BORN: June 21, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Frank John Lightbody,
Dorothy H. Morden.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass; Public Latin
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGRFE: A.B. 1930.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Newspaper editor,

OFFICES HELD: Commander, Watertown Post, American Legion, tay; sccre=
tary, Watertown Safety Council, toyg-5t, Watertown Histomcal Soc
ety, 1951-533 chairman, Republican Town Committee, since 1963.

MEMBER OF; Pequossette Lodge, AF. & AM.

ON a bright June morning in Sever Quadrangle, more than 8oeo
days ago, | was one among massed hundreds clad in medieval

[ 68: ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

black, whom a very distinguished old gentleman with an authentic
Harvard accent admitted to the fellowship of educated men.

Among the educated men at the alumni spread that afternoon,
I saw J. Pierpont Morgan. My glimpse of him was fleeting, but
I believe he was wearing a blue, pencil-stripe suit that looked as
if he had slept in it. Nobody introduced me to him, an omission
which still seems altogether fitting and proper. Later that year,
I saw his new yacht at the Bath Iron Works, but this, too, was
from a distance, so I could only assume that the new Corsair was
fundamentally sound.

What shall I say in general of the ensuing decade? Perhaps
Prospero's advice may justly be applied: “Let us not burthen our
remembrance with a heaviness that’s gone.” However, in token
of loyalry to Harvard, I attended eleven of the twelve football
games with Yale from 1930 to 1941. I was also among those who
cheered when Al Smith received his honorary degree in 1933. At
no time did I vote for Franklin D. Roosevelt.

I took part in the Twentieth Century’s second great crusade,
though my part was modest to an extreme. I hope I am duly
grateful to the Army for sending me to many strange places, a
few of which were very beautiful, But, as one who served
nineteen months in New Guinea, I am amazed that the Indonesians
want any part of it.

One evening in the Southwest Pacific, a pair of Air Force pilots
who had discovered that I, an operations sergeant, was a Harvard
man, began to bait me upon my supposed hostility to Yale. They
were nice boys, but one of them was pleased to be mildly sarcastic.
“[ hope you will admit,” he said, “that Yale is a fairly respectable
institution.” “It should be,” I said, “It was founded by Harvard
men.” There was no further discussion.

Despite my travels as soldier and civilian, I am still biased in
favor of New England, I am, indeed, a provincial among pro-
vincials, a delver into the antiquities of the town that has been
my home for forty-five years. I believe I have located the site
of the “homestall” of young Nathaniel Briscoe who was brutally
flogged by Master Eaton of Harvard one night in 1639. I place
it at the northwest corner of Belmont and Common Streets in
what is now the Town of Belmont.

I am fond of good music, and attend the Sunday series of con-

[ 682 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

certs by the Boston Symphony Orchestra. But I have reached an
age when I am as likely as not to watch television of an evening,
as long as it is at all tolerable; so I am looking forward with high
hopes to the programs that are soon to start on Channel 2 from
WGBH-TV.

As an aging bachelor, I meekly accept Dr. Johnson’s dictum
concerning those of my condition, For my single blessedness, and
for my failure to achieve fame or affluence, I certainly cannot and
would not blame Harvard. On the contrary, I am grateful to
Harvard for teaching me to think for myself, to weigh and con-
sider men and ideas, and to be wary of those who would announce
sweeping programs for changing the world and improving man-
kind. For the self-anointed who espouse such missions, I believe
the best advice is still, “Physician, heal thyself.”

HOWARD LEWIS LILIENTHAL

HOME ADDRESS; 60 E. 96th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 21 E, goth St., New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 6, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Harry Lilienthal, Gertrude
Harrison,

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. 1933.

MARRIED: Emmy Lou Asch, June 25, 1937, New York, N.Y. cHtupren: Philip
H,, Sept. 4, 1940; Robert E, July 10, 1943.

OccuUPATION: Lawyer, director, boys’ summer camp.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, chairman of standards, member board of di-
rectors, New York Section, representative of nine sections to board
of directors, American Camping Association.

MEMBER OF: New York County Lawyers Association; Maine Camp Diree-
tors Association.

AS I start writing this, prodded by Goad No, z and John Cross’s
eloquence, I cannot help but recollect that the Class of 1905 seemed
awfully old twenty-five years ago, and how much younger we
are!

The depression did not affect me until, upon being graduated
from Law School, I devoted an entire summer to knocking on
lawyers’ doors for work. Today it is hard to realize how much I
appreciated being offered a job at $vo00 weekly. After
months which included a $5.00 promotion, my congressman tcle-

[ 683 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

phoned me — without solicitation on my part —and offered me
an attorney’s position with the Home Owners Loan Corporation
at about $35.00 weekly, From then on I was a confirmed Demo-
crat!

Three years of government service was sufficient. I left to
become associated with a large firm, remaining there only long
enough to fall in love, become engaged and married to the most
wonderful girl in the world. We were subsequently in 1940 and
1943 blessed with two grand boys, Philip and Bobby.

Not having volunteered for war service, as did many of our
classmates, and being over thirty-odd years old, plus having a wife
and two children, the draft passed me by. At this time I was
busily and successfully engaged in a private law practice when I
was offered an opportunity to assist with the operation of Camp
Winnebago, a private summer camp for boys in Maine. Through
the war years, the usual problems arose in connection with its
operation to present an interesting and stimulating challenge.

Being somewhat lazy and more concerned with people than
with their monetary problems, it did not take much urging for me
to become wholeheartedly devoted to this type of work. Fortu-
nately, my wife and I have rather modest tastes, as we were aware
this move would represent a distinct financial sacrifice, as it did;
but we are undoubtedly richer for it. The gratification of helping
and watching boys develop into healthy and worthwhile demo-
cratic young men is to us ever so much more rewarding than the
dollars and cents successes of the business or legal world. The op-
portunities of guiding young people through formative years and
contributing to their healthy thinking as well as physical well
being are tremendous. Few realize the important influence exer-
cised by directors and counselors of summer camps who are in
charge of our boys and girls for more waking hours per year than
is any other single institution, be it the home, school, or religious
group. It was President Eliot who said, ““The greatest contribu-
tion made by America in the field of education is the organized
summer camp.”

The New York Section of the American Camping Association
has engaged much of my time as an officer, board member, and
chairman of its Standards Committee.

Sentimentally, during the past few years I enjoyed watching

[ 684 ]

iid aimee te saan tes sataereeat. can mtn ad — :

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a strong friendship develop at camp between my older boy, Phil,
and David Nagusky of Cleveland, the son of Mark, my former
roommate at College.

Without meaning to seem smug or self-satisfied, I have been
extremely lucky to have had such a happy life, made so by my
grand family and fortunate selection of a career.

POWELL ROGERS LINCOLN

MAILING ADDRESS: 262 Wakeman Rd., Fairfield, Conn.

BORN: July 29, 1909, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Egbert Powell Lincoln,
Florence Sally Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Ramsey High School, Ramsey, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1931.

Marriep: Margaret P, Kennedy, Jan. 5, 1935, Ind. cep: Daniel K., Nov. 9,

1937.
OCCUPATION: Electrical engineer.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

PAUL SYLVESTER LINDQUIST

HOME ADDRESS: 52 Oakville Ave., Waterbury, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sunshine Biscuits, Inc., Kensington, Conn.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1908, Kane, Pa. pArENTs: August Lindquist, Hulda G. Swanson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MARRIED: Bertha E. Balunas, Sept. 30, 1939, Waterbury, Conn. CHILDREN:
Lawrence Paul, Sept. 10, 1941; Gretchen Rae, Oct. 14, 1948,

OCCUPATION: Salesman, Sunshine Biscuits, Inc.

T WORKED in the wholesale meat business for sixteen years after
leaving school. I held varied sales positions with two of the larger
meat packers. I entered the service in 1944 and served in the In-
fantry two years, Shortly after getting out of the Army, I
entered the employ of Sunshine Biscuits, and have enjoyed being
with them almost nine years. At present, my job is a six-days-a-
week affair, so my outside activities are mostly church interests
and personal friendships. This is supplementary to a very happy
home life, which is also busy and exciting because of two growing
children. We travel only on summer vacations and my fatorite

[ 685 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

sports at present are fishing and baseball, because they happen to
be the family favorites.

EMANUEL MAURICE LIPMAN

MAILING ADDRESS: 126 Eastern Ave. East Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1908, Lynn, Mass. parents: Harry Hirsch Lipman, Ida
Ginsburg.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary's files.

HERBERT LLOYD

HOME apprEss: 178 E. 72d St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: City Bank Farmers Trust Co., 22 William St., New York 15,
N. Y.

BorN: March 8, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Daniel Herbert Lloyd,
Julia Atwater Trowbridge.

PREPARED AT: St. Marks School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MARRIED: Josephine Logan Munroe, Jan. 2, 1929, Chicago, Ill. CHILDREN:
Joan Herbert, Jan. 8, 1930 (7. Peter deLancey Wallace, Jan. 27, 1951);
Josephine Logan, Feb. 24, 1933. GRANDCHILD: Campbell Lloyd Wallace,
Oct. 6, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Crimmins (halfbrother), ’38.

OCCUPATION: Assistant trust officer, City Bank Farmers Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, director, American Bank of Lake Alfred, Fla.,
1930-32: vice-president, director, American National Bank, Winter
Haven, Fla., 1930-32, Latin-American Bank, Ybor City, Fla., 1930-32;
assistant trust officer, City Bank Farmers Trust Company, N. Y., since
1946; member board of managers, Vocational Service Branch, since
1946, Bowery Branch, 1936-46, Y.M.C.A. of the City of New York,
trustee, 1948-51, elder, since 1952, Madison Avenue Presbyterian
Church.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City, Downtown Harvard Lunch
Club; Racquet & Tennis Club; Down Town Association; Piping Rock
Club; Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club, Military Order of Foreign
Wars, New York Commandery, Air Force Association.

IN the summer of 1928 I resigned from college. Not because
business was booming — which it was, Not because the intricacies
of anéient and modern French literature had lost their appeal —

[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which they had for the moment. A certain person had said, “Yes,”

and that was that. On January 2, 1929, Josephine Munroe and I

were married in Chicago, The date was chosen so that my ushers

could get there and back to Cambridge during Christmas vacation.

All made the voyage in the conventional manner except one who

was tied in a mail bag to ensure his safe return to Miss Mooney’s
leasure palace at 5 Linden Street.

Although business was flourishing in 1928, the Bankers Trust
Company thought it was being very generous to pay me $65 a
month as a messenger boy. In retrospect, I think it probably was.
My chief duties were buying special sandwiches for the vice-
presidents who were too busy to go out for lunch. I myself was
too busy to eat lunch as I was planning my wedding trip.

In February, 1930, I went to Florida to aid in the reorganization
of a bank which, like many others there, had become loaded with
real estate, Soon I learned the meaning of the expression “assets
under water.” We also reorganized two other Florida banks and
I doubt if the principles of economics could be demonstrated more
thoroughly in any classroom than they were in those county
banks. The mission was accomplished and the banks were sold at
a profit.

Since March, 1934, I have been with City Bank Farmers Trust
Company in New York. Investment analysis and personal trust
investment led to the pension trust division in 1940 where I now
work with corporations and labor unions in devising pensions and
other employee benefit plans. It is very rewarding to be able to
help both management and labor on such projects.

As it did with most of us, the war interrupted everything we
were doing. I was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Army
Air Corps in March, 1942, and was promoted to captain in 1945.
I served two years with the Air Transport Command and two
years with the Air Materiel Command, but unfortunately never
got overseas. On my return to the Trust Company in 1946, I was
appointed an assistant trust officer and took up again the work on
employee benefit plans.

For vacations, my wife and I usually go to the Caribbean in the
winter. However, in 1950 we went to England where we studied
18th Century architecture in which we are both very much in-
terested. In 1954 we repeated the trip with the same purpose, bur

[ 687 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

this time to France. Our further hobby has been the remodeling
of a stable on Long Island into a small house and developing the
grounds. The interior work is hers; the exterior, mine. The new
model tractors hold more fascination for me than new cars.

Of our two daughters, the elder is married and lives in New
Brunswick, New Jersey, with her husband and their son, Campbell.
Our younger daughter is in her second year at the College of
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, where she is
studying occupational therapy.

EDWARD HARRY LOEWENTON

MAILING ADDRESS: 721 Walton Ave., New York 51, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Eugene Loewenton, Rose
Fourman.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MARRIED: Jeanne Semel, Feb. 23, 1939, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

MYRON ARMS LOMASNEY

HOME apprEss: Lloyd Harbor, Huntington, N. Y.

oFFice appress: D. A. Lomasney & Co., 39 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1906, Youngstown, Ohio. parents: Leonard James Lomasney,
Frances Arms.

PreParED aT: Milford School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MarrieD: Irina Chavchavadze, May 24, 1947, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Peter Wick, June 23, 1948; Elena Arms, Nov. 2, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Arms Lomasney, ’28.

OCCUPATION: Investment banking.

OFFices HELD: Partner, D. A. Lomasney & Company; captain, Army of the
United States, Air Corps, 1942-46.

MEMBER OF: Broad Street Club; Harvard Club of New York; Huntington
Country Club; Association of Ex-Members of Squadron A; Lloyd Neck
Bath Club.

IN February of this eventful year 1955, I returned from three
weeks of Florida sunshine to find a telegram from the New York
Class Committee saying that time was running out and that I had

[ 688 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

better get my Class biography in. This I hasten to do with apol-
ogies for the delay. However, the elapsed time since September,
1929, when I became a credit investigator for a New York bank
and all of the vicissitudes of the intervening years leave me a
little speechless on the subject of myself when, for the first time,
I take a good long look back over the years.

September of 1929 seemed hardly an auspicious month or year
to begin a business life in the financial community of New York,
but the succeeding years were eventful and instructive and the
experience was rich and varied, World War II ended this phase
and began another at the Army Air Force Schools in Miami Beach,
Florida, where I in turn became a trainee, a drill instructor, an
officer candidate and then was commissioned and assigned to San
Francisco, California, which wasn’t hard to take at all.

The current phase of the intervening years began with my re-
turn to New York in March of 1946 and to the firm of which I
am now a member. The coming of sanity to our government with
the election of President Eisenhower (politically I am a staunch
Eisenhower Republican) has created an atmosphere of confidence
which enables well-managed growth companies to secure their
financial needs in the public markets through common stock of-
ferings. Since 1952 our firm has specialized in this type of financing
with a marked degree of success. We feel that great opportunities
exist in this field.

In December of 1946 on a ski slope in St. Sauveur des Monts,
Quebec, Canada, I finally met my destiny. Marriage in May of
1947 was followed by three years in New York. We then bought
the place of our dreams in one of New York’s suburbs on Long
Island Sound and we couldn’t be more pleased with it. Adding
to the enjoyment of life are a number of our classmates in the
community,

Our children, Peter and Elena, respectively six and five years at
this writing, learned Russian as their first language, can get along
in French, and yet succeed in being thoroughly American i in every
sense of the word. Peter, who is a natural on skis at his tender
age, soon promises to out-do his father, who is not.

Vacations thus far have been the usual for winter and summer,

accompanied by much fishing, golf, tennis, and skiing. Gardening
and general care of our place seems to be taking more and more

[ 689 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ume which I don’t mind in the least. European peregrinations are
being actively dreamed of in the near future, but have yet to occur.
My Class activities to date have been practically zero, but this
has not been a matter entirely of my own volition. I hope to make
substantial amends for this omission in the years to come,

VICTOR MENDELL LONGSTREET

HOME appreEss: Lime Kiln Lane, Louisville 7, Ky.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, Louisville Branch, Louis-
ville 1, Ky.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1907, Louisville, Ky. parents: Joseph Emens Longstreet, Allan
Bemus McKinley.

PREPARED AT: DuPont Manual Training High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: 8.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Mary Margaret Joan Landry, Aug. 9, 1930, Cambridge, Mass.
cHitp: Katherine Allan, Dec. 10, 1943.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis; manager,
Louisville Branch.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Economic Association; Louisville
Chamber of Commerce; Louisville Credit Men’s Association; Louis-
ville Rotary Club; Kentucky Bankers Association; Indiana Bankers
Association; Robert Morris Associates.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in professional economics and statistical publications.

MY first year after graduation was spent in New York City
working as an economist in the Controller’s Division of the
American Telephone and Telegraph Company. I was married
two months after graduation.

In the summer of 1931 we moved to Washington, D. C. This
was my entry into the banking field. My position was economist
with the Division of Research and Statistics of the Federal Re-
serve Board. I stayed with the Board for eleven years. In my
work I had the good fortune to see several of my classmates often,
including Emile Despres and George Willis.

In 1942 1 joined the Army Air Forces. I was assigned to the Air
Staff in the Pentagon Building, assisting in planning the procure-
ment and distribution of Air Force materiel, equipment, and
supplies. In those days I worked closely with Frank Kissner.

In the summer of 1945, | was released by the Army Air Forces
for a priority civilian assignment in the State Department con-

[ 690 ]

ees IM AR RTO REE ACEP I TT I TOT TT | Tpgrnerennnneecomererenere™

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cerned with the economic and financial reconstruction of the
liberated countries in western Europe. I had the privilege of
being one of the staff working on the early development of the
Marshall Plan, and was sent to Paris in the summer of 1947 with a
small group to assist in the negotiations with the European coun-
tries in establishing the program. The next year I resigned from
the State Department to become an economist for the Marshall
Plan mission to The Hague with the Economic Coéperation Ad-
ministration.

My four-year stay in Europe was divided equally among The
Hague, Paris, and London. During my work overseas with ECA,
later called MSA (Mutual Security Administration), and then
FOA (Foreign Operations Agency), our other classmates I saw
frequently in the same venture were Jim McCullough, John
deWilde; Nate Samuels, and Phil Brown. Our hobbies overseas,
in addition to the London theater, were buying antique furniture
in England, picking up a few paintings in France, travelling and
seeing the sights generally, and accumulating a modest collection
of colored slides.

Upon my return to Washington at the end of 1952, I found
that Al Martin had bought a house just a few blocks from me.

I rejoined the Federal Reserve System last year. For the first
time I left economic analysis and planning as my primary work
to attempt to become an executive. In 1953 I spent some months
with the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis as assistant vice-
president, learning the ropes. In February of this year, I was
transferred to my home town, Louisville, and in May was ap-
pointed vice-president of the St. Louis bank and manager of its
Louisville Branch.

We are very proud of the efficiency of our operations in the
Louisville Branch, due obviously to the personnel who were al-
ready there when I arrived. Soon we hope to begin the construc-
tion of a new branch building, anticipated to be one of the prides
of Kentucky. Any member of the Class visiting Louisville is
urged to drop in to see me. At a recent bankers’ meeting, [ was
pleasantly surprised to run across Fred Burnham.

In Louisville we have a small but efficient Harvard group
spearheaded by Alex Booth who was in large part instrumental in
arranging for the Harvard Glee Club and Radcliffe Choral

[ 691 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Society to include Louisville in their joint itinerary this summer.

Thanks in no small measure to the good sense and instincts of
my wife, our only child, Katie, agen ten, is rapidly growing into —
according to our lights a most acceptable member of society.
One of her chief interests is painting. This year she won first
prize in an exhibition of paintings submitted by the Kentucky
schools for children aged six to ten.

WARREN TRAVIS LOOK

HOME appREss: Casper, Wyo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 1601, Casper, Wyo.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1908, Jamestown, N.Y. PARENTS: Warren B. Look, Agnes E. °
Thornborrow.

PREPARED AT: Jamestown High School, Jamestown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B. cu72 laude, 1930; LL.B., 1934.

MarRIED: Jean Phipps Sanger, March 30, 1945, Jamestown, N.Y.

occupaTIoN: Law and oil.

PRACTISED law in Jamestown, New York, and Wyoming oil
at long range until December, 1951, when I moved to Casper,
Wyoming, to be closer to the latter activity and the Saskatchewan
shot-gun country. Admitted to Wyoming Bar in ’52. Hobbies:
upland birds over good Gordon setters. Politics: ‘Taft Republi-
can — is there any other kind?

WARREN FRANCIS LOONEY

HOME ADpRESS: 3706 R St., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFice appress: U.S. Department of State, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1908, Somerville, Mass. parents: Patrick Byrnes Looney,
Mary Alice Goggin.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Dorothy Wright, June 25, 1937, Chevy Chase, Md.

occupation; Foreign Affairs Officer,

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Washington.

[ 692 ]

———— SS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NATHANIEL CRANE LORD

HOME ADDREss: 401 Adams St., Milton 86, Mass.
orrice appress: D. J. Cutter & Co., Inc., 4z0 Freeport St., Dorchester 22,

Mass.

BORN: June 6, 1908, Peabody, Mass. parents: Samuel Crane Lord, Mary
Helen Walker.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MARRIED: Elinor Harris, Sept. 11, 1933, Salem, Mass. CHILDREN: Nathaniel
Crane, Jr., March 26, 1935; Samuel Harris, March 12, 1939.

occupation: Credit manager.

OFFICES HELD: Corporator, Milton Savings Bank, 1948-54; member, Repub-
lican Town Committee, Milton, 1936-54, Graduate Council, Milton
Academy, 1949-52; secretary, Milton Chapter, American Red Cross,
1951-53; chairman, Troop Committee, Troop 3, Milton, 1945-52.

MEMBER OF: Town Club of Milton, Norfolk County Republican Club.

RECENTLY on reading the Dow-Jones averages, I vividly re-
called my first job after leaving college. Starting right after the
crash of 1929, I spent ten years with R. L. Day & Company of
Boston, members of the New York Stock Exchange. After the
usual training period I entered the sales department and spent the
next eight years trying to sell bonds to the banking institutions of
southern Massachusetts. However, with a growing family, I felt
a change was best and joined the Bethlehem Steel Company Ship-
building Division im Quincy, Massachusetts. For the next six
years I worked in the estimating department, setting rates and time
allowances on the work done by the machinists in the construction
of all types of ships built there — from L.S.T.’s to battleships and
carriers.

After the end of the war, I accepted a position with D, J.
Cutter & Company (Ned Cutter, ’38) in Dorchester, Massachu-
setts, dealers in retail fuel. At present writing I am credit manager,
but spend some time in sales work. Credit work, and its successor
collection of overdue accounts, has been a new and very interest-
ing experience.

Between work at the local Episcopal Church and the many civic
and charitable drives, Elinor and I have brought up our two boys.
Nat, Jr., enlisted in the Navy last summer after graduating from
the local schools. Having completed basic training at Bainbridge,

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Maryland, he expects to be sent overseas shortly. Sam has two
more years of school and hopes to make Harvard after that.

Scouting has been my main hobby since my boys joined the
troop sponsored at our church. Ours is one of the oldest troops
in the Boston Council, B.S.A., and has been fortunate in having
exceptional scoutmasters, which has made my work as Troop
Committee chairman much easier. Tag football, softball, and
tennis have all been fun. I even enjoy playing bridge with my
good wife, .

An ardent Taft Republican, I joined my wife in supporting
“Ike” in ’52 and can honestly say voted for a winner for president
for the first time. Now it seems the McCarthy mess has opened
a wide breach in the Republican ranks which will have to be
closed before 1956. I have enjoyed working on the Republican
Town Committee and hope to continue to do my small bit by
getting the right type of people interested in politics and running
for office.

ALBERT LAWRENCE LOWE

HOME aAppress: 57 Elmwood Pl., Short Hills, N.J.

orFice appress: Drake, Startzman, Sheahan & Barclay, q1 E. qznd St., New
York, N.Y.

gorn: Dec. 14, 1908, Peabody, Mass. parents: Lawrence Samuel Lowe,
Leona Mary Tremblay.

PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Peabody, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

marrieD: Elizabeth Johnson, Dec. 30, 1933, Hartford, Conn. (divorced
1942); Jean Loeffler, August, 1947. cHitprEN: Betsy Anne, Oct. 29,
1934; Susan Beaumont, July 27, 1937.

occupation: Management consultant.

MEMBER oF: Canoe Brook Country Club, Summit, N.J.; Post 22, American
Legion, West Orange, N.J.

MY business life started in New York City with Macy’s Training

Squad in September, 1930. Their personnel division turned me

down for merchandising but they figured I had possibilities in

management. After three years of mostly personnel work at their

Long Island City warehouse, I was put in charge of the packing

and shipping divisions.
In the meantime, I married and my wife could not adjust to

[ 694 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New York living and we moved to Hartford, Connecticut, where
I joined G. Fox & Company, as warehouse superintendent. After
eight years there I moved next door as store superintendent of
Brown-Thomson Company, an affiliate. After one year, came the
war and I wound up as a lieutenant (j.g.) in Norfolk with the
Navy Supply Corps.

Followed three years of loading ships, warehousing and in-
ventory control and finally my orders to Japan in 1945. Soon
after arrival there, my points were up for out and a doctor, lawyer,
and I came home the long way via Shanghai, Chungking, Kun-
ming, Calcutta, Karachi, Abadan, Cairo, Tripoli, Casablanca,
Santa Maria, Bermuda, and New York. While our stay averaged
only about a week at each stop, we got a good look at a fair
portion of the world.

During this period I had decided that retailing was not for me,
so I started fresh as manager of a transportation company in
Newark in 1947. In that same year I married a Wave officer |
had met in Norfolk and we settled in Short Hills. Two years of
rate-cutting finished that phase and in 1949 I joined my present
company as a consultant. ;

Our work is chiefly materials handling of all kinds and my
specialty is freight problems. This has taken me on assignments
with railroads and trucklines over most of this country and parts
of Canada.

We have one daughter in college and another a junior in high
school. We don’t do much socially outside of a small circle of
friends. Since I am away from home much of the time, my civic
interests have been limited. Golf remains my principal diversion,
with gin rummy as a sideline. No hobbies except trying to im-
prove a golf game that stubbornly resists change.

My only contacts with our Class have been limited to too
brief glimpses of Nat Lord, Foster Davis, Ed Batchelder, and
Charlie Lane. Frank Cummings is with our company and we have
our reminiscences.

My ambition at present is to retire to Florida or California
some day and get away from the noise and crowds. The more I
see, the more I am convinced of something I read or heard in
French 2 — “Le plus la change, Le plus la méme chose” (subject

to correction).
[ 695 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ELEK JOHN LUDVIGH, Il

HOME ADDRESS: 167 McLean, Highland Park 3, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kresge Eye Institute, 690 Mullett St., Detroit 26, Mich.

BORN: April 4, 1909, Nice, France. parents: Clifford George Ludvigh, Rosa
Theresa McGough.

PREPARED aT: Horace Mann School, New York 71, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930; A.M., 19323
PHD., 1934.

MmarrieD: Gracia Greenhill, June 30, 1932, Waco, Texas. cxuttp: Elek John,
3d, Sept. 14, 1943.

occupation: Director of research, Kresge Eye Institute; professor of ophthal-
mic physics, Wayne University College of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: New England and Detroit Ophthalmological Societies (honor-

ary).

RICHARD WARREN LYMAN

HOME aDpbRESS: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFIce ADDRESS: Meade & Gale, Inc., 4 Liberty Sq., Boston, Mass.

Born: Dec. 5, 1906, Dover, Mass. parents: Charles Frederic Lyman, ’96,
Isabella O. R. Macomber.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.L.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

marrieD: Charlotte Cabot, Sept. 7, 1935, Marblehead, Mass. cuitpREN: Laura,
Feb. 22, 1937; Richard Warren, Jr, May 3, 1939; Elisabeth, June 12,
1941; Cabot and Carol (twins), May 25, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and treasurer, Meade & Gale, Inc.

OFFices HELD: Assistant treasurer, clerk, director, 1943-53, vice-president,
treasurer, since 1954, Meade & Gale, Inc.; vice-president, director, 1940-
50, president, director, 1950-54, Community Recreation Service of
Boston.

MEMBER OF: Cruising Club of America.

UNLIKE many of my classmates, I was one of a select few who
actually had a peek at the business world while it was riding high
in ’29, and still high but shaky in ’30. This early severance of my
college career at least taught me that a few careers were not my
dish. Besides a most interesting job with Pan-American Airways,
I tried my hand at a treasure hunt in Guatemala, at night adver-
tising from a plane, and at stock and bond selling. In 1932 I made
my last change, and went into the general insurance business,
where progress has been slow but steady,

[ 696 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

By 1941 my bachelor days were six years and three children
behind me. In spite of family demands, I joined the Air Corps
Crash Boat Service in 1944. My commission as warrant officer
arrived at my office on April Fool’s Day, as well as a relsphone
call from my wife, Charlotte, that in due course she would
sent me with twins. I may have some rough days ahead of me, but
it’s unlikely they will be 100% self-made. The twins arrived, with
papa on duty in Mississippi.

After eight months in the Hawaiian Islands as skipper of an
85’ crash boat, the war subsided, At the convenience of the Army,
I returned to Boston, rejoined my family (now seven), and started
over again with a much reduced insurance business.

As a family unit we have many good times. We cruise to-
gether and ski together as often as it is financially possible to take
seven. Our somewhat irregular attendance at church has helped
us successfully combat most of the children’s diseases, plus two
broken arms, an eye virus, many surgeon's stitches, a case of
polio, and other near disasters.

It will be a pleasure to renew friendships again at the Reunion.

BRYAN JOHNSON LYNCH

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 246 E. 23d St, New York 10, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1907, Utica, N.Y. Parents: James DePeyster Lynch, Julia
Henrietta Wright.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MarRiepD: Alicia Maria Calvo, Feb. 23, 1935, Utica, N.Y. (divorced 1947);
Ruth (Ungaro) Hornbostel, April 19, 1951, New York, N.Y. cup:
James Stoughton, June 4, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Andrew Green Lynch, '26.

occupation: Landscape architecture and planning,

OFFicES HELD: Instructor, Cooper Union, 1951-53; member board of direc-
tors, Church of Divine Unity, New York, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Landscape Architects; Architectural
League of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Examples of work have been published in Life, Trme, Archie
tectural Forten, Architectural Record, Progressive Architecture, House
Beautiful, The Nations Schools, The New York Herald-Tribune.

THE first pre-war years were devoted to attempting to live in the
[ 697 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

gardening, my favorite hobby is for me confined to the raising
of a few bedraggled and most unhappy-looking pot plants in a
New York apartment. My second hobby, grouse shooting, con-
flicts with the planting season, result: no grouse shooting. My
third hobby? Well, I do manage to go fishing once in a while.

HARRY HOWARD LYNCH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 93 Bowles St., Springfield 9, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 21, 1909, Shirley, Mass. parents: Harry Howard Lynch, Inez
Richards Cook.

PREPARED AT: Ayer High School, Ayer, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; ED.M., 1936.

marriep: Muriel J. Streeter, Feb. 21, 1947, Springfield, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of physics; chairman of Science Department.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa, N.E.A.C.T.

MY work with young people for a quarter of a century has con-
vinced me that the world is not going to the dogs. I have lived
close to thousands of high school pupils as they faced depression,
hot war, or cold war. 1 have become increasingly aware of their
courage, determination, and fine character. The reward of a
teacher is a creative feeling as he watches young minds and spirits
grow. He finds that kids are people. They deserve most of the
credit for their successes and a large share of the responsibility
for their delinquencies. Kids laugh at a radio commentator who
frees them from all blame by denouncing their parents.

A usually faithful Republican, I regret that I have voted for
some Democrats. The McCarthy issue has diverted us from a
more vital problem: how can we make the F.B.I. and the Depart-
ment of Justice more effective against subversive activities? An
allied problem is the preservation of liberal thinking. Conserva-
tives discredit liberals by calling them reds, Reds corroborate
by posing as liberals.

[ 700 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BOWMAN McCALLA MacARTHUR

HOME ADDRESS: 1519 Quinwood St., Adelphi, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Internal Revenue Service, Washington, D. C.

BorN: Aug. 17, 1907, Annapolis, Md. parents: Arthur MacArthur, Mary
Hendry McCalla.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: LL.B. (National Univ. Law School).

marrigD: Beatrice Ashmead Littlefield, July 19, 1930, Washington, D. C.
(divorced, 1947); Elena Paula Gouchkovsky, June 1, 1947, New York,
N. Y. cup: Beatrice Ashmead, May 8, 1931.

occupation: Lawyer; office of the Chief Counsel, Internal Revenue Service.

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club, Chevy Chase, Md.

GEORGE EDWARD McCALL

MAILING ADDRESS: 2060 46th St., Astoria, Long Island, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec, 17, 1909, Brighton, Mass. PARENTS: Winfield Gregory McCall,
Anastasia Morrissey.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MARRIED: Carol E. Lent, Feb. 22, 1936, New York, N. Y. cr~pren: Barbara
E,, Jan. 6, 1938; Patricia A., March 17, 1939.

occupation: Telephone and telegraph communication.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

EDGAR CAMERON McCLELLAN

HOME AppREsS: Groton, N. H.

OFFICE apprEss: Groton Village Store, Hebron P.O., Groton, N. H.

BORN: March 5, 1908, Hanson, Mass. PARENTS: Roderic Cameron McClellan,
Edith May Ramsdell.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MarrieD: Sarah Annis, June 2, 1928; Lillian Marie Publicover, 1945, Beverly
Farms, Mass. CHILDREN: Edna and Edith (twins), Dec. 16, 1929; Edgar
Cameron, Jr., Aug. 12, 1931; Sally Ann, March 25, 1937; Maria-jane,
March 24, 1948.

occupation: Owner of Groton Village Store.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Board of Selectman.

DURING the second World War, I served in the U.S. Coast
Guard. In 1947 I bought and operated a dairy farm in Groton,
New Hampshire, but was burned out in 1949. Then I bought the

[ 701 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Groton Village Store, which I am still operating. My hobby is
hunting.

JOHN ALDEN McCLELLAN

HOME appRESS: 1 Orchard St., Andover, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1907, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Percy Webb McClellan,
Frances Elizabeth Packard.

PREPARED AT: Punchard High School; Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926~1928.
occuPATION: Tree and landscape work.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club; Andover Sportsmen’s Club; Vet- -
erans of Foreign Wars.

ISTARTED my first job in a large investment bank on Federal
Street in Boston in October, 1929, and was always busy — es-
pecially the first month or two. I learned something about this
business (starting at the bottom) and all the streets in down-town
Boston from State Street to Long Wharf and Fish Pier — one of
my favorite spots, perhaps on account of the ships there. Things
were not going well in this business and in 1932 the company
folded up and I was back in Andover for good, There were jobs
nearer home, and at that time dairy farming was still going strong
in my neighborhood and I had lived my first years on a farm in
Haverhill. I had a try at the wood business in winter, clearing
land and cutting wood, but soon found I wanted to get rich
quicker.

In late 1934 I went to a small mine, with a friend, in southwest
Oregon and did some placer mining, but what I got was mostly
experience and a chance to go hunting and see the mining opera-
tions, tunnels new and old, and the farms where irrigation had to
be used. My main interest was trying to get a “grubstake.”
Travels were on foot, bus, cars, or horseback; hobbies were the
same as now — hunting, fishing, skiing, and writing history.

The main crops near Klamath Falls, Oregon, are wheat, pota-
toes, other kinds of grain, cattle and sheep. Was back home in
the summer of 1935. Worked in a shipyard back near Boston
again in the early forties, and was a woodworker. Main jobs
were converting fishing schooners into mine sweepers for the

Navy.
[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Up to now I had found plenty of time for hunting and skiing
on weekends, for motorcycle trips, etc. I was drafted in the
summer of ’42 and was in Fort Devens in no time at all (food
terrible here); soon afterwards in Fort Lewis (food very fine),
Washington, California, Camp Hale (Colorado), and California
again. Spent a few interesting months on Kiska in the Aleutian
Islands and started collecting souvenirs and photographs of the
country and other places. (One of my brothers went to Canada,
England, and Africa with the R.C.A.F. and U.S.A.A.F. and flew
over and bombed Germany, Africa, Italy, Rumania, etc., in 1942—
' 43; another went to the Philippines, New Guinea, and Japan.)
Later, in January of 1945, I went to Italy with the roth Mountain
Division, came home in August, and was a civilian again in Septem-
ber (and as hard to get used to it again as the Army itself had
been — almost).

I have met several friends both from College and the Army
while skiing up country in the White Mountains of New Hamp-
shire: one, Fred Hawkins, ’30, on State Street about 1930; two
more while skiing, and am afraid one of these came off second-
best when my brother and I ran into him (two against one) half-
way down the hill (by accident, of course).

The local building boom has finally struck pretty close and the
open country is fast filling up: too much traffic, too few places to
go, etc. Will try to get to the Twenty-fifth, but can’t promise
yet.

MARMADUKE DAVID McCLOUD

HOME appress: 135 N, Lexington Ave.. St. Paul 4, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Todd, McCloud & Mackey, W-2681 First National Bank
Bldg., St. Paul 1, Minn.

BORN: May 4, 1908, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Charles Naumann McCloud,
Agatha deLambert.

PREPARED At: Central High School, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B, 1933.

Marriep: Ruth Pollock, April 24, 1938, Dallas, Texas. cuttpren: Duke, Dec.
21, 1941; Douglas P. July 6, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

[ 703 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of Dallas, Texas, 1938-39; president,
Harvard Club of Minnesota, 1944.

MEMBER OF: Dallas, Texas, Ramsey County, and Minnesota State Bar As-
sociations; St. Paul Athletic Club; St. Paul Chamber of Commerce;
American Interprofessional Institute.

AFTER graduating from college I spent the next three years at
the Harvard Law School, graduating from there in 1933. Jobs
were very scarce in the summer of 1933. I decided to go to a part
of the country where I knew no one and where I would be
entirely on my own. I spent the next five years, from 1933
through 1938, in Dallas, Texas, where I engaged in the general
practice of law, and I might state that these were five grand and
enjoyable years, spent in a wonderful part of the country. Best of
all was when I met Ruth Pollock in Dallas, where we were
married on April 24, 1938. ~

I returned to St. Paul in February, 1939, and spent seven years
in the Jegal department of the Minnesota Mutual Life Insurance
Company. In the fall of 1946, I left this corporation and since
then have engaged in the general practice of law here in St. Paul.
I have two fine partners and thoroughly enjoy what I am doing,
particularly being in a small firm where business is good and one
can be himself, keep his individuality, and not be under constant
pressure.

We have two boys, Duke aged thirteen and Douglas aged
eleven, who are our two chief joys and make life worth while.

Politically, Iam a conservative Republican, My general philoso-
phy is that it is up to everyone to make his way himself, and that
fairness and decency pay huge dividends. If possible, one should
have as much fun along the way as time and resources will allow.
I consider myself very fortunate in being able to “run my own
show” and not have to work for anyone else.

My hobbies are three-cushion billiards, which I play as fre-
quently as I can, tennis in the summer, and fishing in our Minne-
sota rivers and lakes, which are so numerous and close at hand.

[ 704]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES ALLISON McCULLOUGH

HOME ADpREsS: 12 Ellsworth St. Rye, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scudder, Stevens & Clark, 1 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1908, Green Island, N. Y. PARENTS: John Joseph McCullough,
Alice Jane Ryan.

PREPARED AT: Watervliet High School, Watervliet, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

marrieD: Marjorie Young, Nov. 22, 1935, Nashua, N. H. cuitpren: Three
sons.

OCCUPATION: Economist.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Mamaroneck.

IT REMAINED in the investment business for eleven years after
graduating in 1930. I spent the five war years in London on the
Harriman mission and finally as program director for the War
Shipping Administration — northwest Europe. After the war I
became director of research for the National Federation of Ameri-
can Shipping and set up my own economic research firm, McCul-
lough Associates. In 1949 I was appointed director of the Fiscal
and Trade Policy Division of the Economic Coéperation Adminis-
tration and remained in that capacity for E.C.A. and successor
agencies until 1952. Since then I have been economist for Scudder,
Stevens & Clark, Investment Counsel.

In addition to my wife Marjorie, I have three children — all
boys—and my only hobby is the losing game of trying to keep
pace with them physically.

lam a member of the University Club of Mamaroneck and try
to keep fairly active in Westchester County,

DONALD SINCLAIR MacDONALD

HOME ADDRESS: 1324 Regent St., Schenectady, N.Y.

OFFICE ADprEss: General Electric Co., Schenectady, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1908, Milwaukee, Wis. PARENTS: Ivan MacDonald, Laura A.
Leonhardt.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: S.B, IN E.B, 1931.

MarRIED: Rachel Staats Smith, June 30, 1935, Menands, N.Y. cyto: Sandra
Lee, July 12, 1945.

occupATION: Sales manager, Motor Department, General Electric Company.

[ 705 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MEMBER OF: Mohawk Golf Club; Schenectady Curling Club; G-E Elfan
Society.

FROM 1931 to 1933, I was an oil burner salesman in New Bed-
ford; from 1933 to 1943 I was with the General Electric Company
taking a test course, and working as sales engineer in the Philadel-
phia office and the Richmond, Virginia, office. From 1943 to 1946
I was in the U.S. Navy, serving as radar officer with the rank of
lieutenant commander. Since 1946 I have been with G-F, as motor
and control specialist at the Baltimore office, as sales manager of
the gear-motor department, and now as sales manager of the
motor department, at Schenectady.

My wife is a Grey Lady with the Red Cross, and is interested
in portrait oil painting. My hobbies are photography, Hi-Fidelity,
curling, and golf. We are members of the First Reform Church
in Schenectady.

ARTHUR HENRI BABISE McGUIRE

HOME ADDRESS: 3508 E. Genesee St., Syracuse, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 211 E. Fayette St., Syracuse, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1909, Syracuse, N.Y. PARENTS: George Henry McGuire, Laura
Babise.

prepareD at: Christian Brothers Academy, Syracuse, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

marniep: Rowena Smith, June 18, 1938; Syracuse, N.Y. cHipren: Arthur
Babise, Jr., Sept. 15, 1939, Maureen, June 12, 1942; Laure, Sept. 27, 1949.

occupation; Secretary-treasurer, McGuire & Company, Inc., insurance.

OFFICES HELD: President, Syracuse Underwriters Exchange; vice-president,
Citizens League of Syracuse; member Advisory Board, New York State
Chamber of Commerce; chairman, Democratic Town and Ward Com-
mittee; various positions, Syracuse and New York Junior Chamber of
Commerce,

MEMBER OF: Syracuse Chamber of Commerce; Syracuse Underwriters Ex-
change; Knights of Columbus, 3d Degree, Third Infantry Association,
Cavalry Club; Syracuse Yacht & Country Club; Citizens Club of Syra-

cuse; Harvard Club of Syracuse; Syracuse Liederkranz; University
Club of Syracuse.

WHILE looking through our Class Book the other day I noticed
that my chosen profession was to be law. Needless to say, this
was merely wishful thinking as my financial situation made the
decision that it was better for me to join my father and my brother

[ 706 j

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

George in keeping our general insurance agency afloat. What
wonderful days those were! Rubber checks, bank closures, insur-
ance company failures, and some people wonder why I am a
Democrat.

With all the trials and tribulations, life was a lot of fun; politics,
sports, Junior Chamber of Commerce and, finally, love took over.
After five years of a more or less serious engagement, Rene Smith
and I were married. We have three fine children (Arthur B., Jr.,
fifteen years old, Maureen, twelve, and Laure, five), a German
Shepherd, a convertible, and last week, a new house. After work-
ing twenty-five years to get out of debt, it only took me five
minutes to return to that uneasy but apparently national state.

At one time Professor William Bennett Monroe stated un-
equivocably that in his opinion the best politicians were of French
and Irish extraction. It’s too bad I didn’t cut that lecture because
ever since then I’ve figured I'd be a cinch for a political office.
Unfortunately for me, Onondaga County is rock-ribbed Repub-
lican and my efforts to become a Democratic office holder for any-
thing from supervisor to congressman were highly unsuccessful.
It’s been work but also has been a source of great pleasure, meet-
ing all kinds of people and rubbing shoulders with the political
greats. It is amazing how many, of different political faiths, have
the same Harvard College as their background.

The Armed Services did extremely well without my actual
presence. The Carrier Corporation happily decided to let me be
a personnel supervisor —so several years were spent there de-
ciphering and applying ration rules, arguing with various and sun-
dry boards, including Selective Service, and oh, so many other
nice people.

Feeling somewhat remiss, I joined the New York Guard (my
wife fondly refers to me as a Junior Commando) in 1943 and at
the present moment, I am a captain on the Reserve list. We
drilled two nights a week, had field training at Camp Smith at
Peekskill for several weeks in the summer and all in all did a pretty
fair job imparting basic training to young men about to be
drafted, as well as giving the older men and q F's patriotic and

constructive tasks to perform.
Things are more tranquil now, but my interest in politics and
my penchant for joining various and sundry organizations, as well

[ 707 ]

YET penetra RI nt Ce

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

as my futile efforts to lower my golf handicap, keep me busy in
my spare time,

BENJAMIN BUTLER McKEEVER, JR.

MAILING Appress: University of Washington, Dept. of Psychology, Seattle,
Wash.

BORN: July 12, 1907, Malden, Mass. parents: Benjamin Butler McKeever,
Mary A. Carraugher.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B, su7via cum laude, 1930; A.M,
1931; PH.D. (Univ. of Iowa), 1940.

OCCUPATION: Education.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JOSEPH EDWARD McKENNA

HOME abprEss: 45 Somerset St., Elmwood, West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National of Hartford Group, 1000 Asylum Ave., Hartford,
Conn.

Born: Nov. 27, 1907, East Boston, Mass. parents: Alfred Francis McKenna,
Josephine Madden.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-27, 1928-32. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(32); LL.B. (Boston
Coli. Law School), 1936.

occuPaTion: Lawyer, National of Hartford Group.

MEMBER OF: Hartford County, Connecticut, and American Bar Assocta-
tions; Harvard Club of Connecticut.

+ JOHN MacKENZIE

BoRN: April 30, 1908, Clinton County, Ind. parents: Arthur McKinsey,
Alma Julia Winks.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

piep: Oct. 26, 1953, Palo Alto, Calif.

ALTHOUGH MacKenzie has been “lost” on our records many
years, it has been reported that he was once employed as an as-
sistant chemist in Frankfort, Indiana, and in 1934 was engaged in
interior decorating. After his death, it was learned from his
former church pastor that at the time of his death he “was engaged
in teaching at Leland Stanford University, capably and efficiently.”

[ 708 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL JOSEPH McKINNON

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Harlow St., Arlington 74, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Internal Revenue Office, P.O. Bldg., Central Sq., Cambridge,

Mass.
BORN: June 18, 1908, Brighton, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph McKinnon. Margaret

M. Doyle.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, 1931-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(32).

MaRRIED: Lois Marie Brodil, Dec. 20, 1935, Brighton, Mass. campren: Nancy
Louise, July 23, 1937; Paul Joseph, Jr., Sept. 14, 1938; Donald B., Aug.
28, 1941; Gail Anne, June 28, 1945; Marie, Aug. 11, 1950.

occupation: Supervisor, Cambridge Office, Internal Revenue.

THIS is the tale of just plain Joe. After leaving school, like most
of my classmates, I grasped at the first straw that came along
and took a Civil Service position with the City of Boston as a
clerk-stenographer. The dreams that I had fostered for four years
at Harvard of V.1-P.’s knocking themselves out bidding for my
services, of course, were shattered. As the dreams faded, the dull
routine continued. After a couple of years of frustration, I
switched my allegiance to the federal government by accepting a
job with the Internal Revenue Service. This cataclysmic event
took place in October, 1933. There “ain’t” much more to tell. I
have been there ever since with time out for a three-year hitch
in the Navy.

In January, 1943, I entered the Navy as a lieutenant (j.g.), and
served a year and a half with Naval Intelligence in Boston. I
later applied for, and was accepted for, a billet with Naval Mili-
tary Government with side excursions to a second-rate school
called Princeton for indoctrination, thence to Okinawa where I
helped nurse 40,000 natives back to health and affluence. I re-
ceived my discharge as a lieutenant commander in January, 1946.

Filling in the blank spaces in between seems in retrospect to be
a blur of happy events rounding out a normal, healthy life. I
have a beautiful, gracious doll for a wife (she will be on exhibition
at the clam-bake next June) and five of the eatingest, healthiest,
and happiest kids that one could hope for. My oldest girl, Nancy,
will be entering college next year, to be followed a year later by
my oldest boy, Paul, Jr. The latter is, in my humble opinion, a
doctor’s prescription for Lloyd Jordan’s ulcers. He is a tremen-

[ 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

dous football player, a good basketball player, and one of the
best long-ball hitters in the history of schoolboy baseball. Try-
ing to whip up his interest in Harvard, however, absorbs all my
energies at this writing. Give me another year to work on it,
and I shall have him signed up.

My extra-curricular activities have been closely allied with the
growth of the family. I have at various times been active in Cub
Scouts, Girl Scouts, Little Leagues, P.T.A. organizations, Naval
Reserve, etc. I am a member of the V.F.W. and the American
Legion. My hobbies include photography, fishing, mild doses
of tennis, and keeping the estate from going to wrack and ruin.

I have gradually gravitated back to the seat of learning, having
recently been assigned to the Cambridge Office of the Internal
Revenue Department as supervisor in charge.

RALPH HENRY MacKINNON

HOME apprEss: 189 Riverview Ave., Tarrytown, N.Y.

oFFice appress: Manufacturers Trust Co., 350 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

BoRN: May 4, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: John Russell MacKinnon, Janet
Redpath.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930(31); M.B.A. (New York
Univ.), 1936; diploma, Graduate School of Banking (Rutgers), 1949.

marriED: Dorothy M. Haskins, 1931, Pelham Manor, N.Y. cHiLpREN: Alan
H., June 26, 1932; Ralph R., July 18, 1935; Barbara R., Jan. 1, 1938.

occupation: Assistant vice-president, Manufacturers Trust Company, loan
officer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City.

EXCEPT for a three-year interruption due to the ambitions of
one Adolf Hitler, which resulted in my spending a whole year
in Honolulu with all expenses paid by Uncle Sam — sad fate —
and which nearly caused my early demise while temporarily re-
siding as an unwanted guest on a volcanic isle called Iwo Jima,
I have been relaxing in New York City subways and doodling at
my desk, listening to people tell me how honest they are and what
a wonderfully successful year they will have if I will only agree
to loan them a few hundred thousand dollars. What a refreshing
experience it is every once in a while to hear someone say what
a “lousy” year he is having and that he will probably lose his

[710 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

shirt if things don’t pick up. Happily I push a blank note under
his reluctant fingers and tell him to write his own ticket. This
formula has worked out splendidly and, as a result, I am the only
banker in the City of New York who can claim to have no ulcer.
As for extra-curricular activities, I have been through the usual
gamut of Boy Scouts, local politics, local school problems, Civil
Defense, community association work and fund drives, Due to
infirmities of old age, my only activity now is Army Reserve
training and, having completed twenty years service, I am seri-
ously considering giving that up. As far as hobbies go, I believe
I can claim one of the most unusual. It is the study of lobster
culture — cute things, really! I guess you’ve had enough.

FREDERICK WILLIAM McNEAR, JR.

MAILING apprREsS: 22 Alta St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1908, San Francisco, Calif. PARENTS: Frederick William
McNear, Georgina Carolina Hopkins.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

ALEXANDER TUNSTALL MacNUTT

HOME ApbRESS: 319 Washington St., Hempstead, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Garden City High School, Garden City, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1909, Bethlehem, Pa. PARENTS: Barry MacNutt, Sue Reid
Tunstall.

PREPARED AT: Sidwell Friends School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1929-1931. DEGREES: S.B. (Bates Coll.), 1934;
sm. (Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1945.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Huey, June 26, 1936, Kennett Square, Pa. CHILDREN:
Mary Mercer, Sept. 4, 1938; Frederick Barry, Dec. 26, 1942.

occuPATION: Counselor for boys; science teacher,

OFFICES HELD: President, Garden City Teachers Association, 1945-47, Hemp-
stead Co-op Credit Union, since 1954; treasurer, 1945-46, president,
1946-48, Long Island Guidance Association; vice-president, Hempstead
Education Association, since 1953.

MEMBER oF: New York State Teachers Association; National Fducation
Association; National Vocational Guidance Association.

[zit]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

IT never ceases to amaze me that I still seem to be considered a
member of the Harvard Class of 30, since my association with the
Class was so brief. On the other hand, I am reluctant to try to
withdraw completely from that association. 1 am sure that despite
my chaotic academic and social years at Harvard, some worth-
while outcomes have resulted.

Order emerged from chaos when I decided on a career in teach-
ing and found that I was able to get into this field after graduating
from Bates College. I was fortunate enough to have a teaching
internship (all work and no pay) at George School, Pennsylvania,
and stayed on there for eight years. I taught math and science,
coached swimming, was a dormitory master and grade adviser.
George School is a Quaker, co-ed, prep school and so it was logical
that I should meet my future wife there. She, Elizabeth Huey,
was assistant dean and an English teacher and has made a perfect
transition into wife and mother.

I came to teach science at Garden City High School, Garden
City, New York, in 1942. My career here has developed into
guidance work and I am now the counselor for boys. I still teach
two chemistry classes and have a few incidental duties.

My wife and I have camp jobs in Denmark, Maine, in the
summer. We manage to squeeze in a few days of vacation at
Annisquam before and after camp. As a result of that program,
our children have become quite proficient in water sports and
camping. Our spare time is well taken care of in a variety of
ways. We are something of a musical group in an amateurish
way. I write arrangements for a clarinet quintet which I play
with occasionally. The children are in school orchestras, and my
wife directs a “Housewives’ Choral” group. As members of the
Society of Friends (Quakers), we are active in Meeting and
Sunday School affairs. And of course we have the usual civic
and school interests.

I find it hard to realize the passage of time and refuse to admit
my age to myself, but the children have no hesitancy in remind-
ing the “Old Man.” My most fervent hope is that I may really
be an old man living to see a saner, peaceful world with mankind
showing a little more understanding of the principle of Brotherly
Love.

[712]

eae NOT eth tte tip AA NN IRR ITI PTET TST CLIT I TONY

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL WILLIAM MAHADY

HOME apprEss: 708 Main St., Latrobe, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mahady & Mahady, 917 Ligonier St. Latrobe, Pa.; 119 S.
Maple Ave., Greensburg, Pa.

Born: Nov. 19, 1908, Latrobe, Pa. parents: James Joseph Mahady, Katharine
O'Neill.

PREPARED AT: Latrobe High School, Latrobe, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

MARRIED: Janet Matlock, April 13, 1942, New York, N.Y. cHILDREN: Paul
William, Jr., Aug. 25, 1949; Timothy, Nov. 13, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Regis Francis Mahady, ’29; Henry Joseph Mahady, irs,
"40.

occupaTion: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member Westmoreland-Fayette Council, Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica; director and secretary, Acme Die & Machine Company, Pioneer
Fuel Company, Westmoreland Federal Savings & Loan Association,
Newcomer Products Company; director, The Semler Company, Com-
munity Chest of Latrobe; executive officer, Army-Navy Purchasing Of-
fice of the Quartermaster General; chairman, Advisory Board, Salvation
Army; associate professor of law and politics, Seton Hill College,
Greensburg, Pa.; associate professor of history and economics, St. Vin-
cent College, Latrobe, Pa.; associate legal adviser to Selective Service
Registrants, Board #2, Westmoreland County; vice-president, director,
Catholic Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania; president, Dis-
trict 1qgE Zone chairman, Latrobe Lions Club, deputy district governor,
International Lions Clubs, parliamentarian, Lions State Convention, 1951,
1952; parliamentarian, national and state conventions, national judge
advocate, chief of staff to the Commander, 1953-54, member National
Executive Committee, State Policy Committee and State Executive
Committee, 1947-54, Amvets of World War II, chairman, Legal Aid
Committee, Westmoreland Bar Association; state judge advocate,
Catholic War Veterans; secretary, Seton Hill Chapter, American As-
sociation of University Professors, member, Civilian Defense Commit-
tee, Latrobe District, director, Pershing Park Memorial; solicitor, Board
of Supervisors, Derry Township, Unity Township; historian, Ancient
Order of Hibernians; counsel to the Archabbot of the Order of St.
Benedict in the United States; co-founder, chairman, Westmoreland
County Children’s Annual Amateur Contest.

MEMBER OF: Latrobe Lions Club; Harvard Club of Pittsburgh; Ancient
Order of Hibernians; American Veterans of World War II; Sad Sacks;
Westmoreland, Latrobe, and Pennsylvania Bar Associations; Pennsyl-
vania Superior Court; Pennsylvania Supreme Court; The Supreme
Court of the United States; Knights of Columbus; Holy Name Society;
St. Vincent DePaul Society; Catholic War Veterans; Chamber of
Commerce.

[713]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I take my wife and children as much as possible. As a result, my

youngsters are experts on hotel accommodations in the various
states.

GORDON EARLE MAHLERT

HOME ADDRESS: 468 Watchung Ave., Bloomfield, N. J.

OFFICE appREsS: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., 463 West St., New York,
N. Y.

porN: March 27, 1908, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Emil Christian Mahlert,
Grace Mae Barber.

PREPARED AT: North High School, Worcester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

mMarrieD: Louise S. Briden, June 5, 1934, Rumford, R. I. cup: David B,,
June 15, 1938.
occuPATION: Field engineer, Bell Telephone Company.

IT does not seem twenty-five years since I closed the door of
Thayer Hall and set out to contend with the world of business,
but announcements from the Class Day Committee and my aching
muscles after exercise certify that such is the fact. In retrospect,
they have been gracious years. My social and home life have been
happy due to my wonderful family, and my business life has been
fruitful and interesting.

The Tuesday after Labor Day, 1930, I began work with Con-
goleum Nairn, Inc., Kearney, New Jersey. After attending a
training course, I earned my salesman’s stripe. Later I assisted in
the reorganization of the sales promotion department and spent
several enjoyable years in advertising and sales promotion activities.

In 1934 I married Louise Briden of Rumford, Rhode Island.
From 1930 to 1934 our courting had necessitated approximately
50,000 miles of travel, so we decided that the old adage that two
could live as cheaply as one might be tenable; at least we would
not have so much travel expense. Now, twenty-one years later,
we regret that we did not make that decision earlier.

Our son, David, was born in 1938 and today, at sixteen, is six
feet tall and still growing. His honor marks at school and his
athletic abilities in baseball and basketball have thrilled his mother
and me. I have been fortunate to be a coach, or have assisted with
the coaching, of several of the teams on which he has played since

[716]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

his grammar school days, and thus have had an opportunity of
enjoying his athletic progress,

Since 1943 I have been associated with the Bell Telephone Lab-
oratories, Inc., New York. My work as a quality assurance engi-
neer and currently as a field engineer contacting the operating
companies of the Bell System in engineering and maintenance
problems has been stimulating, challenging and thoroughly en-
joyable.

During my married life I have lived in Bloomfield, New Jersey.
My wife and I have been active in the Protestant Episcopal
Church, and I am a member of the Vestry. Two months of the
year are special months. My family spends July and August at
our home on Martha’s Vineyard. Although we have lived in New
Jersey for many years, we still favor “down east” and like to
call the island “home.”

LAURENCE EDWARD MALLINCKRODT

HOME ADDRESS: 2000 §. Warson Rd., St. Louis 17, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scruggs-Vandervoort-Barney, Inc., 9th & Olive Sts., St. Louis
1, Mo.

BoRN: March 13, 1909, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: Emil Mallinckrodt, Marie
Louise Armstrong.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.B.A. 1932.

MARRIED: Eleanor Catherine Scott, Oct. 25, 1952, St. Louis, Mo. cit:
Laurence Edward, Jr., Dec. 5, 1953.

occupation: Department store executive: president and director, Scruggs-
Vandervoort-Barney, Inc.; vice-president and director, Mermod Jac-
card King Jewelry Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1946-54, vice-president, 1952-54, director since 1948,
Scruggs-Vandervoort-Barney, Inc.; president, Country Day School
Alumni Association, 1941-42, St. Louis Chapter, Quartermaster Associ-
ation, 1941-43; Missouri State Chairman, March of Dimes, 1949; trustee,
St. Louis Country Day School, 1949-51; president, Harvard Club of
St. Louis, 1953; director and treasurer, Social Planning Council, Sc.
Louis and St. Louis County, director, Harvard Alumni Association,
1951-54; St. Louis Symphony, 1951-54; Bethesda General Hospital,
St. Louis Chamber of Commerce, Community Music School, St. Louis
Publicity & Convention Bureau, Better Business Bureau; member
President’s Council of St. Louis University; trustee, Second Presbyterian

Church,
[7:7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

JOSEPH PATRICK MALONEY

HOME ADDRESS: 251A Old Billerica Rd, Bedford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Eastern Co. 6:0 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Patrick Maloney, Ellen Mathews.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High & Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cus laude, 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

marrien: Virginia Lee Stevens, Feb. 10, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joellen Stevens, Aug. 31, 1940; Virginia Lee, April 20, 1942; Stephen
Ward, Dec. 27, 1944-

OccUPATION: Vice-president, The Eastern Company.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Bedford Finance Committee; member, Future
School Needs Committee. Bedford.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity Club.

UPON graduation from college I was faced with the important
decision of whether to go to work or spend two more years at
Harvard in the Business School, I had been offered what I con-
sidered a good job along with classmate Wally Harper to go to
work for the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company. (I note Wally is
still there and a V.LP.) Encouraged by my family to get a degree
in business administration, I spent two very profitable years at
the Business School. Between my first and second years there, |
spent the summer working in New York City. This was the
second most important thing that happened to me since graduation,
the first being the decision to go to the Business School. It gave
me a strong distaste for wanting to work and live in New York
City, which prior to that time seemed to be the goal of all “big
business tycoons” getting out of the Harvard Business School.
1 guess I came to the realization that I was fundamentally a “small
town boy” (Boston) and not enough of a “big city slicker” for
New York. :

When I got through the Business School, I fortunately got into
a field of business activities that I liked and in which I was able
to make progress. I went to work for a partnership in Boston —
electrical appliance distributors, The reason one of the partners
hired me was because the other partner in the business had previ-
ously hired his nephew and this chap wanted to exercise his equal
proprietary rights by making the next sclection. Fortunately for
me, I happened to show up at the right moment — remember,
jobs were scarce in 1932. I stayed with this firm until 1938 when

[720 ]

~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the next two important events started to take place in my post-
college career.

In October, 1938, I changed positions, going with the present
company where I have been since “associated.” (Sounds better
than previous reference (1932) where I considered myself lucky
to get a job.) A few months later, February, 1939, I finally con-
vinced my best college sweetheart (wi hom I had met when a junior
in College) to be my wife.

I have really done nothing important since this six-month period
in 1938-39 except have three lovely children, one of whom I am
training (now nine years old) to be a left-handed passing quarter-
back for Harvard. The other two, being “teen-age” daughters,
are training me, and I am afraid in their opinion doing very poorly.

My hobby, I guess, is Harvard football. I have not missed an
at-home game since my freshman year. I have also seen most of
the away games. I have been a long sufferer during Harvard's
misfortunes on the gridiron in the past “few” years. However,
Isure have enjoyed the last two Yale games and this year’s Prince-
ton victory.

I am looking forward with great pleasure to the next twenty-
five years and the birth of the Atomic Age. I hope to give a per-
sonal account, on the occasion of our Fiftieth, of its effect on me
in the intervening period. I guess I always was an optimist.

FRANK CHARLES MANAK

HOME ADDRESS: 3072 Fairmount Blvd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

OFFICE AppREss: American Steel & Wire Div., U.S. Steel Corp, Rockefeller
Bldg., Cleveland 13, Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Frank Charles Manak, Roberta
Pav.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio; Culver Military Academy,
Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(31); LL.B. (Western Reserve
Univ.), 1933.

MaRRIED: Frances M. LaGanke, May 5, 1934, Cleveland, Ohio. ca_pren:
Frank Charles, 3d, June 18, 1937; Mary Frances, May 24, 1047.

Occupation: Lawyer, U.S. Stee! Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman and public member, Board of Review, Ohio Bureau
of Unemployment Compensation, 1941-433 president, Republic Club,
1944-45; Republican Precinct Committceman, since tgst; chairman,

[721]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

numerous committees in fields of social security, unemployment com-
pensation, workmen’s compensation, stream and air pollution, labor law,
and taxation, Ohio Manufacturers’ Association, Cleveland Chamber of
Commerce, Ohio Chamber of Commerce, since 1947; member board of
trustees, Ohio Turnpike and Highway Association; member executive
committee, Governor’s Advisory Committee on Water Conservation,
since 1954; regimental commander, sth Infantry, Ohio State Guard,
1945-47; area commander, Ohio Defense Corps (State Guard), since
1950, civil defense director, since 1950, 5th Ohio Defense Area; mem-
ber executive committee, Disaster Committee, Cleveland Red Cross,
since 1954.
MEMBER OF: Delta Kappa Epsilon, Pi Eta; Mid-Day.

AFTER graduating from Law School in 1933, I practised law for
seven years with the Cleveland firm of Simmons, DeWitt & Vilas.
In February, 1941, Governor John Bricker appointed me to a four-
year term as chairman and public member of the board of review
of the Bureau of Unemployment Compensation. I resigned in
October, 1943, to return my family from Columbus to Cleveland
in anticipation of entering the army. A Reserve commission which
had expired in 1939 was not forthcoming as I had expected and
in early 1944 I became a member of the law department of the
American Steel & Wire Company, then a subsidiary and now a
division of the United States Steel Corporation. For several years
thereafter, 1 was assigned primarily to labor matters, and now,
primarily to unemployment and workmen’s compensation and
federal and state legislation.

I have been an Episcopalian ever since 1934 when I married a
lovely choir singer and Sunday School teacher at St. Paul’s Church.
For the past eleven years we have belonged to Christ Church,
where my son is a server and frequently carries the crucifix.

I suppose that those who know me well will say that I am
motivated in many of my interests by a desire to help decelerate
the trend of government control over the individual, My regular
work involves, in part, service on committees of such organiza-
tions as the Ohio Manufacturers’ Association and the Ohio Cham-
ber of Commerce, which critically analyze and support or oppose
proposals in the field of state and federal legislation. My activities
in the State Guard and Civil Defense also give me the opportunity
to prevent intrusion of big government in purely local matters to

the extent that local governments and individuals will take care
of themselves even under emergency conditions,

[722]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My time away from work is spent in “cultivating my own gar-
den,” as Voltaire’s Candide would say — my family and friends,
our home and refinished second-hand furniture (antiques my wife
calls them). My son is seventeen and doing well at school. My
daughter is seven and very pretty. However, I believe I am suffi-
ciently dissatisfied with a very pleasant life so as to keep trying to
improve it.

FRANKLIN MERRITT MANN

HOME ADDRESS: 3008 Second St., N., Arlington 1, Va.

orrice Appress: U. S. Geological Survey, Washington 25, D. C.

BoRN: Aug. 12, 1909, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Franklin Merritt Mann, Iva
Susan Cleland.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: S.B. IN C.E. cum laude, 1931.

MARRIED: Mary Agatha Williams, Nov. 16, 1934, Brockton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan, Jan. 11, 1938; Martha Alice, March 16, 1943.

occupation: Topographic engineer.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Photogrammetry.

I HAVE to report an undistinguished career as a civil servant and
I expect a continuation of the same. I am now a topographic
engineer with the U.S. Geological Survey, assigned to the staff
of the chief topographic engineer, in charge of budget and finance.

During the years I have acquired a lovely wife and two pretty
and talented daughters. Our older daughter, Susie, is scheduled
to enter the College of William and Mary this fall.

I took up rifle shooting as a hobby immediately after leaving
college and then had to drop it for a period of several years.
Lately, I have resumed activity in this line and have added to it for
reasons of economics the reloading of ammunition.

‘WILLIAM FROST MANN

HOME appreEss: 31 Old Farm Rd., Dedham, Mass.
OFFICE AppREsS: Baird & Bartlett Co., 63 High St. Boston, Mass.
BorN: Aug. 28, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: William Theodore Mann,

Emma Louise Frost.
PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

[723 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

married: Dora Sherwood Foss, July 19, 1940, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Theodore, Jan. 3, 1942; Robert Frost, June 20, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Sales executive; treasurer, Baird & Bartlett Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1930 Class Committee, since 1950; vestryman, All
Saints Church, Brookline, Mass., 1938-41.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country and Polo Club; Ekwanok Country Club,
Manchester, Vt.; Harvard Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, A Brief Genealogy and History of the Mann Fam-
ily, Cambridge (or Wrentham) Branch, Boston, 1954.

T IMAGINE that since I confess to having worked with the same
company since April of 1931, I belong to a rather small group of
non-roving classmates who find satisfaction in their provincialism.
Let me hasten to add, however, that a history of my career in the
marts of trade would not be complete without mention of a previ-
ous affiliation — my ecstatic week as stock clerk, delivery boy,
counter jumper and sweeper in a local chain market —a sixty-
eight hour week for which I was paid ten dollars. I was promptly
discharged when the manager learned I knew he had been extend-
ing credit to a few favored female customers, a practice taboo
then as now.

In the summer of 1941 my wife and I moved into a new house
in Dedham, where we have brought up our children and lived
ever since. ] have dwelt on my short-dead-end street longer than
any of the neighbors, but my being a dean of sorts strikes little
awe into the local children (sixteen at last count) and dogs who
frolic in the yard whilst I endeavor to nap.

My elder boy, of rufous coloring and at thirteen as tall as his
mother, is slugging it out with math and Latin at Noble and
Greenough. Already the mad social whirl has him in its iron grasp
—and how spruce he looks in some of my choicest neckties! He
achieved a measure of local fame at camp last summer by parting
with his appendix in midterm. His younger brother, with still
a year to go at Dedham Country Day, is the family athlete and
muscle man. A trace of interest in education has just commenced
to rub off on him, so we live on with high hopes.

In the early days of World War II, I did my best to convince
the Army that I would be of some use in the procurement and

expediting of raw materials, but they decided to worry along
without me. I then turned to the Navy, but after an initial flurry
of hope, I was rejected for poor visual color perception. I pointed

[724]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

out my hitherto unfailing ability to distinguish blondes from
brunettes, but this failed to amuse the authorities or to qualify me.
The only outfit which would have me was the Dedham Auxiliary
Police, and in 1943 I volunteered as a patrolman. We drilled and
studied police procedure one night a week, enforced air-raid and
blackout regulations, gave ponderous chase to fleet-footed Hal-
lowe’en pranksters, and marched in Memorial and Armistice Day
parades. We were a fine body of men as we swung down the
" street in our green milkmen’s uniforms, with our 1903 Krag rifles
(property of the local American Legion Post) on our shoulders.
Dedham was indeed safe for democracy.

I enjoy sports, both as participant and spectator. Although my
record for watching the Harvard football team in both glory and
despair does not match Joe Maloney’s, I have spent many a Satur-
day afternoon in the Stadium, having held season uckets for
nearly twenty years. In winter there is badminton and a little
skiing. In summer I have pretty much forsaken tennis for golf,
one of the few sports which offers a constant change of scene. On
very rare occasions J will post a score under 85, but my normal
tendency to spray tee shots usually lands me over go. (Wonder
if they are making fairways narrower these days?) In successive
years Dick Barbour and Monk Mason have been my partners in
an attempt to bag the trophy in my Club member-guest tourna-
ment, Our zenith was reached in 1953 when we gained the semi-
finals, only to be bested by a runny-nosed kid of eighty-three
and his partner, who subsequently won the cup. The octogenar-
ian, I might add, was a Harvard man.

My vegetable garden thrives, long noted for its fiendish ability
to produce a bumper corn crop during a period when the whole
family is away. Bird watching is another hobby, but I would be
more advanced ornithologically if I could outsmart a two-fisted
squirrel who camps by the hour in my bird feeder and leers at me
through the window.

Over the last couple of years I have derived a certain fascination
from the hours spent in family genealogical research. From this
work also has sprung a new philosophy, What right have I, in
reasonable financial comfort and with a mere pair of normally
active sons, occasionally to feel at wit’s end? How trivial would
my problems seem to my 17th and 18th Century ancestors — in-

[725]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

dustrious New England farmers, doctors, and clergymen — some
of whom, with the aid of three or four wives, sired up to sixteen
children and yet lived into their eighties!

Few of us have any but happy memories of vacations. In
bachelor days I took two short cruises, one to the Caribbean by
Canadian National Steamship and one by Ward Line to Mexico
City via Havana and Vera Cruz. Both these services have been
long since discontinued, to my disappointment. During the War,
by supplementing our “A” gasoline ration with lighter fuel, clean-
ing fluid, and other doubtful combustibles, we were able to work
out an occasional trip to my wife’s family’s camp in Wellfleet on
Cape Cod. In 1947 we took le Grand Tour de la Province de
Quebec, and for the next five years spent an annual fortnight at
the Thousand Islands Club. 1953 was perforce an off year for
travel, as my wife had to languish eleven weeks at the Massachu-
setts General Hospital undergoing two major spinal operations,
but we resumed our globe-trotting in 1954 with a wonderful two
weeks in the Virgin Islands.

Class fund-raising activities, smothered by eleven years of de-
pression and interrupted by seven years of war and readjustment,
began to pick up about 1948. Locally the Boston Committee was
revived and a lot of legwork done. In 1949 I was made chairman

of this committee and at our Twentieth Reunion was elected a

member and appointed chairman of our reconstituted Class Com-
mittee. For me the last seven years have been greatly enriched
by many contacts with those classmates who, by their loyalty and
energy, have helped earn 1930 distinguished place in the Harvard
picture.

MELVIN WHITE MANSUR

HOME appress: Groton, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

Born: Dec. 5, 1907, Groton, Mass. parents: Frederick Whiting Mansur,
’97, Mary Isabelle White.

PREPARED AT; Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. miagna cum laude, 1930; A.M.
1932; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1940.

Maxaigp: Lydia Yeliseevna Benois, Jan. 14, 1945, London, England. cHicpReN:
Olga, Nov. 18, 1945; Mary, Jan. 20, 1948; Katherine, June 17, 1950.

occupation: Head of Classics Department, Groton School.

[726]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE year after graduation I spent in Europe on a travelling fel-
lowship. Through the autumn and winter I was in Paris taking
Greek and Latin courses at the Sorbonne and the College de
France, and in off hours enjoying the pleasant companionship of
two or three classmates who were also in the city. Frequent visits
to the Russian Church on the Rue Darn led eventually to my
taking up that language and joining the Orthodox Church. In
the spring I went to Greece where I met two more classmates,
with one of whom I took a walking trip all around the Pelopon-
nesus. In the late spring I returned through Sicily and Italy, hav-
ing completed one of the happiest years of my life.

After a year in the Graduate School at Harvard, I settled down
to teach Greek and Latin at St. Mark’s School. As a bachelor in
those years it was possible to get to Europe occasionally in the
summer-time, so among other things I visited Mt. Athos twice
and fulfilled an old ambition by climbing Mt. Olympus. Unfortu-
nately, my sabbatical coincided with the outbreak of war, which
forced me to return in October. The rest of that year I spent at
Columbia, finishing my doctoral thesis.

The year 1942 found me in the Navy, stationed first in the
_ Third Naval District, then at Southampton, England. In the
spring of 1944 I was transferred to the staff of Admiral Hall,
commander of the Eleventh Amphibious Force on board the
Ancon. There I helped prepare material on the invasion coast
with which to brief small boat commanders when the time came.
We would often go ashore in the evenings to a pub outside the
harbor of Weymouth; and what a contrast there was between the
lush beauty of the English countryside, fragrant with lilacs, and
the holocaust in the making. I went over on D-Day and was soon
put to work interrogating Soviet prisoners. These were Russians
whom the Germans had used as workers and then armed to fight
for them at the last minute. Most of them, but not all, surrendered
at the first opportunity. These unfortunates, who had escaped
from the U.S.S.R. during the war, were among those who were
later forcibly repatriated, thanks to the agreement which F.D.R.
signed at Yalta with the Soviet dictator. In mid-summer I was
detached and sent to London, where I worked for a year with the
Soviet Military Mission and had the opportunity to observe some
of their methods.

[ 727]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

During this period in London I met a Russian girl who had left
St. Petersburg after the revolution, and we were married in the
Russian Church in January.

By the time I left the service, I had reached the grade of lieu-
tenant commander.

Since the war, I have been teaching Greek and Latin at Groton
School, where I am now head of the Classics Department. With
the arrival of three girls in the family, life has become quite
domestic. My relaxation comes mainly from reading and garden-
ing. I am thankful for having an occupation which I thoroughly
enjoy, which is itself a relaxation, and for the opportunity to live
quietly and bring up a family in the country.

FRANK EDWARD MANUEL

HOME ADDRESS: 117 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brandeis University, Waltham, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Morris Manuel, Jessica Fred-
son,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS AT COLLEGE: 1926~1930. DEGREES: A.B. 7agna cum laude, 1930; A.M. 19315
PH.D., 1933.

MARRIED: Fritzie Prigohzy, Oct. 6, 1936, Brooklyn, N.Y.

occuPATION: Professor of Modern History.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association, History of Science Society.

PuBLicaTIoNs: The Politics of Modern Spain, McGraw-Hill, 1938; Amer-
ican-Palestine Relations, Public Affairs Press, 1949; The Age of Reason,
Cornell University Press, 1951; sundry articles in Journal of Modern
History, Revue d’Histoire Moderne, American Historical Review;
manuscript on Henri Saint-Simon just accepted for publication by the
Harvard University Press.

AFTER a number of generous research grants and travelling fel-
lowships to Europe which served to corrupt my morals, I held a
brief appointment as lecturer in history at Harvard. In 1936, for
want of anything better, I entered government service where I
was successively attached to the New England Regional Office
of the Works Progress Administration, the National Defense
Advisory Commission, and the Office of Price Administration.
Operating in various administrative capacities, I usually was en-
gaged in regulating something with which I had had no previous
experience. I have never worked harder or enjoyed a greater

[728 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sense of real achievement than during that halcyon period of mod-
ern America when a group of imaginative young bureaucrats were
running the country — before Washington was invaded by the
current crop of senescent bunglers.

There were two years of service in the Army which I entered
aS a private in 1943 and left as a first lieutenant in Intelligence.
During the last days of the Reich, I took a deep Jong look at the
major figures of the German military regime after they had been
divested of their batons; I still feel that water-pistols under their
control could become dangerous weapons. While I learned noth-
ing of war to speak of, I acquired some knowledge of the war-
riors and a firm belief in Clemenceau’s adage that war was too
serious a business to be entrusted to generals.

After an extended illness following upon what was originally
a minor war injury, I accepted a professorship in modern history
at Brandeis University in 1949, the second year of its establish-
ment. Since then, there are five classes of students who have not
emerged unscathed. My professional interests have veered in the
direction of intellectual history because it is a vague subject and
I now head the Graduate Committee in the History of Ideas at
the University. I have written the necessary minimum of schol-
arly works to maintain status; none of them is worthy of survival
but what with elaborate galley corrections and other wasteful
expenditures they have contributed to the maintenance of full em-
ployment. The delightful leisure of academic life has permitted
me to roam through the Mediterranean with my wife during the
summers. The Greek islands are my favorite resting place. I
delight in wine and swimming. I am a stern moralist in my judg-
ment of the behavior of my fellowmen, but my profound innate
sense of virtue is often misunderstood,

EDWARD SIDNEY MARCUS

HOME AppREsS: 4007 Stonebridge St, Dallas, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Neiman-Marcus Co., Dallas 1, Texas.

BORN: Oct. 13, 1909, Dallas, Texas. parents: Herbert Marcus, Minnie Lily
Lichtenstein.

PREPARED aT: Terrill School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MARRIED: Betty Lee Blum, Nov, 18, 1946, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: H. Stanley Marcus, ’25.

[729]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

occupation: Executive vice-president, Neiman-Marcus Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Texas Research Foundation; director, Southwestern
Medical Foundation, Dallas School for Blind Children, Dallas Heart
Association, Tobe-Coburn School in New York, National Retail Dry
Goods Association, Chamber of Commerce Traffic Committee, Mid-
Texas Aberdeen-Angus Association, Dallas Theatre, Inc.,; member,
Community Chest of Dallas, Merchants Advisory Committee of the
American University in Washington, D. C., Texas State Fair Committee,
Pan-American Livestock Exposition Committee, Junior Livestock Auc-
tion Sale Publicity Committee.

MEMBER OF: Dallas Club; Columbian Club; Dallas Athletic Club; American
Aberdeen-Angus Breeders’ Association; Texas Aberdeen-Angus Associ-
ation; Southwestern Regional Aberdeen-Angus Breeders’ Association.

AFTER entering and leaving Harvard in the short space of four
months, and not finding comfort in my next school, I started to
work at Neiman-Marcus Company in Dallas, of which my father
was president. In actuality, I started at the bottom, but I cannot
say I did not have parental prods that helped me start climbing
the ladder. After several years of working as a salesman, buyer,
and assistant merchandise manager, I finally reached the position
of merchandise manager shortly before the war started. At that
point, I took a leave of absence to try to offer my services to the
government.

Not finding a suitable assignment, I made an unofficial survey
for the Inter-American Development Commission through South
America, looking for products that could be manufactured in
South America and distributed through retail outlets in North
America — this to build friendship through commerce with our
neighbors.

Upon my return, I declined an offer of official connection with
this branch and returned to Neiman-Marcus Company for a short
time until I was taken into the Army as a second lieutenant in the
Air Transport Command. Fighting the war first in Romulus,
Michigan, and later as adjutant general of the Ferrying Division
in Cincinnati, I was finally released from the Army as a major late
in 1945.

When I returned, I was urged to assume the directorship of our
New York office, which was primarily a job of procurement of
merchandise and control of buyers, After two years there, during
which time I acquired a wife, Betty Blum of New York City, I

[730]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

returned to Dallas where I assumed the executive vice-presidency
of my firm, the position I hold now.

During the last few years I have become interested in the de-
velopment of the Southwestern Medical Foundation, and have
spent some of my hard-earned money for modern pictures. Most
of the money I have earned, and expect to earn for the next few
years, I have already spent in the development of a registered
Aberdeen-Angus farm, a business I have been trying to turn into
a profit instead of a hobby.

FRANCIS JAMES MARDULIER

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Woodside Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dewey & Almy Chemical Co., Cambridge 40, Mass.

BORN: Dec, 11, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Anton Mardulier, Marie Clara
Jeursen.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1930.

MarrieD: Dorothy Harriette Wyer, June 30, 1935, Medford, Mass. cuit:
Francis James, Jr., Nov. 16, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Sales engineer; assistant manager, construction specialties divi-
sion, Dewey & Almy Chemical Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1932-34, member executive committee,
1936-38, vice-president, 1938-42, member board of governors, 1942-44,
Harvard Engineering Society (New England Section); president, Har-
vard Chapter, Tau Beta Pi, 1932-33; co-organizer, Massachusetts Plan E
Committee, 1937~38; executive officer, Naval Reserve Ordnance Com-
pany 1-1, 1950-54.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Testing Materials (Committee C-1),
1937-54; American Concrete Institute, 1938-54; Harvard Engineering
Society, 1930-54; Registered (Mass.) Professional Engineer, 1941-54,
Harvard Varsity Club, 1930-54; Staff and Key Society, 1949-54.

PuBLicATIONS: “Effect of Dispersion on Cement Raw Materials,” Rock
Products, August, 1941; “Entrained Air Benefits Lightweight-Aggre-
gate Concrete,” Civil Engineering, January, 1954; various technical bul-
letins on air entrained concrete.

WRITING biographies is definitely not my forte, and when the
subject is a prosaic character like myself — well, the less said the
better. But John Cross says that you, my classmates, want to

know about me. So here goes.
My transition from a student to breadwinner was an easy and
painless one, I simply remained at the Engineering School’s Pierce

C731]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Hall for four more years as an instructor in civil engineering.
These were good years and intellectually stimulating under Pro-
fessor Lewis Jerome Johnson's direction and guidance. But the
monetary compensation was not stimulating, and when L.]J. re-
tired in 1934, I did likewise by taking a job with the Dewey &
Almy Chemical Company, for whom I still work. Since then, my
teaching efforts have been confined to occasional lectures on
cement and concrete technology at the Harvard Summer School
and Northeastern University.

Some of you will remember Professor Johnson’ s enthusiasm for
such non-engineering subjects as Single Tax, Proportional Repre-
sentation, the Preferential Voting System, City Manager Form
of Municipal Government, etc. It was inevitable that some of his
enthusiasm and knowledge should rub off on me with the result
that I spent a good deal of time lecturing, campaigning, promot-
ing, finally winding up as a campaign manager for a mayoralty
candidate in one of Boston’s suburbs. That’s when I learned about
practical politics, Incidentally, my candidate lost but we both had
lots of fun in the process. What is more, we saw with much
satisfaction the general housecleaning which followed our icono-
clastic probing into city inefficiencies. |

That was my last direct venture into politics. Not that my
interest or enthusiasm waned, but time and opportunity were
lacking when I went to work in private industry. Since then,
my political activities have been limited to voting Republican
regularly and ranting in private against the New-Fair Deal. Inci-
dentally, I still feel strongly that we as a people have sacrificed
some of our liberties and strength for temporary material benefits.

As for what I am doing now, I think I may say that I’m a
dabbler. I do a bit of engineering, sales promotion, new product
development, turn to in the laboratory once in a while, prepare
technical papers and bulletins, occasionally write advertising copy,
and do any of the jobs required in a small technical sales organiza-
tion like Dewey & Almy’s construction specialties division. Our

work involves grinding aids and air entraining agents for Port-
land cement, retarders for oil well cement, admixtures for con-
crete, and various special chemicals or treatments for masonry
construction. By the way, any time you want to know such
interesting things as how to keep your concrete walks from

[732 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

scaling, or how to make new concrete stick to old, etc., drop me
a line. I think we have some pretty good answers.

In 1935 I married the girl who hit me with an auto tire. To keep
the record straight, I want to emphasize that she was not a Circus
strong lady. My chastisement was effortlessly accomplished by
rolling the tire down a flight of steps with an accuracy of aim
that would have done credit to a sharpshooter. And she has been
keeping me in line ever since.

World War II interrupted my normal routine as it did for many
of you. As a Naval Ordnance officer, I saw a bit of service in the
Pacific. I am still associated with a Naval Reserve unit..

My hobbies have been varied. I have enjoyed swimming and
sailing. I believe I once established a golfing record of sorts by
developing a forty-five degree slice. As an amateur carpenter |
have done fairly well; at least, I have not as yet lost a finger on
my mechanical saw. I built a cottage on Cape Cod at North
Truro, doing much of the work myself, and am glad to say it
has so far survived three hurricanes. My latest and most impor-
tant hobby is young son Jimmie, aged two, who I thought might
become the Twenty-fifth Reunion Class Baby until Lew Wads-
worth entered the picture. In trying to keep up with Jimmie at
home and afield, I find some of my old hurdling skill returning.
Tam convinced that my latest hobby will rejuvenate me or kill me.

LIONEL PEABODY MARKS

HOME aApprEss: 60 Howell Ave., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Texas Co., 135 E. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 10, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Lionel Simeon Marks, Josephine
Preston Peabody. *

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. ct laude, 1930; LL.B. 1934.

MARRIED: Jane Ann Parker, July 12, 1947, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Jennifer Peabody, Sept. 26, 1948; Joan Peabody, Feb. 4, 1950; Josephine,
Jan. 3, 1952.

Occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Howell Park Association, since 1954; chairman,
Texaco Round Table, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Association of the Bar of the City
of New York; American Bar Association; American Petroleum Insti-
tute.

[733]

ma ARID TTF mec semiae inmey+y RFOP ip

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MY first activity upon graduation was to sail as navigator on a
schooner in the Bermuda Race of 1930. That was followed by
several months of business apprenticeship in a Boston manufac-
turing concern and several more in a New York brokerage office.
After a summer trip to Europe, I went to the Law School for
three somewhat monotonous years. The intellectual stimulation
was there but it was buried under a mass of dull material. I still
find it difficult to comprehend how anyone can get much inter-
ested in the details of “Bills and Notes.”

There were very slim pickings for law graduates in 1934 so,
with characteristic resourcefulness, I spent the summer in Europe
instead of looking for a job. Despite this indication of lack of
industry, I was invited to join the legal staff of The Texas Com-
pany in New York City in January, 1935, and have been there
ever since save for leave of absence for military purposes.

The characteristics of “corporation lawyers” or “house coun-
sel” are grossly misunderstood by many people. The pay is mod-
est but the work is most interesting and varied. Far from victim-
izing widows and orphans, our task is chiefly to keep our client,
the corporation, from being victimized by predatory plaintiffs,
who bring totally unfounded suits for their nuisance value, and
even more by predatory politicians who know that corporations
have no votes and can safely be blamed for. anything that happens.
Our most important function is in the field of preventive law:
to advise our operating people what they can do and how to do
it, and, on occasion, also what they cannot do. I prefer to state it
affirmatively.

Variety is the chief fascination of this work. Most of it is office
work, yet I have appeared in all kinds of courts from the Mu-
nicipal Court of the City of New York to the Supreme Court of
the United States. I have had problems in almost every field of
law, including such relatively specialized fields as customs law
and admiralty and maritime law. Geographically, my work has

taken me to South America and to Europe, as well as to some of
the more obscure states of the Unired States, such as California
and Texas.

Speaking of far places leads me to things military. Our Class
was the first to graduate under the Naval Reserve Officers’ Train-
ing Corps program, so the outbreak of World War II found me

[734]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a superannuated lieutenant (j.g.), U.S. Naval Reserve. In Febru-
ary, 1941, I reported for active duty on the U.S.S. Memphis, an
old four-stack cruiser of the Atlantic Fleet. I think I have a
unique record in the United States Navy, for when I was released
from active duty almost five years later, I had just been detached
from the same U.S.S. Memphis as a full commander: five mo-
notonous hard years at sea in the same vessel, standing a watch
every night at sea for the entire period, and going to battle stations
at dawn alert every morning. I now hold a commission as captain,
US. Naval Reserve, so at least I’ll have command the next time
I go to sea, if the occasion arises.

A few words about my family: After thirty-seven years of
single loneliness, I was the victim of love at first sight, a malady
which in my case becomes more and more acute with each passing
month and year. I was most earnestly resolved to overcome the
reportedly very difficult problems of a relatively late marriage
but I have been overwhelmed to find that such problems do not
exist, Perhaps seven years of marriage are not enough to encoun-
ter them.

Children and hobbies: [ll take up both at once for they tend
to be mutually exclusive. I used to keep up my sailing and skiing
but can no longer do so. Sailing was with that wonderful group
of seagoing hitchhikers, “The Corinthians.” Skiing was thanks
to the New Haven Railroad and its snow trains. Now every spare
moment is spent at home puttering about the house and helping
my ever-loving wife restrain three enchanting demons.

What a change in the last ten years! Then I lived far at sea with
a thousand other males and every command was obeyed. Today
I live with four females and a neuter cat and hardly dare raise my
voice. I still wouldn’t change.

LLOYD KERN MARQUIS

HOME ApprEss: P.O, Box 215, Palm Beach, Fla,

OFFIcE appress: Arthur C. Croft Publications, 100 Garfield Ave, New Lon-
don, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1909, Polo, Mo. parents: Richard McClelland Marquis, Clara

Stuard.
PREPARED aT: Omaha Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

[735]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1930(31);
ED.M., 1951.

MakRIED: Isabel Morandeira y Suarez, Oct. 9, 1954, Cambridge, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to publisher.

OFFICES HELD: Headmaster, 1936-51, vice-president, 1938-48, Graham-Eckes
School, Palm Beach, Fla.; lieutenant commander, USNR, since 1946,
member Schools and Scholarships Committee, Harvard Club of Wash-
ington, 1953-54; member evaluation committee, Materials of Instruc-
tion Committee, National Aviation Education Council, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa, since 1951; Harvard Club of New York
City; Everglades Club, Palm Beach; Sons of the American Revolu-
tion; American Association of School Administrators, Association for
Supervision and Curriculum Development; National Association of
Principals of Secondary Schools; Educational Press Association.

pusLications: Co-author, Stages in Curriculum Design, 1951-1960, Harvard,
1951; The Westford Study, Harvard, 1951; author or editor of numer-
ous periodical articles on education.

THE Depression, by all accounts, had a marked effect on the
lives of members of this Class, It did on mine, for in a sense it
sent me to Harvard and determined my occupation. It began
for me, however, not in 1929 but in rg25 during my senior year
at school, when my father’s ranch business was wiped out by
early effects of the farm price crisis that helped cause the 1929
collapse. This ended my comfortable school years in Omaha, my
leisurely mountain summers in Wyoming, and my plans to attend
a middle-western college at family expense. My father said: “Since
you'll have to make most of your own way at college, why not
go to the best? Why not try for Harvard?”

So in 1926 I took the College Boards. The red-underlined words
“On trial” in my admission notice showed how little I had under-
stood the hazards and how useful it was to come from the Rocky
Mountain States where “geographical distribution” eased them.
The Cambridge that I expected to find that fall must have disap-
peared about 1890. How astonished I was to find that a subway
would deliver me from South Station to Harvard Square and that
the Yard was surrounded by an industrial city!

Precursors of Depression caught me again in 1927 when bank
failures forced me to take a year’s leave of absence, during which
I farmed on my own and luckily made money enough — with the
help of scholarships, loans, and my family — to complete my

course in 1931.

[ 736 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I had to find a job right away on which I could live and pay
my debts. No business seemed to want me on those terms. Farm-
ing was at the bottom. All my father’s connections were broke,
too. Even the Navy, after accepting me for flight training, told
me to wait for the next fiscal year. Then I was offered a job
teaching in a tiny New England free academy, the Wheeler
School in North Stonington, Connecticut. Teaching had always
been farther from my thoughts than exploring the Upper Amazon,
but a job was a job — and I took it. I was lucky. Not only was
the pay sufficient, ‘but job and pay lasted for three years until the
school’s endowed income dwindled and all of us were let out to
make way for less expensive people. Further, I found that |
could teach and that I liked it.

I was at the end of my purse in 1934 when finally I was hired
by a small elementary and college preparatory school which
served the resort hotels of Daytona Beach and ran a summer
session at The Greenbrier, White Sulphur Springs. The Graham-
Eckes School, founded in 1926 by two half-sisters who gave it
their names, had ambitions to become a New England-type inde-
pendent school, and I joined it at a crucial time. My duties threw
me into the agreeable, if at times disconcerting, social life of the
resort world and gave me a certain status. The chief drawback
was the scarcity of congenial people of my own age. The work
was challenging and rewarding. For seventeen years Graham-
Eckes was both my career and my home.

At the end of my second year I became headmaster, and when
we incorporated not for profit in 1938, I became vice-president.

The school flourished. In 1934-35 we had only thirty-eight
pupils, most for only a few months; and our gross income was
about twelve thousand dollars. We owned no buildings, and not
much else but that indispensable — good will. By 1941 we were
able to buy the Otto Kahn estate and move to Palm Beach. A
post-war fund campaign produced a dormitory, a chapel, an
athletic field, and a boat-house. In 1951, as for some years before,
enrollment reached maximum capacity of one hundred full-time
boarding pupils, regular income exceeded $160,000 and plant value
exceeded $1,400,000. During all those years not one of our grad-
uates failed of admission to at least his second choice college. In
an average year, the pupils came from thirty-odd states and five

[737]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

or six foreign countries, and their parents ranged from skilled
laborer to world-famous orchestra conductor.

The radio flash of Pearl Harbor found me amid pupils in the
school’s beautiful patio listening to the afternoon concert. By
March we had lost more than half our faculty and I, myself, was
begging for draft deferment to complete the difficult first year
in a new location and plant. All spring we watched the Battle
of Florida from our sea terraces, and one morning three burning
ships were in sight at once. That summer I enlisted in the Naval
Reserve, but the Navy did not call me until school was open in
the fall. Eventually I was commissioned and sent to NAS, Corpus
Christi, where I was successively instructor in air navigation,
division officer, and executive officer of the Ground Training
School. Characteristically, the Navy ignored my requests for sea
duty in the Pacific and made me early in 1945 Navigation Training
Officer of Fleet Air Wing II in the Caribbean. After the South
Atlantic wings were recalled, I was made squadron navigator of
VPB-1o1, an experimental radar unit one of whose “guppy” B-17’s
I was scheduled to navigate as command plane for the admiral
directing the first attack landings in Japan. V-J Day found me
in the air headed west.

My whole Navy experience was most fortunate; I never had
an unpleasant superior or an unsatisfactory enlisted man or junior
officer, and all the Annapolis men I met were friendly and worthy
of respect.

On my return to Graham-Eckes in 1946, I found that the school
and I had both changed. The post-war problems all schools faced
made my tasks increasingly burdensome. Other people’s children
in Palm Beach were a responsibility that kept me on call twenty-
four hours a day every day. Hoping to find means of improve-
ment, I returned to Harvard in June of 1947 to enter the Grad-
uate School of Education, where by working summers I com-
pleted my Ed.M. in August, 1950.

Despite my growing differences with the founders over educa-
tional philosophy, I felt obliged to remain at my post because
of our fund-raising and building program. With funds raised and

new buildings successfully occupied by October, 1950, I accepted
keave to return to Harvard for an Ed.D. I resigned in the spring
Of 1951. ‘

[738]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Graham-Eckes was a cosmopolitan school built on an educa-
tional vision magnificent in its original conception. It provided
me a unique, fascinating, and often wonderful experience of dedi-
cated effort, of creative teaching and administration, and of resort
life. I value greatly what I learned there.

My work in Harvard’s School of Education, notably with the
Center for Field Studies, together with my other experience of
the gravity of the educational problems our society faces, made
me eager to reach an audience beyond that of a headmaster. In
1952, therefore, I joined my present firm — Arthur C. Croft Pub-
lications, a division of Vision, Inc. — to take charge of its publish-
ing for school people. Among our periodicals are Teacher's
Letter, Educator's Dispatch, and Education Suntmary. Their rap-
idly growing acceptance is most gratifying.

Free of the time-consuming responsibilities of a schoolmaster,
I had time at last to consider more personal matters. My marriage
in 1954 gives me the companionship and aid of a woman whose
interests parallel my own, as her doctorates in philosophy and
education, her professorship at Havana’s Institute of Secondary
Instruction, and her standing as Cuba’s sole delegate to the 1950
White House Conference on Childhood attest.

As for other details, [ am an independent, anti-M{cCarthy Re-
publican who believes firmly in the two-party system. In eco-
nomics I take the middle of the road. My favorite music is post-
Bach, and I prefer Chinese art. For recreation I favor sailing and
tennis outdoors, reading and talking indoors. .

JOHN STANTON MARSTON

HOME appress: 60 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Alice Darling Secretarial Service, 1384 Massachusetts Ave.
Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 9, 1907, Sandwich, N.H. parents: James Leathe Marston, Grace
Stanton.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES! S.B., 1930; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Theodora Lithgow, July 30, 1937, Middleboro, Mass. chitp:
Christine Stanton, June 20, 1946.

occuPaTION: Owner of secretarial, statistical, and accounting service.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Lesley-Ellis Parents Association,

[739]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
MEMBER OF: Pequossett Masonic Lodge; Phillips Church Men’s Club.

MY years at the college were followed by two years across the
river at the Harvard Business School to obtain my M.B.A. degree.
From there my path has followed along a statistical and analytical
line of work and teaching. My first job was with the advertising
research department of Daniel Starch & Staff, an advertising
agency and consulting firm. While still there, I started to do some
teaching and eventually drifted over into full-time instruction in
a commercial school.

In 1940 I went with the Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Corporation
in East Hartford, Connecticut, as head of a statistical group in
the sales division. I stayed with them until 1946 when the urge
to return to teaching and the Boston area led me back to Cam-
bridge and my former teaching position. In 1948 Mrs. Marston
and I availed ourselves of the opportunity to buy a typing bureau
and secretarial service which had been operating in Harvard
Square since 1925. We have broadened it into a combination
statistical, accounting, and secretarial service so that both of our
abilities might be put to use. Finally, I stopped teaching to de-
vote all my time to the new venture about which we are very
enthusiastic, and although it is not a type of business in which
to get rich overnight, we do find it very gratifying and interest-
ing to have a small business of our own. For the past year my
work has led me to spend a portion of my day in the Market
Research Department of the Gillette Safety Razor Company.

For quite a good many years, my chief hobby outside of work
has been in the operation of a camp for young boys. My interest
and activity in this direction has centered largely around Camp
De-Witt —a camp for boys aged seven to fifteen, operated by
my brother-in-law on Lake Winnepesaukee in Wolfeboro, New
Hampshire.

ALBA BURNHAM MARTIN

HOME appress: 1043 Cecil Pl, N.W., Washington 7, D. C.
OrFice Appress: National Labor Relations Board, Washington 25, D.C.

BorN: May 10, 1908, Geneva, Ohio. parents: Frank Wade Martin, Lena
Beatrice Bieder.

preparep aT: Geneva High School, Geneva, Ohio.

[740 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: §.B.4 1930; LL.B. (Western Reserve

Univ.), 1934.

marriep: Flisabeth Puckett, Sept. 6, 1950, New York, N. Y. cetp: Burnham
Henry, Sept. 10, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Milton Martin, °38.

occuPaATION: Trial examiner, National Labor Relations Board.

OFFICES HELD: President, Cherry Hill Citizens Association of Georgetown,
member legislative committee, Progressive Citizens Association of
Georgetown; chairman, NLRB Trial Examiners’ Fund.

MEMBER OF: D. C., Ohio, Federal Bar Associations; Federal Trial Examiners

Conference.

THUS far, mine has been the life of the government employee,
with its daily rewards and satisfactions, its shortcomings, and its
risks. For fifteen years I functioned as a government lawyer. For
the last five, as a trial examiner under the Administrative Proce-
dure Act, I have functioned in the Federal System of administra-
tive justice as a judge.

During the last seventeen years, I have been with the National
Labor Relations Board helping to interpret, administer, and en-
force the controversial Wagner Act and the controversial Taft-
Hartley Act. Each job I have had with this agency has dealt with
the substance of the problems besetting employers and employees,
managements and unions, and in this field each problem, judging
by their actions and statements, is important to the parties. When
you are always the neutral, that of importance to the parties be-
comes important to you — and you grow to think that the wis-
dom of the solution is important to the country. I learned long
ago that if your work on each case is thorough, if in weighing
the evidence, you make due allowances for your own prejudices
and are completely honest, the parties are quite apt to accept your
judgment even when it hurts. It is one of the greater satisfactions
when they do.

On the personal side, we look upon our small son almost as a
grandson, love living in Washington's historic Georgetown, where
we have remade an old house overlooking the Potomac River, and
enjoy the year-round tennis. As relatively new home-owners, we
grow increasingly active in our community life. Among other
recent activities was a course in oil painting at a local university
during which I discovered that my wife can draw and she dis-
covered that I like bright colors. Asa professional art historian, it

[741 ]

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

is clear to her that none of our work will ever hang in a museum
— but you are all welcome to our house.

HAROLD EARL MARTIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1141 Columbia Ave., Lancaster, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 48 N. Duke St., Lancaster, Pa.

BorN: July 28, 1908, Lancaster, Pa. Parents: Christian H. Martin, Mary
Zobler.

PREPARED AT: Lancaster High School, Lancaster, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Mae Lippard, July 2, 1939, Lancaster, Pa. (died Oct. 24,
1942). cHiLp: Mary Ruth, June 3, 1940.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

RANDOLPH KNOWLTON MARTIN

HOME ApprEss: 1 Moon Hill Rd., Lexington, Mass.
OFFICE appress: Shady Hill School, Coolidge Hill, Cambridge, Mass.

BoRN: May 30, 1907, Stratford, Conn. parents: Harold Percy Martin, Elsie
Knowlton.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Nancy Powell Hulst, July 18, 1936, Weston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Meredith, Oct. 6, 1940; John Varick, Jan. 19, 1943; Susan Terry, July
19, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

oFFices HELD: Member, J. H. Emerson Company (hospital research equip-
ment), 1930-34; faculty member, Middlesex School, Concord, Massa- —
chusetts, 1934-35, Shady Hill School, Cambridge, 1935-41, since 1946;
Research Shop, Polaroid Corporation, Cambridge, 1941-46.

MEMBER OF: Lexington Choral Society; United World Federalists, Follen
Church Society (Unitarian).

1 SPENT only my junior and senior years at Harvard, having
transferred from the wilds of New Hampshire at Hanover. I feel
that I had barely found my way around the place when I was
turned out, along with the rest of 1930, with a still moist diploma
and very little experience. My concentration was physics, but
in “pre-nuclear” 1930 jobs weren’t exactly lying around for S.B.
physicists, 1 had to settle for almost anything and fast!

[742 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I put in an interesting five years with a young company that
was then pioneering the development of the iron lung and other
medical apparatus. Our three room “plant” was right opposite
the old Post Office in Brattle Square, two flights up. I had a
chance to work out on all kinds of machinery and became more
than casually acquainted with general machine shop practice. The
boss, Jack Emerson, was running a one-man show with a team
of five in those days. We did the advertising, merchandising, re-
search, manufacture, and even delivery.

I shall never forget a particular respirator that we delivered to
Cleveland about Christmas, 1933. This machine was being
groomed for the annual get-together of the American Medical
Association. We were delayed in getting it ready, and finally
decided to wrap it and sling it across my Dodge touring car. The
things are 3 x 6 feet and weigh rooo pounds. It was thirty hours
to Cleveland, thirty very cold hours, with the top down. There
we had a very short time to thaw out and set up our exhibit. Then
followed three intensive days of convention, after which we
wrapped up our baby and drove it back to Cambridge, and with
the top down! |

Along about 1934-35, I began to have a growing inclination to
try my hand at teaching. An offer of a part-time job in a school
in Waltham came my way, and for a while I tried teaching in the
morning and building respirators afternoons and evenings. This
cut into my social life, so I gave up the respirators and took on a
more satisfying teaching job at the Shady Hill School in Cam-
bridge, and shortly thereafter, a very wonderful wife. To date,
we have three children, fourteen, twelve, and six, all normally
noisy, disorderly, and engaging. Keeping this group on an even
keel and on a given course requires a constant shifting of ballast
and trimming of sheets. We are slowly learning how to work
the ship, but there is plenty of shoal water still visible.

I have continued teaching at Shady Hill, both shop and science,
with five years out at the Polaroid Corporation, where I was a
member of the research shop. At Polaroid we were part of the
O.S.R.D. (Office of Scientific Research Department) program
and devoted our entire energies to developing optical range-find-
ers, machine-gun trainers, gun-sights, filters for submarines, etc.
This was quite a change from teaching twelve to fifteen year olds.

[ 743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

It also seemed at times far removed from the shooting, where [
both wanted and did not want to be. It was work that had to
be done, however.

In 1946 I resumed teaching. Children are a constant source of
wonder to me and, sometimes, consternation. How can they be
so tough and callous and at the same time so intuitive? Teaching
them requires patience, endurance, and agility. The profession is
not to be lightly entered into. The “long vacations,” which look
very good from the sidelines, are usually well earned, but seldom
too well paid for. The average teacher in our school puts in
ten to eleven hours a day on school work, plus five or six hours
on weekends, Call it sixty hours a week, if you will. It doesn’t
take long at this rate to earn a few holidays. But what do we
married teachers do with our holidays? Look around for paying
jobs! Build our own houses. Reshingle our roofs. Paint the
family bus. The variety is the constant source of satisfaction,
however, in a teacher's life — no two children ever being alike in
their reaction to new material, and no two holidays alike in their
particular exigencies — financial and otherwise. It is a good life
which I find easy to rationalize. The rewards are not to be meas-
ured in terms of Cadillacs, however, or large gifts to Harvard,
alas!

The big hobby in this family’s life is music. The fleeting hours .
I spent with Doc Davison in Emerson Hall were well spent, for
me, anyway. The excitement and satisfaction of singing great
music in a high grade chorus is something that came to me strictly
from Harvard, and has grown steadily since then. These are the
so-called “fringe benefits” that go with a truly great institution
hke Harvard, and which often turn out to be of major importance.
Iam happy to say that, from current observation, this phase of
college is better than ever today.

In domestic politics, I have been fairly lax, finding it hard to
get worked up; except, perhaps, about someone like McCarthy.
1 am confident that the hate and smear technique will not win out
in this country; although I hate to think to what excess the man
might have gone — say, in Germany. I am a strong advocate of
the slow emergence of the United Nations into an instrument of
international law, with enforcement powers. We have law within
towns, states, and within the nation, each with appropriate en-

[744 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

forcement agencies. But, as yet there exists the barest beginning of
international law and no enforcement agency. Until we are will-
ing to give up some of our national sovereignty in support of a
strengthened United Nations, we shall live in a more or less con-
stant state of radar jitters. This is expensive and not particularly
relaxing. Individuals can relax by and large (in the West, any-
way) in the safety of their homes and communities, knowing there
is local authority as near as the telephone. Nations have the tele-
phone, but no international prowl car. It will come. Perhaps
N.A.T.O. is a step. Perhaps by our Fiftieth, a greater proportion
of our national wealth will go, not towards greater luxury or big-
ger guns for Americans, but towards greater opportunities of edu-
cation for all men on this particular planet. Harvard makes a tre-
mendous contribution along this line, and is to be congratulated
for keeping its aims clear and its standards high. We are all of us
lucky to be part of her fabric.

WILLIAM MACY MARVEL

HOME ADDRESS: 5805 Namakagan Rd., Washington 16, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1908, Brooklyn, Mass. PARENTS: Herbert Metcalf Marvel,
Helen Gardner.

PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930; LL.B,
1933.

MARRIED: Betty Louise Youngstrand, April 3, 1948, New York, N. Y. cuit-
DREN: William Macy, Jr., Feb. 28, 1949; Helen Anne, June 19, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Church Marvel, ’41.

occupation: Government Service: Branch Chief, Special Projects Staff,
Office of Special Assistant, Intelligence, Department of State.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Northeastern University School of Law, 1935-39;
special assistant to the Attorney General, Antitrust Division, U.S.
Dept. of Justice, 1941-43, 1946-47.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Law School Association; Harvard Club of Washing-
ton, D. C.

AFTER graduation from Law School in 1933 I was employed
until 1939 in the general practice of law with the Boston firm of
Parkman, Robbins, Coughlin & Hannan. For several years I also
taught an evening course in wills at Northeastern University Law
School. Asa young lawyer I had a fascinating time for some years

[745 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MAURICE MASCHKE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2915 Fairfax Rd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pioneer Linen Supply Co., 3611 Payne Ave., Cleveland 14,
Ohio.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1907, Cleveland, Ohio. PARENTS: Maurice Maschke, ’90, Minnie
Rice,

prepareD aT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1930; LL.B. (Western
Reserve Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: Michaeline Hicks, July 3, 1942, Detroit, Mich. CHILDREN: Mary,
May 8, 1947; Maurice, 3d, Dec. 30, 1950.

occuPaTION: President, Pioneer Linen Supply Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Towel and Linen Service Institute of Ohio, 1946-
53; chairman, Legislative Committee, Linen Supply Association of Amer-
ica, 1950-55; trustee, Mount Sinai Hospital, Cleveland Jewish Convales-
cent Hospital, Jewish Community Federation; Cleveland Community
Fund.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Chamber of Commerce; City Club of Cleveland,
Oakwood Club; Midday Club; Harvard Club of Cleveland.

I] PRACTICED law in Cleveland for over five years as a member
of the firm of Orgill, Maschke & Wickham during the depressed
middle-thirties. It was pretty quiet but we got along. Biggest
kick, I guess, was a junket with an eccentric client running down
some gold leases in the Panama-Colombia jungle country, includ-
ing dugout canoes, assorted natives and all.

In the fall of 1938, I made the big move of entering the linen
supply and laundry field and gradually discontinuing my law
practice. My business has been growing steadily, so the move
has been all right. In 1940 I went into a rather similar operation in
Detroit and it also grew with the times. Due to the fact that I
developed many interests in the local health and welfare fields,
and more importantly, a wonderful family here in Cleveland, |
tired of the weekly trips to Detroit, sold my interests there in
1950, and became again a full-time Clevelander, The Pioneer
Linen Supply Company is a service business which furnishes such
items as tablecloths, towels, uniforms of all sorts to restaurants,
hotels, offices, factories, markets, barber and beauty shops, pro-
fessional offices, etc., anything washable, the goods remaining the

property of Pioneer. I am president of the company and direct its
operations,

[748 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I was one of that lucky minority to whom the war was not
personally too bad an experience. I went in as a private in August,
1942, was herded to Camp Perry, Ohio, for processing, and from
there to Jefferson Barracks, Missouri, for basic training. After a
long week of that, I shipped out to Seattle to a newly-created
CAA school for airport control tower operators, and never did
complete my basic training. My next stop was at Hamilton Field,
California, across the lovely Golden Gate in beautiful Marin
County. Due to a rapid succession of personnel transfers I soon
became the chief tower operator, started my own school to train
operators, was promoted to T/Sgt., sent for my wife, got a house
on the post, and settled down to win the war. I was a member of
that small little group called the AACS, Army Airways Com-
munication Service, running the air fields, radio communications,
code rooms, and exempt from local base activity and control.
Then I was transferred to the Pacific AACS, put on detached
service at Hamilton in a newly-opened office where, with two
officers and myself, we did expediting of personnel and materiel
needed to set up communication facilities for the invasion landings
during the island hopping. We usually knew — in a top-secret
sort of way — which direction the war was moving a little ahead
of the actual happenings. Finally came V-J Day and old Maschke,
probably the oldest T/Sgt. in point of continued service at
Hamilton Field, put in for discharge, which came through in
September, 1945, and returned to civilian status.

Back home I renewed my interest in charitable activities and,
thanks to a good organization in my business, was able to devote
more and more time to fund raising and institutional work.
Through the years I have worked in all sorts of capacities raising
money for various hospitals, schools, and health and welfare agen-
cies, My principal continuing fields have been the Jewish Welfare
Fund and the Cleveland Community Chest. The nice thing is that
my family still puts up with me and we do, of course, have lots
of fun together.

As for travel, I usually like to go where I can play golf and tune
up my game for the summer action. So we have been going to
Florida, White Sulphur, and also to California, where my wife's
sister and her family reside. We always hate to leave the children

[ 749 ]

Sas

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

and usually take them; but now, with one in school and the other
getting near, some decisions will have to be made.

A few years ago, I made the mistake of letting myself be
dragged to an antiques show. Since then I have fallen in love
w ith a certain type of rare old English pottery which has a dis-
tinctive canary color and is decorated variously with transfer
prints or metallic lustres. I have now become sort of a semi- -pro
collector of this stuff and, to the point of boring practically every-
one, I fancy myself an authority on the subject.

Golf is by far my favorite participation sport. I prefer taking
my football and baseball the easy TV way. Years ago I played a
lot of bridge, but now I play very little cards of any sort. Liquor,
as they say, never bothers me, though lately I’ve been thinking
about forming or joining a Martinis Anonymous!

Altogether it’s been a rather nice twenty-five years. My health
has been generally good, I have a lovely wife and two swell kids,
and I’ve had my share of the breaks along the way. I have con-
fidence in the future of our country. I feel that constant expan-
sion of our educational facilities will help keep it free. I think
that, with the continued development of recent discoveries and
processes, we'll soon see tremendous progress in many directions.
This could be an amazingly improved place by the time of our
Fortieth or Fiftieth. I hope we're all around to enjoy it.

CHARLES ELLIS MASON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 133 Dudley Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFicE ADDRESS: Barbour Welting Co., 932 N. Montello St., Brockton, Mass.;
10 High St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1908, Boston, Mass. pAReNTs: Charles Ellis Mason, ’o5, Eliza-
beth Andrew.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MAagriep: Ada Trafford, June 8, 1935, Milton, Mass. cuitpreN: Charles Ellis,
3d, Oct. 31, 1938; Benjamin L., Jan. 13, 1940; Elizabeth T., June 24,
1942; William T., April 4, 1945.

occuPATION: Treasurer, Barbour Welting Company.

orrices HELD: Director, Universal Winding Company, Wakefield Bearing
Company, C.P.C. Engineering Corporation, Winchester Carton Cor-
poration, Denison House; member Budget Committce, United Com-
munity Services; honorary curator of prints, Boston Athenaeum.

[750]

oo *

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Club of Odd Volumes, Boston; The Country Club, Brookline;
Harvard Club of New York City.

EARLY in 1954 I left the Ellis Allen Company and became asso-
ciated with Dick Barbour in the firm established by his family,
known as the Barbour Welting Company. Our principal business
is the manufacture of leather welting for shoes. I have found this
association very rewarding, and I don’t mean that purely in a
financial sense. Aside from its being for me a most interesting
job, I have had the privilege of working with Dick. Those of
you who have worked with him on either our Twentieth or on
this Reunion know what I mean.

Last summer Dick and I went to England on a business trip,
and business has taken me to various parts of this country. I
have occasionally been south for a brief winter vacation and to
Vermont and Canada for family skiing and non-family curling.
Thus, for a Bostonian, I have been out of Massachusetts a bit
more than average, and one of the best things about it is the oppor-
tunity of seeing many 1930 classmates I would not see otherwise.

We own a summer house, a sort of glorified camp, at West
Chop on Martha’s Vineyard and have become fond of cruising
around New England, but last year I sold my small yaw] (before
the hurricane season) with the thought of getting a part of a
bigger boat. I have found no more delightful way to spend a
vacation or a weekend.

I still play golf occasionally, but care less now when I can’t
make a good score. A few years ago I took up the sport of
curling, which I find fascinating and good winter exercise, even
if it is indoors, Occasionally, I am lured away to shoot partridges
or ducks, but never do the birds much harm. Am still interested
in historical prints and other Americana and some day hope to
spend a lot more time on these.

In this life I find that a lot depends upon “where you sit.” For
instance, I’m sure that some of my family and many Boston
friends consider me a sort of wild-eyed maverick, but when I visit
outside Massachusetts, I have frequently been called a “typical
George Apley.” Likewise in politics, I consider myself a liberal
but I must confess I almost invariably vote the straight Republican
ticket and my “egg-head” friends think of me as a hide-bound
reactionary! Seriously, I believe that Eisenhower is the only great

C751]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

President we have had since Theodore Roosevelt. My political
and social beliefs closely parallel his: namely, the government is
supposed to serve all the people, and to regulate business where
necessary in the public interest, but not to socialize or nationalize
our business and professional lives.

In religion, although confirmed in the Episcopal Church, I have
not been a very devout attendant; and actually in faith I have be-
come a Unitarian. I have listened to the teachings of certain
Vedanta Swamis, who believe there is one universal moving spirit,
or God, who 1s present everywhere. Human beings have the
ability to recognize and know this God. However we learn to do
this is unimportant, whether through church ritual, communing
with nature, or any other way, but it is important to achieve this
knowledge of God somehow. If we all (including the Russians)
were fully aware of God all the time, there would be no more
quarrels, wars, or other avoidable troubles. I find much to com-
mend this philosophy, and also the similar modern Bahai religion
which stresses the unity of man.

Summing up the twenty-five years since leaving Harvard, I
think I have been very fortunate. I am very grateful for the op-
portunity of going to Harvard where I learned to think properly,
and as Rusty Crews put it in our Decennial Report, “to rid myself
of shibboleths.” Also, I am grateful for the many divergent
friends and contacts made at Harvard. I have also been fortunate
in having had somewhat of a head start in life financially. But
my great good fortune has been in my wife and four children,
The former has been always a thousand per cent through every-
thing good or bad. I haven’t always acted so as to deserve such
fortune, but I hope to improve. The children constantly grow
more and more absorbing, and as they develop and mature, I grad-
ually begin to grasp the riddle of the universe.

THOMAS FROTHINGHAM MASON

HOME Appress: 292 Eleanor Drive, Woodside, Calif.

orrice avpress: Thomas F, Mason, Inc. P.O, Box 821, Redwood City, Calif,

BORN: June 5, 1907, New York, N.Y, parents: Francis Mason, 96, Helen
Tremain Martin.

PrepAren aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

[752]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

MARRIED: Eleanor Iselin, Dec. 10, 1932, Katonah, N.Y. (divorced 1945);
Patricia Goodall Reed, Oct. 30, 1945, Woodside, Calif. crtLpren: Hope,
May 13, 1936; Alan H. Reed (stepson), June 7, 1942; Michael G. Reed

(stepson), July 28, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harding T. Mason, ’25.

OccUPATION: President, Thomas F. Mason, Inc., selling agents.

OFFICES HELD: Founder, first president, PM Company, Inc., Stamford, Conn.,
1936; treasurer, director, California Fasteners, 1949-53; member, Execu-
tive Committee, 1952-53, first vice-president, 1953-54, president, 1954-
55, Harvard Club of San Francisco; vestryman, St. Peters Episcopal
Church, Redwood City, 1948-54.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and San Francisco; Harvard Var-
sity Club; Menlo Country Club, Woodside, Calif.; Athens Club, Oak-
land, Calif.; The Recess, Detroit, Mich.; Society of Automotive En-

gineers.
PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles for Western Machinery and Steel World
on the influence of automotive production on the West Coast.

TWENTY-FIVE years later, the most dominant theme of those
years is elementary: how does one live up to the ideas, habits,
and tastes acquired during four years as an undergraduate in Cam-
bridge?

I have not found that my Harvard degree or the associations
acquired were any magic key to open any door that I wished to
enter, but in retrospect it does seem that there has been consider-
able “rushing in where angels fear to tread,” sometimes to per-
sonal detriment, but probably equally as many times to advantage.

In spite of the fact that there was left behind far too much
of what Harvard offered, I am satisfied that enough of Harvard
rubbed off during those four years to feel sincerely that at no
other college could I have ended up recipient of so much for so
little. A fairly persistent desire to promote something new or
different has not been time wasted. It was this philosophy which
caused me to quit the banking business in 1936 and enter the then
new plastics industry. In the meantime, the responsibility of mar-
riage and a child had been acquired, but being unable to find
enough challenge in the security of employment by others, I de-
cided to start my own business in 1938.

There is no question that making money and an early retirement
to enjoy the fruits of those labors have been positive goals over
the years. Actual experience, however, bears out that this pseudo

[753]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

This first quarter-century as a Harvard grad has passed by in an
extremely problematical atmosphere. I sincerely hope the next
twenty-five years will reflect more international peace of mind,
and that we and the rest of the alumni of this great institution
will continue to make our influence felt in this essential direction.

HARRY FOSTER MASSEY

HOME ADDRESS: 208 Wm. T. Morrissey Blyd., Quincy 71, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Harry Daniel Massey, Han-
nah Lewis.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MarrieD: Germaine Boutin, Oct. 3, 1936, Cambridge, Mass.

occupation: Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

THOMAS CRAWFORD MAYERS

HOME AporeEss: 64 Hope St., Stamford, Conn.

OFFice apprEss: Bloomingdale’s, 20 Broad St., Stamford, Conn.

Born: March 21, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Walter James Mayers, 'o2,
Alice Philomena Crawford.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marrieD: Alice M. Henry, Nov. 9, 1930, New York, N. ¥. CHILDREN: Thomas
Crawford, Jr., Aug. 28, 1931 (a. Andrea Kukis, Aug. 28, 1954); Mary
Alice, July 16, 1933; Lawrence Michael, April 17, 1935, Marjorie Ann,
May 20, 1938, Paul Henry, June 29, 1939; Ruth Marie, Sept. 3, 1941;
Eileen, June 23, 1944; Rosemary, Nov. 19, 1945; Brenda, Sept. 16, 1948.

occupation: General store manager, Bloomingdale's.

orrices HELD: Director, 1948-53, secretary, 1951-53, New Rochelle Civic and
Commerce Association, chairman, New Rochelle Retail Merchants’
Association, 1951; director, American Red Cross, New Rochelle, 1949-
50, Retail Merchants’ Council, Stamford, 1954, Stamford Chamber of
Commerce, 1955, Guest Brothers, Norwalk, Conn.; member Budget
Committee, New Rochelle Community Chest, 1950-53.

MeMaer of: Stamford Yacht Club, Stamford Rotary Club; Cardinal Farley
Assembly Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus; Harvard Club of West-
chester, Harvard Club of New Canaan, Conn,

TWENTY-FIVE years! 1930-1955. It has quite a flavor. It
(756)

nC RRO RRB RRR re

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marks twenty-five years after graduation from Harvard, twenty-
five years in the department store business, twenty-five years of
marriage. Forgive me if I work at it a bit; it kind of impresses
me. | don’t feel old, just important, Almost as important as when
each of my youngsters in their first year of Latin and Caesar have
been stuck and have come to Dad for help; and what a light has
dawned in their eyes when Dad could translate the whole thing
at sight. Or when we went ice-skating for the first time and Dad
could not only stand up, but he could skate backwards and stop
on a— ona half-dollar, if not a dime.

But enough of feeling important over the twenty-five years. A
few weeks after graduation, I started on the job at R. H. Macy’s
as a member of the Junior Executive Training Squad. After a
number of different jobs at Macy’s and Bamberger’s (a Macy
afhliate in Newark, N. J.), I joined my old boss at Bloomingdale’s
in New York as assistant store manager. This was in 1944. In 1947
I became personnel manager of Bloomingdale’s and in 1948 became
general store manager of Bloomingdale’s first branch store in New
Rochelle, Westchester County, New York. In 1953 Blooming-
dale’s built its third and biggest branch store in Stamford, Con-
necticut, and I became general store manager of this store, We
opened for business in February, 1954, and are doing quite nicely,
thank you.

A few months after graduation (November, 1930), I married
the girl I grew up with and with faith in God and confidence in
ourselves began our family. That family has grown to six girls
and three boys, and though we’ve been broke often, we've never
been poor. The toughest year financially was 1952-53 when three
of them were in college together, and six others were down the
line. At some time in the future, three will be in college together
again, but there won’t be so many others coming along behind.
So we figure it’s down hill from here in.

Tom, Jr. is now a lieutenant (j.g.) in Uncle Sam’s Navy,
having been commissioned at graduation from Holy Cross in 1953.
He has lately acquired a lovely wife — actually on his twenty-
third birthday — so I suppose grandparenthood i is to be our next
ste

Nine children, of course, always causes some comment. It has
seemed on some occasions that the “number” of our children has

[757]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

been our principal claim to fame or, at least, attention. I am not
one to boast of their number (almost anyone could do likewise),
or their fine qualities, but for the record permit me one comment.
They are and, God willing, will continue to be decent citizens and
so far we have done fairly well by them — two and three-fourths
college educations, only six and one-quarter to go.

Family and business certainly go far toward filling our lives
happily, but we have a lot of fun working at our newest home, a
lovely old house in Stamford, Connecticut, with a lovely garden
and lots of apple trees. A sometime golfer (usually breaking 100),
an occasional soft-baller, and an active interest in community
affairs round out our present. We’re looking forward to a con-
tinued rich future.

ATHERTON ROGERS MAYNARD

HOME ADpRESS: 46 Westgate Blvd., Plandome, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1 Madison Ave. New
York, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 5, 1907, Sudbury, Mass. parents: Henry Thomas Maynard,
Bessie F. Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Weston High School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; C.L.U. (American Coll. of
Life Underwriters), 1951.

MARRIED: Olive Fisher, June 11, 1931. CHILDREN: Joyce, March 1, 1933;
Deborah, April 7, 1934; Thomas F., Dec. 15, 1935; John R, Oct. 6
1941.

occupation: Second vice-president, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.

OFFicEs HELD: Chairman, Committee on Relations with Universities, Life
Insurance Agency Management Association; former president, direc-
tor, Buffalo Life Underwriters Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Chartered Life Under-
writers Association; National Association of Life Underwriters.

TWO weeks after graduation, I became an agent for the Metro-
politan Life and have been fortunate in being moved along from
one interesting sales management position to another. The first
twelve years we lived in various sections of the country — always
there were classmates or graduates who became close friends.
The last twelve years I have been located at One Madison
Avenue, travelling a great deal, especially in the Southeast, and

[758 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

when in New York, commuting from the north shore of Long
Island. Working for the Metropolitan has been a very rewarding
experience. With its pioneering work in health, housing, and sta-
tistical areas, as well as in merchandising vast amounts of life in-
surance protection, it has been more like being associated with an
institution than a business firm.

While still at Harvard I met my wife, Olive, then attending
Boston University. We both enjoy bridge. I like golf. Politically,
our house is divided and when our four children were all home,
the windows would rattle at election time. The oldest three are
now in college — none at Harvard, but each closely associated.
Joyce is a senior at Radcliffe and will be graduating during our
Twenty-fifth Reunion. Deborah is at Radcliffe too, a junior,
while Tom entered Hobart College in Geneva, New York, this fall
(where our classmate Alan Brown is president). John, now in
Grade Eight, refuses to be quoted for publication, but he could
follow either his father or his brother.

JEROME ANTHONY MEGNA

HOME ADDRESS: 1535 Blue Rd., Coral Gables, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 220 Miracle Mile, Coral Gables, Fla.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1911, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Mario Megna, Anne Cefalo.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B, cum laude, 1930; M.D. (Rush
Medical Coll.), 1935.

MARRIED: Alice Louise Pancoast, June 26, 1946, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILDREN:
Anne Elaine, Nov. 10, 1949; Jerome Anthony, Jr., March 9g, 1952.

occupation: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Staff surgeon, Dade County Hospital, Kendall, Fla. Variety
Children’s Hospital, Miami, Fla., attending surgeon, Mercy Hospital,
Miami, Fla.; courtesy surgeon, Jackson Memorial Hospital, Miami, Fla.,
Doctors Hospital, Coral Gables, Fla.

MEMBER oF: American College of Surgeons; Dade County Medical Associ-
ation; American Medical Association.

FROM 1930 to 1934 I was attending Rush Medical College of the
University of Chicago, and was graduated in March, 1934. I saw
life in the raw on the tough and rough West Side of Chicago, and
helped the coroner's physician autopsy such characters as Three-
fingered Jack White, Frankie Pope, etc. Missed Dillinger by three

[759]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

months by graduating ahead of the Class. I interned for eighteen
months, then in 1935 entered general practice in Milwaukee.
These were depression days. I made house calls for $1.50 and de-
livered babies on kitchen tables for $20, including care of the
baby. Paid by W.P.A. Believe I may have been born too soon,
as the men around me here now get §z50 and have never seen a
kitchen table or snow. Taught anatomy at Marquette University.
Saved my pitiful earnings and went back to school.

I was at the Graduate School of Surgery, University of
Pennsylvania, from 1940 to 1941, and for the next three years was
forced to “lay low” because of illness. I served a surgical resi-
dency at Presbyterian Hospital in Philadelphia from 1944 to 1946.
Here I met my wife.

In 1946 1 began practice in Ft. Pierce, Florida, where I hoped
to build a group practice, After a few years, however, I decided
I was trying to hatch a billiard ball. Some day I'll write a book
about it. We tired of the “Durango Kid,” and got the hell back |
to the big city where we belonged. Hated to leave an excellent
practice, but it was one of the better decisions in itinerant career.
I started from scratch again in Miami, working for a while as resi-
dent at Doctors Hospital. Opened up an office for the practice of
surgery in Coral Gables in June, 1952. We have been happy ever
since we left Ft. Pierce and now I have the start of a good surgical
practice. My wife and children thrive here and I believe my
peregrinations are over.

While my practice builds up, I manage to keep busy. I put in
a great deal of time on a charity surgical service. I had to give up
golf because of a bad knee and my hobbies now are becoming
more those of the cerebrum than the biceps. I enrolled in the
University of Miami Law School and am doing it in easy stages.
Wish I had done it long ago. Criminal law was very interesting
and gave me ideas for a couple of mystery stories combining
medicine and Jaw. At any rate, it’s better than watching television.
In my spare time, I have all I can do to keep up with our two little
characters.

As for opinions, etc.: like all M.D.’s, I think I could write a

book. Why should I be different?

[ 760 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HARRIS MELIA

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Powow St., Amesbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Amesbury High School, Amesbury, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 4, 1908, Amesbury, Mass, parents: Patrick Joseph Melia, Cecily
Teresa McDermott.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(31); ED.M., 1940.

MARRIED: Marion Carson, June 24, 1939, Amesbury, Mass.

occupation: Head of History Department; faculty manager of athletics.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Amesbury Public Library, Grand Knight, 1939-50,
Chancellor, 1950-54, Amesbury Council, Knights of Columbus; presi-
dent, Amesbury Teachers Association, 1940-41; director, Amesbury
Chapter, since 1954, president, Northeastern Conference, 1954-55, Red

Cross,

MEMBER OF; American Historical Association; Amesbury Classroom
Teachers Association; American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars;
Knights of Columbus; New England Association of Social Studies
Teachers; Faculty Managers Association of Massachusetts, Town of
Amesbury History Committee.

AFTER graduation from Harvard, I did some work at the Har-
vard Graduate School of Education in preparation for the Master’s
degree in education. In September, 1933, I started teaching at
Amesbury High, a career which has given me much pleasure and
satisfaction, if little monetary gain. My efforts were divided be-
tween the English and History Departments until 1942, when I
assumed headship of the History Department, a position I have
held since that time. My position as faculty manager of athletics
has kept me interested in, and closely allied with, schoolboy
athletics on the Massachusetts North Shore for the past twenty
years.
My interest in the theatre, which started with membership, in
the Harvard Dramatic Club, has been kept alive through the years
with my efforts in directing community and high sc hool produc-
tions. Since 1933 I have directed some seventeen full-length plays
and ten musical comedies. In the late thirties, I acted” and did
publicity for a summer theatre at Rye, New Hampshire, and
since the second World War, I have been connected with the
Valley Players of Holyoke, Massachusetts, where I have served
as treasurer and played some twenty-five roles.

I have tried to play some small part in the life of my home com-

[ 761 ]

™ TE PE aR «reer nef NRCP —
° ns TINA ia ee He AuTi

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

munity. I have served as trustee of the Public Library, as a direc-
tor of the local chapter of the Red Cross, as a director of numerous
adult education projects, and as an executive officer in the leader-
ship of our local Knights of Columbus Council.

My relatively uneventful career in the teaching profession was
interrupted between July, 1943, and November, 1945, by service
in the s5ist Field Artillery Battalion. All but eight months of
this service was in Europe with the First Army. Although my
outfit, a heavy artillery battalion, was in combat continually from
D + 20 to V-E Day, we luckily suffered few casualties. The
opportunity to meet many interesting English, French, Dutch,
Belgian, and German people proved a stimulating experience
which offset much of the discomfort of life in the field. I still
cherish a fond hope of retracing the peregrinations of my outfit
during World War II some day before another outburst limits
foreign travel to combat troops.

HENRY CUTTING MERRIAM

HOME ADDRESS: 164 Quinobequin Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

oFFice aporess: Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, 80 Federal St., Boston,
Mass.

Borw: April 12, 1911, Brockton, Mass. parents: Franklin Henry Merriam,
M.D. 99, Stella Marie Jones.

PREPARED AT: Braintree High School, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1939.

marniep: Lillian Petrie, November, 1931, Braintree, Mass. (divorced 1932);
Gladys Emma Shields, Feb. 24, 1940, Braintree, Mass. cmt: Alvin
Russell, March 14, 1947.

occupation: Certified public accountant.

orFicgs HELD: Member Education Committee, Massachusetts Society of
Certified Public Accountants, 1945-47; director, Boston Control, 1950-
53, secretary, National Annual Conference, 1950, Controllers Institute
of America; controller, Allied Kid Company, 1948-54.

Member OF: Controllers Institute of America, American Institute of Ac-
countants; American Accounting Association; Massachusetts Society of
Certified Public Accountants, Union Church Men’s Club.

PROMPTED by a spirit of coiperation, in an effort to make
John Cross’s job easier as far as this humble person is concerned.
I hope to submit this at an early date. The past is easy to sum-

[762]

7a

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marize, but my problem concerns the period from August, 1954,
to publication date.

September, 1929, found me unable to continue in school and
receptive to the then apparent affluence obtainable by contact
with the investment business. The head office of Lee, Higginson
& Company was in my native Beantown, held an enviable success
record, and could use my services.

Although the stock market made history by its collapse in Oc-
tober and November of 1929, my progress was satisfying until
general business conditions (early 1931) reduced brokerage al-
most to the non-existent status. During the period, remuneration
and responsibility had rapidly increased and contacts were made
which have greatly affected my life to date.

In March, 1931, Lee, Higginson & Company no longer needed
my services. This had been expected. Thereupon, in company
with another, I toured the country from top to bottom and across
its breadth. August, 1931, found me back in the suburbs of Bean-
town, employed in the Bethlehem shipyard at Fore River, Massa-
chusetts. I was classed as a “heavy rigger,” and my principal
work was “riding the hook” on travelling cranes and signalling
disposition of crane loads. No wonder that aviation became an in-
terest during this period. All my free hours were spent in flying
in the company of my companion of the tour of America. April,
1932: general business was lousy. I was married. Finances were
low. I liked flying. So I fired up my steel working job to spend
more time flying. April 19, 1932: we crashed. My benefits: heavy
concussion; upper jaw broken in two places; broken neck bones;
mangled nose, etc. Doctors ordered no employment for at least
one year. During the recuperating period, my father died; my
wife, Lillian, divorced me; and life seemed hopeless except for my
contacts from Lee, Higginson days.

Finally the cure period ended and a clerical job was obtained.
This in August, 1933; present day salary scales were not then in
evidence. July, 1934, occasioned the death (in another airplane
crash) of my companion and good friend of the earlier mishap.
So ended the best friendship I have had to this date. A new era
commenced, The mother of my deceased fricnd was most kind
in making available those who were helpful and instructive. My
social outlook changed and with it came a desire for basic back-

[ 763 ]

ein. ~— a Tr -teOAe R ERA rtn: UDI AY ce BEM OR ar a. dmesg,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ground in the type of work in which I seemed best suited. Decem-
ber, 1935, marked my entry into public accounting. With no spe-
cialized educational equipment, I became afhliated with Lybrand,
Ross Brothers & Montgomery in their Boston office. This was a
happy affiliation. There was so much to learn; so many different
things happened.

Marriage to Gladys came in 1940 (one of my smart moves).
World War II became a reality. I was too old and too Jong out
of practice to be wanted for flying. I was too busy in connection
with war industries to be drafted. Years really galloped by. I
was lured away from Lybrand by prospects of big money and re-
sponsibilities in private industry (Allied Kid Company) on Janu-
ary 1, 1947. This became an unhappy affiliation.

However, a real ray of sunshine has been in evidence through-
out most of the now-concluded unhappy period. Our son was
born in March, 1947, and is more than even we prejudiced parents
claim. I resigned from Allied Kid Company, effective April 30,
1954, and am enjoying the first real vacation since August, 1933.
No definite plans have been made for the future (as of August,
1954) except to try to provide happiness for my wife, son, and
friends during the rest of my life.

I returned to public accounting and affiliation with Lybrand,
Ross Bros. & Montgomery on November 15, 1954. Previously,
eleven of the happiest years of my life were in this environment.
Here’s to the future.

In summary: it would seem that Harvard has not contributed
too much to my life. Of course, I have not contributed much to
it. I do believe that Harvard has more educational opportunities
available than any other institution in the world. This is not be-
cause of the Alumni, but rather the cause of the Alumni.

RICHARD HUMPHREY MERRICK

HOME appress: Route 1, Box 154, Oakton, Va.

orrice appress: Office Army Chief of Information, The Pentagon, Wash-
ington 25, D.C.

BoRN: Dec. 30, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Roy Cleasby Merrick, Edna May
Poulcy,

Prepare at; Bowen High School, Chicago, Il.

[ 764}

we

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; LLB. cum laude,

1933-
MaRRIED: Earlene Ada Miller, Aug. 10, 1929, Chicago, Ill. (divorced 1946,

died‘1951); Joan Alice Merritt, May 4, 1946, London, England. cum:
Michael (stepson), Feb. 21, 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hubert C. Merrick, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; army officer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Grievance Committee, Chicago Bar Association,

1949-51.
MEMBER OF: Chicago, Illinois, American Bar Associations; Law Club of

Chicago, Legal Club of Chicago; Military Order of the World Wars,
CIC Association; Military Intelligence Association, Reserve Officers
Association; Oakton Hamsters; English-Speaking Union.

FOLLOWING graduation from Law School, I engaged in the
general practice of the law in Chicago from 1933 to 1940. I had
remained interested in the Army Reserve and in November, 1940,
was called to active duty, serving as Intelligence and Public Rela-
tions Officer at Fort Custer, Michigan. From 1942 to 1946 I was
in the European Theatre as Chief United States Army Press Cen-
sor, Theatre Censor, and Executive Officer of Public Relations
Division, Headquarters, United States Forces Europe, last serving
as a colonel.

In 1946 I returned to the law as a partner in the firm of Cassels,
Potter & Bentley, with which I had been associated before the
war,

In 1951, to my surprise, I was recalled by the Army as an al-
leged expert in field press censorship and assigned to the Office
of the Chief of Information, Department of the Army. Since then
I have been busy as chairman of a working committee, repre-
senting the three Military Departments and the Department of
Defense in the drafting and “coordinating” of a joint regulation,
field manuals, and other directives required for the establishment
and conduct of field press censorship in combat areas, should this
ever again be necessary.

I have determined this time to remain with the Army so long
as there is a job for me to do, We have found our sojourn in Vir-
ginia very pleasant. We have enjoyed trying to keep up with a
large garden and a number of what my wife calls “crearures,”
cats (six at the moment), a dog, geese, and ducks. We expect to
move on in a few months and look forward to what the next

station will bring.
[ 765 ]

“ORY I RMI: areeno rte ERENCE SER Sm eeED on a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ROBERT MERRITT

HOME ADDRESS: 1936 Main St, Glastonbury, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: Insurance Dept. State Office Bldg., Hartford 1 5. Conn.

BORN: Aug. 29, 1909, South Hadley Falls, Mass. parents: Harry Tirrell
Merritt, Ethel Almira Moore.

PREPARED AT: Brewster Free Academy, Wolfeboro, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

marrieD: Mary M. McAleer, April 3, 1948, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Priscilla Ann, April 23, 1950; Cynthia Elizabeth, Oct. 5, 1951; Peter
Charles, May 30, 1954.

OccUPATION: Assistant actuary, Connecticut Insurance Department.

OFFICES HELD: President, Brewster Academy Alumni Association, 1935-36,
Boston Brewster Club, 1941-46, Oratorio-Chorale of Connecticut, 1949-
s1; actuarial assistant, Columbian National Life Insurance Company,
Boston, 1937-42; assistant to actuary, Savings Banks Life Insurance Fund,
New York, 1942-45; actuary, Savings Banks Life Insurance Fund of
Connecticut, Hartford, 1945-52.

MEMBER OF: Hartford Symphony Chorale; Hartford Get-Together Club

(discussion club).

RIGHT after graduation, many of the Class had no jobs and
weren't happy about it. I had one, but I wasn’t happy about it.
Nine years before, my father — after a lifetime of teaching — had
started a small specialty printing business in our small town in
New Hampshire. From the first, it had been a struggle with in-
sufficient working capital; but he was just beginning to attain
some success when in the spring of our senior year he was stricken
with tuberculosis. Thus it became apparent that I should have
to step in and try to help him, although an academic career ap-
pealed to me much more.

After two years of ups and downs, Father finally died on Wash-
ington’s Birthday, 1932. From then on, things went from bad to
worse. The artistic aspects of printing I enjoyed; but dealing
with creditors and drumming up new business were definitely not
for me. The curtain fell in 1937.

The next six months were spent in job-hunting. Fortunately,
it didn’t take much money to live in 1937. In an attempt to get
into teaching, I went to the Summer School of Education and
took a course. But it seemed no one wanted as a teacher a man
of twenty-eight with no previous experience.

When I was in College, no one told me what an actuary was,

[ 766 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and I didn’t learn until that year of 1937- So, when teaching
didn’t pan out, that was the line I pursued. Here, too, my age was
against me; and from what I know now of the difficulty of actu-
arial examinations, I can understand why. However, in December
I finally got a job in the actuarial department of a Boston life
insurance company; and I have been in that work ever since, with
a gratifying degree of job satisfaction. I worked in New York
from 1942 to 1945, and here in Hartford since. My present posi-
tion dates from October 1, 1952.

With the death of my father, I acquired a ready-made family:
my mother; one sister who put herself through Tufts practically
single-handed, and a younger sister nine years old. My mother,
of course, remained dependent on me until her death in 1947.
Not only did this keep me out of military service, but it is also
the principal reason why I did not marry until 1948.

My wife is about the best thing that ever happened to me (actu-
aries never make unqualified statements). To make up for lost
time, we have had our family of three in four years. Like all kids,
they are a joy and an irritation; but mostly the former, I am happy
to say.

Between our first two children, we left our Hartford apartment
and coéperatively with my wife’s parents, who were giving up a
large house in Boston, we bought a big, 18th Century house in
Glastonbury, a growing suburb. I had always admired old New
England homes, but never expected to own one. Ours has many
authentic original features and was tastefully and lovingly re-
stored in 1946 under the direction of classmate, Prentiss Glazier.
Like the children, it is not an unmixed blessing; and like all mod-
ern home-owners, J am learning how much one can do himself.
But, it is very much worth while.

Music is our primary avocation. As a member of a Hartford
chorus, I helped promote its merger in 1949 with another similar
group and served two years as president of the new organization.
This year we, in turn, have become part of the Hartford Sym-
phony Orchestra. When not singing, we listen to FM radio and
our own quite extensive record collection through a recently ac-
quired high-fidelity system.

My father, a Wilsonian liberal, watched the depression from his
sick-bed and one day propounded to me his solution: “the sociali-

[ 767 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

zation of basic industry.” A complete political ignoramus, |
didn’t even know what he meant; but my education proceeded

apace and my first presidential vote, in 1932, was for Norman
Thomas. I have followed the New Deal-Fair Deal line ever
since. Although McCarthy, thank God, seems to have passed the
peak of his power, I regard the current threat to civil liberties as
the greatest problem facing the country today.

In religion I have passed from agnosticism to Anglo-Catholi-
cism, with a brief stopover in Congregationalism. My wife is a
moderate Roman Catholic, so we have no conflict on this score.

I have always been grateful and proud to be a Harvard man
(there is something about the Blue-tinged atmosphere hereabouts
that accentuates these feelings). If my contributions do not seem
to bear this out, I hope it will be remembered that I am passing
through the period of heavy family responsibilities just that much
later than most of the Class.

HAROLD GEORGE MEYER

HOME ADDRESS: 1601 Beverly Rd., Brooklyn 26, N.Y.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Conde Nast Publications, Inc., 420 Lexington Ave., New
York 17, N.Y.

BORN: July 19, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Henry William Meyer,
Magdalena Carstens,

PREPARED AT: Jamaica High School, Jamaica, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cu? laude, 1930; LL.B. 1933.

occuPATION: Assistant to the president, Conde Nast Publications, Inc.

OFFIcES HELD: Director, Conde Nast Publications, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Amateur Comedy Club; Wheat-
ley Hills Golf Club.

BUSINESS business — there is no value in dwelling at length on
the matter of a vocation. Having been pushed out of the Law
School in the boom year of 1933, my relations with the legal pro-
fession were meager and unrewarding. When an opportunity
arose to enter the publishing business, the switch was made
quickly and with no subsequent regrets. Publishing is a fast,
fluctuating rat race and thus affords a maximum of tantalizing
problems. Interest in the job is therefore maintained at a high
level. Having now been associated with Conde Nast for eighteen
years, my vocation has now assumed a certain aura of permanence.

[ 768 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Government business — being very much of a ripe plum in
December, 1941, I injected myself into the 1941-1945 fracas at an
early stage and spent four years in the Air Corps absorbed in the
statistical side of the war and surrounded at all times by batteries
of IBM machines, Side trips to West Point, California, New
Guinea, and Manila relieved the inevitable monotony.

Show business— by far my most interesting avocation has
been the stage in all its aspects. Dramatic activity at Harvard led
into summer stock in 1931 and for nineteen summers I have trod
the boards in the hills of New Hampshire. I also belong to a
dramatic organization in New York which has operated without
a break since 1884 (not with the same cast, however). Besides
being fun, the stage offers a possible out if the publishing business
gets too tough.

Family business — what can a bachelor say?

Monkey business — have always steered clear of politics.

WILLIAM NOEL MIDDLETON

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Ash St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Walworth Co., Inc., South Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 12, 1909, Holbrook, Mass. parents: William Middleton, Emma
Moore.

PREPARED AT: Milton High School, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. agra cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Lavinia Louise Tripp, Aug. 21, 1938 (divorced 1947); Mary Louise
(Bacon) Wood, Dec. 30, 1949. camp: William Parker Wood, Jr. (step-
son), October, 1931.

HARVARD SON: William Parker Wood, Jr., ’54.

OccUPATION: Personnel manager.

OFFICES HELD: Program chairman, American Society of Safety Engineers,
Boston Chapter, 1954-55; member board of directors, American Cancer
Society, Boston Chapter, 1954-56, Industry Member, WAIC, World
War II.

MEMBER OF: Personnel Managers Club of Boston; American Socicty of
Safety Engineers; Massachusetts Safety Council; American Cancer Soci-
ety; Massachusetts Society of Training Directors; Phi Delca Kappa;
Phi Beta Kappa; Cambridge Civic Association.

Dear Bill:

IMPORTUNED and harassed by a certain John Cross of the
Class of 1930, I am forced to sit down and write a brief biography

[ 769 ]

row

TPL 25 rsp panne
Fa EE ma 8 Ore TRIESTE NRE NN 6 eee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

of my past twenty-five years. Since you will be in the same posi-
tion twenty-five years from now, I thought it a good idea to give
my stepson some conception of what he will be up against in the
future,

I am afraid I must admit that the decade from 1930 to 1940 was
an undistinguished one, so far as business advancement was con-
cerned. Some teaching and tutoring here and abroad, a year at
the Harvard Graduate School of Education, and two minor busi-
ness connections fill up this whole period.

In 1941, a few months prior to Pearl Harbor, I became employ-
ment manager for Walworth Company in South Boston (manu-
facturers of brass valves, fittings, pipe wrenches, fabricated pipe).
As you know, I am still with the same company, having been
promoted to personnel manager in 1953. It is challenging and
stimulating work with its problems of union grievances, hiring,
training, guidance, safety, and so on.

World War II passed me by, as I was considered to be an essen-
tial part of a war industry. It seems ironic that you, a major in
English, should be studying at the Army Language School in
Monterey, California, while I, who majored in Romance lan-
guages, should end up in the iconoclastic business world!

My vegetable garden was very successful this summer — no
bugs and plenty of rain. We canned lots of tomatoes and I stored
a couple of bushels of carrots and parsnips in the ground for our
use this winter. Your mother says to tell you that a parsnip is
still a parsnip, unfortunately!

Regarding the Twenty-fifth Reunion, I am planning to write to
some of the old gang and round them up for cocktails in the apart-
ment some time during the festivities— King, Prior, Lincoln,
Baum, Lynch, Krismeyer. Too bad you won’t be home on leave
to meet in person the names you have heard me mention.

If you have read this far, thanks for your patience; and, remem-
ber that Harvard will be after you, too, in the not too distant
future,

As ever,
Noel.

[770 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS LEONARD MIKULES

HOME appREss: 199 Duke of Gloucester St., Annapolis, Md.

oFFice appress: U.S. Naval Institute, Annapolis, Md.

BoRN: March 6, 1909, Washington, D. C. parents: Alexander Leon Mikules,
Cordelia Leonard Kelly.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M., 1932.

MARRIED: Roberta Macky Whitehead, June 9, 1951, Wickliffe Church,
Clarke County, Virginia.

OCCUPATION: Publishing.

MEMBER OF: The Players, New York; Harvard Club of Boston; Army and
Navy Club, Washington; Annapolitan Club, Annapolis, Modern Lan-
guage Association of America.

“THOSE who cannot remember the past,” wrote another and a
great Harvard man, George Santayana, “are condemned to repeat
it.’ And exactly because I remember the past so clearly, I ap-
proach with diffidence the repeating of it in writing — which is
what the Class Life calls for, a freshman essay—“On Being
Twenty-five Years Out of Harvard.”

For “your life since graduation” sets up a dichotomy which I
thank God and the Faculty John Harvard’s college never set up
in my life. I believe I can sort out the things Harvard did for,
made possible for me; equally, I believe that Harvard would never
have wanted me if I had not brought to Cambridge the roots I
spring from. Those roots are humble. If Harvard helped me
there, it was in the way of learning how to be, then how not to
be, a snob; how to seek your roots time and again, since you
would always find there whatever you knew or ever would know
of ambition or justice or love or honor.

Here, as all of us who have ever taught at Harvard or anywhere
else know, is the raw stuff that reaches a college. And the effec-
tive value of the college in the student’s life is how it hits him
while he is in it and how he looks back upon it when he is no
longer safe inside that strangely charmed world that is created by
the meeting of youth with the interested intellectualism, the dis-
interested idealism, of the true academic community.

For me, Harvard meant a crass London assurance when I was
first looking for jobs in those uncomfortable years that followed
our graduation, I hope I have got over it, But I know perfectly

[771]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

CARL BERNARD MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 4838 Rodman St. N.W., Washington, D. C.
OFFice aporess: Publicity Branch, MIPPO, U.S. Army, Radio & TV Section,
Washington, D. C.

BORN: May 23, 1906, Springfield, Mass. parents: Alfred Miller, Lena Akst
Muller.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: 1937 (divorced 1942); remarried, 1949.

occuPATION: Writer for radio-TV; composer.

MEMBER OF: The Bohemians (Musicians Club) 1952; National Association for
American Composers and Conductors, 1953; British Royal Signals Club
(honorary), Tunis, 1943; Kamakura (Japan) Music Club, 1947-48; Pie-
rian Sodality, 1930; Harvard Club of Japan, 1947-48; Harvard Club of
France, 1949-50, Harvard Club of Washington; Japan Composer So-
ciety (honorary), 1947-48.

HERE is my vita. This is a kind of busman’s holiday for me, as a
good part of my work is taken up with writing. However, who
could not feel the sharp, incisive point of this prodding, the
goads, I mean. I really sat down to write this tonight to escape
those terrible, awful rebukes to my procrastinating ways. And to-
morrow after work I shall have a picture taken; anything, my dear
John Cross, to avoid being impaled on the sharp ends of your
deadly reproaches. (I think you deserve a medal for both your
persistence and patience.)

In the early part of 1931 I left Boston for New York quite
confident that the Big Town would be my oyster. But there
weren't any pearls lying around; much less, easy money; least of
all, jobs.

New York was full of college graduates and we were all in
the same boat together. Educated men were a dime a dozen and
they could either go on relief, or to hell, or both. Despite the de-
pression and hard times, however, Manhattan was gay in contrast
to its affluence and Jack of gayety nowadays. People had more
time to kill in those days and it took little money to have fun.

I tried real estate and other business for a while, and then spent
the year 1932 to 1933 writing musical criticism for the New York
Daily Mirror. 1 earned very little money, but gained valuable
experience in learning to write, especially against a deadline (in-
cluding this one.) No more goads, please, John Cross.

[774]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Subsequently, I worked at publicity and public relations in
fine arts, music, and radio; and also in radio broadcasting as a
writer, director, and production man. Came World War II and I
was drafted into the U.S. Army Signal Corps. Although I tried
to enlist, I was advised to wait until my draft number came up.
The Signal Corps at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, was known
as the Country Club of the Army. Nobody wanted to leave it to
go anywhere else. There were a number of electrical engineers,
communications experts, and some bright boys with high IQ’s,
who were being groomed for some big brain work — exactly what,
nobody knew. In the early part of 1943 I went to North Africa
in a troop convoy, ostensibly to be a radio announcer. That's
what I and certain of my companions-in-arms thought, but after
a few weeks we found ourselves doing work not remotely con-
nected with broadcasting.

I transferred to Signal Intelligence and spent about five weeks
in Tunisia at the close of the Tunisian campaign, which marked
the defeat of the Africa Korps and the preparation for the land-
ings in Sicily. I decoded and translated German radio messages.
I returned to Algiers and after several weeks was sent out again to
Tunisia, this time as an interpreter in French in General (then)
Eisenhower’s personal command post at Amilcar near the ruins
of ancient Carthage. There I became the champion scrounger of
the outfit and was constantly besieged with requests from
colonels, majors, captains, lieutenants, non-coms, and privates for
hquor (not whiskey, because only the British had it), beer, wine,
ice, maps, photographic paper, bathing suits, etc., and oyster forks
for the General’s birthday party in 1943.

Back in Algiers in October, I became an orientation lecturer
in my Signal Regiment and continued in that work at AFHQ at
Caserta in Italy following my arrival there in June, 1944. In
December I went to Rome, where I worked in the Armed Forces
Radio Station, broadcasting to the troops over the network,
writing scripts, and doing production chores. “For information
on Rome, see your travel agent or read Cecil Roberts’ book, And
So To Rome.”

I returned to the States in the summer of 1945, and I found a
job in the Army on East q2d Street, New York City, as a wrirer
and lecturer. Discharged from the Army in August of i945, I

[775]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

spent the next eighteen months in New York readjusting to
civilian life, which consisted of learning to sleep indoors in pa-
jamas; losing forty-five pounds weight under a physician’s care,
job-hunting and renewing old acquaintances.

In December of 1946 I received a wire from the Army offering
me a job in Japan. In Tokyo I was director of music for the
Japanese radio network under the Occupation. In my stay in
Japan, I had the distinct feeling that I was walking through the
pages of Alice in Wonderland. The Japanese musicians, and
other people too, feted, wined, and dined me so often and with
such lavish hospitality that I longed for a plain diet of corned
beef and cabbage or, at least, Boston Baked Beans and Brown
Bread as a change from sukyaki (pronounced skeeyakee).

Back in New York in July of 1948, after about seven months
of enforced idleness, I decided to go to Paris to pursue my musi-
cal studies under the GI Bill of Rights. I had studied previously
with Roger Sessions, but the war interrupted my studies. I spent
about seventeen months in Paris studying ‘composition under
Arthur Honnegger and Darius Milhaud, and harmony under
Georges Dandelot.

After touring England for five weeks in the summer of 1950,
I returned to New York in September. Since that time I have
made some progress as a composer, having written two works for
chorus, a cycle of songs for soprano and string quartet, a suite for
chamber orchestra, and two string quartets.

In politics I am a Democrat, but vote independently as I see
fit. | have not one, but three vocations: music, radio, and public
relations, I am also a humanist, a philosophical pessimist, a free-
thinker, a rationalist, devoted not to any particular cause or creed,
but to the spirit of free inquiry and the search for the truth. I am
also a sedate Bohemian and don’t care what other people do in
their private lives, so long as they don’t do it to me. As for my
hobbies, I have too many interests, such as composing or singing
or performing music, and travel for study and work, to be oc-
cupied with hobbies. However, I do like to hike in the woods
with a pack on my back carrying enough food for several days
away from people, towns, and civilization.

At the present time I work as a writer and administrator in
radio and television for the United States Government.

[776]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREEMAN DEVOLD MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 1024 Baldwin Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Observatory, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1909, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Rasmus Kjeldsberg Miller,
Ednah Freeman Weeks.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1930; A.M.

19323 PH.D., 1934.

MARRIED: Marie Dresser, June 27, 1933, Winchester, Mass.

OccuPATION: Associate professor of astronomy.

MEMBER OF: American Astronomical Society; Sigma Xi; Astronomical
Society of the Pacific; American Association of University Professors;
International Astronomical Union; Harvard Club of Houston and Bos-
ton (formerly).

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous research papers in Astrophysical Journal, As-
tronomical Journal, Proceedings Astronomical Society of the Pacific,
Harvard Observatory publications, University of Michigan Observa-
tory publications, Proceedings National Academy of Science; contri-
butions from Perkins Observatory, Ohio Wesleyan, Ohio State Univer-
siues,

MY activities since 1930 have been conditioned by an early deci-

sion to make astronomy my profession. Following graduation, I

continued at Harvard Observatory as a graduate student and com-

pleted my work for the Ph.D. in 1934. In 1953 I celebrated the

Twentieth anniversary of my marriage to Marie (Dresser), Rad-

cliffe, ’34, who, like myself, was a resident of Winchester, Massa-

chusetts.

University positions were scarce in the middle thirties, but I
was fortunate in the fall of 1934 in going to Denison University,
Granville, Ohio, a small institution with a good observatory.
Here we spent the better part of six happy years, which were
terminated by the war.

Membership in the NROTC during college days led to my
being called to active duty on destroyers in December, 1940. De-
cember 7, 1941, found my division off the Oregon coast, and the
next few years were reasonably hectic. My service included com-
mand of a destroyer division in the Aclantic. I am still associated
with the Navy through the Research Reserve and was promoted
to captain two years ago.

Immediately after the war, I joined the staff of the Observatory
of the University of Michigan as associate professor, and have been

(777 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

here since. Here Harvard is well represented — three
staff members in Ann Arbor are Harvard graduates,
did his graduate work there. |
Hobbies: military and naval history, and activity in assorted
little cheatre groups. Mrs. Miller is responsible for the Jatt er, hay
ng directed a good many plays in the past few years, | play :
ttle bad golf, but the less said of that the better.

Of the ¢
ix
and a fours,

+ GILBERT STANTON MILLER

- April 25, 1910, Newport, R. I. PARENTS: James Gilbert Miller, Mae
sertrude Stanton.

:Ep AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

IN COLLEGE: 1926-1932.

farch 11, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. —

L his death, Miller continued to study at Harvard. He was
of-course student during his last two years.

JOHN CHESTER MILLER

ss: 177 Bolivar Lane, Menlo Park, Calif,
ess: Dept. of History, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.

23, 1907, Santa Barbara, Calif. parents: Charles Anton Miller,
.. Johnson.

Stadium High School, Tacoma, Wash.

EGE: 1027-1930. DEGREES: S.B. summa cum laude, 1930; 4M»
ry 1939

lys V. Johnson, Aug. 23, 1933, Tacoma, Wash. CHILDREN:

athony, June 23, 1937; John Holmes, Nov. 21, 19413 Jeffrey
aril 16, 1945.

fessor.

im Adams: Pioneer in Propaganda; Origins of the Amer ican
Triumph of Freedom, Crisis in Freedom.

1 simple annals of a college professor: one wife and
After ten years as professor of history at Bry?

I am now Edgar E, Robinson Professor of Ame
Stanford University,

[778]

A ate tle al acichigect dt « Slee: 5 A ee”

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN MINER

NG ADDRESS: 295 Beacon St., Boston 16, Mass.
MAILE May 6 1997s Winchester, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin Franklin Miner,
“Myrtle Sylvia Mills.
REPARED AT: Stone School, Boston, Mass.
P

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M., 1932.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

HENRY PHILIP MINIS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: R.F.D. 1, Princeton, N.J.

porn: June 11, 1908, Savannah, Ga. parents: Abram Minis, Mabel A. Henry.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marriep: Dorothea Herty, June 16, 1939, Bethlehem, Pa. cuiLpren: Dorothea,
Sept. 4, 1940; Susan, April 23, 1942; Henry Philip, Jr., Sept. 4, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Abram Minis, Jr., °26.

occupation: Television writing, editing, programming.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City.

WE live a full and active life on a farm some seven miles outside

of Princeton with time off in the summer for fairly wide-ranging
camping trips. My war service was with the OWI, part of it in
London. As for political convictions, our definitions are so hazy
that it is difficult to pinpoint position, the word liberal has no
credo — call me a Stevenson Democrat as of now. As to that area
known as work, mine’s fun too; I have been with networks and

agencies, prefer free-lancing, which is what 1 am doing at the
present time,

HARRY MITCHELL

OFFICE 17 Cummings Rd, Brookline 46, Mass.

von ADDRESS: 11 Beacon St, Boston, Mass.; 11 Canal St, Malden, Mass.
‘Sept. 1, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Abraham Mitchell, Sarah

PR arkowitz,

ta AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

MAR N COLLEGE: 1926-1928, DEGREE: LLB, (Suffolk Law School), 1932.
RIED: Sara Mazonson, March 3, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Barbara

HOME ADpREss:

_ HARY vy July 23, 1943; Mare David, Sept. 1, 1948.

R . ont: : :
> BROTHER: Louis Mitchell, Bus, School, 1934-1936

(779 ]

Teco raecamantenr ins, Satendatert |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

occupation: Lawyer; manufacturer.
MEMBER OF: Masons; Knights of Pythias; University Club; New Century
Club.

IN 1928 I became very anxious to start earning my fortune, so |
changed from a pre-medical education and enrolled in a night law
school. In 1932 I emerged a full-fledged “depression era” attorney
and I was on my way, and how! My first case involved a $100,000
equity action and my ego was promptly deflated by a $2800
verdict. Thence, on to unconquered spaces. I met and captivated
my present wife, then a legal secretary to one of our more prom-
inent judges and, in 1949, I successfully wooed her and she became
the Mrs. During the war years, Uncle Sam didn’t want me. We
had a charming daughter in 1943 and I emerged into a full-time
legal practice dealing with Mexican affairs. Seventeen trips to
Mexico in two years, being chased from one airline to another, to
a railroad train, thence to a burro, finally convinced me to give
up this constant travelling “South of the Border.” During this
period, I was a member of the 100,000 miles a year airline club for
five consecutive years, travelling all over our country and Mexico.

After the war, I commenced a legal career as a specialist in cor-
porate finance, which education I received during the war years.
In 1948 my son was born. He was a birthday present to me from
my wife. And he sure looks it, a real chip off the old block, imi-
tates me to a T. My present to my wife was to be appointed
counsel to one of our largest banks in the commercial finance de-
partment.

In 1951, realizing that law is a personal business, and dreading
the thought of the end of my days, I acquired ownership of the
oldest mould shop in the country, specializing in the fabrication
of steel moulds for the rubber industry. This highly successful
enterprise makes practising law a pleasure and gives me peace of
financial mind. I hope, soon, to do those things that the other
members of the Class of 1930 are now doing. My family, iz toto,
are looking forward to the Reunion of the Class in June.

[ 780 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROGER SHERMAN MITCHELL

ADDRESS: 4200 E. Ninth Ave., Denver, Colo.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1907, Wayne, Pa. parents: Roger Sherman Mitchell, Mar-
garet Ashmead.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D., 1934.

MarRiED: Virginia Anne Garrett, Sept. 5, 1932, Haddonfield, N.J. cumpren:
Roger Sherman, 3d, Feb. 8, 1935; Anne, Jan. 3, 1938; Garrett, Aug. 14,
1942.

HARVARD SON: Roger Sherman Mitchell, 3d, ’57.

OCCUPATION: Physician; clinical director, Trudeau Sanatorium; assistant pro-
fessor of medicine, University of Vermont.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Committee on Therapy, American Trudeau Soci-
ety, Subspecialty Board of Pulmonary Diseases, American Board of In-
ternal Medicine; fellow, American College of Physicians.

MEMBER OF: American Clinical and Climatological Association, Rotary In-
ternational.

PUBLICATIONS: “Pneumoperitoneum in the Treatment of Pulmonary Tubercu-
losis,” April, 1947, “Late Results of Modified Bed Rest in Active Uncom-
plicated Minimal Pulmonary Tuberculosis,” April, 1953, “Artificial
Pneumothorax: A Statistical Analysis of 557 Cases Initiated in 1930-39
and Followed in 1949,” July and August, 1951, “The Use of Pneumo-
peritoneum as an Adjunct to the Prolonged Streptomycin-Para-Amino-
salicylic Acid Treatment of Pulmonary Tuberculosis,” June, 1954,
“Phrenic Nerve Interruption in the Treatment of Pulmonary Tubercu-
losis,” December, 1948, American Review of Tuberculosis, “Late Results
of Treatment of the Solitary Dense Tuberculous Pulmonary Focus
(Tuberculoma) Without Resection or Chemotherapy,” September,
1953, “Early Results of Prolonged Streptomycin-PAS Treatment of
Pulmonary Tuberculosis,” August, 1954, Annals of Internal Medicine;
“Intestinal Tuberculosis: An Analysis of 346 Cases Diagnosed by
Routine Intestinal Radiography on 5,529 Admissions for Pulmonary
Tuberculosis, 1924-49,” American Journal of Medical Sciences, March,

1954.
AFTER graduation in 1930, I was fortunate to have a family with
enough money to send me to medical school. I didn’t do too well
the first year, did somewhat better the second year, but did not
discover that I made a great decision in staying in medicine until
I began seeing patients in the latter part of my third year in
medicine. I have never regretted going into medicine and I’m
ever grateful to my parents and grandparents for more or less

leading me in that direction.
First after graduation from Medical School in ’34, I took post-

[781 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

graduate work to prepare me to return to my home town in Glens
Falls. I did this in °37 and practised there for five years, holding
upa respectable practice — at least, getting very busy and earning
a reasonable living. My practice was confined to internal medi-
cine, but this really meant that I was doing general practice with-
out the so-called “gravy” of surgery, injuries, and obstetrics. In
early ’42 I applied for a commission in the Army and was re-
jected because of a spot on my lung. I went to Trudeau Sana-
torium where, after four or five months, I was told that my mini-
mal tuberculosis was inactive and I received a certificate stating
I was fit for limited duty in the Army. As a result, I entered the
Air Force on September 10, 1942, as a captain. I became Assistant
Chief of Medical Service in Orlando, in the station hospital, after
an eight-week indoctrination course at Miami Beach. I then went
to the School of Aviation and Medicine, back to Orlando, then as
Chief of Medicine to Eglund Field Regional Hospital until late
"44, when a small increase in my abnormal shadow in the lung led
to my transfer to Fitzsimons Army Hospital, Denver, where after
observation and rest for two months, I was discharged from the
service in May, 1945. I then went to North Carolina State
Tuberculosis Sanatorium to live and work at a reduced level of
activity for the next twenty months.

The latter part of this time, of course, I worked full time and
was ready to return to my practice in Glens Falls when an oppor-
tunity to come to Trudeau Sanatorium as associate medical di-
rector led me to change the plans of my life rather drastically.
While there are certain drawbacks to practising in a single,
chronic disease, I have never regretted the change. I am, indeed,
fortunate in being able to see patients, do some clinical research,
and teach students, not only undergraduates but postgraduate
students. We are affiliated with the College of Medicine, Univer-
sity of Vermont, a fine, small medical school. We have our an-
nual four-week Trudeau School of Tuberculosis to which post-
graduate students and specialists come each year. We also have
a summer school and, more recently, a Symposium for General
Practitioners. I have had the pleasure of seeing the disease of
tuberculosis come under medical control, more or less, during the
last ten years. There is still a great need for care and intelligence
in the final stamping out of this disease in this country, certainly

[ 782 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

enough to keep me and many thousands of other doctors in this
specialized field busy for the balance of our lifetimes. But the end
is certainly in sight, it would seem.

I have not been as active in Presbyterian Church work as I
should have been. I have been chairman of the Westminster
Fellowship for several years and for two years was a deacon of
the Saranac Lake Presbyterian Church. My hobbies are mostly
rather active — skiing and figure skating in the winter, golf and
taking care of the place in the summer. I am a Republican very
much opposed to the Roosevelt and Truman concepts, particu-
larly in domestic matters, but not altogether happy with President
Eisenhower’s reluctance to step into the McCarthy squabble.
However, we have certainly gained in honesty what we may have
lost in dynamic leadership.

Our home was finished in April, 1952, a contemporary ranch
type building overlooking .a twenty-mile valley near Trudeau.
It was built for us by my uncle, Duffield Ashmead, Jr., who, un-
fortunately, died before being able to see it. I have a very great
deal to be thankful for: leading the list, my family, of course, but
not far from the top my deep sense of obligation to Harvard for
an attitude towards life and learning which I think is peculiar
at least to my circle of friends from Harvard.

CHARLES GORDON MOCK

HOME AppREss: Av. 3ra, No. 38, Quinta “Abiga,” Alta Mira, Caracas, Vene-
zuela.

OFFICE ADpREsS: AFIA Venezolana, Apartado 2940, Caracas Venezuela.

BoRN: Oct. 17, 1908, Harper, Kans. parents: Charles W. Mock, p.M.p., ’05,
Clara G. Carter.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Falmouth, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MarRieD: Eleanor Wilkins, Jan. 20, 1932, North Falmouth, Mass. (divorced
1942); Charmian Boomer, April 19, 1944, Los Bafios, Philippines. cxit-
pren: Charles W., 2d, April 10, 1946, Anthony G., June 19, 1948; Wil-

. liam F., Feb. 16, 1951.

occupaTion: Manager in Venezuela, American Foreign Insurance Associa-
tion.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Valle Arriba Golf Club,
Caracas; Army Navy Club, Manila.

[ 783 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

FROM 1930 to 1931 I was a salesman with Remington-Rand in
New York City; good experience, but it was rough! From 1931
to 1941 there were ten years in the claims department of the
Liberty Mutual Insurance Company of Boston; a varied ex-
perience in New England cities and New York. Married, a young
man with a bright future, climaxed in 1940 by separation from my
wife, and rather in a rut. I campaigned for Willkie that year, a
change was needed!

In 1941 the Liberty Mutual sent me to the Philippines, where I
met Charmian Boomer in September. The Japanese took control
for three years and, although in salvageable condition when re-
leased from internment during 1945, we were wiser in the ways
of human nature. A year in Boston with the Liberty Mutual re-
vived us, and “Joe” — Charles W., 2d, was added to the family.
The following months were spent in Manila, Shanghai, and Hono-
lulu. Although my report on the Far East thoroughly discouraged
Liberty Mutual, we couldn’t resist another fling in that direction.

In 1947 I resigned from Liberty Mutual and joined American
Factors, Ltd., of Honolulu, to manage their insurance agency in
Manila, Philippines. Tony was born in Manila during those hectic
but fascinating three years. Life was well lived, but in 1950 we
decided to take our brood closer to home (Bill was expected and
uncertainty prevailed in the Far East). After a wonderful winter
vacation at Minot, Massachusetts, we embarked for South
America for my present employer, American Foreign Insurance
Association. While Venezuela is far different from the Far East,
for a businessman it possesses unsurpassed appeal — there is liter-
ally something new every hour. We'll be glad to show the town
to any of you passing this way.

DAVID MODELL

HOME ADDRESS: 16364 Palm Court, Santa Monica, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Bernard Modell, Dora
Tillinger.

PREPARED AT: Boys High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1930(29); A.M., 19303 PH.D. 1933:

MaRRieD: Virginia Jourdan Wooden, Oct. 3, 1942, Washington, D. C.

OUCUPATION: Research,

[ 784 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Audubon Society.

PuBLICATIONS: “Datalogy”, “Soldier's Data Book”; “Systemology”; “The
Structure of Vesuvianite,” “The Structure of Enstatite,” “The Structure
of Anthophyllite,” Warren and Modell; “The Crystallography of Stib-
nite and Orpiment from Manhattan, Nevada,” Palache and Modell,
“Ring-Dike Complex of the Belknap Mountains, N. H.”

AS far back as I can remember, the arrangement and control of
information, knowledge, and data, plus the mechanics of think-
ing, have attracted my very strong interest. This interest was
aided and abetted during high school days by a couple of great
teachers, one of whom was a top authority on philology and
linguistics. A desire to make a contribution to this field by finding
non-routine paths was strengthened during my first couple of
years at Harvard. It was practical before attempting non-routine
methods to know well the good routine procedures. I therefore
took advantage of the opportunity in another field in which I had
long been interested to stay on at Harvard for graduate study,
taking after the S.B. an A.M. and, in 1933, a Ph.D. I took part,
as author or co-author, in the publication of seven scientific
papers. I was assistant in mineralogy in 1931 and again in 1932.
I received an appointment as instructor in mineralogy for one year
in 1933. I left the University in 1934 to begin a large scale work,
a unifying treatise or organum of knowledge, technology and
education, some notes for which I had already collected. I sur-
veyed, studied, and analyzed more than 200 libraries and special
collections, as well as the education-information relationship at
several eastern universities.

In 1941 I privately published a manuscript synopsis dealing
with systems of information which I entitled “Systemology.” In
it | attempted to stress the importance of the subject for the war
effort, thinking it should be brought to the attention of authorities
in the Army. I made a trip to Harvard early in 1942 to bring it to
the attention of President Conant, saw his secretary, and left a
copy there and at Widener Library. In the later stages of the war,
and thereafter, it was with much interest that I followed the great
increase of activity which I had predicted in the field of informa-
tion handling and control.

In the Army from 1942 to 1945, I was first with an IBM
Machine Records group at Staten Island, New York; then a

[785 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

librarian at the Army War College (now the National War Col-
lege) at Washington, D. C. In 1944 I was assigned by the com-
manding general at Fort Warren, Wyoming, to make a survey
and report on the data and information systems at that training
post. In my report I suggested (and later helped organize) what
I named the Data Center, which was established there and offi-
cially called by that name. I had also written a paper there some-
what earlier, entitled “Datalogy,” which organized subject fields
for a science of data and information handling and control, and
which aroused considerable interest. I had also written a
“Soldier’s Data Book,” which was in use. In 1945 at Camp Carson,
Colorado, I received a written commendation for the suggestion,
establishment and maintenance of a technical library.

I had long wished for the opportunity to survey and study one
of the great centers of technical information in the world, the
U.S. Patent Office. The opportunity came soon after discharge
from the Army and J entered the Patent Office as a patent ex-
aminer. I was, by my own request, assigned to patents and litera-
ture concerned with equipment, devices, and methods for han-
dling and controlling information and also those concerned with
the separate classes whose subject was educational equipment and
methods. Four great years were spent studying new and old in-
ventions in the field concomitantly finding new aspects of the
subject and new approaches to its problems. During my fifth year
in the office, I took educational leave of absence under the G.I.
Bill, to study advanced philology and linguistics and to translate
foreign patents, mostly German, in the field of information con-
trol equipment and educational instruments, with an unusual
authority in those fields. I also set up at this time a pilot data
control institute which was visited by two interested officials at
the Library of Congress.

In 1951 a pollen allergy which had begun in 1946 sent us
searchingly to California. We found it agreeable, decided to stay,
and have moved here more or less permanently. The allergy, it
seems, did not move with us,

Since 1951, studies, researches, collections of materials, think-
ing and reaching conclusions in the field of data and information
handling and contro] have been going on as they have been over

[ 786 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the years, except that my notes and papers appear to occupy
twice as much space as they did at that time.

For relaxation, I have edited The Santa Monica Naturalist for
the past two years, kept up my college interest in music, and go
in for botany and gardening.

I have never taken an interest in politics or political discussions
but think I fall into something like a “liberal-conservative” cate-
gory. I have held, and do hold, the conviction that religious
faith is necessary for a stable society. The conclusion of this ac-
count makes mention for the first time of another and better half,
my wife. She is, in life’s many activities, a co-worker, source of
inspiration, and a very excellent smoother-over.

MAYNARD LEWIS MOODY

HOME aApprEss: 54 Newell Rd., Auburndale 66, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Mutual Liability Insurance Co., South Station
Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 7, 1908, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Albert Gardner Moody,
Minnie Stevens.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926~1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Marion Linden Mellus, Sept. 14, 1935, Newton, Mass. c#nLpREN:
Maynard Gardner, Sept. 28, 1938; Edward Mellus, Dec. 3, 1941.

OccUPATION: Division auditor, insurance company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Newton Y.M.C.A., 1954-57.

E. RAY MOONEY

HOME aDpRESS: 7300 Connecticut Ave., Chevy Chase, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Insurance, Veterans Administration, Washington
25, D. C,

BORN: Dec. 13, 1908, West Orange, N. J. PARENTS: Lewis Edward Mooney,
Dorothy H. Dangel.

PREPARED AT: West Orange High School, West Orange, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: S.B. 1930(31); CL.u. (American Coll.
of Life Underwriters), 1942.

MaRRIED: Edwina Zosia Conrad, Feb. 1, 1936, Harrison, N. Y. cnutp: Marya
Conrad, Aug. 10, 1942.

occuPATION: Research insurance specialist.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant director, Oakland, Calif. 1936-52, Denver, Colo.
1952-54, V.A. Insurance Service.

[ 787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club, Washington, D. C.; American Society of
Chartered Life Underwriters; American Legion.

AFTER leaving Cambridge, the early depression years found me
employed as a struggling young engineer with two different cor-
porations, a national manufacturing company, and a public utility
construction company, both located in Virginia. The financial
grass looked greener in other fields, so I transferred, temporarily
I thought at the time, to the business of life insurance. This soon
afforded me a wife in 36 and became more permanent as I pro-
gressed through various field and home office positions in West-
chester County and New York City.

In ’42 our first and only offspring arrived, and in the same year,
following three years of part-time study, I received the Chartered
Life Underwriter’s designation which more firmly fixed my as-
sociation with the life insurance business. I continued with home
office agency work until I received my commission in the US.
Navy.

There followed the usual peregrinations of a military family
from New York to Florida to Washington to New Orleans and
finally back to Washington. My assignment involved specialized
personnel work and required considerable travel in the States and
in the Pacific. ] happened to be in Pearl Harbor for the memor-
able celebration of V-J Day.

Just as the depression exerted an influence in changing field of
endeavor, so my military service influenced a change within the
field of life insurance. Having had experience with GI insurance
in the service, I received an offer from the Veterans Administra-
tion and assisted in the tremendous task of converting a military
insurance program to a civilian one. After a few months in
Washington, we set out upon our travels again, this time for the
west coast to set up the California office in the program. We en-
joyed living in Berkeley close to the campus of the University of
California, where I observed firsthand the differences between
state and privately endowed universities. This included the fact
that Pacific Coast Conference football had reached its ultimate,
if questionable, influence in collegiate life, with the local uni-
versity going to the Rose Bow] three consecutive years. Har-
vard’s disastrous appearance at Palo Alto was loyally observed,

[ 788 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and I for one am relieved to have our football teams playing ball
within the Ivy League where our opponents have mutual stand-
ards.

When the California office was consolidated at Denver with
two other offices in an economy move, my assignment proved to
be larger and more interesting. With such a large volume of
insurance accounts, electric accounting machine methods offered
the solution to both the service and economy concepts, and I had
the opportunity to specialize in this field. After two years in
Denver, I was transferred back to Washington just recently to
take over a staff research position. My present assignment is
part of the economy drive in the Federal Government and is
aimed at maximum utilization of electric machine accounting
methods in the GI insurance program.

My travels have been largely confined to the U.S.A., but that
has been covered thoroughly. After eight years in the West, we
are glad to settle down back east. My hobbies have become re-
stricted by time and advancing age to golf and remodeling the
home we purchased recently in Maryland. Somehow there never
seems to be enough time for the former because of the latter.

CHARLES WICKHAM MOORE

MAILING ADDRESS: % Guaranty Trust Co., Paris, France.

BORN: June 27, 1908, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Charles Whippo Moore, ’or,
Frances Wickham.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MOORE’S mother writes that after graduation he was associated
with Smith, Moore & Company, investment bankers in St. Louis,
until 1942 when he enlisted in the Navy where he served through-
out the war. In 1945 he was dispatched to Japan where he served
at Supreme Allied Headquarters for two years. In 1951 he was
called back to the Service and dispatched as Assistant Naval
Attaché to the Embassy in Paris where he served for two years.
He resigned from the Navy with the rank of commander and is
now travelling in Europe.

[ 789 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

JAMES WEED MOORE

MAILING ADDRESS: 770 Fairmount Ave., St. Paul, Minn.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1906, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Albert Randall Moore, Caro-
line Agnes Weed.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MARRIED: Alice Ramer, May 9, 1929, St. Paul, Minn. critpren: Albert R.,

Feb, 10, 1932; Sarah R., Feb. 11, 1934; James Weed, Jr., Nov. 10, 1938.
occupation: Afercanule business.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

ROBERT SWAIN MORISON

HOME Aboress: 114 Bellair Drive, Dobbs Ferry, Westchester, N. Y.

OFFice appress: The Rockefeller Foundation, Room 5500, 4g W. 49th St.,
New York, N. Y¥.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1906, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: George Abbot Morison,
Amelia Hundey Elmore.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1926, 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D., 1935.

MARRIED: Beningna Rempel, Dec. 26, 1936, Peterborough, N. H. CHILDREN:
Beningna Christiana, Jan. 22, 1938; John Rempel, July 24, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Elting E. Morison, ’32; John H. Morison, ’34.

occupation: Associate director, Division of Medicine and Public Health,
The Rockefeller Foundation.

OFFICES HELD: Resident physician, Collis P. Huntington Memorial Hospital,
Boston, 1934-35; Austin teaching fellow, 1935-36, instructor in physi-
ology, 1936-38, associate in anatomy, 1938-41, assistant professor of
anatomy, 1941-44, Harvard Medical School; assistant director, 1944-48,
associate director, 1949-51, Medical Sciences Division, associate director,
Division of Medicine and Public Health, since 1951, Rockefeller
Foundation.

MEMBER oF: American Physiological Society; American Association of
Anatomists, American Association for the Advancement of Science;
Coffee House Club, Harvey Society.

PuBLications: Articles in American Journal of Physiology and Journal of
Neuropbysiology.

THE outside world didn’t look too good in 1930, so I ducked
into Medical School for another four years. Off and on during
this time I did a little extra work in the laboratories of physiology
and got interested in impractical matters. Although I liked taking
care of patients too, I was pulled into physiology by the example

[790 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Professor Walter Cannon and the then brilliant group of peo-
ple around him. I was also pushed into it; as a chronic osteo-
myelitis patient I found the sixteen-hour day of an intern un-
healthy. My first real job carried the flamboyant and quite mis-
leading title of resident physician to the Huntington Hospital
where I acted as a sort of intern to a few non-surgical patients,
most of whom were dying of leukemia. The rest of the time was
spent in trying to persuade a frog’s heart to tell me how many
calcium ions were in the blood. In retrospect, the best thing
about this year was the development of a warm affection for
Dr. Joe Aub. :

The succeeding three years were spent as a junior member of
the Medical School Department of Physiology. Each year a new
set of research fellows, many of them from abroad, came to work
with Dr. Cannon and I made several permanent friendships in the
international band of brothers known as neurophysiologists. One
of these aliens remained to become my wife and expand my un-
derstanding in a number of directions. Europeans generally have
a longer perspective than most of us who were born in Wiscon-
sin. In my wife’s case historical consciousness is amusingly
emphasized by the fact that her grandfather was born in the
Eighteenth Century, her father in the Nineteenth, and she her-
self in the Twentieth. Add to this the fact that she didn’t leave
Russia until ten years after the October revolution and left Ger-
many after one good look at Adolf Hitler and you can see how
she had something to teach a young American whose sense of
values had been formed in the “era of wonderful nonsense.”
Somewhat more tangibly she presented me with two children, a
girl and boy in that order, who now look as if they may turn out
all right.

My last six years at Harvard were spent across the quadrangle
- from Dr. Cannon in Dr. Wislocki’s Department of Anatomy, but
I never became a morphologist and kept trying to find out how
the brain works by putting needles into it and recording the
electrical changes between them. Again I was lucky to be a part
of a department enjoying one of its peak periods under a distin-

guished leader.
Neither the Army nor the Navy liked the look of my X-rays,

[791 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

so I spent the war cramming “accelerated” medical students and
doing odd administrative jobs.

A rather tangled set of circumstances led to my present job
with The Rockefeller Foundation. Foundation officers (or phi-
lanthropoids, as they are known in technical circles) form a
species which is rather hard to pin down. Characteristically they
are constantly in movement and are supposed to be most easily
found at the fringes or growing points of knowledge. Anyhow,
I travel a good bit and I may be said to have grasshopper-back
opinions of the Mau Mau, apartheid, and the new state of affairs
in the Gold Coast as well as a bowing acquaintance with a num-
ber of Nineteenth Century characters in the silent rooms of clubs
in Australia and the Mother Country. All of this is supposed to
contribute in some way to better health and to a fuller under-
standing of how chemistry and physics make the man. One of
my most perceptive colleagues in the foundation business once re-
marked to me that the most a foundation officer could ordinarily
expect was to become a Twentieth Century Dilettante. It’s a lot
of fun but it must be admitted that some of us broken-down
researchers sometimes miss what is known in Spain as the “mo-
ment of truth.”

EDUCATION: Nothing really matters here except the quality
of teachers. In my own case I could begin with L. J. Henderson.
and A, N. Whitehead and name about ten people without whom
I would have been entirely different. Much too much time is
spent in monkeying with the gadgetry of curricula, courses, and
credits, and much too little on how to get good people to teach.

RELIGION: Religion may well be the opium of the people,
but one can remember the remark of a great English physician
that without opium few would have the temerity to practice
medicine. Nevertheless, 1 worry about the increasing tendency
in high places to say in one way or another that man’s mind has
failed him, that the Eighteenth Century was on the wrong track,
and that President Eliot suffered from hubris when he hoped to
solve man’s problems by understanding man.

In summary: Let’s leave far behind naive Peace of Mind
And dismiss in a twinkling Positive Thinking
I can’t Jet my choice be Arnold J. Toynbee

[792 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Or even be sure about Reinhold Niebuhr
Life is far fuller with Herber J. Muller.

POLITICS: I am a somewhat ovocephalic East Coast Repub-
lican who would vote with his party oftener if it weren't for
“Instant Massive Retaliation,” “Twenty Years of Treason,” the
high tariff, and the blinding glare from Nixon’s Boy Scout medals.

HARRY DUTTON MORSE

HOME ADDRESS: 122 Waverly Pl., New York, N.Y.; Millentown Road, Bed-
ford Village, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cartier, Inc., 653 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

BoRN: Feb. 17, 1909, Medford, Mass. parents: Erving Plumer Morse, ’or,
Marion Houghton Dutton.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Dorothy Bayley, May 4, 1942, New York, N.Y.

OccuPATION: Merchandising.

TWENTY-FIVE years out and a Harvard diploma could point
straight to the United States Presidency, but somewhere along
the way I deviated and am, instead, a happy walk-on at Claude
Cartier’s Fifth Avenue Pearl Palace. Briefly, my business career is
as follows: buying silver and jewelry for Filene’s in Boston,
Blooming dale’s in New York, and Montgomery Ward’s in Chi-
cago, from 1930 to 1942. From 1942 to 1946, I served in the
Navy as Ship’s Service Officer with the rank of lieutenant com-
mander. The entire time was spent at U.S.N.T.S. Farragut on
Lake Pendoreille in northern Idaho, a part of this country I should
like to visit again and again. My orders to report to Idaho came
shortly after my marriage to Dorothy Bayley (Connecticut
College, ’28, and a well-known illustrator), and they recom-
mended that I travel without wife, car, or other chattels. We put
the cocktail shaker and toaster in the car and headed west, beating
the railroad contingent by thirty-six hours.

From 1946 to 1951, I was associated with a well-known plastic
fabricating company in sales promotion, In 1951, having learned
their secrets, I went into business for myself; in 1953, they and I
both went out of business. Since that time, I have returned to my

0793]

OEE” “ TV RTT NT rr RoE EYER RTPFENEPSSuNmU Rese encneererres-rmereceue —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

first love, jewelry, and have been associated with Cartier’s New
York store, silver being my primary interest.

Fond as Dorothy and I are of our Greenwich Village studio, it’s
not for the summer; and after several years of rentals in the
Poundridge area, we found a practically defunct 18th Century |
farmhouse in Bedford Village, New York. We are gradually
making it habitable on a strictly “do it yourself” basis. It is hard
work, but fun, and is our only hobby. We now divide our time
between the two villages.

GEORGE MAGRATH MOSES

HOME ADDRESS: 223 Bedford Rd., Pleasantville, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Surety Co., 100 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Alfred Joseph Moses, Mar-
garet Carlton Magrath.

PREPARED AT: Pleasantville High School, Pleasantville, N.Y.; Roxbury Latin
School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930} LL.B. 1935 (36).

MarrieD: Catharine Cary, Oct. 12, 1934, Houlton, Maine. carpren: Walter
Cary, Sept. 20, 1935; Florence Emerson, July 3, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Herrick Moses, °31, A.M., °32, PH.D., 736.

occupaTIoN: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Board of Trustees, Unitarian Church, Flushing,
N.Y. 1942-44; district captain, Red Cross, 1944-48; assistant welfare
chief, local Civil Defense, 1952~54; secretary, 1953-54, vice-president
1954-55, University Club of Pleasantville.

MEMBER OF: Men’s Club of Presbyterian Church.

WHEN we entered college twenty-five years ago, a Republican
was in the White House. In my junior year, 1928, I reached my
Majority just in time to arrange for an absentee ballot. I cast my
first presidential ballot for Mr. Hoover. If I had been told then
that I would not be on the winning side again until 1952, or almost
around to our Twenty-fifth Reunion, I probably would have dis-
missed the advice as nonsense. Today, I could say I feel our
failure to elect a Republican all these years was just that —
nonsense.

The big time and thought consumer has been, and unfortu-
nately still is, the matter of winning the daily bread. It has not
proved too boring. In fact, it is rather fascinating. Any hope of

[ 794]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ever getting far enough ahead to retire is diminishing each vear
as inflation keeps putting prices up.

Many of our weekends have been spent in heavy work such
as painting our house inside and out, mixing and spreading con-
crete for the cellar floor or the sidewalk, and cutting up trees.
All these things are done by hand without any power tools. Such
activities, along with some sailing and swimming in Maine each
summer, fill much of the spare time and might be said to include
our main hobbies.

I have been reasonably active in Church affairs through the
years. Despite this—or possibly on account of this— my son,
who is now a sophomore at Bowdoin, refuses to go to church at
all. We trust this is a passing phase only. Perhaps changing from
the Episcopal Church to the Unitarian and then to the Presby-
terian confused him, though my daughter — now a senior in high
school — seems to have safely weathered the changes.

JACK JACOB MOSS

HOME ADDREsS: Winn Street, Burlington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4 Federal St., Woburn, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1908, Worcester, Mass. parents: Julius Moss, Lena Goodman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. 1933.

MARRIED: Sarah Teitelbaum, July 1, 1933, Boston, Mass. cuitpren: Davida,
Feb. 4, 1936; Jonathan, Oct. 21, 1947.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Town Counsel, Burlington, Mass. 1942-47, 1953-54; member,
Burlington Planning Board, 1943-54; president, Burlington Men’s Gyvic
Club, 1941, Woburn Hebrew Center, 1940; counsel, Burlington Water
District, 1948-54.

MEMBER OF: United Lodge, A.F.; Burlington Men’s Civic Club, Inc.; Woburn
Hebrew Center; Reading Symphony Orchestra.

PUBLICATIONS: History of music.

DURING college I earned much of my tuition from playing con-
certs and dances. I had already played oboe with the Boston
Symphony under Arthur Fiedler at the Esplanade concerts and
had received offers to play in various symphony orchestras. How-
ever, I chose to enter Harvard Law School and continued with

[795 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

music in order to earn tuition, There I organized the first Harvard
Law School dance with the blessing of Dean Pound. This, I am
informed, is now an institution and the boys at the College can no
longer joke about inviting their girls to the Harvard Law School
dance.

At Law School I continued to play dance music under the
name of “Jacques Marlowe and his Waterfront Club Orchestra.”
I had the luck to play at most of the major college proms during
the next three years. Sometimes we played in tuxedo and some-
times we played in gypsy costume.

On June 30, 1933, I took the Bar Examination and the next day
eloped and got married. Like the rest of us, it was a struggle to
eke out an existence. Luckily I passed the Bar and kept the wolf
away from the door by playing music. About 1936 I was fairly
established under my stage name, but decided that one head
could not be in two places at the same time, and so I gave up
professional music and concentrated on the law.

In 1938 I settled in the town of Burlington and became active
in politics by fighting with the New England Telephone & Tele-
graph Company and other utilities. In my battle with the Tele-
phone Company for lower rates and better service, I found that
they were charging discriminatory rates and as a result thereof the
company filed new schedules and admitted publicly that this
would result in a loss to them of one million dollars annually
($1,000,000.00).

I became an elected member of the Burlington Planning Board,
which office I still hold. In 1942 I became Town Counsel, where
"I served for five years, and when the political complexion changed,
I was ousted for a few years and reappointed for the year 1953.
During this period I helped establish the Burlington Water Dis-
trict, drafted and helped enact a zoning law, and obtained im-
proved public transportation for the town. I was also elected as
president of the Burlington Men’s Civic Club, and in 1945, I was
president of the Woburn Hebrew Center.

During the whole period I maintained my law office in Boston.
The travelling back and forth began to catch up on my creeping
age and so, in 1952, 1 decided to move the office to Woburn. Not
being able to find a suitable place, I got myself a partner and in
19§3 we commenced construction of a modern, air-conditioned

[ 796 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“Professional Office Building,” where I am now located with the
exalted title of janitor for the mortgagee bank.

I still play the oboe and find time to perform at concerts with
the Reading Symphony Orchestra. Once in a while, I pick up the
saxophone and donate my services. My hobby is still music and
outside of my law practice, I find in the music both relaxation and
pleasure.

WILLIAM HENRY MOTHERALL

HOME ADDRESS: 232 Greenwood Ave., Bethel, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Savings Banks Life Insurance Fund, 244 Madison Ave., New
York 16, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1907, Wilmington, Del. parents: William Motherall, Mary
Martha Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Newark Academy, Newark, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MARRIED: Nellie Katherine MacKay, Jan. 20, 1939, Brooklyn, N. Y.

occupaTion: Life insurance: assistant actuary.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Advisory Committee on Town Planning, 1953,
member board of finance, 1954, member Bethel Democratic Town Com-
mittee, since 1952, Bethel, Conn.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City.

LEAVING Harvard in the spring of 1929, I hoped to return in
the fall of 1930 and finish, but because of the depression I never
did make it. In the fall of 1929, I started work as an engineer
with the Western Electric Company but, shortly thereafter,
along with many other engineers, I shifted to the actuarial field
in which I have remained. From 1934 until 1946 I was with the
Prudential Insurance Company, Fackler & Breiby (consulting
actuaries), and the Metropolitan Life. In 1946 I was appointed
assistant actuary of the Savings Banks Life Insurance Fund.
Married in 1939, I took up residence in Brooklyn where —
except for a short term in the Army in 1943 —I lived until we
came to Bethel in 1950. Whether due to slowing down physi-
cally or acquiring some wisdom or a combination of both, in
1950 we decided that New York City on a twenty-four hour
basis was too much and moved to Bethel, Connecticut. Bethel is
a small town generally considered beyond the range of com-

[ 797 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

muting, but affords a type of living which I can recommend to
my classmates who find New York City too hectic.

Currently the 620 miles a week commuting between Bethel
and New York must rank first in travel. While a Republican by
heritage, I am a Democrat by conviction and am active in local
politics. With regard to religion, I am unaffiliated with any
group and have managed to maintain benevolent neutrality.

JOHN PRENTICE MOULTON

HOME ADDRESS: 127 E. 12th Ave., Spokane 3, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 128 E. 12th Ave., Spokane 3, Wash.

BoRN: Oct. 25, 1907, Lawrence, Mass, PARENTS: Arthur Wheelock Moulton,
Mary Corinne Prentice.

PREPARED AT: Salt Lake Collegiate Institute, Salt Lake City, Utah.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; B.D. (Episcopal Theological
School), 1933.

marriep: Mary Elizabeth Frances Porter, Aug. 15, 1933, Salt Lake City, Utah.
CHILDREN: Jane Prentice, Dec. 23, 1935; Susan Frances, Nov. 3, 1938;
John Porter, Aug. 13, 1944.

occupation: Canon, Cathedral of St. John the Evangelist.

OFFICES HELD: Priest-in-charge, Church of the Good Shepherd, Ogden, Utah,
1934-36; rector, Trinity Church, Milford, Mass., 1936-41, Grace Church,
Norwood, Mass., 1941-45; chaplain, Iolani School, Honolulu, Hawaii,
1945-51, Hawaii Episcopal Academy, Kamuela, Hawaii, 1951-52; canon,
Cathedral of St. John the Evangelist, since 1952.

TWENTY-FIVE years sounds like a rather large “passel” of time

all of a sudden. Well, let’s see. After Harvard there were three

happy years at Episcopal Theological School over on Brattle

Street, which made it possible to enjoy Cambridge and environs

just that much longer. The course of true love meanwhile was

running in its usual way, but finally smoothed itself out as the
above record indicates. After a very brief (thank goodness)
experience in Philadelphia, professional and family life began
in earnest in Ogden, Utah. There were the usual rough edges
which had to be polished, or is it knocked, off? Unfortunately, it
is usually the other guy who seems to have the rough spots. Any-
way, there is nothing like a congregation of church folk to take
care of that.

At the time I did not appreciate the western portion of our
U. 8. as much as I do today, so with our first child in tow we

[ 798 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

returned to eight years in Massachusetts. Being born a Yankee,
perhaps that was a natural if somewhat immature desire, although
I had been told that the boundaries of the Kingdom of God were
not confined to Massachusetts. These were some of the tag end
years of the depression which from a church point of view had
not been as noticeable in Utah as in Massachusetts, when for a
time, rector and parish treasurer played hide-and-seek on matters
of salary. However, things picked up after a time and Grace
Church, Norwood, changed its status from a diocesan mission to
a fully self-supporting parish, as it is to the present.

I had flirted at various times with the idea of teaching in a
Church school, Quite unexpectedly the opportunity came toward
the close of the war to teach at Iolani School in Honolulu. That
seemed too good to pass up and in spite of all kinds of shipping
and transportation difficulties current at the time, we were able to
make it and settled down for what turned out to be six years at
Tolani and one at Kamuela on the Island of Hawaii and the head-
quarters of the Parker Ranch, which I was told is the largest in-
dividually owned cattle ranch in the U. S. The latter, however,
was a far cry from the Hawaii we had known and loved on the
Island of Oahu, and we were glad to leave it at the end of a school
year. The Cathedral in Spokane, Washington, was in need of
help at the time, contacts were made, and so back we came to the
Northwest. If you have never undertaken a trip in this part of
your country, by all means, do so. It will help you understand
America.

In the family, Jane will begin her junior year at Smith College
and Susie will be in her senior year at St. Paul’s School in Walla
Walla, Washington. Johnny will continue to be in elementary
school which he thoroughly enjoys. That seems to be an experi-
ence which differs greatly from that of his father’s time. Frances
taught six of the seven years we were in Hawaii and for two years
has been director of Christian Education at the Cathedral in
Spokane. This year she is doing the same for the Missionary
District of Spokane, a considerable piece of real estate extending
east from the Cascades to the Idaho-Montana state line.

I note the form inquires about grandchildren. Let’s not hurry

it, boys.

[ 799 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ROBERT TAYLOR MOULTON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 39 Warren St., Salem, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 16, 1907, West Peabody, Mass, parents: Leroy Gilley | Moulton,
Grace Emily Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Peabody, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D., 1934.

MARRIED: Mildred Cowan Watson, Oct. 12, 1938, Danvers, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert Taylor, Jr, Dec. 13, 1939; Emily Louise, March 8, 1944; Elizabeth
Watson, July 5, 1945; Benjamin Watson, Nov. 6, 1948.

occuPATION: Pediatrician.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of Pediatrics, Salem Hospital; visiting physician, North
Shore Babies’ Hospital; associate physician, Children’s Hospital; assist-
ant in pediatrics, Harvard Medical School; consultant in pediatrics,
Addison Gilbert Hospital, Gloucester, Cable Memorial Hospital, Ips-
wich, Mass., president, medical advisory staff, North Shore United
Cerebral Palsy Association; vice-president, board of trustees, Tower
School in Marblehead, Inc.; vice-president, president-elect, Essex South
District Medical Society.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
New England Pediatric Society; American Academy of Pediatrics;
American Board of Pediatrics (Diplomate); Children’s Hospital Medical
Staff, Boston; Salem Hospital Medical Staff; North Shore Babies’ Hos-
pital Staff; Salem Association for prevention of Tuberculosis, North
Shore Harvard Club; Grace Church in Salem.

PUBLICATIONS: “Erythroblastosis Foetalis of the Icterus Gravis Type,” with
Dr. Donald A. Nickerson, New England Journal of Medicine, 1943.

AS my curriculum vitae reveals, medicine in general, and pedi-
atrics in particular, has been the main interest and occupation
these past twenty-five years. Four pleasant years at Harvard
Medical School, followed by three and a half busy years next
door at the Boston Children’s Hospital, prepared me for the prac-
tice of pediatrics, and still gives me an opportunity, through a
teaching assignment as an assistant in pediatrics, to continue a
pleasureable affiliation with the University.

Life in Salem has been full and replete with many opportunities
to satisfy one’s professional ambitions. Association with con-
genial and stimulating medical colleagues (among them our class-
mate, Dick Thompson) has made my practice enjoyable and
satisfying. With the cooperation of my fellow pediatricians and
practitioners, the development and improvement of the medical
management and care of pediatric patients and the teaching pro-

[ 800 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

grams offered the house staff at Salem and North Shore Babies’
Hospital affords satisfaction and constant challenge. This, to-
gether with the demands entailed in a busy practice (limited
now to office and hospital work due to illness in 1948) makes my
personal interpretation of tempus fugit more cognizant.

During World War II, I was on the home front and saw no
active service.

Our family keeps Mildred and myself busy and at times we find
ourselves wondering whether family life consists in bringing up
the children or the parents being brought up to date! Now with
Robert off to Brooks School for his secondary education, we
realize more than ever the importance of the cementing bonds
of home life and the activities of a family group. Emily, Eliza-
beth, and Benjamin remain home to keep us busy. The chance to
be able to share experiences with the children in gardening, pet
raising, photography, football games, music, vacation trips and
sight-seeing, stamps, family church services, and good citizenship
training gives us enjoyment, relaxation, and personal fulfillment.
Therein also lie our hobbies. .

The problems of educating our family interest us to the extent
of active participation in the parents’ group (Tower Associates)
of their school. Also, I find serving as a member of the board of
trustees of the Tower School in Marblehead, Inc., a rewarding
and rich personal experience and view it, egotistically, as my con-
tribution to try to keep the three R’s in their proper forefront
in primary education.

HALLAM LEONARD MOVIUS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Bates St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peabody Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Noy, 28, 1907, Newton, Mass. parents: Hallam Leonard Movius, ’o2,
Alice Lee West.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; A.M., 1933; PH.D, 1937.

MARRIED: Nancy Champion de Crespigny, Sept. 25, 1936, London, England.
CHILDREN: Geoffrey Hallam, Jan. 21, 1940; Alice Vierville, June 22, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: George West Movius, °32.

occupation: Professional archaeologist.

[{ 801 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor, Department of Anthropology, curator of
Palaeolithic Archaeology, Peabody Museum, Harvard University.
MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences (fellow); Society of

Anuquaries of London (fellow); Royal Irish Academy; Prehistoric
Society; Société Préhistorique Francaise; Schweizerischen Gesellschaft
fiir Urgeschichte (honorary); Deutsches Archaologisches Institut (hon-
orary); Hugo Obermaier Gesselschaft fiir Erforschung des Eiszeitalters
und seiner Kulturer (honorary); Société Préhistorique de l’Ariége
(honorary); American Anthropological Association (fellow); Geo-
logical Society of America (fellow); Archaeological Institute of Amer-

ica; Massachusetts Archaeological Society.

pustications: The Irish Stone Age, Cambridge University Press, 1942;
“Research on Early Man in Burma,” published by American Philosophi-
cal Society, 1943; “The Lower Palaeolithic Cultures of Southern and
Eastern Asia,” American Philosophical Society, 1948, “Old World
Prehistory: Palaeolithic,” in Anthropology Today; An Encyclopedic
Inventory, A. L. Kroeber, University of Chicago Press, 1953; over
sixty other papers, monographs, and articles for various encyclopedias.

AFTER leaving college, I entered the Graduate School, where I
took up the study of anthropology, my field of concentration as
an undergraduate. Several seasons of field-work in Europe and
the Middle East, augmented by a few months of study and travel
abroad, led me to decide on the field of Old World archaeology
as a profession. I have never regretted this decision. ‘Throughout,
my research has been dynamic — the origin and development of
early human cultures — and it has always been the Palaeolithic, or
Old Stone Age, period that has interested me particularly. Ar-
chaeology has also been the medium for making many good
friends, and for showing me much of Europe, the Middle East,
and Southeastern Asia. Furthermore, it was while engaged in
field-work in Ireland in 1935 that I became engaged to Nancy
de Crespigny of Adelaide, South Australia, whom I married the
following year.

From May, 1942, until January, 1946, I was in the service;
thirty-seven months of this period I was on overseas duty in the
Mediterranean Theatre with the 12th Air Force. In March of
1946 I returned to my former position as a member of the staff
of Harvard’s Peabody Museum, and in July of 1950, I was ap-
pointed to the faculty. We live in Cambridge during the aca-
demic year, and summer at Annisquam (near Gloucester) when
not abroad. In 1953 I conducted test excavations at a singularly

[ 802 J}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

important Upper Palaeolithic rock shelter in the classic Dordogne
region of southwestern France. I hope to spend the next five
to six years excavating this place, which contains an extraordi-
narily rich succession of prehistoric levels, each representing the
remains of a prolonged occupation of the locality by various
related groups of Ice Age hunters. It is in connection with a
grant from the Guggenheim Foundation for the purpose of con-
ducting background research on this project that I am going to
France this spring. I deeply regret that this activity has been so
unfortunately timed, since it means missing THE TWENTY-
FIFTH, but I have every confidence that the occasion will be
another high-water mark in the distinguished record of Har-
vard’s illustrious Class of 1930.

ANDREW JOSEPH MOYNIHAN

HOME ApDpREsS: 61 Salem St., Lawrence, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

BORN: March 9, 1908, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: James Moynihan, Catherine
A. Curry.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1934.

OoccuPATION: Head of English Department, Lawrence High School.

MEMBER OF: New England Association of Teachers of English; B.P.O. Elks;
National Council of Teachers of English.

I BECAME a secondary school teacher during the depth of the
Great Depression. At the time it was only a temporary expedient
until something better came along. However, after twenty-two
years I am afraid this job may become permanent, Working with
young people has proven a source of considerable challenge. Since
1951, when I became head of the English Department in my home
town high school, I have been interested chiefly in the develop-
ment of a better curriculum for the non-college preparatory
groups in literature and composition.

[ 803 ]

NNER ED ° AR LN NE NETNAMES AIRC gt <n sey tans sate

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

HARRY LOUIS MUELLER

HOME aboRESS: 64 Myopia Rd. Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE aDpREss: 31 Church St, Winchester, Mass.

BoRN: May 28, 1908, Steubenville, Ohio. PARENTS: Charles Louis Mueller,
Mary LaVerne Rarick.

PREPARED AT: Steubenville High School, Steubenville, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B, 1930: M.D, 1934.

marriep: Norma Ingred Bianchi, June 12, 1937, Wellesley Hills, Mass,
cHILDREN: Gretchen Elizabeth, June 28, 1940; Peter, June 28, 1940 (died
June 30, 1940); Sandra Margaret, March 27, 1942; Harry Louis, Jr.,
June 25, 1950.

occupation: Physician; pediatric allergist.

OFFICES HELD: Councilor, Massachusetts Medical Society, since 1949; secre-
tary, Pediatric Section, Massachusetts Medical Society, since 1951;
chief of allergy, Children’s Medical Center, Boston; instructor in pedi-
atrics, Harvard Medical School; consulting pediatrician, Choate Memo-
rial Hospital, Wobum; member School Committee, 1945-48, member
School Building Committee, 1947-48, member Town Meeting, since
1948, member Zoning Laws Revision Committee, 1952-53, Wainchester,
Mass., member Committee for Prepaid Medical Care, American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics, since 1953; director, Sanitary Products Corporation,
1952-53.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical So-
ciety; Middlesex East Medical Society; New England Pediatric Society;
American Academy of Pediatrics (fellow); American Academy of Al-
lergy; Sneeze Wheeze and Itch Club, Boston, Rotary Club, Winchester
Country Club, Winchester Historical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Irradiation of the Nasopharynx in Children with Infectious
Asthma,” New England Journal of Medicine, 1952; “The Practical Use
of a Cooling Device to Inhibit the Cutaneous Pain of Hypodermic
Injections,” New England Journal of Medicine, 1953; “Allergic Reac-
tions to Bee and Wasp Stings,” New England Journal of Medicine,
1953; “Dosage in the Treatment of Pollinosis,” Pediatrics Clinics of
North America, 1954.

JUNE, 1930, seems very remote and yet I find it hard to believe
(and in fact I don’t believe) that now I am one of those that I so
readily classified in 1930 as doddering old fools who should act
their age if they came to reunions at all.

Finishing college was just a beginning as I shifted over to the
Medical School and realized that this was made of sterner stuff
than Botany A. Those four years were pretty stern financially

too, but one very pleasant memory, in these days of one hundred
dollar a plate dinners, is the recollection of how we could stoke

[ 804 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

up for a twenty-four hour period on that “all you can eat for one
dollar” deal at “The Old France” in 1932.

With my chief interest in children, a succession of hospital
appointments at the Massachusetts General Hospital, the Chil-
dren’s Hospital here and the Children’s Hospital of Michigan in
Detroit ended in an appointment as pediatrician to the East Ala-
bama Health District, an ambitious and socialistic experimental
plan to bring specialized medical services to a rural area. A year
later I was back in Boston, having reported to my superiors the
belief that my salary would benefit the public more if it were
used to pay for the construction of pit privies. Since then, private
pediatric practice in an area north of Cambridge, teaching third
and fourth year medical students, working the medical school
clinics and Massachusetts General Hospital and Children’s Hos-
pital, plus as much time left over as could be found for clinical
research, has kept me reasonably busy learning more and more
about less and less. Gradual concentration has narrowed my
field to pediatric allergy. I continue to study, take exams for
further certification, study more, and I suppose will eventually
end up being a specialist on hay fever of the nostril in ten year
old female children.

Many medical students and most interns today are married,
thanks chiefly to a paternalistic government. You didn’t do that
in the thirties. We got a late start and when we were married
three years out of medical school, I was receiving forty-five dol-
lars a month as a hospital resident, while the rent for our apart-
ment was fifty dollars. Ignoring the principal of deficit spending
established and so cherished by F.D.R., my bride went to work
and in addition to being the “better half,” she was far and away
the most productive half of the combination as well. She has
also produced two lovely daughters and a liquidating dividend
eight years later in the form of a whirlwind we call Skippy. I
provided the Boxer, a maiden lady of unbounded affection for us
all, If a man’s success is measured by his family, I should be at
the head of the Class.

Golf completely replaced tennis and squash years ago when a
bout of rheumatic fever left a mark that seems to be distasteful
to the Army, Navy and life insurance companies. In fact, I'm

[ 805 ]

eeaieeememennel oe ttn

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

about the only one it doesn’t bother. Living in the woods, re-
moved from neighbors, we see no sense in leaving one summer
resort for another, so we take our holidays in the winter playing
golf, you know where. However, as present plans for model
railroading over the ledge in the basement go through, my golf
may take a nosedive. Gadgets fascinate me as manual labor does
not, so we have a collection of power jobs that throw the snow,
cut the grass, chop the leaves, saw the wood and sweep up the
remains. I am the answer to a repair man’s dream.

Although it appears to be a distinct minority, I still belong to
the group that believes in rugged individualism, as opposed to
security at the price of liberty. If that’s being one of the Old
Guard, you can count me in. Politics at the National and State
level frustrates me and in the past two years I can see no reason
for being a Republican and certainly none in changing into a
Democrat. Local politics at the town meeting level are, on the
other hand, stimulating and satisfying, with freedom from lip
service and the necessity to stand up and be counted.

DANIEL JOSEPH MULLANE

HOME Appress: 24 Bellaire Rd., Roslindale 31, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1101 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Dennis Joseph Mullane, Eliza-
beth Leonard.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; M.D., 1934.

Maraiep: Madeleine Egan, Jan. 30, 1937, Gloucester, Mass. cHmoren: Daniel
Joseph, Jr, March 10, 1943; David E., Nov. 21, 1945; Madeleine M,
March 2, 1947.

OCCUPATION; Surgeon.

orrices HELD: Chief, vascular service, St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Boston, con-
sultant, vascular surgery, Boston Lying-in Hospital; consultant, vascular
surgery, Free Hospital for Women, Boston.

MeMbeR or: American Medical Association, Massachusetts Medical Society;
American College of Surgeons (fellow); Boston Medical Library (fel-
low); Norfolk District Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific articles.

THAT does it! Goad No. 5 has me in tears. There is no choice
now. This vile deed must be done. For me, in 1930, the ivy-

[ 806 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

covered walls of Harvard College were replaced by the moss-
covered walls of the Harvard Medical School, to be followed in
turn by the sterile corridors of the Boston City Hospital. Then
came five years of general practice; thereafter, practice limited
to surgery. World War II interrupted this venture, but my short
career in the Navy was terminated after one year by a medical
discharge.

Blood vessel surgery had been 1 my special interest since my first
week of hospital training, when I was told to do some. That was
easy — one hand — the other held the book. In 1945 I was ap-
pointed consultant in vascular surgery at the Boston Lying-in
Hospital and in 1952, chief of vascular service at St. Elizabeth’s
Hospital.

We have three children, two boys and one girl: oldest son is
eleven; second son is nine; only daughter is seven. All are in
grade school. Most of what little leisure time there is seems to be
spent in trying to measure up to what appears to be a child’s
estimate of a successful father. That means swim, dive, row, bat
at least 1000, catch a football, ski, skate (fancy yet), shoot a puck
with unerring accuracy, never miss a basket, innumerable other
accomplishments, give the impression of enjoying it, and still be
able to stand up. You can hardly find a father like that any more.
Anyway, this is pure fantasy. Backing the car into the garage is
really too much work. I'd rather back it out.

As I started by saying, Goad No. 5 got me. And I know a good
goad when I see one. Hurricane Carol of recent New England
fame gave us a disaster and cost us a house on Cape Cod. That is
the real reason for the delay in writing this immortal piece of
literature. I have spent the entire fall goading my insurance com-
pany, and if I may be so bold as to say so, insurance companies
do not goad easily. Obviously my medical training and experi-
ence has been just the right background too. Finally, I hope I
have caused no consternation among any of my classmates who
happen, by some mischance, to be in the insurance business. My
long-suffering wife, who has stood me now for eighteen years,
thinks I have —as usual — become too garrulous; so here it is!
No more goads, please!

[ 807 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

JAMES HENRY MUNCASTER

HOME ADDRESS: 240 Washington Blvd., Oak Park, Ill.

oFFicE appRrESS: G. D. Searle & Co., Chicago, Til.

BoRN: April 2, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: William Harry Muncaster, Eliza-
beth Bobe.

PREPARED AT: Parker High School, Chicago, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928, 1929-1931. DEGREE: s.B. cum laude, 1930(31).

marrieD: Barbara Kibbe, June 12, 1931. CHILDREN: David Adams, April 8,
1932 (mt. Karen Lindblad, Nov. 23, 1951); Neil Kibbe, April 26, 1935;
Craig Tenney, Aug. 16, 1936; Judith Ann, Sept. 7, 1937. GRANDCHILDREN:
Allan David Muncaster, Nov. 24, 1952; Lynn Ellen Muncaster, Oct. 28,
1953; Deborah Anne Muncaster, Nov. 9, 1954.

HARVARD SONS: David Adams Muncaster, ’53; Neil Kibbe Muncaster, ’57;
Craig Tenney Muncaster, 58.

occupation: Divisional manager, G. D. Searle & Company, pharmaceuticals.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Fellsland Council, B.S.A., 1952-54.

AFTER way stops, since graduation, in Cohasset, Massachusetts,
Minneapolis, Minnesota, and Winchester, Massachusetts, I have
very recently completed the full circle and returned to the city
of my birth, Chicago, to assume new duties for my employer.
This makes a convenient half-way stop for the boys travelling
between their usual summer habitat, Fairbanks, Alaska, and Cam-
bridge. With three sons in Harvard College at present, I don’t
run the slightest risk of losing contact with the old school.

GRAYSON MALLET-PREVOST MURPHY

HOME ADDRESS: 234 East 62nd St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: Shearman & Sterling & Wright, 20 Exchange PI., New York,
N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 16, 1907, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Grayson Mallet-Prevost
Murphy, Maud Donaldson Murphy.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. 1933.

Marariep: Mary Eleanor Warren, Oct. 28, 1933, Boston, Mass,

CHiLpren: Grayson Mallet-Prevost, 3d, Feb. 26, 1935; Constance Martha,
Oct. 7, 1937; Anita Warren, Dec. 26, 1942; Ellen Cabeen, March 10,
1948; Howland Donaldson, Dec. 19, 1952.

HARVARD son: Grayson Mallet-Prevost, 3d, ’57.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donaldson Murphy, ’35.

[ 808 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Lawyer, partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Director, New York City Omnibus Corporation, since 1954;
ex-officio trustee, 1952-54, president, Alumni Association, St. Paul's
School, trustee, Museum of the City of New York, since 1951, Kip's
Bay Boys Club, since 1948; president, New York Young Republican
Club, 1939-40; East Sixties Property Owners Association, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: Various Bar associations, Brook, Links, Racquet & Tennis
Clubs; Downtown Association in New York, Metropolitan Club in
Washington.

THE business depression of the early thirties has had a lasting,
and I suppose on the whole a healthy, effect on my life. It re-
sulted in my father leaving me hardly anything of this world’s
goods when he died in 1937. That fact, together with a large
family and fairly expensive tastes, has kept my nose pretty much
to the grindstone. Luckily I find my work very interesting. I
specialize in corporate and financial law though I have on rare
occasions argued in court and from time to time I handle cases
before our Public Service Commission.

My principal hobby is our country place in the Connecticut
hills some seventy-five miles from New York City. Our old farm-
house was built early in the eighteenth century and our 108 acres
include woods, fields, brooks, a pond (where we swim, shoot
ducks, ard skate) and a tennis court which we built mostly our-
selves. Social life there is practically non-existent, except for
guests who visit us. But with our large and lively family there
is always something going on in the way of games, working on
the place, trap shooting, long walks, picnics, etc., etc. It is a de-
lightful contrast to city life.

In addition to my work and family life I have squeezed in more
outside activities than I should. Two of these I have particularly
enjoyed. In the late thirties I was very active in the New York
Young Republican Club. Politics have a great appeal for me and
I enjoyed getting to know the many different types of people
who are active in New York politics. After several years I re-
luctantly decided I did not have the time to continue with this
interest. St. Paul’s School is the other outside activity which I
have particularly liked. Its board of trustees is as fine a group of
men as I have known and my contacts with alumni all over the
country were very pleasant. Our preparatory schools do an ex-

[ 809 ]

eee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

cellent job in many ways, but I feel there is much room for im-
provement in training boys to be effective leaders in their com-
munities.

Shortly after we got into World War II, I enlisted in ‘the In-
fantry. I spent the summer of 1942 taking basic training at Camp
Wheeler in Georgia. It was a far cry from a lawyer’s desk in
New York City. I went to Officer Candidate School at Fort
Benning that fall and in due course received a commission. Much
of my time thereafter was spent in training infantry replacements,
but late in 1944 I arrived in Europe and served in the Battle of the
Bulge and a number of other engagements. V-E Day found me a
captain on the staff of the Fifth Infantry Division at the point
where Germany, Austria, and Czechoslovakia meet. The war
years were frustrating and dreary in many ways but they were
also enriching and gave me a knowledge of my countrymen that
I would otherwise never have obtained.

In the city I attend the Brick Presbyterian Church and in the
country, a small Episcopal Church. While I have never taken an
active part in either of them I am increasingly impressed with the
importance of religion and the relationship of the individual to
God. e

I am a great admirer of General Eisenhower and his type of
Republicanism. His continuation in office seems to me so impor-
tant that I hope in some way to take a really active part in the
campaign next year.

Looking back at my college years, I often feel that I would
have got more out of them had I made more effort. I didn’t even
try for a cum laude; 1 played too much bridge, and I had a very
good time with a small circle of friends. But in spite of my own
shortcomings the perspective of twenty-five years makes me re-
alize that I owe a great deal to Harvard — in knowledge, in sense
of values, and in appreciation of the finer things in life.

[810]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES THOMAS MURPHY

MAILING ADpRESS: St. John’s Abbey, Collegeville, Minn.
porN: March 13, 1908, Kenmore, N. Dak. parents: Francis James Murphy,

Marie Harris.
PREPARED AT: St. John’s University High School, Collegeville, Minn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926—1930. DEGREE: a.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

LORENZ FRANCIS MUTHER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 96 Erie Ave., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Newton Taxpayers’ Association, Inc., 302 Walnut St. New-
tonville 60, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1908, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Lorenz Francis
Muther, Josephine Ashleman.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; LL.B. (North-

eastern Law School), 1942.
MarRiED: Mary Whitcher Thayer, June 18, 1940, Minneapolis, Minn. cHt-
DREN: Lorenz Francis, 3d, Aug. 1, 1943; Constance Thayer, Oct. 6,

1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Paul Muther, ’40, LL.B., 43.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; executive director, Newton Taxpayers’ Association,
Inc., municipal government analysis and programming.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association, Dalhousie Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Newton

Highlands Men’s Club.

PROBABLY the two greatest pleasures in life are the creation
of something of your own which is new and satisfying, and the
successful persuasion of other people to your view of a given
situation. Probably the two greatest frustrations are the failure
to discern just where in life you can do your creating best, and a
sense that it is due to your own inertia that you don’t develop an
ability to persuade — even yourself.

The progress of this here pilgrim was hampered for the first
few years out of college by the noted frustrations, His progress
since has been an enjoyment of the noted pleasures.

In short, after I had knocked about the academic and business
world for several years, I acquired a profession, a wife, a couple
of kids, and the direction of an association which, before I spanked
it, was about to be declared stillborn, These acquisitions provided

f 8ir ]

PERRET TT” 1091 EP PPP DEPOT OT ee a TE HN cee aN OAS EHP SNSITARURNTVePeIToTOPN ECPI RETO SH

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

me with enough necessity to become not only somewhat pro-
ficient in those legal mechanics dealing with real estate but also,
well, inventive? creative? productive in the field of municipal
analysis and programming. Programs for local government are
the spirit, their legal form the body of my current creations.
Then comes the persuading — and it is all a real pleasure.

GERALD EMIL MYERS

HOME ADDRESS: 52 Washington St., Warren, Mass.

OFFice appress: Warren Steam Pump Co., Inc., Warren, Mass.

BoRN: Mav 3, 1908, Worcester, Mass. paRENTS: Samuel Henry Myers,
Amelia Tetrault.

PREPARED AT: South High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marrieD: Katherine Grace Bugbee, May 1, 1936; Brookfield, Mass. cHt.p:
Gerald Marshall, July 31, 1943.

occuPaTion: Purchasing agent, Warren Steam Pump Company, Inc., manu-
facturers of pumping equipment.

MARK JULIUS NAGUSKY

HOME ADDRESS: 3325 Norwood Rd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

OFFIce aporess: Federal Metal Co., 6621 Morgan Ave. Cleveland 27, Ohio.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1909, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Joseph Nagusky, Sarah
Fryer.

prepare at: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cur laude, 1930.

MaprieD: Ethel B. Rosenthal, Jan. 19, 1938, Cleveland, Ohio (died March
11, 1946); Rita L. Federman, June 8, 1952, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN:
David Ralph, Feb. 3, 1940, Louise Ethel, Sept. 23, 1942; Carolyn Jo,
Jan. 1, 1946; Beth Amy, May 11, 1953; Deborah Kay, Sept. 25, 1954.

occuPpATION: Vice-president and secretary, Federal Metal Company.

orrices HELD: Member, Board of Cleveland Jewish Family Service Associa-
tion, since 1952, Welfare Fund Committee and Social Agency Com-
mittee, Cleveland Jewish Community Federation, since 1953, board of
trustees, Euclid Avenue Temple, Cleveland, Ohio.

MeMpueR oF: Harvard Club of Cleveland; Cleveland Council on World Af-
fairs, B'nai Brith, Cleveland Whist Club; Cleveland Chapter, Non-
Ferrous Founders Society; American Jewish Committce.

SINCE leaving college, I have had but one employer, the Federal
(812 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Metal Company, which is engaged in the smelting and refining
of scrap non-ferrous metals into brass and bronze ingots of various
chemical specifications for foundry use. It was my father’s busi-
ness and, as the years have gone by, I have been relieving him
more and more of the actual running of the business until now he
is practically retired and most of the responsibility has devolved
on me. In spite of the depression with its numerous headaches,
World War II and Korea, which necessarily brought on priority
systems and pricing regulations and all the government time-con-
suming reports, I have liked the business very much. It is a
constant challenge to keep trying to improve our product and to
meet certain rigid specifications. I have been doing most of the
buying and selling, and I value highly the friendships that I have
made through the years with the people with whom we deal.

Shortly after leaving college, I started playing bridge in a very
serious way, and before long I was entering bridge tournaments
both in Cleveland and elsewhere at the slightest provocation.
That lasted long enough to demonstrate to me that I was not a
champion, but I still play quite a little, time and family permitting,
and enjoy it as much as ever.

Tennis was my main form of physical exercise in college and
I still play it with a group of fellows about my age who also don’t
know when it’s time to quit. When my son became old enough
a few years ago to wield a racquet, I even started playing a little
more, but soon I shall not be good enough for him. Golf still
remains something to be learned in the future.

At home we have five children, one boy and four girls, ranging
in age from fifteen years down to just a few months. With ‘that
line-up, I suppose I should be reading constantly everything from
the care of the infant to preparing your son for college. I could
undoubtedly learn a lot by so doing, but with five children
around, who has time to read? I have always liked the idea of
having a fairly large family, as has my wife, and luckily for the
children she is home much more than I.

During the last few years, I have become fairly active in some
community affairs. I am an annual solicitor for the Cleveland
Community Fund and for the Cleveland Jewish Welfare Fund,
and have become a member of a few boards and committees.

[ 813 ]

200 rR UNEURTRT PU RIgROPTYOTTI-E APTS TOUS annette ena enone

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Cleveland has been a leader in social welfare work, and I have
learned much more than I have contributed so far in this field.

After twenty-five years away from college, I believe that we
can all realize why our graduation is called a commencement. It
seems the learning process never stops, and the older we get, the
more we discover how much more there is to know. I am grate-
ful for my years at Harvard for having given me, in addition to
many other things, what I hope is an open mind.

WILLARD DIKRAN NALCHAJIAN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 5 Nichols St., Chelsea, Mass.

BORN: June 28, 1907, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Dikran D. Nalchajian, Hilda
Vorbean.

PrePARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D. (Boston Univ.),
1935; M.P.H. (Mass. Inst. of Tech.), 1942.

MagRieD: Evelyn Whalen, Dec. 26, 1930, Chelsea, Mass. CHILDREN: Joanne,
Aug. 20, 1932; Priscilla, April 21, 1934; Nancy, Oct. 10, 1937; Willard
Richard, Nov. 25, 1942.

occuPaTiON: Physician.

MeMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Medical Association;
American Public Health Association.

KARL SEYMOUR NASH

HOME ADDRESS: 159 Main St., Ridgefield, Conn.

OFFIce appress: Acorn Press, Inc. 6 Bailey Ave. Ridgefield, Conn.

BORN: June 20, 1908, Ridgefield, Conn. parents: Howard Patterson Nash,
’or, Christie Law Jones.

PREPARED AT: Ridgefield High School, Ridgefield, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

Margiep: Dorothy C. Baxter, June 6, 1935, Ridgefield, Conn. (divorced
1950); Elizabeth Grace Boyd, Aug. 7, 1951, Wilton, Conn. cHiILpREN:
Rhoda Baxter, Sept. 3, 1936; Judy Patterson, Oct. 11, 1939; Sally
Roberts, Nov. 18, 1942; Howard Patterson, 2d and Thomas Boyd
(twins), Nov. 14, 1953.

OOCUPATION; President and principal owner, Acorn Press, Inc.

orrices neLp: Chairman, Ridgeficld Board of Education, since 1940,

MEMBER oF: Connecticut Editorial Association,

MY undergraduate work in the catalogue department of Widener
[814]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Library theoretically qualified me to catalogue the library of the
Fly Club in Cambridge in September following graduation (I
still have the key to the club’s front door).

In January, 1931, I took a political job as a Republican messen-
ger in the Connecticut House of Representatives for the session
lasting until June. Having “concentrated” in government, I sup-
plemented my book-knowledge of political and governmental
affairs by observing and by participating to some extent in the
operation of the Connectcut General Assembly. It was a good
depression-time, though not a highly paid, job.

My father had died when I was thirteen, leaving my mother to
bring up five children of which I was the oldest. He left little
money, but a big (twenty-five rooms) house. The supervision of
the remodeling of this house into a six-family apartment house was
my first post-legislature undertaking. And it wasn’t all super-
vision. I learned plumbing, painting, carpentry, masonry, book-
keeping, financing, and how to get along with laborers and build-
ing contractors.

While doing this, I got back a college-time, part-time job as
news correspondent for a nearby daily newspaper, then a full-
time reporter’s job which I held until 1937. In the summer of that
year my brother, John, and I purchased The Ridgefield Press.
I had been married in 1935 and had an eight-month-old daughter,
so I didn’t have any money to invest. John had $92, and he and
I borrowed $250 from my mother. With chis money and $2,000
we borrowed from the town’s jeweler — now the town’s banker
— we bought the Press. ©

The newspaper had been established in 1875 by my wife's
grandfather; it had a circulation of 800 when we acquired it, and a
job-printing business. How John and I thought we could both
ever make a living from this run-down $25,000 a year gross busi-
ness, I don’t know. But we went to work at it and worked hard.
We put ourselves on the payroll at $25 a week and for months
on end we didn’t collect it. By March, 1938, we had undertaken
to publish another weekly paper in adjoining Wilton, By June
we moved to a building in which we could handle these two
papers and expand, We kept expanding until the war came along
and took away our printers, our office and newspaper hands, and
eventually my brother.

[815 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

In 1944 when John went off to the Army, my mother was
caring for my three children because my wife and I were sepa-
rated. We were subsequently divorced. The war had cut the
staff at the Press by two-thirds; and with wartime restrictions, to
continue operations was a struggle.

When we started out, I was the editorial man; John, the busi-
nessman. During the war I was everything. After his return, John
and I agreed we should not be in business together. How to sep-
arate was the problem. In mid-1948 we solved it. John sold his
half-interest to me and I paid for it with a loan from a man who
decided he didn’t want to fulfill his contract to buy a newspaper
in New York State which John did buy. It will take me another
fourteen years to pay off the loan.

In late 1949 we started planning for our Diamond (75th) Jubilee
Edition of The Ridgefield Press. It was to appear in March, 1950.
One of the girls who came to help us with the jubilee had been
a reticent girl of ten who had visited my sisters when I was in
college. She is my wife now. The jubilee edition, incidentally,
came out in November, but it was a 112-page paper and quite a
literary-historical success — though not a financial one.

When we were married in 1951, my wife’s son, aged six, and
her twin son and daughter, aged three, her grandfather, aged 88,
and my three daughters set up a new household, which has been
augmented by our twin sons born in 1953. My wife works in the
editorial department of our papers, and, with the help of a day-
time housekeeper, manages the household. (As a senior at Vassar
she wrote the autobiography of her father, Thomas Boyd, the
novelist, now dead, but has not yet given full play to the writing
ability she acquired from him and from her mother, also a novelist,
now Mirs, Ted Shane.)

My contribution to the welfare of mankind, if any, has con-
sisted of producing a family, publishing two weekly newspapers
each week, and serving since 1940 on the town Board of Educa-
tion. I have been elected as a Republican though most of the party
leaders say I should be in the opposition camp. Our papers might
be called progressively independent. They are said by some to be
a force for good in their communities, by others, a menace to the

inhabitants. They continue to grow and prosper, however. The
printing business, for which my brother laid such a good founda-

[816]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion with his businesslike methods, now plays second fiddle to the
papers.

Our social life is restricted by the demands of our family. We
do not dine with the wealthiest in town, nor belong to the Coun-
try Club. We feel strongly that democracy begins at home, that
what we may do to make life better for others we must do on
the home-town scene. We favor clean politics, honesty, decency,
understanding among neighbors, equality of races and creeds,
life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness. We revere our Alma Maters
and what they did to bring us to adulthood.

DAVID ANSCHEL NATHANS

HOME ADDRESS: 9252 Santa Monica Blvd., Beverly Hills, Calif.

BORN: April 10, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Isaac Nathans, Mary Blonder.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum” laude, 1930; LL.B. (Boston
Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Ruth Fine, Oct. 18, 1935. CHILDREN: Phyllis Edith, June 28, 1940;
Judith Ilene, Oct. 21, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

FRANCIS WALTER NEE

HOME ADDRESS: 1562 Arthur Ave., Lakewood 7, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Travelers Insurance Co. 1422 Euclid Ave, Cleveland 15,
Ohio.

BORN: May 16, 1907, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Michael Joseph Nee, Mary
Jane Callahan.

PREPARED AT: Maynard High School, Maynard, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; LL.B. (Univ. of Connec-
ticut), 1948.

MarRIED: Edith Louise Pollard, May 10, 1930, Whitman, Mass. CHILDREN:
Francis Walter, Jr. Feb. 18, 1936; Michael David, April 9, 1939; John
Pollard, March 22, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Francis Walter Nee, Jr., °58.

OccuPATION: District supervisor, Group Insurance Division, Cleveland
branch of Travelers Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1952, president, 1953, Cleveland Group
Representatives Club; vice-president, Fireside Forum, 1934.

MEMBER or: Harvard Club of Cleveland; Fireside Forum, Lakewood, Ohio.

[ 817]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

to provide a sufficient answer. I haven’t yet started to wonder
about the latter-day years.

The everyday problems of a growing family, particularly with
teen-agers, brings on a sort of rhythmical pacing of one’s plans,
aims, and hopes, due —I suppose — to the self-imposed discipline
needed in the building of an orderly existence within the family
unit. There is a constant necessity for regularity and compromise
in everyday events, a developing of habitual performance of cer-
tain things at certain times, and a never-ending listing of things to
get or do. Such a life can be innocuously monotonous to the ad-
venturous soul, but it is full of its own small tragedies, glories,
and heroics. Such a life is mine and I wouldn’t know what to do
without it.

If this Report provides an opportunity to brag, I have litre
material with which to work. Oh sure, after three or four martinis,
I could tell you how I closed a few big deals and how the V.P.
followed my advice a couple of times with profit, but when you
get right down to brass tacks, I haven’t done much of anything;
but be sure not to ask me about my family or I’ll bore you stiff
telling you how lucky I am to have a wife who continues to
live with me and what my boys are doing and hope to do.

My ambitions personally are realistically limited (although my
hopes are bolstered by a share of dogged determination). My
main ambition is to live long enough to give my boys a fair start
in life which (pardon my prejudice) includes at least four years
at Harvard.

My hobbies are represented partly by that business of com-
promise in the so-called normal existence so that cub scouting,
PTA activities, assistance on homework (all of my boys have
been dumber than hell in one subject), and other such trivia com-
pose a set of hobbies that one follows because one must, and
strangely enough, I find I enjoy things that one must do. I am
still a rabid baseball fan and, although I have long since given up
playing except for well-spaced games of catch with the boys, I see
many of the big league games in Cleveland.

I don’t like to report that I read but little these days; that mon-
strosity, television, has filled our home life with hard-riding cow-
boys, murder, dragnets, and beer advertising. I cannot envision

any lasting good from this phase of our existence, but I suppose

[ 820 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

while there are children, our television sponsors will aim a high
proportion of their shots in their direction. Politically, I am still
a Democrat who votes Republican, it seems the Democratic plat-
form is better if guided by Republicans, or else the Democratic
party seems to associate itself with the wrong kind of candidates.
We belong to a non-sectarian church social group which provides
more than enough of the convivial life; my wife is extremely
active in her church’s affairs, which adds further to the convivial;
we attend Little Theater plays and a few good musical events each
year to round out our social lives. At present, we are suffering
through our eldest boy’s first year at Harvard. During high
school he filled our lives with his problems and activities and
there is a void that our second son’s high school and other activ-
ities have not yet bridged. They will, though, when he gets in
the swing, and we are patiently waiting for him to get old enough
to tell us what nights next week he doesn’t need the family car.

It is a great life and I’m sorry we have but one to go through.

CARL TRUMAN NELSON

HOME AppRESS: 180 Cabrini Blvd., New York 33, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University,
630 W. 168th St, New York 32, N.Y.

BORN: June 27, 1908, Providence, R.I. parents: Edward Nelson, Bessie
Nelson.

PREPARED AT: Hope High School, Providence, RI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928; 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B. Cus? laude, 1930(35);
D.M.D. cum laude, 1932; A-M., 1939; M.D., 1942.

MARRIED: Evelyn Lewis, June 26, 1937, Marblehead, Mass.

OccUPATION: Physician; professor of dermatology, Columbia University.

OFFICES HELD: Executive officer, Department of Dermatology, Columbia
University; director of Dermatology, Presbyterian Hospital, since
1951.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Dermatology; American Association
for Advancement of Science; American Association of Immunologists;
American Federation for Clinical Research; American Medical Associ-
ation; American Dermatological Association; Society for Investigative
Dermatology; New York Academy of Medicine; New York Academy
of Sciences; Alpha Omega Alpha; Harvard Club of New York City.

PUBLICATIONS; About forty articles on medical subjects in various medical
and other scientific publications,

[ 821]

Pa rer eR RTERNS RE ETUNEHO RPT TTT TET Nieman eC pant re _

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

IN 1928 I left the College to enter the School of Dental Medicine.
Four years later I had a D.M.D. degree and a yen for further
study rather than dental practice. Hans Zinsser took me into the
department of bacteriology at the Medical School and I remained
there for nine years. It was a hectic but happy life. During this
period I returned to the College, part-time, to complete require-
ments for an A.B. and then went on to acquire an A.M., M_D.,
and a wife.

With these accoutrements I spent four years in the Medical
Corps of the Army and emerged a major in 1946. We then moved
to New York and I joined the Department of Dermatology of
Columbia University. For the past four years I have been chair-
man of the department and director of dermatology at Presby-
terian Hospital. This job entails some teaching, research, admin-
istrative work, and private practice. All in all, it keeps me fairly
well occupied. It leaves some time for bridge and the ballet, but
not much for other mischief,

BEAUMONT NEWHALL

HOME appress: 7 Runde] Park, Rochester 7, N.Y.

OFFicE ApprESs: George Eastman House, goo East Ave., Rochester 7, N.Y.

BORN: June 22, 1908, Lynn, Mass, Parents: Herbert William Newhall, ’79,
A.M, "84, M.v., 84, Alice Lillia Davis.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cunt laude, 1930; A.M. 1931.

MARRIED: Nancy Wynne Parker, July 1, 1936, Swampscott, Mass.

occupation: Museum curator, George Eastman House of Photography.

orrices wep: Lecturer, Philadelphia Art Museum, 1931-32; assistant, De-
partment of Decorative Arts, Metropolitan Museum of Art, New
York, 1932-33; librarian, Museum of Modern Art, 1935-42; curator,
of photography, Museum of Modern Art, 1941-42, 1945-46.

MeMBeR oF: Royal Photographic Society (fellow); Photographic Society
of America (fellow); Photographers’ Association of America (Honor-
able Master of Photography).

PuBLicAtions: The History of Photography, 1949; Photographs of Henri
Cartier-Bresson (with Lincoln Kirstein, °'30), 1946; contributor to
Encyclopedia Britannica, and national magazines.

THE year after graduation found me back in the Yard, studying
to be a museum curator with Professor Sachs at the Fogg Museum.
I took my Master's degree in June and by fall was at work at the

{ 822 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Philadelphia Art Museum as lecturer. On New Year’s Eve, 1932,
I learned that the city could not afford, in the depth of the depres-
sion, to maintain a full staff at the museum and, as a junior mem-
ber, I was the first to go. But I was lucky and fell into a job at
the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York without a day’s
loss. It was a better job and a more interesting one — but that,
too, did not last long. I took my savings, added them to a scholar-
ship I received from the Carnegie Foundation, and spent the sum-
mer in Paris, working at the University. I returned to Harvard
to work towards a Doctor's degree in the fall of 1933 and re-
mained there, except for another scholarship trip to the University
of London, until the fall of 1935.

The Museum of Modern Art needed a librarian. Although I
was not trained for the job, I took it and began a pleasant asso-
ciation which lasted up to the war. At that time the Museum was
a challenging place to be and it was a rewarding experience. Put-
ting up exhibitions is not part of a librarian’s job, but I was given
the opportunity to organize a very large exhibition on the history
of photography. On the strength of this chance — which brought
a slight pay increase —I wired my fiancée, a Smith girl named
Nancy Parker, that we could at last get married.

I travelled abroad collecting material for the exhibition and
Nancy had a wedding present of a round trip abroad to accom-
pany me; so we had a combined business and wedding trip. Back

- in New York, I finished the first edition of my History of Photog-
rapby in time for its publication with the opening of the exhibi-
tion. This was the beginning of my career as a photographic his-
torian and curator, a job which I have held ever since, with the
exception of the war years.

By luck, I got the very job in the Air Force which I wanted:
the interpretation of aerial photographs. I was one of the first
Americans to arrive in Egypt in the winter of 1942-43; worked in
Cairo with the Royal Air Force until September; went on to
North Africa, and then Italy. I was overseas for the better part
of three years, during which time I became staff interpreter for
the sth Photo Group of the Air Force, and liaison officer with
the rsth Air Force. I came back a major; I hung around the Penta-
gon for a few months and went on terminal leave in November,
1945.

[ 823]

aR RAEN NCE ITT TEEN TO ICE TSC ALC RRR hue seoeao tite

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

After a few months at the Museum of Modern Art, I left to do
free-lance writing. A Guggenheim Fellowship, plus a contract
for a third completely revised edition of my History of Photog-
raphy, kept me going until the summer of 1948, when I was in-
vited to become curator of a new museum in the house which
George Eastman built in Rochester and which had been left to
the University of Rochester. It was planned to convert the house
to a museum. The University gave the building to a group of
trustees, and the Eastman Kodak Company gave money for the
rebuilding and upkeep. In 1949 we opened, and I am proud to say
that since then we have expanded and grown, so that at the mo-
ment we have the largest collection on the history of photography
in the world. The job has taken me around the country and
abroad once. It has also led me back into the academic world,
for as senior lecturer in photographic arts, I give a course in the
history of photography at the University of Rochester.

My wife took my place at the Museum of Modern Art during
the period I was in the Air Force. Since then, she has been en-
gaged in writing books and articles with photographers. Her
publications include Time In New England, Edward Weston,
Paul Strand, Death Valley, and San Francisco.

JOHN THEODORE NEWTON

HOME appress: 10845 Lindblade St., Culver City, Calif.

OFFice Appaess: King Merritt & Co., 1151 S. Broadway, Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1906, Sparta, Wis. pARENTs: Harry Mather Newton, Eleanor
West Carey.

PREPARED aT: Sparta High School, Sparta, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(29).

maggieD: Dorothy Isabel Stevens, Feb. 4, 1939, Los Angeles, Calif. crip:
Richard William, July 14, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Securities salesman.

Orrices HELD: Secretary, treasurer, Crown Laundry & Cleaning Company,
Los Angeles, 1941~43, 1951-52.

MEMBER of: Gamma Eta Gamma; assistant guide of a Woodcraft Ranger
tribe, Woodcraft League of America.

SINCE graduation, I attended the law schools of the Universities
of Southern California and Wisconsin. After leaving Madison,
I spent several years batting about the country, living in such

[ 824 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cities as Chicago, Hollywood (Fla.), Duluth, and San Francisco.

I finally came to roost in Los Angeles, getting a job as supervisor

of routes and collections for the Crown Laundry & Cleaning Com-
any.

I then settled down and got married. I have been in my present
occupation since March, 1948, and with my present firm since
July, 1949. Iam a securities salesman with King Merritt & Com-
pany, specializing in open-end investment companies.

My only trip abroad was in 1925, immediately following my
graduation from high school, when I spent the summer pedaling
about the British Isles on a bicycle. My hobbies are looking
through my 2 inch telescope at such objects as stars, planets,
moons, mountains, including Mt. Whitney and such other phe-
nomena which might excite my interest. I also go camping with
my family whenever I can find the time for it. We use pup tents
and air mattresses and I am not too bad as an out-door cook. At
least, my family eat the stuff. Politically, I am a registered Re-
publican. Actually I would probably be happier in the Demo-
cratic Party of Grover Cleveland. My feeling about states rights
and free trade appear to be generally considered impractical at
the moment. Since coming to Culver City five and a half years
ago, I have been a member of Grace Lutheran Church (U.L.C.A.).
They even have me teaching Sunday School now.

TOMAS ISAIAS NIDO

HOME apprEss: 12 Carrion’s Ct., Santurce, Puerto Rico.

OFFICE AppRESS: Fiddler, Gonzalez & Nido, Esqs., Box 3507, San Juan, Puerto
Rico.

BORN: July 6, 1908, Arroyo, Puerto Rico. Parents: Tomds Rafael Nido,
Alvilda Monserrate.

PREPARED aT: Peekskill Military Academy, Peekskill, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1930(31); LL.B, 1934.

MaRRIED: Conchita Pefagaricano, Nov. 23, 1935, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
CHILDREN: Tomas Rafael, April 30, 1937; Teresa Alvilda, Nov, 19, 1940;
Conchita Adela, Feb. 23, 1943.

Occupation: Lawyer; member of firm.

OFFICES HELD: Colegio de Abogados de Puerto Rico.

MEMBER OF: Federal Bar Association of Puerto Rico; AFDA Club; Puerto
Rico Chamber of Commerce; Banker's Club of Puerto Rico.

[ 825]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

AFTER my graduation from Harvard Law School in June, 1934,
I returned to Puerto Rico and took my bar examinations in No-
vember of that year. After working for a few months (jobs were
then scarce) with the Puerto Rico Reconstruction Administra-
tion, I was appointed law clerk to an Associate Supreme Court
Justice of Puerto Rico in July, 1935. In May of 1939, I went to
work for the Puerto Rico Hurricane Relief Commission, and
that summer was appointed Assistant U.S. Attorney in Puerto
Rico. Thereafter, | was appointed special attorney in the U.S.
Department of Justice and from 1939 to 1943 was in charge of
condemnation of lands for national defense in Puerto Rico and
the Virgin Islands. In 1943 I went into private practice with the
law firm of which I am now an associate, to wit, Fiddler, Gon-
zalez & Nido, Esqs., of San Juan, Puerto Rico,

I have three children: Tomas Rafael, seventeen years old and a
freshman at Fordham University; Teresita, fourteen years old and
a student; and Conchita, twelve. My wife’s name is Conchita
Penagaricano and we were married in November, 1935- During
the war I served in the Voluntary Port Security Force, attached
to the U.S. Coast Guard, and did night watch service on the docks
of San Juan.

I am a Catholic, as is my wife. This partly explains our son’s
attending Fordham. We both want him to have a religious back-
ground for his future life. Puerto Rico is growing in political,
economic, industrial, and social stature. Our local government is
honest and efficient. We are now undergoing a most interesting
period of economic, political, and cultural change: economic in
the sense that the island is being industrialized without benefit of
raw materials, political in that we have created a new political
relationship with the United States, based on mutual consent, the
so-called Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; cultural in that empha-
sis is being placed, as I see it, on our Spanish origin. Some of us
who are strong on U.S, citizenship sometimes wonder where this
cultural movement will lead Puerto Rico and Puerto Ricans. Per-
sonally, I believe in continued relationship with the U.S, on the
basis of U.S. citizenship. The issue is not simple, as it involves the
necessity of reconciling many different aspirations and_ ideals.
However, I feel that the next few years will be one of the most
significant periods in our history.

{ 826 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Puerto Rico is also growing as a tourist haven. Its climate is
ideal 80 to go degrees from April to November, 65 to 80
degrees from November to April. We have several beautiful
hotels and many other recreational facilities. But, enough for
Puerto Rico.

Certainly I should like to see more of our Class graduates visit-
ing Puerto Rico, as I am sure they would be tremendously sur-
prised. If anyone is interested, please feel free to write me at my
San Juan address: P.O, Box 3507, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

Here is wishing everyone a happy Reunion and continued
health, success, and happiness.

FREDERICK VICTOR NISSEN

HOME apprEss: 173 Church St., North Adams, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wall-Streeter Shoe Co., North Adams, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frederick William Nissen,
Winifred Bonython.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1030.

MARRIED: Constance Wall, Oct. 2, 1937, North Adams, Mass. CHILDREN:
Barbara, Jan. 18, 1939; Jane, June 3, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, Wall-Streeter Shoe Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, North Adams Red Cross Campaign, 1947; member
board of directors, Community Chest Fund, since 1948; chairman,
Northern Berkshire County Red Cross, 1948; corporator, North Adams
Savings Bank, since 1952.

MEMBER oF: North Adams Chamber of Commerce; Lions Club; National
Shoe Travellers Association; Empire State Footwear Association; Har-
vard Club of the Berkshires; Reserve Officers Association; American

Legion; North Adams Country Club.

CONFUCIUS, who in some strange manner became associated
with our Class, has been an oft quoted individual. One of his
lesser known contributions in conjunction with the goad cards
accomplished the impossible: I finally sat down to fill out the
questionnaire and Class Life. The quotation: “The longest jour-
ney starts with the first step.”

Almost ten years of the period since graduation have been de-
voted to the military, including duty with the CCC, special as-

[ 827]

.
mane imecnianmaimnniiad idea niaabalait alla ina APS “ asa eam ita inareesiy onunraciesanenliines

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

signments, and World War II. Prior to the war, I was assistant
supervisor of education with the State Department of Education
in Massachusetts, My work involved the rehabilitation of the
physically handicapped and returning them to gainful employ-
ment. Also, special skills were given to those seeking employment
for the first time. It was extremely interesting work and each case
was a challenge.

I was in the service a year before Pear] Harbor and had a total
of five before release back to civilian life. My service included
general staff assignments on Division, Corps, and Army level, as
well as command on Battalion and Regimental level. As Head-
quarters Commandant and Provost Marshal of the XV Corps, |
found myself in some very unusual situations during combat due
to the freedom of movement required in this detail and due to
that ever present nemesis of both friend and foe known as “battle-
field confusion.” On several occasions the path of our drive
across Germany coincided with the route Wally Harper and I
had taken back in the summer of 1929, when we were having a
grand time seeing Europe together. Our final objective by V-E
Day was Salzburg, Austria — a very fine place in which to end a
war. Accumulated enough battle stars and “spinach” for the left
chest for my future grandchildren to think reasonably well of me
and to treat my doddering footsteps with compassion.

Since my return to civilian life, I have become a staunch ad-
herent of the belief that all men should walk at least five miles a
day. Not only will their health be better, but they will need
more shoes. Seeing as 1 am now in the men’s shoe business, that
observation is just loaded with merit. I wish to encourage all
members of the Class to follow this suggestion. I feel the past
twenty-five years have been most interesting ones and know
that the next twenty-five will be even more so. A hope that they
will be peaceful ones will need the help above and beyond what
we mortals can offer.

[ 828 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN NOBLE

HOME apprEss: Brookside Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: Arabian American Oil Co., 505 Park Ave. New York 232,
N.Y.

BORN: May 19, 1908, Cambridge, Mass., PARENTS: John Noble, ’97, Li.s., ’oo,
Susan Loring Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(31); LL.B. 1934.

MarRIED: Barbara Elisabeth Warner, July 10, 1936, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
John, Jr., Sept. 5, 1937; Christopher, Nov. 8, 1939, George Warner,
May 3, 1941; Edith Jackson, Oct. 16, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Loring Jackson Noble, °36.

occupaTiIon: Lawyer: associate general counsel, Arabian American Oil
Company, Trans-Arabian Pipe Line Company.

OFFICES HELD: Associate, 1934-40, partner, 1940-49, Warren, Garfield,
Whiteside & Lamson; director, Bay Products Company, 1941-43, Con-
cordia Company, 1936-43, 1946-47, Hadley Special Tool Company,
1940-43, The Christopher Shop, Inc., 1937-41, Cooperative Work-
shops, Inc., 1940-43, Denison House, 1946-47; trustee, Mount Auburn
Cemetery, 1946-48; president, Canton Taxpayers Association, 1938-42;
senior vice-chairman, Metropolitan Division, Greater Boston Com-
munity Fund, 1942.

MEMBER OF: Academy of Political Science; American and Boston Bar As-
sociations; American Judicature Society; American Society of Inter-
national Law; Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Boston
Legal Aid Society; New York Legal Aid Society; University Club of
New York; Harvard Club of New Canaan; New Canaan Country
Club; Society of the Classic Guitar, Delphic Club; Kent Club.

DURING the years immediately following graduation, my time
was fully occupied in preparing for the legal profession. Mv
Principal interest, however, was, and continues to be, my family.
Barbara Warner and I were married in Milton in 1936, We have
made our home successively in Boston, Canton, and Milton, Mas-
sachusetts, in Pasadena, California, Bethesda, Maryland, Mamar-
oneck, New York, and since 1950 in New Canaan, Connecticut.
Our three boys, John, Christopher, and George, now in their teens,
have shared our travels. Our daughter Edith was born on Octo-
ber 16, 1954.

Upon graduating from the Harvard Law School in 1934, I be-
came associated with the law firm of Warren, Garfield, Whiteside
& Lamson in Boston. In this connection I had the good fortune
of working closely with the late Mr. Bentley W. Warren, then

[ 829 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Minister of Lebanon conferred upon Mr. C, A. Swigart, the presi-
dent of the company, and upon me, the Order of the Cedar, with
rank of officer, in June of 1952.

Contrary to a widespread belief, my principal headquarters is
New York and not Saudi Arabia. In fact, for the greater part of
every year I lead the mundane life of a commuter between New
York and my home in New Canaan, Connecticut. Occasional trips
to the Middle East and to Europe add variety and frequent polit-
ical “alarms and excursions” in the Levant countries add excite-
ment to my work. Our legal problems cover a wide range of sub-
jects — from infractions of local Saudi Arab ordinances by com-
pany employees to attempted encroachments upon the company’s
rights by international operators and entrepreneurs; from law
suits in Australia for sale of a shipload of contaminated rice, to
grand jury actions by the Department of Justice under the Sher-
man Act.

Recently I have had the pleasure of helping to promote pro-
grams in which Aramco and Harvard University have joint inter-
ests. The first is the new School of Advanced Middle Eastern
Studies, which the University has inaugurated in furtherance of
its plan for area studies in particular parts of the world. The
second is a joint undertaking by the Harvard School of Public
Health and Aramco of a program designed to discover the cause
of trachoma and other diseases of the eye and to develop methods
of treatment and immunization.

My athletic endeavors are entirely of the family variety —
family tennis in the spring, summer and fall, family skating and
skiing in the winter. We still manage to get in a vacation cruise
occasionally. My less strenuous recreational activities center
around the home. These include cabinet making, vegetable gar-
dening, and an interest in the revival of the classic guitar as a
medium for classical music — the latter hobby traceable, perhaps,
to the days of the old instrumental clubs in college. Like every-
one else, I find all too few opportunities to indulge these leisure-
time pursuits, but just the anticipation of them adds pleasure to the

daily routine.

[ 832]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THEODORE NORMAN

HOME AppRESS: 31 Tain Drive, Great Neck, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jewish Agricultural Society, 386 Fourth Ave, New York,
N.Y.

BoRN: March 12, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Henry Norman, Manya
Golden.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 7agna cum laude, 1930; AM.

1932; PH.D., 1939.
MARRIED: Jane M. Posner, Dec. 22, 1935, New York, N.Y. crmLpren: Alice K.,

July 9, 1942; Lucy D., Jan. 3, 1944.

occuPATION: Social work executive: general manager, The Jewish Agricul-
tural Society, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Economics with Applications to Agriculture (co-author),
McGraw-Hill, 1950; reviews in various magazines.

ON reviewing the twenty-five years that have elapsed since my
graduation, it seems to me that my course has been marked by
numerous changes both in location and occupation. After re-
ceiving an A.M. in 1932 in English, I was unemployed for a
period and then returned in 1934 to Harvard as a student of eco-
nomics. The next year I became an instructor in economics and
stayed until 1938 when I went to Washington as an economist in
the Department of Agriculture. While I remained in this De-
partment until 1947, I shifted from strictly economic work to
administrative positions, and also spent six months in California
on the staff of the Senate Civil Liberties Committee in the course
of its investigation into farm labor conditions in that state.

During the war I worked chiefly in the Lend-Lease Program,
and for a couple of years I was in charge of planning the very
extensive food purchases under that program, I also had the very
interesting experience of negotiating with the representatives of
the numerous foreign food missions that were in Washington at
the time, and served as well on the departmental committees
which directed this country’s food allocation policy.

By 1947 I felt that I had had enough of government work and
resigned to join the staff of The Brookings Institution, but I did
go back into government service for a few months as consultant
on agricultural price matters to the Joint Congressional Economic
Committee when it was headed by Senator Taft.

[ 833 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

In 1948 I moved to New York to work for the Council of
Jewish Federations and Welfare Funds, analyzing Jewish philan-
thropic work abroad. In consequence, I went to Europe to ob-
serve the work of the relief agencies at first hand. A year later I
became assistant director of the New York Association for New
Americans, a social welfare organization which in the ten months
I was with it assisted 50,000 recently arrived displaced persons
and other victims of persecution in Europe.

In 1950 I was appointed managing director of The Jewish Agri-
cultural Society, Inc., an organization which encourages farming
among Jews in the United States through making loans and by
means of an extensive educational program. The society, like the
other agencies I have been with in the last few years, works
chiefly with immigrants. We feel that we have done an outstand-
ing job of rehabilitation by helping thousands of displaced persons
and others who have entered the United States since the end of
the war to settle on farms and become integrated into the Ameri-
can community. My present position has aspects of permanency,
but in view of past experience, I can hardly be certain.

DAVID WOODMAN NORTON, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 13 Summer St., Marblehead, Mass.

Born: Dec. 26, 1908, Wollaston, Mass. paRENTs: David Woodman Norton,
Elizabeth Dyer Robinson.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; s.1.B. (Epis-
copal Theological School), 1933.

occupation: Rector, St. Michael’s Episcopal Church.

OFFICES HELD: Examining chaplain to the Bishop of Massachusetts, 1935.

MEMBER OP: The Parsons’ Club, The Clericus Club.

PupLications: “Is the Episcopal Church Catholic or Protestant?”; “Alex-
ander Viets Griswold,” Builders for Christ Series.

MY life since 1930 has been so relatively uneventful that I am
sure the account of it will fic well within the allotted space. On
graduation, I moved up Brattle Street to spend the next three
years studying at the Episcopal Theological School, graduating,
and being ordained to the ministry of the Episcopal Church in
1933. During the next fourteen years, I served at St. Anne’s
Church, Lowell, All Saints Church, Chelmsford, Holy Trinity

[ 834]

| oN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Church, Marlboro, The Church of the Advent, Boston, and St.
Stephen’s in the South End of Boston. As the people of most of
these parishes were industrial workers, I learned a good deal about
working and living conditions both during the depression years
and during the wartime boom. I could see the effects of the New
Deal, Labor Unions, and the G.I. Bill of Rights from the under-
neath side, coming to believe that while they may be and are
often subject to abuse, their over-all effects are decidedly bene-
ficial socially.

Since 1947 I have been rector of St. Michael’s Church in Mar-
blehead, a parish of some five hundred worshipping in a church
built in 1714. he congregation is a mixed one, made up of old-
time Marblehead families who have been here for centuries, and
comparative new-comers like my neighbor, Bill Kip, ’30, who
commute to Boston, Salem and Lynn. Families with children
abound, so, while having none of my own, I have through the
church contacts a-plenty with the younger generation.

While I am no over-all optimist (who can be in the face of
present-day world conditions and outlook? ), I believe that many
things have improved since our graduation twenty-five years ago.
Notably, I find many younger men with a set of values and a life
plan far less materialistic than those which prevailed in the ’2os.

RICHARD PEARSON NORTON

HOME appREss: 35 Casa Way, San Francisco 23, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wallace, Garrison, Norton & Ray, 2200 Shell Bldg., San
Francisco 4, Calif,

BORN: Dec. 28, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Albert Jacob Norton, Rose
Cannon Pearson.

PREPARED AT: Trinity School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cu laude, 1930; LL.B., 1933.

OccuPATION: Lawyer, partner in firm.

MEMBER OF: Olympic Club; Press & Union League Club; Commonwealth
Club; Commercial Club; State Bar of California; San Francisco and
American Bar Associations; Lawyers Club of San F rancisco; Harvard
Club of New York City.

HAVE resided and practised law in San Francisco since 1934.
Tama partner in the firm of Wallace, Garrison, Norton & Ray,

[ 835 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

specializing generally, bute not always, in corporation, tax and
probate law. Served as officer in Naval Intelligence from 1942 to
1946.

FRANCIS EDWARD NUGENT

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Berkeley St. Nashua, N. H.

OFFICE AporEss: Second National Bank of Nashua, 191 Main St., Nashua,
N. H.

porn: March 8 1908, Allston, Mass. PARENTs: Joseph Nugent, Jessie
Walker.

prepareD aT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

MarrieD: Margaret Louise Collins, April 20, 1940, Belmont, Mass. CHILDREN:
Barbara Jane, March 21, 1942; David Walker, May 25, 1944; Clare,
Sept. 9, 1947.

OccUPATION: Executive vice-president, Second National Bank of Nashua.

offices HELD: Director, Second National Bank of Nashua, since 1951.
New Hampshire Business Development Corp., Concord, N. H., since
1954, Community Chest of Nashua and Hudson, N. H., since 1952;
member, Hospital Advisory Council, State of New Hampshire, since
1954-

MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus; Rotary; Harvard Club of Nashua; Har-
vard Club of New Hampshire, Nashua Country Club.

AFTER graduation I attended the Harvard Graduate School of
Business Administration until June, 1932, and then worked for
two years with the New England Telephone and Telegraph Com-
pany. After a year in the investment field, I joined the Treasury
Department, and after fourteen years of examining national banks
in New England, with two years of Army service, I was appointed
assistant chief national bank examiner in Washington, D. C., in
September, 1949. From December, 1951, until the present time,
I have been executive vice-president of the Second National Bank
of Nashua, New Hampshire.

During 1940 the most important event of the twenty-five years
took place. It was my marriage to a wonderful girl and the
beginning of a family life around which everything else has
revolved. Three lively and lovely children have provided their
enthusiasm which makes life interesting. After a few years of
many geographical changes, we settled down in a small town not
far to the north of Boston, and are now enjoying all that a town

[ 836]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of this type offers, and it offers plenty, particularly of a recrea-
tional nature, but also various types of civic activities.

Although I lived only a few years in Washington, it was enough
to remove any tendency towards strong political convictions,
Both political parties have shown a tendency to make promises
which they have been unable to fulfill.

If all goes well, we expect to enjoy the Twenty-fifth.

JOHN WILLIAM O’CONNELL

HOME ADDRESS: 6432 Wiscasset Rd. Glen Echo Heights, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Association of Machinists, Machinists Bldg.,
Washington 1, D. C.

BORN: Aug. 27, 1909, Wakefield, Mass. parents: John William O'Connell,
Lilian Mary Cassidy.

PREPARED AT: Wakefield High School, Wakefield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cuz laude, 1930; M.B.A, 1932.

marriep: Anna Ruth Maloney, Oct. 31, 1938, Wakefield, Mass. carpren:
John William, Sept. 15, 1939; Rebecca Ann, March 31, 1943; Thomas,
June 13, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Government.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

JOSEPH SANFORD OETTINGER

HOME apprEss: 24 North Wood Lane, Woodmere, N. Y.

BORN: July 30, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Milton Dana Oettinger,
Bertha Levy.

PREPARED AT: Woodmere Academy, Woodmere, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; M.B.A, magna
cum laude, 1931.

MarRiED: Berenice Frank, Jan. 21, 1937, New York, N. ¥. cattpren: Nancy
Ann, and Betty Ann (twins), July 11, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Spencer Dana Oettingcr, "35.

OoccupaTION: Management engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Business School Club of New York, tors;
secretary-treasurer, Metropolitan Controllers Congress, 1950; president,
board of trustees, Educational Alliance, 1952-55.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Business Schoal of New
York; American Institute of Accountants; American Management Asso-
ciation; Inwood Country Club.

( 837 ]

aS CR NN : SN TENNER scht intranet mint «

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

AS I write “the account of my life since graduation,” I feel as if
the spirit of Robert Benchley were looking over my shoulder.
If he never wrote a Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report, he missed
a golden opportunity. If he did, I am going to a lot of unneces-
sary trouble, which painfully reminds me of English A. I want
Johnny Cross to know that I am writing this because his Goad
Number 3 moved me deeply; otherwise, I would still be post-
poning the evil day when I have to tell all.

After college I went to the Harvard Business School, gradu-
ating in 1931. I have always planned to do management engineer-
ing, which is a fancy name for business doctoring. In 1931 busi-
ness doctors had plenty to do, though business undertakers were
much busier. I joined S. D. Leidesdorf & Company, certified
public accountants, and for ten years did this type of consulting
work. They were interesting years and if the war had not come
along, I might have stayed put to this day.

In 1937 I had married Berenice Frank, a girl I had known most
of my life. We really became serious about it while she was still
a senior at Vassar, though the big day came over a year after her
graduation. To the dismay of statisticians, we are still married
and not sorry about the whole thing. In 1940 twin daughters,
Nancy Ann and Betsy Ann, were born. Scared by our initial
success, or maybe the war had something to do with it, we did
not add to the brood. The girls will be fifteen by the time Re-
union comes around. They are good healthy kids, smart enough

to hold their own with their classmates and too smart for me to
hold my own.

Right after Pearl Harbor, Professor Doriot of the Business
School asked me to join him in the Office of the Quartermaster
General in Washington. Shortly afterwards, I was asked to or-
ganize and head up the Cost and Price Analysis Branch in the
OQMG. Its main functions were (1) to make cost studies and an-
alyses for contracting officers to use in procurement negotiations,
(2) to handle the accounting phases of renegotiation of war con-
tracts, and (3) to do the accounting work in contract termination
settlements. I was in uniform for over three years, reached the
rank of lieutenant colonel, was given the Legion of Merit, and
was glad to get back to civilian life in October, 1945.

[ 838 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I returned to business as vice-president and treasurer of Miles
Shoes, Inc., a company with which I had worked closely in pre-
war years. The firm is a chain store organization with 180 stores
in the Middle Atlantic States and with headquarters in New York
City. I enjoyed tremendously the eight years with this company,
but still had the inner urge to return to management engineering.
Consequently, in June, 1953, I opened shop for myself. My first
client was Miles Shoes, and I still spend considerable time with
the company. More recently, several other clients have taken on
my services and I am quite busy.

In non-business hours, I play tennis on a very relaxed basis and
occasionally go skiing. I have been interested in a number of
_ community and philanthropic activities, notably the Educational
Alliance where for the last three years I have been president.

We enjoy travelling and in recent years have been catching up
on vacations we had missed: a couple of trips to Europe, and last
summer, a motor trip with the youngsters through the West and
up into the Canadian Rockies.

Possibly a good note to end this sorry account is to mention
the work of the New York Class Committee. Fund-raising isn’t
fun — even for Harvard — but I’ve enjoyed the opportunity of
seeing again a lot of old — and I do mean “old” — classmates.

GEORGE KAZUTO OHARA

HOME ADDRESS: 1626 Royal Palm Drive, Wahiawa, Oahu, Hawaii.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 548 California Ave., Wahiawa, Oahu, Hawaii.

BORN: June 1, 1907, Pearl City, Oahu, Hawaii. parents: Taro Ohara,
Hatsuno Tsumura.

PREPARED AT: Mid-Pacific High School, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; A.M. 1931; D.DS. (Mar-
quette Dental School), 1934.

MarRiED: Shigeko Tanimoto, Oct. 10, 1936, Pearl City, Oahu, Hawaii.
CHILDREN: James, Aug. 12, 1938; Patrick, April 9, 1940; Meryle, Oct. 1,
1942; Franklin, April 30, 1944; June, June 15, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Dentistry.

OFFICES HELD: President, Wahiawa Cinema Club, 1949, 31st Precinct of 5th
District, Republican Party, Hawaii, 1952-54, Wahiawa Lions Club,
1950-51; vice-president, Wahiawa Golf Club, 1949; member board of
directors, Wahiawa Community Association, 1950, Wahiawa Chamber

[ 839 ]

| a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

of Commerce, 1952, 1953; institutional representative, Cub Scouts Pack
58, 1951-54; member, Territorial Board of Dental Examiners, 1953-56,
president, Wahiawa Eames Association, 1953-54; member board of
governors, Wahiawa Buddhist Mission, 1952-54, Mid-Pacific High a
Alumni Association, 1954-55; president, Club go (golf club), 1954-55;
chairman, Legislative Committee, Wahiawa Elementary P.T.A., 1954-55.
MEMBER OF: Territorial Dental Society; Harvard Club of Hawaii, Mar-
quette Dental Alumni Association; American Dental Association.

AS I “reminisce,” I am humbly thankful to God that I am still
living twenty-five years after graduation, allowing me to be hap-
pily married with five fairly intelligent children and enough
remuneration from the dental profession to take care of their
education.

After receiving an S.B. in 1930 and an A.M. in 1931 from Har-
vard, I received my D.D.S. degree in 1934 from Marquette Dental,
and have been practising dentistry ever since. I find myself pretty
successful in dentistry and enjoy the profession. I am much en-
deared to Marquette Dental on account of my profession, al-
though I will never forget that Harvard made a “man” out of me.

Hobbies — golf, civic activities, and politics. I go golfing to
keep up my health and get some sunshine. I play “Eisenhower”
golf —in the go’s. I join clubs in my home town to make friends
and to be useful in our community. I play politics to back up
some of my good friend-politicians and find it a very interesting
diversion. I find politics can be very clean and at other times

very dirty and vicious.

JEREMIAH JOSEPH O’LEARY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 57 Fairview St., Roslindale 31, Mass.

BoaN: May 15, 1909, Charlestown, Mass, parents: Jeremiah Joseph O'Leary,
Hannah Hurley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

OCCUPATION: Education,

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 840 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ELAM WARD OLNEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 287 Mount Kemble Ave., Morristown, N. J.

oFFIcE appress: N. Y., N. H. & Hartford Railway, Room 3617, Grand Central
Terminal, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 23, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Elam Ward Olney, Ada
Blackford.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(32).

marRiED: Alys Huntington Wright, June 16, 1932, Abington, Mass. camp:
Ward Wright, Oct. 27, 1934.

occupation: Passenger sales representative, New Haven Railroad.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant, captain, assistant chief, Morris Township Fire
Department; chairman, Morris Township Republican County Com-

mittee.
MEMBER OF: Morris Township Fire Department, Society of Colonial Wars;

Morris County Golf Club; St. Peter’s Church.

THEY say variety is the spice of life. If so, my career has been
highly seasoned to say the least. My primary interest has always
been transportation, railroads or ships. So what happened upon
graduating? I found myself in the brokerage business in Wall
Street. This was a good experience, but that’s all. Fortunately I
recovered, but I am sure that it contributed to my ulcer, which
recently I had removed. Thence to manufacturing with a slight
interval of selling aeroplanes.

Finally, after these many long years, my youthful desire has
materialized. I have become a member of the New Haven Rail-
road family as passenger sales representative in the New York
office. My particular assignment at the moment is steamship rep-
resentative whose duties are to meet all the incoming passenger
ships to assist New Englanders and Canadians with their baggage
and transportation problems. We can sell tickets on the pier and
check their baggage direct to their destination. You work Sun-
days and holidays, and dinner at home is the exception rather
than the rule. In spite of this, it is an interesting and fascinating
job meeting all kinds of people. Some of these appreciate very
much what you do for them while others —a very few —are
suspicious and think that you are trying to sell them something.
Enough of my occupational activity.

Alys, or “Pete” —as she was nicknamed by her father — be-
sides running the house is registrar of The Peck School here in

[ 841 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Morristown and has done an outstanding job for many years.
Our one and only objective, as 1 guess it is with all of us, is to
provide the best education possible for our child or children as
the case may be. Wright, our son, is now a sophomore at Hamil-
ton College, having spent his preparatory years at St. Paul’s School
in Concord, New Hampshire. At first, 1 was disappointed that he
did not come to Harvard, but have since changed my mind. Cer-
tain types of boys are more suited to a small college and Wright is
one of them. He finished the hockey season as regular goalie and
played an outstanding game against St. Lawrence, making fifty-
eight saves. At the end of his freshman year, he was elected to
DT, the freshman honor society for the contribution he had made
to school activities during the year.

As to extra-curricular a activities over the past years, I have been
a volunteer fireman for twenty years and Republican County
Committeeman for ten years, besides the time-consuming job of
keeping a house in repair.

I should like to set forth my political convictions in more detail,
but the fact that I was a poor scholar in English composition —
plus the fact that my wife has offered to type this for me—
cautions me against such a move. Suffice it to say that I have been
a staunch Republican all my life and a firm believer in the two-
party system. I think, however, we are in a very critical stage in
our country’s history with certain interests trying to destroy this
system which has served us so well these many years.

THOMAS GEORGE O'’NEIL

HOME aporess: Stiles Road, Boylston, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Vellumoid Co., Worcester 6, Mass.

Born: March 24, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas A. O’Neil, Alice C.
Ford.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MarRRieD: Helen Constance O'Neil, June 29, 1946, Buffalo, N. Y. (divorced
1952). cHiLoREN: Constance Marie, March 25, 1947; Thomas Nelson,
March 23, 1948.

Harvagp Broruer: Gerald Leo O'Neil, ’34.

Occupation: Vice-president, sales manager, Vellumoid Company,

[ 842 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Member, Executive Committee, Worcester Sales Executive
Club, 1950, 1951; contact chairman, Industrial Division, Worcester
Community Chest, 1954; chairman, Schools Committee, member, Execu-
tive Committee, Harvard Club of Worcester; vice-commodore, Waquoit

Bay Yacht Club, 1948.
MEMBER OF: National Automotive Parts Association, 1954; University Club of
Worcester; Lake Shore Club, Chicago.

PAUSING for even a few minutes to look back over the twenty-
five years that have slipped by is in itself an experience, I find.
There is all too little time and opportunity to pause just now —
at least, for those of us engaged in a competitive business. These
years fall for me into three groups: pre-war, war, and post-war.

In late 1931, as a result of striking out from Milton to the
West —all the way to Worcester — joined the Vellumoid Com-
pany, manufacturers of gaskets and sheet packings, as a sales rep-
resentative. After travelling in what I learned to consider the
East — even though this territory extended beyond the Hudson
and below the Mason-Dixon Line — I was called into the Worces-
ter office in 1940, still single and faintly hopeful (1 still am) that
this beautiful country of ours might some day have a Republican
president.

In the latter part of 1942, I became a lieutenant, U.S.N.R., and
after two courses at Quonset, an A.C.I. (Air Combat Intelligence),
I departed for the Solomons in early 1943. My duties in the Navy
were interesting, active, and sometimes even pleasant. I saw a
good deal of the Pacific — Guadalcanal, New Georgia, Bougain-
ville, New Britain, the Fiji Islands, Okinawa, the Philippines, and
the Battle of Leyre Gulf were some of the places and campaigns
—and landed in Hiroshima a few days after Bomb A was
dropped,

As for the post-war years, so far they have been the most satis-
factory. I now have two healthy, active, and challenging kids
whom I don’t have with me often enough, but who are with me
fora good part of the summer when we swim and sail at the Cape.
Living in the country and spending much of my leisure time out-
doors helps to keep me in reasonably good shape. I seem not to
have time for much golf, but a tennis court on my place allows
me to get in several sets a week in good weather, and I do a little
bird shooting near home during the season, finishing it off each

[ 843 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

year with a week of stalking the wily, wild turkey in Virginia at
a friend’s farm outside Fredericksburg. I also do some mild
skiing here and there, wherever there is snow.

I travel a good deal business-wise, which exposes me to some
extra- New England points of view, not a bad thing for those of
us born in Boston.

When I have a few minutes now and then to reflect on events
of wider scope, the results are disquieting. The efforts of most
of us who took a reasonably active part in World War II evi-
dently have come to little more than naught. Even a casual glance
at the world’s map, which has been leaking red ink and blood right
on past V-J Day, is hardly conducive to optimism about our
future. In the face of such realities, I am unable to work up
much enthusiasm for platitudes like “civil liberties,” “freedom of
thought,” and the like, when introduced by well-meaning and
sometimes not so well-meaning intellectuals —so called —in
order to complicate and hinder badly needed efforts to drag out
into the open anti-U. S. agents and sympathizers whose connec-
tions, however indirect, go back to the enemy — the United
States (for all intents and purposes) being in a state of war. How
much freedom of education is there in Poland today, I wonder.

Often I feel guilty for not worrying more about this situation.
History is repeating itself all around us while we —I, included —
appear blind to unpleasant facts. We do little or nothing and
vaguely hope things will improve next year. Fortunately for our
ulcers, an optimism that isn’t wholly blind is an attribute of a
generation that had to adjust itself to several declared and un-
declared wars. Perhaps our children will find a way after all.
They'll have to be more realistic than we are to survive.

MELVIN SAMUEL ORNSTEEN

HOME aporess: 242 Mill St. Haverhill, Mass.

OFFICE appREss; 20 Phoenix Row, Haverhill, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 3, 1909, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Myer Theodore Ornsteen,
Rebecca Tribeman.

pugparen at: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marairp: Sybil Radovsky, April 4, 1933, Fall River, Mass. cuttoren: Robert
J., Nov. 25, 1934; Jane, April 29, 1938.

[ 844 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD SON: Robert Ornsteen, ’57.
OccUPATION: Treasurer, Ornsteen Shoe Company; president, Lester Realty
. Company.

SINCE graduation, a very wonderful life, but surely not one of
great note; same business, same wife, same children, and same
friends,

RICHARD STEPHENS OSBORNE

MAILING ADDRESS: % Mrs. Christine S. Osborne, 142 Dawes Ave., Pittsfield,
Mass.

BORN: July 25, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Harold Skene Osborne,
Christine Stephens.

PREPARED AT: Pittsfield High School, Pittsfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: AB., 1930(31).

OCCUPATION: Accounting.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

GEORGE HENRY O’SULLIVAN

HOME abpress: 19 Morton Rd., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co., 530 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 15, 1907, Cork, Ireland. parents: Florence Francis O'Sullivan,
Catherine Baldwin Foote.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Gertrude A. Shea, April 25, 1942.

AFTER graduation I went to work for the A & P Tea Company
in Boston where I have been employed ever since. My present
work is rather intriguing, as I merchandise fresh fruits and vege-
tables, frozen foods, etc. With daily fluctuations of the produce
‘market, the perishability of the goods, and the changing of sea-
sonal crops, there is never a dull moment — and no idle ones. In
the evolution of the super-markets the advances in handling and
selling produce, frozen foods, dried fruit, and nuts have certainly
been rapid and have kept me constantly on the alert. Just setting
the retails on produce to secure the proper profit, to lead com-

petition, and to promote volume is almost like being in a poker

game. As a side aspect of this work, I have become an “expert,”

[ 845]

N

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

so they say, in setting up direct distribution of produce to the
stores — side-stepping warehousing. This ability became rather
embarrassing when I had to turn down a national position in this
type of work, as I did not care to travel two or three months at
a clip.

During the war I was in the Air Force in the ETO dropping
paratroopers, hauling gliders, taking out wounded, etc., in the
reliable C-47s. The greatest thrill of all my missions was the night
before D-Day when we dropped the men at St. Mer Eglise in
Normandy. Later on, during the drop of the 82nd Paratroopers
in Holland, I was shot down; but after dodging around for a
week, I made my way back. Travelled all over Great Britain dur-
ing pre-invasion days and afterwards in France, Germany, Hol-
land, Belgium. Returned in late 1945 by boat, a pleasant change
from going over which was by plane on the northern route (oh
how cold those glaciers look in Greenland). Would not have
missed the war for anything — experiences beyond description.

On the domestic side, after going around footloose and fancy
free for some years I met the girl of my heart, Gertrude, or as she
is known by all, Jerry. It took some time to convince her that I
was the one and only for her. But this I did and in the spring of
1942, we were married. It has been a wonderfully happy life
with her — increasing steadily as the years roll by.

At home I have occupied myself with the landscaping of our
new home (1950), especially in working on the stone walls, rock
garden, and in constructing a patio. The building of the house
was, I suspect, the usual nightmare of change and counterchange
with the contractor. Glad that is over, as the selection of wall
papers, number of electric outlets per room, shades of paint, etc.,
had me more than a little confused. Engage in the various social
activities and groups of the community. Still voting Democratic
— all the more so since our Republican friend, Senator McCarthy,
became so prominent. He really will ruin that party if un-
checked. Probably the Republicans are unknowingly lucky they
lost the Senate for by doing so their McCarthy lost his chairman-
ship. For hobbies, I am an avid reader — lately, The Life of
Churchill — and travel just everywhere in the U. S. on vacations.
Enjoy a little salt water fishing every so often; watch the Red
Sox, and also attend the football games in the Stadium whenever

[ 846 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

possible. When meeting people whom I have not seen in years,
I am told I have not changed at all. Well, that is nice to hear but
I do detect a small weight problem that I have to contend with
every so often. The hair does not take as long to comb. The
garden chores take a little longer. The gay reminiscing nights
are not as long. But these last twenty-five years have been ex-
citingly happy ones. I am looking forward to the next twenty-
five with plenty of bounce and optimism.

JACK WERNER OWENS

HOME AppRESS: 431 N.W. 18th St., Oklahoma City 3, Okla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Club House Market, Inc., 1002 West Reno, Oklahoma Ciry,
Okla.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1910, Dallas, Texas, parENTs: Cecil Clary Owens, Pearl Louise
Werner... .

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Oklahoma City, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

MarRieD: Edna Viola Sibel, Aug. 28, 1929, Norman, Okla. cHiLpren: Nancy
Ann, Sept. 14, 1931 (a. William Andrew Werme, Jr., Dec. 23, 1950);
Jacqueline Louise, May 12, 1933 (7. Howard Kenneth Berry, Jr., Aug.
1, 1952). GRANDCHILDREN: Michael Owen Werme, March 1, 1952; David
Andrew and Debra Ann Werme (twins), Dec. 7, 1953; Howard Kenneth
Berry, 3d, May 6, 1953; Jack Edward Berry, March 8, 1955.

OCCUPATION: President, Club House Market, Inc. meat jobbers.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, 1946-50, trustee, 1950-53, First Presbyterian Church of
Oklahoma City; executive officer, 1950-54, Naval Reserve Supply Com-
pany, 8-1, Oklahoma City.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club of Oklahoma City.

I CONSIDER myself extremely fortunate for three influences
that have touched upon my life. First, for the years I spent at
Harvard and for the pride I have always felt for being a Harvard
man. Second, for the privilege of serving my country in the Navy
during World War II and the continuing associations since in the
Naval Reserve. But foremost, my greatest joy is in my family
and for this I can take but little credit, since it has been the force
of my good wife that has welded it into such a fine unit.

I was married early, at nineteen, between our junior and senior
years, and I brought my bride back to Cambridge for our senior
year. It was a wonderful honeymoon that we look back upon
with great joy. After graduation, we returned to our home town,

[ 847 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Oklahoma City, and have made our home here ever since. It has
been a happy home and we were blessed with two fine daughters,
both of whom are now married and who have given us four
lovely grandchildren with more in sight. To me these accom-
plishments are of the greatest value.

After graduation, I entered into the retail grocery business
which had been in the family since 1904. I carried it forward,
expanded it into the supermarket field, operating sometimes two
and sometimes three markets. But in 1952 I liquidated my stores
and took a couple of years doing graduate study in business man-
agement at the University of Oklahoma. Last August I purchased
another market, but after five months have liquidated it. This
last experience, I believe, has convinced me that I really do not
care for the grocery business. Business has been good to me,
providing my family with the things within our needs, but I am
not one to say that I am in love with business, that I enjoy it
above all else.

In 1944 I was commissioned a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy Sup-
ply Corps Reserve. I spent some fourteen months at sea aboard
the U.S.S. Duluth, a light cruiser. Since 1949 I have been active
in our local Naval Reserve Supply Company.

I am a strong believer in the infallibiliry of the Democratic
Party.

Having worked long hours all my life in the grocery business,
I have had little time to develop any hobbies; 1 do not golf or
hunt, and fish but little. But I do love to travel and the slightest
excuse will start me out for either coast. That is one reason I show
up at all Reunions.

One thing I do attribute to my Harvard training: I have the
facility for complete relaxation when I have leisure time; I can
thoroughly enjoy myself doing absolutely nothing. However, |
have not the collateral requirement of adequate funds to pursue
this course much longer, so I shall probably have to give up this
pleasure.

My family is looking forward to June.

[ 848 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDSON WARD PAGE

HOME AppRESS: 1040 Sterling Drive, Flossmoor, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lytton’s, 235 S. State St., Chicago 4, IIL.

BORN: June 9, 1906, Turners Falls, Mass. parents: Edson Lee Page, Anna
Brown.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31).

occuPATION: Advertising manager, Men’s & Boys’ Divisions, Henry C. Lytton
& Company.

SINCE 1930 I’ve covered a lot of ground; to how much avail is

debatable. Like many a depression fledgling, I had a good deal of

trouble both getting started and staying put. I still have trouble

with the latter, Perhaps I get bored too easily.

In Boston I worked successively in the advertising department
of Raymond’s, for the Boston Symphony Orchestra as assistant
publicity director; and as assistant to the director of the New
England Conservatory of Music, where my chief function was
publicity. For eight years I was on call as a music reviewer for
the Boston Globe, and wrote tons for other local papers and
magazines, In Chicago, after 1938, I was writer and editor for
Compton’s Encyclopedia, wrote brochures for a publisher of vo-
cational guidance monographs, and finally, for two and a half
years preceding Army service, as advertising director of the
Bissell-Weisert Company, retailers of pianos, phonograph-radios,
and records,

I served in the Air Force from December, 1942, to September,
1945, beginning as a lecturer in the Basic Training Program at
Miami Beach; attending Cryptography School at Paw ling, New
York; then shipping to Alaska for the duration. I spent twenty-
seven months in Alaska and loved it—a year in Fairbanks, five
months at Fort Nelson, British Columbia, and a final ten months
as historian of 3d Wing Headquarters, Army Airways Communi-
cations Service at Elmendorf Field, Anchorage. In Fairbanks I
was organist at St. Matthew's Episcopal Church, and during my
time in the North did a little something with writing, publishing
two articles on Alaska and the Far North in Town & Country
and a short story in Elks Alagazine.

Following discharge, I returned to Chicago and worked as an
editor of a digest-type magazine grossly misnamed Murch of

[ 849 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Progress, and as a copywriter for Sears Roebuck State Street store.
Then for two years [ free-lanced in retail advertising, handling
such diverse accounts as Imperial House Restaurant, Trabert &
Hoeffer-Mauboussin, jewelers; the Bissell- Weisert Company; Hig-
gins & Frank, men’s clothiers; Scott Radio Laboratories.

In March, 1949, I got back in the harness again, serving time
for three and a half years as assistant advertising manager of
B. Kuppenheimer & Company, manufacturers of men’s clothing.
In the late autumn of 1952, | made my present move to Lytton’s.
I wish I could afford to retire! .

I live quietly, uneventfully, quite pleasantly, sharing a rather
large suburban apartment with a room-mate and a madcap dachs-
hund named Franz. As often as possible I indulge a long-unful-
filled yen to travel. Within recent years I’ve enjoyed seeing most
of the United States, plus two trips to Mexico and once to Europe
(with short stays in London and Paris again this spring). For
three and a half years I’ve been organist at the Church of St. John
the Evangelist (Episcopal) in Flossmoor — fun, income, but I
miss the weekends!

GEORGE ALFRED PAGE

HOME ADDRESS: 726 Hilldale Ave., Berkeley, Calif.

OFFICE abpress: Van Strum & Towne, Inc., 1925 Russ Bldg., San Francisco,
Calif.

Boan: Dec. 11, 1907, Brookline, Mass. parents: George Alfred Page, ’93,
Mabel Bruce Hurd.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. pecree: 3.8. (Northwestern Univ.), 1930.

MargrieD: Nan Louise Pagin, Oct. 17, 1931, LaGrange, Ill.; Ada May Rogers.
cHiLpREN: George Alfred, Jr. 1932; David, 1934.

HaRvann BrorHER: Charles Albert Page, ’21.

OCCUPATION: Pension consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Various positions.

MEMBER OF: Various organizations,

[ 850]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES RUSSELL PAGE

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Maplewood Terr., Haverhill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREss: 191 Merrimack St., Haverhill, Mass.

porn: April 15, 1909, Haverhill, Mass. parents: James Goodridge Page, ’o4,
Beatrice E. Cook.

PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Isabelle Beatrice Granton, Feb. 8, 1936, Haverhill, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Granton, March 23, 1938, James Goodridge, 2d, June 21,
1940; Pamela Ann, March 12, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: John William Page, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker.

OFFICES HELD: President, Haverhill Association of Insurance Agents, 1949-50;
director, Merrimack National Bank, Haverhill Codperative Bank; vice-
president, Lone Tree Council, Boy Scouts of America, 1954; trustee,
member Security Committee, Pentucket Five Cents Savings Bank;
master, Merrimack Lodge, AF. & A.M., 1948; chairman, Haverhill
Industrial Commission, 1954, Finance Committee, First Congregational
Church of Haverhill, 1949.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club; various insurance organizations;

several Masonic bodies.

AFTER three years in the Boston office of a large fire insurance
company, I joined my father in his insurance business in Haver-
hill and we have been partners now for many years, during which
we have purchased two other insurance agencies and combined
them with our own,business. Except for two years spent in the
Navy as a landing craft officer aboard an attack transport in the
Pacific during World War II, I have been continuously in Haver-
hill in the general insurance business, and except for the recent
epidemic of hurricanes, I like it very much.

I have for several years been on the Security Committee of
our Savings Bank approving loans on real estate. I have assisted
in various capacities in our local Community Chest and Red Cross
drives, and spent a very busy and enjoyable three years as a
scoutmaster when my boys became of Scout age, hiking, camping,
and climbing in the White Mountains.

We bought a large trailer a year ago and move it with the
seasons — Lake Winnepesaukee summers for sailing, swimming,
hiking, and climbing — North Conway winters for skiing. (We
are the only family I ever knew or heard of who move their trailer
further north in the winter.’) The whole family enjoys it on

[851 ]

v

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

weekends and occasional vacations, and its only disadvantage is
that our Irish Setter seems to attain the stature of a large horse
in the trailer. I hope to play some golf in about ten more years,
but in the meantime I’m having a swell time working, camping,
climbing, skiing, and watching the youngsters grow up.

JOHN BOARDMAN PAGE
HOME AppRess: 49 Brookside Drive, Greenwich, Conn.; 519 W. State Ave.,
Phoenix, Ariz.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 49 Brookside Drive, Greenwich, Conn.; Suite 516, Luhrs
Bldg., Phoenix, Ariz.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1908, Phoenix, Ariz. parents: John Hickok Page, ‘oo,
Francisca Baker.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.
OccUPATION: Writer: magazines, television, theatre.

SOON after graduation, I got a job on the New York Journal-
American (as it was called in those far-off days) and I was a young
working newspaperman for quite a spell of time. A severe attack
of pneumonia caused by a too ardent mixing of newspaper and
pleasure, laid me very low indeed (there were no antibiotic
medicines in those days), so I was obliged to spend a year or so
in Arizona for convalescence. I was somewhat torn, I remember,
by the golden lure of selling real estate in Arizona (I can’t think
why now), but I overcame this keen fascination for making
money with less difficulty — for making money, period, I should
say —and I returned to New York to work on a magazine there.

This magazine belonged to Raymond Moley who was one of
the very first and one of the most articulate of the New Dealers,
but he was articulate in the wrong directions evidently, because
the magazine folded after I had been with it for about two years.
Then I went to work for The Reader's Digest. I was with The
Reader's Digest for a long time, and during my years there |
gained such journalistic experience and knowledge and ability
as | now possess,

In between there somewhere (between Mr. Moley and The
Reader’s Digest), 1 worked for The New Yorker Magazine, for
International News Service, and at assorted ghost-writing jobs

[ 852]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which included three books, none of them —I am glad to say —
signed by me, and a vastly syndicated newspaper column, describ-
ing cooking recipes for the more talented housewives throughout
the nation. The column was signed by George Rector, who was
a son of the celebrated New York restaurant man, and our recipes,
which I had to explain in the column, were conned from the files
of some long dead but extremely French chef.

After leaving The Reader's Digest, I had a notion for a more
relaxing kind of occupation. Instead, I somehow got mixed up
with television, and mixed up in it I still am and it is not relaxing.
I commenced innocently enough by writing television playscripts
(some of them for children’s programs) and, by a kind of insidious
in-drawing process, I became involved in the production end of
television. I have had to spend the entire past year both in Arizona
and in Hollywood on this television production business. I have
tried throughout the years to spend as much of each winter as pos-
sible in southern Arizona, but this schedule has become so compli-
cated that I am often spending the summers in Arizona’s 100°
climate and the winters in Connecticut, which is not the same
thing.

I have a home in Greenwich, Connecticut (which I] haven’t seen
for a year now), but to which I plan shortly to return. I have
written a musical play — NOT for television but for the legiti-
mate theatre — which, one hopes, will go into production reason-
ably soon and which requires my presence in New York again.
To the concern and indignation of my Democratic friends, I took
an excursion into politics during the 1952 campaign when I wrote
speeches and material for some of the campaigning Republicans.

I haven’t married. I haven’t had time.

ROBERT ALAN PAGE

HOME ADpREsS: 17 Everett Ave., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Louis E, Page, Inc. P.O. Box 50, West Concord, Mass.

BoRN: April 30, 1907, Somerville, Mass. PARENTs: Louis Eugene Page, Annie
Louise Mulock.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B, cunt laude, 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

[853]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

marrieD: Louise Fulton Gucker, June 15, 1932, Philadephia, Pa. cHttpren:
Patricia Louise, Oct. 9, 1936; Robert Alan, Jr., Nov. 28, 1938; Duncan
Oliphant, Sept. 14, 1946.

occupation: Vice-president, Louis E. Page, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex.

VIEWING the clouded business outlook in the spring of 1930, I
decided to sit out the “recession” at the Harvard Business School
and at the same time prepare myself more adequately for my
eventual plunge into the business world. After two years, spent
mostly on commercial banking, I was thankful to find a job in
the retailing field in New York City. Eleven years later, the
demands of a family business, short of man-power due to the
war, induced me to return to New England. At this juncture, my
New York draft board turned up the name of its recently de-
parted member as 1A and in spite of my infirmities, Fort Bragg
and the Field Artillery proved to me that I could do the impos-
sible. My brief sojourn in New England had confirmed what I
had long suspected, that I belonged in New England, and after
the war I returned to the family business which is engaged in
the wholesale distribution of various agricultural lines throughout
this section.

Taking first my major interest, my wife (an interest which
dates from freshman year) and family, I have a daughter in her
freshman year at Bryn Mawr, the alma mater of her mother and
grandmother, and a son who will settle for nothing less than Har-
vard, Class of 1960. A small Cub Scout, born on the first anni-
versary of my discharge date from the Army, helps keep our out-
look young and rounds out the family group.

Aside from the usual contributions to civic activities in minor
roles, my chief service and activity has been in church affairs,
where I have run the gamut from a harassed Sunday School
teacher to my present job as warden. I might add that nothing in
my college days, or for some years thereafter, indicated this de-
velopment, but I find it an increasingly rewarding and enriching
experience.

My interests and hobbies have seen many changes over the past
twenty-five years and I am troubled by the realization that there
won't be enough time in the next twenty-five or fifty years to
pursue all the things that invite my attention. At present, I am

[ 854]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a hi-fi devotee, completely unversed and uninterested in the tech-
nical aspects, but bent on keeping the house filled with the output
of LP records and the local FM stations. Gardening is also a major
interest though time limitations have very much hampered my
efforts and achievements along this line. Also worthy of mention
is a cottage on Lake Winnepesaukee completely designed by my
wife and myself, built of white pine from our own woods and
located on a long, narrow point, which provides the illusion of
island living with none of the disadvantages. From May 30
through October 12, weekends, and for the vacation months of
July and August, the Page family is in residence every possible
moment. There I indulge in my passion for changing the topog-
raphy and shore line, noting sadly with each passing year that
the rocks grow heavier and the logs tougher.

BROOKMAN RENNINGER PAINTER

HOME ADDRESS: 377 Park St., Beaver, Pa., (temporary) Heidelberg, Germany.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Signal Div., Hq., USAREUR, APO 403, New York, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 30, 1908, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. parents: Walter Scott
Painter, Estelle Renninger.

PREPARED AT: High School for Boys, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. cu? laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Olive Elizabeth Endler, June 14, 1932, Vanport, Pa. CHILDREN:
Brookman Endler, May 1, 1933; Judith Etha, June 6, 1950.

occupation: Lieutenant-colonel, U. S. Army Signal Corps.

AFTER graduating from college, I joined the U. S. Steel Cor-
poration, going to work for Carnegie Steel Company at the New
Castle Works. Was transferred to Mingo Junction Works in
1932, and to Homestead Steel Works in 1936. Received a Reserve
commission in the Ordnance Corps in 1936, and served as Assist-
ant Post Ordnance Officer at Fort Monroe, Virginia, November,
1939 to June, 1940. Continued to work for U. S, Steel at Home-
stead Stee] Works until March, 1942. Recalled to active duty as a
first lieutenant, Signal Corps. Served two years in Greenland at
Sondestrom Fjord and two years in Washington, D.C, during the
war. Was transferred to Japan, May, 1946, and integrated as a
Regular Army Officer in August, 1946. Returned to continental
U. S. in November, 1948.

[855 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Was promoted to lieutenant-colonel in September, 1950, while
serving with the Signal Corps Supply Agency in Philadelphia.
Returned overseas to Germany in September, 1953, and assigned
duty as C.O., Hanover Signal Depot at Hanover, Germany. Re-
assigned as Chief, distribution section, Procurement and Distribu-
tion Branch, Signal Division, Headquarters, USAREUR, Heidel-
berg, Germany, August, 1954.

Have a son, Brookman Endler Painter, who is a senior at
Norwich University, Northfield, Vermont. He is majoring in
business administration and expects to enter the marketing field.
Wife and daughter are presently residing at Schiictginger, Ger-
many, just outside of Heidelberg.

Hobbies are colored slides and golf.

CARLETON HUBBELL PARKER

HOME aDpREsS: Williamstown, Mass.

BoRN: July 3, 1908, Oakland, Calif. parents: Carleton Hubbell Parker,
Comelia Stratoon,

preparep aT: Glarisegg, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1928-1930, 1932-1933. DEGREE: $.B., 1930(33).

MarrieD: Josephine Lord Swift, July 18, 1933. CHILDREN: Josephine Ranlet,
March 13, 1935; Carleton Hubbell, 3d, Feb. 21, 1937; James and Carolyn
(twins), 1948.

OCCUPATION: Education.

+ HARRISON PARKER, JR.

Born: Aug. 24, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Harrison Parker, Edith Stubbs.
prepAreD AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31).

piep: April 2, 1951, San Francisco, Calif,

AFTER graduating with an A.B. degree, Parker was engaged in
newspaper work and teaching for a year. He then made painting
his profession and also did some writing. He lived in Los Angeles
for some time before his death in San Francisco.

[856]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Financially, I am not a credit to the University, especially after
tw enty-five| years. However, I have not given up hope. Who
know. s? Some day I might even amass a tidy sum, when I am too
old to enjoy it.

+ LEWIS DABNEY PARKER

porN: Dec. 14, 1907, Charles River, Mass. PARENTS: Augustin Hamilton
Parker, ’97, Caroline Miller Dabney.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

marriepD: Barbara Wingate Weeks, Dec. 4, 1938, Yuma, Ariz. (divorced
1946); Zohmah Hibbard, June 27, 1946, Cucuta, Norte Santander
Colombia, South America.

piep: May 4, 1948, lost over north Atlantic.

IN 1931 Parker reported that he was a check teller at the State
Street Trust Company in Boston. Having been interested in
flying since his undergraduate years, he spent three years as a
pilot with Skyways, Inc., of Boston. Later he managed a ranch in
Tucson, Arizona. From 1937 to 1944 he was associated with
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation as general duties pilot, experi-
mental test pilot, and finally as assistant chief pilot in charge of
operations. He then joined the Ryan Aircraft Company and took
part in the development of a jet-propelled fighter aircraft for the
Navy. He resigned to accept a position with the Aereas Trans-
portes S.A., in Monterey, Mexico, but shortly afterwards joined
Fairchild Aerial Surveys, Inc. He was with this corporation in
1946, conducting aerial photography flights in Colombia, South
America. He was piloting a twin-engined DC-3, owned by the
Superior Oil Company, from Gander, Newfoundland, to Shan-
non, Eire, when the plane was lost over the north Atlantic.

GEOFFREY PARSONS, JR.

HOME apparss: 18 Quai d’Orlcans, Paris, France.

orrice appness: NATO, Palais de Chaillot, Paris, France.

BORN: July 3, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Geoffrey Parsons, Carle
Taylor.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931.

[858 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriED: Brenda Tweed, Sept. 16, 1933, Duxbury, Mass. cum: Geoffrey,
3d, Aug. 10, 1934.
OccUPATION: Journalism.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

CLYDE McEWEN PATE

HOME ADDRESS: 96 Fair Oaks Ave., Newtonville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 Thayer St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 3, 1899, Shelbyville, Ill. parents: Lewis Frank Pate, Eva Jane
Morton.

PREPARED AT: Shelbyville High School, Shelbyville, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Eva Marian Frailey, Sept. 27, 1921, Vandalia, Ill, (died Nov. 14,
1947); May Lucille Loukes, Dec. 11, 1948, Brighton, Mass. cain:
Elisabeth Jane, Feb. 6, 1923 (72. Donald T. Hill, May, 1944). GRANDCHILD:
Warren Pate Hill, July 31, 1953.

occupation: Analytical chemist, Davies, Rose & Company, Ltd.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Chi Sigma, Omicron Chapter; Association of Harvard
Chemists.

I HAVE been happily employed as a chemist at Davies, Rose &
Company, Ltd., since 1930. My principal hobby and recreation
is golf, which Mrs. Pate and I enjoy together.

THOMAS WILLIAM PATRICK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 100 Pinecrest Drive, Hastings-on-Hudson, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 221 W. 139th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1908, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Thomas William Patrick,
Helena Irene Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D. (Univ. of Berlin),
1935.

MarRiED: Herta Ellby, Sept. 17, 1935, Berlin, Germany; Elizabeth Ancoinette
Hervey, May 22, 1948. CHILDREN: Barbara, Oct. 3, 1936; Jeannette, June
25, 1938,

OccuPATION: Physician, children’s specialist.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical assistant visiting pediatrician, Harlem Hospital;
pediatrician, Children’s Aid Society; medical director, Riverdale
Colored Orphan Asylum; member, sub-committee on Infant and Ma-
ternal Hygiene, special committee on Child Welfare, County Medical
Society, Commission on Pediatrics, National Medical Association;

[ 859]

: RR PRONE

nee | /

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

chairman, sub-committee on Health Problems in Harlem, member
board of directors, Wilewyck School, Children’s Welfare Federation,
New York Urban League, American Medical Association, American
Camping Association; present or former school physician, The Modern
School, Dunbar Nursery, Lite Brown Schoolhouse, Little Brick
Schoolhouse; former examining physician, The Sheltering Arms, former
consultant pediatrician, Panel of E.M.I.C.; founder, director, Camp
Willowemoc; medical director, Northside Center for Child Develop-
ment; vice-president, Pinecrest Civic Association; founder, president,
Y.OL.O. Association.

MEMBER OF: Manhattan Medical Society, New York County Medical
Society; New York Tuberculosis and Heart Association; Omega Psi
Phi.

ADOLF FRITZ PAVENSTEDT

HOME aporEsss: 1280 S.W. Davenport St., Portland 1, Oregon.

orFice appress: Balfour, Guthrie & Co., Ltd., 733 S.W. Oak St., Portland 5,
Oregon.

BORN: Feb. 27, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Edmund Wilhelm Paven-
stedt, Elisabeth Carolina Probst.

PREPARED AT: Glarisegg, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MarrieD: Loyal Lamont Heussy, Jan. 14, 1950, Seattle, Wash. STEPCHILDREN:
Peter Lamont Heussy, July 23, 1933; William Charles Heussy, Dec. 7,
194.

OCCUPATION: International and domestic trading.

JAMES HENRY PAYNE, JR.

HOME Appress: 60 N. Holliston Ave., Pasadena 4, Calif,

orFice appress: Occidental Life Insurance Co. 1151 S. Broadway, Los
Angeles, Calif.

BORN: June 17, 1908, Lynn, Mass. Parents: James Henry Payne, "86, Caro-
line Mina Gibson.

Prerarep ar: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

margito: Dolores Mary McNeil, Jan. 30, 1933, Long Beach, Calif. cHtoren:
Jeannette May, May 13, 1934, Dolores Mary, April 22, 1937.

occupation: Life insurance; business machines, rescarch analyst.

MEMBER OF: National Machine Accountants Association,

UPON graduation, the Navy appeared to offer a more interest-
ing way of life than my chosen ficld, physics. Accordingly, ac-

[ 860 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cepting a commission in the Supply Corps, I found myself em-
barked for the west coast, where I have spent the greater part of
my life since.

Some of the more pleasant and interesting periods were spent
in the Puget Sound area, frequent visits to the Hawaiian Islands,
being present during the Pearl Harbor attack, acting as battle
announcer atop the U.S.S. South Dakota during the raids of the
Third and Fifth Fleets on Japan, the Philippines, and the China
Sea, and finally going ashore at Yokosuka as part of the initial
landing force while the surrender was being signed.

Entering civilian life in 1948, I had been deeply impressed with
the possibilities inherent in applications of IBM to office methods.
As accounting officer at Pearl Harbor, I had a free hand in con-
verting our payroll of some 25,000 employees to machine methods
and found the savings in time, money, and accuracy to be enor-
mous. I determined to obtain a firm foundation in knowledge of
all available types. However, this has been a touch and go propo-
sition with the accelerated rate at which new releases have been
made and the outlook is for enormous advances in the near future.
With a background of electronics and accounting the future ap-
pears to offer interesting possibilities and a real challenge.

Hobbies include hunting, fishing, photography, work-shop,
and trying to understand what motivates the actions of my young
daughters.

HORACE BARNES PEASE

HOME AppRESS: 80 Mill Rd., Longmeadow 6, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 26 Temple St., Springfield 5, Mass.

BORN: March 3, 1908, Albany, N. Y. parents: Herbert Dodge Pease, Amy
Barnes. .

PREPARED AT: Richmond Hill High School, Richmond Hill, N. Ys McBurney
School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: §.B., 1930; M.D. 1935.

marrieD: Helen Kezia Buck, April 13, 1940, Middletown, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Richard Warren, Nov. 27, 1941; David Murray, June 18, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Murray Pease, °26,

OccUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting physician, Springfield Hospital, since 1954.

[ 861 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

IN the fall of 1930 I went to Cambridge University primarily to
satisfy a vague, restless groping and to study more biology. There
I groped but studied little, lacking the incentive of our grade sys-
tem. It became evident that I had insufficient urge to become a
productive scientist and was glad to be admitted to Harvard Med-
ical School. That excellent institution was at times hard to take;
the work was intense the first two years and I missed the stimulus
to intellectual curiosity, so much a part of the College’s atmos-
phere. There wasn’t time for it. However, I found my proper
place in clinical medicine. I took a general internship at the
Springfield Hospital. Springfield turned out to be a medium-sized,
amiable community, so I took root and have practised internal
medicine here in the family doctor mode ever since. The succes-
sion of new and challenging clinical problems which range in
character from philosophical to biochemical add up to a satisfying
life.

An interlude in the Army consisted of forty months in the
South Pacific, unremitting homesickness, and the final resolution
of wanderlust. This affair, for my money, demonstrated that four
years in an atmosphere of inquisitive perspective at the College
constitute a better weapon against tropical stagnation and the
military status than any amount of extroverted vigor and worldli-
ness, I was with the First Field Hospital the whole session, often
actually practising medicine, a piece of very good fortune. I re-
turned with remnants of tropical disease, insufficient time spent in
service in the U. S. to be eligible for the American Theatre Rib-
bon, and a distaste for powdered eggs, heat, tents, mud, and lack
of privacy. On return I studied pathology for a few months
while becoming acquainted with my then four-year-old son, who
was merely mewling when I left. Another son, now six, has given
me an opportunity to witness at close range the first four years
of life.

Much of my work consists in making necessarily make-shift
repairs on individuals. Technical advances have helped much, but
I have become convinced that two basic crying needs are wide-
spread in our citizenry: first, the raising of youngsters in such a
way as to give them enough emotional and intellectual stability to
free them for optimal adaptability and productivity; and second,
to prepare all for ever longer old age. The ubiquitous scramble

[ 862 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for success of various sorts kills off some and leaves others to an
old age boredom and frustrating dependency. Lucky are those
of our age group who have built up a variety of avocations.

My family gets a bang out of listening to music — absorbing,
convenient, economical, and rewarding. For vacations we go
various places in tents with as little discomfort as possible. Free-
dom to go wherever we wish, no telephone, direct contact with
the natural environment, dissociation from accustomed conven-
tions, all make this form of escape highly satisfactory for us —
even for me, despite the overdose of tent life during the war. It
was all due to my wife’s patient and skillful salesmanship, one of
her numerous good qualities.

Recently, my elder son — without conscious prior indoctrina-
tion on my part — asked if his grades were good enough to get
him into Harvard.

SHELLEY DEXTER PEIRCE

HOME ADDRESS: 95 W. Main St., Westboro, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., 8 Portland St. Worcester,

Mass.
BORN: Sept. 4, 1908, Tarrytown, N. Y. PARENTS: Herbert Russell Peirce,

Edith Neilson Fay.

PREPARED aT: Noble & Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MaRRIED: Vernice Ellen Vaughan, April 21, 1934, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Nancy Fay, Aug. 8, 1935; Priscilla Ellen, Sept. 15, 1936;
Mary Locke, May 16, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Temple Harold Peirce, °31; ‘Herbert Russell Peirce, Jr.,

°34-
OccupaTion: District sales manager, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company.

OFFIcEs HELD: Member, Finance Committee, Town of Westboro.
MEMBER OF: Worcester Sales Executive Club; Harvard Club of Worcester;
St. Stephans Men’s Club.

ON graduation, I worked for R. H. White’s in Boston on the
training squad as assistant buyer in the book department. In
February, 1932, when the book business was far from flourishing,
I went with Liberty Mutual, selling automobile insurance in New
York City. There I met my wife, Our first child was born in
New York City. In October, 1935, I was transferred to the Lib-

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

erty office in Erie, Pennsylvania, changing to the “wholesale” end
of our business — workmen’s compensation, group, and crime
insurance. The five years in Erie, as we emerged from the depres-
sion, were wonderful. Our two other daughters, Priscilla and
Mary, were born in Erie.

A transfer to the Liberty Buffalo office came along in 1940,
and soon the war. As the Navy wouldn’t take me, I joined the
Auxiliary Coast Guard Reserve and all spare time was spent help-
ing fight the Battle of Buffalo Harbor.

In 1946, after making the inner circuit for Liberty, I came to
Worcester, the largest of our branch offices, and have since be-
come district manager, extending operations to our Fitchburg,
Springfield, and Pittsfield offices.

Golf and book collecting of the earlier years have given over to
fishing (if you like Blue Fish, let’s go!) and duck shooting (the
Cape is on the fringe of the flyway), both very handy to West-
boro.

Our children have pretty well grown up, The two older ones
are away at college, and the house suddenly seems big and empty
with just three of us. We feel settled in this New England town
which, to our regret, is on the way to becoming yet another
suburb of Boston and Worcester. We get to Boston and Cam-
bridge less often than we would like to; Westboro has turned out
to be a busy place in which to live.

On and off I assist on Red Cross, Worcester Safety Council,
local Harvard School Committee, St. Stephans Men’s Club activ-
ities, and the Westboro Town Finance Committee takes much
time for the two months prior to Town Meeting.

KENNETH WHITTEMORE PENDAR

HOME appkEss: 27, Rue Victor Hugo, Tangier, Morocco.

BORN: Dec, 22, 1906, Sioux Falls, S. Dak. parents: Oliver Simon Pendar,
Ruth Whittemore.

PREPARED aT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

Magairp; Beatrix Llambi-Campbcll, March 20, 1948, New York, N. Y.

HaRgvAkD BroTHER: Oliver Anscl Pendar, '27.

OCCUPATION: Businessman,

[ 864 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Lenox Hill Settlement House,
New York City, 1933-40, Byzantine Institute, Paris and Boston, 1935-~
40; U.S. Vice-Consul, Casablanca, Marrakech, Fes, and Algiers, 1941-
43; founder, member board of directors, Compagnie des Boissons
Hygieniques, Concessionnaire Coca-Cola, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Adventure in Diplomacy —Our French Dilemma, Dodd,
Mead & Company, New York, 1945; Le Dilenrme France — Etats-Unis,
editions Beauchemin, Montreal, 1946, editions Self, Paris, 1947.

HAVING concentrated in archeology and fine arts during my
undergraduate years at Harvard, and having derived infinite
pleasure from visiting private collections and museums in the
United States and Europe, upon leaving Harvard I undertook to
earn my living in a great picture-dealing house in New York. As
fate would have it, my decision was taken just as the depression
hit our country. Six years of this work in New York, London,
and Paris brought home to me, alas, too clearly, two facts: first,
that if one wished to continue to enjoy pictures one must stop
trying to sell them; and second, that only exceedingly rich peo-
ple and institutions can buy great works of art. As a counter-
balance to this diet of riches I became more and more involved
in the lives and the living conditions of the poor in the New York
slums by working during my spare time the last four years, and
actually living the last two years of my residence in New York,
at the Lenox Hill Settlement House. This period of education,
so to speak, proved to be more efficacious than any I had pre-
viously received.

In 1936 I made an abortive attempt to found a museum at my
old school and thus engage upon a career as a schoolmaster. Fail-
ing in this and thanks to the generosity of kind friends, I under-
took an extended trip to Europe and the Near East, which, due to
a temporary period of having for the first and last time in my
adult life an unearned income, small though it was, grew into a
three-year period of residence in Paris with long trips to Istanbul
— all in the pursuit of a doctorate degree in Byzantine archae-
ology, which held and still holds for me a passionate interest. It
is due to this period of my life that I owe my love and respect for
France and her civilization. The 1939 war rudely interrupted
this agreeable scholastic life.

[ 865 ]

" " ” SENET AS PMT NNSA Bey he, tage

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

FRANCIS HENRY PEPPER

HOME ADDRESS: 1806 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: First National Bank of Boston, 52 Temple Pl., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: May 29, 1909, Shenandoah, Pa. parents: Charles Vincent Pepper,
Mary Rogers Goyne.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930.

marrieD: Shirley R. Locke, Sept. 24, 1949, Braintree, Mass. cHiLp: Francis
Henry, Jr. April 9, 1953-

occupaTION: Loan officer, First National Bank of Boston.

AT this particular time, I find it a little difficult to settle down and

write of my activities during the last twenty-five years. I am just

winding up the last few days of my vacation and find it taxing to

have to think after enjoying a lazy three weeks at my farm. The

thought that is running through my mind is, “Good Lord, has it

really been twenty-five years since I received my parchment from

Mr. Lowell?” Be that as it may, I shall endeavor to bring you up

to date on the comings and goings of FHP.

After spending the summer of 1930 working at the First Na-
tional Bank of Boston, I entered the Business School. Due to
finances, or lack of them, I gave up the B.S. after one year and
went on the permanent payroll of the First. I say permanent be-
cause I am still there!

After performing a multiplicity of jobs, I became an assistant
branch manager. In 1942 I joined the Military Transport Divi-
sion of Northeast Airlines. A three-year stint over, I returned to
the First. In 1947 the title of assistant manager of the Instalment
Loan Department was conferred upon me. In 1951 I became a
Loan Officer at the Temple Place branch, where I still hang my
hat. Along with my bank position, I am a director of the Goyne
Steam Pump Company in Ashland, Pennsylvania, where I visit at
least once a year. So much for the practical side!

On the lighter side, 1 have always been interested in politics. I
have served as Town Meeting member in Brookline, president of
the Young Republican Club, and on the Republican Town Com-
mittee. I might add that I am still a Republican, However, in
September, 1949, Shirley R. Locke consented to be my bride —
hence, the end of my political career. Shirley tells me that to date
she has no serious complaints and thinks she can stand another five

[ 868 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years, I have strong reason to believe that her decision is due to
our seventeen-months-old son, F. Henry, Jr. Believe me, he cer-
tainly is the light of our lives. Class of ’75, here he comes!

In 1951 we bought an old house in Rindge, New Hampshire,
where we hope to live in the not-too-distant future. Vacations
and weekends are spent here where my hobby is gardening. We
are now enjoying the fruits of my labors in the way of corn,
cukes, carrots, and the like.

My main hobby during the winter is still contract bridge. I
attend All Saints Episcopal Church in Brookline, where I have
served on the vestry for three years, I guess that about does it.
I’m looking forward to June when I hope to see a lot of you.

NEWELL ALPHONSO PERRY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3370 Nottingham Way, Hamilton Square, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thermoid Chemical Co., Trenton 6, N. J.

Born: April 20, 1907, Avon, Mass. parents: Newell Alphonso Perry, Irene
Grace Strout.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MarRIED: Shirley Lee Cook, June 30, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. cam_p: Robert
Newell, April 27, 1943 (died April 28, 1943).

occupation: Technical director, Thermoid Chemical Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Trenton Section, American Chemical Society,
1949-50; member executive committee, New York Rubber Group,

1952-55.
MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Rubber Division of American
Chemical Society; American Association for the Advancement of

Science; New York and Philadelphia Rubber Groups.

ALTHOUGH my undergraduate aims were medical, it was my
lot to enter industry just as soon after graduation as the depression
would allow. For the next seven years I earned a meager living —
at least by today’s standards — as who, who worked, did not!
During that time I was fortunate to be associated with Godfrey L.
Cabot, Inc., in their Boston laboratory and, later, with the Boston
Woven Hose & Rubber Company, as a rubber technician and
chemist. In the ensuing recession, I had two short-lived jobs, but
in 1939 — with war close at hand and business picking up — I
joined the Thermoid Company in Trenton, New Jersey (where

[ 869 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I am now), as development engineer in the mechanical rubber
goods division. In 1940, being old enough and at last financially
able, I was happily married, and became quite sedate. The loss of
our infant son in 1943 was a bitter misfortune and is our unhappiest
recollection.

At an early date, I tried for a naval commission, and didn’t make
the grade — subnormal vision outweighed my assets. For most of
the war I was just a 1A citizen with a 4F fixation, and “frozen” to
my job. Early in 1945 “greetings” came at last, only to be followed
closely by deferment and relegation to 4A. So, for my war record,
I have had to be content with essential industrial activity in the
fight for rubber, mentioned in a previous Class Report.

As a rubber engineer, I have contributed a few technical articles
on rubber belting, such as “Rubber Transmission Belts” in the
Annual Handbook of Product Design for 1955. As a chemist, I
am proud of my part in organizing the Trenton section of the
American Chemical Society and of my chairmanship for the 1949-
50 term. Since 1952, when I became technical director of the
Thermoid Chemical Company, I have been developing chemicals,
primarily for use in rubber, and have filed several patent applica-
tions.

In 1951 I purchased a seasoned, but well-built, little house in rural
surroundings, thus acquiring the avocation of property owner to
the exclusion of all hobbies — unless gardening and bird-watching
(while I catch my breath) may be classified as such. Today, there
is not much around a house that I haven’t done (the hard way);
yet the diversion and the pride of workmanship gained have been
both satisfying and health-giving. Last year my neighborhood
chores included umpiring in a boys’ league and facing a men’s
Bible class, and I hope to continue with those endeavors.

For a change of scene, ] take a few business trips each year,
sometimes with my wife, to enjoy at random the beauty and
history of our wonderful country; then there is the summer vaca-
tion pilgrimage, which we never miss, to the old homesteads in
Massachusetts and in Maine. Realizing that each day should be
lived to its fullest best, I try to do so; but I have commenced to
dream of a more Icisurely future when the hard work will be
finished, of time to read and travel, to follow creative pursuits
without haste or worry, and to enjoy pcople.

[ 870 ]

pata apr eR

rs 0 aL ARATE IONS ON NNO . wo _

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YALE HARVARD PERRY

HOME ADDRESS: 980 Sumner Ave., Springfield 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; 509 Allen St., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1909, Wallingford, Conn. parents: Lewis Pinsker, Lena
Markowitz.

PREPARED AT: Lyman High School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. (Fordham Univ.).

MARRIED: Ethel Sigura, Dec. 22, 1934, New York, N. Y. camtpren: Adriane
Lynn, Aug. 23, 1941; Alan Lewis, Oct. 7, 1945.

occuPATION: Manufacturer’s representative in the automotive equipment
field.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Sinai Temple.

HAMSTRUNG by the inertia that has kept me in a rut these
many years, I had no intention of giving anything but a perfunc-
tory report to our Class Report of ’30. But here I am, the victim
of having opened John Cross’s long neglected letter and having
read the “‘sample lives” and looked at the “before and after” pic-
tures enclosed therein, I felt that even a drab and colorless life
should be recorded on the bare chance that someone might re-
member and have his curiosity appeased. (Am I facetious or
bitter? )

Back in ’29, when one of our deans called me into his office
(Oh, blessed memory that refuses to recall his name) and strongly
advised that since I was without funds, it would be better not to
return for my senior year, I became even more determined to
finish on schedule; and I placed my faith in God (I didn’t recog-
nize Him then) and returned and found, indeed, that God does
take care of fools and sinners.

After graduation, which I did not attend because I did not have
the price of a cap and gown, not even rental price, I made my way
to New York to join the bread lines that were beginning to queue
the city, but only to find that even here I did not qualify. I
never did get a bowl of soup or experience the thrill of shining
apples on Fifth Avenue or any other prominent street or, for that
matter, on any unimportant street. I survived the rough years by
hiding my greatest qualification, namely, that I was a ‘Harvard
Man,” and taking menial Jobs that were unavailable once it
became known that I was Harvard, 30.

Along the way to “Nowhere,” I realized an ambition held since

[871]

emer ES ROE ISITE ET DO I .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I was knee-high, and I studied law — nights — at Fordham from

1933 to 1936. Working days from 6 A.M. to 5 P.M. at a trucking

concern started by one of our classmates, and attending law school

from 7 P.M. to 10 P.M. every night, I molded my character to the
complete wreck that it is today. But law was not to be my destiny.
I had exchanged my single status for that of marital bliss in 1934
(and bliss it has been ever since — surprised, dear Ethel?) and,
knowing too many starving lawyers, I decided it would not be
fair to have my wife support me for the next ten years, and there-
fore, I got into the selling field, forming my present company, The
Moto Sales Company, factory representatives in the automotive
equipment field, selling to the automotive jobber. My wonderful
wife then had to support my partner and his wife for only two
years before I was able to free her from the bonds of slavery.

My business, which eventually delivered me from monetary
considerations, did something worse, however; it chained me like
Prometheus to the wheel of work and grind, Because I am a
travelling man with only a few hours that I can call my own, I
have never become a joiner and belong to no organizations and
limit my activities to my one interest, my Temple, Sinai, of which
1 am now vice-president. I ask you, is this the way for a Harvard
man?

Since my wife feels that my business and temperament do not
qualify me for the role of “father,” we have not been prolific and
are blessed with only two wonderful children, Adriane Lynn
Perry and Alan Lewis Perry (initials of both, American Labor
Party). They, together with my B.W. (apologies to Leonard
Lyons), comprise my “jewels” and my “blessings.” But, Eddie
Fisher to the contrary notwithstanding, counting them does not
increase them — they only make me more sheepish — and I am
indeed sorry that we did not grace our board with more joy and
consolation for our later years.

As a father of one of our classmates was fond of saying, “My
friends,” — I know not what else I might say to you. Mine has not
been an exciting life like one of Mickey Spillane’s characters, but
rather a dull, plodding existence with enough pathos and bathos
to remind me that I am a living creature and not completely a lump
of clay into which no life has been breathed.

To those of you to whom life has been exciting and full, my

[872]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sincerest congratulations tinged with envy; and to those like my-
self, who have awakened to find that they are older but not wiser,
I say, “Move over, brother, make room for me.”

ABBOT PETERSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Barclay Sq., Newport, R. I.

OFFICE apprEss: U.S. Naval Base, Newport, R. I.

BoRN: May 31, 1908, Lancaster, Mass. parents: Abbot Peterson, ‘04, Edna
Jones.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; S.T.B., 1933.

MARRIED: Marie Lesh, July 27, 1932, Boston, Mass. cutcoren: Martha Ann,
May 1, 19333 Abbot, 3d, April 3, 1937; two more. Granpcui_p: Chris-
topher Frederick Martin.

OCCUPATION: Chaplain, U.S. Navy; Captain, U.S. Navy.

MY present duty is as officer in charge of the Chaplain Indoctri-
nation School, U.S. Naval Schools Command, Newport, Rhode
Island. My medals are the Bronze Star (Combat “V”) with gold
star and the Presidential Unit Citation.

We hope Abbot Peterson, 3d, will enter Harvard following
graduation in June, 1955, from Middlesex School in Concord,
Massachusetts.

CARL SCHURZ PETRASCH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Fox Lane, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Ford, Bacon & Davis, Inc., 39 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: March 15, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Carl Schurz Petrasch,
Alice Schmidt. -

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930,

marRieD: Florence Lindsay, May 27, 1933, Southboro, Mass. CHILDREN:
Florence Lindsay, May 25, 1935; John Garrit, May 16, 1939.

occupaTion: Vice-president, Ford, Bacon & Davis, Inc, and Ford, Bacon &
Davis Construction Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Union Club; Down Town Association; Sons of the Revolu-
tion; Bedford Golf & Tennis Club (New York).

RIGHT after college [ spent a year going around the world — in
somewhat 1929 style — with our classmate Lea Hudson, We went

[ 873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

New York City) except for the first couple of years when we lived
in the city. Three and one half hour daily commute but, in prac-
tice, that has proved more of a mental than a practical obstacle.
Anyway, so used to it by now I don’t know (which I guess is the
bad part about it) what I would do with the part of the day I
spend on the train and subway. It’s real country — the only place
to live — where we are but, with the growth of Suburbia, the
handwriting is on the wall and the days “of not being able to see
another house” are numbered.

I work around the place, play a little golf, do a little hunting,
and in recent years have had several opportunities to go out West
and ride at one of the ranches which my wife and I like. My
civic-mindedness has proved, I fear, largely theoretical, with my
excuse — which is no excuse — that I am too tired after a twelve-
hour commuter’s day to take part in some of the good works |
should. I ike my family and I like my friends and I like my busi-
ness and that is where my interest lies. It’s been a good life.

CHARLES EVERETT PETTEE

HOME ApDprEss: 10 Alpine Lane, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE appress: Oxford University Press, Inc. 114 Fifth Ave., New York
i, N. Y.

BorN: May 12, 1908, Hartford, Conn. parents: Charles Leslie Wight Pettee,
Edith Pingree Sawyer.

PREPARED AT: Hartford Public School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M., 1933.

Marriep: Barbara Bekins, May 20, 1942, Beverly Hills, Calif. cmp: Andrea
Margaret, July 23, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Sawyer Pettee, ’26, A.M., 31, PH.D., "37.

occupation: Manager, College Department, Oxford University Press, Inc.

orrices HELD: Vice-president, 1953-54, president, 1954-55, College Publisher's
Group.

MEMBER © Harvard Club of New York; United States Power Squadron;
Old South Association.

AFTER graduation I taught all subjects to three grades in one
room of a small private school for underprivileged boys. My foot-
ball coaching was somewhat more successful, but I wished to teach
in college, and returned to Harvard in the autumn of 1931. There
followed four years of part-time study, coupled with running the

[ 876 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Kirkland House Library. It became clear (it seems now that the
process was very gradual) that the realm of scholarship was not
my dish, and somewhat short of the Ph.D., I dropped from the
Graduate School and spent two years and some personal resources
in an effort to start a rare book business in Cambridge. This ven-
ture passed away quietly, and after some months of inactivity, I
joined the Oxford University Press as a college representative in
its western territo

Like many an easterner, I had been to Europe but not beyond
Cleveland in the other direction, and meeting the physical and
intellectual West, not to mention Los Angeles in its own special
material sense, was a considerable adventure. Since then I have
visited colleges and universities over an area of nearly three-quar-
ters of the country, and have found in college textbook publishing
a steadily satisfying and stimulating occupation.

I was married late in the spring of 1942, and shortly thereafter

was drafted into the U.S. Army. By unusual luck, my wife was
able to be near me during the better part of two years spent in
training in the United States, during which I progressed to staff
sergeant, and finally to Field Artillery, Officer Candidate School.
When I finished this in the summer, in Oklahoma, I once more
weighed what I had as a freshman! Will this ever be achieved
again? .
Two years of rear-echelon duty in the Pacific followed, in-
volving dull duty in New Caledonia, somewhat better in the
Philippines, and a memorable few months in Japan, mostly on
Hokkaido. Work in publishing was resumed thereafter.

Favorite pastimes still include talking to college professors, but
aside from household fun in games, gardening, and reading (there
is still no TV in this home, but we do visit the neighbors for
highlights) with bits of theatre, museums, and foreign movies in
New York, the most enjoyed portion of life is the fairly regular
vacation cruise on an auxiliary sailboat of some sort. We still
charter, and enjoy the variety, but hope for our own some dav.
Maine is preferred, with lobsters steamed in sea water, and all the
blueberries and raspberries you can pick and eat for yourselves,
but the run from Connecticut to Cuttyhunk, Edgartown, or
Nantucket is more accessible.

What did we gain in college that still brings us enjoyment? An

[ 877 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

eve for architecture (and some art) largely due to listening to the
late George Harold Edgell; an ear for music, especially vocal and
choral, due to singing in the Glee Club and Choir with, Doc
Davison and G. Wallace Woodworth. It is harder to single out
any source for the other varied tastes which have survived pre-
occupation with the routines of living.

And what of the future? Leadership which can produce policies
to dissolve our fears is needed. And in education, strengthening
of standards generally (were they ever too high, or could some of
us get through college today?) and more tutorial and more
strongly staffed courses, such as History 1 and Economics A were
more than twenty-five years ago, are needed, General education
is fine except that it consists of more people being Jectured to by
less accessible teachers.

Maybe by our Fiftieth some of the vistas will be clearer, and
some of the answers, the kind that claim complete respect, will
be in.

GEORGE PFAFF, JR.

HOME aporess: Center Moriches, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10-61 Jackson Ave., Long Island City, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 17, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: George Pfaff, Nellie Young
Zincke.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-27.

Marriep: Agnes B. Schalker, Oct. 19, 1937, Wallingford, Conn. cHip:
Patricia Ann, Oct. 3, 1938.

occupATiION: Manufacturer: machinery for stone quarries and abrasives for
industrial firms.

AFTER finding out business paid a better salary than hockey and
baseball (at least, the type I could play), I worked harder. Now
I have the Veep job in our companies, so there is always a chance
for advancement.

Agnes and I like to cruise on our boat as much as time allows
during the summer. Pat, our daughter, sails in races around West-
hampton Beach, She presented me with a cup one year when I
was teacher: it was for being the most vociferous of fathers on
the Bay.

[ 878 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Don’t think we will ever be rich, but we are happy with what
we have.

REGINALD HENRY PHELPS

HOME apprEss: 107 Irving St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, zq4 Quincy St.
Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 20, 1909, Southwick, Mass. parents: Charles Henry Phelps,
Musetta Adora Carr.

PREPARED AT: Westfield High School, Westfield, Mass.; Central High
School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. summna cum laude, 1930; AM.
19333 PH.D., 1947.

MARRIED: Julia Gray Sears, April 16, 1938, Boston, Mass. cumpren: William
Richards Charles, July 4, 1947; Henry Carr, July 14, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stanton Charles Phelps, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Associate dean, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences; lecturer
on German, director, University Extension, Harvard University.

OFFICES HELD: Corresponding secretary, Harvard Chapter, Phi Beta Kappa,
1940-44; member board of directors, Prospect Union Educational
Exchange, Cambridge, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Historical Association, Modern
Language Association of America, American Association of Teachers
of German; Adult Education Luncheon Club of Greater Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles and reviews in The Germanic Review, the Deutsche
Rundschau; contributions in Before America Decides, 1938, American
Youth: An Enforced Reconnaissance, 1940; The German Heritage (co-
editor with J. M. Stein), 1950.

THE year 1930 was not, in many ways, the ideal year to be
graduated, but it happened to be a nearly ideal year for a young
student to spend in Europe. I went over in August, thanks to a
generous travelling fellowship from Harvard, and was quickly
confirmed in the choice of Germany as the subject of my major
interest. That winter I enrolled for a semester in the University
of Munich; began to concern myself with the crisis of the country
as a whole, rather than simply with German literature; acquired
an admiration for Chancellor Briining in his effort to hold a
moderate course (though, as events proved, too much to the
Right) against the Nazis on one side and the Communists on the
other; heard Hitler orate twice at the Biirgerbrau, from which he
had launched in 1923 the Putsch whose failure seemed for a while

[ 879 ]

PT A NCTE BR IE trite reneecer rereepentomng
PR erie re

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

to have buried the Nazi Party in oblivion; travelled a lot in

Bavaria and grew fond of its life and its beauty; and with the

winter semester over, had several months to travel in Central

Europe, France, and England.

This interest in Germany has accompanied me ever since. |
taught German at Harvard from 1931 on, with one interruption,
to 1944, doing graduate work first in German literature, then in
history. In 1937 I became assistant dean in charge of records at
the College Office, and since that time have generally had ad-
ministration as a central activity, but with some time for teaching
and a little for research: a combination, incidentally, to be com-
mended, for a university that divides its staff between all-teachers
and all-administrators is not going to have a happy or an effective
faculty. After years of working together with Dean Hanford,
Dean Leighton, and a bevy of fine assistant deans, I entered the
OSS in September, 1944, worked first in Washington and then in

London and was in Germany for about two months at the end of
the war in Europe. I think we did our job well.

During 1946-47 | taught again at Harvard, wrote a thesis on the
causes of the fall of the Weimar Republic, and got my Ph.D. Then
came two very pleasant years as assistant professor of German at
Columbia, an institution I liked immensely; then in 1949 I returned
to Cambridge to hold the variety of positions listed above. The
work is varied, but not disparate; it gives a chance to become ac-
quainted with problems of scholarships and student finances
generally (my main concern in the Graduate School), with the
many programs of Government and Foundation aid that support
a large proportion of the special students and special auditors,
with the international exchange of students; and with the need of
offering adult education of high quality, one of the crucial, and
most difficult matters with which American education has to deal.
And along with this a chance to keep my hand in teaching and
study — fortified, at the moment of writing, by a term’s leave of
absence for research in Washington and Germany on my old love,
the Weimar Republic.

My social, political, and religious convictions coincide most
closely with the ideals of American constitutionalism of the Fight-
eenth Century and with many of the views of European liberals of
1848. This means that I believe that the balance, tolerance, and

[ 880 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

humanity represented in those two groups have been the basis for
most of what is good in our present civilization, and that the un-
balance, intolerance, and inhumanity of the younger creeds of this
century are an abomination. It leaves me a member of no party,
though a Stevenson backer in national politics.

My family is a fitting one for a man in this career — my wife,
whom I met in Munich one summer evening before the war when
she was still a Radcliffe undergraduate, is an art historian with a
Radcliffe Ph.D. in 1953, and a special fondness for medieval il-
luminated manuscripts; my two boys are lovable and erratic like
all children their age, with the right instincts, though once in a
while the wrong actions. Our favorite family occupation is to go
to the old homestead in western Massachusetts in the summer,
raise a garden, swim, and drive to the Berkshires.

ROBERT LAWRENCE PHILBRICK

HOME ADDRESS: 1519 Palmyra Ave. Richmond 27, Va.

OFFICE appREss: David M, Lea & Co., Inc., Hopkins Road, Richmond, Va.

BORN: May 16, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Shirley Seavey Philbrick,
Helen Morgan Fitch,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; M.B.A. 1932;
CP.A, (Virginia), 1943.

MaRRIED: Jane Tower Arnold, Sept. 12, 1939, Ann Arbor, Mich (died
Sept. 5, 1950); Margaret Richardson, March 22, 1952, Gettysburg, Pa.
CHILDREN: Margaret Tracy, Nov. 7, 1941; Robert Lawrence, Jr., July
14, 1945; John Tracy, Feb. 15, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Shirley Seavey Philbrick, Jr. 39, M.B.A, "41.

OccUPATION: Treasurer, David M. Lea & Company, Inc., manufacturers of
furniture and wirebound boxes.

OFFICES HELD:’ Secretary, 1944-52, president, 1952-54, Harvard Club of
Virginia.

MEMBER OF: Virginia Society of Public Accountants; Controllers Institute.

AFTER several attempts to imitate the sample autobiographies

which the committee so efficiently provided for our guidance, I

am convinced that literature is not my field; but I am consoled by

the fact that no one is required to read this.
Frankly, when the time came to “commence” back in 1930,

I was at a loss where to begin, considering the then state of invest-

ment banking, so it seemed a good idea to attend the Business

[ 881 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

School for a while until the storm should blow over. Unfortu-
nately, when the time again arrived for commencing, in 1932,
things were not a bit better; and at fourteen dollars per week in
a chain grocery, I made right slow progress in paying off my
Business School loan. After some drifting, things gradually im-
proved. I moved to New York and the Bankers Trust Company,
the loan was eventually paid off, and my first step thereafter was
to buy two suits in one day, a luxury which marriage and family
responsibilities soon made impossible again.

Deciding accounting and not banking to be my proper field,
although I had not majored in accounting, I entered the public
accounting profession, in which I spent nine valuable years under
T. Coleman Andrews. For the past three years I have been
treasurer of a small but progressive manufacturing company, the
head of which is also a graduate of Harvard Business School.

Since 1941 we have lived in Richmond, a city which we con-
sidered to be big enough but not too big for raising a family, and
where we have felt very much at home. One result, however, has
been that the children have identified themselves with the Con-
federate cause, completely disregarding their father’s damyankee
origins. Nevertheless, it is one of our great pleasures to spend our
vacation by a New Hampshire lake, where the children are be-
coming enthusiastic campers-out and mountain climbers.

Our daughter is just entering the teens and the two boys are in
the Cub Scout stage — I am alternately proud of them and ex-
asperated with them, but more of the former than the latter. In
1950 we suffered the greatest loss that can come to a family — the
death of their mother. Life must go on, however, and in 1952 our
family was made complete again; their new mother is all that a
second mother should be.

Who among us has time to do all he wants to do or should do?
In addition to trying to keep up with business and professional
reading, meetings, etc., I am reasonably active as a deacon in our
Presbyterian Church. Time spent on affairs of the local Harvard
Club has been most rewarding in its associations. I do not golf
because I never could hit the ball squarely. Instead I have been
trying for the past eight months to remodel our kitchen — I hope
it will be done by the time this is printed.

[ 882 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FERDINAND PHILIPP

HOME ADDRESS: 209 Gibbon St., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE AppREss: Colonial Airlines, Inc. 1519 K St, N.W., Washington 5,
D. C. ‘

BORN: Jan. 9, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Philip Bernard Philipp, ’oo,
Grace Kimbal Ballard.

PREPARED AT: Morristown Academy, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: AB., 1930(31).

MARRIED: Katherine Louise Stone, Sept. 6, 1930, Avon, N. J. (divorced
1942); Maxine Kathryn Von Wiegand, March 14, 1942, Eatontown,
N. J. (died 1954); Rosamond Pauli McMillan, June, 1954, New York,
N. Y. cuitp: Joan Louise, Dec. 19, 1932.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Bernard Philipp, ’27.

THIS is my first progress report since 1946. In the intervening
years nothing of importance has happened to alter radically my
way of life — Korea and the political disputation of 1952 to the
contrary notwithstanding. I am still selling an idea, the same idea
I started out with twenty-five years ago. It must have had some
substance, because air transportation today is taken pretty much
for granted, Yet I was lucky enough to be a part of its growth
from the very beginning; and while the monetary rewards have
not been great, there has been, nonetheless, a vast satisfaction in
watching my efforts and the efforts of other countless thousands
succeed in crashing the last of Earth’s great barriers — the air.

Nor is the end in sight. Indeed, sometimes I think that “baby”
has not yet learned to walk. As long as the “Congressional” or the
Santa Fe “Chief” leave their respective depots with passengers
aboard, the airlines still have a promotional job to do.

Then take a good, long look at the future. Envy our children
and our grandchildren the miracles yet to come: turbo-jet, jet,
atomic, and finally pilotless aircraft. Envy them the magnificent
Opportunity to witness the final reality of Leonardo da Vinci’s
dream. I am minded of a talk delivered recently by the command-
ing general, Maxwell Field Air Force Base, to a group of news-
paper representatives. In attempting to gauge the future from a
military angle, he said: “The fundamental purpose underlying the
Air University is to train qualified officers in the use of weapons
not yet conceived.” Res ipsa loquitur.

The years have been very kind — much fun and frolic, good

[ 883 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

friends, good health, and very little sadness. My hope is to follow
the same course for the next quarter-century or until the Old Man
is retired to pasture — whichever may come first.

JOHN CHARLES PHILLIPS, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 6 Piazza di Bellosguardo, Florence, Italy.

BORN: Dec. 24, 1908, Boston, Mass. pareNTs: John Charles Phillips, ’99,
Eleanor Hayden Hyde.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MarRiED: Mrs. Agnes (Magruder) Gorki, 1950. cHtLpREN: Blair; Hayden,
Maro; Natasha; Antonia; Susanna.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Phillips, ’42.

OccUPATION: Artist.

‘THEODORE PIASECZNY

ADDRESS: 208 Clark Ave., Chelsea 50, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1909, Holyoke, Mass. PARENTS: John Piaseczny, Josephine
Roman.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

OCCUPATION: Building.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

FRANK RICHARD PIERCE

HOME AppREsS: 20 Lakewood Terr., Gardner, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 144 Central St., Gardner, Mass.

BORN: July 18, 1908, Melrose, Mass. parents: Frank Nye Pierce, Sadie
Alberta MacLean.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D. 1934.

MaRRieD: Gwendolin Cook, Oct. 12, 1934, Melrose, Mass. CHILDREN:
Priscilla Gwen, March 6, 1938; Richard Cameron, Dec. 4, 1940; Jerome
Stevens, April 16, 1942; Kenneth James, Aug. 14, 1946.

occupation: Surgeon. .

orFices HeLp: Chief of Surgery, Heywood Memorial Hospital, Gardner,
Mass.; consultant in surgery to Athol Memorial Hospital, Athol, Mass.,
Winchendon Hospital, Gardner State Hospital; medical director, surgi-
cal consultant, member of corporation, Heywood-Wakefield Com-
pany, since 1952; director, United Community Fund, Gardner, Mass.,

[ 884 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

since 1950, Gardner Chapter, American Cancer Society, Gardner
Chapter, American Red Cross; president, Worcester North District
Medical Society, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; New England Medical Society;
Worcester North Medical Society, New England Surgical Society;
American College of Surgeons (fellow); Diplomate of National Board
of Medical Examiners, American Board of Surgery; Gardner Boat
Club; Aeolian Society; Bass River Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in professional journals.

FOLLOWING graduation, I continued on to Harvard Medical
School and then to hospital appointments in Boston and Detroit
until September, 1938, when I came to Gardner to practise. I
was at that time one of the first to settle in a community of this
size and limit myself to the practice of surgery. This was an un-
usual move at that time since most of the men with specialist
training tended to settle in more heavily populated areas. I believe
that I was one of the few that first made such a move and that as
a result there is now a healthy exodus of young men with specialist
training into modestly sized communities. Since my coming to
Gardner, we have added to this area three other surgeons, a
thoracic surgeon, two urologists, and two orthopedists, to mention
only the closely allied surgical specialties,

My practice was interrupted by World War II when early in
1942 I went to the Pacific with the rosth General Hospital organ-
ized by Gus Thorndike under the aegis of the Harvard Medical
School and the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. After forty-two
months continuous overseas duty, I returned to take up practice
again. Was shortly made chief of surgery at the Heywood Me-
morial Hospital and still hold that position. At present, our
hospital like many others, is undergoing an extensive moderniza-
tion and expansion program. I have found the practice of surgery
in this area a very satisfying experience and the one big objection
that most men fear — professional stagnation — is a thing of the
past, due to an organized perpetual educational program which
keeps us in close touch with the work going on in the teaching and
research centers.

My daughter Priscilla and her three younger brothers keep our
house one of vigorous activity which my wife and I agree is the
most exhausting phase of our daily lives, albeit the most satisfy-
ing. Our children are all active in their ideas and often we find

[ 885 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ourselves with four young people all of whom wish to do some-
thing different in the same place at the same time. Fortunately,
they all like to sail and we now spend our summers on Cape Cod,
where we look forward next summer to sailing our Beetle Cat on
Bass River.

Since the war years, I have become more active in the church,
and two years ago was appointed a deacon of the First Congrega-
tional Church.

I have always been a Republican in politics; this, in spite of the
Party’s policies and actions which at times I consider stupid to an
embarrassing degree. However, I remain a Republican because,
to a greater degree, I am unable to swallow the actions of the
Democratic Party.

In summary, like many other Harvard graduates, I have been
neither famous nor notorious, and possibly this is one of the reasons
that my life with my family and my profession has been such a
full and rich one. The Pierce family are all looking ahead to the
Twenty-fifth and renewing old acquaintances,

GEORGE WEEKS PIERCE

HOME appress: 13 Martins Cove Rd., Hingham, Mass.

orFice appress: Arthur Andersen & Co., 294 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 23, 1908, Belleville, Kans. parents: Harley L. Pierce, Daisy
Weeks.

PREPARED AT: Belleville High School, Belleville, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1930; M.B.A., 1932-

MarRieD: Evangeline Dennis, July 27, 1940, New York, N. Y. cHILpREN:
Daisy, April 26, 1941, John, June 17, 1944, Mary, May 12, 1947.

occupation: Certified Public Accountant; partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: President, Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Ac-
countants, Inc., 1954-55, Cohasset Golf Club, 1953, 1954.

MEMBER OF: Cohasset Golf Club, Hingham Yacht Club; Harvard Club of
Boston.

FACED with the prospect of writing my autobiography, I have
been thinking about the impact of Harvard on my life. The im-
mediate effect was not discernible, Twenty-five years later, I can
look back to see that my occupation, the girl I married, and my
geographical location are all directly traceable to Harvard.

As to occupation, I am engaged in the practice of public ac-

[ 886 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

counting as a partner in the firm of Arthur Andersen & Company.
I must confess that when I first heard of this firm back in 1936

- through our classmate, Elmer Rasmuson, I didn’t know what busi-
ness it was engaged in. Elmer merely told me it was a firm that
was doing well and going places. I was first employed in the New
York office in 1936. However, before I launch more fully into
these stable, mature years, let me digress briefly on the years im-
mediately following graduation.

Like so many of our classmates, I went to Europe in the summer
of 1930, immediately following graduation — I haven’t been able
to afford it since. Then followed two years in the Harvard Busi-
ness School and an M.B.A, in 1932. Feminine attractions, rather
than job opportunities, led me to New York City. The next four
years provided valuable and varied experience in business, in-
cluding a stretch in the advertising department of the World
Telegram and a venture as the proprietor of a lobster pound and
restaurant in Westbrook, Connecticut. I consider these activities
excellent preparation for the practice of public accounting.

In 1941, Arthur Andersen & Company transferred me to its
Boston office, largely as a result of my Harvard associations. The
years in Boston have been filled with hard work, but have been
exciting and gratifying. Our practice in New England has greatly
expanded, and in 1951 I became a partner in the firm.

This year I am president of the Massachusetts Society of Certi-
fied Public Accountants, Inc., our professional organization. Sev-
eral of our classmates are dues-paying members. We have about

1,300 all told throughout the Commonwealth,

In the fall of 1938, our classmate, Paul Schofield of Chicago,
visited New York. During that visit he introduced me to Evange-
line Dennis of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, at that time employed in
New York City. In July, 1940, Evangeline and I were married.
We lived on Jane Street in the Village for a year and had our first
child. In September of 1941, we were moved to New England
and gravitated to Cambridge. Here our other two children, John
and Mary, were born,

While Cambridge is a wonderful place for adults, we became
convinced that other towns more remote from the city might be

better for our growing family. In 1947, after great searching, we
bought land in Hingham on the water with our own beach. We

[ 887 ]

AT TT eh eieannnnenrnermrmeerrreretn. cade en

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

have since built here with plans drawn by Edwin Johnson of the

Harvard School of Design. The house is modern, with radiant

heat, a shed roof, and a view across the water to Boston. We call

it a hen-house modern — not a “ranch type.” We like the South
Shore. Our children are promising skippers and race at the Hing-
ham Yacht Club. Mary, our youngest, is in Derby Academy.
Daisy is in the new high school and has just been chosen for the
lead in the Hingham Children’s Theatre production of “The
Secret Garden.” John mows our lawn and plays tennis at the
Cohasset Golf Club, where I am for the second year the president.

Last week, Dick Lincoln, our golf pro, and I played in the
President-Pro tournament, sponsored by the Massachusetts Golf
Association. It was an alternate shot affair and while I am not
recording our score for posterity, we made a number of good
shots and a respectable showing.

My politics are subject to change with the passing years. I am
by inclination a Republican. I voted for Landon in 1936 and not
entirely because he came from my home state of Kansas. Today
I am much more inclined to disregard party lines. If McCarthy
were still a factor in the Republican Party, my vote this fall would
be for the Democrats. I feel that my views now are more liberal
than they were twenty-five years ago. I hope it isn’t just that Iam
older and more smug.

One interest which I have not yet mentioned is important to
me. I ama farmer. My great-grandfather bought a farm in Rose-
ville, Illinois, in 1852. Today a young man named Huston and |
farm it ona share basis. We raise corn, oats, soy beans, and clover.
We use modern methods and lots of fertilizer — including an-
hydrous ammonia. The Soil Conservation Department of the
U.S. Department of Agriculture gives us advice, which we follow.
This year our corn made 80 bushels to the acre.

Our whole family is looking forward to the Reunion next June.

HARRISON HANSON PIERCE

HOME appress: 6 Beechmont St., Worcester 5, Mass.
OFrFice Appress: C, C, Lowell & Co., Inc., 31 Pearl St.. Worcester 8, Mass.

Born; March 3, 1907, Shrewsbury, Mass. parents: Harry Lincoln Pierce,
Grace Mabel Goddard.

[ 888 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(32).

marRIED: Margaret Gifford, June 13, 1936, Erie, Pa. cHILDREN: Gifford
David, April 19, 1937; Mary Margaret, March 31, 1939; Harry Lincoln
2d, Nov. 18, 1942; Nancy Goddard, Aug. 14, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Goddard Pierce, ’25.

OCCUPATION: President and Director, C, C. Lowell & Company, Inc,

OFFICES HELD: Director, Retail Paint & Wallpaper Dealers Association of
America; chairman, Membership Committee, Worcester Y.M.C.A.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club, Worcester, Worcester Country Club; Rotary

Club; Masons.

I TOOK a job in a brokerage office in Boston after graduation and
got a chance to spend a year in New Mexico for the firm in 1933-
34. During 1934-36 I was back in Boston doing job counselling
work. In 1936 on the death of my father’s partner, I joined his
firm, C. C. Lowell & Company, a wholesale and retail paint busi-
ness. ‘This work was the farthest from my earlier plans, but I have
found it most interesting; and I take no little pride in carrying on
as a third generation a firm roz years old with employees that have
worked for us over fifty years.

I married Peg Gifford in 1936 and find a family of two boys and
two girls has kept us pretty busy ever since, what with Cub Scouts,
Brownies, Boy Scouts’ activities, Sunday School teaching, etc.
Our elder boy is now a senior at Exeter and the elder girl is hoping
to carry on the Wellesley traditions of her mother.

A small city offers all kinds of chances to serve, and being in
sales work, I suppose, one just naturally finds Community Chest,
Y.M.C.A., and church obligations part of your life. I even stuck
out my neck to run for the School Committee, but proved to be
a poor politician.

The past four or five years we have adopted winter vacations
and have explored Bermuda, the Bahamas, Cuba, and most of the
West Indies. . .

In summation, as an undergraduate my life was anything but
spectacular. I’m sure that I shall never have any publications to
brag about; yet I look forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion with
the satisfaction of having more than my share of health, friend-
ships, and happiness.

[ 889 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MAXWELL ELLIS PIERCE

HOME aAppress: Hillcrest Drive, Glen Head, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Gimbel’s, 1275 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: Jacob Ellis Pierce, Susie
Liscomb Jones.

PREPARED AT: Lynbrook High School, Lynbrook, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).

marrieD: Grace Ellen Evans, Aug. 31, 1934, Greenwich, Conn.

occuPATION: Assistant general manager in charge of employee relations.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Retail Labor Standards Association, New
York, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Isaac Gimbel Memorial Post, No. 1206, American Legion;
Harvard Club of New York City; Parent Teachers Association, Glen
Head, N. Y.

YOU know what happened when we graduated. They were
firing, not hiring. However, after two short-term jobs, I became
a section manager (floor-walker in the old days) in a large New
York department store. The job was temporary for the Christmas
season. But — the store had a basketball team and Harvard put me
in good stead. They invited me to play on their team and since the
basketball season lasted longer than the Christmas season, I obliged.
J am still with the same firm, Gimbel’s, New York. Over the years
I] have had my share of handling customers’ complaints, selling
service supervision, research and methods, inventory control, and
operating. I am now assistant general manager responsible for
employee relations and labor relations.

Grace and I were married in 1934. Incidentally, my first boss
introduced her to me as his girl friend. She is an elementary school
administrator and it is amazing the number of common problems
we share in our respective business responsibilities. The major
problems of both of us are of people. Her people are just a little
younger, and my kids are a little older. We have no children, but
a cat and two dogs seem to require almost as much attention. Pete,
the white cat, rules the roost, the dogs, and us too.

Hobbies: antiques and their rehabilitation; some dabbling in oils
and water-colors;, house remodelling; basketball until I knew bet-
ter; and — dammit — now scrabble.

Returned from our Fifteenth to tell my wife how much younger
I looked than you fellows. There wasn’t much satisfaction though,

[ 890 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

because the picture arrived shortly thereafter. She had also just
read a magazine article about College Reunions. The author said
the rest of you fellows told your wives the same thing.

RAYMOND BENNER PIERCE

HOME appRESS: Western Ave., Essex, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Shoe Machinery Corp., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 13, 1909, Marblehead, Mass. parents: Wilbur Pierce, Anne
O’Brien.

PREPARED AT: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Gertrude Carolyn Stone, Nov. 21, 1934, Marblehead, Mass. cHitp:
Anne Benner, June 14, 1936.

occupation: Market analyst.

OFFICES HELD: Member Membership Committee, Essex Historical Society.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining and Merallurgical Engineers;
Essex Historical Society; Essex Civil Defense Program.

SINCE 1948 I have been with the United Shoe Machinery Cor-
poration as market analyst in the Research Department. Previ-
ously I was employed as research metallurgist by the United
States Smelting, Refining & Mining Company.

Our daughter, Anne, is now an enthusiastic member of the
Class of 1958 at Radcliffe.

My hobbies remain the same: sailing, fishing, an interest in gar-
dening, reading; and J still keep up on engineering, although not
actively engaged at present,

+ DONALD WEST PIGEON

BORN: Nov. 7, 1905, East Boston, Mass. parents: Fred Leslie Pigeon, Eliza-
beth West.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.
DIED: Jan. 29, 1930, East Boston, Mass.

WHILE in college, Pigeon was a member of the freshman and
sophomore Baseball Squads. He died in January of our senior
year.

[ 891 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MALCOLM EVERETT PITTS

HOME ADDRESS: 2053 Clermont St., Denver 7, Colo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Beach Lumber Co. s990 WW. Colfax Ave., Denver 14, Colo.

Born: July 25, 1909, Denver, Colo. parents: Ralph Shaw Pitts, ’95, Inez
MacCallum.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; S.M. IN COM. (Univ. of
Denver Sch. of Com.), 1935.

margiep: Kathryne Ann Accola, Aug. 20, 1932, Denver, Colo. ctitpren:
Ruth Ann, Feb. 9, 1937; Susan Kathryne, Feb. 14, 1941; Mary Jeanette,
Dec. 18, 1936; Malcolm John, May 13, 1950.

occupation: Owner and operator, Beach Lumber Company.

orrices HELD: Member of various committees in professional and business
organizations.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Public Administration; Society for the
Advancement of Management, Academy of Political Science; Depart-
ment of Agriculture Club; Rocky Mountain Harvard Club; Rotary

International, Purchasing Agents Association of America; American
Club of Paris. ;

puBLications: Technical and administrative manuals for agencies of the
US. Government; contributions to the publications of the American
Society of Public Administration, the Society for the Advancement of
Management, the U.S. Department of the Interior, and the Atomic
Energy Commission, “Administrative Highlights of WRA,” U.S. Dept.
of the Interior, 1946; “Gold Scarcity as a Factor in the Deflation of
Prices and Business,” University of Denver School of Commerce, 1935.

I SUPPOSE that I am like many of my Class of 1930 cohorts in
that I have not pursued the occupation that I believed that I was
being trained for when I was in college. The constant incentive
during four years at Cambridge was to get training for the invest-
ment banking and stock brokerage business. My baptism in this
chosen profession was in Los Angeles in the summer of 1930.
Within two months of that great event came the second big slide
of the marker. My chosen profession reached its climax and
demise very quickly. It was quite evident that it was no time or
place for a novice with no clients, few contacts, and no capital.

A job with a lumber company in Denver made me very happy
because it paid regularly every Saturday. This lumber yard had
been bought on a proverbial “shoe string” by the father of the
girl that | had gone with since I was in the seventh grade. So,
for the next five years (from 1930 to 1935) we really put in hard

[ 892 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

work during the depression to pay off that acquisition in dollars
worth much more than when the deal had been contracted. I went
through all the paces of a small building materials yard — truck
driver, yard man, bookkeeper, salesman, collector, draftsman,
estimator, buyer, and assistant manager. These were very rough
years when there was only a very minimum of building activity.
In 1932, Kathryne, the girl that I had gone with since the
seventh grade, and I were married. She continued to teach
school for five years, while I obtained a Master’s degree by night
study, and the lumber yard was paid for. Those were wonderful
days when we could go to the grocery store on Saturday and get
enough food to last a week for the two of us for a five dollar bill.
Spurred on by the crisis of the dust storms and drought of
1934 and 1935, I joined the Department of Agriculture of the
federal government to help on programs designed to relieve the
terrible conditions present at that time in the West. For three
years the work was largely relief, rehabilitation loans and im-
proved soil and farming practices in three states, Colorado,
Wyoming and Montana. I knew every county seat in these
states well — and many of the local inhabitants as well. The next
three years were spent largely working with agriculture and
reclamation agencies that planned nearly all of the irrigation
projects that have been built in the West since World War II.
In early 1942, I was sent to the West Coast to help with the
evacuation of the persons of Japanese ancestry from the Pacific
Coast. That led to the War Relocation Authority from 1942 to
1946, the agency that had the responsibility for operating the
centers to which these displaced persons were sent, and the
eventual relocation of these people from these centers. WRA
operated ten large cities with 125,000 persons in them — from
the cradle to the grave, with all daily needs, twenty-four hours
a day, seven days a week. Then we picked up the newspaper
one day in 1944 to find that we were to handle tooo refugees from
war-torn Europe at Fort Oswego, New York, on Lake Ontario.
I served as camp director there for three months. There were
nineteen nationalities, nine religions, and seven languages to cope
with. There were frustrating times with both types of prob-
lems, the evacuees and the refugees, but they were both intenselv
exciting and interesting. I served as national assistant director

[ 893 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

in charge of administration from 1944 to the close of the agency
in 1946. WRA was one wartime agency that really tried and did
work itself out of business. During this period, I practically
lived in airplanes and barracks, and worked for varying periods
in nearly every section of the country. We had moved to Wash-
ington in 1944, but returned to Denver in the fall of 1946. I re-
turned to the lumber business at that time.

Early in 1947 I was recalled to the government to make a
special study in Puerto Rico. After completing that assignment,
I went to work with the newly formed Atomic Energy Com-
mission. After spending some time at Los Alamos, I served for a
year and a half in Washintgon as Director of Business Operations.
This was an interesting experience, but extreme security restric-
tions and compartmentalization made it a very difficult operation.

During this period, we had a very happy but energic experi-
ence in our living. We found a forty-acre farm about twenty
miles from Washington in Virginia that had all the old colonial
atmosphere that one could ask for, with its big house, wide
verandas, big trees and horse paddocks. When you are doing all
the work yourself and carrying on a full time job elsewhere, 4
run-down farm can really take a lot of energy and time. We en-
joyed the animals, the horseback riding, and the “good eating”
that the farm provided. We were glad to “get back to the city”
and “away from the chores” after two years of rural living,
however.

With the establishment of the Marshall Plan for Europe, an
opportunity was extended to me to join the Office of the Special
Representative in Europe at Paris as Director of Administrative
Services. This was a regional office for Europe, and as a con-
sequence my work took me to all the capital cities outside the
Iron Curtain. It was exciting, stimulating, and very interesting.
We lived just outside of Paris. It was a great experience for us.
Three of our children went to French Community Schools which,
by and large, was extremely good for them. Every holiday was
spent going somewhere in France or Europe — every place is so
close together in Europe after living in the western United States.
We now spend many pleasant evenings looking at movies and
slides which I took from Killarney to Vienna and Oslo to Ankara.

After four years in which we progressed from the Economic

[ 894 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Codperation Administration through the Mutual Security Agency
to the Foreign Operations Administration, we decided that some
one else should have a chance as Director of Administration of
European Operations. Kathryne’s father had passed on in 1951,
and his affairs were as mixed up as only good lawyers can mix
them. After two and a half years of trying, we were able to
purchase the lumber yard from the estate at good inflated values.
So we decided to jump a third of the way around the world
again, and have a try at the lumber business once more. So we are
back in Denver again; and we think we like it.

There is just one big difference in coming back to Denver
now —there are six of us. The three older children were all
born in Denver, although they have lived most of their lives in
Virginia and Paris. But the little guy—he was born in Paris,
and will forever have to fight registration clerks at election com-
missions and border checking stations to prove he is an American
citizen, The poor little guy will have to carry a brief case of
papers with him for the rest of his life.

I don’t know of any family that has had more fun and seen
more than we have in the last twenty-five years. I don’t believe
any of our family would want to change from our experiences.
If I had to do it all over again, I wouldn’t want to change much,
except to study my French and German harder. However, I
must admit the best spot in our family is the family dog. In that
spot one has all the advantages of being well fed, well taken care
of, the best of medical care, a tremendous amount of love and
affection from the rest of the family, advantages of travel, and
all the culture and associations that go with ir—and yet no
further responsibilities than irreproachable conduct! In the next
life, should there be one, that is the spot I want!

GEORGE HENRY POGORZELSKI

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 2126 Parade St., Erie, Pa.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1909, Braddock, Pa. paReNts: Hipolit Pogorzelski, Helena
Niedzwiecki.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Erie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(32); m.pv. (Western On-
tario Med. Sch.), 1934.

[ 895 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MARRIED: Eleanore S. Plachta, April 19, 1948, Buffalo, N. Y. cutoren:
Georgia Nan, April 13, 1949; Gregory Mark, May 27, 1952; Cynthia
Christen, July 31, 1953.

occupaTION: Doctor: chief, anesthesia, St. Vincent’s Hospital, Erie, Pennsyl-
vania.

oFFicEs HELD: Fellow, American Medical Association, Royal Society of
Medicine, London, England, American Society of Anesthesiologists.

MEMBER OF: Pennsylvania Medical Society; Erie County Medical Society,
Pa.; International Anesthesia Research Society.

puBLicATIONS: “Anesthesia in England,” U.S. Araey Medical Journal, 1943.

AFTER Harvard, I entered the University of Western Ontario
Medical School and received my M.D. in 1934. After a year of
internship at St. Vincent’s Hospital, Erie, Pennsylvania, I began
general practice with special attention directed to anesthesia. In
1942 I was commissioned a first lieutenant in the Medical Corps.
I served at the Stark General Hospital in Charleston, South Caro-
lina, then with the 152d Station Hospital which was sent to Eng-
land. Eighteen months later, I was transferred to the 2soth
Station Hospital in Cheltenham, England. During D-Day, I was
south of Salisbury only a few miles from the jumping-off point
to France. In January, 1945, I was transferred to the 28th Gen-
eral Hospital in Liege, Belgium. July, 1945, after V-Day, the
hospital was moved to Sissone, France. In September, 1945, I had
a leave in Cannes on the Riviera, and later had an opportunity to
motor through the French Alps to Grenoble and Switzerland.
In October, 1945, I was transferred to the 68th Station Hospital
and from there I received my orders to leave for home via
Le Havre.

During this time, I was chief of the anesthesia and operating
section in the various hospitals. I was released from the service
in 1946 and served in the Medical Reserve Corps until 1953, and
was discharged as a major. In 1948 I was married to a beautiful
girl from Buffalo and, in 1949 my first daughter was born; in
1952 a son was born, followed by a daughter in 1953. My children
are my fortune.

I am still the chief of anesthesia at St. Vincent's Hospital in
Erie, and conducting a general practice as well. I am a Roman
Catholic and a Fourth Degree member of the Knights of Colum-
bus. I am also a lifetime Democrat as far as politics are concerned.
My hobbies are golf and bowling.

[ 896 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANIEL FAIRCHILD PORTER

HOME ApDpREsS: 93 Raymond St., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE appress: G. E. Prentice Mfg. Co., 200 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: April 18, 1909, New Britain, Conn. parents: Alphonzo Briggs
Porter, Harriet Disbrow.

PREPARED AT: New Britain High School, New Britain, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: 8.B., 1930(31).

MARRIED: Helen Latimer, Oct. 28, 1933, West Hartford, Conn. cHILDREN:
David Latimer, March 27, 1938; Susan Carroll, Oct. 7, 1941 (died Jan. 8,
1942); Elizabeth Fairchild (adopted), Feb. 16, 1942.

occuraTion: District Sales Manager, zipper manufacturing company.

OFFICES HELD: Member of Board, Darien Family Counciling Service, since
1953; clerk, First Congregational Church of Darien, since 1953; assistant
packmaster, Darien Cub Scouts, 1948-49; member, Committee II,
Rules, Slide Fastener Association, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Tokeneke Club, Darien.

CHOOSING a career in the depression year of 1930 was for me
quite simple: find a job, any job! After a couple of false starts, I
began selling zippers for the G. E, Prentice Manufacturing Com-
pany and have been with them ever since: first, in charge of their
Chicago office; and currently, the New York sales office manager.

This relatively stable situation permitted me to give attention to
the more important things in life, such as my quite perfect wife
and the first house we built for ourselves in Illinois. Our son,
David, was born there, and later a daughter, Susan, who lived only
four short months. Thanks to kind friends and that wonderful
institution, “The Cradle,” in Evanston, Betsy soon came to fill
that empty space to overflowing.

Early in 1943 on the strength of a navigation course run by the
Great Lakes Cruising Club, I applied for a commission in the
Naval Reserve: “Carrier Air Combat Intelligence,” they told me.
The papers came through — Lieutenant (j.g.), Supply Corps! A
month’s training in the august halls of Babson Institute qualified
me for “limited duty ashore” and I was sent to the Bureau of
Supplies and Accounts in Washington for the duration. I cannot
point to any outstanding achievement, but my name was soon
known thr oughout the Navy because mine was the task of signing
supply requisitions approved in Washington: “D. F. Porter, by

direction, Chief of Bureau.”
When the war ended, I abandoned both Washington and

[ 897 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Chicago to their fates and bought our present home in Darien, an
old farmhouse which we “restored” at great expense and mental
anguish, but now greatly enjoy. Our two acres provide me with
exercise chopping firewood and planting shrubs and trees under
the direction of Mrs. P. Other hobbies have included skiing,
tennis, swimming, travel — when we have been able to afford it —
and exchanging visits with our very pleasant circle of friends in
Darien. I can also boast a small but promising collection of records,
symphonies, concerti, chamber music, and the like, both classical
and modern.

What with the hours consumed in commuting, plus the usual
community and church activities, there hasn’t been much “spare
time.” We did manage a brisk tour of the Harvard Yard this
winter, and the whole family is looking forward to Reunion.

JAMES OTIS POST, JR.

HOME aporess: Old Sudbury Road, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Post Products, Inc., 253 Auburn St., Auburndale, Mass.

BORN: July 11, 1907, Stamford, Conn. parents: James Otis Post, Dorothea
Miller.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marngp: Anne Clifford, May 26, 1934, Southboro, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy,
Aug. 1, 1936; Victoria, Nov. 8, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Everett Post, 33.

OCCUPATION: President, Post Products, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman and ex-warden, St. Peter’s Episcopal Church,
Weston; formerly president, treasurer, The Community Chorus of
Weston, Wayland, and Sudbury; member, Finance Committee, Town
of Wayland, 1945-52.

I married Anne Clifford in thirty four,

And frankly I could not have hoped for more,
For she gave me as a good wife oughta

Not once, but twice, a charming daughter —
First Nancy appeared, then not too quick,
Two years later along came Vic.

Anne fed us, she made us a home, she endured
My masculine foibles with scarcely a word;
This paragon partner proved that a mate full

[ 898 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Of virtues and charms makes happy the fateful
Day you get married and settle down.

Our new life began in the Jersey town

Of Mendham, where for seven years

We rollicked through this vale of tears

On Pitney Farm, where we could roam

A thousand acres, and call our home

A charming farmhouse; were tenants at will
Of our very best friends. We’d be there still
If it hadn’t been for World War Two,
Which made impossible, we knew,

A broker’s life. So we departed

For Massachusetts, where I started

Over again in the bottom drawer

On airplane parts for my father-in-law.
Altogether quite a change

From a member firm of the Stock Exchange.

We worked by day, and we worked by night
While Germans and Japs continued to fight

’Til V.J. Day, when I sought to find

A niche to fit what I had in mind —

Something in sales, in a field with a future

It’s not always easy to find what will suit you —
A job like the mint where money’s made —
Perhaps in the booming building trade?

So I started in making concrete blocks,
A business that very soon saw the rocks
Looming ahead, but ere I sank

I tried my hand selling concrete plank
Ending up, before I was through

With a dozen other specialties too,

Until in ’55 we're dealing

With plastic walls and acoustic ceilings.
It may be possible, I think,

To have found my answer in Post Products, Inc.!

The Wayland we settled in proved to be
A town of true Democracy,

[ 899 ]

“ NPT te ran semi Se

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Which means you work for the party slate
And vote the Republican ticker straight;

You give your evenings to the Town

For no reward except the frown

Of chronic “aginers,” more’s the pity.

I served six years on the Finance Committee,
An Auxiliary Policeman at home on the range,
I salvoed each week, nor thought it strange

To mingle my gun smoke with “The Messiah”
In our home-grown Chorus, in which we aspire
To sing the classics and sing them well.

Since that’s not enough, I’m serving a spell

On my church’s vestry; we also run dances
For old and for teen-age, so that the chances
Of sitting still for any good reason

Are slim indeed, yet in the season

I'm up at dawn, be the skies clear or harsh,
With my gun and my springer across in the marsh.

We've a horse, three dogs, ourselves and a mother
In law who shares, like many another,

The family fortunes, helps the house run,

Knowing our cares, and joining our fun.

Thus life stays busy, and rocks along

With occasional tears and many a song.

Pray God we all may be alive

To see another twenty-five,

But if we're not, just let me state,
The Lord’s been good to us to date.

JOHN CLARKSON POTTER

HOME appzess: Bedford Road, Mc. Kisco, N. Y.

orFicz apvgess: Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, 90 Broad St., New York
4, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1907, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Clarkson Potter, Amy Holland.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; C.P.A, (in Mass.), 1934.

Makaieo: Mary Paschall Davis, Feb. 28, 1931, New York, N. Y. ceipren:
Diana, April 10, 1932 (at. W. Sturgis Corbett, May 29, 1953); Clarkson,

[ goo ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

2d, Aug. 31, 1934; John D., Feb. 3, 1944. Granocuitp: Lisa Corbett,
Jan. 23, 1955.

HARVARD SON: Clarkson Potter, 2d, ’56.

occupation: Certified Public Accountant; parmer in firm.

MEMBER OF: Down Town Association; Harvard Club of New York City,
Bedford Golf & Tennis Club; professional societies.

JOSIAH WARREN POTTER

HOME ADDRESS: 2221 Vinewood Blvd., Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE AppREss: King-Seeley Corp., Ann Arbor, Mich.

BORN: Dec. 8, 1909, Pueblo, Colo. parents: Milton Chase Potter, Camilla
Parthenia Barber.

PREPARED AT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Catherine Annette Bridge, Aug. 10, 1935, Ann Arbor, Mich.
CHILDREN: Linda Joan, March 22, 1939; James Gordon, April 22, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Milton Potter, ’26 (deceased).

OccUPATION: Sales manager, Automotive and Timer Divisions and general
service manager, King-Seeley Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1948-54, vice-president, Manufacturers’ Division,
1949-50, president, 1951-52, Automotive Electric Association; director,
1945-59, treasurer, 1947-49, Barton Hills Country Club; director, Ann
Arbor Chamber of Commerce, 1952-53.

MEMBER oF: Automotive Electric Association, Ann Arbor Chamber of
Commerce; Barton Hills Country Club; Plymouth Country Club; Ann
Arbor Quarterback Club; Town Club.

ON a Friday afternoon in late October, 1929, a group of willing
muscles cavorted on the turf of Yost Stadium limbering up for the
game with Michigan the next afternoon. After this brief session,
with nothing better to do ’til dinner, I walked down the railroad
track a few hundred yards to the young and very small King-
Seeley Corporation struggling to become a parts supplier to the
auto industry. Having heard a very little about the men behind
this idea, I rang the doorbell and was admitted to see the then
president, John Airey. I told him why I was in Ann Arbor and
asked if, when I was graduated in June, I could come to work for
him. He said “Sure,” and that was that.

The next week things got pretty exciting down in lower Man-
hattan and it wasn’t caused by the Michigan 14 — Harvard 12
score that Barry Wood et al. contrived to leave indclibly in the
memories of Ann Arbor fans. To put it bluntly, between October,

[901 ]

NT EE RR A Hh enter eN PINNOTREP ren Ona ls nnn net mee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

1929, and June, 1930, business in general and in particular went
to hell in a hand basket. Nevertheless, in response to my fearful
follow-up letters, John Airey said to come along anyway. Like
the man who came to dinner, I’m still here. So I shall be cele-
brating twenty-five years of something or other twice in the
summer of 1955.

Right here it might be appropriate to acknowledge a part of my
recognizable debt to Harvard. Four years in Cambridge produced
a certain veneer, a case finish, that then and since has permitted
me to fool at least some of the people at least some of the time.

But twenty-five years in Ann Arbor has inevitably had more

penetrating and permanent effects. F’rinstance, it has provided
the opportunity to find my cute little red-headed Michigan alumna
who consented for better or for worse. With her codperation, we
have two — for lack of a more descriptive word, let us say —
dynamic not-so-small fry. Because of her, and of them, and of
King-Seeley, and of Ann Arbor, life has most certainly been
enjoyable and interesting, and, we all hope, productive. The co-
existence here with a large university in a quiet college town and
with the alleged advantages of a big city so close at hand has
made those twenty-five years slip by with unbelievable case and
haste.

Even if I could set down blow-by-blow, event-by-event what
has filled these years, I doubt that it would be of interest even to
me in the writing. Suffice it to say that, although at the start I
had occasion to sweep the floor, as we got a little bigger and had a
few more floors we found it advisable to get more and better
sweepers. We manufacture automotive equipment — speedom-
eters and gauges, instrument panels, engine speed governors,
automotive hardware, interval timers, table appliances, power
tools, fans, ventilators, etc. Over the years, my work has taken
me into every state and province in North America, into every
‘automobile company, and into hundreds of different organizations.

My war with Adolf, Benito, and Hirohito was strictly domestic.
It consisted principally of trying to work out ways of supplying
enough Diesel engines, aircraft instruments, and shooting stuff.
As for Uncle Joe and Comrades Chou and Malenkov — more of
the same. It has not been dull.

As for government “service,” it consists primarily of being a

[ 902 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

careful, prompt — but somewhat less than ardent — taxpayer. As
for political convictions, let’s put it this way: F.D.R. did have one
crowning achievement; after all, he did succeed in repealing
Prohibition, and if everything thereafter was anti-climax, can he
be blamed? To that, I for one would reply — Yes!

My all-absorbing hobby since 1935 (reference “cute little red-
head,” etc.) has been diet. Those “willing muscles” of paragraph
one — now pure flab — have been so amused, misused, and
abused by the vacillation between reducing diets and reduced
dieting that I can say in all honesty that in the last twenty years
I have lost goo pounds.

And now at last, a word of personal conviction. Friends are
where you find them, if you'll let them find you. I look forward
to June, 1955, with great anticipation and expectation of finding
lots of friends where it will be easy for them to find me — and
besides I’m sure for at least that one week my wife will say:
“Let’s forget that d —— diet.”

- JOHN HELM PRATT

HOME ADDRESS: 4119 Rosemary St., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

OFFIce AppRESS: Morris, Pearce, Gardner & Pratt, 905 American Security
Bldg., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Nov. 17, 1910, Portsmouth, N. H. parenrs: Harold Boswell Pratt,
Marguerite Rockwell.

PREPARED AT: Gorzaga High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; LL.B. 1934.

MARRIED: Bernice G. Safford, Oct. 25, 1938, Washington, D. C. cHILDREN:
Clare Safford, Nov. 23, 1939; Lucinda Anne, Aug. 21, 1942; John Helm,
Jr.. Nov. 23, 1943; Patricia Wade, June 26, 1947; Mary Wade, April
18, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Boys Club of Washington, D. C.; member Advisory
Committee on Prosthetics, Veterans Administration; chairman, Sports
Committee, University Club, 1947-48; president, Associated Harvard
Clubs, 1952-53; director, Harvard Alumni Association, 1952~53, 1954-
§6; chairman, Junior Bar Section, District of Columbia Bar Association;
president, Harvard Club of Washington, 1949-51, Harvard Law School
Association, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: The Barristers, The Lawyers Club, Washington, D. C;
American Bar Association; District of Columbia Bar Association;

[ 903 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Harvard Club has provided an opportunity for pro bono publico
activity with genuine satisfactions; it has been a fine outlet for
one whose Harvard interests have steadily increased since gradua-
tion and whose contribution had to be in time rather than money.
This has provided many opportunities to return to Cambridge,
to work with many of the faculty and administration on alumni
and school matters, and to leave with renewed respect for an in-
stitution which has no rival.

Politically, I am an independent Democrat, whose voting
record in the last three national elections can not be explained
except by saying that it seemed a pretty good idea at the time:
Dewey in 1944, Truman in 1948, and Eisenhower in 1952. I am
vigorously anti-McCarthy, having seen that creature from close
range. On the other hand, I have read the 992—page transcript
of the Oppenheimer hearings and am satisfied the Messrs. Alsop
and Schlesinger, in addition to being careless with the facts, have
adopted some of the techniques which they deplore in their op-
ponents.

In religion I am a Roman Catholic. Tho’ my wife is not, she
has codperated fully with me in raising our children as Catholics.
To most outsiders we probably appear to be a united, happy clan,
and I think we really are. I am looking forward to our Twenty-
fifth with some of them in tow.

MAURICE JOSEPH PRENDERGAST

HOME ApprEss: 73 Lyndhurst St., Dorchester, Mass,

OFFICE apprEss: National Pneumatic Co., 125 Amory St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 20, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Maurice Joseph Prendergast,
Adelaide Ethel Steeves.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M., 1932; PH.D., 1937+

MaRriep: Margaret Alice Higgins, Aug. 28, 1938, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN:
Pauline Elizabeth, April 26, 1941, Maura Jo, June 28, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Laurence Thomas Prendergast, ’32, PH.D., '35.

OCCUPATION: Scientist-engineer.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers on electrochemistry and polarography.

MAY Zernebock and his seventeen assistant devils seize, blast,
and burn John Cross for his intolerable persistence in demanding
this life. May all his children be psychiatrists, Eternal honor to

[ 906 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Here I worked for the Calidyne Company in Winchester,
specialists on vibration apparatus. Interesting commentary on our
culture that people make their living by shaking things up in a
controlled manner. The work of the vibration engineer is highly
specialized and the field requires an almost monastic dedication
to a single problem. I like to change problems periodically, so I
got out of the vibration business.

Now I am senior engineer with the Holtzer-Cabot Division of
the National Pneumatic Company in Boston, where there are
problems electrical, mechanical, electromechanical, hydraulic,
pneumatic, optical, electronic, cybernetic, in great profusion, and
a new one each day. And a whole armory of instruments to at-
tack them with! You never had it so good!

In the course of this going about on the face of the earth and
walking up and down on it, I have acquired a wife, a pair of
fiendish children who take after their mother, and a cat named
Rondo who takes after me. My principal amusement is furniture
building, in a vain attempt to make enough bookcases to house
my books, which through some unholy fertility have multiplied
beyond all reason. If I had never learned to read, I should be
much better off. Or write!

JOHN CARROLL PRIOR, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 46-11 193d St., Flushing, N. Y.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1 Madison Ave., New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1908, Flushing, N. Y. parents: John Carroll Prior, Mary
Dobbins.

PREPARED AT: Flushing High School, Flushing, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

Marriep: Dorothea Henderson, July 16, 1932, Flushing, N. Y. cHILpREN:
D’Ann, Aug. 14, 1936; Patricia, March 12, 19qo.

OccuUPATION: Insurance: claim approver.

BEING president of two corporations, a director in five others,
and head of the local Republican Club keeps a man pretty busy.
Wonder who he is? Fortunately or unfortunately as the case
may be, I am still a small but shiny zircon in the management
diadem of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. However,

[ 908 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this has given me ample time to enjoy my family and friends. I
was smart enough to teach my wife, Dorothea, to drive during
our high school courtship days, so our marriage (1932) has always
been on a most congenial and affectionate basis. In fact, Dot has
been most forbearing over my lack of directorships and most
tolerant of my corny humor.

You know I can’t even boast an exciting war record. My ac-
tivity in crushing the Hun consisted in dousing thoughtless
neighbors’ lights during pretend air raids. One time during a
blackout, I climbed in the cellar window of a delinquent family
and landed right on top of a sleeping tomcat. My request for the
Purple Heart was refused.

My real joy, aside from my wife, are my two daughters —
D’Ann, a freshman at Hofstra College, and Patricia, a sophomore
at Bayside High. D’Ann won a dramatic scholarship to Hofstra
where she has appeared in two productions. She is a lovely girl
and a competent performer and has made the Dean’s List in her
freshman year. Pat is as cute as a button. She is majoring in art
and I never knew I drew so well. In fact, when I think of my
family, I realize I am quite a success after all,

My hobbies, and what Harvard man hasn’t, are not answering
the door, fighting off Dick Thomas on the phone, and avoiding all
household chores. My citizenship endeavors consist of buying
Girl Scout cookies and donning a wig every January 27 to join
the mothers in their annual “Mothers’ March on Polio.”

We are all looking forward to a rousing time at the Reunion,
even though we know we may be investigated. If you are
wealthy and have eligible sons, please be wearing a carnation in
your buttonhole.

GEORGE WELLS PROVOST

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 N.E. Second St., Pompano Beach, Fla.

BORN: April 4, 1908, Halcottville, N. Y. parents: George Elmer Provost,
Ida Schenck Wells.

PREPARED at: Mt. Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; s.T.B. (General Theological
Seminary, N. Y.), 1934; LL.B. (Univ. of Miami), 1953.

MARRIED: Janice Perry, Nov. 10, 1938, Baytown, Texas (divorced 1951).
CHILDREN: Priscilla, Aug. 1, 1941; Perry, July 3, 1943.

[ 909 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

+ EMANUEL PURKYNE

BorN: Jan. 25, 1895, Louny, Czechoslovakia. parents: M. U. Osokar, Em
Purkyne. :

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DEGREE: D.Sc. (Univ. of Prague), 1921.

piED: Oct. 26, 1929, Prague, Czechoslovakia.

PURKYNE spent two years in the School of Engineering. At
the time of his death, he was an officer in the Hydrobiological
Laboratory at the State Institute of Public Health, Prague, and
was working for the Rockefeller Foundation.

LAWRENCE ELIAS PUTNAM

HOME ApprEss: 3241 Worthington St., N.W., Washington 15, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3131 16th St. N.W., Washington 10, D. C.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Julius Louis Putnam, Bessie S.
Fine.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cur laude, 1930; M.D. 1934.

marrieD: Selma Tobias, April 7, 1940, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN: Jerome
Stuart, June 7, 1943; Barbara Claire, May 21, 1946.

OccuPATION: Physician: private practice of internal medicine, part-time
work for U.S. Food & Drug Administration, part-time teaching, George
Washington University School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Director of Dispensary, Emergency Hospital, Washington,
D. C., 1946-49; chairman, Committee on Public Health Exhibits, D. C.
Medical Society, 1951; member Editorial Board, Antibiotics and Chemo-
therapy, since 1951; vice-president, Jacobi Medical Society, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians (associate), 1942-47; American
College of Physicians (fellow), since 1947; D. C. Medical Society, since
1944; American Medical Association, since 1944; Washington Heart
Association, since 1950; (honorary member) Smith-Reed-Russell Society,
George Washington University School of Medicine, 1951.

PUBLICATIONS: Chapter 36 of Streptomycin, by Waksman, 1949; foreword to
The Principles and Practice of Antibiotic Therapy, by Welch, 1954;
eighteen articles published in scientific literature dealing almost en-
tirely with antibiotics (penicillin, streptomycin, chloromycetin, and the
latest one, “tetracycline.”

[or ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROGER FASQUELLE QUAIL

HOME ADDRESS: 12795 Hubbel, Detroit 27, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard Accident Insurance Co., 640 Temple, Detroit 32,
Mich.

BORN: March 29, 1908, Ludington, Mich. PARENTS: Robert James Quail,
Louise H. Hennequin.

prepARED aT: South High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. 1930; LL.B. (Detroit College of
Law), 1950.

MARRIED: Dorothy Rose Buck, Dec. 7, 1938, Birmingham, Mich. cHiLpren:
Philip David, Aug. 29, 1940; Diane Louise, March 6, 1943; Jane
Martindale, Oct. 12, 1945; Dorothy Rose, Sept. 18, 1950.

occupation: Manager, fidelity bond department, Standard Accident In-
surance Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Surety Association of Michigan, 1940.

REGINALD RODERICK QUARTON

MAILING ADDRESS: 3757 Beredith Pl. Cincinnati, Ohio.

BORN: Oct. 17, 1908, Birmingham, Mich. parents: Albert Edward Quarton,
Mary Florence McKay.

PREPARED AT: Pontiac High School, Pontiac, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

occupation: Military service.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

WILLIAM ELDER RAE

HOME AppREss: 283 Boulevard, Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Popular Science Publishing Co., 353 Fourth Ave. New
York 10, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 28, 1908, Dorchester, Mass. parents: William Elder Rae,
Mathilda Elizabeth Traill.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Margaret Mary MacLennan, Nov. 11, 1928, Boston, Mass.
CHILDREN: Norman Traill, Aug. 15, 1929; Ruth Pauline, Oct. 10, 1930;
William Hugh, Oct. 24, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Norman Traill Rae, ’56.

occuPaTION: Editor, Outdoor Life Magazine.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, North American Wildlife Foundation, 1953.

MEMBER oF: The Players.

[913 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I have worn out several philosophies and two tennis racquets,
and mold has begun to form on my golf clubs. Fortunately, now
that I have become a fisherman I don’t need any of them any
longer. I long ago resigned myself to the knowledge that I shall
never teach in a boys’ school in Ohio, On the other hand, ]
haven't done much writing lately either — and that’s why I came
to New York.

At this point I showed the above to my wife and asked her
whether it was essentially correct. “I think,” she said, “you
might have been a little more honest.” “What do you mean?”
I asked. “J paid the $39.50 for the stuffed fish.”

And so she did.

JOHN CORWIN RAMBEAU

HOME ADDRESS: 79 Fessenden St., Newtonville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bird & Son, Inc., East Walpole, Mass.

Born: March 22, 1904, Chicago, Ill. parents: William Thornton Rambeau,
Alexandra Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Montpelier Seminary, Montpelier, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; c.p.A. (Mass.), 1940.

MaRRIED: Margaret Davis, Sept. 20, 1930, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: John
Corwin, Jr. July 15, 19313 Jean Lucille, June 10, 1934.

occuPaTION: Accountant.

LOOKING back over the last twenty-five years seems like a
review of last week’s happenings. In short, the time has gone so
quickly that it hardly seems possible and yet a glance in the
mirror, an attempted sprint to catch a train, the growing battle of
the waistline, all serve to prove that time has slipped away.

Being an accountant leaves very little room for the spectacular.
Mathematical facts have a habit of being drab, except possibly in
March when over the last twenty years they have become pro-
gressively more painful. My work has covered many industries
and a wide variety of industrial tax and accounting problems. |
spent seventcen years with Price, Waterhouse & Company in
public accounting, and have worked for Bird & Son, Incorporated,
for the last eight years — in charge of accounting and taxes.

On September 20, 1930, I married the girl I met during my
high school freshman year, 1922, and in a very short time we

[916]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

where for a year he was program director of a Santa Barbara
radio station. Thereafter, for a short time he was a car salesman,
and in 1940 was a research assistant with zoth Century-Fox. He
returned to radio in 1942, as a producer for CBS in Hollywood,
The following year he was manager of the Hollywood branch of
Warwick & Legler, a New York advertising firm.

During World War II, he spent two and a half years as editor
of technical and Army publications of the engineering depart-
ment at Douglas Aircraft Company in Santa Monica. After the
war he accepted a position as production manager with the Don
Lee Broadcasting System in Hollywood, affiliate of the Mutual
Broadcasting System. At the time of his death, he was with the
Scandinavian Air Travel Bureau of Los Angeles. He held mem-
berships in the Harvard Clubs of New York, Santa Barbara, and
Southern California, serving at one time as secretary to the last-
named club. His wife and two sons survived him.

CHARLES LOGAN RANKIN

HOME ADDRESS: 4031 Vanderbilt St., Corpus Christi, Texas.

orrice aporess: P.O. Box 3188, Corpus Christi, Texas.

Born: Oct. 2, 1908, Corpus Christi, Texas. parents: Charles Lovenskoild
Rankin, Thula Belle Logan.

PREPARED AT: Sunset High School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

marniep: Modena Sigler, March 10, 1935, Idabel, Okla. critpren: James
Logan, Feb. 25, 1936, Charles Robert, Jan. 6, 1942.

occupaTioN: Accountant and office manager, South Texas Pipe & Supply
Company.

OFFKES HELD: Treasurer, Gulf Coast Little League (two years); president,
South Side Pony League.

MEMBER OF; Nfasons.

AFTER leaving school, I worked in construction (highways and
railroad) for twelve years, mostly in Texas, Louisiana, and Illinois.
In 1942 I resigned as superintendent, moved to Texarkana, Texas,
and worked for B. F. Goodrich Company at the Lone Star De-
fense Plant as inspection foreman on ammunition loading. Moved
to Corpus Christi in 1945 and have been here ever since that time.
One son, Jim, is 2 freshman this year in Texas A & M College;
Bob, the second son, is in the ninth grade, junior high school.

[918 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

No great accomplishments, but I have a lovely wife, two
wonderful sons, and we are happy.

ELMER EDWIN RASMUSON

HOME ADDRESS: Turnagain Heights, Anchorage, Alaska.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Bank of Alaska, Anchorage, Alaska.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1909, Yakutat, Alaska. parents: Edward Anton Rasmuson,
Jenny Olson.

PREPARED AT: Skagway High School, Skagway, Alaska; Queen Anne High
School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: 5S.B. magna cum laude, 1930; AM.,
1935; GP.A. (N.Y.), 1939.

MarRRIED: Lile Vivian Bernard, Oct. 27, 1939, Summut, N. J. cHmpREeN:
Edward Bernard, Aug. 27, 1940; Lile Muchmore, Oct. 28, 1942; Judy
Ann, Aug. 2, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Banker.

OFFICES HELD: Chief accountant, National Investors Corporation, N. Y., 1933-
35; principal, Arthur Andersen & Company, N. Y., 1935-43; president,
National Bank of Alaska, since 1943, Bank of Wrangell, since 1939;
chairman of board, Bank of Homer, since 1954, director, Westward
Corporation, Title Insurance Trust Company of Alaska; member City
Council, 1945, chairman City Planning Commission, 1950-53, Anchorage,
Alaska; president, Alaska Council Boy Scouts of America, 1953-54;
secretary-treasurer, Loussac Foundation, regent, University of Alaska,
since 1950; trustee, since 1944, past president, King’s Lake Camp, Inc.;
president, Alaska Bankers Association, 1951.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Pioneers of Alaska; Anchorage Republican
Club; Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Washington Athletic
Club; Rainier Club, Seattle; Presbyterian Church; Masons; Elks; An-
chorage Rotary Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Oil and Gas Income Tax Manual; Financial Threshold of
Alaska, How to Know Alaska,

THE day is Thanksgiving and soon we will sit down to a feast
of wild geese and lingon berries. With a locker filled with moose,
caribou, mountain sheep, ducks, ptarmigan and rainbow trout,
we have need to be thankful. Alaska is a land of plenty both for
its fruits and its opportunities — if you are man enough to get
and use them.

Thinking back over the events since graduation, mine fall
into three periods — an interlude, a preparation, and a fulfillment.
Following graduation, George Pierce and I spent the summer in

[919]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Europe using the University of Grenoble as home base. We

chose that school because it was the only one we could find that

had a golf course right by. For me there was a year of Business

School, then a year of running a branch bank in Alaska, then back

to Arts and Sciences in the field of economics.

In 1933 reality was on me as with most Americans. The aca-
demic field looked less attractive because young men had con-
cluded that a degree in economics was not a sure road to financial
success. So to New York to seek my fortune. There followed a
period of getting established in business and in life. I entered the
field of public accounting which has proved excellent training for
all sorts of business. My specialty was taxation and I went to
Texas for the same firm to open up a tax department. After two
years [ returned to New York and would probably be there today
if family connections had not prompted me to return to Alaska
in 1943.

It was probably inevitable that I should return to my birth-
land and also follow my father in the banking business. ‘he name
of Alaska in the past decade has meant growth and at a pace which
has been breathtaking. My wife, who is an eastern girl (and in-
cidentally my greatest asset), is equally fascinated with the coun-
try. And although Alaska is a land of frustration, largely because
of our territorial status, we have often questioned whether we
could find another area equally stimulating.

Part of the charm of Alaska is that while our area is one-fifth
the United States, our population is small. Therefore, we know
everybody. With the rate of change which has taken place, my
business affairs have been under a pressure which I would not
like to continue permanently. However, we have taken time to
engage in a full participation in community projects. Sometimes
it gets a little overflowing as when Mrs. Rasmuson was president
of the Girl Scouts Council in the same year I was president of
the Boy Scouts Council. The two affiliations which have given
me the greatest stimulation have been as a trustee of a youth camp
— King’s Lake Camp—and as a regent of the University of
Alaska.

Undoubtedly much of my satisfaction with Alaska is founded
on my enjoyment of outdoor living — principally hunting. I am
firmly convinced of its therapeutic benefits — both physical and

[920 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

emotional — and urge that everyone pursue an outdoor hobby
with such fervor that it will actually infringe on business and
social duties. Incidentally, I have achieved an ambition of ob-
taining trophies from each of the four recognized species of
North American sheep.

My objectives in life are simple. I want my three children to
be adequately educated, happily married, conscious of their com-
munity responsibilities and enjoy the out-of-doors. They are
making excellent progress in the latter, facilitated by our main-
tenance of an airplane which is kept on floats in the summer and
skis in the winter. I want to participate as actively as my talents
and fortune permit in the development of my native land.

I am particularly resentful of our second-class citizenship em-
bodied in our territorial status and hope to see Alaska a state in
the immediate future. Finally, an invitation. If you want to help
write history instead of just reading about it— come, live in
Alaska.

MARSHALL RAWLE

HOME ADDRESS: Long Neck Point Road, Noroton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Payson & Trask, 748 Madison Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

BoRN: March 27, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Henry Rawle, Mary C.
Lefferts.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Theodora Crimmins, Oct. 5, 1935, Noroton, Conn. CHILDREN:
Judith, Aug. 26, 1938, David Lefferts, Sept. 28, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Rawle, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Payson & Trask, investment and management firm.

oFFices HELD: Bank clerk, 1930-39; plant manager, assistant treasurer, vice-
president, director, Textron, Inc., 1939-49; partner, Payson & Trask,
since 1949; member, Vestry of St. Luke’s Church, Darien, Conn., board
of managers, Harvard Club of New York; director, various companies.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club, New York;
Cruising Club of America; Royal Ocean Racing Club; Wee Burn
Country Club.

I HAVE wondered idly why it took people so long to send in
their autobiographies. Now I know. One lives in hope that one
will be able to compose that gem which combines bright and
shining wit with a modest admission of important accomplish-

[921 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ments. For most of us that is an idle dream, but hope Springs

eternal, and the goads keep coming.

My business career has fallen into three reasonably equal parts.
Coming out of college in the fall of 1930 with ambitions to become
an international banker, I started in the National City Bank of
New York as one of forty-odd trainees. As belts were tightened
in New York in the succeeding years, progress in the banking field
got to be pretty slow. I was lucky enough to get a wide variety
of ill-paid, but extremely valuable, experience. By 1939, however,
having “worked myself up from nothing to a state of extreme

poverty,” I slipped over into the manufacturing business.

The second period was spent in the textile business. Joining a
small New England processing company called Atlantic Rayon
Corporation, principally for the chance to work with its at-
tractive and imaginative president, Royal Little, I put in ten
absolutely fascinating, albeit hectic, years. During that period,
the company grew into Textron, and in the course of this growth,
I had the good fortune to put in time as branch plant manager,
financial officer, manufacturing vice-president, and finally, vice-
president and director in charge of marketing.

There were great compensations for the pressures of Textron.
One of our major problems was to build a substantial organiza-
tion and to start up businesses of many types, to open up plants
in new towns, and to blaze new trails in the traditional field of
textile marketing. This meant working with people of many
talents and backgrounds, and offered all sorts of fascinating op-
portunities.

This period came to an end in 1949, when much of the operat-
ing management and the president found themselves in irreconcil-
able conflict on wherein lay the company’s future success. Two
of the Class of 1930 were among those who moved to fresh fields.

The third period has been a partnership with my school and
college friend and classmate, Frederick K. Trask. The partner-
ship, sometimes referred to as a “venture capital firm,” a rather
fuzzy name, provides financing for new and interesting com-
panies having, so far as we can ascertain, possibilities for dynamic
growth. Our activities have brought us into contact with widely
diversified types of businesses. Trask and I, as working partners,
do our best to cope with such widely diverse fields as frozen

[922]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orange juice, fine organic chemicals, propane gas, and telephone
switchboards. It is a small and informal organization which lends
itself to a degree of comfortable intimacy which I always found
lacking in the bigger shops. The very nature of the business is
such that it gives one an opportunity to try out one’s theories
and principles, and, since the basic objective is sound growth, it
is always stimulating.

Dora and I have settled down for good, I hope, on the shore
of Noroton Harbor in her family’s old house, which we did over
in 1947. We love the place, although it is usually slightly ahead
of us. It offers all the joys of the water-front and makes it
possible to have a boat moored off the dock. Judy, now sixteen,
is at Farmington, and Dave, fourteen, is finishing his last year at
nearby New Canaan Country School and then is off to Choate.

In addition to time spent on earning a living, which has always
entailed a good deal of travelling, and time spent with the family,
I’m working on the Harvard Fund and on helping to rebuild
and expand St. Luke’s Church in Noroton.

RICHARD CANDAGE RAYMOND

HOME ADDRESS: Route 9, Garrison, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Institute of International Education, 1 E. 67th St. New
York, N. Y.

BorN: April 8, 1907, Wayland, Mass. PARENTS: William Lee Raymond, ’99,
Phoebe T. Candage.

PREPARED AT: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929, 1931-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930(32).

MARRIED: Elizabeth Curtis, Dec. 23, 1929, Wilton, N. H. (divorced 1940);
Margaret Elmendorf Walker, May, 1942, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth, November, 1930 (77. Bernard Smelter, Jr.); Peter C., Novem-
ber, 1931; Nathaniel, September, 1935; Jonathan L., October, 1944;
Margaret W., August, 1947. GRANDCHILD: Elizabeth Smelter, 1951.

occupation: Social welfare; director of development, Institute of Inter-
national Education.

FOR several years after graduation, I worked in public and pri-
vate social agencies in Massachusetts, including the Lyman School
for Boys (delinquents), the Massachusetts Department of Cor-
rection (state prisons), and the Cambridge-Somerville Youth
Study, a private agency established to study and work with de-

[ 923 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

linquents. Also, I did graduate work at Boston University
School of Social Work. During the early part of World War
II, I was director of personnel administration, Service for the
Armed Forces, at the National Headquarters of the American
Red Cross in Washington, D. C. This was followed by service
in the Army (sergeant), from which I was discharged to join
UNRRA. I remained with UNRRA in the U.S. Zone of
Germany as district director in the Displaced Persons Program
until my return to the United States late in 1946, when I became
an adviser on displaced persons and refugees to Assistant Secre-
tary of State, General Hilldring, in the U.S. Department of
State. I returned to Europe on special assignment and as a
member of the U.S. delegation to the Preparatory Commission
for the International Refugee Organization, a specialized agency
of the United Nations.

This was followed by a period during which I was executive
director of the U.S. committee for the U.N. International
Children’s Emergency Fund, and during which I also did con-
siderable public speaking for the United Jewish Appeal and
other organizations concerned with overseas relief and rehabilita-
tion. In 1949 I joined the National Travelers Aid Association as
assistant general director in charge of operations, finance, and
refugee program; and again I returned to Europe as a member of
the Advisory Committee to the U.S. Displaced Persons Com-
mission. I remained with Travelers Aid until 1954, when I took
my present position of director of development with the In-
stitute of International Education, the central private agency for
the exchange of students, specialists, etc.

In addition to Europe, I have travelled extensively in the United
States and the Caribbean area. My chief recreational interests are
reading, music, and natural history, especially the study of birds
and mammals in the field. Occasionally my poems are published
in newspapers and smaller magazines.

[924]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+k ROBERT PARKER READ

BORN: July 12, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Harold Wilson Read, ’o3,
May Clement Parker.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

marrieD: Beatrice Grover, Feb. 3, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. cxuttp: Suzanne
G.,, Feb. 3, 1941.

pieD: Feb. 10, 1951, Providence, R. I.

AFTER leaving Harvard, Read joined Stone & Webster, Inc., an
engineering firm in Boston, and spent two years working for that
firm in Norfolk, Virginia. He later was associated with broker-
age, coal, and television businesses. In 1940 he was in the insur-
ance business, holding a position with Federated Hardware
Mutuals. The following year he entered active duty with the
Navy and assisted in the development of experimental airborne
radar sets before he was hospitalized for a year. He was dis-
charged as a lieutenant in 1945 and returned to Hardware Mu-
tuals where he was an underwriter in 1946, and where he re-
mained until his death. At that time he was commander of a
Naval Reserve unit for training radio operators and technicians.
His wife and child survived him.

GEORGE ARTHUR REED

HOME ADDRESS: 3528 Herschel View, Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sweet’s Catalog Service, 701 American Bldg., Cincinnati 2,
Ohio.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Lawrence Joseph Reed, Anne
J. O'Donnell.

PREPARED AT: Mechanic Arts High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926~-1930. DEGREE: 8.B. cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Alice Lerch, May 15, 1938, Newport, Ky. cHILpREN: Barbara,
July 21, 1942; Virginia, July 17, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Publishing: district manager in charge of sales.

MEMBER OF: Cincinnati Chapter, National Industrial Advertisers Association.

AFTER receiving my degree in engineering, I went into line and
grade work as assistant engineer or engineer with various general
contractors in New England. The work consisted of the installa-
tion of high pressure gas mains and steam tunnels and the con-

[925 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

struction of new buildings in Massachusetts, Maine, and New

Hampshire. During the next four years, I worked with three

different general contractors and finally the City of Boston.

With the volume of new construction at an all time low, ]
decided that I would probably be better off working in a sales
capacity where my engineering training and knowledge of build-
ing materials would be helpful. With that goal in mind, I took
a position as a construction news reporter in the Boston office of
F. W. Dodge Corporation in 1934. In 1935 I was made assistant
district manager of the Sweet’s Catalog Service Division. In
1937 I was moved to Cleveland, Ohio, as district manager there
for Sweet’s. As the business developed further, the Sweet's Di-
vision established an office in Cincinnati for the first time in 1941
and I was moved here at that time and have lived here since. This
company is a group of specialists in the design, production, and
distribution of catalogs for manufacturers who sell their products
in the new construction market, the industrial market, and the
original equipment market. I have passed my twentieth anniver-
sary with them and have really enjoyed my relationship with
them.

I am happily married, have two beautiful girls, and am active
as an elder in the Knox Presbyterian Church. Between travelling
in my work, enjoying my family when home, and church work,
and running a taxicab service for two growing daughters, I have
had little desire for club life of any kind. I shall look forward
to my first Reunion at Cambridge in twenty-five years.

~ WILLARD REED, JR.

BoRN: March 26, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Willard Reed, ’91, A.M.
’96, Ferdinanda Wesselhoeft.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

maraigep: Mary Hayward Cowles, Oct. 16, 1937, Washington, D. C.

piED: Feb. 6, 1942, Far East,

REED left Harvard in 1929 and joined the U.S, Marine Aviation
Corps; upon completion of his training, he was commissioned a
second lieutenant. The following year he became a flier for
Skyways, on Cape Cod, leaving to accept a position in the traffic

[926 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

of such existence offered little hope of comfortable professional
living. Security grew more and more important to me, as to the
rest of the country. A permanent position with the Post Office
Department in 1936 looked good to me. War clouds gathering
lessened interest in the future and further emphasized survival
and living for today.

Marriage in 1939, followed by a family in the ’4o’s, brought
a feeling of contentment in the midst of World War II. A feeling
that I had been fortunate in personal life developed an expansive
personality and civic, social, religious, and labor interests began
to fill a greater and greater part of my existence. Today, I might
be said to be classified in this field with membership in the
Knights of Columbus, Catholic Labor Guild of Boston, and serv-
ing as recording secretary of United Postal Workers, Local 51,
GCEOC-CIO.

A little dabbling in political campaigning convinced me that
this was not for me with my lack of prejudice and partisanship.
Most of the time I have been listed as a Democrat, but I have
often been an Independent, where my real sentiments lie.

My interest in sports has not lessened over the years, although
my active participation is spotty. I still find some time for golf,
tennis, hiking, and bowling. Club life is very attractive, but I
have not kept up with the University Club or joined the Harvard
Club because I just have no time to make use of them.

IRVING GEORGE REIMANN

HOME ADDRESS: 3670 Miller Rd., Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE aDpREss: University Museums, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Mich.

BorN: April 16, 1909, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: George Reimann, Ottillia
Emily Ansteth.

PREPARED AT: Masten Park High School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

MaRRiED: Mildred Harris, 1930, LaPorte, Ind. (divorced 1935); Georgine
Case, March, 1937, Degolia, Pa. cup: David T., 1934 (died 1945).
occupation: Prefect of exhibits, University Museums, University of

Michigan,
OFFices HELD: President, Geological Section, Buffalo Society of Natural
Sciences, 1933-34, New York State Geological Association, 1938, Council

[928 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Scientific Societies of Western New York, 1944; chairman, Science
Technical Section, American Association of Museums, 1952, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Buffalo Museum of Science (research associate); American As-
sociation of Museums, Midwest Museums Conference; Paleontological
Society of America; Michigan Academy of Science, Arts & Letters;
Science Research Club (University of Michigan).

pusLicaTions: About fifty popular articles on geology, paleontology, ex-
hibits, and travel; a dozen technical papers on invertebrate paleontology.

IN 1931 I was lucky enough to get a job as assistant in geology at
the Buffalo Museum of Science. By 1934 1 was appointed curator
of geology, paleontology, and mineralogy. My duties included
the building up and care of the collections, planning and installing
exhibits, lecturing, teaching writing popular articles, and re-
search. During World War II, I cut my work at the Museum to
half-time, and took a full-time job at the Chevrolet aviation engine
plant for nineteen months until the war contracts ended. Then,
in 1946, finding that I could no longer make ends meet on my
museum salary, I had to quit. Knowing that several better mu-
seum positions were about to become open, I took an interim job
with George Marchand who makes incredible things for mu-
seums all over the country. I acted as scientific consultant and
business drummer-upper. In December, 1947, I accepted my
present job where my principal duties involve the planning and
installation of exhibits on biological principles, evolution, Michi-
gan natural history, and a few related activities.

My wife’s greatest interest is in horses, and she is the proud
owner of a registered quarter horse filly. (It’s an entire animal.
That’s the name of the breed.) To support it, she works several
months each winter at a seed company packaging seed and fill-
ing and packing orders. My stepson, after a spell in the Navy,
married an Ann Arbor girl and has increased the tribe to the ex-
tent of furnishing us with a grandson and granddaughter.

Our travels have taken us to the Far West many times, and
Mexico twice. Formerly the excuse was to collect geological
stuff for the Buffalo Museum, but now we get around less often,
having to wait until a museum convention draws us someplace.
Hobbies are another matter and I have so many of them that I
can’t indulge any properly. They include photography, sculp-
ture, some pretty awful oil painting, research on certain obscure

[ 929 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

fossils, philately, and gardening. The latter has nearly driven us
out of the house. I have some two hundred cacti and a Variety
of other succulents and house-plants which have to be wintered

indoors. Looks as though my next FHA Joan will be for a green-
house.

Guess I’m still Republican and Presbyterian, if anything, but

I don’t like to hang my opinions on pegs. The older I get, the
fewer convictions I have.

ELIOT WICKHAM REMICK

HOME AppREsS: “Colonial Hearthstones,” 219 Westford St., Chelmsford, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Middlesex School, Lowell Road, Concord, Mass.; “Colonial
Hearthstones,” 219 Westford St., Chelmsford, Mass,

BORN: June 7, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Eliot Wickham Remick, ’99,
Christine Louise Bumpus.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.B.A., 1932(33); INDENG.
cert. (Univ. of Alabama), 1942.

MARRIED: Margaret Genevieve Tucker, Jan. 16, 1937, Cambridge, Mass.
CHILDREN: Sara Louise, Sept. 7, 1942; Ethelyn Foster, Jan. 19, 1944;
Katherine Christine, April 19, 1949.

occupation: Dealer in antiques and fine arts; master, Middlesex School.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Middlesex School, since 1954; operations officer, USIS,
Turkey, 1951-53; industrial relations analyst, Tennessee Coal, Iron &
Railroad Company, 1941-51; chairman, Schools Committee, Harvard
Club of Birmingham, 1949-51; president, Alabama Chapter, Society for
the Advancement of Management, 1949-50, vice-president, Woodrow
Wilson PTA, 1950-51; president, X Club of Birmingham, 1945-46.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of Birmingham, Ala., and Lowell, Mass,
Chelmsford Historical Society; Early American Industries Association.

PuBLIcATIONS: Articles in business bulletins, such as the publications of the
American Management Association and the National Office Manage-

ment Association.
AVOCATIONAL interests and experience have finally led me
into private enterprise — as a dealer in antiques and fine arts.
For many years and in many localities, I kept myself poor collect-
ing things, old, rare, and interesting. The hoard now includes
stamps, coins, autographs, books, pictures, rugs, china, glass,
silver, pewter, primitive Americana, and innumerable other items
generally classified as antiques, All, except a few family heirlooms,

[ 930 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

are for sale at COLONIAL HEARTHSTONES, our home in
Chelmsford.

Built near the end of the 17th Century, COLONIAL
HEARTHSTONES, so-named because of its eight original fire-
places, has nearly everything a family of five might need for
comfortable country living and the entertainment of friends and
relatives. Its eight acres of grounds give us woods, fields, gardens
and fruit trees, a distant view of Mt. Monadnock, and a ninth
fireplace for barbecues. The house itself has been completely
modernized with matchless decor, but still preserves many orig-
inal colonial features, such as hand-hewn beams, Indian shutters,
wide-board floors, bake ovens and “parson’s cupboards.” There
is ample and convenient space for displaying our collections in
the house itself, the adjoining garage-barn, and the carriage house
across the street. With this background, our State Department-
less future resolved itself; and since June, 1953, we have con-
centrated on expanding our personal collections into stock for
our shop.

Previous Class Reports have covered my changing professional
activities up to 1950, My return from our Twentieth Reunion
to Birmingham, Alabama, found me plunged into a variety of
community affairs that would have fazed a more intelligent and
more highly responsible type. I was, simultaneously, an indus-
trial relations analyst with the Stee] Corporation, a committeeman
in the Chamber of Commerce, vice-president of PTA, president
of the Alabama Chapter of SAM, evening instructor in economics
at the University of Alabama, and chairman of the Harvard
Club Schools Committee.

In addition to the above activities, I occasionally washed dishes
at home, one episode of which is commemorated in my as-yet-
unpublished story, From Suds to Studs. Briefly, I dialed in some
radio music to inspire my dishwashing efforts on a Saturday
morning in February, 1951, and thereby changed the whole
pattern of our existence. That particular program was sponsored
by the State Department in search of recruits for the Foreign
Service. My ensuing letter of application begot an immediate
reply; interview; FBI investigations in Birmingham and of my
New England past; and ultimate appointment as Operations
Officer for the U.S. Information Service in Ankara, Turkey!

[931]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Vecchio; a half-hour at the Uffizi; an afternoon admiring the
frescoes of Fra Angelico, a bit of Giotto’s tower, and the Gates
of Paradise. We then entrained for Garmisch-Partenkirchen,
where the American military had possession of eleven hotels in
that paradise of playgrounds amid the stupendous beauty of the
Bavarian Alps. The setup was complete from soup to chorus
girls on ice, and it was something none of us will forget.

Having learned the ropes of Army billeting at Garmisch, we
luxuriated through western Germany, stopping at Stuttgart,
Heidelberg, Frankfort, and Wiesbaden; and then went up the
Rhine by steamer, enjoying occasional views, through the mist,
of ancient castles and lush vineyards. From Koblenz we took the
train to Munich, where we had a heyday at the PX, buying things
we had done without for nearly two years. Our two best
remembered impressions of Germany were the tremendous in-
dustry of the Germans in rebuilding their shattered land, and the
wonderful job the U.S. Army is doing in making friends out of
former enemies there. ‘The train and air return through Austria,
Italy, and Greece was delightful, with some unfinished sight-
seeing accomplished em route. Our final weekend afforded us a
few swims in the Sea of Marmora and a quick whirl through some
of the historic landmarks of Istanbul. In all, we covered over
5000 miles; packed and repacked some eighteen times; washed
nylons for five in innumerable hotel bathrooms; and brought back
approximately one hundred pounds of miscellaneous trinkets and
necessities such as shoes.

We returned to Ankara to find that the post was to have a
further cut— including Remick. A few with seniority were
offered hardship posts, and a number resigned in disgust. It took
us all of the allotted month to liquidate our various interests in
Turkey, including several committeeships, teaching responsi-
bilities, and the threads of office, together with the disposition and
packing of our personal effects and a marvelous succession of
farewell parties. I believe I compiled more reports for Wash-
ington that Jast month than in any previous three months of my
professional career.

On October 1, 1953, We were given an impressive sendoff —
complete with newspaper photographers and bon voyage gifts —
by Turkish friends and surviving American colleagues, at the

[ 934 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Ankara railroad station, and twenty-two hours later boarded the
Exochorda at Iskenderun, complete with baggage (twenty-three
pieces, I think), children (still three), and our Turkish cat, from
whom the children had refused to part. We spent the next month
Mediterraneaning home, doing as much sightseeing as possible
(Baalbeck, the Parthenon, Pompeii, the Amalfi Drive were out-
standing ), since we didn’t know when, if ever, etc.

Looking back on our two years in Turkey we feel that it was
a rich and rewarding experience for the five of us. We came out
of it with a great fondness for the Turkish people and a full
realization of the overseas rdle Arherica should and frequently is
taking. We also met some wonderful Americans over there —
most of whom, like ourselves, were sacrificing more attractive
financial opportunities back home. Their professional attitudes
were outstanding, with almost complete disregard of personal
convenience, and even health, for the sake of extending the
benefits and frontiers of freedom. To such people and their
Turkish counterparts we should give much credit for the recent
Turkish revolution in productivity. The only pity is that they
have had to spend too much energy convincing the folks back
home that the effort to sell America overseas is worth while.

To bring this cycle back to the present, I should add that last
September I was appointed to a part-time mastership at Middlesex
School where I am teaching geometry and English and learning
how the male half of the teen-age world thinks and behaves. My
time is divided between there and COLONIAL HEARTH-
STONES, where we hope one day to welcome you. Just call
us at GLenview 2-0480 and “say when.”

EDWARD ARTHUR RENNER

HOME apprEss: 86 Oakdale Lane, Roslyn Heights, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: Army & Air Force Exchange Service, 200 W. Baltimore St.,
Baltimore 1, Md.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1908, Schenectady, N. Y. parents: Michael Renner, Marie
Anne Schneider.

PREPARED AT: Scotia High School, Scotia, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Mary Ellen Pearson, June, 1932, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1944); Irene Cecelia Rossignol, March 17, 1945, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:

[935 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Robert Paul (adopted nephew), Jan. 1, 1943; Edward Michael, Aug, 2,
1947; Ronald Arthur, May 4, 1949.

OccUPATION: Management analyst,

MEMBER OF: Armed Forces Management Association.

THE necessity of earning a living and trying to build a pro-
fessional career has kept me tied close to my work with little
opportunity to develop outside interests. My present employment,
dating back to 1946, has kept me more or less in a constant travel
status to various parts of the United States and at one time to all
parts of the world. My few weekends at home are taken up
mainly with the maintenance of home and garden. In retrospect,
it appears that I have lived through the past quarter century as
a spectator.

After graduation in 1930 I trained as a pilot in the U.S. Navy
at Pensacola. Classmates Lewis and “Baby Doll” Sturges were
down there too. In 1931 I joined the S. S. Kresge Company in
their career management training; leaving that organization at
the outbreak of World War II to accept a commission as lieu-
tenant (j.g.), USNR. Within a few weeks of donning the
uniform, I found myself “at sea” as Armed Guard commander of
a gun crew on a merchant ship. Aboard various ships we plied
the waters of the North and South Atlantic, Pacific, and finally
made “The Murmansk Run” to North Russia. Then followed a
period of four months on the staff of the Armed Guard School
at Shelton, Virginia. While at this base, I made the “mistake”
of volunteering my services for a job described as Military Gov-
ernment in a Navy ALNAV. On loan to the Army, I found
myself in a very short time at the Military Government School
at the University of Virginia. Six weeks later, back to Harvard
for a‘six-months’ instruction in all things Japanese at the Over-
seas Civil Affairs Training Schoo] under the direction of Profes-
sor Carl Friedrich, my former prof in Government 8.

After a total training of thirteen months and two weeks
(mostly learning the Japanese language), I landed in Inchon,
Korea, on October 20, 1945, with no previous detailed training
or knowledge of Korea. It appears that the State Department
and/or the War Department did not know that Korea was a
recognized annexation of Japan and therefore failed to instruct
the schools to teach the future military governors about that

[936]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

country. At that time, the most up-to-date information to be
found in the encyclopedias had tigers roaming the streets of
Seoul at night. Working sixteen hours a day for seven months as
military governor of the southern half of the Province of Chung-
Chong Pukto, trying to rehabilitate the industries and organize a
local civilian government along American patterns, it became
apparent that the Korean Civil Servants and the Military Govern-
ment Headquarters at Seoul were in a state of lethargy; only
interested in drawing their pay and examining ‘Promotion Lists.”
Returned to the U.S. and civilian life in May, 1946, as lieutenant
commander, USNR.

I joined the headquarters of the Army Exchange Service on
September 9, 1946, as a management analyst to assist the ex-
changes in generating dollar dividend requirements in face of
shrinking sales. Have been working on management and oper-
ational problems in various parts of the world ever since.

LINCOLN CAROL REYNOLDS

HOME ADDRESS: 1520 Folger Drive, Belmont, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 966 Bransten Rd., San Carlos, Calif,
BORN: Feb. 25, 1906, Viola, Calif. parents: Lincoln Carol Reynolds, Byrd

Marie Cannon.

PREPARED AT: Alameda High School, Alameda, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927,

MARRIED: Damaris Flagg Peck, Dec. 25, 1932, Nanking, Chima. CHILDREN:
Gretchen Peck, Jan. 26, 1938; Alice Byrd, May 9, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Marion Hobart Reynolds (deceased), ’15; Frederick L.
Reynolds, ’20. .

occuPaTION: Wholesale lumber business.

TO the Far East in 1928 as employee of oil company — Korea,
China, and Japan. Ten years in the United States Foreign Serv-
ice as vice-consul in China. Eleven years with an airline com-
pany, resigning in order to establish my own wholesale lumber
business.

[937]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ADAM RHODES

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Plymouth Lane, Manchester, Conn.

OFFICE appress: Chenev Brothers, Manchester, Conn.

BORN: June 29, 1908 Brookline, Mass. parENTs: Daniel Pomeroy Rhodes,
’95, Bertha Harriet Johnson,

prepareD aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

marrteD: Alison T. Fernald, Aug. 10, 1940, Beverly, Mass. cHILDREN:
Gordon Fernald, Nov. 10, 1941; Judith Hoyt, March 18, 1943; Daniel
Pomeroy, March 10, 1946, Anadine Johnson, Aug. 24, 1947; Ruth
Card, Jan. 11, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Timothy Rhodes, ’33.

occupation: Controller; certified public accountant.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, Cheney Brothers, president, Harvard
Business School Club of Hartford, 1952; vice-president, Hartford
Control of Controllers’ Institute; president, Manchester Chapter, Am-
erican Red Cross, Manchester Branch, Connecticut Cancer Society,
member, Manchester Development Commission.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants, University Club of Hart-
ford; Appalachian Mountain Club,

  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  

TO those I consider fortunate, graduation from Harvard found
them with a course ready to follow and a purpose in life to ful-
fill. For me the course was uncertain and the purpose most
evasive. Certainly, I felt there must be an answer and, while
Harvard College had not given it to me at that moment, it at
least did not leave me without resources. My next two years at
the Harvard Business School most certainly were a challenge.
There —no doubt, similar to other graduate schools — my men-
tal processes were re-awakened and stimulated so as to produce
a far more orderly arrangement in the mind and its thought
pattern; an invaluable two years.

The first job, 1932, was in public accounting and was not a job
to inflate the ego, but rather one to be thankful for. My con-
nection with Price, Waterhouse & Company developed into ten
years of most valuable training in all types of business. In addi-
tion, the relation between work accomplished and income received
was clearly demonstrated in those depression years. This in-
valuable Icsson stays with me regardless of client or employer.
The combined training of Business School and Public Account-
ing has since served me well in Army Signal Corps procurement

[ 938]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

during World War II and now in controllership with textiles in
New England at Cheney Brothers.

Pleasant as the years were after graduation —a trip to South
America with Olsen Field and Dean Chamberlin, skiing weekends,
and sailing in the summer — the ultimate goal in life was still
elusive. How to develop a real purpose in life? For several years
I worked hard with psychoanalysis, but my subconscious was
quite “ornery” and the results were not up to expectations. How-
ever, it was during this period that my outside activities began
to expand to include the Junior Chamber of Commerce on local
and state taxes, public administration service on the installation of
an accrual accounting system for the Commonwealth of Massa-
chusetts, and lastly, the Henry George School of Social Science
as instructor to free classes on the effects of the private owner-
ship of land and the solution popularly known as the “Single
Tax.”

The writings of Henry George to me interpret economics into
Christian terms. His explanations on the distribution of wealth
are so clear and inspiring that my eyes were opened to many prob-
lems which I had overlooked while majoring in economics at
college. To many the solutions proposed may seem unattainable;
nevertheless, if attained the world would be a better place in
which to live and work. Such concepts as “equal opportunity to
work,” “trade to the fullest between nations,” and “to every man
belongs the product of his own labor” are certainly recognized
today as being solutions to the free enterprise system and possibly
world peace.

The specific result of these activities was to find a wonderful
wife. She was a member of one of the classes I taught in Henry
George economics. We were married in 1940 and since that
time have had an unusual rapport to life’s values for which we
strive. From economics we have turned more to the church,
which of course works in well with the upbringing of our five
children.

To top it off, I now live and work in the same town, not an
easy accomplishment in this age of suburbs and commuting. The
opportunities are limitless for participation in town affairs and
certainly our life is the fuller for it.

A place on the Connecticut shore, Giants Neck, about an hour’s

[939 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

drive from home, has given the whole family its summer vaca-
tions, even though Mount Desert Island and Penobscot Bay,
Maine, often attract some of us for a portion of the summer,

I am sure that we are not unusual in believing that today’s
principal aim of a twenty-five-year alumnus is to make better
alumni(ae) out of his own children. Through church, school,
and United Nations, it is gratifying what broad horizons can be
developed today in the minds of the youngsters. Visits to our
home from foreign students have supplemented these contacts.
By these ways we hope for success in this most important under-
taking.

GEORGE PEARSON RHODES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Star Route South, Ligonier, Pa.

orFice apprEss: McKelvy & Co., 1146 Union Trust Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: May 1, 1907, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: George Pearson Rhodes, Ellen
Bower.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MARRIED: Sarah R. Haddock, June 29, 1933, Calvary, Pittsburgh, Pa.

occupation: Stockbroker; partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Director, American Window Glass Company, Sea Breeze;
member Board of Missions, member Growth Fund, Episcopal Church,
Diocese of Pittsburgh.

MEMBER OF: Rolling Rock Club, Ligonier, Duquesne Club, Pittsburgh Golf
Club, Fox Chapel; P.A.A.

THIS won’t be much of a story as the best thing I do about
writing is to avoid and put it off, however, after leaving Har-
vard, I worked for several years in a small cement company in
which my father had an interest. In 1933, I entered the firm of
Gammack & Company, stockbrokers, and in 1935 became a part-
ner in McCutcheon, McKelvy & Company, now McKelvy &
Company. On June 29, 1933, | was married at Calvary Church,
Pittsburgh, quietly and informally; lived in Pittsburgh, spending
many weekends in nearby mountains at Ligonier, Pennsylvania.

In January, 1942, I took leave of absence from the firm and
worked in the Salvage Division of the War Production Board in
Pittsburgh, and later transferred to Washington, D. C., where I
lived for a year. Upon completion of that particular program, I

[ 940 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

resigned and returned to Pittsburgh, and went to work on the
War Finance Committee until well after the end of the war.
In November, 1947, we moved to Ligonier, where we had pur-
chased sixty acres of farm land and built a home; hence, living in
the country and having ideal summers, we generally travel in the
winter and try to go to different locales annually.

Am very interested in our church; when we first moved here,
there was no Episcopalian, so a group of us began one, originally
without a minister — met in a schoolhouse. We now have built
a beautiful church which grows yearly and, while it is Episcopal,
it is also definitely a community church. I served as the first
senior warden when we got a rector, and also as chairman of the
Building Committee. Am also interested in the Masons, and am a
Past Master.

As for hobbies, I am still loyal to my great love of baseball,
enjoy and play golf; am an enthusiastic fisherman for small-
mouthed bass in Canada where we have a family home.

THEODORE ALFRED RICH

HOME ADDRESS: 1468 Via Del Mar, Schenectady, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: General Engineering Laboratory, General Electric Co.,
Schenectady, N. Y.

BORN: June 18, 1905, Lynn, Mass. parents: Harry True Rich, Bessie
Damaris Goodwin.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: $.B. IN E.2. cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Kathryn Cooley Wilson, Aug. 10, 1932, Put-in-Bay, Ohio.
CHILDREN: Dennis Wilson, Dec. 14, 1934; Thomas, Dec. 27, 1937.

HARVARD SON: Dennis Wilson Rich, ’56.

OccUPATION: Development engineering; consulting engineer instrumentation.

MEMBER oF: American Physical Society; American Meteorological Society;
Instrument Society of America; American Society of Testing Materials;
Federation of American Scientists.

MY life has been very satisfactory.

[941 ]

PON ROOT RE NE AY ee ric tame

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

PAUL LAMBERT RICHARDS

HOME ApprEss: 27 W. High St., Painesville, Ohio.

oFFice AppREss: Lake Erie College, Painesville, Ohio.

BoRN: May 24, 1905, Fall River, Mass. parents: John Bion Richards, Wini-
fred Cornell.

PREPARED AT: Princeton Preparatory School, Princeton, N. J.; Chauncey Hall
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M., 19313; PH.D. 1939,

marRIED: Virginia Bartlett Breene, April 2, 1934, Passaic, N. J.

occuPATION: Head of Department of Modern Foreign Languages.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; Modern
Language Association; Association of Teachers of Italian.

pusLications: Dieci Novelle Contemporanee, co-author with M. Cantarella,

REASONABLY happy people, like reasonably happy countries,
have little history. So with me: my life has been little “diversified
by events” beyond the common experience of all of us. I have
been married, happily so, for twenty years. Twenty-two years
ago I began my career as a college teacher. The period since then
has been punctuated by time out for a Ph.D. and to doa few odd
jobs during the war. Next year I shall insert another punctuation
mark by leaving teaching for library work. Biographers thirsty
for additional data will find some in previous Class Reports.

ALICK GRANT RICHARDSON, JR.

LAST KNOWN AppRESS: 375 Park Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1906, Rochester, N. Y. parents: Alick Grant Richardson,
Fthel Mary McCrea.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MarrieD: Helen Frampton, Dec. 27, 1939, St. Louis, Mo.

RICHARDSON has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
SINCE 1950.

HENRY HOBSON RICHARDSON

HOME ADpREss: 25 Cottage St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFice appress: Universal Winding Co., Providence 1, R. I.

BoRN: Nov. 15, 1907, Brookline, Mass, parents: Henry Hyslop Richardson,
’95, Elizabeth Lejee Perry.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

[ 942 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marrieD: Hildegard Paula Berg, May 15, 1948, Shanghai, China. cuirpren:
Henry Hobson, 4th, March 19, 1949; Hildegard Anna, May 3, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Perry Richardson, ’34.

OCCUPATION: Textile machinery manufacture.

FROM 1935 until this day — most of the time as a bachelor —I
have been associated with the textile industry as an employee of
Universal Winding Company, manufacturers of textile machin-
ery in Providence. This vocation as factory worker, sales engi-
neer, foreign salesman, and now head of domestic sales, I have
greatly enjoyed and to this end I have devoted all my time and
energy, except nights and weekends. Although I never would
have believed that selling is anything but extremely difficult and
requires a super-extrovert, I have lived to learn that, though at
times frustrating, it is really a very simple, fascinating, and so-
ciable profession, especially if one’s compatriots and customers
are such good fellows as mine.

There was an interesting period in this bachelorhood from
1942 through 1945 which involved the Army, into which I was
drafted as a private after the Marines had rejected me on a blood
pressure charge — though, actually, I never felt better in my life!
This Army deal I found very effortless mentally, and as a mem-
ber of the ground crew of the Air Corps, 1 went from one state-
side technical school to another, accumulating such terrifically
good marks—- merely because the younger guys concentrated
more on women and beer — that when it became time to send me
overseas, my scholastic brilliance in the Army’s mind far out-
weighed my blood pressure, and I wound up as a Crew Chief in
the first squadron of B-29s to Jand on the Mariana atoll of Tinian,
whence the air crews bombed Japan from December, 1944, to
September, 1945, and the ground crews basked in the noonday
sun.

There was no doubt in my mind when I waved goodbye to
Tinian in October, 1945, that I would never see her again, but
such was not the case as Universal Winding had their say in the
matter, and exactly two years later to the day, I was flying over
her in a Pan-American clipper enroute to selling our winding
machinery to the textile plants of China and India. My firm had
undoubtedly been logical in their choice of me as far eastern

[ 943 ]

aeilneieetnniaeiden ian cneeee ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

representative — a bachelor with no particular ties and sufficient
experience not to get entangled in foreign alliances, but fate stood
in their way. The beautiful German girl whom our Shanghai
agent had chosen as my dinner companion (no doubt to comfort
this homesick Bostonian on his first night in the Orient) lived to
marry him in her adopted Shanghai the following May. This
affair took place, however, only after a courtship which found
the man having his last fling in the night life of Bombay, Calcutta,
and Madras, and the girl wondering whether he would ever
return.

Actually, I did return and on May rg at the Cathedral in the
Rockefeller Foundation we faced the bishop, the American
consul, guests, and champagne, and I exported my bride in one
big hop from the Whang Poo to the Charles to be confronted by
Boston and the relatives! However, in spite of such handicaps,
she has done very well and our children, Henry, qth, and Heidi,
await with anticipation Harvard 1971 and Sheraton Plaza 1968,
respectively. As a reward, I invited her on a five months’ business
trip to Europe in 1951.

We still live in the old family house in Brookline, whose thresh-
old many a classmate has crossed during the past years, and
where we look forward to having those of you who can find the
time to visit us while you are in Cambridge next June.

JACOB RIEMER

HOME AppRESS: 34 Moreland Ave., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: United Parlor Furniture Co., Inc., 11 Webster Ave., Chelsea,
Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 10, 1908, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Moses Joseph Riemer,
Sophia Isacson.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MARRIED: Helen Kulvin, June 27, 1940, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Steven
Kulvin, April 19, 1943; Richard Saul, April 2, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bernard Abraham Riemer, 726.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, United Parlor Furniture Company, Inc.

OFFices HELD: Director, Chelsea Chamber of Commerce; vice-president,
P.T.A., Newton Music School; president, treasurer, Webster Realty
Company.

‘

[ 944 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Civic Symphony Orchestra of Boston; Temple Emanuel of
Newton Brotherhood, Brookline-Brighton-Newton Zionist District.

AN unfortunate auto accident to my father in late June, 1928,
abbreviated my attending further ac Harvard. Without any
ceremony, I became a novice member of my Dad’s firm. To sup-
plement the lack of experience and practical knowledge pertain-
ing to furniture manufacturing, evening courses became a neces-
sity. Courses in plant management at Boston University sufficed
basically the functional aspects; however, the nature of the work
involved required knowledge of design, and hence, I attended the
Boston Architectural Club for four years. There the basic studies
of architectural design from its classical beginnings to the modern
trend were studied and our completed drawings were com-
petitively graded in conjunction with the ones from the Harvard
and M.I.T. Schools of Architecture. Thus, concluded my funda-
mental preparation for my life work as a furniture manufacturer.

In 1940 I married the former Helen Kulvin of Brookline, an
alumna of Boston University School of Music. My wife is an
accomplished pianist and participator in community affairs. I
have two sons, Steven and Richard, who are attending the Newton
Public Schools. Steven, the older son, studies the piano and
trumpet, and is a member of the school orchestra; however, his
primary interest is with Newton Little League. Richard is a cub
scout and interested in collecting stamps, particularly the new
editions.

In contrast to my daily routine, in the fall I anticipate anxiously
the Monday night rehearsals of the Civic Symphony Orchestra of
Boston, where my efforts are located in the cello section. The
personnel consists mainly of professional and business men, of
whom a few are former players of the Pierian Sodality of 1808.
During the winter the boys and I skate at the nearby Crystal
Lake, with my activity mostly as an observer, avoiding any at-
tempt to compete with the younger set. The approach of the
warmer months encourages the desire to become an amateur
gardener again: the care of the lawn, the vegetable garden (my
phase of the work) and the flower section attended by my part-
ner, Helen. Along with gardening during the summer, an oc-
casional golf game with my wife or friends completes my physical
activities.

[945 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Our travels have included trips to Bermuda, where we enjoyed
the peaceful tranquillity that prevailed everywhere; a trip to
Havana, Cuba, where the characteristic nature of the island was
the antithesis of Bermuda, and a trip to the beautiful Bahamas,
With our two sons, we have toured scenic and historical New
England; and recently, Washington, D, C. The boys were ex-
tremely fascinated with its beauty, the immensity of the public
buildings, and most of all, the Smithsonian Institution.

Finally, a personal perspective as an entity in a confused world
renders me the opportunity as a parent to convey the necessity
for truth, faith, and pursuit of knowledge; and also, the impor-
tance of the codperation of all to create goodwill among men.

JOHN JOSEPH RILEY

MAILING ADDRESS: 270 Parker Hill Ave., Roxbury, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 25, 1909, Charlestown, Mass, pARENTs: Michael Joseph Riley,
Annabel O'Neil.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(32).

oocuPATION: Education.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

GARRETT DAVID ROACH, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 18 Medfield St., Boston 15, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Swift & Co., East Cambridge, Mass.

Bors: Oct. 31, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Garrett David Roach, Louise
Barstow Faunce.

PREPARED At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MArRieD: Rita P. McCarthy, Sept. 22, 1951, Brighton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Garrett David, 3d, Aug. 29, 1952; Catherine Louise, Jan, 11, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Faunce Roach, ’36, M.p., ’40.

OccuPATION: Time study, Swift & Company.

MEMBER OF: Topper Club of Boston.

AFTER leaving school, I went to work as a packer in a greeting
card company, and became a claim adjuster in a local insurance
company; then there was a venture with a relative in a “hand-
painted lamp-shade” business. I had to earn some cash, so went

[ 946 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to work as a laborer at Swift & Company, where I was made a
clerk, entered the standards department as checker, then time
study man, and then was transferred to a small branch as time
study engineer, and I am there now.

I like to tie my own flies and go fly-fishing, and occasionally on
small hunting trips (upland game especially), enjoy doing metal
work in small home shop, and hustle off to a “multiple” fire alarm
with the sparks to view the fire and also take movies. Sometimes
I even take movies of my family.

I waited quite a while before I located the “right one,” then
got married. Have two children, a boy and a girl, and am really
pleased. I am a regular church goer — Roman Catholic; do not
pay too much attention to politics; a few of my friends, Republi-
cans and Democrats (still friends) provide the political angle. My
wife and I enjoy dinner out occasionally, not much dancing; but
mostly we enjoy visiting with friends or having them visit with
us. Then I can try some of MY cooking on them! I lived with
my father for fifteen years and have some strange recipes. Sure,
I help around the house: will wash dishes (but refuse to dry
same), use automatic clothes washer, and vacuum the apartment.
Am most comfortable around the house in old and dirty clothes
doing not much of anything, ready to entertain anybody that
drops in; will serve drinks and have one occasionally (ulcers),
don’t bother to smoke cigarettes — once in a while, though not
lately, use a pipe. Weak point is ice cream of any kind, but lots of
it; people even say it accounts for 240 pounds of me (about sixty
over school days). Spent more time growing up, and stopped
growing hair (age in the way); so guess I never will get that
distinguished look; couldn’t get along with it, says my wife. Nuf
for now!

JOHN COLEMAN ROARK

HOME apprEss: Chase City, Va.

BorN: April 5, 1892, Nathalie, Va. parents: James Richard Roark, Mollie
Elizabeth Covington.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MarRieD: Myrtle Shelton, Oct. 21, 1930, Nathalie, Va. cHitpren: Rona
Jacqueline, Sept. 14, 1931; John Coleman, Jan. 6, 1934; Jane Elizabeth,

[ 947 ]

aetna ETRE aN CNRS ee eg nee nese peer

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

June 8, 1936; Brenda, March 29, 1938; James Richard, Aug. 1, 1941;
Beverly Ann, Dec. 19, 1943; Archie Ralls, March 8, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Farmer.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

HORACE NOYES ROBERTS

HOME AppRESS: 6640 N. Broadway St., Indianapolis 20, Ind.

OFFIcE apprEsS: Allison Div. of G. M., Tenth and Grande Ave., Speedway,
Ind.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1909, Afarquette, Mich. parents: Alton True Roberts, ’o4,
Abby Beecher Longyear.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1930(31); M.E. (Chrysler Inst.
of Engineering), 1932.

MARRIED: Phyllis Hartfield Beck, July 19, 1934, Detroit, Mich. (divorced
1938); Margaret Ellen Peters, Dec. 19, 1939, Chicago, Ill. crmpren:
David Michael, Nov. 28, 1940; Linda Jean, Sept. 24, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Munro Roberts, ’33.

occuPATION: Commercial products salesmanager.

OFFICES HELD: Test engineer, Chrysler Corporation, 1932-35; president,
Cloverland Auto Company, 1935-42; president, Local 218, A. F. of M,
Marquette, Mich. 1939-40; chief flight test engineer, 1942-45, senior
project engineer, 1945-49, sales engineer, 1949-51, service manager,
1951-53, assistant salesmanager, since 1953, Allison Division, General
Motors Corporation, Indianapolis.

MEMBER OF: Murat Temple, AAONS, Indianapolis, Marquette Lodge, No.
1o1, F. & A. M., Marquette, Mich.; Rising Sun Yacht Club, Rising Sun,
Ind.

NOT having any particular goal at the time we left College
(1931), ours is the story, not of singleness of purpose, but of
diversity and exploration, which has paid off in a great deal of
personal satisfaction, where it may be lacking in fame or fortune.

1931 was not “the” year to find a job, so our first encounter
with the outside world consisted of free trips abroad and to South
America, plus the U.S., courtesy of “Roy Lamson’s Harvardians,”
Joe McNamara, director. A most pleasant life, which ended early
in 1932 at the insistence of my dad who felt that we should
perhaps be giving some thought to our furure. After some
months of negotiation, we proceeded to the Chrysler Corporation
in Detroit, where we became a student engineer. This turned out
to be one of these programs where all the spare time left after

[ 948 J

we
‘ re pe ee .

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sixteen hours per day for the company was your own. Three
years of minor successes and struggle convinced me that I should
be in business for myself. About the same time, a very close
friend of my dad’s passed away, leaving a Buick-Pontiac-Packard
- dealership in Marquette, Michigan, as an asset for disposition. The
heirs were most anxious to sell this unsuccessful enterprise which
they termed a “monument to mismanagement.” In May, 1935, I
became president of this concern whose sole asset was a good
name. Here the proverbial seven years of famine began, peppered
with eons of Roosevelt investigators who felt that my profit lay
in answering their unending questionnaires. It wasn’t long be-
fore we found ourselves back in the jazz band business to keep
food on the table.

This led us to become interested in American Federation of
Musicians affairs, resulting in our election as president of the
Marquette Local in 1939. At this time, the competition of the
juke box to the part-time local musician was being felt very
keenly and our membership in the Local had suffered as a result.
Our approach to the problem was to promote and sell “live”
music for local affairs by dressing up the bands, having rehearsed
organizations available, and establishing a suitable contact point
to reach all musicians when needed. In addition, we promoted
Saturday-nite teen-age dances at minor admission fees to keep
the kids out of the bars and clubs. It is interesting to note that
all the tavern and club owners were solidly behind this program
in order to protect their own licenses. Out of a fifteen-cent
admission charge, we managed to pay all our “combos” in rotation
on this job and had some left over at the end of the year for
further promotion of the same idea.

This all resulted in our getting into radio, running a one-hour
amateur talent show every Sunday at the local theatre, promoting
local enterprise as well as spreading the gospel of a Personal Loan
Company, which sponsored the virtually unrehearsed effort. Two
minutes before show time on the first show, the M.C. hired for
the afternoon became snow-bound, and we went on in his stead.
We never did see the man for the next seventeen weeks. Our
success was measured by the fact that the city-owned power
company, which had previously found it necessary to run only
one generator on Sunday afternoons in years past, had to put on

[949 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

In the ensuing shuffle, I became service manager, with the assign-
ment of organizing a major group in one year’s time. Nine years
after my first application, we finally got into the work we wanted
in the first place!

In doing this organization, we went on the theory that anybody
mechanically inclined could become a good service representative
if the spirit was willing. Ninety percent of the people hired were
willing and are still with us. What amazed me was that the
poorest prospects made the best record, proving again that
amazing adaptability Americans have to a situation. For example,
one of our top engineers has issued a request that one of our
service representatives must call at his office any time he is in
town — three years ago this man was completing his eighteenth
year hauling mail on his back for Uncle Sam!

Came the end of Korea and our bread and butter Commercial
Transmission business needed attention, so we took this on with
the service department with the title of assistant salesmanager.

This has been a fascinating business, which, although lacking the
glamour and interest of the passenger car field, has more than
paid off in the fact of seeing new ideas grow in old fields through
the medium of the hydraulic drive (torqmatic to you!). Our
daily fare is the problem of the off-highway truck, switcher
locomotive, shovels, draglines, cranes, loaders, road_ rollers,
hoisting equipment, graders, and not to overlook oil field appli-
cations too numerous to mention.

On the family side, we cue fond wife by the hour for her TV
shows, plays, and other entertainment ventures. Weekends are
spent mostly on our outboard cruiser Pyewacket II, which also
serves our needs during vacations on the many miles of water
connecting the Ohio, Kentucky, and Tennessee Rivers. Winters
— the Model Railroad has never been finished, nor will it ever be!

DONALD ROBERTSON

HOME AppREss: 20 Woodbury St., Beverly, Mass. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: Research Div., United Shoe Machinery Corp., Beverly, Mass.

BoRN: April 14, 1907, Beverly, Mass, parents: Robert Robertson, Annie
Marie Trask.

PREPARED AT: Hebron Academy, Hebron, Maine.

[952 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marRIED: Estelle M. Jones, Oct. 27, 1933, Cambridge, Mass. cup: Jane
Eva, May 1, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gordon Robertson, 714.

occuPATION: Research, shoes and shoe machinery; business manager, shoe
laboratory.

OFFICES HELD: Beverly School Committee, 1944-48.

MEMBER OF: Arlington Friends of the Drama, 1933-36; Salem Oratorio
Society, 1940-42; Apollo Club of Boston, 1945-46, The Dean’s Men,
1947-50; Liberty Lodge, A. F. & A. M., Beverly; Northeast Club.

IN September of 1930, after two months’ fruitless searching for
employment among the depressed business firms of Boston and
vicinity, I retreated to the sheltering wing of Harvard as director
of the Student Employment Office in University Hall. As hun-
dreds of other young Harvard men, both graduates and under-
graduates, were madly searching for work, it seemed an excellent
idea for me to help them search and get paid for it myself. Also,
as Russ Sharpe said, it would be at least a warm place for the
winter. Being reasonably successful at finding and contriving
work for students, I continued in this position until 1936. During
this pleasant interlude, I was married to Estelle Jones of West
Somerville in the new Harvard Chapel by Dean Sperry, with
Wallace Woodworth playing the organ. As an avocation, I wrote
and mailed short stories to several publications, receiving numer-
ous rejection slips for my efforts. My wife and I were also quite
active in amateur dramatics with a little theatre group.

In 1936 I became office manager for an insurance firm in New
York City, where we became quite familiar with all the free
museums in town and a few of the less expensive amusement
places and restaurants. After three years of asking myself, “What
am I doing in New York, anyhow?” I moved back to my home
town of Beverly, where making a living was a little Jess hectic
and I could resume such simple pleasures as playing golf, sailing
boats, and just breathing fresh air.

After several years of being involved in various phases of ac-
counting and auditing, including a three-year session of cost
accounting on government war contracts for a machine-tool
manufacturer, I became associated with the research division of
the United Shoe Machinery Corporation at Beverly. At present,
I am business manager of the shoe laboratory, which is a miniature

[953 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

shoe factory equipped to make any type of shoe required for
experimental work and which usually does make every possible
kind in the course of a month. No two days are alike, and life
is never boring.

As for home life, my wife is as charming as ever and my
daughter Jane, at seven years, is keeping us young with her
enthusiasm for school, dancing, and life in general. My wife and
I are quite active in church and civic affairs, and I still “come out
of retirement” each year to take part in another Gilbert and
Sullivan operetta or similar show. Last winter I performed in a
“revue” wearing a sweater and playing a uke from the old Yard
days. Golf and sailing have now given way to gardening and
woodworking, but I still live within sight and sound of the ocean
in a Cape Cod cottage which I am continually changing and
improving.

For religion—I am associated with St. Peter's Episcopal
Church, where perhaps I do not worship too regularly but do
work hard for the Couples Club, fairs, entertainments, and garden
parties.

In regard to politics — I have served four years on the Beverly
School Committee. I am not a fanatical worker, but do occasion-
ally come up with an idea that is applauded.

I am still interested in choral singing, and in succession have
belonged to the Salem Oratorio Society, the Apollo Club of Bos-
ton, and The Dean’s Men.

DONALD WEISEL ROBINSON

HOME ApprEss: 726 Main St. Milwaukie, Oregon.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1903, Putin Bay, Ohio. parents: Parker Burdell Robinson,
Eunice Julia Weisel.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Pauline Odom, Aug. 15, 1936, Toledo, Ohio. cutip: Sarah Lytton,
Jan. 4, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[954 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ LEON JEROME ROBINSON

_ porn: Dec. 17, 1907, Worcester, Mass, PARENTS: Solomon Robinson, Lena
Singer.
prepared AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1934.
piep: Feb. 1, 1948, Springfield, Mass.

WHILE at Harvard, Robinson held the Henry D. and Jonathan
M. Parmenter Scholarship. After graduation he attended the
Boston University School of Medicine, receiving an M.D. in 1934.
For a year and a half he was medical house officer at the Boston
City Hospital, and was then appointed staff physician at the
Monson State Hospital, Palmer, Massachusetts. As a neurologist,
he carried on research on epilepsy until his death. He was the
author of several articles on epilepsy published in medical jour-
nals, and presented papers before the Boston Society of Neurology
and Psychiatry, the Brookfield Medical Club, the Springfield
Hospital Staff, American Psychiatric Association, and the annual
conference of the Massachusetts Department of Mental Health.

LINCOLN FAY ROBINSON

HOME ADpRESS: Cedar Vale, Kans.

BoRN: April 14, 1909, Newton, Mass. parents: Thomas Pendleton Robinson,
Ethel Lincoln Fay.

PREPARED AT: Hingham High School, Hingham, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: May Borroum, Nov. 25, 1936, Cedar Vale, Kans, CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Ann, Oct. 25, 1938; Margaret Fay, Oct. 4, 1941; James
Borroum, Nov. 1, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Fay Robinson, ‘26.

occupation: Cattle rancher.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PuBLIcATIONS: Three juveniles: Two Boys, Doubleday, 1932; Jack's House,
1935, Goldie & Yellawbammer, 1949, Viking.

[955]

° SRP Cn ones een



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

SAMUEL CARL ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 146 S. Maple Ave., Webster Groves 19, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3869 Park Ave., St. Louis 10, Mo.

BorN: Dec. 1, 1908, St. Joseph, Mo. parents: Samuel May Robinson, Nora
Rebecca Kelly.

PREPARED AT: Soldan High School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

marriepD: Dorothy Ruth Bennett, Nov. 28, 1935, St. Louis, Mo. cxrtupren:
Dallas Bennett, Sept. 30, 1936; Susan Adelaide, March 31, 1939; Stephen
Kelly, Feb. 15, 1942.

occuPATION: Secretary-treasurer, St. Louis Public Service Company.

MEMBER OF: Advertising Club of St. Louis, Philharmonic Society of St.
Louis, Missouri Athletic Club; Sunset Country Club; Public Relations
Society of America.

A MAJOR in philosophy and a minor in English were not talents
designed to inspire any employment manager in the business
world, particularly during the summer of 1930. Ability to play
the flute didn’t seem to impress anybody, either. In fact, I some-
times think my only real job-hunting asset was being the son of
a Methodist minister with a lifetime of training on how to live on
little.

Philosophy did help, though, after I landed my first job. On
August 1, 1930, I began work with the St. Louis Public Service
Company as a “checker.” This involved mostly standing on
street corners counting the people on the company’s buses and
streetcars as they went by. A man needs philosophy to sustain
himself on a job like that.

The years have passed, the jobs have changed, but I am still in
the business of helping to provide the metropolitan St. Louis
area with mass transportation as a member of the St. Louis Public
Service organization. In 1941 I became commercial manager in
charge of public relations and advertising, and in 1949 I took on
the additional duties of secretary and treasurer of the company.
Imagine a philosophy major as a corporate treasurer! But, be-
lieve me, “ya gotta double up” in the transit business these days.

Meanwhile, music has had more than one charm. It led to the
discovery, for example, that Wagoner Place Methodist Church
had the prettiest choir singer in St. Louis. And when I learned
that Dorothy Bennett could accompany my flute with fine piano,

[956 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

as many hours as I can trying to lower a handicap of fifteen on
the golf course.

Convictions? That President Lowell’s address to our freshman
class on the importance of imagination was a significant part of
my education. That the understanding we developed in reading
Aristotle, Spinoza, Immanuel Kant and others has helped create
a tolerance for people and institutions, as we really find them.
That the “presence of pleasure-— absence of pain” philosophy
can best be realized in family living.

And now I can add another belief, one that I’ve held for years
but had not given much thought to until the Twenty-fifth
Reunion letters began to arrive. The years at Cambridge were
wonderful years; I expect June 12 to 16, 1955, to be wonderful
days; and I know this Class Report will be for me a fascinating
volume.

THOMAS LAMBARD ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 2166 Norton Rd., Charlotte, N. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Charlotte News, Charlotte, N. C.

BORN: Aug, 21, 1907, Mattapan, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Robinson, ’98, M_.,
’o2, Ellen Derby Bellows.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Willcox, Dec. 11, 1937, Englewood, N. J. CHILDREN:
Thomas Lambard, Jr., July 19, 1939; Samuel, 2d, Aug. 20, 1941; Blake
Willcox, Nov. 8, 1947.

occuPATION: President, Charlotte News Publishing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Southern Newspapers Publishers’
Association, North Carolina Press Association, Charlotte Chamber of
Commerce, Mecklenburg Chapter of American Red Cross, Charlotte-
Piedmont Better Business Bureau, Charlotte Rotary Club; trustee and
director, Charlotte United Community Services; director, Executives
Club, 1948-52, Harvard Alumni Association, 1953; president, Harvard
Club of Charlotte, since 1952.

MEMBER oF: Overseas Press Club; Academy of Political Science; Harvard
Club of New York City; New York Athletic Club; Charlotte City
Club; Charlotte Country Club.

PuBLicATIONS: “The Atlantic Union Plan,” Southern Newspaper Publishers’
Association; articles, editorials, book reviews, New York Times, Char-
lotte News.

WITH the exception of a brief interim in public relations and a

[ 958 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tour of duty in the Navy, my life has been all wrapped up in the
newspaper business. As anyone knows who has printer’s ink on
his hands and in his blood, the newspaper game is fascinating and
very absorbing. I live and breathe every phase of the newspaper
business morning, noon, and night. Even when I go off on a
vacation I wish that I were back at my newspaper. It is a mistress
I just can’t abandon.

In late June, 1930, the New York Times hired me at the princely
salary of sixteen dollars a week. I checked newsstands on Ninth,
Tenth and Eleventh Avenues of Manhattan for long enough to
know how to enthuse and also cuss in Italian, Greek, and numer-
ous other languages.

Ultimately, I had the good fortune to serve hitches in many
divisions of the advertising department of the Times. I sold ads
to suburban shops, to big New York department stores, to swank
specialty shops, to hard-boiled book publishers, and to sundry
others. Many would say, “My mind is made up. Don’t confuse
me with facts.” However, I wore out a lot of shoe leather pound-
ing pavements and learning to sell to the most stubborn and
ornery of space buyers. It toughened my soul, increased my
brashness, and helped me to lose a certain Back Bay accent which
never went over very well in Brooklyn,

I was hell-bent to round out my experience by being a news-
paper reporter. The New York Times didn’t seem to be crying
for me in their efficient and strongly-manned news department.
Consequently, I wrote to a tremendous number of publishers,
telling them that I thought I could be a “red-hot” reporter. This
was a false boast, and of the 200 publishers and editors to whom
I wrote, 198 seemed to think they could run their papers without
me. But two gave me some encouragement.. I sallied up to
Syracuse and for a year, from 1933 to 1934, I worked with fever-
ish enthusiasm as a general assignment reporter on the Syracuse
Post-Standard. I got some big stories and some mighty small ones.
I am quoted to this day as saying to Mike Brewster, the then city
editor, ‘‘Please don’t cut to ribbons my story. Everything in it
is vital.” Mike replied with the cynicism of every old-time city
editor, “Give the damn thing to me. [TU devitalize it — and
quick.”

I pasted in about four huge scrapbooks all my best stories and

[959 ]

SCNT AO Ne Set rei ae RASACO MNP 9

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

an independent Democrat who keeps backing, in recent years,
stout Republicans. A New England Unitarian, I was obliged with
others to organize a Unirarian church here. We are in the Bible
bele where fundamentalism holds sway, but where the people
are sound and solid and love their God. Life is good, and I hope
not to have a coronary thrombosis by either working or playing
too hard.

WILLIAM TATE ROBINSON, JR.

MAILING Aporess: 1118 Hassinger St., Honolulu, Hawaii.

porn: March 5, 1908, Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii. parents: William Tate
Robinson, Ellen Kaaini Ferreira.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928,

OccUPATION: Education.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

WELLINGTON GREELEY RODGERS

HOME aporess: R.D. No. 2, Me. Holly, N. J.

OFFICE Appress: Commercial Sales Co. Hainesport Road, Mc. Laurel, N. J.

Bors: May 31, 1909, Camden, Maine, parents: Wilfred Claymore Rodgers,
May Helen Greeley.

prepareD aT: Mt. Hermon School, Mt. Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

Margiep: Mary Heywood Blodgett, Sept. 6, 1935, Needham, Mass. (divorced
1946); Enid L. Gardiner, December, 1946, London, England. cHILpREN:
Charles Heywood, Sept. 9, 1938; George Greelcy, Nov. 28, 1940.

HARVARD BroTHERs: George Cox Rodgers, ’32,; William Wesley Rodgers,
"34, School of Ed., 35.

occupation: Owner, Commercial Sales Company.

orrues HFip: Assistant buyer, service manager, buyer, Western Electric,
1929-1942; owner, Commercial Sales Company, 1949-51; president, Ma-
terials Disposal Company, Inc., 1947-49, Egypt Civic Association, 1938-
39; member US. Army, Korean War, 1951-53; member Utilitics Com-
mittee, Red Feather Fund, Boston, 1947, 1948.

MeMneR oF: Lambda Chi Alpha, American Legion, National Association
Purchasing Agents, 1948, 1949, Society of Automotive Engincers, 1947,

1948, Alpha Club, Philadelphia, 1952-s5.

DURING senior year in college, 1 attempted the impossible by
[ 962 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trying to work full time for Western Electric Company and carry
full courses as well. Need for bread and beans, as well as two
younger orphaned brothers won the fight. I bought a derelict
Cape Cod cottage nearly two hundred years old in 1936 in
Scituate, which I rebuilt entirely by myself, with enough energy
left to have two wonderful sons and a motorboat (ex-rum runner)
in Cohasset — shades of Johnny Dean and his diminutive de-
stroyer!

Volunteered for Army service in 1942, dieted off a mere forty
pounds, reported for duty as a captain in the Signal Corps on
June 19, 1942, went overseas three days later before the ruddy
Army had even taught me how to salute. As a signal officer,
second in command of largest Ordnance installation in Europe,
liaison officer to a thundering general, Air Corps staff officer, oth
A.F. for technical supply and aircraft assembly. I have a citation
from General Eisenhower for the African invasion and from
Lieutenant General Brereton for the Normandy invasion. As a
major during the last year of World War II, I was in charge of
production of Bzg Eagle aircraft at Wright Field.

I bought an 85-foot yacht Mariner from the Navy in 1946,
which I restored to operating condition alone, with a final decora-
tive touch of a gorgeous red-headed English wife from London,
who the local gossips still think young enough to be my daughter.

Grabbed by the Army in 1951 I was put in the deep freeze
(Korean War) by the Signal Corps until 1953. Whoosh went
the yacht, the business, and what little lucre accumulated during
the years. Recompense: promoted to lieutenant colonel in Octo-
ber, 1953.

Now I have a non-floating three acres in Mt. Laurel, New
Jersey, on which I am building a barn, a warehouse, and a seven-
room house. My London wife has been an absolute joy and
dream. I regret that I am so broke temporarily that contributions
are limited to the A & P (supermarket), but as the immortal
Churchill said: “We've muddled through before, and we'll
muddle through again.”

[ 963 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MAX HYMAN RODMAN

HOME AND OFFICE appREss: 175 Maple St., Malden, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 23, 1909, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Joseph Rodman, Rose Cohen.
PrepaRED aT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; Registered Pharmacist, 1930;
M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1934.
mcarriep: Cecile White, June 16, 1929, Malden, Mass. CHILDREN: Allen, Nov,
22, 1930 (m. Nita Mae Adler, June 28, 1953); Sandra Esther, Nov. 18,
1933. GRANDCHILD: Lisa Robin Rodman, Nov. 3, 1954.
HARVARD SON: Allen Rodman, LL.B. 54.
HARVARD BROTHER: Isaac Rodman, ’22, M.D.,’26 (deceased).
OCCUPATION: Surgeon.
OFFICES HELD: Senior surgeon, New England Sanitarium and Hospital; as-
sociate surgeon, Malden Hospital.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association.

IT is quite common today for college or graduate school students
to be married. Not so in 1929 when I was married during my
junior year at the College. My son Allen was born in November,
1930. During my four years at Tufts Medical School, I worked
after school hours as a registered pharmacist. In my third year
at the Medical School, 1933, my daughter Sandra was born.

After an internship in 1934 and 1935, my family moved to
Pittsfield, Massachusetts, in the Berkshire Hills, where I opened
my first office for the practice of medicine and surgery. The
children enjoyed living in the country for the seven years we
spent there.

I decided to obtain further surgical training and spent the
years 1942 and 1943 at the Jersey City Medical Center. The
Armed Forces then called, and I spent two years as an Army
surgeon, with seventeen months of active service in the European
Theatre, including England, France, Luxembourg, Germany,
Belgium, and Czechoslovakia, for a total of five campaign stars.

After my separation from the Army, my family decided to
return to our old home town of Malden. I opened an office for
the practice of surgery there in 1946, and there we have been to
date. Some of our classmates are in this vicinity,

In June, 1954, my wife and I celebrated our Silver Wedding
Anniversary at a family gathering,

We are more or less typical Bostonians, if such a species exists.
My daughter Sandra is a senior and honor student at Simmons

[954 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

College, and my son Allen graduated from Harvard Law School
in June, 1954. He is a member of the Boston and Massachusetts
Bar Associations and is now awaiting his call into the Armed
Services. Apparently every generation can now expect its turn
to serve.

If I may wax philosophical in this final paragraph — on No-
vember 1, 1954, I was present at the funeral of my brother, Dr.
Isaac Rodman of Philadelphia (a Harvard brother), and two days
later I was present at the birth of my granddaughter, Lisa Robin
Rodman, daughter of my son Allen, a Harvard son. Signifying
the endless flow and conquest of Time... .

CHARLES EDWARD ROGERS

HOME ADDRESS: 7222 S. Gretna Ave., Whittier, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Stoody Co., Whittier, Calif.
BORN: Jan. 18, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Charles William Rogers, Laura

Mathilda Ree.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MarRiED: Anita Syme Palm, Feb. 23, 1935, Penngrove, Calif. cmp: William
Edward, Jan. 20, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Chief metallurgist in charge of research, development, and
production control of special alloys and welding materials; the develop-
ment of new and unique welding processes.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers;
American Society for Metals; American Welding Society; Harvard
Club of Southern California.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles and papers in trade journals of the welding
and metals industries.

TO have been employed by the same firm and to have resided in
the same town for nine years now is somewhat of a record for
me. My early life as an army child involved living in about
thirty different places from Maine to California and the Philip-
pines. I was educated in eight grade schools, three high schools,
and five colleges. The past nine years have given me an insight
into what it means to have a home town. But even in these nine
years, my work has required me to travel about the country at
regular intervals. Actually, I feel as much at home one place as
another. I have a very wide circle of acquaintances and friends,

[965 ]

Nee yee Re Reta mommerinie +

Fe ment rca

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

scattered though they are, and wherever I may be I am on familiar
ground with old friends near at hand. Home is where my family
is and as long as it’s in the United States, I’m satisfied. The air-
lines keep me close to home. Nevertheless, [ am pleased that our
son Bill has been able to spend his growing years in this Quaker
town of Whittier, and that he has been able to progress with his
friends through grade school and high school.

Professionally, I enjoy my work and have been fortunate
enough to have made some real and, I believe, lasting contribu-
tions to the sciences of welding and metallurgy. The personal
satisfaction of a scientist, if I may be permitted to refer to myself
as such, must evolve from the enjoyment of the work he is doing.
Only rarely, it seems, does the scientist ever hit the monetary
jackpot. Perhaps we’re too contented doing the things we like to
do to be greatly concerned. Or if real wealth is the ultimate goal,
we scientists are either lacking in business acumen or we're in the
wrong business. In the words of the Ivy Orator — “All work
and no play makes Jack”—for the other guy. Actually, the
monetary compensation could be worse.

While it is heresy in the American tradition to become too
satisfied with one’s lot and while I feel that there are yet too many
things to be done, I look back upon the years and find little about
which to complain. The depression years were hard for all of
us, so I was fortunate to have employment even of a menial sort.

Some time ago I reached the conclusion that I must have a
guardian angel who looks out for my best interests. Like the
time I applied for active duty as a reserve officer in 1940 and was
about to pack up and leave for Corregidor when I received word
to report for another physical. On this one they told me to go
home, get in bed, and forget the whole idea. I thought my guard-
ian angel was looking elsewhere, but as it turned out there wasn't
much wrong with me and besides, I’d been on Corregidor before.

My guardian angel saw to it that ’'d meet the wonderful girl
who waited eight years for me to finish school and get rolling,
and who has been my wife now for twenty. Then we had to
wait four years for Bill to come along, bur he’s everything we
ever hoped for. Our only regret is that there couldn’t be more
like him. Naturally, my family is my hobby. My wife married
a loud-mouthed unpredictable roughneck and by patience and

[ 966 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

by example she’s shown how love and kindness and sweetness of
nature can achieve better results than the mailed fist. I suppose
many fathers take pride in the fact that their sons are rough,
tough, and ready, but I am forever grateful that Bill’s nature js
like his mother’s. A soft-voiced, easy-going guy, Bill has been
taught to wrestle since he was a tot. He’s on the school team now,
and though I still work out with him once in a while, it serves no
good purpose to have the Lord and Master of the Manor dumped
on his big red neck by one of the lesser knaves.

Come to think of it, I guess ’'m a contented guy. If the next
twenty-five years are as good as the past, I’ll settle for that.

HAROLD ELLIOTT ROME

HOME AppREsS: Hotel Queen Elizabeth, 41 Pierre rer de Serbie, Paris 8e,

France.
OFFICE appress: Pepsi-Cola de France, 41 Avenue Montaigne, Paris 8e,

France.
BORN: June 28, 1909, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Lewis Rome, Julia Lavien.

PREPARED AT: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930} LL.B., 1933.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Leon Mark Rome (deceased), ’25; Oscar Samuel Rome,
27; David Rome, ’35.

occuPATION: Manager, European operations, Pepsi-Cola Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Fitchburg Lodge, B’nai B'rith, 1939-40; secretary-
treasurer, Fitchburg Rotary Club, 1941-43; member board of trustees,
Hastings Hall; member board of directors, Fitchburg Family Welfare
Association.

MEMBER OF: Charles W. Moore Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Fitchburg Lodge,
B’nai B’rith; Union Interalliée, Paris; Harvard Club of France; American

Club of Paris.

AFTER spending three more enjoyable years in Cambridge at
the Law School, in 1933, armed with my LL.B. and admitted to
the Bar, I settled down to the practice of law in Fitchburg,
Massachusetts. Then after being called up twice by Uncle Sam
and rejected (nearsightedness), and being unsuccessful in my
other attempts to get into any branch of the armed forces, I de-
cided to give up my local Civilian Defense activities and my
private practice and went to Washington to get into some more
direct branch of the war effort. I joined the General Counsel's

[ 967 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Office of the Board of Economic Warfare and worked on the
procurement of strategic and critical materials both for the war
effort and the essential civilian economy. Through the usual re-
organizations of the temporary wartime agencies, which resulted
in the Board of Economic Warfare and its successor agencies
being transformed into the Foreign Economic Administration, I
continued in the same type of work for the U.S. Commercial
Company, a subsidiary of the Reconstruction Finance Corpora-
tion, after the war.

In 1946 I went to Germany as consultant in legal and foreign
trade matters to the United States Military Government in Berlin.
With the fusion of the British and U.S. Zones of Occupied Ger-
many, I stayed on with the Military Government as the chief legal
adviser, and later as deputy director of Policy and Planning, of
the Joint Export-Import Agency (J.E.LA.), the foreign trade
branch of the U.S. and U.K. Military Governments. After the
transfer of the foreign trade responsibilities to the German Federal
Republic, I continued with the Economics and Finance Division
of the U.S. High Commission (with dual State Department and
E.C.A. functions) and acted as the U.S. Observer at the negotia-
tion of foreign trade and payments agreements of the German
Government.

I spent four very interesting and rewarding years of govern-
ment service abroad, seeing the rebuilding of a completely de-
feated and battered Germany into a strong economic force in
Western Europe; the beneficial effect of the economic and
codperative assistance of the United States Government through
the Marshall Plan, E.C.A.; and the effective working together of
the countries of Western Europe under the Organization for
European Economic Coéperation and the European Payments
Union.

My government service gave me the opportunity to spend
considerable time in and travel through most of the countries of
Western Europe from the Mediterranean to the Baltic. Finally
in 1951, 1 decided to resign from government employment and
returned to the United States. But before I had a chance to get
my roots dug in again at home, I joined the Pepsi-Cola Company
as a member of the law and export departments. I returned to
Europe shortly thereafter to represent the company in foreign

[ 968 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trade and legal matters and, in particular, the many local govern-
mental problems which confront a U.S. company trying to do
business in Europe. Recently, I transferred over from the legal
to the commercial executive side of the business, and as manager
of European operations of Pepsi-Cola International, I now make
my headquarters in Paris. I still do quite a bit of travelling and
hope to make Pepsi-Cola available in all countries of Western

Europe.
A cordial invitation to all 1930 classmates to drop in and have a
Pepsi with me the next time you come to Paris.

JAMES ROOSEVELT

HOME ADDRESS: 5193 Watson St. N.W., Washington, D. C.; 3279 Provon
Lane, Los Angeles 34, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 325 House Office Bldg., Washington, D. C.; 6351 Wilshire
Blvd., Suite 218, Los Angeles 48, Calif.

BORN: Dec, 23, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Franklin Delano Roosevelt,
’oq4, Anna Eleanor Roosevelt.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931.

MARRIED: Betsy Cushing, June 4, 1930, Brookline, Mass. (divorced 1940);
Romelle Schneider, April 14, 1941, Los Angeles, Calif. (separated).
CHILDREN: Sara Delano, March 12, 1932; Kate, Feb. 13, 1936; James, Jr,
Nov. 9, 1945; Michael, December, 1946; Anna Eleanor, January, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Jr. °37; John Aspinwall
Roosevelt, °38.

OCCUPATION: Representative, Congress of the United States; insurance execu-
tive.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary to President of the United States, 1937-38; chair-
man, California Democratic State Central Committee; California Demo-
cratic National Committeeman, president, Roosevelt & Sargent of Cali-
fornia, Inc.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; American Academy
of Political and Social Science; Los Angeles Athletic Club; San Diego
Yacht Club; Metropolitan Club, Washington, D. C.

MY life has been a busy and a hectic one: some good, much bad.
As a member of the 84th Congress of the United States, I hope to
make a contribution to the welfare of my country which will
somewhat balance the bad.

[ 969 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

GORDON ROOT

HOME apprEss: 1911 Tewksbury Rd., Columbus 21, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1909, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTS: Harley Gilbert Root, Edith
Louise Lawwill.

PREPARED AT: Wittenberg Academy, Springfield, Ohio.

YEAR IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREE: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1930.

arriED: Elizabeth Anne Linton, March 16, 1932, Columbus, Ohio. cHL-
DREN: James Gordon, May 16, 1934; David Harley, Oct. 10, 1937.

occuPATION: Residential Builder.

MEMBER OF: Phi Kappa Psi Fraternity; Scioto Country Club.

AFTER graduation from college I joined my father’s company
which acted as a distributor of automotive supplies. Inasmuch
as he thought I should learn the business from the ground up, I
started as a truckdriver. Believe me that Ford Model A truck
placed me about as close to the ground as I could possibly be. In-
asmuch as my previous information had consisted of such things
as Metaphysical Poetry — Donne to Butler — it was quite an ad-
vance in my new field when I learned the difference between a
connecting rod and a cotter key. However, I finally learned the
peculiar nomenclature of the automotive parts business and after
various promotions became an outside salesman. Not being the
hearty, indiscriminate, back-slapping type, I was rather ill-suited
to this job which I still regard as the low point of my career
thus far.

In 1932 two events occurred. First I married an excellent gal
whom I had known for several years in and out of college: Phi
Beta Kappa, Masters degree in economics, and all that sort of
thing. Not bad for an ex-truckdriver. Balancing this success my
father died in the same year and I began to receive a rapid educa-
tion in human nature. I wish that Professor Kittredge had made
it clearer to me that Shakespeare was as much a news reporter as
a playwright.

In 1935 my father’s estate sold its interest in the company and
I resigned. At that point I was out of a job, with a fine wife, a
son about two years old, and a new Ford sedan. However, I did
have a little cash; so we decided to tour Europe. Our son Jim
thought we had flipped since he didn’t care for travelling, but he
went along just to prove that he was a good sport. The trip was
a mixture of comedy and tragedy and just plain fun.

[970 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the Year Book and has a desire, at this time, to make the study
and teaching of pure mathematics his life work.

Our home is paid for, located in what we modestly call “the
finest residential area in Central Ohio,” and air-conditioned in
summer. Come see me in August. One thing more, we are getting
a new davenport to take the place of the wedding one, which,
like the bridegroom, has become a bit bulgy after twenty-three
years.

WILLIAM KNIPE ROOT

MAILING ADpREss: Ward Hill, Mass.

Born: April 22, 1907, Ward Hill, Mass. parents: William Henry Root, Ada
Victoria Knipe.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

occupaTION: Manufacturing.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

EDWARD JACKSON LOWELL ROPES

HOME apprEss: 13 West Cedar St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Specialty Engineering & Mfg. Co., 108 E. Dedham &,
Boston 18, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: James Hardy Ropes, 8
Alice Lowell.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MarRiED: Charlotte Sherburne, Nov. 7, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sarah Sherburne, Oct. 15, 1940; Ann Goodrich, June 5, 1943; Georgina
Lowell, Nov. 7, 1945.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Specialty Engineering and Manv-
facturing Company.

MEMBER OF: Badminton and Tennis Club, Boston.

AFTER various jobs— investments, dog food, a half-year at
M.LT., taking a business course, etc. —I finally arrived in manv-
facturing; and with experience in two companies working for
others, I set up my own small plant eight years ago.

In 1936 I married, and we now have three girls who keep me

busy with their home-work. I am surprised that they are still in
school,

L972 ]

 

EIU ABIES ARNE Iain eA EEE EN St se Agte i

CAS PG gS LASER A AEN AEE

ay



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

marRieD: Erna Rothschild, Nov. 7, 1937, Washington, D. C. cuitpren:
John David, Aug. 13, 1945; Lucy Joan, Aug. 11, 1950; Joshua Carl, Nov,
9, 1951 (all adopted).

occuPATION: Attorney.

CHARLES STUART ROSS

HOME ADDRESS: 126 Mountain Ave., Summit, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Silver Burdett Co., 45 E. 17th St.. New York 3, N. Y.

Born: April 20, 1908, Bridgeport, Conn. parents: Herbert Weed Ross,
Flora Cox.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

marrieD: Laura Andrews Herrick, July 2, 1932, Syracuse, N. Y. chu:
Charles Perrin Ross, Sept. 28, 1943.

occupation: Associate editor-in-chief, Silver Burdett Company.

OFFICES HELD: Publisher, Empire Book Company, 1933-35; president, New
York State Association of Educational Salesmen, 1939; consultant on
publications, U. S. Army, 1943-44; consultant, New York State Educa-
tion Department, 1952. |

MEMBER OF: Pi Beta Alpha; Association for Supervision and Curriculum
Development; A.CE.

PUBLICATIONS: Bluejackets Manual, Navy Life Literacy Training Program,
articles in School and Society, New York State Education, Mental
Measurements Yearbook.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY is difficult to write, especially for a text-
book editor, who has been conditioned by occupation to anonym-
ity, and by experience to caution. I became an editor by inclina-
tion, and a textbook editor because the first opening I found was
in the school book branch of the publishing industry. This was in
1931. By 1939 I had been an editor, a publisher (briefly), and a
textbook salesman, was married to Laura Herrick of Syracuse,
and had accepted an editorial position with Silver Burdett Com-
pany in New York.

Although we lived in a New York apartment, I managed to get
away for fishing and hunting with some regularity. Tennis and
gardening were not possible. One could buy Old Grandad at
Nussbaum’s for $1.98 a fifth, and it cost 5¢ to get by subway to
the Yankee Stadium.

By 1943, editing school books didn’t seem comparatively use-
ful. I became a civilian consultant for the War Department,

[974]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ing about it, it seemed as though it were in effect applied Chris-
tianity. When friends left our outfit and removed the uniform,
they were different. They were back ready for the vicissitudes
of life. Too bad the same esprit de corps doesn’t exist more unt-
versally in our every-day living.

Having seen such fine people in the Navy, I refused to return
to New York City. My wife and I arranged for our son and
daughter to be taken care of during the summer of 1946, and we
toured 16,000 miles through the United States trying to decide
where we wanted to live. Barbara’s only stipulation was that it
had to be on an ocean. In the end, after getting offers of twenty-
four jobs, we chose Portland, Maine. It’s hard country econom-
ically, but it’s a good place to bring up children. Here they could
attend public school after twelve years of private schooling. Inci-
dentally, ’ve never lived in a more gracious community.

At first, I worked as understudy of the manager of a set-up
paper box manufacturing company. For five years now, because
of economics, I’ve been selling paper products, cordage and
packaging materials and ideas in Maine for the H. J. Dowd Com-
pany of Cambridge, Massachusetts.

But what has my college education given me? Really two
premises which came from History I, and several conclusions.
Friskie Merriman and others were really trying to teach us that
there has been, is now, and will continue to be a constant battle
between the individual and the state, plus “in unity there is
strength.” What is communism, except a new approach to the
sales technique of the state? The worst thing in life is poverty.
How eradicate it— through the state on a collective basis. If
your present government won’t do this through ballots, then join
them in overthrowing it by bullets. But what happens to the indi-
vidual? He and she are subjected to the state to the point of be-
coming slaves. Is there any guarantee that slavery will alleviate
poverty? History hasn’t proved it would. Our own country is
really the only place on earth where the teachings of a rebel
named Christ “that man is created in the image of God,” and
therefore is free, has prevailed. It is the only place where most
poverty has been eliminated. Collectivism may, for a time, im-
prove the condition of poverty, but what is the price on individual

[978 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930
occuPATION: Mechanical engineer.

ONE of the teachings of our good faculty members during our
undergraduate years seemed to be, “Don’t swallow everything
that you hear or read!” If this summary of my activities has been
delayed, it’s because I have been trying to prove by various
formulae that we have been twenty-five years out of college.
Alas! I’ve convinced myself that it’s true!

Much of my time (and, incidentally, far too much of it) has
been spent in earning a living. I may never own a fleet of Cadil-
lacs, working for a non-profit organization. However, I’ve de-
rived a great deal of satisfaction from manufacturing apparatus
used in training doctors that they may successfully practise —
and prosper.

In common with other Harvard men, I take pride of accom-
plishment in my family. Ernie has transformed our cellar into a
workshop-laboratory, producing everything from hot-rods to
home brew. Steve, the athlete of the family, is a catcher on our
local Little League Yankees. Gloria is a miniature Marilyn Mon-
roe — with a personality. Reigning supreme over our small but
active clan, Irene manages our affairs with a natural skill and
talent that no amount of Harvard education could duplicate.

Looking back over the past quarter-century, I can’t brag about
having set the world on fire — but, oh well, ’ve got my health.
Being menaced by Communism, the atom bomb, and super-
powered automobiles, it’s great to be alive!

LEWIS WILLIAM RUBENSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 153 College Ave., Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

OFFicE Appress: Art Dept., Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 15, 1908, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Emil Rubenstein, ’o1, Hannah
Hirschman,

PREPARED AT: Lafayette High School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

MaARRIep: Erica Beckh, June 28, 1942, Brookline, Mass. cuttpren: Daniel
Blake, Nov. 3, 1946; Emily Gay, Sept. 14, 1952.

occupation: Artist; associate professor, Art Department, Vassar College.

MEMBER OF: Society of American Graphic Artists.

PUBLICATIONS: “Fresco Painting: Today,” American Scholar, 1935.

[ 980 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SINCE College, painting has been my main occupation. I have
painted walls, canvases, ships, and recently scrolls,

For the past half-dozen years I have been working out an art
form which I call time painting. This is a continuous scroll paint-
ing designed to be seen moving through a specially constructed
viewing frame. The idea started germinating in Fine Arts Ia
when Professor Pope took our class to see the Oriental scrolls in
the Boston Museum of Fine Arts.

My scrolls vary in theme, size, and medium. There are land-
scapes, such as “Winter Walk” and “Cape Dunes.” “Mining
Town” is a documentary based on my observations of life in an
Arizona copper mining community. Many of my recent scrolls
have been based on Old Testament themes, such as the stories of
Joseph or Esther and Psalm CIV. Some of the smaller scrolls and
a polarizing scroll are more abstract in character.

A number of these time paintings, along with easel paintings,
drawings and lithographs, will be exhibited this June in the Busch-
Reisinger Museum at Harvard. |

My essential aim in painting generally is lyrical composition ex-
pressing human values. The artist’s job, I believe, is to give form
to his own view of life and thereby to touch the spirit of others.
Art should be “Wine that maketh glad the heart of man.”

Much of my painting has been associated with Harvard. The
Edward R. Bacon Travelling Fellowship enabled me to study
mural painting for two years in Europe. When I returned to this
country, I painted several frescos on Harvard walls—in the
lower corridor of the Fogg Museum and in the entrance hall of
the Germanic Museum, now the Busch-Reisinger Museum.

Besides the Harvard frescos, I have painted murals for the
Climax Molybdenum Company, the Wareham, Massachusetts,
Post Office, the Navy Bureau of Ordnance, and the Buffalo Jewish
Center. I assisted Orozco on the fresco in the Museum of Modern
Art.

Interspersed with mural painting I gave demonstration lectures
on fresco painting in museums, colleges, and art schools through-
out the country. The first of these demonstrations was in the
Fogg Museum in 1933. The last was also given in the Fogg in
1952 in conjunction with the Orozco exhibition.

After finishing the Harvard murals, I travelled around drawing

[ 981 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

and painting in such places as the Fore River Shipyard, the Beth-
lehem-Lackawanna Steel Plant, the Phelps-Dodge Copper Mine
in Jerome, Arizona, and the San Francisco waterfront. These
semi-documentary paintings were exhibited in the Busch-Rei-
singer Museum.

I have taught painting in the Boston Museum School of Fine
Arts, the University of Buffalo, and am now teaching at Vassar
College. My wife and I met at Vassar when we were both teach-
ing in the Art Department. After we were married, she received
her Ph.D, from the Harvard Fine Arts Department. She wrote her
thesis on “Government Murals” with a little heckling from me.
Our next joint project was the family. We are very happy with
the children.

During the war I did ship camouflage as a lieutenant in the
Navy. After four years of camouflage, 1 returned to painting
and teaching. In 1951 I went to Mexico on a Faculty Fellowship.
There I did a series of lithographs and paintings in new plastic
media.

My paintings and graphic work have been shown in national ex-
hibitions in the Whitney Museum of American Art, the National
Academy of Design, the Library of Congress, the Society of
American Graphic Artists (awarded prizes in 1952 and 1954),
Cincinnati Art Museum, and the Corcoran Art Gallery.

CHARLES THEODORE RUSSELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 711 Clapboardtree St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Draper, Sears & Co., 50 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 19, 1907, Brookline, Mass. pARENTS: Charles Theodore Russell,
’oz, Louise Rust.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MarRiED: Catharine Olney, Sept. 16, 1939, Orleans, Mass. cutrpren: Charles
Theodore, 3d, Sept. 29, 1940; Anne Olney, Aug. 3, 1943; Otis Tenney,

Oct. 24, 1948.
HARVARD BrotHERS: Henry Drummond Russell, ’32; Joseph Ballister Russell,

2d, "34.
OCCUPATION: Investment banker; general partner, Draper, Sears & Company.
MEMBER oF: Tennis & Racquet Club, Boston; Eastward Ho Golf Club,

Chatham, Mass.
[ 982 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Independence and was with them through the Okinawa campaign,

I was separated from the Navy as a lheutenant commander in
September, 1945, and returned to the old business, which in the
general interest of Mammon is now located in a pleasaunce main-
tained on the seventh floor of 50 Congress Street, Boston.

A fishing boat at Chatham on Cape Cod and a duck set-up in
Virginia, with a few weekends on upland game in New Hamp-
shire, take care of most of my spare time. Fortunately, my bride
is also addicted to the great outdoors and my children are tending
that way too.

Recently, my brother Henry and I started a clam processing
plant at Sandwich, Massachusetts, called Cape Cod Shellfish Cor-

oration. Although things seem to be progressing satisfactorily
so far, I shall be happy to supply a more complete picture for our
Fiftieth Report.

REUBEN RUSSMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 54 Wolcott St., Medford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 333 High St., Medford, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Russman, Mary Dichter.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1934.

MARRIED: Ethel Cohen, March 29, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHitpreNn: Barry
Sheldon, April 22, 1938; Dorothy Mae, April 21, 1941; Robert Earl,
Dec. 31, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFIces HELD: Member, chairman (several years) Board of Welfare, City
of Medford, 1940-54; medical consultant, Board of Public Welfare,
since 1954; president, Medford Jewish Community Center, 1950-52,
Medford Lions Club, 1949-50; senior physician, Lawrence Memorial
Hospital, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Medford Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American Medical Association; Lions Club.

THIS is your life, Rube Russman (so who cares) — well — sev-
eral people care—among them, yours truly, his wife, kids,
parents, maybe a few relatives and friends.

I was born in Boston on January 17, 1910, unheralded, unsung,
unwanted — premature, four and a half pounds. So my mother
decided to make the best of it, this her third and last. For seven-
teen years I cavorted and pranced about the streets of what is

[ 984 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

now known as Skid Row, and having managed to survive, I gradu-
ated from Boston Latin School in 1926. I entered Harvard.

There is but one regret: namely, that I was not able to live at
college. Because of this, I believe I missed a great deal, both in
fellowship and getting to know my classmates more intimately
than can be possible when one commutes.

College life can be pretty dull without all the conveniences
and niceties of a campus home, and so it was for me. How does
one raise enough money for college when home finances are nil?
Well, my first summer I worked in a toy factory — piece work
—and the faster I worked, the less I earned because the foreman
kept cutting the price per piece. The second summer was spent
as a bus boy, dishwasher and counterman in Waldorf’s. The third
and fourth summers I turned mailman and special delivery messen-
ger. During the fall and winter months, I tutored boys and girls
who wanted to go to college. I can truthfully say not one of my
pupils was ever admitted to college.

And so came Commencement, and Tufts Medical School, and
depression. I had to go to Tufts Medical School because Fate
decreed that I was to marry Ethel, the sister of one of my medical
classmates. And those summers spent working in a junk yard!
I told my friends I was a chemist. You see, I merely had to sit
on a pile of junk and separate lead from iron from copper from
brass. And what a depression! The first summer I earned §20 per
week (1930); in 1931, $18; in 1932, $14; and im 1933, $12.

I became an M.D. in June, 1934, but actually one doesn’t “be-
come” an M.D. — he is awarded a diploma — then the fun begins
and it is fun. Interning —no responsibilities. The visiting physi-
cian or surgeon is responsible for any boners. If an intern is wor-
ried — just pass the buck and call the “visiting man.” I interned
at the Cambridge City Hospital so you see I stayed close to Alma
Mammy. February 15, 1936— internship over. March 29, 1936,
wedding bells — Ethel, who up to this time from 1934 to 1936
was teaching. Then a quick honeymoon to New York, Washing-
ton, D. C., and Philadelphia.

Next stop — Belmont, April, 1936, to March, 1937. Did I feel
the depression? Well, if you ask— And How! I used to ring
my own door bell, because no one else did. The practice of
medicine was supposed to be good if you could practise it, but

[985 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

they told me patients and patience were needed. Aly phone rang
when friends or relatives asked us about our health. That was the
trouble: everyone's health seemed to be too good.

We moved to Medford and things began to click immediately.
My wife quit supporting me; that is, she quit working to become
a housewife.

My son Barry is a senior at Boston Latin School, where he is a
member of the National Honor Society, co-captain of the basket-
ball team, and with his partner, Boston’s interscholastic tennis
doubles champion. By the time you read this, he may be a
member of Harvard, Class of 1959.

My daughter, Dorothy, is graduating from junior high school.

My son Robert is in the fifth grade.

A year ago my wife and I became golf enthusiasts and we love
every drive and dub. And so time has “fugited (flown).” And
here we are, twenty-five years older, possibly a little wiser,
wondering what the future will bring; hoping, but never certain.

That’s about all there is to date—this is your life — Rube
Russman.

DAVID DAVIS RUTSTEIN

HOME apprEss: 98 Winthrop St., Cambridge, Mass.

orFice aporess: Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck St., Boston 15, Mass.

BorN; Feb. 5, 1909, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. parents: Harry Rutstein, Nellie Davis.

prepareD aT: Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: $.B. ¢1171 laude, 1930, M.v. cum laude,
1934.

Marriep: Maxie E. Weissman, Feb. 22, 1935, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. (divorced
1951); Ruth E. Rickel, Aug. 11, 1951, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Catherine Ann, Dec. 28, 1940, David Davis, Jr., July 7, 1944.

occupation: Physician; professor of preventive medicine, head of depart-
ment, Harvard University Medical School.

Offices HeLD: Appointments at Harvard Medical School, Harvard School
of Public Health, Albany Medical College, College of Physicians and
Surgeons (Columbia University), and the teaching hospitals affiliated
with them, professor of preventive medicine, head of department, since
1943, member of the administrative board, chairman Curriculum Com-
mittee, Harvard Medical School, vice-president, American Heart As-
sociation; Deputy Commissioner of Health, acting director, Bureau of
Laboratories for the New York City Department of Health, 1943-46;
medical director, American Efcart Association, 1946, 1947.

[ 986 J



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

HALE JOHNSON SABINE

HOME ADpRESS: 400 Windsor Ave., Glen Ellyn, Il.
OFFIcE appress: Celotex Corp. 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Ill.
BORN: Oct. 23, 1909, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Paul Earls Sabine, ’o3, Mary
Mabel Johnson.
PREPARED AT: Geneva High School, Geneva, II.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).
MarRIED: Marjorie Ballard, Sept. 19, 1936, St. Charles, Ill. cumpren: Paul
Ballard, Oct. 22, 1938; Charles Pruden, June 4, 1941.
occuPaTIoN: Chief acoustical engineer: field engineering and product de-
velopment, architectural acoustical materials.
MEMBER OF: Acoustical Society of America.
PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers in the Journal of the Acoustical Society of
America, etc.

NATHANIEL MORTON SAFFORD

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 Glenoe Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

BORN: June 21, 1904, Milton, Mass. parents: Nathaniel Morton Safford, ’69,
Edith M. Edwards.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; tutors.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(32); A.M. (Boston Univ.),
1934.

mMarRiED: Marion May Foley, Nov. 17, 1923, Arlington, Mass. (divorced
1931); Lois Eugenia Dennison, April 2, 1932, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mimi, Oct. 18, 1924 (a. Hugh Mallon, May 25, 1945); Nathaniel
Morton, April 13, 1927 (mm. Pamela Dunbar, Jan. 29, 1955); Charles
Dennison, June 15, 1933; Abigail, Jan. 26, 1939.

OccUPATION: Property management, owner-manager.

OFFICES HELD: Research assistant, Boston Municipal Research Bureau, 1932-
33; Secretary-treasurer, Trigger Club of Massachusetts, 1935~48; presi-
dent, Hingham Tennis Club, 1944; member, Boy Scout Town Com-
mittee of Hingham, 1939-43, Town of Hingham Shad and Alewife
Commission, 1941-47.

MEMBER OF: American Forestry Association; Society for Protection of New
Hampshire Forests, Grange of Hillsboro, N. H.; Coronary Club.

THE goads finally got me— regular “Pit and the Pendulum”
stuff. I took a block of paper into a vacant house I have for sale
(no telephone, no furniture, no food) and I told myself, “Now
you don’t go out of this house, Mort, you don’t eat, and you
don’t anything until you have writ your piece. And furthermore,
you don’t eat from the loaf, sip from the jug, nor look upon the

[ 988 ]

 

oe etme rime ena PAGE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

me the rest of the journey. For her I wish a trip on the Queen
this spring to Bermuda. And I hope my fifteen-year-old daughter
and my son, who will graduate from Yale this June, will be also
on the trip, Maybe I shall go too —I'd like to. And I hope all
my kids will get some happiness out of life, for that is all that
really counts. Come right down to it, instead of writing this
gol-darned autobiography, I would be happier sitting in front of
the fireplace in the farm in New Hampshire, where you can look
out the window most any morning and see the deer feeding in the
orchard. Perhaps I would be happier back in Hingham playing
Cribbage or Chess with some of the friends whom we left when
we moved away last year. But, never mind, I can look forward to
my Annual Spring Fishing Foursome which every year peregri-
nates to Maine, catches a few landlocked salmon and trout, plays
cards, and discourses on why the fish don’t bite better. And to
culminate this autopsy, or whatever it is, ] am looking forward to
a Twenty-fifth Reunion, be it a Ball, a Brawl, or a Dawn of a
Better Day!

WALTER JOSEPH SALMON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 270 Ocean Ave., Lawrence, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFIce appress: 11 W. 42d St., New York, N. Y.

Born: June 14, 1907, Dobbs Ferry, N. Y. PARENTS: Walter Joseph Salmon,
Elsie May Salmon.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

Maggiep: Virginia Tyler Peters, Dec. 6, 1930, Washington, D.C. (divorced
1941); Marie B. Cronin, Sept. 9, 1941, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Susan, Jan. 24, 1934; Nancy, May 18, 1935 (mm. Jay W. Gould, 3d, July
31, 1954). .

occupaTion: Real estate and insurance, breeder of thoroughbred race
horses; oil; liquor; restaurant.

orrices HEip: Executive vice-president, 500 Fifth Avenue, Inc., 11 West 42d
Street, Inc. Salmon Oil Corporation, Lafayette Oil Company, Kentucky
Farm & Cattle Company; president, Argus Brokerage, Inc.,; Lawrence
Association, 1954-55; member, Board of Ushers, Trinity Church, Hew-
lett, Long Island.

MeMBeR ov: Regency Club, Turf and Field Club, Saratoga Golf Club,
Thoroughbred Club of America; Harvard Club of Long Island.

ENTERED my father’s real estate business in 1930, which at that
time consisted principally of the ownership and management of

[990 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

skyscraper office buildings in New York City, and have been at
it ever since. I started in a lowly capacity in the purchasing
department, spent considerable time in the construction and
leasing departments, and thereafter was elected vice-president of
the various corporations, then with the advent and continuance
of the depression, I became involved in an executive capacity with
leasehold bond issues of astronomical proportions, reorganizations
and refinancing. In other words, I have been through a complete
cycle in the real estate business from the great depression to
100% occupancy.

Tried my “darndest” to get into the Navy, and was rejected
by the Army. As the business grew, we branched into many
different fields, such as operating a liquor store and restaurant,
insurance, breeding of race horses and cattle, and raising tobacco
and other crops in Kentucky, production and sale of low nicotine
cigarettes and cigars, wildcat oil wells and secondary oil recovery
in Kansas and Oklahoma; so that I am kept busy flying all over
the country to supervise our various activities.

My community activities have been varied but interesting.
Among them are president of the Lawrence Association, 1953-54,
chairman of the Community Chest for Lawrence, 1954-55, mem-
ber of the Schools and Scholarship Committee of Harvard;
member of the Fathers Committee of the Ethel Walker School in
Simsbury, Connecticut. I might add that of all my activities,
business and social, I have found the greatest thrill in the satis-
faction expressed by prospective candidates for admission to
Harvard College whom I have interviewed and helped.

I still get a little time to play golf and tennis and do a little
fishing.

My youngest daughter was recently married to Lt. Jay W.
Gould, 3d, who graduated from West Point in 1954, and my other
daughter graduated from Penn Hall, Junior College this past year.

NATHANIEL SAMUELS

HOME appress: 784 Park Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sulectra, Inc., 50 Broadway, New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1908, Chicago, Il. PARENTS: Maurice Samuels, Sarah Aleman.
PREPARED AT: Nicholas Senn High School, Chicago, Ill.

[991 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1930.

MaRRIED: Mary Elizabeth Hyman, May 10, 1952, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: President, Sulectra, Inc.; director, Societe Financiere de Trans-
ports et d’Entreprises Industrielles (Sofina).

orFices HELD: Director, Division of Industrial Resources, Mutual Security
Agency (Office of U.S. Special Representative in Europe), 1952-53,
U.S. Secretary, London Coal Committee of Combined Production and
Resources Board, 1945-46; member, U.S. Staff of European Coal Or-
ganization, 1945-46.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Council on Foreign Rela-
tions, Inc., New York.

puBLicaTions: “The European Coal Organization,” Foreign Affairs, 1948.

AS an objective historian of my past quarter of a century, I can
say quite categorically that society has made an unmistakable
impact on me, while I see no signs of having made any mark on it.

I had enrolled in the Law School prior to graduation from
Harvard, but was unable to return to Cambridge in the following
fall. Instead of waiting a year or enrolling in another school, I
“read” law in Chicago from 1931 to 1935. In order to become a
lawyer, I was required to pass an annual examination for three
successive years, given by the State Board of Law Examiners, and
to pass the bar examination at the end of the fourth year.

My first years of practice were not unlike the efforts of a
quarterback who, despite an unremitting pummeling and un-
counted bruises, continues to probe the opposing line for openings.
A five-yard gain now and then provides the encouragement by
which this effort is sustained. And one is deeply grateful to those
who run an occasional interference.

When war came, it was obvious that the efforts of an arduous
decade had simply petered out. Nevertheless, with a conscious in-
tellectual effort, one could regard the Army not as an interlude
in life, but as a stage in the unfolding of one’s private destiny. If
the Army narrows one’s existence, it can also provide the means
to stride over wider ranges of human experience, and touch them
more intimately, than would otherwise be possible.

London in the months before the Normandy landings, Paris at
the moment of its liberation, the Ruhr in defeat and debris, surely
altered the image of the world held in the eyes of all who shared
in these or similar episodes.

Not long after V-E Day, I was assigned to the London En-

[ 992 ]

 

|
i

sero

DS att areeyeit energie!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bassy to assist with a variety of problems, particularly Europe’s
acute coal crisis. This was a happy and rewarding experience.
With the spring of 1946 came the prospects of a return to civilian
life, and the hard decisions that accompany it.

An opportunity presented itself before I left the Army and the
Embassy to join an international business group which was en-
gaged in investment, public utility, and other industrial and en-
gineering enterprises in a number of countries in Europe and
Latin America, as well as in the United States. The organization
was the Societe Financiere de Transports et d’Entreprises Indus-
trielles (Sofina), a Belgian corporation with its head office in
Brussels, but whose chief during the past fifty years has been an
American from Charlotte, North Carolina. I am a director of this
company and president of Sulectra, Inc., an American affiliate.

Early in 1952 I took a leave of absence to serve the government
as a member of the staff of the Mutual Security Agency. I be-
came, first, a special adviser in the Office of the U.S. Special Rep-
resentative in Europe (Ambassador William H. Draper, Jr.), and
then director of the Division of Industrial Resources. This leave
extended for about fifteen months, at the end of which I returned
to my company. .

If I have not mentioned getting married, it is because this happy
event did not occur until 1952 and I did not want to get ahead of
my story. My wife, a Walnut Hill and Vassar girl, is a physician
(pediatrician) and is on the staff of Columbia-Presbyterian Medi-
cal Center, where she is engaged in clinical research. She has
managed an arrangement which permits her to work about three
days a week and also to go with me on extended trips, including
the year we lived in Paris while I was with the government.

I can honestly say that my job is much more interesting than
remunerative, although this still leaves my classmates in the dark
as to just how interesting it is. A business which touches a num-
ber of countries simultaneously has the advantage of absorbing one
in political and economic problems by necessity as well as choice.
Reading newspapers and periodical journals during office hours
might even be considered a duty.

This brings me to the present, and the only profound reflection
which I find it within me to pronounce is the borrowed one that
“the past is prologue.”

[993 J

$$

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

HALFORD BALLOU SANDERS

HOME apprEss: 906 S. St. Asaph St., Alexandria, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: McKinley High School, Second & T Sts. N.E., Washington,

D.C. -

BORN: Oct. 18, 1908, Lincoln, Nebr. pAReNts: Frederic William Sanders,
A.M., 92, Hattie Minerva Ballou.

PREPARED AT: Potsdam Normal High School, Potsdam, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B., 1930; A.M. (George Washington
Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Jean G. Martz, March 25, 1937, Rockville, Md.

occupation: Teacher of U.S. history, government and law.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D. C,

SHORTLY after graduation, I went to work for the C. & P.
Telephone Company of Washington, D. C. After a couple of
years, we both decided my future did not lie with the telephone
company. In the meantime I had started working for an A.M.
degree in education by attending evening classes at George Wash-
ington University. I received my degree in 1934 and was ap-
pointed teacher of social studies in the D, C. secondary schools in
1935. A year and a half later, I was assigned to McKinley High
School, where I am now teaching.

During World War II, I served in the headquarters battery of
an anti-aircraft outfit (230th Anti-Aircraft Artillery, S/1 Bat-
talion) with nearly two years’ service in the Pacific Ocean area,
participating in the invasions of Leyte and Okinawa. Discharged
December, 1945, with the rank of sergeant.

+ JUDSON CHURCHILL KENT SANDERS

BORN: Jan. 5, 1907, Reading, Pa. parENTs: Judson Churchill Sanders, Laura

Evelyn Hill.
PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Thayer Academy, South

Braintree, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31).
MARRIED: CHILD: One.
piep: Dec. 4, 1932, London, England.
IN college, Sanders was holder of the Price Greenleaf, Browne,
and Bowditch Scholarships. After graduating he taught science
at the Belmont Hill School for two years. In September, 1932, he

[994 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

enrolled in the London Schoo! of Economics in London, En:
His wife and child survived him.

PHILIP HECKERT SANDERS

HOME ADDRESS: 1127 E. Wayne St, South Bend, Ind.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Sobenite Plastics, Inc., South Bend, Ind.

BoRN: July 17, 1907, Goshen, Ind. parents: Harry M. Sanders, .
Heckert.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MarrigpD: Elise Gordon Brown, Sept. 14, 1935, Natchez, Miss. cuitp
Philip Heckert, Jr., June 15, 1938; Brown L., March 15, 1943.

OCCUPATION: President and general manager, Sobenite Plastics, Inc.

GEORGE WINTHROP SANDS

HOME ADprEss: R.F.D., Danbury, N. H.

BORN: June 13, 1908, Paris, France. parents: George Winthrop Sands, ’
Tayo Newton.

PREPARED aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: $.B., 1930(31); M.D. (New York Unin
Coll. of Medicine), 1943.
MarRiep: Anne Aldridge Gibson, June 21, 1930, Leesburg, Va. (divorce

1950); Carolyn L. Hall, Aug. 19, 1950. cHipren: Winthrop Mills
June 20, 1936; Michael Winthrop, Nov. 17, 1951; Jonathan Stevens
June 4, 1953- .

occurPATION: Doctor: internist with Mary Hirchceck Clinic, Hanover,
N. H., and Dartmouth Health Service.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; New York Academy
of Science; New Hampshire Medical Society.

MARRIED Anne Gibson of Leesburg in June of 1930, and we

had one son, Winthrop Mills Sands, now sixteen. Did some time

at the Business School but then went on to assistant cashier,

Plainfield (N. J.) Trust Company. After that, formed my own

investment brokerage house, Sands-Reynolds, and was finally

scheduled to go abroad as Paris representative for S. Henry

Schroeder. War came along, putting an end to those plans. I

decided to go to New York University Medical School, gradu-

ated in 1944, and went into the Army Medical Corps, a first

[995 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

lieutenant and then a captain. I was Regimental Surgeon for the
359th Engineers, stationed in France and Belgium, the outfit that
built the pipelines for Patton in the E.T.O, Was discharged in
1946.

After my discharge in 1946, I took a residency at Goldwater
Memorial Hospital in New York City and worked there for
several years in internal medicine and research.

Divorced in June, 1950, and married Carolyn Hall in August,
1950. We decided city life was not for us and are now more than
contented in an old Cape Codder in Wilmot, New Hampshire,
forty miles from Hanover, and eighty miles from Boston.

We have two country-bred sons: Michael, three, Jonathan,
one-and-a-half. We spent a long leisurely time settling in, spent
six months in Europe with the babies having a wonderful — if
freezing — time.

Am now attached to the Mary Hitchcock Clinic in Hanover,
doing internal medicine and part-time physician to Dartmouth.
Find the whole setup fascinating and really couldn’t ask for a
better life. We also have a house on Chappaquiddick, off Island
of Edgartown, Massachusetts, and spend part or all of our sum-
mers there with trouble deciding which or where we like best.

We have populated the winter home territory, which lies on
the side of Ragged Mountain, with numerous sheep, goats, Angus
heifer and Labrador Retriever. Always up to our eyes in projects
and plans, building or otherwise. We're in the heart of the ski
country and would love to have 1930’ers drop in.

NELSON ROBERT SAPHIR

HOME ADDRESS: 921 E. Squantum St., Squantum, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 67 Coddington St., Quincy, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 2, 1910, Boston, Mass. pARENTs: Manuel Saphir, Etta Channen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D. (Washington Univ.),
1936.

Marrigp: Grace Elizabeth McIntire, June 22, 1941, Boston, Mass.

occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical instructor in medicine, Tufts Medical School; mem-
ber, active staff, Quincy City Hospital, associate staff, New England Cen-
ter Hospital, courtesy staff, Massachusetts Memorial Hospital, Booth

[ 996]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Memorial Hospital, New England Hospital; assistant physician, Boston
Dispensary; junior visiting physician, Long Island Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Norfolk South District Medical Society; Massachusetts Medi-
cal Society; American Medical Society; Alpha Omega Alpha; Phi Delta
Epsilon Graduate Club; Knights of Pythias.

THIS is Monday morning, December 27, 1954, and since my
students are on vacation, I have a few moments in which to try
to summarize my life since graduating. If I do not do this soon,
my wife will probably divorce me since she has reminded me
constantly after each of John Cross’s notices.

I remained at Harvard for two years as a special student, taking
further courses in preparation for medical school. I then left
Boston for the Midwest and four delightful years at Washington
University Medical School in St. Louis, from which I graduated
in June, 1936. I remained in St. Louis two more years as an
intern and assistant resident in medicine at Barnes Hospital. ]
came back to Boston to spend two years as resident in medicine
at the Pratt Diagnostic Hospital. Then bravely I ventured forth
into private practice of internal medicine. Fortunately, at this
time there were a few clinic jobs which paid some money because
practice certainly moved slowly. Despite this, after one year, I
married on June 22, 1941. We moved to Squantum, a section of
Quincy, Massachusetts.

However, our stay there was rather brief because in August,
1942, I enlisted in the Army as a captain in the Medical Corps. A
year was spent in this country, mainly in Alabama, and then I was
off to the European theatre, where I stayed for two and a half
years. This was split between England, Wales, and after VE Day
on to the Continent, and finally into Germany .with the Army of
Occupation. By this time I was a heutenant colonel and in charge
of a large medical service in a 750-bed station hospital. My final
station was in Berlin, from which I returned to this country in
1946 to try to resume the rigors of practice again in Boston.

However, at the same time I opened a small office in Squantum
and was shuffling back and forth between both of them. Never-
theless, I managed to squeeze in enough time to take my examina-
tions so that I could become certified as a specialist in internal
medicine. Also, some time was devoted to the medical clinic of
the Veterans Administration. As my Squantum practice in-

[997]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

creased, it became more and more difficult to keep running back
and forth; and so, in 1953, I closed my Boston office and opened
in Quincy in a professional building where I have stayed until
the present time.

My life in general has been on the quiet side. Unfortunately,
we have no children. I tend to be conservative both in my activi-
ties and my politics. Like many doctors, I get too wrapped up
in the practice of my profession to have many outside activities.
Despite this, my life has been a full on@ and a happy one. I am
sure that much of the credit for this should go to my wife. In
retrospect, I am certainly glad of my choice of profession. It
seems hard for me to believe that I could be doing anything else,
despite the anxiety so often present when a patient is seriously
ill. There are so many other compensations which more than
balance this. There is nothing in this entire world that can give
me as much pleasure and satisfaction as the smile of the patient
whom I have helped through a serious illness. I hope to have the
opportunity to keep on doing this for many more years.

HERBERT ARAKEL SARKISIAN

HOME AporEss: 249 Main St., Bridgewater, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Spring St., Bridgewater, Mass.
BorN: Aug. 23, 1910, Bridgewater, Mass, parents: Arakel H. Sarkisian,

Maritza Fereshetian.

PREPARED AT: Bridgewater High School, Bridgewater, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926~1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

marnigp: D. Harriette Siranosian, Dec. 5, 1937, Bridgewater, Mass. CHILDREN:
Herbert Arakel, Jr, Dec. 24, 1939; William Russell, May 20, 1943 (de-
ceased June 8, 1943); Mary-Joy Ann, May 9, 1947.

HARVARD BroTHeR: S. Albert Sarkisian, M.D., 736, D.M.D., 40.

occupation: Retail grocer.

GREETINGS from Bridgewater, Massachusetts, where I was
born, reared, “raised,” partly educated, married and probably will
die.

I returned to Bridgewater two years after graduating and con-
tinued where I had Jeft off. In 1937 I married a high school class-
mate. We live a typical small town life with our two children
and an unpredictable Great Dane. To the few I know and the

[ 998 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

PREPARED AT: The Milne-School, Albany, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

marriep: Maxine Flanders, May 30, 1931, Albany, N. Y. (divorced 1946);
Doris Trussell, Nov. 23, 1947, Chicago, Ill, cutLpRen: Nasa Marie, Jan,
16, 1933 (mm. Jack F. Nigh, April 4, 1952, Stevenson, Wash.); Laura
Lynne, Feb. 8, 1950; David Mark, Dec. 25, 1953. GRANDCHILD: Patricia
Ann Nigh, Dec. 8, 1952.

occuPaTioN: Training director, director of public relations for Tractor
Training Service; consulting editor.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, training director, Tractor Training Service,
Portland, Oregon, Sydney, Australia, Chicago, Illinois, Toronto, Canada,
vice-chairman, Tractor Activities, Oregon Section, Society of Automo-
tive Engineers, Inc., 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc.; honorary member,
The Sydney Game Fishing Club.

pusLications: Edited “Tractor and Equipment Training for Tractor Train-
ing Service,” 1939-41; wrote and edited “Shop Notes” for /mplement
Record and other trade journals in the U. S. and Canada, 1947-49;
course in “Individual Income Tax Law,” 1948-49; edited third edition,
Tractor and Equipment Training, 1954. (My course in individual in-
come tax law included tax accounting.)

THERE never seems to be time enough. You turn around three
times and suddenly someone is writing letters asking why in
hell you don’t get started on your life. With no Ralph Edwards
to do the job, you have to do it yourself; but every time you put
a sheet of paper on the typewriter, you’re interrupted. That night
there’s work to do at home, and Laura has to have her nightly
story, and David Mark entertains with his attempts to walk.

It would be impossible to cover in a few pages the kaleidoscope
of the past twenty-five years. I remember many things. ] remem-
ber that the only real thrill in life is the birth of a child. I
remember my father the last time I ever saw him, waving from his
home on the Schenectady Road as the train went by taking me to
Chicago and Oregon. That was in May, 1938. He died the next

ear.
* I decided to go West one night in January, 1938, when the
temperature in Albany, New York, went down from 34 above to
20 below. The little home in the West wasn’t easy to build. I
teamed up with a correspondence school in Portland in 1939 and
checked out three years later to join the Army. A bout with
atypical pneumonia delayed that for a year, which I spent in the
Internal Revenue Service as a ficld deputy collector, finally

[ 1000 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

volunteering for the Infantry on the second anniversary of
Pearl Harbor.

The pneumonia didn’t leave me in the best condition for Army
life, but I sweated it out for two years and, after my discharge,
I went back to the Treasury Department to investigate income
tax fraud. In July, 1947, after completing some important tax
cases, I left the department to go to Los Angeles as a free-lance
technical writer and to write a course on Federal Income Tax
Law. Tractor Training Service came back into the picture with
a request to organize and establish an office in Chicago; so I took
three months off to do the job and acquired a new wife in the
doing. The Chicago job finished, we went back to California,
moving to Florida in 1948. A year and a half of technical writing,
publishing the tax course, and income tax work turned out to be
too much work for one man on limited capital. The next move
was to Arlington, Washington, for a year of aeronautical training
under the G.I. Bill, followed by six months of teaching aero-
nautics.

Then we tried California again, but briefly. Tractor Training
Service asked me to come back and head up the instruction depart-
ment for the entire organization, which at that time included
offices in Portland, Chicago, and Toronto. I direct the technical
training of maintenance personnel for the tractor, Diesel, and
heavy equipment industry; I edit training manuals and all tech-
nical material used in our Tractor and Equipment ‘Training
program; I direct the work of the public relations department,
including preparation and release of all literature and commercial
motion pictures; and I act as consulting editor for the industry.

That was in May, 1951. Within two years a planned expansion
program culminated in the opening of a branch in Sydney, Aus-
tralia. I flew down with one of our representatives, and in three
months the branch was operating well enough under its own
power for me to come home. In the meantime, with David Mark
on the way, my wife supervised the construction of a new home.
Except for an occasional trip to Chicago and Toronto, I think
we shall stay rooted for a while.

My principal hobbies include photography, which my wife
shares, travel, and furniture designing. I carry a Minox [I with
me all the time and I’ve accumulated hundreds of negatives of

[ 1001 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

places and people half-way around the world. Some day I'll find
time to lock the darkroom door and print them.

Three things I won't talk about: society, religion, and politics,
Whatever opinions I have about these things, I hold in an open
mind. I am utterly without prejudice.

My life has settled down to a fairly even tempo, yet it is never
dull. My work is infinitely interesting and a constant challenge.
When I retire to the Island, I expect to look back on a hard job
well done. The Island is in the Ten Thousand Islands group off
the coast of Florida in the Gulf of Mexico. I have named it
Coconutopia. There I can pursue the horizon without travelling
all over the world and admire my trophies: Australian boomerangs,
an emu eggshell, hippopotamus teeth that weigh nine pounds, a
zebra skin, the skin of a twelve-foot python, the skin of a serval
cat, ivory and ebony carvings, and who knows what the years to
come will add!

My grand-daughter is two years old today, but somehow |
don’t feel a day older than when I left Cambridge in 1929. When
you have your second daughter at forty-one and your first son
at forty-five, how can you watch a calendar?

ELMER FREDERICK SAWYER

HOME ADDRESS: 45 Stockton St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Filene’s, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

BORN: June 5, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: George James Sawyer, Alice F.
Forrest.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

UNMARRIED.

occupATION: Manager, William Filene’s Sons Company, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: President, Chestnut Hill Business Association, since 1954.

MEMBER OF; Kiwanis.

AFTER Harvard, I crossed the river to Harvard Business School
from which I was graduated in 1932 with an M.B.A. Earned my
tuition “bell-hopping”in a White Mountain (N. H.) hotel in the
summer and working part-time in a Boston department store in
the winter.

In September of 1932 I joined William Filene’s Sons Company,

[ 1002 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

EDWARD SCHNEIDER

HOME ADDRESS: 182 Cotton St., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE aboREss: Schneider, Bronstein & Shapiro, 85 Devonshire St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: May 4, 1909, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: Joseph Schneider, Ida Lipson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; LL.B., 1933.

marrieD: Lillian Feldman, Oct. 21, 1934, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Philip
Craig, July 25, 1939; Malcolm Robert, April 1, 1942.

occupation: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Boston, Massachusetts, and American Bar Association; Ameri-
can Arbitration Association.

AFTER spending three years at Harvard Law School and passing
the Massachusetts Bar, there came the urgent necessity of be-
coming self-supporting at long last. It being 1933 and no one
around Boston clamoring for my services, I decided to invade
Washington and give the New Deal a lift. Joe Corwin of our
Class and I had the unique experience of tossing a coin to see
which one would take a job in the Department of Justice in
Washington where the head of the Anti-Trust Division said he
had one opening and either one of us could have it. Joe won the
toss and took the job. I landed a job with the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation and spent the next three and one-half years
working on multi-million dollar loans to banks, mortgage loan
companies, insurance companies, and other financial institutions.

At the end of that time the discrepancy between what I was
handing out for Uncle Sam and what Uncle Sam was handing me
for myself became too great. This discrepancy was aggravated
by the fact that I had married at the end of my first year with
the government and found it was not true that two could live as
cheaply as one. As a result, I left the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation in April, 1937, and took a position in Boston with
the National Labor Relations Board as regional attorney for the
New England region.

My four years as regional attorney for the National Labor
Relations Board in the New England States proved to be most
happy and interesting years. The National Labor Relations Act
had been declared constitutional just before I went with the
Labor Board and business with the Board really boomed. I stayed

[ 1004 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the National Labor Relations Board approximately four
years, during which period I tried cases for the Board in the New
England States and elsewhere, supervised the legal work of the
region, and in a general way was a part of the New England labor
scene.

In July, 1941, the lure of private practice proved irresistible
and I took the plunge, forming a partnership to specialize in
labor law and labor relations. The timing of the move proved to
be very good — more luck than brains — and the firm has grown
and prospered over the years. During the war years much of my
time and attention was devoted to the labor relations of Electric
Boat in Connecticut, which was building submarines for the
United States Navy and which 1s now building atomic submarines.

In addition to my wife and dog (my wife says I usually reverse
the order), two boys make up the family. One boy is attending
high school, one is attending junior high school, and I am
presently trying to make them understand that you don’t judge a
college by its football team.

OTTO EUGENE SCHOEN-RENE

HOME ApDpREsSS: 81 St. Clair St., Geneva, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: Hobart & William Smith Colleges, Geneva, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 23, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Otto Karl von Schon,
Karoline Friederike Breitendder.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B, su7ama cum laude, 1930; A.M.
1938; PH.D., 1942.

MARRIED: Mary Louise McMahon, Aug. 29, 1936 (died Sept. 2, 1953).
CHILDREN: Ernst William, Oct. 13, 1937; Juliet Anne, Dec. 24, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Educator.

OFFIcEs HELD: Chairman, Ontario County Liberal Party, since 1950; past presi-
dent, Phi Beta Kappa, Zeta of New York; vestryman in charge of Chris-
tian Education, 1953-56, Bishop’s Key Man, since 1954, Trinity Episcopal
Church, Geneva, N. Y.

MEMBER oF: M.L.A.; NCTE; American Association of University Professors;
P.B.K.; Harvard Advocate; Signet; Geneva University Club; Adirondak
Lo}; Rushville Historical Society.

I BROUGHT real jazz, good movies, and American slang to
Cambridge, England, as Lionel de Jersey Harvard Scholar in
1930-31. I was sporadically employed from the fall of 1931 until

[ 1005 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the fall of 1934, usually in jobs constructed for me. In 1934,
through the kind offices of Robert Hillyer, I became an instructor
in freshman English, and began my career as a teacher. I later
became a tutor at Eliot House, and sometime in 1935-36 began
graduate study. In February, 1936, I met Molly. We were mar-
ried in 1936 and were granted seventeen years of completely
happy married life.

In 1940-41 I worked as Hyder Rollins’ research assistant in the

preparation of his Shakespeare’s Sonnets. In 1941 I re-entered the
English Department. In 1942-43, since I was not drafted and did
not succeed in getting a commission, I took a refresher course in
physics. As a result, the then provost struck my name from the
English Department budget and I began teaching physics under
Ted Kemble in July, 1943. In the fall of 1944, I met Jack Potter
at an Eliot House dinner (he had been my instructor in English
28). He tentatively offered me a position at Hobart and William
Smith Colleges, of which he was president. Due to strange cir-
cumstances, the position materialized and I began my duties as
head of the English Department and professor of English and
Comparative literature on March 1, 1945. I have been at Hobart
since. I was instrumental in establishing here, firmly I hope, our
courses in common education which, I believe, are still the best
courses in so-called “general education” in the country. I am
Horace White Professor of Rhetoric and Elocution, head of the
English Department, director of freshman English, director of his-
tory and literature C (the modern period in our common educa-
tion course). ;

Jack Potter died suddenly. After an interval, Alan Willard
Brown, our classmate, became president. Under him the curricu-
lum has flourished and the plant has been greatly improved.

Meanwhile, my children were growing up, work continued to
pile in, and our contentment (except financially) grew. Then in
March, 1953, my wife became ill. 1 gathered later that she was as
good as dead when she called on the doctor on the 4th of March.
From then on, doctors, hospitals, nurses. And through it all, the
one person of indomitable courage was Molly. Her death, as a
clergyman friend of mine remarked, was truly heroic. If anyone
called in depressed spirits, a short visit with Molly revived him.

[ 1006 J



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

marrizD: Rosalind Greenberg, Oct. 14, 1931, New York, N. Y. crtto: Leni,
Nov. 18, 1936.
occupation: Hotel management.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

DONALD SCOTT, JR.

HOME AppREssS: Merion Square Road, Gladwyne, Pa.

OFFICE Appress: University of Pennsylvania Medical School, Philadelphia 4,
Pa.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1909, Oyster Bay, N. Y. parents: Donald Scott, ’oo, Mary
Channing Eustis.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: S.B., 1930; PH.D. (Univ. of London),
1939.

MarrieD: Nanette Mary Wise, June 21, 1934, Dorset, England (divorced
1953); Margaret J. Dilworth, Dec. 23, 1953, Pennsylvania. cum:
Donald, 3d, Jan. 1, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Douglas Channing Scott, ’35.

occupaTION: Research scientist; assistant professor.

MEMBER OF: Physiological Society, England; American Physiological So-
ciety; Sigma Xi; Philadelphia City Policy Committee.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific papers and several contributions to books; a chapter,
“Regeneration of Spinal Cord Neurons,” in a monograph on Regenera-
tion of Central Nervous System Neurons.

AT the time of College graduation, I felt quite certain that I was
primarily interested in scientific research in the field of physics,
which had been my field of concentration as an undergraduate.
These thoughts were rapidly modified during my first post-
graduate years, which I spent at the California Institute of Tech-
nology, upon finding that research physics was then, in a large
measure, a branch of mathematics. Through the guidance of
Professor T. H. Morgan, 1 decided to modify my over-all plans
and to branch out into the field of biophysics, which was just
getting started at that time, so I returned to Harvard for graduate
work in biology in 1932. This naturally led to further studies in
the biologic ficld, as I became more and more interested in the
underlying mechanism of various physiological functions, par-
ticularly those associated with nerve activity. To further train
myself in this ficld, I was fortunate in finding a welcome in the

[ 1008 J

 

: o Paprrere se nener era? ~



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

1953, 1 married Margaret Dilworth, who was a graduate of the
University of Pennsylvania Medical School. Besides being a clini-
cian, my wife has a great interest in neurophysiological problems
and has had considerable laboratory experience, so we share an
active interest in our scientific work, By making alterations to
the house and great changes in the landscaping surrounding us,
we are busy adapting the “house I have lived in since coming to
Philadelphia to our new life together.

Since many members of my family (both past and present)
have been associated with ships and the sea, I naturally inherited
this interest and have always had a keen interest in sailing boats,
both racing and cruising. For twenty-three years our ketch,
Nancy Lee, has been active in the summer months. While sailing
mostly in New England waters, she has carried us as far to the
East as Nova Scotia and as far to the South as Cape Charles,
Virginia. This year she is being retired in favor of a new Rhodes
designed yaw] being built in Holland, which we will put in com-
mission in Annapolis. Besides travelling and cruising, my chief
recreational interests center in the shop and dark room at home
and in improving our high fidelity reproducing system.

One of the rewards of my travels abroad has been the oppor-
tunity to sponsor a remarkable family of six who wished to enter
this country from Hungary, and who are now new citizens of
the United States. I also have been able to become closely
acquainted with several foreign students in the university and was
especially glad to be able to help in training a young student from
Rhodesia for a medical career.

I feel unusually fortunate in approaching my Twenty-fifth
Reunion in not only having a son of whom I am very proud, who
is now in college, but also having had an extremely rewarding
experience in the laboratory. Looking ahead, I now face a new
life with a future full of promise at home, in the laboratory, and
on our boat, as well as in many other activities.

[ 1010 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

CESAR AUGUSTO SERRANO

LAST KNOWN apprEss: Carrera 9 #19-40, Bogota, Colombia.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1906, Bogota, Colombia. PARENTS: Jose Joaquin Serrano,
Augustina Castro.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

SERRANO has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1953.

OSCAR RICARDO SERRANO

LAST KNOWN ApprESS: 56 Calle 15, Bogota, Colombia.

BoRN: Feb. 4, 1907, Bogota, Colombia. parents: Jose Joaquin Serrano,
Augustina Castro.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

SERRANO has been carried as a “Jost”? man on our records.

ROLAND HALL SHARP

HOME ApprEss: 41 E. 6oth St., New York 22, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 511 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BorN: April 13, 1902, Pomona, Calif. parents: Kales Cook Sharp, Lillian
Hall,

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic and Los Angeles High Schools, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930; Lic. és
Sc. Pol. (Univ. of Geneva), 1933; Dr. és Sc. Pol. (ibid.), 1934.

MarrigD: Elizabeth Guy, March 1, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced 1948);

Marianne Lundberg, Aug. 11, 1951, Woodstock, Vt. cuitp: Jan Wings,
Oct, 23, 1952.

occuPaTIoN: Christian Science practitioner; book author.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, 1945-46;
various church offices.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Lambda Chi Alpha.

PUBLICATIONS: Doctoral thesis, Nonrecognition as a Legal Obligation, 1775-
1934, Liege, Belgium, 1934; news correspondence for The Christian
Science Monitor, South America Uncensored, 1945; editor and con-
tributing to The Story of Christian Science Wartime Activities, 1939-
46, On Wings of the Word, The Bible Story Throughout the World,
Duell, Sloan and Pearce, with Little, Brown & Company, 1955.

JOHN CROSS jogged me to burst into autobiography or I
wouldn’t have believed Commencement lies twenty-five yeals

[ 1014 ]

“EAS eC ARERR net eM EEE PR PTAA eee Ye

i
3
‘
‘

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

behind. Enter me in the Class chronicles as among the young in
heart. Life is still a quest, a canvas hardly sketched in, a beckoning
frontier of immeasurable possibilities. My first quarter-century
out of the Yard has been active enough, yet I feel it is only a
prelude to service. A man cannot give largely until he has grown
to it.

Journalism, travel, lecturing, writing of books, photography,
and some radio broadcasting tell part of the career story. This
led on to the public practice of Christian Science healing.

One pattern runs through the years. When I received my first
Bible in boyhood from my mother, she had written on its title
page: “A Lamp for Your Feet.” So it has been. Every day the
Bible means more to me. I have just completed a journey of
144,000 miles to ninety-six countries during two years to write
a book about what the Bible is doing for our world. Often en
route I mentioned to others how the Bible as literature was one
of the most popular lecture themes in Professor Lowes’ course.
My growing interest in the Bible explains why my quest has only
begun. Measured against the values in that Book, what is a quarter
of a century?

It was my good fortune to be taken on the staff of The Chris-
tian Science Monitor just before graduation. They sent me on
assignments in the United States during the first two years. Then,
on my own, I set up a trip to Geneva that pleased the editors. I
had a grand first trip to Europe and wrote feature articles at the
time of the Disarmament Conference. This experience whetted
my appetite for international relations. The autumn of 1932
found me enrolled at the University of Geneva and the Graduate
Institute of International Studies. By following a schedule of
study that resembled a railway timetable in the Grand Central
rush hours, I finished my doctorate in two years while keeping
up a part-time stint of correspondence for the Monitor.

The summer of 1933 between those Geneva terms took me
around the world, writing and studying. I got into China, Man-
churia to the borders of Siberia, Korea, Japan, India, and way
stations, briefly.

Returning to Boston in the summer of 1934, I went into the
Foreign Department. Various assignments led on to a specialized
field, Latin America. Between 1937 and 1944 I made eight trips

[ rors ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

down that way, and came to feel as much at home in Bogota or
Buenos Aires as in Boston. I went into the interior, sampled the
deep Amazon Basin, crossed the Andes many times, and sailed
in the Strait of Magellan.

So much for news reporting. My religious writings on Chris.
tian Science topics began in 1929. As the result of an article
published by The Christian Science Journal in 1935 I received
my first call to help a stranger. In 1941 I became a registered
practitioner, but remained on the Monitor staff. By 1945 a choice
had to be made between the two. I chose the practice, stopped
travelling, and settled down in Boston for seven happy year.
There is no satisfaction I have found equal to seeing someone
healed, physically, morally, or spiritually, through the Word of
God. In my practice, as in that of all registered practitioners,
there are authenticated testimonies by patients freed from many
ailments. One young Tech student was healed overnight of acute
appendicitis. He was at Massachusetts General Hospital, ready _
to enter the operating room. His mother telephoned from Florida -
to a friend of mine, he asked me to go over in a hurry, the boy ~
decided to leave the hospital and was spared the medical expen- -
ence with better results. Others have quickly been healed of
rheumatic fever, weeping eczema, yellow jaundice, and so on

While I occupied myself with these private pursuits, world
affairs were put aside. The fall of China brought my thinking
back with a jolt. From then on, I watched more carefully and
by 1951 had reached a decision to do something, however small
about the dangerous drift of our times. So germinated the idea
of my world Bible mission. Pan American World Airways liked -
the plan and sponsored it. The Christian Science Monitor pub- :
lished the story in fifty-two articles. My resulting book, 01 .
Wings of the Word, has just been put through final stages of
printer’s proofs.

As I write this sketch, I am back home in New York, resuming :
practice, and keeping up with world affairs. :

Through the years my main recreation has been in the out-of |
doors. Skiing, camping, canoeing, some tennis, ice-skating, a |
still with me, but not enough. Any kind of design or craftsma- |

ship has been a lifetime hobby. In recent years I have ventured ;
into the ancient and magnificent game of chess. ;
[ 1016 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

OFFICES HELD: President, cattle ranch corporation, Thomasville Consolidated
School Board, 1948-54, Oregon County Livestock Producers Associa-
tion, 1950-54.

BASICALLY, I have not changed sufficiently since I left Har-
vard. Life is still rather fun and it is still impossible for me to
take myself very seriously. If there has ever been any pattern to
my life, it has been of the old firehorse variety. After two years
at Harvard trying to cram a lifetime of studying into short but
rigorous all-night sessions before exams, I began an apprentice-
ship in Burnham Brothers architectural plant in Chicago, where
to my amazement the all-night cram sessions seemed to be a
regular pattern, as I was attending night school at the same time.
From there, a sojourn at the Yale Architectural School (of all
things) left me in the same boat, only here a name was given to
those cram sessions. This was “charette” (wheelbarrow) in
French, derived from the habit of Beaux Arts students of having
another student wheel their paintings or drawings through the
streets to the judging place while the artist madly applied finish-
ing touches.

So from there I charetted through the design and drafting room
of the World’s Fair, where everything was in a mad rush. My
most important feat there was to design the Greyhound bus
stations, the soft drink and hot-dog stands, and the men’s and
women’s rest rooms — a nice sequence of events. Shortly after-
wards in August, 1933, I acquired a half interest in my present
business (cattle ranching in Ozark section of Missouri), and later
secured the balance of the stock. After three years I had to spend
the better part of my time operating a real estate development
business, which was supervision and paper work by day and
drawing plans at night. Still the old charette! Then four years
of Army charette as executive officer in the Air Force Guided
Missiles program, technical aide to three Wright Field com-
manding generals, deputy to another, and finally Italy, Trinidad,
and home. I moved to the ranch for good.

The two boys are now at Milton and I hope, later, Harvard.
Recipe for staying young: buy a wheelbarrow and you won't
have time to grow old.

[ 1018 ]

a att Ae fA Piet ohana SM Forte yt wey wee,



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

GENERAL: Consultant and psychiatric social worker, Chil-
dren’s Center of the Children’s Fund of Michigan, Detroit, 1934-
41; psychologist and psychiatric social worker, Medical Depart-
ment, Army of the United States (eighteen months in overseas
hospital), 1943-45.

RESEARCH: Survey of Social Agencies for the Children’s
Fund of Michigan, 1939-40; director of research, Counselling
Center for the Gifted, New York University (Harvey Zorbaugh,
director of the Center), 1946-49; consultant, Pasadena School
Survey, Pasadena, Calif., 1951; director, Chronic Illness Facilities
Study, for Welfare Council of Metropolitan Los Angeles, 1952;
chairman, Research Committee, Los Angeles County Conference
on Human Relations, 1953-54; research consultant, Whittier Cen-
ter for Adult Education, Ford Foundation, Whittier College,
Whittier, Calif., since 1954; director, Laboratory in Urban Cul-

ture, Occidental College, since 1952.

EDWARD MINOT SHELTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 374 Wenham Rd., Pasadena ro, Calif. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: Transcontinental Bus System, Inc., 601 S. Main St., Los
Angeles 14, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 24, 1908, Burlington, Iowa. PARENTs: Edward Minot Shelton,
Annie Mae Jones.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930(31).

MarRiED: Helen Rose Marie Caba, July 2, 1945, San Francisco, Calif.
CHILDREN: Edward Minot Shelton, Jr., Sept. 29, 1946; Charles Vaith,
Nov. 28, 1947; Anthony Minot, Aug. 12, 1949.

occupation; District passenger agent, bus transportation.

OFFICES HELD: Supervisor, Civil Defense; member, ‘Sransporsation Committee,
San Diego Chamber of Commerce.

AFTER graduation from Harvard College at mid-years, I spent
the time until the following fall in travelling by plane, train, auto,
and mule in Mexico; also in the Apache and Navajo Indian Res-
ervations of Arizona and New Mexico, with time out for con-
siderable pick and shovel work in connection with North
American archaeology, in which I still retain my interest at this
late date.

I tackled Harvard Law School, came a-cropper in two of the

[ 1020 |



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Commerce in my district, giving luncheon talks, showing films
and so on. Even have been on radio, but have so far been spared
from TV. I find the problems facing the various communities in
my territory endlessly fascinating: how to attract industries, how
to get the water which is absolutely necessary for the survival of
the southern San Joaquin Valley in California, for the whole of
southern California and for so much of Arizona, where this ac-
count is being written. I am away from home about a third of
the time and what “leisure” I have while in Pasadena is occupied
in working in the yard, building tree houses and such for three
very active boys, visiting aquariums, zoos, observatories, and what
have you in their company. As I suppose all parents do, I con-
tinually marvel at how dissimilar three boys can be who have been
exposed to the same environment and are so close in age. As]
look back, I realize how fortunate I have been in my wife, health,
and associates, above all in my wife.

As to my religious convictions, I must confess that I have none,
and this lack cannot be attributed to Harvard! Only the effects
of one’s deeds live after one and I have never been able to con-
ceive of a hereafter of any description. Needless to say, I don't
get far in such arguments with my Catholic wife!

As for political convictions, I need only say that I voted for
Hoover and never regretted it. Speaking by and large, the great-
est monument that the Roosevelt and Truman administrations
have left is a generation of Americans who believe that the world
owes them a living. It is an enormously difficult job to educate
a nation to cease looking to the government for the answer to
every problem which arises, to weed out the bureaucrats who are
“just going along for the ride,” without making government serv-
ice unattractive to able men in civilian life; but I believe the
present regime is doing as well as could be expected, especially
a gentleman by the name of Benson, who seems to be putting
some backbone into the farmers.

In closing, I might mention that I cannot understand why any-
one from choice would live anywhere but in California. So |
guess it only takes fourteen years to make a Native Son!

[ 1022 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ferred to a research group in the Bromine Division. Late in 1933
construction was started on the Ethyl-Dow plant at Wilmineto, ~
North Carolina, the first plant ever to commercially recover
bromine from seawater. I was moved there temporarily as one

of the technical supervisors for the construction and initial oper-

ation. The assignment turned out to be more than temporary,
for I stayed in Wilmington. In 1934 I was placed in charge of
manufacturing with a title of assistant plant manager. In 193;
the original plant manager was transferred and I inherited his
job and title.

That same year I married Mary Graham, the daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. Benjamin R. Graham of Wilmington. No “damyankee”

ever won a finer prize. We established a home, first at Kure
Beach, and later at Wilmington. We had two daughters: Edith -

Graham, born in 1938, and Mary Monroe, born in 1940. We
enjoyed many friends, most of whom ultimately dropped the
first syllable of the label and merely called me “Yankee.” We were
members of St. James Episcopal Church, the Carolina Yacht Club,
the Cape Fear Country Club, and the L’Ariosa German Club. |
was active in Rotary, the Chamber of Commerce, and the Port
Commission.

In July, 1941, I was transferred to the Texas Division of the
Dow Chemical Company at Freeport, Texas. There I became
assistant manager in charge of production of the new Dow plants
for producing magnesium, chlorine, caustic, chlorinated solvents,
and glycols from the seawater, salt, sulphur, gas, oil, and oyster
shells provided by that section of ‘Texas.

Then came December 7, 1941, and Pearl Harbor. The demand
for magnesium for defense required the immediate construction
of new plants across the country. One of these plants was started
at Velasco, Texas, only a few miles from Freeport, just twenty-
two days after Pearl Harbor. It was to be the Dow Magnesium
Corporation, a $60,000,000 plant for 72,000,000 pounds of mag-
hesium per year. The plant started making magnesium on June
26, 1942, and operated at or above the rated capacity for the
duration of the war. It was my good fortune to be connected
with the design of that plant and serve as its Assistant General
Manager in Charge of Magnesium Production from its inception
until 1944.

[ 1024 1

ee al » ad

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In November, 1944, I was transfered back to the Dow Chemical
Company, this time as the director of technical research for the
Texas Division, which position I now hold. The departments
in my research and development group include chemical engineer-
ing, electrochemical engineering, agricultural chemicals, central
laboratories, geological, and industrial geography. The work is
fascinating, and research facilities are among the finest. They
include a two and a half million dollar research center built only
a year ago.

We live near a little lake eight miles from the Research Center,
and two miles from a model town, Lake Jackson. The area in
and around Lake Jackson was once a large sugar cane plantation.
The Dow Company purchased the plantation and used part of it
for a beautiful town attractively planned by Alden Dow, the
architect son of the founder, Part was used for country homes,
such as we have, and the rest was made available for agricultural
experimentation. We are only an hour and a half drive from
Houston, so can combine the best features of rural and urban
living.

Our family has increased by one since coming to Texas. Eliza-
beth Pringle was born in Houston in June, 1942. The final score:
one redhead, one blonde, and one brunette.

Keeping a house and six acres of land in shape leaves little time
for fishing or golf. I enjoy tinkering in my garage workshop.
The rest of the family heartily approves this sort of recreation
since it keeps a “handy man” handy most of the time.

FRANCIS EPPES SHINE

HOME appress: 425 Scott Pl., Pasadena 3, Calif.

OFFIce Appress: J, C. Henderson Co., 815 West Pico, Los Angeles 15, Calif.

BoRN: May 13, 1906, Ingersoll, Ont., Canada. parents: Francis Eppes Shine,
Anne Barker.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926~1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

mMarRiED: Elinor Goodrich, Nov. 29, 1930, Los Angeles, Calif. crt_p: Francis
Eppes, 3d, Jan. 16, 1933.

occupaTion: Industrial real estate broker.

MEMBER OF: Scribes; Sons of the Revolution; Naval Reserve Surface Unit
(C.O.).

[ 1025 ]

er re TORR enNe eEonneenenettntenerterr-reereererreneer-vrr=er ene srprenes re

SESE s7e™ pes ypearepeseregnmnr Teese TE TT OY

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

THE world seems to have been pretty busy these past twenty-five
years and Shine has been right in there with the boys. After
participating in the Depression and surviving, a somewhat su
prised lieutenant (j.g.) spent three uninterrupted years in the
South Pacific and returned shortly after hostilities only to find
that the Brave New World still needs considerable attention.

Presently, we take great enjoyment living in the slightly
country-like atmosphere of Pasadena, although I spend my work-
ing days selling industrial real estate, thereby making Los Angeles
County less country-like whenever my luck is in. A kind of two-
way existence, but I like it.

Tennis is still my game, though played in a more sedate way
and always with a partner, preferably my son. Gardening may
be called a hobby up to the point where it gets ahead of me and
I realize that anyway I’m a good clean-up man. Outdoor cookery
is a natural part of summer life, practical and fun at the same time.

We, as a family, enjoy doing these things together although
Elinor is a loyal audience rather than a tennis player. We like
occasional movies and friends in to dinner quite often. No tele-
vision as yet, but feel that it is about to arrive at 425 when we
can no longer direct newcomers to “the house without a tele-
vision aerial.”

Frank, 3d, graduates from Stanford next June and, after his
two years in the Navy, plans to attend Harvard Law School,
depending of course on how the Brave New World is doing at
the moment. Conflicting interests, therefore, will prevent my
attending the Twenty-fifth Reunion, but I know it will be a good
one and I shall be thinking of you.

WINSOR SHIPPEE

HOME AppreEss: 329 Bleecker St.. New York 14, N. Y.

OFFIcE appress: American Banker, 32 Stone St., New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 18, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Carl Clapp Shippee, ’o1,
Anna Bancroft Winsor.

PREPARED aT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N. Y.; Phillips Exeter Academy.
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

[ 1026 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Elizabeth Kittredge Hamilton, June 12, 1930, New York, N. Y.
(divorced 1949). CHILDREN: Hamilton, Jan. 26, 1933; Ann, Feb. 28, 1935;
Joan Bancroft, March 27, 1938; Pamela, Nov. 20, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Shippee, 32; Donald Shippee, °36.

occupation: National advertising manager, financial newspaper.

ROUTINE business activities with a bit of golf and fishing on
the side.

WILLIAM ASAHEL SHURCLIFF

HOME appRESS: 19 Appleton St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Polaroid Corp., 730 Main St., Cambridge, Mass.

porn: March 27, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Arthur Asahel Shurcliff, ’96,
Margaret Homer Nichols.

PREPARED AT: The Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; A.M. 1931;
PH.D., 1934.

marrieD: Joan Prentiss Hopkinson, Jan. 19, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Arthur Asahel, 2d, April 4, 1942; Charles Hopkinson, Sept. 18, 1943.

oocuPATION: Physicist.

OFFICES HELD: Physicist, Calco Chemical Company, Bound Brook, N. J., 1935-
41; technical aide, Office of Scientific Research and Development,
Washington, D. C., 1941-453 scientific adviser, New York State Dept.
of Commerce, 1945-46; technical historian, “Operation Crossroads”
atomic bomb tests at Bikini, 1946, program analyst, Atomic Energy
Commission, 1947-48; senior scientist, Polaroid Corporation, Cambridge,
since 1948.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society, American Optical Society; Amer-
ican Association for the Advancement of Science; Society of Motion
Picture and Television Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: Official Pictorial Record of Operation Crossroads, William
Wise Co., 1947; Bombs at Bikini, William Wise Co., 1947; A Casual
History of the Upper Part of Argilla Road, Ipswich, Mass., since 1897,
privately published; various articles on optics, spectroscopy, and meas-
urement of gamma radiation in appropriate scientific journals.

THE most useful part of my existence has been as a work-horse
physicist, sweating away at dozens of practical problems, oc-
casionally coming through with successful schemes for im-
proving mass-produced products such as sun-glasses, dyes, cam-
eras, atomic dog tags, military instruments, etc.

I do a lot of writing. Most scientists hate writing. I lke it.
More and more I come to believe that unless you write a clear

[ 1027 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

report on what your experiments consisted of and what they
prove, your work is as good as forgotten even before it is com.
pleted. A mixture of about twenty-five parts of writing and
seventy-five parts of experimenting seems to me about right.
Clear writing, by the way, encourages clear thinking, and this in
turn helps your experimenting.

I’ve experimented and written for industry about fifteen year
and for government-wartime-scientific agencies for five year,
Both are fun.

In my spare time I bone up on mathematics, or try to keep up
with the dazzling parade of new inventions and new ideas. |
seems tragic that the public has practically no inkling as to the
majestic discoveries being made almost daily. When you and I
were in college, no one knew what kept the sun warm, what
cosmic rays consisted of, or how old the universe was. Today,
many such questions have answers. Some of the answers are of
breath-taking scope, and suggest grandeurs that were quite un-
known twenty-five years ago. Why must these wonders pass
most of us by — unseen?

The pleasant part of my existence is living along from day to
day with my wife and two children. Life in Cambridge is very
fine, and we enjoy also the beaches and salt marshes of Ipswich,
Massachusetts, and the rocks, surf, and seaweed of Manchester,
Massachusetts.

The future has me really worried — perhaps because I’ve been
close to the atomic bomb program since the earliest experiments
at Chicago in 1942. For thirteen years I’ve seen this type of
weapon grow, spread to Russia, and defy every effort to impose
international control. In my opinion, it represents a threat more
terrible, real, and right-around-the-corner than any of us can
grasp. Recently I wrote the heads of the company I work for—
urging that they move the company to White River Junction,
Vermont. Such towns would never be molested by super-weapons.
Why don’t lots of us move thither? Why doesn’t Harvard? What
am I doing here, only three miles from Target Zero, idly typing
out this sentimental drivel?

[ 1028 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MEMBER OF: Masonic Order; Shrine; American Legion; Torch Club; Uni.
versity Club; American Jewish Committee; Wilkes Barre Law ang
Library Association; Pennsylvania Bar Association; Kiwanis Club,
Pennsylvania Citizens Association; Chamber of Commerce, Tempk
B'nai B'rith.

I STAYED at Harvard for three years of Law School, and I am

prone to look back over twenty-two years rather than twenty-

five. These twenty-two years are neatly divided into a pre-war
period of nine years, an Army interregnum of four, and a post.
war period of nine years.

The pre-war years are becoming a bit hazy. They included the
usual throes of building a law practice in a comparatively small
community, running around for causes, good, bad, or indifferent,
dabbling into politics mainly as a ghost writer, bridge tournaments,
summer cruises, tennis and squash, bachelor dinners, vague pre-
monitions about an approaching draft, interesting experiences in
a District Attorney’s office, New York weekends, fairly frequent
hangovers. Far off and never considered were such things as the
income tax, baby sitters, annual medical examinations, estate
planning, depratment store bills, child psychology, and Twenty-
fifth Reunions.

Came the war and my precipitate induction as a private in the
Army. Curiously enough, those four years are vivid and distinct
and quite happy. Starting with the novel experience of Janding
in a Reception Center barracks as a recruit under the stern eve
of a corporal, whom I had once convicted for stealing coal, and
going on to a couple of months as a staff sergeant permeating
nervous, newly commissioned officers with the mysteries of mill-
tary law, three months at O.C.S., service in Kentucky as an in-
structor of WACS, finally terminating war contracts as an Ait
Force captain in Chicago; — this hiatus in my life was at least
colorful and interesting. And it culminated in a reunion witha
girl I had known briefly in the ’30s and marriage after my dis-
charge in April of 1946.

That four-year interruption meant starting all over again for
practical purposes in the practice of law. I am now engaged in
the general practice of law under the firm name listed above. Mv
Practice is at least a varied one — corporate law, estates, trial
work, labor relations, divorce, and the miscellaneous matters that
drift into a small town lawyer’s office.

[ 1030 |

- SAAN MANTEL AHEM ERE



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

year at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore followed by four years of
pediatrics in New York and I was on my own — in Washington,
D. C. It was such a nice, quiet city in those days! Shortly after
entering private practice, I became affiliated with the District of
Columbia Health Department.
Things went along very well until November 14, 1943, when
I got married and then things were even better. In December,
1943, I received my commission in the U.S.N.R. A year later
I was off on a Pacific cruise without benefit of advertising. In
June, 1945, while on Okinawa, I ran into some foul play and
was sent home. Following my discharge from the Navy, I re-
turned to Washington to begin all over again. In 1946 I was
appointed medical director of the Crippled Children’s Unit, a
position which I held until July, 1954, when I had to resign so
that I could devote all my time to private practice.

I am certain that some of the things that have happened during
the past twenty-five years have eluded me. Yet, as I look at my
wife and children, I am also certain that the years have been well
spent and for that which has been given to me during those years,
I am truly grateful.

JEROME SILVERMAN

HOME appREss: 6 E. 37th St. New York, N. Y.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Martini Designed, Inc., 498 Seventh Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 16, r910, New York, N. Y. parents: Mayer Silverman, Theresa
Leventhal.

PREPARED AT: Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. CU7 laude, 1930.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, sales manager, Martini Designed, Inc., and Lei-
sure Designed, Inc.

AFTER graduating from Jaw school and experiencing the trials
and tribulations of law practice in the early days of the depres-
sion, I took the bull by the horns, and in spite of all family and
friendly advice, took up the manufacture of ladies ready-to-wear
on Seventh Avenue.

This has proved to be a very exciting and demanding occupa-
tion since the fashion business is as dramatic and unpredictable as

[ 1032 ]

” wae aan hn oR tee nT aren ce EME oS

|



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I have not had the defense of an accused murderer since. By chance
and luck, I have some clients engaged in various aspects of the
electrical manufacturing and electrical contracting industries and
I am now a half-baked electrician, or so I assume. I had a small
part in the adoption by the Massachusetts Legislature of the Na-
tional Electrical Code as the law of Massachusetts in an attempt
to standardize materials for electrical installations. The first case
arising under this new statute found me as counsel for the would-
be standardizers. My practice seems to fall mostly within the
broad outlines of contract law. After twenty-two years at the
Bar, I am beginning to understand the law; I hope to live long
enough to understand it better. Trial work seems to be my forte.
My wife and two girls are my main hobbies. There is daily,
unending variety and enjoyment with them. May it continue! My
elder daughter, Sandra, is quite an entomologist and frightens us
to death with her discoveries of various types of unearthly looking
and acting insects. She seems to hypnotize butterflies, who do her
bidding, believe it or not. She has shown us insects which actually
eat or devour small particles of meat. I introduced her to
Plutarch’s Lives and am sorry. She cross-examines me on the
books, and while she sleeps I have to re-read certain portions of
Plutarch to keep up with her. I have great hopes for her at Rad-
cliffe, if and when. My younger, Wendy Kay, keeps tabs on the
clothing I wear and the neckties I like. She is now six years old
and I must admit from time to time that she has more color sense
than I. Wendy Kay is following in the footsteps of her sister at
the piano. She practises by the hour and we have almost the
need for two pianos in the house. Where to put it, if we get
another, will be a problem. My wife, Pauline, is a joy forever
and one of the Lord’s greatest creations. Kind, understanding,
sympathetic, sweet — she makes life so pleasant that I continually
wonder at my good luck in finding her. May the Lord continue
to bless her and us.
Outside of the home, I spend some time with the boys’ clubs.
I have been active in the Boy Scouts of America, with local
troops, for some thirty-odd years. I have been associated with
Big Brother Associations for several years and my former “little
brothers” have, without one exception, been a pride and joy to
me. Not one “little brother” has been in trouble with the law

[ 1034 ]

ce Mesh RO WPT TET! eo

sagd ct opekaen ster at pat RS
Sit = ARONA IR



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

UNMARRIED.

occupATION: Lawyer, partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Ralston Purina Company, since 1944; part-time
instructor in legal drafting, Washington University School of Lav,
member board of trustees, St. Louis Country Day School.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club, Country Club, Noonday Club, University Club,
of St. Louis; American and Missouri Bar Associations.

PUBLICATIONS: Annual review of the work of the Missouri Supreme Court in
“Trusts, Estates and Wills,” published as part of a symposium annually
reviewing the work of that Court in the Missouri Law Review, pub-
lished by the Law School of the University of Missouri, since 1944.

THE life of an “office” lawyer is not melodramatic, but to me
it has been full of interest and satisfaction. Much of it is plain
hard work trying to keep up with the ever-changing laws,
whereby the State Legislature or the Congress seeks to improve
matters, but generally only makes it more difficult to know what
the law in fact is. On the other hand, there are the occasional
feelings of real satisfaction in coming up with the way to doa
business deal that someone else has overlooked. My own work has
fallen largely in the fields of taxation, financial, banking and trust
law with almost no trial work. Our firm is large for St. Louis,
but small compared to the “law factories” of New York, in which
I am sure I would be unhappy.

My travels have been limited to a tour of Europe in the long-
forgotten days of 1930 and visits—not as regular as I would
like — to western “dude” ranches, where I am gradually realizing
that I am not as young or as thin as I once was. However, it is
always better to make a horse do the work of getting you over
trails than using your own legs.

The Twentieth Reunion was a wonderful get-together of the
Class, especially for a middle-westerner like myself who had all
of the enjoyment and none of the work. I am looking forward
eagerly to the same situation with reference to the Twenty-fifth.

HAROLD SINGER

HOME apprEss: 63 Nathan Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Singer, Stoneman & Kurland, 31 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: July 17, 1909, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Samuel A. Singer, Mary
Lillian Rosenberg.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

[ 1036 ]

ce EIA BR oe
eu abt ap PRGA Am ae te ee



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

active law practice and play as much golf as time permits. Insteag
of taking a summer vacation we generally manage to get a few
weeks of sun in the South during the winter.

While I still feel young, the advent of a Twenty-fifth College
Reunion and the presence of two grown daughters make me
realize that the years have really slipped by. Judy became twenty
years old in September, 1954, and is a student at the Rhode Island
School of Design, having transferred there after completing her
sophomore year at Cedar Crest College in Allentown, Pennsyl-
vania. Carol became sixteen years old in March, 1954, and is
finishing her last year of preparatory school at the Cambridge
School in Weston, Massachusetts.

I adhere to Reformed Judaism. While my business and pro-
fessional environment should find me on the extreme right
politically and socially, I believe I am actually somewhat left of
center. Although I rather generally follow the Republican line
in state politics, I have with few exceptions voted the Democratic
ticket nationally. I have been fairly active in philanthropic and
community affairs.

In a recapitulation such as this, one can only attempt to touch
upon a few of the many eventful affairs since graduation. At the
risk of appearing over-complacent, I believe there are very few
things I would do differently if I had the chance to relive the last
twenty-five years.

ROBERT SINNOTT

HOME apprEss; 92 Mann Hill Rd., Egypt, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Supreme Markets, Inc., 540 Gallivan Blvd., Dorchester, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 30, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: William James Sinnott, Kath-
arine Ritchie White.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

HARVARD BROTHER: Allen Sinnott, ’39.

OccuPATION: Personnel manager.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Sigma Phi, Harvard Musical Association.

ADVERTISING manager, Raymond’s, Inc., Boston, 1931-42;
Air Corps and Army, 1942~46; Beck Engraving Company, New
York and Philadelphia, 1947~51; recalled, Army and Navy, Korea,

[ 1038 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the next six years, I practised that profession in Manchester, New
Hampshire, Philadelphia, Harrisburg, and Washington, D.C. On
the drive to Washington from Harrisburg on December 7, 1941,
heard the news which before long was to put my current ward-
robe in mothballs for nearly four years.

The first portion of my World War II hitch was with the
Weather Directorate of the Army Air Corps in meteorological
research. Subsequently, there was an assignment as operations
analyst with the Far East Air Forces and — following V-J Day —
another as member of the Air Technical Intelligence Group,
Pacific Air Command, in Japan. Of the many memorable events
of this period, the most memorable was the fact that I met my
wife while stationed in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. We
were married soon after my return from overseas and, shortly
thereafter, I returned to inactive duty. Probably my major con-
tribution during this tour was development of the official A.AF.
method of weather forecast evaluation — the “Trentile Deviation
System.”

Followed a halcyon period of some four and one-half years.
Our daughter, Nancy, was born during this period, which we
spent in Washington, D. C., and Bellevue, Nebraska. The latter
is a friendly little town adjoining Offutt Air Force Base, home
of the Strategic Air Command headquarters where I was em-
ployed. In December, 1950, we were toying with the idea of a
Florida vacation — an idea which the state of the family coffers
quickly scotched — when, most appropriately, there arrived the
news that the three of us were to have an extended, free vacation
in Tampa, Florida. The message was my recall-to-active-duty
orders with assignment to MacDill Air Force Base as comptroller
of the 305th Bomb Wing, a newly activated unit.

One year following my arrival in Tampa, I suddenly found
myself in a very crowded stateroom of a converted tanker,
heading for Korea to join the 3d Bomb Wing. My family waited
it out in Anderson, South Carolina, while I completed a varied
sixteen-month tour of the Pacific-Korea, Okinawa, Japan. During
this period I devised the Far East Air Force actuarial system for
prediction of aircraft engine attrition.

A twelve-month tour of duty in Washington, D. C,, and I re-
sumed the title of Mr. after a lapse of three and one-half years.

[ 1040 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ters, Kathy (now nine) and Susan (now eight). I resettled in
Detroit where our two boys were born (Bill now six and Bob now
two).

January, 1955, Saw my start as sales manager of Congress Drives
Division of Tann Corporation (manufacturers of light machinery
drives such as pulleys, V-belts, clutches, couplings, and bearings),

For several years I have worked hard, cheerfully, and conscien-
tiously to help keep replenished our Harvard Club of Michigan
scholarship fund. I have also enjoyed three years’ activity on the
Entertainment Committee, ending very fortunately with election
to the Club’s board of directors. For about four years I have been
quite active in Civil Defense as a police reserve leader and also as
a first aid instructor for the Red Cross. This past year I have been
helping our local Y.M.C.A. branch, of which I am a charter mem-
ber, by aiding the swimming instructor in teaching over 150 boys
and girls to Jearn to swim. It has been quite a chore (to para-

phrase) “to rise from my warm, warm cot, and make myself get
to the swimming pool, whether I wanted to or not,” these recent
cold, cold Saturday mornings.

All good wishes to Harvard 1930!

RAYMOND STEVENS SMETHURST

HOME ADDRESS: 5042 Lowell St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Investment Bldg., Washington, D. C.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1908, Marblehead, Mass. parents: Fred Brown Smethurst,
Mary Oliver.

PREPARED AT: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1930; L1.B. (George
Washington Univ.), 1934. .

MARRIED: Louise Roe, Jan. 5, 1935, Leesburg, Va. campreN: Raymond ~
Stevens, Jr., Nov. 21, 1935; Sarah Blair, July 13, 1938; Robert Gordon,
Sept. 7, 1939; Susan Oliver, Aug. 16, 1948.

occupaTION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: General counsel, National Association of Manufacturers, 194!-
49; official adviser, President’s Labor-Management Conference, 1945;
assistant to chairman, Republican National Finance Committee, 1952:
consultant, Secretary of Commerce, 1953.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Washington, D. C.; American Bar Association;
American Trade Association Executives; Harvard Club, Washington
D. C.; Congressional Country Club; Phi Delta Phi; Order of the Coif,
Washington Board of Trade.

[ 1042 ]

LoL AGRI, BAI Rr Bo

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: “Case Book — Cases on Fair Labor Standards Act,” 1938; Law
Review articles on labor law and federal laws affecting business opera-
tions.

THE last “goad” has prompted me to call attention to a glaring
mistake. The inference that we could possibly be involved in a
Twenty-fifth Class Reunion, even high school, is fantastic.

Certainly we were finished off with the Class of 1930, I raced
through law school at night, was married, battled our growing
bureaucracy from 1934 to 1949, hung out a shingle, taught law,
mixed in the 1952 political campaign, and have had four children,
now at all stages of growth and education. Twenty-fifth Reunion?
Why, 1930 was but yesterday.

Even now, politicians speak of the 1930 Democratic depression
like it happened last year. It was still rampant when, in 1934, I
became a staff lawyer for the National Association of Manufac-
turers. In 1941 I became general counsel of that organization and
remained until venturing on my own in 1949. Meanwhile, Louise
was raising four wonderful kids: Steve, a sophomore at Cornell;
Sally, a senior at Mount Vernon Seminary, D. C.; Bob, a sopho-
more at St. Albans School, D. C.; and Susie, in the first grade, The
two boys wrestle, the girls like boys, and all like schoo]. We look
forward to summers at the beach (Rehoboth, Delaware), so that
swimming, some boating, and even less golf are part of the diet
for a weekend commuter. Always something to build, repair, or
grow.

For excitement and a living, I have enjoyed representing the
poor citizen against bureaucracy or, according to our old friend,
Dr. Herring, have even indulged in group representation before
Congress. I have written and spoken too much, even as in this
short space. Enough, however, to convince even you that my
original complaint is valid. Twenty-fifth Reunion? Hell, we just
left the place!

CHARLES ADOLPHUS SMITH

HOME apprEss: 115 S. Second St., Bangor, Pa.
oFFIce apprEsS: North Bangor Slate Co., Bangor, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1908, Bangor, Pa. parents: William Henry Smith, Maud
Strunk.

PREPARED AT: Bangor High School, Bangor, Pa.

[ 1043 ]

Se ie

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

marriep: Gertrude Louise Jordan, Jan. 30, 1932, Bangor, Pa. cxiprey,
Barbara Ann, June 4, 1936; Sandra Jo, Feb. 27, 1940.

occuPATION: Secretary-treasurer, general manager, North Bangor Slate
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, director, Natural Slate Blackboard Company, 193$-
42; director, Structural Slate Company, 1936-42, Bangor Board of Edu-
cation, 1939-47, First National Bank of Bangor; president, Pennsylvania
Gray Slate Company, 1939-44; vice-president, secretary, Bangorvein
Slate Company, 1935-44; chairman, Community Chest, 1951.

MEMBER OF: Pomfret Club, Easton, Pa.; Les Amis D’Escoffier, U. S. Naval

Reserve (inactive).

NEARLY all of my business life both before and since graduation
has been devoted to slate. I am the third generation to operate
my company, but the first to own it. As far as 1 know, my fore-
bears were slate quarrymen in England before coming to this
country. At any rate I began working in slate quarries during
summer vacations at the age of eleven, and from then until I
graduated from college.

I guess that no one can run a business of his own for any length

of time without having his own special brand of dreams, ideals,
and ambitions, and sometimes these become mixed up in such a
way that it is hard to know which is the motivating reason at a
given time for running the business. In times of unemployment
the motivating force is to continue giving the employment ex-
pected of you in your community; in boom times to outproduce
your competitor; in helping an employee over the hurdles in
troublesome times; and at all times there is the necessity of keep-
ing yourself as strong as or stronger than your competitor.

In a general sort of way I have been considerably more success-
ful in a business way than I ever expected I should be when I
received a degree in 1930—and I might say a great deal more
successful than I thought I should be when (I was twenty-eight)
my father died unexpectedly and the operation of the quarry,
sink or swim, was left to me. Many times I think of a proverb
that runs something like this: Be careful of what you set your
heart upon, for surely you shall achieve it.

As far as my activities are concerned, they are pretty well
summed up in the above listing. Community Chest drives, presi-
dency of the local school board for several years and a board

cp a Ee eg See
ANCL ERD PERE TB .

2 ee IN egies oa A AMT
Lye IMIR Re

[ 1044 ]

pe bc ee Rte

cert hte OLEATE CL

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

directorship for about eight years, two years in the United States
Navy as a gunnery officer aboard the Army transport, General
George S. Simonds, and a directorship in a local bank are the
principal ones that come to mind. Trout fishing is my favorite
outdoor activity. I flew to Canada by Colonial and by amphibian
two hundred miles north of Ortawa last May, and spent some time
in the Canadian wilds this spring and had wonderful speckled
trout fishing. There have been other hobbies, too, and in none of
them was I ever very proficient — photography, gardening,
record collecting, hunting, bridge, and others.

Having no sons, I can’t speak of sending them to Harvard. My
elder daughter, Barbara, is entering William and Mary this fall.
My younger daughter, Sandra, now fourteen, I hope to send to
Swarthmore. Both of them are bright and attractive girls and as
much of a teen-age problem to their aging elders as most teen-
agers are to their parents.

My wife, aside from her family, has three main interests: the
treasurership of the “Bee Hive,” the local youth center, bowling,
and bridge. The last we enjoy a great deal and usually play
twice a week. Last winter I spent twelve weeks very enjoyably
in an adult evening class in modern literature at Lafayette College
which is near Bangor, and shall probably do the same this winter
— no exams and no credits (a wonderful way to go to college). ©

Summing it all up, I guess I should say that we are living, a
little less intensely, a life of a middling large fish in a middling
small pond and doing our best to discharge our responsibility to
everyone around us, trying to be good neighbors, good friends,
and kind to our fellow-men.

EDWIN DROWNE SMITH

HOME aporEss: 19 Elmwood Rd., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Shoe Machinery Corp., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mlass.

BORN: July 7, 1908, Newton, Mass. parents: Edgar Jacobs Smith, Ella Abby
Drowne.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926~—1929.

marRieD: Josephine Muther, April 26, 1941, Newton, Mass. cHILpDREN:
Richard Eustis, March 26, 1942; Marjorie, May 5, 1945.

occuPATION: Sales promotion.

[ 1045 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

orFices HELD: Residential chairman, 1950, assistant campaign chairman, 1951,
Newton Community Chest Campaign; vice-president, The Newton
Players, Inc., 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: Masons.

TO me the year 1955 is doubly significant for, in addition to our

Class Reunion, I have just become a member of the Quarter

Century Club of United Shoe Machinery Corporation, where I

have been continuously employed since leaving College in 1929.

Most of that period was spent in the corporation’s main office in

Boston; first in accounting, and more recently in machinery sales
promotion work, following three years of branch office ex-
perience at Haverhill, Massachusetts.

In addition to playing the violin in the company’s orchestra
and in amateur string quartets, my outside activities have also
included amateur theatricals and Community Chest work.

I have a wonderful wife and family. Josephine (sister of class-
mate Laurie Muther) and I were married in 1941. We have both
thoroughly enjoyed participating in community affairs in Newton
as well as relaxing at Cohasset, Massachusetts, and Cape Cod
during summer vacations. Son Ricky shows technical inclinations
and will probably major in electrical engineering. Our daughter
Marjorie has that wonderful quality of friendliness to people
which should assure her a happy and full life. In May, 1954, we
moved from Newton to Wellesley. Unpacking has finally been
accomplished and I now spend most of my spare time in the
usual household projects and garden activities.

HAROLD PALMER SMITH

HOME apprEss: 524 Dawson Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

OFFICE AppREss: Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., Inc., McKees Rocks, Pa.

BORN: July 5, 1908, Mystic Conn. parents: Walter Stillman Smith, Gertrude
Biddles.

PREPARED AT: Bulkeley School, New London, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929, 1930-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31).

MarRiEp: Anne Blanche Trost, Sept. 12, 1934, Pittsburgh, Pa. cuitprey:
Harold Palmer, Jr., Nov. 30, 1935; Norma Anne, June 29, 1941.

OccuPATION: Real estate representative, Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, Inc.
Pittsburgh district.

MEMBER OF: Rotary.

[ 1046 ]

unrest obsacesastanpsonesseteinaannsiaitsiaeicinnnnasmmnantenimetiemtstett Ie oi is us ih

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN spite of entering Harvard with the Class of 1930, I did not
graduate until 1931, due to injuries from an automobile accident
in 1929 which kept me out of school until the fall of 1930. After
graduation in 1931, I sought employment with Socony-Vacuum
Oil Company, Inc., and moved to Pittsburgh in August, 1931.
From 1931 to 1934 1 worked successively as a service station sales-
man, instructor, and supervisor of service stations. In 1934 I
married Anne Blanche Trost and was assigned to Westmoreland
County, Pennsylvania, as a general salesman, which position I
held until 1944 when I was asked to take my present job as real
estate representative, and moved to Pittsburgh, where I now reside.

Apparently I have taken life too seriously, as the last ten years
have been a history of ulcers and heart attacks, which have forced
me to give up my one sport, golf. I am now one of the better bird
watchers in western Pennsylvania and surprisingly enough enjoy
that.

JAMES RUSSELL SMITH

HOME AppreEss: 77 Gates Circle, Buffalo 9, N. Y.

orFice appress: The J & J Smith Corp., 282 Franklin St., Buffalo 2, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 30, 1908, Buffalo, N. ¥. parents: Carlton M. Smith, Gertrude
Rumsey.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

margiep: Marie Louise Boulton, May 22, 1948, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Carlton Michael and Duncan Rumsey (twins), Oct. 23, 1949; Marie
Louise, March 14, 1952.

occupation: President and manager, general contracting firm.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Keystone Warehouse Company, Tidewater Cleve-
land Storage Company; president, Buffalo Tennis & Squash Club, 1953-
54; director, Albright Art Gallery, 1950-51.

MEMHER OF: Buffalo Tennis & Squash Club; Country Club of Buffalo; Mid-
Day Club of Buffalo, Inc.; The Pack Corporation.

PuBLicaTiIons: Manual on waterproofing an M-g Director, which appeared
under the alleged authorship of a brigadier general.

MY first few years out of college after Business School were
spent working for an estate which owned property and fore-
closed mortgages to repossess houses which needed repairs and
remodeling. This gave some knowledge of contracting. And the
latter plus a contractor by the name of John Smith led to the

[ 1047 ]

So

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

organization of a firm with such an unwieldy name. So I was in
business — and as a general contractor, yet.

Then there was war, and my letter from the President was not
unduly delayed. The pleasures of being a private were only
exceeded by those of being an officer candidate. Six months and
twenty pounds less later I was a second lieutenant. My assign-
ment to a 90 mm AA Gun Battalion was most fortuitous. I re-
mained with the same unit through VE Day, from Camp Davis
to Ireland, then England. Being reconnaisance officer for my
battery put me on a boat amongst the first arrivals off the Nor-
mandy coast. And though a few hours late (U.S. Navy take
note), and with an assist from a jeep of the ro1st Airborne, I did
land on Utah Beach on D-Day unbowed, unwet, and unhappy
because our projected site had not yet been cleared of the enemy.

My battery, I later became its captain and commander, led
a charmed life—there were no killed or badly wounded.
Strangely, with the passage of time one forgets the cold, the un-
happiness, the fear and the horrors; one remembers the wild
acclaim with the liberation of Paris, the lovely house in Eisenach,
the beautiful castle town of Braunfels, the leave on the Riviera.

After this sojourn, I returned to general contracting and have
remained in this same pursuit.

In February, 1948, Menise appeared — she’s English, you know.
She was visiting her aunt in Buffalo prior to working in New
York. I lived with my family then, so had no worries about the
expense of courting trips to New York, gardenias, and the hike.
And so we were married.

We are, sometimes, the proud parents of twin boys and a girl,
and find them time-consuming though rewarding. Though the
New York trips are almost non-existent and the gardenias like-
wise, we have a happy life. We did go to Europe in 1952 for two
months and were in the Royal Enclosure at Ascot, where I sat
next to the Duchess at tea — the Duchess of Kent was at the next
table.

1952 was the first year that I voted successfully in a presidential
election, and I have never failed to vote. I believe in private powel
developments (particularly here at Niagara), the respect fot
property rights, that curbs should be as applicable to unions as t?
management, that taxes are too high and government is too big.

[ 1048 ]

suareeanesasssseessesstsneushseneusnusstastestennotiaarestieataneanesineniienmmmnaiaimsisinemeatel aw dd

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROGER ALEXANDER SMITH

HOME ApDRESS: 1675 Meyers Lane, Louisville, Ky.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Home Supply Co., 3720 S. Seventh St., Louisville, Ky.

BORN: July 18, 1908, Corbin, Ky. parents: George Matthew Smith, Anna
May Smith.

PREPARED aT: Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MARRIED: Frances Dean, June 7, 1952, Rockford, Ill. cump: Deborah Dean,
April 22, 1953.

occupaTION: Manager, lumber and building supplies company.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Alpha; Phi Beta Kappa (Univ. of Kentucky).

AFTER completing my freshman year at Harvard, I decided to
enroll at the University of Kentucky, mainly because I wished to
become better acquainted in my new Lexington home, where
the family had moved during the summer before. The plan to
return eventually to Harvard was never realized.

Early in my senior year at Kentucky, I was forced to leave
school because of ill health. Before I was fit again, I had come to
grips with the depression which forced me to retreat to my old
home town of Corbin, Kentucky, there to manage the family
hostelry left us by our father. For months business was sad in-
deed, but three bridge-playing guests and the manager constituted
a quorum and the long nights were whiled away, loud with argu-
ments interpreting the theories of Mr. Culbertson.

With the advent of our illustrious Mr. Roosevelt’s regime,
business became more exciting, but the hue of life in a small town
was still somewhat on the drab side. “Mistah Roger, the Japs done
bombed Puhl Habah,” were the words from a faithful bell bov
that greeted this late sleeper that Sunday in 1941. Life took a
dramatic change. Monday, some quite patriotic citizens grabbed
me by the hand and there we were before the enlistment clerk.
Army doctors pondered over this skinny anatomy and shook their
heads, but signs of life were detected and February of 1942 found
me in uniform. I was assigned to the Army Air Corps and, after
short stays in a couple of camps, was sent to Gowen Field in
Boise, Idaho. There I stayed for the duration in the Headquarters
Personnel Division.

In October of 1945 I came out of the Army. Having sold our
business back in the old home town, I led an easy life for several

[ 1049 ]

Oe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

months listening for opportunity’s knock. The first rap was
heeded here in Louisville when I became acquainted with the
president of our present corporation. Along with his other enter-
prises, he wished to enter the lumber and building supply business,
choosing me to start its management. Fortune smiled, and today
the Home Supply Company is one of the larger lumber yards in
Louisville.

I had never married, but in April of 1952 while vacationing in
Miami, I went the way of many over-confident bachelors. I met
pretty Frances Dean from Corry and Warren, Pennsylvania.
Tropical breezes and that moon most of you have seen conspired
in time to do the rest. Honeymooning in delightful Nassau con-
tinued the tropical and romantic motif. Our life has since been
enriched with the arrival of Deborah Dean Smith.

We are anxiously awaiting the Reunion and particularly hoping
my old roommates, Earl Latham and Robert Glenn, as well as
Staunton classmate, Jerry Silverman, will put in their appearances.

THOMAS JOHNSTON SMITH

HOME appress: Chicken Street, Wilton, Conn.

OFFIcE AppRESss: Young & Rubicam, Inc., 285 Madison Ave., New York 17,
N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 4, 1907, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Burke Smith, Elizabeth
Marie Rafter.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1930.

MarRiED: Robin Dunham, June 3, 1950, New York, N. Y. cuttpren: Timothy
Dunham, April 24, 1952; Thomas Johnston, Jr., Aug. 28, 1953.

OccuPATION: Account executive, Young & Rubicam, Inc., advertising.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

REFLECTION on the life that late I’ve led makes me feel that
I’ve played three quite different roles — that it’s included three
separate existences, really. So here’s a report on “The Three Lives
of T. J. Smith.”

Life #41 — Single, Manhattan: Life #1 was the single man of
Manhattan, which began a few years after graduation when,
following a term in the advertising department of Procter &
Gamble, I got a job with my favorite advertising agency, Young

[ 1050 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

& Rubicam. Mac Rainbolt was already there and Eddie Batch-
elder was in the same building working for ANA.

Out-of-office life in the thirties seemed to have been a montage
of things like these: cocktail parties, scotch & soda as the only
suitable drink at any and all times (except for rum in Bermuda),
gals, pretty gals, argumentative gals, Twenty-One, Stork, John
Swope wants to get into the Harvard Club of New York, week-
ends in Bucks County, weekends in Darien, weekends in Woods
Hole, skiing in Stowe, in Mont Tremblant, in Sun Valley, Holly-
wood, pretty gals, argumentative gals, every play that opened in
New York, the Persian Room, the Museum of Modern Art,
Central Park Zoo, Twenty-One, pretty gals, argumentative gals.
Get the picture?

Life #2—U.S.N.R.: Early in 1942 this F. Scott Fitzgerald
life came to an abrupt end. One sunny day I found myself report-
ing for duty on the quarter deck of an aircraft carrier in Pearl
Harbor. On the dock below were my three bags and two foot-
lockers, filled with dress uniforms, dress sword, tennis rackets,
and 300 engraved calling cards — all required gear according to
the instructors at Quonset. “The Navy is aristocratic and social!”
said John Paul Jones.

All the fancy equipment was stowed in a baggage hold and
never saw the light of day. This ship was the Hornet, on her way
to the Guadalcanal area with only a few more months of sailing
left.

I remember the day the Japs hit the Hornet with five torpedoes,
four bombs, and two Kamikazies. At “Abandon Ship” I remember
looking up from a life raft and watching Captain Mason drop
down a line over the side into the water. He was dressed in full
uniform and his cap was square on his forehead. And when the
captain bobbed up to the surface, his cap was still square on his
forehead.

Do I remember a young sailor hanging on a life-line saying to
me between gulps of salt water, “Shouldn’t we come to attention,
Sir?”

And then the captain swam away from the hulk with a steady
breast stroke until he was picked up by a destroyer’s whale boat.
The last sight of him was the setting sun glistening on the scram-

[ 1051 ]

| |
oO

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

WALKER SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 916 Michigan Ave., Evanston, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Suite A1516, 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1908, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Felix Koerner Smith, ’gg,
Katharine Walker.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill; Phillips
Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. (Chicago-Kent Coll,
of Law), 1933.

MARRIED: Eleanor Weeks, March 10, 1934, Evanston, IIL. cHmpren: Walker,
Jr., Sept. 13, 1938; Edith, July 29, 1940; Otis, Dec. 28, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of trustees, Unitarian Church of Arlington,
Va. 1949-52; treasurer, Greater Washington Committee for Unitarian
Advance, Washington, D. C., 1950-54.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.; various professional and
civic organizations.

MOST of my energies not exerted domestically have gone into
the law business, private and public.

On graduation from law school in 1933 I went to work for
Montgomery Ward & Company, as an attorney in its law depart-
ment. Though there was then no Wolfson to keep from the door,
there was a quantity of litigation; so I spent my time in court and
administrative hearing matters as well as in general corporate
work. I dropped the Robert Franklin part of my name and be-
came just Walker Smith as an incident of jury practice.

In early 1941 I changed bosses, substituting President Franklin
D, Roosevelt and the officials of the Department of Justice for
Mr. Sewell Avery and his executives. The change, I am pleased
to say, was made at a decent interval before the two groups came
to loggerheads in the much-publicized carrying out incident.

In the government from 1941 through most of 1954, I prepared
and tried monopoly and restraint of trade cases for the Anti-Trust
Division, except during the war when I headed the Justice Depart-

‘ment’s unit which handled the criminal prosecutions and civil
litigation for the War Production Board, the War Food Adminis-
tration, and the other Second War Powers Act agencies and the
criminal prosecutions for OPA.

The non-war work of which I am proudest included successful
prosecution of the A & P Tea Companies and their public rela-

[ 1054 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tions agents for monopolistic practices, a civil case to stop
monopolistic practices in the flat-glass industry, and the prepara-
tion and pre-trial development of a monopoly case against the big
three of the soap industry, which is still pending.

I resigned from the government and entered the private prac-
tice of law in Chicago at the first of this year, specializing in anti-
trust, trade regulation and trial matters.

But I still have little patience with sneering references to those
who do the government’s work. I developed over the years a
dcep respect for the great body of people throughout the govern-
ment service who are willing to undergo all its limitations and in-
hibitions in order to do a job and do it well. There are, of course,
public bureaucrats who habitually substitute for judgment what-
ever they think their boss thinks his boss thinks, but there are
private bureaucrats in almost every company in the country
addicted to the same vice. | shall be delighted to sit down with
anyone any time and worry about the problem of bureaucracy,
but let’s worry about the whole problem, public and private, while
we're at it.

‘Twenty-two years observing the processes by which things
are produced, distributed, and consumed, and particularly the last
fourteen during which I was privileged to view the field through
that magnificent research device, the government subpoena, have
reinforced my confidence in a free society and my distaste for
forces and influences tending to freeze natural patterns of develop-
ment. I am a firm believer in free enterprise, economic, political,
and social.

In politics I am a Democrat; in religion, a Unitarian; in family
life, the happily-married and normally-disturbed parent of three
vigorous, independent offspring, two teen-agers and one nine-

year-old.

+ WILLIAM SHEPARD SMITH

BorN: April 11, 1909, Orange, N. J. parents: William Hemans Smith, ’95,
Margaret Nichols.

PREPARED AT: East Orange High School, East Orange, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 77agna cum latide, 1930; A.M,
(Columbia Univ.).

piep: Nov. 29, 1951, San Antonio, Texas.

[ 1955 ]

A

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

AFTER leaving Harvard, Smith earned a Master’s degree at
Columbia where, the following year, he held a University Fellow.
ship. From 1932 to 1935 he worked on the Columbia Encyclo-
pedia, concentrating on linguistic problems. Following a trip to
France, he spent four years teaching French at Providence Col-
lege. He then returned to Columbia, where he was an editorial
assistant for a year. In 1941 he accepted a position as civilian with
the Signal Corps in the War Department, and in 1942 was com-
missioned a lieutenant in the same department. He was discharged
as a major in 1946. Thereafter he lived chiefly in the Southwest.
He did part-time work for the Columbia Press and pursued his
study of Breton, the Celtic language of Brittany, and the Cheyenne
Indian language. In 1940 he published a monograph on Breton
place names, and he was the author of several articles in Studies in
Linguistics and Language.

H. MASSIE SMOOT

HOME ADDRESS: 339 E. 58th St., New York 22, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Junier Associates, 366 Fifth Ave., New York 1, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 30, 1906, Staunton, Va. PARENTS: Willard Smoot, Irene Semple
Massie. ‘

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1930. DEGREE: S.B. IN CE, and BUS, ADM.

UNMARRIED,

occupaTion: Management consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Member New York Regional Renegotiation Board, 1952-54;
treasurer, Harvard Engineering Society, 1947-49; assistant treasurer,
Bank of New York, 1931-42, 1946-47, commander, U.S.N.R., 1942-46.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Engineering Society;
University Club of Washington and New York; Amateur Comedy Club.

SHORTLY after leaving College, I thought it advisable to be
known as H. Massie Smoot instead of Hope M. Smoot. If anyone
calls me Hope, you’re dated. Even my family now call me
Massie. Hope is often a girl’s name and because of that, I was
once assigned to a stateroom on a steamship with a gal, I had no
objection; but, I couldn’r fancy being addressed in business as
Miss or Mrs.

Most of my business career has been in financial work: twelve
years with the Bank of New York, four years with the Navy, five

[ 1056 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years with the Renegotiation Board, and several years in consult-
ing work, mostly on corporate financial problems.

For athletic diversion I play squash and tennis, but find almost
no contemporaries who will play with me. They make vague
excuses and a few say they are getting too old. I find that hard
to agree with because I have one friend who is sixty-six who
plays squash several times a week.

In the past few years I have been a member of the Amateur
Comedy Club, which I believe is about the oldest dramatic club in
the country. We do four or five productions a year and [I think
many are on a parity with Broadway jobs. A number of Harvard
men are members.

JOSEPH FRANCIS SOLANO

HOME AppREsS: 6 Freemont St., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

BORN; Jan. 3, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Salvatore Solano, Consiglia Florio.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928, 1929-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cur laude, 1930; A.M.
1934.

marrieD: Ruth Evelyn Callender, Nov. 28, 1933, Penn Yan, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Francis Solano, ’24.

occuPATION: Teacher of Spanish.

CHRISTOPHER EMMANUEL SOPHOS

HOME ADDRESS: 49 Billerica St., Chelmsford, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Thompson-Winchester Co., Inc., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 14, 1908, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Emmanuel George Sophos,
Katherine Andrian,

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

marriep: Mildred Lucille Kelly, Dec. 5, 1942, Lowell, Mass. cuitpren:
Katherine Alice, May 26, 1946; Christine Marie, March 25, 1951; Peter
Christopher, June 11, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alcebiades Emmanuel Sophos, ’38.

occuPATION: Field representative, food service equipment.

[ 1057 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

FRANK HUNTINGTON SOULE

HOME AppRESS: Waites Landing, Falmouth Foreside, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Soule Glass & Paint Co., 137 Preble St., Portland, Maine,

BORN: Oct. 6, 1907, Newton, Mass. parents: William Gore Soule, Margaret
Snow Wallace.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926—1030. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Thomas, Nov. 4, 1938, Yarmouth, Maine. cuitpres:
Frank Huntington, Jr., Oct. 31, 1940; Andrew C., July 3, 1942; David
B., Sept. 13, 1944; Peter M., April 8, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Wallace G. Soule, ’25; William E. Soule, ’27.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, part owner, Soule Glass & Paint Company,
wholesale distributors of paint and glass products.

MEMBER OF: Portland Yacht Club (commodore, 1953-55); Portland Country
Club; Cumberland Club.

FROM my earliest days English Composition has been a frustrat-
ing experience. Nothing I have done in the past twenty-five
years has required a return to writing. Here now I am faced
with an old familiar problem. Now I hope for the last time I
take a pen in hand to record on paper a composition. The subject
being a recording of my own existence for the past twenty-five
years, fortunately for you and me, it will be very brief.

My story is one of a very “small shot” who has left no par-
ticular mark in the world, but who has lived insignificantly and
happily away from city life. I do not despair the past twenty-five
years. Eight hundred and fifty-three classmates will remember
the bleak outlook of June, 1930. Frankly, after graduation I had
no job or secure niche in which to hide away from the world’s
depression, After a two-months’ tour of Europe, I returned home
and to job hunting. Late in 1930 I shipped out of my native
haunts of New England to commence a six-years’ tour of these
United States. I travelled up and down the main streets of
America as a factory sales representative. More often than not !
found classmates in their native or new homes who took me in
and made me appreciate the tremendous scope of Harvard's
tentacles. This was an experience never to be forgotten, and an
education not to be found in books. Fortunately, I survived these
many and varied experiences. In 1936 I had an opportunity to
join in a business venture in Portland, Maine, with two Harvard
brothers. I have never regretted my decision to renounce big

[ 1058 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

business and to seek security and happiness in a small community.

After eight years as a bachelor, I succumbed to the inevitable
and settled down to a married existence on the shore of Casco Bay,
Maine. Since my marriage I have acquired a household contain-
ing, besides my wife, four sons, To this has been added four
dogs, six boats, six pairs of skis and other assorted paraphernalia.
From the above you will gather that our family has two main
hobbies. We love to ski in the winter, living only two hours
from the New Hampshire mountains, and sail in the summer,
living on the very banks of Casco Bay, truly a heaven for small
boat sailing and cruising. We are easily accessible by water and
are most anxious to have classmates and families drop in.

During World War II, I served as commander of a local Coast
Guard Temporary Reserve Unit of 500 men. We were charged
with maintaining the security of the Port and the North Atlantic
Fleet, which made its headquarters practically in my front yard
through the war. I have not served in any other public service.
My family seems to have been my hobby and a busy one, I assure
you, with three sons four years apart and number four six years
behind the main fleet.

Unfortunately classmates in my vicinity have been conspicuous
by their absence so I have missed the opportunity to keep any
close contacts with college days. Of late I have been to some Class
functions in and around Boston. I certainly am looking forward
to more, and especially to June, 1955, when I hope to arrive back
in Cambridge, tout en famtille, for this grand reunion.

HENRY CHARLES SPEEL

HOME appress: Cricket Lane, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 119 W. 63rd St., New York 23, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. PAReNts: John Field Speel, Clara
Wilhelmina McClatchey.

prepareD at: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

mMarrieD: Mary Ella Urquhart, Sept. 1, 1934, Cranston, R. IL cup: Gwen
Urquhart, Feb. 8, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Jarvis Speel, s.1.B., °50; S.T.M., "51; PH.D. "55.

occupation: Chemical consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Calvary U.P. Church, 1943-45; Various ones in
professional businesses and technical societies.

[ 1059 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society, American Association of Textile
Chemists and Colorists; Commercial Chemical Development Associ.
ation; Society of Cosmetic Chemists; American Institute of Chemists
(fellow); Southern Connecticut Figure Skating Club; Roton Point
Beach Club; Wyandotte Tech Club.

pusLicaTions: Textile Chemicals and Auxiliaries, Reinhold, 1952; “Textile
Technology,” in Interscience Encyclopedia; articles in Reinbold Chem.
ical Encyclopedia; articles such as “Mannitol and Sorbitol in Pharmacy,”
“Sorbitol and Other Polyols in Glue Coatings,” “Surface Active Agents:
Chemical Types and Applications,” in American Journal of Pharmacy,
Journal of Investigative Dermatology, Soap and Sanitary Chemicals,
El Farmaceuticeo, Paper Trade Journal, etc.

IT is only when I attempt to review my personal history that I
realize that the life of change and movement may have some ob-
scure plot. For twenty-five years I’ve been moving around the
chemical industry, primarily engaged in research and market de-
velopment work on new chemical specialties. Full-time employ-
ment by such firms as duPont, Atlas Powder, General Mills,
General Aniline & Film, and Wyandotte Chemicals prepared me
for the chemical consulting field that I entered early in 1952. My
field is technical and economic surveys, product research and de-
velopment on textile auxiliaries, surface active agents, gums,
glues, polyols, etc. Now in business for myself, my clients include
all types and sizes of chemical firms from one-man outfits to half-
billion dollar corporations, including soapers, textile mills, glue
and gum producers, promoters and ultra-conservative outfits.
For nearly twenty years, writing on technical subjects has been
both a vocation and avocation, though I quit one corporation
when a V.P. told me my flair for writing indicated my future
with the firm lay in heading a small group devoted to such work.
Yet, in 1952 I resigned from the job of director of development
for Wyandotte Chemicals Corporation to finish a book entitled
Textile Chemicals and Auxiliaries, which I had been unable to
find time to complete during spare hours over the previous three
years. That was my last permanent job on a full-time basis, for I
found that preparing market surveys and economic studies for
other big outfits paid every bit as well and left time for some
research and development contracts with still other firms.
There are so many factors that affect a man’s happiness and his
success. Once in a while, most of us encounter situations or men

[ 1060 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with whom we cannot cope, except on a basis distasteful and,
perhaps, beyond normal capabilities. Personally, I have tried to
live according to the precept of “Do unto others as you would
they should do unto you.” The idea of “Share ye one another's
burdens” has always given me personal satisfaction, even in the
chemical business where developments and consequently sales
are largely based on codperative efforts, even though often quite
competitive.

Strangely enough, I still feel like a young man. Once in a while,
like any classmate, I am reminded of aging by such things as grey
hairs, a preference for floating instead of diving and speed swim-
ming. The classmates I see so occasionally generally look older
than I feel I do and their daughters are beginning to look more
attractive than most women of my chronological age. It is a
rather peculiar feeling, which I can now recall was also apparently
true with my father, that I can feel simultaneously like a parent or
older man and still feel like a young man. It is hard to believe that
age has sneaked up on me in the way it has on friends of my
youth, and I am sure some of them feel the same way.

Pve had a happy and varied life thus far, one of almost con-
stant travel. It has brought me a wonderful wife with rare under-
standing and reasonable patience, a red-headed daughter who
manages to get an “A” average despite many changes of schools
and is a source of real pride, and finally the joy of being my own
boss in a field of work I enjoy. With the ever increasing (?)
tendency of the government to guarantee economic security,
what more can I ask except good health that will let me keep
busy in my chosen field as long as I want?

JOHN DIMICK SPIELMAN

HOME AppreEss: 3704 Cresthaven Terr. Fort Worth 7, Texas.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Burk Burnett Bldg., Fort Worth 2, Texas.

BORN: July 28, 1906, Hartington, Nebr. parents: Lloyd Kiester Spielman,
Kathryn Diana Dimick.

PREPARED AT: Public High School, Chanute, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927,

[ 1061 ]

ae NS

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

marriepD: Kathryne Cecelia Graham, March 30, 1929, Bartlesville, Okla,
(died 1948); Viola McElreath Wilson, 1950, Los Angeles, Calif,
CHILDREN: Virginia Ann, Sept. 12, 1933; Wallens Barton Wilson (step-
son), Feb. 1, 1928.

occupation: Investments: oil production, farm ownership, water utilities,
real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Chamber of Commerce and charitable organization
drives, Kansas; vestryman, Grace Episcopal Church.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon,

HAVING been attached to the Class of 1930 only as a pro-
visional student and without having fully completed that one year,
due to unavoidable circumstances, I feel that I do not have the
close association with the group that I would have liked and that
there would be too little interest in my mundane activities to
warrant taking much space in your Report; therefore, let the
following suffice.

Upon leaving College in May, 1927, at the time of my father’s
death, I entered the business world. With little more than good
wishes and enough confidence I started expanding on nice, clean,
white cuffs, married Katie in the spring of ’29, lost the shirt in
’30, but somehow couldn’t shake the cuffs.

After living a few years on home brew and popcorn, we the
Spielmans, now three, emerged with clean cuffs but a bit gun-shy
when the boom came. During this time some drilling equipment
had been accumulated which, when the war came, the local draft
board preferred I should operate to help supply oil to our forces
rather than shoulder a musket.

After the war and the death of my wife, Katie, I made a trip to
California, met and married Vidy, and moved to Texas to make
a fortune. The fortune is still for the future, but we are enjoying
Texas, airconditioned.

My daughter, J’Ann, is a senior at the University of Oklahoma,
expecting to spend her final semester at Columbia; and Vidy’s son,
Bart, is supplying plastic skis to the brave from Dale Boison’s in
Santa Monica.

One of few regrets: I would have liked being more of a part
of the Class.

[ 1062 ] i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM DICK SPORBORG, JR.

HOME ApprESS: Lake Street, Pleasantville, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sporborg & Connolly, 219 Westchester Ave., Port Chester,
N. Y.

BorN: July 11, 1909, Port Chester, N. Y. PARENTS: William Dick Sporborg,
’97, Constance Amberg.

PREPARED AT: Port Chester High School, Port Chester, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1930; LL.B. 1933.

MarrieED: Jane Pretzfeld, Nov. 11, 1947, New York, N. Y. cam_pren: Thomas
William, June 6, 1949; James Douglas, Dec. 31, 1950; Don Jeffrey,
July 25, 1954.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

WITH exception of three and a half years in service, I have
lived the life of a country (or really, suburban) lawyer. During
World War II, I spent twenty hot months in New Guinea and
the Philippines as assistant and judge advocate of the 32d In-
fantry Division. I found temporary refuge from the housing
shortage in 1947 in White Plains, New York, until a year ago
when I removed to present abode where I hope to remain until
the Fiftieth Reunion.

OSCAR SHERWIN STAPLES

HOME appreEss: Hemlock Road, Hanover, N. H.

OFFICE ApprEss: Hitchcock Clinic, Hanover, N. H.

Born: May 19, 1908, Boston, Mass. pareNTS: Oscar Sherwin Staples, Nellie
Estelle Barnes.

PREPARED AT: Stone School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D., 1935.

marrigp: Mable Hughes, Dec. 11, 1945, Dothan, Ala. curtpren: Katherine
E., Feb. 3, 1947; Thomas H., Jan. 10, 1952.

occupaTION: Orthopaedic surgeon.

OFFIcEs HELD: Chief, Orthopaedic Section, Hitchcock Clinic and Mary
Hitchcock Memorial Hospital; senior orthopaedic consultant, Veterans’
Hospital, White River Junction, Vt.; assistant professor of orthopaedic
surgery, Dartmouth Medical School.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons; American Col-
lege of Surgeons; Boston Orthopaedic Club; American Medical Associ-
ation; Grafton County Medical Society; Lake Mitchell Trout Club.

PusLications: Articles in current orthopaedic and surgical journals.

SCHOOL days for me continued until 1939 when I finally faced
[ 1063 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

the world just in time to keep me in clothes. After college}

entered Harvard Medical School and then went on with gener _

surgical and finally orthopaedic training, all in Boston. I si -
stayed in the shadow of the old University, becoming in 1939 an
assistant instructor in orthopaedic surgery at the Harvard Medical
School and a member of the staff of the Massachusetts General
Hospital and of the New England Peabody Home for Crippled
Children, and was associated in practice with Dr. Edwin F. Cave
in Boston. —

After three interesting and pleasant years I somehow found
myself in a soldier suit and waiting to start surgical work on any
soldier who happened by. None happened by for a year but
then apparently my services were required in Europe. For over
two years I spent my time in field hospitals in North Africa,
Italy, France, and Germany and actually did surgery most of the
time, and in retrospect, particularly after this interval, had an
interesting time in point of geography as well as of forward
military surgery. Strange as it may seen, it did inspire me to read
and still read Gibbon’s Decline and Fall and other such things,
stimulated by relics of ancient Rome so much all over the place.
Even more strange, living in tent hospitals gave me, always urban
before, an interest in life in the country.

In 1945, after Army discharge, marriage came to the aging boy
with fortune favoring me with a wonderful bride who still seems
to want to put up with me. In the same year I wrenched away
from the shadow of the old University on having the opportunity
to join the Hitchcock Clinic, a medical center in Hanover, New
Hampshire, and set up an orthopaedic service. This has been
interesting and good fun and the growth of the clinic has been
gratifying. It has grown from nineteen to some fifty members
of the permanent professional staff and its orthopaedic service
comprises three staff members and three resident general surgeons.
As staff of the Dartmouth Medical School, we teach medical
undergraduates and young surgeons in postgraduate training and
this is an enjoyable part of professional life here.

Equally or more important is what goes on outside the hospital.
Our favorite recreation is trout fishing and fortunately we all
enjoy it, including the children (in small doses), The most im-
portant aspect of recreation involves the place we live in, and

[ 1064 ]



Ne

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Boston. Some idea of my experience in this new element may be
gleaned from the fact that I showed up to report in full regulation
uniform, but with an unmistakably blue tie. In May, 1941, 1
married Frances Babcock, who bravely agreed to take on the
arduous duties of a Navy wife, little knowing what she was in for.
There followed an agonizing period of readjustment to a new pro-
fession which led, in six years, from being a skipper of a Net
Tender patrolling the Gulf of Maine to captain of a subchaser in
the South Pacific, and finally skipper of a destroyer escort in four
invasions, and an endless nightmare on the Okinawa picket line.
Soon after the end of the war, I was relieved and flew home,
having by normal procedure reached the exalted rank of com-
mander.

By this time I could hardly remember the size of a bathtub, so
again there came a period of readjustment. In June, 1947, I
started work in the firm of Harrison and Abramovitz and had the
good fortune to share in a small way in one of their busiest periods
when they were doing the United Nations buildings, two office
buildings in Pittsburgh, a bank in Dallas, and many more.

While working in New York, I managed to buy land and build
a small modern house overlooking Cold Spring Harbor on Long
Island. By doing most of the work myself, I discovered many
things that could not be learned in an office, but commuting on
the famous Long Island R. R., mixing mortar when I got home,
and getting up at four A.M. in the mornings to do my private
architectural work made it a very busy schedule. By 1952, with
the house practically finished and more outside commissions
coming in, I left the firm and took up private practice again and
find that working in the country has many advantages that I had
never dreamed of before.

GOSTA ROBERT STENE

LAST KNOWN appress: Church Corners Inn, East Hartford, Conn.

BORN: March 23, 1906, Nice, France. parents: Robert Efraim Svensson,
Hildur Eleonora Holland.

PREPARED AT: Markaryd’s Agricultural School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B., 19303 A.M. 1933.

STENE has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1943.

[ 1066 ]

pg cite tag oT AMR od
apt sere poarenpsct sont ot . *

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

were derelict in their duty. My boy is going to Harvard if, and
when, you get rid of the girls. Sorry — that one gripe kind of
spread out. I can hardly wait to show both New England ang
Harvard to my family, and to see what your rewrite men do ty
this fugitive from English A.

FREDERICK MERIAM STETSON

HOME ADDRESS: Route 2, P.O. Box 343, Savannah, Ga.

BORN: May 26, 1907, New Bedford, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Eliot Stetson, ‘6,
Sigrid Moller.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Middletown, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MARRIED: Alice Waring, April 14, 1937, Savannah, Ga. cuit: Frank Waring,
Dec. 5, 1943.

OccuPATION: Advertising: consultant and writer, Direct Mail advertising
material.

MEMBER OF: Society of Colonial Wars in the State of Georgia, Savannah
Yacht and Country Club; Geechee Boat Club, Telfair Academy of Arts
and Sciences; Sports Car Club of America.

AFTER leaving college at the height of the Lindbergh era, J took
to the air and skimmed about over the stubble-fields of the Mid-
west at no particular monetary profit to anyone. Next, I entered
the employ of a well-known stock and bond house in New York.
This was indeed most enlightening — especially so when certain
events in 1929 convinced me that such goings-on were not for me.
At this point, the pendulum took a violent swing in the other d-
rection and I entered the Vesper George School of Commercial
Art, 2 co-ed institution where I formed many rewarding, if not
valuable, contacts — and incidentally, became bitten by the ad-
vertising bug.

This takes us into the middle thirties, which were spent in that
useless occupation known as “finding one’s feet”: synonym,
“having a hell of a good time.” Then, in 1937, I suddenly found
myself (a) engaged to a most charming lady, Alice Waring of
Savannah, Georgia, and (b) faced with the obvious necessity of
forgetting a good deal of the play and learning something about
the work. Accordingly, I made an association with Southeastern
Advertising Agency of Savannah, one which was to last most
pleasantly until I went into business for myself. There was 4

[ 1068 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hiatus during the War of 1941-45, when I found myself in essen-
tial industry — not very good fun — and the one bright spot was
the birth of a son, Frank, in 1943. This character is now eleven
years old and is mature (?) enough to share in his parents’ de-
light in making every possible use of the charming waterways
which surround us. Thus far, a good life — may it be allowed so
to continue!

DeWITT STETTEN, JR.

HOME Appress: 7504 Maple Ave., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

oFFicg aporess: National Institutes of Health, Bethesda 14, Md.

porn: May 31, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: DeWitt Stetten, Magdalen
Emst.

preraneD AT: Horace Mann School for Bays, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B, miagya cum laude, 1930; M.D.
(Columbia Univ.), 1934; Pip. (ibid.), 1940.

marriep: Marjorie Roloff, Feb. 7, 1941, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Gail,
Oct. 15, 1944; Nancy, March 16, 1946; Mary, February, 1950, George,
Dec. 15, 1953.

occupation: Associate director in charge of research, National Institute of
Arthritis and Metabolic Diseases, National Institutes of Health.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Biological Chemists; New York Academy
of Science; Harvey Society; American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science.

PusLicanions: Approximately eighty contributions to technical literature of
biochemistry.

FOUR years of medical school followed by two and a half
years of internship at Bellevue Hospital, New York, justified my
conviction that the practice of private medicine was not for me.
During the summer of my second year of medical school I spent
some months in the Pathologisches Institute of the University of
Freiburg, Germany, headed at that time by Geh. L. Aschoff,
working in the laboratory of his chemical associate, Dr. Rudolf
Schoenheimer. I found that this kind of activity was much more
to my liking. By the time I had finished my medical training,
Dr. Schoenheimer had found it expedient to leave Freiburg and
join the Columbia faculty and it was with him that I secured my
graduate training in biochemistry. Thereafter, I continued in the
Department of Biochemistry, College of Physicians and Surgeons,

[ 1069 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Columbia University, until 1947, attaining the rank of assistay
professor and spending my time teaching medical students ang
doing research.

It was during my stay at Columbia that I met my wife who wa
also a graduate student in the department and who secured he
degree shortly after we were married. Despite the successive
arrival of four children, Mrs. Stetten has continued an active
career as a research biochemist and has worked in close associa
tion with me, partly as an independent investigator and partly on
a collaborative basis.

In 1947 we moved to the Harvard Medical Schoo] where my
position was in the Department of Biological Chemistry, assigned
to the Biophysics Laboratory. Whereas we enjoyed our brief
re-visit to the Boston area, we could not resist the call to retum
to New York where I was offered the position of chief of the
Division of Nutrition and Physiology with the Public Health
Research Institute of the City of New York, where it was my
privilege to head a loyal and able group of trained investigators
in the conduct of pure research in the area of intermediary
metabolism.

In this work, which has been my major area of interest, we have
availed ourselves liberally of the use of isotopes as a convenient
device to follow the fate of individual molecular species in the
animal body. Within the past few months the group which!
had gathered at the New York laboratory has moved with me to
the National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, and here
we plan to continue the type of research which we have been
carrying on for the past several years. My position here is that of
associate director in charge of research of the National Institute
of Arthritis and Metabolic Diseases, one of the seven institutes
comprising the National Institutes of Health. As such, I have
been forced to assume administrative duties beyond those to which
I have been accustomed, and I am still uncertain as to whether |
enjoy this function as much as the daily performance of experi
ments in the laboratory.

[ 1070 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN ROY STEWART

HOME aporEss: P.O, Box 23, Churchville, Bucks Co., Pa. (permanent); 918
A Ave., Coronado, Calif. (temporary).

OFFicE Appress: Staff, ComAirPac, Naval Air Station, San Diego, Calif.

BORN: June 5, 1906, Fort Wingate, N. Mex. parents: Charles Walter
Stewart, Frances Lilliendahl.

PREPARED aT: Lycée de Grenoble, Grenoble, France.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1928-1930. DEGREE: 5.B., 1930,

MarrieD: Frances Darlington, Oct. 23, 1936, Philadelphia, Pa. cHitpRen:
Charles Walter, Nov. 28, 1937; Margaret, Sept. 10, 1944.

occupation: Captain, U.S. Navy: on staff of Commander, Air Force, Pacific
Fleet.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Aeronautical Sciences; Socicty of the Cincinnati;
Coronado Yacht Club; Coronado Radio Club,

WRITING a blurb such as this for the Class History gives many
of us a chance to lay aside our crystal balls and look back at the
somewhat staggering total of twenty-five years since we grad-
uated, Whoever said that “tempus is fugiting” was sure right.
It reminds me of a classmate (who will remain unidentified) who,
while we were in college, looked at a life expectancy table and
excitedly said, “My God, do you realize that our lives are one-
third over?” [ wonder what he thinks now when three-fourths of
the then expected sixty years have gone by.

By way of report on my activities, I spent the first two years
following graduation in naval aviation, and started my business
career in 1932 at the height of the depression. By 1940 I was the
treasurer of a small company doing research and development
in the aviation field. Along came Hitler and I was called back
into the Navy as a pilot. By the time I got back to the States in
1946, I had decided to stay with the Navy and I have been with
it ever since. In summary: seventeen years in the Navy, and
eight as a civilian.

Just before our Twenty-fifth Reunion, I have a son who will
graduate from high school, and who plans to enter Harvard to
study electrical engineering (Class of 1959). I hope he enjoys
college as much as I did, but I also hope he will see more of his
classmates after graduation than I have — after hopping all over
the country and a lot of foreign ones, My daughter is only ten,
so we shall still have a few more years of that wonderful ex-
perience of watching children grown to maturity.

[1071]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

On the social side of things, there is nothing startling to report,
When my son got interested in amateur radio, I got a license also,
We have had a lot of fun with it, outside of an occasional TV]
complaint. Other activities include sailing, fishing, and skiing, if
we are near snow areas.

In four more years I shall retire from the Navy and resume my
interrupted business career. I’ll save that story for our Fiftieth
Reunion. 73’s, as the “hams” say!

++ MALCOLM FERGUSON STEWART

BORN: Jan. 19, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Alexander Stewart, Christine
Ferguson.

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Hyde Park, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Olga Romero. cuitp: Robert N.

piED: July 13, 1949, Tegucigalpa, Honduras.

AFTER graduating, Stewart accepted a commission in the Navy
and served for a short time before joining the Army Air Corps.
He was commissioned a lieutenant and was stationed for two
years in Panama. He left the Army in 1937. Following some time
spent in commercial flying, in 1938 he went to Honduras where
he became head of the School of Military Aviation for the Re-
public of Honduras and head of the Air Corps. In 1941 he man-
aged a commercial transport service from Honduras to Salvador
and Panama. During World War II he flew bombers to England
for the United States government. He was a colonel at the time
of his death. His wife and son survived him.

RALPH ALDACE STEWART

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Wayland, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1907, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Ralph Aldace Stewart, Mary
Guilford.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MarRigD: Helen Elizabeth Stone, June 15, 1932, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN:
Sandra Lee, Sept. 6, 1933 (m. Richard W. Little, Aug. 23, 1952); Ralph
Aldace, Jr., Sept. 8, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Guilford Stewart, ’27; Malcolm Chilson Stewart, ’34.

[ 1072 ]

 

1 Ay APRON BENE A

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

In connection with political or religious convictions, I’ve finally _
reached the age where I do not believe one should have convic.
tions. In fact, ’'m convinced of it. As for my social life, would —
you let a dirt digger darken your bath towels? Some of my class.
mates doubtless recall when I was employed one summer durin
college in a fish factory in Groton, Connecticut. Although I was
variously referred to as a Mackerel Monarch or Tarpon Tycoon,
my duties consisted of scaling and removing the intestinal fort.
tude of these denizens of the deep in an atmosphere considerably
less odoriferous than Kennel No. 5. The only person who visited
me during this period was classmate Granville Barclay, who
dropped in after a rather rough night in Southhampton. One
short look at the place and he became violently ill. The only
reason I ever could figure for his call was that he was under the
impression we made fish-house punch. In spite of the fact that
most of my correspondence was addressed to No. 1 Shad Row,
I was staying at the Griswold of boat-race fame, an extremely
plush bit of hostelry, ‘though few Harvard men have ever been
sufficiently sober to view its finer qualities. It was at this time
that my social life was most precarious — for I would have been
ostracized by the Griswoldians if they learned I was monging
fish and also by my brother mongers if they found I was residing
at the Griswold. I fear history has repeated itself.

In my Twentieth Anniversay Report, I submitted under
“Sports and Hobbies” and I quote: “T still say for sheer stamina,
fight, and trickery, give me a small-mouthed lass at sundown any-
time.” John Cross in his printing for some strange reason changed
the word “lass” to “bass.” Now it is five years later and I am
five years older —I think I'll let the word “bass” stand.

SAUL GERALD STILLMAN

HOME apprEss: 3619 Blanche Rd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 530 Williamson Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1910, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Morris Silverman, Jennie
Shereshefsky.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cum? laude, 1930; LL.By 1933.

[ 1074 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Cecelia Pauline Huberman, Dec. 11, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Barbara H., Dec. 13, 1934 (am. Larry Meister, April 15, 1953); Jean
Adele, Aug. 25, 1937; Arthur Daniel, June 14, 1942.

occupation: Lawyer; secretary to Congressman George H. Bender, 23d
District of Ohio; treasurer, Cuyahoga County (Cleveland) Republican
Central Committee.

OFFICES HELD: Former vice-chairman, Cuyahoga County Republican Central
Committee; secretary, chairman Educational Committee Park Synagogue
of Cleveland Heights.

MEMBER OF: Triangle Club (survival of a youth group dating back to early
school days in Cleveland).

MY career since College consists of three years at the Harvard
Law School and twenty-five years of quiet excitement at absorb-
ing tasks. What with the desperate effort to help the Republican
party through some lean and seemingly endless years of (a) de-
pression (b) defection and (c) dissension, my political ties with
the G.O.P. have consumed a tremendous amount of my time and
interest, but little money, since I had none to offer. Simultane-
ously, I have maintained a childhood association with religious
and communal life. This has enabled me to retain (?) a fairly
balanced distorted view of things-as-they-are and as-they-should-
be. It has also accounted in large measure for the retention of a
few black (to me, at least) hairs, when all about me were losing
theirs.

My wife, whom I rescued from Radcliffe in her first year, has
never really forgiven me, but has endured bravely the ordeal of
more than twenty years of enforced domesticity. More lately,
she has emerged to the presidency of our local P.T.A. and now
serves as chairman of the Heights Council of P.T.A.’s, which is
her subtle way of evening the original score.

My three children have been an endless source of amazement,
if not of amusement, as they have slashed their way through my
life and budget in the most unequal contest of human experience.
I wish I had more of them — on rare occasions.

Both of my parents are, happily, still living, and if the outcome
of the pending elections proves unfavorable, they stand a good
chance of surviving at least one half of their progeny.

[ 1075 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

HERBERT ELLSWORTH STOKINGER

HOME Appress: Dunham Hospital, Guerley Road, Cincinnati 5, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1014 Broadway, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: June 19, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: William Herman Stokinger,
Charlotte Mae Greene.

PREPARED AT: Walpole High School, Walpole, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; PH.D. (Columbia Uniy,),
1937:

marrieD: Helen Ackerman, June 10, 1950, Munnsville, N. Y.

occuPATION: Chief toxicologist, U.S. Public Health Service.

OFFICES HELD: Member Committee on Toxicology, chairman subcommittee
of National Index of Toxicology, National Research Council; member
various governmental committees relating to establishment of occu.
pational health standards; chairman, several professional activities
committees of local engineering society.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Chi Sigma (professional society); American Association
for the Advancement of Science; American Industrial Hygiene Associ-
ation; American Public Health Association; American Society of
Immunologists; American Society of Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics; Association of Harvard Chemists; Philatelic Society,
English Society, Harvard Club, Cincinnati; Society of American Bac-
teriologists; Society of Experimental Biology and Medicine, Sigma XL

PUBLICATIONS: The Pharmacology and Toxicology of Uranium Compounds,
4 Vols. McGraw-Hill Company, 1949, 1953; fifty-odd publications in

various scientific journals,

MY last accounts include intervals before 1950. At the time it
seemed I was heading in the right direction as associate professor
of pharmacology at the University of Rochester Medical School,
while directing a goodly-sized research program on industrial
health for the Atomic Energy Project there. But being a pro-
fessor was not for me. This is not to deny the need and the
nobility of teaching, To me, however, all instruction carries with
it the frustration and futility of incessant repetition like the ebb
and flow of tides upon the beach.

Well, the record shows I changed positions, working my way
westward to the Queen City to be chief toxicologist for the
Public Health Service at the Occupational Health Field Head-
quarters in the Division of Special Health Services in the Depart-
ment of Health, Education and Welfare. (My seventeen small
nephews are still practising this one.) The record also shows I
was married; that killed the best part of a Saturday in June, 1950.

[ 1076 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

be tolerable summerwise were it near some sizeable body of water,
an ocean or something. The people are right sociable though,
and powerful nice. But the mud ponds of nearby Kentucky —
(“Jakes” they call them) are never going to replace the clea
rills and riffles of New England. Actually, Pve spent all my
confederate money; I don’t think the South will rise again.

The jumble and mass of scientific literature and lectures permit
me to read no more than four “new” books per year (according
to some, this is enough), attend a half-dozen stage productions
and a few concerts, maintain a second-rate U.S. stamp collection,
but a lively interest in Stock Exchange dealings. Now I know
I should have gone to Wall Street in the thirties.

Religious convictions? I have never been convicted religiously
since I dropped my violin into the apple-bobbing tub at a Christian
Endeavor social at the age of fourteen. Also, I have never been
a Communist, And if McCarthy isn’t listening —1 might have
been, because I applied voluntarily to Amtorg Trading Corpor-
tion in the early thirties to go to Russia as a technical hand under
the then sensible-enough stimulus of my educators who said (1)
Russia will some day grow (this has proven true), (2) to grow
technically, one should learn Russian (not so true). How better
than to live in Russia? To my chagrin, Amtorg didn’t rush me;
I was ignored. Alas, my opportunity was lost.

I predict: by the Fiftieth Reunion (1) in the United States,
control of many communicable diseases — tuberculosis, polio-
myelitis, brucellosis, infectious hepatitis; methods of allaying
many types of cancer; development of effective prophylactic and
antidotal measures against ionizing radiation; this will afford
opportunity for greater medical effort to be directed to the post-
ponement of the diseases of old age and certain forms of mental
diseases; lesser ailments such as the common cold, measles, mumps,
etc., will be still awaiting solution; (2) my father will be waving
goodbye to me as I leave to attend the Fiftieth Reunion.

[ 1078 ]



Vo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

firm representing manufacturers of industrial equipment of ,
number of lines. For a time I devoted my efforts to selling boilers
and allied lines in the production and handling of steam. Now,
however, I am concentrating on packaging machinery, and find
this field of far greater interest. I travel over all of New England
except Connecticut, and it is interesting to talk with manv-
facturers about their packaging problems.

While the jobs have been many and varied, the home front has
been relatively stable. My wife, my children, and I were all
born in Framingham, and that was home until we moved to
Hopkinton in May, 1948. We have become assimilated into the
community, although we shall have to be here many more years
before becoming accepted as belonging by some of the native.
born. Hopkinton has many of the limitations of any small town,
but it has the great asset of being a splendid place for the children
to grow. At present, on the fringe of the westward surge of
suburban development around Boston, perhaps they will one day
find it too “citified” for their liking.

Physically, I feel as young as I should, although it is discon-
certing to find one’s children running faster, jumping higher,
diving deeper, and coming up drier than ever did their old man!
Doctor’s orders, following a coronary attack in April, 1953, have
put a crimp on some activities, but on the whole all is well. With
our oldest now in Prep School (Mount Hermon), the years im-
mediately ahead promise to be the most interesting of all.

WHITNEY STONE

HOME apprEss: 965 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stone & Webster, Inc., go Broad St., New York 4, N. Y.

BoRN: April 24, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Augustus Stone, Mary
Adams Leonard.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Anne Colston Minor, March 12, 1932, Richmond, Va.

occupation: Administrator, executive, in engineering and financial enter-
prises.

OFFICES HELD: President, director, Stone & Webster, Inc.; director, Stone &
Webster Engineering Corporation, Stone & Webster Service Corpora-
tion, Stone & Webster Securities Corporation, all since 1945; director,

[ 1080 ]

PSF PDA STN ITEEETTNE SPH AUNT NAIOTN INH TT 1 SETTER NY



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928, 1929-1930.
occupation: Lawyer; novelist.

MEMBER OF: State Bar of Arizona; Screen Writers’ Guild; Société d'Etude
Océaniennes.

pusLications: Tbe Ship of Flame; Two Came By Sea; Castles in the Sand.
Tabiti Landfall, and others.

FROM 1929 to 1932 I was an airline transport pilot; in 1934 |
entered upon the practice of law. During World War II I worked
in the engineering department of Ryan Aeronautical Corporation
in San Diego, California. My first book was published in 1939;
my most recent publication is Castles in the Sand, William Morrow
& Company, 1955.

WILLIAM LADD STOREY

HOME appREss: West Neck Road, RF.D. 3, Huntington, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1907, Milton, Mass. parents: Richard Cutts Storey, '96,
Anna Ladd.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: LL.B. (New York Univ.), 1937.

MarRIED: Elinor Ladd, Dec. 29, 1937, New York, N. Y. (divorced). cHt-
DREN: Elinor Lee, Jan. 19, 1939; William Ladd, Jr., Oct. 1, 1941; Stephen
Whitney, Nov. 17, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

IN JUNE, 1930, I started work with the Gillette Safety Razor
Company as a machine tender. The company ran into difficulties
and my job there ran out in November, 1931. A short hitch with
the Dorrance Kenyon Advertising Agency in Boston also folded
in October, 1932. On January 2, 1933, I started work with Out-
door Advertising, Inc., at One Park Avenue in New York and
began the study of law at night in the following autumn, In 1935
the secretary of the company went into the private practice of
law, and I followed him as clerk. On graduation from law school
in 1937, I worked with the Eastern Malleable Iron Company at
Naugatuck, Connecticut, on an “open price” plan. This was an
excellent job, but temporary.

I was married in December, 1937, and took my bride to the
salt flats west of Salt Lake City on a mining venture. This was
extraordinarily interesting since the salt flats are the most incred-
ible real estate within the continental U.S. Anything you saw

[ 1082 |



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

CHARLES LIVINGSTON STOVER

HOME abpREss: § Belmont Drive, Ardsley-on-Hudson, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jersey City Printing Co., 160 Maple St., Jersey City, N. J.

BoRN: Dec. 16, 1906, Lowell, Mass. parents: Charles Livingston Stover,
Lucky Kitson Stott.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926~1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

mMarrieD: Margaret Louise Milne, April 27, 1932, New York, N. Y. cumopnrey:
Louise Milne, Feb. 1, 1937; Jean Drake, Jan. 28, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Kitson Stover, ’26.

OCCUPATION: Printer; vice-president, Jersey City Printing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Phelps Memorial Hospital; member executive board,
Tarrytown Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Sleepy Hollow Country Club; Ardsley Country Club; Down-
-town Athletic Club.

HAVE had the same wife and been with the same company since
graduation! My hobbies are travel, photography, and golf. Ever
since our younger daughter was four years old, we have travelled
as a family through this country, South America, and Europe,
on one trip to Europe, we even flew the Atlantic with them. We
highly recommend travel with the young! Our older daughter is
now at Wellesley.

HARRY WILTON STURGES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2523 Via Pinale, Palos Verdes Estates, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Southern California Edison Co., 601 W. Fifth St. Los
Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Harry Wilton Sturges, ’os,
Helen Ayres Keyser.

PREPARED AT: Milford School, Milford, Conn.; Stamford High School, Stam-
ford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 19303 LL.B. 1934(35).

MARRIED: Elizabeth Helen Niewenhous, Sept. 23, 1933, Pelham, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Harry Wilton, 3d, April 21, 1935; John Siebrand, Feb. 12,
1939.

occupaATION: Attorney-at-Law: assistant counsel, Southern California Edison
Company; vice-president, A. Keyser Company.

MEMBER OF: Bars of District of Columbia, State of New York, State of
California, Supreme Court of the United States; Association of the Bar
of the City of New York; California State Bar Association; Harvard

[ 1084 ]

ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

OCCUPATION: Accountant.

MEMBER OF: A.F. & A.M., Oroville, Calif.

AFTER I left Harvard, I worked in a mining camp in the Wal.
lowa Mountains of Oregon for a couple of years. Spent the bal.
ance of the thirties in Montana and Nevada, mining and prospect-
ing. I went to work for Boeing Aircraft Company when activity
began there prior to the war, working as an industrial engineer
handling job evaluation. I resumed prospecting after the war:
dug numerous holes in southern Arizona. I went to Montana and,
with three others, leased a mining property; worked the property
for a couple of years with the aim of finding and developing a
large commercial deposit. We made a number of shipments of
ore, but the commercial deposit proved elusive. Came to Califor-
nia and have worked since for a utility company. I move around
a great deal and enjoy working in different areas and getting out
on different construction jobs. I like California, but still havea
preference for the Rocky Mountain area.

My travels have been limited to this country and a few side-
trips into Mexico and western Canada. I have enjoyed handball
and squash at different periods.

ROBERT LEE SUMMERS, JR.

HOME apprEss: Egypt, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BorN: April 21, 1907, Hingham, Mass. parents: Robert Lee Summers,
Willilu Tibbs.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

ERIC FOLKE SWANFELDT

HOME ADDRESS: 214 Bellevue St., Newton 58, Mass.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 1165 Blue Hill Ave.
Dorchester 24, Mass.

BORN: March 17, 1903, Landskrona, Sweden. PARENTS: Elof Swanfeldt, Ida
Erikson,

[ 1086 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

marRiED: Leola Laurence, June 16, 1928, Malden, Mass. (died April 19,
1948); Lulu W. Stuart, June 16, 1951, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN: Eric
Folke, Jr. May 21, 1932; Kristin Laurence, Oct. 13, 1933; Francis L.
Stuart (stepson), Aug. 26, 1934.

HARVARD SON: Eric Folke Swanfeldt, Jr., "54.

occupation: Office agent, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Boston Life Underwriters.

I HAVE lived quietly. My work, my family, and my church
have been my chief interests." I had a good wife who died in 1948
after a year of serious illness) We had two children who, at
present, 1 am proud to say are in college. Our daughter, Kristin,
graduates from Mount Holyoke College this June, and our son,
Eric, graduates from Harvard (he stayed out one year).

The depression forced me into selling, and that I have been
doing ever since. [ have been with the Metropolitan Life Insur-
ance Company since 1941.

My community activities followed along as the children grew.
Sunday School teaching and other religious education activities,
Cub Scout and Boy Scout work, and gardening filled my spare
time. At present I am senior deacon in our church (Congrega-
tional).

In 1951 Lulu W. Stuart became my wife. She has a son, Francis,
who is in the US. Air Corps.

I vote Republican quite regularly since the best candidates

usually are of this party.

HOWARD MARSHALL SWARTZ

HOME AppRESS: 434 Sulgrave Rd., Pittsburgh 11, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 435 Sixth Ave., Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1909, Bellevue, Pa. Parents: Carl Swartz, Lorena Rosalie
Hunzeker.

PREPARED AT: Langley High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cze7 laude, 1930; LL.B. (Univ. of
Pittsburgh), 1933.

marrieD: Lila Isabel Smith, Oct. 6, 1945, Washington, Pa. cup: Howard
Marshall, Jr., Feb. 23, 1954.

occupation: Lawyer, Law Department of Duquesne Light Company.

MemMBeR oF: Allegheny County Bar Association; Harvard-Yale-Princeton
Club; Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce,

[ 1087 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

JAMES MACK SWIGERT

HOME ADDRESS: 196 Green Hills Rd., Cincinnati, Ohio.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Taft, Stettinius & Hollister, 603 Dixie Terminal Bide,
Cincinnati, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1907, Carthage, Ill. parents: James Ross Swigert, Pearl Mack,

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Des Moines, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; LL.B., 1935.

marrigp: Alice Harrower, July 7, 1931, Big Creek, Tenn. cHItpreN: Oliver,
Dec. 30, 1937; David Ladd, Jan. 13, 1942; Sally Harper, May 4, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, member of firm.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Law School Association of Cincinnati,
1953-54; treasurer, Harvard Club of Cincinnati, 1951; chairman, Labor
Law Committee, Cincinnati Bar Association, 1954.

MEMBER oF: American, Ohio State, Cincinnati Bar Association, Queen City
Club; Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Harvard Law School Association of
Cincinnati; Cincinnati Tennis Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Truth About the Taft-Hartley Law,” Saturday Evening
Post, Oct. 25, 1947; “Should We Repeal the Taft-Hartley Law,” Satur-
day Evening Post, Oct. 30, 1948.
UPON graduation from college in 1930, I became Assistant Con-
sultant on Careers at the college, and worked in that capacity for
one year. The following year I became Assistant Secretary for
Student Employment and held that job, first on a full-time and
then on a part-time basis, for the next four years. In July of
1931 I was married to Alice Harrower of Johnson City, Tennessee,
and in 1932 entered the Harvard Law School. After graduation
in 1935 we moved to Chicago where I became an associate in the
law firm of Campbell, Clithero and Fischer. In the following
year we moved to Cincinnati where I became an associate in the
law firm of Taft, Stettinius & Hollister. The Wagner Labor Act
was relatively new in those days, but was already generating legal
business. I slowly gravitated into this field and gained experience
in representing employers in their controversies with labor unions.
Today, a large part of my time is devoted to this work.

Senator Robert A. Taft was a member of our firm and, because
of this labor experience, I was able to help him to some extent in
drafting the Taft-Hartley Law. In January of 1948, I was ad-
mitted to partnership in the firm of Taft, Stettinius & Hollister.

I am a member of the Republican party and an elder in the
Presbyterian Church, My sport is still tennis.

[ 1088 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

“After five years, during which he served in every Capacity
from acting to directing, he joined the management of RKO
Theatres in New York. Then came a stint on the directorial staf
of Hollywood producer, Walter Wanger.

“In the early part of the last war, John trained fighter pilots
at the famous Thunderbird Field, Arizona. Then he joined the
Navy to serve in the photographic unit headed by Captain John
Steichen.

“Since the war, he has concentrated on photography earning
the reputation of being one of the most expert theatrical photog-
raphers on either coast. He has been office photographer for
such successful stage productions as “Mr. Roberts,” “South
Pacific,” to name but two, His work is frequently seen in Life

Magazine and particularly memorable are his recent picture stories
of the movies, “Julius Caesar,” and “Executive Suite.”

His secretary writes: “Perhaps you can use a few added notes:
I might say that the past two seasons that the Playhouse has been
so efficiently headed by Mr. Swope have been their most success-
ful. His selection of plays, casts, and his gentle handling of all
the staff and the many, many problems that constantly come up
on these productions, showed his great talent as a theatrical pro-
ducer. He loves his home and is a very devoted father. As he
often writes to his family describing his children: ‘You should
see them. There’s no possible way to describe what a lusty,
healthy, handsome, gay boy Mark is. One just has to see him and
even then it is unbelievable. Topo (nickname for Mary Hackett)
is equally fine, getting lovelier every day. In fact, we were pretty
lucky all the way around. Topo loves her school and also enjoys
her painting class very much.’ ”

WILLIAM TANDY

HOME ADDRESS: 3535 W. 82d PI., Inglewood, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 307 N. Locust St., Inglewood, Calif,

BORN: Jan, 27, 1904, London, England. parents: Joe Tandy, Kate Stern.

PREPARED AT: Steele High School, Dayton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928. DecREES: s.B. (Univ. of Chicago), 1930; M.D.
(Ohio State Univ.), 1934.

MARRIED: Katherine Baker, June 17, 1934, Sharon, Pa.

OccuPATION: Physician: eye specialist.

[ 1090 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

my handsome pay last out the month, or arranging to get some
thing fixed for friend wife (the burden of having to do householg
chores myself appears to be suspended during our stay over here!)
I may be able to enjoy my newspaper or something else in peace
— if I don’t fall asleep. Time, which slants the news the way 1 like
it, is number one on my out-of-course reading list. Apart from
being classified as a congenital Republican, I still “like Ike,” his
policy of enlightened self-interest and struggle to catch, if not
restore, the dollar.

When we are not out taking pictures of some old castle, or look-
ing into a twelfth century monastery, or trying with limited suc.
cess to speak auf Deutsch with our German neighbors, we find our-
selves in the midst of the usual round: Mary Anne is president of
the local P.T.A. and flips a paint brush when she can, I manage
to get in a tennis or squash game now and then, as well as help
with some of the community activities.

We will be keenly disappointed to miss the coming Reunion,
but will try to pick up some post-mortems when we get back. In
the meantime, we are still giving “the old college try”: for God,
for country, and for Harvard!

MEYER TEXON

HOME ADDRESS: 365 West End Ave., New York 24, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3 EF. 68th St., New York 21, N. Y.

BorN: April 23, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Morris David Texon, Eva
Kaizer.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D. (New York Unwv.),
1934.

marrieD: Ami Atheda Gold, Oct. 26, 1941, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Stephen Jonathan, Feb. 21, 1945; Sylvia Adele, Jan. 30, 1955.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Consultant in Medicine, U.S. Air Force, Mitchel Air Force
Base, N. Y.; attending physician, physician-in-charge, Cardiac Clinic,
‘Knickerbocker Hospital, 1936-50, Mount Sinai Hospital, 1936-48, Mid-
town Hospital; member, Committee on Effect of Trauma and Strain
on the Heart, American Heart Association, Committee on Public
Health, New York County Medical Society.

MEMBER OF: New York Academy of Medicine; American College of Phvsi-
cians; New York County Medical Society; Phi Delta Epsilon; American
Board of Internal Medicine and Cardiovascular Disease.

[ 1094 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

time for pursuit and enjoyment of my hobbies — painting, am.
teur movie taking, golf, sailing, and the outdoor life.

+ HINCKLEY THACHER

BoRN: Aug. 21, 1907, Hyannis, Mass. parents: Frank Gorham Thacher,
Florence Hinckley.

PREPARED AT: Barnstable High School, Barnstable, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

MARRIED: Henrietta Chase. cup: Son.

piep: Oct. 14, 1933, Hyannis, Mass.

THACHER left Harvard in our junior year and joined the
Travelers Insurance Company of Hartford. He later became as-
sociated with his father, an insurance broker in Hyannis. His
wife and son survived him.

ERWIN CARL THIESSEN

HOME AppRESS: Rocky Hill Road, Plymouth, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 14 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Herman Thiessen, Augusta
Caroline Bendig.

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude.

MARRIED: Elizabeth George Kirby, June 16, 1933, New Bedford, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Milton Thiessen, ’24, M.B.A., 726.

occuPATIon: Associate Treasurer for general finances, American Board of
Commissioners for Foreign Missions.

OFFICES HELD: Director, member Finance Committee, Investment Manage-
ment Corporation; member Standing Committee, Church of the Pil-
grimage, Plymouth, Mass.,; trustee, member Executive and Finance
Committees, Trustees of Anatolia College, Thessalonika, Greece; direc-
tor and treasurer, St. Mark Social Center, Inc., Roxbury, Mass.; treas-
urer, Greater Boston Committee of the International Missionary Coun-
cil, member Treasurers’ Panel, Division of Foreign Missions, National
Council of the Churches of Christ in the U.S.A.; director (alternate),
Japan International Christian University Foundation, Inc., New York.

MEMBER OF: Church of the Pilgrimage, Plymouth, Mass.

DURING all of the years since graduation I have been a money-
man, having been involved in the financial end of various enter-
prises. Involvement with budgets, financial controls, investments,

[ 1096 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Remembering the teachings of both Professor Taussig ang
Schlesinger (Sr.), I voted for Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1932, no
being mature enough to distinguish between campaign oratory
and actual intentions. I was frankly impressed with F.DR’s
statement to the effect that too many liberal governments had
been wrecked on the rocks of loose fiscal policy. And after that
came pump priming! Since 1936 I have voted for the Republican
candidate, several times with reservations, but most enthusias-
tically for Dwight Eisenhower, who to this date has not dis-
appointed me. I daresay that I shall remain a conservative, but
God willing, not a reactionary.

I wish to report that in my experience marriage is a fine thing
and that I should like to spend much more time with my wife
than I am able. Twenty-five years after graduation find me with
the convictions that real human progress is painfully slow, that
the aim of education should be the creation of a responsible
society, using its material wealth in accordance with spiritual
motivations, and that the gospel of Jesus Christ provides the
answers to an awful lot of things. A final comment —I have
generally found it futile to look backwards.

RICHARD ALEXANDER THOMAS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 142 E. 80th St., New York 21, N. Y.

BorN: Feb, 14, 1909, Chicago, Il]. parents: Adolph Alexander Thomas,
Helen Elizabeth Rowe.

PREPARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930(32); Diplome Supérieur
(Univ. of Paris).

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Lecturer on world affairs; radio and TV appearances; wuiter
on political and comic subjects. -

OFFICES HELD: Head of French Department, N.B.C.; chief news analyst for
station WBNX; section chief for TV newscasting, New York’s Chan-
nel 13.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of New York, Japan, and France; Overseas
Press Club of America; Anglo-American Press Club of Paris; National
Travel Club; Air Force Reserve; American Legion; Lambda Chi Alpha
Fraternity; American Bible Society.

PUBLIcaTIONS: Contributions to New York Times, New York Herald Trib-
une, Readers Digest, and American Mercury.

[ 1098 ]

parte

Vd



a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

That summer (1948) I joined the staff of The New You
Times, where I returned to one of my favorite slots — writin
world news for radio broadcast, on The Times’ station, WOXR
The need for expressing oneself succinctly — which I hare
obviously abandoned in this lengthy account — constitutes one
of the most interesting phases, I believe, of news reporting.

I remained with The Times for five years, in one of the mos

pleasant business associations I have ever known. However, the
call of other diversions began making itself felt in the latter years
of my Times work, and in the fall of 1953 I resigned to go into
platform lecturing on a full-time basis, and also to be free to
accept spot assignments on radio and TV. ‘That is my position
as of now — 1955 —as I travel from coast to coast, speaking to
women’s clubs, businessmen’s groups, service clubs, and colleges
and universities. In addition to seeing the length and breadth of
our great country, I travel abroad once a year to freshen up my
material. One of my latest junkets was to the Middle East where
I checked up on the oil situation in Egypt, Iraq, Iran, Kuwatt,
Bahrein, Qatar, Syria, and the Lebanon. My next trip calls for
an El Al flight to Israel, Turkey, Cyprus, and Greece.

I find lecturing to be a most interesting profession, and at
times, the most hilarious. It involves everything from changing
trains at 4 A.M. in the pouring rain to learning how to yawn
without being detected, to say nothing of having to laugh con-
vincingly at the ridiculous witticisms of your many un-witty
program chairmen. Once at a forum on Long Island where | was
the main speaker, the presiding officer became confused over
the difference between V-Day and D-Day, and introduced me as
one of the VD heroes of the Mediterranean. At a girls’ college in
Virginia, I was referred to as an eligible bachelor who had
fathered many an important international idea. And then there
was the “bosoomy” dowager who wanted to show that my
economic background was well balanced. She declared that |
had been with management for two years, and had been in labor
for the past six months.

But perhaps the pay-off was the time I spoke in Pennsylvania
in a series of twelve talks in as many different towns. Speaking
with me each time from the same platform was a buxom matron
who told of the need for volunteers to help out the less privileged.

[ 1102 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

RICHARD HILDRETH THOMPSON

HOME AND OFFICE ApprEss: 26 Chestnut St., Salem, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 26, 1907, Salem, Mass. PARENTS: Alvah Percy Thompson, Chg.
lotte Maria Wellington.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.D., 1934.

marrigD: Barbara Austin Proctor, Sept. 16, 1933, Swampscott, Mass. am.
DREN: Joan, July 14, 1936; Richard Hildreth, Jr., April 9, 1938.

OccUPATION: General Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting surgeon, Salem Hospital, Salem, Mass.

MEMBER OF: New England Surgical Society; American College of Surgeons
(fellow); Accredited by American Board of Surgery; Tennis & Racquet
Club, Boston; Eastern Yacht Club, Marblehead.

PUBLICATIONS: “Gall Bladder Surgery in a Community Hospital,” New Eng.
land Journal of Medicine, 1951.

THE first four years after college were spent at the Medicd
School. I was married just before my fourth year there. Next]
served as house officer and resident on the East Surgical Service
at the Massachusetts General Hospital until 1940. Our two
children, Joan, now eighteen and attending Sarah Lawrence Col-
lege, and Richard, Jr., at Middlesex School, were born while I
was still in a white suit.

In 1940 I moved to Salem to be assistant to Dr. Walter G.
Phippen and to start my own surgical practice. This practice is
very satisfactory, as we have a community hospital with a fully
organized medical staff and separation of the various services.

In November, 1941, I became a Fellow of the American
College of Surgeons, and just after Pearl Harbor was accredited
by the American Board of Surgery.

In the spring of ’42, I entered the Army as a captain and went
promptly overseas with the ro5th General Hospital (the Har-
vard Unit of the Pacific). After a year in Australia, I went with
a Portable Hospital to New Guinea. We were flown as the first
American Medical Unit to Nadzab in the Markham Valley. I
remained in this base for a year and was promoted to major in
September, 1943. After two more interesting assignments at Lae
and Hollandia, I was “boarded” home with the prevalent “jungle
rot” which healed after a few months. In December, 1945, I
reopened my office and have been pretty busy in general sur-
gery since that time.

[ 1104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1949 I was elected to the New England Surgical Society.
My practice, meetings of medical and surgical societies, and
teaching duties at the hospital, keep me happy but not quite as
free as my family might wish.

I am a junior deacon in the Congregational Church and my
New England conscience bothers me that IT do not give more
time to church activity.

In politics, I remain a Republican.

As for recreation, the family is completely sold on a favorite
ranch in Montana where we ride and fish to our hearts’ content.
We are enthusiastic skiers, and even an auto accident on our way
to ski last year, which cost me a broken arm, has not altered our
plans for a ski trip this year.

FRANCIS BEATTIE THURBER, II

HOME AND OFFiCH ADoRESS: 15 Wolden Rd., Ossining, N. Y.

porn: March 22, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Francis Beattie Thurber,
Jr, Louise Benedict Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. miagna cum laude, 1930; B. MECH.
enain. (Polytechnic Inst. of Brooklyn), 1950.

Marniep: Olga Von K. Craven, July 4, 1941, Port Washington, N. Y. cui-
pren: Polly Craven, Nov. 18, 1942; Francis Beattie, qth, July 11, 1944;
Thomas Tingey Craven, Oct. 1, 1950.

HARVARD protHER: LeGrand Lockwood Thurber, '34.

occupation: Builder,

orrices HELO: Member, Republican Committee for New York County, 1936-
40, Committee on Slum Clearance and Rehabilitation of the New York
State Association of Home Builders.

MEMBER oF: Phi Beta Kappa, Society of American Military Engineers; Ex-
Members of “Squadron A”; Onteora Club; Reserve Officers Association;
National Association of Home Builders; Pi Tau Sigma.

UPON graduation, I worked for an outfit known as J. P. Morgan
& Company, a good firm. Later went in for engineering with
Coverdale & Colpitts. After that, had a political job in Albany
for the State of New York. Got into the building business with
American Houses, Inc., prefabbers. Then set up my own outfit.
Went to war, got shot at but missed, got decorated, got home
OK. Went back into the building business and am doing all

[ 1105 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

right, boys. Will sell anyone a house beyond his means, even my
classmates.

Oh yes, and about the kids — they take after the old man.

WILLIAM DAVIS TICKNOR, JR.

HOME AppREss: 40 Beech Rd., Englewood, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Commercial Solvents Corp., 260 Madison Ave., New York
16, N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 15, 1907, Canton, Mass. parents: William Davis Ticknor, Eh |

Francis Wattles.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930(33).

MARRIED: Elizabeth Shaw, June 14, 1930, Groton, Mass. CHILDREN: William
Davis, 3d, April 30, 1932 (7. Shirley A. Simonsen, June 12, 1959);
Arthur Wattles, Oct. 20, 1934; Julia Ward, April 24, 1936; Anne, Jun
26, 1940; Henry Richards, Sept. 20, 1946.

HARVARD sons: William Davis Ticknor, 3d, 54; Arthur Wattles Ticknor,';4. _

OCCUPATION: Chemical manufacturing: assistant general manager, export de-
partment, Commercial Solvents Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1952-53, member, 1942~—43, board of managers, Con-
munity Chest, Englewood, N. J.; chairman, American Red Cross Can-
paign, Englewood, 1942; trustee, Englewood School for Boys, 1935-43.
since 1946; appointed to six-year term, Planning Board, City of Engle-
wood, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Englewood Field Club.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I was married and my wilt
and I sailed for France for a year of study at the University of
Grenoble and the Sorbonne. In the fall of 1931 I started four
years as a master at St. Paul’s School in Concord, New Hamp-
shire. There I taught general science and coached football.

In 1935 I decided that schol teaching was not for me, and
secured a job in the sales department of Commercial Solvents
Corporation, where I have been working ever since, with the
exception of the three years spent as a civilian employee of OSS
during World War II.

For the past seven years I have been in the export department.
of which I am presently assistant general manager. This has
meant considerable travel to various parts of the world, which
has been most interesting.

Five children and a vegetable garden with forty cubic feet of
deep freeze units adjacent tells how my spare time is spent.

[ 1106 ]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

OFFICES HELD: Member Arbitration Panel, American Arbitration Association
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Economic Club of New Yor,
Baltusrol Golf Club; Sales Executive Club of New York.

FOLLOWING graduation I went to work for the General Flec.
tric Company in Schenectady, New York, as a trainee in their
Business Administration Course. The training program covered
three intensive years at rotating assignments in the treasury and
accounting divisions during the day and attending classes in bus.
ness administration at night. While it’s difficult to believe now, ;
trainee was subject to summary dismissal if late for work three
times in the three-year period. I completed the course, and this
early training very probably accounts for a trait which hasn't
endeared me to some individuals in my present company. (I'm
puzzled at a contradiction when I remember that today is Febr-
ary 18, the deadline of deadlines according to a communication
received from John Cross last night!)

After eight otherwise satisfactory years with General Electric,
I started looking for a field with a reputation for paying high
salaries. I decided on retail merchandising and joined a good-sized
department store in Metropolitan New York.

The month of October, 1942, found me at Quonset, Rhode Is-
land, taking the naval officers’ sixty-day wonder course in preparz-
tion for what I hoped would be a comfortable but useful billet
I should mention, I suppose, that while at Quonset, I received a
merit for having a shipshape bunk at the very same time that my
bunkmate — now a highly successful Wall Street broker —re-
ceived a very ugly demerit for having a chocolate bar under his
pillow.

Breaking the news to my wife that my orders read “Report to
Commander Naval Aircraft, Southwest Pacific Force,” was no
easy task. For some reason never clear to me, Bawn was certain
I would be assigned to Norman, Oklahoma. She blamed this ter-
rible assignment on the fact I knew how to fly. (I took up flying
as a hobby in the late 1930's.) Two years’ duty as assistant operi-
tions officer and gunnery officer of Naval Aircraft, Seventh Fleet,
took me to Australia, New Guinea, and the Admiralty Islands.
Back in the States again in a salty lieutenant commander's unl-
form, I was sent to Washington, given a Freiden calculating m2
chine and put to work figuring the production requirements for

[ 1108 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

F4U fighter planes. Shooting on the Bureau of Aeronautics’ pistol
team was an occasional and much needed diversion,

At the war’s end, I returned to my old job in the department
store. In 1947 I joined the Associated Merchandising Corporation
as secretary-treasurer. Statistics? This company produces resi-
dent buying, research, and wholesaling services for twenty-six de-
partment stores, whose total volume is close to one and one-half
billion dollars.

Hobbies? Weekend golf, losing money on a six handicap.

Ambition? Acceptance of my new rules on gin rummy which
emphasize skill and minimize luck!

ARTHUR IRVING TOMPKINS

HOMB AppRess: 10124 Malibu Rd., Malibu, Calif,

orrice appress: Paul Heinley Mastercraft Products, 1620 Euclid St., Santa
Monica, Calif.

Born; Feb, 16, 1902, Troy, N. Y. parents: Ernest Tompkins, Alice Bently
Stabler.

PREPARED AT: Pasadena High School, Pasadena, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

marRRigD: Helen Florence Zaebish, March 8, 1940, cHipreN: Steven Arthur,
Oct. 20, 1942; William Irving, Sept. 11, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Salesman.

YOSHIO TONGU

LAST KNOWN appreEss: 652 Jackson St. Seattle, Wash.

Born: Oct. 18, 1904, Okayamaken, Japan. parents: Kumano Tongu, Yachiy
Uchigura.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928, 1929-1930.

TONGU has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since
1940.

JOSEPH TONKIN

OFFice appress: Continental Arms Corp., 697 Fifth Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BORN: June 4, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Nathaniel Tonkin, Lillian
Freedman.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

[ 1109 J



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

UNMARRIED.
OCCUPATION: Finance.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I was employed by a fine conservative
Stock Exchange firm which put me through an intensive training
course and made me into a bond salesman. After a year and a half
of rather meager earnings, I moved to a New York department
store, eventually becoming a minor merchandising executive. A
few years later, I became sales manager of a firm producing house-
wares. This firm failed and I returned to Wall Street where, in
the course of time, I found myself a partner in a bond house.
When the war started, most of the personnel entered the service
and our business was discontinued.

I entered the U.S. Government and was a member of the
O.P.A. committee that originated the gasoline rationing program.
In 1944 my services were requested by the Dutch government
and I assumed the duty of economist for the Economic, Financial
and Shipping Mission of the Royal Government of Holland. On
the termination of the war, I was for some years with the War
Assets Administration. At the present time, I am vice-president
of Continental Arms Corporation.

I am not married. My outdoor interests are mainly tennis and
sailing and I still do about 500 miles a year of long distance run-
ning in three, five, or seven mile stints. I live rather quietly and
have some intellectual interests in religion, philosophy, and litera-
ture.

FREDERICK KINGSBURY TRASK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Stanwich Road, Cos Cob, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Payson & Trask, 748 Madison Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 8, 1907, Short Hills, N, J. parents: Frederick Kingsbury Trask.
Katharine Stagg Jacquelin.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

MarrieD: Margaret Moulton Pope, June 14, 1930, Detroit, Mich. cHtiprey:
Jacquelin, Dec. 15, 1931; Jane B. S., Nov. 11, 1933; Frederick Kings-
bury, 3d, Nov. 25, 1937; Frances Pope, April 10, 1939.

OccuPATION: Managing partner, Payson & Trask, private banking.

OFFICES HELD: Councilman, Borough of Sewickley, Pa., 1941-45; New York
Trust Company, 1930-35; assistant cashier, 1940-43, assistant vice-presi-

[1110]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

recognition. The addition to my firm five years ago of oy

classmate, Marshall Rawle, has been a happy one for all con.

cerned. We were schoolmates for ten years, we hope our business
association is a lot longer. And my family’s home in the back
country of Greenwich has been named by unanimous vote, “Sti

Pond” — no more moyin’!

Looking back over twenty-five years, the hardest thing is to
separate the important from the trivial. Turns, forks, and cross.
roads, once passed, have a way of merging in retrospect into a
simple, uncomplicated highway. Reflecting on the road we have
travelled, one or two thoughts emerge as possibly worth record-
ing. The first— by no means original —is that far and away
the most important thing in the world is people. The more you
can see and know other people, visit with them, work for them,
and turn to them for help, the happier you are going to be,
Neighbors — real neighbors, not just co-dwellers in big-city
apartments — are particularly important. But it really doesn’t
matter where you live or where you find them; people are won-
derful anywhere.

Another notion is that too many young men and women these
days are worrying about whether their jobs are suitable and
whether they are entirely happy with them. Certainly aptitudes
and personal inclinations are important in selecting a life’s work,
but this is by no means the whole story. Throwing yourself into
your job wholeheartedly is just as important in the business world
as it is in such fields as art, science, or religion. Did you ever hear
of a good painter or medical scientist worrying about whether
he was happy? Any young person who, having selected a field
of gainful employment, will identify his own interests with his
employer’s, seek a measure of recreation and creative expression
in outside activities, and forget the introspection is giving himself
a real break.

As for the future, my most pressing and immediate problem is
how to attend the graduation of one daughter from Vassar, an-
other from Radcliffe, and my own Twenty-fifth Reunion, all
scheduled for the same week in June, 1955!

[rr14]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEONARD JAY TRILLING

HOME AbpRESS: 115 E. g2d St., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 414 Broadway, Paterson, N. J.

BoRN: Dec. 8, 1907, Paterson, N. J. parents: Maurice Trilling, Betty Spitzer.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Paterson, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930, M.D. (Columbia Univ.)
1934; Diplomate, American Board of Dermatology, 1946.

MARRIED: Beatrice Sulzberger, April 14, 1938, New York, N. Y. cHr_pren:
Michael L., April 5, 1942; Richard J., May 17, 1944; John L., Dec. 28,
1946.

OCCUPATION: Physician; dermatologist.

MEMBER OF: Passaic County Medical Society; New York County Medical
Society; Society for Investigative Dermatology; American Medical
Association, New Jersey State Medical Society.

AFTER graduation from Harvard I entered Columbia P. and S.,
from which I was graduated as a doctor of medicine in 1934.
Then followed two years internship, four years of general prac-
tice, and two years residency in dermatology. In August, 1942, I
entered the medical corps of the U.S. Army and served with them
until April, 1946. During this service I was the dermatologist for
the Cook County Hospital Unit in Europe. I was also assigned
as consultant dermatologist to several general hospitals in the area.

In 1946 I received my degree of Diplomate of the American
Board of Dermatology. Since that time I have been in practice
as a dermatologist and have been associate dermatologist at St.
Joseph’s Hospital in Paterson, New Jersey.

In 1938 I married Beatrice Sulzberger, and we have three sons,
ages thirteen, eleven, and eight and one-half.

FREDERICK COURTNEY TROLL

HOME ADDRESS: 1828 Hastings Ave., East Cleveland 12, Ohio.

OFFICE appress: Lynwood Taylor Real Estate, 13661 Euclid Ave., East Cleve-
land, Ohio.

BorN: Oct. 2, 1909, St. Clairsville, Ohio. parents: William Ross Troll, Mary
Flizabeth Nolan.

PREPARED AT: St. Clairsville High School, St. Clairsville, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(32); LL.B., 1938.

marrieD: Mary Louise Ziegler Lins, May 30, 1948, Cleveland, Ohio. cu-
DREN: Mary Katherine, Oct. 28, 1948; Frederick Courtney, 2d, April
14, 1950; Jean Louise, Oct. 13, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Real estate and law.

[ 1115 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

CLARENCE OLIVER TUCK

HOME aAppREss: 14 N. Washington St., Port Washington, Long Island, N. y,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 150 Varick St., New York 13, N. Y.

porn: April 1, 1908, New Rochelle, N. ¥. parents: Theodore Calvin Tuck,
Jeannette Kelley.

PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: A.B., 1930(31); M.B.A. (New York Univ.), 1935.

MARRIED: Jessie Guerry, Feb. 28, 1935, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: Anne
Guerry, Dec. 6, 1935; Laurence Capers, Dec. 1, 1939; Katherine Abigail,
March 24, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Erskine Tuck, ’25.

occuPATION: Certified public accountant; part-time professor of accounting
at Pace College and New York University.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Village of Baxter Estates, Port Washington, since
1954.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants, American Accounting As-
sociation; New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants,

ALL our children are far better students than I ever was, must
be that Guerry blood. Anne is a sophomore at Pembroke. Her
glowing reports of the advantages of a “small town” college
appear to be heading Larry right into Brown. | ~

Summer classes, which meet two nights a week, have — except
for a few trips — restricted my travelling and vacations to knock-
ing around local waters. The younger generation begs me not
to disgrace them at the pool with my fancy dives, but my con-
temporaries assure me my back dive has improved with age. It’s
just the flips and gainers that have me baffled and I have reluct-
antly abandoned them.

FREDERIC TUDOR

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 51 Randolph Ave., Milton 87, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1906, Marblehead, Mass. parents: William Starling Burgess,
’o1, Rosamond Tudor.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930(31)3; M.D., 1934.

MarRIED: Mary Allerton Cushman, Nov. 10, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Rosamond, Jan. 18, 1936; Mary Allerton, May 23, 1939; Frederic, Jr,
Nov. 21, 19413 Robert Cushman, Dec. 30, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

[ 1116 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

There really isn’t much to say and actually that’s why I like
my life. For twenty years I was a master at the Belmont Hil
School in Belmont, Massachusetts. I knew boys in the classroom,
as a dormitory master, and in my own house; and I liked them,
My wife liked them, too, and we made many friends who served
on many fronts and have made contributions to the decent way
of life. My years as a schoolmaster were rewarding, but I had
lost sight of other things. Our children, Guy and Gwen, were
growing up and making demands on our time, and a dormitory is
hardly the place for a young girl. Anyway, school is not just
boys — it’s parents and faculty, too.

Right now I am endeavoring to promote the interests of Wray
& Turnbull in New York, manufacturers’ agents and importers
from the British Isles. I come by an interest in this sort of thing
by inheritance. My brother, Robert, is the moving genius in this
venture — we try to hide the fact that he is an Oxford grad—
but we are still moving and getting our share of the spoils, albeit
with a lot of hard work.

For the record book, I married Vere Stearns of Boston in 1935.
In 1938 we had a son, Guy, and in 1940 a daughter, Gwendolyn.
Our son, as of the moment, shows little interest in scholasticism,
but he did wind up as a three-letter man at Fessenden. Last year
he was the first freshman in seven years to win a varsity hockey
letter at the Tilton School in New Hampshire. Our daughter is at
the Beaver Country Day School and for extracurricular activities
has no little skill as a tap dancer and could make many of my
classmates look sick on a tennis court.

As of the present moment, I help support the New Haven
Railroad, for a tumbling ark of a house in Belmont, Massachusetts,
and a job in New York keep me on a shuttle. Look for us all soon,
if you must, either in a flat in Manhattan or a cottage in West-
chester County.

You may add that I used to belong to the Harvard Club of
Boston, but I resigned because it got me into too much trouble.

[ 1118 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

AS I think back to that spring day in June, 1930, when very fey
of us knew what was in store for us on the economic front| |
feel fortunate that I landed in the paper manufacturing busines
where I have been ever since. I have learned quite a bit abou
our product except how to use it with pen and ink.

After four years at my first job with Hollingsworth & Whitney
of Boston I found I was getting nowhere, and when the oppor.
tunity came, I switched back across the river to Cambridge and
took a job with the Middlesex Products Corporation (that’s the
building with the big red chimney just down the river from
McKinlock Hall) and I have been with them in several capacities
ever since.

In spite of the fact that the insurance salesman who sold me
policy while in college convincing me that all I would have to
do was show my Harvard sheepskin and the $5.00 a week pre-
mium cost would be chicken feed, I found it financially impracti-
cal to get married until I was pretty well into my thirties. I had
just been sent to Philadelphia as a sales representative for Middle-
sex when I met and fell in love with a quiet little Quaker, only
she isn’t quiet and is a good Episcopalian. So it was that in one
day I found myself with a wife and a nine-year-old son. I was
really established.

Ray followed in my footsteps and went to Andover, but then
became traitorous and chose to become an “Eli.” That explains
my presence on the wrong side of the bowl in case I was ever
seen there by any of you. It wasn’t long after the bowl days, or
so it seems, that I found myself a grandfather to two grandsons,
the older of whom was named after my father.

In retrospect, I find I am not a “joiner”; the only claim to
“offices” is secretary of the Gyro Club of Philadelphia — one
year — and I even had to give that up as I travel so much of the
time. Even a country club has not seemed practical. The first
Christmas after we were married, I received a small tool chest,
a gentle hint, perhaps, but I have found that that little acorn now
has become a whole basement full of power tools, all of which
are put to good use from time to time, not so much as a hobby
but a repair shop because I like to work with my hands and do
things for myself. Maybe I can establish a claim to be one of the
originators of “do it yourself.” |

[ 1120]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

This is brief, but it touches on the high lights of the last
quarter-century as I have lived it. I can’t help but add, however,
uneventful as my life since college has seemed, it has been an
extremely happy and pleasant one since that day over fifteen
years ago that I became a family man all in one day. With our
grandchildren living close to us, it looks for the present, anyway,
that I have a lot to look forward to.

WILLIAM LUDWIG ULLMANN

HOME AND OFFICE ApprEss: Harvey Cedars, N. J.

poan: Aug. 14, 1908, Springfield, Mo. parents: William Ullmann, Caroline
Block.

prepared aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927. DEGREES: A.B. (Drury Coll.), 1930; M.B.A.
(Harvard Univ.), 1932.

occupation; Designer and builder of houses.

UNTIL 1947 I worked primarily in the Federal Government.
From 1942 through 1945 I served in the Air Corps, leaving as a
major. Before and after Army service, I was in the U.S. Treasury
Department. In 1947 I left the Treasury Department and became
a partner in a business designing and building houses.

CHARLES MATTHEW UNDERHILL

Home Anoress: Foote Pond, Armonk, N. Y.

porn: Dec. 26, 1908, Somerville, Mass, PARENTS: Ralph Irving Underhill,
Marion Douglas Matthew.

PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marrirp: Dorothy Sullivan, Nov. 2, 1929, Corning, N. Y. (divorced 1936);
Vivien Ruth, 1936 (divorced 1943); Harriet Foote, 1944. CHILDREN:
Eldon, 1930; John Charles, 1934; Nancy Elizabeth, 1951.

occuPaTION: Television; advertising; public relations.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Save the Children Federation.

member OF: Harvard Club of New York; Whippoorwill, Northcastle.

IT was at the Dartmouth game, I think, in the fall of ’29, when
I found myself beside a little white-haired lady who had got into
the cheering section alone, quite by mistake. Brightly apologetic,
she had asked me for a rundown of the players, explaining “There

[ rratr ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

network could claim more educational features in the Publig
interest! —There was time but no money for comedy!

Two years later, the merger was finally approved and, wit,
the new dollars available, good programming was developed
But along with the money came new faces and new ambition, —
And in the fall of 54, I fell victim to an occupational hazard of,
somewhat frenzied industry. I was purged. Always before, |
had resigned of my own free will. It was a new and healthy
experience to have it done for me.

The last three months I have enjoyed, peculiarly, as much x
any in my life. I have rediscovered my home, my children —
Things have been done around the house and the land that might
not have been done for years, if at all. And I feel a little bit
if I had caught up with myself. I expect to return to work nem
month in a somewhat less harried capacity. To commute ona
regular train. Not to lunch at the desk. And to be able to leave
the television set dark for hours at a time . . . maybe even read
a book! That will be my pleasure. And should any of you bein
the neighborhood of Foote Pond, Armonk, New York, it would
also be a pleasure to see you.

RICHARD EMANUEL VALENTE

HOME aAppDREsS: 20 Cherokee Rd., N.W., Atlanta, Ga.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1907, Somerville, Mass. Parents: John Baptist Valente, Rose
Josephine Viano. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(31); A.M., 1932.

OCCUPATION: Education.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

FRANK ARTHUR VANDERLIP, JR.

HOME appress: Scarborough-on-Hudson, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 52 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: April 5, 1907, Scarborough, N. Y. parents: Frank Arthur Vanderlip,
Mabel Narcissa Cox.

PREPARED AT: Scarborough School, Scarborough, N. Y.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: 8.B., 1930.

[1124]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

New Zealand and had a hand in writing their supply plan. The
General was recalled to head up the North African supply ling
and I joined him, continuing up through Italy, southern France |
and southern Germany. After V-E Day I did a stretch in the
War Department Information and Education Division and wa
separated as a lieutenant colonel.

On leaving the Army I became assistant to the chairman of
Trans World Airlines and had a hand in setting up the Italian,
Greek, Iranian, Saudi Arabian, Ethiopian, and Philippine Airline,
In 1950 I became president of Palos Verdes Corporation, a large
land holding and sub-division company near Los Angeles. This
company was sold last year and I have now returned to New
York and the old grind, which I love.

PAUL VAUGHAN

HOME ADpRESS: 826 Walton Ave., Mamaroneck, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gibson Refrigerator Co., Greenville, Mich.

Born: April 8, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Paul Vaughan, Elizabeth
Sarah Tarr.

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MarRiED: Eleanor Danforth White, June 15, 1934, New York, N. Y. cut-
DREN: Eleanor Lake, April 5, 1936; Elizabeth White, April 22, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Mamaroneck; Bonnie Briar Country Club;
Harvard Club of Westchester; Boulder Brook Club; Sales Managers
Club of New York.

HITTING the depression head on after leaving the Class pre-
maturely with the death of my father, I floundered around until
by accident I became a salesman with the Singer Sewing Machine
Company in Boston. This was far removed from my burning
ambition as a freshman (State Department), but it proved to be
a permanent turning point; I am still a salesman in spite of the
resounding title of Divisional Sales Manager for the Gibson Re-
frigerator Company. Looking back, “normal times” seems to have
been an elusive era — if it ever did exist — for in my experience,
salespeople have been confronted with periods of either too
much or too little. Each period has presented heartaches, more

[ 1126 J



HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

OFFICES HELD: Visiting instructor in exodontia, Tufts College Dental Schog
assistant dental surgeon, 1935-38.

MEMBER OF: North Purchase Dental Society; New England and Massachy.
setts Dental Societies, American Dental Association, Knights of Colu,
bus; Guild of Apolonia; Pierre Fauchard Academy; Franklin Chamber
of Commerce.

IN 1931 I decided to enter Tufts Dental School; I graduated ig
1935 and opened an office for the practice of general dentistry in
Franklin. I served as visiting instructor in exodontia at Tufs
from 1935 to 1938. Dentistry has been a rewarding vocation. It
also helped me win the war by repairing teeth at Mitchel Field
New York, for forty months from 1942 to 1946.

While at Mitchel, I made one mistake. Although a student of
. the biological and natural sciences and knowing the difference
between the gluteus maximus and the proverbial hole in the
ground, I didn’t see one and fell into it during a blackout. Vole!
War hero and disabled veteran!

Despite the fact that my original army physical examination
rated me second to none, including Lionel Strongfort, Earl
“Whar’s-his-name,” and Samson, himself, the government witness
at a retiring board said that I must not have been familiar with my
inferior dorsal extremity and in his opinion, I must have fallen
into the hole at Mitchel Field prior to service. Affidavits of my
commanding officer and other witnesses to my great act of heroism
could not prevail, it seems, in so clearcut a case of amnesia
Not to be left entirely unrewarded, I was advanced one grade,
given a bottle of aspirin, and advised that the Veterans Ad-
ministration would rehabilitate me.

Pleased with the prospect and clutching these treasured in-
tangible tokens to my breast, I returned to the practice of general
dentistry in Franklin. To my surprise, patients now had money
enough to pay their dental bills. Capitalist war! (Note: I ama
registered Republican.)

In June, 1953, my right hip received the same surgical treat-
ment as that of America’s great TV morning timekiller and
evening-star. This probably is the first base metal cup ever
awarded for lack of athletic prowess and visual debility.

Through all this Connie, my ever loving wife, has stood firm
and unshaken in the belief that one day I should be able to provide

[1128 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

An opening in the Science Department of Abington High
School influenced my decision to take the position and settle doy,
in Quincy. I taught at Abington until 1940, when I was appointeg
principal of Avon High School. I am enjoying my present pog.
tion and am not anticipating any further changes.

With two growing boys, my interests of necessity continue ty
be my home and family and communal activities of Boy Scouy,
Cub Scouts, P.T.A., and school board meetings, plus home repair.
ing and gardening,

Our school was destroyed by fire two years ago. The towns
now in the process of building a new high school and it should be
ready for occupancy this fall. It is encouraging to note that of
late more and more intelligent and educated people are beginning
to realize and appreciate the important contributions that the
teaching profession is making in helping and preparing our chi-
dren to learn, teach, serve, and enjoy a better, fuller, and more
meaningful life.

Every school administrator has a Utopian dream of the ideal
school system enjoying the fullest codperation and interest of its
citizens. The reality of this dream will bring back the traditional
pattern of strict family behavior and respect for authority. Our
youth of today will then be able to face the uncertainties of to-
morrow with a greater sense of security and thus become better
adjusted citizens and, in addition, help to contribute their share
in the preservation of our free institutions.

_ JULIUS VEXLER

HOME AppREsS: 57 University Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 116 State House, Boston 33, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 2, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Solomon Vexler, Ida Rebecca
Kemelhor.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1931-

MARRIED: Pauline Slom, June 26, 1936, New Bedford, Mass. cHILpren: Sally
Reba, July 3, 1940; Karen Sue, Aug. 16, 1947.

occupation: Government clerk, Public Document Section, Office of the
Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Massachusetts State Employees’ Credit Union, 1948
553 executive member, Massachusetts State Employees’ Association,
1946-48, 1950-51.

[ 1130 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: “Essence of comedy,” Sewanee Review, 1935.

LIFE is a dream, a jest, or a small, hard-fought area of aim and ac-
complishment; my life is all this and other things, but twenty-five
years after college, how pleasant just to be at Reunion!

Scarce leaving Harvard in 1930, I hastened back in the fall to
the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, perhaps to cushion
myself against the depression, There Irving Babbitt (the man
President Pusey remembered), teaching the shortcomings of
modern emotionalism and utilitarianism, made a lasting impression.
Elis books, impersonality, and argument for more humane stand-
ards in literature and life together convinced this serious student.
I remain grateful for the memory of him.

The next several years in New Bedford I taught high school
and studied. One academic project I still remember: translating
Racine into blank verse—the religious Esther and the love
tragedy, Phedra — taught me how this formal classicist was yet
a “normal” split personality. There were some essays, rather
craggily written, Virtues of Economics, Essence of Comedy, etc.
(Read the latter if ever you want to know how to tell good jokes
from bad.)

There I met and married, in 1936, Pauline Slom (Smith and
Radcliffe), who remains still the best audience for laughing at my
puns, who almost understands me, and who says with bright
originality about our two daughters, “Never a dull moment!”
Our older girl, Sally, just starting high school and having already
acted in two plays, feels the stage is real life! Mentally alert yet
modest, she is also developing that indefinable feminine quality —
attractive poise. Karen, in primary school, is outgoing, sensitive
but tenacious. To try and teach her is difficult (maybe we are
not objective), but once she wants to learn something, no obstacle
can stop her.

In 1937 I took a position in the State House in the Massachusetts
Archives, an inchoate collection of colonial manuscripts in early
handwriting, hard to read, let alone to evaluate. There are the
usual petitions for money from the treasury; but there is more
than a hint of self-reliance of the humble pioneers — “insecurity”
is our present way of describing them. ;

And in 1938 I set to work in the Public Document Division,

[ 1131 ]

hee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

again beneath the Bulfinch dome. Well, the architecture does not
have much influence on the politicians. The legislative mill cog.
tinues to pour forth laws, perhaps with too little executive re.
straint, perhaps with too much personal and “popular” pressure
My more important task is to make available pertinent laws, rule,
reports, research, etc., for legislator, lawyer, layman.

As hobbies, I take vacations — preferably in Maine at Lake
Maranacook; I have written and produced some one-act plays—
Jonab, a comedy of the fish catching the man, Samson, the erotic
giant, etc.; I have taught Hebrew prophets in Sunday School at
Temple Sinai, Brookline, where I am also a member; and I enjoy
trying to write poetry.

ALFRED MERTON VINTON

HOME appREss: Dogwood Lane, Rye, N. Y.

OFFIceE appress: National City Bank of New York, 55 Wall St., New York,
N. ¥.

BoRN: Feb. 27, 1906, Malden, Mass. parents: Ernest Augustus Vinton, Jessie
Stevens.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: 8.B. cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Jean Rosalie Guiterman, Sept. 14, 1934, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Alfred Merton, Jr., May 11, 1938; John Thayer, Dec. 23, 1941; Helen
DeHaven, March 2, 1946; Margaret Jean, Jan. 3, 1949.

OccuPATION: Assistant vice-president, National City Bank of New York.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, American Club of Buenos Aires, 194;-
51; treasurer, Olivos Tenis Club, Argentina, 1941-45; treasurer, Asoci-
acion Universitaria Argentino-Norte-Americana, 1949-51; directof,
Argentine-American Chamber of Commerce, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Argentine-American Cham-
ber of Commerce; American Yacht Club, Apawamis, Club, Rye, N. Ys
The City Midday Club, New York; Club Atletico, San Isidro, Argen-
tina; Southern Cross Club; The Pan-American Society of the United
States.

SINCE graduation the most important events in my life —
definitely not in their order of. importance — have been: em-
ployment with the National City Bank of New York, transfer to
Argentina for over fifteen years with subsequent reassignment to
New York, my marriage to Jean with the light brown hair (bom

[1132 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Texas and graduated from Vassar), and the acquisition of four
fine children — two boys and two girls in that order.

Having spent by far the greater part of my life since leaving
Cambridge in Argentina, where I learned to speak Spanish like
a true New Englander, I would be less than grateful if I did not
mention the happy years and associations I enjoyed in that
friendly and hospitable country. My children were all born in
Buenos Aires and have grown to be healthy young specimens.
They give every promise of developing into worthwhile citizens,
if early impressions can be trusted. The two boys have expressed
a desire to enter Harvard. This is naturally pleasing to me and I
am hopeful that they will be able to meet the College’s entrance
requirements, which I understand are becoming increasingly
difficult. This should present no problems, as they appear to
have their mother’s I.Q,

To have worked for nearly twenty-five years with one in-
stitution I think speaks volumes for what the institution and the
individual can put up with. I don’t suppose classmates who have
had such a prosaic experience are numerous. I have found com-
mercial banking stimulating and interesting, particularly the work
abroad. National City Bank, despite the obvious shortcomings
of a large organization, has proved what I had suspected back in
the fall of 1930 — that it is a progressive, forward-looking institu-
tion with a future. I think it is lucky I feel that way, else I
shouldn’t have been contented these many years.

The change-over from foreign service at the end of 1951 to
work here in New York was not difficult to take. I have been
completely suburbanized and really don’t mind my daily train
ride from and to Rye. Need I add, I look forward (?) to the com-
fortable journey on the Lexington Avenue subway to Wall Street
—truly an adventure. Our community life, with its schools,
church and clubs, in my opinion is well-rounded and an extremely
interesting one. We own our own home, or, better said, we have
a very, very small equity in it! We think we were very fortunate
to be able to find house (built in 1916) and property suited to our
needs in such happy surroundings.

Approaching fifty, I find I am rather set in my ways and like
my simple pleasures and routine. These include watching my sons
in their athletic endeavors, playing tennis and sailing when the

[ 1133 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

weather permits, infrequent games of bridge, and attending indoor
track meets in Madison Square Garden, accompanied by my boys
and my wife. The boards still hold an attraction for this old “also

ran.”

Since my return to the States, my community activities have
been limited to one fund drive. I presume I shall have more to do
along these lines as we become more settled. My poor wife,
however, has her hands full with Cub Scouts, Brownies, teaching
Sunday School, and running junior tennis activities at the Yacht
Club. All in all, we have a very busy and happy life in Rye, and
I look forward to the next twenty-five years with enthusiasm
and with the hope that they will be as pleasant and interesting as
the twenty-five we are about to complete.

Ben ee ca tan

WILLIAM DICKERMAN VOGEL

HOME ADDRESS: 2221 N. Terrace Ave., Milwaukee 2, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 683, Milwaukee 1, Wis.

BorN: March 1, 1908, Milwaukee, Wis. Parents: Guido Charles Vogel,
Grace Beatrice Dickerman,

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(31); M.B.A., 1933 (34).

MARRIED: Virginia Kingswood Booth, March 4, 1931, Copenhagen, Denmark.
CHILDREN: Grace Dickerman, Jan. 9, 1932 (7. Michael Hartman Fin-
nell, Sept. 11, 1954); Virginia Kingswood and Ralph Booth (twins),
April 1, 1933; Fred, 3d, Aug. 7, 1935.

HARVARD sons: Ralph Booth Vogel, ’56, Fred Vogel, 3d, ’57.

OCCUPATION: President and general manager, P & V—Atlas Industrial Center,
Inc.

OFFIcEs HELD: Director, First Wisconsin National Bank, Milwaukee, 1946,
Curtis Bay Towing Company, Baltimore, 1950, Elmwood Company,
1935.

MEMBER OF: Milwaukee Country Club; University Club, Milwaukee; Chi-
cago Club, Chicago.

UPON graduation I departed promptly for Denmark to marry
the girl who has been kind enough to put up with me for some
twenty-odd years. Finding it difficult to find a job in 1931, I
thought it would be a good idea to try the Harvard Business
School. My scholastic efforts were somewhat interrupted by the

[1134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

birth of one child in my first year and the birth of twins in my
second year. Some might have felt that it was wise for me that
it was only a two-year course.

Armed with two degrees and a reasonable scholastic record,
I found myself with thousands of others looking for jobs upon
graduation. Price, Waterhouse & Company were kind enough to
take me on for the large sum of $70 a month, which seems fan-
tastic in this day and age. My wife and I continued to live in
Boston and then in Beverly, Massachusetts, while I pushed my
pen both day and night. It was found, however, that there was
a slow season in accounting in September and we were able to
take a month off and go shooting at Lake Winnipegosis. The
advent of the airplane and rich air line executives, however,
spoiled our shooting grounds.

In 1940 a major decision had to be reached and the Vogel
family voyaged west to Milwaukee, which was the original
stamping ground. Having barely become established in the com-
munity, Japan bombed Pearl Harbor, and the period from April,
1942, until late 1946 was devoted to renegotiation for the
Ordnance Department in Chicago. During this period many
high-powered executives were encountered, and as money was
close to their hearts, either a good or bad impression was left, but
an impression certainly was made.

Upon returning to Milwaukee, I was engaged in the old family
business which had taken on a considerably different aspect, and
I have since that time run its affairs. The P & V—Atlas Industrial
Center, Inc., is engaged in rental of industrial space, sale of
steam and electricity, engages in public warehousing, and is the
stevedoring company operating in the Port of Milwaukee, which
I am pleased to state is a clean and wholesome port in contrast
to others which I have seen. We campaigned and successfully
won the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Seaway fight which was felt
to be important for all the communities on the Great Lakes.

While all of this was going on, considerable attention was paid
to the upbringing of the young, who all attended eastern pre-
paratory schools. My friends do not believe this, but it is true,
nevertheless, the two boys chose Harvard of their own accord
and not surreptitiously (it was rumored that father would refuse
to pay their term bills if they went anywhere else). The two

[ 1135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

girls have attended Wellesley College and one of them has not
only graduated, but promptly married.

Fortunately, I enjoy working. If I did not, I should have had
to work anyway. Let no man deny that with four children in
college all at the same time, under the existing tax structure, a
man finds himself looking for dollars.

I feel particularly fortunate in having had a fine person for a

wife, and enjoy more than anything else my attempts to rear
conscientious, decent, and dependable young.

FREDRIC VONN

HOME appRESS: 54 W. 74th St., Suite 4oz, New York 23, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Fredric Vonn Studios, 54 W. 74th St., New York, N.Y. —

BORN: July 13, 1907, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Fredric John von Scholer,
Kathryn Woodward Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Johnstown High School, Johnstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: AB., 1930(32); Juilliard School of
Music, 1932; New York College of Music, 1933; Teachers College, Co-
lumbia University, 1946.

occuPATION: Music.

OFFICES HELD: Faculty member, Westchester Conservatory of Music; presi-
dent, Veevo Records, Inc., New York; member executive board, secre-
tary, Thomas J. Kinnear Association; president, The Top Piano Im-
provisors; member board of directors, The Spanishawl, Inc.

MEMBER OF: National Association for American Composers and Conduc-
tors, New York Musicians Club (The Bohemians); The Friars Club;
Composers Club; International Society for Contemporary Music;
League of Composers; International Platform Association; Hi-Fidelity
Society of New York; American Federation of Musicians (N. Y. Local
802); The Lambs Club; The Scriabin Circle; Thomas J. Kinnear Associ-
ation.

PuBLications: Twenty-four preludes; two sonatas for piano; poem and baga-
telle for flute, sonata-rhapsody for violin and piano; concerto for piano
and orchestra; numerous songs (poems by Shakespeare, Emily Dickin-
son, Shelley, Markham, Amy Lowell, and many others); many popular
songs (words and music): “Here’s Love,” “You for Me,” “Gotta Sing,”

“Oh Boy, Oh Joy, It’s a Joy to be in Love with You,” “Brotherhood,”
“If I Only had the Money, Honey,” “Awake,” etc,

I HAVE just stepped off the Queen Mary again — completing
my twentieth crossing of the Atlantic to Europe and Africa. It
was a combination holiday and “Vonn Concerts” tour (definition

[ 1136]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of latter: a “concert” in 5D — demented, delirious, diabolical,
delicious, deVonn, in which said Vonn burps Bach, bruises
Brahms, murders Mendelssohn, manhandles Handel, and even
rocks Rachmaninoff, unravels Ravel, and gets rebellious about
_ Sibelius). The devastating 6D lengths to which this alliteration
is carried can be seen in two sample titles: “Offenbach Back to
Back with Bach often,” or the Bronx version: “Offenbach Often
Bach Back to Back — Often,” and various vulgar variations on
the “Volga Boatman.” I execute all this with the aid of a Stein-
way, but without — or with— candelabra and my Twiv-broth-
ers, George and Georges.

This last commuting voyage took me first by Italian liner to
Naples. Next day by a new Turkish ship to Alexandria. I then
went over a bit of Egypt: Cairo, Port Said, Ishmolia, Luxor, and
the Valley of the Kings, where I rode a donkey for nine and a
half hours (6 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.), knocking myself out dutifully
inspecting one tomb and temple after another, ad nauseam. Then
along the Suez Canal back to boiling Alexandria and on the
mighty craft, Iskendereen (Turkish again), to Italy. After a stay
in magical Capri—on to Rome and Venice, Austria, Germany,
France, England, Ireland, and Scotland. One day I crossed the
Nile in a rough-hewn wooden boat with a huge sail. On board
were four ad-lib native musicians who proceeded to play the most
deafening, unchanging, extraordinary improvisation jive (a la
Egyptian) from the moment they stepped over the side until
they left us prostrate on the bottom of this enlarged rowboat-
with-sail, The impact was something unbelievable — making
the “18:2 Overture” of Tschaikovsky seem like an inaudible
lullaby sung in a vacuum.

I have done so much travelling all over the globe that it seems
I must be getting myself ready to give Burton Holmes, the
world-travelling lecturer, some stiff (more likely, impercep-
tible), competition some day. To date, the wanderlust has be-
trayed me into going to Greece five times (with a side trip to
Israel), four treks to Africa— taking me all over French and
Spanish Morocco, Algiers, and Egypt. I have also travelled all
over (top to bottom) South America five times— two trips up
and down the eastern part and two on the western, as well as
“extensive coverage” (sic) of the northern sections.

[ 1137]

HARVARD CLASS OF I930

As for the twenty voyages back and forth to Europe, I managed
to cover not only the British Isles, all the Scandinavian countries,
and Central Europe many times, but also to visit (before the last
war) some of the forbidden territory like Hungary and Czecho-
Slovakia. My peregrinating convictions? There’s nothing like
unique and luscious Capri, Taormina, Rome, Paris, and the Italian
and French Riviera. These are really outstanding, ever-fresh, and
worth all the time and trouble to experience them. As for all the
others, let’s curl up here in New York even amid the humidity
with the two Steinways.

As for my spectacularly circuitous career—it has been a
series of double-takes. I majored originally at Harvard in English,
to graduate and enter the hotel management field, then was lured
into the night-club-hotel department as a pianist and comedian,
evolving gradually into a two-hour, one-man, theatre-concert
show which, I am grateful to say, has been most successful every-
where. This I can see is leading (through my ad-libbing with
and to audiences) to the writing of a most consecrated tome en-
titled How To Go Crazy (About Music), and a comedy lecture
tour on music. The trend of it all being my getting further and
further away from straight piano music and the piano into the
realm of comedy entertainment with the piano and the music as
a mere prop. All of which has a distinctly commercial tang to it,
of course. Reeks gloriously of it, ’'m happy to say. Ac this
point, my occupation might be called pianist, comedian, author,
composer (classical and popular music), improvisor, lecturer,
teacher (piano, composition, improvisation, harmony, theory,
arranging), song stylist, director of musical shows, piano and
vocal coach, world traveller, student of human nature and the
passing scene.

The matter of my billing, professionally, has also undergone
quite an evolution. At first it was “Greatest Improvisor on the
6 B’s: Bach, Beethoven, Brahms, Boogie, Barrelhouse, and Blues.”
Then it became “Greatest Exponent of the NEW 4 B’s: Bach,
Bartok, Boogie, Bowery.” Later this became “Buxtehude to Bop,”
and still Jater, “Harvard Genius (reformed) Turns Friar — Plays
Piano Without Candles and Will Travel (Cadillac).” Only those
who have frequented the four-letter word atmosphere of our
Friars Club will realize the cosmic distance between this self-

[1138 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

effacing, scholarly (but perhaps brazen) body of extroverts and
the Harvard Iluminati, Cognoscenti, Intelligensia. Oy! Is that a
distance! It’s been quite an education. Still is. I’m still learning.

It’s been my extreme pleasure to appear with Jimmy Durante
and Helen Traubel on the “Durante Show” on television nation-
ally, as well as making my debut as an actor and singer (sic)
on the “Armstrong Circle Theatre.” I also played the piano,
naturally. Both on NBC (plug). Last year I had a solo radio
show of a half-hour weekly for ten months. On this I played
the classics straight — and crooked — really murdering some of
those which should have been done away with long since. Also
did popular medleys of Gershwin, Kern, Kurt Weil, Porter, and
comic sketches and improvisations on notes and themes, ranging
from “My Wild Irish Rose” as a Shostakovitch polka to “How
Much is that Doggie in the Window” in the style of a Bach
fantasia and double fugue (and in C sharp —7 sharps—too).
And why not!

RCA-Victor has also recorded for the Veevo label an album
of my piano arrangements and improvisations. These include the
Ravel “Bolero,” “Warsaw Concerto,” “Begin the Beguine,”
“Laura,” “Rhapsody,” “Lover,” and five midget improvisations
on the “Stars and Stripes Forever”; (1) “Mozart Sonatina’; (2)
“Tchaikovsky Brief Lament”, (3) “Chopin Short Nocturne”;
(4) “Prokofieff Little Gavotte”; (5) “Rachmaninoff Concerto
Grandiose” (expurgated edition). There are also two of my prel-
udes from the set of twenty-four and one of my popular songs,
““Here’s Love.”

Finally, a few words about our great Class after so many about
myself. So many have achieved fame and carved out such out-
standing careers, I often wonder how I got into such distinguished
company. To me it is a real incentive — an inspiration.

LEWIS LUMBER WADSWORTH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 54 Wedgemere Ave., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Haussermann, Davison & Shattuck, 15 State St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 6, 1908, Winchester, Mass. PARENTS: Lewis Lumber Wadsworth,
’03, Vera Stevens Young.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

[ 1139 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

marrieD: Lavinia L. Tripp, June 11, 1949, Winchester, Mass. cuitpren:
Mary Ames, July 16, 1950; Martha Tripp, Nov. 9, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Young Wadsworth, ’32, LL.B., 735.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFIcEs HELD: Selectman, Town of Winchester; clerk, Winchester Unitarian
Society.

TWENTY-FIVE years since the year 1930 haven’t seen me

wander very far. My home is still in Winchester, my job is still

with the same firm I went to work for on my graduation from

Law School. I sometimes envy those whose work takes them to

far places or places them in prominent positions.

There have been occasional trips: two to England, two to
Mexico, and one to Bermuda, and always hopes of more.

A bachelor when World War II started, it wasn’t long before
I was drafted. The Army apparently has far more lawyers than
places for them; so they tried to convert me to medicine and as-
signed me to the Medical Department of the Army. After about
six months polishing the colonel’s floor and mixing up sick and
wounded records, I was transferred to an Officers’ Candidate
School in Starkville, Mississippi; was commissioned in March, or
thereabouts, of 1943. I was then assigned to do legal work in the
Transportation Corps in Washington, immured myself in the
Pentagon, and was discharged as a major in 1946.

In 1949 I was married. I now have two children. Mary will
be almost five at Reunion time, and Martha will be just over
eighteen months. If I can’t win any prize for the greatest num-
ber of grandchildren, at least I ought to do pretty well if a prize
is given to the classmate for children with the youngest average
age.

In politics I am a Republican, convinced that the Republicans
may be few but they never err. In my only attempt at elective
office, I was elected over four other candidates to the Board of
Selectmen in Winchester. The position has plenty of work, no
pay and no perquisites other than a chance to ride on the fire
engines. In our town, the selectmen serve one three-year term
and never do aspire to re-election.

I have been active in the Unitarian Church and have served
for a number of years as its clerk and as a member of its board of

[ 1140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trustees of permanent funds. I have served in innumerable fund-
raising campaigns and the like. I am now at the stage where I
am looking forward to refusing anyone who asks me to run any-
thing, solicit money for anything, or to take up any extra-cur-
ricular activity.

For hobbies I do a little fishing and a little sailing. I hate to do
any work around the house, I like three meals a day, and don’t
care much about television. I like to know what’s going to happen
next. I have never been to Bunker Hill or the Arnold Arboretum.

CARL WILLIAM WALDOW

HOME ADDRESS: 1100 Dodson Ave., San Pedro, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Westinghouse Electric Corp., 600 St. Paul Ave., Los Angeles
17, Calif.

BorN: Feb, 3, 1908, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Frank Charles Waldow, Fannie
Walker.

PREPARED aT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1931.

MarRiED: Marjorie Maude Bell, March 13, 1945, San Pedro, Calif.

OCCUPATION: Registered professional electrical engineer; industrial sales en-

gineer.
OFFICES HELD: Manager, New England Machinery Electrification, Westing-
house Electric Corporation, 1940-42; area chairman, Los Angeles Com-

munity Chest, 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Lodge, Royal Arch Masons, Knights Templar, Al
Malaikah Shrine; Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity; Navy League of the
US.; Electric Club of Los Angeles; American Institute of Electrical
Engineers; Harvard Engineering Society; Harvard Club of Southern
California; Los Angeles Athletic Club; Portugese Bend Club.

THE first four years after actually obtaining my degree in 1931
were spent in getting educated in the multiple facets of industry
as it is carried out by Westinghouse Electric Corporation. This
meant assignments to different plants in various cities, and neces-
sitated a nomadic existence. In 1935 I settled down in the Boston
office as an industrial sales engineer, and became New England
Machinery Electrification Manager in 1940. In late 1942 I was
commissioned a lieutenant (j.g.), U. S. Naval Reserve, and headed
westward.

After indoctrination at Tucson, Arizona, the next stop was
San Pedro, California, at Underwater Harbor Detection School,

[1141 ]

Ye

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

and I finished that course with orders to the Aleutians. After
that, back to San Pedro for refresher training. At this point, I met
Marjorie and courtship started. There were brief interruptions
to our courtship because of temporary assignments that kept me
moving along the Pacific Coast, but my home base was San
Pedro ‘and I spent a Jot of time there. Our wedding date had to
be advanced three weeks because of sudden orders to shove off
again. It developed that my unit was attached to a special Air
Force group which ended up on Tinian, Marianas Islands, and
dropped the first two atom bombs on Japan. Imagine my surprise
when I discovered what my amiable companions had been playing
with. I returned home as a lieutenant commander. After the
Korean incident got underway, I became interested again in
Naval Reserve affairs, and am at present the Executive Officer of
the Los Angeles Reserve Harbor Defense Unit.

At my request, Westinghouse transferred me to our Los An-
geles office. We live twenty-five miles from the heart of Los
Angeles, on a hill overlooking the blue Pacific. We can relax in
our easy chairs on the patio and watch the ship movements in
both the San Pedro and Long Beach harbors.

For the last few years I have been an area chairman for Central
Commerce and Industry Section of the Los Angeles Community
Chest, cajoling my business associates to be Division and Section
chairmen for the cause.

We are life-long Republicans, but until the 1952 campaign I
had never worked in behalf of any candidate or party. With the
firm belief that unless the Republicans won in 1952, we would live
under a controlled economy and lose free enterprise completely,
I went to work in my neighborhood, pushing doorbells, explain-
ing, persuading, or arguing, and I made sure my people got to the
polls. Other activities slowed me down in the 1954 elections, but
my wife took over in my place.

In recent years my golf and swimming have become neglected.
Perhaps i it is age. Most of my exercise comes from gardening and
puttering around the yard. Electric trains have been a continuing

hobby for many years, and now high fidelity amplifiers have be-
come another recent interest.

[ 1142 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN WALKER

HOME ADDRESS: 2806 N St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE AppREsS: National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C.

BORN: Dec. 24, 1906, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Hay Walker, 3d, Rebekah
Jane Friend.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. summa cum laude, 1930.

marrigeD: Lady Margaret Gwendolen Mary Drummond, Feb. 3, 1937, Rome,
Italy. cHitpreN: Gillian Elizabeth Mary, June 23, 1940, John Anthony
Drummond, June 27, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Executive officer, chief curator, National Gallery of Art.

OFFICES HELD: Associate in charge, Department of Fine Arts, American Acad-
emy, Rome, Italy, 1935-39; chief curator, National Gallery of Art,
Washington, D. C., since 1939; special adviser, American Commission
for protection and salvage of Artistic and Historic Monuments in Eu-
rope, 1943~46; member, Council of the Gazette des Beaux-Arts; John
Harvard Fellow, Harvard University, 1930-31; trustee, American Acad-
emy, Rome, American Federation of Art, Bureau of University Travel,
member Visiting Committee, Harvard University Press, Dumbarton
Oaks.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Century Association, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Great Amierican Paintings from Smibert to Bellows, with
Macgill James, 1943; Masterpieces of Painting from the National Gal-
lery of Art, with Hunungton Cairns, 1944; Paintings from America,
1951; Great Paintings from the National Gallery of Art, with Hunting-
ton Cairns, 1952.

WHILE an undergraduate at Harvard, two classmates — Lincoln
Kirstein and Edward Warburg — and I started the Harvard So-
ciety of Contemporary Art, a gallery devoted to loan exhibitions
of the work of the most advanced modern artists. This was be-
fore the establishment of the Museum of Modern Art and, as
many of our trustees subsequently helped to establish that gallery,
I like to think we had some influence on them.

I was sent by Harvard to Italy to study under Bernard Beren-
son. In Florence I turned to Italian art, and especially to Italian
drawings and engravings. Later, in Rome, as associate in charge
of Fine Arts at the American Academy, I lectured on these and
other subjects, while at the same time returning to my first in-
terest, contemporary painting, sculpture, and architecture —
subjects being studied at our Academy by our Prix de Rome win-
ners who were under my direction.

[ 1143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

However, even from the time I was in preparatory school, |
had planned to do museum work and my years in Europe were a
preparation for this career. Since 1939 I have been an executive

officer and chief curator of the National Gallery of Art, which
opened in 1941.

JOHN WALLACE

HOME AppRESS: 113 Locust St., Garden City, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hallgarten & Co., 44 Wall St, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Wallace, Wilhelmina
M. P. Hay.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. 1930.

Maraiep: Amelie M. Alexanderson, Aug. 25, 1934, Schenectady, N. Y. cuit-
DREN: John David, Dec. 6, 1936; Amelie A., Jr., Aug. 24, 1938; James Hay,
July 17, 1946.

OccUPATION: Investment banker.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Broad Street Club, New
York, N. Y.; Great Neck Figure Skating Club, Great Neck, N. Y.

TWENTY years ago a friend of ours commented:

Of all the girls in Schenectady,
Amelie Alex selected he,

He counted her charms,

And approved the addition,

For he was an expert statistician.

One of Amelie’s charms was her red hair. She still has it and
so do our two older children, now eighteen and sixteen. But we
were glad when brown-haired Jimmy, now eight, came along.

Our winters are too filled with required affairs of work, home,
school, and community. We do succeed in going figure-skating
twice a week from November through March. Summers, though,
we really sally forth as a family, whether for something as simple
and enjoyable as a late weekday swim and supper at the beach, or
for a vacation trip requiring weeks of preparation.

On entering Harvard I was determined to become a chemical
engineer. Two months later, having encountered qualitative
analysis, I detoured. But with a bio-chemist wife and scien-
tifically-inclined children my road has gradually turned back

[1144 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

towards chemistry, at least as a reading hobby. We have had
many happy formulae together.

When we were first engaged, my wife had a hard time des-
cribing my work to her parents. Our children have had similar
difficulties in briefly answering the questions of their friends.
Now after almost twenty-five years of successfully leaving to
others the task of telling what I do, I can no longer avoid it.

An investment banker performs the interesting economic func-
tion of providing business concerns with capital, at the same
time as he provides investors with bonds and stocks suitable for
their needs. I have spent very little time helping investors to
select securities, but almost all my business life helping companies
to raise money. Each year I have learned two or three new
businesses, some more law, some more accounting, some more
business engineering, and recently some more taxes. The work
has been fascinating. Looking back, I got the most personal satis-
faction from the eight months spent in 1936 refinancing and re-
viving the Willys-Overland automobile business. Looking for-
ward, I am most disturbed by the fact that our national govern-
ment presently takes for taxes more than half of all business in-
come so that now the tax aspect has become controlling in most
major business decisions.

When France fell in 1940, I applied for a commission in the
Navy Supply Corps, thinking I might be of use working on con-
tracts. Instead I loaded ships for two years in Brooklyn and then
expedited airplane parts for two years in Hawaii and the Philip-
pines. Both were much more interesting assignments.

LEONARD MICHAEL WALLSTEIN, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 1133 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: Wallstein, Menschel & Wallstein, 233 Broadway, New
York 7, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 27, 1910, New York, N. ¥. parents: Leonard Michael Wall-
stein, Olive Roe.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. ¢t772 laude, 1930; LL.B. (Columbia
Univ.), 1933.

[1145 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MARRIED: Isabel K. Tiefenthal, Sept. 5, 1939, New York, N. Y. cuirpren:
Karen Edna, Oct. 25, 1941; Joan O., March 28, 1944, Leonard Michael,
3d, Aug. 16, 1951. .

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Roe Wallsten, 732.

occuPATION: Lawyer, partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant corporation counsel, City of New York, 1933-38;
major, JAGD, Army of the U.S., 1944-46; director, Blythedale Ortho-
pedic Hospital, Valhalla, N. Y., since 1952, Lochland School, Inc,
Geneva, N. Y., since 1954; director and secretary, Ray and Charles
Newman Memorial Foundation, Inc., since 1950, Eisenberg-Lozano, Inc,,
since 1953; director, Devonshire Mills Company; director and treasurer,
Wallstein Industrial Corporation; vice chairman, Chapter 20, American
Veteran Committee, New York, 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; New York
County Lawyers Association; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: “Revision of the Army Court Martial System,” Columbia Law
Review, 1948; other articles.

OUTSIDE the home the main thread since graduation from Cok
lege has been studying and then practising law. Having given due
consideration to the law schools at both Harvard and Yale, I de-
cided to attend the one at Columbia. There the physical plant
could not compare to Yale’s, but afterwards it seemed to me that
the number of Columbia Law School graduates who thought they
might better have studied law at Harvard or Yale was matched
by the number of Harvard and Yale law graduates who thought
they might better have studied at Columbia.

A career in private practice has been varied by four years
shortly after graduation from law school as an assistant city at-
torney in the LaGuardia administration, and three and a half years
in World War II in the Judge Advocate General’s Department
of the Army, which took me to Michigan and Texas, where I
ended my military career (I hope permanently) as staff judge
advocate of an Infantry replacement training center. My early
weeks in the Army were spent as an induction officer who re-
luctantly contributed to the discomfort of many celebrities — in-
cluding classmate Bill Sporborg —by inducting them into the
service.

Within the profession I used to think that litigation was the
most fascinating of all fields. There was excitement, suspense,
and even a trip to California paid for by an adversary. But in
more recent years the expense of raising and educating a family

[ 1146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

has increased the attraction of other fields that offer better pay
for less time and effort consumed.

The need to keep abreast of developments in and around the
profession and my general interest in reading in legal subjects
have left comparatively little opportunity for hobbies in the
usual sense. But there has been time for a superficial kind of
photography (most usual subject: my children) and for a recent
collection of tropical fish.

I have been active in several election campaigns and regard my-
self as a left-wing Republican.

In sports I manage to hold my own in a mild form of tennis
and I go swimming whenever possible. No doubt during the next
twenty-five years the tennis will become milder and milder until
it is no longer worthy of mention.

It seems likely that one of my two daughters will follow her
mother to Vassar. I am training my son, now three and a half,
to be a four-letter Phi Beta Kappa in the Harvard Class of 1973.
As in all such matters, the outcome is still uncertain.

WILLIAM JOHN WALSH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Page Rd., Bedford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Walsh & Walsh, 11 Pemberton Sq., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: William J. Walsh, Alice T.
Kearns.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B. (Boston Univ.).

MARRIED: Katherine C. McAdams, April 14, 1945, Cambridge, Mass. cum-
pREN: Hannah Marie, March 20, 1947; William, March 9, 1950.

occupaTion: Lawyer; member of firm.

OFFICES HELD: Selectman, Town of Bedford, 1955-58; president, Eire Society
of Boston, 1945-47; director, Mount Vernon Codperative Bank, 1942-
47; chairman, Bedford Chapter, American Red Cross, 1949-51; member
Finance Committee, Town of Bedford, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; United States Customs Court; Boston
Lodge of Elks; University Club; Lions Club; Gamma Eta National
Legal Fraternity; Catholic Alumni Sodality; Civic Club; Eire Society of
Boston; National Council of Catholic Men.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor of Rescript, a national legal publication.

ON a warm August afternoon last summer I promptly sat down
and typed out the first and second pages of this report, and said

[ 1147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

HERBERT BOWEN WANDS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 118 Spencer Ave., Sausalito, Calif.
OFFICE appress: California Research Corp., 200 Bush St., San Francisco, Calif,

BorN: May 15, 1908, Baltimore, Md. parents: Herbert Bowen Wands, Mary
Mabel Hedley.

PREPARED AT: Forest Park High School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

marRIED: Marion Augusta Pfaffenberger, June 10, 1938, Redlands, Calif.

occuPATION: Lawyer; assistant manager, patent, development and trademark
department, California Research Corporation.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; San Francisco Patent Law Associa-

tion; local bar associations; San Francisco Engineers Club; Harvard
Club of San Francisco..

UPON finishing Harvard Law School in 1933, 1 went to work
for Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro, a leading San Francisco law firm.
(A brief visit to the San Francisco Bay area in 1925 had con-
vinced me it was THE place to live — especially if you also had
to work.) One of the clients I worked for was Standard Oil
Company of California, and I soon found myself spending much
time on their legal matters connected with research, research
development, plant licenses, inventions, patents and trade-marks.
Result: eventually I went to work for Standard Oil’s subsidiary
research corporation, the California Research Corporation.

In 1938 I married a charming blond — Marion Pfaffenberger,

Stanford ’34— whom I met while we were both living on Rus-
sian Hill. The Navy kept me busy during the period from 1942
to 1946. After a brief period as a Battalion Commander at Great
Lakes, I finally managed to get sea duty, aboard the West Virginia
(BBq48), and served on it during the battles for Leyte Gulf,
Luzon, Mindoro, Iwo Jima, Okinawa (Kamikazed); watched the
surrender in Tokyo Bay; and received a Bronze Star Medal.
Back to work for Standard Oil in 1946, and was disgusted to
find many of my 1942 cases still waiting for me, unchanged, We
live in Sausalito, California, which I believe is the most beautiful
spot in the United States. It combines the charm of Carmel,
Marblehead, and Capri, but is only thirty minutes’ drive to down-
town San Francisco. In 1940 we bought a big, old house with a
wonderful view, overlooking Richardson Bay, Belvedere Island,
Mt. Tamalpais, Raccoon Strait, and Angel Island. It has kept us

[1150 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

busy, physically and financially, but it has been fun and we hope
to have it ready by retirement time.

EDWARD MORTIMER MORRIS WARBURG

HOME ApprEss: 111 E, zoth St., New York 21, N. Y.

oFFice appress: United Jewish Appeal, 165 W. 46th St., New York 36, N. Y.

BORN: June 5, 1908, White Plains, N. Y. parents: Felix Moritz Warburg,
Frieda Schiff.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1930.

MarrieD: Mary Whelan Prue, Dec. 6, 1939, New York, N. Y. cHmpren:
Stephen Richard Currier (stepson), Aug. 24, 1930; David, Aug. 8, 1941;
Daphne, Dee. 22, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederick Marcus Warburg, ’19; Gerald Felix Warburg,
*23.

occupation: Social welfare and fund raising: general chairman, United
Jewish Appeal; chairman, American Jewish Joint Distribution Commit-
tee.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in the history of art, Bryn Mawr College; member,
Archeological Expedition to Iran, photographer of Islamic architecture;
founder, member Executive Committee and board of trustees, Museum
of Modern Art; organizer, Museum Film Library, founder, School of
American Ballet & American Ballet Society (now known as the New
York City Center Ballet and School); chairman, American Jewish
Joint Distribution Committee, general chairman, United Jewish Ap-
peal, vice-chairman of the board, United Jewish Appeal of Greater
New York; member National Panel, American Arbitration Association;
member General Committee, American Jewish Committee; member
board of governors, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, member board
of directors, American Friends of the Hebrew University; vice-presi-
dent, member board of directors, Recreation Rooms and Settlement;
US. Army, 1942-45, major, 1945; member SHAEF Mission, Brussels.

AFTER Commencement in 1930, at which time as Class Orator
I had the temerity to criticize the tutorial system at Harvard
(which document was quoted, to my amazement, by The Nation
under the title: “Fair Harvard— Only Fair—Says the Class
Orator of the Class of 1930”), I decided to volunteer my services
as a tutor in the Art Department. In turning me down, I was
told by the authorities that I first had better go out and “earn my
spurs.” Flushed with the self-confidence which I would hardly
have now, I managed to sell my services as an instructor in the

[1151 ]

—___—— LL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930 .

in Germany, and that with very few people in it; all the others
have found some permanent home; most of them have gone to
Israel and become productive citizens of that extremely interest.
ing new state.

Besides the direct operational problems of the Joint Distribu.
tion Committee, it became obvious that the American public
would have to be stimulated into larger giving toward the support
of this tremendous task of social engineering, and so I moved into
the fund raising agency from which the Joint Distribution Com-
mittee and the United Israel Appeal receive their funds, namely,
the United Jewish Appeal. I succeeded Henry Morgenthau, Jr,
in 1951 as general chairman, and since that time have mainly been
busy visiting all the major communities of this country and help-
ing them organize their campaigns and stimulating their giving.
My middle initials, “M.M.,” have come to mean “More Mileage.”

My family has been wonderfully tolerant of the amount of
time I have had to be away, but Mary has been kept fairly busy
in her own work, but mainly with the bringing up of not only
my now twenty-four-year-old stepson, Stephen Currier, but of
David, my thirteen-year-old son, and Daphne, my five-year-old
daughter. We have a house in New York on 7oth Street, and
five years ago we bought a place in Westport, Connecticut, which
we love dearly.

I have become rather a nut on photography and have spent
many hours in the darkroom, and am very pleased with results.
Somebody said: “I do this for my own amazement!”

My tennis has settled down to a comfortable house-party
variety, but the years have not made me any fleeter of foot, and
I am more conscious than ever before of my partner’s scream of
“Yours!” Recently I have taken up golf, and, like so many people,
I am desperately trying to break ninety. This as yet has not
happened.

I have seen all too few of the members of our Class in the years
that have slipped by, and look forward to the Twenty-fifth
Reunion to possibly renew these old friendships. I suppose, like
everybody else, my wife and family may have to be put in
strait-jackets to bring them there. We shall see what the result is,

[1154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ANDREW HENSHAW WARD

HOME aApprEss: Green Street, Canton, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Simplex Wire & Cable Co., 79 Sidney St., Cambridge, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 16, 1907, Milton, Mass. paARENTS: Andrew Henshaw Ward, ’85,
Margaret May Ward.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MaRRIED: Carol Eddy, March 22, 1930, Paris, France. cHmpren: Andrew
Henshaw, Jr., Jan. 16, 1932; Artemas, May 26, 1934; Hannah, Dec. 12,

1940.
HARVARD Sons: Andrew Henshaw Ward, Jr., ’55; Artemas Ward, ’57.

occupation: Manufacturing, sales.

HAVING cut my college term short when a sophomore, I start-
ed in 1928 upon a series of careers, which for the next two years
found me taking various jobs including coal mining in West Vir-
ginia, a power lineman in New Hampshire, a weather forecaster,
a factory hand, and a clerk in S. S. Kresge’s. During this time the
girl in the story entered the picture. Then came the depression.
I was working at Kresge’s on that fateful October day. Our
chances, for what was then considered a normal minimum to live
on, were dwindling fast. We saw the writing on the wall in
March, 1930, and with the exuberance and rashness of youth, I
terminated my floor walker’s position and sailed on the same day
for Europe to marry Carol, who was then in Paris.

After a month’s sojourn and a slow boat back, we took up our
first residence in Cambridge, where I was fortunate in obtaining
a job with Simplex Wire & Cable Company. This has turned out
to be my life career and as the company has expanded, I have
grown (to a certain extent) with it. We are one of the foremost
manufacturers of cables for power, lighting, and control and have
many “firsts” to our credit in the new fields of application.

After various positions in the factory, I joined our sales force
and, except for the war years when I was on a special war pro-
duction job, have remained in sales. I travelled New England for
a time and had sixteen months in Florida. Our roots and prefer-
ences were New England and we are now permanently located
here. My position is home office salesman, handling our New York
branch business,

Children — yes, they have kept us busy and young. Andy, Jr.,

[1155 ]

——— —~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

is now a senior at — where else but — Harvard. He will graduate
this coming spring, our Twenty-fifth, a geology major, and as q
ball player we have followed him for better or worse from his
school days. Artemas, also with athletic ability, is a struggling
sophomore. Hannah, our fourteen-year-old daughter, has three
more years at Milton Academy.

We seem to find that time passes all too quickly to do many of
the things we have always intended to do. Our combined hobbies
are the vacations we have together; bridge which never gets any
better; our fast-growing family; and a concerned interest in na-
tional and world affairs. My personal interests are surf-casting,
ornithology, forestry and wood-working, at all of which I am
strictly an amateur but ever enthusiastic. Over the years I have
developed a small cellar-workshop business in custom-made cock-
tail tables, fireside benches, etc. For the more cultural pursuits,
as age limits brawn, I tend more to reading, and I have just em-
barked on one of those music appreciation courses through the
mail.

Although we have moved frequently, we are now experiencing
for the first time the thrill of building our own house. We have
some acreage in Canton and an unsurpassable site, we think. The
house, while of moderate size, embodies the modern in contempo-
rary living, yet still keeps many of the traditional aspects which,
no doubt, are as much a part of us as our New England heritage.

At this writing, September first, we are preparing to move in
on September third, amid the litter of torn trees and limbs, minus
power and telephone, due, not to incompletion, but rather to our
latest hurricane — oddly enough, named Carol.

EDGAR BETHUNE WARD

HOME ADDRESS: 1025 N. Kings Rd., Los Angeles, Calif.

BorN: Feb, 7, 1907, South Orange, N. J. parents: Edgar Percy Ward, Laura
Wilson. ;

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MaRRIED: Jane Wyatt, Nov. 9, 1935, Santa Fe, N. Mex. cHmpren: Chris-
topher, June 22, 1937; Michael, Sept. 10, 1943.

[1156 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HARRIS WARD

HOME ADDRESS: 1596 Green Bay Rd., Lake Forest, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Commonwealth Edison Co., 72 W. Adams St., Chicago, Il.

BorN: March 17, 1908, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Hugh Campbell Ward,
LL.B., 94, Vassie James.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; M.B.A. Cum laude, 1932.

MarRRIED: Mary Godwin Van Etten, Aug. 18, 1931, Grand Rapids, Mich.
CHILDREN: David Harris, May 13, 1933; John Anthony, April 25, 1938.

HARVARD SON: David Harris Ward, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hugh Campbell Ward, ’20.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Commonwealth Edison Company.

orFices HELD: Director, Chicago & Illinois Midland Railway Company, Il-
linois Maintenance Company, Medical Center Steam Company, Stein,
Roe & Farnham Fund, Inc.; member, Executive Committee, Board
of Governors, Metropolitan Housing and Planning Council of Chicago;
alderman, Lake Forest, 1946-47; trustee, Illinois Children’s Home and
Aid Society, 1946-51; trustee, former president, Lake Forest Day School;
former trustee, secretary of the board, Lake Forest Academy; director,
Harvard Club of Chicago.

MEMBER OF: Commercial Club, Conmmonwealth Club, Racquet Club, Chi-
cago Club (all of Chicago); Onwentsia, Lake Forest.

TO describe one’s experiences to one’s father or son is one thing.
To do so for one’s contemporaries, one’s classmates, is another. I
suppose we have not all had precisecy the same experiences. Yet
I have the feeling that we have. There are the experiences that
we share because of the times in which we live and there are the
experiences that are a part of the cycle of life.

The great depression, technocracy, the New Deal. World War
II, the atom bomb, McCarthy. These things belong specifically
to us,

Marriage, parenthood, death. Failure, achievement, success.
These things are not confined to our times. The remarkable
thing to me is that the earth-shaking events of our day seem to
influence us less than the normal stages and events 8 of life which
recur in each generation.

The first great event for me, after college, was my marriage.
My judgment in this respect was only surpassed by my good
fortune. After I married Mary Van Etten, everything in my life
was easier to do and more fun. Mary helped support us during

[ 1157 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

my second year in the Business School, after which we worked
our way abroad and spent a pleasant summer in the Pyreners,
Our return was delayed by a Dutch seamen’s strike, and when we
got back Mary discovered she was having a baby and I dis.
covered that those great corporations had lost over the summer
the slight interest in ‘hiring me which they had shown in the
spring. Consequently, I was relieved to get a job in the Westport
Avenue Bank of Kansas City, Missouri, at fifty dollars per month.
This lasted until David Ward (Harvard 55) was born and a Busi-
ness School professor asked me to join Mr. Roosevelt’s New Deal.

Those were exhilarating days in Washington. As the massive
proportions of the New Deal unfolded and as unknowns became
famous overnight, the opportunities for hard work, meeting
people, and getting big ideas were unlimited. We were not so
busy though as to be unable to play a little touch football in
the Government parks with, among others, John Swope who had
not yet become a photographer of note.

In 1935 I concluded that Mr. Roosevelt’s economic theories
were not for me and I also felt it necessary that I learn something
about business. I therefore was glad to take a job working with
Averell Harriman who had been an important figure in the
N.R.A. and who was returning from politics to private banking.
While with him I learned something about Wall Street and par-
ticipated in a small way in the launching of Sun Valley.

It became apparent to me in 1937 that Mr. Harriman was going
to follow a political rather than a business career. I therefore
accepted the invitation of Mr. James O. McKinsey, chairman of
Marshall Field’s, to go to Chicago as assistant treasurer of that
company. On the day I arrived, Mr. McKinsey died. Mr. James
Simpson, who was at that time the controlling factor in both
Marshall Field & Company and Commonwealth Edison Company,
suggested that I go back to New York or, failing that, take a job
with Commonwealth.

I have been in the utility business ever since. This has been the
most absorbing portion of my working career but is perhaps the
least interesting to talk about. We enjoy Chicago and now feel
that we belong here. In fact, Tony Ward (St. Mark’s, ’57) is a
native Chicagoan.

I must not leave out the war. About six months before Pearl

[ 1158 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harbor important people in Washington began to round up some
of the old N.R.A. workers and I was loaned by Commonwealth
to the War Production Board. The whole family moved to
Washington. I worked there with interest and enthusiasm until
1943 when I became acutely aware that my office was too com-
fortable for those particular days. I got a desk job in the Army,
where I had a few months of procurement work. I was then
transferred to the embryonic staff of what was to be known as
the U. S. Strategic Bombing Survey. I stayed with this organiza-
tion until the end of the war. The work was interesting and I saw
the details of a fair part of the European War from a safe, but not
too distant, position behind our combat forces. I doubt if I con-
tributed as much as I got out of it, but that’s happened to me
before in other places (such as Harvard), and it doesn’t worry
me any more.

Looking back over the years since college, I remember being
thrilled by Roosevelt’s acceptance speech, by the Red Ball Ex-
press of the ETO, by our bombing squadrons forming up over
Rheims, but not half so much as by finishing our house or by a
small son singing a song, or making a tackle. I guess that’s the
way it is with all of you too.

J. LINDSAY WARE

HOME ApprEss: Beal Street, Lunenburg, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: 336 Main St., Fitchburg, Mass.; 15 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 25, 1908, Concord, Mass. parents: George Long Ware, ’o7,
Charlotte Lindsay.

PREPARED AT: Noble & Greenough School, Boston, Mass.; Middlesex School,
Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930; LLB,
1933.

MARRIED: Elise Helen Fay, Oct. 22, 1936, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1946);
Marian Morris Janney, June 27, 1947, Woods Hole, Mass. cHiupREx:
Marian Morris, Sept. 26, 1948; James Lindsay, Jr., Nov. 1, 1951.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Lunenburg Taxpayers Association, 1951-53; treas-
urer, Vermont and Massachusetts Railroad Company, since 1937, Massa-
chusetts Squash Racquets Association, 1937-39, Nursery Training
School of Boston, 1947-52.

MEMBER OF: Union Boat Club; Phi Beta Kappa; Fay Club; Oak Hill Golf
Club; Exchange Club of Fitchburg.

[1159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

MY career, such as it has been, has involved the practice of law
in Boston from 1933 to 1942, and 1946 to 1950, and in Fitchburg
from 1950 to date. The problems have been mostly routine, the
most interesting ones involving several cases in which the Massa-
chusetts Supreme Judicial Court said I was right in step with it,
although previously others had claimed I was not.

The interruption from 1942 to 1946 was a little duty with the
U.S. Naval Reserve in which I served as an Air Corps intelligence
officer at Norfolk, Virginia, Trinidad, B.W.I., Curagao, N.W1L,
and Dunkeswell, England.

My first wife spent her spare time, 1937-1942, in acquiring a
degree with high honors, including Phi Beta Kappa, at Radcliffe,
while I was only collecting squash racquets and tennis matches,
meaning one Massachusetts championship and a few state and
national team championships in the former, and a few Mount
Desert Island ones in the latter sport. Her graduation and my
entry into the Navy came simultaneously, and our interests
drifted apart during the war. Divorce came about amicably
enough in February, 1946.

In March, 1947, 1 met Marian Janney, a Bryn Mawr girl then
studying in Boston, and a real glow came into my life. We were
married at the Cape in June. A daughter, Mitzi, in September,
1948, and a son, Jimmy, in November, 1951, have rounded out
our happiness and good luck.

A lot of time somehow seems to have been spent at meetings
and on drives for Community Chests, Red Cross, church com-
mittees, taxpayers associations, and other civic enterprises without,
as far as I can see, any marked improvement in the organizations
affected.

However, I can report the result of research into thousands of
statistics about bridge hands as dealt. The Aces, Kings, Queens,
and Jacks dealt to me during this period of nearly twenty years
do average out, in time, as anyone could have told me without
proving it. However, though I have had a few more Aces dealt
to me than my share, the total now being plus 65, this amounts
to less than one-sixth of one per cent, while Kings and Jacks have
eluded me to the extent of about one-half of one per cent. You
can then infer, as an opponent, if a King or Jack is missing, that
I am about one-half of one per cent less likely to have it than my

[ 1160 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

partner, unless you wish to infer that I’m more likely now to
have it, to make up for the past.

This does not mean that the cards will necessarily average up
soon. In any 1000 consecutive deals, it is possible to be 74 or 72
minus in Kings or Aces and in another 1000 be 60 or 65 plus. The
plus or minus is figured on the basis that each of the four players
on each hand is entitled to one Ace, one King, etc. With me,
Aces went steadily up from even to plus 297 in twelve years and
then in the next four years went down steadily to plus 19 before
rebounding to plus 65. Kings went straight down to minus 198
in ten years, up to minus 24 in three years, and back down to
minus 344 in three years, and are now up to minus 245. Queens
have been the most stable, being between minus 61 and plus 51
for twelve years, but in the last three months have deserted me
to hit minus 156. Jacks, like Kings, have always been missing,
now being minus 333.

My last 208. hands have given me 23 extra Aces and 23 extra
Kings, but in spite of this my scores have barely broken even.
Sometimes you can lose with all the cards and win without them,
but that obviously is because of your partner’s holdings and the
general run of the luck.

This laborious process could be of use to some one who was
convinced that he or a certain opponent ‘‘always” did or did not
“hold the cards.” With patience you could keep track for an
evening or a month or a year and establish whether or not you
or he was lucky or not. I have never found anyone who would
bother, and on the whole I think he is happier not knowing. Now
that the fruits of my research are being preserved for posterity,
I can breathe easier or more easily, and look forward to Reunion
to see if anyone finished this.

EUGENE MEIER WARNER

MAILING apprEss: Park Lane Apts., Buffalo 9, N. Y.

BoRN: July 6, 1908, Buffalo, N. Y. PARENTS: Eugene Warner, Nellie Bend-
heim. —

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.
[ 1161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

JOSHUA BARCLAY WARNER

HOME ADDRESS: 117 Highland St., Lookout Mountain, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Porter Warner Industries, 338 Volunteer Life Bldg., Chat.
tanooga, Tenn.

Born: Oct. 14, 1907, Kingston, Ga. parents: Porter Warner, Sarah Katherine
Jones.

prePARED AT: Baylor School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREE: a.B. (Univ. of Wis.).

marrieD: Mary Amelia Lamoreaux, April 14, 1934, Chattanooga, Tenn,
CHILDREN: Mary Katherine, Feb. 4, 1935; Frances Lamoreaux, Dec. 6

1936; Joan Barclay, Aug. 24, 1938; William Lamoreaux, June 8, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Porter Warner Industries.

MEMBER OF: Mountain City Club; Lookout Mountain-Fairyland Club; River-
mont Golf & Country Club; Benevolent & Protective Order of Elks;
Beta Theta Pi; American Ceramic Society (Southeastern Section),
Barnard Astronomical Society; American Foundrymen’s Association.

THE peak in my career conforms closely to the criterion set
forth by Theodore Roosevelt, to the effect that a man’s greatest
glory is that he be found in the home. If this refers to a man’s
own home, then I believe the “great one” would have approved
of me. In fact, I’ve gone a step farther. Sometimes I’m hard to
find even when I’m in the home. This is an added safeguard to
glory. |

Since my marriage in 1934, I have spent a great deal of time in
the home. It seems to me that it may be an all-time high. Mrs.
Warner does not agree, but then our theories of relativity as to
time and space are different. At certain intervals over the years,
however, I have made forays from the home and from the city.
These are always in the interests of the mining and minerals busi-
ness in which I have been engaged for some twenty-five years.
My destinations are the ceramic plants, foundries, and other
industries scattered over the southeastern states. The direction of
my ventures is governed to some extent by the season of the year.
If the weather is cold, I find that our Florida customers need
attention. If it’s spring and the Masters is on, there is a manu-
facturing plant in Augusta that has a chronic technical problem.
At Derby time our competitors are all in Louisville, so someone
has to be there to represent the firm. All of my spots of travel,
however, are not of a variety pleasing to the eye of a cavalier.
For example, Sawyers Mill, Tennessee, where our sand plant and

[ 1162 ]

o ee a aaanemmemnmmmmnemammmmmainenmenneniatmmematal i es “ i i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pits are situated, has so nostalgic an aura that a two-day visit will
make you think you died the day you were born. On the other
hand, the Great Smokies will remind you that something or other
about life is eternal and a drink out of one of those mountain
stills will come very close to proving it. Such are the places along
my route of travel in the process of selling minerals, being tech-
nical, shooting trouble, and clearing up matters of policy in regard
to football, baseball, fishing, and politics. Porter Warner Indus-
tries is also southern representative of The Vitro Manufacturing
Company, a division of Vitro Corporation of America, and we
mine and process industrial sands and non-metallic minerals.

In returning to the subject of my attainments at home, I might
remark that the gravitational pull in that direction is inversely
proportional to the force that catapults me hence. Therefore I
am not long afield. I am fortunate in being surrounded by three
teen-age daughters, my wife, and Bill, the boy, who is two and a
half years old. Our oldest daughter is a student of music at
Converse College in Spartanburg, South Carolina. The next in
age, eighteen, is a senior at St. Mary’s School near Sewanee,
Tennessee. The youngest daughter, sixteen and a half, is a junior
at the Girls’ Preparatory School in Chattanooga. Bill, we hope,
is being groomed for Harvard.

Our home is on Lookout Mountain, near Chattanooga. This
mountain is the site of a famous battle in The War Between the
States. As a family we have been a rather retiring lot, perhaps a
little bookish and musical. In recent years, however, definite
inroads have been made from the outside world into this sanctum.
Our church is Episcopal, our political faith Republican (alas),
and our social activities are restricted to occasional affairs in which
our families and close friends are concerned. Actually this does
not all add up to smugness. We have our community spirit and
sincerely follow the trend of national and international affairs,
both political and cultural. However, Mrs. Warner and I have
been absorbed largely in the development of our children and
following their educational careers. Surely you must know with
what pride I would bring her to the Reunion with me in June,
there to see what is perhaps the finest thing of all about being a
Harvard man, the persistent spirit of good fellowship that lasts
a lifetime.

[ 1163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

NATHANIEL WARNER
HOME ADDRESS: 30 Homer Ave., Larchmont, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: §63 Park Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1907, Brookline, Mass. paRENTs: Robert Lyon Warner, Anne
Pearson.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.B.A., 1932; A.M. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1934; M.p. (ibid.), 1940.

marrieD: Dorothy Goepel, June 3, 1938, Greenwich, Conn.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Pearson Warner, ’16, s.B., 717-

occuPATION: Physician, specializing in psychiatry.

MEMBER OF: Medical Society of the County of New York; American Psy-
chiatric Association (fellow); New York Academy of Medicine (fel-

low).

GRADUATING from college, the plan was to distinguish my-
self as soon as possible in business. So there followed a degree
from Harvard School of Business Administration, and then I went
into the world of retail sales. Enthusiasm for that soon waned,
and I became interested in my present field, which is psychiatry.
I started studying for it in 1933, got my A.M. at Columbia in 1934,
went to Paris for a year of study, got my M.D. at Columbia in
1940, and then started private practice in 1948 — a long pull, but
worth it.

Of course, there were the years (1943-46) with the Navy asa
psychiatrist, when I was mostly assigned to the Marine Corps.
Professionally, the years have brought me all one could ask for
in the way of satisfaction, and perhaps as a physician I have been
able to give some satisfaction too. Currently, I am on the staffs
of the New York Hospital and the Roosevelt Hospital in New
York City and Cornell College of Medicine. Also I serve part-
time as an industrial consultant in psychiatry.

In 1938 I married Dorothy Goepel of Greenwich, Connecticut.
We did not have children, but on the death of my sister in 1949,
her two children came to us; thus we now are the happy parents
of two girls, eleven and a half and seventeen years old.

Hobbies are limited by time. Photography gave way to the

necessity of every home owner—carpentry. Others wait in
the offing, if I ever get the hours to invest in them.

[ 1164]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD LENNOX WATERMAN

OFFICE AppreEss: Nichols School, Buffalo, N. Y.

BorN: March 2, 1904, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Martin Thomas Waterman,
Jennie Lennox.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Phillips
Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Josephine Misner, Dec. 22, 1938, Buffalo, N. Y. CHILDREN: Patricia,
Sept. 11, 1944; Peter Martin, March 7, 1946.

occupaATION: Athletic director; director, Nichols Summer Day Camp.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1953-54, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, before
1953, Harvard Club of Buffalo; president, Men’s Club, 1952, member of
the Session, First Presbyterian Church, Buffalo.

ONLY significant change since the Decennial Report is that in
September, 1950, I stopped teaching academic subjects at Nichols
School and became athletic director. I also stopped coaching foot-
ball. I am now kept busy making schedules, buying equipment,
running an athletic store, standardizing coaching, etc. Also, in
1950 I became director of the Summer Day Camp. We take 200
boys each summer and have a long waiting list.

I hope to send my children to college when they are ready, but
wonder whether I shall be able to finance them the way I should

like to do.

FREDERICK MUNDELL WATKINS

HOME appress: Yale Station 635, New Haven, Conn.

OFFice appress: Dept. of Political Science, Yale University, New Haven,
Conn.

BORN: March 26, 1910, Providence, R. I. parents: David Mundell Watkins,
Velena Worth Babcock.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Summa cum laude, 1930; PH.D.
1937+

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Professor of political science.

OFFICES HELD: Junior Prize Fellow, Harvard, 1933-36; president, D. M. Wat-
kins Company, since 1935; faculty instructor, Harvard, 1937-39; assistant
professor of government, Cornell, 1939-42; visiting lecturer, School for
Overseas Administration, Harvard, 1943-45; research analyst, Office
of Strategic Services, 1945; Bronfman Professor of Political Science,

[ 1165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

McGill, 1946-51; Angus Professor, 1951-52; member, Canadian Social
Science Research Council, 1947-51; warden, Douglas Hall, McGill,
1947-52; Chairman, Department of Economics and Political Science,
McGill, 1950-51; Fellow of Berkeley College, Yale, since 1953; council
member, American Numismatic Society, 1945-46, since 1954, professor
of political science, Yale, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: American Political Science Association; Pi Sigma Alpha; Cana-
dian Political Science Association; National Arts Club, New York,
Torch Society (Yale); American Numismatic Society; New Haven

Lawn Club; Yale Faculty Club; McGill Faculty Club; Elizabethan Club
(Yale).

PUBLICATIONS: “The State as a Concept of Political Science”; “The Failure

of Constitutional Emergency Powers Under the German Republic”,
“The Political Tradition of the West.”

UPON graduation I entered the Harvard Law School. The ab-
surdity of this became clear to me almost at once, but I nobly
stuck it out for a year. I spent the next year in Europe, regroup-
ing my forces, and returned to the Harvard Graduate School to
work for a doctorate in political science. Since then my career
has been uneventfully academic, though a trifle peripatetic. Even
the war, successful as it was in many directions, proved powerless
to pry me from my routine. Apart from a steamy summer in
Washington with the O.S.5.— there is no known case of an
American professor who was not at one time or another attached
to the O.S.S.—I spent the whole of this world-shaking period
lecturing to students courteously supplied by the Army and Navy.
And students in uniform, though usually more heterogeneous
and occasionally more sullen than other students, are still students.

My hobby is lecturing to students. I also play musical instru-
ments and collect Greek coins, but these activities come under

the heading less of hobby than of therapy. I have, as yet, no
analyst.

CHARLES HENRY WATSON

HOME AppREss: 78 Beechwood St., Cohasset, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: R. H. White Co., Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1908, Medford, Mass, parents: James Henry Watson, Mar-
garet A. Cook.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930,

[ 1166 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Furniture salesman.
MEMBER oF: Cohasset Golf Club.

UNTIL 1936 I was engaged in the music business, playing piano
for various contractors in Boston. For a time I had my own
orchestra. In 1934 I enjoyed a very pleasant trip to the British
Isles, playing piano in a small orchestra which included the very
versatile Scotty Burbank, ’29.

Since 1937 I have been engaged in the retail business. I still
maintain a real interest in music and find time to do a little
teaching.

Sportswise, golf is my hobby and, to date, I have managed to
spend a little time at either Sarasota, Florida, or Pinehurst, North
Carolina, during early spring. :

ANTHONY SAMUEL WAX

HOME ApbREss: 198 St. Paul St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wax Real Estate Trust, Brookline, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 18, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Wax, Lena Anthony.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MarRieD: Beatrice Sudhalter, June 28, 1936, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Douglas
Edward, July 30, 1940.

occuPaTION: Real estate management; trustee, Wax Real Estate Trust;
United States Post Office Department.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Local 51, G.C.E.O.C., C.LO.

MEMBER OF: Middlesex Club; American Jewish Historical Society; Amer-
ican Historical Association, New England Genealogical and Historical
Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Calumet and Hecla Copper Mine,” episode in economic de-
velopment of Michigan, Michigan History Magazine.

AFTER leaving college in 1930, I was associated with the Daniel
Starch Organization in statistical work, Paramount-Publix Cor-
poration, and the Frontier Publishing Company. Apparently I
was not a mathematical wizard, a Hollywood film star, or a master
salesman, since the depths of the depression found me successively
eased out by each of these enterprises, as their fortunes waned.

In search of security, I obtained an appointment with the Uni-
ted States Post Office Department and, at last, I felt that I had
found a depression-proof organization. In 1936 I married a local
school-marm and soon found out that there were a great manv

[ 1167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

things in the primary curriculum that I had missed, even with
the benefit of a Harvard education.

Our life during the next four years consisted of many trips to
the mountains, to Canada, and to the beautiful beach resorts that
abound along the New England coast. In 1940 our son, Douglas
Edward, was born, and our itinerant wanderings thereafter were
slightly curtailed. In addition, at about this time I assumed a
trusteeship of property management that entailed considerable
responsibility and thereafter demanded the lion’s share of my
activity.

I have always retained an active interest in history and even
today peruse with pleasure the pithy reports and publications of
the various historical societies of which I am a member.

In 1952 I was instrumental in bringing the C.I.O. to Boston to
organize the United States Postal Employees, and during 1953
I served on the Constitutional Committee of Local 51, G.C-E.0.C.
—C.1.O. At the present time I am the elected trustee of this
organization.

Whereas I once took an active interest in politics, 1 have now
come to the conclusion that the great French philosopher, Vol-
taire, was probably right when he stated that “the happiest man
of all was the one who minded his own business and merely took
care of his garden.” In other words, my faith in human nature,
while not completely shattered, is not nearly as firm as it was
when we graduated in 1930.

DONALD CHESTER WEEKS

MAILING ADDRESS; 6121 Wayne Ave., Philadelphia 44, Pa.

BoRN: Aug. 23, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Harry Ellis Weeks, Alice
Beatrice Tuggey.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(31)3 A.M. (Western Reserve
Univ.) 1932; PH.D. (ibid), 1934.

marriED: Eliza C, Goddard, June 20, 1939, New Kent, Va. curpren: Eliza
C,, Sept., 1944; Mary W., Jan., 1948.
OCCUPATION: Education.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 1168 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK VAILLE WEEKS

HOME ApprEss: 1711 Washington Ave., Parkersburg, W. Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Viscose Corp., Parkersburg, W. Va.

sorN: April 18, 1908, Portage-la-Prairie, Man., Canada. parents: Otis Weeks,
Edith Vaille.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN. cum laude, 1931.

MaRRIED: Mary Louise Finck, Sept. 8, 1934, Burlington, Iowa. cHILpREN:
James Otis, Feb. 1, 1950; Nancy Vaille, May 20, 1952.

occupaTION: Manufacturing superintendent, American Viscose Corporation
(Parkersburg plant), rayon manufacturing.

MEMBER OF: Parkersburg Country Club; Parkersburg Chamber of Com-
merce.

SINCE all my various occupations in manufacturing industry
for the past twenty-five years have been devoted to the solution
of current and future problems, the role of historian is quite
strange to me. It is gratifying to look back now on my participa-
tion in many successful industrial projects during this period.

It started in 1931 when I finally graduated as a mechanical en-
gineer, a year later than my Class because of a switch from an
academic to an engineering course after two years at Harvard.
In July, 1931, I started my industrial career in Kansas City as a
mechanical engineer with Procter and Gamble.

After six months as a mechanical engineer, they made a produc-
tion foreman out of me. Since then I have been directly associ-
ated with production, either as a supervisor or as an industrial
engineer.

In 1933 Procter and Gamble transferred me to St. Louis as a
foreman. The same year I was fired, a stimulating and enlighten-
ing experience at that time. Luck was with me and the Iowa Soap
Company of Burlington, Iowa, hired me forthwith as a foreman.
It was in Burlington that I met, fell in love with, and married Mary
Louise Finck —a whirlwind courtship that really worked out
well. Early in 1935 the company transferred me to their newly
acquired Camden, New Jersey, plant as factory superintendent.
This was a small plant, employing forty people at one hundred
per cent capacity. Business for the lowa Soap Company’s Cam-
den Plant lagged in the Depression and by the middle of 1936,
we had only ten men and the factory superintendent spent his

[ 1169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

weekends as a watchman at the plant. Rough as it seemed at the
time, I look back on this job with a little nostalgia. In a plant that
size, in a small company that is losing money, there are no staff,
no experts, no red tape. You make all kinds of decisions in
specialized fields by the seat of your pants and, right or wrong,
you are solely responsible for them.

In search of greener pastures, I left the Iowa Soap Company
in 1936 and called myself an industrial engineer. At that time,
mechanical engineers were a drug on the market and industrial
engineers were in demand. My first job in this newly assumed
capacity was with the Wilbur-Suchard Chocolate Company in
Lititz, Pennsylvania. A year later, 1937, I went with the Arm-
strong Cork Company in the floor division plant at Lancaster,
Pennsylvania. In 1939 they sent me to Millville, New Jersey, to
start an industrial engineering department in the glass container
plant there, which they had just acquired from the Whitall-
Taturn Company. This job was extremely interesting, as it in-
volved the modernization of an old glass house. In 1941 I was
given the title of factory superintendent and was placed in charge
of about half of the plant, which employed 1000 people.

When Pearl Harbor came along, I tried to get into the armed
forces in some helpful capacity, but Uncle Sam denied my request
because of an old back injury and my age. In 1944 I was offered
a very attractive job with the American Viscose Corporation,
starting an industrial engineering department in their Parkersburg
plant. That is where I am now, having been boosted from in-
dustrial engineer to manufacturing superintendent in 1949.

Anyone connected with the textile industry knows the pains
that rayon manufacturing thas endured over the past four years.
It is a highly competitive, fascinating industry with many chal-
lenges. It is free enterprise at its best. We are changing rapidly
to keep up with new styles and new fibers, with extreme confi-
dence that we can remain an essential supplier of raw material for
the textile industry.

After being childless for sixteen years, Mary and I adopted
James Otis Weeks at the time of his birth, February 1, 1950.
Two years later, we also adopted Nancy Vaille Weeks, who was
born on May 20, 1952. We are very fortunate in having two very

[1170 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fine children. They certainly have livened things up around our
home.
My only acquired hobby since graduation is golf. The old ones
of low fidelity music and rough carpentry are still with me.
That’s the last twenty-five years in a bigger nutshell than I
anticipated at the start of this Report.

NATHAN WEINER

HOME ADDRESS: 89-11 63rd Drive, Forest Hills, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Endo Products, Inc., 84-40 ro1st St., Richmond Hill, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. I1, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel James Weiner, Rebecca
Meretzky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cU77 laude, 1930; A.M., 1931; PH.D.,
1933

MaRRiIED: Fae Hamlin, June 16, 1935, Boston, Mass. cump: Roberta Grenna,
Sept. 5, 1937-

occupation: Director of chemical research, Endo Products, Inc., drugs and
pharmaceuticals.

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer in organic chemistry, Graduate School, Brooklyn
College, since 1945; chairman Program Committee, Metropolitan Long
Island Subsection, 1948-49, board of directors, 1949-53, chairman-elect,
1953-54, chairman, 1954-55, New York Section, chairman Lecture
Series, 1951-53, chairman Meeting in Miniature, 1954, American Chemi-
cal Society.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; New York Academy of Sciences, Chemical
Society of London; Swiss Chemical Society; American Jewish Con-
gress; Association of Harvard Chemists.

PuBLicaTions: About twenty papers on theoretical and synthetic organic
chemistry, appearing in the Journal of the American Chemical Society,
Journal of Organic Chemistry, and Analytic Chemistry; a number of
patents which cannot be classified as deathless prose, but do represent
some mark of the passage of time as a practising chemist doing the
right thing in return for his occasional pay-check.

THE details of nearly twenty-five years are necessarily verv
hazy. Yet there are highlights that mark the passage of the w hole
period which come to mind quickly. First, the almost abysmal
prospects that most of us, I included, faced upon graduating into
a world where a college education disqualified one for the few
ditch-digging jobs that were available. I was one of the more

[rizr ]

— ‘Se

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

loathe everything for which Joe McCarthy stands. I am apprehen.
sive about the increasing restriction, legal and extra-legal, which
faces those with the courage to express their honest, small “d”
democratic convictions. Yet I have no fears for the future of the
liberal point of view. I think that Jefferson and Jackson have
worn better than the Adamses, Grant, McKinley, and Hoover,
I think that what FDR did in his lifetime can survive the efforts
of his puny detractors, and that even today ‘“‘all we have to fear
is fear itself.”

JAMES CAMPBELL WEIR

HOME ADDRESS: 2259 Delamere Drive, Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.

OFFICE ADpREss: Hauxhurst, Inglis, Sharp & Cull, 630 Bulkley Bldg., Cleve-
land 15, Ohio.

BORN: June 9, 1908, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: William Hawksley Wer,
Marjorie Roslyn Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Hawken School, Cleveland, Ohio; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933.

marrieD: Margaret Leland, March 14, 1936, Brookline, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Corsane Weir, 731, M.p., 35; David Reid Weir,
"32, MD., 736.

occupaTION: Lawyer; partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, member executive committee, The Anti-Tuberculosis
League of Cleveland and Cuyahoga County, since 1937; trustee, Three
Corner Round Pack Outfit, since 1948; lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R.
(retired), on active duty, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland, Ohio State, American Bar Associations; Tavern
Club; Chagrin Valley Hunt Club; Court of Nisi Prius.

THE composition of an autobiography for the Twenty-fifth
Reunion leads to speculation. Take for instance the matter of
loafing — should you have done more or less of it; and if someone
should vote for less, would you have got into more mischief with
all that extra time, or into Who’s Who?

At any rate, it’s been a very pleasant and happy twenty-five
years, particularly since 1936, when Peggy and I were married.

Since leaving Cambridge, I have been engaged in the practice
of law, with the exception of three years in the Navy Ferry
Command, which involved delivering a variety of Navy planes
between the east and west coasts.

[1174]

ances eens sis Stennessasaatcsamnemnaasessaensunins uel GiO ASG SLA NAS soe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As to the remaining specific questions put by the Reunion Com-
mittee, I am a Republican, and a rather poor Episcopalian.

The general practice of law with a medium-size law firm is a
good life. Form ro4o and the failure of Congress to grant lawyers
the privilege of tax-free retirement and pension plans make it
difficult to save many nickels, but the human problems in which
one becomes involved cover the waterfront, and I find them tre-
mendously fascinating. History and economics are supposed to
be important elements of a pre-legal education; but if I were
starting college all over again with the law in mind as a career,
I would still concentrate on English literature, including a liberal
helping of courses in composition. The greater part of a lawyer's
time is spent in trying to reduce to writing complex factual situa-
tions and concepts; yet, in the case of many of them, the product
is either semi-literate or the gestation period approximates that of
the elephant.

As to life in Cleveland, while it has about the most wretched
climate in the winter and spring that can be found anywhere in
the country, it is an interesting and dynamic city. The incidence
of divorce among our close friends is low; they still enjoy a few
drinks after dinner parties as well as before; and they prefer talk-
ing to bridge and television.

We still play quite a bit of tennis (doubles), and I manage to
get in a fair amount of bird shooting and trout fishing, but not
nearly enough.

About four years ago, I parted somewhat reluctantly with a
half interest in a Navion plane, but with the savings on mainte-
nance bills we have been able to manage vacations in Hawaii and
the Virgin Islands. Since I want Dud and Betty Lewis to speak
to me at Reunion, I won’t get into a comparative analysis of these
pleasure spots, but that liquid sunshine of yours, Dud, was dark
and chilly a lot of the time, particularly the eleven and a quarter
inches of the stuff which settled the dust for good and all during
our last day in Maui.

We are looking forward to driving up to the Twenty-fifth in
the company of Pat and Nancy Bole and Ted and Rosy Hall and
their children, with trust and confidence that the Reunion bar-
tenders will have received a thorough checking out from Bernard
De Voto as to the proper construction of dry martinis.

[1175 ]

TT AEP EY wate ae nk Se ccac ne ee tie

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

EDWARD CILLEY WEIST

HOME AppbRESS: 1000 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Trust Co., 100 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

Born: April 7, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Harry Hibberd Weisr,
Alice Longfellow Cilley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1930; AM,

1932.
MaRRIED: Louise Stursberg, Nov. 20, 1946, New York, N. Y. cuipren:

Helen Louise, Oct. 28, 1948; Susan Harriet, May 25, 1950.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Rollin Weist, ’23.
OCCUPATION: Investment adviser.
MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

AFTER graduation, I spent a year in Europe, mostly in Athens
at the American School of Classical Studies. Then back to Cam-
bridge for an A.M., and some further graduate work. Started
teaching Greek and related tidbits in 1935 at Rockford and Mount
Holyoke. Then, having learned the tricks from the ladies, I
spent the next five years at Kenyon College, running a glee club
there as well as Greeking.

In 1942 I went into the Navy as a j.g., and served ashore in
Melbourne and Pearl Harbor in communications. Stayed in the
Reserve long enough to become a commander, and then faded
away. Teaching Greek seemed rather remote after the war, so
I turned to investment work instead; not so different as you might
think. During time left free by this or small children, I listen to
music and even on occasion read.

JOHN HAYES WELCH

HOME aAbpreEss: Baldwin Road, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 115 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1907, Dedham, Mass. parents: Francis William Welch, Ruth
Hayes.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

Mmarriep: Martha McKeen, Sept. 6, 1952, West River, Md.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis William Welch, Jr., ’27.

occuPATION: Member, New York Stock Exchange.

MEMBER OF: Blue Hill Troupe.

[ 1176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALFRED WHITE WELD

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Farms Road, Greenwich, Conn.

BoRN: Jan. 23, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Francis Minot Weld, ’9-.
Margaret Low White.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929.

marrieD: Sally Ann Duggan, Jan. 21, 1938, New York, N. Y. cuipren:
Sally Ann, June 13, 1939; Jonathan Minot, Feb. 25, 1941; Alfred
Matthew, July 21, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Francis Minot Weld, Jr., 32; David Weld, ’34.

OCCUPATION: Free-lance writer.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, New Canaan Country Day School, 1949, 1950.

MEMBER OF: Council on Foreign Relations, New York; Field Club, Green-
wich, Conn.; Riverside Yacht Club, Riverside, Conn.

FROM 1936 until the war, I worked in the real estate business in
New York: brokerage, but mostly property management,

During the war, I served at the Harrisburg Intelligence School;
Wendover Air Base in Utah; two years or so in England with
the 306th Bomb Group at Bedford, as an S-2; a year in the States
at the end, on contract termination. That restless feeling after
the war steered me into the United Nations, first its housing, then
its radio. Radio, the foreign end, stuck. After a stint with
Boston’s short-wave station, WRUL, I joined Radio Free Europe
in its planning stage, 1949, staying until 1952; in Munich the
last part, with the family, too. Since then, free-lancing in radio
and press work.

Politics? Republican, but only so long as civil liberties are
up front. So, D. E. lost my vote on that Wisconsin platform with
McCarthy, but he has it again now.

Other interests? The whole family likes singing, playing piano,
clarinet, guitar. After a winter in Switzerland, they’ll ski any-
time, or climb. We like sailing and cruising, too.

FREDERICK CHASE WELD

HOME appREss: Baker Bridge Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

BORN: June 12, 1907, Littleton, Mass. parents: Frederick Coffin Weld, "84,
Margaret Jessie Chase.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1930(31).

[1177 ]

SR rm pA ietey sins a irene

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

marrigep: Anne Derby Sutton, Nov. 27, 1937, North Andover, Mass, cu.
preN: Annette, Feb. 25, 1939, Richard Sutton, May 20, 1940; Winthrop
Davis, Sept. 20, 1944; Paula Gardner, April 4, 1946.
AFTER graduation I spent a year at Babson Institute and then
went to work in the family business, Carson D. Weld’s Sons,
importing and exporting with the Far East. The war brought an
end to this and in 1937 I changed to an insurance brokerage
business. |
An important year of my life it was, for I married Anne Sutton.
In 1942, not qualifying for a commission in the service, I went
into an essential industry, H. A. Johnson Company, food mer-
chants. By this time two of our children were in the world and
we were living in Lincoln and enjoying gardening and country
life in general. But soon I became afflicted with multiple sclerosis,
which forced me to discontinue commuting to Boston. Since
then, I have been progressively crippled and blinded by my ail-
ment. In spite of this, I am content at home with my now four
children and wonderful wife.

+ CHARLES HOWARD WELLS

BORN: Nov. 12, 1908, Wheeling, W. Va. parents: John Howard Wells,
Birdie Wolf.

PREPARED AT: Wheeling High School, Wheeling, W. Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. IN E. ENG. magna cum laude, 1930;
S.M., 1934.

MarRiED: Clara Theresa Cazavelan, Nov. 22, 1943, Pittsfield, Mass. CHILDREN:

Pamela Carol, Dec. 24, 1944; Theresa Ruth, Jan. 30, 1947; Jo-Ann
Walton, Feb. 2, 1948.

DIED: Nov. 6, 1950, Boston, Mass.
wwow: Mrs. Charles H. Wells, 20 Beverly St., Pittsfield, Mass.

IN college Wells served as vice-president of the Engineering
Society for a year and held both Selwyn Lewis Harding and
Normal School Scholarships. After graduating in 1930 he became
a student engineer with the General Electric Company in Sche-
nectady. He returned to Harvard in 1933, receiving an S.M. in
1934. In 1940 he was engaged in designing transformers for use
with rectifiers, and was associated with the General Flectric
Company in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, where he remained until
his death. His wife and daughters survived him.

[ 1178 ]

ML

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD THEODORE WENNER

HOME appress: Sycamore Mills Road, Media R.D. 1, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scott Paper Co., Front & Market Sts., Chester, Pa.

BoRN: March 5, 1909, Catasauqua, Pa. PARENTS: Clinton George Wenner,
Eliza Ann Hoffman.

PREPARED AT: Catasauqua High School, Catasauqua, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marrieD: Grace Evelyn Walker, July 25, 1931, Mickleys, Pa. c#itprEN:
Howard Theodore, Jr.. May 15, 1932 (7. Joanne Abraham, Dec. 27,
1952); John Stuart, Nov. 10, 1935; Jerry William, Oct. 23, 1940.
GRANDCHILD: Deborah Carol Wenner, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Assistant controller, Scott Paper Company.

A QUICK mental review of the past twenty-five years immedi-
ately portrays human relationships, particularly the family, as the
one real dominant factor behind all personal, economic, social,
political, educational, and religious convictions and achievements
of a quarter-century since graduation from college. Being com-
pelled to reduce to writing a summarization of such a span of
years emphasizes the importance of the family role not only in
one’s own personal life, but also in the current and future affairs
of the local community, the state, the nation, and the family of
nations.

The family instinct was not to be thwarted by the economic
instability of the early thirties, which was made more precarious
by debts incurred in obtaining a college education. My child-
hood girl friend agreed to share the responsibility with me in
1931; and the first-born, a son, arrived in 1932, by which ume
economic conditions had become worse. By the time of the second
World War, two more sons had been added to the family. We
became grandparents in 1954 when our oldest son, now a lieuten-
ant in the Marines, became the father of a baby girl.

The family responsibility automatically created an awareness
of the importance of education and I became active in school
affairs and served on the local Board of School Directors. Frankly,
my interest in this field has been influenced more by the impor-
tance of human relationships than by formal textbook learning.
At the same time, full recognition was given to the importance of
religious principles, and again particularly their every-day ap-
plication to our relationships with other individuals.

[1179 ]

"TTT FROM Ni HEN INERErUINMRICMARRENEN UR: m5 rur me eye

—— A

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

On the lighter side, I have retained a keen interest in Sports,
not only for. my own personal amusement, but also in recognition
thereof as an important part of a sound and broad educational
program. Of course, my rdéle has been reduced largely to that of
a spectator to which my golf score would attest.

From July 1, 1930, to September 30, 1952, I was a C.P.A. with
Price Waterhouse & Company, and since October 1, 1952, I have
been assistant controller with the Scott Paper Company.

WILLIAM THOMSON WETMORE

HOME AND OFFicE apprEss: “Baalbek,” Route 4, P.O. Box 344, Ocala, Fla.

porn: Aug. 3, 1907, Old Westbury, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Charles
Delevan Wetmore, 89, Sara Thomson.

PREPARED AT; St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

MARRIED: Joan Deery, April 12, 1930, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1938);
Mary Denman Clark, Nov. 10, 1943, New York, N. Y. cuiwo: William
Thomson, Jr., Nov. 30, 1930.

HARVARD SON: William Thomson Wetmore, Jr. ’53.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

HAPPILY and modestly retired. Sports: golf, tennis, fish, and eat
fish. Hobbies: cars, motors. Politics: best man, either Republican
or Democrat.

COBURN TOWSON WHEELER

HOME ADpREsS: 34 Carll Rd., Middletown, Conn.

OFFICE appREss: Dept. of School Services and Publications, Wesleyan Uni-
versity, 356 Washington St., Middletown, Conn.

BorN: Nov. 1, 1909, Northampton, Mass. parents: Carleton Ames Wheeler,
’99, Elizabeth Towson.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; M.B.A., With
distinction, 1932.

MaRRIED: Bettina Rollins, June 20, 1936, Newport, N. H. campren: John
Rollins, Oct. 9, 1938; Sydney Ames, Feb. 4, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Towson Ames Wheeler, 32, s.m. and M.B.A, °34.

OccuPATION: Managing editor, textbook section, Charles E. Merrill Books.

MEMBER OF: Middletown Rotary Club; Wesleyan University Faculty Club;
Professional Bookmen’s Association; University Club, Middletown.

[ 1180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE summer after graduation, I toured Europe with classmate
Jack Auchmoody, which was fortunate since I saw none of the
world during my World War II Navy career, which turned out
to be essentially chairborne in BuAir in Washington. After
graduation from the B-School in ’32, I spent the summer lectur-
ing on world problems under the auspices of the Unitarians and
Quakers, and in the fall went to work in the educational depart-
ment of Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston publishers, and soon
was on the road selling their textbooks to the elementary schools
of eastern New York, Vermont, and western Massachusetts.

In 1936, after my marriage, the constant travelling lost much
of its appeal, and in 1937 I went to work for American Education
Press, in Columbus, Ohio, handling both the editorial and sales
work for their small line of supplementary textbooks. This is
actually the outfit I am still with. The textbook department grew,
took over the Charles E. Merrill Company, and in 1949 AEP was
acquired by Wesleyan University. In the development of the
operation, I became managing editor of the textbook section,
and moved to Middletown, Connecticut, in 1952, when the
entire editorial operation was made a department of the uni-
versity.

The Columbus period was interrupted by about three years in
the Navy as a j.g. and lieutenant in BuAir’s Publications Section.
This turned out to be a relatively pleasant way to spend the war,
as the punch-card system had surprisingly placed me in my own
field, and as I could have my family with me.

The move back east in 1952 was very pleasant for all of us,
as both my wife and I are New Englanders and our parents are
still living in New Hampshire.

Politically, I have always been a Republican, but have been
more than pleased by the Eisenhower middle-of-the-road move-
ment of party policy. As a result, I have become more of an
“active” Republican, doing a bit of publicity and party working
during the last campaign.

Religiously, I’m a Unitarian, and helped start a Unitarian
Church in Columbus and later found myself holding the job of
treasurer of the church for a couple of years and then president
of the Congregation. This turned out to be a lot of fun as well
as a lot of work.

[ 1181 ]

[EPR RR TERRI tS oe a ae a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Coming from a college professor’s family, I now find myself
producing school materials and on a university staff —jug
about as close to teaching as I can get without being in the actual
classroom. Our present set-up is a very happy one for the whole
family, though we are now entering the stage of having at least
one child away at prep school—and he becoming very de-
termined to try to go to Dartmouth instead of Harvard (the in-
fluence of a maternal grandfather and a couple of uncles seems
to be more than I can overcome! ),

My hobbies include a little boating on the Connecticut, home
repairing with a reasonable assortment of do-it-yourself tools, and
only occasional tennis and skiing — and, of course, we seem to
find ourselves pretty much occupied with the usual assortment
of Community Fund, P.T.A., and other civic affairs. We find
these no fewer in number, but perhaps even more enjoyable in a
town of thirty thousand than they were in a city of half a
million. In short, “Connecticut living” is really pretty much all
that it is cracked up to be.

STEPHEN CHENEY WHEELOCK

HOME AppREsS: 955 Fifth Ave., New York 21, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 West 57th St., New York 19, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: William Addison Wheelock,
Margaret Graham Carmichael.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1930; M.ARCH., 1938.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Jane Waterhouse, June 27, 1953, Tattendon, Berkshire,
England.

occupaTion: Architect.
oFFices HELD: Art editor, Europa, Cambridge, England, 1931-32; member

advisory council, Men’s Club, Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, New
York.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Architects, Architectural League, New
York; North Berwick Golf Club, Scotland; Harvard Club of New York.

ON leaving college, I spent two years at Cambridge University
in England, returned to the U.S.A. and entered Harvard School
of Landscape Architecture, but transferred at end of first year to
Harvard School of Architecture. On leaving Architectural
School, I entered the architectural offices of Sir John Burnett,

. [ 1182 ]

NN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Tait and Lorne in London and Edinburgh, then William Van
Alen’s office in New York City.

In 1939 I became chief liaison engineer at Grumman Aircraft
Engineering Corporation. In 1950 I went into private practice in
New York City and later became associated with William Van
Alen, architect, until his death in May, 1954. Now again I am in
private practice.

I married Jane Waterhouse in Tattendon, Berkshire, England,
in 1953. Luckily she is not an architect, although her brother,
sister, father, grandfather, and great-grandfather all are or were!
We spend our summers at our house in Scotland on the Firth of
Forth, playing golf. And now we are both looking forward to
the Twenty-fifth and the Fiftieth!

SCOTT SEYMOUR WHITCOMB

HOME ADDRESS: 612 Betsy Ross Pl., Bound Brook, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mill Owners Mutual Fire Insurance Co., Des Moines, Iowa.

BORN: Feb. 9, 1908, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Seymour Whitcomb,
Neva Jane Newton.

PREPARED AT: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MARRIED: Carmel Marie Previty, July 6, 1940, New Brunswick, N. J. ca-
DREN: Donald, April 27, 1944; Deirdre, Oct. 11, 1947 (died Aug. 4, 1939);
David, Oct. 28, 1950.

occupation: Special Agent, Mill Owners Mutual Fire Insurance Company.

IT is difficult to know where twenty-five years have gone, but I
guess I have had my share of little dramas and discontents and
satisfactions. Best of all, I got myself a good wife and children,
which is ample achievement for a quarter of a century. I suppose
I have made some contributions to those about me, but probably
none too good or too evil. Any really good ideas I am trying to
invest in my two boys; I figure for the next twenty-five years I
shall pass more and push the ball less.

Spent the first four years out of college scattering prose over
the desert air for weekly newspapers. Since then I have served
a few persons by advising them on casualty and fire insurance; it
is an interesting and honorable semi-profession and, in time, might
even become lucrative.

[ 1183 ]

OP RI RENN REE SENET ecu

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

I have divided my time between suburban Boston and New
Jersey, with a couple of bachelor years in Brooklyn, and I have
worked with associates from Chicago and Des Moines, and have
not lost my New England accent.

EDWARD BANKER WHITE

HOME ADDRESS: 115 Lincoln Ave., Ridgewood, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National City Bank of New York, 55 Wall St., New York,
N. Y.

BORN: June 20, 1909, Staten Island, N. Y. Parents: Jo Russell White, ’o8,
Grace E. Kingsley.

PREPARED AT: Staten Island Academy, Staten Island, N. Y.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. magna cum laude, 1930.

MARRIED: Mary Jean Ross, June 26, 1931, New York, N. Y.; Ruth M, G.
Mellby, Jan. 10, 1942, Reno, Nev. cttprEN: Katherine L. M., Oct. 19,
1942; Edward Banker, Jr.. May 29, 1944; Jean M. M., May 11, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, National City Bank of New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Downtown Athletic Club;
New York Society of Security Analysts; Phi Beta Kappa.

MY entire business career has been in the financial field. After
eight years in New York, 1930-38, I moved to San Francisco
where I was engaged in the investment banking business until
1947. At that time an opportunity was presented to return to
New York to become associated with the National City Bank of
New York. My principal business interest is the financing of
public utility companies and I am currently in charge of the
bank’s public utility department.

During the war I was in the Navy from April, 1942, until
November, 1945, having been discharged with rank of lieuten-
ant commander.

My wife is actively interested in music — singing and piano.
The girls give every indication of having the inclination and
ability for musical activities. Edward, Jr., looks like a good pros-
pect for pitcher in 1962-65.

Hobbies are photography and various sports, both indoor and
outdoor. My work requires considerable travel throughout the
U.S.A., which presents many opportunities to see classmates in
various parts of the country.

[ 1184 ]

onus veins si ” . jlbainsele een tities MN OM Sine PB Se

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SEYMOUR JAMES WHITE

HOME apprEss: 31 Auburn St., Concord, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 7 South St., Concord, N. H.

BORN: Nov. 5, 1908, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Morris Bernard White, Minnie
Meyers.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1930; M.v. (Univ. of
Paris), 1936.

marrieD: Renee Barrucand, July 23, 1935, Paris, France; Helen Salovitz,
1950, New York, N. Y. cuitpren: Arlette Fleur, Dec. 2, 1939, Michele
P., April 4, 1941; Lawrence Edward, Feb. 7, 1944; Mark Jeffrey, April
21, 1953.

occuPATION: Physician, specializing in dermatology and syphilology; con-
sultant in venereal diseases to State Board of Health.

MEMBER OF: New Hampshire Medical Society; New England Dermatologi-
cal Society, New Hampshire Harvard Club; Lions Club (director);
Community Players of Concord, N. H.

PUBLICATIONS: Odds and ends, here and there.

AFTER graduation I planned to study medicine in Vienna. On
the way I stopped in Paris for three days and remained for six
years. I returned with a medical degree and a wife. The degree
has remained, the wife has not. Three children with my first wife,
one with my second, present, and last wife, all living with me.
My primary interest has been dermatology and syphilology, and
I have been practising this in one way or another continually, in-
cluding a two-year interval with the Army and service in England
and France. I am now in private practice in Concord and
Laconia, New Hampshire.

As an avocation in the last few years, I have adopted the com-
munity theatre, and have appeared in several play productions
in our local group. Am now available for work as butler, aging
professor, messenger boy, retired general in wheelchair, and also
as grand-pere in “The Happy Time.”

Professionally, I have found satisfaction both in practice and
in teaching. An occasional article published, once in a while a talk
before a group, usually medical.

In addition, I have become interested in the “Great Books”
discussion groups and have been drafted as a leader; and am as
yet unprepared to offer any opinion as to how that will work
out.

[ 1185 ]

—~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

HAROLD CUTLER WHITMAN, JR.

HOME AND BUSINESS ApprESS: R.F.D., Parsonburg, Md.

porn: Nov. 13, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Harold Cutler Whitman,
’os, Georgia Fargo Squires.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927.

MARRIED: Ruth Malone, Sept. 19, 1930, Bedford Village, N. Y.; Joan Howard,

1946. CHILDREN: Harold Cutler, 3d, Aug. 2, 1931; Esmond Philip, 1951.
occuPATION: Agriculture.

UNTIL 1939 I was employed by the Esmond Mills of Esmond,
Rhode Island, as director and assistant to the president. In 1940
I enlisted in the Army and ended up as a platoon sergeant in
Company I, 115th Infantry, 29th Division. Participated in the
invasion of Normandy, was wounded near St. Lo, and was dis-
charged in 1945.

Since then, I have been in the broiler business on the Eastern
Shore of Maryland. I have a son, Harold, 3d, from my first
marriage who is now twenty-two and in the U.S. Navy. In 19461

married Joan Howard, and have another son, Esmond Philip,
aged three.

HAROLD BACON WHITMORE

LAST KNOWN AppREss: Stone & Webster Engineering Corp., 90 Broad St.
New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: July 1, 1905, Atlantic City, N. J. parents: Hale Whitmore, Lena
Thomas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1927.

WHITMORE has been carried as a “lost” man on our records.

OTIS MINOT WHITNEY

HOME AppreEss: Elm Street, Concord, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1010 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass

BorN: March 25, 1909, Concord, Mass. parents: Charles Hayden Whitney,
Caroline Patrick.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cu laude, 1930; LLB., 1933.

[ 1186 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRIED: Eleanor B. Morss, Sept. 13, 1933, Nashua, N. H.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Hayden Whitney (deceased), ’27, George K.
Whitney, ’29.

occuPATION: Commissioner of Public Safety, Commonwealth of Massachu-
setts.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Massachusetts House of Representatives, 1937-42
Massachusetts Governor’s Council, 1946-53; treasurer, Republican Club
of Massachusetts, since 1950; president, Browne & Nichols Alumni
Association, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Sons of Union Veterans.

MY activities in the past twenty-five years can be divided into
three categories, namely, legal, political, and military.

Following graduation from Harvard Law School, I became
associated with the Boston law firm of Parkman, Robbins, Cough-
lin & Hannan. Here I was fortunate to enjoy a political rutelage
under Honorable Henry Parkman, Jr., ’15, then in the Massachu-
setts State Senate. I remained with this firm until my entry on
active military service in January of 1941.

In 1936 I first became a candidate for public office and was
elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives for the
13th Middlesex District, and served for three terms.

Upon release from the Army in 1946 I resumed the practice
of law in Boston, being associated with Lennox Hannan, ’12,
LL.B., ’15, and John V. Phelan, LL.B., ’31.

In April, 1946, the Massachusetts legislature elected me to fill
a vacancy on the Governor’s Council. In November the voters
of the Third Councillor District returned me to this office for
another term. 1948, 1950, and 1952 also saw re-election as
Councillor, although the Democratic sweeps in Nlassachusetts
in 1948 and 1950 almost terminated my political career. Service
on the Governor’s Council included the terms of Governors
Tobin, Bradford, ’23, Dever, and, for a brief period, Governor
Herter’s first term.

In 1948 and again in 1952 it was my good fortune to serve as
a delegate to the Republican National Convention, the first in
Philadelphia and the second in Chicago. I also consider myself
privileged to have been active politically in the recent political
campaigns of Congressman Laurence Curtis, ’16, in my opinion,
one of our outstanding public figures in Massachusetts.

In March of 1953 Governor Herter, 715, appointed me to the

[ 1187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

office of Commissioner of Public Safety for the Commonwealth,
This has proved to be an interesting and active job, inasmuch as
it includes being commanding officer of the Massachusetts State
Police, supervisor over the State Fire Marshal’s Office, chairman
of the State Boxing Commission, and many other activities. |
enjoy the work thoroughly and consider myself extremely
fortunate to be able to serve with such a splendid body of men
as the troopers of the Massachusetts State Police.

However, my first love throughout the years has been the
Massachusetts National Guard, in which I now hold the rank of
Brigadier General as Assistant Division Commander of the 26th
Infantry (Yankee) Division. The day I entered Harvard Law
School I also enlisted in the famous 182nd Infantry (5th Massa-
chusetts) Regiment. This regiment was called to active duty by
the President in January of 1941, and I went along as a first lieu-
tenant. The regiment was shipped overseas in January of 1942
and became part of the Americal Division with which I served
for two years in the South Pacific. The latter part of the war,
after discharge from the hospital, was spent at the Infantry Re-
placement Training Center at Fort McClellan, Alabama.

Throughout the years it has been my privilege to become
affiliated with many organizations of one kind or another. How-

ever, I cherish my membership in the Massachusetts National
Guard above all the rest. .

KENNETH ELIJAH WHITON

HOME apprEss: P.O. Box 252, Peterborough, N. H.
OFFICE ADDRESS: R. L. Day & Co., 111 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 20, 1908, East Weymouth, Mass. paRENTS: Elijah Whiton, Annie
Jane MacKenzie.

PREPARED AT: Weymouth High School, Weymouth, Mass.; Public Latin
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1929. DEGREE: LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.), 1936.
marRieD: Delma Helena Turner, June 3, 1939, Reading, Mass. CHILDREN:

Kenneth Turner, April 4, 1941; Douglas Sterling, April 25, 1944; Ann,
Nov. 16, 1951; Donald Bruce, April 4, 1953.

occupaTION: Registered representative, R. L. Day & Company, investments.

FOLLOWING my departure from College, I spent thirteen years
[ 1188 ]

Moran me

Sac eet accent cinta ER ENR N RET Cates PROTA aie STN Ma RRNA iE 1 A

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in a wide variety of capacities in the investment business, The
next twelve years were spent in a variety of industrial positions.
I returned to the investment business in 1954, which brings me
up to date. My present territory includes all of southwestern
New Hampshire.

DONALD TAYLOR WHITTEMORE

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Lynwood Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.
OFFICE appREss: Port of New York Authority, 111 Eighth Ave. New York,

N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 9, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Harris Stewart Whittemore,
Ethel R. Taylor.

PREPARED AT; Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. cut laude, 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

MaRRIED: Hildegarde M. Callan, June 19, 1930, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Malcolm Callan, Nov. 19, 1938; Sandra, Sept. 13, roqr.

occupation: Management engineer, Port of New York Authority.

OFFICES HELD: Troop committeeman, Boy Scouts of America.

WIVES come first, and mine certainly did in that our marriage
took place right on graduation day, June 19, 1930; the place,
naturally the Harvard Chapel that evening.

The records of “Deah Ole Harvud” will show that after grad-
uation I attended the Harvard Graduate School of Business Ad-
ministration. Starting in relatively respectable business times,
this took just sufficient time to land me out in the hard, cold
world when the depression was at its best, However, I landed
a job upon completion in June, 1932, and not as a grease monkey,
but as a respectable business man. I was with the United Shoe
Machinery Corporation for five years, then with the consulting
engineering game for eight years, with all its cussed travelling,
much of which was with my wife. This was followed with a
couple of other positions before my present one.

To more interesting things: a couple of offspring appeared
within this time. The first, as cited in above statistics, while
travelling, and the second toward the end of that period. At
that point, enough of wandering was enough and life was lived
at Winchester, Massachusetts, and here at Scarsdale, New York,
to date.

[ 1189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

The kids probably helped, though it was more the age and the
job, but I kept out of the war completely, Anyway, we ate well
and the children got cuter and cuter and more and more to con-
tend with on a plane worth while. The male heir apparently
inherited stuff from the maternal side of his daddy’s family —
it’s boats, ships, the sea, travel via water, etc. Anyway, it’s sailing
—no motorized vessels. He’s had his first boat, but it must pro-
gress through stages to a three-masted schooner — or perhaps
more practically to a slightly smaller sailing ship that could take
us all to the Pacific Islands — but with only an auxiliary.

The daughter is something else —I mean just “something.” She
also got cuter, so I’m soon going to get the old tux out and try to
take her out. Even at thirteen, she’s got to the point where it’s
got to be “convertibles.” She does like sailing, too, as well as
horseback riding and almost everything else.

My present position is with a wonderful organization, the Port
of New York Authority, operator of tunnels, bridges, airports,
marine and land terminals. Though an agency of the states of
New Jersey and New York, the Port Authority functions as a
public corporation with operating policies patterned on sound
business principles and practices—none of the drawbacks of
governmental type entities. I’ve always liked travelling, though
not for business and away from the family. Here is the perfect
answer — New York City metropolitan area only, and via
helicopter to our various facilities. It will come for more and
more of you as time marches on.

My status otherwise is just as a Protestant, Republican, Subur-
banite, with said son aiming for Harvard a year hence, and my
daughter for Radcliffe now that she hears that it is somewhat
co-educational, of course via Harvard.

+ LOWELL WHITTEMORE

BORN: Jan. 2, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Horace Alan Whittemore, Mabel
Frances Hollis.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930; LL.B., 1933 (34).

[ 1190 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: EF. Adelaide Turney, Jan. 15, 1938, New York, N. Y. camp: David
Otis, July 13, 1939.

piep: March 20, 1945, Germany.

AFTER graduating from the Law School, Whittemore joined
Frederic H. Hilton in a legal and real estate business at Framing-
ham, Massachusetts. He was still associated with this business in
1940. He was captured during the Battle of the Belgian Bulge
in December, 1944, and died in a German prison camp. His wife
survived him.

ALEXANDER WELLS WILBOR

HOME ADDRESS: Route 2, Wayzata, Minn.

OFFICE AppREss: General Mills, Inc., 400 Second Ave., S. Minneapolis, Minn.

BORN: June 22, 1908, Brookline, Mass. parents: Rufus Littlefield Wilbor,
Kate Wells.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930(31).

marrieD: Catherine Carpenter, Oct. 12, 1932, Minneapolis, Minn. (died
April 12, 1950).

occupation: Advertising executive, General Mills, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: District chairman, Community Chest; vice-president, Twin
City Chapter, American Marketing Association, 1941; director, Labra-
dor Retriever Club, Minnesota Field Trial Association.

MEMBER OF: Minneapolis Club; University Club of Minneapolis; American
Marketing Association; Harvard Club of Minnesota; Navy League;
Labrador Retriever Club; Minnesota Field Trial Association; North
Oaks Golf Club.

IN 1930 the decision of a small, but fast-growing, agency to em-
ploy an inexperienced Harvard graduate launched my career in
advertising, and in 1933 led to my current and long-time associa-
tion with its client, General Mills, Inc. Looking back over the
past twenty-five years, I find few regrets, lots of hard work, and
a fair measure of reward and enjoyment in business.

World War II brought a commission as lieutenant in the Naval
Reserve and forty-four months’ active duty in aviation adminis-
trative assignments in the Pacific and Stateside, completed in the
rank of commander, The opportunity to supervise and work
with large numbers of men under conditions ranging from good
to difficult was a stimulating experience.

[rrgt ]

—~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Since the death of my wife in 1950, I have remained single, My
hobbies are mostly connected with outdoor life which Minnesoty
and trips to other states and Canada have offered —huntin

fishing, field trial competition with my Labrador retriever dogs,
and an occasional game of golf.

Civic activities have included participation in Community Chest
and Red Cross Campaign organizations. Although a novice in
politics, I played a small part in the 1951 “Minnesota for Fisen-
hower” movement and consider myself a Progressive Republican,

+ GUTHRIE WILLARD

Born: Nov. 12, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: William Eugene Kimball
(stepfather), Ella Guthrie Willard.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

piep: Dec. 11, 1927, New York, N. Y.

WHILE at Harvard, Willard was captain of the freshman crew.

He also sang in the glee club and was a member of the Jubilee
Committee. His mother survived him.

JOHN ELA WILLARD

HOME ADDRESS: 2306 Hollister Ave., Madison, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Chemistry, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1908, Oak Park, Il]. parents: Wallace Watson Willard, Mary
Hazeltine Ela.

PREPARED AT: Beloit High School, Beloit, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, DEGREES: §.B., 1930; PH.D. (Univ. of Wisconsin),
I e

marriep: Adelaide Ela, June 12, 1937, Danville, Ky. cumpren: Ann, Dec.
9, 1940; Mark, Feb. 18, 1943; David, Sept. 30, 1946; Robert, Feb. 8, 1948.

occuPATION: Professor of chemistry; teaching and research.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Office of Naval Research Panel on Physical Chem-
istry, 1948-50, Executive Board 1950-53, chairman, 1952—53, Council of
Participating Institutions of the Argonne National Laboratory, Ad-

- visory Committee on Isotope Distribution of the Atomic Energy Com-
mission, 1952, Argonne National Laboratory Advisory Committee,
since 1953, Gordon Research Conferences Advisory Board, since 1954;
secretary, Nuclear Chemistry Section of the XIIth International Con-
gress of Pure and Applied Chemistry, 1951; chairman, Wisconsin

[ 1192 ]

er eetedea son STREET OEE ae

econ tea

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Section, American Chemical Society, secretary-treasurer, Division of
Physical and Inorganic Chemistry of the American Chemical Society,

1954-55.
MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Physical Society.
PUBLICATIONS: Forty papers in scientific journals, mostly dealing with radio-
chemistry or the mechanisms of chemical reactions, and mostly in col-
laboration with graduate students.

MY agenda since graduation has included three years of graduate
study, seventeen years of teaching and research (two at Avon
School, two at Haverford College, and thirteen at the University
of Wisconsin), and four years during the war on the Atomic
Energy Project.

EUGENE WILLIAMS

HOME ADDRESS: 92 Pleasant St., Canton, Mass.

OFFICE AppRrEss: Canton Institution for Savings, Canton, Mass.

BORN: Scpt. 2, 1908, Canton, Mass. PARENTS: Roger Williams, Jeannette Wild.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

occuPpATION: Banker and estate trustee.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Canton Public Library, to fill vacancy to 1953, elected
for three year term, March, 1954; chairman, Canton Division, American
Cancer Society, 1953, 1954.

MEMBER OF: Bostonian Society; Massachusetts Society of Mayflower De-
scendants; Canton Historical Society; Historical Society of New
Mexico; Archaeological Society of New Mexico; Worcester Art
Museum; Friends of the Fogg; Republican Club of Norfolk County.

THE late summer and fall of 1930 I spent motoring in Europe,
then had a brief cruise to the West Indies in the winter of 1931.
In February, 1932, still without a job, I went to Europe and re-
mained until September of 1933, the last year of which was spent
in Munich (the period in which Hitler came into power).

In October of 1933 my family joined with the late Richard
Briggs in reorganizing his retail china and glass business under the
name of the Richard Briggs China Company. Being treasurer and
general manager of the firm kept me very busy until 1944. I did
get a six weeks’ vacation in Italy in January and February of 1937.

On October 10, 1944, I was drafted into the Navy as an en-
listed man and after recruit training at Sampson, New York, was
sent to the Storekeepers School at the same base, followed by a

[ 1193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

course in Diesel spares at the Overseas School at Mechanicsburg
Pennsylvania. From July, 1945, I was stationed at the Spare Pars
Distribution Center of the Naval Supply Depot at Pearl Harbor,
T. H., and while there got my rate of SKT 3c. I was discharged
May 18, 1946, and have had a terrible urge to return to Hawai
ever since.

In April of 1948, again experiencing a long period of unem-
ployment, I started out in my car to see some of the United
States with long visits in New Mexico and West Texas. Did get
a month in Mexico, getting home in December. I liked the South-
west so much that I am anxious to return. In April, 1952, I
accepted a job in the local Savings Bank and have been there ever
since, really enjoying working in a small town and being a part
of the daily life of the community.

In my spare time which is very limited, I keep busy lawnmow-
ing, fighting weeds and insects, and really feel that I have settled
down despite frequent unsatisfied spells of wanderlust.

HADLEY BRINSMEAD WILLIAMS

HOME apprEss: Central Chaparra, Oriente Province, Cuba.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cuban American Sugar Mills Co., Chaparra, Cuba.

BorN: May 14, 1908, Phoenix, Ariz. parents: Alfred Brinsmead Williams,
Florence Louise Armstrong.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.
marriep: Bertha Wheatley Cogswell, Dec. 16, 1938, New York, N. Y.

CHILDREN: Susan Armstrong, Aug. 11, 1942; Hadley Cogswell, Jan. 27,
1944; Elisha Sterling, Feb. 13, 1951.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, Cuban American Sugar Mills Company.

MEMBER OF: Douglaston Club; Harvard Club of New York; Squadron A—
Ex-members Association; American Club of Havana.

FROM graduation until December, 1937, I worked in the Bankers
Trust Company in New York City; at first, as a runner, and then
in the auditing department. The career was not particularly dis-
tinguished; but I got over an ingrained fear of figures and partially
recovered from an acute ignorance of financial and trust matters t
in addition to getting a good view of a large organization from |
the under side. I used to like to think that I had a few friends

there other than among my fellow auditors.

[1194 ]

AEE ES TERE
ans oe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In the expectation of better opportunity, I became associated
in 1937 with the Cuban-American Sugar Company and could not
have made a happier choice. The scope of activity has been broad
and from the beginning the management gave me all the responsi-
bility I had any right to expect. Despite what some dentists and
food faddists say, there is considerable satisfaction in participating
in the production of an essential and attractive food. If one lets
the imagination stray, there is even a little romance in raising cane
and making and shipping sugar and molasses.

Until last summer I was a New York surburban commuter —
Long Island Railroad and all—far from the administration of a
tropical sugar estate. In July the whole family moved to Chaparra
and our mode of life changed rather abruptly — closer to that
romantic part mentioned above, in addition to providing a good
view of a large organization from a different angle. I like to think
that I shall have a few friends here other than my fellow adminis-
tradores.

After three or four months of thinly veiled threats to give the
new administration a lesson or so, the dirigentes of our local
sindicatos pulled a three months’ strike aimed, according to
broadcasts, towards sending the Williams family back where it
came from, more or less intact. Things change suddenly here; bur
at the moment, the employees are working in fine spirit and the
dirigentes are still goo miles away in Havana. Vamos a ver.

Born in Arizona, the escape from heat has been a lifelong, but
apparently not wholly successful, pursuit. It is not too bad here,
but a couple of air conditioners are in readiness.

Throwing back, I had met “the girl” a year or so earlier, but
the nuptials took place in 1938, duly witnessed by several class-
mates. We have three of the usual, exceptionally wonderful
children who we hope will tag along at the Reunion. Has life
changed for them? Horses, tropical ocean, farm life, factories at
hand, and an almost personal, if narrow gauge, railroad. The only
catch appears to be a long school day with tutor and then a shift
at the local Cuban schools. We all thought we should have lots
of leisure time here.

I play golf religiously every five years, and tennis somewhat
more frequently, both with enthusiasm if not skill. Piano, water
colors, and photography are at hand; but no promises.

[1195 ]

—— —~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

As for one’s own philosophy, I am congenitally cautious, par.
ticularly when sober. And the pleas from the Committee to get
this intelligence in on time do not lend inspiration. Let’s limit
it to saying that there appears some opportunity here for making
one remote part of the world a better place for some beings to
work and live. The Cubans tell me that the Italians say that just
such an attitude will be the downfall of the United States.

-ICHABOD THOMAS WILLIAMS

HOME AppREss: Sage Avenue, Lawrence, Long Island, N. Y.

oFFIce apprEss: Ichabod T. Williams & Sons, 220 rith Ave., New York 1,
N.Y. |

BORN: Jan, 12, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Thomas Resolved Williams,
Dorothy Strong Hinckley.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MarRiED: Eda Marie Dunstan, June 25, 1930, Lawrence, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Thomas, Nov. 5, 1933; Samuel Dunstan, Oct. 15, 1936; Resolvert Wal-
dron, July ro, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Williams, ’56.

occupation: Importer and manufacturer of cabinet woods.

OFFICES HELD: Member board, president, Five Towns Community House,
Lawrence, N. Y., Mahogany Association, Chicago, Veneer Association,
Chicago; member board, Five Towns Community Chest, Cedarhurst,
N. Y.; chairman, Council of Social Agencies, Cedarhurst, N. Y,
Disaster Relief, Five Towns Branch of American Red Cross; member

board of trustees, Village of Lawrence, N. Y.; secretary, All Hallows
Foundation, Inc., New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; University Club of Chicago,

Rockaway Hunting Club, Lawrence Beach Club, Cedarhurst Yacht
Club (ex-commodore), Lawrence, N. Y.

SHORTLY after graduation, I was married and after a wedding
trip to the west coast, I returned to a job in a sawmill operated by
Ichabod T. Williams & Sons at Carteret, New Jersey. This firm
has been carried on as a family business for over one hundred
years and, as the only male of my generation, the competition for
the job was not too severe in spite of the depressed business con-
ditions which existed. It being the policy of the firm, I was started
at the bottom and worked about a year in the mill before being
transferred to the New York office. In 1938, on the centennial of

[ 1196 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the founding of the firm, I was admitted to partnership. During
the war years which followed, I offered my services to the Navy
who, after checking my eyes, told me that as far as they were
concerned I would be more valuable in my regular job. My
Draft Board apparently concurred and so that’s where I stayed.
During the war, our firm was, like most others, engaged in war
production and we produced quantities of mahogany planking
for the Navy P.T. boats and also thin mahogany veneer for air-
craft plywood such as was used in the CG-4A gliders and training
planes. Since the war, we have been back at our regular job of
supplying cabinet woods in the form of lumber and veneers to
the furniture and musical instrument trades and to the shipyards.

When I was transferred to the New York office, I moved my
residence from Rahway, New Jersey, to Lawrence, where my
wife had been living most of her life and where I had spent my
summers. Here we settled down and raised our three sons. We
moved from a rented cottage in 1935, and for a year and a half
lived with my grandmother, following the death of my grand-
father. In 1937 we moved into a new house built on the edge of
her property where we still live. My grandmother is now nearly
ninety-six and still lives near us, maintaining a watch over and an
interest in our doings.

During the last few years of my grandfather’s life and es-
pecially after I moved back to Lawrence in 1931, I became aware
of his interest in local affairs, both civic and charitable. When he
died in 1935, I felt that I wanted to do what I could to continue
some of the interests he had. In this manner I began my local civic
activities, First, I became involved in managing the campaign of
a candidate for our local school board. My candidate was defeated
by the local political organization and I Jearned a few things about
politics which kept me away from that field for quite a few years.
I turned then to the field of social service and became a member
of the board of directors of our local settlement house, and later
its president for two years. I was elected to the board of our
Community Chest and, also, served on the board and as chairman
of the Council of Social Agencies.

In 1947 and 1948 I realized that with the travelling I had to do
on business, I could not carry on these extra-curricular activities
and I retired from all of them for two or three years. I should,

[ 1197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

in all fairness, add that since most of these activities required
meetings at night, I found myself short of sleep and almost ,
stranger to my family.

In 1951 I was persuaded to renew my outside activities and was
elected a Village Trustee. I have just been reelected to my second
term and the village is still there. In 1951 I undertook the job
of Director of Disaster Relief for our local branch of the Red
Cross. This branch includes five adjacent communities on the
south shore of Long Island with about 30,000 inhabitants and a
fine exposure to September hurricanes. This job is also still
entrusted to me, largely, I am sure, because we have been lucky
enough to avoid any real disaster thus far.

To sum up, I feel I have been living a normal suburban com-
muter’s life. Last winter we decided to transfer our youngest
boy to a school in New York. This involved living in town
during the week and in Lawrence over the weekends. We plan
to continue this practice during the coming winter of 1954-55,
both on account of school and because it provides a change.

I refuse to take up here matters of my philosophy, religion,
political beliefs, or morals, as I consider these subjects private
property. I shall only add that I like music and sailing, both of
which I practise a bit in season. I also like flying, which, un-
fortunately, I can no longer practise for lack of facilities and time.
I also like working with my hands, for which I have lots of op-
portunity on weekends. I play an occasional game of tennis,
which is usually distinguished by my lack of form, and, when the
weather and water are warm, I like to be in them. I dislike cold
weather and warm drinks, income taxes, and the boys in the

Kremlin — otherwise, I consider myself fairly easy to get along
with.

RALPH BLAKE WILLIAMS

HOME abpREss: 128 Crafts Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Fiduciary Trust Co., 10 Post Office Sq-, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Ralph Blake Williams, ’96,
Susan Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930.

[ 1198 ]

Seething aidtntemednem ateneanbieannaa cts cena einen aetna ins anions ANNO Nat SAR TOC. 20 MD RBG Lg onet

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Margaret Creighton, June 9, 1931, Boston, Mass. cumpren: Ralph
Blake, 3d, June 25, 1933; Benjamin Jackson, March 22, 1935; Margaret,
May 26, 1938; Albert Creighton, Feb. 12, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Ralph Blake Williams, 3d, ’55.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Blake Williams, °34.

occuPaTion: Vice-president, trust officer, director, Fiduciary Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of managers, Adams Nervine; assistant treas-
urer, trustee, Boston Lying-in Hospital; member Executive Committee,
Corporate Fiduciaries Association of Boston; trustee, Farm and Trades
School; president, Charitable Fire Society; trustee, incorporator, Massa-
chusetts Savings Bank; treasurer, trustee, Maverick Dispensary, treasurer,
Perkins Institution, Massachusetts School for the Blind; incorporator,
Provident Institution for Savings in the Town of Boston, Suffolk Sav-
ings Bank for Seamen and Others; secretary, trustee, Sailor's Snug
Harbor; president, member board of managers, Visiting Nurse Associ-
ation of Boston; member Executive Committee, Finance Committee,
Winsor School.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Cruising Club of America; Cohasset Yacht
Club; City Lunch Club.

THE Boston Fish Pier was the scene of my first venture into
business. There I was in charge of the local storeroom of the
Portland Trawling Company and assisted in outfitting their fish-
ing vessels for trips to the Banks. In 1932 I entered the invest-
ment business with Fidelity Fund, Inc., a mutual investment
trust, and later I was treasurer and a director of this company.

In May, 1941, I volunteered for active duty in the Naval Re-
serve and was released to inactive status in November, 1945, as a
lieutenant commander. During this time I spent over three years
on sea duty as commanding officer of several mine sweepers,
participating in the invasion of Sicily and the Atlantic Weather
Patrol off Greenland and the Azores.

Once again a civilian, I returned to the investment business with
the Fiduciary Trust Company in Boston, where I am now one of
the senior officers. While the work of caring for the property
of others involves many routine and tiresome details, I have en-
joyed the countless new situations that continue to arise from the
ever-changing tax laws and economic conditions. I am also in-
terested in a number of charitable organizations which occasion-
ally seem to consume a great part of one’s time, However, their
problems are never the same and always interesting.

For a while after the war, I thought I had seen enough of the

[ 1199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ocean, but it was not long before we started chartering a boat for
a short cruise each summer. Recently, my brother, my College
roommate, Dick Lyman, and I bought the 36-foot ketch Ranger
and by taking turns, the three of us and our respective families
manage to keep the waters of the Maine coast churning all
summer. Although I have been fortunate enough to participate
in four Bermuda Races, I am now happy to leave that sport to
others and enjoy more leisurely pursuits.

RUSSELL DUDLEY WILLIAMS

HOME ADDRESS: Route 1, Box 132, Carmel, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 980 Cass St., Monterey, Calif.

BORN: June 3, 1908, Hartford, Conn. parents: Allen Hamilton Williams,
’91, Marian Walker.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Unuv.),
1934.

MarrieD: Cynthia Criley, Jan. 18, 1935, Carmel, Calif. cumpren: Marian,
Dec. 12, 1935 (7. Ben Chaffey, April 18, 1954); Richard, March 1, 1938;
John, May 26, 1941; Margaret, May 3, 1946.

occupation: Physician, private practice of internal medicine.

MEMBER OF: Medical societies; Harvard Club of San Francisco.

pusuications: A few scattered medical publications of little note, one good
piece of work, the rest pot-boilers.

BECAUSE travel is considered a good thing, I moved in 1930;
from Boston to Baltimore and went to medical school, thereby =
perpetrating my dependent state. And a very pleasant four years
it was, too, with Maryland rye (bootleg, you will recall) in five- i
gallon charred kegs. We used to sit about before dinner having
an old-fashioned and rocking the kegs.

Then San Francisco for a few months (Stanford), New York
for two years (Columbia Medical Center), Baltimore for two
years (Johns Hopkins), and finally to the Monterey Peninsula
in California where I went into practice. Starting as a specialist
in a small town can be a slow business and things were just be-
ginning to look up when Uncle Sam asked for help. I spent the
next four years at an Air Force station hospital in Las Vegas,
Nevada, surrounded by slot machines and crap tables. Then a
short stint with the Veterans Administration in Topeka, Kansas

[ 1200 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(the places I pick!), and back again to Monterey. A finer place to
live is hard to imagine; the only trouble is you never want to
leave, and you are usually disappointed if you do.

Family-wise, I married in 1935 after finishing medical school.
My bride, a native Californian, has followed me in my peregrina-
tions with slight reluctance; she is happy now to be permanently
ensconced (we trust) on the shore of the ware pacificum. Our
four children are most satisfactory: Marian has married a marine
biologist from Stanford who is a fine guy and plans, when some
Coast Guard work is over, to go to medical school. Richard, next
in line, goes to school, of course, but actually lives in a boat,
salmon fishing in Monterey Bay, And the younger two are
shaping up in their own ways. All these, plus many delightful
neighbors, and many passing guests, keep our household in a
permanent state of uproar. This is aided and abetted by four
dogs, three cats, one horse, and a very high fidelity phonograph.

There are five golf courses here within a radius of five miles,
so I have carefully avoided playing golf. It would be financial
suicide. I now am engaged in a true lazy man’s hobby — running
rapids in a kayak. My companion in this madness is a contractor
from Palo Alto named Dana, a grandson of Richard Henry Dana.
For the past four years we have been improving our techniques
on the Rogue River in Oregon, no mean run itself, and are now
about to branch out. No guides allowed; find out all you can
about the projected river, get the maps, get your camping gear
together, get to the river, and down you go through the finest
and wildest country the West has to offer, and, incidentally,
through some of the roughest white water you would care to see.
We are now using two boats; when we were together in one boat,
we would classify rapids as to where the waves hit the bow man
(myself): mild — wave lands in lap; moderate — wave hits chest;
severe — wave goes over head.

So let me say that we lead a fine and somewhat careless life, and
will be glad to see any of the Class of 1930 if they chance this
way. Four miles south of Carmel, next to Point Lobos State
Park — sign on the highway says “Williams.”

[ 1201 ]

| |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930 |

GEORGE HATHEWAY WILLIS

HOME ADDRESS: 2480 16th St., N.W., Washington 9, D. C.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Treasury Dept., Room 3222, Washington 25, D.C.

BoRN: April 16, 1909, Kansas City, Mo. PARENTS: George Hatheway Willis,
Myrtle McLaughlin.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D. C.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1930; A.M., 1932.
occupation: Director, Office of International Finance, Treasury Department,

OUR Class met the depression on graduation and World War Il
in our prime. Like many of us, I felt the impact of both. After
graduating and a year’s work in an office job, I returned to Har-
vard for graduate study in economics. Then, after a short stint
with an accounting firm in Wall Street, I joined the staff of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York in 1935 as an economist in
the Foreign Research Division. Since that date, [ have been work-
ing in international financial problems.

During the war I served first as an enlisted man in the Army,
and then as an officer in the Naval Reserve with about fourteen
months overseas in North Africa and Italy. My duties did not
bring me into combat, the closest to this being some small air
raids. Minor discomforts, good friends, and a realization df the
meaning of war were acquired,

Since the war I have continued my work in international
finance at the Treasury Department, where I am now the Director
of the Office of International Finance. The work is absorbing
and demanding. It is the sort of job which seems to adjust itself
to concentration on work during the week and limitation of
private life to weekends. A good deal of travel has been involved.
These trips usually have strenuous official schedules — recently
I returned from one on which I lost fifteen pounds in ten days.
But they have given unusual opportunities to observe some frag-
ments of history settling into place.

In private life, there is little to report. I am not married and
have no children. Income has never been high. Reading and mild
social activity on the weekends are my principal forms of relaxa-
tion. My first marriage was terminated and she has remarried. No
present prospects for a second.

[ 1202 ]

cceceapeene stra Lanier POR POPO psnaisemrne eee OS

Se ennai enennana nen nea sa eehinceeetnai i setiiiniaAan RENEE NCEA AR ENR LIE AR ES A ee 5 hae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL EVERETT WILSON

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Parker Ave., Maplewood, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boyden Associates, Inc., 247 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 4, 1908, Scranton, Pa. parents: Arthur Wilson, Elsie Mainwaring.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Scranton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: 8.B., 1930.

MarrieD: Nancie Dorrance Corser, Dec. 12, 1934, Scranton, Pa. CHILDREN:
Julie Mainwaring and Penelope Dorrance (twins), June 1, 1937; Lucy
Corser, March 26, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director, Boyden Associates, Inc.

HAVE found these past twenty-five years absorbing, varied,
challenging and, particularly from a family standpoint, extremely
rewarding. I am vice-president and director of Boyden Associates,
Inc., management consultants.

I am looking forward to the next twenty-five years with great
interest and enthusiasm.

RICHARD SEARS WINSLOW

HOME ADpRESs: 51 Barry Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEess: Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, United Na-
tions Plaza at E. q6th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 19, 1908, Newton, Mass. parents: Andrew Nickerson Winslow,
*96, Gertrude Laverack.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1930; A.M. 1931.

MaRRIED: Lucy Prescott, July 12, 1941, Norwood, Mass. cHiLpReN: Richard
Sears, Jr., Aug. 23, 1942; Charles Prescott, March 16, 1944; Lucy Bennett,
July ro, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: W. Thacher Winslow, ’20.

OccuPATION: Consultant on United Nations information project, under aus-
pices of Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

IN the light of the horrible experience I had with submission of
biographic data for our immediate post-war Class book, I re-
luctantly take pen in hand again. At that time, having just re-
turned from overseas and having prepared one of those fiendishly
long Federal Government applications for employment forms
which read chronologically backwards, I mailed it to our Class
Secretary in a hurry, asking that it be edited sharply. To my

[ 1203 ]

—~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Service in particular in recent years). Therefore, I have taken, |
year’s leave of absence and have become a consultant to th
president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
whose offices are right across the street from the U.N. The PrGj.
ect I am working on is directed at finding more and better way
and means of increasing and deepening the amount and quality of
information and understanding about the U.N., its principle,
goals, functions, programs, accomplishments, failures, powers and
limitations, problems and methods, and common obstacles. The
U.N. may not be the last hope of peace, but it impresses me a
being one of the best existing instruments for peace, and until
someone produces a better, realistic alternative, I believe it should
be far more widely understood and supported. I would welcome
ideas from any interested and will gladly pass along the benefits
of my year’s exploration.

As to family, the ages noted for my children should be almost
self-explanatory as to their interests and activities, and those of
my wife. The latter, being a Radcliffe grad, plus a year at Oxford
and a Master’s degree and practice in the social welfare and
public administration field, has recently found it possible and
stimulating to break away from the earlier preoccupation of
chauffeuring children all day and to do some occasional pro-
fessional lecturing on the U.N.

In the travel line, I’ve only been able to move from New York
about twice — each time for three months in Paris wtih the U.S.
delegation to the General Assembly of the United Nations, in
1948 and 1951. This confinement to one spot, plus a work
schedule at the U.N. of many six-day weeks, many nights, and
few holidays has meant no trace of hobbies.

As to politics, I have been on the independent side and, of
course, generally somewhat limited by the Hatch Act, ie. no
politicking by Federal Civil Service employees. Now that I’m on
leave, I don’t mind saying that we’ve been living lately in far too
low a level of leadership in the executive and legislative spheres,
with notable exceptions. It seems to me this points to the need of
developing more effective, up-to-date methods by which alert
and conscientious citizens may make known and felt the influence
of their opinions upon government leaders, in all branches, in

[ 1206 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

between election periods as well as during campaign and election
times. .

In the religious field I have deep personal convictions, more of
an Emersonian brand than the conventional, institutional sort.
I believe we are critically short of genuine, deep, dynamic spirit-
ual activity and leadership, and that our current moral and cultur-
al standards and common practices too often add to this sorry
picture. The mere building of more churches, beautiful schools
and museumis and an increase in attendance therein should not be
taken as a valid reflection of progress. The only adequate test
and evidence will be that of a steady stream of “deeds and not
words,” or real substance and not mere form (or mere con-
formity ).

++ SIDNEY WILMOT WINSLOW, III

BorN: April 27, 1908, Beverly, Mass, parents: Sidney Wilmot Winslow, Jr.,
’o5, Alyce Bulkeley.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass., Country Day School,
Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928.

MarnrieD: Genevieve Mitchell, 1929. cHitp: One daughter.

piep: Nov. 3, 1932, Brookline, Mass.

WINSLOW joined the First National Bank of Boston upon leav-
ing Harvard, and was associated with the bank until his death.
He was a director of the Boston Herald-Traveler Corporation.
His wife and daughter survived him.

ALAN MERCER WINSOR

HOME apprEss: 4 Pelham Rd., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 27 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: April 7, 1909, Bath, Maine. parents: Frank Moors Winsor, Rebecca
Mercer.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(31); LL.B. (Boston College
Law School), 1941.

marrieD: Ellen V. Chapman, July 2, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHtpREN: Ann
Chapman, May 21, 1941; Deborah, Aug. 14, 1945.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

[ 1207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

oFFicEs HELD: Officer, director, New England Waste Company, Newco Fibre
Company, Cellulose Fibres, Inc., Charlotte Fibre Company, New Eng.

land Fibre Company, Newco Realty Company, Canatex Textile Prog.
~ ucts, Ltd., Adolph Bauer, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American, Boston, Newton-Waltham, Massachusetts, Feder
Bar Associations; Weston Golf Club, Eastward Ho! Country Club,

LOOKING in retrospect, I suppose we were the first depression
class, ic, POST 1929. The world was one’s oyster but we
couldn’t open the shell. My first job was that of a salesman where
our training course consisted of listening to a canned “spiel” and
mouthing it back to the sales manager. I never used it because
all of my energy, both physical and mental, was spent on trying
to get in the office door (which wasn’t always easy) in order to
find the person who had the authority to buy. I think we took
more insults, door slams, and frigid looks than any other Clas,
but this undoubtedly stood us in good stead in later years.

I went west to Chicago, attended the Graduate School of
Business at the University of Chicago, and became a mathematician
and statistician.

For a period of eight years I worked for the U.S. Department
of Labor, starting as a field agent in the Middle West. I rose
progressively to become the assistant regional supervisor for the
Bureau of Labor Statistics in New England, where I supervised
the work of approximately 300 people and drew up the technical
and mathematical procedures for many statistical surveys and had
direct supervision over the technical results on a national scale.
During this time I decided to go to evening law school, was ad-
mitted to the Bar, and started to practise law. During the war I
helped litigate the Emergency Price Control Act when many
novel questions of law arose and when the war came to an end,
I was doing special legal work for the general counsel and re-
turned to private practice.

Business is a lawyer’s world and because I am general counsel
for a textile company which has ramifications all over the world,
I have found myself trying single-handedly to salvage a manv-
facturing corporation and have played the part of chemist,
engineer, executive, and salesman. On the other hand, my prac-
tice has been quite diversified and I have been fortunate enough
to have enjoyed some success in the field of taxation.

[ 1208 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Looking back, it is hard to point out the high spots — trying
to entrap attempted bribers with the help of the F.B.I. while in
Government service and then successfully prosecuting the at-
tempters; winning an almost hopeless jury case for a widow laden
with the usual children, without recompense; liquidating and
selling (at a profit) a corporation on the west coast with the im-
probable name of Hot Can, Inc.; or breaking a will involving
several million dollars, All I do know is that it was a lot of fun
and most of the time profitable.

Socially, I enjoy most playing golf, fishing and hunting, watch-
ing my two lovely daughters grow up, and vacationing with my
wife.

As for culture, [ find I enjoy more and more the classic or his-
torical rather than the modern (a sign of old age); although I
well remember our mental approbation in agreeing with our
well-loved Professor Babbitt when he used to deride acidly the
then moderns of our college years in art, literature, and philoso-
phy. Thoreau, whom I couldn’t tolerate in college, I have read
and reread — particularly Cape Cod, perhaps because we summer
there. Generally speaking, I should like to do it all over again —
especially hitting the school of bluefish we ran into this summer.

HAROLD ARTHUR WINSTEAD

HOME ADDRESS: 275 Blackstone Blvd., Providence, R. I.

oFFice appress: Mill Street, Cranston 5, R. I.

BoRN: May 8, 1909, Providence, R. I. PARENTS: Philip Weinstein, Rose
Zitserman.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: A.B, 1930.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Manufacturer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Imperial Chemical & Plastics Corporation, Chemalon
Industries, Inc.; treasurer, Atlantic Tubing & Rubber Company; trustee,
Temple Beth-Israel.

IN the Army of the United States, a first lieutenant, 1942 to
1945; head of Rubber and Plastics Section in Chemical Warfare,
in New York.

My interests are rubber, plastics and chemical industry, manu-
facturing development.

[ 1209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ARTHUR BERNARD WINTER

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Brattle St. Brattleboro, Vt.
OFFICE ADpDREss: American Optical Co., Brattleboro, Vt.

BorN: May 3, 1904, Waterford, N. Y. Parents: Gustaf Bernard Winte
Karna Nielson.

prepareD aT: North High School, Worcester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

marRIED: Magnhild Christine Sorblom, Oct. 2, 1934, Worcester, Mass. cunp:
Steven Arthur, Feb. 27, 1945.

occupation: Chief accountant, American Optical Company, Brattleboro,
Vermont, and Keene, New Hampshire, plants.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Brattleboro Transit Corporation, since 1951, Brattle.
boro TV, Inc., since 1951, Brattleboro Homes, Inc., 1945-47; member
board of directors, National Association of Cost Accountants, Worces-
ter Chapter, 1934-36, Brattleboro Taxpayers Association, 1949-50; mem.
ber board of corporators, Brattleboro Memorial Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Lions International; Vermont Harvard Club; Vermont Histor-

ical Society; Trinity Lutheran Church; Massachusetts Industrial Editors
Association; Brattleboro Camera Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Fifth of a Century (with H. Emerson Hill); “Sharing Depart-
ment Cost Savings and Over-All Plant Profit With Supervisory Person-
nel,” NACA Bulletin, Vol. XXX, No. 17; several short stories, news-
paper features and technical articles.

FRESH from college where I had made some money playing
saxophone, clarinet, and/or bassoon, I found a sad state of affairs.
Jobs were few and far between and the pay was small. I did
some newspaper and pulp writing, and in 1931 became associated
with the American Optical Company in Southbridge, Massachu-
setts.

In ten years’ time, I did considerable interesting work in various
accounting fields, got a wife, wrote a book, and bought a dog.

In 1942 our company built a plant in Brattleboro, Vermont,
where I went through a most invigorating experience in setting
up the plant and helping in the war effort. In’52 we built a plant
in Keene, New Hampshire — twenty miles away — and I super-
vise (among other things) the accounting in both places at the
present time. Working with government contracts, renegotia-
tions, costs, budgets, etc., doing some personnel work, and writing
up our house organs in my spare time, I am unusually busy.

I have branched out into various other companies and because
people think I know how to handle money, I invariably become

[ 1210]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

treasurer. hus, while a lot of money passes through my hands,
very little of it is my own.

I have had several serious bouts with ulcers, gallstones, etc.,
but medical science finally triumphed and I now am in wonderful
health. I enjoy family life and the bringing up of a future Har-
vard prospect. I dabble with photography and take movies from
time to time. Very infrequently I play my saxophones, but my
true love is the “loud bassoon.” For a time I played with the
Vermont Symphony throughout the state. I play now and then
with various symphonies and opera companies within a radius of
100 miles.

As I get older, 1 become less envious of my richer friends who
give so much more than I do to the government in taxes. I still
buy and read lots of books and when my library overflows, I
bring the overflow to the local hospital.

I am dreaming of the time when my boy gets to be old enough
to go to Harvard so that we can compare notes. I still vote Re-
publican and think the country is on its way back to integrity.
I hope that it keeps going this way so that our children will have
at least as good opportunities as were given our Class of ’30 to
meet the challenge of life.

JOHN SIDNY WINTRINGHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 1155 W. Lincoln Drive, Birmingham, Mich.

OFFIcE apprEss: Ethyl Corporation, 1600 W. 8 Mile Rd., Detroit 20, Mich.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1908, Millerton, N. Y. PARENTS: Henry Clement Wintring-
ham, Ella May Beedie.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN. magna cum laude,
1930.

marrieD: Kathryn F. Minnie, March 21, 1931, Toledo, Ohio.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Tylee Wintringham, ’24,; Henry Clement Win-
tringham, Jr., ’29.

occuPATION: Technical assistant to laboratory director in fuel and engine
research, Ethyl Corporation.

MEMBER OF: American Petroleum Institute; Society of Automotive Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: Various technical papers,

I JOINED the research laboratories of the Ethyl Corporation in
1930. For five years I worked in Detroit, then moved to San

[ r211 J

—~_-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

Bernardino, California, where Ethyl] established a laboratory for
vehicle tests. I returned to Detroit in 1942 and have remained
here. I was assistant manager of the San Bernardino laboratory,
I have since been a research supervisor and an associate director
of research.

I was married in 1931. My wife is a talented amateur sculptor
and oil painter. My present work involves considerable travel,
and my wife often accompanies me. Sometimes I speak before
professional societies or business organizations, but most of my
meetings are with technical groups in the oil industry.

CHARLES WILLIAM WIRTH

HOME ADDRESS: 335 Coney St., East Walpole, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fidelity & Deposit Co. of Maryland, go Broad St., Boston 4,
Mass.

BorN: April 17, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: William Wirth, Hulda
Vogt.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. Cu laude, 1930; M.B.A. 1932.

marriep: Betty Jack, Aug. 31, 1935, East Walpole, Mass. CHILDREN: Con-
stance, May 27, 1938; Betsy Ann, Dec. 26, 1943.

occupation: Branch manager, Fidelity & Deposit Company of Maryland.

MEMBER OF: Surety Underwriter’s Association of Massachusetts; Massa-

chusetts Building Congress; Bass River Golf Club; Bass River Tennis
Club; Sharon Country Club.

THIS is the second review I have made of my life in a relatively
short period. The first was made in 1951 while I was residing in
an oxygen tent as a result of a coronary thrombosis, That prior
retrospection was colored by the possibility that I would leave the
hospital in a hearse rather than under my own power, and the
spectre that even if I survived, I might never be able to work
again. With my business career and earning power apparently
finished at the age of forty-two, I could look forward only to
the prospect of a long invalidism as a burden to my family.

Men at sometime are masters of their fate,
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars
But in ourselves that we are underlings.

How true Cassius’ words were in my case! What had |

[ 1212 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

achieved? I was neither famous, distinguished, nor even wealthy
enough to provide properly for my family in this emergency.
Looking at myself, I could see only a middle-aged failure, who
had made a mess of his life.

I was the assistant manager of the Boston branch of the largest
surety company in the country, the Fidelity and Deposit Com-
pany of Maryland. After seventeen years of service, I was an
executive with a big private office and a rug on the floor, symbols
of success in a business in which titles are a substitute for large
salaries.

Couldn’t I have done better than this? What had become of all
the high hopes and bright youthful dreams so clearly marking the
road to success? Where had I made the wrong turns that had led
me to this dead end? The Inquisition was mild compared to the
questions I asked myself. Had I made my big mistake right after
graduation in allowing a family friend, the president of a sizeable
company, to sway me into going to the Business School instead
of Law School, as I had always planned? This was the period of
the “New Era.” Remember? I was impressed by his position and
dazzled by his promise of a glittering future, if I would but bring
Harvard Business School methods to his company.

Two years later I had an M.B.A. Two years later it was 1932.
Two years later my friend was dead, his century-old company
bankrupt. I was a trained production executive, but business was
producing nothing in 1932.

Had I traded for my mess of pottage in 1934, when I entered
the surety business? After two years of temporary jobs and
fruitless attempts to launch myself into a production career, had
I forfeited the future that my production training might even-
tually bring on the altar of a business which offered security? I
was anxious to get married and the future was so distant. Had 1
given up too soon? If I had stuck it out a little longer, might not
an opportunity have opened up in my chosen field? Why
hadn’t I had the guts to get out of the surety business and into a
better paying industry? Having stayed in it, had I been wise to
stay with one company for seventeen years? Shouldn’r I have
taken the vice-presidency of that small company or one of the
other offers that had come along? Was I wrong to stay in
Boston? Shouldn’t I have moved around more in my own com-

[ 1213 ]

~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

successful and better paid in the production end of some busines
but I enjoy the surety business and I am happy in it. I have foung
it a fascinating occupation which has given me a good, if no
spectacular, living. I have discovered that my loyalty to ny
company wasn’t misplaced. They were magnificent through al]
my difficulty and have assured me that my future is limited only
by the responsibilities I want to assume. I also know now thy
I was right in refusing to leave Boston. My guardian angel was
watching over me when I refused the transfer to New York
The man who took the job was dead within a year. The pace tha
killed him would certainly not have spared me.

I was wrong, too, in questioning the years we lived with my
father-in-law. The good professor was a truly great man and as
such was not especially easy to live with. As a result, he and |
got into most of the comic strip hassles of father-in-law and son-
in-law, most of which, in review, were probably my fault. |
shall be grateful all my life for having had the opportunity to.
spend the time I did with him, for he contributed immeasurably
to my education. Under his guidance, I acquired a PhD. in
living. A naturalist, he taught me—a city child— to see God
in all things living and growing. His astounding fund of know!
edge opened new doors to literature, art, music, and his own
field of botany, while his intellectual honesty and personal i0-
tegrity set standards on which I have tried to pattern my life.

I’m glad now that we didn’t sell the farm. We all love the land
and elbow room. I don’t think we could abide suburban living.
As a place to raise children, it was worth all the struggle and hard
work that went into keeping it. Our older daughter would
probably not have survived a most serious childhood illness in
other surroundings.

Without being smug, I’m content with my life. I neither envy
nor disparage those who have become “Caesars.” It’s just that I
no longer yearn to join them. I know only too well the price
they have paid. I know, for me, that the piper’s music is not
worth that price. My close brush with death forced me to make
a re-assessment of values. I know, now, with dearly bought wis-
dom, which things are important to me and my family. As
cardiac, I try to live each day to its fullest. Yes, I’m content.

[ 1216 ]

prion ete ennai inne dae anne e a nanien nae Nianataaein tea MSs vit cick aA ind 5 ist

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I’m alive and that, I’ve discovered, is all that is important in mv
life.

CHARLES KEMBLE BUTLER WISTER

HOME ADDRESS: Evans Lane, Haverford, Pa.

BORN: Jan, 21, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Qwen Wister, ’8z, Mary
Channing. ,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1928,

marrteD: Alta Dorothy Eisenhauer, Dec. 8, 1945, Philadelphia, Pa. cHILDREN:
Owen, 1947; Charles Kemble, 1948; Alta, 1951.

WORKED for Association of American Colleges. Served in
104th Cavalry and roth Armored Division.

ARCHIE WOLBARSHT

HOME AppRESS: 125 Winslow Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob Lewis Wolbarsht, Sarah
Edith Shindler.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: 8B. 1930(31).

marrieD: Thelma Rosengardt, July 2, 1933, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
James Lester, Oct. 5, 1947; Richard Lorin, April 15, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Bernard Wolbarsht, 725, trs., '28; Abraham
Wolbarsht, °33.

OCCUPATION: Transportation consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive board, Rate Making Committee (New Eng-
land), Interstate Commerce Commission, 1937-38, chairman, Trans-
portation Team, Combined Jewish Appeal, 1935-39.

MEMBER OF: Stein Club (M.LT.); Reserve Officers Association; Massachu-
setts Bay Lodge, B’nai B'rith; Zionist Organization of America.

THIS goes to press on my birthday. Thoughtlessly Time mag-
azine carries a picture not of me, but of the Bull Market. I shall
try to remedy this situation before our next Reunion.

In the first “quintecade” — permit me —after graduation, I
established an interstate trucking operation. In this endeavor I
obtained a liberal education and my “Master’s degree” as a result
of my dealings with labor unions, business agents, and incumbent
racketeers. Unwittingly and naively, I tried to bring justice and
decency to the New York waterfront. The men were too power-

[1217 ]

—~

L—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

ful in high political circles. Don Quixote could not prevail. Here
lies unwritten Volume I of my autobiography.

At the beginning of the next decade, I moved from land trans.
port to air transport with the Air Transport Command of the
United States Air Forces. I travelled over three continents and
saw many peoples. In what was then England’s oldest Crown
Colony, Newfoundland, I saw the results of an imperialistic
system which was unfair, unkind, and which could not, and did
not, survive long after the end of the war. In North Africa, I
saw the French prevail over conquered peoples. Here, too, |
realized that an end must soon come to this modern type of en-
slavement by virtue of economic control over the country’s
resources. No doubt, Jean Giraudoux stated the case most ably
in The Virtuous Island. Unwritten Volume II of my memoirs.

The year 1946 A.D. (Army Discharge) meant new beginnings
and new joys. In 1947, Jimmy joined us. Thelma and J had free-
lanced it — just the two of us — for fourteen years. Dicky made
us a gayer, noisier foursome a year and a half later. The boys
are now advanced to second grade and kindergarten, respectively.
Jim’s all set to play football for the Alma Mater; Dicky strictly to
clown for the band. Volume III heavy with happy pages and
fine binding. .

Courtesy of Uncle Sam, I travelled quite a bit. In the near
future, I hope to pack the family into a beach wagon to see some
of the world.

Politically, I think and act as an Independent, preferring to
judge men and situations on individual merit. I would wish for
a world-wide race in terms of Moral Rearmament rather than
means of destruction.

I am a firm believer in the wisdom of Oliver Wendell Holmes
who said that when the urge to exercise came upon him, he
would lie down “until it passed away.” The fact is, I prefer a
good book to a game of golf, although I can remember when
squash, badminton, and swimming would demand my attention.
When reading, I now find myself obliged to include material on

argumentation and logic in the hope that this will fortify me as
a father in the coming years.

[ 1218 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JACK WALTER WOLF

HOME ADDRESS: 6125 Morningside Drive, Kansas City, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 415 E. 63d St., Kansas City, Mo.

BorN: April 16, 1910, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Isadore Julius Wolf, Leah
Marks.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B. ¢4772 laude, 1930; M.D 1934.

MarRIED: Ria Maier, Sept. 28, 1945, Kansas City, Mo. cHiLpreN: Thomas
James, Dec. 4, 1946; Joan Carolyn, Dec. 25, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of internal medicine, University of
Kansas School of Medicine; chief, Division of Internal Medicine, presi-
dent of staff, 1954-55, Menorah Medical Center; chief, Division of
Internal Medicine, Alfred Benjamin Dispensary; member board of
directors, Blue Shield of Kansas City, United Jewish Social Services.

1930-1934. AT Harvard Medical School, graduating with an M.D.
degree in 1934. 1934-1936. At Kansas City General Hospital as
intern and resident physician. 1936-1942. Started private prac-
tice of internal medicine in Kansas City; from 1936 to 1939 served
as assistant to my father, Dr. I. J. Wolf, clinical professor of
medicine at the University of Kansas School of Medicine.

1942-1946. U.S. Army. Entered as a first lieutenant, Medical
Corps; discharged as major, Medical Corps. Principal duty was
as executive officer of the 18i1st Medical Battalion attached to the
Seventh Army from the time of the invasion of Southern France
to V-E Day. Was married on September 28, 1945, shortly after
my return from overseas, but while still on active duty. My bride
was Ria Maier, also on active duty in the U.S. Army as a first
lieutenant, Army Nurse Corps. 1946. Four months postgraduate
training in basic sciences and internal medicine at the University
of Michigan Medica] School. Excellent course. 1946-1955. Again
in private practice of internal medicine in Kansas City. A fine
family with a boy of eight and a girl of six and a third child
expected in the spring of 1955. Have been successful in practice,
but almost too busy to enjoy my family and the social, cultural,
literary, and athletic pleasures that I used to be able to enjoy.

I have reached that stage of life with only a few strong con-
victions which are as follows: (1) that the private practice of
medicine is still the best method of medical care for the patient,
though the hardest for the doctor; (2) that the United Srates of

[ 1219 ]

Le

HARVARD CLASS OF I930

in 1930. T wouldn’t want to go through it again, but I rather pi
the soft young generations coming up who haven't had it 9
tough. (That sounds familiar — do I remember someone tellin
me he walked five miles through the snow to school each day?)
Some people live the best years of their lives in college, and spend
the rest of their lives regretting their graduation. It seems, on
looking back over this account, that there is much more to look
forward to than to look back on. Therefore, En Avant, mes amis,
and we shall see what lies ahead.

JOHN FRANK WOOD

HOME ApprEss: 7 Gracie Sq., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Thacher, Proffitt, Prizer, Crawley & Wood, 72 Wall St,
New York 5, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 1, 1908, Chester, Pa. PARENTS: James William Wood, Sarah
Crosby Black.

PREPARED AT: Chester High School, Chester, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1930, LLB,
1934.

marriep: Ann Prestwich, Feb. 4, 1939, New York, N. Y. caupren: John
Frank, Jr., March 23, 1940; Lydia A., Jan. 10, 1942; Susannah H., Nov.
12, 1946; Sarah, June 16, 1951.

OccUPATION: Lawyer, partner in firm.

OFFICES HELD: Member State Pension Commission; elder, Brick Presbyterian
Church, New York; trustee, New York Presbyterian Foundation; cap-
tain, U.S. Marine Corps Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Down Town Association;
Union League; Association of the Bar of the City of New York.

RAWSON LYMAN WOOD, JR.

HOME apprEss: 5 Bonnie Heights Rd., Manhasset, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 70 Washington St., Brooklyn 1, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Rawson Lyman Wood,
Teresa Schwab.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B. cu7 laude, 1930.
MarRRiED: Elizabeth Ford, Oct. 10, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. cut~pren: Sheila,

Feb. 1, 1933; Ellen, Jan. 20, 1936; Lyman, June 24, 1937; Carolyn, Jan.
23, 1943; Hilary, April 15, 1950.
OCCUPATION: President, Arwood Precision Casting Corporation.

[ 1222 ]

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, North Hempstead Public Housing Authority, 1951-
53; secretary, Council of Profit-Sharing Industries, 1952-55, member
board of directors, Catholic Inter-racial Council.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Linnean Society;
Harvard Club of New York City.

pusLications: Technical articles in trade journals on casting (foundry)
processes; papers in business magazines on subject of profit-sharing.

BUSINESS in New York, home in Long Island, and commuting
between the two; that’s how most of the twenty-five years have
gone. Twelve years ago I started a manufacturing company of
my own. It has worked out with moderate success, but produces
new problems at such a terrifying rate that I now begin to think
that I shall never master the business vocation. Perhaps Business
School would have made it seem easier — but there was no time
or money for that in 1930.

Home is a house built in 1936 in a semi-rural section of Long
Island that has since been engulfed by suburban traffic. We play
with the idea of trying to recapture a little quiet elsewhere, but
can see no limit to the expansion of this tremendous city. My
wife is a Radcliffe girl who has managed to keep busy with five
children whose ages and problems now cover a span of seventeen
years, The eldest, Sheila, graduated from Radcliffe in 1954;
Ellen is now a freshman; and Lyman hopes to enter Harvard next
fall. All of this loyalty has been unforced, as we left the choice
of college up to them; but naturally we are both happy with the
result.

Two problems arising in business experience have led to work
for other organizations. The first is the labor-management fric-
tion that afflicts many companies, and the wasteful strikes and
slowdowns which it produces. Remedies are suggested at every
management conference, but the one that appeals to me most after
ten years of experience is profit-sharing. So I have been active in
the Council of Profit-Sharing Industries, which promotes this
practice.

Manufacturing in New York City involved the integration of
people from many national and racial groups into an efficient
pxoduction team. This led to interest in race relations problems
generally, and then to work with a public housing authority
which was started to clean up a slum area that had persisted for
decades in the midst of a prosperous community. Thanks to the

[ 1223 ]

—~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

legislation by which New York State has pioneered in slum,
clearance, this was a rewarding experience in helping a com.
munity improve its living standards. |

There has been time for a few trips to New England or westen_ -
mountains, and hope continues for more time for such recreatiog
later. Meanwhile, back-yard gardening and birding make con.
venient hobbies.

As for Harvard, four years of contact with top scholars and
teachers taught me what the best in scholarship means: study
the facts, all the facts, weigh them without prejudice and try
to draw some logical conclusions. It’s a fine standard for the

solution of all of life’s problems, but a mighty hard one to live
up to! |

MAURICE SPENCER WORTH

HOME apprEss: 68 Buff Rd., Tenafly, N. J. °
OFFICE AppREsS: Sandler & Worth, Springfield, N. J.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Frederick Lawrence Worth,
Stella Moser.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. j.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930.

MaRRIED: Elsa Burnstyn, July 26, 1946, New York, N. Y. cHILpREN: Fred-
erick Lawrence, Jan. 10, 1949; William Andrew, Aug. 28, 1951.
occuPATION: Vice-president, Sandler & Worth, retailers of floor coverings.

OFFICES HELD: Colonel, Governor’s Staff, Frankfort, Kentucky (Kentucky
Colonel).

THE years 1930 to 1942 were for me economically difficult years.
I just couldn’t hit a “loud foul,” nor make a place for myself in
the economic structure. It was “rough.” I was an associate buyer
of floor coverings at Stern Brothers, a nationally known depart
ment store in mid-town New York. It wasn’t a lucrative set-up,
but it was a tremendous training camp for me and was to prove
invaluable when the time came for me to make my bid, In the
meantime, it was for coffee and cake and an occasional shot of
liquor.

In August, 1942, I enlisted in the Army as a volunteer officer
candidate. In March, 1943, I was commissioned a second Jieuten-
ant at the O.C.S., Miami Beach, Florida, I served twenty-seven
months overseas in the European Theatre of Operations with the
gth Bombardment Division (M). I am authorized to wear six

[ 1224 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

battle participation stars on my Theatre ribbon, plus the Ameri-
can Defense and Victory Ribbons. Our division was also cited
by the Belgian Government. I was separated from the Air Force
at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, December 19, 1945, with the
rank of captain. I returned to Stern Brothers and soon after, I
left them to open one of the largest highway retail floor covering
operations in this part of the country. My partners are Maurice
Sandler, 13, Lewis Sandler, ’42, and Richard Sandler, ’42.

In July, 1946, I was married to Elsa Burnstyn. We have two
sons, aged three and six, em route to Cambridge. My wife says
let them make their own choice, but you know how it is playing
with a stacked deck. In 1952 Elsa and I made the pilgrimage to
Europe, which we hope will be the first of many such excursions.
She had heard my army stories so many times that I felt it incum-
bent upon me to “put up or shut up.” Paris overcame my wife.
I was an established figure. We covered Belgium, too, but that
was all anti-climactic, For entertainment we get to New York
for dinner and theater once in a while. For the most part we
exchange visits with neighbors, among whom are Yale men who
have been to Harvard graduate schools or others who attended
service schools in Cambridge. All admit we have something and
intend to send their sons to the right place. One Yale man asks
to remain anonymous, but does admit the error of his ways.

For reading, I guess I’ve read every general’s report on World
War II, and enjoyed them. I managed to get my reading done
in small doses, usually around bed-time —I mean my own bed-
time and not when my two agents are being put to bed, which is
a time indescribably and surely not the reading hour. Elsa and
I have had some titanic struggles at the Scrabble board too. We
used to play cribbage quite a bit, but we recommend Scrabble.

My hobby is photography. I’ve stalked my boys indoors and
out, and if they’re not the most photographed gents in America,
they’d be seeded one-two-three. I also have my wife photo-
graphed in front of every shrine, monument, and place of worship
from here to the Iron Curtain and south to Caracas.

And here we are up to date. The rest of it can be told in
person with sound in June, 1955.

[1225 ]

—~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

CRAIG WYLIE

HOME ADpDRESS: Sudbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Houghton Mifflin Co., 2 Park St., Boston, Mass.

Born: March 11, 1908, Washington, D. C. parents: Horace Wylie, Kath.
arine Virginia Hopkins.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREE: A.B., 1930. —

MarRIED: Angela Fowler, July 2, 1938, Bedford, N. Y. cHitpren: Moira

Angela; Katharine; Pamela Margaret; Andrew; Jennifer Ludlow.
occupaTIoN: Publishing.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club, Boston.

FROM 1930 to February of 1942, I taught at St. Paul’s School,
While there, I was a member of the New Hampshire legislature
from 1935 to 1939. During World War II, I served in the US-

N.R. from 1942 to 1945. Since 1946 I have been on the editorial
staff of Houghton Mifflin Company. |

HERSCHEL IRWIN YESLEY

HOME ApprEss: 8 Whitney Rd., Newtonville 60, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Yesley Brothers Sales Co., 302 Walnut St., Newtonville 60,
Mass,

BORN: Sept. 27, 1909, Boston, Mass. Parents: Louis Moses Yeslawsky, Bessie
Hurwitz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930, DEGREES: A.B., 1930; M.B.A., 1932.

MarRIED: Ruth L. Bolonsky, June 21, 1934, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Mark,
Oct. 5, 1937; Louise Sara, May 9, 1940; Marjorie Laura, Dec. 24, 1947:

HARVARD BROTHERS: Julian Leon Yesley, ’29, 11.8., "32; Shepard Henry Yesley,
35, M.BA, 737.

occupation: Food brokerage business.

OFFICES HELD: Director, International Popcorn Association; board member,
Brotherhood, Temple Israel of Boston, PTA, Bigelow Junior High
School. _

MEMBER OF: Newton Squash & Tennis Club; Boston Food Brokers Associ-
ation; Grocery Manufacturer’s Representatives of New England; In-

ternational Popcorn Association; Harvard Business School Club of
Boston.

AS I look back and reflect on my comings and goings during

the past twenty-five years, I cannot help but conclude that there
must be an all-powerful being who watches over and protects

[ 1226]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

average fools like me. I cannot point to any sensational successes
that have, or should have, made the front pages. Nor do I have
any dismal failures to hide. My life has just been a normal, happy
one, with the usual number of joyous events and a few very
anxious ones.

I spent the first ten years after graduation (with two at the
Business School) establishing myself as a family man. I acquired
a wife, two children, business experience, and enough income
working with my dad as a food broker to keep all of us well fed
and clothed. In 1942 I made a proposition to Uncle Sam. If he
would give me a commission, he could have my services. He ac-
cepted, so the next thirty months were spent in the Navy, I was
separated from the Navy in December, 1945, with the rank of
licutenant (senior grade).

My dad kept our business going while I was away, but passed
on soon after my return. My brother, ’35, joined our firm at that
time and we have been working together ever since, doing our
little bit to keep New England well fed, We are known in the
industry as specialty brokers, selling to wholesale grocers, chain
stores, and commercial users for account of processors and manu-
facturers. We were fortunate to have added popcorn to our line
after the war, thereby sharing in the post-war growth of this
industry.

The post-war period saw our family completed with the ar-
rival of Marjorie in 1947 — a kind of second generation to us, or
the joy of our old age, as my tee ef to. fefer to her. We real-
ized only too well that she was atiothe “Tdheration when we at-
tended our first PTA meeting at hér-primary school. We were
almost old enough to be parents t6"s6tre “of the others attending.
We also realize only too well, as our other children grow into
maturity, that little ones bring little problems, but heaven pre-
serve our strength for the problems of §he older ones.

My spare time has been spent playing tennis and squash. I
continued until I reached forty, when my wife decided it was
time for me to slow down — in sports. L disagreed but still gave
up the game for golf. After four years I have recently packed
my clubs in grease for my old age and returned to tennis and
squash, which at the ripe old age of forty-five I enjoy more than
ever. Youth reborn! I have spent the usual number of weekends

[ 1227 ]

— —~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

each winter skiing. I am no expert, but do enjoy the rides dowy
hill in low gear and the rides up hill on the mechanical lifts,

Hobbies? Gardening in the summer, caring for the 2 x 4 lot
around my home. Amateur carpentry keeps me busy in th
winter, when business, religious, or PTA meetings give me a
evening off, I’m quite proud of the transformation I have accom.
plished in my basement. My older daughter thinks it almog —
good enough to entertain in. Quite a compliment. One mor
snow-bound winter and I should have it completed.

Vacations? Mostly at the Cape, just eatin’, sleepin’, and relaxin.
This coming summer, however, my wife and I plan to spend in
Europe, sailing the end of June soon after we pack the girls of —
to camp (my son is an income producing asset during the summer
as a counsellor), and returning late in August. It’s a trip we have
looked forward to for years.

The months ahead will be very busy ones for the Yesley$. We
must prepare for our daughter’s confirmation in May, our sons
high school graduation in June (preparatory to entering Har-
vard — we hope — in the fall), both to be climaxed by our own
Class Reunion, and this to be followed by our trip to Europe. At
the moment we are neither planning nor looking beyond the
summer of 1955.

ALBERT KLAMROTH YOHN

MAILING ADDRESS: R.F.D. 2, Norwalk, Conn.

BorN: March 22, 1910, New Canaan, Conn. parents: Fred Coffay Yohn,
Gertrude Klamroth.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: S.B., 1930; M.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1935.

MARRIED: Ruth Van Breda, Oct. 4, 1934, Harrison, N. Y. cump: Michael,
Aug. 25, 1935. |

occuPATION: Medicine.

THE above statistics are from the Secretary’s files.

[ 1228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EVERETT HAROLD YOUNG

HOME apprEss: 87 Hampton Circle, Hull, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Coes & Young Co., Inc., 56 School St., Boston 8, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 19, 1907, West Haven, Conn. paRENTs: Harry Young, Mary
Smith.

prepareD aT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1928-1929.

MARRIED: Carol Milbank Waters, Oct. 3, 1939. CHILD: Carette, Dec. 31, 1942.

occupation: Director, Coes & Young Company, Inc., importers, exporters,
retailers of men’s shoes.

GEORGE CONSTANTINE ZEVITAS

HOME ADDRESS: 00 Linwood Drive, Fort Lee, N. J.

orrice appress: National Broadcasting Co., Music Div., Room 293, 30
Rockefcller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

Born: March 14, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Constantine Zevitas, Helen
Diamantopoulou.

Prepared AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.; Public Latin School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1930(31); A.M., 1931.

oocupaTION: Music.

MEMBER OF: Music Library Association; American Musicological Society;
Galpin Society of London; American Society of Musical Arrangers;
The Bohemians; Mu Sigma.

MY work in music is primarily radio and television, but also some
film work. My position includes music copyist, arranger, or-
chestration, librarian and supervisor, with my specific job the
preparation of music for presentation and performance in the
media mentioned.

[ 1229]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

In Memoriam

* Indicates deaths recorded since the last Report

*Gordon Lincoln Baker, May 2, 1953, New York, N. Y.
John Munroe Barnum, June 18, 1942, Long Beach, Calif.
*Edward Trumbull Batchelder, April 17, 1950, North Tarrytown,
N. Y.
William Leonard Benedict, June 6, 1935, Chestnut Hill, Mass.
Robert Warren Canfield, Aug. 12, 1943, near Cologne, Germany.
John Girard Chandler, 2d, June 27, 1944, Boston, Mass.
*Truman Ross Cissel, Jr., April 30, 1954, New York, N. Y.
*Richard Homer Clapp, Feb. 15, 1951, Beverly, Mass.
*Leonard Morris Cripps, Sept. 15, 1950, New York, N. Y.
Robert Cushman, Jr., June 30, 1931, Boston, Mass.
Kenneth Boynton Daggett, Jan. 3, 1939, New York, N. Y.
Guy Jean Louis Marie de la Groudiére, July 12, 1928, Carteret
Manche, France.
Lawrence Witherspoon Dickey, Jan. 1, 1932, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.
Robert Meader Easton, May 1, 1930, Central Falls, R- I.
Martin Freedman, July 11, 1928, Springfield, Mass.
James Constant Fuller, Nov. 17, 1940, Port Chester, N. Y.
David Mercer Gierasch, July 13, 1930, off Scituate, Mass.
Saul Goldwasser, Aug. 3, 1930, Boston, Mass.
Donald J. Goss, Feb. 6, 1942, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Frederick Randolph Grace, Nov. 23, 1942, near Absecon, N. J.
Farle Davis Greene, July 2, 1945, Czechoslovakia.
*Bolivar Merino Guevara, Nov. 24, 1950, Guayaquil, Ecuador.
Frank Hada, 1936 or 1937.
Francis Brown Hathaway, Feb. 9, 1935, New Bedford, Mass.
Alfred Partridge Hebard, Aug. 15,.1946, Bridgewater, Conn.
*George Callendine Heck, Jr., Oct. 1, 1951, Locust Valley, N. Y.
Roland Peter Honigsberg, June 8, 1941, St. Louis, Mo.
Walter Treadway Huntington, May 7 or 8, 1929, Windsor, Conn.
Everard Hathaway Johnson, Sept. 15, 1936, Philadelphia, Pa.
Ralph MacKenzie Kellogg, May 23, 1943, Africa.

eo’

[ 1231]

=

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

*Lloyd Weston Kennedy, Sept. 25, 1954, Boston, Mass,
Charles Dolese Klotz, May 14, 1937, Emporia, Va.

Thomas Jones Lanigan, Jan. 21, 1939, Garden City, N. Y.
*John MacKenzie, Oct. 26, 1953, Palo Alto, Calif.

Gilbert Stanton Miller, March 11, 1932, Cambridge, Mass,
*Harrison Parker, Jr., April 2, 1951, San Francisco, Calif.

Lewis Dabney Parker, May 4, 1948, lost over North Atlantic,
Donald West Pigeon, Jan. 29, 1930, East Boston, Mass.
Emanuel Purkyne, Oct. 26, 1929, Prague, Czechoslovakia.
William Merwin Randol, Jr., Sept. 29, 1949, Los Angeles, Calif
*Robert Parker Read, Feb. 10, 1951, Providence, R. I.

Willard Reed, Jr., Feb. 6, 1942, Far East,

Leon Jerome Robinson, Feb. 1, 1948, Springfield, Mass.

Judson Churchill Kent Sanders, Dec. 4, 1932, London, England, |
Francis Bacon Sears, 3d, July 29, 1928, Weston, Mass.
*William Shepard Smith, Nov. 29, 1951, San Antonio, Texas.
Malcolm Ferguson Stewart, July 13, 1949, Tegucigalpa, Hon-

duras.

Hinckley Thacher, Oct. 14, 1933, Hyannis, Mass.
Arthur Piers Legh Turner, Jr., Nov. 26, 1947, Des Moines, lowa.

*Charles Howard Wells, Nov. 6, 1950, Boston, Mass.

Lowell Whittemore, March 20, 1945, Germany.

Guthrie Willard, Dec. 11, 1927, New York, N. Y.

Sidney Wilmot Winslow, 3d, Nov. 3, 1932, Brookline, Mass.

[ 1232 ]

GEOGRAPHICAL INDEX

ALABAMA
Birmingham: A. G. Bradley, P. Johnston
University: F, B. Hyde

ARIZONA
Phoenix: C. H. Curtis

CALIFORNIA

Alhambra: D, H. Bowers

Belmont: L. C. Reynolds

Berkeley: E, P. DeGarmo, G, A. Page

Beverly Hills: H. C. Adamson, D. A. Nathans, J. Swope

Burbank: R. Donaldson

Carmel: F, N. Brewer, Jr., R. D. Williams

Claremont: J. H. Gleason

Coronado: J. R. Stewart

Culver City: J. T. Newton

Inglewood: W. Tandy

Joshua Tree: J. A. Bassett

Long Beach: M. Coonen, W. J. Desmond, Jr.

Los Angeles: C. G. Davenport, N. B. Friedman, J. Gordon,
J. D. Herbert, N. G. Lauris, W. B. Lee, Jr., P. M. Sheldon,
E. B. Ward

Malibu; A. I. Tompkins

Oakland: G. R. Hamilton

Palos Verdes Estates: H. W. Sturges, Jr.

Pasadena: C. T. Atwood, J. H. Payne, Jr., E. M. Shelton, Jr.,
F, E. Shine

Ross: J. G. Lewis

San Francisco: A. L. Black, J. Ginsburg, F. T. Hodges, W. E.
Hook, F. W. McNear, Jr., R. P. Norton

San Jose: M. G. Sturgis, Jr.

San Mateo: F,. R. Burke, Jr.

San Pedro: C. W. Waldow

Santa Barbara: J. W. Frick

[ 1233 ]

