*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

ARVARD CLASS
OF 1931

aty-fifth Anni versary Report

j

 

CAMBRIDGE
Printed for the Class
19$6

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1931

Records of the Class

JACK LAIB ABBELS

HOME ADDRESS: 134 Jackson St., Ansonia, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jack Abbels Associates, 206 Main St, Ansonia, Conn.

BORN: Aug. 28, 1909, Ansonia, Conn. parents: Aaron Abkowitz, Ida Pearl-
berg.

PREPARED AT: Ansonia High School Ansonia, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Inez Stillman Aaronson, April 7, 1946, New 7 Haven, Conn. cHILD:
Michael Elliott, Nov. 22, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Real estate and insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Coordinator, Civil Defense, Ansonia, Conn.; member, Girl
Scout Council, Ansonia, Conn.

MEMBER OF: Lions Club, Ansonia; Harvard Club of New Haven; Harvard
Club of Connecticut.

WHEN I consider how my life’s been spent”, to paraphrase the
blind odist, I can only reflect and report on year (twenty-five, to
be exact) of mediocre social and financial achievements.

Here, there is no great story to be told of presidencies (maybe a
small organization here and there), directorships (I’ve got myself
a reputation as a small town amateur dramatic director), finan-
cial coups (I did run a successful campaign to buy a Girl Scout
camp) or impact writings and publications (I’m known locally
as the best “free” public relations consultant). Mine, I’m afraid,
is not the typical Harvard success story nor the one to spring-
board a Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report.

But to get back to the genesis. I planned to go to law school
after graduation, but couldn’t raise the price of admission (the
College was good enough to loan me enough to pay for my cap
and gown rental and other graduation expenses — a loan I repaid
fifteen years later). Tired of washing dishes, waiting on table,

[1]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

etc., I decided to try the depression world. New York seemed
the Mecca and, as the saying goes, I should have stayed in bed in
Ansonia. Two or three years later and after more dishwashing,
part-time Macy Christmas matriculation and other odds and ends,
I became associated with the New York City Board of Education,
Division of Extension Activities (with the help of the WPA),
and, for the first time I worked regularly and enjoyed what I
was doing. Aside from enjoying food and lodging security for
the first time in many years, I managed to develop and participate
in the first organized adult education and recreation program in
the U.S. Things maintained a static normalcy until Hitler and
selective service changed their complexion. When the USO
came into being in 1940, I was drafted into its operation as a field
supervisor and there again was involved in a “first” — the open-
ing of the first USO house in the country in Red Bank, New
Jersey. But Pear] Harbor was soon to follow and on June 4,
1942, I enlisted as a private in the Army at Fort Monmouth —
the home of the Signal Corps. (I’m still active in the Reserve with
the rank of major.)

Except for a couple of civilian interludes and excursions into
the governmental public relations and television and radio pro-
duction fields, and fairly successful, the years between 1942 and
1952 are tinted (not tainted) with the olive drab. I was released
from the Army in December, 1946, to make a television and radio
recruiting survey in 1949 (through 1950), and in June, 1951, in-
stead of getting back to Cambridge for my Twentieth, I reported
again to Fort Monmouth. I was released in December, 1952. The
comforting part of this tour was that I had a very interesting
assignment — exec officer of the Armed Forces First Tactical
Television System.

After the wars I “retired” to Ansonia and started the business
I’m in now. Except for the August and October floods, in which
I took quite an active part as Civil Defense Coordinator, things
have been fairly quiet and routine. On second thought, this is an
understatement. In November, 1954, we adopted Michael Elliott
at the ripe age of four days, and things haven't been the same
since. Michael certainly has changed our lives — all for the best,
for which we are grateful and happy.

That’s about it except for a few regrets and observations, My

[2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

first regret is that I didn’t get more Harvard education under my
belt and didn’t participate more in undergraduate activities. I
still dream of that Major H instead of the class numerals I man-
aged to earn as a senior, and still envy those with Hasty P credits.
There should be a way for underprivileged and unwise graduates

to recoup that lost “glory”.
I regret that I haven’t been able to contribute more financially

to Harvard, and more to class funds. I’ve just been too busy try-
ing to make a living. Perhaps the next years will fatten up the

lean.
I regret that I didn’t cultivate any great Harvard “friendships”

and that the “Dear Jack” comraderie now so easy and so normal
in all class communications and other Harvard mail wasn’t avail-
able to me as an undergraduate. It will be nice to meet some of

these signatures Im person after twenty-five years.

ROBERT WENDELL ABRAHAMS

HOME ADDRESS: 83 Roundwood Rd., Newton Upper Falls, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: William Filene’s Sons Co., Boston, Mass.
BORN: July 21, 1910, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Abrahams, Annie

Parker.
PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B.. 1931} M.B.Ay 1933+
marrieD: Miriam Frances Cohen, Aug. 19, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Judy Ann, Dec. 13, 1942; Joan Harriet, Oct. 8, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Department manager and buyer, William Filene’s Sons Com-
pany.

FOLLOWING graduation from college, came two years at the
Business School which was a most delightful prelude to that era
just ahead — the depression years. Fortunately, a staunch Business
School background landed me a department store job at sixteen
dollars a week. Living at home on sixteen dollars was better than
New York offers of twenty dollars and rent to pay. It wasn’t long
ufterward that Miriam and I were married and with Miriam’s
salary and mine combined, we set out to meet the world. And
ooking back, we marvel at the gay times we had, despite the
cconomic gloom of those days.

Several job changes, and even one period of unemployment,

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193!

colored my economic and political outlook and I became and re.
mained an ardent supporter of the administration of Franklin D.
Roosevelt. And, to leap across the years, I found myself in the
camp of Adlai Stevenson in 1952, and perhaps shall be again in
1956. So much for politics. Let's move into less controversial
ground.

In 1938 Miriam and I left Boston for a sojourn of twelve years
in Worcester, Massachusetts. I had secured a position with Filene’s
in their Worcester store. To me, a Bostonian, Worcester seemed
at the end of the world. But as time passed and friendships grew,
and as our family had started, we grew to like Worcester and
consider it home. In 1950, having been transferred to Filene’s
Boston store, we moved back to Boston — or rather to Newton
—and joined the suburbanites, bought our first home, took up
gardening, and rode the delightful commuter’s train known as the
“Highland Branch”.

Being surrounded by a family of women —a wife and two
girls — has probably spoiled me. Little girls are a tremendous aid
to a man’s ego; he can do no wrong. And, although I have no sons
to go to Harvard, I do have two lovely daughters to contribute
to the Harvard sons.

As for sports — of course, there has been golf, and it might be
aptly described as “twenty years of hacking” or “yet to break

oo”. And there goes a quarter of a century — a few unmentioned
trials and tribulations, many moments of joy and fun, and the
everlasting thrill of watching one’s family grow up.

EDWARD HALL ADAMS

HOME appress: 54 Ellis Farm Lane, Melrose 76, Mass.

OFFice appress: Suburban Electric Co., 157 Pleasant St., Malden, Mass.

Born: April 7, 1908, Montclair, N, J. parents: John Dresser Adams, M.D.,
‘o2, Ethel Louise Hall.

PrepaneD AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928,

MakuleD: Harriet Wentworth Haley, Aug. 25, 1930, Newmarket, N. H,

OCCUPATION; Assistant to vice-president and general manager, Suburban
Electric Company.

orvices HELD: Director, Suburban Electric Company, since 1954, American

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Red Cross, Malden Chapter, since 1953, Malden Children’s Health Camp,
since 1953; member advisory board, Salvation Army, Malden Chapter,
since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Electric Lines Club of New

England.

JOHN QUINCY ADAMS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Old Concord Road, South Lincoln, Mass.
BORN: July 15, 1907, Falmouth, Mass. Parents: John Adams, ’98, Marian

Morse.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass., New Preparatory School, Cam-
bridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: B.ARCH. (Columbia School of Archi-
tecture), 1934.

MARRIED: Lucy F. Dodge, Sept. 12, 1937, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN: Benjamin
Dodge, June 23, 1934 (adopted); Elisebeth Ogden, Aug. 27, 1939;
Susanna Boylston, May 1, 1944; Lydia Staniford, Jan. 5, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Boylston Adams, ’35.

occupaTIon: Architect — owner of firm.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1948, president of board, 1951-54, De Cordova
and Dana Museum and Park, Lincoln, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts State Association of Architects.

I LEFT college at the end of my junior year in order to enter the
Columbia University School of Architecture. I graduated from
there four years later, in June, 1934, and embarked upon a shaky
existence as draftsman and architect. It seemed that not many
people needed architects, nor many architects draftsmen. Time,
however, improved conditions, and there followed marriage and
children. Then came the war, and the tools of the architect were
put away for the tools of the engineer. Late 1945 saw a return to
architecture and the release of a long pent-up demand for build-
ing, which has carried to the present.

I do not suppose that over the past twenty-five years I have
changed very much fundamentally. I left college to take up the
profession of architecture and have stayed with it, although, look-
ing back, I think that my conception then of what architecture
was all about was pretty naive. In my youth I had a passion for
the sea and sailing boats. I have still, and indulge as much as op-
portunity and my conscience will allow.

C5]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

« ZABDIEL BOYLSTON ADAMS, JR.

BorN: March 5, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Zabdiel Boylston Adams,
M.D., '03, Helen Foster.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Adams, 737.

DIED: Sept. 14, 1939, Brookline, Mass.

WHILE in college Adams was a member of the third freshman
crew as well as the 150-pound crew squad, and the freshman
squash squad. He was a member of the Hasty Pudding-Institute
of 1770, Iroquois Club, Flying Club, and later the Union Boat
Club of Boston. After graduation he joined Paine, Webber &
Company, Boston stock brokers, and remained with them until
his death.

JOSEPH AIETA, JR.

HOME appress: 8 Barry Park, Dorchester 23, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 270 Bowdoin St., Dorchester 22, Mass.

BORN: July 28, 1910, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Joseph Aieta, Elizabeth
Monica Ellis.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1936.

MarrieD: Elizabeth E. Flumer, June 14, 1941, Framingham, Mass. CHILD:
Joseph, 3d, Sept. 6, 1942.

occupaTION: Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Permanent secretary, Boston University School of Medicine,
Class of 1936; vice-president, Dorchester Medical Society, since 1954.
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;

Industrial Medical Association; Harvard University Department of
Hygiene.
IN spite of all that man does, life moves on and on and nothing
that happens to him slows it the least. Thus each and everyone
of us gets older and older and lo, all at once, our ‘Twenty-fifth is
not only upon us, it is here.

There have been many advances and changes in medicine since
many of our classmates and I have entered the field. Research has
produced new drugs, new vaccines, new surgical techniques and
has brought the spread of surgical procedures to the lungs and to

[6]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the heart. Thus has the life expectancy of man been increased
and perhaps many of the members of the Class of 1931 will live
to be one hundred. I hope so.

In 1944 I began my association with the Harvard University
Department of Hygiene and, as at the time of our last Anniver-
sary Report, I am at the Law School Medical Office. In 1946, I
became interested in industrial medicine also and have been a
member of the staff of the John Hancock Life Insurance Com-
pany Employees Health Clinic since that time.

MARK AISNER

HOME ADDRESS: §39 Veterans of Foreign Wars Pkwy., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE appRrEss: 285 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 27, 1910, Boston, Mass, parents: Jacob Abraham Aisner, Sadie
Solomon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mfass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935.

MaraieD: Helen Rowena Cashman, June 27, 1948, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN:
Jonathan Alan, Dec. 21, 1950, Susan Jane, Dec. 25, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Sidney Abraham Aisner, '29(28), LL.B. 731; Edward
Jacob Aisner, School of Architecture, 1925-27.

occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in physiology, 1938-46, instructor in medicine,
1938-42, assistant professor of medicine, 1942-53, associate clinical pro-
fessor of medicine, since 1953, Tufts University School of Medicine;
chairman editorial board, Disease-A-Month Series, since 1954, Year
Book Publishers, Chicago; member editorial board, New England Jour-
nal of Medicine, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Frater-
nity (honorary member); Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society;
American Federation for Clinical Research; American Medical Asso-
ciation; Massachusetts Medical Society; American College of Physicians
(fellow); American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate).

PUBLICATIONS: Many articles on medical subjects published in various medi-
cal journals.

I ATTENDED Tufts University School of Medicine from 1931
to 1935, received an M.D. degree in 1935, and remained there as
Charlton Fellow in Physiology from 1935 to 1936. Served an
internship in medicine from 1936 to 1938, and a residency in
medicine in 1938, at the Boston City Hospital. Have engaged in
the practice of internal medicine in Boston since 1938.

[7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Served with the United States Army Medical Corps from 1943
to 1946. Was overseas for thirty months — England, France, Ger-
many and Italy with the 7th General Hospital, the 129th Evacu-
ation Hospital and the r5th Field Hospital. Held the rank of
major, and was awarded the Bronze Star and the Army Commen-
dation Ribbon.

My hospital affiliations are: associate visiting physician, Boston
City Hospital; senior consultant in medicine, Lemuel Shattuck
Hospital; consultant in medicine, Winthrop Community Hos-
pital; attending physician, Boston Veterans Administration Hos-
pital, member ‘active staff, Faulkner Hospital; associate staff mem-
ber, Beth Israel Hospital; visiting physician, Holy Ghost Hospital,
member courtesy staff, Mount Auburn Hospital and Robert
Breck Brigham Hospitals,

RICHARD CHANLER ALDRICH

HOME apprEss: Barrytown, N. Y.

BORN: May 16, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Richard Aldrich, ’85, Mar-
geret Livingston Chanler.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Susan Kean Cutler, Sept. 15, 1939, Garrison, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Richard, Nov. 27, 1940; John Winthrop, Oct. 31, 1942; Rosalind Fish,
Feb. 1, 1947.

occupation: Mechanical-chemical engineer, dairy farm operator.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Harvard Club of
New York.

SINCE writing for our last Report, I have spent most of my time
operating a dairy herd of Holsteins at our old place on the Hudson
River. The life is hard but pleasant, far different from my
previous employment — the design, construction and operation of
oil refineries. The task of getting cows to make more milk for
less money requires a diabolical skill not met in the handling of
hydrocarbons, The animal psychology and knowledge required
is not to be had from books. Further, the problem of “beating the
weather” in crop production involves risks and decisions that
exceed the most daring games of chance.

My family spend the summers on the farm and the winters in

[8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New York. As distances are not great, I am able to spend several
days a week in town, keeping up with friends and relatives. Our
elder boy is now at Brooks School and the second goes away next
year. Our daughter runs the apartment in town and the stable in
the country. Fortunately, our country place is blessed with
plenty of room so that the children can develop their own re-
sources. In summer we have an old thirty-foot sloop, and in the
winter we are still able to sail iceboats, an almost extinct sport on
our shores. There are also plenty of ducks on the river, but I find
sitting in a duck-blind slightly more arduous than formerly.

My naval service seems to have terminated with age. One tour
of duty took me back to BuShips in Washington, where the air-
conditioning still leaves much to be desired. Any further develop-
ments will have to be reported orally at Commencement, to which
our whole family are looking forward with great zeal.

HAROLD ISIDOR ALEXANDER

HOME ADDRESS: 57 Circuit Rd., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Louis A. Alexander Co., 264 N. Beacon St., Watertown 72,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1910, West Haven, Conn. parents: Louis Aron Alexander,
Rae Ruth Baschkoff.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MARRIED: Grace Les Carbeau, Nov. 26, 1931, New York, N. Y.

occuPaTiON: Manufacturing.

JOSEPH DANA ALLEN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS; 213 Poplar Ave., Wayne, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

BORN: March 30, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Joseph Dana Allen, Eliza-
beth Donnell Canby.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1955.

MarrieED: Caroline G, Faison, July 2, 1937, Brooklyn, N. Y. cxHitpren: Joseph
Dana, 3d, May 3, 1939; John Faison, Dec. 12, 1940; Judith, Dec. 14, 1943.

occupation: Head of History Department, Haverford School.

MEMBER OF: Orpheus Club of Philadelphia; Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

I HAVE been teaching school since I left college, with the excep-
tion of two years in the Navy. I started at Governor Dummer
Academy which was just entering a rejuvenation stage with a new
faculty and a student body of 100 boys picked up where, as and if.
This was an invigorating experience. The school has “arrived”
and I survived, more sure than ever that teaching was what I
wanted to do.

I had been brought up in the tradition of the country day
school and I wanted to get into that field. In 1937 I got married,
so, in 1938 we came to the Haverford School where I hoped to
help carry out my theory that a boy who lives at home leads a
more rounded life and so is better prepared for college than the
boy who gets the more concentrated, but more regulated training
of the boarding school. I also had ideas about the uplifting effect
of school on the community family.

After seventeen years I WILL still take the country day school.
We make an amazingly small impression on the tenor of life on
the Main Line, and it is a constant struggle to make the scion of
the Main Line Family see where a school curriculum plays any
part at all in his too-well-rounded life, but I shall back Haverford
against any school in the country as a college preparatory. And it
certainly has not been dull.

No one who works with boys from twelve to eighteen can pos-
sibly find them dull. Maddening and frustrating, often, and if
that is the only reaction you get, you soon drop out of teaching.
But when you feel a group begin to respond, either in class or as
a team in sports, or when you see an individual show improve-
ment or begin to see the light, your sense of accomplishment is
as rewarding as if you had written a book, put up a building,
cured an illness, or simply made a million.

At Haverford I started as a teacher and now find myself head
of the History Department. Each fall I look forward eagerly to
the new groups I shall have in my classes, and each spring we both
welcome the relief of being through with each other.

When the U.S. entered World War II, I resolved to stay home
with my family —two boys having been added —and stick to
my teaching. This resolve was strengthened when I saw the
calibre of the replacements we were getting for the young un-
marrieds on the faculty. However, the advent of Judith and my

[10 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

reclassification into 1A convinced me that I could not take chances
with the draft; so I obtained a j.g. commission in the Navy. The
highlight of my Navy career was a confused two months as a
beachmaster in the Okinawa campaign, where I gained a high
respect for the adaptability and versatility of the young American
enlisted man, even when he had not had the benefit of a private
school education. The Navy released me as a lieutenant in 1946
and has just suggested shifting me to the Retired Reserve, which
does not seem to humiliate me as it would have ten years ago.

My family is an all-pervading interest. Jay and Jeff at sixteen
and fourteen are completely different temperaments, while Judy
at eleven is quite inexplicable. All three are within the age group
that I teach and in which I am supposed to be an authority; so
there should be no problems. It does not work out that way.
Fortunately, Caroline — my wife — has twice as much common
sense as I, and together we find that keeping abreast of those three,
plus an untrained but affectionate part-Police dog, is a full-time
job in itself, but one which we would not be without.

As for politics, we are two-party system advocates, which
means we are Democrats in a nest of Republicans. As local com-
mitteeman, I rail against the evil machinations of a well-entrenched
party, which actually gives us pretty good government.

I am an Episcopalian, even to the extent of teaching Sunda
School, which I shall probably continue to do until Judy has a
chance to find out what it is all about. |

Finally, I am still very proud of the fact that I went to Harvard,
but I must confess that the only time that I have been back to
Commencement was in June, 1944, when the Navy had me sta-
tioned there. I intend to make up for that this June.

JULIAN ALLEN ALTMAN

HOME apprEss: 1220 W. Albion Ave., Chicago 26, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1038 W. 35th St., Chicago 9, Ill.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1911, Wellsburg, W. Va. Parents: Morris Altman, Nellie
Solomon,

PREPARED AT: East Liverpool High School, East Liverpool, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B.. 1934.

[11]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

MARRIED: Katherine Jane Goldschmidt, June 26, 1936, Woodmere, N. Y,
CHILD: Robert Allen, March 30, 1943.

occuPaTion: Assistant controller, Spiegel, Inc.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Chicago; National Society for Business
Budgeting; Chicago Retail Controllers Association,

BEING reluctant to leave the pleasant associations of Harvard
Square and seek a living in our depression-ridden economy, I
spent the three years after graduation acquiring a law degree.
Since the evil day could no longer be postponed, I headed into
the world and since I have an allergy to trees, grass and the
country in general, I departed for Manhattan which, incidentally,
was the home of her whom | subsequently married.

After a short clerkship and a successful joust with the bar ex-
amination, | went to work for the Board of Statutory Consolida-
tion of New York City where, for three years, I aided in the
drafting of anew Administrative Code; then, into private practice
and the awaiting of clients. In 1938 a friend convinced me that
war clouds were gathering and assured me that if 1 became a
Judge Advocate Reserve Officer, I would spend any war which
might arise sitting on Courts Martial at Governor’s Island and
getting home for dinner every night. The next day we visited
Army Reserve Headquarters. Unhappily, there were no vacancies
in the Judge Avocate General’s Reserve but since I did not want
the trip to be a total waste, I went from door to door until I
finally found an opening in the Quartermaster Corps. After sev-
eral months of training sessions, meetings and correspondence
courses, I became a second lieutenant in the Quartermaster Corps
Reserve. |

When the draft act was passed, I decided to get my required
year’s service over with as soon as possible, so went on active
duty on December 30, 1940. I was preparing to pack up and go
home when December 7, 1941, arrived and I finally got home
four and a half years later. The first three years of army life were
spent at Camp Lee, Virginia, where I served as a sort of unofficial
Staff Judge Advocate on the Quartermaster Commanding Gen-
eral’s staff at the Quartermaster Replacement Center, Then, after
a bit more army schooling I went to Europe where I spent the
next couple of years, one in London and one in Paris, as chief of

[12]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Reciprocal Aid Division of the Chief Quartermaster’s office in
Europe.

Because of my position, people got the idea that I was an
accountant and, when I came home, I was offered a position in the
controller’s division at Spiegel, Inc., the Chicago mail order house.
I went to work there and through a series of events ultimately
became assistant controller in charge of the books and records of
the company, although I had never had a course in even ele-
mentary bookkeeping. My army training served me in good stead.
I am finally rectifying my lack of academic background for my
work by taking an M.B.A. degree in the University of Chicago
Executive Program. (If all goes well, the degree will be mine by
the time this is published.) |

Life in general is uneventful. I am the late-to-bed, late-to-rise
type of person and, since we start work at 8:00 a.m., I must be
out of bed at 6:30 a.m. By the time I get home, therefore, I am
in condition for little but to lie on the sofa and read, watch tele-
vision or, as for the past two years, study. I am looking forward
to the day when my son becomes a member of the Class of 1964
and when — perhaps the fates will relocate me in the East —I
shall be able to make many more frequent ventures back to Cam-
bridge, the Yard and the Stadium.

EDWARD SUTHERLAND AMAZEEN

HOME apprEss: Corner of Main & Cedar Sts., North Hanover, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Coffin & Burr, Inc., 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1909, Melrose, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Clifton Amazeen,
Evelyn Maria Sutherland.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1935.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Childs Taylor, April 14, 1934, Melrose, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Anne, Jan. 28, 1935; Edward Sutherland, Jr., Oct. 24, 1940;
Nancy Jane, Nov. 2, 1942.

occuPATION: Investment banking; vice president, Coffin & Burr, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Hanover Republican Town Committee; member
Executive Committee, Massachusetts Republican State Committee, Plym-
outh County Republican Club, Norfolk County Republican Club;
member, Town of Hanover Advisory Committee, 1941; member Han-
over School Building Committee and High School Building Study Com-
mittee, 1951-55; chairman, Town of Hanover Planning Board; president

[13]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and trustce, Woodlawn Cemetery, Everett, Mass.; trustee, South Scituate
Savings Bank, Norwell, Mass.; member and former chairman, Invest-
ment Companies Committee, vice-chairman and member Executive Com-
mittee, New England Group, Investment Bankers Association of Amer-
ica; chairman New England District Committee, National Association
of Securities Dealers, Inc., member, past president, Capt. Carl Johnson
Chapter, Reserve Officers Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bond Club, Downtown Club;
Long Table Syndicate, Boston; Hanover-Norwell-Pembroke Rotary
Club; Josselyn-Cummings Post, American Legion; Squantum and Edgar-
town Yacht Clubs (former member).

SINCE 1931, many activities have claimed my time and interest,
but none longer or more closely than the Class of 1931. Woven
through the years is the constant theme of recurring associations
with the Class and with individual classmates. In 1931 I began a
four-year term as Graduate Secretary of Phillips Brooks House,
within a year we were embarked on a campaign to associate com-
muting students with at least some phases of the then infant House
Plan. Strongly opposed by the University initially, our plan was
eventually supported by President Conant and placed on a perma-
nent basis by the generosity and vision of Allston Burr, ’89.

Simultaneously (1931-1935), I attended the Business School,
coached House football, and married my high school classmate,
Betty Taylor, and served as chairman of our Third Reunion in
1934.

In 1935, armed with an M.B.A. degree, I thought to become an
investment banker, but instead went to work for Carter’s Ink
Company in Cambridge. However, by November, 1935, I was
back on the track, employed by the Boston investment banking
firm of Coffin & Burr, Inc., and living that cocoon-like business
existence which is the fate of fledgling investment men (also serv-
ing as treasurer of our Sixth Reunion in 1937). As I began to
emerge in 1941 (while serving as treasurer of our Tenth Reunion
in 1937), my Navy R.O.T.C, commission assumed paramount im-
portance. Because of Business School training, 1 was transferred
to the Supply Corps, called to active duty in October, 1941, spent
eighteen months in the Newport-Melville, R.L, area, thirty-nine
months in the Mediterranean, including duty as U.S.N. Supply
Officer at Gela, Sicily, and at the Naval Operation Base, Palermo,
Sicily; Staff Supply Officer of Naval activities in Southern France;

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Staff Supply Officer, Amphibious Force Eighth Fleet; and, finally,
a year liquidating the entire Navy surplus in the Mediterranean.
Home in September, 1946, after missing our Fifteenth Reunion in
June, I spent a few months in Washington, including one quick
trip to the Pacific bases at Guam, Manus and Manila, with separa-
tion in April, 1947. In the next five months I set up a small import-
ing company in New York, and in September, 1947, returned to
Coffin & Burr to become manager of the Investment Trust Depart-
ment and, in 1949, a vice-president. Since then my activities have
taken me back and forth across the country many times, all over
the East, and through a good deal of the Midwest. Various busi-
ness committees have taken their share of time. One of the most
interesting has been a committee of the National Association of
Securities Dealers, appointed in 1955 to study the question of
variable annuities. As this is written, our report has just been
published and is creating wide interest throughout the investment
business as well as in the life insurance field.

But it has not all been business; a splendid family and a home
in the erstwhile country town of Hanover, Massachusetts (where
we moved in 1938), have been the source of my greatest pleasures.
My wife has become a wonderful worker in many activities —
church, Visiting Nurse, Republican Club and Town Committee.
I often find my “homework” is helping with her treasurer’s report
for the Visiting Nurse or editing a press release for the Women’s
Republican Club. Our elder daughter, Betsy, is in her last year of
training at the Children’s Hospital in Boston, while Teddy and
Nancy are in the middle and early stages of teenageitis.

Hobby? Certainly, politics! The greatest accomplishment at
the local level came in June, 1955, with the adoption of a zoning
by-law by the town after a long campaign against what seemed
like overwhelming odds. This was all the more satisfactory be-
cause it followed only three months after I was badly defeated in
a contest for Town Moderator. On the state level, I became a
strong supporter of Sumner G. Whittier and have been his cam-
paign manager in his two successful campaigns for Lieutenant
Governor in 1952 and 1954. By the time of our Reunion in June,
I shall probably be deeply involved in what I hope may be his
successful campaign for Governor — provided always, of course,
that Chris Herter does not run for a third term.

[15]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

No summary of the past twenty-five years would be q
complete w ithout a word as to the significance and the influe
of Harvard College. Its liberal tradition combined with a cot
geously conservative stand in defending its position have toget
served as an inspiration and a shining guidepost in evaluating mz
of the transient issues with which we are confronted in busin
and political life. From the College there follows the associati
with the Class. To both I feel that I owe a substantial debt 4
the privileges they have given me, and I have constantly striven

see that that opportunity which, to me, was wonderful and re

should continue to be open to any boy with vision and ambitie
no matter what the accident of his birth

WARREN WESLEY AMES

HOME ADpRESS: 14211 Larchmere Blvd., Shaker Heights 20, Ohio

OFFICE appRESS: Robert Heller & Associates, 1568 Union Commerce Bldg
Cleveland 14, Ohio

BORN: Jan. 24, 1910, Kenosha, Wis. parents: Arthur Burton Ames, Harrie
Matilda Butcher.

PREPARED AT: Kenosha High School, Kenosha, Wis
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A. 1933.
MaRRieD: Carolyn Hathaway Stetson, Oct. 31, 1936, Cambridge, Mass

CHILDREN: Ellen Stetson, Sept. 10, 1940; Elizabeth Denny, Sept. 13, 1943;
Warren Stetson, July 30, 1947.

occupation: Consulting management engineer.
orFices HELD: Member board of governors, Harvard Business School Club

of New York, 1943-44; member, General Accounting Committee, New

York Control of Controllers Institute, 1948-54; tweasurer, Unitarian
Church of Meadville, Pa. 1942

MEMBER oF: Newcomen Society; National Association of Cost Accountants,
Controllers Institute of America; Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club
of New York City; First Unitarian Church of Cleveland; Cleveland
Skating Club.

WHILE I have always been anything but a fatalist, there have

,
been many times in the twenty-three years since graduation from
the Business School when it has seemed that some good auspices

had lent a helping hand — even though that hand sometimes felt
mighty like a foot.
A highly varied and instructive year in a New York depart-

[16]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ment store with emphasis on the Controller’s Department led to
four years in public accounting. The accounting firm proved to
be one of the most progressive, and lived up to the slogan com-
mon to the profession at that time: “It isn’t the money that counts,
it’s the experience”.

There followed ten years of corporate employment in indus-
trial accounting, budgetary control, tax accounting, staff assist-
ance to financial executives, and then controllership. While I
cannot claim to have planned it that way, the “mix” of experience
could hardly have been better as a basis for the professional work
of the last eight years.

Management consulting by the group engineering method
which Robert Heller has made famous is most constructive and
rewarding. Not that it doesn’t have its frustrations. Work with
clients, however, seems to offer more opportunities for accom-
plishment than can be expected in a single company. Lest some
classmates visualize me constantly sitting up with a sick client,
let me say that we are almost always helping a management that
is already doing a good job to do a better job.

During World War II, I was deferred fof essential work at
the request of Sylvania Electric Products, Inc., so have no mili-
tary service to report.

On the leisure side of life, the most memorable interlude was
a Mediterranean and Italian Honeymoon in 1936. Later, there
were ten years of gradually restoring a seventeenth-century
house on the North Shore of Long Island and watching the sun
go down behind the Manhattan skyline across fifteen miles of
water. That was when we needed eight rooms, but the rare anti-
quity of the place and the location led us to tackle fourteen —
one of those things we wouldn’t have missed for anything, but
couldn’t do again.

Now, there’s just one thing I'd rather do than tell about my
beautiful family and that is to show them off in person That I
expect to do in June, so I'll resist the temptation until then. Let’s

go!

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

~ THOMAS CHACE AMORY

norx: Nov. 30, root, Milton, Mass. Parents: Copley Amory, '88, Mary
Forbes Russell.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

pep: June 23, 1953, Milledgeville, Ga.

FATHER: Copley Amory, 741 Canton Ave., Milton, Mass.

AMORY spent only one year in the College and then attended
the School of Theology for a year. He had been an invalid for
many years and unable to take an active part in Class affairs.

SAUL ANDELMAN

HOME ADDRESS: §3 Philbrick Rd.. Newton Centre, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 85 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 15, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Samuel Andelman, Etta
Andelman.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1931 (32); LL.B. 1935.

MARRIED: Selma R. Nathanson, June 28, 1942, Boston, Mass. cHitp: David
Arthur, Oct. 6, 1944.

occupaTIoN: Lawyer; practitioner before Interstate Commerce Commission.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Federal Bar Associations, Harvard Law

School Association, New Century Club.

+ JOHN McNEIL ANGIER

BorN: Nov. 27, 1908, Quincy, Mass. parents: Edward Herbert Angier, ’94,
Gertrude Clapp.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MarrieD: Helen Elizabeth McElroy, June 16, 1934, Great Barrington, Mass.
CHILDREN: Judith, Jan. 27, 1936; John McNeil, Jr., Sept. 6. 1941.

pieD: Sept. 4, 1950, Framingham, Mass.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1929, Angier joined the company
which his father had founded, Angier Corporation, manufactur-
ers of protective packaging materials. In 1938 he was factory
superintendent there and three years later he was treasurer and
production manager. During the Second World War this cor-

[ 18 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

poration produced anti-corrosive, protective, and other types of
wrapping materials for the armed services, At the time of his
death Angier was president of the corporation, and a director of
both the Framingham Trust Company and the Angier-Pacific
Corporation. His wife and children survived him.

ROSWELL PARKER ANGIER

HOME apprEss: 1057 Asylum Ave., Hartford 5, Conn.

OFFICE AppREsS: Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, Main Street, East Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 23, 1908, New Haven, Conn, parents: Roswell Parker Angier,
97, Genevieve Severy.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931(32); s.mM. (Yale Univ.),
1941. -

MARRIED: Viola Hewit Buell, Nov. 6, 1937, New Haven, Conn. cuitp: Ros-
well Parker, 3d, Dec. 2, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Severy Angier, ’34; Phillip Holt Angier, ’35.

occupation: Metallurgist and production engineer, Pratt & Whitney Air-
craft, turbine jet aircraft engine design and manufacture.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Metals.

PUBLICATIONS: “Effects of Various Solute Elements on the Hardness and
Rolling Textures of Copper” (with R. M. Brick and D. L. Martin),
American Society for Metals, 1943; co-author, “The Nuclear Energy
Series”; “The Powder Metallurgy of Zirconium” (with H. Hausner),
American Society for Metals, 1951; four atomic energy publications of
a confidential nature.

FOLLOWING a year in Europe my career history got off to a
meandering start. Those were the five years when I was succes-
sively a sales clerk, an inventory analyst and a steel salesman. One
day my best steel customer asked me why I bothered to call on
him equipped with no real metallurgical knowledge. Shortly
thereafter, I entered the Yale Graduate School, where I received
an S.M. in physical metallurgy. Now, after fourteen years of
metallurgy in research, development and production engineering,
I feel competent. The brightest periods are four years on the
~ Manhattan Atomic Bomb Project and the present years at the
Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Division of United Aircraft where, I
believe, I am the other Harvard man.
At the close of the war when we were in New York, my wife

[19]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Viola taught our son Roz the first grade by the Calvert system
so successfully that he entered the second grade in Trinity School
the following year.

In 1951 an engineering opportunity in the State of Maine pre-
sented the irresistible chance to lead the good life and to enjoy
more of our summer place at the mouth of the St. George River.
We did have a taste of the good life of beagles, hunting, fishing
and sailing during the two years before the engineering oppor-
tunity dissolved. A lot happened to us there in Maine. We
bought and glossed up the one available pre-McKinley house on
the basis of the local appraiser’s ecstatic report of soundness. As
time went on, the shingles blew off the roof, a chimney collapsed,
the jumble of inadequate plumbing froze regularly, and each
spring the garage sank into the mud. Young Roz took and passed
the entrance examinations to Phillips Academy the day before
he entered the hospital with a serious case of pneumonia. He ts
now in his third year there.

At the end of our stay in Maine, Viola was a board member of
five community organizations, vice-president of the local mental
health association, lay member of the committee for evaluating
the local public school, and substitute teacher in French, English,
Latin and athletics for girls at the junior high school. I was run-
ning for the School Board in the first controversial election of its
kind in the history of the town.

Here in Hartford we live in a remodeled-inside old house with
eleven-foot ceilings and more than enough room for the three of
us. Viola took up a career last year and is now secretary of the
Hartford School of Religious Education at the Hartford Semi-
nary Foundation and instructor in effective reading for the
Foundation. Young Roz is the youngest member of his upper
middle class at Andover and is doing a creditable job. His out-
standing intellectual ability is convincing, logical discussion, and
socially he is quite perceptive. To date he has been a surprisingly
dutiful son.

Viola’s and my hobbies are refinishing old furniture in the
winter and gardening the rest of the time. We hope to start
raising beagles again. It is doubtful that my social conviction to
stick with the madding crowd is of interest to anybody and
equally uninteresting is my political conviction that we should

[20]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pursue an economic policy of plenty at low price and refrain
from our apparent continuance of Great Britain’s defunct policy
of the nineteenth century. My religious conviction is Anglo-
Catholic dating from my confirmation one year ago.

JAMES MICHAEL ANSARA

HOME ADDRESS: 713 Norton Rd., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 420 Bond Bldg., 140g New York Ave., N.W., Washington 5,
D. C.

BoRN: April 6, 1908, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Michael Azma Ansara, Kath-
erine Husson.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Alice Stearns, June 24, 1937, New York, N. Y. cumpren: Martha,
Sept. 9, 1942; Merriam, Jan. 1, 1944; Michael, Jan. 30, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Cosmo Michael Ansara, LL.B., ’39.

OCCUPATION: Editor, executive secretary.

OFFICES HELD: General manager, Metropolitan Services Company, 1948-52;
executive secretary, Syrian and Lebanese American Federation, since
1952; public relations director, National Association of Federations,
since 1952; editor-in-chief, Federation Herald, since 1952; member
Steering Committee, Washington Chapter of American Friends of the
Middle East, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Middle East Institute of Washington, D. C.; American Friends
of the Middle East.

PUBLICATIONS: Short stories; articles and studies on Massachusetts and the
Near Fast.

AFTER graduation I attended Harvard Law School for about
six months and then transferred to the Harvard Graduate School
for graduate work in English. By December, 1933, I became fed
up with this prolonged academic life and decided to get out and
begin doing what I really wanted to do — write. The next nine
years were spent as a free-lance writer — short stories, poetry,
articles on the geology and history of Massachusetts and the Near
East, studies on immigration and business conditions, and a novel.
There were also all kinds of odd jobs thrown in, with a year at
the School of Education and marriage to Alice Stearns, a young
Boston painter. Those were the exciting, restless years of the

New Deal. With a Dartmouth-educated dog and a family of

cats, Alice and I lived and worked all over New England from

[21]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Beacon Hill to Strawberry Hill in Vermont. During the depres-
sion and with only our painting and writing , dog and cats to
think about, we didn’t need much and life was rich in creative
work, experiences and friends, talk and dreams.

Then came that day in December, 1941, which was to change
our lives drastically as it did the lives of millions of other Ameri-
cans. We were living i in Boxford, Massachusetts, where Alice was
getting a one-man show ready for Dartmouth’s Carpenter Gallery
and I was trying to finish a novel while working as editor of a
small publication i in Boston, and both of us were planning for the
baby we w ould have the next year. In the spring Alice had her
show at Dartmouth and even sold some paintings. But the pub-
lication I was working for had to be suspended for the duration
of the war and I was looking for another job. Martha was born
in the fall, and then at about the same time a New York publisher
offered me an advance to finish my novel and I was recommended
for a job with the Board of Economic Warfare in Washington.
I decided that the novel would have to wait. Washington during
the war was an exciting place and the Board of Economic War-
fare was full of enthusiastic people fighting the war on the eco-
nomic front and already planning a better post-war world. I was
with the B.E.W. for over two years, first working on essential
supply requirements of the Near East and then doing research on
the economic and financial problems of the area. Like so many in
Washington during the war, I became an “expert”, on of all things,
economic problems —I whose only straight economics course
in college had been Economics A. However, I have always main-
tained that a Harvard education prepares a man for almost any-
thing! And my draft board in Cambridge considered my work
important enough to defer me from military service. In the spring
of 1945 I was invited by the Department of State to join its
Division of Financial Affairs, to work on financial and economic
development problems of the Near East. I was with the Depart-
ment for two years, with the second year also spent in giving a
course on the Near East at American University.

After I left the State Department, I invested in automatic
laundry stores in Washington and nearby Arlington and con-
tinued my interest in Near Eastern affairs through research, writ-

ing and lecturing. Then in 1952 I accepted an offer from the

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Syrian and Lebanese American Federation to establish its head-
quarters in Washington and direct its program as well as serve as
editor of its publication. The Federation is a cultural, educational
and charitable organization, which in the post-war period has
developed a special interest in the promotion of better understand-
ing between the United States and the Arab Near Eastern coun-
tries. The administration of the Federation’s program offers me a
wide range of cultural, educational and organizational activities,
with many opportunities to write, travel and speak in public, in-
cluding radio and television. The publication has been developed
into a monthly cultural and news magazine with a small but
active national and international circulation.

In Washington we have added two more children to our
family, another girl, Merri, and a boy, Mike —not to mention
dogs, cats, fish, birds, and other forms of life, the number depend-
ing upon the season. For over a year and a half now we have
been living in Fairfax, Virginia, about fifteen miles from my office.
In recent years Alice has become interested in the teaching of
children and is now a teacher at a private school, not far from
where we live and where our three children have been attending.
Our life is now a relatively quiet one compared to what it was in
New England and wartime Washington. After the war many of
our old friends left Washington to return home and to their pre-
war occupations. Sometimes we wonder why we have stayed on.
With both of us working and me away so often, most of our spare
time is spent with our children, trying to keep up with their ever-
widening interests and keeping up with our own special interests.
But our life is far from settled yet and still full of surprises and
challenges,

ALLAN FROST ARCHER

HOME appreEss: 574 E. Main St., Jackson, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Union University, Jackson, Tenn, .

BORN: Jan. 22, 1908, Boston, Mass, parents: Gleason Leonard Archer, Eliza-
beth Glenn Snyder.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1931; A.M. (Univ. of Michigan),
1933; PH.D. (ibid.), 1936. .

[23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

marriep: Mableann Hanson, July 31, 1942, Rockford, Ill. cumpren: Allan
Frost, Jr., Dec. 23, 1943; Anne Hanson, April 2, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gleason Leonard Archer, Jr., ’38.

occupation: Head of Biology Department, Union University.

OFFICES HELD: Director of research, Alabama Department of Conservation,
1939-42; state ecologist, 1942-50, senior ecologist, 1950-52, Department
of Conservation and, later, Geological Survey of Alabama.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; American Entomological Society; Society of Sys-
tematic Zoology; National Geographical Society; Tennessee Academy of
Science; Rotary International; Society of Mayflower Descendants; New
England Historical Genealogical Society.

pustications: Technical scientific papers on arthropoda and mollusca, e.g.,
“Argiopidae of Alabama”, “Mimetidae of Alabama”, “The Genus

y

Stenotrema”, “Theridiidae and Mimetidae of Alabama”, “Studies in the
Orbweaving Spiders”, American Museum Novitates.

ANYTHING that I can put in here will be a mere sequel to what
went into the Twentieth Anniversary Report. By way of résumé,
I can say that in addition to the listing under the heading of offices
held I was in the armed services for four years and two months,
part of the time as an officer in the Sanitary Corps of the US.
Army Medical Department. For eight months I went to school in
the Far Eastern division of the Military Government. I studied
the Japanese language for six months at Yale, and afterwards went
to the Pacific Coast. Because of the point system I did not go
across. After my separation from the service in 1946, I held the
rank of captain in the Army Reserves, but this was terminated
when I accepted a commission carrying higher rank in the U.S.
Public Health Service. I am still a Reservist in the latter service.

In 1952 I resigned from the Geological Survey of Alabama in
order to become head of the Biology Department of Union Uni-
versity, this constituting a definite professional advancement for
me. Union University is a school that belongs to, and is operated
under, the Tennessee Baptist Convention.

I have had extensive opportunities in regard to travels. I have
been on the Pacific Coast twice, the second time while in uniform.
I have been in all but four of the states, and have visited most of
the provinces of Canada. In 1929 I spent the summer in western
and southern Europe. In 19301 spent the summer in Cuba. I have
been on several scientific expeditions in the Southeast and South-
west, even venturing into Mexico, Asa result of these experiences

[ 24 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I settled in the southern states where I have been most of the time
since 1934 (except for the early part of my war service and the
bout with the Military Government late in the war). At this
writing I am just a day or so from my departure for a full three
months’ expedition into the Greater Antilles.

In personal matters I can only briefly mention some facts. I am
of Baptist adherence, although brought up in another denomina-
tion. This is not exceptional, for the paternal side of my family
were of Baptist belief hundreds of years before the first settlement
of North America. Of course, the fact that my wife happens to
be a Baptist is the thing that steered me that way. In politics I am
a hereditary Democrat, but am actually by conviction an anti-
Fabian-Socialist and, therefore, no worshipper of the Squire of
Hyde Park. Actually, my views on such matters coincide fairly
closely with those of George Sokolsky and are not entirely out
of line with Pegler, although I grant that the latter is slightly
extreme in some matters. I consistently vote against such scala-
wags and traitors as Kefauver (and formerly against Sparkman,
also, while still a resident of Alabama). As southern senators I
much prefer Byrnes, George, Hill and Ellender for whom I can’t
vote anyhow by reason of my residence.

WARREN SEYMOUR ARCHIBALD, JR.

HOME AppREss: 58 Main St., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Charles M. Evans & Associates, 73 Tremont St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: July 28, 1909, Boston, Mass. Parents: Warren Seymour Archibald,
’03, Mary Rose Ernst.

PREPARED AT: Kingswood School, West Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931} A.M. 1932} M.P.A. 1954.

MARRIED: Anne Gardiner, March 15, 1938, Belmont, Mass. cHiprEN: John
Lion Gardiner, Aug. 25, 1941; Mary, Oct. 23, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Lane Archibald, ’32, LL.B. 35.

OccupaTION: Management engineering; associate, Charles M, Evans & Asso-
ciates.

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Manual of Procedure: Recreation Division, State of New
Hampshire”, Concord, N. H., 1955.

AFTER taking an A.M. in history in 1932, I taught at boys’
[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

preparatory schools for the next twenty years. My subjects were
history and government in the main, with additional subjects as
the situations demanded. As part of these academic years I spent
several summers studying at the Harvard Summer School and one
at Leland Stanford University.

This course of events was interrupted only slightly by the war.

I spent the winter of 1941-42 taking further courses at Harvard
and trying at the same time to convince the Navy and the Army
that I was desirable material. This attempt eventually proved a
failure and at this point we moved to Concord, Massachusetts,
where I joined the faculty of the Middlesex School and served as
head of the history department,

In 1953, after eleven years at the school, I resigned from my
position at Middlesex and made the change to my present occupa-
tion. Life at most boys’ boarding schools is a very narrowing one
unless one possesses a dedicated viewpoint, while government re-
search had, in my case, been an interest that grew stronger with
time. I spent a year at the Littauer School of Public Administra-
tion, which proved to be stimulating to a degree I had not thought
possible. Any prejudices I had about the superiority of Harvard
education have been greatly strengthened by this experience!
“Joint instruction” is all right too.

After my year at Littauer, I became an associate in the manage-
ment engineering firm of Charles M. Evans & Associates in Boston.
We do consulting work in public administration and finance, and
in the past year I have had a share in several interesting projects,
including surveys for the state of New Hampshire and the city of
Fitchburg, Massachusetts, and a study by a committee appointed
by Governor Herter as to the feasibility of an independent port
authority for Boston.

CONRAD MAYNADIER ARENSBERG

HOME appress: 35 Sandford Rd., Radburn, N. J. (Fair Lawn P. O.); Compton,
Trappe, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 456 Schermerhorn Hall, Columbia University, New York 27,

BORN: Sept. 12, 1910, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Charles Frederick Covert
Arensberg, ’o1, Emily Wright Maynadier,

[26]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; PH.D., 1934.

MARRIED: Margaret Jacklin Walsh, July 13, 1935, Easton, Md. cHILpren:
Emily Maynadier, Feb. 20, 1939; Margaret Farrell, Feb. 5, 1945; Cornelius
Wright, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Walter Eveleth Arensberg, 33; Charles Covert Arens-
berg, ’34; James Murray Arensberg, ’39.

occupation: Professor of anthropology.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; St. Botolph Club, Boston; local
clubs in Maryland; professional societies in sociology, anthropology, in-
dustrial relations research.

PuBLicaTions: The Irish Countryman (with Solon T. Kimball), Macmillan,
1936; Family and Community in Ireland (with Eliot Chapple ’31), 1940;
“Measuring Human Relations”, Genetic Psychology Monographs, 1942;
monographs and articles; co-editor of various books.

PLL merely continue our last Class Report from the end of my
war service as a major in Military Intelligence, U.S.A. After
occupying Japan briefly (MacArthur stayed on) in 1946, I was
called to chair the Sociology Department of Barnard College at
Columbia University, and teach the young ladies there. Since then
I have worked in and out of New York, having been called
“across the street” to the Columbia Graduate School to a desk
hallowed by Boas, Ruth Benedict and Kroeber (anthropological
greats of the last generation), as professor of anthropology in
1952.

In 1950 I took the family to Europe, putting them in Venice
while I was asked to sit in with rebuilding German social science
research at the Sozialforschungstelle, University of Miinster,
where I helped with the first studies of industrial and human rela-
tions in Ruhr coal and steel industries, I got back again to Ger-
many and northwest Europe several times thereafter on various
missions connected with social and industrial relations research.
UNESCO took me in for seven months at Cologne in a new in-
stitute for codperative European efforts of social research there.
Both Uncle Sam and UNESCO were kind enough to give me
other trips, of shorter duration, as late as last spring.

At Columbia I have worked a good deal in applied anthropol-
ogy, as well as in the ethnography of Europe and the Middle East.
In 1953 I edited a manual for the American Anthropological Asso-
ciation for Point IV workers, which tried to sum up for use what

[27]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

we know about the process of economic and technical develop-
ment in countries outside Western Europe tradition, a wedding of
social science knowledge and practical overseas development
which has kept me thinking and working ever since and which
may send me on further travels.

Over the years since our last Report, I have had a son and
watched our two girls grow toward womanhood, my chief domes-
tic pleasures; and, with the invention of the turnpikes, I have
discovered that I can live in the country in Maryland part of the
time and work in, or near, New York — or out of it — the other.
I am a complete convert to the glories of the new metropolitan
living of suburb, turnpike and country, and will never again ride
a railroad or live in a city. Visitors welcome in Maryland at all
times — and in Jersey, too.

HENRY FRANCIS ARGENTO

HOME appress: 416 Grove St., Glencoe, Ill.

OFFICE appREss: Raytheon Manufacturing Co., 5921 Dickens Ave., Chicago,
Ill.

BorN: March 2, 1910, Butler, Pa, parents: Francis Argento, Blanche Lodé.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marrieD: Margaretha Haizinga, Dec. 20, 1935, Chicago, Ill. cHitpRrEen: Elisa-
beth L., Oct. 31, 1937; Gerrit H., Aug. 18, 1940.

occupation: Manufacturing.

M. FREDERICK ARKUS

HOME apprEss: R.D. 1, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 East 42d St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 26, 1909, New York N.Y. parents: Meyer Hoffmann Arkus,
Elizabeth Augusta Hoffman.

PREPARED AT: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Kathryn Virginia Owens, Dec. 21, 1940, Brookfield Center, Conn.
cHILD: Richard Owens, Sept. 10, 1943.

occupation: Public relations counsel.

oFFices HELD: Director, Westchester Heart Association, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Science Writers.

[28]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TO the Gentlemen of the Third Floor Back: “. . . ou sont les
neiges d’antan”’. | :
I recall that last reluctant look at Stoughton before I slogged into
the Great Depression. (Arthur: whatever happened to the crocks
and bottle cappers?) And I remember that first job at Parnassus
buying and selling distressed literature to bibliophiles who asked
for “Jude the Obscene” and the “Morning after Electra”. One
year of “Candide” and “never weather-beaten sail more willing
bent to shore” than I to Wall Street, where as Factotum of Fact-
finding I managed the New York affairs of a French bank while
the men in grey flannel double-breasted vests bartered and sold
short, There was time then, lots of time, while the sad, young
men watched for the main chance. So I used the time to trade my
fiddle for a viola and mastered a goodly part of the string quartet
literature and wrote prolifically on contemporary music in jour-
nals of no special consequence. Even sang ayres and madrigals
with nostalgic, cuff-worn cavaliers of the Davison dynasty.

Thence uptown to begin my novitiate with Daniel Starch &
Associates as an advertising account executive, where after four
years of good-will advertising and public relations for the electric
utilities, I applied my talents to promoting the sales appreciation
of Bach and Ellington for Columbia Recording Corporation. The
war, the Coast Guard Reserve, marriage, paternity and a stint at
magazine publishing followed in rapid sequence, merging finally
in the profession of public relations where I have been well en-
sconced for almost fifteen years. My penchant for scientific
medicine may account for my interest in problems of cardiovas-
cular disease and in the development of the American Heart
Association whose public relations program I have guided since
the emergence of this national health agency in 1947. You are
undoubtedly indebted to me for your anxieties and neuroses about
coronary thromboses, and your hopes that medical science may
discover a panacea for your hardened arteries before you slump
prematurely into Nirvana. So much for the illusions. The reali-
ties are far more rewarding. I live with my wife and son on what
was a fruit farm in northern Westchester, where I avoid obesity
and hypertension by digging, planting, growing, harvesting, as-
siduously shunning exurbanites and philistines.

[29]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

RICHARD HUGUENIN ARMSTRONG

HOME appREss: 14 Longacre Drive, Livingston, N. J.

OFFICE appress: Western Electric Co., South Kearny, N. J.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: James Harding Armstrong,
‘or, Ada Jane Brown.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

McarRieD: Elizabeth Schuh, Oct. 3, 1936, Southbridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter
Walker, April 15, 1939; Judith, Aug. 15, 1943; Ellen, Jan. 25, 1946.

occupation: Industrial engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, West Essex Family Service, 1948-49, member, since
1950, president, 1952-53, Board of Education, Livingston, N. J.

MEMBER OF: Livingston Republican Club; Wildwood Swimming Club.

I WOULD hazard the guess that we all are less starry-eyed
twenty-five years after graduation than was once the case. We
have tested ourselves in competitive situations in the world and,
if we are honest with ourselves, we have a pretty good idea of
how far we are likely to go. I find myself satisfied with my ma-
terial accomplishments and also with my family situation at this
milestone in life. I do not mean to imply that I shall rest on my
oars, but I have a good idea now of my capacities, and the pattern
of the future is not unclear.

I worked for several companies before making a permanent
connection — Pepperell, Kendall (textiles), Dun & Bradstreet’s
and Standard Statistics. In 1937 I went with the Western Electric
Company in South Kearny, New Jersey, as an industrial engineer.
I have continued in that line of work up to the present, of late, I
have been in charge of the industrial engineering department in
our Jersey City plant. At this location we manufacture micro-
wave, power and telephonic field equipment, the last-named for
the government, and also test sets. My work has embraced lectur-
ing and issuance of control reports as well as resolution of manu-
facturing problems, chiefly on a conference basis.

Outside of my working hours I have been interested in youth
and civic activities in my home town. I have been a scoutmaster
and on the local Scout Committee and a director of the West
Essex Family Service. At present, I am a member of the Board
of Education, of which I was formerly president, and a member
of the Finance Committee of the Livingston Baptist Church.

[ 30]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My family, rapidly growing up, takes a good deal of my time.
In the summertime our activities center about a near-by swimming
club which has been a factor in keeping us off the roads over the
week-ends. We have regularly vacationed in New Hampshire or
Maine, our children having gone to camp in the latter state. Peter
and I have climbed most of the highest mountains in New Eng-
land during these periods, and we all have done a bit of skiing in
season. As a transplanted New Englander, I have been surprised
to find that the scenery in the Catskills compares very favorably
with the White Mountains,

My philosophy of life has been a very simple one — if a choice
is to be made, whether it has to do with business, character or
family, I have found that the more difficult decision is usually the

right one.

WILLIAM PERCY ARNOLD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 229 Shawnee Rd., Ardmore, Pa.

OFFICE appREsS: Indemnity Insurance Co. of North America, Public Ledger
Bldg., Philadelphia 5, Pa. .

BoRN: Aug. 11, 1909, North Abington, Mass. parents: William Percy
Arnold, Ethel Swan Cobb.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927—1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Mary Hardt, Nov. 7, 1936, Bryn Mawr, Pa. CHILDREN:
William Percy, 3d, Nov. 7, 1941; Sarah E., Aug. 31, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Malcolm Porter Arnold, Sp., 1921-1922. |

OCCUPATION: Manager, Philadelphia Metropolitan Office, Indemnity Insur-
ance Company of North America.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Philadelphia Chapter, Society of Chartered
Property & Casualty Underwriters.

MEMBER OF: Society of Chartered Property & Casualty Underwriters; Down
Town Club, Philadelphia; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Merion Golf
Club; Eagle Lodge Golf Club.

STARTING this little biography brings to mind in bold relief
those things J thought, back in 1931, I would have accomplished
by our Twenty-fifth Reunion! How different the fact is — how
dull, drab and inconsequential have the actual accomplishments

been — compared with my fanciful and almost childlike dreams

[31] ‘

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

of ’31. A mature (or am I still kidding myself?) look back says,
“Not too bad after all — you have plenty to be thankful for”.

You all remember the economic conditions of the fall of "31,
My plans for attending the Business School were abruptly aban-
doned and I started to work as a butcher for the A & P Tea Com-
pany at fifteen dollars per week and was glad to get it! Three
years of work in the chain grocery and meat business was enough
to convince me that I should seek my fortune elsewhere. I elected
to try the company end of the property and casualty insurance
business and have remained in that business ever since — except
for three years and a day as a subway sailor (lieutenant, USNR,
New York City; sea duty, Staten Island ferry).

For the past three and one-half years I have been manager of
the Philadelphia metropolitan office of the Indemnity Insurance
Company of North America, located directly across the street
from Independence Hall where our parent company, the Insur-
ance Company of North America, was founded in 1792. I am
proud of my business and the company I represent. We have
tradition, financial stability, and a record of progress behind us
which cannot fail to carry us forward in the future so long as a
competitive free enterprise system lasts in the U.S.A.

Some of you will remember me as “Fatso” — as high as 211 at
times. No more — 180 or under from now on! While on the
subject of the physical being, I might add that I have had two discs
removed from my spine: cervical, in 1949, which threatened to
paralyze my right arm; and lower lumbar, in 1952, which would
have paralyzed my legs. But for the consummate skill of the
surgeons, I should be a wheelchair case today. Yes, I have “plenty
to be thankful for.”

My hobby remains, as always, golf. I don’t have too much time
for it, but still play as well as I did twenty-five years ago, having
won one of the club championships again in 1955.

Since 1931 the Republican party has consistently had my vote
and I can see no reason to change it in the foreseeable future.
With two children and a wife, all of whom are vitally interested
in local Presbyterian church activities, I find myself in church
more often than I was in the days between 1927 and 1931. Actu-
ally, I like it — especially when it’s too cold for golf,

[ 32]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OLIVER ARMAS ASMUND

MAILING ADDRESS: 4828 Grand Ave., La Canada, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1908, Suomi-Wasa, Finland. parents: Mathew H. Asmund,
Lila S. Rita.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1931(32).

WILLIAM OSGOOD AYDELOTTE

HOME ADDRESS: 17% Woolf Ave., Iowa City, Iowa; R-F.D. 1, Waterford,
Conn, ~

OFFICE AppREss: Dept. of History, State University of Iowa, lowa City, Iowa.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1910, Bloomington, Ind. ParENTs: Frank Aydelotte, a.m, ’03,
Marie Jeannette Osgood.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Germantown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; PH.D. (Univ. of Cambridge),
1934.

occuPATION: Professor of history, chairman of History Department, State
University of Iowa.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in office of chairman, Federal Home Loan Bank
Board, 1934-36; Visiting Fellow in History and Guest Fellow, Jonathan
Edwards College, Yale University, 1941-42; member, Institute for Ad-
vanced Study, 1945-47; Hodder Fellow, Princeton University, 1945-46:
taught with ranks of lecturer, instructor, assistant professor, associate
professor and professor at University of Minnesota, summer 1937, Trin-
ity College, 1937-43, Smith College, 1943-45, Princeton University, 1945—
47, State University of Iowa, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Century Club, New York; Athenaeum Club, London; Royal
Historical Society (fellow); American Historical Association, Eco-
nomic History Association; Mississippi Valley Historical Association,
Friends Historical Society; Historical Society of Iowa; Phi Beta Kappa;
Pi Gamma Mu; Phi Alpha Theta; Order of Artus.

PUBLICATIONS: Bismarck and British Colonial Policy, Philadelphia, 1937; con-
tributor to Deutschland und Europa (Festschrift for Professor Hans
Rothfels), Diisseldorf, 1951; numerous articles in Yale Review, Journal
of Economic History, Cambridge Htstorical Journal, Bulletin of the
Institute of Historical Research, History, Die Welt als Geschichte,
Journal of General Education, etc.; numerous reviews in various his-
torical journals.

MY first three years after graduation, 1931-34, were spent in
travel and study in Europe. I dropped my old specialty of
Classics, in which I had majored as an undergraduate, and turned
instead to Modern European Diplomatic History. These years

[ 33]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

extremely democratic department, very much a common enter-
prise.

I have had to spend more time here on administrative chores
than I like and this has cut into research, as well as limiting the
amount that I am free to teach. Nevertheless, it has still been
possible to do a good deal of research and writing on the side,
Diplomatic history i is no longer my main interest, though I occa-
sionally revert to it: for example, I took advantage of the task of

contributing an article to Professor Rothfels’ Festschrift to discuss
and (I hope) settle a much-controverted point about Bismarck’s
colonial ideas. However, my present research is more in social,
intellectual and political history, and deals more with England
than the Continent. Without burdening this account with details,
I might say in general terms that the connecting thread in my
various recent studies has been a concern to discover the motiva-
tion of political attitudes, a psychological preoccupation. This
has led to the investigation of such things as mass media (a study
of detective stories published in the Yale Review) and literary
sources (studies of Dickens) as well as to my present research, a
detailed statistical survey of the members of the British House of
Commons in the 1840's. This last is an enormous enterprise on
which I have been engaged for the last five years. In it I am
applying to historical materials techniques and approaches worked
out in other fields: the use of punch-cards and IBM machines,
scalogram analysis, etc, I have already presented some of my
results in papers before learned groups, chiefly in England, and
in a series of articles. The results seem of some interest and I
believe that these innovations will prove rewarding. But there is
still a lot to do and I am far from completion of the book.

You ask specifically for certain personal items. In politics I am
a Democrat; in religion a Quaker. I play quite a bit of tennis, go
on occasional long hikes with friends, and take advantage of the
musical opportunities here to do a good deal of ensemble playing
and to hear a lot of music. I still keep a country place on the
Connecticut shore, to which I have been adding land, and I try
to spend at least a part of every summer there, though it is hard
to fit this in with my demanding duties at Iowa and frequent
trips to Europe.

[ 36]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK AYER, II

HOME ADDRESS: 240 E. 68th St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 630 Fifth Ave., New York 20, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 29, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: James Cook Ayer, ’86, May
Hancock.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; 5.M. (New York Univ.),
1950.

MaRRIED: Betty Jenney, Sept. 20, 1930, Easthampton, Long Island, N. Y.
(divorced 1946); Marcella Flood, June 25, 1946, New York, N. Y. cH-
DREN: James Cook, 2d, Dec. 19, 1933; Anthony Jenney, Jan. 15, 1937;
Frederick Ayer, 3d, Sept. 9, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Physicist, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, Long Island.

MEMBER OF: Adirondack League Club, Old Forge, N. Y.; Wilderness Soci-
ety, Washington, D. C.,; Royal Geographical Society (fellow), London,
England.

FRANK ROGERS BACON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 825 Barroilhet Ave., Hillsborough, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 6, Canby, Calif.

BORN: June 30, 1909, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Frank Rogers Bacon, Fllen
Alsted.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B, 1931.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Donham, June 15, 1931, Framingham Centre, Mass.
(divorced 1937); Susan Dette, Jan. 7, 1939, San Mateo, Calif. (divorced
1952); Elizabeth Mapes, Oct. 24, 1953, Wayzata, Minn. cHILpREN: Eliza-
beth, July 8, 1932; Gregory, Nov. 24, 1935; Nancy, July 30, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Alsted Bacon, ’20.

OCCUPATION: Rancher.

MARTIN CHARLES BAER

HOME AppRESS: 300 Main St., Placerville, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 484 Main St., Placerville, Calif.

Born: Nov. 9, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Julius Baer, Blanche Sidenberg.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B, (Univ. of Pittsburgh),
1935.

MARRIED: Rita Miller, July 16, 1942, Milwaukee, Wis. cHi_pren: John David,
Oct. 7, 1944; Margaret Gale, Dec. 27, 1947.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Community Concert Association of El Dorado
County, El Dorado County Democratic Committee; vice-president, El
Dorado County Shrine Club; member board of trustees, El Dorado
Lodge No. 26, A.F. & A.M.

MEMBER OF: Royal Arch Masons, Scottish Rite, Ben Ali Shrine, AF. & A.M.;

E. Clampus Vitus, James W. Marshall Chapter No. 49; Placerville Lions
Club,

AFTER graduation from the University of Pittsburgh Law
School in 1935, I took Maxwell Kratz’s cram course in Philadel-
phia and passed the Pennsylvania Bar exams. I was admitted to the
Bar of Pennsylvania, Supreme and Superior Courts and trial courts
in Allegheny County. I was in the private practice of law in
Pittsburgh when interrupted by a telegram from the Adjutant
General. My wartime military service commenced as a second
lieutenant, C.W.S., at Edgewood Arsenal, Maryland, in August,
1942. In September, 1943, I was accepted for training in the
Military Government course at Fort Custer, followed by the
University of Michigan. I arrived in the United Kingdom in
January, 1944, and after a few weeks that seemed like months at
Shrivenham, was assigned to the British Civil Affairs Center at
Eastbourne. Travel to Normandy was arranged by H.M. Navy.
In France I re-transferred to the U.S. forces and via Belgium
and the Netherlands arrived in Gangelt, Germany, on October 12,
1944. It was a rugged winter, though the Battle of the Bulge was
to the south and at a substantial distance around us. The 2d
Armored Division provided our entry to our scheduled destina-
tion, Landkreis Bergheim near Cologne. After peace broke out,
our detachment was sent to Bavaria and at Rothenburg ob Tauber
I had the interesting experience of being most comfortably quar-
tered in the same hotel in which I stayed as a tourist in 1927.
Eventually I became the Military Government officer command-
ing Landkreis Uffenheim. I returned to the States on a rest
program at the end of 1945 and upon return to Germany, I was
assigned to the legal division of the Office of Military Govern-
ment, Bavaria.

Of my wartime experiences, the following were the super-
latives: my most interesting work was the Military Government
general administration in the Rhineland and Bavaria rural counties;
my highest position was chief judge of the Military Government

[ 38]

| 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

courts of Schwaben; the best schools attended were the British
Motor Vehicle Maintenance School at Eastbourne and the Uni-
versity of Michigan where I took the Civil Affairs course; the
longest wait was for my second bar; the biggest thrill was first
crossing the German border on October 12, 1944.

In 1946 I returned to the States and at my own request was
transferred to the Judge Advocate General’s Department and
assigned to the Sixth Army H.Q. at the Presidio of San Fran-
cisco, where I served as assistant staff judge advocate in charge of
Military Affairs Division. While serving at the Presidio, I studied
for the California Bar exams, passed the fall exam in 1947 and was
admitted to the California State Bar.

In 1948 I requested relief from active duty in the Army and in
October re-commenced the general practice of law in Placerville
(Old Hangtown) in El Dorado County in the Mother Lode
County of California, My practice is the most general conceiv-
able: I do every type of work except invention patents and
admiralty. But I have no ulcers yet.

DANA FREDERICK BAIRD

HOME appREss: 78 Granite St., Rockport, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Weed & Co., 1010 Statler Office Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1909, Newton Centre, Mass. parents: Frederick Herbert
Baird, Mary Dana.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MarRRiIED: Grace Orrell, Jan. 6, 1936, Boston, Mass.

occupation: Advertising.

BENJAMIN BAKER

HOME ApprEss: 22 Abbot St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Portrait Service, 36 Bromfield St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Aug. 29, 1909, Boston, Mass, PaRENTS: Samuel Sydney Baker, Rose
Guterman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930. DEGREES: PH.B. (Univ. of Vermont), 1931.

OccuPATION: Supervisor, photograph finishing.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Menorah Insutute, since 1940, vice-president, Adath

[39]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Jeshurun Brotherhood, Roxbury, Mass.; director, Young Judea Clubs of
Cambridge, since 1933, Boys’ Clubs, Boston Y.MLC.A., North End Union,
Boys’ Home, Jewish Vocational Service of Boston; religious leader,
Camp Avoda, Camp Bournedale.

MEMBER OF: American Jewish Congress, Young Judea, Zionist Organization
of America; Young Israel, Alpha Mu Sigma,

TO those of you familiar with — or just a bit interested in —
psychology or psychiatry, the term “manic-depressive psychosis”
must have sooner or later come to your attention, As applied to
the writer, it just about sums up the story of my life since Octo-
ber, 1937.

Following my most happy junior year at Cambridge and Har-
vard Summer School (as the only male in Dr. Warner’s social
anthropology class, I was even happier), I returned to the Uni-
versity of Vermont at Burlington with (1) a “Harvard accent”,
(2) the knowing air, (3) the knowledge and self-esteem of “a
Harvard man” of city sophistication midst Vermont's farmers and
farmerettes. I managed to play the French horn in the R.O.T.C.
band, sing in the Glee Club, win the prize speaking contest, make
the “Student Union”, have the lead in the spring performance of
Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Patience”, wear my Dramatic Club pin,
familiarize myself with the Lake Champlain boat to Ausable
Chasm and the windy, wet road to Montreal, and remain ineligible
for Phi Beta Kappa!

But, the beauty of Cambridge’s Harvard Square, the subway
station and Radcliffe lured me back to the Harvard Law School
for another one-year parole from forced labor. After summer
camp and the Law School dean’s request to please pack promptly,
I just had to try to make the effort to find a job — in the golden
days of the fall, °32.

After working as a §16-per-week stock boy in a Boston depart-
ment store, as a salesman of haberdashery and as a furniture buyer
at Brooklyn’s Abraham & Straus for a brief period, my father’s:
death brought about “total recall” to Boston and a position as a
department head with Harvard’s illustrious alumni, the Voren-
bergs of Gilchrist's.

Return to Paragraph I and to October, 1937, when an automo-
bile accident, while on store business in New York (in the old

days we called them buying trips), left me nom compos mentis,

[ 40 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

non face, non job. There followed hospitals, plastic surgery, more
retailing at the Enterprise Stores, Raymond’s, Jordan Marsh and
Summerfield’s, and a civilian contract terminator’s job with the
Army Quartermaster Corps in 1944; then there was more retailing
at the now deceased Hovey’s, a job as plant operations supervisor
in a sweater factory and, of course, more hospitalization in 1946.
Then came the real Depression! I was a short order cook, worked
on the night shift in a Cambridge diner (how I love Radcliffe!),
packed friction tape in a beautiful cellar and, now, I am washing
pictures of Radcliffe girls—the daughters of my friends, the
’28—'29 students!

Please, classmates, I have no money — no children —no wife!
If there’s another bachelor in Harvard’s Class of ’31, call me! We
may need one another: I’m going manic again! Gents, ’tain’t all
been fun — but I’m still with ya — all the way!

** ROBERT STONE BALCH

BorN: May 9, 1909, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: Francis Noyes Balch, ’96,
Pauline Katherine Bulson.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931 (32).

pieD: April 20, 1944, Mediterranean Area.

BALCH spent the year 1931-1932 at the Harvard School of
Architecture. He later became one of the organizers of Winter
Park, an outdoor recreation center in Denver, and planned and
developed other public recreational areas, especially for skiing.
He was a well-known skier and mountain climber. After unsuc-
cessfully attempting to obtain a commission in the ski troops, he
enlisted in the Army Air Force and was stationed at Lowry Field,
Colorado, where he studied aerial photography. He was killed in
action in the Mediterranean area.

[For a more detailed obituary see American Ski Annual 1944-45,
pages 192-195. — Ed. Note. ]

C4r)

. HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ALFRED WHITMAN BALDWIN

HOME ADDRESS: 126 Brattle St, Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Baldwin Associates, 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 2, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Jared Grover Baldwin, Maud
Whitman.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; S.M. (Columbia Univ.),

1934-
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Financial management: proprietor, investment company; trus-
tee for several trusts.

OFFICES HELD: Associate, Scudder, Stevens & Clark, investment counsel, 1937-
42; president, Bireley’s Beverages, Inc. 1946-51; owner, Baldwin Associ-
ates, since 1946; member, Visiting Committee, Department of Germanic
Languages and Literature, Harvard College, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York City and Boston, Newcomen Soci-

ety of North America; Boston Security Analysts’ Society; Duxbury
Yacht Club.

AFTER leaving college, I attended the Columbia University
School of Business and, later, took special courses at the Harvard
Business School. Upon the death of my father in 1935, I returned
to my native New York to settle his affairs. Early in 1937 I joined
the investment counsel firm of Scudder, Stevens & Clark in Boston
as a security analyst. I continued working there until October,
1942, when Uncle Sam’s long hook pulled me into the Army Air
Forces where, until 1946, I energetically defended various south-
ern states and even some northern outposts like the Harvard Busi-
ness School.

Slightly giddy with the idea of going into business for myself,
in 1946, together with several associates, I started not one, but
two businesses. The first was a soft-drink concern with franchises
from Canada Dry and General Foods, and the second was an in-
vestment company, both with headquarters in Boston.

Inflation, resulting in higher security prices, benefited our in-
vestment business. On the other hand, rapidly rising post-war
costs had the opposite effect upon our beverage business. Our
sales prices were fixed competitively and could not be raised suc-
cessfully, so that profit margins were squcezed. By 1951 repeated
doses of this rich cocktail of capital gains and losses was having
an increasingly depressing effect on both Uncle Sam and our-

[ 42]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

selves. In that year the North Koreans must have moved closer
than we were ever told, for I found that the Air Force again con-
sidered my services indispensable to victory. This time I was
called upon to defend New Jersey, and did so with such vigor
that in five days the peril had passed and I was able to obtain a
six months’ leave to sell my bottling company. Having barely
accomplished the all but impossible task of finding a deliriously
optimistic buyer before my reprieve expired, I was astounded to
receive, instead of my orders, a terse note from the Pentagon, say-
ing that my resignation was thereby accepted. The nation may
have thus missed a more complete victory, but this note is now in
a guarded vault in a secret spot.

Since 1951 I have worked full time on investments. To date,
inflation continues to favor our stock market activities, but I can’t
rejoice over the social implications. Unfortunately, to my mind,
our tax and business laws increasingly favor the vulture over the
pioneer. Our system needs correction when the practice of buy-
ing up successful enterprises to liquidate them becomes profitable
and widespread. Though my politics are conservative, I contem-
plate with mixed feelings the growth of fine and efficient corpora-
tions like General Motors. Can the virtues of competition be pre-
served? Will the short-sighted efforts of demagogues to control
business practices prove even more stifling to progress? Well, it
won't all be gloom and doom either. As in our day, there’ll be
singin’ on the hilltops and moanin’ in the valleys.

I’m still unmarried but, save for that restriction, able to enjoy
life here in New England. The one sport I can still play, where
weight can help, is golf. My hobbies are studying languages and
travel. Nowadays I have to combine them into my annual vaca-
tion and an occasional distant business trip. |

Looking back, I’m sure we could all do it better if we had a sec-
ond chance. I suppose that shows we've learned something, and
there’s lots more I want to learn. I can seldom remember having
been bored, it’s always so interesting and there’s never enough
time. Twenty-five years is just a start!

[43 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

JAMES BARRETT BALDWIN

HOME aporess: 14 Wallets Rd, Old Westbury, N. Y.
OFFICE appRESS: Keswick Corp., go Wall St. New York 5, N. Y.

Bors: Oct. 5, 1909, Concord, Mass. parents: David Alonzo Baldwin, ’o3,
Elizabeth Louise Barrett.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarrieD: Carolyn Deaver Thomson, Aug. 17, 1935, Waldoboro, Maine.
CHILDREN: Elizabeth Deaver, May 28, 1938; Jane Barrett, Sept. 29, 1940;
James Barrett, Jr., Jan. 6, 1946.

occupation: Vice-president and director, Keswick Corporation — invest-
ment, administrative and economic analysis and evaluation.

OFFICES HELD: Member local School Board, 1949-54.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Spee Club; Piping Rock Club; Kitansett
Club; Links Club.

HAVING been a New Englander to and through college, 1 I
moved to New York City in 1931 and to Old Westbury in 1937,
headquartering there ever since. Business-wise, in 1931 I joined
Keswick Corporation, the service and investment research subsidi-
ary of United States & Foreign Securities Corporation and have
since stayed put, except for a 1943-45 tour with the Navy. Thus,
over these twenty-five years Pve been closely associated with
classmate Douglas Dillon. Am presently a director of a small resin
company in Connecticut and of a cotton mill in the Belgian
Congo.

The Navy tour, in air combat intelligence, involved Quonset
Point, the Hawaiian Islands, land-based duty with the Marines in
the Solomon and Admiralty Islands, Norfolk, and noncombatant
carrier duty in the Atlantic, Pacific and Yellow Sea. Business has
fortunately also provided its travel, involving a number of trips
to western Europe and two quite inclusive turns in central and
southern Africa.

Extra-curricular activities include educational — public, private
and filial — and golf, as chairman of a green committee and mem-
ber of the U.S.G.A. Green Section. It has also been a pleasure to
take a small part in certain phases of the preparation for this Re-

union. Other diversions encompass bird shooting, bridge and
home-landscaping.

[44]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
=

SIDNEY FROTHINGHAM BALL

HOME ADDRESS: 47 Sacramento St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Claus Gelotte, Inc., 1290 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge,
Mass.

BORN: April 8, 1909, Arlington, Mass. parents: Walter Guy Ball, Mabel
Augusta Frothingham.

PREPARED AT: Kimball Union Academy, Meriden, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

- MarRIED: Barbara Shevlin, May 1, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. cuitp: Bradley
Guy, Sept. 26, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Salesman — photographic supplies.

MEMBER OF: Belmont Dramatic Club; Cambridge Art Association, P.T.A.,
Cub Scouts.

IN 1928 my father’s finances went into a tailspin so I discontinued
college after my freshman year. I went to New York and a job in
a Wall Street brokerage house just in time for the 1929 crash.
Quite promptly after this I joined the unemployed (though not a
‘Soiner”) and watched the apple-sellers on the street corners. I
used to nod “hello” to a young writer on the top floor of our East
Side tenement. His novel, Union Square, which described my
apartment so well, made the book clubs and defined this period.

During my enforced leisure I was asked to act in an amateur
play. This seemed like so much fun that it led to my spending
a year at the Cambridge School of Drama. Soon after, I started
a long and happy association with the Barnstormers, a summer
theatre in Tamworth, New Hampshire, directed by Francis
Grover Cleveland. This is now New Hampshire’s oldest summer
theatre, but in 1931 it was a young group with a number of recent
Harvard and Radcliffe graduates in the company. “Board and
Room Only” in those days, and a different town every night!
Times have changed.

Barbara, an old Idler hand, Radcliffe ’ 31, was in charge of the
properties. We first met when she handed me a tray to carry on
stage. Several seasons of summer and winter stock and a tour of
the New York agents convinced me that the theatre was not an
easy way to make a living. So, photography being another hobby,
I took a job with a retail photographic store. With time out for
a tour of duty in the Army, February, 1941, to October, 1945, I
am still at the same post. Three years as supply sergeant for a

[45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

hospital in North Africa and Italy had its thrilling moments —
such as, at the time of the invasion of North Africa when the old
English freighter I was in got “tinfished” and sank. Thought I
might have to swim the rest of the way but got picked up
promptly. Enjoyed some carefree weeks on “The Rock” — it
was six weeks before I caught up with my outfit which had given
me up.

It took a world war to bring it about, I guess, but on May Day,
1942, on a three-day pass from Camp Edwards, Barbara and I said
our vows. After the war many happy evenings were spent acting
in Cambridge Dramatic Club plays at Brattle Hall. I served as
president of the club for several seasons. During the summer I
managed to keep a toe-hold in the theatre by doing a two-week
stint with the Barnstormers during vacations.

Barbara, who concentrated in Fine Arts, keeps busy as director
of the Cambridge Art Center for Children, a Red Feather Agency,
plus keeping an eye on Bradley, our never-still-a-minute ten-year-
old, who is now more stage struck than Daddy ever was, but no
outlet yet. He swears he'll resign from the Belmont Dramatic
Club if they don’t cast him in a show soon!

In the fall of 1953, because of the eviction by the new owners
who wanted to live in our apartment, and spurred by their idea
of winter coziness, 60 degrees or less, we hastily bought a three-
family apartment house, and don’t find being landlords as harrow-
ing as anticipated. Naturally, we now disapprove of rent control!
We've added gardening to our activities—that means, chiefly,
trying to raise a lawn on our stamp-size lot where none grew
before — also all the new-to-us odd jobs that attend home owner-
ship. Now signing off to soak that hedge.

If Bradley, who censors all our Harvard correspondence, has
his way we'll be on hand for June, ’56.

JOSEPH BARBER

HOME abpress: 16 E. 84th St. New York 28, N. Y.

orrice appress: Council of Foreign Relations, Inc. 58 E. 68th St., New York
21, N.Y.

BORN: June 20, 1909, Lowell, Mass. parents: Joseph Barber, Grace Green-
leaf Harris.

[ 46 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B. 1931; S.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1933.

MARRIED; Eileen Paradis, Feb. 15, 1936, Ludlow, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harris Barber, ’23, s.B., ’24.

OCCUPATION: Activities administrator, Council on Foreign Relations.

MEMBER OF: Century Association; Council on Foreign Relations, Harvard
Club of New York; Overseas Press Club, New York; St. Botolph Club,
Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Hawaii: Restless Rampart, Bobbs-Merrill, 1941; editor, pam-
phlet series of Council on Foreign Relations — “American Policy To-
ward Germany”, 1947, “The Marshall Plan as American Policy”, 1948,
“Military Cooperation with Western Europe”, 1949, “American Policy
Toward China”, 1950, “The Containment of Soviet Expansion”, 1951,
“Foreign Aid and the National Interest”, 1952, “Foreign Trade and U.S.
Tariff Policy”, 1953, “Diplomacy and the Communist Challenge”, 1954;
co-author, Political Handbook of the World, 1953; various articles to
magazines.

I WONDER how many classmates have had the experience, as I
have had, of trying to review the significant mileposts since gradu-
ation, and of discovering that it is the bizarre or perverse incident
that comes readily to mind. Does one get to the point where the
achievements, such as they have been, and the quiet satisfactions
yield place to the trivia in one’s Book of Years? If so, is this in-
dicative of galloping senility, or is the real issue one’s reluctance
to try to identify the true landmarks? Well, at any rate, the trivia
have a certain relevance, particularly if they remind us of the
sometimes unpredictable fruits of initiative during that first decade
out of college.

I recall a rendezvous with Wiley Post at Tempelhof Airport in
Berlin. It was 1933 and the Nazis were newly in power. Mr.
Post had just landed, after his solo-flight across the Atlantic in the
Winnie Mae, the first hop in his famous flight around the world.
I was a fledgling foreign correspondent, assigned to waylay him
for an exclusive interview in, of all places, the men’s room. When
the police escort left him at the door, I was ready inside with a
flood of questions. Getting no response, I realized that he was
still deafened by the roar of his Wright-Cyclone engine and I
began to shout. He looked up finally and growled: ‘What’?
That was the sum total of our communication. Some scoop!

[47]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Some start for an eager young newspaperman — and, I now add,
some invasion of a Weary man’s privacy.

During the years, later in the 1930's, when I was helping to edit
the Atlantic Monthly in Boston, | had on one occasion the kind
of experience that gives magazine editors nightmares. I rejected
out-of-hand a manuscript which seemed to me to be a complete
phony, though it was represented to be authentic in every detail.
The manuscript was accepted by another magazine, grew into a
best-seller book, graduated to the movies, and made a pot of
money for everybody concerned. One can be eternally right, I
suppose, and still dig one’s own grave.

When making up the editorial pages of the Washington Post
one night in the early 1940's, I found that I badly needed another
short editorial. There had just been an international incident de-
serving comment but there was not time for the customary con-
sultation and checking if I was to write about it; the paper’s dead-
line was upon me. Though the subject was out of my editorial
province, I took the plunge and came up with a few cautiously-
expressed but hastily-written paragraphs. At his press conference
the next day, the Acting Secretary of State referred approvingly
to the editorial and said that it exactly represented the attitude of
the United States government. The press repercussions at home
and abroad were considerable. The paper gained stature and, in
the eyes of the boss, so did I. Score one for the calculated risk.

Variety there surely was in the experience of that fast-receding
decade, which included a year’s sojourn in Hawaii. But assess it?
I would rather answer the question, with respect to the war years
in uniform, when I served on the staff of the Chief of Naval Per-
sonnel. Among my duties was the preparation of a great many
policy directives having to do with “the needs of the service” —
a standard phrase which, as classmates in the service during the
war will testify, could elicit rage, despair or other emotion, de-
pending upon the relation of the individual to the directive. I
remember coming home from the Navy Department one day in

1943 and remarking to my wife: “You know, only my head used
to be tired when I was a civilian. Now, my legs are bushed, but
my head is as clear as a bell”. So much for an interlude of some-
thing over three years which, we gratefully recall, did not exact

[ 48 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the wartime toll paid in one way or another by so many friends
and contemporaries.

For a decade now — it does not seem that long —I have been
associated with the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, a
private organization of men who have acquired positions of
special competence in matters affecting U. S. foreign relations.
My work administering activities of branches in 27 cities keeps me
in close touch with the developing issues of foreign policy, with
foreign attitudes and, more especially, with the reactions of Amer-
icans to situations abroad which involve our national interests.

My wife and I have created a kind of Manhattan-Maine Axis of
our own; we spend occasional week-ends throughout the year,
in addition to summer vacations, at the Maine house which class-
mate Bill Pedersen designed for us five years ago at Fortune’s
Rocks, Biddeford. There, praise be, is a landmark, the only “glass
house’”’, as it is known locally in the county. When we set out
from it for the Fiftieth Reunion, all I shall ask — and it is no mean
request — will be that the intervening years have been happy ones
and usefully spent.

IRA BUCKINGHAM BARNES

HOME ADDRESS: 1321 W. Riverview St., Decatur, II.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Macon Arms, Inc., 800 E. Kenwood St., Decatur, IIL.

BORN: July 2, 1907, Decatur, Ill. Parents: Lynn Moore Barnes, ’96, Donna
Ulery Buckingham.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (32).

MARRIED: Vivian Naola Bell, June 25, 1936, Decatur, Ill. camp: David Leslie,
Jan. 3, 1938.

occupation: Chief chemical engineer, Macon Arms, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, Westminster Presbyterian Church; district commis-
sioner, Macon County district, Lincoln Trails Council of Boy Scouts of
America, three years; Macon Lodge No. 8, AF. & A.M.; Macon Chap-
ter No. 21, R.A.M., Beauminor Commandery No. 9, K.T.

MEMBER OF: Decatur Club; South Side Country Club.

LOOKING back over the last twenty-five years and comparing
mine with lives of my classmates, mine seems rather common-
place; but I have been very happy. After Harvard, I attended the
University of Chicago for some graduate work, but the depres-

[49]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

sion put a stop to that. Then into business for myself, followed by
a stint with a short loan company. This I left to do some real
estate improvement. In 1946 I joined the Atlas Powder Company
at their Weldon Springs plant, making TNT. From TNT, I
turned to the manufacture of bulldozers for the Army. After the
war, I joined the Houdaille Hershey Corporation in the produc-
tion of automotive parts. In 1951 I went with Macon Arms, Inc.,
which produces Navy ordnance. Here I am head of the entire
laboratory, including heat treat, lubrication and finishing opera-
tions.

My travels have been limited to the United States and Canada.
These trips have all been motor trips so that [ can photograph the
sights. In the last few years the pleasure of those trips has been
increased by taking my son and some of his friends with us. This
last summer my wife and I took four teen-agers with us from
Virginia to Cambridge, Massachusetts, with stops in Washington,
D. C., and New York. This was a real experience with never a
dull moment.

Briefly then, I would say that the twenty-five years since Har-
vard have not been packed with high adventure for me, but for
the most part they have been happy years. The last eighteen of
the years in question have given a great deal of satisfaction in
watching my son grow and develop. I have tried to be a com-
panion to him, which has taken a good bit of my time. Now that
he is almost ready for college, maybe I can turn to some of the
things that I should have done. Time alone will tell.

SAMUEL BARRY

HOME appreEss: 54 L Howard Drive, Bergenfield, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Regent, Ltd., 1410 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 25, 1909, Boston, Mass, parents: Louis Barry, Rose Horwitz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarriED: Hermina A. Bussman, July 3, 1946, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Marc
Alan, Jan. 5, 1948; Monte Louis, July 31, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Salesman, ladies’ sportswear,

AFTER graduation, like many others who had not prepared them-
[50]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

selves for a professional field, I found it doubly difficult to get
started in earning a living, especially with the depression at full
blast.

In 1932 my first venture burst a romantic dream. I was accepted
as a flying cadet in the U. S. Army Air Corps, Randolph Field,
Texas. Approximately roo men in the U.S.A. were selected
every four months to serve as flying cadets for one year’s training
and then commissioned as second lieutenants in the Air Corps.
This was the West Point of the Air. About twenty-five per cent
of each class survived and were duly made second lieutenants. I
was one of the unfortunates and was “washed out” in my fifth
month for “not having the feel of the ship.” (My sour-grapes
aspect of that has always been that it was a matter of more ex-
perience!) Thus, with a broken heart and the burden of failure
for the first time in my life, I returned home to Boston. (May I
state that it was an honor to be admitted to this school and to have
served in it even for a partial period, and that the average young
man who washed out for flying reasons was truly broken-hearted.)

After several odd jobs I settled down into learning the manu-
facture of men’s clothing. I had a keen desire to serve on the out-
side as a salesman. Since there were no openings and a nasty acci-
dent (breaking my leg at work) opened the way to pleasant part-
ing, I left this very interesting job. A peculiar incident occurred
at this time. In 1936, while in the hospital, I received notice from
the War Department to report for a physical to renew my Re-
serve commission in the Field Artillery. Being truly incapacitated
and in a poor frame of mind, I failed to answer this request.

In 1937, after recuperating, I took over the management of the
Langrock Penn Shop in Philadelphia on the Pennsylvania Univer-
sity campus. With the war approaching, I wrote to the War De-
partment for active duty as a Reserve officer, only to learn the
truth —that I had allowed my commission to lapse by not an-
swering the request for physical examination in 1936! In 1940 I
severed connections with Langrock’s and became engrossed in
getting into the war effort.

Thus, I spent part of 1940 and 1941 at Harvard University,
studying engineering and photo mapping, photography and photo
intelligence. Even though I was classified 4F — because the

[si]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193!

broken leg never healed properly — I finally got into the Air
Corps and served out 1942-45 as an enlisted man, first, at Lowry
Field, Denver, where I taught photo mapping and wrote training
films (script writing).

After a year at Lowry, where I met my future wife, Uncle
Sam started me off on a Cook’s Tour of Europe — North Africa
and Italy. I was attached to a Photo Intelligence unit, the Third
P.I.D. On V-E Day, our unit was in the Po Valley. In August,
1945, was returned to the U.S.A. (and may I point out what a
great place that is!). The day of discharge in October, 1945,
found me anxious to make up for lost time, both socially and
financially. At Lowry Field I had met a lovely girl, Hermina
Bussman. We kept up a normal correspondence during the war
until we could get together for a reunion in Chicago in January,
1946, when we decided to get married. This great event took
place in Boston in July, 1946. Now we are a fine family of four,
since we have a seven-year-old boy, Marc, and a four-year-old
boy, Monte. They are a precious, full-time job and I feel that
possibly my matured age is advantageous in bringing them up well.
I am more patient and understanding now than when I was in my
twenties. I hope that Marc and Monte turn out to be good Har-
vard men of the future.

From 1946 to 1950 I was a partner in a clothing manufacturing
firm having its ups and downs. Finally, the partnership was dis-
solved. I took a job with a ladies’ sportswear manufacturing
firm as a salesman covering New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland,
Washington, D. C., and eastern Pennsylvania.

In January, 1951, with a deep breath, I left Boston where I had
lived most of my life. I drove 220 miles to call on my first cus-
tomer, as a traveling salesman in a strange business and new en-
vironment. Surprisingly, it is just what I always wanted — the
outside selling field — exceedingly interesting, lucrative, and not
too time-consuming. I have plenty of family time and also time
to pursue the golf ball, a game that always remains a challenge to
the amateur or pro. As yet, I haven’t forced it on the boys who
are more interested in playing ball, fishing, frogs, crickets, pets
of any sort, etc. We live in a suburban countrified environment in
North Jersey, where the air is clean and life with new friends,

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

normal religious pursuits for the whole family, are all enjoyed as
though we had lived here for years.

At this writing, I have made a wonderful date for June, 1956,
at Harvard Square!

STUYVESANT BARRY

HOME ADDRESS: R.D. Box 163, New Hope, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Buckingham Friends School, Lahaska, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1909, West Orange, N. J. parents: Herbert Barry, Ethel
Morgan Dawson.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934; A.M. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1942.

MaRRIED: Alice Scoville, Feb. 9, 1935, Bryn Mawr, Pa. cHILpren: Frank Daw-

~ son, Aug. 25, 19373; Katharine Trumbull, June 18, 1939; David, March
11, 1942; Roxana, Nov. 30, 1946; Bethany, Dec. 14, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Herbert Barry, Jr., ’20.

occuPATION: Principal, Buckingham Friends School.

OFFICES HELD: Member school board, Chittenden, Vt.; clerk, overseer,
Buckingham Friends Meeting; president, Stockton (N. J.) Citizens’
League; secretary, Stockton Playgrounds Association.

MEMBER OF: Society of Friends, Bucks County Choir; Cream Hill Lake As-
sociation; Bass River Yacht Club; a Great Books group.

PUBLICATIONS: Two articles printed in magazines.

I WENT to Harvard Law School without distinguishing myself,
landed and lost a job at Hale & Dorr (Joe Welch & Company)
‘within six months, then got a better one with Satterlee & Canfield
in Wall Street. I helped reorganize questionable corporations
under 77B. I was nudged out along with a couple of other boys
when the firm did a merger and rather than drag myself any
further in a business which by that time didn’t seem too congenial,
I went hunting for a job in teaching which had always attracted
me. I finally landed one at Episcopal Academy, Philadelphia.
There I went through Mr. Chips’s ordeals, but stayed five and a
half years, and got an A.M. at Pennsylvania.

Meanwhile, after tasting the work camp activities of the Friends
Service Committee, I had become a Friend and in 1944 my wife
and I directed a work camp in Pine Mountain, Kentucky, over
the mountain from “Bloody Harlan.” By fall, I found myself
teaching there and living in a log cabin with modern plumbing.

(53 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

That was a wonderful place. I could have lived there happily the
rest of my life, I think. There’s something about those mountain
children, their sturdy naturalness, decency, affection, that I love.
But Pine Mountain School was a boarding high school and the
one-room elementary school was not giving our children a good
start and Allie grew lonely.

After Roxana was born in the little wooden hospital, we moved
in 1947 to other mountains — this time in Vermont where I was
“professor” of sociology at the abortive Rutland Junior College.
There we lived on a mountainside with the most beautiful view I
ever hope to have — and our own sugar maples. The first winter
was rugged beyond belief, but we were healthier than ever before
(or since). In 1949, when R.J.C. was strangling for lack of funds,
some of us tried to campaign to save it, but Vermonters know
their own minds, especially when economy is involved. Through
friends we landed here where I taught a year, then became prin-
cipal, knowing very little about it all. I hope I know a little more
now, though frankly, most of the improvements I started were my
wife’s suggestions. Our school may not have the largest endow-
ment or the highest S.E.B. examination marks, but I don’t think
you'll find many more united faculties who enjoy working and
cracking jokes together more, nor many schools with a better
relationship between teachers and children. And they do pretty
well in their work too.

I guess I] have derived some of the same satisfactions out of
volunteer work camps in Maine, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Missouri
Ozarks, Cherokee Reservation that some others have got out of
service in the armed forces and I have been able to believe in what
I was doing. A good deal of my life has been trying, not always
successfully, to stick to things I believed in doing. I guess I have
been a rebel against a good many of the traditions with which I
grew up surrounded, such as the Social Register, keeping up
with the Joneses, materialism, conventional patriotism, the Epis-
copal church, New York City, the old school tie, and polite dis-

crimination against Negroes. One summer I was a carpenter’s
helper, two others 1 worked in a factory. Last summer I got
blown up in a cutter off Cape Porpoise and now at forty-six I’m
getting more conservative, like everyone else, no doubt.

This year we bought a house finally, I am really getting con-

[54]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

servative. My hobbies are music, occasional watercoloring, bird-
ing, Sailing, Most of the time I seem to be putting another patch
on the wooden station wagon or trying to get the lawn mower
started. Just now I'm trying to teach my eldest daughter to
drive her new car—Chrysler, 1938. Kathy and Dave are at
George School this year, Frank is a freshman at Earlham — but
Dave is determined to go to Harvard, completing the circle I
suppose. For the next twenty years I can sit back and see what
he and the others are going to rebel against. In politics I am an
Independent Democrat and anti-MIcCarthy.

HENRY GEORGE BARTOL, JR.

HOME AppRrESS: Tryon, N. C.

OFFICE ADpress: Tryon Processing Co., Tryon, N. C.

Born: Aug. 29, 1908, Flushing, N. Y. parents: Henry George Bartol, Hester
Gouverneur Hone.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

MaRRiED: Helena Phelps, March, 1933 (died 1934); Carol Erskine, Oct. 19,
1939, Tryon, N. C. canpren: Christopher Perry, 14 years, Pamela
Cheyney, 12 years; Margarct Erskine, 9 years; Malcolm Erskine, 7 years.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Hone Barrtol, 36.

OccuPATION: Vice-president and assistant general manager, Tryon Processing
Company.

SINCE June of 1931, I have had a full and very rewarding

twenty-five years and consider myself unusually fortunate with

my lot. I traveled for one year after college. From 1933 through

January of 1942, I was with the Spool Cotton Company (Clark

Thread and J & P Coats) on production in their mills in Newark,

New Jersey, Pawtucket, Rhode Island, and Toccoa, Georgia.

In January of 1942 I volunteered in the Naval Reserve and
trained in the second class at Quonset Point, Rhode Island.
Served a year in the Aleutians and a year with Air Group 80 on
the USS Ticonderoga and USS Hancock in the Pacific as ACI
officer. I was released from active duty as a lieutenant commander
in October, 1945.

I retired to Tryon, North Carolina, after the war and for three
years owned and operated a small summer camp for boys, near
Hendersonville, North Carolina. In the fall of 1948, I sold the

[55]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

camp and joined the Tryon Processing Company, where I am
now vice-president and assistant general manager. T. P. Company
does special dyeing in solid and space-dyed colors of decoration
yarns for the weaving and knitting trades.

[Ed. Note: After this was written Bartol informed the Secretary
that the Tryon Company has ceased to exist.]

CARL BASKIN

HOME ADDRESS: 116 Billings St. Sharon, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3 St. Ann St., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

sorNn: March 24, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: David Baskin, Sarah Low.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 19313 LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1935.

MARRIED: Sally Klein, July 14, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: David Noah,
July 25, 1939; Lian Ruth, July 6, 1942; Jane Anita, Dec. 29, 1945.

occupation: Real estate.

AFTER graduating from Boston University School of Law in
1935, I took the Massachusetts Bar examination that June, married
a Radcliffe girl, Sally Klein, ’31, in July, went off on a protracted
honeymoon and returned late in the summer to appear before the
Board of Bar Examiners for oral examination. The gentlemen of
the Board commended (I think) my “courage in acquiring a wife
before acquiring a client”, and shortly thereafter I was formally
sworn in as a member of the Massachusetts Bar. I have had
courage but clients in sufficient numbers I did not have. Conse-
quently, my active career at the law was brief, and shortly I
went into the family real estate business and have stayed there
ever since. Uncle Sam decided I was too old and had too many
dependents to be of any use to him in the last war.

In 1951 we bought a large older type house with considerable
grounds in a Boston suburb. We spent several years thereafter
remodeling and furnishing the house, cleaning up the grounds and
settling into our home and small town life. Our major interests
are the children, participation in town affairs and efforts to acquire
“green thumbs”, I have an interest in a hunting and fishing shack
in northern Maine. Although both sports intrigue me, fish and
game elude me, and the black flies never miss me, Recently, I
have taken up golf — this is the end.

[56]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BENJAMIN HIGGINSON BASSETT

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Old Academy Rd., Chatham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chatham High School, Main Street, Chatham, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 9, 1907, Chatham, Mass. parents: Benjamin Franklin Bassett,
Jessie Austin Higginson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1952.

MARRIED: Doris Alexina Dunphy, Aug. 15, 1935, Chatham, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sally Sutherland, April 13, 1944; Benjamin Higginson, Jr., July 12, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Principal, Chatham School, K-12.

OFFICES HELD: President, Cape Cod Principals’ Association, 1947-48, Mono-
mauset Teachers’ Club, 1948-49; vice-president, Chatham Little League,
1952, 1953- .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cape Cod; National Education Association;
National Association of Secondary School Principals; Massachusetts
Association of Secondary School Principals; Barnstable County Teachers
Association; New Engiand Association of Colleges and Secondary
Schools,

I HAVE been engaged in public school work for the past twenty-
one years, except for three years spent in the Air Force. As
principal of a consolidated school I have enjoyed guiding (and at
times boosting) youngsters over the academic hurdles from
kindergarten through high school. They have been busy, but
rewarding, years.

Since my baseball days have long since been over, each summer
I tramp the fairways of the golf course here. I endeavor, in fact,
to teach Old America how to cure a slice while serving as a “Pro”
at the Chatham Bars Inn Golf Course. This combination, plus
two energetic, athletic youngsters of my own, have kept me
young in spirit despite thinning locks.

SAMUEL LAWRENCE BATCHELDER

HOME ADDRESS: Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johnny Appleseed’s, Beverly, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 23, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George Lewis Batchelder, ’92,
Louise Lawrence.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarriED: May Read, June 25, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. cuitpren: Samuel
Lawrence, Jr., April 3, 1932 (7. Jane Borden, July 16, 1955); Robert
R., Aug. 14, 1935; Dorothy, Feb. 4, 1943; Edward B., March 4, 1951.

[57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

HARVARD SON; Samuel Lawrence Batchelder, Jr. *54.

HARVARD BRoTHER: George Lewis Batchelder, Jr., ‘19.

occUPATION: Treasurer and general manager, Johnny Appleseed’s.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Mt. Auburn Cemetery, 1939-55; director, member
executive committee, 1945-55, president, 1950-53, Beverly Community
Fund; treasurer, trustee, president, Shore Country Day School, 1947-
54; president, New England Mail Order Association, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: A.D, Club.

SOON after graduation | entered the family coal company where
I learned from practical experience the fundamentals of business.
A short while thereafter, I entered the television industry at its
infancy. When the war came around, I left television and spent
three years in the Air Force. Two of these three years were
spent in England doing very interesting work in photo reconnais-
sance.

The war was over and at this point I decided to experiment.
I wanted to avoid spending many hours a week commuting on a
train and so I decided to try to make a living close by my home.
That was the reason for Johnny Appleseed’s, a country store
catering to the needs of the people who surround it. At the same
time we started a mail order department and now have thousands
of customers from all parts of the country.

Johnny Appleseed’s has taken all my time since, and I have
never regretted giving up the daily trip to the big city. Last year
the ’31 Class Baby was married after graduation from Harvard.
My next son Bobby is finishing his junior year at M.I.T., where he
is thoroughly enjoying himself.

FREEMAN FIELD BATES

HOME aporess; Majella Road, Pebble Beach, Calif.

OFFICE AppREss: American Embassy, Paris, France.

BORN: July 6, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Frederick Dickinson Bates,
Georgia Fauré Guilford.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School for Boys, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: §.B4 1931; A.M. 1032.

MaxrieD: Sylvia Phillips, Dec. 15, 1943, Wanstead, England. cup: Anthony

Marrs, Jan. 9, 1948.

HARVARD BRroTHER: Frederick Dickinson Bates, Jr.,°26, A.M., 27.

occupATION: Foreign Service staff officer, Department of State — Refugee
Relief Program, American Embassy, Paris.

[ 58}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OUR Class is distinctively represented at the American Embassy
in Paris by Doug Dillon, the ambassador, and not so distinctively
by yours truly well down among the pick-and-shovel boys. The
work with the Refugee Relief Program is rich in contacts, mostly
with deserving people who have fled from the workers’ paradise
beyond the Iron Curtain. Prior to this assignment, I spent some
ten years as a staff intelligence officer in the Air Force with duty
in the Pentagon, as an Air Attaché in London during the war, a
couple of years at the Air War College in Alabama, a most reward-
ing year as a student of Russian at the Army Language School in
Monterey, California, and another fine year on the staff of that
school. My military career tailed off rather dismally with assign-
ments in Texas and Alaska which left me cold, literally and
figuratively. Since being with the Department of State, I have
warmed considerably to the tasks at hand and hope to remain in
harness for some time to come. Hobbies I have none, unless
reading and snoozing will fit. My enduring ambition is to retire
to my ranch house in Del Monte Forest, California, and perhaps
take up a little gentle golf.

JAMES CUSHING BAYLEY

HOME aApprEss: 199 Marlborough St., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: House of Representatives, State House, Boston 33, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James Cushing Bayley, Harriet
Birbridge Brinton.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B. 1939.

MARRIED: Janet Carr, Aug. 6, 1949, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: James Cushing,
Jr., June 24, 1951; Richard Brinton, Sept. 4, 1953; Robert Lincoln,
Feb. 12, 1956.

OccuPATION: Lawyer; State Representative.

OFFICES HELD: President, Republican City Committee of Boston, since 1952,
Neighborhood Association of the Back Bay, since 1955, Men’s Council
of Young Republican Clubs of Massachusetts, 1945-46, Suffolk County
Republican Club, 1948-50, Boston, City Councillor, 1944~47; State Rep-
resentative, since 1949; member, Republican State Committee, since
1946; assistant treasurer, Young Republican National Federation, 1937-
49; grand chancellor, 1950-51, supreme representative from Massachu-
setts, since 1955, Knights of Pythias; Master, Joseph Webb Lodge, AF.
& A.M., 1953-54; Commander, Boston Commandery, Knights Templar,

[59 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

1952-54; Master, Boston Council, 1949-50, Grand P.C.W., 1950-51,
R. & S. Masters; Second Cer, Master, Aleppo Temple, since 1955.
MEMBER OF: Afassachusetts and Boston Bar Associations; Harvard Law
School Association, Longwood Cricket Club; Badminton and Tennis
Club; Tedesco Country Club, Bostonian Society, Back Bay Association,
Kenmore Association; Massachusetts Legislators Association; Harvard
Club of Boston.
IT seems that ever since leaving college, I have been rushing to
meet deadlines, only to have somthing come up at the last minute.
Sending in this report has proved to be no exception. Just as I
started to pound it out— poof—my wife presented me with
our third son, and I had to apologize to Don Field and ask for
another day’s extension, which he gave me in remembrance of
our two-man touch football team days.

Since our Decennial Report, I have been devoting most of my
time to politics, starting with the lamented Willkie campaign in
1940. It has been rough on many of us but we have finally
reached the sunlight with President Eisenhower in the White
House and Governor Herter in the State House. I think that the
past four years have been outstanding, which would tend to in-
dicate, and rightly so, that I am a dyed-in-the-wool Republican
— only we have not “died” yet, and are looking forward to more
victories come November. I am working overtime with our
classmate and good friend, Ed Amazeen, in promoting the can-
didacy of Lieutenant Governor Sumner G. Whittier for gover-
nor, and we are both very confident that he will give a fine
administration.

As for myself, I am one of the last Republicans to hold office
in our City of Boston, serving as City Councillor for four years,
and now in the House of Representatives for the past eight years,
luckily with more kindred spirits. I have the rather thankless job
at present of trying to run what there is of the Republican Party
in Boston as president of its city committee, but it is in a good
cause, nevertheless.

Only occasionally do I get a chance to practise law, as my
evenings are filled with fraternal as well as political meetings. I
have been fortunate enough to have held several offices in frater-
nal organizations, and I thoroughly enjoy the good fellowship

[ 60 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that abounds. Only on weekends do I get much of a chance to
see my expanding family. —

My sports career is gradually surrendering to an expanding
waistline and. balding head, although I still take a keen interest in
the Red Sox, who may surprise us by winning the pennant this
year. I indulge in a little golf and tennis when I get the chance
and can find others who play also in mediocre fashion like my-
self. My softball days seem to be rapidly becoming a matter of
the past, and it won’t be too long before I retire to the bridge
table and leave it to my youngsters to show their father how to
really play sports. Ho hum —to be young again.

ALEXANDER SIMPSON BEAL

HOME ADDRESS: 419 Beacon St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Beal & Co., Inc., 209 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 22, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Julius Beal, Adelaide Simpson.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MarRRIED: Leona Madeline Rothstein, March 28, 1930, Castleton-on-Hudson,
N. Y. cur_pren: Bruce Anthony, June 28, 1936; Robert Lawrence, Sept.
10, 1941.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Beal & Company, Inc., real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Overseers, Shady Hill School, Cambridge,
1953-56; member, State Airport Management Board, 1954-59, Special
Legislative Commission on State Housing, 1954, Republican Ward
Committee, Newton, Mass.; trustee, Temple Ohabei Shalom, Brookline,
Mass., 1955; director, Boston Municipal Research Bureau.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Real Estate Board; Building
Owners and Managers Association; Belmont Country Club; National
Association of Real Estate Boards.

WRITING an autobiography is difficult for anyone only because
one does not know where to begin and how much one should
say. We are always afraid we are going to say too much.
I have written out something on several occasions only to discard
it and rewrite it. Here goes the final draft. I trust that you of
the Class who read this will not be too greatly bored. Certainly
June, 1931, was not an auspicious date. It was notable only be-
cause throughout the country we who were to commence a busi-
ness life had but little to which we might look forward —I in

[61 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

articular, for I had eloped in the spring of 1930. My only asset
was a wife; I had no job and no prospects of one. As I looked at
my family’s business, it did not seem very attractive. Real estate
of all things looked about the worst.

After trying my hand at various things, such as selling shoes at
Sears and setting up a filing system at the Filene warehouse, I was
finally introduced to Jim Henderson of Henderson & Ross. He
had something that was very different—real estate appraisals.
This was a field that was just coming into being at this time; never
before had people specialized in this work. In the late fall of
1931 I went to work for him. It was probably the best thing I
ever did in my life. I remained with him until his death in 1939,
after which his son Bob, Class of 1934, and I formed the company
of Henderson & Beal, Inc.

In 1943 I volunteered for and secured a reserve commission in
the Navy and was assigned to the Amphibs; first as executive
officer of LST 1030 and finally as commanding officer of LST627.
We bounced around the southwest Pacific, participating in a num-
ber of invasions, and I wound up the war on my back in a hospital
in Oakland, California.

After the war we resumed our operations, expanding to general
brokerage, management and investment on our own account. In
1954, having begun to realize that my sons might some day desire
to be in business with me, I arranged to purchase my partner's
interest in our company, changing the name to Beal & Company,
Inc.

Some of you are already acquainted with my family. Leona,
my lovely lady, amazes me more and more as the years roll on.
To my eyes and to the eyes of most, she has changed very little.
Leona has supplied me with help, courage and inspiration when-
ever the going looked very rough. My two boys, Bruce, nineteen,
now a sophomore at Rollins College in Florida, and Bobby, in the
gth grade at the Shady Hill School in Cambridge, are of course

my greatest joys. In the last few years, as I was able to afford a
little more time, I have found great stimulation in community
work. In 1952 I was one of the pre-pre-primary backers of Presi-
dent Eisenhower. I took a leave of absence from April to Novem-
ber, and in that time | put in a great deal of work and had a great
deal of fun campaigning for the Republican ticket.

[ 62]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Outside of business activities, I spend most of my time working
on the problems of the Shady Hill School and the State Airport
Board. These, plus golf and an occasional bit of card playing, take
up most of my spare hours. I have had a very enjoyable well-
rounded life. I have had a great deal of pleasure out of working
with many of you and I am looking forward to a wonderful Re-
union this June.

SIDNEY BECK

HOME ADDRESS: 526 Prescott Rd. Merion, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Spruce Street Medical Bldg., 269 S. rgth St, Philadelphia, Pa.

BorN: April 7, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Nathan Beck, Rose Block. |

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935;
S.M. IN SURGERY (Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1940.

MarRieD: Bernice Muriel Sabel, June 30, 1940, Philadelphia, Pa. cHitpREen:
Jonathan Edward, Dec. 9, 1946, Barbara Ann, July 10, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Medical Board of Albert Einstein Medical Center,

1954-55.

MEMBER OF: Masons, since 1946; American Medical Association, since 1937;
Pennsylvania State and Philadelphia County Medical Societies, since
1937; American Board of Surgery, since 1943; American College of Sur-
geons (fellow), since 1943.

AFTER graduation I studied medicine at Tufts College, where I
took my M.D. in 1935. During the next year I interned at Bridge-
port (Conn.) Hospital, and the following year I studied general
surgery at the Graduate School of Medicine of the University of
Pennsylvania. From 1937 to 1939 I was a resident surgeon at the
Mount Sinai Hospital in Philadelphia and then began the practice
of general surgery. In 1940 I received my Master’s degree in
surgery at the Graduate School of Medicine there. In May, 1943,
I passed my examinations and became a member of the American
Board of Surgery.

That very month I entered the Army. After two months in the
States, I sailed for the India and China area as a member of a
portable surgical hospital. After twenty-six hectic months over-
seas, I returned to the States and reopened my offices for the
practice of general surgery in Philadelphia. For the past ten years

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

I have seen the growth of my practice and my responsibilities.
During the past year I was appointed chief of surgery of
Woman’s Hospital of Philadelphia and promoted to chief of
surgery at the Albert Einstein Medical Center (formerly Mt. Sinai
Hospital). I am also on the surgical staff of the Doctors Hospital
and the American Oncologic Hospital.

After my working day in the office and hospitals, I settle down
to being a suburbanite (barring emergency operations). My

hobbies are my famy and golf. My got ‘ain’t what it should
be”, but I’m still pl ugging.

LEOPOLD BECKWITH

HOME AppREss: 17 Bruce Lane, Newton, Mass.
OFFIcE ADpREss: A. Beckwith Co., 37 Essex St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: May 16, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Albert Beckwith, Bella Bern-

stein.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 M.B.A. 1933.

marrigD: Rebecca Angoff, March 24, 1935, Boston, Mass. cHttprEN: Dorothy
Joan, July 31, 1937; Martin Joel, April 10, 1940; Barbara Ann, March 2,

1945.
HARVARD BROTHER: Allen Edgar Beckwith, M.B.A., ’37.
occupation: President and general manager, A. Beckwith Company, sports-

wear and uniform retailers,
MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Brotherhood of Temple Eman-

uel, Newton; Alpha Mu Sigma Fraternity.

UPON emerging as an embryo tycoon from the Business School
in June, 1933, into an atmosphere of threatening thunderheads on
the business horizon, I became engaged in learning the building
materials business from the ground up. However, several months
thereafter, upon the resignation of the auditor of the company, I

was side-tracked into his job which, though a promotion, was not
in the direction my ambitions were headed. After an entirely
satisfactory but short career as an auditor, I became associated
with “Old Mr. Boston” liquors, a new fast-growing firm in the
then new liquor industry. After three years’ activity in this
business, mainly in the capacity of assistant purchasing agent, I
still was not entirely happy in that my original plans for a career

[ 64 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and my training at the Business School has been pointed toward
retailing.

Therefore, in 1936 I made my final change, going into business
with my father who had established a retail business in sportswear
and general merchandise in 1921. A particular phase of this busi-
ness which had become his specialty was riding apparel. In the
late ’20’s and early ’30's many army officers were buying breeches
and boots, part of their dress uniform, at my dad’s store. This
traffic suggested to me the possibilities of building up a complete
military uniform business as an integral part of our retail business.
During the war years our reputation for top quality merchandise
at reasonable prices paid off to the extent of our doing a phenom-
enal volume of business to a point where we were physically un-
able to handle any additional business.

With the return to peace we were faced with the problem of
changing back our business to its normal operation after having
done over 80% of our volume for about five years on just
military uniforms. Unfortunately, the riding apparel business —
a luxury line — was necessarily subjected to such restrictions dur-
ing the war that it had dwindled to an alarmingly low volume.
Riding as a sport had reached a low ebb here in New England
and after a few lean years I felt that the only thing that could
save our business would be the building up of our mail order
volume in riding apparel on a national scale, In 1949 I began a
national advertising campaign on a modest scale, using magazines
as our principal medium, and have been gratified to sce our busi-
ness slowly but surely emerging from the doldrums covering
every state in the Union plus foreign countries, At the present
time, our mail orders account for nearly 50% of our volume.

Wre are now searching for a new location closer to the down-
town shopping center. Looking ahead, one would normally con-
sider that it would be nice to have one’s son step into one’s business.
This, however, does not appear to be on the horizon in my case.
My only son, Martin, has a very definite ambition to go to
Harvard College and Harvard Law School. He’s a very deter-
mined youngster and I have a strong conviction that he'll attain
his goal. Last year he was quarterback and captain of the Bigelow
Junior High School football team and was the outstanding star of
the track team, Besides being an honor student, he was vice-

[65]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

president of his class and played in both band and orchestra. This
year as a sophomore at Newton High, he made the football team
and I am sure will do well in track. My daughter, Dorothy, who
was an honor student at Newton High, is now a freshman in the
College of Liberal Arts at Syracuse after having finished a very
enjoyable summer as tennis counsclor at a Maine camp. My ten-
year-old daughter, Barbara, is also a very enthusiastic sports lover
and did exceptionally well at camp, especially i in riding and swim-
ming. My wife and I, whose only interest sports-wise is playing
golf occasionally, are trying to determine from which ancestor
in our dim past our youngsters inherit their athletic tendencies.

Last, but not least, I must at this point throw a few bouquets in
the direction of my spouse. She has been very active in parent-
teacher organizations right through the thirteen years my children
have been going to school. This past year she was vice-president
and program chairman of the Bigelow P.T.A. and is this year’s
program chairman on the Ward School P.T.A. She has been a
very active member of the Newton League of Women Voters,
being the legislative chairman and also being in charge of radio
publicity. Her various activities have given me a greater interest
and have moved me to take active parts in P.T.A. activities anda
greater interest in our political scene.

Unfortunately, due to physical disability, I was turned down by
the Navy and Army when I applied for a commission during the
war. However, in Civil Defense at home I was active insofar as
possible as an air raid warden, in selling war bonds, and in cam-
paigning for the Red Cross and Community Funds. I have also
been recently engaged in a very successful “Materials for Israel”
drive sponsored in my area by the Brotherhood of Temple
Emanuel.

As the head of a comparatively small retail business, which I
trust will keep growing, I have not had as much time for leisure
or travel as | had hoped for. My main purpose in life is to bring
up a well-adjusted, happy family who, upon going out on their
own, will bring pleasure to my wife and me and will become good
citizens and a credit to their communitics, Upon that accomplish-
ment, we shall be able really to relax and enjoy all the bounties
that life can offer.

An amazing and thrilling devlopment has just occurred which

[ 66 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

necessitates my adding this postscript to my story. My son Martin

who is fifteen years old and a sophomore at Newton High School

has developed into a track star. He won the gold medal for first

place in the high jump at the Massachusetts State Scholastic

Championship Meet at Boston Garden on January 28, 1956,
jumping 6’ 1”. He was invited to the National Championship Meet
at Madison Square Garden on Saturday, February 18th. I am
thrilled to report that he won third place there jumping 6’ 214”.
Many of the Greater Boston track coaches have praised my young-
ster and several predict that he should take first in the National
Championships before he gets through high school.

MADISON SCOTT BEELER

HOME ApprEss: 150 Hill Rd., Berkeley 8, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2413 Dwinelle Hall, University of California, Berkeley 4,

Calif.
BoRN: April 24, 1910, Seattle, Wash. parents: Adam Beeler, Florence Scott.

PREPARED AT: Queen Anne High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1931(32); A.M., PH.D. 1936.

MarRIED: Edith Spacil, July 13, 1943, Berkeley, Calif. (divorced 1946);
Florence Rosene, Dec. 29, 1955, Hollister, Calif,

occuPaTION: Professor of Germanic and classical philology, University of

California.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association of America; Linguistic Society
of America; American Oriental Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Venetic Language”, 1949; numerous articles and reviews
in various professional journals.

MY contacts with my Class of 1931 are loose because, as a trans-
fer student, my first year at Harvard was spent with the Class of
1932, to which many more of my friends belong. At loose ends
for almost three years after graduation, I finally decided that the
academic career was what I wanted. Two years at Harvard gave
me the A.M. and the Ph.D. in Comparative Philology, the study
of human language and languages from the systematic and struc-
tural, as well as from the historical, points of view. It is one of the -
most fascinating pursuits anyone can engage in. The following
two years were spent on a Sheldon Travelling Fellowship, moving
from one European university to another, and the next three as
an instructor at Harvard in the German Department, This is the

[ 67 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

point to relieve myself of a comment on the system then pre-
vailing in Cambridge, and which for all I know may still prevail
there, and that 1s the practice of maintaining Harvard’s academic
distinction by paying the men in the top brackets the highest
salaries in this country — at the expense of the younger instruc-
tors, who are both paid less than at many other universities as
well as not receiving the security which the expectation of ad-
vancement affords. And so I came in 1941 to the German De-
partment of the University of California in Berkeley where, with
the exception of war-time service in the Navy as a lieutenant
(j.g.), I have been since.

My professional activities have consisted of the ordinary teach-
ing and committee duties which are incumbent on every professor;
and the publication of a modest number of articles, monographs
and reviews has enabled me to progress steadily up the academic
ladder. I have attained some little reputation as an Indo-Euro-
peanist. My most recent scholarly project has been the recording
of a California Indian language from the lips of its last speaker.

My hobby is travel— Mexico, Alaska, Iceland, round the
world. My political views are Democratic, from F.D.R. in 1932
to Adlai in 1952. My family life, after one unfortunate mistake,
is now at long last most happy. There are other errors of omis-
sion and commission, but the balance is definitely on the credit
side, and I expect to have a good deal more to report on the
occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary.

EUGENE LOUIS BELISLE

!

HOME ADpRESS: 18 Pleasant St., South Natick, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Spaulding House, 20 Oxford St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1910, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Hector Louis Belisle, ‘96,
Grace Mildred Potter.

PREPARED AT: B, M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRRiED: Ruth Macloon (Radcliffe ’39), Aug. 27, 1938, Greenwich, Conn.
CHILDREN: Marguerite Lois, June 2, 1939; Geoffrey Loring, April 16,

1941; Susan, Jan. 29, 1943; Jeanne Dorval, March 24, 1945; Ruth, April
18, 1949; Alexander Levasseur, May 27, 1953.

occupation: Lecturer in education, research associate, Center for Field
Studies, Harvard Graduate School of Education,

[ 68 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting Representative, Natick, Mass., 1953-54; chair-
man, Graduate Board, Harvard Crimson, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: National Conference of Professors of Educational Administra-
tion; Society for Applied Anthropology; Foundation for the Study of
Cycles; Eliot Parent-Teachers Association; South Natick Betterment
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Educational Administration: Cases and Concepts (with Prof,
Cyril G. Sargent), Houghton Mifflin Co., 1955; various periodical pub-
lications.

MY contributions to previous Class Reports are hardly notable
for their verbal asceticism. Those vacant vital blanks were, in my
case, a fatal invitation to reflection and, worse, expansiveness. I
forgot that the private vistas of experience of each classmate in
this strange and fascinating world of the zoth century were quite
as unportant to him as mine to me — indeed, perhaps more so!

Like all sin, this bad habit compounded. The original error of
saying too much drove me to enlarge upon newer experience and
viewpoints on each next occasion. Oh, I knew better. But how
could I not write more in view of the need to take the curse off
earlier rashness? As might be done in the case of a figure in a
Greek tragedy, of distinctly minor note of course, might my ex-
cesses not be viewed more with pity than disdain?

Wiser they who eschewed the temptation of those virgin sheets
from ’41 to ’51. They may, without excess, fill both sides of the
current blank, and more. They can do so secure in their realiza-
tion that what they write will reflect exclusively the experience
and wisdom of their mature years. No youthful nonsense, I hope
they use the opportunity to the full. For, coupled with my sense
of the appropriateness, in my case, of a novel parsimony, is an
anticipation of the satisfaction awaiting me through insight into
the worlds of others whose doors have been tight shut in earlier
reports, or opened merely a crack to reveal but fragmentary
glimpses of the life within. The general frustration — that suf-
fered by others because I wrote too much and that suffered by
me because others wrote too little — is about to end. Happy day!
Particularly for Job Field.

Yet a quandary remains. Will others, accustomed to prolixity
from me, undergo trauma too severe if, by uncharacteristic self-
restraint, I now reverse their expectations? Heaven forbid that
an ascent on my part, at this time, to the virtue of modesty should

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

CHARLES ELIOT BELL

HOME ADDRESS: 4036 Kensington Rd., Avondale Estates, Ga.
OFFICE appress: J. L. Stifel & Sons, Inc., 1430 W. Peachtree St., N.W.,,
Atlanta 9, Ga.

BorN: Nov. 30, 1910, Arlington, Mass. parents: Charles Henry Bell, Nellie
May Stover.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass; Trinity School, New
York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (32).

MARRIED: Elizabeth Howell, Nov. 11, 1938, New Brunswick, N. J., CHILDREN:
Nancy, Aug. 15, 1939; Robert Carson, Aug. 8, 1941; Bruce Eliot, May
II, 1945.

OccuPATION: Southeastern Salesmanager, J. L. Suifel & Sons, Inc., manufac-
turers of sportswear.

OFFICES HELD: President, Atlanta Textile Club, 1954; committeeman, Boy

Scouts, 1953-56; director, Brotherhood of St. Andrews, Holy Trinity
Church, Decatur, Ga.

MEMBER OF: Druid Hills Golf Club; Atlanta Textile Club; Harvard Club
of Atlanta.

IN 1931 I was fortunate to start working the week after gradua-
tion for Commercial Factors Corporation in New York. After
many long years, I was credit manager for the cotton division,
but there were too many healthy vice-presidents ahead of me. In
1946 I went with J. L. Stifel & Sons, Inc., Wheeling, West
Virginia, as credit manager to set up a credit department for them
in New York. Through my many contacts with their customers
I gradually slid into sales promotion and then went whole-hog
into direct sales. I moved the family to Atlanta in 1949 and have
loved it ever since. This past New Years Day I even tried hog
jowls and black-eyed peas. I travel considerably in the Southeast
and have made many true friends.

Although our three children were born in the North, they are
growing up to be Southern Republicans. Nancy is a junior in
high school, a cheerleader, and is going steady for the second
time. Kit is a freshman, six feet tall, and played on the varsity
football team. Once or twice a year Harvard scores appear in
the paper, but his idea of heaven is to play football for Georgia
Tech, My younger boy, Bruce, has every model car and truck

in existence and probably will be a truck driver (not so bad a job
in these days).

[74 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My wife, Betty, and I join in all the local activities — P.T.A.,
Y.M.C.A., church, local drives, Boy Scouts, Grey Ladies, etc.
We live in a very congenial neighborhood in Avondale Estates, a
suburb of Atlanta, and as soon as I make my first million, I shall
apply it on my bills as far as it will go. We have a grand family,
most of the comforts, health and happiness, and I attribute a lot
of this to Harvard, 1931.

I sce a few of my classmates occasionally but get a big kick out
of reading the trials, tribulations and triumphs of the others in
1931. So far as I know now, my family and I will be at the
Twenty-fifth Reunion, and I am really looking forward to it.
If any of you get to Atlanta, please call me and we'll split a coke.

+ ALBERT ROUST BELLIVEAU

BORN: June 28, 1908, Quincy, Mass. parents: Albert Alfred Belliveau, Mary
Agnes Roust.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

Diep: July 6, 1936, Quincy, Mass.

WHILE in college Belliveau was awarded a Detur Prize and
became a member of Phi Beta Kappa. From September, 1933,
until his death he served on the faculty of the Portsmouth Priory
School in Rhode Island.

AUGUST BELMONT

HOME ADpREss: Burtis Lane, Syosset, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dillon, Read & Co., Inc., 46 William St., New York 5, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 30, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: August Belmont, ’o4, Alice
Wall de Goicouria.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGRFE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Lee Saltonstall, June 16, 1931 (divorced 1945); Louise
Vietor Winston, Feb. 8, 1946. cHILDREN: Alice Lee, Nov. 17, 19353
August, 5th, and John Saltonstall (twins), Sept. 3, 1939; Priscilla, Aug.
20, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Investment banker.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, since 1946, director, since 1952, Dillon, Read
& Company, Inc.; president, director, Sabine Natural Gas & Products

[75]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Company, since 1949; vice-president, Greggton Oil Corporation, since
1947, Dyersdale Oil Company, since 1950, Montgomery Oil Corporation,
1947-53; Vice-president, director, Bonbright & Company, Inc., 1939-42;
trustee, since 1949, treasurer, since 1954, American Museum of Natural
History; trustee, 1951-52, member executive committee of Advisory
Board, since 1952, Avon Old Farms; member, Harvard Fund Council,
1950-54, membership committee, The Society of The New York Hos-
pital, 1953-55; associate trustee, St. Mark’s School, since 1954; director,
Health Council of Greater New York, 1947-52, American Viscose Cor-
poration, Chemstrand Corporation, Congoleum-Nairn, Inc., since 1955.
MEMBER OF: The Links; The Lunch Club; Piping Rock Club; The Bond Club
of New York; The Newcomen Society of England in North America.

EXCEPT for a four-year stint from the beginning of 1942 until
the end of 1945 as an officer in the Naval Reserve, and for a period
of a few months in 1940 as a special assistant to the Under Secre-
tary of the Navy, I have stuck to the investment banking business,
occupying myself principally with the origination of new issues
of securities. This has meant a considerable amount of traveling
from one end of the United States to the other, but has left very
little time for travel anywhere else.

Except for the comparatively small amount of time taken up
by the American Museum of Natural History, I spend my non-
business hours commuting on a year-round basis from Long
Island and in stealing away to go fishing on a boat which I keep
in the Great South Bay, or in trying to shoot ducks over some
leased ponds farther down the Island.

ELMER FRANCIS BENJAMIN

HOME appress: 34 Cliff Rd, Wellesley, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 25, 1909, Malden, Mass. parents: Frank Day Benjamin, Cora
Wilhelmina Doerfler.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 19313 A.M. 1932.

MagkieD: Helen Stowe, Feb. 9, 1933, Portsmouth, N. H. cuitpren: Helen
Francis, May 30, 1934; Robert Stowe, May 7, 1936; Peter Ellis, March
9, 1943; Deborah Ann, Jan. 13, 1948.

occupATION: Chairman, Music Department, Lesley College.

MEMBER OF: N.E.A.

SINCE leaving Harvard I have been engaged in music education,
have conducted choruses and choirs, and have held various organ

[76]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

positions. Fortunately, I have derived from my work some of the
fun I knew as an undergraduate member of the Harvard Glee
Club and Choir. In fact, I have kept my interest in these organi-
zations by singing at a good many Harvard Commencements as a
member of the Commencement Chorus.

At the present time I am enjoying my work as chairman of the
Music Department at Lesley College, where I am conducting a
chorus of sixty voices and giving courses. I have been able to
carry on my organ playing and conducting activities around this
work, and I have done some choral arranging to meet needs of
groups with whom I work. When I have time, I should like to do
more of this. Also, I am director of music at the First Parish
Church in Harvard Square and organist at Temple Ohabei Shalom
in Brookline.

I have a large family ranging from twenty-one years down to
seven. All of our children enjoy music, and my son, Bob, demon-
strates real ability in the field. My Harvard background will not
permit me to choose his profession, but I should be happy to see
him get into music —a field from which one can derive much
enjoyment.

NATHANIEL BERGMAN

HOME appress: 15 High Ridge Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 983 Main St., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1908, New York, N.Y. parents: Adolph Bergman, Betty
Pauline Lapp.

PREPARED AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MaRRIED: Nona Glass, July 3, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. cuitpreN: Howard
Standish, Jan. 6, 1938; Caral Paulette, April 29, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Member, U.S. District Court, Conn.; License to practise before
the Treasury and Immigration Departments; assistant professor, Hart-
ford Federal College, 1935-1936, Commissioner of Superior Court, since
1935; grand juror, 1937-1939; justice of peace, 1937-1955; acting judge,
Hartford City Courts, 1941; special public defender, 1951-1955; chair-
man, Unethical Practice Committee, 1954, Practice Rules Committee,
1955, Hartford County Bar; president, Brotherhood of Emanuel Syna-

[77]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

theme and unique drama as unfolded herein, with the brothers,
Joe, “The Chin”, and Albert, “The Psycho”, and their fine Ameri-
can, semi-blinded mother who stood for them and between them
from start to finish, and at last for Joe’s freedom.

As you will observe, I have little time for regular relaxation,
or perhaps reading a best-seller. This is probably so in many of
our lives today, However, I manage to keep abreast of the news,
reading the dailies quite thoroughly before retiring. Frankly,
without leisure hours, it has got so that I have lost the domestic
title of “Mr. Fix-it”. I always enjoyed puttering as a hobby, but
as things now stand, I would fail in an exam in differentiating
between a hammer and a screw-driver.

With the close of court sessions and summer’s onset, I manage
to slip away for three- or four-day weekends to our summer
home on the Long Island Sound, thereby escaping the sweltering
humidity of the Nutmeg Valley. Admittedly, during these stays
I slow down and assume a lazy man’s role. The only excitement
would be the pitching and rocking while sailing the rough waters
of the Sound with my captain and navigator, Howie, our son. I
chew the fat with the other loafers, sip a few straight scotches
in between and, at times, take one too many, which either mel-
lows or naps me for the rest of the afternoon.

The past summer we suddenly decided to leave the shore and
spend a good part of August in touring. We had quite a delightful
trip through New York State, Eastern Canada, Nova Scotia and
New England. It was packed full of fun, beautiful country and
points of interest.

Our brood is well nigh reaching maturity. The male heir,
Howie, is on the verge of eighteen and will be graduating from
Pomfret Prep a few days before our Twenty-fifth Reunion. He
is still trying to convince me not to ship him off to Harvard
Square. Caral, the only other, is almost fourteen. She is cute but
spoiled, due to our pampering, which I have determined to put to

an end. She is quite versatile, yes, even “bossy”, I dare not smoke
a Connecticut rolled broadleaf cigar without Her Honor'’s ap-
proval, or I see more fire than smoke.
As the years roll on, I realize the Almighty certainly blessed
me with a faithful and appreciative mate, She is as young and
perhaps more attractive (if I may say) and understanding than

[ 80 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the day I said, “I do”. Nona and I will be celebrating our silver
anniversary shortly.

We just returned tanned and fattened from a belated honey-
moon which I vowed we would take about a quarter of a century
ago. We took a long cruise through the Carribbean, stopping at
many islands of the West Indies and ports of South America. En
route, I felt like a professional photographer, for wherever I
strode, I had a still camera hanging from my neck, and a movie
in a hand case. Howie and Caral got quite a thrill in reviewing
the pictures.

After almost three weeks on board ship full of diverse activi-
ties, when I got back home, not only did I find an extraordinary
accumulation of work, but I was ready for a much needed vaca-
tion from the cruise. So I'll struggle along without until I spend a
part of June, 1956, with you around familiar haunts and names
but perhaps changed and strange faces.

MAURICE MARSHALL BERNBAUM

HOME ApprEss: % Mrs, Florentine Hahn, Westchester Apts., Washington,
D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American | Embassy, Caracas, Venezuela.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1910, Chicago, Ill. parents: Louis Bernbaum, Ann Warsaw.

PREPARED AT: Austin High School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: S.B. 1931 (32).

MARRIED: Elizabeth R. Hahn, Feb. 5, 1942, Washington, D. C. CHILDREN:
Edwin Marshall, Aug. 26, 1945; Louise Marcia, Nov. 21, 1948.

occupation: Counselor, American Embassy, Caracas, Venezuela.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-consul, Vancouver, B.C., 1936-38, Singapore, 5.S., 1938-
41; vice-consul and second secretary, Embassy, Caracas, Venezuela,
1942-45; second secretary, Embassy, Managua, Nicaragua, 1945-48;
first secretary, Embassy, Quito, Ecuador, 1948-50; officer in charge,
North & West Coast Affairs in the State Department, 1951-53; counselor
of Embassy, Caracas, Venezuela, since 1953.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Chicago; The Officers’ Mess, Fort Lesley J.
McNair, Washington, D. C.

ASIDE from a brief interlude in social work during the depres-
sion, my career has been confined to the State Department Foreign
Service, which I entered in November of 1936. I have since served
in Canada, Malaya, various posts in Latin America, the National
War College, and the State Department, and I have been Coun-

[81]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

selor of our Embassy at Caracas since June, 1953. It has been a
stimulating experience watching the growth of our varied interests

in Latin America and playing some part in our efforts to keep
them on an even keel.

Betty has found our career to be a wonderful opportunity for
painting. Aside from contributing to the decoration of our
home, as well as those of our friends and relations, she has found
time for writing and for ham radio. We found the last hobby
extremely useful as one of the only means of communication with

the outside world during a disastrous earthquake in Ecuador while

I was serving at the Embassy in Quito in 1949. Aside from follow-
ing these activities of my wife, I have derived a great deal of

enjoyment from photography. We also play golf whenever we
have the opportunity.

THEODORE ROLAND BERNER

HOME ADDRESS: Jaycox Road, Cold Spring, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 Broad St., New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1910, New York, N. Y. parents: Irwin Rolston Berner,
Cecile Olin.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: $B. 1931; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1935:

MarRiED: Rosalie Leventritt, March 24, 1938, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Edgar Rolston, May 15, 1940; Rosalie, Jan. 3, 1942; Winifred, Jan. 24,
1945; Thomas Roland, Jan. 17, 1948, Richard Olin, Aug. 10, 1952.

occupaTION: Lawyer, trustee.

OFFICES HELD: Member Overseers Committee to Visit Harvard School of
Public Health; director, chairman, Incentive Compensation Committee,
Curtiss-Wright Corporation, director, member executive committee,

General Precision Equipment Corporation, director, Wardell Corpora-
tion.

MEMBER OF: Highlands Country Club; Broad Street Club,

AFTER graduating from Columbia Law School, I was associated
with the law firm of Cravath, de Gersdorff, Swaine & Wood from
1935 to 1942. 1 was an officer in the Navy from 1942 to 1945.
Then I opened my own office at 30 Broad Street, New York

City, where I am still engaged in administering trusts and trying
law suits.

[ 82]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My family has become my all-absorbing passion and I spend
almost all of my leisure time playing tennis, football and basketball
with my family teams and boating and swimming with the
younger children.

Summarizing briefly, 1 enjoy my work and my family and am
willing to leave the “Conquest of Space” to my more illustrious
classmates.

JOSEPH BREED BERRY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 280 Beacon St., Boston 16, Mass.

BorN: May 10, 1905, Lynn, Mass, PARENTS: Henry Newhall Berry, ’93, Mabel
Lavinia Breed.

PREPARED AT: Pond School, Cambridge, Mass.; private tutors.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. (Boston Univ.), 1941; A.M. Cibid.),
1944, A.M. (Harvard Univ.) 1947.

MarRiED: Barbara Bartlett, Oct. 19, 1935, Swampscott, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Historian.

MEMBER OF: Colonial Society of Massachusetts (life member), Harvard Club
of Boston; Church Historical Society (life member).

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, “Ward Chipman Diary, 1783”, The Essex Institute
Historical Collections.

TO begin with, I am in that all-too-large group of men who
entered Harvard College with the Class of ’31 but did not gradu-
ate. Because of my health I soon realized that I couldn’t take a
job which would involve much physical work. The result has
been that I have spent my working time in the field of history,
mostly American, in much study, some writing, and a little
teaching. It is worth while to put in here that today, more than
in 1927-31, American history and its related fields, American
literature and that vast field under the general name of social
history, has become, in my opinion, an indispensable study and
guide in how to live in the second half of the 2oth century.
Since our marriage, my wife and I have lived in Boston in the
winter. For the last ten years we have spent several months each
summer at Hancock, New Hampshire. One of my hobbies is
photography, so there have been innumerable auto trips of a
week or more, especially in New England, New York State, and
the Middle Atlantic States, My travels also include a trip to the
west coast, and two visits to Arizona. My community interests

[ 83 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and responsibilites have centered in the Episcopal Church, but I
have not been unmindful of the needs of other social groups,
hospitals, and schools. Living and voting in Boston as I do, occa-
sionally I vote Democratic in the local elections. In the State and
national elections I am mildly Republican.

HENRY ALFRED BETTMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 3427 Cornell Pl., Cincinnati 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ApprEss: Henry A. Betuman, Architect, 517 Provident Bank Bldg.,
Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 8,. 1909, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: Henry Wald Bettmann,
Rose Kauffman.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.ARCH., 1935.

MarRIED: Jean Fechheimer, May 1, 1941, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHtLDREN: Chris-
topher and Dan (both adopted, 1950).

occupation: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, City Planning Commission, Cincinnati, Ohio, since
1948.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects.

EXCEPT for service as an ordnance officer in the Naval Reserve

during World War II, I have been in architectural practice in
Cincinnati since 1937.

ALBERT JEREMIAH BEVERIDGE, JR.

HOME appreEss: 688 Hale St., Beverly Farms, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 21, 1908, Manchester, Mass. parents: Albert Jeremiah | Bever-
idge, Catherine Spencer Eddy.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B. (DePauw Univ.), 1932.

MarrieD: Elizabeth L. Scaife (divorced), Virginia Ryan Baring, Nov. 5,
1955. CHILDREN: Albert Jeremiah, 3d, Jan. 26, 1935; Elissa, Oct. 18, 1937
(m. Antonio Pieri, July 6, 1955); Franklin Spencer, Jan. 20, 1949.

[84]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
HERMAN FREDERICK ALBERT BEYER

HOME abprEss: ror Warren Ave., Hyde Park, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 3, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Herman Frederick Beyer, Tina
Augusta Degen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marriED: Althea Beatrice Hames, Nov. 19, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
David Michael, Oct. 16, 1942; Diana Carolyn, May 14, 1944; Jeffrey
Alan, March 23, 1946, Stephen Andrew, July 6, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor, accounting department, First National Bank of
Boston.

UPON graduation in 1931, I entered the hotel business, principally
because opportunities in other fields were limited in those depres-
sion days. I remained in that field because I liked it, The next
twenty years were spent in quite a few different places, but the
greater portion of that time in Bermuda, where I was associated
with the Castle Harbour, Bermudiana and Elbow Beach Hotels.

During the war I was a staff sergeant with the Second Infantry
Division in Europe. When the war was over I returned to Ber-
muda, but found that the hotel business does not lend itself to an
ideal home life when there are children, so in 1950 I returned to
Boston. Since that time I have been with the First National Bank
of Boston. I like my work here very much and expect to stay in
Boston from now on.

JOHN CLAYTON BILBY

HOME ADDRESS: 3130 Wisconsin Ave., N.W., Washington 16, D. C,

OFFICE ADDRESS: George Washington University, Army Logistics Research,
1 D 580, The Pentagon, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Dec. 1, 1908, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: John Lee Bilby, Daisy Lenore
Mahaffy.

PREPARED AT: Wellington High School, Wellington, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Betty Branz, March 1, 1932, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1947); Irene
Jean Bardi, Aug. 9, 1952, Joliet, Il]. cHttpren: John Clayton, Jr., Dec. 25,
1934; Rebecca Lenore, Sept. 19, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Lee Bilby, 32.

OCCUPATION: Research scientist,

OFFICES HELD: (1952-55) Professional staff member and consultant, Hoover

[85]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Commission; consultant and systems analyst, Institute for Cooperative
Research, Johns Hopkins University; (1942-52) industrial specialist
and division director, Defense Production Administration; contractor
and consultant, Management Engineering; industrial and business special-
ist, War Assets Administration; industrial and business specialist, War
Production Board; (1931-41) assistant sales promotion manager, Ever-
sharp, Inc.; assistant advertising manager, A. & M. Karagheusian, Inc.;
assistant advertising manager, John Wanamaker, New York; section
manager, executive training squad, Jordan Marsh Company, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Business and professional associations, such as the Floor Cover-
ing Ad Club, official or sponsor of civic activities, such as in P.T.A.,
Cub and Boy Scouts, Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous policy, planning, organizational and procedural
documents in connection with governmental activities; research reports;
chapters I and IV, “Task Force Report on Surplus Property (Use and
Disposal of Federal Surplus Property)”, Hoover Commission, 1955.

VIA the broad brush technique, the post-Harvard ’31 evolution
of Jack Bilby, when viewed over the shoulder, sorts itself into
three time phases. The tyro period (1931-41) was addressed with
vigor to cutting eye teeth in merchandising fields — a deliberate,
mixed metaphor to describe a phase of metamorphosis.

The circus period (1942-52) was spent at plain and fancy
gymnastics becoming a veteran in the economic mobilization
battles of the Potomac, Certain tight-rope-walking skills were
acquired in the manipulation of lines which were always loose at
both ends.

In the application period (since 1952) I find myself researching
in the “science and art of warfare” with particular concern for
the design of systems in producer logistics activities of the mili-
tary enterprise. This is a result of a cultivated rather than native
bent for brain flagellation and a crusader’s conviction that with
the knowledge and tools of automation, complex problems can
now be solved for which there were heretofore no practical means
of accomplishment.

As a tyro, I floor-managed and executive-trained with Jordan
Marsh Company in Boston, sold furniture and advertised Home

and Men’s Store Departments at John Wanamaker’s in New York,
served as assistant advertising and sales promotion manager with
A. & M. Karagheusian, Inc., floor covering manufacturers and
importers, and with Eversharp of the sixty-four-dollar question.

We lived in Brookline, on Long Island and in Westchester

[ 86 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

County. It was a time of “little fat”, ignorant perhaps, but brave
adventure, making slow, forward progress. It was also an era of
self-gratifying productiveness. John C., Jr., was unpackaged on
Christmas morning, ’34. Now pushing twenty-one —hi de hi!
—he’s a senior at Arizona University, AFROTC, and working
up the lower rungs of the banking ladder. Rebecca Lenore made
her dainty arrival September 19, ’40. She’s with her mother in
Beverly Hills, California, high-schooling and trying her budding
talents. At times we tyros thought maybe there might be some-
thing behind all the talk of a great depression. In fact, in our
scurrying, scrounging, private enterprise we found the evils of the
system less rigorous than the New Deal cure.
With the abortive eruption of Hitler’s assault on world order
— submarine onslaught on world shipping — the mobile (ground-
air) Nazi grab of European real estate — the national challenge
to build the arsenal of freedom — Pearl Harbor — by a process of
unplanned incidents, I found myself “called” to Washington to
participate in the organization of spawning defense mobilization
activities, With the advent of WPB, I became a public servant.
And in the unblueprinted furore of industrial mobilization and
demobilization I played out my humbly dedicated réle.
My work involved organization and operation of inter-agency,
civilian and military, headquarters and field systems to manage;
programs of plant expansion, conversion, new construction, tool-
ing up, sub-contracting, etc. — the production engineering phase;
ship-building and conversion programs, yard and way scheduling,
machinery precedence allocation, material distribution, manpower
utilization, etc. —the production phase; programs for the redis-
tribution of production following the Nazi-Fascist collapse, con-
tract termination and phase out, relaxation of controls, release of
plant, material and manpower for civilian production — the re-
conversion phase; programs for the redistribution and disposal of
war surplus facilities and materiel—the swords to plowshares
phase. These were hectic, sometimes frustrating, times of doing
things the hardest of hard ways (i.¢e., without adequate plans, fore-
knowledge or experience) but getting them done at all costs.
During the circus period, my wife and children visited my
parents in Illinois while I licked the housing shortage by building

a home for them. We later acquired a delightful sui summer cottage

[ 87 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I931

on the shore of Rhode River, an estuary of the Chesapeake. But
in the course of human events we somehow stubbed a toe. Recur-
ring fissures in the domestic structure pointed to separation and
ultimate divorce — home front casualties of war.

Again an unhappy bachelor, houses and properties were dis-
solved —a long affinity for the open skies and bounding main
repossessed me — I acquired a cabin cruiser — plied the Potomac
tidewaters and the Chesapeake. But one winter’s day, engineers
overhauling her heating systems blew up The Genie with me
bunked down in her ample berth. Damages to her innards put
her out of commission, but miraculously I came out of her, inter-
nally smoke cured, externally foaming with sea water and chemi-
cals, still shipshape and seaworthy.

Another incident of this frustrating interlude involved the loss
of a shrimping venture in a Gulf hurricane. This too was sur-
vived with a severe dent in my purse. Ho! Hum! Adventure and
misadventure in human experience are sometimes two sides of
the same coin.

With the Korean police (?) action, I was again called (?) to
public service —this time as director of Civilian Requirements
Division, Office of Program and Requirements, Defense Produc-
tion Administration. Again the failures of interim planning agen-
cies led to uncharted action — flying by the seat of fortunately
well-calloused breeches,

Once more over the “hot” war hump, the social-political-
economic-military indicators of geo-politics continued a climate
of kindling war. My cultivated instincts and interests impelled me
to seek ways and means to apply knowledge and available scien-
tific capabilities in the design and operation of better planning
and management systems. Soooo, as a (self-appointed-later-recog-
nized) research scientist, I’ve been busy sticking my nose into the
functions of the world’s biggest and most complex business —
military logistics.

These activities included researching the strategic-logistic-
economic resources planning and operating systems—a Johns
Hopkins University classified contract project; researching the
property management and surplus disposal systems with the

Hoover Commission, and currently defining problems and design-

[ 88 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing systems with the George Washington University Army Lo-
gistics Research.

During this application period, I met, wooed and won Irene
Bardi of Joliet, Illinois — a partner and companion of rare charm,
ability and patience. We're cliff dwelling on the eighth floor of
the Chancery, atop Mount St. Alban, across Wisconsin Avenue
from the Washington Cathedral. From our aerie, vistas to the
west are long, verdant and roseate. We invite you to while-a-
while with us at your ease and to share our vintage stores.

And now, Harvard ’31, here’s Jack Bilby with a backward
glance at his mores and penates, adventures and misadventures —
thoroughly domesticated, Methodist, constitutional Republican
— convinced that we must, can and will have the best fighting
force available to the science and produceable through the de-
velopment and application of the arts — happy to be a participant
in designing our Modern Army.

Greetings, Harvard ’31!

WILLIAM EUGENE BILLINGS

HOME ADDRESS: 2307 Ardleigh Drive, Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Cleveland Safety Council, 2073 E, Ninth St., Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: March 17, 1909, Grand Rapids, Mich. parents: Elton Pope Billings,
Grace Amelia Lynch.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 19313 S.M., 1932.

MARRIED: Floris Canfield, July 2, 1937, Watertown, Mass. cuitp: Gail
Eugenia, Sept. 6, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president and secretary, Cleveland Safety
Council.

OFFICES HELD: Safety and traffic engineering, Liberty Mutual Insurance Com-
pany, Boston, 1933-47; director, transportation and engineering, Cleve-
land Automobile Club, 1947-52; administrative assistant, Regional Plan-
ning Commission, Cleveland, 1952~55.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Harvard Club; Institute of Traffic Engineers; Society
of Professional Engineers; Cleveland Engineering Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, Handbook of Traffic Accident Prevention.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard with a Master’s degree
in Business Administration and Mechanical Engineering, and hav-
ing adopted the environment of Boston, I made my debut into the

[ 89 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

business (?) world as an attendant at a gasoline station in Newton,
Massachusetts, In those days of 1932 the world was not exactly
welcoming the budding engineer with open arms! Shortly there-
after I become one of the family of Liberty Mutual Insurance
Company and for fifteen years served in their loss prevention
department. Graduating during that time from the Harvard
Bureau of Street Traffic Research, I practised as a traffic engineer
and safety engineer for that company.

In 1948 greener pastures appeared to flourish in Cleveland,
where I ioined the staff of the Cleveland Automobile Club as
director of transportation and engineering, organizing a new
department of the club to provide traffic engineering service for
its members. This position was in part a promotional one and I
became involved with many civic programs, serving as secretary
of Cleveland’s Transportation, Traffic and Transit Panel, as sec-
retary of the Mayor’s Traffic Safety Committee, teaching traffic
engineering at Fenn College and doing traffic consultant work.
Experience includes traffic surveys in New Hampshire, Massachu-
setts, Rhode Island, New York, Pennsylvania and Ohio.

In 1953 with the Regional Planning Commission, I added some
urban planning to my interests as well as administrative experi-
ence. As of the current month I am directing the program of the
Cleveland Safety Council, one of the largest councils in the
country and one with a fine record of accomplishment. ‘This
position seems ideal for the use of all my training and work ex-
perience and should prove most gratifying in the great service it
can render to people and their way of life today.

We are a busy threesome at home. My wife, a long-time proper
Bostonian, has accepted Cleveland with equanimity, and is busy
with her Wheaton Club here and many civic activities. She at-
tended her 25th reunion in Norton in June and is pushing hard
for ours this year. I am sure our fourteen-year-old daughter
would love to spend the week-end at Harvard. Gail is a freshman
at Laurel School for Girls in Shaker Heights and a beautiful teen-
ager (aren’t they all!). We spend our vacations sometimes in
Maine and Boston, sometimes in the Adirondacks.

My hobbies have been quite neglected these last too busy
years. I did build a playroom from scratch; I like to play golf
and bridge, but seldom have time for either. Am lucky to get

[99]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

through my wife’s list of handy-man jobs around the house once
in a while. Too many speches to make, meetings to attend. The
next twenty-five years, I hope, will include just one big job well
done, and more time for the pursuit of enjoyment of social and
cultural activities.

HAROLD J. BINDER

HOME appress: 605 N.W, 39th St., Oklahoma City 18, Okla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Osler Annex, 1220 N. Walker St., Oklahoma City, Okla.

BoRN: Nov. 28, 1910, Chelsea, Mass. pareNTs: Saul Binder, Rose Dechter.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: AB., 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935.

MARRIED: Mildred C. Haggerty, March 1, 1938, Holyoke, Mass. cHILpREN:
Kenneth, May 5, 1939; Ann, Sept. 21, 1947.

OccUPATION: Medicine.

STEPHEN TABER BIRDSALL

HOME ADDRESS: 514 Glen St., Glens Falls, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Glens Falls Insurance Co., 291 Glen St., Glens Falls, N. Y.

BORN: July 1, 1908, Glens Falls, N. Y. parents: Edgar Birdsall, Eleanor
Hamilton Avery.

PREPARED AT: Glens Falls Academy, Glens Falls, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Catherine Welsh Cowles, Jan. 14, 1939, Glens Falls, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Weston Finch Cowles (stepson), Feb. 24, 1932; George Welsh Cowles
(stepson), Aug. 18, 1934; Kate Avery, Nov. 3, 1940.

OccuPATION: Assistant secretary, Glens Falls Insurance Company; compensa-
tion and liabiliry underwriter.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Glens Falls Open Golf Tournament, 1936, Glens
Falls Chapter, American Red Cross, 1939-45; secretary, Community
Chest, 1953-55; vice-president, Chamber of Commerce, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club.

IN making out the factual side of this Anniversary Report, I have
been rather suddenly struck with the fact that, with the exception
of the four years in Cambridge, my entire life has been bound up
in the very pleasant surroundings of Glens Falls, New York. I
remember well the kiddings I used to take for being a self-
appointed member of the Chamber of Commerce, and I guess
they are still in order should anyone care to resume the fun.

[91]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

After graduation I had planned a summer tour of Europe, but
employment in the Glens Falls Insurance Company became avail-
able in July and, jobs being scarce in those days, my only choice
was to take the job. I must say that after twenty-four-plus years,
I’m not the least bit sorry. I work for a splendid progressive
insurance company and have prospered with them to the extent
of my abilities. I look forward to many more years in this chal-
lenging atmosphere.

After several years of care-free bachelorhood, the most wonder-
ful and rewarding experience of my life occurred when I married
Catherine Welsh Cowles. In one fell swoop I became a husband
and father of two fine boys, seven years and five years old at the
time, Two years later my daughter Kate was born and family
life had begun in earnest.

While I have tried to do my share insofar as community activi-
ties are concerned, my job and my family occupy my uppermost
thoughts and have consumed most of my time. At the present
moment my two boys are located at two eastern colleges (names
on request) and my daughter is a sophomore in the Glens Falls
High School.

Prior to married life my principal extra-curricular interests
were golf in the summer and skiing in the winter. However, with
the new responsibilities of a family and shortly thereafter the
coming of World War II, these pleasures were put aside for other
interests. When the war broke out, I had been for some time
chairman of the local chapter of the Red Cross and so concen-
trated my energies into the problems of re-gearing a peace-time
organization to a substantial war-time footing. Being essentially
a volunteer organization, this placed me in contact with citizens
from all walks of life, and I look back, forgetting the daily trials
and tribulations, with a great deal of warmth and quite a bit of
satisfaction.

Since the war my wife and I have concentrated much of our
excess (?) energies in a flower garden and, when not doing, we
are thinking gardens. In the winter I like to work in my shop in
the cellar to the extent that my friends say I take on a prison
pallor.

I am a life-long member of the Presbyterian church and over
the past few years have progressed in the guiding of its activities

[92]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

from deacon to trustee to elder. At the present moment I am
serving my second year as an elder and am treasurer of our
benevolence funds.

This report has forced me to look back on the past twenty-four
years — as I wouldn’t otherwise have done — and I must say that
my blessings far outnumber any adversities that may have come
my way. On this basis I am looking forward to another twenty-
five or more.

P.S. I have just asked my wife to edit this masterpiece and
accidentally drooled pipe ashes on her. She says I’m a dirty old
man.

JULIUS BIRGE

HOME ADDRESS: 442 Blue Ridge Rd., Indianapolis 8, Ind.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Bobbs-Merrill Co., Inc., 730 N. Meridian St., Indianapolis 7,
Ind.

BORN: March 26, 1909, Saint Davids, Pa. parents: Walter William Birge,
Mabelle Claire Brown.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B. (Indiana Law School),
1938.

MARRIED: Evelyn Chambers, Nov. 11, 1938, Indianapolis, Ind. cHiLpREN:
Jonathan Laurance, Sept. 24, 19395 Evelyn Taggart, Oct. 16, 1941; Peter
Julius, Aug. 19, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter William Birge, Jr., '35.

OCCUPATION: Associate editor, house attorney, Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, Family Service Association of Indianapolis, 1950-
53, The Dramatic Club, Indianapolis, 1952-53; chairman, development
plan committee, Health & Welfare Council of Indianapolis and Marion
County, 1952-53; vice-president, Indianapolis Literary Club, 1952-53;
member board of directors, Family Service Association of America,
SINCE 1953.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Indianapolis Bar Association, Ameri-
can Institute of Management; Mississippi Valley Historical Association;
Harvard Club of Indiana; Rotary Club; Indianapolis Literary Club,
The Dramatic Club; Spee Club; Signet Society.

LOOKING back over twenty-five years from a happy promon-
tory, only the hills of life stand out. Graduating in 1931, I was
lucky to get a job and to hold it, I was employed by J. Walter
Thompson Company to learn the advertising business. I spent

[93]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

considerable time in the research department, obtaining and mar-
shalling facts as the basis for sales and advertising campaigns. It
was interesting work. At about the time in history when the
major business indices had hit bottom and were heading upward
I resigned to attend law school. I studied law at the University
of Virginia Law School and then, having decided to practise law
in Indianapolis, obtained an LL.B. at Indiana Law School and
was admitted to practise before the Supreme Court of Indiana.

In 1938, after moving to Indianapolis, I met Evelyn Chambers
of this city, and we were married the same year. We have three
children, the eldest of whom is hoping to enter Harvard in 1957.

In the general practice of law, I drafted pleadings and briefs,
argued cases before judge and jury, and helped to settle a strike
in the taxicab industry. In 1940 I delivered a series of lectures on
labor law at Indiana Law School. Shortly thereafter I became a
law book editor for Bobbs-Merrill Company. Gradually in the
years that followed, I assumed responsibility as house attorney
for the company and have become much interested in the laws
which affect writing and publishing. After serving as a private
in the Army of the United States during World War II, I re-
turned to work at the Bobbs-Merrill Company and transferred
my editorial attention to general literature.

My chief extra-curricular activity during the past ten years
has been the Family Service Association of Indianapolis. It is one
of about 260 family service agencies in the United States and
Canada which practise family-centered social casework, financed
by Community Chests.

In the spring of 1955 my wife and I produced a weekly tele-
vision program, “Caravan of Books”, over Station WT TV.

I have discovered that being a parent is a liberal education in
itself if one tries to share (as I have) in each child’s particular
interests. One of the things I learned at Harvard is that society
is a partnership of the living and the dead and the not-yet-born.
One of the permanent satisfactions of publishing — and of com-
munications generally — is to play a part in transmitting the best

from one generation to the next. There is always the hope that
human understanding may be quickened, deepened and enlarged.

[94]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK EZEKIEL BISSELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 325 Alpine St., Dubuque, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Carr, Adams & Collier Co., Dubuque, Iowa.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1910, Dubuque, Iowa. parents: Frederick Ezekiel Bissell, ’oo,
Edith Mary Pike.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: AB., 1931; A.M. 1935.

MARRIED: Susan DeF prest Adams, June 12, 1936, Dubuque, Iowa. cuttpren;
John Adams, April 19, 1937; Susan Adams, Aug. zp 1939; Frederick
Ezekiel, 3d, Aug. 14, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Pike Bissell, *36.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Carr, Adams & Collier Company, woodwork
manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Spahn & Rose Lumber Company; secretary and
director, Adams Realty Corporation; vice-president, H. B. Glover Com-
pany; officer, director, ten subsidiary corporations of Carr, Adams &
Collier Company; trustee, vice-president, Finley Hospital; president,
Ponderosa Pine Woodwork Association (two terms); director, National
Woodwork Manufacturers Association, American Wood Window
Institute.

MEMBER OF: Blue Hills Club; Up-to-the-Hub Club, Elks; Dubuque Country
Club; Veteran Motor Car Club, Veterans of Foreign Wars, East
Dubuque (honorary).

PUBLICATIONS: Various U. S. patents.

A NUMBER of years ago I received a severe blow on the head
with a beer bottle which makes it impossible for me to remember
anything that happened before that time. This amnesia makes a
Twenty-fifth Reunion seem interesting. I am looking forward
to finding out all the things I did in college.

A couple of summers ago, I met a fellow named Phil Dalton at
the San Francisco Yacht Club, who said he knew me in school
and college. He turned out to be a real nice fellow. Sometime
back I also was introduced to a bloke named Tom Dunn; this
was in a crap game in Houston. He was also real nice and claimed
he’d played on some team with me in college. I get funny letters
every so often from guys named Beaver Briggs, Bill Northey and
Ben Fairbank, indicating some kind of past acquaintance. My
wife says I used to talk about a couple of politicians named Rood
and Lloyd. The face is familiar, but it must have been two other
people. Then there is Chasteney in the Architectural Forum
office.

[95]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Those of you who haven't already made your pile, put away
vour Geiger counters and go into the theatrical business. As the
author's brother, I own a hunk of “Pajama Game”, and also of
“Damn Yankees”, which Dick helped out on. Already I have
built a palatial houseboat, “Hernando's Hideaway”, on the pro-
ceeds, which floats like Cleopatra’s barge on the gleaming Mis-
sissippi. I drive a Mercédes-Benz, presented by the famous au-
thor. The Class Report will classify me as a manufacturer, but
frankly, I’m a tycoon, especially in Cassville, Wisconsin.

JAMES RUSSELL BISSELL, JR.

| HOME appress: 450 Lee Ave, Webster Groves 19, Mo.

OFFICE appRESS: 1205 Washington Ave., St. Louis 3, Mo.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1908, St. Louis County, Mo. parents: James Russell Bissell,
Maude Stevenson Stokely.

PREPARED aT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MarrieD: Catherine Alice Gibson, Jan. 17, 1931, West Roxbury, Mass. cninp:
James Russell, 3d, Nov. 6, 1936.

occupation: President, Bissell Glove Company, selling agents for glove
manufacturers, and J. R. Bissell Company, wholesaler of finished tex-
tile products.

IT’S been a busy twenty-five years, and yet when I cast up the
totals of things accomplished, there seems to be little worth men-
tioning, except living, and that’s been fun, and learning, and that’s
fun too. Considering the living, 1 spend my time trying to put
work gloves on the hands of every factory hand in the country.
I have been interested in flying for many years, and am a pilot,
and so is my wife. We have property near Estes Park, Colorado,
which we hope to develop, and that takes time and money, too.

Considering the learning, after I Icft college (voluntarily, 1
hasten to add) at the end of my second year to get married and
go to work, I found that there were a couple of things I hadn’t
learned, and so I've been trying for these twenty-five years to
Icarn ’’em. Do you suppose those last two years of college would
have made the difference? I've had a business to learn, and one
to start, and in between times, I've realized my real interests are
not in textiles, but in machinery, so I've wondered whether it

(94 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was too late to go back and get an S.B. in aeronautical engineering
or in some kind of mechanical engineering.

Politically, I call myself a Democrat, not a New Dealer, and I
always vote the Republican ticket, so why not just call myself a
Republican? I guess it’s because of reasons and policies that
differed before I was born. Today the issues seem to be between
who will give away the least. A black Republican seems as bad
as a left-wing New Dealer. I like Eisenhower. Maybe I’m old-
fashioned, but I do believe in money saved, the value of work
and a balanced budget!

My son Russ preferred a small college, and chose Amherst,
where he is doing well. The history of these twenty-five years
seems so uninteresting that it’s not worth printing . . . I’ve done
nothing famous (nor infamous, either). Maybe the report for the
second twenty-five will make more interesting reading!

ALDEN FLINT BIXBY

HOME ADDRESS: 2691 Oak St., Highland Park, Il.

OFFICE apprEss: U, S, Railroad Retirement Board, 844 Rush St., Chicago 11,
Ill.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1909, Cleveland, Ohio. PARENTS: Ralph Eugene Bixby, Clara
Melissa Bush.

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931} A.M., 1932.

MARRIED: Mary Elizabeth Yeager, March 15, 1941, Washington, D. C.
CHILDREN: Joan Ellen, July 31, 1944; Carol Ann, April 26, 1946; James
Alden, March 25, 1948; Gail Louise, April 23, 1950.

occupation: Government statistician, chief of unemployment and sickness
benefit analysis, Railroad Retirement Board.

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association.

I DID not go to college to make money and so far I have suc-
cessfully avoided doing so. Like many another, I find that what
I have done bears little resemblance to the vague plans I had
before graduation. After a number of years in whatever employ-
ment was available, I settled into a job with the Railroad Retire-
ment Board. Here I remain. By “polishing up the handle of the
big front door” for sixteen years I have risen from the post of
very junior clerk to become a supervisory analytical statistician.

The job has been interesting. Over the years I have had the

[97]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

opportunity to observe and to participate a little in the progress
that has been made toward an adequate social insurance system
in the United States. Such a system, I believe, will form an im-
portant part of future solutions of the broader problem of the
proper distribution of the abundance that can be produced in
this country. Solving this broad problem in a flexible manner
consistent with our traditions of democracy and opportunity
is essential to the survival of these traditions.

In spite of all the horrors that have occurred from conflicts
of “isms”, world powers, etc., I find this a good age in which
to be alive. As I recall it, “Frisky” Merriman said long ago in
History 1 that it was the years of turmoil, strife and decision
which get into the history books, not the calm, peaceful ones.
These then must be history book years with a vengeance. So far,
at least, the possibility of having formerly been just where an
H-bomb landed has not dulled my interest in whatever may lie
on the next page.

Perhaps I have been too much a spectator. My preference has
been for a leisurely pace, without the ulcers of ambition or the
self-destroying fierceness of competitive spirit that often accom-
panys success in the market place.

FRANK SWETT BLACK

HOME ApDpRESS: 26 Everett Ave., Winchester, Mass.

BORN: July 19, 1907, Winchester, Mass. parents: Arthur Black, ’03, Frances
Purdy.

PREPARED Ar Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass., New Preparatory School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MarRieD: Helen Tupper Holman, Jan. 4, 1943 (divorced 1955). CHILDREN:
Stephen A., Sept. 16, 1944; David A., Aug. 8, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Purdy Black, ’34.

OCCUPATION: Food sales.

GEORGE HOWARD BLACKWELL

HOME Appress: 130 Ridge Ave., Newton Center 59, Mass.
orice appress: Rivers Country Day School, 436 Heath St., Chestnut Hill 67,
Mass.

[98]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Aug. 25, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Howard Lane Blackwell,
’99, Helen Electa Thomas.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass., Milton Acad-
emy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREE: A.B. 1031.

MARRIED: Ethel R. Martien, Dec. 23, 1932, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN: Mar-
garet Barry, July 7, 1938; Priscilla Lane, July 25, 1944; Jane Carey,
Sept. 20, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Thomas Blackwell, ’34,; Howard Lane Blackwell,

Jr °39-

occuPATION: Headmaster, Rivers Country Day School.

OFFICES HELD: President, P.T.A. at Tenacre Country Day School, Washing-
ton Ski Club; clerk of the vestry, Church of the Redeemer, vice-presi-
dent, Eastern Association of Physics Teachers, member standing science
committee, Secondary Education Board.

SITTING here in my ivory tower on a day off from work with
Goad No. 2 from Geoff Sawyer and Don Field staring at me,
I find it hard to believe that twenty-five years have rolled by
since we spread our wings and flew away from what Hiawatha
aptly described as “. . . the ivy-covered tepee, by the River
Wattastinka, where the white men learn their lessons, when
they’re not too Goddam sleepy”, (Editor’s note: our translator
says that Wattastinka is to be rendered as “softly-perfumed
water”. Remember the abattoir, you who rowed on the 150-
pound crew for Sully?)

My thoughts go back to all the struggles and fun of that golden,
four-year period at college, and especially to my roommate,
Bob Balch, who shared with me the glorious view from Persis
Smith C-23 out over the subway-train yards, the meals and movies
and fireside efforts to do outside reading, the amorous adventures
—and his History 1 chart, (It got a better grade under my
name than under his, for reasons unknown!) I think again of
the friends of crew, squash-court, Glee Club and Choir, and of
the little Crispin Club where we ate for three years. It’s distant
and happy, but by no means a blur.

My first teaching post was at the Lenox School in Lenox, Mas-
sachusetts. There I had my baptism of fire—and married my
wife! The year 1934 saw us moving to Washington, on a salary
barely in four figures, to try the life of a country day school,
the Landon School for Boys. Eight years there were crammed
with the teaching of chemistry, biology, physics, general science

[99]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and heaven knows what else, football-coaching, bus-driving, eve-
ning study-hall proctoring, and the like. I marvel in retrospect
at the recollection that we also sang regularly with a group of
kindred spirits, skied in the mountains of western Maryland, and
sampled the fascinations of life in the nation’s capital.

Then the war years came and Uncle Sam decided he wanted
to leave his science and math teachers in the classroom. So, after
a summer hitch with the Bureau of Standards working on the
proximity fuse, we departed for Groton, taking along our first
daughter and an Irish setter. Two years there were spent in re-
organizing the Science Department and coaching crew. Then
a new post under Frank Bowditch, ’35, beckoned us on to the
Middle West, this time with two girls and the setter. Here at
Lake Forest Academy we put in nine satisfying years. There was
no skiing, but I became a swimming coach and collected a third
daughter.

In 1953 the job at Rivers came over the horizon. We found
ourselves unable to resist the call of New England. As further
proofs of the rightness of the move, it turned out that Truman
Brackett was president of the board and Hardy Ellis was assistant
headmaster! The work at Rivers has been the most challenging
and, to me, the most rewarding of all. What with boys to be
shoe-horned into college, the budget (bless its heart!) and all
the problems of a busy country day school, there has not been
too much time for anything else. It has been a great satisfaction
to pick up the threads again with many classmates and to be near
enough to our “dream castle” on the Vineyard to get down there
both in and out of season. The latchstring is out to all ’31ers at
Rivers in the winter and for a swim and a mild restorative at
Chilmark in the summer. If our Twenty-fifth is half as much-

fun as it promises to be, it'll be a marvelous springboard for the
next quarter of a century!

FRANCIS BLAKE

HOME appress: Strawberry Hill Street (Dover), RF.D., Needham g2, Mass.
orrice appress: John P, Chase, Inc., 75 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

Born: July 20, 1909, Weston, Mass, parents: Benjamin Sewall Blake, ’or,
Ruth A. Field.

[ 100 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: $.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1935; LL.B. (North-
eastern Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Caroline Amory Hunnewell, Sept. 26, 1936, Wellesley, Mass.
CHILDREN: Caroline Hunnewell, Sept. 24, 1937; Francis, Jr., Aug. 22, 1939;
Ruth Field, Dec. 10, 1943; John Welles, Aug. 25, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Sewall Blake, Jr., ’37.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; vice-president, John P. Chase, Inc., investment counsel
and financial management.

OFFICES HELD: Director and member executive committee, Association for the
Arnold Arboretum, Association for the Preservation of the Arnold
Arboretum; clerk of corporation, member executive committee, Winsor
School; member of corporation, Provident Institution for Savings,
Boston, Franklin Savings Bank, Boston; president and director, F. H.
Palmer & Company, Boston, Allied Fund of Boston, Inc.; treasurer and
director, Press Wireless Laboratories, Inc.; member Parents Advisory
Board, Sweet Briar College.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; City Club Corporation (the Lunch Club); Bos-
ton and Massachusetts Bar Associations; Boston Security Analysts Soci-
ety; American Radio Relay League.

SINCE graduation from Harvard Business School in 1935, I have
been engaged in business in the financial field, with the exception
of three and one-half war years dedicated to the U. S. Army Air
Force. I am a member of the Massachusetts Bar and I have car-
ried on a certain amount of practice, primarily in the fiduciary
phase of the law. While I am fundamentally in investment coun-
sel work, I have an interest in a small Boston importing firm and
in a small producer of electronic and electro-mechanical products.
I live in the nice country town of Dover, Massachusetts, where
we are bringing up a happy family of two boys and two girls
ranging from eighteen to five years of age. There is always
plenty to be done around this country place but we enjoy it
(although I sometimes have a secret desire for a compact apart-
ment on Beacon Hill where weeds do not grow, nor does grass
for that matter!). I enjoy tennis, golf, skiing, certain phases of
gardening and amateur radio. In the summer of 1954 we went
on a family excursion to England and then around Europe by
motor. It was a wonderful trip and even included skiing on the
Jungfrau in August. My children are growing up too fast but
the only consolation is that they are lots of fun to have around
at any age.

[ ror ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

In my youth I thought that a 25th reunion was something
extremely remote, but, as I approach it and look back, I feel as
though it were no ume at all since we graduated. I am impressed
with the number of classmates who have retained their youth
during the past twenty-five years.

ROBERT FULTON BLAKE, II

HOME apprEss: P. O. Box 1881, North Palm Trail, Delray Beach, Fla.

OFFICE appRESS: Pope & Blake, Architects, 11 S.E. Fourth Ave., Delray Beach,
Fla.

porn: Feb. 8, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: John Bapst Blake, °87, Anne
Sophia Hastings.

PREPARED AT: Stonyhurst College, Lancaster, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M-ARCH., 1937-

MARRIED: Carmen Sylvia Johnson, May 28, 1947, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

occupaTion: Architect — partner, Pope & Blake.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman City Planning Board, Delray Beach, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Florida Planning and Zoning Associa-
tion; Delray Beach Playhouse.

AFTER a marathon career at the Architectural School, inter-
rupted by several times out for travel with my father, I worked
in the office of John J. Whelan in Washington, D. C., moving to
Florida in late 1937. In 1940 the office of Henry Pope, here in
Delray, became Pope & Blake, Architects, and we've just con-
tinued to work a little harder each year. Our work 1s principally
residential, with many types of commercial, apartment and (in
the offing) hotel work to garnish the diet.

From June, 1942, to December, 1945, I became an additional
hazard to the U.S.N.R. in LST’s. There was some action in
the Tunisian follow-up, and the Sicilian and Salerno jobs; then
Normandy and half around the world to Okinawa where we
helped with the follow-up until the end. I spent a few months
doing purely drafting work with Stone & Webster in Boston
before the call of the sub-tropics won out and, since the summer
of 1946, Pope & Blake have been earnestly at work. Nothing has
fallen down or leaked very badly and a surprising number of
people seem to enjoy our work, including our clients.

Community activities include work on a planning and zoning
commission, currently proposing a mild re-zoning of the town,

[ 102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and a continuing interest in the Playhouse. This originated un-
der the guidance of my very dear wife who keeps active in the
thankless tasks entailed, while contemplating the efforts of a
never-curing ham with the patience of a saint!

We have a small house by the Inland Waterway, built in 1951,
and are awaiting further improvements in that seemingly distant
day when the exchequer can handle everything from essentials
to whims. It is a great pleasure to live a busy, though quiet, life
and have some small part in the growth of this little community,
reflecting in scale the fabulous development of Florida.

JOHN ADAMS BLANCHARD

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Glenridge Rd., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Old Colony Trust Co., 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Archibald Blanchard, ’o2, Elinor
Whitney.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.A. 1933.

MaRRIED: Mary Worrall Procter, May 14, 1934, Milton, Mass. cHiLpREN:
John Adams, Jr., March 4, 1935; Elinor Whitney, Dec. 3, 1936, George,
Jan. 28, 1942; Joseph Procter, March 30, 1945; Stephen, Feb. 12, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Old Colony Trust Company, in charge of em-
ployee benefit plans.

THIS business of trying to make a genuine imitation silk purse
out of a sow’s ear is beyond me. As a matter of fact, I do not
know why I should be concerned. I suppose most of us fall
in the latter category and do not like to admit it very much. Any-
way, after graduating from the Harvard Business School, I looked
for a job in New York and finally graced the Bank of New York
with my services for twenty-five dollars a week. This does not
compare too favorably with the eighty-six dollars a week my
eldest son, not yet graduated from Cornell (mea culpa), received
this past summer as a member of a local labor union carrying
water on a construction job. My job at the Bank of New York
was as a security analyst and, strangely enough, living in the
big city with our first child, on about thirty dollars a week, was
the only time that we have ever saved any money.

With considerable misgivings and two children, we left New
York in 1941 to live in Weston when a job turned up at the Old

[ 103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Colony Trust Company i in Boston, The job was very much the
sane type of investment work, but three or four years later I
started to concentrate on employee benefit plans (pensions, profit-
sharing, etc.), and eventually devoted all my time to that side of
the business, which I still am doing. The complete lack of prece-
dence in this field and its constantly changing aspects and novelty
make it to me by far the most interesting aspect of trust work.
Do not ask me w hy trust work of any sort is a profitable occupa-
tion —I could not answer. So much for mundane matters.

The war years were perforce spent as a civilian with the cus-
tomary, and in retrospect pretty ridiculous, civil defense activ-
ities in which everyone took part. I did, however, learn to be
a “ham” radio operator of a very inefficient type. What I re-
member most is that we were constantly the source of consider-
able annoyance to our district chief, a very worthy man, for
using improper language on the air.

Three additional children were added to the roster after our
return to Boston and most of my existence since then has been
pretty thoroughly influenced by the five of them. Many of the
hobbies that I “had seemed to have dwindled into the background.
Photography, which my wife and I practised semi-professionally
in New York, “ham” radio, twiddling at the piano, woodworking,
gardening, fishing and hunting do not get the man hours they
used to, but I have become an excellent chauffeur and a very
second-rate parent. I suspect that my children — frequently un-
graciously on my part— are my hobbies, and I must admit I
get much more pride and pleasure out of them than anything I
have ever done by myself. If 1 have learned anything from
being a parent it is that children turn out pretty well in spite
of what their parents try to make them do, and personally I have
considerable respect for the independence of thought and action
of the “younger” generation. While I followed the path of least
resistance with almost a complete absence of thought, my eldest
is studying enginecring at Cornell, my second is studying teaching
at Wheelock, and my third is going into forestry. Fach of these
decisions has been based entirely on their own ideas and initiative.
As a matter of fact the two youngest — ages cight and ten — also
have their ideas. One ts definitely committed to be a policeman
and the other is going to be a garbageman. The eight-year-old,

[ 104 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

incidentally, is going to Harvard because “they need a good
football player.”

My religion? Episcopalian by inheritance. My politics? Re-
publican because I still have a little money. My philosophy?
Confusion. Just why I have accomplished so little in twenty-
five years, I do not understand. Perhaps 1 in the last analysis the
only real accomplishment for anyone is learning to be mature
in the fullest sense of that word and to assist the next generation
to do so more gracefully and less painfully —a very difficult
course of education for which there are no examination marks
to tell you how you are doing. But then, as I said before, the
younger generation seems to do pretty well in spite of us.

JOHN RANDOLPH BLAND

HOME appress: “Bellevue,” Catonsville 28, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bland, Dugan & McMillan, Inc. U.S.F. & G. Bldg. Balti-
more 3, Md.

BORN: Aug. 7, 1907, Baltimore, Md. parents: Richard Howard Bland, ’o2,
Mary Lillian Paul.

PREPARED AT: Gilman School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: F. Paul Bland, ’35

OCCUPATION: President, Bland, Dugan & McMillan, Inc., insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, B. & W. Construction Company, Inc., P. & B.
Construction Company, Inc., John F. Rezendes, Inc.; director, Cheston
L. Eshelman Company; incorporator, Savings Bank of Baltimore; mem-
ber executive committee, Alumni Association of the Gilman School;
member board of governors, Rolling Road Golf Club.

MEMBER OF: Maryland Club; Rolling Road Golf Club; Stirling Club; Sons
of the Revolution; Society of Colonial Wars; Bachelors Cotillion;
Casualty & Surety Club of Baltimore.

WITH much water over the dam since 1931, I presume my great
mistake is still remaining single — although the issue remains in
some doubt according to the lectures of my married friends.
However, my time has been filled with business and just plain
fun. I began work for the United States Fidelity & Guaranty
Company, one of the very largest, and certainly the greatest,
of the casualty and surety companies. I remained there (it’s
somewhat of a family business) until 1937, when brilliance struck

[ 105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and I realized money in the insurance business lay in the produc-
tion field. Therefore, I founded Bland, Dugan, & McMillan, Inc.,
agents and brokers. Today I report unblushingly that the agency
is one of Baltimore’s leaders.

Sidelines have always interested me, and the construction busi-
ness particularly, so I now have three companies — prefer to
be vice-president and let expert construction men run them.
B. & W. Construction Company has become a leading road
builder in these parts, B. & B. (no liquor allowed) is a real heavy
grading outfit, and John F. Rezendes, Inc. (the latest), is assum-
ing noble proportions in general industrial construction — after
several priming of the pumps. I have drilled for oil and gas in
Texas and Louisiana and hit hot water and some gas. I have
done the same in Canada where some of us raised one million
bucks, cornered half a million acres, drilled it like a cheese, and
didn’t hit a damn thing —so I am confining my Canadian oper-
ations henceforth to the purchase of Canadian Fund. From the
above you can see that I am always open for a ready buck. Oh,
yes—in between the above lines went three years to the day
in the Army with many assignments, but none like the one they
gave me —to recruit WAC’s. It was worth it.

Fun is shooting and hunting — ducks, birds, etc., with many
expensive duck blinds and their upkeep around my neck. It is
worth it. Play golf and tennis (can still beat Freddie Richards) —
love to drink good whiskey but avoid hangovers if possible, and
it usually is. Poker and gin rummy can be profitable and also
costly. I suppose my life has been a bust but it has been fun —
and I hope and pray for much more before the bomb. As a
Democrat, I praise and dote on the Republicans and love the

present incumbent of the White House. Have had to swallow
hard at times to continue to give to Harvard —as at intervals I
have become seriously concerned with certain habits, etc., of
some of the staff from the Law School to the College, but real-
ize that they live only for a day and the JOINT itself goes on
forever. 1 would like to see my classmates more, especially that

great fund collector, old man Bill Wells, whose personal plead-

ings are marvelous to read whenever I become delinquent. Have

said enough. Can’t wait to read what the other blowhards will
write.

[ 106 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER LARNED BLATCHFORD

HOME ADDRESS: 59 E. Berkeley St., Uniontown, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Peter’s Episcopal Church, 60 Morgantown St., Union-
town, Pa.

BoRN: April 15, 1910, Winnetka, Ill. parents: Frank Wickes Blatchford, "99,
Frances Greene Larned.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREES: s.B. (U. S. Naval Academy), 1933;
LL.B. (George Washington Univ.), 1950.

MARRIED: Mabel Perkins, June 12, 1935, San Diego, Calif.; Gretchen Dur-
land, March 29, 1947, Ormond Beach, Fla. cHttpren: David Morley,
Oct. 24, 1939; Faith Durland, March 23, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank Wickes Blatchford, Jr., "30.

occupATION: Rector, St. Peter’s Episcopal Church, Uniontown, Pa.

OFFICES HELD: Regular Navy, 1933-49, captain, U.S.N.R.

MEMBER OF: H-Y-P Club of Pittsburgh, University Club, Washington,
D. C.; Uniontown Country Club; Quiet Birdmen of America; Bar of
the District of Columbia and of the State of Texas; American Bar
Association.

WHEN I wrote my report for the Twentieth Anniversary and
recounted how, after sixteen years as a submarine officer and
naval aviator, I had resigned from the Navy and had become a
practising lawyer in Houston, Texas, little did I know how dras-
tically the course of my life was to be changed before the Twen-
ty-fifth rolled around.

My wife and children and I were happily situated in Houston
and I was making the usual slow but interesting start in the prac-
tice of law. I was appointed Assistant United States Attorney
for the Southern District of Texas but on the day that the ap-
pointment came through, in May, 1954, I was in the office of the
Bishop of Pittsburgh, being told that I had been accepted as a
candidate for Holy Orders in the Episcopal Diocese of Pitts-
burgh. I suppose that if the federal appointment had come
through a few months earlier I might still be in Houston, but I
am quite sure that sooner or Jater I would have had to make this
move into the ministry.

And what a move it was! It happened quite suddenly when I
became aware of the fact that I was regularly spending more
than half of my time doing church work of one kind or another
in and for my church in Houston. Events moved rapidly once

[ 107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

I had made up my mind. We “sold out” in Houston and moved
to Pittsburgh where I immediately started the most intensive
course of study I have ever undertaken. The Lord must have
blessed our efforts because in March of 1955 I was ordained to
the Diaconate and on September 24, 1955, 1 was advanced to the
priesthood. On the same day I was called as rector of St. Peter’s
Episcopal Church here in Uniontown, where I had been lay
reader and deacon-in-charge for several months. The rectory
in which we are now living is the twenty-third house in the
eighteenth city in the thirteenth state in twenty-one years and
we are ready to settle down for awhile.

Far from feeling discouraged over the fact that I am getting
a very late start in the ministry, I feel just the opposite. I am
sure that if we will let Him, God can use to good advantage
every experience we have ever had; both the good ones and the
bad ones — the successes and the failures. I feel that perhaps one
of the most hopeful signs in the Church today is the fact that so
many men of “riper” years are taking up this work. If I were
to compare the ministry with the Navy and the law I would
merely say at this juncture that I spent twenty-five years looking
for excitement in the wrong places. As far as I am concerned, the
work of the Church is by far the most exciting thing that life
can offer.

While my political views are markedly conservative, my re-
ligious views and convictions are positively reactionary. The
struggle today between Communism and other “isms” (including |
secularism) is a struggle for men’s minds and hearts and basic
loyalties. In that contest my cry, as a poor but hopeful Christian,
is “On to orthodoxy”.

By way of changing the subject before I start preaching a
sermon, I am happy to report that my favorite recreation is still
golf, and I am certainly planning, God willing, to be on hand for
the Twenty-fifth to defend my possession of “The Hackers’
Trophy”. The friends with whom I have played golf since 1951
are quite convinced that I stole that silver bowl.

[ 108 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HALE BLISS

HOME apprEss: 848 Coolidge St., Plainfield, N. J.

OFFICE AppREss: Wigton-Abbott Corp., 1225 South Ave., Plainfield, N. J.

BORN: May 15, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Evelyn Bliss, Ellen
de Koster.

PREPARED AT: Scarborough School, Scarborough-on-Hudson, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Kathryn M. Eagleton, Dec. 6, 1945, Washington, D. C. cumtpren:
Linda Gail, Sept. 27, 1946; Sally Hale, Dec. 9, 1947.

occupation: Building construction estimator.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Building Cost Committee, Lay Advisory Commit-
tee to the Plainfield (N. J.) Board of Education; scout master, Troop
9, Watchung (N. J.) Council, B.S.A., since 1954; vice-president, Morse
Separators, Inc., since July, 1953; member board of governors, Nether-
wood Swimming Club, 1954, 1955; co-chairman, Ways and Means Com-
mittee, Cooke School P.T.A., 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Engineer’s Club, Plainfield.

PUBLICATIONS: Organization of Knowledge, System of the Sciences (with

father).

AS one of a Class which since graduation has experienced de-
pression, war, economic, social and labor revolution, inflation and
the cold-war struggle of ideologies cloaking the militant age-old
struggle for supremacy that enslaves to win and dominate, I am
all the more convinced of the basic stability of human nature
and the individuality of human character that it inhabits. I also
pay more tribute to the true stature of mind that is reflected in
the atmosphere which Harvard offers its fortunate sons and
which contributes as a driving force and a reservoir of strength
to this stability — Veritas.

Possibly, in my first years away from Cambridge and when
the pickings were rather lean anyway, I was dominated by an
interest inactively pursuing the cause of this stability. Possibly,
in some small rather anonymous way I contributed something
to its re-entrenchment — to holding its trenches. From gradua-
tion to F.D.R.’s inauguration I worked for the John Price Jones
Corporation in New York on fund-raising campaigns for the
Unemployment Relief Committee. I did a bit of field organiza-
tion work. After being one of two men running an office of sev-
eral hundred women, I went out to Queens and ran one of fifty
by myself. Possibly, it was at that time I learned about women

[ 109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

after my second girl was born, I moved across the line into Mt.
Rainier, Mary land. The family spent several of the summers at
my aunt's cottage on an eleven-acre hill overlooking the ocean
at Block Island (R. I.). I go up there for a few week-ends and
my vacation. I know of no more fascinating spot. While re-
turning from one of these week-ends I made a change to m
present position with Wigton-Abbott and moved to Plainfield,
New Jersey, and bought a house. For some years I had wanted
to get back to New York, but we like it so well here that now
that we are so near New York, we hardly ever get into the city.
I live ten minutes from my working place. My wife has become
quite active in women’s clubs and last year was president of the
Newcomers Club. If I ever get time from the pleasant task of
making changes around my place, perhaps I shall sit down and
write the Odyssey of some Anyman through our twenty-five
years and what the meaning of Veritas (in everyday clothes)
has been to him.

ARTHUR BLOOM

HOME ADDRESS: 60 Rowena Rd., Newton Centre, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Samuel Bloom & Son, 35 Kneeland St. Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 17, 1909, Boston, Mass. pareNTs: Samuel Bloom, Sarah Ida Harris.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Janet E. Cortell, May 17, 1942, Brookline, Mass. cHmpren: Ellen
Ann, Oct. 6, 1943; Richard Cortell, May 14, 1946; Jonathan Michael,
May 30, 1949.

occuPpaATION: Manufacturing; partner, Samuel Bloom & Son.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant chairman, United Community Services, Newton
Centre, 1955; chairman, Apparel Industries, Red Cross, 1955; auditor,
Bowen School P.T.A.; member board of directors, Apparel Industries
of New England, 1953-1956.

MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge AF. & A.M.; Massachusetts Bay Lodge, B’nai
B'rith; Newton Squash & Tennis Club, *

AFTER my graduation, 1 attended Harvard Business School.
My ambition was to enter the field of retailing. Llowever, due to
the depression and conditions beyond my control, I entered my

father’s business. Since then, I have been actively engaged i in the
manufacturing of women’s dresses,

[112]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After spending a few years learning the various aspects of the
business, I became sales manager of our New York office, making
it necessary for me to reside in New York. In 1942, I moved
back to Boston and, in 1944, became a partner in the company
and assumed managerial duties.

During the last five years, I have been very active in commun-
ity life, devoting a great deal of time and effort to the Combined
Jewish Appeal, Red Feather, Red Cross and the various P.T.A.’s
of my children’s schools.

THOMAS BOAL

HOME ADDRESS: 834 Boal Pkwy., Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Randolph Western Co., 345 Walnut St., Northfield, ILL.

BoRN: April 20, 1910, Winnetka, Ill. parents: Ayres Boal, ’oo, Lesley Stew-
art Johnson.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927—1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Pauline Needles Krughoff, Dec. 10, 1949, Chicago, Ill. cHmpren:
Winifred Lesley, May 31, 19515 Thomas, Jr Oct. 15, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stewart Boal, ’29.

OCCUPATION: Exporter; proprietor of small business.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Literary Club; University Club of Chicago; Middle-
fork Tennis Club.

RALPH JEAN BOCHES

HOME ADDRESS: 1455 Woodland Drive, Deerfield, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 454 Central Ave., Highland Park, II.

BorN: Aug. 9, 1909, Medford, Mass. parents: Benjamin Boches, Clara Boches.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B. (Univ. of Wisconsin),
1937.

MARRIED: Louise Quick, Jan. 3, 1935, Milwaukee, Wis. (divorced 1949);
Jeanne Hubert, Sept. 28, 1949, Burlington, Vt. cHILpREN: Ralph Edward,
Sept. 17, 1936; Anne, April 15, 1939; Jean, June 5, 1946; Suzanne, Sept.
28, 1952; Barry, March 11, 1955.

OccUPATION: Lawyer in general practice,

[113]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

orrices HELD: President, local Exchange Club, Business Men's Club; judge
advocate, American Legion Post 738.

MEMBER OF: American Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars, Moose; Exchange

Club, Lake County, Illinois, and Wisconsin Bar Associations; Univer-
sity of Wisconsin Chicago Alumni Club.

MY past quarter-century can best be described as “man in mo-
tion”. In the fall of 1931 I moved across to the School of Educa-
tion, but even they couldn’t get me a teaching job then. In 1932
I went to Paris to the Sorbonne and shortly thereafter became a
Republican for life when a certain F.D.R. took us off the “gold
standard,” and reduced the value of the dollar to sixty cents.
One night it was twenty-five francs for your dollar and the next
morning only fourteen francs. Thanks to the Racing Club of
France, for whom I competed as a track man, I finished the year.
Came back to teach five subjects and three sports at Tilton School
in New Hampshire. Back that summer to Cambridge, England,
for more education. Thence to Carteret Academy, New Jersey,
where I coached a track team of four men, without the help of
a track, but took all four back to the Harvard interscholastics
to win medals.

Married a Milwaukee girl from Radcliffe and that fall started
going to Law School at the University of Wisconsin. Practised
in Milwaukee and Hlinois until a day in 1942 when I walked into
a Navy Procurement Office and, with the aid of our Phil Dalton,
became a U.S. Navy lieutenant (j.g.). Then followed three years
as a gunnery officer in charge of Navy gun crews on merchant
ships with shore leave in places like Arzew, North Africa; Aransas
Pass, Texas, Tampico, Mexico; Aruba, D.W.1.; Boston (anchored
off Deer Island); Halifax, Gibraltar, Cantania, Malta, Bizerte,
Tampa, Kil van Cull (Staten Island), Baltimore, and Fowey in
Cornwall where we were Daphne Du Maurier’s guest for tea.
Wound up my Navy career as port officer in the Thames Fstuary,
England, where I met my present wife who was also in uniform,
British A.1.S, After escaping all real peril and injury, managed
to get hit by the unannounced blast of a V2.

Returned to practise law in Waukegan, Illinois, then moved to
Highland Park where J have been in the general practice of law
since 1947. Live very close to Adlai Stevenson, in a county that
has elected only one Democratic official since the Civil War.

[114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Travel is my hobby. I have crossed and recrossed the Atlantic
many times, conducted tours for Olson Travel, “finest personal-
ly conducted tours to Europe”. My best trip was on the United
States, due to our Marsh Gaffney, who, as European manager
for U. S. Lines, and being on board himself, really had the “red
carpet in magic form”.

I have five children, ranging in age from twenty years to eight
months. They keep me busy and young. The youngest is the
last remaining hope that I may some day send Harvard an off-
spring who will make up for my own failings as a student and
athlete.

ARTHUR JOHN JOSEPH BOHN

HOME ADpRESS: 304 S.E, 20th St., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 124 S.E. Second St., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

BORN: April 5, 1910, St. Louis, Mo. parents: August Walter Bohn, Mary
McNamara.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B. (Washington Univ.),
1936.

MaRRiED: Eleanor Kinsman, Sept. 4, 1939, Royalton, Ill. cumpren: Barry
Alan, Sept. 30, 1941; Barbara Ann, Nov. 23, 1943; Brian Anthony, March
12, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; branch office manager, Raymond N. Poston, Inc.,
adjusters.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant editor, Washington University Law Quarterly, 1935-
36; chairman, Florida State-Wide Committee of Pure Water Associa-
tion, 1954-55; manager, Markel Service, Inc., St. Louis, 1943-44; trustee,
St. Anthony’s Church, Fenton, Mo., 1950-51; editor, Knights of Colum-
bus Bulletin, Council 3080, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami; Missouri, Florida and Broward County

Bar Associations.
PUBLICATIONS: Law Review articles; poems.

IT does not seem to me that twenty-five years have passed since
we graduated. Time has dealt with me rather kindly in all of the
aspects of life. It is said that I retain much more of my pristine
vigor, appearance and intellectual alertness than average. Death,
serious illness and adversities have so far spared my immediate
family. The intervening years were replete with comfort, modest
successes and inner satisfactions to the extent that my spiritual,

[115 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

A Pigwidgeon has no religion

And yet it is religious

But in order to know how this is so,

You have to be pigwidgeous.

A Pigwidgeon is akin to a midge’n

A leprechaun ’n an elf

And in view of how small you are, after all,
You're probably one yourself.

Still some folks insist that they do not exist,
Like Hop-O-My-Thumb, the Faery;

But this isn’t true and to prove that they do,
Just look in your dictionary.

WILLIAM FREDERICK BONI

HOME apprEss: W. 3217 Eighth Ave., Spokane 44, Wash.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Spokesman-Review, Spokane, Wash.

BORN: June 14, 1910, Drachten, The Netherlands. parents: Albert Boni, 713,
Nell van Leeuwen.

PREPARED aT: Norwalk High School, Norwalk, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

marrieD: Hazel Eldridge, Nov. 13, 1933, Massapequa, N. Y. (divorced);
Maria Wilhelmina Koek, March 7, 1947, Pfungstadt, Germany. CHIL-
DREN: Karin, Feb. 20, 1940; Mariette, April 23, 1946; Nelly-Ann, July 209,
1948.

occupation: Sports editor, The Spokesman-Review.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Puget Sound (Seattle) and Inland Empire
(Spokane) sports writers and broadcasters associations.

MEMBER oF: Sigma Delta Chi (professional), University of Washington,
1950; Inland Empire Sports Writers and Broadcasters Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “13 Slugs in a Reporter’s Hide”, Saturday Evening Post, 1943.

THE man who used to run the sports desk on the Seattle Post-
Intelligencer is a \arge man with a deep bark (no bite). His name
is Dick Sharp and for every sports writer returning from no
matter what assignment, round Richard had one greeting: “Keep
it short”. Though even he would admit that compressing twenty-
five years (closer to twenty-eight in my case) into two para-
graphs is quite a trick, I'll try to hold to his precept.

Journalism has been my field ever since 1931, after a few stabs

[118 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at other things during the first two depression years. In that time

I have put in six years on the sports staff of the New York Post,

nine and a half years as sports writer, war correspondent and

overseas (Amsterdam) bureau chief for the Associated Press,

one year as sports editor of the European edition of Stars and
Stripes (at that time, 1946-47, in Altdorf and Pfungstadt, Ger-
many), and four and a half years on the sports staffs of the Seattle
Times and Seattle Post-Intelligencer. Since July, 1952, I have
been sports editor of The Spokesman-Review in Spokane, writing
a column six days a week and covering the usual wide range of
sports. If I have one peculiarity in this extremely handsome por-
tion of the Pacific Northwest, it is that I neither fish (well) nor
hunt (at all). Though this virtually amounts to treason, I haven’t
been ostracized because of it.

With my second marriage in 1947, I acquired not only a charm-
ing Dutch wife whose nickname is Miepje (pronounced Meep-
yuh) but also two charming daughters. By the time this appears
one will be finishing her sophomore year in high school and the
other will be finishing fourth grade. In 1948 they — Karin and
Mariette — in turn got a U. S.-born sister, named Nelly-Ann, and
she’ll be winding up second grade. Ever since seeing Spencer
Tracy suffer in a movie called “Father of the Bride,” this run of
females has given us some concern, but we figure they’re worth
it anyway.

The Northwest has a good many advantages, almost all of
which were re-emphasized, by contrast, on a recent trip to New
York. Ranking high among these is the fact that you can enjoy
what amounts to suburban living and yet be just ten minutes
from your office in the heart of a thriving city of close to 200,000.
If I sound contented — well, I do believe I am!

LINCOLN WHITE BONNEAU

HOME ADDRESS: 221-21 39th Ave., Bayside 61, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. J. Bonneau Co., 36-21 Steinway St., Long Island City 1,
N. Y.

BORN: Feb, 29, 1909, New York, N. Y. Parents: Lincoln Bonneau, Madeline
Frances St. Germain.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, N. Y.

[119 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: $.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Frances H. Bowers, Nov. 21, 1942, Shreveport, La. CHILDREN: Gail
Frances, Sept. 26, 1943; Lynne White, April 12, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Germain Rogers Bonneau, ’27.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of production, J. J. Bonneau Com-
pany, importers and manufacturers of foreign hardwoods.

ONE hundred per cent of my waking hours are spent in having
a good, enjoyable life.

JOSEPH CARLETON BORDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 465 Assembly Rd., Fayetteville, Ark.

OFFICE appress: General Library, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, Ark.

BORN: Nay 22, 1909, South Orange, N. J. parents: Joseph Carleton Borden,
Ruth Wyman Steele.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; S.B. IN L.S. (Columbia
Univ.), 1940.

marrieD: Violet Ernette Lanneau, July 3,.1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Ernest Carleton, July 12, 1939; Richard Lanneau, July 20, 1944.

occupation: Associate librarian, University of Arkansas.

MEMBER OF: Arkansas, Southwestern and American Library Associations;
Association of College and Reference Libraries.

PuBLicaTions: Contributor of many descriptions and annotations to scien-
ufic, medical and technical books published in the United States of
America, National Research Council, 1946, 1950, 1953.

WHEN I was an undergraduate I used to enjoy reading the
twenty-fifth-year class histories filed in the Widener stacks. It
interested me to peruse page after page of assorted Harvard auto-
biographies accompanied by their respective then-and-now photo-
graphs. During my years at the New York Public Library I more
or less annually saw the quarter-century reports of successive
Harvard classes as they came to the Library, and they served
periodically to remind me that the years were ticking off and that
the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report for 1931 was astronomically
not so far away and getting closer every year. Now 1956 is at
hand and my own biographical details have been requested.
Looking back at my twenty-five years since graduation, I divide
them into three periods: 1931-1935, years of observation, study
and decision; 1935-1947, years of employment in the New York

[120]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Public Library; 1947 to date, years of employment at the Uni-
versity of Arkansas. Some of the details of these periods are to be
found in the earlier volumes of our series of Class Reports.

My work at the New York Public Library, where I was head
of book ordering, led to my present position as librarian in
charge of the acquisitions department at the University of Ar-
kansas. While I had in my younger days no thought of removal
from the Atlantic seaboard, where I had grown up, my wife and
I decided that the health of our two sons, who were suffering
from asthma, would be better away from New York, found
Arkansas much to our liking, and had not lived here long before
we considered it our home. We like the Arkansas climate, we
have good newspapers, we see what local and national television
programs we want, and we like our affiliation with the cultural
and social life of the university, with the ready opportunities it
provides us to attend lectures, theatrical programs, concerts and
sporting events in season. An added and more personal attraction
for,us has been our membership in the University Faculty Club.

If the disadvantages of living in Arkansas for us should also be
listed, they are the disadvantages of distance — distance from our
relatives, friends and associates of earlier years and, less import-
ant, distance from the ocean which we miss because inland sub-
stitutes do not really take the place of fresh seafood and salt-
water swimming, at least for us.

Hobbies and other interests besides librarianship in which I take
pleasure are (in no particular order) as follows: a small personal
collection of books giving first-hand narratives of survivals at
sea after shipwrecks or airplane wrecks, a class of literature which
I like because I admire the real heroism of ordinary mortals which
these accounts usually reflect; a slow-paced correspondence with
friends living in England and Australia; and membership in the
Cover Collectors’ Circuit Club, whereby on behalf of my older
son, with whom I engage in the activity, I secure philatelic
covers from various countries around the globe. My wife and I
also enjoy duplicate contract bridge with other husband-and-
wife teams from the university faculty. Twice a year I march
in the University of Arkansas commencement procession and
find that the crows’-feet on my Harvard gown often elicit in-
quiries from fellow marchers who observe them.

[ 121 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Occasionally I write book reviews for the Weekly People, the
official organ of the Socialist Labor Party, and in the past three
years have contributed review articles covering So Noble a Cap-
tain, The Life of Ferdinand Magellan; The Incompatible Alles,
A Memoir-History of Gerntan Soviet Relations, 1918-1941; Elibu
Root and the Conservative Tradition; The Middle East, Problem
Area in World Politics; and the Harry S, Truman Memoirs.

At the University Library my responsibility is the planning
and direction of the work of the department of ten persons con-
cerned with the acquiring of the books and periodicals needed by
the university and the preparation for the binding of the same
when necessary. The Library annually adds about 15,000 vol-
umes by purchase, gift and exchange, It regularly receives over
2000 different periodical titles. A monthly bulletin is issued giv-
ing authors, titles, dates and classifications of new additions.

Although a librarian is no more able than any other person to
read more than a very small fraction of what is published, to my
mind one of the rewarding by-products of being a librarian is
being able to see the material which constantly comes from the
presses of the world in the various fields of arts, letters, science
and technology. The wealth of it is continually astounding and
there is a very real satisfaction in assisting to make it available to
those who come to libraries seeking those things which the
printed word can provide — wisdom, learning, information, in-
spiration and relaxation.

+ BENSON BORING

BORN: June 16, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: William Alciphron Boring,
Florence Kimball.

PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

bieD: Dec. 25, 1929, New York, N. Y.

BORING met an accidental death during our junior year. —

[122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE HAMMOND BOSWORTH

HOME ADDRESS: 2841 Pembroke St., Birmingham, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS; 12-154 G.M. Bldg., 3044 W. Grand Blvd., Detroit, Mich.

BORN: July 18, 1905, Gardner, Mass. parents: George Hammond Bosworth,
Isadore Lovica Collier.

PREPARED AT: Nashua High School, Nashua, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marrieD: C, Verne Woodman, Sept. 19, 1932, New York, N. Y. cup:
George Hammond, 3d, Aug. 13, 1933.

HARVARD SON: George Hammond Bosworth, 3d, Grad. School, 1955-56.

occuPATION: Member comprtroller’s staff, General Motors Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Lodge, Nashua, N. H.; High Twelve, Birmingham,
Mich.; Great Books Discussion Group, Birmingham, Mich.

ON coming to “grips” with the events of my life in the last twen-
ty-five years, the amazing thing to me is the realization that the
time has passed very fast and that I have made pitiable progress on
many things that I wanted to accomplish. It seems to me that
the problems of mere existence have grown steadily more com-
plicated over the years, to say nothing of the additional require-
ments involved in working for a living, One thing is sure — the
days and nights are not long enough!

Following graduation (that year was not of the economic
best), I soon found an accounting position with General Motors
Acceptance Corporation. Marriage came in the following year,
and my only child was born in 1933. I would sooner write about
my son since then, than of myself; I thought that I probably had
some brains lying disused somewhere, and I discovered painfully
that they must have come out in him. Even though he did not
go to Harvard to make Phi Beta Kappa, he did at Cornell in 1955.
However, he will redeem me by obtaining his graduate school
training at ye olde Cambridge, Massachusetts, interspersed by two
years of military service with ye Uncle Sam in Artillery. Ah,
Nike! As for my wife, she is the same one who made my senior
year most interesting, as well as the twenty-five years since.

After working for GMAC in Boston and Providence until
1942, I came to Detroit with General Motors Corporation for
what was expected to be a short war. I am still here, on the
Comprtroller’s Staff, but my varied work does not intimately in-
volve accounting as such.

[ 123 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Living in the well-to-do and “cultured” suburb of Birmingham
has had many compensations. It is far enough outside the Detroit
area to be in a different world. Living is somewhat easier, at
least psychologically. The opportunities for cultural pursuits
are handy. The propagation and protection of trees and dogs
(no direct association intended) are a special concern of the
local government. While most of the inhabitants in 1942 were
rich and staunch Republicans, the suburb has grown so much
since that a most disturbing proportion of Democrats is now in
residence. What a challenge to the Republicans, and will they
ever learn!

Whether it be due to “growing up”, my advancing age, my
son, my mental liberation (?), my several years’ experience in a
Great Books Discussion Group, my disillusionment with life,
my dabbling in politics, my midwestern influences, or all or any
combination of these causes, I find myself very much interested
in music and good (stimulating and/or provoking) literature,
and in persons rather than in people. Many things now look
different to me from what they did in 1931, apart from the in-
creasing prevalence of words written in fine print. Some of
these “things” include the following:

(1) Nothing is black or white to me any more; nor is anything
good or bad in itself;

(2) I no longer think of myself as having any label such as
Republican or Democrat, Protestant or Catholic, conservative or
liberal;

(3) Iam extremely concerned that one cannot now make any
critical remark against any phase of religion, youth organizations,
and other “sacred cows”, without being accused of being a
heathen, Communist, crackpot, or deliberate iconoclast,

(4) I now think that education should be a continuous process
through all of life. When I was admitted into the “company of
educated men” in 1931, I accepted the appellation somewhat too
readily. Now I know that college is only a small start toward that
potential end;

(5) I haven’t convinced myself thoroughly yet that money
does not count, but I know that the things contributing most to

human happiness are not to be bought for money;

[ 124 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(6) As a midwesterner, I believe in voting for Harvard Over-
seers, Fund Councillors, etc., largely from those who live outside
New England, .

(7) Ino longer feel that the country must go to the “dogs” —
that the old days must sooner or later come back.

All in all, I think there may be a little hope for the future, even
though it may take billions of years to make any noticeable prog-
ress in human nature. In the meantime, what are we going to do
with our physical know-how achievements that are achieved at
the expense of practically everything else?

JOSEPH McGRATH JAMES BOTTKOL

HOME AppRESs: 40 Woodbridge St., South Hadley, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 320 Clapp Laboratory, Mount Holyoke College, South

Hadley, Mass.
BORN: July 14, 1909, Menominee, Mich. parents: Joseph Aloysius Bottkol,

Hannah Louisa McGrath.
PREPARED AT: Menominee High School, Menominee, Mich. .
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1931(32); A.M., 1934;

PH.D.y 1937+ |
MARRIED: Rosalie Orr Horton, Aug. 31, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:

John Christopher, June 27, 1942; Matthew Stephen, April 29, 1948.
occuPATION: Professor of English, Mount Holyoke College.
PUBLICATIONS: “The Holograph of Milton’s Letter to Holstenius”, PMLA,

June, 1953.
SINCE our last Report, I have been the fortunate recipient of a
Fulbright research professorship at the University of Rome. We
spént two superb years, 1951-53, as residents in that most inex-
haustibly interesting of European cities and our boys, by the time
we returned, spoke Italian about as well as they did English. My
work was twofold: in various archives at the Vatican Library in
search of materials bearing on English-Italian relations in the
seventeenth century, and a study of the nature and inter-relation
of the Baroque style in the plastic and literary arts. I have not yet
written on the latter subject, but one result of my searches in the
Vatican archives was the discovery (New York Times, May 18,
1952) of the intact manuscript of a letter written by John Milton
during his Italian journey of 1639; only one other letter in

[ 125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Milten’s hand is known and it is in very poor condition. The
Vatican letter is sealed with Milton’s unique monogram signet,
not previously Known to exist. To turn a leaf and see before you
the beautifully fresh and handsome page of a literary document
lost for over three hundred years is a sensation which a scholar
is not likely to enjoy twice in a lifetime.

I traveled extensively in southern Italy and Sicily where much
provincial Baroque of great interest is to be seen — notably Lecce.
A lifelong wish was fulfilled in 1953 by a visit to Athens, Olym-
pia, and most overpoweringly impressive of all, Delphi, where I
drank from the Castalian Spring but remain as little of a poet as
ever. Just before returning home, as a happy climax to my stay,
I was invited to All Souls College in Oxford for a visit to that
academic paradise, a full-size and architecturally magnificent
college with fifty fellows and NO students.

This last does not mean I have lost my enthusiasm for my pro-
fession, but a period of keeping the mouth shut is wonderfully
good for any academic. On returning, I was raised to full rank
in this college where I continue to teach my specialties. Last
September I directed one of the four sections of the English In-
stitute at Columbia University (the paper read there is being pre-
pared for publication).

My politics continue Democratic; it is time for a change and I
look forward to seeing the mess (and hounds’ teeth) in Washing-
ton being cleaned up next November, It will take more than a
cloth coat and cocker spaniel to do it next time even with the
gratis services of Batten, Barton, et al. My hobbies seem now to
converge again upon reading — especially history. There iS so
much to know and we are all sufficiently aware by this time (see
necrology below) of the length of life. How well I remember
G. L. Kittredge saying resonantly through his beard: “No young
man believes he will ever die”! Bringing up two lively boys who
keep falling out of trees in the orchard and otherwise adding to
our numerous gray hairs is, of course, the main joy and satisfaction

of our life. We are also successful in raising, but not in selling,
French poodles.

My last twenty-five years have been spent in colleges and
universities with two illuminating war years of government serv-
ice in Washington and Austria, and two other years (the high

[126]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

point of my life) in Rome. I cannot close these lines without
saying how constantly and richly Harvard has stayed with me
year by year in widely varying pursuits, in professional and pri-
vate life, and in many parts of the world. Like all truly great
universities, ours sets her mark for keeps on her sons, gives them
a living standard of excellence for emulation, a criterion of non-
conformist judgment, a code of behavior, and above all a secret
and humble pride in the heritage transmitted to us.

WILLIAM HAMMOND BOWDEN

HOME ADDRESS: Cochituate Road, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Waltham Grinding Wheel Co., 115 Bacon St., Waltham,
Mass.

BORN: July 5, 1909, Marblehead, Mass, parents: William Eben Bowden,
Therese Appleton Hammond.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Dorothy Sutton, May 3, 1941, Rockledge, Pa. cHiLpReN: William
Hammond, Jr., June 30, 1943; John Sutton, July 5, 1945.

OCCUPATION: President, Waltham Grinding Wheel Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Vitrified Wheel Company, Westfield, Mass.; vestry-
man, St. Peter’s Episcopal Church, Weston, Mass.; councillor, The
Fssex Institute, Salem, Mass.; vice-president, Abrasive Company, Phila-

delphia, 1939-41.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Marblehead Historical Society; The

Essex Institute.
PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on items of local history in Essex County,

Mass.

EXCEPT for a year at the Business School and two years with
_ the Bay State Fish Company, I have been in the manufacturing
business since graduation. After seven years with Simonds Saw &
Steel Company in Fitchburg and its subsidiary Abrasive Company
in Philadelphia, I spent six months with the War Production
Board before joining with a group to purchase and operate a small
grinding wheel plant in Waltham, Massachusetts. To it we have
subsequently added control of a similar concern in Westfield,
Massachusetts.

There are not many fields today in which a small manufacturing
unit is economically possible, and even in these one spends most
of the time running just to keep even with the game. Even though

[127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

I am a little breathless at times, it has been interesting on the whole
and has afforded a sort of peep-hole through which to glimpse the
forces operating in our country in the last twenty years. For
business reasons | have lived briefly in Chicago and for four years
in Philadelphia and enjoyed both experiences immensely. Though
business has required most of my time, I have tried to maintain
my interest in American history. I am at present serving on the
council of The Essex Institute in Salem, Massachusetts. I have
also tried to support the work of the Protestant Episcopal Church
and am a vestryman at our parish church. These two interests,
with my family, keep me occupied.

TRUMAN HICKS BRACKETT

HOME aApprEss: 41 Garrison Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brigham’s, Inc., go Ames St., Cambridge 42, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 4, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Ledru Joshua Brackett, Anna C.
Hicks.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

MARRIED: Evelyn U. Langenbach, April 18, 1931, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Truman Hicks, Jr, Oct. 19, 1933 (a. Kristin Sanborn, Aug. 14, 1954);
Scott, Jan. 6, 1940. Granpcuitp: David Sanborn Brackett, June 10, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Anthony Hicks Brackett, ’20; Nathan Cook Brackett, ’21
(deceased).

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, clerk, a director, Brigham’s, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Rivers Country Day School, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

I HAVE been fortunate enough to participate during the past
twenty-five years in the development of an enterprise which
started as a single ice cream and candy store in a Boston suburb.
Our company now owns and operates thirty-five Brigham’s ice
cream and candy stores and fifty-eight Dorothy Muriel’s bakery
and food shops in the Greater Boston area, All of the products
sold in these stores are manufactured in our own plants from top
grade raw materials, and we have earned a widespread reputation
for excellent quality. We also manufacture Durand’s candy for
wholesale distribution in New England. My own cfforts are
devoted mostly to corporate, legal, financial, real estate and insur-

{ 128]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ance matters, but I continue to keep in close contact with our
retailing and manufacturing operations.

Starting as a hospital volunteer during the war, Evelyn, my
wife, became intensely interested in medical research and in 1948
she turned “pro.” She worked at the famous Joslin Diabetic Clinic
for several years and is now holding down a position as adminis-
trative and research assistant at the Children’s Cancer Research
Foundation (Jimmy Fund) at the Children’s Medical Center. Our
elder son attended Dartmouth for two years, joined the Army,
and got married; now he and his wife are living in Germany
where he is assigned to the Army Security Agency. Last June they
presented us with a grandson who weighed in at eight pounds
and fourteen ounces. Of course we have been told repeatedly,
“Why, you don’t look like grandparents at all”! We may not
look it, but — oh well! Our younger son is still in prep school, is
active in athletics and Boy Scouts and is already pushing six feet.
The family tree got really fouled up a few years ago when my
father, who is still active in business at eighty-three, married my
mother-in-law. Evelyn is now both my wife and my step-sister!

Along with a 365-day business and the raising of a family, I
have somehow managed to prove that I am a reasonably good
and public-spirited citizen by doing a little work now and then
for the usual community projects, including the Boy Scouts, the
Red Feather Campaign and the Auxiliary Fire Service. A most
interesting outside activity during the past five years has been as
a member of the board of trustees, including three years as presi-
dent, of the Rivers Country Day School in Chestnut Hill. In this
connection I have had the pleasure of working with our classmates
George H. Blackwell, headmaster, and Harwood E. Ellis, assistant
headmaster. I have also enjoyed working with Pliny Jewell,
Luther Grimes and other members of the Class on ’31 affairs
around Boston.

GEORGE KNIGHT BRADFORD

HOME aApprEss: Waites Landing, Falmouth, Portland 99, Maine,

OFFICE ADDRESS: McDonald Lumber Co., 165 Marginal Way, Portland, Maine.

BORN: June 22, 1908, Portland, Maine. Parents; William Herbert Bradford,
Marcia Bowman Knight.

[ 129 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1932.

MARRIED: Julia Libby Holt, Nov. 5, 1932, Portland, Maine. cu1Lpren: Helen
Holt, Nov. 21, 1933; Cary Knight, March 5, 1935.

HARVARD SON: Cary Knight Bradford, °58.

occuPATION: President and treasurer, A{cDonald Lumber Company.

+ JOHN THOMAS BRADLEY
BORN: Sept. 23, 1909, Winthrop, Mass. parents: Joseph Hookey Bradley,
Margaret Sullivan.
TRANSFERRED FROM: Boston College, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: M.D. (Middlesex Medical School),
1938.

prep: April 30, 1940, Charleston, S. C.

IN 1938 Bradley graduated from medical school and started an
internship at the Berkeley Hospital in Charleston, South Carolina.

Less than a month after finishing his internship he was taken ill,
and he died eight months later.

+s RICHARD WEINRICH BRANIGAR
BoRN: Dec. 17, 1909, Burlington, Iowa. pareNTs: Harvey Wright Branigar,
Irma Bertha Weinrich.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.
Marriep: Ruth F. Myers, March 27, 1936, Evanston, Ill. (separated). CHIL-
preN: Richard Harvey, April 11, 1938; Peter Joseph, June 6, 1941.
pieD: July 20, 1954, Ocean Springs, Miss,

BRANIGAR was a member of the Branigar Organization, a Chi-
cago real estate firm.

+ COREY CATLIN BRAYTON
BORN: Sept. 26, 1909, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Corey Catlin Brayton, ’01,
Anna Ashenfetter.

preparep AT: Berkeley High School, Berkeley, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: 8.B., 1932,
Maxaieo: Toly Marie Boberg, Dec. 6, 1936, Reno, Nev.
pie; September 29, 1955, Los Angeles, Calif,

wipow: Mrs. Corcy C. Brayton, qog N. Palm Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

[ 130]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WHILE at college he was on the freshman football team, a mem-
ber of the boxing squad and a member of the Engineering So-
ciety. Receiving an S.B. in the field of mining engineering, he
first started to work with the Empire Star Mines in Grass Val-
ley, California. He spent eight years in aeronautical engi-
neering before entering the active service of the Marine Corps,
in 1940. He served as an instructor in instrument flight at Pensa-
cola and Atlanta and was operations officer in charge of instru-
ment training of all personnel attached to the Marine Fleet Air
West Coast before going overseas in December, 1943.

In the Pacific he held various assignments as operations officer
in the Ellice and Marshall Islands, air commander at Funafuti,
and as commanding officer of a service squadron at Majuro. He
received the Bronze Star. For a short period he served on the
staff of Major General L. E. Woods with the Fourth Marine Air-
craft Wing, returning in April, 1945, to the States where he was
assigned as executive officer of the Marine Corps Air Station at
Fl Toro, California, then as chief of staff to Brigadier General
Ivan Miller, USMC.

As the result of an injury incurred near the close of World
War II, he was retired from the Marine Corps and joined Lock-
heed Aircraft Corporation. Here he was in charge of control
and coordination of electronic equipment for new design air-
craft, as well as current production types.

He was a member of the Engineers Club of San Francisco,
Quiet Birdmen, Aircraft Electrical Society, Marine Memorial
Club, Harvard Engineering Society, and the Retired Officers

Association.

ROBERT EVANS BRECK

LAST KNOWN ApDpRESS: Hotel Seton, 144 E. goth St., New York 16, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1907, White Plains, N. Y. parents: Evans Ralph Breck, Flor-
ence May Palmatier.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

Marrigp: Margaret B. Pitts, March 25, 1938, Camden, S.C. curtpren: Robert
Evans, Jr., Jan. 8, 1939; Mary Florence, Feb. 11, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Art.

[131]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

CHARLES DAVID GOODRICH BRECKINRIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: 1103 Harriton Rd., Baltimore 10, Md.
OFFIcE appress: Calvert and Fayette Sts., Baltimore 2, Md.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1907, New York, N. Y, parents: John Cabell Breckinridge,
‘94, Isabella Goodrich.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B. 1931; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia),
1935.

MARRIED: Frances Craik Pinckney, June 16, 1934, Richmond, Va. CHILDREN:
Isabella Goodrich, Nov. 24, 1936; John Cabell, April 15, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Cabell Breckinridge, ’24 (deceased); Robert
Breckinridge, 34.

occupation: U. $. Government.

MEMBER OF: Union Club; Harvard Club of New York City; Metropolitan
Club, Washington, D. C.; Greenspring Valley Hunt Club, Baltimore.

I GRADUATED from the Law School at the University of
Virginia in June, 1935, and went to work in September of that
year for Mudge, Stern, Williams & Tucker at 20 Pine Street, New
York City. In December, 1941, 1 joined the Navy in which I
remained until September, 1945, serving in the Office of the Cable
Censor in New York and with the Office of Strategic Services in
Washington and the European Theatre of Operations,

In August, 1946, I went to work for Freeport Sulphur Com-
pany, moving to Baltimore in 1947 to manage an invention lab-
oratory which operated as a division of that company. In January,
1950, I joined the Central Intelligence Agency in Washington,
while continuing to live in Baltimore, and commuted daily be-
tween those cities. I resigned from the Agency in August, 1954,
and assumed my present position in Baltimore in May, 1955.

WILLIAM LAWRENCE BREESE

HOME ApprEss: “Longview,” Accokeek, Md.
OFFicE AppRrEss: U.N.E.S.C.O., Paris, France.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1909, Burlingame, Calif. parents: William Lawrence Breese,
Julia Kean Fish.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.A,, 1934.
marriep: Nora Magee, October 19, 1939, Montreal, P.Q., Canada. CHILDREN:

[ 132 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Belinda L., Jan. 30, 1941; Peter A., March 13, 1946; Penelope, July 5,
1950.

SccuPATION: With Bureau of Personnel and Management, U.N.E.S.C.O.,
Paris, France.

FFICES HELD: Member, House Committee, International Student House,
Washington, D. C.; member, Governing Board, Brauvoir Elementary
School, Washington, D. C.; member, Organizing Committee, First
Washington Conference on Health and Welfare.

“MiEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club, Chevy Chase, Maryland; Metropolitan
Club, Washington, D. C.

An Old Man’s Fancy

Life is said to be a bubble or battle or tide,
A scrambled egg and more beside.
Here are the things I have tried:

With Social Security from ’36 to ’38,
Was helping others get to the Golden Gate,
Before it was too late.

In the Red Cross from ’39 to "42,
Found ourselves with much too much to do,
Answering calls to rescue.

After the Air Force from ’42 to "45,
Surprised to find the world still alive,
And even jittering to jive.

In the State Department from "45 to 53,

Did not find the cold war just a spree,
Nor that it came for free.

Going with UNESCO back in ’54,

Joined that big effort to abolish war.

And amid atoms and tensions found release
In the difficult art of waging peace.

As I look backward on the things not done to date,
I hope my motion forward will accelerate.

[ 133]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

RICHARD COMMANDER BREITHUT

HOME ADDRESS: 7009 Arandale Rd., Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of International Trade & Resources, Dept. of State,
Washington, D. C.

porN: March 18, 1910, New York, N. Y. parents: Frederick Ernest
Breithut, Edith Kingsmill Commander.
PREPARED AT: Riordan School, Highland, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931 (32); aM. (Columbia Univ.),
1933

MARRIED: Ulla Karin Nilson Strand, 1950, London, England. cHiip: Kristina
Ragna Strand, Feb. 14, 1944 (step-daughter).

occuPaTION: Foreign service; adviser, Office of International Trade and Re-
sources, U. S. Department of State.

OCCUPATIONALLY, my post-graduate activity began with a
year of distinctly odd jobs, followed by a year of graduate study
at Columbia and five years of teaching economics at Western
Reserve University in Cleveland. Then I worked at the Federal
Reserve Board for three years (part of the time with Vic Long-
street, ’30), at the Treasury for another, spent three years as an
Air Force officer prowling the Pentagon labyrinth with Long-
street, and emerged to join him working on international financial
problems in the State Department. Thence to Stockholm for
about a year as U. S. Treasury representative to the Scandinavian
area. In 1949, NATO was getting started and, at the end of the
year, I moved to London to join the U. S. NATO delegation
working on the financial and economic problems of defense.
Longstreet soon showed up. (For further information on Long-
street, see Class of 1930 T'wenty-fifth Report.)

I moved to Paris with NATO in 1951. In mid-1954, I returned
to State and am now working in the Office of International Trade
and Resources which actually devotes its efforts to many of the
problems suggested by its title. Under the Wriston program,
I’m about to become a regular Foreign Service officer — a prospect
which I welcome.

In Stockholm I met, and in London I married, my Swedish-born
wife, simultaneously acquiring a daughter then aged six. Both
have adjusted to shifts in homes, country of residence and schools
with breathtaking facility. My wife, whose Parisian interests ran
strongly in the direction of Jacques Fath, the Cordon Bleu, and

[ 134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the rive gauche, has unleashed a hitherto totally repressed drive
to lead a Girl Scout troop. Kristina, who acquired a fairly formid-
able capacity for austere British crispness in a London public
school, can still summon the hauteur to put the chill on her pater-
nal parent when the occasion demands it. But the first year here
her full-scale efforts went into holding up the stagecoaches which
passed before our house. This year she’s largely concerned with
insuring that I have no funds lying idle which could much more
sensibly be used for riding lessons and with the trials of bringing
up a dachshund with enough skill so that it will make a respectable
showing in obedience class. Both mother and daughter often show
what I interpret as affectionate tolerance of my own attempts at
adjustment.

My latest struggle involves an effort at adaptation as a Wash-
ington suburban home owner. This has rapidly converted me
into a paint-smeared, stone-bruised, blowtorch-burned, B-X-
cable-ensnarled maniac, “hollering” incoherently from an attic for
guidance on the best position for a stacked directional antenna
with which [Pm still hoping to pick up Baltimore on a hi-fi f.m.
tuner.

Your form seems to imply that these comments should wind up
on some sort of “what is the meaning of it all?” note. A re-reading
of the above yields little that is significant but it is reminiscent of
a picture of a mid-twentieth-century American walking around
with a radar sweep on his head which was shown on the Time
cover featuring Dave Riesman. This suggests that Dave has prob-
ably got my number all right. I keep making earnest resolves to
read his books with a view to gaining insight as soon as I have
time. But I’m beginning to form a dark suspicion that this lack-
of-time plot is just a secondary hamper contrived by a resource-
fully evasive unconscious to keep me from finding out that the
author has me nailed cold.

But, if there must be a meaningful conclusion, here it is. All this
moving about — including a personal move or two perhaps best
left out of this script — tends to confirm a long-held view that
one cannot walk twice into the same river. This zestful bit of
wisdom was first heard by me at Harvard, which makes it possible
to wind up the recital with an illustration of the advantages of
attending this nostalgically valued institution.

[135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

CHARLES BRENNER

HOME AppREss: 30 Rugby Lane, Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1ogo Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

BORN: Nov. 18, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Brenner, Anna
Aronie, A.A, ’25.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D., 1935.

MarRiED: Erma Brandt, Sept. 8, 1935, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Elsa, May
15, 1941; Lucy Jane, April 12, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joel Lee Brenner, ’30, PH.D., °36.

occupaTION: Physician, specializing in psvchoanalysis.

OFFICES HELD: Sigmund Freud Fellow, Boston Psychoanalytic Institute, 1939-
44; assistant in neurology, Harvard Medical School, 1939-44, senior
physician, Massachusetts Division of Mental Hygiene, 1939-40, junior
visiting neurologist, Boston City Hospital, 1941-44; visiting neurologist,
Cambridge City Hospital, 1941-44; consulting neuropsychiatrist, Massa-
chusetts State Prison Colony, 1942-44; senior psychiatrist, Montefiore
Hospital, 1945-48; associate in neurology, Columbia College of Physi-
cians and Surgeons, 1945-48; associate clinical professor of psychiatry,
Yale Medical School, since 1949; secretary, 1951-54, member board of
directors, New York Psychoanalytic Society, since 1951; lecturer, New
York Psychoanalytic Institute, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute, American
Psychoanalytic Association; American Psychiatric Association; Massa-
chusetts Medical Society; New York Medical Society; Association of
American Medical Colleges, American Museum of Natural History, Na-
tional Geographic Society; National Wildlife Federation.

PusLications: An Elementary Textbook of Psychoanalytic Theory, Interna-
tional Universities Press, N. Y., 1955; thirty-five professional publica-
tions, mostly in the fields of neurology and psychiatry; a few chapters
in textbooks and systems of medicine.

MY career since leaving college has been a busy, happy and satis-
fying one. I spent four very interesting years at the Medical
School across the river, an institution which is very different from
the College in many ways, even though both are parts of the same
University. I married in the fall following my graduation from
Medical School, and spent the next four years in hospital training
in various hospitals in Boston. Then came teaching, research, the
beginnings of private practice and my psychoanalytic training.
When the war came, my activities were limited to research
and medical teaching, the former for the Medical School under
contract with the unpronounceable acrostic that we called the

[ 136]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OSRD, or more formally, the Office of Scientific Research and
Development. [I’m not sure that we ever discovered anything
that was vitally useful to the war effort, but at any rate our re-
search team worked hard and we published lots of papers.

In 1945 my family and I moved to New York and here we have
remained ever since, they as suburbanites, and I as a daily com-
muter between Scarsdale and Manhattan. It’s been a wonderful
twenty-five years, I hope the next twenty-five will be as good!

GEORGE WRIGHT BRIGGS, JR.

HOME AppREss: 171 Benvenue St., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc., 462 Boylston St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 17, 1910, Taunton, Mass. parents: George Wright Briggs, Sophia
Reed.

PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B., 19313 A.M., 1935.

MARRIED: Bettina Nickerson, Sept. 10, 1934, Newton Center, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jane Reed, July 2, 1935; Deborah Nickerson, Nov. 7, 1936; Lucinda
Wright, Sept. 1, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Loring Taylor Briggs, ’41.

OCCUPATION: Radio and TV director.

OFFICES HELD: Conductor, Harvard University Band; former chairman, De-
partment of Popular Music, New England Conservatory; musical direc-
tor, WBZ-AM and WBZ-TV.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Musical Association; Wellesley Tennis Club.

AFTER graduation I followed the career of a professional musi-
cian while pursuing a year’s study at the Business School and,
finally, two years of graduate work leading to a Master’s degree
in music. The growth of my family pointed up the fact that
commercial music was the most lucrative and interesting field
which I could follow at that time. I found that radio was in its
haleyon era (1935-45) and during that period I concentrated on
being a combination keyboard artist, librarian, arranger, producer
and even ham actor at WBZ.

My A.M. began to bear fruit in 1942 when I was invited to join
the staff of the New England Conservatory at the birth of the
“Popular” (or commercial) Department. By 1948 I had been
appointed chairman of this new and challenging division which

[137]

HARVARD CLASS OF I93I

strove to keep the students’ feet planted firmly in the eternal
verities of musical tradition while still recognizing the practicali-
ties and essential light-heartedness of popular music as exemplified
by such diversified elements as Rodgers & Hammerstein, Dixie-
land j jazz, Arthur Fiedler, Stan Kenton and Leroy Anderson.

In some respects, the most happy blending of the above might
be said to exist in the Harvard Band, of which I took over the
conductorship in the fall of 1953 after the death of my old friend,
Mal Holmes, ’28. This has proved to be a truly rewarding experi-
ence and one which keeps my musical senses on the alert as I try
to fulfill my new post, that of radio and television director for
the Boston office of Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn. I am now
in the unique position (since May, 1955) of occasionally buying
time on my old station, where I performed as an artist many
years (“talent” to Westinghouse), hoping that the program might
be sold!

My three daughters have grown apace, with one through col-
lege and another just now finishing. My life seems to have
followed a logical pattern for a man with a “natural bent” and I
have no complaints.

LLOYD CABOT BRIGGS

HOME appress: Hancock, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 7 rue Pierre Viala, Algiers, Algeria.

BORN: June 27, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Lloyd Vernon Briggs, Mary
Tileston Cabot.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; DIPL. (Univ. of Oxford),
1932; A.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1938; PHD. (ibid.), 1952.

MarrieD: Eleanor Livingston, June 29, 1935, Lloyd Harbor, Long Island,
N. Y. (divorced 1947); Madeleine Dafus, May 8, 1948, Algiers, Algeria.
cuiLp: Eleanor Livingston, Nov. 16, 1939.

occupaTion: Anthropologist.

MEMBER OF: American Anthropological Association; American Association
of Physical Anthropologists, Massachusetts Archaeological Society; Ar-
chaeological Institute of America, American Geographical Society,
American Numismatic Society, Royal Anthropological Institute of
Great Britain and Ireland; Zoological Society of London, Royal Numis-
matic Society, Société d’Anthropologie de Paris, Société d'Histoire
Naturelle de Afrique du Nord (Algiers); Socicté des Sciences Natur-

[ 138 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

elles de Tunisie (Tunis); Sports Car Club of America; National Rifle
Association; United States Revolver Association, Association Frangaise
de Courreurs en Automobile; Bull Terrier Clubs of England, America,
New England; Somerset Club of Boston; Faculty Club, Varsity Club
(Harvard); Union Club of New York; Westminster Kennel Club,
Racquet & Tennis Club; The Athenaeum of London.

PuBLICATIONS: “The Stone Age Races of Northwest Africa”, American
School of Prehistoric Research, Peabody Museum, Harvard University,
1955; Bullterriers: The Biography of a Breed, Derrydale Press, New
York, 1940; many technical articles on physical anthropology and animal
genetics in various American and French scientific journals.

I WENT to Oxford in the fall of 1931 to do graduate work in
anthropology and while there was on the varsity ice hockey team
(not being used to drawing the distinction, I almost got on the
field hockey team by mistake). In 1932 1 returned to America and
worked for a while at painting. In 1935 I was married and re-
sumed the academic life in Cambridge. In 1938 I received my
Master’s degree in anthropology and became a general partner in
the brokerage firm of Abbott, Proctor & Paine of New York.

Just before the outbreak of war in Europe, I joined the Officer
Candidate School and completed the course very successfully but
was refused a commission on physical grounds. In 1942 I joined
the OSS (then COI) as a civilian, and was sent to North Africa
in 1943. I continued in government service there and in Italy and
France until the spring of 1947. In recognition of my services, I
was awarded the Medal of Freedom.

Then I resumed academic work as a candidate for the Ph.D.
degree in physical anthropology under the direction of the late
Professor Earnest A. Hooton, I remarried in 1948, and proceeded
to write a thesis on the prehistoric peoples of Northwest Africa.
I received my degree in 1952 and the French decoration of an
officier d’Academie the same year. At present, I am a research
fellow in North African anthropology for Harvard University,
and am engaged in research on the living tribes of the Sahara
Desert — a great place if you like deserts, which I do.

As to my “social, political or religious convictions”, I think I
can sum them up briefly by saying that I see eye to eye with the
late Mr. Justice Holmes on all important points.

[ 139 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

RAWN BRINKLEY

HOME appress: Riversville Road, Greenwich, R. D. 3, Conn.

OFFICE ADpREss: National Association of Cost Accountants, 505 Park Ave.,
New York 22, N. Y.

BorN: March 24, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: Robert Campbell Brinkley,
Elizabeth Rawn.

PREPARED AT: University School, Victoria, B. C., Canada; St. Luke’s School,
Wiavne, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B, 1931.

MARRIED: Frances Noble, June 23, 1934, Elmira, N. Y. CHILDREN: Joan Noble,
Oct. 23, 1935; Rawn, Jr. April 8, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Campbell Brinkley, Jr., °36.

occuPATION: Assistant secretary, National Association of Cost Accountants.

OFFICES HELD: President, Elmira, N. Y., and East Tennessee Chapters, Na-
tional Association of Cost Accountants; assistant secretary, National As-
sociation of Cost Accountants.

MY work with the educational association in the industrial ac-
counting field is primarily concerned with membership and chap-
ter relations. There are some 37,000 members in 125 chapters in
the U.S., Cuba and Hawaii. I was with the 1.B.M. Corporation as
salesman from 1931 to 1936; the Corning Glass Works, until 1952,
as plant accountant, divisional controller and member of the con-
troller’s staff; and until 1954 with an affiliate, the Blue Ridge Glass
Corporation.

AYERS BRINSER

HOME AppREsS: 45 Woodland Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFice appress: Littauer 209, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1909, Steelton, Pa. parents: Claude Edwin Brinser, Henrietta
Bixler.

PREPARED AT: Harrisburg Academy, Harrisburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; A.M. 1950; PH.D., 1951.

Margie: Joan Waldo, Dec. 16, 1936, New York, N. Y. crttpren: Hope,
Sept. 2, 1939; Barbara, Oct, 21, 1941; Mariana, June 26, 1944.

occupation: Lecturer on economics and Allston Burr Senior Tutor, Har-
vard University; research.

OFFICES HELD: Member school committee, 1944-47, moderator, 1947, Town
of Petersham, Mass. president, Southern New England Chapter, Soil
Conservation Society of America, 1944, 1945, director, Northwestern
Worcester Soil Conservation District, 1943-45, Housing Association
vf Metropolitan Boston, member executive conimitee, 1950-51, mem-

[ 140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ber advisory committee, since 1951, Civil Liberties Union of Massa-
chusetts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Farm Economic Asso-
ciation, American Economic Association; Soil Conservation Society
of America.

PusLications: “Our Use of the Land”; “Better Rural Living”; “Planning
One Town” (with J. D. Black); “A Panel Study of Meat Consump-
tion” (with C. Zwick and H. Allison); “Agriculture” in Studies in
Federalism, Bowie and Friedrich, editors; reviews and articles in Journal
of Land Economics, the New England Quarterly, Journal of Farm
Economics, the New Republic, Harpers, the Forum.

I AM presently the Allston Burr Senior Tutor of Kirkland House
at Harvard and lecturer on economics. My primary teaching
activity is a graduate seminar on the conservation, allocation and
development of natural resources in the Graduate School of
Public Administration. |

EDWARD HALL BROADHEAD

MAILING appREss: 100 Church St., Wethersfield, Conn.

BoRN: April 5, 1910, Jamestown, N. Y. Parents: Wright Draycup Broad-
head, Katherine Emily Oapsadel.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

UCCUPATION: Music.

JOSEPH LOUIS BROCK

HOME AppREss: 39 Brantford Pl., Buffalo 22, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Reifer, Brock & Bellanca, 542 Ellicott Sq., Buffalo 3, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 11, 1911, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Henry Jerome Brock, Camille
Block.

PREPARED AT; Lafayette High School, Buffalo, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Julia S. Amram, Aug. 16, 1936, Buffalo, N. Y. cHitpren: Ellen
Elizabeth, Dec. 9, 1939; David George, Oct. 13, 1945; Catherine Ann,
Oct. 14, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Jerome Brock, M.., ’31.

OCCUPATION: Certified Public Accountant.

OFFICES HELD: Board member (currently president), 1940-55, Jewish Com-
munity Service Society; board member, 1952-55, assistant treasurer,
1953-54, United Jewish Federation of Buffalo; president, Buffalo Area
Chapter, New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants,

1954-55.
[141 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants; New York State Society
of Certified Public Accountants; American Legion; Harvard Club of
Buffalo; Harvard Business School Club of Buffalo.

PUBLICATIONS: “Management Services by Local Practitioners”, The New
York Certified Public Accountant, 1955.

TWO years at the Business School from 1931 to 1933 helped me
bridge the worst of the depression. The next five years were spent
in administrative jobs in light manufacturing businesses; my busi-
ness school training wasn’t enough for me to save either of my two
employers from going out of business. Having had my share of
falling sales volume, obsolete inventories, oppressive bank loans
and unsympathetic trade creditors, I decided to avoid these prob-
lems for myself by becoming a certified public accountant. Four
years, 1938-1942, as a staff (employee) accountant, and almost
four years, 1942-1946, in military service led up to opening my
own office in 1946. I was in practice as a C-P.A. on my own
account from then until November 1, 19 555 when I entered into a
partnership with two other C.P.A.’s.

My principal activity outside my profession has been with the
Jewish Community Service Society, a social agency providing
family service, child care and vocational service. During the past
fifteen years I have held all the offices, served on all the commit-
tees and participated in many related projects. From time to time
since 1946, I have taught courses in accounting and taxation in the
evening department of the University of Buffalo. For the last
three years I have participated in an executive training course
conducted by the Harvard Business School Club of Buffalo. In
the last few years I have given much of my attention to the local
chapter of our State C.P.A. Society as an officer, director and
chairman or member of several of its committees.

My politics have gone no further than registering Republican
consistently since 1932. My hobbies have been neglected in favor
of a growing family and a demanding profession. Like my parents,
I am a member of the Reform Jewish Congregation in Buffalo. |
It is hard to admit that these few words comprise my autobiog-
raphy for the last twenty-five years. Perhaps the History Depart-
ment will revoke my cum laude for this effort.

[142]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MATTHEW BRODY

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: 41 Eastern Pkwy., Brooklyn 38, N. Y.

BorN: Feb. 12, 1911, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Max Brody, Fannie Klausner.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Long Island Coll. of
Medicine), 1935.

marrieD: Muriel Pollack, Nov. 29, 1942, Brooklyn, N. Y. cnitpren: Jane
Lois, Nov. 25, 1944; Margery Dee, Nov. 10, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Psychiatrist.

OFFICES HELD: Qualified psychiatrist, New York State Board of Psychiatric
Examiners, 1942; member various committees, American Psychiatric
Association, Kings County Medical Society, Brooklyn Psychiatric So-
ciety; wartime consultant, Sperry Gyroscope Company; consultant,
Brooklyn State Hospital, Brooklyn Home for Aged Men; associate at-
tending neuropsychiatrist, Brooklyn Jewish Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Board in Neurology and in Psychiatry (diplomate),
1943; American Psychiatric Association (fellow), 1947; American
Academy of Neurology (fellow), 1950; American Association for the
Advancement of Science; New York Academy of Science; Kings
County Medical Society; Brooklyn Psychiatric Society; New York
Society for Clinical Psychiatry; Research Society in Nervous and
Mental Diseases; Group for Advancement of Psychiatry.

puBLicaTions: About twenty-five articles, published reports and chapters
in books on various aspects of neurology and psychiatry.

IT hardly seems as if it is already almost twenty-nine years since
I was barely sixteen and walking down Massachusetts Avenue
with two friends from Brooklyn and two new found friends from
Gore Hall, not quite believing that I was a Harvard Man, and
at sixteen, I was not much of either. Since then much has hap-
pened, and it seems hardly possible that so much has happened
and in so short a time.

After Harvard I went to medical school in Long Island, work-
ing summers as a Sheffield Farms milkman. I was an M.D. in
1935 and in debt, so I took a job as a physician in an area much
larger than Rhode Island, where I was very much on my own
professionally, taking care of neighboring ranchers as well as the
boys in the C.C.C. On my own, and with limited facilities, I set
fractures, delivered babies, and took out two appendices. I am
rather appalled now at the responsibilities forced upon me. With
my debts paid off, I returned to intern at Kings County Hospital
followed by a residency there in neurology, and the four and a

[ 143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

half years at Brooklyn State Hospital for psychiatry. In 1942,
in the space of one month, I was married, opened an office and
took my board examinations in neurology and psychiatry (all
successfully ).

By a freak I got into industrial psychiatry. I had been doing
some work for the Sperry Gyroscope Company, mainly com-
pensation work in neuropsychiatry, when I was approached by
them with a problem that was facing them. The Selective Service
Act of 1940 was the law. No one knew how the law would be
interpreted — whether by seniority or by superseniority. As
men went into service from Sperry and were replaced by other
men who went into service, Sperry had on its rolls more veterans
than employees and more than it hoped it would be able to em-
ploy in the future. There was a possibility that after the war
Sperry employees would be only veterans, “bumping” all non-
veterans. At that time there was universal anxiety as to the
effect military service would have on people, the consensus being
that a veteran would have been trained to be a killer and that he
would probably throw a monkey wrench into the first expensive
machine he saw. Books were being written on how to handle re-
turning veterans as if they required very special handling. What
we did at Sperry was to set up the first Inplant Veterans Train-
ing Program, and it was my job to learn how veterans got along
in industry. We found out a lot of things—too numerous to
mention here— but the important thing we were able to say
was that there would be no problems presented by returning
veterans that were not presented by other employees. This made
me a pioneer in industrial psychiatry and has given me a reputa-
tion that I have still not been able to live down. The recommen-
dations we made were incorporated into industrial, government
and V.A. policies.

I have since got myself involved in a host of other research
projects — most of them with negative results. The few success-
ful things that I am most proud of were: (1) working with Dr.
A. S. Wiener (the brilliant co-discoverer of the Rh factor), we
were able to prove, I hope, that the neurologic complications of

jaundice of the newborn due to sensitivity to Rh factor and the
like, were due to a stickiness of the blood cells obstructing cere-
Lral circulation (this was a year before someone clse came out

[ 144]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the concept of sludged blood) — Al Wiener since went on
to develop the technic of exchange tranfusions, (2) that the
neurologic complications of whooping cough were on an allergic
basis; (3) refinements in the administration of shock therapy;
(4) some papers on psychotherapy. At the moment I have about
four projects working at once.

I had no idea that I would be so long-winded. I am happily
married to a woman who has been able to tolerate my foibles, and
I have two wonderful daughters, aged eleven and seven, all of
whom I will proudly show off at the Reunion. My professional
life is full and busy, and I take long summer and winter vacations.
My diversions consist of a weekly session of “corners” (four-
handed pinochle and a lousy game of golf when I can find time
for it. I lecture all over the place. I feel, rightly or wrongly, that
Dale Carnegie was right when he said life begins at forty.

MORRIS BRONSTEIN

HOME AppRESS: 1008 Arboretum Rd., Wyncote, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Walter A. Sions Co., 1402 Conlyn St., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1910, Baltimore, Md. Parents: Max Solomon Bronstein, Rosa
Leibow.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

mMarrieD: Gladys E. Lande, Dec. 24, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa, cumpReNn: Robert
Alan, Dec. 6, 1941; Judith Susan, March 4, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Bronson, ’24; Aaron Jacob Bronstein, ’25, LL3.,
’28; Albert Bronson, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Food broker.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Food Brokers; Philadelphia Association
of Manufacturers Representatives; Philadelphia Grocers and Brokers
Association; Fellowship House; Allens Lane Art Center.

LOOKING backward and trying to summarize the past twenty-
five years in capsule form is a large order. It was pretty rough
trying to get started in the early thirties and I recall my first job
— here in Philadelphia, a new city for me — trying to learn the
selling game. The city was cold, the work colder, and as the
banks closed daily, a chill pervaded the air even though it was
midsummer. After two years, I joined a small family venture in
the food field which lasted six years and finally left same to go

[145 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

into my present setup, Walter A. Sions Company, in which I am
a partner. Those years were marked by a constant struggle to
make ends meet and were made even tougher due to an automo-
bile accident which sidelined me for almost a year. Some of the
effects of the old injury are still with me daily.

Since 1939 things have progressed fairly well in the food broker-
age field. It has been interesting to watch the changes in our
industry in the past twenty years. The rise of supermarkets and
shopping centers, the growth in frozen foods, and a constant
influx of many allied products, have kept the business alive and
fresh. The only thing that mars the horizon is the steady growth
of mergers at all levels which is shrinking the field of marginal
operators.

Family life is full and busy. To keep up with two healthy
youngsters is no easy task. They seem miles ahead of what we
must have been like at their ages. They are larger, smarter, more
aware of world affairs, and I hope that they can grow up in a
peaceful world and make use, and not abuse, of the scientific
advances.

Politically, I was steeped in New England Republicanism be-
cause Dad was an old textile man and no other party existed, I
broke with tradition in 1932 and voted Democratic right down
the line. I prefer to think of myself as an Independent and, if
Eisenhower can continue to keep us out of war, I may go along
with him in 1956.

Vacations have been nearby and not too frequent. The last five
years have seen us in Maine during the summer, visiting our son
at camp and chasing the elusive small-mouth bass. My wife is
more avid than I at fishing and we both enjoy the sport together.
Occasionally, we spend a short winter vacation in the Pocono
Mountain area over the Christmas holidays watching the children
learning to skate and ski; and, once or twice a year, long weekends
in New York catching up on shows that we have missed. As the
children grow older, we hope to see some of the more distant areas
in the not too far distant future.

Hobbies are very limited, due to an old back injury. I had to
give up tennis long ago and I’ve been told to stay away from golf.

So, it’s a little fishing in summer, some bridge over the winter, an

[146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

infrequent game of chess, and some day I hope to beat my wife
at scrabble.

Time now to look forward. We hope to be at the Reunion and
renew old friendships, We also want the children to see more of
Harvard and find out for themselves that a university is not to be
judged by its athletic prowess. In closing, I hope that Harvard
continues its forward look in the field of liberalism, refusing to
be stampeded by the fanatics and ill-advised. If they do, I shall
rightly be proud to say, “I’m glad I went to Harvard”.

HOWARD LEE BROOKS

HOME ApprEss: % Donald Frazier, 117 Hillside Ave. Glen Ridge, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Y% American Korean Foundation, 345 E. 46th St, New York
17, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 2, 1903, Royalston, Mass. parents: Harry Brooks, Vera May
Grace.

PREPARED aT: Mfount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: $.B., 1931; S.T.B. 1934; D.Sc. (hon.)
(Univ. of Antioquia, Colombia), 1948.

marrieD: Gertrude MacGown, 1922, Manchester, N. H. (died 1924); Doro-
thy Lester, 1931, Scarsdale, N. Y. (divorced 1940); Thomasine Camp-
bell, 1943, Baltimore, Md. (divorced 1946); Shirley E. Fuller, Feb. 26,
1949, Boston, Mass. cuitpren: Howard Lee, Jr. April 18, 1934; Peter
Campbell, July 12, 1944.

occupaTion: Director of activities in Korea, American Korean Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Rotary Club, Seoul, Korea; Seoul
Country Club; Seoul Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Prisoners of Hope, 1942.

MY career since graduating from the Harvard Divinity School
in 1934 has been in two related fields: the Unitarian ministry for
eight years, and voluntary agency foreign aid programs for
thirteen years. It was an exciting and rewarding experience
during the immediate postwar years to see European countries
from Poland to Greece, from England to Hungary respond to the
assistance given by intergovernmental, American governmental,
and American private voluntary agencies. And it was tragic to
see countries like Poland and Czechoslovakia cut off from western
cultural, scientific and political influence as the cold war got
under way.

[ 147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

During the past few years I have been working with the
American Korean Foundation as director of its activities in Korea.
Here again one sees the enormous influence of cultural, scientific
and economic aid programs. Without in any way minimizing the
importance of military assistance, it seems to me that non-mili-
tary, technical and material aid covering many fields must become
a permanent part of American foreign policy and a lasting con-
cern of private American citizens if we are to make our reasonable
contribution toward maintaining a peace which, at best, must
remain an uneasy one for a long time.

My work has taken me to most of the non-Scandinavian coun-
tries of Europe, to the Middle East, Southeast Asia and the Far
East. As nothing else could, it has permeated my thinking and
feeling with the splendor of the miracle that is modern America
and the weight of world responsibility that events have thrust
upon us.

Much of my political thinking has been influenced by America’s
foreign relations problems. First an Independent (which I now
regard as being about on the same level as a neutral country in
today’s international political scene), then a moderate New
Dealer, it is gratifying to note as these lines are being written in
January, ’56, that President Eisenhower has had the courage to
recommend a long since overdue policy of long-range foreign aid.

PAUL BROOKS

HOME abpREss: Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Houghton Mifflin Co., 2 Park St., Boston 7, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 16, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Ernest Brooks, Jeanne
Leonie Marion.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

Marrigp: Susan A. Moller, June 24, 1931, Milton, Mass. cHitpReN: Elizabeth
Sweetser, Sept. 30, 1933 (7. John W, Harris, Sept. 1, 1954); Douglas,
Nov. 10, 1936 (died January, 1941); Samuel Jameson, Dec. 1, 19415
Susan, April 24, 1943; Kate, Oct. 25, 1951. GRANDCHILD: Paul Andrew
Harris, Dec. 3, 1955.

occupation; Editor-in-chief, General Book Department, Houghton Mifflin
Company.

orrices HELD: Member board of directors, Houghton Mifflin Company;
chief, book section and publications division, E.T.O., Office of War

[ 148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Information, 1955; director, Massachusetts Audubon Society, 1943-47;
trustee, Harvard Lampoon.
MEMBER OF: St. Botolph Club; Tavern Club, Examiner Club; Thursday
Evening Club (all of Boston); Century Club, New York.
pusLicaTions: Articles in the Atlantic Monthly and elsewhere.

FOR anyone who deals daily with the written word, in bulk,
brevity becomes a virtue. My business or professional career
(publishing is a confusing combination of both) can be put
briefly. In the summer following graduation I joined the editorial
department of Houghton Mifflin Company, one of whose direc-
tors was a trustee of the Lampoon, my main extra-curricular in-
terest in college. Eventually I became managing editor and, in
1943, a director of the firm and editor-in-chief of the general book
department. I am now a trustee of the Lampoon, which completes
some sort of vicious circle.

In 1945 I went abroad for the Office of War Information as
chief of the book section for the E.T.O, Since then, private
enterprise, in its maddest moments, has looked comparatively
sane. My greatest business satisfaction is in working with writers,
in sharing—or at least facilitating—the creative process.
Whether or not they are the most “difficult” (which I doubt),
certainly they are the most stimulating group of people in the
world. Since we publish books of all sorts, I have necessarily dealt
with authors ranging from a popular novelist or a distinguished
lepidopterist to Sir Winston Churchill — who, incidentally, is
an amateur lepidopterist himself. The danger, of course, is in
spreading oneself thin. As professors are notoriously supposed
to learn more and more about less and less, I suspect that pub-
lishers learn less and less about more and more.

Though American publishing is concentrated in New York,
almost as much as English in London or French in Paris, Boston
fortunately remains a book publishing center of its own, with
country living still possible on the outskirts. For over twenty
years we have lived in Lincoln, since 1938 on our own sixteen
acres of pasture and woodlot, in a small but sporadically expand-
ing house. Our four children range from twenty-two (married)
to four and a half, and we have one grandchild. The middle-aged
pair are machine-crazy and horse-crazy respectively.

Aside from family activities, my spare time is spent indoors

[ 149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

reading (unprofessionally), listening to music (very unprofes-
sionally) and drawing (tyro stage); outdoors working with an
axe in the woods, building stone walls (dry), growing a few
flowers and ignoring vegetables.

My chief means of recreation (in the root sense of that word)
is the outdoors and nature in its various forms. My wife (some-
times known as the Bow Paddle) and I like to take our vacations
canoeing, bicycling, walking, fishing, birding, botanizing, butter-
fiy-collecting, beachcombing, all in an amateur way; and \ we enjoy
the people we meet who have a similar concern. I have written an
occasional magazine article based on these trips, and more recently
have taken also to sketching, in which I find a satisfaction —
whatever may be the results — second only to that of putting
words together. None of this, of course, is wholly divorced from
my proper job. For the unorganized man, the comfort of book
publishing is that nothing is irrelevant.

HORACE ELLSWORTH BROWN

HOME appress: 4 Wilder Rd., Shrewsbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Vellumoid Co., 54 Rockdale St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1908, Somerville, Mass. parents: Fred Ellsworth Brown, Lida
Bethia Belcher.

prepareD AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-28, 1929-32. DEGREE: S.B.. 1931 (32).

MarrieD: Josephine E. Piper, Jan. 1, 1937, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN: Brad-
ford Ellsworth, April 1, 1938; Penelope, Sept. 17, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Bradford Ellsworth Brown, ’59.

occupation: Manufacturing — salcs and administration.

MEMBER OF: Lions Club; Harvard Club of Worcester, Varsity Club.

I WAS “variously employed”, as the Dun and Bradstreet credit
reports put it, for the first few years after college, with life insur-
ance, teaching, accounting, retail hardware and plumbing and
heating contracting. In 1939 I joined my present company and
moved to Shrewsbury where I soon became active In Communit
affairs with the Lions Club, Red Cross, Cub Scouts, P.T.A.,
Drama Club and local politics. Such interests gradually lessened
as the children grew older and their demands on the family car
and my time increased.

[ 150 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My hobbies have more or less followed theirs — hunting, fishing
and football with Brad, and raising cocker spaniels with Penelope.
J6 and I started square dancing last fall and were graduated to the
intermediate class this summer. This we find to be great fun and
wonderful exercise.

Perhaps one of my most rewarding activities lately has been
serving on the Schools Committee of the Worcester Harvard
Club. This has brought me in touch with the College and it is
very gratifying to be able to encourage boys who want a Harvard
education.

Since I just left Brad in Cambridge, the memories of twenty-five
years ago have been fresh in mind and I am looking forward to
June. :

LEWIS PEMBROKE BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 7407 Midbury Drive, Dallas, Texas.

OFFICE appREss: Aro Equipment Corp., Bryan, Ohio.

BORN: May 27, 1907, Arlington, Mass. parents: Lewis Frederick Brown,
Mabel Beddeos.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE! S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Barbara Frances Cary, Nov. 4, 1937, Newport, R. I. cHmprEN:
Robert Pembroke, Dec. 16, 1940; Cary Frederick, Dec. 16, 1943.

occuPATION: Aircraft sales engineer.

AFTER gyrating around the country getting oriented and organ-
ized during the years 1931-1937, [ left Uncle Sam’s Army with the
firm intent of settling down in one place. By 1937 I became con-
vinced that the airplane was here to stay and that Hartford, Con-
necticut, was a wonderful town in which to plant my roots. So,
through the back door of Pratt and Whitney Aircraft I went into
civilian work. Prior to leaving the Army I had convinced a Navy
junior that I wanted to settle down in Hartford and that my
intentions were honorable. Bobbie, having been born, brought
up, and banged around the world in the Navy, was all for becom-
ing a one-town resident. So, because of this mutual plan, plus
others, we were married. We lived in two places in Hartford,
then in 1940 I was transferred to Chance Vought Aircraft in

Stratford, Connecticut. We lived in three places there while

searching for our ideal homestead. In 1947 we found it in the

[3st ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

country with fourteen acres, barn, trout stream, etc., and then
started our fifty-year plan to make it our ideal. In 1949 Chance
Vought Aircraft moved its complete operation to Dallas, Texas.
So, we bid a sad adieu to our remaining forty-eight-year plan
and went to Dallas. A few years after moving to Dallas and be-
coming a perfectly contented transplanted Y ankee, the boss-man
of Chance \ “ought was fired. I reported to him, so soon followed
his example. By this time we had had our roots firmly established,
so here we would stay. I went to work for Air Associates in
Dallas. After a year with them, I would be the one to be picked
from 4500 employ ees, to leave Dallas to head up its Miami,
Florida, operation. After two and a half years in Miami and
tangling with another new president, we are extremely happy to
be back in Dallas. And the Navy gal who married me to stop
migrating has in our seventeen years of marriage lived in ten com-
munities and in eleven different abodes.
My hobbies of hunting, fishing and camping were retarded until
our boys were old enough to give me a majority family vote.

Now the past dissenter, Bobbie, is the most ardent in these
hobbies.

KENDALL STEBBINS BRYANT

HOME ApprESss: R.F.D. 2, Hill Road, Greenwich, Conn.
OFFICE appress: Waddell & Reid, Westchester Ave. White Plains, N. Y.

BoRN: Oct. 24, 1908, Digby, N. S., Canada. parents: Joseph Stebbins Bryant,
Alice Taft.

puepareD at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MarRieD: Harriot Miles, Wallingford, Vt. (divorced). cHitpren: Stebbins,
Dec. 18, 1933; Miles T., July 24, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Warren Taft Bryant, ’22.

occuPATION; Investment business,

orrices HELD: Lieutenant colonel, Infantry USAR, 1946-53.

FROM 1939 until the middle of 1953, with one brief pause in
1947, I was in the Army. During World War II, I was with the

isth Air Force in Italy. After four years of state-side civilian
component duty, I was sent to Korea to help train the new ROK

Army. Since my last discharge, I have been learning to live and
work as a civilian.

[152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK HOLDEN BUCK

HOME ADpREsS: 804 N. Wayne St., Apt. 105, Arlington 1, Va.

OFFIcE AppREss: U. S. Government, 2430 E St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BORN: April 30, 1909, Cranston, R. I. parents: Frederick Holden Buck,
Florence Rosaline Hackett.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 1947; PH.D., 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stuart Henry Buck, 733.

OCCUPATION: Researcher, U. S. Government.

OFFICES HELD: Teaching fellow, Harvard College, 1946-47; tutor, Lima, Peru,
1940-41, Hebron Academy, Maine, 1941-42; U. S. Army, 1943-46.

MEMBER OF: National Geographic Society; Linguistic Society of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Comparative Study of Postpositions in Mongolian Dialects
and the Written Language, Harvard-Yenching Institute Studies, Har-
vard University Press, Cambridge, Mass., 1955.

AFTER graduating from Harvard, I taught for a year in the
North Quincy High School. From June, 1932, to July, 1934, I
ran a school for children planning to study in the United States.
This was in Champtocé, Maine-et-Loire, France. The school was
in an old chateau originally built by Louis IX. Along with other
sports, the boys learned how to play baseball. From August, 1934,
to June, 1935, I was a tutor with a family in Italy. We lived ina
large villa near Perugia. During the remaining years of the
1930's, I taught in such places as Northampton, Massachusetts;
Troy, Ohio; Los Angeles, California; Montreal, Canada; Lima,
Peru; and Hebron, Maine. Most of the subjects included lan-
guages (Latin, French, Spanish, German), American history and
mathematics.

In the summer of 1939, I studied in the Department of Public
Law at Columbia, New York. There I studied international bank-
ing and the history of American political thought. From June,
1942, to January, 1943, I studied Japanese in the Harvard-
Yenching Institute. From 1946 to 1951, I was in the Department
of Linguistics at Harvard. I specialized in Slavic languages, Chi-
nese, and Altaic languages (Turkish and Mongolian). I also
taught French as a teaching fellow at Harvard.

In 1952 I came to Washington, D. C., to work as a researcher
in the U. S. Government. I enjoy working in Washington, but I
am always glad to get a trip to my home in Massachusetts, with

[153]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

the prospect of seeing old friends again. My mother and two
married sisters live in Massachusetts. I also have the pleasure of
Visiting some members of the faculty at Harvard.

Mv interest in languages grew out of my early years in Europe,
and it continued in connection with my practical use of them in
and out of teaching. They were useful during the war and, after
my discharge from. the Army, I decided to w ork for my Ph.D. in
linguistics, “Aside from languages, I have always been interested
in music, and have spent much time, some professionally, at the
piano. My outdoor sports have been mainly swimming and tennis.
For a time, I was a guide at Lost River in the White Mountains,
New Hampshire. I still belong to the church in Quincy, Massa-
chusetts (Congregational),

On November 28, 1952, I was seriously injured as a passenger
in an automobile accident in Washington, D. C. I spent four
months in the hospital and four months at home recuperating.
Fortunately, I have recovered with no serious after-effects.

I spend my tme carrying on my regular work. In the evenings
and during week-ends, I try to add some more material to the
work in linguistics, particularly in the field of Altaic languages.
Aside from this, the only other outside activity I am connected
with is in the Inactive Reserves in the Army (captain).

HYDE GILBERT BULLER

HOME Avpress: § Bishop St, North Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Yo American Embassy, New Delhi, India.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Philip A. Buller, Ella Hyde.

pxeparea aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREFS: A.B. 1931; LL.B., 1934.

Marwitp: Elaine Manson, May 8, 1947, Washington, D. C. cHtrpren: Amy,
Nov. 15, 1948; Laurie, June 25, 1951; Philip Manson, Dec. 25, 1954.

occupation: Special assistant to director, Technical Cooperation Mission to
India.

mMemMbER oF: Massachusetts Bar.

EVER since graduation from the Law School, I have found
myself in one way or another involved in public programs for
economic development, first with the Resertlement Adiministra-
tion in the United States and now with the International Coopcra-

[154]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion Administration in India. In between, there were other jobs
on development programs, both domestic (the Soil Conservation
of the U. S. Department of Agriculture and the Federal Public
Housing Authority) and foreign (U.N.R.R.A., the board of
trustees for Rehabilitation Affairs in China, private consulting
work on development projects abroad, and the Institute of Inter-
American Affairs in Latin America). Along the way, I returned
to Harvard as a resident consultant at the Littauer School of
Public Administration and served as an enlisted man in the Army
in New Guinea and the Philippines.

My wife is a Radcliffe graduate. Two of our three children
were born abroad — Amy in China and Philip in India. They
share, or are learning to share, my belief that assistance to under-
developed countries represents the most constructive form of in-
ternational cooperation now in sight.

AUGUSTUS GEORGE BULLOCK, II

HOME AppDRESS: Brigham Hill Road, North Grafton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Mutual Life Assurance Co., 340 Main St., Worcester,
Mass.

BORN: Feb. 10, 1909, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Rockwood Hoar Bullock,
’03, Elizabeth Bliss Dewey.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRIED; Mary Archer Baugh, Oct. 14, 1932, Rosemont, Pa. CHILDREN:
Augustus George, Jr, Aug. 13, 1933; Rufus, Oct. 17, 1936; Polly
Primrose, Nov. 14, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Director securities investment branch, State Mutual Life Assur-
ance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Children’s Friend Society; treasurer and director,
Norwich and Worcester Railroad Company; president, Proprietors of
the Bay State House; trustee, Memorial Hospital; director, Merchants
and Farmers Mutual Fire Insurance Company (all of Worcester);
member, American Antiquarian Society.

MEMBER oF: Tatnuck Country Club; Worcester Club; Conanicut Yacht
Club,

SINCE leaving college I have been engaged in securities invest-
ment work for a life insurance company and thoroughly enjoy
the broad aspects of this work.

An. early “rusticator”, for the past sixteen years I have been

[155]

HARVARD CLASS OF IQ31

living in real country, twenty minutes from my work, with all
the satisfaction of that existence. I still enjoy my usual sports —
skiing, hunting and beachcombing around lower Narragansett
Bay — and feel that I would make : a fine world traveler, During
World War II, I spent three and a half very interesting and
mobile years as a “ground thumper” in the Air Corps, mostly in
England, France, Belgium and Germany.

I have an ideal family —a grand wife who puts up with many
idiosyncrasies, two boys in college and a small daughter to keep
us young.

RICHARD BULLWINKLE

HOME ADDRESS: 4509 Fairfax St., Dallas 5, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Texas Utilities Co., 1506 Commerce St., Dallas 1, Texas.

BorN: July 9, 1909, Central Valley, N. Y. parents: Richard Bullwinkle,
Louise Allen.

PREPARED AT: Phoenix Union High School, Phoenix, Ariz.,; Westbury High
School, Westbury, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B, IN E.E., 1931.

MARRIED: Betty Alden Aller, Feb. 12, 1932, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Lorna, June 9, 1935; Richard, Nov. 5, 1937; David, Nov. 24, 1940.

occupation: Vice-president, Texas Utilities Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Industrial Generating Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Dallas; Northwood Club and
City Club, Dallas.

FORREST BROWNE BURBANK

HOME AppRESS: 3846 Cass St. Omaha, Nebr.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 212 Farm Credit Bldg., Omaha, Nebr.

BORN: June 7, 1909, Omaha, Nebr. parents: Byron George Burbank, Jane
Browne.

PREPARED AT; Omaha Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1931; LLB. (Creighton Coll.),
1934.

MarRiED: Margaret Hurd, June 9, 1934, Council Bluffs, Iowa. CHILDREN:
Jane, Feb. 25, 1938; Fred H., Feb. 21, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Real estate investments.

MEMBER OF; Omaha Country Club; Omaha Club.

I AM owner and operator of apartment and other type buildings
in Omaha.

[156]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEWIS ROBERTS BURCHILL

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Wigtel Lane, Bellport, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1908, Frackville, Pa. parents: William Francis Burchill,
Margaret Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1938.

MarRiED: Catherine VanBlarcom, Oct. 4, 1941, Passaic, N. J.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Roberts Burchill, ’34, LL.B., °37.

occupation: Controller, Associated Universities, Inc.; certified public ac-
countant.

OFFICES HELD: Commissioner, Bellport Park Commission, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City.

AFTER a period in Pennsylvania at assorted jobs during the
difficult thirties, I returned to the Harvard Business School where
I obtained my M.B.A. in 1938. For four years thereafter I
worked in New York City in public accounting with ‘Touche,
Niven & Company, during which time I was granted my C.P.A.
certificate by the State of New York. These were days which
required long hours of work and travel, but seemed to yield a
very modest monetary reward. I did, however, find time to court
and marry my present wife. From 1942 to 1945 my wife and I
lived in Port au Prince, Haiti, where I served as assistant treasurer
of an agricultural development company engaged in developing
sources of rubber and sisal for the war effort. From 1945 to
1948 there was another period of public accounting in New York
and New Jersey and in 1948 I came to Associated Universities,
Inc., Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York, as
controller. We live in the pleasant little village of Bellport where
I act as the unskilled assistant to my wife in the gardening effort
around our home and manage to pursue on a strictly duffer basis
my interests in golf, bowling and bridge.

CHARLES HARRY BURGESS

OFFICE appress: Kennecott Copper Corp., 161 E. 42d St., New York 17, N. Y.

BoRN: April 3, 1910, Sheridan, Wyo. Parents: James Henry Burgess, Mary
Helen Helvey.

PREPARED AT: Sheridan High School, Sheridan, Wyo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1031; A.M, 1933; PH.D. 1936.

[157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

magrivp: Linda Cannon, May 24, 1934, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced 1954).
CHILDREN: Walter Pierce, Jan 8, 1936; Heather, May 30, 19373 James
Helvey, May 23, 1939; Pamela, Feb. 11, 1944; Martha, April 18, 1948.

occtPATION: Mining; executive vice-president, Bear Creek Mining Company.

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America; Society of Economics Geolo-
gists; American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical & Petroleum En-
gineers; University Club of Chicago; Mining Club of New York.

pubLications: “The Igneous Stocks of the Highwood Mountains, Montana”,
1941, “The Pattern of the ECA in Mineral Affairs, Mining, Engi-
neering”, Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, 1950.

SINCE leaving the Graduate School and a half-time instructor-
ship at Harvard, I have worked in the field of metals and minerals.
A third of these years has been spent in the federal government in
Washington. I served in several of the wartime agencies, mainly
the War Production Board, where I worked on the fabrication of
aluminum. Later, as director of the Strategic Materials Division
of the Economic Cooperation Administration, I supervised the
award of financial assistance for mineral development projects
in the Marshall Plan countries and their territories, and the pur-
chase from them of strategic materials for the United States
National Stockpile.

The other arena of my work has been the mining industry,
where I have occupied such various réles as a geologist working
underground in Butte, mine lessee and operator, treasurer of a
large coal company in the midwest, and consultant to U.S. com-
panies on the problem of their entrance into mining in various
foreign countries in Latin America and Africa. For three years
I was in charge of exploration for the Bear Creek Mining Com-
pany (a subsidiary of Kennecott Copper Corporation) in an area
bounded by the Canadian line, the Gulf of Mexico, the Appa-
lachians and the Rockies. This region has been explored, trapped,
farmed, lumbered, mined and prospected over a period of a
century or two and, at the present stage, it does not appear
abundantly rewarding in virgin discoveries of great orebodies,
however rich in mosquito-blighted tundra and parity-pure corn-
fields it may be. In January, 1956, I was elected executive vice-
president of Bear Creak, and moved to New York,

Visits to foreign countries in conjunction with my work, and
the hybridizing influence of working in both government and
industry have modified my views on politics and world affairs,

[158 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the result that the boundaries of many issues which for-
merly seemed sharp now appear to be gradational. With thermo-
nuclear devices available for use in war there remains only one
supreme problem, the working out of a means of living in peace.
The traditional issues of the tariff, taxes, wages, profits, etc.,
remain of importance to us, but they are ancillary to the urgency
of peace, and only as their solutions contribute to the relaxation
of international stresses will those solutions yield enduring bene-
fits. Our achievements in scientific discovery and technolog
have badly outstripped our performance in social fields. Certain
it is that some of the courses we took in history, government and
economics now seem remote. I have often recalled the outrage
of a professor in a course in public finance over a report that
girls taking domestic science in a high school had the choice of
a gas stove, a coal stove, and an electric stove to cook on; such
prodigality in the use of public funds shook him badly!

‘That Harvard continues to cherish the ideals of scholarship and
learning is gratifying to me, however anachronistic it may seem
that a modern university in this country can pretend to greatness
without courses in-dude ranching and barbell management. Col-
lege held different meanings for each man, but I believe that
every one of us at some time thrilled to the profound scholarship
to which we were exposed, and that we were just a bit the better
for it thereafter. Jim Redding, a Yard cop when we were in
college, once characterized Harvard very aptly. He was con-
soling the widow of a former professor, who occupied a univer-
sity-owned house on Divinity Avenue, on the damage that had
been done to her picket fence by some rowdies from Somerville.
He concluded with, “Those boys just don’t understand Harvard,
Mrs. Fen, they think Cambridge is a place. But it isn’t, it’s an
opportunity”.

My five children frequently indicate their belief that my youth
and college career date from the Mesozoic. They themselves are
progressing more rapidly than they realize along the usual path of
formal education, Martha is a gay explorer for knowledge in an
early stage of grade school, Pamela is enmeshed in the “dubious
joys and the difficult uncertainties of an early adolescence; James
is looking forward to college from the vantage of a high school
junior and is further cultivating an unusually creative artistic

[159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

talent; Heather is enjoying majoring in Greek at the University
of Michigan; and Pierce is working between his freshman and
sophomore years at college as a machinist in a plant devoted to

defense work.

FRANCIS MADDEN BURKE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 VW, Central St. Natick, Mass.

BorN: April 8, 1910, Natick, Mass. parents: Michael Francis Burke, m..
"96, Alice Dorothy Madden.

PREPARED AT: Natick High School, Natick, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D., 1936.

MarrigD: Patricia Frances Duffy (R.N.), Oct. 7, 1950, Framingham, Mass.
CHILDREN: Afaureen Frances, March 1, 1952; Kathleen Ann, June 1,
1953; Patricia Mary, Jan. 12, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Walter Thomas Burke, ’33; John Edward Burke, °3q.

OccUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Staff surgeon, Leonard Morse Hospital, Natick; member
courtesy staff, Glover Memorial Hospital, Needham, Mass., Framing-
ham Union Hospital, Framingham, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American College of
Gastroenterology (fellow); American Medical Association, Middlesex
West District Medical Society; Guild of St. Luke of Boston.

IN regard to career history, 1 have been engaged in the practice
of general surgery in my home town of Natick during the past
sixteen years. Since my marriage in 1950, traveling has become a
more frequent form of diversion, including trips to Bermuda,
Florida, California, Hawaii and Canada, There are no prospective
Harvard graduates among the offspring to date, their names being
Maureen, Kathleen and Patricia.

In recent years the family has enjoyed summer vacations at
the Nantucket Sound beaches of Cape Cod where swimming and
loafing have been the main pastimes. Attendance at the various
professional and college sporting events in and about Boston rates
high on the list of hobbies. An exhaustive effort has been under-
taken to solve the problem of “what is the matter with the Red
Sox” by faithful attendance at the Fenway Park night games and
by spring trips to Sarasota, Florida, during the past two years.
Although I’m a registered Democrat, it has become increasingly
difficult to remain a loyal party follower since the days of F.D.R.

[ 160 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STURTEVANT BURR

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Euston St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Badger, Pratt, Doyle & Badger, 53 State St., Boston, Mass,

BORN: Jan. 21, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Arthur Ellington Burr, ’or,
Emily Frances Sturtevant.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Marjorie Jane Tice, June 25, 1949, Brookline, Mass. cHILpREN:
Emily Sturtevant, May 25, 1951; Alison Hadley, Feb. 8, 1955.

occuPaTion: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Brookline School Committee; Assistant District At-
torney, Norfolk County.

MEMBER OF; Pi Eta Graduates; Harvard Club, Harvard Varsity Club; Brook-
line Historical Society; Society in Dedham for Apprehending of
Horse Thieves; The Brookline Amateurs.

UNDER Don Field’s goading, I have finally arrived at the point
where I must set down my biography. Why it should be so
difficult to put down in black and white what one has done is
hard to see, but during the past two or three months my procras-
tination has resulted, I believe, from the feeling that it had to be
written carefully so that one might not appear fatuous with what
might be uninteresting details, whereas, at the same time, a certain
pride made me feel that it should not be too brief and terse; how-
ever, the time has now arrived.

Looking back over my life since the halcyon days for four
years prior to 1931, it hardly seems possible that the Twenty-fifth
Reunion has now arrived. It merely corroborates what I have
always thought — that the days go so slowly and the years so fast.

Upon graduating from Law School, I went to work for the
trial firm of Badger, Pratt, Doyle & Badger. During the years, I
have had an increasing number of trial experiences for the most
part on the defending side of tort cases, that is, automobile acci-
dents, falling down stairs, tacks in apple pie and other similar
momentous things. It is an interesting profession, nerve-racking
at times as evidenced by the fact that insurance statistics show
that more men in trial law have nervous. breakdowns than any
other occupation. One must be a little bit of an exhibitionist,
often to the extent of coming very close to making a fool of one’s

©
self. It has its exciting and tense moments, especially when we

[ 161 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

are Waiting to hear what the jury is going to say, which usually
results in either a sigh of relief or a mutter, “How the hell could
they do that”? I also have practised in the general field of law.
Recently I was made a member of the firm.

I have lived in Brookline, Massachusetts, and have taken an
interest in town government, having been a Town Meeting
Member for over twenty years, an elected member of the School
Committee for eight years and a member of the Republican Town
Committee. During this time my hobbies for the main part have
been sailing, which included a race to Bermuda in 1948, a little
squash now and then, although the number of games I can play
becomes less each year. The last time I attempted to play, I
found that my Navy belt no longer came together. Golf and
dramatics come next in the order of hobbying.

The winter of 1943, I applied for a commission in the Navy
with the hope of some destroyer duty. Unfortunately, the I.B.M.
machine showed me to be a lawyer, which resulted in my being
sent to the “Golden Boot Camp”, Quonset, where, through some
error on the part of the Navy, I became an Air Combat Intelli-
gence Officer. After visiting all four corners of the United States,
which broadened my hitherto rather provincial outlook on life,
I was given carrier duty on board the USS Steamer Bay. On this
for a year and one half, I traversed the Pacific Ocean several times,
saw many strange and interesting things and islands from Hono-
lulu to Spiritu Santo and from Samoa to Guam. We took part
in the invasion of Iwo Jima and Lingayen. My duties as ship’s
intelligence officer afforded me the opportunity to understand
what was going on in the Pacific Theatre. My next tour of duty
was on the Antietam, where I was when the war ended. The ship
continued on reconnoitering Korea and, of all places, I was finally
discharged from the service in Tsing-tao.

My provincial outlook having been broadened and having sur-
veyed most of the pulchritude of the Pacific, I returned to marry
my good wife. We now have two small children.

In 1947 I was appointed Assistant District Attorney in Norfolk
and Plymouth Counties and served for six years. During that
time my outlook was further broadened and I discovered how
the other half lives and was shocked to find out how many of
the people charged with crimes were young in years, especially

[ 162 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the fifteen- to twenty-five-year-old bracket. I do not know
what the solution is, but suspect that the situation will become
worse. I am sure that the military service is one of the factors
and, I believe, the lack of parental discipline and parental under-
standing are more important. How much of that can be cured
by psychiatric methods is questionable in my mind, and I am
sure that only some sort of religious or spiritual reform causin
parents to realize and accept their responsibilities will be the
final answer.

I can only say that these twenty-five years have been interest-
ing, exciting and enjoyable to the extent that I would be glad
to relive them all over again. Oh, there are a few things I might
have done differently, but of those the less said the betrer. I am
looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion of all “my pious
friends and ............ companions”; as a matter of fact, I am looking
forward to my Fiftieth and hope to see them all again.

RICHARD EMERSON BURTON

HOME apborEsSs: 732 Great Plain Ave., Needham gz, Msas.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 10, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Richard J. Burton, Louise
Connor.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; ED.M. (Boston Teachers
Coll.), 1934; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Dantzler, Dec. 26, 1944, Barrington, R. I. crip: Richard
Emerson, Jr., Dec. 15, 1945.

occupation: Master, Public Latin School, Boston.

I HAVE spent the past quarter-century going to school, teaching
school and traveling the world. Along the way I have picked up
a Master’s degree in education and an LL.B. I have been a mem-
ber of the Massachusetts Bar for fifteen years. During the past
five years I have completed seven half-courses at Harvard in
history, government, anthropology and education.

Before World War II, I spent four summers bicycling around
Europe as a civilian. Since then I have made three trips to Asia in
uniform. First trip we were trying to destroy Japan. Second
trip we were occupying the Japanese Empire. And the third trip

[ 163]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

we were defending the Japanese. After the truce was signed at
Panmunjom, I returned to Boston Latin and the task of preparing

boys for Harvard. I am presently a major in the ready reserve of
the Air Force.

E. FARNHAM BUTLER

HOME Appress: Folly Hill, Mount Desert, Maine.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Mount Desert Yacht Yard, Inc. Mount Desert, Maine.

BorN: Aug. 19, 1909, York, Maine. parents: Arthur Pierce Butler, °88,
Lydia R. Farnham.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1933. DEGREE: S.B., 1931 (33).

marrieD: Gladys Whitmore, Sept. 3, 1938, Southwest Harbor, Maine.
CHILDREN: Lydia Raguet, Feb. 4, 1941; Edwin Farnham, Jr., April 30,
1943; Elizabeth, April 26, 1944; John Whitmore, May 25, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Pierce Butler, Jr., ’30, M.B.A., 32, A-M., 37, PH.D., 47.

occupaTion: President and general manager, Mount Desert Yacht Yard,
Inc., yacht design and construction.

OFFICES HELD: Director, American Association of Boat Builders, Mount De-
sert Development Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Northeast Harbor Fleet; Mount Desert Yacht Club; Harvard
Clubs of Boston and Eastern Maine.

BY the end of my junior year I came to the conclusion that I had
made a mistake to concentrate in history and decided to go to
work to acquire a new outlook on life. From September, 1930,
to January, 1932, I worked as a loftsman and shipfitter at the Fore
River Shipyard and I consider it the most valuable experience of
my life. However, having decided that I wouldn’t want the gen-
eral manager’s job at forty (and time has confirmed it), it obvi-
ously was no place for me. Returning to Harvard, I shifted to
economics and took my degree with the Class of 1933. It was
most interesting but didn’t lead anywhere in particular as I was
out of sympathy with the political theories then in vogue.
Having all my life lived for the three summer months at Mount
Desert (Maine, of course! ), it seemed only natural to move there.
As boats were my only true love then, what could be more natural
than to go to work in a boat yard, In 1934 the proprietor failed
and I organized a new company, the Mount Desert Yacht Yard,
Inc., which was destined to become the laboratory for develop-

[ 164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ments which have changed the whole field of yacht design and
construction.

On April 3, 1937, an event took place which was to change my
life —a young lady from far Hawaii came into the yard looking
for a boat. Gladys did get a boat but she also got a husband, a
job and later on, four kids all of whom are good sailors — the
youngest started at ten days.

During the war, I built small boats of all sorts for the Navy.
Often I wished I were operating them instead of building —
fighting the enemy instead of the Navy. No more government
work for me EVER! In the years after the war I became very
much interested in public education and devoted a good deal of
time to the development of a plan for a regional high school in our
area. We conducted an educational survey which, although it
didn’t convince our own people, had contributed greatly to other
small communities. Anyone struggling with that problem would
do well to read it; copies are available free. Had we succeeded, I
believe we would have had the best school in New England, but
it remains a dream. I later ran for the school board but was de-
feated on the regional school issue even though it was all settled!
Three years later Gladys ran and made a landslide victory against
the same incumbent!

Unsuccessful in my educational projects, I turned back to
boats in earnest. In 1950 we produced a small auxiliary sailboat
which was radical in both design and construction. She was aptly
named the Controversy. So well have the new ideas beeen re-
ceived that we now have boats building from our designs all over
the world. |

As I look back over the last twenty-five years, there aren’t many
things I would change if I had it all to do over again. I certainly
wouldn’t change the life we lead or the place we live — the rest
of you may have the cities and suburbia. I haven’t made a lot of
money, but you don’t need too much in Maine —and I can’t
think of a soul with whom I'd change places.

[ 165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

JAMES MacGREGOR BYRNE

HOME appress: 5904 Cedar Pkwy. Chevy Chase, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Foreign Service Mail Room, Dept. of State, Washington,
D. C.

porN: Aug. 18, 1909, Ovster Bay, N. Y. parents: James Byrne, °77, Helen
MacGregor.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931, DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B., 1934.

marrieD: Adele Hay, Mav 2, 1940, New York, N. Y.; June Beakes, Nov.
27, 1946, Arlington, Va. cHiLpReN: Moyra, April 1, 1941; Jill, Sept. 29,
1947; Jaird, May 17, 1949, James MacGregor, Jr., June 11, 1953-

occupation: First Secretary, American Embassy, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

IT is said that there is no surer way to salvation than reverently
to immerse oneself in the Lives of the Saints. While mindful of
the benefits that would accrue to my classmates from reading a
detailed account of my life, at this particular moment (having
just come down with malaria), I ‘‘couldn’t care less” about their
spiritual welfare. If I succeed in attending the festivities next
spring —the obstacles seem almost insuperable at the present
time —I shall generously share with my classmates the details of
my secret past and thus help raise some of them out of the moral
morass where they have no doubt lain ever since graduation.

However, to satisfy an insistent public demand, | have kindly
consented to lift the curtain at this time on the bare bones of my
curriculum vitae since graduation: law —TB— law, 1934-41;
American Embassy, Buenos Aires, 1941-45; New York interim,
1945-46; American Legation, Bern, Switzerland, 1947-51; Depart-
ment of State, Washington, D. C., 1951-54, American Embassy,
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, since 1954.

It will be a great blow to me — and I trust a disappointment to
others — if circumstances prevent my attending the Reunion and
witnessing the ravages of time. As for me, except in appearance, I
have changed very little. I’m the same diffident, modest chap who
so endeared himself to his classmates twenty-five years ago.

[ 166 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY HOLLIS CAFFEE

HOME ADDRESS: 4315 Anderson Rd., Coral Gables, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Douglas Entrance Apts., Coral Gables, Fla.

BoRN: July 8, 1909, Terre Haute, Ind. parents: Bennett Van Horn Caffee,
Matilda Evelyn Hollis.

PREPARED AT: Winter Haven High School, Winter Haven, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.D., 1935.

MarRIED: Jean Dunsmore, May 14, 1937, New York, N. Y. cHiLpren: Mary,
Feb. 19, 1941; Henry Hollis, Jr., May 8, 1943; Michael Douglas, Feb. 5,
1949; Bennet Dunsmore, Dec. 13, 1953.

occupation: Obstetrician; gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Oneida Maternity Hospital, Oneida, Ky., 1941-45;
secretary, Miami Obstetrical & Gynecological Society, 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Southern Medical Association;
Florida Medical Association; Dade County Medical Association, Miami
Obstetrical and Gynecological Society; Florida Obstetric and Gyne-
cologic Society; South Atlantic Association of Obstetricians and Gyne-
cologists, Exchange Club of Coral Gables, Country Club of Coral
Gables; Coconut Grove Sailing Club (rear commander); Miami Yacht
Club.

STICKING close to the job, while it may be unexciting to tell
about, has not proved as dull as I should have predicted, had I
known it would be my lot. Having an exciting job has made the
difference. Becoming acquainted with the ancient arts and the
modern science of medicine was—and still is—a fascinating
business. As a student, forced by near poverty and innate stingi-
ness to hang around the hospitals on week-ends and holidays, I got
to lend a hand with the weird accidents and rare emergencies that
always seem to crop up at odd times and, later, came to believe
that nothing equals clinical medicine as a source of high drama and
low comedy. As an intern and resident, working a sixteen- to
eighteen-hour day, subject to twenty-four-hour call, and doing
much that same thing now that my practice has grown to a good
size, the job has likewise been the main source of amusement as
well as satisfaction.

Jean and I were married when we both worked at New York
Hospital. She earned our living as a visiting nurse in Louisville
during my residency there; she worked in the office during two
tough years at Orlando, and we lived next to the hospital at
Oneida Maternity in the four war-time years. We still live within

[ 167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

the sound of a telephone. Ic had to be interesting to be bearable;
for me, at any rate, it is more than that. Makes for a good collec-
tion of stories, too. Not nice stories, but good ones. Only re-
cently we have tried to get away from the job a little. My own
favorite escape route is by boat, presently having a Rhodes Bantam
and being active in training the kids in the Optimist Pram class,
in which our number one son sails. As soon as the youngest can
swim, we'll have a shoal-draft ketch or schooner, light enough for
a 15-horsepower outboard to shove in a calm, and go poling
among the mangroves of the Keys and the Gulf Coast, maybe even
over to the Bahamas in fine weather.

We now live in a fine house — two rooms short of our family’s
needs —and support two Fords and a fleet of little plywood
boats (Rhodes Bantam, two prams and one punt), have our name
on all the sucker lists in the Southeast, and are storing up nothing
for the future but four handsome children.

CARROLL MARSTON CAIN

HOME aDpREsS: 75 Cushing Ave., Belmont 78, Mass.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Junior High School, Belmont 78, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1906, Everett, Mass. parents: George Hogarth Cain, Mildred
Knight Parker.

PREPARED aT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREFS: B.A. (Acadia Univ.), 1931; ED.M.
(Boston Univ.), 1953.

Marriep: Mildred Armstrong Hayes, April 17, 1937, Belmont, Mass.  CHIL-
DREN; George Robert, April 28, 1938; Carole, April 27, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Guidance counselor; education.

OFFIces HELD: President, New England Alumni Association, Acadia Uni-

versity, 1942, Belmont Teachers’ Association, 1952~53; treasurer, Oakley
Country Club, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; Massachusetts Teachers’ As-

sociation; Belmont Teachers’ Association; Guidance Directors’ Club
of Greater Boston, Oakley Country Club.

PRIOR to my entrance into Harvard in 1927, a serious eye in-
fection had kept me side-lined for two years. A recurrence of
said affliction at the beginning of my sophomore year prevented
my reading for another few months at least. It was then that
arrangements were made for me to join my brother at Acadia

{ 168 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

University, Nova Scotia, where I attended classes but had mon
frére coach me in all reading assignments. I became so enamored
of this fine, small institution that I elected to re-enroll for the
other two years. My father had hoped that his two sons would
follow his profession of teaching so that we could continue to
operate the summer camp for boys which he had founded in
1908.

My athletic endeavors at Acadia resulted in major letters in
Rugby (two years), hockey (three years and captain in senior
year), swimming (two years, set two pool records) and track
(two years). Upon graduation in 1931, I was fortunate to be
appointed master and coach at the Rothesay Collegiate School in
New Brunswick. Here I passed four very happy and profitable
years; but I was tiring of bachelorhood. Hence, in 1935 I sought
a better-paying assignment and was accepted on the staff of the
Belmont Junior High School in my home town, where I have
been ever since with the exception of a Service hitch.

In April of 1937 I said adieu to bachelorhood; in April of 1938
Bob was born; in April of 1941 Carole arrived. From 1943 until
1945 I served with the United States Navy as a classification spe-
cialist with the duties of testing, interviewing and recommending
for assignment all new recruits. Classification was a program
initiated early in 1943 for the purpose of keeping round pegs out
of square holes. For three years prior to entering the Service, I
had been devoting half my school time to counseling; upon my
return from Service, I assumed a full-time job as counselor.
I began at once taking afternoon and evening courses in guidance
at Boston University Graduate School of Education, and I re-
ceived my master of education degree in 1953.

My principal hobby began in 1929 when I joined the golf club
near our summer camp. For several years I took the game seri-
ously and played hard at it. My major accomplishments in this
area have been: Maritime Amateur Champion, 1931; Nova Scotia
Amateur Champion, 1933 and 1937; New Brunswick Amateur
Champion, 1934; Oakley Country Club Champion, 1940, 1941,
1942 and 1946. Today, however, I am enjoying a reasonably high
handicap and playing the game strictly for fun and exercise. This
is my third year of service as club treasurer.

My extra-curricular interests are now channeled to the ob-

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193!

servation of my children’s growing up. Carole is a sophomore

in high school, “she loves horseback riding and sw imming, which

she enjoys at her summer camp. Bob graduates from ‘Belmont
Hill School this year; he is even more enthusiastic about hockey
than I was. \fy duties at school have precluded attendance at

annual graduation reunions, but I plan to exert every effort to be
present at the Twenty-fifth.

FRANCIS HOLLAND CAIRNS

MAILING ADDRESS: 46 Bay St., New Bedford, Mass.

BORN: July 26, 1906, New Bedford, Mass. parents: John Thomas Cairns,
Margaret Holland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930:
occupation: Government service.

EDWARD FAUNCE CALDWELL

HOME appreEss: 814 Colford Ave., Collingswood, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Radio Corp. of America, Camden, N. J.

BorN: Feb. 1, 1909, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Merton Herbert Caldwell,
Minerva Maud MacDonald.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Barbara E. Jones, Oct. 3, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: John
Edison, Nov. 20, 1937; Susan Eleanor, Jan. 28, 1942; David William,
May 25, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Merton David Caldwell, 36.

occupation: Administrator, Radio Corporation of America.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Plastic Film Products Corporation, P-W Corpora-
tion.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Statistical Asso-
ciation, American Marketing Association, Investment Associates;
Society for the Advancement of Management; National Planning
Association; American College Personnel Association; Armed Forces
Communication Association, American Contract Bridge League; Ro-
tary; Elks, Moorestown Field Club.

pusLications: Wage and Salary Administration, 1946.

FOLLOWING graduation from the Business School in 1933, I
went with the New England Tel. & Tel. Company in their com-
mercial department. I remained with the Telephone Company for

[170]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nine years, until the outbreak of war in 1942, when |
United Aircraft Corporation at its Chance Vought A
division in Stratford, Connecticut. Looking back, it 1s s
that we forget the long endless months, turning into ye.
seventy- and eighty- and sometimes one hundred-hour
weeks, It is even difficult to recall the myriad hosts of daily
lems we met and licked in building the plant from 1500 to |

employees, while production of Corsair Fighter planes st
mounted.

After war’s end the plant floor looked almost lonely and it
a while for new plans to take shape. Foremost was the amb;
move from Stratford to Dallas, Texas, in which 1500 emplc
with their families — almost 5000 people in all— were t
planted some 1800 miles — the largest and longest big plant n
in the country’s history. My responsibility was for the pec
their selection, scheduling, arrangements for moving, transpc
tion, reception in Dallas, and finding them both temporary
permanent housing. In other words, we had the small task
making 5000 Yankees happy in Texas! And believe me, it cz
be done! At least that was my family’s finding. So, before Ic
we pulled up stakes and returned north to Ohio. We spent fc
happy years in the Akron area before I joined Radio Corporati
of America and we moved to New Jersey. Here my eightee
year-old boy is a high school senior and manager of the footbz
team. My daughter Susan 1s fourteen and is in junior high. M
youngest son David is nine. We have enjoyed life and living i

New Jersey with much of our recreational time given over t
golf and the seashore.

HERBERT CRANSWICK CAMERON
. HOME Appress: 12 Sheffield Rd., Natick, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Jackson & Moreland, Park Square Bldg., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.
Occupation: Engineering.

[171 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

JAMES BETHUNE CAMPBELL

HOME ADDRESS: Stormont, Tuxedo Park, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 630 W. 168th St., New York 32, N. Y.

BORN: July 27, 1909, Boston, Mass. Parents: Thomas Clymen Campbell,
Elizabeth Bethune.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.D., 1935.

MARRIED: Marise Blair, Oct. 20, 1934, Peapack, N. J.

occupation: Neurological surgeon.

MEMBER OF; Tuxedo Club; Harvey Cushing Society (professional); Sigma
Xi; Kappa Chapter, Scientific Honorary Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Medical articles.

MY life to date has been a constant battle against becoming so
involved in a profession that one becomes a machine. The battle
is won intermittently by deliberately taking a vacation in another
part of the world, and systematically avoiding doctors when not
at work. The battle within my professional life is balanced by
carrying on a research program, as well as a clinical career.

My military career was one of good fortune and extremely
interesting. I had the honor of serving in the Southwest Pacific
area and being in many landings without getting a scratch.

GEORGE WOOD CANTERBURY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 409 Main St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Bethlehem Steel Co. Shipbuilding Div., E. Howard 5t,,
Quincy, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1909, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: George Wood Canterbury,
’o1, Adelaide Merrill Gay,

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: GR. (Bentley School of Accounting),
1933.

MARRIED: Alma Seebeck, May 5, 1939, Hingham, Mass. cHItpREN: Charles
Turell and Richard Merrill (twins), June 22, 1941; Robert Bradford,
May 7, 1946.

occuPATION: Shipbuilding cost analyst.

MEMBER OF; Massachusetts Charitable Society, Hingham Yacht Club;
Wompatuck Club of Hingham.

AFTER leaving college in the spring of 1929, I went to work for
a brokerage house in Boston and, as one might surmise, spent an

[172]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

interesting two years during and immediately following the mar-
ket crash.

In 1931 the investment business decided it could get along with-
out me, and for the next two years I studied accounting at the
Bentley School, graduating in 1933.

The next year was spent in unsuccessful attempts at finding a
job and on a combination job-hunting and pleasure junket to Cali-
fornia in the winter of 1934. This trip produced a good deal in
the form of a good time, but nothing in the way of employment.

In July of 1934, I went to work at Bethlehem Steel’s shipyard
in Quincy, where I have been ever since. At the shipyard, I have
worked in various departments, doing both manual labor and
office work. I was transferred to the Hingham Shipyard during
World War II as a warehouse supervisor, and returned to Quincy
in 1946. For the past seven or eight years I have been doing cost
analysis work in the yard’s Contracting and Estimating Division
— preparation of labor cost budgets, labor cost predictions, analy-
sis of returned costs, general statistical work on costs.

I was married in 1939 and over the next few years contrived to
sire three sons, twins now fourteen and a singleton now nine.
Without having any particular hobby, I enjoy golf, bowling,
fishing and boating. Week-ends from May to October are spent
in South Orleans at a camp which we share with my brother and
his family.

Having decided a long time ago that I possessed neither the
mental nor temperamental attributes necessary to become a busi-
ness tycoon or political world-shaker, I have spent the past twen-
ty-five years going along from day to day enjoying life with my
family and trying not to grieve too much over my gradually
departing hair and increasing waistline.

CARL CAREY

HOME apprEss: 852 S. Main St., Old Forge, Pa.

OFFICE appREss: Mears Bldg., Scranton, Pa.

BORN: July 14, 1908, Old Forge, Pa. parents: Ralph Carey, Mary Roberto.
PREPARED AT: Old Forge High School, Old Forge, Pa.

[173]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B. (Yale Law School),
1934.

ntartico. Cathryn V. O'Neill, Dec. 27, 1941. cHiLp: Brigid E., March 23,
1946.

occupation: Lawyer.

UPON completion of my law course, I was fortunate to pass im-

mediately the State Bar examination. Continuously thereafter,

the practice of law has been my daily work, except for the war

years. There is a genuine satisfaction in being engaged in the

general practice; there is never a dull moment and the unexpected

happens so often that new problems constantly maintain one’s

legal interest.

During World War II, I enlisted as a private and was commis-
sioned after completing the Officers’ Candidate Schoo] at Missis-
sippi State College where, I may add, I was exposed to a southern
classmate with whom a continuous debate is still in progress as
to exactly which side won the Civil War. My active Army duties
came to a close with my being a member of legal staff, Office
Chief Transportation, Pentagon, Washington, D. C.; my inactive
military career consists of a major’s rank.

BUKK G. CARLETON

HOME aApprEss: Parade Hill Lane, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sinclair Oil Corp., 600 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 30, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Bukk G. Carleton, Clarice
Elizabeth Griffith.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934. —

MarRieD: Mary Elizabeth Tucker, June 16, 1934, Springfield, Mass. cum-
DREN: Elizabeth Holland, Oct. 19, 1937; Bukk G., 3d, May 27, 1940.

OccuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to secretary, General Chemical Company, 1936-42;
counsel, R.F.C., New York Loan Agency, 1942-44; director, vice-
president, secretary, Perma Bilt Homes, Inc., 1941-42; head law depart-
ment, New York office, Montgomery Ward & Company, 1944-46;
attorney, Sinclair Refining Company, since 1946; director, Sinclair
Pipeline Company, 1950~§1.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and New Canaan, Conn.; Metro-
politan Club, N. Y.; Woodway Country Club, New Canaan; Quin-
natisset Country Club, Thompson, Conn.

TO paraphrase the Bard — “To write and, if so, what — that is

[174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the question”! Three months ago, when this project was first
thrust upon me, I took refuge in reading the Tenth and Twen-
tieth Anniversary Reports of the Class which had been accumu-
lating dust, and found the various accounts so interesting that I
was able to shelve the original project with a clear conscience.
Having just received a “must” follow-up directive, again I find
myself faced with a blank sheet of paper and little to put thereon
which I feel would be of lasting benefit to posterity or even of
immediate interest to the Class.

For me the past twenty-five years have been fleeting, pleasant
and relatively uneventful. I have a small family of which I am
very proud. With my daughter leaving for Radcliffe and my son
for St. Paul’s this fall, | am beginning to realize that a new phase
of life is starting and I cannot say that I relish the adjustment —
another proof that twenty-five years have gone over the dam.
We live a quiet life doing the things (mostly) that interest us
and are of little moment to others or to society as a whole.

Under today’s conditions, this seems to me about the finest
privilege the individual can have — namely, to do what he or she
wants without too much worry about the consequences. To me
the most noticeable change in the past twenty-five years has been
the shrinkage in the individual and the concomitant rise of vast
impersonal organizations (both corporate and government); and
the failure of the individual to notice — much less to do anything
about — his loss of personal liberties, accomplished by the wide
dissemination of a plethora of half-truths whose constant reiter-
ation makes them acceptable as fact, creating a robot-like mass
mind as a counterpart to the impersonal organization. I feel that
this is one of the most unfortunate and dangerous aspects of
today’s life. As there is little that I can do about it, I “tend my
garden” and am content.

TRAVERS DENTON CARMAN, JR.

HOME aApprREss: 194A Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Allied American Mutual Fire Insurance Co., Back Bay
Station, Dartmouth St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 15, 1907, Yonkers, N. Y. PARENTS: Travers Denton Carman,

Emma Taylor.
[175 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Emily Prescott Warren, June 17, 1931, Newton, Mass. (died 1939.)

occuPaTION: Fire insurance underwriter; assistant manager, Allied American
Fire Insurance Company.

ONE approaches writing one’s “Class Life” with all the enthusi-
asm one would generate for a personal obituary. We'd all like
to know how a set of lives developed from the starting point we
shared. Apparently a stint in the Navy, or in my case “Hooligan
Navy”, beginning as lieutenant (j.g.) and ending as lieutenant
commander with the third round on the house was almost a rou-
tine for many of us. I had a milk run convoy in the Atlantic and
the grand tour of the Pacific. Shed part of a small mind for a
global concept, became a tourist from the travels, found that the
most exciting part of war was docking a ship, and stood in con-
stant admiration of the skill and fortitude of those in whom I was
commissioned to instill skill and fortitude. I remember carpenters
on Okinawa rebuilding a house during bombardment. The war
developed a straightforward faith in the human animal that might
have come sooner had the nineteen-thirties been a little less try-
ing on the economic side. It relieved most of us of a good deal
of superfluous intellectual bric-a-brac.

Like all good Democrats, I consider the Republican party as
representative of the keenest minds of the 19th century. The
progress of our American economy is marvellously interesting
and so is the stock market — even for as much as a few General
Motors shares as participation. The priesthood of Iaissez-faire
does not find me at their altar.

Theologically, the Anglican church appeals. Musically, there
is nothing like the Baroque period, save perhaps for Italian and
French opera. For canvas, I stopped short at post impressionism.
As to vocation, insurance is good discipline and not bad fun.
Success, of course, depends to a degree on the verve with which
the Boy Scout salute is given. I myself am currently the janitor
in my building which I have come to look upon as my true call-
ing, preferring to reserve the executive facade for nine to five, as
a gesture toward reassurance to the group. The next quarter-

century will be very busy —even filling in the omissions of the
last.

[176 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES JOSEPH CARNEY, JR.

HOME apprEss: 460 Loretto Ave., Coral Gables 46, Fla.

OFFICE appress: University of Miami, Box 397, University Branch, Miami,
Fla.

Born: May 9, 1909, Waltham, Mass. parents: James Joseph Carney, Anne
Bentley.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 19313 A.M. 1933; PH.D. (Duke
Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Rebecca Wingert, June 8, 1940, Newark, Ohio. cuitpren: Sheila,
Aug. 28, 1941; James Joseph, 3d, April 9, 1945; Michael Wingert, Dec.
9, 1950.

occupation: Professor of Finance; chairman, Finance Department.

orFices HELD: Director, Maule Industries, Inc., since 1955; faculty adviser to
several fraternities: Lambda Chi Alpha, Alpha Kappa Psi; president,
Harvard Club of Miami, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami; Country Club of Coral Gables,
Lambda Chi Alpha; several professional fraternities; American Finance
Association; American Economics Association.

PuBLicaTions: A monograph on British Unemployment in the tg20’s, now
being examined by a publisher, contributions to professional and busi-
ness journals.

FOR a few years after graduation, I divided my time between
selling securities and working for an A.M. at Harvard. Then in
the fall of ’34 I was awarded a teaching fellowship at Duke Uni-
versity, where I finished the Ph.D. requirements in 1937. For the
next three years I taught at the University of Illinois. While
there, I met my wife. We were married in 1940 and came to the
struggling but “destined- -to-grow-phenomenally” University of
Miami.

Except for the years 1942 to 1944 with the War Manpower
Commission and the Fourth Service Command in Atlanta (where
I was regional labor economist), we have been at the University
of Miami ever since. The opportunity to share —in however
small a way — in the development of this institution has been
something for which I shall always be grateful. From 1300 stu-
dents in 1940, it has now grown to more than 10,000, My job is
essentially teaching: Money and Banking, International Finance
and the Financial History of the United States. I have some ad-
ministrative work, in that I am chairman of the Finance Depart-
ment. I have published a half-dozen articles, as well as a mono-

[177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

graph, and [I have recently been elected a director of Maule In-
dustries.

Miami itself is a fascinating city. It is still a pioneering com-
munity in the sense that opportunities here are excellent. The
city’s proximity to Latin America and Africa, for example, prom-
ises it a substantial future as entrepot and trade center. But it
has matured so — especially in the decade and a half that we have
lived here. The University of Miami— the Lowe Gallery — the
Symphony — these mean modern Miami much more than the
widely publicized “playground of the world” attractions, al-
though these are here, too. Incidentally, despite my obvious fond-
ness for my adopted city, I still visit Boston fairly regularly, and
I have never lost my enthusiasm for the Red Sox.

One of Miami's outstanding attractions to us is the Harvard
Club. It is very active in Schools and Scholarship work and offers
a full program throughout the year. Many activities are in con-
junction with the local Yale and Princeton Clubs. As these words
are being written, we are looking forward to the annual con-
vention of the Associated Harvard Clubs, which meets in Miami
in the spring of 1956. And the Harvard Glee Club will honor us
at the same time. I have served as chairman of the Scholarship
Committee, and presently I am the president.

So my wife, our three children, and I lead the fairly calm but
satisfying life of a faculty family in most pleasant surroundings.

RALPH GEORGE CARPENTER, II

HOME aApprEss: P, O, Box 427, Wolfeboro, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fish and Game Department Bldg., Bridge Street, Concord,
N. H.

BorN: Feb, 13, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Ralph Guy Carpenter, ’o8,
Marguerite Paul.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: s.D. hon. (Suffolk Univ.), 1948.

marrieD: Carolyn Gibbs, 1930, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Ralph George,
Jr., Feb. 14, 1931 (m. Katherine Avery, July, 1953); William Benbow,
Oct. 9, 1933; Richard Paul, Oct. 23, 1936. GRANDCHILD: Carolyn Elvira
Carpenter, Sept. 21, 1954.

occuPATION: Director, New Hampshire Fish and Game Department.

OFFICES HELD: Representative, New Hampshire General Court, 1937-40;

[178 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

past president, Wolfeboro Rotary Club, 1938, past chairman, New
England Fish and Game Administrators, North Eastern Fish and Game
Administrators; director, member executive committee, Huggins Hospi-
tal, member, New Hampshire Water Pollution Commission; member,
International Association of Fish and Game Commissioners.

MEMBER OF: Knight Temple and Bectash Temple, AAONMS, Masons (32d
degree.)

pusLications: Co-author (with Hilbert R. Siegler, chicf of management and
research division of Fish and Game Department), “A List of New
Hampshire Mammals and Their Distribution”, and “Fishes of New
Hampshire”.

I LEFT college at the end of my junior year and married a Wal-
tham girl whom I found to be fond of birds and animals, includ-
ing myself, and we moved to Barndoor Island, a one-hundred-
acre island in Lake Winnipesaukee, where I had the happy
thought that I could raise game birds and animals. We started in
with a herd of five elk. However, we found after living about
a year and a half with five elk, two German shepherds, a cocker
spanicl, and a number of setters, that the elk did not make very
nice companions, so they were disposed of,

We raised various exotic pheasants, peafowl, quail, chukar
partridge, and at one time practically all the kinds of wild

eese found in North America, as well as many species of wild
ducks. We learned the hard way that diving ducks, although
quite happy during the summer, do not do well when penned up
with a pan of water to dive in during the winter. We then de-
cided that maybe raising children might make a good substitute
for our lack of success in raising diving ducks. As for our suc-
cess in the latter undertaking, we can point to three sons: George,
Jr., aged twenty-four, William Benbow, aged twenty-two, and
Richard Paul, aged nineteen. After spending two years on our
island, we found it more practical to stay on the island summers
and live on the mainland at Wolfeboro in the winter, a practice
we have continued up to the present time.

We also found that raising game birds makes an excellent
hobby, but cannot really be considered a good business in our
particular section. So I went into the real estate business which
proved to be very interesting. However, my first love of animals
and birds continued. It apparently started as far back as I can
remember because, at some five years of age, I stole a few wild

[179 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

carried out without political pregures being brought to bear from
all sides. All in all, the years since I left college have been inter-
esting, busy and satisfying years. I have been fortunate in having
a wife who shares my interests and tolerates my idiosyncrasies.
Together and with our three boys and, recently, our daughter-
in-law and new granddaughter, we find every day a mighty nice

experience.

FRANCIS HENRY CARR
SEE Appendix.

LAWRENCE CARRA

HOME ADDRESS: 200 Vine St., Hammonton, N_J.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1909, Isole Eolie, Italy. parenrs: Domenico Carra, Angela
Lazzaro.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1931(32); M.F.A. (Yale Univ.),
1937.

MarRIED: Marguerita Carmosino, Nov. 27, 1935, Brunswick, Maine. cHIL-
DREN: Lawrence Dom, Nov. 27, 1939; Vincent, June 5, 1943; Richard,
Dec. 22, 1950.

OccUPATION: Stage and television; education.

OFFICES HELD: Producer, Pulitzer Prize Playhouse, ABC-TV, 1951-52; associ-
ate professor of drama, Carnegie Tech., 1946-51; assistant professor of
drama, University of Texas, 1940-46; instructor in drama, Northwestern
University, 1938-40.

MEMBER OF: Actors’ Equity Association; Radio and Television Directors
Guild; American National Theatre and Academy; American Educa-
tional Theatre Associatin.

PuBLicaTions: “The Great Magician’, a Commedia Dell’arte Production,
NBC Radio Network.

] IMAGINE the listing under “Offices Held” tells a bit about
one’s career, yet in some ways, a career in the theatre, outside
the confines of universities, exists in a kind of amorphous state
without beginning or end, top or bottom. I do recall, after a
three-year stint at the Yale Drama School, being invited back by
my Harvard Dramatic Club to stage a new English satire in
Sanders Theatre and competing unsuccessfully for an audience that
stormed Memorial Hall across the entry to a lecture-demonstra-

[ 182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion by Sally Rand (front-page headlines that!). I recall directing
grand opera for Texans in the huge city auditorium in Houston
with accompaniment by their symphony orchestra, a social event
that was to be repeated for three seasons (and then the conductor
and I lefe for other pastures). [ recall touring the “professional
theatre” in the great Southwest to towns that had never had
“live” theatre. This went on for several months until the owners
of the extensive theatre chain counted receipts and proved the
inevitable — that “canned” theatre was more profitable. One of
my happiest recollections is staging a massive music-dance-drama
festival in Pitt Stadium with steelworkers and their associates —
my most astonishing is producing Thornton Wilder’s “Skin of
Our Teeth” for Pulitzer Prize Playhouse on TV and receiving
unreserved critical acclaim in the morning editions only to be
called on the carpet that same morning by the sponsor’s agent
and confronted with “What's the idca putting on stuff like that” ?
—and the script had been approved! Let me repeat: theatre has
its own amorphous (or anomalous) existence.

Today, with the family temporarily situated in the pine coun-
try of New Jersey, I am preparing a new TV series.

JOHN WILLARD CARRIGAN

HOME ADDRESS: §90 Patterson Ave., Santa Barbara, Calif.

OFFICE appress: AmConGen, APO 616, Postmaster, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1908, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Clarence Carrigan,
Anna Sperry.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (32),

MarrieD: Frances Miller Little, 1933. Gloucester, Mass.

occuPATION: American consul general, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.

SOMEHOW a quarter of a century does loom up as quite a
milestone. As the time goes by, it is not pleasant to sense that
one’s memories of twenty-five years ago are becoming somewhat
hazy. But they are fond memories and bright in affection for
Cambridge. Those of us, and I am afraid IJ shall be of their num-
ber, who are unable to join in the Twenty-fifth will, I know,
undergo a very real loss.

In 1932 I entered the Foreign Service and my first eighteen

[ 183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

years were spent in Latin American affairs. In 1950 I attended
the National War College and then went to Lisbon. We had
never been east of Naples or west of San Francisco. A change
indicated? We got it. The Persian Gulf certainly was, new to us,
There are eight thousand Americans in a radius of forty miles of
us. We live in an air conditioned house, and while our last sum-
mer may have been somewhat warmer than Cambridge (say by
twenty or thirty degrees) it was probably a lot easier than along
the East Coast. And yet the camels go over the desert by our
door. Just north, the land of Ali Baba and of Scheherazade; just
to the south, the land of Job; and farther south, beyond the
Empty Quarter, the realm of Sheba. From his home port of
Basra at the head of the Gulf, Sinbad sailed by, and today planes
go by — Dhahran to Tokyo and Dhahran to New York. Quite
a change also — enchiladas to roast came] — and also to an area
which is “East of Suez” in more ways than the geographical. A
far cry from the Yard of 1931, but just as new and as interesting
to me as was McKinlock in 1927.

+ JOSEPH FENWICK CARROLL
BORN: Oct. 24, 1909, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Guy Joseph Carroll, Mary
O'Neil.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: $.B. IN MECH. ENG., 1931 (32).
piep: Dec. 13, 1952, Dorchester, Mass.

IN 1941 Carroll entered the Army as a private. His service cov-
ered over five years with the Corps of Engineers; he was stationed
in Africa as well as at Oak Ridge and Los Alamos. He was
wounded in 1943 and sent to Walter Reed Hospital, and while
there he became interested in the rehabilitation work which was
then started by the Veterans Administration. He was discharged
a captain in 1946 and joined the Veterans Administration. He
worked with the Rehabilitation and Education Division of the
Boston Regional Office. He studied guidance and also psycho-
logical tests and measurements at the Boston University School of
Education, and was still with the Veterans Administration at the
time of our Twentieth Anniversary Report. H[¢ was a member
of the Harvard Enginecring Socicty for many years.

[ 184 ]

28TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

°F RICHARD JOHN CARROLL

BoRN: Oct. 7, 1909, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Francis Michael Carroll,
Barbara Abie Blum.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

DIED: June 27, 1928, Roslindale, Mass.

CARROLL left college in December of our freshman year and
died the following June.

THOMAS MILTON CARROLL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 500 Commerce St., Havre de Grace, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 667 Franklin St., Havre de Grace, Md.

BORN: July 29, 1907, Havre de Grace, Md. parents: Thomas Milton Carroll.
Christine Leigh.

PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Frances Elma Davis, May 20 1937, Washington, D. C. crropren:
Thomas Milton, 3d, April 6, 1938; Robert David, Dec. 28, 1939; Barbara
Frances, Jan. 10, 1947.

occupation: President, Carroll’s, Inc., laundry and dry cleaning.

MEMBER OF: Officers Club, Aberdeen Proving Ground.

AFTER graduation, I went into business with my father in
Washington, D. C. Became a Democrat for several years, but
after Roosevelt and Truman, switched to the Republicans and
Ike. I had no war record — stayed home and worked. Have re-
cently revived interest in tennis and play whenever I can. I am
now wondering how to get three children through prep school
and college.

+ EDWARD CLARK CARTER, JR.

BORN: May 22, 1909, New York, N. Y. Parents: Edward Clark Carter, ’oo,
Alice Olin Draper.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

piED: March 13, 1932, New York, N. Y.

AT Harvard, Carter served on the Freshman Soccer Team, the

[ 185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Smith Halls Dormitory Committee, and for three years on the
varsity Soccer Team. He was also a member of the Cercle Fran-
¢ais, Harvard Dramatic Club, Liberal Club, and Iroquois Club.
After graduation he accepted a position as assistant secretary to
the American Council of the Institute of Pacific Relations, with
headquarters in New York City. In this capacity, and as secre-
tary to his father who was secretary and treasurer of the Council,
he traveled to Europe in the fall of 1931. He attended the World
Economic Planning Conference at Amsterdam and visited Lon-
don, Paris, Geneva, Berlin, and Moscow as well. In Manchuria
he saw the early stages of the Japanese occupation, and later was
for four weeks an assistant secretary to the Hangchow-Shanghai
Conference of the Institute of Pacific Relations. At the time of
his death he was attending Columbia University’s School of
Business. :

ROBERT DEERING CARTER

HOME ADDRESS: 2315 169th St., Hammond, Ind.
OFFICE appRESS: Keyes Fibre Co., Hammond, Ind.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1907, Phillips, Maine. parents: Howard Raymond Carter,
Ethel Frances Deering.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927—1928.

MaRrRiED: Esther Marie Odlin, January, 1942, Waterville, Maine.
OCCUPATION: Plant chemist, Hammond Division, Keyes Fibre Company.

A FRENCH historian (whose name I have long since forgotten)
paraphrasing another (of similar anonymity) wrote: “Happy are
the people whose annals are tiresome”. If this aphorism may be
applied to an individual case, 1 must be judged a most happy man.
The history of my last twenty-five years — although it seemed
exciting enough in the making — appears, in retrospect, very dull
indeed, I have no impressive list of kidos to display and actually
there is nothing much I can add to my brief biography in our
zoth volume. I still hold down the same job. My employers
have been amazingly tolerant of my eccentricities, operating, I
have no doubt, on the proposition: “Better the evil that ye know”.
Except for business trips and vacation journeyings to Michigan

[ 186 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Maine, Pat (Mrs. C., ie.) and I stick pretty close to the Calu-
met region (the latter being, as you all know, the southeast
suburban area of Chicago).

To relieve what may seem to be a tone of elderly resignation
pervading the above, I would like to record that a great part of
my work is extremely fascinating to me. Of course there is noth-
ing unusual in a man working at what he enjoys working at, but
I am thankful that I found the combination twenty-four years
ago. To close, I would like to give you my father’s invariable
toast — “Confusion to the Enemy”.

WILLIAM DRAPER CARTER

HOME aAppREss: 21 Boulevard Suchet, Paris XVI, France.

OFFICE apprEss: United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organ-
ization, 19 Avenue Kleber, Paris XVI, France.

BoRN: May 22, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Edward Clark Carter, ’oo,
Alice Olin Draper.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

mMarriED: Margaret Ruth Mary Taylor, Nov. 17, 1939, New York, N. Y.
(divorced 1951.)

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Alden Carter, '37; Edward Clark Carter, Jr., 31 (de-
ceased).

occupation: Head, Exchange of Persons Service, UNESCO.

OFFICES HELD: Albert Gallatin Fellowship, University of Geneva, 1931-32;
publications assistant, League of Nations Association, Geneva, 1932-33;
instructor in history, Forman College, Lahore and Wilson College,
Bombay, India, 1933-35; General Education Board Fellowship, Institute
for Research in Social Science, University of North Carolina, 1935-36;
director of educational activities, International House, New York, 1936-
41; member Foreign Broadcast Monitoring Service, Federal Communi-
cations Commission, Washington, D. C., and Portland, Oregon, 1941-
43; member Psychological Warfare Operations, U. S. Office of War
Information in India-Burma Theatre, U. S. Army Forces, 1943-45; chief
of Area Division (Near East and Africa), associate policy co-ordinator,
Office of International Information and Cultural Affairs, U. S. Depart-
ment of State, Washington, D. C., 1945-47; chief, Exchange of Persons
Service, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organ-
ization (UNESCO) since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Council on Foreign Relations, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Responsible for the development of the UNESCO publica-
tions: Study Abroad, international handbook of fellowships, scholar-

[ 187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ships and educational exchange, Volumes I to VII; Vacations Abroad,
a handbook of opportunities for study abroad in vacation periods,
Volumes I to VII; Travel Abroad, a manual of information on visa,
currency, health regulations and special facilities for international

study; Orber Men's Ways, a brochure on UNESCO's program of ex-
change of persons.

SINCE graduation I have lived in New York City, Washington,
D. C., Chapel Hill, North Carolina, and Portland, Oregon, and
overseas in India (before World War II and during World War
II), Switzerland and France. I have traveled on UNESCO busi-
ness to Belgium, the United Kingdom, Holland, Denmark, Nor-
way, Sweden, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Switzerland, Italy, Leban-
on, Lybia, Egypt, Iraq, Pakistan, India, Burma, Thailand, Mexico,
Cuba, Brazil, Uruguay and the Union of South Africa.

This peripatetic existence in the war was occasioned by two
and a half years in India with the U. S. Office of War Informa-
tion, Psychological Warfare program with the U.S. Army Forces
in the Burma-India Theatre, and later — after two years with the
Department of State — as head of the Exchange of Persons Serv-
ice in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, situated in Paris. This job has necessitated exten-
sive travel through the world in connection with educational and
training programs for educators, scientists, administrators and
technicians, and the promotion of more numerous and more ef-
ficiently administered international educational exchanges.

The past seven years’ work with an international agency, situ-
ated in Paris, has been a sometimes perplexing — and always
stimulating — experience. At the level of human friendship, my
colleagues have been men and women of wide tolerance and un-
derstanding who have brought to their work an amazing com-
bination of skill and differing national background. My deputy
is a former head of the technical college in Ecuador, who ran
his government’s priority office during the war; another col-
league, an Englishman, helped build the Burma-Siam railway,
as a prisoner of war; a French administrative officer parachuted
into Europe over fifty times; a Turkish secretary invented the
Turkish version of Gregg shorthand; another English colleague

assisted the Trade-Union delegation at the San Francisco Con-
ference. These colleagues and many others work together —

[ 188 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

speaking English, French and some Spanish— with the usual
mixture of human foibles and enthusiasms, and maintain a remark-
able network of communication with educators, officials, students
and administrators in over seventy UNESCO member states.

In almost ten years of work, UNESCO — with its sister special-
ized agencies of the United Nations — has played its role as an
increasingly effective instrument of international coéperation in
the educational field. If the promise of a new spirit in world rela-
tions is realized, there is little doubt that the machinery of inter-
national activities through the United Nations agencies so labori-
ously set up in the past ten years will show increasingly fruitful
results in the coming decade, especially in speeding up educational
and social advance in the less developed parts of the world.

WILLIAM JONES CARTER

HOME ApprEss: 40 Park Ave., New York 16, N. Y.

OFFICE Appress: Time, Inc., 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

BorN: April 28, 1911, Jackson, Miss. parents: Harry Clarke Carter, Ruth
Jones. ~

PREPARED AT: Gulf Coast Military Academy, Gulfport, Miss.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREES A.B., 1931; LL.B, 1934.

MARRIED: Thais Atwood, June 17, 1931, Cambridge, Mass.; Catharine Long,
Sept. 20, 1947, North Castle, N. Y. cHitpren: Colin Adams, July 27,
1932; Margaret Ruth, May 6, 1936.

occuPaTiON: Executive in charge of production and control of publication
paper, Time, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Canadian Club of New York; American Geographical Society.

I WAS associated with the legal department of the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board from 1934 to 1937; and with Time, Inc., from
1937 to 1942 and since 1946. From 1942 until 1945 I served with
the U.S.N.R., Southwest Pacific in command of SC-1274, and
later in the OSS SEAC area. I have resided since 1937 at various
addresses on Manhattan and nearby Long Island. I look forward
to the day when we can move to a more salubrious climate, pref-
erably below the 30° parallel. Personal interests center in home,
history, geography and puttering about on the water. Fondest
recollection of Harvard: that grand old gentleman, Alfred North
Whitehead. For the future I hope we can continue to enjoy the

! [ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

privilege of exploring the fast expanding range of horizons being
opened to our society and our age. Our generation is fortunate
in the multiplicity of our opportunities, and our only regret can
be the paucity of our achievements.

GEORGE ROBERT CARTWRIGHT

HOME ADDRESS: 229 S. Birch Rd., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1599 E. Los Olas Blvd., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

BoRN: Oct. 28, 1908, Clarksburg, W. Va. parents: William Young Cart-
wright, Katherine Dannemiller.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

MARRIED: Jean C. Day, Cleveland, Ohio. cymp: a girl.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

HENRY CLARENCE CASSIDY

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Gramercy Park, New York 3, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: NBC, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

BoRN: May 12, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Henry Albert Cassidy, Irene
Irwin, .

PREPARED AT: Dedham High School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1031.

markieD: Martha Stucklen, Dec. 2, 1933, Dedham, Mass. camp: Constance,
Jan. 23, 1938.

OCCUPATION: News commentator, NBC.

OFFICES HELD: Reporter, Boston Traveler, 1931-33; editor, Associated Press,
in New Haven, 1933-34, in New York, 1934-36, in Paris, 1936-40, in
Moscow, 1940-44, in Washington, 1944-45, European news director,
NBC, Paris, 1945-50; radio news director, NBC, New York, 1951-52;
commentator, NBC, New York, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City, National Press Club; Over-
seas Press Club; Dutch Treat Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Moscow Dateline, As We See Russia (co-author); contribu-
tor, Atlantic Monthly, Saturday Evening Post, Holiday, Blue Book,
Maclean’s, and other magazines.

WHEN I left Harvard in 1931, I spent the summer in France,
planning upon my return to become a French teacher. When I
returned in the fall, I found that my father, quite wisely, had ob-
tained a job for me as a reporter. Ever since then I have been a
newsman, in one medium or another.

I began on the Boston Traveler in 1931, and stayed there un-

[ 190 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

til 1933, when an itinerant rewrite man recommended me to the
Associated Press, where he had worked at one time. My city
editor, the late Major Howard Gould, warned me against getting
into a rut in such a large organization, but I went to work for
the AP in its New Haven bureau. It was no rut.

The AP transferred me to New York in 1934, first on the over-
night general desk and then on the cable desk. In 1936 I was
sent to Paris. As a young editor on the cable desk, when the
Ethiopian war ended, I used to worry over the prospect of never
being a war correspondent. So I suppose my first, most exciting
experience was a brief assignment to the Spanish civil war. Soon
thereafter, I was accredited to the French and British armies and
covered the fall of Paris.

From occupied Paris, I went to Moscow and served there for
four years. My single, most satisfying experience there was ob-
taining the first war-time interview by mail with Stalin, That
assignment meant four years of separation from my family, and
a certain amount of personal hardships as well as professional re-
wards. I was glad of the opportunity. I was also glad when it
ended.

After the war, when NBC offered me its European post, I was
delighted to return to Paris with my family. We passed five
magnificent years there. Apart from radio reporting, I was
president of the Anglo-American Press Association i in Paris and
a trustee of the American Library.

After fourteen years abroad, I was again fortunate to come
home, before becoming a confirmed expatriate, and to take up
my work in New York. We have a pleasant apartment on Gram-
ercy Park and a small farm in Dutchess County. From now on,
I hope this will remain our base of operations. For the future,
I hope to write a book that will live.

*« JOSE MARIA CASTILLO ¥ CASTILLO

BORN: Nov. 30, 1908, San Jose, Costa Rica. parents: José Maria Castillo
Gonzalez, Ignacia del Castillo y Diaz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931.

DIED: Jan. 7, 1941, San Jose, Costa Rica.

[191]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

AFTER spending two years at Harvard, Castillo attended Oxford
University and later pursued the study of law in Costa Rica and
the study of economics in Paris. In 1938 he reported that he was
a lawyer, planter, and coffee dealer and that he was associated
with the Castillo Banana Company in San Jose. He actively
supported the Nationalist party in Spain. In artistic and social
circles he was well known as a writer of musical comedies, and
he also promoted exhibitions of Central American art. His legal
name was José Maria Castillo de Giron-Aragon-Hohenstaufen y
Castillo.

ELI BERNARD CASTLEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 18275 Birchcrest Drive, Detroit, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wolverine Textile Co., 1301 W. Lafayette, Detroit, Mich.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Castleman, Rose
Michaelson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Marian Carol Van Vliet, April 7, 1935, Detroit, Mich. CHILDREN:
Lee Arnold, June 4, 1936; Carol, July 4, 1938; Susan, May 2, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frank Castleman, ’29; Benjamin Castleman, ’27.

occupaTiIon: Owner, Wolverine Textile Company; investments.

MEMBER OF: American Jewish Committee; Chautauqua Society; Henry
Keidan Lodge B'nai B'rith; Men’s Club Temple Beth El; Zionist Or-

ganization of America; American Technion Society.

MY mind goes back to 1927-1931, and I am amazed at the hazi-
ness of the entire period. There is really very little that stands
out in my mind —a few faces of friends and professors, football
games with very cold feet, card games in my psych lab office,
billiards at (I forget the name of the tobacco shop), some mara-
thon cramming before “finals” and that’s about it.

I must have become educated as I have been able to answer
most of the questions thrown at me by my three wonderful chil-
dren. I haven’t been as successful with my answers to questions
put to me by a loving and lovely wife, but questions of a spouse
are of such a kind that education (even a Harvard education)
doesn’t help one in finding the answers,

Materially, I have done well from the very first day after prad-
uation. Money was no problem. However, I receive no special

[192]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

satisfaction out of “buying” and “selling” whether the commodity
be “textiles” or “commercial paper”. My greatest source of
happiness has been family and friends. I have also derived pleas-
ure from the “use of my mind” and the “use of my golf clubs”,
Surprising how such a prosaic life could be such a wonderfully

happy one. :

SAVERIO CERULLO

BorN: April 28, 1909, Boston, Mass. PareNtTs: Nunzio Cerullo, Carmela
Cincotti.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1936.

MARRIED: Evelyn Sirica, Jan. 3, 1938, Derby, Conn.

pieD: March 26, 1942, Waterbury, Conn.

CERULLO graduated from Tufts College Medical School in
1936, and after serving an internship at St. Mary’s Hospital in
Waterbury, Connecticut, entered private practice in that city.
He was a member of the Chase Dispensary Staff and of the Water-

bury Medical Association, Foresters of America, Unico Club,
and 1.0.0. Moose.

HENRY CHALFANT

HOME Appress: Scaife Road, Sewickley Heights, Sewickley, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Supply Co., 2 Gateway Center, Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

Born: March 3, 1909, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Henry Chalfant, ’90, Harriet
B. Watson.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRRIED: Nancy M. Doyle, June 29, 1935, Sewickley, Pa. cumpreN: Anne
Barnard, April 17, 1936; Henry, Jr. Jan. 2, 1940; Verlinda Means, Dec.
17, 1946; Nancy Oliver, Oct. 14, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Assistant secretary, National Supply Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Peoples First National Bank & Trust Company,
Pittsburgh, Burgess Borough of Sewickley Heights, Pa.; president of
the board, Episcopal Church Home; second vice-president of the board,
Allegheny General Hospital; secretary, Chapter of Trinity Cathedral,
member board of trustees, Episcopal Diocese of Pittsburgh, YMCA of

[ 193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Sewickley Valley, Allegheny Cemetery, Western Pennsylvania School
for the Deaf; vice-president, Allegheny Country Club.

MEMBER OF: Allegheny Country Club; Duquesne Club; Pittsburgh Club;
Pittsburgh Golf Club; Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh;
Rolling Rock Club; Racquet & Tennis Club, New York.

AFTER experiencing the pleasure of witnessing the great victory
of the Harvard-Yale track team in the meet against Oxford and
Cambridge in London in July of 1931, I set off on an extended
trip w ith Ken Jenkins. This took us all the way around the
world and, after a year of experiences, the memory of which I
shall always enjoy, I found it hard to settle down and earn a liv-
ing. I got a job with the National Supply Company, manufactur-
er and distributor of oil field equipment, and have worked for
them ever since, except for a period of military service. Up un-
til World War II, I was in the sales department and I traveled ex-
tensively; since the war, I have been working with the company’s
secretary in my present capacity. The additional time I can now
spend at home has more than made up for my inability to con-
tinue to visit old friends in other parts of the country.

My war record is quickly told. I attended the first class at the
A.A.F. Officers’ Training School in Miami, Florida, headed over-
seas as soon as I graduated and spent thirty-five months in Eng-
land, Africa and Italy with Headquarters Twelfth A.F. Com-
pensation for the long time spent overseas away from my family
was the short stretch of my total service, less than three and one-
half years.

Said family increased after the war, so that the ages of our
children range as of this writing from nineteen to four. Thus,
my wife and I can expect to be kept young for some years to
come. We live in the country on ninety-odd acres of land, a
good many of which are being farmed. This place is a principal
hobby of mine, sharing my interest with week-end golf and trap
shooting.

My allegiance to the Republican party did not waver even in
the depression years and I am still firm in my political convictions.
I am an active member of the Episcopal Church. My religious,
charitable and civic activities take up rather more of my time
than I should like, I look forward to the time when I can con-
centrate on a smaller number and do a better job.

[ 194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EUGENE MARSDEN CHAPMAN

HOME ADpRESS: 235 College Ave., Beaver, Pa. (Box 171).

OFFICE ADDRESS: Trinity Episcopal Church, Rochester, Pa.

BORN: May 11, 1910, Peekskill, N. Y. parents: Eugene Marsden Chapman,
Maria Roberta McConnell.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Jersey City, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1931 (30); B.D. (Episcopal Theol.
School), 1933.

MARRIED: Sarah Frances Totten, June 19, 1935, Birmingham, Ala. CHILDREN:
Helen Marie, Nov. 26, 1937; Robert Marsden, May 23, 1940; Catherine
Romer, Jan. 8, 1943.

occuPATION: Rector, Trinity Episcopal Church.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Community Relations Department, Beaver County
Council of Churches; member executive board, Beaver County Mental
Health Society; chairman, Healing Commission, secretary, Society for
the Industrial Mission of the Church, member Architectural Commis-
sion, district Youth Adviser, Episcopal Diocese of Pittsburgh.

HAVING concentrated in chemistry at Harvard, I went into the
ministry. Then, having trained for rural missionary work, my
first job was as assistant of a large church in New York City. But
I did serve rural parishes for ten years in New York State, around
Randolph and Canandaigua. And here I am, just outside of Pitts-
burgh, with most of my parishioners employed in metallurgy,
synthetics, or applied chemistry of some sort. So goes the cycle!

After receiving an A.B. in June, 1930, I took three more years
to add a B.D., cum laude, at the Episcopal Theological School up
Brattle Street. Of late years, I have covered course work for a
Master’s in Sacred Theology at the University of the South (Se-
wanee, Tenn.), but find no inclination to write the required
thesis. In fact, I’ve written nothing for publication all these years,
except newspaper articles, ’31 Class Reports and an occasional
religious poem.

Following our sojourn in New York State, where our three
children were born, we thawed out for six years in Alabama, my
wife’s home state. Decatur under TVA was booming from a
struggling cotton town to a fair city with diversified industry.
And electricity was .oog¢ KWH, thanks to taxpayers in the rest
of the country. I enlarged and rebuilt the church plant there;
revived a mission in one neighboring community; and founded
a new parish in another Court House town.

[195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Pittsburgh beckoned with the position of associate minister in
Calvary Church, one of the largest Episcopal parishes. We loved
ir; and for the first time I found a group of 31 classmates. I
learned much from an all-too-short stay there, and was soon con-
vinced that MY abilities lie rather in missionary endeavor than
in executive work.

So, in October of 1951, I accepted the challenge of an almost
defunct century-old church in growing, industrial Beaver County.
The membership has doubled, and the educational and other ac-
tivities have increased so enormously that we are in the process
of planning an entirely new plant in a better location. My side
interest in architecture is having a satisfying fling; shall it be
Gothic, Georgian Colonial, or Functional Moderne? I’ve tried
sketching all three — for the wastebasket.

Sarah and I have experimented some in the use of group dy-
namics applied to church affairs, especially education. We are
also interested in spiritual healing (the projected subject of my
Master’s thesis), but find we are not particularly expert in either
theory or practice. We always said that when we retired, we'd
buy and renovate an old house. However, having gone through
the process with the mid-Victorian monstrosity in which we now
live, I believe we have had enough. Yet, we may have the only
private chapel in the Class—a back wing converted for small
services, seating capacity of twenty-five. The garden takes up
spare time and provides some exercise. The eldest child started
college this year; so, I adjust my bifocals and tear at the greying
hair while I try to balance the accounts.

WILLIAM PHALEN CHAPMAN

HOME AbpReESS: § Otis Pl., Boston, Mass.
orrice appress: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 14, Mass.

BouN: Jan. §, 1909, Broadalbin, N. Y. Parents: George Henry Chapman,
Katherine Beatrice Crouse.

purpakeD at: Mercersberg Academy, Mercersberg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DPGREES: A.B. 1931; M.D.c.M. (McGill Univ.),
1938.

US MARRIED.

OULUPATION: Physician; investigator in Clinical Medicine; research associate,

[ 196 ]

ee. en nnn ne nw OTA neanis

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School; assistant in medi-
cine, Massachusetts General Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Clinical Investigation; Association for
Research in Nervous and Mental Disease; American College of Physi-
cians (fellow); American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical
Society; New York State Medical Society; American Board of Internal
Medicine (diplomate),

pusications: Articles in medical journals on the following subjects: effects
of drugs on the brain and autonomic nervous system, pain mechanisms,
the relationship of the brain to behavior, peptic ulcers and hypertension.

EXCEPT for a brief try at business, my major interest since
graduation has been in medicine. This started off very pleasantly
by attending McGill University Medical School in Montreal. It
was a novelty to buy Canadian ale at fifteen cents a quart (price
$1.50 in the United States at that time) and to be able to attend
class between ski runs. After spending two years in hospitals in
Philadelphia and Montreal, I came to Boston for a year of clinical
research work and have remained ever since at the Massachusetts
General Hospital and the Harvard Medical School. One of the
intriguing and baffling problems in the practice of medicine is to
explain and treat certain aches and pains for which there is no
apparent cause. I have been looking into this for fifteen years.
I still know only slightly more about it than when I started, still
I would not have missed the hunt.

There has been time for travel even though much of it has
been in connection with medicine. This has included, in addition
to several trips to the West Coast, extended stays in Europe. I
should like to make travel more of a hobby now that, in my
opinion, I know how to use a camera. Other hobbies have in-
cluded reading, principally history of Europe, skiing, mountain
climbing, rowing and playing the piano. I missed military service,
having resigned from the Navy one month before Hitler entered
Poland. I expect, however, that this was possible since I was with
the Office of Scientific Research and Development throughout
the war. I have voted Democratic except for one major election;
but now that it is necessary for me to take more than an academic
interest in the stock market, I am beginning to see what my Re-
publican friends have been driving at all this time.

[197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ELIOT DISMORE CHAPPLE

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Woodland Drive, Noroton, Conn.
orrice appress: E. D. Chapple Co., Inc., Noroton, Conn.

BORN: April 29, 1909, Salem, Mass. parents: William Dismore Chapple,
Della Bates.

prepared at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 PH.D. 1933.

mArrieD: Marjorie Donovan, July 14, 1931, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced);
Martha Field, June 19, 1954, Darien, Conn. critpren: William Dismore,
2d, July 24, 1936, Marjorie, Feb. 2, 1938.

HARVARD soN; William Dismore Chapple, 2d, ’57.

occuPaATioN: President, E. D. Chapple Company, Inc., organization engi-
neering.

OFFICES HELD: Research assistant, Harvard Business School, 1931-35; instruc-
tor, 1935-39, instructor and tutor, 1936-40, Department of Anthropology,
Harvard; research associate, 1941-45, Harvard Medical School; presi-
dent, 1941-42, editor, 1941-47, since 1951, Society for Applied Anthro-
pology.

MEMBER OF: Society for Applied Anthropology.

PUBLICATIONS: Principles of Anthropology, E. D. Chapple and C. S, Coon;
Measuring Human Relations: An Introduction to the Study of the
Interaction of Individuals.

THOMAS BROOKS CHARD

HOME AND OFFICE ADpRESS: Casey Key, Nokomis, Fla.

BORN: Sept. ro, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Walter Goodman Chard,
’04, Kathleen Brooks Stevens.

PREPARED AT: Rosemary Hall, Greenwich, Conn.; Miss White’s School, Paris,
France.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1033. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN., 1033.

marriep: Ruth LeBosquet, July 31, 1936, Cazenovia, N. Y. cuitpren: Kath-
leen Brooks, Aug. 9, 1941; Allison Edwards, July 24, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Chester Stevens Chard, 737.

AFTER graduation, I took the summer off. I was elected com-
modore of the Cazenovia Yacht Club of Cazenovia, New York,
and handled all the sailing races, regattas, etc.; also taught sailing
to young and old hopefuls. I was chosen that summer to be a
judge on the Race Committee of the Central New York Yacht
Racing Association for their annual regatta,

In the fall, I joined the firm of Courtney & Eldridge, Inc., New
England distributors for Auburn, Hupmobile and Willys auto-

[ 198 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mobiles. I was clerk of the corporation and sales manager for the
Auburn division. During the summer of 1935, this corporation
was dissolved due to the ill health of its principal member. In
November of 1935, I decided to enter the automobile business on
my own. I formed the corporation of Auburn Motors, Inc., of
which I was president and treasurer. We were the distributors
of Auburn and Cord cars for Massachusetts, Rhode Island and
New Hampshire. During the summer of 1937, the Auburn Auto-
mobile Company went out of business and we took on Nash as
a dealer until such time as the Hupp Motor Corporation reorgan-
ized itself and came out with their 1938 model. When this came
about, we changed our name to Hupmobile Massachusetts Com-
pany and signed a franchise to distribute Hupmobiles in Massa-
chusetts, Rhode Island and New Hampshire. The Hupp Motor
Corporation did not last long, so in the early fall of 1939 we
changed our name again, this time to Chard Motors, Inc., and
took on the distributorship of Willys cars and trucks. During the
war we devoted our entire resources to handling parts and service
for Willys for all of New England.

My wife and I bought a twenty-three acre place in Sherborn,
Massachusetts, in 1947 and we moved there to enjoy country
life in our spare time. We were able to keep saddle horses, en-
abling the children and ourselves to do a great deal of riding.

In September of 1955, I decided it was time to get out of the
automobile business. I found it was impossible, with cut-throat
competition, to give the service I wanted to and still make a rea-
sonable profit. So I liquidated my business, sold our Sherborn
house and bought a home on Casey Key in the town of Nokomis,
Florida. Eventually, I plan to get into some kind of business in
the vicinity, or nearby Sarasota.

DONALD LORING CHARLTON

HOME appress: 435 Liberty St., Rockland, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: G, L. Charlton Co., 30 Kneeland St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1909, Winthrop, Mass. Parents: Garfield Leonard Charlton,
Elizabeth Ross Hutchison,

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

[ 199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

marmiep: Dorothy Esther Poole, Dec. 31, 1938, Rockland, Mass. cHILpren;
Ann Edwards, March 21, 1943; John Poole, June 26, 1947.

occuPATION: President, G. L. Charlton Company, retail women’s wear.

MEMBER OF: \fasons.

MY life has been devoted to my family, business and local activi-
ties with the exception of two years’ service with the qth In-
fantry Division during World War II.

+ ARTHUR MINTURN CHASE, JR.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1909, New Rochelle, N. Y. parents: Arthur Minturn Chase,
‘96, Myra Olive Chase.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

Diep: June 15, 1928, New Rochelle, N. Y.

CHASE died at the end of our freshman year.

EDWARD PAYSON CHASE

HOME AppRESS: 90 Main Sc., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 140 Federal St., Boston 7, Mass.

BorN: March 4, 1908, Concord, Mass. parents: Edward Nichols Chase, ’96,
Lillian May Hillman.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.A., 1933; LL.B. (North-
eastern Univ.), 1939.

MaraitD: Hope E. Dudgeon, June 30, 1934, Fairhaven, Mass, CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Ann, Sept. 22, 1935; Edward Nichols, 2d, March 22, 1940;
Samuc] Payson, March 16, 1947.

occupanion: Lawyer, secretary, United Shoe Machinery Corporation.

orrices HELD; Vestryman and other offices, Trinity Episcopal Church, Con-
cord, 1943-50; president, Concord Boy Scout Sponsors, 1953-54; secre-
tary, Concord River Improvement Association, Inc., 1950-55; chairman,
Concord Board of Appeals, 1947-54, Concord Board of Sclectmen,
1954-55.

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club.

THREE years of geology, a summer in the investment depart-
ment of an insurance company and two years at the Business
School might have been my springboard to a career as an oil

[ 200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

securities analyst had not the truth in the Securities Act and
other federal legislation prolonged the depression in the invest-
ment business.

In June, 1933, a corporation which makes and distributes shoe
machinery and allied products, placed me in its secretary’s office,
a condition of my employment being that I enroll as a student in
night law school. Within the next ten years, through deaths and
promotions, I became assistant secretary and an assistant treas-
urer. In course of time I graduated from law school and was ad-
mitted to the Massachusetts Bar.

In 1943 I decided to short-circuit the Draft Board by volunteer-
ing for active duty with the Navy. This eventually landed me
at Quonset Point, Rhode Island, with the rank of lieutenant (j.g.)
for indoctrination and training in naval aviation. After duty as
the air combat intelligence officer for a blimp squadron based
near Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, to escort convoys from Florianopolis
to Victoria, I was transferred to Kwajalein as the staff intelligence
officer for the commander of the Marshall-Gilberts Area. Early
in 1946 I returned to the corporation where I can still be found
in the same office I have occupied since 1933.

For several years after our marriage in 1934, my wife and I
lived at Holden Green in Cambridge, where our daughter, now
a junior at Cornell, was born in 1935. In the fall of 1939 we re-
turned to Concord where our first son was born in 1940. As our
plans for four children were changed by the war, our second son
did not arrive until 1948. Both sons are students in our Concord
public schools.

I have always been a “do-it-yourself” fan, and have derived
much pleasure and satisfaction from the improvements I have
made to our home. I play enough tennis to keep my golf game
from improving, and vice versa. I have had season tickets to the
Harvard football games since 1933, and over the years I have
enjoyed watching many outstanding Harvard teams and players
in action. .

Looking back over twenty-five years, it seems to me that,
except for some sorrows and disappointments, each year has been
more interesting and rewarding than the preceding one and that
to be between forty-five and fifty years old is ideal — young
enough to be physically active and mature enough to merit the

[ 201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

respect and confidence of friends and associates. One of my few

rearets is that I have never been able to afford the luxury of
being poor.

ROBERT WESTERVELT CHASTENEY, JR.
SEE Appendix.

RICHARD YOUNG CHEATHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 4729 Pineda St, New Orleans 22, La.

orFice appress: Balter Bldg, New Orleans 12, La.

BorN: Dec. 30, 1907, Norfolk, Va. pareNTS: Donald Marvin Cheatham, Emma
Gertrude Young.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

Marriep: Jean Dudley Hudgins, July 27, 1940, Boydton, Va. CHILDREN,
Laurel Jean, Oct. 31, 1944; Richard Young, Jr., June 22, 1947.

occupation; Engineering.

LESLIE CHEEK, JR.

HOME aporess: 35 Westmoreland PL, Richmond 26, Va.

OFFICE Appress: Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Blvd. & Grove, Richmond
20, Va.

Bors: Oct. 28, 1908, Nashville, Tenn. parents: Leslie Cheek, Mabel Wood.

puepartp aT; Duncan School, Nashville, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: $B. 1931; B-F.A. (Yale Univ.), 19353
pa. hon. (Univ. of Richmond), 1955.

MARKID: Mary Tyler Freeman, June 3, 1939, Richmond, Va. CHILDREN:
Leslie, 3d, Dee. 12, 1949; Douglas Freeman, Jan. 26, 19433 Richard
Warfield, Oct. 24, 1945; Elizabeth Tylor, June 11, 1949.

occupATION: Art muscum director.

orricss HEID: Member, Council of Yale University, 1949-54; trustee, Ameri-
can Federation of Arts, 1940-42, since 1950; director, Society of Archi-
tectural Historians, since 1952; member, Art Commission, State of
Virginia, 1936-39, president, Yale Clubs of New York City and Rich-
mond, 1962-54; director, Harvard Club, Richmond, 1953-55; board
member, Rotunda Club, Richmond, since 1954.

Mimbie oF: Century Association, New York City,

[ 202 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

puBLicATIONS: Articles for Architectural Forum, House Beautiful, Town
and Country, Craft Horizons, Magazine of Art, New York Times
Magazine, Baltimore Museum of Art catalogs and bulletins, Virginia
Museum of Art catalogs and bulletins, camouflage manuals of U. S.
Army.

MY four years at Harvard changed the entire direction of m
life’s intentions. When I arrived in Cambridge, I had planned
engineering as my undergraduate field, followed by the Business
School, and then a return to the family’s affairs in Tennessee. I
left Harvard with fine arts as my field of concentration, headed
for a professional degree in architecture, and with future resi-
dence quite unknown. Yale gave me a degree in architecture in
1935, though almost half of my time had been spent in studying
scenery, costume and lighting design in the Drama School. But
degrees and interests meant little in finding a job in those days
when the effects of the depression were being felt in the building
trade. The architects had no work to do and no need for fresh
helpers.

My first job turned out to be that of instructor in History of
Art in the History Department at the College of William and
Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia. Thanks to the understanding
aid of the college president, John Steward Bryan, I was enabled
to establish the first full-fledged undergraduate Department of
Fine Arts in the state, in 1936; and I remained as its head until
1939, when to my surprise I was offered the directorship of the
Baltimore Museum of Art.

In Baltimore the problem was one of finding a truly useful
operating pattern for one of three museums in that city. With
generous codperation from the Walters Art Gallery and the
Peale Museum, the Baltimore Museum emphasized carefully pre- -
sented loan exhibitions, particularly in the contemporary field.
The coverage of the arts was enlarged to include theatre, music,
film, ballet, industrial design and architecture. The program was
beginning to be felt in the city when Pearl Harbor occurred and
all attention inevitably was directed to World War II.

After my release from the Army in 1945, I joined the staff of
the Architectural Forum magazine in New York as an associate
editor, doing chiefly their historic or critical pieces and write-ups
of well-designed contemporary houses. I occasionally aided the

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

amazed at the kindness which is in almost everyone, My chief
concern is that the basic American virtue of self-reliance is being
weakened by political leaders who apparently must offer more
and more economic security in order to get into office. Such
security scems to me to be a delusion, and tends gradually to re-
duce the entire population to mediocrity in all things. I hope
that finer education will be increasingly available to all, and that
from this will come wisdom to keep our society healthy as we
live into the second half of this hectic twentieth century.

DAVID CHEEVER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 93 Village Ave. Dedham, Mass.
OFFICE ADoRESS: New England Business Service, Inc., Townsend, Mass.

BoRN: May 21, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: David Cheever, ’97, Jane Welles
Sargent.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313; M.B.A., 1934.

marRieD: Ellen Pierce, Oct. 20, 1934, Milton, Mass, cHiLpREN: David, 3d,
Aug. 23, 1938; Ruth Eliot, July 22, 1940; Roger Pierce, June 18, 1945.

occupaTion: Vice-president, New England Business Service.

OFFICES HELD: President, Salesmen’s Association of the Paper Industry, 1953;
trustee, Perkins School for the Blind, since 1950; director, Community
Recreation Service of Boston, since 1949.

TWENTY-FIVE years might be termed the halfway point, at
least it is for me. A year in a bank now merged with another
bank and twenty years in a paper manufacturing concern recent-
lv merged with another concern, which produces standardized
business forms, have led me to the decision to join a small busi-
ness with great growth possibilities and the promise of a pleasant
association with two outstanding men. Aside from business my
preoccupation has been my wife and growing family. The pleas-
ures are great and the problems only minor. It would be trite
to say that nothing is as important as a family and yet to fail to
make mention of it would be to ignore the very core of one’s
life. Probably the coast of Maine would be termed our hobby,
at Icast all five of us derive the greatest pleasure from our annual
vacation at Mount Desert Island. Any taste from mountain climb-
ing to sailing can be satisfied there —any taste, that is, except
swimming in water of reasonable temperature.

[ 206 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The changing world is all about us. It is a fine thing indeed to
know that certain values and ideals remain steadfast. Harvard

represents these and as such deserves our loyalty, support and
affection.

RALPH CHESTER

HOME ADDRESS: 121 LaGrange St., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mary E. Curley School, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

BorN: April 19, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Angelo Anselmo Iacopucci,
Clotilde Paoli.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M. (Boston Coll.), 1935.

MARRIED: Florence Boraks, July 14, 1932, Providence, R. I. cio: Paul
Robert, June 9, 1933.

HARVARD SON: Paul Robert Chester, ’54.

occuPATION: Teacher of Romance languages.

‘THERE has been an unusually large amount of discussion lately
regarding the teaching profession, dealing mostly with the ques-
tion of salaries. Practically everyone agrees that salaries are in-
adequate and, consequently, not enough college graduates are
being attracted to the profession, resulting in a shortage of teach-
ers that will become more acute in the next ten years. Many
teachers have found a way by which they might continue in
their chosen field in spite of monetary difficulties. “Teachers have
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays off and relatively long vacations.
For a number of years all this “free” time is consumed by w ork
taken home from school and by attendance at courses for self-
improvement or additional credit. When this stage has been
passed, a large percentage of all teachers take outside jobs to
help pay accumulated debts and make both ends meet. The
extra work that teachers are forced into for economic reasons,
especially when it is totally unrelated to their profession, has
some beneficial results. The teacher escapes the confinement of
the classroom, sees and learns more of the world, sharpens his

mind, enjoys many experiences that make him a better teacher.

He improves his financial condition so that he is not forced to

leave teaching for economic reasons, It goes without saying that

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

teachers can do this only when the administration does not open-
ly frown on outside work for pay and when they are not over-
burdened with extra heavy schedules and extra-curricular work.

Such has been my experience. My first outside venture was
in a related field: camping. For several years I operated a small
boys’ camp on the Maine seacoast. We all enjoyed every minute
of it. Gradually so many other interests took up my “free” time
that I decided to sell the camp. I retained a large tract of land at

the waterfront and divided it into cottage lots. The sale of these
lots has been progressing very favorably and profitably.

Throughout the years, one of my principal hobbies has been
that of automobiles. While still attending Latin School, I took
courses in automobile mechanics at Northeastern. I have come
to know personally the owners or managers of many new car
dealerships. Therefore, I have been in a position to help my fel-
low teachers and friends secure better cars even if they belong
to a limited income group. I have arranged with twenty-five
dealers preferential treatment for teachers, and for some time
have been securing cars for them at special prices. I know that
I have been able to make many people happy this way.

I have taught in both public and private schools, in large and
small school systems, in day schools and evening schools; I have
taught in systems where the administration believes in very close
supervision of curriculum and teachers, and in others where the
teacher is expected to do all the planning and work out solutions
to problems of all kinds. Every one of these school systems had
one thing in common: a group of conscientious, hard-workin
teachers who always kept the ball rolling in spite of all difficulties
and speechmaking at the higher levels.

RICHARD McHUGH CHILSON

MAILING ADDRESS: §19 E. 86th St. New York 28, N. Y.

Bon: Dec. 25, 1904, Des Moines, lowa, parents: Edward Norton Chilson
Fay Louise McChesney. ,

pusparen at; Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DECKER: $.B., 1931.

( 208 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES FORD CLAPP, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Bellevue Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Shepley, Bulfinch, Richardson & Abbott, 122 Ames Bldg.,
Boston, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 18, 1908, Cambridge, Mass, parents: James Ford Clapp, Leonora
Fanshawe.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.ARCH., 1935.

MarRIED: Grace FitzGerald, June 3, 1933, Rockland, Mass. CHILDREN: James
Ford, 3d, March 5, 1936; Mary Lee, April 8, 1940 (died April 4, 1941);
Susan Fanshawe, July 25, 1942; Deborah FitzGerald, Nov. 18, 1946.

HARVARD SON: James Ford Clapp, 3d, ’57.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Fanshawe Clapp, ’35.

occupation: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1951-53, president, since 1953, Boston Archi-
tectural Center; president, Boston Numismatic Society, 1949-51; chair-
man, Harleston Parker Gold Medal Award Committee, 1955, member
Rotch Committee, 1955-60, Boston Society of Architects.

MEMBER OF: Boston Society of Architects; Massachusetts State Association
of Architects; American Institute of Architects; Boston Architectural
Center, Boston Numismatic Society; New England Numismatic Asso-
ciation; American Numismatic Association, American Numismatic
Society.

WITH architecture, numismatics and family (listed, I am afraid,
in the order of their importance), my life has been a busy and a
full one. In architecture, I have been in responsible charge of
two sizeable projects, the Lamont Library for undergraduates
at Harvard and the Springfield Municipal Hospital at Springfield,
Massachusetts. Since 1951 I have been interested in the adminis-
tration of the Boston Architectural Center, which conducts a
night school of some repute for those not fortunate enough to
obtain architectural training at a university.

In numismatics, I hold some repute as an authority on Greek,
Roman and Byzantine coins. As for family, with some assistance
from my good wife, Grace, I have produced three healthy chil-
dren, the oldest nineteen, the youngest eight. We winter in Cam-
bridge and summer in Squantum in houses which, like the shoes
of the shoemaker’s children, are not very good advertisements of
my chosen profession.

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

BENJAMIN SCHUYLER CLARK

HOME ADDRESS: Route 1, Pound Ridge, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White, Weld & Co., 4o Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 16, 1908, Englewood, N. J. parents: Harold Benjamin Clark,
’o1, Dorothy A. Pardee.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: AB. 1931.

marrieD: Charlotte Lyman, March 10, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Char-
lotte Lyman, Oct. 8, 1936; Benjamin Schuyler, Jr., April 19, 1938; Ella
Lowell, Dec. 23, 1940; Elizabeth Van Cortlandt, Aug. 3, 1944.

occUPATION: Partner, investment banking firm.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, The Five Points House (charitable institution caring
for children of broken homes), American Museum of Natural History;
president board of trustees, Bedford-Rippowam School, Bedford, N. Y.;
director, Pardee-Curtin Lumber Company.

MEMBER OF: Lunch Club; Racquet & Tennis Club; Bedford Golf & Tennis
Club: Baker Street Irregulars.

I ATTENDED Harvard Law School for two and a half years

before leaving to marry and study banking in London in the year

1934-35. In the summer of 1935 I left for China for further busi-

ness experience. In the fall of 1935 I entered White, Weld &

Company, investment bankers, and became a partner in 1940.

I took aviation cadet flight training under the Air Corps Enlisted

Reserve until 1942-43, when I was washed out for color-blindness.

I shifted to the ground forces and ended up in the ETO as a

master sergeant, G-2 section of General Ridgway’s 18th Airborne

Corps which operated in the “Bulge” — crossing of the Rhine

at Wesel, Ruhr Pocket, and eventually meeting up with Russian

forces near the Baltic. In 1945 I returned to White, Weld &

Company where | have been ever since.

My chief interests are travel, music (L.P. record listener — not
performer), ballet, books, amateur ornithology and clearing
woods with saw and axe for exercise. I am a liberal Republican
and an Episcopalian.

GEORGE OLIVER CLARK, II

HOME AppRrEss: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.
orrice Appress: H. C, Wainwright & Co., 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 15, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Dudley Clark, ’o3,
Comelia Thayer Andrew.

[ 210 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1931.

mMarrieD: Katharine Roy, April 5, 1940 (divorced 1946); Gertrude Lowell
Abbot, Jan. 4, 1950, Exeter, N. H.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Dudley Clark, Jr., °27; Forrester Andrew Clark, ’29;
Nathaniel Thayer Clark, °35.

OccUPATION: Investment banker, partner H. C. Wainwright & Company;
specialist, Buston Stock Exchange.

MEMBER OF: Tennis & Racquet Club, Boston, Harvard Club of New York

City.

I WORKED in the New England Trust Company as a messenger
for two years after college. After one year in HI. C. Wainwright
& Company I became a partner and in 1936 I moved to New York
when we opened our office there. I returned to Boston in 1939
and have been on the Boston Stock Exchange since that time
except for four years, 1942-1946, when I was an officer in the
Air Force.

SAMUEL DRURY CLARK

HOME appress: 217 Hope St. Bristol, R. I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 209 Hope St. Bristol, R. I.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1910, Millinocket, Maine, parents: Thomas Welcome Clark,
’98, Hannah Le Baron Drury.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313; M.D., 1935.

MARRIED: Janet Barton Barber, June 10, 1936, Bethesda, Md. (died Nov. 26,
1954). CHILDREN: Geoffrey Ennis, May 21, 1938; Katherine Farwell,
July 23, 1940; Peter Barton, July 11, 1941; Thomas Welcome, Oct. 12,
1947; Samuel Drury, Jr. June 6, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFIcEs HELD: President, Rhode Island Chapter, Academy of General Prac-
tice, 1954-55, Bristol County Medical Association, 1951-52, World
Affairs Council, Bristol, 1953-55, Town Council, Bristol, 1949-51;
Bristol Y.M.C.A., 1941-42, 1947-49; vestryman, St. Michael’s Church,
Bristol, 1952-55; sponsor, Rhode Island Chamber Music Concerts.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; Rhode Island Medical Society;
Bristol County Medical Association; Providence Medical Society;
Rhode Island Chapter, American Academy of General Practice; Har-
vard Club of Boston; Harvard Travelers Club; Hope Club; St. Alban’s
Lodge, A.F. & A-M., Bristol, Bristol Yacht Club,

IT was in 1930 that Frank Lyman, Bob Chasteney and I corked
with great care and ceremony a bottle of California Vineyards

[ 211 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ing I got under Doc Davison and the old Bach Cantata Club has
worn well, There is another thing I enjoy, and that is giving
parties — from cocktails for two to a reception (once) for 1000.
I suppose it’s because I like people.

JOHN LESLIE CLARKE

HOME ADDRESS: 325 Knight Way, La Canada, Calif.

oFFIcE appREsS: John L. Clarke & Co., 1250 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 17,
Calif.

Born: July 3, 1910, Liverpool, England. parents: John Clarke, Katie A.
Leslie.

PREPARED AT: New Utrecht High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: $.B., 1931; LL.B. (Brooklyn Law
School), 1939.

MarRIED: Marguerite Henrikson, Sept. 6, 1939, Las Vegas, Nev. cHILp:
Leslie Trina, Oct. 28, 1944.

occupation: General insurance broker.

OFFICES HELD: Director, La Canada Chamber of Commerce and Community
Association, 1948-49; director and campaign chairman, La Canada Red
Cross, 1950; chairman, Citizens committee, La Canada Schools, 1951,
La Canada Oaks Association, 1954, Citizens for Eisenhower, La Canada,
1952.

MEMoeR oF: Harvard Club of Southern California.

IN February, 1932, I entered the insurance business as a claim

adjuster in Boston. I knew nothing of adjusting but at the bottom

of the depression the salary looked good. I later moved to New

York, went to Brooklyn Law School at night, passed the Bar and

moved up in the insurance company hierarchy. Late in 1942 I

finally decided I never had liked the claim business, quit a pretty

good job, moved to Los Angeles and shortly went into the Navy.

In 1946 and 1947 I sold casualty insurance for one of the major
direct writing companies and early in 1948 went on my own as an
agent and broker. This turned out to be a good move, enjoyable
and profitable. A small business makes heavy demands of time
and concentration, but it allows independence of action which is
not possible in a large organization.

In 1943, 1944 and 1945, I was in the Navy. Attended Quonset
Indoctrination and Air Combat Intelligence Schools and was as-
signed to USS Tulagi ( CVE 72), a jeep carrier which was nearing
completion, Served aboard as air combat intelligence officer until

[214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

— after the Bomb was dropped. We were part of the close support
group at Southern France, Lingayen Gul, Iwo Jima and Oki-
nawa. The action was often exciting, almost too much so around
Okinawa in April, 1945.

In 1939 in Las Vegas, Nevada, I married the girl I met the
previous year when we drew adjoining deck chairs on the Queen
of Bermuda. She is a Minnesota farm girl who reached New York
by way of California and the motion picture industry. Our
daughter was born in 1944. She is growing up now and is a
lot like her mother, and I can’t say anything better than that.
We live in a suburban (exurban now I believe) community in
the foothills of the San Gabriel Mountains, northeast of Los An-
geles. Roses, camellias and .chrysanthemums do well here and I
have had good luck with all of them.

Water color painting is my major hobby. I got into it by

_ sheerest luck about three years ago and it ranks as my great dis-
covery. I have taken some lessons and manage to turn out a fair
painting about once in every fifteen attempts. It is the greatest
of all hobbies in my opinion. Painting alone is marvelous recrea-
tion, but in addition it leads into a whole world of color and
design which changes one’s outlook on life considerably. Golf
and tennis take too much time it seems, but I still manage to fit
in a lot of swimming. We have a pretty elaborate Hi-Fi set-up
and a Bedlington terrier — to complete the hobby section.

Have done the usual quota of civic duties. Switched from
Democrat to GOP during the war. I was one of the originals
for Ike in this area, and headed Citizens for Eisenhower in La
Canada. It was an interesting experience in a big high-minded
campaign — so different from our local school campaigns where
I first picked up political scar tissue.

Our school district adjoins Pasadena, a major battle field in the
educational war, and the bitterness and strife have affected us too.
There are faults on both sides but the pro-school forces have
fewer in my opinion and | have worked on their side. Have co-
directed several tax and bond campaigns and we are batting about
.500. Participants manage to achieve an amazing emotional frenzy
and no weapons are barred in the desperate struggle for power.
Both sides have been tarnished in these fights but, unfortunately,
the middle ground has not yet been found.

[215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Iam puzzled by the fact that in my business career in New
York, Boston and Las Angeles, I have run into very few Harvard
men. Law School and business schoo! graduates have been plenti-
ful, but graduates of the College are scarce in the routes of ordi-
nary commerce. If the Harvard influence is good, an important

segment of American life may not be getting its share.

“At this distance the Harvard influence is much weaker than in
the East, but I am often surprised at its strength. “The name ac-

2

tually carries considerable w eight — the w eight of tradition prob-

ably. In Southern California, any thing that happens two years
in succession is described as “traditional”, so Harvard and its long
history have some real meaning here.

ASHBY DuBOSE CLEVELAND, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2929 Fairfax Rd. Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

OFFICE AppRESS: International Paper Co., Terminal Tower, Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1909, Salt Lake City, Utah. parents: Ashby DuBose Cleve-
land, Sarah Alexander.

PREPARED AT: New Orleans Academy, New Orleans, La.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Jacqueline Johnson, Aug. 28, 1947, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Ashby DuBose, 3d, Sept. 13, 1948; David Laundon, Nov. 28, 1949;
William Alexander, Nov. 23, 1951; Sarah and Chisholm (twins), Dec.
11, 1952.

occupation: With sales department, International Paper Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard and University Clubs, Cleveland, Ohio.

DAVID COBB

HOME ADDRESS: 4905 Cumberland Ave., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

orricz appkess: Cobb & Weissbrodt, 1822 Jefferson Pl., N.W., Washington 6,
D.C,

BORN: Nov. 3, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Richard Cobb, '92, Sarah Mills
F lis.

peepaken at: Phillips Excter Academy, Exeter, N, H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 19315 LL.B. 1935.

Makniep: Lucille Hl. Reidy, Feb. 21, 1441, Washington, D. C. crtp: David
Michacl, March 27, 1943.

HAKVAKD BROTHER: Matthew Cobb, ’35.

occupation: Lawyer.

[216]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BEGINNING in 1935, after Law School, and continuing until
early 1947, I was in government service in a variety of different
agencies and positions. The agencies included the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Labor Department, the National Defense Advisory Commission,
the Office of Price Administration, the Navy, the United Nations
Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, the Price Decontrol
Board, and the National Housing Agency. The positions ran
the gamut from gob to general counsel. Since early 1947, I have
been practising law.

SAMUEL ELIOT CODMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 142 Chestnut St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Alfred Codman, ’96, Lydia Eliot.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Alfred Codman, ’25; Eliot Codman, °27; Daniel Sargent
Codman, ’3o0.

occuPATION: Assistant cashier, First National Bank of Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Aviation Volunteer Unit 1-4; director, Amory
Eliot Offices, 1946-47; member, Military Order of British Empire.

MEMBER OF: American Bankers Association, Wardroom Club, The Country
Club, Brookline.

HARVARD needn’t take all the blame. After all, two years are
hardly enough to be branded as a full-fledged bona fide “son”.
I went directly to M.I.T. after St. Mark’s for a year’s study in
architecture and, treasonable as it may sound, the course of events
would seem to prove that that is where I should have remained.
At least I showed some talent in design, which is more than I
can say for any of my efforts thus far in the business world.
Outside of my work in the bank, my principal interest is the
stock market. All I have learned to date is that it is impossible
to make a forecast with any accuracy whatever. I consider my-
self fortunate to have had investment funds (not mine) out-
perform the Dow Jones averages the last seven years.
It is rather appalling to realize that such a dynamic twenty-five
years has passed with such little effect on me. Even the war, in

[217 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

which I served in the Navy for four years, missed getting me
into combat by some thirty days. I don’t mean to complain too
vehemently, as my rut has been pleasant enough in its way — lots
of golfing, some skiing, time for travel and photography, few
responsibilities and no pain. A bachelor’s life is fine up to a
certain point, but I am beginning to suspect that I may be over-
doing it a bit. Here’s hoping that by our Fiftieth I shall have
something more tangible and commendable to report.

JAMES RICHARD COGAN

MAILING ADDRESS: 414 N. Camden Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.
BORN: June 10, 1910, Lynn, Mass. parents: Henry Cogan, Rebecca Sack.
PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. 1935.
occupation: Medicine.

NATHAN EDWARD COHEN

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Ferncliff Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 E. gist St., New York 28, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1909, Derry, N. H. parents: David Harry Cohen, Ada
Cottler.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; A.M., 19325 PH.D., 1934.

MarRRIED: Sylvia L. Golden, June, 1934, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: David
Harris, Aug. 26, 1938, Edward Richard, Jan. 15, 1944; Susan Anne,
Dec. 28, 1948.

occupaTion: Associate dean and professor of social work, New York School
of Social Work, Columbia University.

OFFICES HELD: Sheldon Fellow (Harvard), 1934-35; first vice-president,
American Association of Group Workers, 1946-50; chairman, Council
on Social Work Education, 1949-52; president, National Association of
Social Workers, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Social Workers; American Association
of University Professors.

pusLications: “An Overall Look”, National Policies for Education, Health
and Social Service, Columbia University Bicentennial, 1954, “The
Future of Graduate Training for Social Work”, Educational Record,
1951; Introduction to Social Work Education in the United States,
Hollis, E. V., and Taylor, A. L.; “Eduard C. Lindeman, Social Welfare
Statesman; the Teachings and Philosophy”, National Conference of

[218 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Social Work Proceedings, 1953; “Implications of the Present Scene for
Group Work Practice”, National Conference of Social Work Proceed-
ings, 1955; “Professional Social Work Faces the Future”, Social Work
Journal, 1955; “Desegregation— A Challenge to the Place of Moral
Values in Social Work Education”, Council on Social Work Education
Proceedings, 1955.

t+ SAMUEL JOSEPH COHEN

Born: Aug. 24, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Simon Cohen, Rose Freedman,
PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: 8.B, IN IND, CHEM., 1931.

MARRIED: Ida Close, Dec. 25, 1937, Boston, Mass.

piep: Jan. 7, 1954, Boston, Mass.

AFTER a year at the Graduate School of Education, Cohen be-
came a teacher of chemistry at the Rindge Technical School in
Cambridge. In 1942 he left this post to join the Navy, serving as
an Anti-Submarine Warfare specialist in the American and Euro-
pean Theatres, and as executive officer of the Naval Training
Center in Brooklyn. He was discharged in 1945 and returned to
Rindge, where he was teaching at the time of his death.

+ THEODORE COHEN

Born: May 21, 1908, Lynn, Mass. parents: Simon Cohen, Ida Ruth Canter.
PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

pieD: Feb. 6, 1935, Belmont, Mass.

THE Secretary has no details of Cohen’s short postgraduate life.

PRESTON MANSFIELD COLE

HOME appress: Church Hill, Woodstock, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Helmer & Cole, Associate Architects, Woodstock, Vt.

BoRN: Feb, 26, 1908, Dedham, Mass. parents: Henry Cole, Christine Tillson
Mansfield.

PREPARED at: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

[219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

marriep: Mary Jane Thomas-Stahle, Feb. 6, 1943, State College, Pa. CHIL-
pREN: Peter Preston, July 18, 1946; Catherine, Nov. 16, 1948; Ann Shaw,
July 24, 1950; Andrew Mansfield, Jan. 19, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1949-51, president, 1951-53, Vermont Associa-
tion of Architects; member, since 1951, secretary, 1951-53, Vermont
State Board of Registration for Architects; town chairman, 1951, county
campaign chairman, 1953, member county executive committee, since
1955, National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Society of American Military
Engineers; Marine Corps Reserve (major).

IT seems hardly possible that it was just ten years ago this fall
that I was doing my most recent bit of long-distance traveling —
that of returning from the Pacific with a contingent of stateside-
hungry Marines. Shortly afterwards, I sat down to jot a few notes
for our Twentieth. Now as I start to write a few more lines for
our Twenty-fifth, I am mindful of the many and increasing times
that members of our Class have broken into the news with note-
worthy achievements, Proud we should be, and are, of the scien-
tists, diplomats, government aides, and legal arbitrators (or
arbiters). I am looking forward eagerly to “good” reading in our
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report of the contributions to better
and fuller living furnished by so many of our classmates.

Meanwhile, 1 am still living in the rural area of Vermont, yet
in a village that is almost a suburb of New York, Boston and
Philadelphia. I spend twice as much time at my office in my home
town, getting half as far as I should, and consequently I see much
too little of my wonderful family of four youngsters and their
mother.

Time surges by and yet I’m not much impressed that I am
growing older except when it comes to shortness of breath in my
strenuous Cub Scout activities. Also, for what it is worth, I find
myself in fair agreement with the sentiments expressed in that
magazine article, “The Natural Superiority of the Ivy League”.

[ 220 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM JOHN COLLINS

HOME aDpRESS: 946 Nancy Carol Lane, Glendale 22, Mo.

OFFICE apprEss: 815 Olive St., St. Louis, Mo.

BorN: July 11, 1907, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Martin John Collins, Mary Ann
McDonough.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MARRIED: Cyrilla E. Brand, Sept. 3, 1942, St. Louis, Mo.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

THOMAS CONNELL

HOME ADDRESS: 1425 State Se., New Orleans 15, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 453 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13, Calif.

BoRN: Oct. 31, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Thomas Connell, Mabel V.
Roach.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934(35).

MARRIED: Emily K. Daly, July 26, 1938, Redlands, Calif. cHipren: Katherine
Elaine and Georgia Elizabeth (twins), May 8, 1942; Dorothy Veronica,
Nov. 24, 1945.

OccUPATION: Oil operator; attorney.

oFFicEs HELD: Director, Harvard Club of Southern California, 1946-48.

ROWLAND BOWEN COOK

HOME ADDRESS: 423 St. Marks Ave., Westfield, N. J.

OFFICE appress: K. R. Services, Inc. 422 Elizabeth Ave. Newark, N. J.

BoRN: June 20, 1909, Everett, Mass. parents: Louis D. Cook, Helena Miller
Lindsay.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MaRRiED: Carmalyn McCann, March 4, 1933, New York, N. Y. cHILpREN:
Marilyn, Oct. 27, 1937; John, May 20, 1941; Margaret, Oct. 27, 1945;
Carmalyn, July 6, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Paul Wentworth Cook, "43.

OCCUPATION; Accounting manager, K. R. Services, Inc., distributors of house-
hold appliances.

OFFICES HELD: Certified public accountant, New York, since 1939.

MEMBER OF: New Jersey Society of Certified Public Accountants.

NOT only did I not graduate with my class, but I have not as
yet earned my Bachelor’s degree. Shortly after leaving Harvard,
I went on the road with the Tony Sarg Marionette Company,

[ 221 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF IQ31

where I met my wife, who was one of the company. We now
have four “puppets” to show for it: one is a freshman at the

University of Delaware; they range in age down to an eighteen-

month-old doll who has me nicely tied to her fingers, if I may be
ermitted to reverse a metaphor.

While working for Price, Waterhouse in New York I went
to the City College for two years, evenings, studying accounting,
but in 1941 I left New York and public accounting to join the
ranks of private industry. I am now in my second year at Rutgers
in Newark evenings and by the time my oldest graduates from
Delaware and my youngest is ready for kindergarten, I may get
my S.B. in management. At least that is the schedule.

DWIGHT IRVING COOKE, JR.

HOME AppREss: 40 W, 77th St, New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Columbia Broadcasting System, 485 Madison Ave. New
York, N. Y.

BorN: Oct. 15, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: Dwight Irving Cooke, Marion
Stowell.

PREPARED AT: Northern High School, Detroit, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M. (Princeton Univ.),

1932.
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: TV and radio commentator; moderator; author; lecturer.
PUBLICATIONS: There Is No Asia, Doubleday.

FOUR years of education at Harvard were honed to an even
finer perfection by a Master’s degree from Princeton. In 1933,
armed with these passe-partouts, I was finally able to get a job as a
farm hand in Nebraska. Later, I became the writer of the radio
“March of Time”, and an editor of the movie “March of Time”
and Time magazine. In these various jobs, I used little to nothing
of what had been droned into me at the above ivy citadels of
hallowed irrelevancies.

Thanks, or curses, to the “March of Time”, I have remained in
the mass media ever since: a long, frenetic, ulceric succession of
networks and advertising agencies. As a radio and TV writer, I
have sweated out imbecilic producers and directors; as a radio
and TV director and producer, I have frustrated imbecilic writers
and ego-ridden stars; as a radio and TV performer, I have re-

[ 222 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

written imbecilic writers and pretended not to understand the
moronic directions given me by producers and executives,

These broadcasting activities were interrupted by World War
HI, during which I was program director of shortwave station
WRUL which broadcast in twenty-six languages twenty-two
hours a day. Here I was able to observe the sacred mysteries of
psychological warfare and I also discovered that government
operations were about as inane as those of a broadcasting system.

Back in the smaller macltroms of national broadcasting, T con-
tinued to be educated in spite of myself. As a moderator on un-
countable numbers of air debates, 1 learned to hold my tonguc
while recognized leaders of our political world talked ‘skillfully
to evade the truth and confuse their listeners. Gradually 1 was
able to realize that our people loathe one genus more than egy.
heads — the genus of leaders. The mass, which is everybody but
me and thee, and even thee is a little massy, wants in front of it
only those leaders who will follow its slavish or lackadaisical im-
pulses, these impulses dependent on who or what has been last
at said masses.

On my own seven-year-long, five-day-a-week, coast-to-coast
radio series, “You and the World”, and “Dwight Cooke’s Guest-
book”, I have had the rare opportunity to talk extemporancously
with a high percentage of the doers and drivers of our times.
What these people have taught me leaves me bedazzled by the
possibilities man has blasted open for his progress. [am filled with
awe at the reaching mind and heart of the rare few who fertilize
and renew our civilization.

And I remain batfled how the contradictory points of the above
two paragraphs can be reconciled.

My work has allowed me to travel frequently in Europe and
intensively in Asia and the Middle East. Conclusion: we are not
understood abroad; we are not especially liked, even by most of
our friends. We remain Masters of the Material, naive, instinc-
tively honest, automatically considerate of others, immensely brash
and unvaryingly practical.

In Asia I have traveled through every non-communistic coun-
try and talked to every leader ‘therein. I came home so turned
upside down by what I had experienced and had been taught that
I could not avoid writing my first book, There Is No Asia. Its

[ 223 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

chief point is my constantly reinforced conviction that the im-
placable struggle between communism and democracy will be
decided in Asia. Whither go the uncommitted, undecided masses
of Asia, there goest the fate of our world. And, quoting myself,
“the best that can be said is that we have not yet lost Asia”.

Between broadcasting and foreign corresponding, I lecture all
around the country. This experience gives me a cheer for our
team. In no other great nation of the world could you find
thousands of citizens studying and pondering and earnestly seek-
ing conclusions to the larger problems of today. Only here in
America do large numbers of men and women feel a personal
responsibility about problems far removed from, and little con-
nected with, their own personal everyday lives.

I cannot observe the rest of the world without becoming more
proud of Americans. Every other civilization in the world, liking
us Or not, is paying us the ultimate compliment of trying to copy
our methods and achieve our results. Iry as I do to realize that
this can be the bias of custom and jingoism, I still end up at the
same point.

The last great hope of our times is that peculiar, inexplicable
resolution of economic, political, religious and moral forces called
the American Way. The economics of mass production and the
ethics of individual freedom have been like the parts of a hydro-
gen bomb: we Americans put them together and suddenly re-
alized a bursting sun of progress.

As of now, it seems to me that we Americans need to concen-
trate on two major weaknesses in ourselves, We need to realize
something most of the world already knows: life and interna-
tional affairs are not a series of black and white alternatives but an
infinite progression of grey choices, each one leading us on into
a new series of predicaments. If we can gradually accept this
adult concept, then the lunatic fringers of America can neither
dcbauch us at home nor discredit us abroad.

And of course, most of all, we Americans need to want to be
more true to ourselves. If we will not live up better to our own
capabilities and standards, we cannot prove to the rest of the
world that our way of life should be theirs. And if, by our actions
at home and alroad, we do not stand by and reinforce the prin-
ciples upon which our Union is founded, then sooner or later

[ 224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

totalitarianism and its simple, ruthless denial of the spark of im-
mortality in man, will take over. We will not have lost the world,
we shall have jettisoned it.

HOWARD HEWITT COOLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 460 Ward St., Newton Centre, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: H. P. Hood & Sons, Inc., 500 Rutherford Ave., Charlestown,
Mass.

BORN: Dec. 18, 1900, Watertown, Mass. parents: Morgan Lucius Cooley,
Anna Marsh Cooley,

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Margret Rice, Oct. 11, 1923, Newton Centre, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carolyn, Oct. 27, 1925; Howard Hewitt, Jr., Nov. 19, 1929; Elizabeth,
Dec. 15, 1934; William Morgan, June 19, 1939.

occuPaTIon: Accountant, H. P. Hood & Sons, Inc.

I AM no longer in government service with the Federal Milk
Administration. Why? I joined Hood in 1951 as an accountant,
determining costs of by-products manufactured, filing govern-
ments reports as to utilization of milk, and answering other peo-
ple’s office telephones.

I was too young for World War I and too old for World War
II. My social convictions were Capitalistic Republican, but I
am now ready to slide into the coming socialism (how much
more debt can we stand?). Never traveled beyond Chicago. My
hobby is amateur radio in the radio operating sense. Am Prot-
estant by birth (Episcopalian) and by inclination. Left a good
future behind me.

DUDLEY AVERY COONLEY

HOME appress: Bass Point, Bradford, N. H. (Sutton, N. H.).

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fox Chase, Box 4, Bradford, N. H.

BORN: May 24, 1908, Riverside, Ill. parents: Howard Coonley, ’99, Leslie
Walker May. .

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MaRRiIED: Deborah P, Locke, June 8, 1935, Cedarhurst, Long Island, N. Y.
(divorced 1947); Elizabeth L. Condict, May 5, 1951, Sutton, N. H.

[ 225]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

CHILDREN: Carol Leslie, April 9, 1939; Edgar R. Condict, April 27, r940
(stepchild); Clinton A. Condict, Jr., Aug. 18, 1941 (stepchild); Patricia
M. Condict, July 29, 1943 (stepchild); Howard, 2d, May 12, 1944; Philip
S., July 30, 1946; Pamela L., July 20, 1949; Karen E., March 3, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: John C. Coonley, ’27.

occupaTION: Hotel owner and operator.

MEMBER OF: Lake Sunapee Yacht Club; Lake Sunapee Country Club.

UNTIL 1934 I was with Tucker, Anthony & Company in Boston,

specializing in research and investment policies. During the

school year of 1934-35, I was teaching mathematics at the Jopake

School in Scottsdale, Arizona. On June 8, 1935, I was married

to Deborah P. Locke of Cedarhurst, Long Island, and immediately

went to Honolulu to work with the Agricultural Adjustment

Administration. In June, 1936, I was appointed treasurer of
“Sugar Factors Limited” and, in June, 1937, was appointed treas-
urer and director of sales of “Taro Products Limited”. Upon
resumption of the Federal Government’s Sugar Control and Soil
Conservation Programs, I was “lent” to the government to handle
all field work. On April 9, 1939, my first child arrived — Carol.
In March, 1941, due to heart trouble, we returned to New York.
With the outbreak of war, I joined the Food Division of the War
Production Board. After being turned down by the Army for
service of any kind, I joined the Birds-Eye Division of General
Foods as assistant to the production manager in May, 1943. On
May 12, 1944, my second child was born, Howard, 2d. In March,

1945, 1 was appointed to the position of assistant secretary of
General Foods Corporation in charge of government contracts
and controls. Divorced in 1947. Due to further heart trouble
in 1948, I resigned from General Foods and came to New Hamp-
shire, which had been the summer home of my family for many
years. My sister and I acquired a lovely property in Sutton,
New Hampshire, in the fall of 1948, and opened a small resort
hotel, known as “Fox Chase” in December, 1948. I married Eliza-
beth L. Condict, May 5, 1951, and thereby acquired five step-
children, three boys and two girls. So far I have been fortunate
enough to adopt two— Philip S. Coonley, aged ten next July
and Pamela L. Coonley, aged seven next July. The other three
are Edgar R. Condict, sixteen, Clinton A. Condict, Jr., fifteen,
and Patricia M. Condict, thirteen. March 3, 1954, brought us

[ 226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a little girl, Karen E. In summer when all eight children are with
us we have a small camp, delightful and busy. Our house is a
-ear-round one, with three sides of our property on Lake Blais-
dell, Sutton, New Hampshire —a children’s paradise with one
jump to swim in summer, and skating, skiing and sliding in winter,
Betty is taking courses nearby to complete her work for an S.B.
in Education, is active in P.T.A., town planning and many other
civic programs. Yours Truly is chairman of the town Budget
Committee and interested in our local civic committees and
benefits.

ARNOLD CORBIN

HOME ADDRESS; 330 Harvard Ave., Rockville Centre, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE Apress: New York University Graduate School of Business Admin-
istration, 90 Trinity Pl, New York 6, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 16, 1911, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Harris Kowarsky, Sophia
Kadish.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: 8.B. 1931; M.B.A., 1934; PH.D. (New
York Univ.), 1954.

MarrieD: Claire Rothenberg, Aug. 22, 1937, Belle Harbor, Long Island, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Lee Harrison, June 7, 1942; Karen Sue, Dec. 12, 1945.

occupation: Associate professor of marketing; partner, Claire Corbin Asso-
ciates.

OFFICES HELD; Interviewer, Schools and Scholarship Committee, Long Island
Harvard Club, since 1954; member editorial board, The New York
Retailer, 1947-54; member, National Panel of Arbitrators, American
Arbitration Association, since 1955; member, Special Gifts Committee,
United Fund of Rockville Centre, since 1955; member, New York
University Graduate School of Business Administration Alumni Asso-
ciation Advi isory Council, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Era Mu Pi (retailing, honorary); Beta Gamma
Sigma (business, honorary); Alpha Delta Sigma (advertising, hono-
rary); Mu Kappa Tau (marketing, honorary); Sigma Alpha Mu;
American Marketing Association; National Industrial Advertisers Asso-
ciation; Economic History Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, Changing Patterns in Retailing, Richard D. Irwin,
Inc., 1956); numerous articles in retailing and marketing publications.

IT took many years to do it, but the wheel has come around
full circle. Instead of being on the receiving end of lectures, dis-
cussions and assorted witticisms, I am now, fortunately, on the
giving end. Alas, pity my students! But, seriously, I am having

[ 227 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

since it required much imagination, flexibility and judgment in

adjusting the rigid, peacetime sealed-bid purchasing procedures

to the latitude of wartime “negotiated” contracts. Just when it
was getting really exciting, top brass decided I ought to under-
take the man-sized job of setting up a brand new field inspection
service for the Quartermaster Corps. This task merely involved
finding some 5,000 qualified inspectors early in 1944, training
them, placing them in contractors’ plants, and supervising their
activities. But it was done — and our Q. M. C. Inspection Service
was the first of all the services to use the brand new system of
statistical quality control known as “sequential sampling” in its
acceptance inspection activities. My reward was a couple of
“Commendation Ribbons” and a delayed release (February, 1946),
albeit as lieutenant colonel.

As my first postwar activity, I could not resist the urge to try
my hand as an “entrepreneur”, that great risk-taker of the Ameri-
can economy. Capitalizing on war-built contacts, the Corbin
Foods Company launched its line of “Colonel Kitchen” products
— mayonnaise and salad dressing —in a blaze of glory, and in
an era of vegetable oil shortages (the primary ingredient in these
products). Success was instantaneous, but lasted only as long as
these oils were under “control”. When they were decontrolled
in late 1946, the ravages of unbridled competition from such
giants as Kraft and Hellman’s caused the premature demise of
the infant enterprise — just when profits, the reward for entre-
preneurial risk, were beginning to roll in nicely.

Fortunately, the transition to another form of “gainful em-
ployment” proved easy since the Army proffered a high level
civilian position as chief technologist of its Quartermaster Corps
Inspection Service. Although this assignment was interesting
enough, it hardly offered a long-range career potential. So, when
the opportunity came a-knocking in the fall of 1947 to do some
college teaching in the evening, I seized it with both hands! I
enjoyed this teaching so much, particularly in the field of retail-
ing which was close to my heart and experience, that when a
full-time position opened up in 1949 at the same school (the City
College School of Business Administration), I didn’t think twice
about taking it. Fortunately, it proved to be a most wise decision,
even though it meant going back to school again to pick up a

[ 230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Ph.D. degree, the “union card” of the college teaching profession,
After four years of neglecting family, friends and home obliga-
tions, the coveted sheepskin was acquired at the New York Uni-
versity Graduate School of Business Administration. Apparently,
my scholastic achievements in earning the doctorate did not go
unnoticed, for when a fine professorial position in the marketing
field opened up at New York University in the fall of 1954, the
offer made to me was so attractive in all respects that it was ac-
cepted with enthusiasm. It has offered the rewarding experience
of teaching at the graduate level, plus plenty of prestige in the
business community, and the opportunity to contribute to the
literature of the field, as well as to do interesting consulting work
in marketing research, merchandising, publicity and sales pro-
motion with the closest and truest partner a man can have — his
wife (in fact, our firm name is “Claire Corbin Associates”; I am
the “Associates!”). I feel, at last, that I can look forward to a
life-long career in a most enjoyable profession that offers, over
and above its limited financial rewards, the very satisfying op-
portunity to be of service to fellow human beings in educating
them for life and their chosen carcers,

JAMES MATTHEW COSGROVE
SEE Appendix.

JAMES WILLIAM COUGHLIN

HOME appress: 568 Pine St., Lowell, Mass.

OFFICE AporEess: George C. Moore Wool Scouring Mills, North Chelmsford,
Mass.

BorN: March 9, 1910, Lowell, Mass. parents: James Coughlin, Mary Mc-
Carthy.

PREPARED at: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

MARRIED: Theodote Kimball, June 25, 1938, Portland, Maine. cHILDREN:
Theodore Purinton, March 4, 1941; Ellen Breed, Feb. 5, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Corporation secretary, George C. Moore Scouring Mills.

MEMBER OF: Nashua Country Club.

THIS business of an autobiography is strictly a hairshirt. The
[231 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

years have mercifully drawn an obscuring cloud over a misspent
youth, Happily married for eighteen years, the past twenty-five
have slipped by comfortably if quite uneventfully. Nothing at
all to brag about. Play a nice wild game of golf but prefer sail-
ing which I engage in every chance I get. Beyond seeing my
children through college, I have no other ambition but to go
on sailing till I die.

RICHARD EDMUND COYLE

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 199 Savin Hill Ave., Dorchester, Mass.
BoRN: Feb. 19, 1900, Roxbury, Mass. parents: James Michael Coyle, Mary
Agnes Eisner.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

COYLE has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1939.

t+ ROGER PAUL CRAIG

BORN: July 2, 1910, Chestnut Hill, Mass. parents: Hayward Wilson, ’os,
Dorothea Clapp Knight.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Vivian Guerin, Dec. 8, 1934, Woonsocket, R. I. CHILDREN: Fran-
cesca, 1936; Priscilla, 1937; Suzanna, 1941.

pep: May 26, 1946, New York, N. Y.

FOR our Decennial Report Craig wrote that he was engaged in
public relations work in New York City. He later became a

free-lance writer. He entered college under the name of “Roger
Wilson.”

WILLIAM HARRY CRAWFORD, JR.

HOME appRESS; 1306 Lennox Ave., N.E., Massillon, Ohio,

Born: April 10, 1907, Massillon, Ohio, Parents: William Harry Crawford,
Florence Hill Dangler.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; 8.T.B. (General Theol. Semi-
nary), 1951.

[ 232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Episcopal clergyman.

orrices HELD: Master, University School, 1932-35; head of school department,
Oxford University Press, New York, 1935-39; associate headmaster,
Carleton Parker School, Williamstown, Mass. 1939-42; captain, U, S.
Army, 1942-46, associate editor, Oxford University Press, 1946-48,
Seabury Press, since 1955; chaplain, Pomfret School, 1951-55; assistant
director, Pine Island Camp for Boys, since 1948.

Memper OF: ELarvard Club of New York City.

pusLicaTions: Five or six small books of no consequence.

FOR seventeen years following graduation I couldn't make up
my mind between teaching and publishing. The problem was
solved by my decision to enter General Theological Seminary to
study for the priesthood in the Fpiscopal church. Upon ordina-
tion I accepted the chaplaincy of the Pomfret School, Through-
out the years I have maintained a keen interest in boys, and feel
that I am happiest when working with them, For this reason I
manage to maintain a close relationship with Pine Island Camp,
Belgrade, Maine. I have become a convert to Maine where I now
have a small house which is my legal residence. My neighbor, a
few miles away, is F. A. W hitney, formerly associate professor
of history at Harvard and my tutor for four years.

Like everyone cle, my career was interrupted by the late war.
I enlisted as a private in early 1942; eventually landed in an OCS
and upon graduation was assigned to the Sccretariat of the Inter-
American Defense Board, an echelon of joints staff. In other
words, | fought the battle of Washington until March, 1946. In
the summer of 1955 T resigned the Pomfret chaplaincy, took a
trip to England, and returned to take the associate editorship of
the Seabury Press, the official publishing house of the Episcopal
Church, Greenwich, Connecticut.

GEORGE DOUGLAS CREELMAN

HOME aboress: 2245 Harcourt Drive, Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.

OFFice apogess: Creelman Associates, 10524 Wilbur Ave., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BoRN: Nov. 18, 1908, Winsted, Conn. PARENTS: George Willis Creelman, ’94,
Helen Louise Douglas.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRnieD: Marjorie Ethel Broer, June 29, 1932, Toledo, Ohio. cHttLpREN:

[ 233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Carleton Douglas, July 27, 1933 (7. Carol E. Peterson, Dec. 18, 1954),
Stewart Elliott, July 21, 1936; Katherine George, Jan. 18, 1941. GRANp-
cHILD: Peter Douglas Creelman, July 27, 1955.

HARVARD SON: Carleton Douglas Creelman, ’56.

HARVARD BROTHER: Brenton Wells Creelman, °35 (deceased).

OccuPATION: President, Creelman Associates, consultants in management
sciences, operations research, research management, process and chemi-
cal engineering.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1953, councilor, 1954-56, Division of Gas and Fuel
Chemistry, American Chemical Society; founder and chairman, Gordon
Research Conference on Coal, 1951, 1952; chairman, Fundamental Re-
search Committee, Bituminous Coal Research, Inc., 1950-52.

MEMBER oF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Ameri-
can Chemical Society; American Gas Association; American Petroleum
Institute; American Institute of Chemical Engineers; American Institute

of Chemists (fellow); American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical
Engineers; Cleveland Association of Research Directors, Cleveland
Engineering Society; Engineering Society of Western Pennsylvania,
Federation of American Scientists; Institute of Management Sciences;
Operations Research Society of America, Cleveland Chamber of Com-
merce; Cleveland Council on World Affairs; Chemists’ Club of New
York; Cleveland Skating Club; Harvard Club of Cleveland.

PUBLICATIONS: “Operations Research Applied to Ore Reserves at Riddle”

(with W. R. Van Voorhis and L. E. Andrews, Jr.), Mining Congress
Journal, 1955.

IMMEDIATELY on leaving college, I went to work for the
M. W. Kellogg Company of New York and Jersey City. They
were then, and are now, the largest concern engaged in research,
development and construction of oil refinery equipment. I spent
eleven years with Kellogg, starting out in the research laboratory
and working progressively in engineering and refinery economics.
Toward the end of this period with Kellogg, I founded the
company patent department that grew to handle all phases of
new developments in chemistry, chemical engineering and me-
chanical development in oil refinery processes. More important
than the strictly patent-oriented activities was the development
of a working theory and philosophy of the motivation of creative
people. It was most rewarding to feel real creativity blossoming
in an atmosphere of appreciation.

In 1943 I left Kellogg to join the general engineering depart-
ment of the Monsanto Chemical Company in St. Louis. After
about a year and a half with Monsanto, I resigned to join the

[ 234 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Institute of Gas Technology in Chicago as administrative assistant
to the director. Here I had my first ‘direct responsibility for the
details involved in the direction of a research laboratory. I was
responsible for personnel, the patent department, library and the
direction of a portion of the research program.

In 1946 I joined the M. A. Hanna Company in Cleveland as
research coérdinator. During the first four or five vears I spent
most of my time with a Hanna affiliate, the new ly-formed Pirts-
burgh C onsolidation Coal Company. In about three years we
had built a fully integrated organization of about 150 people with
laboratories and pilot plants backed up with the complete trim-
mings of a good library and an aggressive patent department, The
program w hich we initiated has recently scen its first commercial
fruition in the start of construction of a pipeline from southern
Ohio to pump a slurry of coal and water 100 miles from the
mines to the power plants of the Cleveland Electric IHuminating
Company in Cleveland. Major emphasis was on an extensive and
longer range program in coal conversion, including carbonization
and gasification which led to the joint project with Olin-Mathie-
son for aluminum production on the Ohio River now under
construction.

During the latter half of my stay with Hanna, I spent more
time with other Elanna activities, including stecl plant research
in connection with the National Stec! Corporation (another
Hanna affiliate) in Hanna’s own developments of iron and other
ores in pilot plants and in the economic evaluations of several
new types of mineral deposits. In one of these studies I had my
first direct contact with Operations Research in connection with
the development of a nickel deposit in Oregon. My last job with
Hanna involved the application of soil mechanics in the con-
struction and maintenance of the railroad that was being built
to bring ore from the new mines in Labrador down to the St.
Lawrence River.

I left the Mf. A. Hanna Company in the spring of 1954 to set
up my own consulting office in Cleveland, Creelman Associates.
We are consultants in the management sciences, specializing in
the combination of engineering and management consulting that
is becoming known as operations research. With our own small
full-time staff of diversified engineers, combined with a consult-

[ 235 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ing group, largely university professors, we bring to management

and make available for their decision-making the breadth of a

teamwork approach to complex problems.

The first year and a half of operation was very lean. There
was a first period of deciding just what it was we did want to
do, and then during the next year the slow process of making
ourselves known rather widely in the kind of industry where we
thought we could be of service. Now at last we are beginning
to get contracts and are starting to worry about the difficult job
of recruiting the kind of diversified personnel that we shall need
as we expand.

We are working on problems like scheduling the details of the
development of a chemical process. This involves consideration
of a broad range of factors, including estimate of potential mar-
ket, design of test and demonstration procedures, and develop-
ment of a sales and promotion program. All these are integrated
with a re-definition of the client’s objectives in developing a
diversification of their business. Another job in research and de-
velopment programming involves a re-orientation of company
policy and objectives and a basic study of the factors involved in
the creative activities of the research people themselves. In this
we combine in a team research and development engineers, oper-
ations research analysts, and psychologists specializing in motiva-
tion group dynamics.

Just before we were married, my wife had received her Mas-
ter’s degree in psychology from Columbia University. For the
next thirteen years she was more than fully occupied in raising
three children, building a house and moving around the country.
After our first year in Cleveland, with all three children in school,
she registered at Western Reserve University, finally ending up
with a Ph.D. in clinical psychology in June of 1954. In the past
year she has built up her own practice in individual psycho-
therapy. Part of her time is spent as secretary-treasurer of our
partnership and also as a consulting associate in our work with
industry.

My wife and I think we are the originators of do-it-yourself —
not only repairs, decorating, furniture, photography, cooking,
Hi-Fi, but also clearing a wooded lot, planning and building a
new house, and continuously remodeling and rebuilding houses

[ 236 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(four of them). All three children have it in their blood, have
built cheir own radios and Hi-Fi systems, made one car out of
two wrecks, raised guppies and puppies, in addition to working
on the family team on the major projects. We all seem to have
time for everything except canasta and TV.

Douglas, our elder son, now a senior at Harvard, will graduate
in social relations in June and expects to go on for a Ph.D. in
psychology. He's interested in psychoacoustics and information
and communication theory. Butch, a sophomore at Denison Uni-
versity, will probably be the money “making salesman. He plays
varsity soccer, sings and generally organizes everything. Kitty,
fifreen, wants to be an author. She's already finished the manu-
script of her firse novel. We look forward to a busy June with
a Harvard graduation and Twenty-fifth Reunions at Harvard
and Vassar.

DAVID NASH CROFOOT

HOME AND OFFice aporess: Random Acres, Fort Crook, Nebr.

BoRN: Nov. 16, 1908, Omaha, Nebr. parents: Lodowick Fitch Crofoot,
Mary Nash.

preparrD at: Creighton Preparatory School, Omaha, Nebr.; Phillips Acad-
emy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MaRRIFD: Katharine Ann Becker, Oct. 11, 1934, Dubuque, Iowa. CHILDREN:
Philip, Jan. 25, 1936, David Lodowick, Jan, 10, 1939; Jeanne, Feb, 10,
1943; Anne, Jan. 4, 1945; James, July 19, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Michael Crofoot, M.p., °37.

occupation: Agriculture; investments.

MEMBER OF: Northeast Harbor Fleet, Northeast Harbor, Maine; Sarasota
Power Squadron, Sarasota, Fla., lowa-Nebraska Sailing Association,
Omaha, Nebr.; Manawa Elks Country Club, Council Bluffs, Iowa;
Omaha Square Dance Club, Omaha, Nebr.

WHEN Don Field’s first request for a picture and biography
arrived, I was filled with good intentions for a quick reply! Then
I examined the samples Don sent, culled (I suspect with some
diligence) from another 25th Anniversary Report, and my inten-
tions evaporated! I appealed to a literary friend to “ghost write”
my prosaic doings into a passably comparable biography. He de-
clined! No doubt feeling I was asking the impossible. The ques-

[ 237 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

tion of a picture was equally difficult, since cameras don’t lie,
and for years I have declined to be photographed without a hat!
So I procrastinated, until to save the Class postage and to clear
from my desk quantities of mail postmarked Cambridge, I submit
something (no picture, however, since I am certain that I, unlike
the samples, am not better and/or more distinguished looking
than twenty-five years back).

After my return to Omaha in 1931, I was offered a job as a
general insurance salesman (remuneration to be from commis-
sions). Six months made me conclude other fields would be more
satisfying. Having always had a latent yearning for the country
life, | went to work on a large general farm in eastern Nebraska,
then to the University of Nebraska Agricultural College for some
study, followed by starting for myself in 1933. And here I have
remained. Added a swell wife in 1934, and children to run the
farm followed in due course for a “full house”. Starting with a
general farm, we gradually concentrated on dairy (Guernsey
cattle and poultry). Ultimately have reduced the concentration
to just poultry — with a few milch cows to supply our family
and surrounding neighbors. Quality eggs is one farm product
not in oversupply; hence satisfaction for us — and profit. Life in
the country has proved most satisfactory and interesting (the
complete mechanization of agriculture, as well as great strides in

5
plant and animal breeding, and the application of chemistry to

agriculture, has taken place in the last twenty years).
Politically, I like to think I am that extinct creature, a “Jeffer-
sonian Democrat”. That means I am little in sympathy with the
present Democratic party and, while registered that way, have
since 1932 voted mostly the other way —as the lesser of two
evils. I continue in the faith in which I was raised — Roman
Catholic — with prodding from my wife and daughters to see
that I stay in line. Until recently it has been hard to get away,
so our travels (mostly as a family group) have been confined to
short trips throughout the Midwest. A couple of years ago, after
twenty years on the farm, we decided to take off for about a year.
_ Went to Florida for the winter; meandered up the East Coast —
staying with long-suffering relatives; thence to Maine, where we
spent the summer. Reluctantly returned with the idea that I
should figure out some occupation that would require a Florida

[ 238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

residence most of the year, and Maine during the summer. Since
I have yet to find the solution, we are still at the farm. But, with
the growth of Omaha, we anticipate being pushed from our hold-
ings (naturally, we trust, at a handsome profit) in the not too
distant future. When and if that comes to pass, I expect to go
all out for that Maine-Florida deal.

FRANKLIN CLIFTON CROSBY

HOME ADorEss: 16 White Se, Groton, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: New London High School, New London, Conn,

Born: Nov. 10, 1909, Winthrop, Mass. parests: Alvah Barker Crosby, Flor-
ence A. Tewksbury.

prepareD aT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931; DEGREFS: $.B., 1931; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1939.

marriep: Dorothy R. Perkins, Aug. 11, 1940, Boston, Mass, ciitpren:
Stephen F, Feb. 17, 1943; Thomas A., July 25, 1947.

occuPaTION: Mathematics teacher, New London High School; associate pro-
fessor, Mitchell College, New London, Conn,

OFFICES HELD: Committee chairmanships in professional organizations.

MEMBER OF: New London, Connecticut and National Education Associa-
tions, AF. & A.M.

HAVING taught mathematics in Massachusetts and Connecticut,

I seem to have settled in New London. For the past five sum-
mers I have worked for General Dynamics Corporation where I
worked on the atomic subs Nautilus and Seawolf. During this
period I was concerned mostly with security work, although
mathematics had some fascinating applications.

HENRY EDWIN CUTLER, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: 407 Central Ave., Wilmette, IIL

BORN: Nov. 20, 1907, Chicago, Ill. parents: Henry Edwin Cutler, Hattie
Mfarquarot.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930, 1932-1933.

[ 239 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ALBERT ADOLPHE CYR

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 Pleasant St., Fort Kent, Maine.

BORN: July 30, 1904, Keegan, Maine. PARENTS: Victorie M. Cyr, Modeste
Sirois.

PREPARED AT: St. Mary’s Manor, South Langhorne, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: AB., 1931; ED.M. (Univ. of Maine),

1953.

MARRIED: Josephine P, Cyr, May 2, 1931, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Patricia
Therese, Feb. 20, 1933 (7. LeRoy Picard, June 25, 1955); Albert Victor,
July 24, 1934, Claudette, April 21, 1937; Rose Marie, May 11, 1938;
Jeannette, March 28, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Superintendent of Schools for School Union No. 129, Maine.

OFFICES HELD: Many in educational and fraternal organizations.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; Maine Teachers’ Association;

Lions International; Knights of Columbus; American Association of
School Administrators.

DURING the past twenty-five years, the surest way of keeping
the old wolf at the door was to be in education. That is where
I've been for eighteen of those twenty-five years. On a few oc-
casions, when the beast was threatening to break in, I ventured
into other fields —two years in merchandising and five years in
insurance.

Today, education — our public school system — is very much
in the news. This is most encouraging, although it is unfortu-
nate that this public interest has taken so long to develop. Our
public school system is sick and even if remedies were applied at
once, it would take time for convalescence. If they are not ap-
plied at once, you can be sure to see further deterioration in the
patient.

The basic remedy is money. The first of the vital organs in
the educational body that must be treated is the teaching and
supervisory personnel. For years insufficient funds have been
provided for salaries. The intelligent, the capable went into busi-
ness, industry and into the more lucrative professions. We, in
educational administration, are always scraping the bottom of
the personnel barrel. Occasionally we come up with a gem, but
usually we have to take what is left after the more favored fields
have been served. The result is that we have a superabundance
of baby sitters and too few teachers.

Of secondary importance are buildings, equipment and the

[ 240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tools necessary for effective teaching. The deficiency in these,
existing in many localities, is again due to a large extent to the
lack of funds.

The problem is national in scope and the remedy will have to
be applied partly from the national level. There has to be a more
equitable distribution of available resources than now obtained,
if there is to be proper equalization of educational opportunities,

ARTHUR HAMPAR DADIAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1842 16th St. N.W., Washington 9, D, C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 821 15th St, N.W., Washington 5, D. C.

BorN: April 297, 1909, Turkey. parents: Hampar Dadian, Veronica Kasard-
jian.

prepared at: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927=1931. DEGREES: AB. 1931; M.B.A., 1933; LL.B. (George-
town Univ.), 1943.

occupation: Lawyer in private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Member steering committee (project on business men in fed-
eral government), president, 1951-52, Harvard Business School Club of
Washington, D. C.; chairman, placement committee, vice-president,
1952, Harvard Club of Washington; chief class agent, Harvard Business
School Fund, Class of 1933, 1954-56; president, Century Club, Harvard
Business School, 1933; vice-president, Men's Club, St. John’s Episcopal
Church.

Memparr OF: Harvard Lodge of Masons; Harvard Club of Washington,
Harvard Business School Club of Washington, Washington Board of
Trade, Men's Council, St. John’s Fpiscopal Church.

pusLications: “Comparison of Walsh-Hlealey and Davis Bacon Acts”, “Ex-
ecutive Order 9240"; “Salaries of Municipal Employees”.

SHORTLY after graduating from the Business School, I came
to Washington, D.C., as a special agent for the U.S. Department
of Labor, on a six months’ appointment. I was there five years.
My job took me all over the country. I found this a most educa-
tional experience specially since I had spent most of my life
around Boston, and Worcester was the farthest I had ventured.
One never realizes how much there is to see and to enjoy in this
country and how friendly the people are wherever one goes.
Two experiences seem to stand out in my memory — the Hoover
Dam, which impresses you with the might and genius of Ameri-
can industry; and the statue at Immigrant Gap to the pioneers

[241]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

who were snowbound on their Way to California, which im-
presses vou with the guts and perseverance of the men and women
who built up the West.

My work in the Department of Labor was mostly on these
projects: setting up industries in state prison; studies to determine
the optimum use of federal funds for recovery spending; strike
investigation, and studies on salaries of municipal, county and
state employees. After five years at the Department of Labor, |
transferred to the United States Maritime Commission as a labor
economist. My work there was principally on two projects: man-
ning of merchant vessels, especially the Liberty Ships; and labor
problems in shipyards, especially the problem of absenteeism.
This job brought me in contact with some of the men who built
the merchant ships and the men who manned them during the
war. It was a thrilling experience.

After three years at the Maritime Commission I transferred to
the National War Labor Board as a labor economist and later as
a senior attorney. As a labor economist, I handled the appeals
from the decisions of three regional boards — Detroit, Chicago
and Kansas City; and as a senior attorney, I worked on board
rulings and interpretations. I left the board in 1946 and entered
the private practice of law and have been at it ever since. I al-
ways look back at my government experience with a great deal
of satisfaction. The part I played was most insignificant. Yet be-
ing the part of a team that is working for a cause, and seeing the
results of the work of the team is a most gratifying experience. |
think that men who spend a few years in government service
will never regret it.

In 1952 1 went to Europe and the Near East. I mention this
because I came back more convinced than ever that we are fortu-
nate enough to be living in the best country in the world and un-
der the best system in the world. Those who blame our “bureauc-
racy”, our “politicians” and our “lack of spiritual values” should
take a trip abroad.

In politics I’m one of those rare birds called Independent. I’m
Independent partly because I can’t convince myself that one or
the other of our political partics is all bad and partly because we
in the District of Columbia do not have voting privileges and thus
do not have to choose sides. I’ve always felt that religion plays

[ 242 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an important part in our lives. So I joined St. John’s Episcopal
Church here and have been somewhat active in it. Our rector,
Dr. Glenn, used to be the rector of Christ Church in Cambridge.
We think the world of him.

’m just beginning to understand the words of one of my pro-
fessors who told us that one day we would find the great classics
of literature a source of pleasure and wisdom. So my hobby now
is reading the classics of literature. They give me a great deal of
pleasure but so far no wisdom; but I’m hopeful.

PHILIP SPAULDING DALTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3633 Clay St., San Francisco 18, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Anglo California National Bank, 1 Sansome St., San Fran-
cisco 4, Calif,

BORN: Dec. 25, 1907, Milton, Mass. parents: Philip Spaulding Dalton, ’98,
Susan Bradley Howe.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Fxeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRigD: Elizabeth Douglas Manning, Sept. 16, 1944, Jacksonville, Fla.
cHILD; Elizabeth Douglas, Aug. 12, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eliot Wadsworth Dalton, °36.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, trust department, Anglo California
National Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, vice-president, director, Harvard Club of
Chicago, 1932-39; treasurer, Episcopal Diocese of California, 1955;
junior warden, St. Luke’s Episcopal Church, since 1953; committee
chairman, trust division, California Bankers Association, 1952-54; vice-
president, director, San Francisco Estate Planning Council, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Long Meadow Hunt Club, Ill., 1935-39; Camargo Hunt Club,
Ohio, 1939-40; University Club, Ill.; Harvard Club of San Francisco,
since 1946; St. Francis Yacht Club; Commonwealth Club of California;
Speakers Bureau, United Crusade; World Affairs Council, San Fran-
cisco.

SCHOOL and college year books years ago stated my interest
to be in finance, a field which I followed in Chicago with the
First National Bank and Harriman Ripley & Company for eight
years after graduation. This interest is the better founded be-
cause of excursions in other fields from which I have happily
returned to an employer who offers encouragement and oppor-
tunity in good measure.

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Having arrived at our Cohasset Tenth Reunion by sea, I left
by land to go to Washington, D. C., to receive a lieutenant’s (j.¢.)
commission in the Naval Reserve six months prior to the out-
break of the war. There followed aviation duty (ground and
deck) in Chicago for nine months, aboard the U.S.S. Saratoga
for two years, including seven credited engagements, and eighteen
months at the Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, where I had the
good fortune to meet my future wife.

On terminal leave as a commander, USNR, we ventured to San
Francisco, settled here, and have found it deeply satisfying. Our
daughter was born during the first year and she thrives on school
and outdoor activities. The beauty and cultural depth of this
city, its hospitality, the variety and magnitude of the surround-
ing country and the stimulation of the economic growth are all
factors which we prize.

Our door is constantly open to classmates, friends, relatives,
shipmates, business associates, conventioneers, churchmen, travel-
ing families, foreign visitors, neighbors, children and friends of
all above categories. Recreational pursuits include sailing, horses,
mountain climbing, fishing, symphony, opera and a host of phil-
anthropic activities.

The interest we hold in our church is indicated by offices listed
above and by others held by my wife. Politically, the Republicans
have always had my willing and vocal support, even though na-
tional party policy lines have become indistinct and, in truth,
hardly exist in California. In conclusion, I share the pride of
thousands of Harvard men in the public and private accomplish-
ments of many graduates, in the outstanding financial and intel-
lectual support of the alumni body, and in the preéminent posi-
tion, masterfully developed, now held by our university in the
eyes of the nation and of the world.

FREDERICK SIMON DANZIGER

HOME Appress: 1 Buckout Rd., White Plains, N. Y.

OFFICE Appress: Kupfer, Silberfeld, Nathan & Danziger, 29 Broadway, New
York, N. Y.

woun;: April 1s, 1911, New York, N. Y. parents: Ernst Danziger, Martha
Bachmann.

[ 244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B., 1931 (30); LLB. (Yale Univ.),

1936.
MARRIED: Louise E. Paskus, June 24, 1935, Harrison, N. Y. CHILDREN: Richard

Martin, Feb. 18, 1938; Frederick Michael, March 12, 1940.
OccUPATION: Partner in corporate law firm.
OFFICES HELD: Rural school director, Town of Harrison, N. Y¥., 1950-54;
trustee, Altro Health & Rehabilitation Services, Inc., Federation of
. Jewish Philanthropies of New York; member tax committee, Associa-
. tion of the Bar of the City of New York, 1951-54; director, member
executive committee, Bachmann Uxbridge Worsted Corporation.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; New York County Lawyers
Association; Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American
Bar Association; Century Country Club.

IN 1930 the world, even after a minor stock market shake-out,
seemed to beckon to prospective millionaires and I had points
enough for an early discharge from my Harvard enlistment, so
I graduated in June, 1930. A New England textile job as trainee
promised to lead to the substantial fortune which was to come
to everyone in that “new era”. I got the job in time to experience
a couple of the pay cuts which resulted from the deepening de-
pression which exploded in the face of our Class. By fall of 1933
I'd had it and returned to school, this time to Yale Law School.
After my second year there, I married Louise Paskus (Vassar
"34) and returned to Yale with her in tow. After graduation I
returned to New York to work for a down-town law firm; and
I produced a couple of boys— Dick (Loomis ’56) and Mike
(Pomfret ’58). In 1941 I was made a partner in the firm, but was
promptly demoted in April, 1942, to shavetail in the Air Force.
That demotion gave me lots of free travel. As combat intelligence
officer with the g6th Bomb Group (H), I learned to drink tea

in the U.K., U.S.S.R., Italy and North Africa. Two missions to
Russia under the code name “Frantic” — they were, too — were
the highlights of a rather usual Air Force experience. This is one
major who has let his commission lapse — those jets look danger-
ous! After the war we moved to a corner of Harrison near White
Plains and became commuters—P.T.A. boards, Rural School
director and all. Now we've even graduated from the P.T.A.
to worrying about colleges for our boys. :

[245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

CHANDLER BLAKE DAVIS

HOME appREss: 945 Lincoln Ave., St. Paul 5, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 298 Endicott Bldg. St. Paul 1, Minn,

BORN: July 22, 1909, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Edward Perkins Davis, ’99,
Agnes Blake.

PREPARED aT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S$.B., 1931.

marriep: Carol L. Shumway, July 2, 1936, Northfield, Minn. cHILpRen:
Carol, Oct. 10, 1937; Blake Shumway, June 17, 1940; Katherine, Feb. 10,
1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Perkins Davis, Jr, 734.

OccUPATION: President, Davis & Lagerman, Inc., specializing in management
of commercial and industrial property.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Friends of the St. Paul Public Library, Harvard
Club of Minnesota, St. Paul Board of Realtors, St. Paul Building Owners
and Managers Association, Society of Residential Appraisers; treasurer,
St. Paul School Committee, Children’s Preventorium of Ramsey County;
board member, Family Service, Council of Human Relations, Ramsey
County Tuberculosis & Health Association, secretary, Port Authority
of St. Paul.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers; Harvard Club of
Minnesota; Gyro Club; St. Paul Athletic Club.

THE “Field-Sawyer” team wins. I can take no more “goads”,
nor is there room on my littered desk for any more of their mail-
ings. The easy way out would be to copy the last report —a
coward’s way, I suppose. But it’s a fact, there doesn’t seem to
have been much change. And since that was ten years ago, it
sounds as if life must have been quite dull, which is far from a
fact. Another daughter was born in 1947; and a somewhat in-
tensified activity in business (with a corresponding decrease in
other activities) seems to sum it up pretty well.

I entered the real estate business after graduation and, except
for an interlude during the war, have been in it ever since. It has
been very interesting work, offering a rather wide choice as to
field of activity, and has almost kept pace financially with the
requirement of three children who are growing up faster than
we like to contemplate.

In spite of a discouraging shortage of Icisure time, we have
maintained an interest in canocing, hunting, tennis and skiing,
activities which the children have enjoyed with us. Except for
an occasional trip east or west, usually in search of a “white

[ 246}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

water” river, northern canoe route, or new skiing area, we have
stayed pretty close to home. For social activities, we have retro-
gressed from bridge and ballroom dancing to gin rummy and
square dancing. The addition of the usual assortment of fund
raising drives, boards, committees, and similar extra-curricular
activities in which the unwary are trapped, has managed to make
life a busy one, and to make time fly.

+ DUDLEY DAVIS, JR.

BORN: June 13, 1909, New York, N. Y. Parents: Dudley Davis, ’o5, Alice
Mason Grosvenor.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

piep: April 13, 1930, New York, N. Y.

WHILE he was at Harvard Davis was substitute fullback on the
freshman football team, and a member of the varsity football and
wrestling squads. He was active in the Hasty Pudding dramatic
productions and was a member of the Fox Club.

MALCOLM BROOKS DAVIS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Ross Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.
OFFICE AppRrEss: Fairchild Aerial Surveys, Inc., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New
York, N. Y.; Case Postale 45, Mont Blanc 1, Geneva, Switzerland.
BORN: Sept. 10, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Malcolm Brooks Davis, 97,
Mary Montague.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Erika Wasserburger, Nov. 1, 1932, London, England. cxizp:
Malcolm Montague, Sept. 28, 1933.

HARVARD SON: Malcolm Montague Davis, ’55, Harvard Graduate School of
Design.

OCCUPATION: Photogrammetric engineer.

MEMBER OF: European Association of Exploration Geophysicists.

MRS. DAVIS writes the following, as her husband is on an expedi-
tion in southeast Africa: ‘Since the Twentieth Anniversary Re-
port Mr. Davis has traveled very extensively in all of Asia (ex-
cept Japan and China), all of Europe, all of Africa, Australia and
Indonesia. Do hope you'll get his own report before this book
goes to press”.

[ 247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

FREEMAN ISRAEL DAVISON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Powder Point, Duxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Patterson, Wylde & Windeler, Inc., qo Broad St., Boston,
Mass,

BoRN: July 11, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Freeman Israel Davison, Ella
May Borden.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Mildred Rogers, June 30, 1934, Cambridge, Mass. cuit-
DREN: Sylvia May, May 15, 1935; Dorothy and Freeman Israel, 3d
(twins), Feb. 13, 1938.

HARVARD SON: Freeman Israel Davison, 3d, ’59.

HARVARD BROTHER: Allan Nathaniel Davison, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Patterson, Wylde & Windeler, Inc., insurance.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Duxbury Yacht Club; Down Town
Club, Boston.

SHORTLY after graduation, I selected insurance as a field in
which to make a career and livelihood. I became associated with
the firm I am now with on February 1, 1933. It has been a happy
association and, while I have not made a fortune, I have been able
to give the children a good education to date and start them along
a worth-while life.

During the war I served with the United States Marine Corps
as a first lieutenant. At the close of the war I was on Colonel
June’s staff as an intelligence officer of the Third Marine Air
Wing on Oahu. It was an interesting experience but I was mighty
glad to get back home in Duxbury on October 22, 1945, to live
a normal life again and to resume my insurance activities in and
around Boston. |

After acquiring our present home in Duxbury in 1937, Dorothy
and I became ardent sailors and have enjoyed racing every sum-
mer on Duxbury Bay. I think sailing is probably our favorite
sport today, with golf a very close second. Our children are also
enthusiastic sailors but prefer tennis to golf as a secondary extra-
curricular activity.

[ 248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD JOSEPH DAY

HOME ADDRESS: 919 Pleasant St., Worcester 2, Afass.

OFFICE appress: St. Luke’s Church, gig Pleasant St.. Worcester 2, Mass.

BORN: July 8, 1903, East Boston, Mass. parents: Michael Joseph Day, Elvina
Grinnell.

prepareD at: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1922-1923, 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; S.T.B. (Episcopal
Theological School), 1934.

MARRIED: Lillian Margaret Crocker, July 21, 1922, Waltham, Mass. crit-
DREN; Virginia Lillian (Radcliffe, "g5), May 15, 1923 (a2. Thomas H.
Fitzsimmons, 1955); Edward Crocker, May 7, 1932 (9. Nancy Lee
Wittenberg, Wellesley, '56, 1955).

HARVARD SON: Edward Crocker Day, °53.

OccUPATION: Rector, St. Luke’s Church, Worcester, Mass.

AFTER graduation from the Episcopal Theological School in

1934, | began work in the ministry as vicar of St. Andrew’s Parish

in Groton and Ayer, of which the Reverend Endicott Peabody

was rector, and taught sacred studies part-time at Groton School
with great enthusiasm in dealing with the alert questions of such
students as “Chub” Peabody and McGeorge Bundy. Four years
there solidified our New England attitudes so dangerously that
we decided to follow the Episcopal Church's Lorelei of that time,
the great Bishop William Scarlett, to St. Louis, The war saved
us from the admission that the Midwest simply depressed us, for
in February, 1943, I became a Navy chaplain and served twenty-
nine months on the USS Joseph T. Dickman, an assault transport.

On the “Old Joe” I had the honor of participating in the great

invasions of Gela, Salerno, Normandy, and Southern France, then

Okinawa, meanwhile meeting aboard as shipmate my present

son-in-law.

Leaving the Navy in October, 1945, I went into full-time
teaching at the Lenox School for Boys in Lenox, Massachusetts,
very soon adding part-time parish work in South Lee and Lee
to the school duty — the exact reverse of my beginning at Ayer
and Groton. Two full-time jobs, as the parish soon developed
into full-time demand, were too much for my conscience, and so
I left Lenox for St. George’s in Lee.

Our years in the Berkshires were the most calm of all, though
loaded with work. Life in a small town is real life as we more
emphatically learned by contrast on removal to Worcester in

[ 249 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

January, 1954. Like all preachers, I’m certain that it’s in small
community life (even if the setting is an industrial city) that our
lives find their only hope for satisfying and valuable expression
and development. The tremendous problem for us in the Church
is how to bring true community into dominance over economic
and social competition, especially in cities. Educationally, I’m
an old fuddy-duddy, believing that in the days when the classical
curriculum was set before us to master, we were better educated
than those are who now can resort to courses in “Twirling” (the
baton) and “Problems in Democracy”, when Latin, English (es-
pecially), and history oppress the languid scholar overmuch.

LEONARD FELLOWS DEAN

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Westwood Rd., Storrs, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: Dept. of English, University of Connecticut, Storrs, Conn.

BORN: Dec. 24, 1909, Three Rivers, Mich. Parents: Ray E. Dean, Kate
Fellows.

PREPARED AT: Three Rivers High School, Three Rivers, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; A.M. (Univ. of Michigan),
1933; PHD. (ibid.), 1940.

MaRRiED: Dorothy G. Thomas, Jan. 29, 1932, South Bend, Ind. cHILpREN:
Nancy Ann, Dec. 7, 1934; Elizabeth Jane, May 17, 1945.

occupation: Professor and head of Department of English, University of
Connecticut.

oFFices HELD: Holder of Ford Fellowship, 1955; teacher, Mt. Clemens
(Mich.) High School, 1935-37; teaching fellow, University of Michi-
gan, 1937-39; held ranks from instructor to professor and chairman
of English Department, Tulane University, 1939-48.

MEMBER OF: M.L.A.; N.C.T.E.; N.E.C.E.A.; A.A.U.P.

PUBLICATIONS: Translated Erasmus’s Praise of Folly, Tudor Theories of His-
tory, edited Renaissance Poetry, Elizabethan Drama, Nine Great Plays,
College Omnibus, Perspectives, articles on More, Bacon, Shakespeare,
Conrad, etc.

WILLIAM SPANNEUT pve LIMA

HOME ApbRESS: 350 Green St., San Francisco, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pan-American World Airways, San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 27, 1908, Larchmont, N. Y. parents: Elias Abnon de Lima, Lucie
Spanneut.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: 5.B., 1931.

[ 250 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES EUTHYMIOS DEMAKIS

HOME ADDRESS; 37 Belleaire Ave., Lynn, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 Central Ave., Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1908, Sparta, Greece, PpaRENTS: Euthymios Demakis, Jean
Koutsos.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Bessie Jenis, June 18, 1944, Lynn, Mass. cutpreN: Joan, June ts,
1945; Thomas, May 28, 1947; Gregory, Nov. 27, 1950; Paul, July 9,

1953.
occuPATION: Lawyer.
MEMBER OF: Mount Carmel Lodge of Masons, Ahepa.

THE first seven years following graduation I devoted to estab-
lishing Holiday Brand, Inc., with my father and three brothers.
This is a meat packing concern, engaged in the manufacture of
cooked meats. In 1938 I returned to law school and graduated in
1942. Since that time I have engaged in the general practice of
law in Lynn, Massachusetts,

Nothing unusual has happened all these years. As the children
have come, my work has taken more and more of my time, until
now there is hardly any time left for anything else.

+ DANIEL CLEMENT DENNETT, JR.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1910, Winchester, Mass. parents: Daniel Clement Dennett,
Elizabeth Redfern.
PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; A.M., 19353 PH.D., 1939.
Marriep: Ruth Leck, Aug. 1, 1937, Austin, Minn. cHitpren: Cynthia Eliza-
beth, July 27, 1939; Daniel Clement, 3d, March 28, 1942; Charlotte.

pieD: March 20, 1947, near Dessie, Ethiopia.

FROM 1931 until 1934 Dennett was a teacher at the American
University of Beirut in Syria. He then spent two years at the
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, receiving an A.M. in 1935.
After some months of study on a fellowship at the London
School of Oriental Studies and in Jerusalem, he returned to Har-
vard where he obtained a doctorate in 1939 and was an assistant
and then an instructor and tutor until 1942. He also taught at
Clark University in Worcester, Massachusetts. In 1942 he re-

[251]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

turned to Beirut where he was an expert on Near Eastern affairs,
attached to the American Legation. He was killed in a plane crash
near Dessie, Ethiopia. In an official statement, the Acting Secre-
tary of State declared that “in Mr. Dennett’s death the govern-
ment has lost a highly efficient and valued public servant”. His
wife and three children survived him.

CLARENCE DENNIS

HOME ADDRESS: 989 Edgewood Ave., Pelham Manor, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Surgery, Kings County Hospital, 451 Clarkson Ave.,
Brooklyn 3, N. Y.; State University of New York College of Medicine,
New York, N. Y.

BorN: June 16, 1909, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Warren Arthur Dennis, Clara
May Clark Van Orman.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B. 1931; M.D. (Johns Hopkins
Univ.), 1935; sat. (Univ, of Minnesota), 1938; PH.p. (ibid.), 1940.
MARRIED: Eleanor Mary Smith, June 17, 1939, St. Paul, Minn. CHILDREN: Jane
Eleanor, Jan. 23, 1942; Richard Clarence, Nov. 30, 1945; James Warren,

Sept. 11, 1947; David McKelvey, Jan. 20, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Warren Arthur Dennis, ” 42.

occupaTion: Director of surgery, Kings County Hospital, chairman, Depart-
ment of Surgery, State University of New York College of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Society of University Surgeons, 1950-53; treasurer,
New York Cancer Society, 1953-55; member executive council, New
York Society for Cardiovascular Surgery, since 1954; member Forum
Committee, American College of Surgeons, 1955-58; member editorial
board, Surgery, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Society of University Surgeons; American Surgical Associa-
tion; American Association for Thoracic Surgery; New York Surgical
Society; New York Heart Association, New York Society for Cardio-
vascular Surgery, American College of Surgeons; American Federation
for Clinical Research; Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine;
Kings County Medical Society, New York State Medical Association;
American Medical Association, Brooklyn Surgical Association, Society
of Clinical Surgery.

PusLicarions: “Oblique, Aseptic, End-to-End Intestinal Anastomosis”,
Surgery, 1939; “Experimental Proof of the Obstructive Origin of Ap-
pendicitis in Man”, Annals of Surgery, 1939 (with O. H. Wangen-
steen); “Recovery of Function Following Arrest of the Brain Circula-
tion”, American Journal of Physiology, 1940 (with Herman Kabat
and A. B. Baker), “Physiologic Behavior of the Hftuman Appendix and
the Problem of Appendicitis, Reaction of the Appendix to Drugs”,

[252]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1941, “A Modified Whipple Operation for Carcinoma of the Head of
the Pancreas”, 1942, Archives of Surgery, “Oblique, Aseptic, End-to-
End Anastomosis, Procedure of Choice in Strangulating Small Bowel
Obstruction”, Surgery, Gynecology, and Obstetrics, 1953; “Devel-
opment of a Pump-Oxygenator to Replace the Heart and Lungs: an
Apparatus Applicable to Human Patients and Application to One
Case”, Annals of Surgery, 1951 (with D. Speng, G. Nelson, K. Karlson,
R. Nelson, J. Thomas, W. Eder, and R. Varco); “Surgical Measures as
Supplements to the Management of Idiopathic Ulcerative Colitis:
Cancer, Cirrhosis, and Arthritis as Frequent Complications”, Surgery,
1952 (with K. E. Karlson); approximately sixty-five other articles and
portions of textbooks.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard College, four years
were spent in medical school at Johns Hopkins. Returned there-
after to home in Minnesota for an internship and surgical train-
ing under Dr. O. H. Wangensteen at the University of Minne-
sota, followed by ten years as a member of his full-time surgical
teaching staff. The program there was still under development
in 1935 and, while I was there, it was a pleasurable and very valu-
able experience to watch Dr. Wangensteen develop, consolidate
and expand his teaching and research programs until now his is
one of the most progressive and productive surgical centers in
existence.

When the State University of New York was organized in
1949, the decision was made to incorporate two already existent
medical schools in the state rather than to create new ones. The
Long Island College of Medicine was one of the schools accepted
for admission into the State University and became shortly the
State University of New York College of Medicine at New York
City; that at Syracuse was the other. I was invited to come to
Brooklyn to take the chairmanship and professorship in surgery,
and made the move in 1951.

The new position has proved a challenge and with it was in-
stituted the first full-time professional staff in the Department of
Surgery of the school. There are now twelve full-time men in
general surgery and in the surgical specialties which are included
in the department. The department has been able to attract ex-
cellent men and is already achieving recognition as one of great
promise.

The teaching area of the Department of Surgery is composed

[ 253 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

of several private hospitals in Brooklyn and Queens and of the
University Division of Kings County Hospital in Brooklyn, the
largest of the New York Municipal Hospitals (3300 beds). On
January 1, 1956, the University staff is to take over responsibility
for the care of patients in all of the hospital. Even with the
proposed increase in class size to 200 students, this will take care
of a large share of the teaching requirements of the school.

In my position, time is divided evenly between administration
on the one hand and teaching and research on the other. With
completion of the new medical school building in the spring of
1956, there will be expansion of the already very attractive re-
search facilities, and it will furthermore be possible to familiarize

medical students and surgical residents with research methods.

MARRIN MARTINEZ pve PICABIA

MAILING ADDRESS: Cornwall-on-Hudson, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 11, 1909, Edgemere, N. Y. parents: Lorenzo Martinez de
Picabia, Marie Marrin.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marriED: Dorothy Taylor, May 12, 1934, New York, N. Y. cmp: Pilar,

Sept. 29, 1941.
OCCUPATION: Business.

+ EMIL JOSEPH DesROCHES

BORN: July 28, 1902, Woonsocket, R. I. parents: Lionel DesRoches, Lillian
LaTour.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Frances Mary Lanman, July 14, 1935, Abington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carol Ann, July 1, 1936, Jane Frances, Sept. 28, 1939; Richard Emil,
Aug. 16, 1943.

DIED: Sept. 26, 1955, Andover, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Emil J. DesRoches, 77 Maple Ave., Andover, Mass.

EMIL DesROCHES had been associated with the Pacific Mills
in Lawrence, Massachusetts, since 1937. He had served as em-
ployment manager, manager of industrial relations, and most re-

[254 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cently as personnel director. He had taken special courses in
labor relations at the Harvard Business School.

During the war he had been a member of the Appeals Com-
mittee for the Northeast Area War Manpower Commission. He
had served on the board of trustees of the Lawrence Chapter of
the American Red Cross, Salvation Army and Community Chest,
on the board of directors of the Lawrence Broadcasting Company,

and had been a member of the American Management Association,

WILBUR GORHAM DICKINSON

HOME AporEss: 1218 16th St, N.W., Washington 6, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: May 15, 1910, Schenectady, N. Y. parents: Wilbur Keefer Dickinson,
Ada Crittenden Gorham,

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGRFES: A.B 19313 A.M. 1932.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Government administration.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington.

IT would be an interesting exercise, and perhaps a profitable one,
if all students enrolled in English A were required to write their
personal histories — for publication in their Twenty-fifth Anni-
versary Class Report — as an assignment in that estimable course.
For one thing, the job would have been done, and harassed class
secretaries would no longer have cause to prod their dilatory
classmates for the submission of this material. A few blank spaces
for subsequent fill-in would have to be provided, of course: for
present occupation, address, name of the girl-that-I-married (if
one married, which I didn’t); children, if any; military record
(if there were a war, as in our case there was), etc. But it is quite
probable that a freshman — unless he was unusually visionary or,
conversely, a congenital pessimist, or unless he were to be the un-
fortunate victim of catastrophe or, on the other hand, the recipi-
ent of unexpected good fortune — could pretty well anticipate,
in broad outline at least, what his life would turn out to be.
As I look back over the past twenty-five years, I feel that this
is true. I might not have foreseen that I would be employed in
Washington as a civil servant of the Federal Government, as I

[255 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

have been for the past ten years (even that, as I come to think of

it, would not have been an unlikely prediction); but with respect

to interests, economic status and the not-too-constructive-use-of-

Jeisure-time — all that, I believe, could have been forecast with

surprising accuracy.

But this report was not written when I was a freshman — in

fact, I never took English A — so I must summarize briefly. After
graduation from the College and a year of graduate work, there
were a couple of groping years—the Depression, remember?
The year 1934 found me in Europe, after which I went to work
for the New York Adult Education Council, a private organiza-
tion serving as a clearing-house for educational resources for
adults in the metropolitan area of New York City. There I re-
mained until the draft board issued its summons in 1942. My
military service was somewhat parochial, or perhaps I should say
Pentagonal; it consisted chiefly of moving from one floor, one
ring, and one corridor to another floor, another ring, and another
corridor of that labyrinthine building. In 1946 I found my way
into the comparatively open spaces of civilian status (having been
made a captain, and wearing the general staff corps insignia, en
route) and was hired by the Veterans Administration where I
still am. I have retained my military associations to the extent
that I am in the Army Reserve (now a major) and return to the
Pentagon one evening weekly and for a fifteen-day tour annually
in the office of the deputy chief of staff for logistics.

Washington, then, is my home, but I still have a strong affection
for New York City and manage to go back there frequently, if
briefly, in the course of a year. In the summer I return to New
England; in the winter when time and money permit, I enplane
for a holiday in balmier climes. This year the sunny shores of
Barbados seem to beckon. As for my political inclinations, they
can probably be summed up as either conservatively liberal or
liberally conservative-—which would appear to describe the
course of the present administration also. I admire Mr. Stevenson,
but General Eisenhower, on the whole, seems to have handled
things pretty satisfactorily. I cannot help feeling that the destiny
of the nation will not be greatly affected by the forthcoming
election, however it may turn out.

My reading interests are doubtless reflected by the fact that I

[ 256 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

am a faithful subscriber to the New Yorker and, until recently,
Harper's, and am a sporadic reader of Time. Both national and
world affairs seem to be summarized admirably, for my money,
in the Sunday edition of the New York Times. Current fiction
depresses me for the most part, and for light reading I seem to
revert to the past. A recent re-reading of some of the earlier
novels of Evelyn Waugh has afforded pleasure.

As a resident of both Lowell and Eliot Houses when they first
opened their doors (and when House allegiance was less stringent
than it appears to be now), I have naturally been interested, on
my infrequent visits to Cambridge, to sce how these establish-
ments are faring. A well-beaten path, I noted a few years back,
had been worn across the Eliot House quadrangle. I could recall
when the grass there was newly sown, and when there was con-
siderable indecision as to the placement of the willow, then a
sapling and now a mature tree of stately dimensions. But on the
whole the Houses have acquired a respectable patina of age, and
I trust that I have aged as gracefully.

PHILIP HENRY DIEHL

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Lancaster St, Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: April 30, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Anton Benjamin Diehl,
Margaret Agnes Vallely.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B. (Boston Coll.), 1932; a.m. (ibid.),

I .
Mannie. Mary Rita Egan, Dec. 27, 1939, Milton, Mass. cup: Mary Joanna,
Nov. 18, 1944.
occupation: Teacher of English.
MEMBER OF: Cambridge Teachers Club; Boston College Club of Cambridge,
Reserve Officers Association; Kiwanis Club.
I HAVE spent close to twenty years teaching English to a seg-
ment of American youths, fifteen to seventeen years of age, who
happened to be living in Cambridge at that time and hence at-
tended the boys’ high school, named the Rindge Technical School.
I need not mention the challenge such a job presents. The reader
realizes all too well how important those years are in the training
of any individual. In retrospect, few of us can deny that they
were the formative years — for good or evil, for success or fail-

[ 257 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ure, for a life of anxiety and worry, or one of contentment and
satisfaction. Thus, the opportunity the classroom affords me to
meet these young men, to help them to whatever degree I can,
provides a satisfaction I can find nowhere else. To be sure, the
teacher’s salary could and should be higher, but one learns to

get along with what one has. When one has learned how to get

peace of mind and gratification from one’s daily toil, one should
count one’s blessings.
I don’t quite know what caused this serious turn of thought

for, surely, many days in the classroom are light-hearted, exhil-

arating, and pure fun as only the lad of seventeen truly knows.
Sometimes I catch a whiff of this elixir of youth and then my
work takes on new meanings and possibilities. Cicero tells us
that books are the food of youth and the solace of age. To the
teacher who is devoted to his work, the day-by-day job of teach-

ing is his satisfaction and contentment. Best of all is the gratifying

thought that the years that lie ahead should bring more of the
same,

CLARENCE DOUGLAS DILLON

HOME ApprEss: Far Hills, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 46 William St., New York 5, N. Y.

BorRN: Aug. 21, 1909, Geneva, Switzerland, parents: Clarence Dillon, 'o5,
Anne McEldin Douglass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Phyllis Chess Ellsworth, March 10, 1931, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Phyllis Ellsworth, May 1, 1933 (7. Mark McCampbell Collins, ’53,
Dec. 29, 1953); Joan Douglas, Jan. 31, 1935 (7. James Brady Moseley,
"55, Aug. 1, 1953). GRANDCHILDREN: Joan Dillon Moseley; Frances Ells-
worth Collins,

occupation: Ambassador to France.

OFFICES HELD: Member, New York Stock Exchange, 1931-36; president,
1946-53, director, 1938-53, United States and Foreign Securities Corpora-
tion and United States and International Securities Corporation, director,
1938-53, chairman of the board, 1946-53, Dillon, Read & Company, Inc.;
New Jersey Republican State Committeeman, 1949-53; member board
of governors, New York Hospital, Beekman-Downtown Hospital,
Metropolitan Museum of Art; Overseer of Harvard College; trustee,
Groton School (on leave from the preceding boards).

[ 258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

memBER oF: Society of Colonial Wars, The Pilgrims of the United States;
Council on Foreign Relations, Inc.; Foreign Policy Association; Har-
vard Club of New York; Racquet & Tennis Club; Links; Knicker-
bocker Club; River Club; Scawanhaka, Corinthian Yacht Club, N. Y,;
Metropolitan Club, Capitol Hull Club, Washington, D.C.

[FEEL chat I was truly lucky when late in 1952 I learned, much

to my surprise, that my lifetime hobby and avocanon — the study

of foreign affairs — was going to become my full-time job.

While in college, I chose as the subject for my graduation
thesis, “American Foreign Policy”. Ever since, I have followed
current foreign happenings with interest and have been active
in my spare time in the Council on Foreign Relations and, to a
lesser extent, in the Foreign Policy Association. My present job
as Ambassador to France has fulfilled my greatest expectations,
I have found thae after Washington, Paris is very nearly the
center of the diplomatic world. Wherever international prob-
lems exist, France seems to have an interest. As a result, I have
been kept on the go ever since my arrival in Paris in early March,
195 3-

I was particularly happy to have been sent to France, as I have
always liked the people and the country. My liking for France
and things French has grown from eight visits, the first of which
took place while I was still at preparatory school.

After leaving college, | went to work in the investment busi-
ness in downtown New York and settled down in Somerset
County, New Jersey. There I took an early interest in local poli-
tics which has continued ever since. Starting as a member of the
Republican County Committce in 1933. [ finally became the
County’s representative on the Republican State Committee in
1949.

Believing that a change of administration in Washington was
long overdue by 1952 and that Dwight Eisenhower was the only
man who could be certain of accomplishing the trick, I worked
hard for his nomination. The New Jersey primary came early
and was hard fought and, when the Eisenhower forces had won,
there was still a contest ahead.

As an alternate Delegate-at-Large in a divided delegation, I
went to the convention at Chicago. Because of the illness of one
of the eight Delegates-at-Large, I took part in the whole conven-

[259]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

tion as a full delegate and thus had the pleasure of voting for the
nomination of President Eisenhower. The ensuing campaign and
election was compensation for the disappointments of 1948.
Aside from occasional time off for political work, my business
career has been uneventful. It was interrupted for four and one-
half years in the spring of 1941 when I went on active service as
an ensign in the Naval Reserve. There followed some time in the
Navy Department in Washington, a year in Seattle and a stretch
in the Central and Southwest Pacific. August, 1945, found me
as a lieutenant commander in Washington awaiting reassignment
after thirty days’ leave. The reassignment turned out to be in-
active duty and the end of my naval career.

JOHN ALFRED DINSMORE

HOME apprEss: R.F.D. 2, Box 44, Marlboro, Mass.

BORN: July 17, 1908, Framingham, Mass. PARENTS: Richard John Dinsmore,
‘oo, Mary Elizabeth Wright.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1929-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1931 (32).

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Free-lance writer,

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to national magazines.

OFTEN what seems to be a tough break turns out to be a good
one. I thought I was having it rough when the medicos told me
that my physical condition prohibited full-time work; actually,
however, it was a good break, for it gave me an opportunity to
improvise and removed the temptation to slide into the proverbial
rut. Between confining illnesses, I have held part-time jobs in the
sales field, in advertising, public relations and merchandising.
During World War II (4F, of course!), I ran my farm as a truck
and poultry venture, working mainly in a supervisory capacity.
Concurrent with all these activities, I took advantage of my
yankee trading instincts, buying and selling everything from
antiques to land. Obviously the way to make money is to buy
low and sell high. Sounds simple, but often I found myself buy-
ing low and selling lower; more often, however, I was lucky.
My luck held, too, during the long periods when I was a reason-
ably ambulatory patient. I developed a small mail order book

[ 260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

business and published a couple of titles myself in the “How To”
field. My battered old L. C. Smith ground out considerable ghost-
written material and even occasionally produced contributions
under my own name. Such magazines as the old Readers Scope
and, more recently, Journal Of Lifetime Living printed my stuff,
thereby indicating more literary acumen than the Saturday Eve-
ning Post, which did not. Nevertheless, despite failure to achieve
the Post pinnacle, hack writing has been a rewarding experience
and a big help in paying off expenses incurred during totally un-
productive periods,

During these periods, while grounded in bed, I did a great deal
of reading: “Whodunits” (except for the hard-boiled school),
historical novels, travel, nature, biography and occasionally stern-
er stuff such as Russell Davenport's Dignity of Afan, Reading is
the one hobby that has stayed with me in bed or out. Others,
such as hiking, photography, nature study, etc., naturally depend
upon my physical and/or financial condition.

Incidentally, if any classmate is an unhappy member of the
coronary club, drop me a line. I might be able to help with the
problem of adjustment, for I have lived for years with cardio-
vascular insufficiency and still get a tremendous boot out of life.
When the greater part of life is spent on the sidelines, one begins
to enjoy the spectator role. Even though ill equipped to do so,
it becomes a game to try to sort out truth from illusion, right from
wrong, comedy from tragedy. Sometimes it’s fun; sometimes
one gets scared. Summed up or implied in a single, intellectual
fear it is often a rough estimate of a man’s social, political and re-
ligious convictions. I know I have one fear that sums me up
pretty well; it’s this “security” business. In fact, this scares “hell”
out of me.

I believe the error of our time is our attempt to legislate secu-
rity. It can’t be done, for there is no security on the face of this
earth — political, social, financial, emotional, or what have you —
other than the individual's willingness and ability to adjust to
change. The men who built this nation, the men who kept it
great, lived by this concept. They faced the crises in their per-
sonal lives, the challenge of their time to their nation and, de-
pending only upon God and themselves, took the calculated risk
without which no individual can grow, no nation achieve great-

[ 261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ness. Such men could be killed, but their nation could not be
defeated.

Then we came along and, with the best of intentions, tried to
Icgislate security; worse yet, we succeeded too well in legislating
the illusion thereof and thus, unknow ingly, dealt a body blow to
one of the very concepts which made us great. Now, instead
of depending upon God and themselves, too many of our people
depend upon Washington and the benevolent, paternalistic bu-
reaucracy we created. Only a minority are willing or able to
adjust to change. And, w ith notable exceptions such as President
Eisenhower, too few of our leaders are men of stature, capable
of taking the calculated risks involved in meeting the challenge
of our time to our nation.

If we allow this trend to continue, the time will come when
there will be no great leaders, for we shall have destroyed the
seed from which they sprang. We would then become a gutless
nation, slaves to our own illusion of security. No super weapon
would be required to defeat such a nation because it would be
dead already, strangled by its own false concepts. This must not
happen, need not happen. If a nation can be led backward, away
from the concepts which made it great, that nation can also be
led forward, toward those very same concepts. Therein lies a
challenge to all of us. Let’s meet it!

JAMES CHARLES DiNUNZIO

HOME abpress: 257 Clifton St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 991 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

Bors; March 13, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Joseph DiNunzio, Ange-
lina Russo.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B. 1934.

mMargitp: Mildred M. Flumere, Aug. 8, 1938, Framingham, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joseph Henry, July 14, 1939; Mildred Angela, May 15, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Law; insurance; real estate.

orrices WELD; President and director, Middlesex Apartment Owners’ Asso-
Cation,

MieMbia OF: Several bar associations, four insurance associations, an apart-
ment owners’ association, Cambridge Chamber of Commerce.

PuELicanions: Editor, Apartment Management in New England, contribut-
ing various short articles each month,

[ 262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

POSTAL card “Goad No. 2” decided me . . . not to procrasti-
nate further an accounting of my uneventful and perhaps some-
what misspent years since graduation. So, Don and Jeff, here is
one less delinquent to worry about!

Unlike many of our classmates, I cannot lay claim to a long and
illustrious legal career replete with law files of noteworthy or
sensational cases. About the most interesting case I can recall
was a heart-wringing adoption and custody controversy involv-
ing the laws and residents of four states, Virginia, New Jersey,
Ohio and Massachusetts. Although I prevailed and succeeded in
reuniting two brothers, the parting of one of them with the
young couple seeking his adoption was so sorrowful and poign-
ant it will never be erased from my mind.

Actually my real estate and insurance interests have occupied
my time more in recent years than law. Presently I am editing
a monthly magazine, Apartment Management in New England,
a spokesman for apartment house associations, and as editor I
am in a position to wander from the field of real estate and re-
lated subjects upon capricious occasions. An illustration of my
“deathless prose” which I inflict on defenseless readers is of pos-
sible interest to 1931 Harvardians when they are further along
Memory Lane, if not now. It is lifted from the current (Novem-
ber, 1955) issue and, in part, is as follows:

“Nov, 5th. Dear Diary: Weather-wise, today was one of the
gloomiest, dullest and dewiest of the year, but for us members
of the Class of 1931 (celebrating our 25th Class Reunion in June,
1956) it was and always will be a bright and memorable day.

“Our officers were positively clairvoyant in selecting the
Princeton game to be a special Class event, scheduling a Class of
1931 luncheon before and a cocktail party after the football game,
both in Carey Cage next to the Stadium, and latching on to seats
for the Class in the Colonnades at midfield. . . .

“While Harvard had no gaudy attack and little if anything in
the way of original or sensational plays, it could not be charged
with ultra-conservative football today. Imagine Harvard, in its
own territory on 4th down, not once, but twice, going for and
making the necessary yardage for first down.

“The final score of Harvard 7~Princeton 6 was unique in Har-
vard-Princeton history. Strange as it may seem, it was the only

[ 263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

game in the series (dating back to 1876) in which the winning
team snared the very common score of 7 points. The nearest
other scores in the series were Princeton 8—Harvard 6 (1911),
and Harvard 6-Princeton 4 (1941)”.

There was some more about the game and then followed a
spiel on political campaign abuses and how below-the-belt per-
sonal attacks often deter excellent prospective public servants
from seeking office. I was reminded to shift to this more serious
aspect of life because of the presence of Lieutenant-Governor
Sumner G. Whittier, a few rows in front of us enjoying the game
with Ed and Betty Amazeen.

Our vacations more often than not have been week-ends at
North Scituate with swimming and fishing our principal diver-
sions. Trips to places we have longed to visit are still far away
and have not gone beyond the planning board. Only one is in
the memory stage. Back a few years ago we made the Gaspé,
taking in such points of interest as Bar Harbor, New Brunswick,
Perche, Gaspé, Sainte Anne de Beaupré, Thousand Islands, Niag-
ara Falls, Howes’ Caverns, and Cooperstown’s Baseball Hall of
Fame and Farmers’ Museum. The latter, like Old Sturbridge
Village, Massachusetts, I consider a “must” for anyone who finds
himself within a day’s travel of either place. I am still keenly in-
terested in all sports, but more and more I am content to let son
Joey and his contemporaries carry the ball while I assume the rdle
of spectator. In addition to swimming and fishing, a duffer’s type
golf and tropical fish manage to claim some of my time.

Aside from marriage with my one and only, “My Wonderful
One,” and raising a qualitative if not quantitative family, building
our own home was and 1s as lasting and exciting an experience as
any I have had. Lasting? Yes, there are still odds and ends unfin-
ished, eight years after we moved in! Don’t believe me? Any-
time you are in the vicinity, drop in and see for yourself! TI hope
to report completion by the time our soth rolls around.

[ 264 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
RAYMOND JOHN DODGE

HOME aporEss: Morley Lane, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE appress: General Electric Co., 570 Lexington Ave., New York, N. Y.,

BoRN: April 16, 1911, Haverhill, Mass, parents: Clyde Raymond Dodge, ’o6,
Lestie Ina Young.

PREPARED AT: Stoneham High School, Stoneham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1932. DEGREE: A.B, 1931 (32).

MarRIED: Dorothea H. Bumpus, Aug. 17, 1937, Foxboro, Mass.

occupPaTION: Investor relations.

COMPLETED Bentley School of Accounting and Finance
course, graduating in June, 1934. Started work with General
Electric in July, 1934, on their business training course in Schenec-
tady, New York, and have been with them ever since on a wide
variety of assignments.

In 1941 I was transferred to Lynn, Massachusetts, and we lived
very pleasantly in Marblehead, sailing, fishing and plenty of lob-
sters. In 1945 we bought a house in Boxford, Massachusetts,
which was built in 1710 and we had a lot of fun and hard work
fixing it up with enough modern features to make it comfortable.

In 1948 I was transferred to Syracuse, New York, and bought a
home in Fayetteville. This gave me a chance to work in electron-
ics in the period when it was really beginning to grow. We en-
joyed small town life in central New York almost as much as in
Marblehead and Boxford. Again we tackled the interesting job
of fixing up a house, although gardening took the place of sailing
as a hobby.

In 1954 I was transferred to company headquarters in New
York. We are just getting settled in our new home in Darien and
finding out that we shall never be entirely satisfied with a house
someone else has built. The remodeling bug has bitten us too
often. As usual, we have settled down in a small town and are
beginning to explore another very pleasant part of the country
and, of course, the well-known and little-known city of New
York.

[ 265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

SAMUEL DAYTON DOGGETT

HOME appREss: Cape Neddick, Maine.
OFFICE ApprEss: A, C, Allyn & Co., 30 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 24, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Bradlee Doggett,
Grace Hobart Dayton.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MARRIED: Lois Wardner, January, 1934, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Mary Lois
Hamulton (step-daughter), Feb. 19, 1929 (mz, David E. Kydd); Deborah
Dayton, Nov. 9, 1934 (mm. F. George Arey). GRANDCHILD: Dayton
Doggett Arey, Oct. 6, 1955.

occuPATION: Registered representative, A. C. Allyn & Company, private
trusts and investments.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Bond & Goodwin, Inc., Boston,
1924-49; treasurer and director, Marshall House, York Harbor, Maine,
since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Bond Club of Boston; Newcomen
Society; Agamenticus Yacht Club; York Civic Club; York Golf and
Tennis Club.

GORDON ALCOCK DONALDSON

HOME appress: Old Lexington Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 266 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 26, 1909, Lincoln, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Douglas Donaldson,
Charlotte Alcock.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Andover Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 M.D.. 1935.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Craighead, Oct. 16, 1943, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Magruder Craighead, Aug. 17, 1944; Gordon Alcock, Jr., Nov. 2, 19455
Lydia Lincoln, March 12, 1947; Jonathan Douglas, July 16, 1949; Eliza-
beth Heberden, March 22, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Douglas Donaldson, Jr., ’25, s.B. IN MECH.ENGIN,
AND B.ADM., ’26; Malcolm Lincoln Donaldson, ’26, M.B.a., ’28; Donald
Price Donaldson, ’28, LL.B., °31.

OccuPaTION: Surgeon, instructor in surgery, Harvard Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: General surgeon, associate visiting surgeon, Massachusetts
General Hospital, instructor in surgery, Harvard Medical School; con-
sultant, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, and Concord, Groton
and Exeter, N. H., Hospitals; class secretary, Harvard Medical School;
chairman, Lincoln Board of Health.

MEMBER oF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); Vascular, New Eng-
land and Assistant Surgeons Societies; Harvard Club of Boston; Varsity
Club.

Pusticatioxs: A few medical publications over the past twenty years.

[ 266 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOLLOWING graduation I was lucky enough to be accepted at
the Harvard Medical School, and there began four of the most
toilsome, formative and altogether enjoyable years to date. No
doctor can ever repay the school of his training, and my debt is
great to the stimulating personalities at the HLALS., 1931 to 1935.
Individuals in the student body contributed greatly, and as a
class we were and are much more bonded together than any col-
lege class can ever be. At any rate, the next seven years centered
around the Massachusetts General Hospital, working the ranks
from “pup” to chief surgical resident. During this interval I
contracted a minimal case of pulmonary tuberculosis which put
me on the shelf at Saranac Lake for six months. During the im-
mediate convalescence thereafter, I had a chance to make practical
discovery that I was no good at medical research and, on the other
hand, was not entirely satisfied in general practice. The result
was to push on with my specialty, and after 1942 there followed
further hard work at the hospital. The stain of Saranac Lake
classified me as 4F and as a result I was rejected from the service.
I undoubtedly worked more intensively at home than had I been
accepted.

In 1943 the clouds of war and work lifted a bit so that I could
discover the gal I had dreamed about. The result has been five
children, a move from Cambridge to Lincoln in 1947, and a con-
tinuation of a wholly acceptable existence. Life has been full and
I have never taken much time out to philosophize — probably
not enough. Practice, ever-stimulating contact with’ medical
students, an occasional scurry about the country to a medical
meeting, the children, a little tennis or squash, and a backyard
which has harbored horses, pigs, lambs, goats and chickens —
this might be said to summarize the physical twenty-five years.
I am not complaisant, but have had and am having fun. I only
hope that I am contributing my two bits.

[ 267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

DESMOND BERNARD DONNELLY

MAILING ADDRESS: 1517 Alamo St., Colorado Springs, Colo.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1909, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: John Donnelly, Jane Claire
Maguire.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MARRIED: Mrs. Virginia Clarke. CHILDREN: Virginia, 1933; Alvan, 1935.

ARTHUR DOUROPULOS

HOME ADDRESS: 135 MacDougal St., New York 12, N. Y.
OFFICE apprEss: Langner, Parry, Card & Langner, 120 E. qist St.. New York

17, N. Y.
BORN: Jan. 5, 1909, Baltimore, Md. ParENTs: Constantine Douropulos, Alex-

andra Regopulos.
PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 1932.
OCCUPATION: Business.

G. LINCOLN DOW, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Cove Street, Duxbury, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Walter Channing, Inc., 15 Congress St., Boston, Mass.
BORN; July 4, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: George Lincoln Dow, Ethel

Appleton.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1033. DEGREES: A.B. 1931(33); A.M. (Middlebury

Coll.),. 1949.
marrieD: Helen Blanchard, Dec. 20, 1938, Concord, Mass. curio: Wells

Blanchard, March 8, 1944.
HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Appleton Dow, 35.
OCCUPATION: Real estate and insurance; vice-president and director, Chan-
ning Management Company, Inc.,; broker, Walter Channing, Inc.
MEMBER OF: Duxbury Yacht Club; Cruising Club of America, Harvard

Club of Boston.

AFTER graduating out of course in 1933, I taught and coached
at Belmont Hill School until 1941. After a brief tour of naval
duty, I became a member of the faculty at Brooks School in
North Andover. There followed a year of graduate study at
Middlebury College in the Foreign Language School (French)
and then teaching at Derby Academy in Hingham. In 1951 I
made a major change of occupation, entering the real estate busi-

[ 268 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ness with Walter Channing, Inc., in Boston. I am engaged in
brokerage and management and also conduct a general insurance
business in my own name.

Helen and I have a twelve-year-old son and live in Duxbury,
where I serve as vestryman and j junior warden of the Church of
St. John the Evangelisr, and as a member of occasional local
town committees. My i interest in small boat sailing has not dimin-
ished with the years and I can report from experience last sum-
mer that cruising, particularly along the coast of Mfaine, is as
delightful as ever.

AUGUSTUS JAMES DOWNEY

MAILING aporess: Munich Ficld Office, Q ti9, M.K.F. CF.R., APO 106, New
York, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 29, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. parents: James Augustus Downey,
Catherine Mildred Noonan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1931; ED.M, (Boston Teachers’
Coll.), 1940.

Marriep: Marguerite M. Hanckel, Dec. 19. 1944, Sarasota, Fla. ciutp: Peter
James, Oct. 6, 1945.

occupation: Military service.

BENJAMIN HELM BRISTOW DRAPER

HOME ApoRESS: 2490 Gordon Drive, Naples, Fla.

BoRN: Jan. 28, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Benjamin Helm Bristow
Draper, ‘07, Queena Sanford.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

Marariep: Margaret Alewell, Nov. 14, 1931, St. Louis, Mo. cHILpREN: Helene,
Dec. 16, 1932 (mm. Richard J. Davis, Oct. 25, 1952); James Bristow, Oct.
27, 1935. GRANDCHILD: Leslie Carole Davis.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eben Draper, °32.

occuPpaTION: Self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and director of purchases, Draper Corporation,
1940-53; director, First National Bank of Boston, 1944~53.

MEMBER OF: Tennis and Racquet Club, Boston; Racquet and Tennis, New
York; The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Order of Founders and.
Patriots; Sons of the American Revolution; Brookline Lodge, A.M. &
FAM.

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

I LEFT college after two years and went to work in various cot-
ton mills. I was married in St. Louis in 1931 and then went to
work for Draper Corporation at the main plant and home office
at Hopedale, Massachusetts. After several more years of training
I was appointed assistant purchasing agent and elected to the
board of directors in 1935. I later became purchasing agent and,
in turn, assistant treasurer, director of purchases, and treasurer;
also serving as a director of the First National Bank of Boston
for eight years. In March, 1952, I resigned in order to devote
more time to my other interests.

My marriage, most fortunately, was thrice blest in my wife
and two wonderful children, a girl and a boy. My daughter has
just recently made me a proud grandfather. My son was attend-
ing Duke University but withdrew to enlist and is now serving
with the 82d Airborne Division stationed at Fort Bragg, North
Carolina.

My recreation consists primarily of hunting, fishing and golf.

CHARLES ELLIOT DRAPER

MAILING ADDRESS: 199 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 8, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Alonzo Draper, Gladys
Lucy Garrett.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

CHARLES WEIL DREYFUS

HOME ADDRESS: 3500 Hilltop Rd., Fort Worth 9, Texas.

OFFICE appress: Wolf & Klar, 1501 Main St., Fort Worth 2, Texas.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1906, Brookline, Mass. parents: Sydney Dreyfus, Edna

Helen Weil.

PREPARED aT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Maybeth Ellis, March 21, 1940, New York, N. Y. cHitpren: Charles

*. Ellis, Feb. 8, 1942; Susan Anne, June 20, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Store superintendent and advertising manager, Wolf & Klar
' specialty shop.

?

[270 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Fort Worth Harvard Club; member of board of
review and advancement, Boy Scouts Longhorn Council; group chair-
man, Chapter Plan of the United Fund.

MEMBER OF: Fort Worth Harvard Club; New York Harvard Club; Knife
and Fork Club.

TO list chronologically what my life has been since Commence-
ment, 1931, would be tiresome to read and would not convey too
much of me. I shall therefore write of a few events and impres-
sions. During the summer of 1938, I met through a mutual friend
one of the lovely Texans you read about. She ' was in New York
to take some courses at the New York School of Social Work.
Unfortunately, I did not mect her until the last week of her visit.
At the time, I was working at Bloomingdale’s, a large department
store, where I had gone to work immediately after Commence-
ment. The following year, my fricnd returned to New York to
complete the courses at the School of Social Work and get her
A.M, degree. We married and she completed her studies. That
summer, 1940, we toured most of the State of Texas and have
since laughed often at a prophecy made by an old rancher whom
we met casually on the trip. He informed me as a “Yankee” mar-
ried to a Texan, I would have to move hcre within the next five
years or lose my wife. At the time we thought him absurd. He
knew whereof he spoke, because as soon as I was assigned as naval
storekeeper to the Eighth Flect in North Africa (September,
1944), my home address became Forth Worth, Texas. The pros-
pect of a New England winter with two small children was too
much for her to face alone.

I spent a year in Oran at the Naval Supply Depot and among
the few friends to pass through there whom I saw, was one class-
mate, Ed Amazeen. My duty was interesting, and on special and
detached duty I saw various parts of Italy and Sardinia, and
managed a few days in Paris. My naval career was brief, Feb-
ruary, 1944, to December, 1945.

While in Fort Worth on a thirty-day leave, I was made to feel
so welcome that I decided then to make it my home. In February,
1946, I went to work for my present employers Kolf & Klar,
dealing in jewelry, men’s wear and sporting goods. My outside
interests have been those I could enjoy with my family and my
hobby has been gardening, a rather frustrating pursuit due to the

[271 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

seemingly endless drought and intense heat. Trying to grow
trees, vegetables or plants from New England and other parts of
the country proved to be foolhardy and I am now having greater
success with native species, We enjoy excellent opportunities to
hear good music in Fort Worth through the Civic Music Associa-
tion and the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, which is an outstand-
ing group. A civic opera association and an active Fine Arts De-
partment at Texas Christian University, which produces excellent
ballets and plays, also add greatly to our opportunity to enjoy
forms of recreation not usually found in smaller communities,

As our children, Charles now fourteen and Susan twelve, were
born in the East they, like myself, are Texans by adoption. This
means, according to tradition, that we are more prone to tell tall
tales than the natives. I am not sure, but they may have a point.
At least we tell our share with tongue in cheek. We are also
learning to enjoy the more popular native forms of recreation
riding and hunting. My early life in Boston and New York did
not prepare me for this nor did it dull my enthusiasm.

In politics which we are asked to comment on, I have had no
active part. One reads of so many prominent ‘Texans with dis-
tinctly different points of view in the national life that one can
understand why feelings here are so diverse and often heated. I
started as a Republican in Boston and New York, voted for
Roosevelt after his first term and for Truman when he first ran.
In Texas there is essentially a one-party system and, like so many
others from the Governor on down, I voted for Eisenhower and
hope to again have the opportunity to express my confidence in
him. |

I am looking forward to the Class Reunion in June to renew
many friendships and again see and share with my family the
many places I enjoyed before coming to Texas.

STEPHEN PIERCE DUGGAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 128 E. 92d St., New York 28, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

BorN: April 25, 1909, White Plains, N. Y. parents: Stephen Pierce Duggan,
Sarah Elsesser.

[272]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prepareD AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: $.B. 1931; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1932; LLB. (ibid.), 1936.

maraigD: Beatrice Vail Abbort, Sept. 19, 1936, Cornwall-on Hudson, N, Y.
CHILDREN: Stephen Pierce, 3d, March 1, 1938, Marianne, July 18, 1939;
Peter Matthiessen, July 2, 1930; Hayden Abbort, Dec. 16, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Laurence Hayden Duggan, ’27 (deceased).

occuparion: Member, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, law firm.

orrices HELD: Member board of crustces, Insticuce of International Educa-
tion, New York, New School for Social Research, New York, Dalton
School, New York, Phillips Excter Academy, 1949-54, Sydenham Hos-
pital, 1945-47; chairman, board of trustces, Storm King School, Corn-
wall-on-Hudson, N. Y¥.; chairman, board of directors, :1oth Street Com-
munity Center, New York, 1947-51.

MEMBER OF: American, New York State and New York City Bar Associa-
tions; Century Association, New York, The Lunch Club, New York;
Storm King Golf Club, Cornwall, N. Y.,; Sakonnet Golf Club, Little
Compton, R. I.

FOR some twenty years I have been practising law and enjoying
it. Many others are doing likewise and accordingly, I don’t sce
any point to enlarge on that score. A sideline which may be of
interest, however, is my career in high-class pick-pocketing,
namely raising funds for the financial support of educational in-
stitutions, a sometimes frustrating experience. Our last Class
Report indicated a surprising number of individuals in the teach-
ing world, as well as a gratifying number who are making what
seem to be wholesome fortunes in business. The pedagogues and
magnates shduld get together. They need each other. And I speak
in particular of corporate support of education. Individuals are
still doing well, helped by old school loyalties and the tax laws.
The foundations, many of which have their special egos which
have to be rather carefully massaged, likewise carry a great load.
But business in general is the hope of the future and I must say
I have enjoyed traveling down the entertaining byroads provided
by this new development.

Those who have worked on corporations since the war in an
effort to shake loose some of their shekels for non-business pur-
poses are excited by the growth of this movement. And it is not
easy for the executive vice-president who might be otherwise
inclined to get religion, what with litigious and sticky stock-
holders, reluctant directors, and snooping revenooers. But on the

[ 273 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

whole the tide is swelling all the time and in another decade wil]
be beyond all bounds anticipated in this regard today.
A good segment of corporate management realizes that alloca-
ting a small slice of profits annually to philanthropy serves its
selfish interests. Whenever research and development is con-
cerned, the direct benefit is obvious, i.e., a continuing stream of
well-trained engineering and technical talent from which can be
drawn graduating students for staffing of laboratories, etc. The
general proposition that the support of the liberal arts and the
social sciences is just as important is harder to sell. These tangible
and immediate results are not so apparent and your corporate
bigwig starts to give you the glassy eye. If you mention second-
ary schools at this point, you should have your eye on the nearest
available exit. But it won’t be too long before a small percentage
for charitable purposes will be an accepted part of most business
budgets, whether used for graduate, college or even secondary
school levels, whether for the local hospital or the ivy-draped hall
of learning hundreds of miles away.

Now, and this at the risk of losing what little remaining respect
for my sanity still persists, let me take the example of our Class,
a noble body of men. As I look at the statistics, there are several
hundred members thereof in business, in large or small enter-
prises. A rough calculation indicates that the total annual profits
of the companies for which they work, or from which they draw
fat expense accounts, totalled a couple of hundred million dollars.
Two percent of such figures in one year would provide, say, four
or five millions for education, etc. Just a sliver of that would take
care of 1931’s gift on the occasion of our Thirtieth, or meet oper-
ating expenses of Little Forks Female Seminary for five years.
There you are, very simple, no mirrors (and the further advan-
tage —no more of those lugubrious annual calls to duty from our
distinguished class agents). Yours for giving other peoples’ money
away and keeping it from Uncle Sam.

[274 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARMON DUNCOMBE

nose Appaess: 118s Park Ave, New York, N. Y.

orvice apoatss: jo Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y.

moan: Mav 1, igog, Bogota, N. J. parexts: Alfred Duncombe, Anna A,
Sutherland.

purpaneo at: Long Branch Ebigh School, Long Branch, N, J.

VRARS IN COLLEGE. 1927-1931, DELREES: 9B, 19031, LLB. 1936.

maneio: Virgima C. Colling July 1g toga, Tenafly, N. J. cnupees: Kath-
ken Anne, Apnil a, toga, Stephen Thomas, March, 19st.

Haavana ReotHeR: Alfred Duncombe, sop, “j2.

occupATioN: Lawyer,

meMarea or: Amencan Bar Awociaton, Bar Awociation of the City of New
York, Harvard Club of New York, University Club, New York.

FROM 1935 to 1942, Twas associated with the law firm of Cra-
vath, deGersdortf, Swaine & Wood in New York City. The fol-
lowing four years were spent in the U. S. Army, where T held
the rank of lieutenant colonel. Since 1946 PE have been a partner
in the law firm of Fulton, Walter & Efalley in New York City,

GLUORGE ROSCOE DUNETAM, JR.

HOME appagss: 18 Cresrmone Rd, Binghamron, N.Y,

orice apoarss: WNBE-TV, P.O. Bow 44, Binghamton, N.Y,

poan: Afay 1g. tong, Everert, Mass, pasesrs: George Roscoe Dunham, Miri-
am Juliet Joel,

preparep at: Public Latin School, Baston, Mass,

YEARS TN COLLEGE: [927-1911 DEGRFES: A.B, 1945; MBA, 1934,

aearateD: Portia Playfair, July ys, 0937. Boston, Mass, cantonen: Sara Swift,
Feb. 20, 19:9, Benjamin Srarr, Sept. 19. 1944.

occupation: Radio.

THOMAS WILSON DUNN

HOME Anpanss: 2%46 Scdgewick Rd. Shaker Heights, Ohio.

orrick aporrss: Carlon Products Corp, sozas Meech Ave. Cleveland 5,
Ohio,

boan: Sept. 28, 1908, Boston, AMfass. parrnts: Edward Joseph Dunn, Sarah
Mann MeNair.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGRFES: A.B. 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Nancy Hine, Sept. 14, 1934, Gates Mills, Ohio. cumpren: Kathleen

[275 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Allen, Dec. 10, 1938; Jonathan Edward, Sept. 19, 1944; Eleanor Seymour,
July 1, 1948.

occupation: General sales manager, Carlon Products Corporation, plastic
pipe manufacturers.

OFFices HELD: Vice-president, Plywood, Inc, Trenton, N. J., 1951-54, Middle
East Co. Cleveland, Ohio, 1946-51, Harvard Club of Cleveland, 1940;
member Advisory Board, Cleveland School of Art, since 1946; trustee,
Cleveland Arthrius Foundation, 1951-52; Class Agent, Harvard Fund
(too long); member Scholarship Committee, Harvard Club of Phila-
delphia, 1934-36.

MEMBER OF: The Tavern Club, Cleveland; The Hunt Club, Gates Mills,
Ohio; The Hanger; Harvard Clubs of Cleveland and New York; Har-
vard Varsity Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “How to Initiate a New Business”, a section published as part
of a panel at the Harvard Business School in Individual Initiative in
Business, Harvard University Press, 1950.

AS a freshman at Harvard I wanted to be a newspaper man like
my father. Six years later, graduating from the Business School,
I was lucky enough to find a job with a large advertising agency.
Since then I have been with a large department store, the Navy,
and as a salesman either in my own business or as a hired hand.
I have sold one thing or another in every state in the union.

Despite this background in the distribution business — perhaps
because of it — lately I have been thinking that sometime in the
future I'd like to teach, as my tutor suggested in 1931. Here's
why. The chilly economic years of 1931-33 found me comfort-
ably housed and fed in the Yard as a freshman proctor attending
the Business School. Neither majoring in English nor pointing
toward the newspaper business (having covered Harvard news
and sports for both Boston and New York papers) provided a ’31
graduate with much opportunity for anything like a living wage
on a newspaper. So, curious about the reasons for the depression,
I went to the Business School with that wonderful proctor’s deal
helping out.

Needless to say, though I learned much about business and its
practices across the river, the professors were as much in the dark
as I about the Great Depression, and I left as mystified as when I
had entered.

Next came five delightful years in Philadelphia and one in New
York in the agency business. “Hlucksterism” can often be de-
servedly attached to this fast moving handmaiden of American

[276]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

distribution but amidst the glitter there are many serious devotees
expending countless hours seriously studying market trends, mer-
chandising and comsumer appeals to enable their clients to pro-
mote in the right markets at the right time. You don’t often find
them in the bars on Madison Avenue. In an effort to become more
closely associated with this more professional group, I left a better
paying job as an account executive to get down to the practical
“nuts and bolts” of American distribution, planning eventually
to return when I was better prepared to serve my clients.

During this period in Philadelphia, I lived with a half-dozen gay
young bachelors, We had a winter house in town and another in
the country, staffed by a butler and a couple. Not only were we
spoiled almost forever, but with friends and constant parties on
all sides, we were, we thought, completely gun-shy of matrimony.

Nevertheless, toward the end of my stay in Philadelphia I fell
in love with a Wellesley undergraduate, quite a bit my junior,
who had stopped in the City of Brotherly Love to visit a married
sister on her way home from Europe. The ink on her diploma
was scarcely dry when we were married . . . the smartest thing
I ever did.

Having already decided to make a move from the agency
business, after a bout with a serious nose infection, I got a job
with a large department store in Cleveland; first in the controller’s
office and then in the general merchandise office. It was fascina-
ting and I'd probably be there yet but along came December 7,
1941. Three months later, with a leave of absence, I was with the
W.P.B., Washington, D. C., where eventually I became Chief-of-
Branch in the Salvage Division. Qualifications: a good business
background and no connections with the scrap industry, mem-
bers of which I found to be highly intelligent with a remarkable
business acumen and generally very good company. Paul Cabot,
now treasurer of Harvard, directed the division competently and
forcefully; a red tape cutter and executive nonpareil, he made a
twelve hour day a pleasure.

The urge to get into a uniform was strong, so the next step was
the Navy with an assignment to the Office of Strategic Services.
We were sworn to secrecy on most of the things we did in the
O.S.S. (regardless of importance) so my small contribution to
the war effort is as follows: -—-————, for which I received a

[277 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

In this struggle for understanding, I am eternally grateful to
Harvard as I am to the wonder parents who sent me there. For
with all the drawbacks and shortcomings of our Alma Mater, I can
never forget nor overlook the healthy imprint of her silver
buckled shoe on my consciousness. Certainly a desire for truth
and the resulting stimulus to the intellectual curiosity of an aver-
age brain has made the life of this Harvard man, though harder,
infinitely richer.

And so, believing in these principles, it is time to consider
another generation; to try to help the many who are showing the
new generation a little of what has been learned and what they
will have to do to learn understanding for themselves. “Thus when
the children’s education is paid for, I may dare to try to heed that
tutor’s advice given twenty-five years ago (with plenty of apolo-
gies for not having done better).

ROBERT DUTTON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 Avon St., Wakefield, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 2, 1910, Wakefield, Mass. parENTs: Richard Dutton, ’98, Mo.,
’o1, Ethel Florence King.

PREPARED AT: Wakefield High School, Wakefield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.D., 1935.

MarrieD: Alma E. Sanders, July 2, 1935, Wakefield, Mass. CHILDREN: Rich-
ard Sanders, Jan. 22, 1938; Marcia Elizabeth, Feb. 5, 1940; Robert K,
Feb. 17, 1952.

HARVARD SON: Richard Sanders Dutton, ’59.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Parkhurst Dutton, ’33, M.p., 737.

OCCUPATION: Physician—general practice of medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1938, chairman, since 1952, Board of Health,
Wakefield; president, 1954-55, vice-president, 1953-54, Middlesex East
District Medical Society; councillor, since 1947, executive councillor,
1952-54, Massachusetts Medical Society; major, M.C.A.U.S.; member
board of directors, Wakefield Y.M.C.A.; member, Boy Scout Council.

MEMBER OF: Middlesex East District Medical Society; Massachusetts Medi-
cal Society, American Medical Association; Golden Rule Lodge, AF.
& A.M.; Bear Hill Golf Club.

I GUESS the best way to review twenty-five good years is to
consider what I now have, and then try to figure how and when
it came about.

1. Family. My wife Alma, Radcliffe, ’32, is the same girl I

[ 280 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

used to date during undergraduate and medical school years. We
were married in 1935, lived in Cambridge a couple of years while
I was interning and she was working for Miss Stedman in the
Radcliffe Appointment Bureau, and then moved to Wakefield
where we have been since. We have three children, two pre- and
one post-war. Dick (17) is now at Harvard, ’59, living in Wig-
glesworth; Marcia (15) is a junior in high school, is good college
material and may possibly continue tradition at Radcliffe. Bobby
(3%) hasn’t decided on a college yet, but shows excellent promise,

z. General practice of medicine. I was brought up in the at-
mosphere of general practice and I guess I knew from college
days that it was what I wanted. Anyway, after graduating from
medical school and spending two years as an intern, I came back
to Wakeficld and started out sort of independently with my
father. World War II brought me to a fork in the road. I was
one of the fortunate doctors who worked while in the Army
and I got enough added surgical training so that it would have
been easy to specialize in either general or plastic surgery. I
chose to return to general practice and have never regretted it —
except occasionally at 3 a.m. Iam lucky to live and work in an
area where a general man can still do the surgery he is qualified
for, deliver babies and fulfill all the requirements of an old-fash-
ioned family doctor.

My father died in 1950. I owe him a lot. I have been constant-
ly amazed that an educated man (Harvard, of course) could so
well keep abreast of the tremendous changes in medicine of the
past half-century.

3. Community life. We've become part of Wakefield. Alma
has been on the School Committce for a while and is active in
other civic projects. I've been on the Board of Efealth for seven-
teen or eighteen years, and chairman for a few of them. I’ve
also done a lot of work in the district and state medical societies,
We are of course interested in schools, the Y.M.C.A., church and
about everything that has to do with kids.

4- Recreation. The bridge I learned in Strauss Hall has stood
me in good stead but is a little rusty. I only play golf on vacation
now, but can still get in the low eighties or high seventies after a
couple of weeks of practice. Fishing appeals to me now —as
much fun as golf without walking so far. I take very little time

[ 281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

off, but with such a fascinating and challenging job, there is less
need for change.

That about tells the story. Put down on paper, it just makes
me realize more clearly how busy, fortunate and happy I’ve
been. Even the Army helped me. I hope the Fiftieth Anniver-
sary Report sounds as good.

JOBIC DuVIVIER

BORN: June 9, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Joseph DuVivier, Eleanor
Keyes.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

DuVIVIER has been ill for many years.

JAMES FISHER DWINELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Fernway, Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Travelers Insurance Co., 147 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1909, Winchester, Mass. PARENTS: James Fisher Dwinell,
’o2, Florence Wiley Smith.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRRIED: Alice Eaton, Nov. 18, 1933, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN: Jean
Eaton, Oct. 16, 1936; James Fisher, 3d, Aug. 17, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Dwinell, ’38.

occupation: Brokerage manager, Travelers Insurance Company; president,
Winchester Savings Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1941-48, president, 1948, Boston Life Underwriters
Association, president, Massachusetts Life Underwriters Association,
1952; member, 1945-47, chairman, 1947, Winchester Finance Committee;
member, 1948-51, chairman, 1951, Winchester Board of Selectmen,
member, since 1951, chairman, since 1952, Winchester Water and
Sewer Board; director, Winchester Trust Company, 1949-52, Win-
chester Hospital, 1949-55.

MEMBER OF: Winchester Country Club.

FOR more than twenty of the last twenty-five years elapsing
since graduation, I have been associated’ with the Travelers In-
surance Company in the field of sales management. This work
consists entirely of dealing with people and is, therefore, replete
with interest and challenge. An additional responsibility has re-

. [ 282 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sulted from my association with a fast growing community bank
where the problems, generally considered to be financial, are
actually human ones also. This combination of duties has served
to keep me interested, active and fully occupied.

An active interest in our community has prompted me to take
part in the management of its government and has fully consumed
my spare time. My attention to business can easily be diverted
by a family about which I am most enthusiastic. I am blessed
with a wife who has been able to live cheerfully with all my
shortcomings and who delights in keeping me so well fed as to
cause me a constant battle with overweight. A daughter, now
at Smith, has amazed us with her accomplishments and has far
surpassed her father in ability, judgment and the acquisition of
knowledge. A son at Exeter finds it hard to believe that his par-
ents could give him worthwhile advice and perhaps he is right.
He prefers to stumble into all the pitfalls and dig his own way
out rather than to be guided around them. As a result, his edu-
cation is certainly more dramatic and perhaps more effective,
but it causes a lot of wear and tear on the old man.

Sports must be classified as my principal hobby — golf as a
participant and football, hockey and baseball as a spectator. I
am still hopeful enough to look for another golden era of Har-
vard athletics. My tastes don’t seem to have changed. I still like
rare roast beef, mountains, lakes, sincerity, bourbon, gardening
and my home. I don’t like the speed with which the time has
flown since 1931.

STEWART RALSTON DYCKMAN

HOME appress: 1106 Frontenac Ave. Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

OFFICE appress: Ajax Petroleums, Ltd., 337 4 Eighth Ave., W., Calgary,
Alberta, Canada.

BORN: Dec. 1, 1909, Dallas, Texas. parents: William Alexander Dyckman,
Clara May Stewart.

PREPARED AT: Highland Park High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: $.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Winifred Marion Haggard, March 24, 1941, New Orleans, La.
CHILDREN: Claire Stewart, Aug. 9, 1945; Helen Mackrell, Feb. 19, 1949;
Anne Lorraine, June 21, 1950; Alan Douglas Stewart, Sept. 12, 1952.

OccupaTION: Treasurer, Ajax Petroleums, Ltd. Ajax-Alberta Pipeline, Ltd.

[ 283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

OFFICES HELD: Director, Ajax-Alberta Pipeline, Ltd., Mount Royal Com.
munity Club; president, Harvard Club of Dallas, 1950-51, Twenty-
Five Associates, Inc., 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Calgary Petroleum Club; Petroleum Accountants Society of
Western Canada; Naval Officers’ Association.

TWENTY-FIVE years seem a long time to account for — par-
ticularly if I measure my accomplishments from the ambitious,
self-reliant viewpoint of 1931. In those days, the jungle was full
of social, political and economic dragons, but we were all cocky
with our new weapons, As we go along, it appears we are little
better armed than our predecessors and progress won't be pushed.

My own contribution to the world’s benefit is nil, but I am
still idealistic enough to salute those of my contemporaries who
have moved more than themselves. When I went back to the
Twentieth — my only Reunion —I was startled to find I was so
consciously proud of Harvard, as represented by the members of
my Class there. This impression followed twenty years in New
York and Texas, where activity was agressively constructive but
a person was generally carried along with, or goaded along by, his
associates. In contrast, those of you assembled from everywhere
for the Twentieth seemed to have come around to your points of
view on your own. It was most refreshing for me to find you
quietly eminent or blatantly obnoxious in your own original way.
That notorious “indifference” must have held off our environ-
ment long enough to let us deliberate on what our own prefer-
ences really were.

From the week after I graduated until 1940, I worked in a bank
in Wall Street. The friction generated by my business progress
did not overheat my surroundings, but as a single man, | thor-
oughly appreciated the chance to live in New York in those un-
usual years, and I can certainly say I was never bored. There were
pleasant and interesting weekends in all directions — thanks to
the hospitality of many: my doings with my two charges as a
Big Brother; living with a Spanish family to learn a little of the
language, and wandering in all the interesting environs and meet-
ing its powerful assortment of individuals, such as Cuban gang
executives with whom I chatted in Puerto Rican dance halls in
Harlem in the early morning hours. Presumably my inconse-
quential appearance protects me in such circumstances! I had one

[ 284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trip to the Balkans in 1936. It was short but at a significant time
and I was with Alfred Baldwin who knew his way around,

In 1941 I married and my wife is my major accumulation since
graduation or before. She also likes all active aspects of life; con-
sequently, we have made the most of our various situations and
have always had more things we wanted to do together than we
could find time for.

Leaving New York, I went to Dallas to be an industrial engi-
neer with Procter & Gamble after an intensive course in Cincin-
nati. Shortly I was in the Navy for three and a half years as a
ground officer in Aviation Ordnance — mainly rockets. My per-
tinent training with horse-drawn French 75's in Cambridge and
as a cavalry trooper in Squadron A made me a natural for this.
I was stationed in New York, Florida, Washington, California,
Guadalcanal and Bougainville, When activity was not too intense,
I found lots to do and am glad I saw places I would never have
seen otherwise — although I'd have preferred service in Furope.
By the numbers, I finished with two and a half stripes.

Following the Navy years, I stayed long enough in Dallas to
increase my family from three to six. I was an analyst for a bank
and taught at Southern Methodist University Graduate School
of Business; also, was president of Twenty-Five Associates, a
group of co-adventurers making investments of inconsequential
amounts but in every field, including cotton futures, machine
shops, oil wells and Broadway plays. Then we moved again —
this time to Calgary, which is on the plains in sight of the Rockies,
just a two hours’ drive from Banff. I first came in the cattle
business, with reputed experience from a ranch I had in Texas,
but shifted to the financial end of gas production and transmis-
sion. In a few years, we shall probably be tempted by some new
place or project, but our main purpose now is bringing up our
four children. Calgary is an exceptionally appropriate place for
that, reflecting the attitude of the people. There have been rela-
tively few of them and plenty to go around — at least of the essen-
tials, Consequently, the approach is not to work too long, have
lots of leisure and make the most of it. In spite of some dilution
due to the influx of those in my business, the finer aboriginal
customs prevail, such as two hours away at noon to go home for
lunch or for billiards at the club. Given one holiday and a week-

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

end, they mancuver a week away. Late summer sunsets allow
cichteen holes of golf after work. It is a sound life for a family
with four under cleven and the best I could provide. So far my
children are alert, well-adjusted, relish sports and are not yet
interested in comparing their external props with those of others.

But I am not contented and am still curious and restless, with
plenty of the 1931 brashness towards Fate, less noticeable in the
1956 crop. I am certainly not envious of those who consider
themselves settled at forty-six. In the next twenty-five years, |
would like to do some of the worthwhile things that have already
been done by a few of you who started out at “the same time I did
and for whom I reiterate my admiration.

CHAFFEE EARL
SEE Appendix.

JOHN FRANKLIN EDDY

HOME Aporess: 1117 Boylston Ave., N., Seattle 2, Wash.

OFFICE aporess: Peoples National Bank, 1414 Fourth Ave., Seattle 11, Wash.

Bors: May 13, 1909, Seattle, Wash. parents: John Whittemore Eddy, ’95,
Ethel Garrett.

paepareD at: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BaoTHER: Garrett Eddy, ’38.

occupation; Vice-president, Peoples National Bank.

orices HELD: Vice-president, Port Blakely Mill Company; president, Eddy
Invesement Company.

Minne oF: Seattle Yacht Club, Rainier Club, University Club, Harvard
Club of Scare.

AFTER a year at Harvard Business School, I worked a year and
a half for a bank in Bay City, Michigan. I then joined Peoples
National Bank in my home town of Seattle and have been with
them ever since, except for the war years. I was on active duty
with the Navy from early 1941 to the end of 1945, with duty
afloat most of the time. This included nearly two years in the
Aleutians and a year and a half in the Central Pacific area, finish-
ing with the rank of commander, My principal recreation has

[ 246 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been sailing and since 1947 I have owned a fifty-two-foot ocean
racing yawl, competing in northwest races and once in the Trans-
Pacific race to Honolulu,

*« WILLIAM HORACE EDMONDS

BoRN: Dec. 17, 1909, Dorchester, Mass. parENts: William Albert Edmonds,
Mary McDevitt.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MargieD: Lucy Dickenson Marx, Feb. 28, 1938, Washington, D. C. cHipren:
David William, Dec. 10, 1938; Diane Marie, May 3, 1941.

Diep: Jan. 11, 1948, Washington, D. C.

AFTER graduation Edmonds spent two years in private industry

and was for some of that time associated with the New England

Headquarters of the A & P Tea Company. In 1933 he accepted

a position with the federal government in Washington and served

as a member of the Consumers’ Council of the National Bituminous

Coal Commission, In 1946 he was administrative officer with the

Office of Price Administration, and he was later economist with

this office. He attended Georgetown Law School, and in 1941

was associate editor of the Georgetown Law Journal. He was

active as treasurer and then president of the Westmont Civic

Association. His wife survived him.

RICHARD EDWARDS
SEE Appendix.

RICHARD GARDINER EDWARDS

HOME AppreEss: 28 Lincoln Rd., Kensington, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stanley Works, New Britain, Conn.

BORN: July 28, 1908, Brookline, Mass. parents: James Howard Edwards,
Elizabeth Phelps.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS: IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

MarrigD: Harriet Windsor, March 19, 1942, Fairfield, Conn. cuitp: Elizabeth
Windsor, May 11, 1944.

Occupation: Manufacturing.

[ 287]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

OLIVER LAWRENCE GARRISON ELDER

HOME apprEss: Elder Mountain, Chattanooga, Tenn.

OFFICE apprEss: Elder & Co., 735 Broad St., Chattanooga, Tenn.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1908, St. Louis, Mo. parents: George Saffarrans Elder, Hazel
Garrison,

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MARRIED: Alice Dalton, Feb. 16, 1934, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN: Susan Dalton,
Dec. 16, 1934 (7. John McEwen Martin, Nov. 28, 1954); George S,,
2d, Dec. 7, 1939; Philip Dalton, Dec. 1, 1949. GRANDCHILD: Clifford
Garrison Martin, Oct. 2, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Senior partner, Elder & Company, brokerage and investment
banking.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Chattanooga Gas Company, since 1951, East Ten-
nessee Natural-Gas Company, 1947-50, Roxbury Southern Mills, since
1954, Humane Educational Society; trustee, Chatham Hall School,
Chatham, Va.; vice-president, Hamilton County Infantile Paralysis
Chapter.

MEMBER OF: Mountain City Club; Rod and Gun Club; Lookout Mountain
Club (all of Chattanooga); Harvard Club of New York.

ON leaving college I worked in the securities department, then

in the trust department of a Chattanooga bank from August, 1928,

until November, 1932. Not then realizing the impact and changes

which would result from the New Deal, I decided to make the

securities business my permanent vocation and in May of 193:

I purchased a seat on the New York Stock Exchange, forming

my firm the latter part of that year. The business has always

proved most interesting despite the ups and downs in the. pre-
war period.

In June of 1933, while an usher at the wedding of our class-
mate Albert Beveridge, I met Alice Dalton, a bridesmaid who is
the sister of Phil Dalton, ’31. Things progressed with reasonable
rapidity, the net result being that we were married early in 1934.
Having got my business in such shape that I could leave it, I
offered my services to the Navy in the summer of 1942. After
the rigors of Quonset, about a year in Lighter-Than-Air and a
short training course in gunnery at Jacksonville and Pensacola,
I wound up with an air group on the West Coast. The last seven
or eight months of the war were spent aboard a carrier in the
Pacific, with a moderate amount of excitement from the enemy
and the weather. My final rank was lieutenant commander.

[ 288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After the war I reactivated my firm, minus three former
branch offices, and am enjoying (and profiting from) my busi-
ness even more than previously, We take (particularly my wife)
a fairly active part in local civic, political and charitable affairs.
We are members of St. Paul's Episcopal Church. While I still
like to consider myself a conservative Democrat, my wife, who
isa very active Republican, and I worked very hard for Wendell
Willkie in 1940 and for Dwight Eisenhower in 1952.

Living in the country, my hobbies are largely out-of-door ones
— shooting, fishing, gardening, reforestation and game propaga-
tion being among them. Our travels, aside from the war years,
have been rather few and routine: Florida and the Caribbean
occasionally and one fishing trip recently in the wilder part of
Canada. We spend a while nearly every summer on Martha's
Vineyard Island which we and the children all love.

CHARLES FRANCIS ELLIOTT

HOME aporess: P.O, Box 124, Oakton, Va.

OFFICE aDorEss: Navy Dept., Washington, D. C.

Born; April 18, 1910, Capitol View, Md. parents: Wilham Smith Elliott,
Martha Violet Boyd.

PREPARED AT: Staten Island Academy, Staten Island, N. Y.; Georgia Military
College, Milledgeville, Ga., Manetta High School, Canton High School,
Canton, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B. (George Washington
Univ.), 1938.

maARRIED: Doris M. Redden, Dec. 31, 1949, Bethesda, Md. (divorced 1953).

OCCUPATION: Assistant for Legislation and Liaison, Bureau of Ships, Navy
Department, Washington, D. C.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Fairfax Presbyterian Church, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Gamma Eta Gamma.

WAS an auditor for the Reconstruction Finance Corporation
from 1933 to 1941; attorney for the Federal Trade Commission
in 1941-42; joined the Navy as licutenant (j.g.) in 1942 and was
discharged honorably as lieutenant commander in 1946; held
various government jobs after the war; since 1948 I have been
with the Bureau of Ships, Navy Department. Am a Presbyterian.

I am convinced that we have an urgent need today to abandon
materialism and to return to the Christian austerity of our pioneer-

[ 289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ing forefathers. We often forget, in our obsession with material
abundance, that the chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy
Him forever. The world’s ills can be eventually overcome, and
a true and lasting peace achieved by forthright dissemination of
true Christian ethics. Until that time we must, of course, maintain
the strongest possible national defense, to deter aggression.

GORDON HOWARD ELLIS

HOME AND OFFICE ADpRESS: 386 Wolcott St., Auburndale, Mass.
BORN: May 4, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Harold Howard Ellis, Margaret

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1929-1931.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Hall, Sept. 4, 1934, North Falmouth, Mass. cHiLp:
Robert Hall, Nov. 7, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Pianist.

WITH the exception of the war years— Navy, 1941-44—I
have been mostly busy in the dance music field. I have performed
in all of the better clubs and hotels in and around Boston. This
business is neither so lucrative nor glamorous as it used to be,
but it “gets in your blood” as they say. In spite of Liberace, |
don’t recommend it to others. I just happen to love it. Fasci-
nating!

Am very strong for “Ike” and hope he can make it for a second
term. My wife Betty is still teaching kindergarten in Newton.
Hope to see you at the Reunion. Au plaisir!

HARWOOD ELLIS

HOME apprEss: 39 Denny Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rivers Country Day School, 436 Heath St., Chestnut Hill 67,
Mass.

BORN: March 7, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: Sydney Allan Ellis, Irene
Harwood.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MarRiep: Gertrude Marean, March 18, 1933, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Suzanne, Nov. 8, 1935; Harwood, Jr., Oct. 1, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Allan Veloise Ellis, ’28.

[ 290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Assistant headmaster, dean of studies, Rivers Country Day
School.
orFices HELD: Member executive committee, New England Association of
Physics Teachers, 1954.
MEMBER OF; Wiscasset (Maine) Yacht Club.
CARRYING on from where I left off in the Twentieth Anni-
versary Report, I wish to say that the western trip mentioned
there was a complete success. We camped out every night but
Friday. On that night we took to a motel, washed everyone, in-
cluding the gals’ hair and the clothes, and then started out for
another week. We had no reservations throughout the ten-
week 15,000-mile trip except at Franny Hoague’s house in Scattle,
where we spent the night on the lawn. Also we stopped to see
Dick Edwards in Yakima, Washington. Sorry now that we didn’t
see more of our classmates as we made the loop through the
Southwest, up the west coast and back through the Northwest,
with a side trip to Jasper, Alberta.

Since then the routine has been the same, with school teaching
during the winter and boys’ camp (Chewonki, Wiscassct, Maine)
in the summer. Rivers School seems to have cornered a fine nu-
cleus of the Class of °31, for Truman Brackett is chairman of the
board of trustees and George Blackwell is the new headmaster.
I just work there.

Latest news in the family is the success of the offspring. Daugh-
ter Suzanne is to be the president of her House at Mount Holyoke
College, where she will be a junior next year. Timmy (Harwood,
Jr.) has just won the Harvard Club Prize in his junior year at
Rivers. Incidentally, I'm not a bit sure that he'll even try for
Harvard in ’56. In case you don’t know, it is getting tougher
than ever to enter the “Ivy Halls across the Charles”. Thank
God we all entered in 1927. There are quite a few of us who
could never get in now.

THEODORE KELLOGG EMERY

MAILING ADorESS: 9 Park Ave. London, Ohio.

Born: Aug. 1, 1909, London, Ohio. Parents: Peyton Randolph Emery,
Anna Thompson Gould.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

Occupation: Agriculture.

[291 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

GRENVILLE TEMPLE EMMET, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Katonah, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Emmet, Marvin & Martin, 48 Wall St. New York 5, N. Y.
BorN: March 31, 1909, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Grenville Temple Emmet,
’98, Pauline Ferguson.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931 (32); LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),
1935.
marrieD: Anne Eustis, Nov. 20, 1937, Washington, D. C. (divorced 1949).
CHILDREN: Grenville Temple, 3d, Oct. 13, 1938; Anne Livingston, June
30, 1940; Edith Celestine, May 22, 1943.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Racquet and Tennis Club,
Association of the Bar of the City of New York, New York State Bar

Association.

IN the summer of 1931, I went to Europe for a year of travel and
study — principally in Munich—in company with five other
members of the Class. Following this very agreeable interlude, I
entered the Columbia Law School and emerged as a Bachelor of
Laws in June, 1935. For the young man graduating from law
school at that time, the promised land was Washington, D.C. I
accordingly joined the parade of young lawyers into the govern-
ment service and for a year worked as a junior attorney in the
office of the general counsel of the Treasury Department. At the
end of a year, I returned to New York and entered private prac-
tice with the firm of Emmet, Marvin & Martin.

From the spring of 1942 until October, 1945, I served in the
Army. This included seven months at Fort Knox, Kentucky, for
basic training, followed by Officer Candidate School. I was then
assigned to the newly activated 14th Armored Division at Camp
Chaffee, Arkansas, and for ten months I served as aide-de-camp to
Major General Vernon E. Prichard who was then commanding
general of the division. Thereafter, I served as company com-
mander of a medium tank company and as Sz of the 25th Tank
Battalion in the 14th Armored Division. We went overseas in
October, 1944, landing at Marseilles, and were in action in the
operations in the Vosges Mountains, in Alsace Lorraine and in
Germany. Following VE Day, we remained in Germany on oc-

cupation duty until September, 1945, when the division returned
to the United States and was deactivated.

[ 292 ]

Re Ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1946 I went back to the practice of the law with Emmet,
Marvin & Martin, and I am still engaged in the strenuous effort to
earn a living as a member of that firm. I live in Katonah, New
York, and am one of the harassed commuters who work in New
York City, but prefer to live in the country. On two occasions
I have had the temerity to run for local office on the Democratic
ticket in Westchester County which has been one of the strongest
citadels of the Republican party from time immemorial. On both
occasions I was soundly defeated, but the experience of participat-
ing in local politics was stimulating and has given me a lively
interest in local government.

As I take stock of the twenty-five ycars since graduation, they
are rich with warm memories and experiences and [ have much
for which to be grateful.

DANIFL SNELL FPPELSHEIMER

Home aporess: Route 1, Box 271, Rolla, Mo.

orFicg appress: Metallurgy Dept, Missouri School of Mines, Rolla, Mo.

Born: March 17, 1909, Chicago, Hh parents: Daniel Eppelsheimer, Jr.,
Florence Irvina Snell.

preparrp aT: Middictown High School, Middletown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DELAFES: $8. IN ENGIN., 1931; 8.0., 1935.
Marairp: Marion Elizabeth Vaughn, April 11, 1936, Hamilton, Ohio. crtt-
been: Daniel Snell, 2d, Dec. 24, 1941; David Vaughn, Nov. 24, 1944.

occupation; Professor of metallurgical engineering.

OFFICES HELD: President, North Eastern Wood Utilization Council, 1942-47;
administrative officer, University of New Hampshire, 1941-45; deacon,
First Presbyterian Church, Rolla, Mo.

MEMBER oF: Sigma Xi; Sigma Gamma Epsilon; American Institute of Min-
ing and Metallurgical Engineers; American Society for Metals; Ameri-
can Chemical Society; American Society for Engineering Education;
American Foundrymen’s Society; Franklin Institute; British Institute for
Physics; British Institute of Metals; British Iron and Steel Institute;
Verein Deutscher Eisenhurtenleute; Missouri Historical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Over twenty-five scientific papers in the general field of physi-
cal metallurgy and particularly in the field of the plastic deformation
of metals.

UPON completion of the five-year-course in mining and metal-
lurgical engineering in 1932, I continued my studies in the Har-
vard Graduate School of Engineering, receiving an S.D. in

[ 293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

physical metallurgy in 1935. During this period of time I held
the position as assistant to Professor Albert Sauveur and served
as a second lieutenant at the Ordnance Reserve, Watertown
Arsenal. These experiences whetted my interest in research and
teaching. In order to gain practical experience I accepted a posi-
tion with the Union Carbide & Carbon Research Laboratory as
research metallurgist. While there, 1935-38, I became interested
in the dynamic and plastic properties of metals and alloys.

In 1936 I married Marion E. Vaughn, Radcliffe ’31, and Harvard
Graduate School of Education, Ed.M., ’35. She is also a graduate
of Miss Farmer’s School of Cookery, Boston, Massachusetts. In
1939 the yearning to be associated with an educational institution
and to work with young people became too strong to resist, and
I accepted the position of head of the Engineering Experiment
Station and professor of industrial engineering at the University
of New Hampshire, Durham, New Hampshire. Eight pleasant
years were spent in Durham and I feel that my general back-
ground of industrial research experience was considerably en-
hanced as a result of this experience. During this period the
Lord favored us with two fine sons.

While at New Hampshire my research led me into studies of
the properties of metal hydrides and, in particular, calcium and
uranium hydride. This work brought me in touch with Metal
Hydrides, Inc., Beverly, Massachusetts, and the Manhattan Proj-
ect. In fact, this work became so glamorous to me that from
1945 to 1946 I was chief physical metallurgist and sales manager
of the company. In 1947 I received an offer from the University
of Missouri, School of Mines and Metallurgy, to go there as pro-
fessor of metallurgical engineering to be in charge of the work in
physical metallurgy, foundry, and nuclear engineering in the
Metallurgical Engineering Department. This opportunity to teach
and do research at such a well known mining and metallurgy
school was too good to pass up so the family migrated to west of
the Mississippi River.

Since arriving at Rolla the family got interested in farming and,
with two boys and a willing wife, we feel that we have made a
good start in this avocation particularly since professors have a
three months’ vacation each year. Last summer I was appointed
as the university representative to the World Metallurgical Con-

[ 294 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gress, so with the family we spent three profitable months in
Europe. Since the war years I have maintained my contacts with
the Atomic Energy Commission and at the present time am trying
to develop a curriculum in nuclear engineering here at M.S.AL,
particularly emphasizing the metallurgy phase of the subject.

My boys are showing interest in college and naturally I hope
that they will attend Harvard. After being associated with edu-
cational institutions for nearly twenty-five years, perhaps some
of the glamour and rah-rah spirit may have worn off and even
the most rabid of us will have to admit that most schools today
are good. What does Harvard have to offer that may be distinc-
tive and unique?) Perhaps it is tradition not of the past but as
President Lowell once said, “the tradition of change”. Harvard
means many things to many people. To me, it has meant the
oppertunity of the dev clopment of the individual as an individual,
the recognition of the value of self-education after graduation and,
above all, the tolerance for the opinion of others.

If I can pass on to my students at this institution these tradi-
tions of Harvard, then I feel that in some small way I may be able
to repay to her the debt which is due. Perhaps this was the same
type of motivation that John Harvard felt with regard to his
college at Cambridge, England, and the new one to be founded
in the New World.

IRVING EPSTEIN

LAST KNOWN Aporess: 416 Central Park, WW, New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 22, 1913, New York, N. Y. parents: Louis Epstein, Deana
Grogcky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

EPSTEIN has been carried as a “lost”? man on our records since
1935.

NATHAN BERNARD EPSTEIN

HOME apprEss: 153 Crest Drive, Tarrytown, N. Y.

OFFicE appress: Lerner Stores Corp., 354 Fourth Ave, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Herman Epstein, Martha
Bertha Basch.

[ 295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1931(30); s.M. (New York
Univ.), 1931.

MARRIED: Billie L. Stern, July 3, 1946, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: Barbara
Lee, May 30, 1947; Susan Rhona, Aug. 3, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Epstein, ’28,; Henry David Epstein, Harvard
Dental School, ’40.

occupation: Divisional merchandise manager for national chain of women’s
and children’s apparel shops.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I hurried to New York, in-
tent upon a career in retailing. After apprenticeships at Macy’s
and Altman’s, during which time I acquired my Master’s degree
at N.Y.U., I joined the Lerner Stores Corporation in 1933. After
almost twenty-three years, with the exception of something over
four years of Army service during World War II, I’m still with
the Lerner Stores.

Although my Army service now seems to be something out of
my distant past, there is no question but that it was a very im-
portant four years of my life. The feeling of being part of so
tremendous an effort, about which my convictions were and
still are so strong, was a very real and sincere emotion. V-E day
found me in Germany, a major and a Corps Artillery counter-
battery officer with three battle participation stars. For a few
months after V-E Day, I was in charge of all displaced persons
in our Corps zone and responsible for their repatriation, during
the course of which I was awarded the Bronze Star Medal and ap-
pointed a Cavalier of the Order of the Crown of Italy.

One of the adverse effects of World War II on my life was
that it delayed my marriage by a few years. Shortly after mv
return from Europe I married the girl who waited for me, and
I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to say in print what
a wonderful wife she is. We have two daughters, a source of
tremendous pride and pleasure: one will be nine in May, the
other will be five in August. The elder one, particularly, and
the younger one, to some extent, lead what seem to be normal
lives for these days; public school, Sunday school, dancing school,
Brownies, piano lessons, riding lessons, skating lessons, swimming
lessons, dentists, orthodontists, allergists and just plain doctors.

After the birth of our second daughter, we joined the migra-

tory trek out of New York City to Westchester County. Almost

[ 296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

immediately after moving into our new ranch house in the vil-
lage of Tarrytown, we found ourselves in the middle of the many
local activities that make suburban living so satisying for those
so inclined. At the present moment, there are under construction
two new elementary schools and a high school, a new hospital,
and a new Jewish Temple, with all of which we had some con-
nection and to which we contributed some effort. Among them
is the Civic Association, of which I am a former president.

Politically, I am right of center, a registered Republican and
like to consider myself one of the great mass of independent
voters who swing the elections. Religiously, | am a Reform Jew
by birth and conviction.

HELMUT HARTMANN von ERFFA

HOME Aporess: Route 44. Hoe's Lane, New Brunswick, N. J.

orricz Aportss: Dept. of Art, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N. J.

Born: March 8, 1900, Leuneburg. Germany. parents: Gotthard Freiherr
von Erffa, Mathilde Freiin von Kuenssberg.

prepareD at: Domgvmnasium, Naumburg a/S, Germany.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1931; A.M, 1933; M.P.A. (Prince-
ton Univ.), 1938.

margirp: Eleanor Follansbee, July 25, t931, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Constance, Dec. g, 1939 (died Feb. 26, 1949); Julie, Dec. 22, 1945.

occupATION: Associate profesor, chairman, Department of Art, Rutgers
University.

ormices HELD: Micmber executive committee, American Oriental Society,
Midwestern Branch, 1943-45, member Lanternslide Committce, Collcge
Art Association, 1944, member board of directors, 1947-50, vice-presi-
dent, 1951-54, member planning committee, New Brunswick Art Cen-
ter, member brary building committee, Rutgers University, 1953;
member committee for a New Brunswick Exhibition Hall, 1955.

MEMAER oF: College Art Association; American Archeological Society;
New Brunswick Art Center; Museum of Modern Art.

PuBLicaTions: “A Tombstone of the Timurid Period in the Gardner Museum
of Boston”, Ars Islanrica, 1946, “A Selective Bibliography of American
Publications on Islamic Art Published from 1939 to 1945”, Ars Islamica,
1951; “A Drawing by Fuseli Identified”, Burlington Magazine, 1947;
“Sheepwashing by B. “West”, Art Quarterly, 1951, “St. Paul at Malta”,
Guide for the Royal Naval Chapel, Greenwich, England, 1955; B. West
article in Mantle Fielding’s Encyclopedia of Artists in America, 1955.

OUTSIDE of teaching and research I have devoted much thought
[297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and time, since I became chairman of the Department of Art at
Rutgers University (the State University of New Jersey), to
assist in spreading a knowledge and love of the visual arts in the
state of New Jersey. I have been active in the local art club —
arranging exhibitions, inviting lecturers, etc. My department
offers monthly exhibitions. The university is building up an art
collection. I begged together color prints which are rented to
our students. In order to complete some research on the Ameri-
can painter Benjamin West (1738-1820), I fled from the busy
local scene to the quiet of London with its museums and libraries,
hunting for inaccessible works of this too little known painter.
Lucky finds included a collection of about two hundred drawings
and some paintings in the hands of a descendant. They were
completely unknown to the art world and contained many treas-
ures.

We live three miles away from town on a plot owned by five
families. We give the fifteen children of these families the op-
portunity to be outdoors. Huson Jackson, graduate of the Har-
vard Architectural School, built our house in 1949.

After graduation, a traveling fellowship and some temporary
positions — tutor and assistant at Harvard and a year’s pinch-
hitting at Bryn Mawr, etc. I spent two years at Princeton to
acquire an M.F.A., taught five years at Northwestern, became
acting chairman of the Art Department of Swarthmore College
and accepted in 1946 the position as chairman of the Art Depart-
ment at Rutgers—a position which I still hold. I feel I have
been very lucky and am fully absorbed in what I am doing now.
I wish teachers, would have as much time for research as they
have in England. I think everybody ought to work hard to make
life less cluttered up with nonessential things so there would be
more time for meditation, art, poetry and music, and maybe fish-
ing and mountain climbing.

FRANCIS CORNELIUS EVANS

HOME ADDRESS: 3672 Richmond Rd., Richmondtown, Staten Island 6, N. Y.
OFFICE appress: American District Telegraph Co., Inc., 155 Sixth Ave., New
York 13, N. Y.

BORN: June 1, 1910, Irvington, N. J. PaRENts: William Cornelius Evens,
Anna D’Andrea.

[ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

preparep at: Manual Training High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: $.B. IN MECH.ENGIN, 1931.

margiep: Elsa Grace Rogers, Sept. 10, 1936, Stapleton, Staten Island, N. Y.
cHiLpkeN: Francis Cornclius, Jr. Dec, 12, 1938; Roger Anthony, Nov.
14, 1944, Rosemary Elinor, May 18, 1946, Priscilla Grace, June 14, 1947.

occupaTIoN: Manager, Research and Development Division, American
District Telegraph Company, Inc.

ovrices HELD: New York State Licensed Professional Enginecr #21774,
warden, since 1943, treasurer, since 1951, chairman, Finance Commit-
tee, since tgs1, St. Paul's Memorial Church, Staten Island, N. Y.;
chairman, Cub Scout Pack committee, 1952-55; Democratic county
comnutteeman, oth A.D, Brooklyn, N.Y. 1931-32; custodian, Rev-
erend Guy L. Walhs Memoral Fund, Staten Island, N. ¥.; member
NEPA Committee on Libraries, Museums & Historic Buildings.

MeMseR Of: National Fire Protection Association, Boy Scouts of America,
Instrument Society of Amenca, Institute of Fire Protection (British);
Saten Island Historical Society; American Society of Mechanical Engi-
neers (former member).

puBiicarions: Magazine articles on technical subjects appearing in the
Journal of the Instrument Society, Municipal Signal Engineer, Western
Union Technical Review, and various insurance publications,

LT EIAVE had, essentially, only one job since leaving the Engineer-
ing School in 1931. That is with the American District Telegraph
Company, where I have progressed through various enginecring
posts to the present one which is manager of research and devel-
opment. It has been very rewarding and enjoyable all the way.

My family, church and community work have been my prin-
cipal divertissements. I started life as a Roman Catholic and a
Democrat, but for many years now have been an Anglo-Catholic
in the Episcopalian communion, and a proper Republican.

Our elder son, Francis, Jr.. we prepared for Harvard, to which
he was adinitted — among others — but lo! he is at Princeton,
Class of ’59! And a pre-medical student, withal, as well as one
of the football assistant managers.

Our home is a large, old colonial style job, loaded with fire-
places and the like, and we had a fine time restoring it. It gives
us excellent suburban living, yet within the confines of New
York City. It is bordered on two sides by the historic Richmond-
town restoration, which of course assures us of ever-improving
surroundings.

Principal regret is lack of a military service record. Despite
a low draft number, and despite repeated efforts to enlist in the

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Navy, being an engineer militated against me and Uncle Sam
decided I was helping him most while out of uniform. One such
project was planning and designing the fire protection schemes
which were used in some 85% of all the Army camp hospitals
and Medical Supply Depots.

Hobbies include wood-working, scout and church work, hik-
ing, dogs, swimming, collecting for charities, choir singing, fam-
ily singing, good eating and drinking, and many other mundane
activities, including gardening chores as assigned by the light-of-
my-life, in addition to manicuring our acre.

I have had approximately 30 patents issued in my name, all re-
lated in one way or another to my company’s business; and all,
unfortunately, assigned to them.

I enjoy life a lot, and my Harvard background has helped me
immensely in so doing. Blessings to all.

JOHN DUNCAN EVANS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1026 Highmont Rd., Pittsburgh 6, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1306 Benedum Trees Bldg., Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

BoRN: May 19, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: John Duncan Evans, LLB., ol,
Irene Amelia Succop.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (32).

marrigp: Ida Virginia Evans, June 14, 1937, Pittsburgh, Pa. cuipreNn: John
Duncan, 3d, July 22, 1938; Margaret Grey, Sept. 30, 1941; David Cour-
teny, Oct. 1, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Augustus Ernest Evans, ’33, LL.B., ’36.

OCCUPATION: Business.

' MEMBER oF: Duquesne Club; Rolling Rock Club; Pittsburgh Golf Club; Fox
Chapel Golf Club,

AFTER one year at the Harvard Business School I worked for |
the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company until 1938. Then I worked
for the Mellon National Bank and Trust Company until 1942
when I entered the Navy as a lieutenant (j.g.), ending as a lieu-
tenant commander in 1945. After the war I returned to the bank
but shortly thereafter became interested in a small business which
I later sold, Since that time I have been associated with a goodly
number of small businesses, some of which have worked out not
too unprofitably.

[ 300 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For relaxation we go to Cape Cod in the summer and spend
weekends at our farm near Ligonier, Pennsylvania. Our eldest
child has one more year at St. Paul’s School before entering col-
lege, and our daughter is hoping to enter Miss Porter’s School at
Farmington, Connecticut, this fall, while the youngest remains in
Pictsburgh at Shady Side Academy,

HORACE DFLANO EVERETT, JR.

HOME Aporess: 1178 Virginia Way, La Jolla, Calif.

orricg appress: Rita M. Kennedy & Associates, 1121 Prospect St. La Jolla,
Calif.

Boan: April 25, 1908, Arlington, Mass. parents: Eforace Delano Everctt, '89,
Sarah Melinda Bock.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: AB, 1931.

MARRIED: Jane Elizabeth De Jarnette, Feb. 1, 1936, Binghamton, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Linda Jane, Nov. 17, 1936; Susan Delano, Jan. 22, 1945.

HARVARD BroTHER: Walter Caverly Everett, "33.

occuPATION: Real estate salesman, partner, De Jarnettc’s, women’s accessory
store.

orrices HELD: Director, marketing research, Ford Motor Company, 1946-

I

MEMBER or: Harvard Club of San Diego; La Jolla Country Club.
AFTER working for almost twenty-five years as a hired hand for
big companies (accounting and financial analysis for Columbia
Gas & Electric Corporation, 1931-39; marketing research, print-
ing and distribution management for Time, Inc., 1939-46; market-
ing research, Ford Motor Company, 1946-54), last year I em-
barked on the fourth distinct phase of my business career, this
time as my own boss. When I left Ford last July, I decided on an
entirely fresh — at least for me — approach to the employment
problem. Instead of taking a job with another company and
living in the place dictated by the job, I decided first to pick the
place where I would really prefer to live for the rest of my days
and then find there a way of earning a living. The whole family
had always been bullish on the west coast and particularly South-
ern California. So after a good deal of thought, study, discussion
with friends and miscellaneous research, we decided that La Jolla,
“the Jewel of the Pacific”, was the place for us. We arrived here

[ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

town that actually has the climate that the rest of California
boasts about having, Del Everett, super salesman, is at your
service!

BENJAMIN AYER FAIRBANK

HOME apprEss: 18 Highland St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dewey & Almy Chemical Co., 62 Whittemore Ave., Cam-
bridge, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 5, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: Kellogg Fairbank, ’90, Janet
Ayer.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Virginia Hobart, Dec. 12, 1938, Winnetka, Ill. cHitprRen: Helen,
March 6, 1940; Benjamin Ayer, Jr, March 11, 1942; Hobart, Oct. 23,
1945; Janet, Nov. 13, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kellogg Fairbank, ’30.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

SINCE finishing with formal education, I’ve been with the
Dewey & Almy Chemical Company in research, development
and sales. In these various capacities, Pve managed to see most
of America, take two trips to Australia and New Zealand, and
spend two years in Europe. They say travel is broadening —
perhaps that accounts for my present shape.

It was in Europe that I met Ginny, who has given direction
and a feeling of completeness to my life since then. Four grow-
ing children take up most of our spare time. We hibernate in
Cambridge, with occasional skiing trips, and estivate languidly
on the beach in Duxbury —a life we thoroughly enjoy.

WILLIAM HATHAWAY FARNHAM

HOME AppRESs: 33 Russell St., Milton 87, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Imtra Corp., 58 Charles St., Cambridge 41, Mass.

BorN: April 19, 1908, Roxbury, Mass. PARENTS: Onsville MacPherson Farn-
ham, Mary Bourne Hathaway.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

marriep: Mary Davenport Ilsley, Sept. 19, 1935, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Hathaway, Jr., July 21, 1936; Elizabeth D., Oct, 17, 1940;
Ann I, Oct. 26, 1945; Mary B., Oct. 30, 1948,

[ 304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Haavarp son: William Hathaway Farnham, Jr. '58.

occuPATION: Importer.

OFFices HELD: Treasurer, director, Walter H. Baker Company, 1946-51; vice-
president, director, Imtra Corporation, since 1952; secretary, Boston
Council Boy Scouts, 1953-55.

member oF: St. Botolph Club, Boston.

WHILE I was in college, I decided that I wanted to join the
banking fraternity. I was extremely lucky in 1931 to get a job
running the street for the Lee-Higginson Trust Company, In
May of 1932 Mr. Ivar Kreuger died. With his death the Trust
Company closed and I went on to the Fiduciary Trust Company
to run the street again. There I stayed until June, 1941, when I
reported for duty at the headquarters of the First Naval District.
In May of 1946 my orders came through for inactive duty and I
went to the Walter Hl. Baker Company, commonly known as
“Baker's Plays.” After a year I became treasurer and director,
In 1951 Baker’s Plays was sold to Samuel French & Company of
New York. They did not require my services. In January, 1952,
the Imtra Corporation was formed to import products from
Western Europe into the U.S.A. Imtra is very tiny but it keeps
me busy. I am also president of the Cambridge Lease Corpora-
tion.

Outside of my business I have tried to do my part for the
Community Fund, Red Cross and Boy Scouts. I am a Town
Meeting member in Milton and have recently been appointed to
one of the town committees. Each summer my family goes to
Orleans on Cape Cod where I week-end and vacation, doing a
little bass fishing, sailing, duck shooting and a good deal of “do-it-
yourself” work on our cottage.

THOMAS EDWARD FARRELL

HOME ApprEss: 56 Montcalm Sc.. Oswego, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 14 Grant Block, Oswego, N. Y.

BorN: May 19, 1909, Oswego, N. Y. parents: Edward Stephen Farrell,
Blanche Malvina Kenyon.

PREPARED aT: Oswego High School, Oswego, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B. 1934.

MarRiep: Carol Johnson Emerick, Oct. 31, 1937, Oswego, N. Y. CHILDREN:

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Edward Emerick, April 24, 1939; Ellen Virginia, Sept. 9, 1941; Alan
Thomas, June 25, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Oswego County Republican Committeeman, since 1941; act-
ing attorney, Oswego County Savings Bank, 1942-46, Commissioner of
Public Welfare, City of Oswego, 1948-52; executive secretary, Work-
men’s Compensation Insurance Committee, Oswego County Self Insur-
ance Plan, since 1954; counsel, Oswego City Charter Revision Commis-
sion, since 1955; research counsel to Supreme Court Justice D. P.
Morehouse, Jr., New York State, 1939-54; chairman, U.S. O. Campaign,
City of Oswego, 1941; president, United War Fund, Oswego Com-
munity Chest, 1942, 1943; Advocate, Knights of Columbus, Oswego,
1945-48; director, Knights of Columbus Home Association, Oswego,
1945-55.

MEMBER OF: Oswego County Bar Association; Oswego Country Club,
B.P.OE. No. 271; Knights of Columbus, Council No. 227.

AFTER my graduation from Harvard Law School in 1934, I
returned to my native city of Oswego, New York, where I have
continuously resided and carried on the general practice of law.
For four years, from 1948 through 1951, I served as Commis-
sioner of Public Welfare of Oswego City. Public Welfare has
become a vital governmental function and I found the social,
legal and administrative problems of my office to be interesting
and stimulating. Presently I am employed by the County of
Oswego as administrator of the county self-insurance plan of
Workmen’s Compensation. Being a Republican with strong
leanings toward the old guard, it seems strange to have been
swept into these paternalistic programs. When in Rome, you do
as the Romans do. I am also engaged in a pleasant task of writing
a new charter of the City of Oswego to be voted upon this fall.

Life in Oswego has been somewhat provincial and my career
has not brought a very high financial return. However, life has
been easygoing and peaceful which has its compensating value.
Outside of work, my time has been spent in politics, charitable
fund-raising, bridge, fishing, gardening and the usual pleasant but
time-wasting activities associated with social and fraternal clubs.

My war contribution was confined to tax-paying, fund-raising
for the U.S.O. and advisory committee work. My application
for a commission in the Navy was turned down. Early in 1945
I was drafted by the Navy and was headed for training at the

[ 306]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Sampson base in central New York when the order rejecting all
those over twenty-six years of age was issued.

My family consists of my wife, two boys and a girl. Carol
attended Vassar and Katharine Gibbs in Boston. She is a native
of Oswego, a good golfer and bridge player. She has been a real
pal. My boy, approaching seventcen, is as big as I and has all
the characteristics of modern teen-agers. Ellen, fourteen, is a
beautiful girl enjoying a pleasant phase of life. Alan is ten and
taking advantage of the benefits reserved for the baby of a fam-
ily. Ele has just started to practise on the trombone, hoping to
emulate Tommy Dorsey.

I have tried to keep posted on Harvard athletics but the news-
papers here concentrate on Cornell, Colgate and Syracuse. We
are pleased to have Harvard visit Cornell from time to time. My
old sport of basketball has changed considerably. There has
been a tremendous increase in the size and skill of the players,
Undoubtedly the game has progressed. However, I miss the even
balance between offense and defense characteristic of the former
style of play. The modern game is a race horse game made to
interest the spectator. If you sce the last three or four minutes,
you have seen it all.

I have visited Harvard only twice since graduation, once in
the thirties to sce Struck’s football team beat Yale and Clint
Frank, and the second time during the summer. It would be nice
to return for the 25th Reunion and renew old acquaintances but
as of now my plans are very indefinite. Since I may not attend,
I shall say here that I wish all my classmates future health, pros-

perity and happiness.

EDWARD BAIN FARREN

HOME aporess: 17 Lenox St, Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: 142 Main St., Brockton, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 7, 1907, Brockton, Mass. parents: Joseph Koyle Farren, Sarah
Pauline Bain.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: $.B., 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935.

MARRIED: Helen Saxton Fox, May 20, 1939, Brockton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan, May 29, 1940; Sara Bain, July 4, 1943 (died February, 1951);
Edward Bain, Jr.. Dec. 11, 1947.

[ 307 ]

Sea Me ae WM pide lta

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Edward Emerick, April 24, 1939; Ellen Virginia, Sept. 9, 1941; Alan
Thomas, June 25, 1945.

occuPaTIon: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Oswego County Republican Committeeman, since 1941; act-
ing attorney, Oswego County Savings Bank, 1942-46; Commissioner of
Public Welfare, City of Oswego, 1948-52; executive secretary, Work-
men’s Compensation Insurance Committee, Oswego County Self Insur-
ance Plan, since 1954; counsel, Oswego City Charter Revision Commis-
sion, since 1955, research counsel to Supreme Court Justice D. P.
Morehouse, Jr., New York State, 1939-54; chairman, U. S. O. Campaign,
City of Oswego, 1941; president, United War Fund, Oswego Com-
munity Chest, 1942, 1943; Advocate, Knights of Columbus, Oswego,
1945-48; director, Knights of Columbus Home Association, Oswego,
1945-55.

MEMBER OF: Oswego County Bar Association; Oswego Country Club;
B.P.O.E. No. 271; Knights of Columbus, Council No. 227.

AFTER my graduation from Harvard Law School in 1934, I
returned to my native city of Oswego, New York, where I have
continuously resided and carried on the general practice of law.
For four years, from 1948 through 1951, I served as Commuis-
sioner of Public Welfare of Oswego City. Public Welfare has
become a vital governmental function and I found the social,
legal and administrative problems of my office to be interesting
and stimulating. Presently I am employed by the County of
Oswego as administrator of the county self-insurance plan of
Workmen’s Compensation. Being a Republican with strong
leanings toward the old guard, it seems strange to have been
swept into these paternalistic programs. When in Rome, you do
as the Romans do. I am also engaged in a pleasant task of writing
a new charter of the City of Oswego to be voted upon this fall.

Life in Oswego has been somewhat provincial and my career
has not brought a very high financial return. However, life has
been easygoing and peaceful which has its compensating value.
Outside of work, my time has been spent in politics, charitable
fund-raising, bridge, fishing, gardening and the usual pleasant but
time-wasting activities associated with social and fraternal clubs.

My war contribution was confined to tax-paying, fund-raising
for the U.S.O. and advisory committee work. My application
for a commission in the Navy was turned down. Early in 1945
I was drafted by the Navy and was headed for training at the

[ 306]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Sampson base in central New York when the order rejecting all
those over twenty-six years of age was issued.

My family consists of my wife, two boys and a girl. Carol
attended Vassar and Katharine Gibbs in Boston. She is a native
of Oswego, a good golfer and bridge player. She has been a real
pal. My boy, approaching seventeen, is as big as I and has all
the characteristics of modern teen-agers. Ellen, fourteen, is a
beautiful girl enjoying a pleasant phase of life. Alan is ten and
taking advantage of the benefits reserved for the baby of a fam-
ily. He has just started to practise on the trombone, hoping to
emulate Tommy Dorsey. +

I have tried to keep posted on Harvard athletics but the news-
papers here concentrate on Cornell, Colgate and Syracuse. We
are pleased to have Harvard visit Cornell from time to time. My
old sport of basketball has changed considerably. There has
been a tremendous increase in the size and skill of the players.
Undoubtedly the game has progressed. However, I miss the even
balance between offense and defense characteristic of the former
style of play. The modern game is a race horse game made to
interest the spectator. If you see the last three or four minutes,
you have seen it all.

I have visited Harvard only twice since graduation; once in
the thirties to see Struck’s football team beat Yale and Clint
Frank, and the second time during the summer. It would be nice
to return for the 25th Reunion and renew old acquaintances but
as of now my plans are very indefinite. Since I may not attend,
I shall say here that I wish all my classmates future health, pros-
perity and happiness.

EDWARD BAIN FARREN

HOME apprEss: 17 Lenox St., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 142 Main St., Brockton, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 7, 1907, Brockton, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Koyle Farren, Sarah
Pauline Bain.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935.

MARRIED: Helen Saxton Fox, May 20, 1939, Brockton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan, May 29, 1940; Sara Bain, July 4, 1943 (died February, 1951);
Edward Bain, Jr. Dec. 11, 1947.

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

occtPpation: Physician and surgeon.

orFicrs HELD: President, Brockton Medical Society, 1948-49; chief Our-
Patient Department, associate on medical staff, Brockton Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Brockton Knights of Columbus; Harvard Society of Chemists;
American Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Massachusetts Medical
Society; American Medical Association.

FOLLOWING graduation, as can be seen from the above, |
attended Tufts Medical School and graduated with the degree of
Doctor of Medicine in 1935. After a rotating internship, 1935
and 1936, I entered general practice in Brockton, where I have
been busily engaged in the practice of medicine and surgery ever
since, except for a short time, 1942-1945, during which I served
as a flight surgeon in the U. S. Army Air Force.

In May, 1939, I married Helen Saxton Fox of Brockton, and
have been happily married ever since, and at the present time we
have two children — Susan, aged fifteen, and Edward, Jr., aged
eight. Iam chief of the Out-Patient Department and visiting man
on the House Medical Service at the Brockton Hospital.

JOHN PAUL FAUDE

HOME apprESS: Guilmartin Road, West Hartford 7, Conn.

orFice aporess: Aetna Life Affiliated Companies, 151 Farmington Ave.,
Hartford 15, Conn.

BORN: June 20, 1910, Detroit, Mich. parents: Paul Faude, Claire Marjorie
Schayer.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

MarRIED: Helen Hinsdale, Oct. 16, 1937, West Hartford, Conn. CHILDREN:
Ann Claire, March 1, 1942; John Paul, Jr. March 8, 1944 (died April
24, 1954); Wilson Hinsdale, Feb. 20, 1946.

occupation: Counsel, Aetna Life Affiliated Companies, casualty and prop-
erty insurance division, Law Department.

OFFICES HELD: Town attorney, Bloomfield, Conn., 1942-45; instructor, Hart-
ford College of Law and Insurance, 1934-54, vestryman, St. John’s
Episcopal Church, West Hartford, 1943-46, member executive com-
mittee, scholarship committee, Society for the Increase of the Ministry
(national Episcopal theological scholarship society), since 1948, mem-
ber executive committee, International Association of Insurance Coun-
sel, 1951-54; chairman Hartford (administrative) chapter, Connecticut
Regional Blood Program, American Red Cross, 1953-55.

MiMbsa ov: Hartford Golf Club.

[ 308 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on insurance law published in Insurance Counsel
Journal, Proceedings of Insurance Law Section, American Bar Associa-
tion, Canadian Law Journal and in other insurance and law periodicals.

COLLEGE graduation found me undecided as to the future. I
entered both the Harvard Business School and Queens College,
Oxford, for postgraduate work in English history and a possible
teaching career. Eventually, I felt I would be miscast at the
Business School and (most reluctantly) that Oxford would be
only an unaffordable luxury, not a step to any permanent liveli-
hood. So, instead, it was Harvard Law School until 1934.

Law School graduation came at Depression bottom and found
me convinced in favor of a smaller New England city like Hart-
ford, Connecticut, which J had never seen. Jobs in Hartford
were scarce, particularly for the self-supporting. A top law firm
had an opening where the fledgeling paid in five dollars a month
and a share of his private business in return for shelter. But Hart-
ford it proved to be, in the Law Department of the home office
of the Aetna Life Companies, and I am still there. I have special-
ized for the most part in casualty insurance law — undoubtedly
the most daily-changing and precedent-lacking field of insurance,
and thus an external mixture of the challenging, the exasperating
and the absorbing.

During my term as town attorney for my home community, I
got into, and interested in, municipal charter work, and for some
years practised in this field as a consultant to other Connecticut
towns. For ten years, I also engaged in the invaluable (for my
own knowledge of the subject) experience of conducting courses
in insurance law at the University of Connecticut.

The past two years were particularly preoccupied with the
duties of supervising the Red Cross, Connecticut Regional Blood
Program — “the country’s only state-wide program of free blood,
freely available”, as our copy put it, and a most important effort
at practical idealism.

No newsworthy avocations or hobbies, but a permanently un-
tidy desk and many projects crying for undertaking or comple-
tion have made me envious of those professions which confer a
sabbatical year. This summer was made eventful by a 9,500-mile
family auto trip to the Pacific Coast, touching many of the
storied national parks and ranging from Tia Juana to Sault Ste.

[ 309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Marie. Many thought us crazy to undertake such a jaunt, but I
can heartily recommend it, provided the car has young tires and a
stable cooling system, and I would jump at the first chance to
repeat it.

Good Harvard men are to be found in this Yale-bound area,
but classmates seem sparse and I have badly lost touch with 1931.
Our family is counting on attending the 25th and I hope to restore
some old ties then. Recapitulation of the twenty-five years? In
retrospect, numerous “points of no return”, not recognized as
such at the time. If only our celebrated fellow alumnus, J. P.
Marquand, hadn’t made you feel you were one of his characters!

+ FREDERIC FAULKNER

BorN: May 11, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: William Edward Everett, 87,
M.D., 91, Elizabeth Edwards.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Edward Faulkner, Jr., °30; Edmund Baker Faulk-
ner, "33.

piep: April 3, 1938, Aragon, Spain.

FAULKNER spent three years at Harvard and in 1931 obtained
a degree in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology. At that time he went to the Don Basin in
Russia, where he worked as an engineer at a dynamo plant.
Later he returned to America and worked for the Pennsylvania
Railroad in a special engineering undertaking. For two years he
taught at private schools in both New York and Pennsylvania,
and in 1937 he entered the Spanish Civil War as an engineer with
the International Brigade of the Loyalist Army. He was killed
during the Battle of Corbera, in the Gandesa Sector of the Prov-
ince of Aragon.

EDWIN STANTON FETCHER, JR.

HOME appress: The Fetcher Ranch, Steamboat Springs, Colo.

BoRN: Aug. 9, 1909, Winnetka, Ill. parents: Edwin Stanton Fetcher, ’92,
Margaret Root.

PrepareD at: New Trier High School, Winnetka, IIL.

[ 310 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B. 1931; PH.D. (Univ. of Chicago),

1934-
MarRiED: Gertrude Wassermann, May 18, 1940, Winnetka, Ill. (divorced

1952); Mrs. Lee S. Fetcher (Marguerite Foster), June 18, 1953, Chicago,
Ill. cHmpren: Harriet M. Fetcher, Sept. 27, 1936; Fred Stanton, Aug. 19,
1944; David Root, July 22, 1946; Lincoln, June 12, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Root Fetcher, ’33; William Monroe Fetcher, *g0
(deceased).

occupation: Rancher.

OFFICES HELD: Member research sub-committee, Colorado State Agricultural
Planning Committee; member research committee, Colorado Cattle-
men’s Association, member County Agricultural Planning Committee;
director, secretary-treasurer, Mountain Mcadow Research Corporation,
Hayden, Colo. (a non-profit organization for land and cattle improve-
ment).

MEMBER OF: American Physiological Society; American Association for the
Advancement of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical publications on: water and solute exchanges across
living and artificial membranes, body fluid composition and water
balance of whales and dolphins; drinking water supply on the oceans
from rain and sunlight for life rafts; specifications for drinking water
supply equipment for life rafts; human temperature regulation, espe-
cially of the hands and feet; biophysicial requirements for forced venti-
laced clothing for use at extreme temperatures.

I'M laid up a bit—a rare chance to do this. Stuck a hay fork
too far into my thigh. Why the hay fork and why the hay? Hay
is of the essence for cows, calves, horses and things (elk, deer,
mice, bulls, rabbits and gophers) when the snow gets one or two
or five feet deep; and hay forks and bale hooks, both dangerous
tools, are required for handling hay. But it is rare that we owners
— brother John, ’33, and I — get hurt; it is mostly the hands who
raise accident insurance rates.

After six years of this we have about learned which end of a
cow is which and what for; even a little bit about what it takes
to make both ends work reasonably well (e.g., we usually get
better than go0% calf crops). But Harvard-nourished inquisitive-
ness drives me to want to know more, much more: what makes
the feed, the steer, the land good? Often born stockmen and
farmers can give answers, but usually it is a feeling — and a cor-
rect one — which cannot be expressed. And, too, some accepted
methods can be improved. Straightforward answers in agricul-
ture are rare indeed, for most of the questions are tenuous. Some

[318 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

day I hope to have a laboratory in the basement where I might
tackle a couple of the simplest questions.

In the meantime, when these and kindred problems get too
troublesome, or I wonder too hard where the next can of beer is
coming from, or how we can do better by our children, ourselves
and our time, then all I need to do is look up, just lean on my hay
fork or irrigating shovel, my horse or tractor, and look around
me. And I see the most bountiful grass or snow, the purple and
white and green mountains, and maybe a doe with her fawn, but
always and above all else, I can see water, be it liquid or solid
(perhaps one has to have lived with either lots of it or none of it,
or as a chemist and biologist, to love water). Then life is good
and there are no limits to what we and our children can do if we
are intelligently willing.

We came to this place and work for just that kind of feeling.
My job as a civilian with the Air Force in Dayton, Ohio — re-
search and development in biophysics — suited me then, and so
did our country living. But I wanted a broader scope, especially
for the children. Almost by chance, in the spring of ’49, my
brother and I found that we had been thinking along the same
lines. That fall the two families moved to this ranch, starting our
new education — and a mighty expensive one it is. My prepara-
tion for this work was inadequate: S.B. in chemistry; a couple of
years of petroleum research; a year of study of biology; six years’
research and teaching in physiology at the Universities of Chicago
and Minnesota; then the Air Force for six years. Besides, I never
went in for body building, But I would not be having nearly so
much fun now without this background. (My brother’s training
for ranching was little better except that, since he was an engineer,
he is willing to proceed on what I consider insufficient data; and,
he is a good welder.)

The children — one daughter starting at the University of Wy-
oming and three boys in grade school (plus my brother’s four in
grade school) —are wonderfully self-reliant and cheerful, and
all take part in the work of the ranch: chickens, cattle, irrigation
surveying, house wiring, haying and hell-raising. Our hard-work-

ing wives desert their households at every chance to ride with us
or drive a tractor or team. They talk and act as though ‘they
loved the life, and I guess they do, although they may barely see

[312 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

us for days on end. (This is not always because our, or their,
work-days are long; social life gets pretty rugged too.) Of
course, there is no such things as a week-end and those famous
long winter evenings are a myth, Our small town provides limited
cultural activity (until last year there was no grand piano in the
town). However, the groups that are interested make intensive
and delightfully successful efforts in drama, music and art.

We do not have everything, and it is a struggle to meet our
expenses; but we love what we have; so the city, the office, the
shop are not for us if we can help it.

DONALD T. FIELD

HOME AppREss: 170 Dudley St, Brookline 46, Mass.; West Chop, Martha’s
Vineyard Island, Mass.; Phillips, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 24 Federal St., Boston io, Mass.

BORN: June 4, 1909, Phillips, Maine. parents: Hartry Hamlin Field, Pearl
Elizabeth Timberlake.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B. 1934.

marriep: Adelaide Anderson, Oct. 7, 1939; Memphis, Tenn, cHILpREN:
Deborah Farwell, Oct. 14, 1941; Martha Amanda, Aug. 20, 1943; Hartry
Hamlin, 2d, Nov. 30, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Norman H. Field, °37.

occupation: Lawyer and trustee.

OFFICES HELD: Permanent secretary, Harvard College Class of 1931; president,
Phillips Exeter Academy New England Alumni Association, 1947-49;
president, 1950-52, honorary chairman, since 1955, Association of Har-
vard College Class Secretaries; executive secretary, Maine Republican
State Committee, 1928-34; member of faculty, Northeastern University
School of Law, 1940-51, Boston University Law School, 1941-45; chair-
man Massachusetts Committee on War Work, 1943-45, Lawyers’
Division, 1942-44, Professional Division, 1946-47, Greater Boston Com-
munity Fund, trustee, Brookline Savings Bank, since 1947, Chestnut
Hill School, Park School, Denison House, Walter E. Fernald School;
secretary and member board, Graduate Board, Harvard Crimson (repre-
sentative of all former Crimson editors); general counsel, Association of
New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad Passengers; special
counsel, various Boston banks; secretary and member board of governors,
Longwood Cricket Club, 1941-52; president and director, Field Pulpwood
Company, since 1948; director and general counsel, Waltham Watch
Company, 1950-53; member for First Judicial Circuit of Committee on
War Work and Committee on National Defense, 1941-46, member for

[ 313]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

First Judicial Circuit of Committee on Insurance Law and Procedure,
1945-50, American Bar Association; member, House of Delegates, Massa-

chusetts Bar Association, 1945-50; member, Committee on Probate, Bos-
ton Bar Association, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; St. Botolph Club, Long-
wood Cricket Club; Longwood Covered Courts, City Club, Signet
Society; Signet Associates; Harvard Club of Boston; Middlesex Club;
Boston, Middlesex, American, and Massachusetts Bar Associations;
American Society of Judicature.

PUBLICATIONS: “Compendium of Massachusetts Laws”; numerous articles in
law reviews and professional journals, chiefly in fields of estate plan-
ning, wills and trusts, conflict of laws and taxation.

I REALIZED last night, after repeated exhortations to you other
classmates to send in your biographies, that the landmark of
our Twenty-fifth was close at hand, when I read an essay my
twelve-year-old daughter had just written for her class at Winsor
School, which commenced: “Most men reach the zenith of their
earning power when they are in their thirties, before they be-
come senile and less competent”. In retrospect, I confess that I
also years ago thought of a man twenty-five years out of college
as nearing the beginning of a period of innocuous desuetude. To-
day, I think of most of us as less than middle-aged, in attitude at
least, and firmly believe that the next twenty-five years will be
even more fruitful and interesting than in the past.

If, as those in the field of geriatrics assert, living a happy con-
structive life in a fascinating world tends to longevity, many of
us should, deo volente (and the Russians, also), have a consider-
able span ahead of us. Certainly the advancements of science,
business morality, social consciousness of the problems of the
less fortunate, and political and military attitudes among nations
have been conspicuous since our college days in the late twenties.
The United States of 1956 would have seemed incredible to our
grandfathers, with its abundance of creature comforts and almost
universal prosperity, despite well-nigh confiscatory taxation, and
accompanying all these material blessings a much greater appre-
ciation of religion than in many other eras and more church-
goers than ever before in history.

Following graduation from college, I began working for the
Boston Herald as Harvard correspondent. This work left my
mornings completely free, and I started to fill in my time by

[314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

attending classes at the Harvard Law School. The stimulus of
analyzing law cases under the guidance of an outstanding faculty
I found highly exhilarating. I graduated from the Law School in
1934 and have thoroughly enjoyed practising law ever since. While
in Law School I argued in the quarter-finals and semi-finals of
the Ames Competition, a series of moot court arguments extend-
ing over our three years of law school in which every member
of the class participated, the semi-finals and finals after a two-
year period of eliminations occurring in our final year. I was
also vice-president of Lincoln’s Inn Society, an extraordinarily
pleasant eating and social club.

For eight years, 1942 to 1950, I was managing partner of the
Boston law firm of Brown, Field, McCarthy & Field, in partner-
ship with my uncle, Elias Field, and Horace P. Moulton. Moulton
became vice-president and general counsel of the American Tele-
phone & Telegraph Company in New York, and, with the death
of my uncle, I decided to specialize more and more in the field
of estate planning and the administration of trusts and estates of
which I was fiduciary. For a short time before his death, I joined
the late Mayo Shattuck, a leader in this field, in the firm which
became known as Haussermann, Shattuck and Field and I subse-
quently, in 1952, set up my own small law firm known as Everts
& Field, to handle my estate planning and fiduciary practice.
This is the happiest professional association I have ever had.

During all these years a tall, slender bewhiskered gentleman has
been my hungry partner. Although the share of Uncle Sam, as
we affectionately call him, is never specified in our partnership
agreements and he rarely shows up at the office physically, at
least on partnership business, he seems to feel entitled (and jus-
tifiably!) to well over half of our net profit each year.

Four years ago I had what is fashionably, and perhaps euphe-
mistically, known as a “nervous breakdown from overwork”. In
addition to my practice, I had been teaching estate planning and
probate law at two law schools, and writing a four-volume trea-
tise on the “Probate and Fiduciary Law of Massachusetts”. My
publishers moved up the publication date seven months, and in
an effort to meet the new deadline I worked literally day and
night for nearly a year. I tried to get by for eight successive
months with no more than one hour and a half of sleep daily,

[ 315 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

position this country has stood for in w orld history, and the
position Harvard Univ ersity has maintained under the outstand-
ing Icadership of Presidents Lowell, Conant, and Pusey, is such
as to make us both proud and humble. To repay the debt we
all owe to Harvard should be a continuous challenge.

The fact has impressed me that in all the wills I have drafted
for classmates in the last three years, with one exception, provi-
sion has been made by our respective classmates for a generous
legacy to our Tw enty-fi fth Reunion Fund in the event they were
to die before June, 1956, a splendid tribute to the esteem in which
Harvard is held by her sons. I never really “planted” the idea, but
merely raised the subject “for their consideration” in the event
they had not already thought of this laudable objective.

I have written this on the New York to Boston train. If only
the New Haven Railroad would learn to run its trains on time,
this particular story would not have been so long and tedious. If
any one should be grateful for the privilege of free speech in this
wonderful country of ours, it would be the writer and not the
reader.

Again my heartfelt thanks to you all for submitting such frank,
fascinating and self-revelatory biographies. 1 hope none of you
secretly berated me for my goading and persistence, which
stemmed from a genuine desire to have in print your biographies
in your own words. I resorted to every ruse I could envision
except the artifice of sending my telegrams collect, a practice
which is sometimes employed by collection agencies with success.
I even offered to write the biographies for you in many cases
Lased on such information as I could obtain, but of course pre-
ferred that you write your own. I don’t believe any of them are
libellous. If you think so, I'll plead as my defense “You'll not have
secn here what you thought you saw, I know a thing or two of
libel law”. But, seriously, if any of you think I’ve been officious
or excessive in my zeal for this Report to be as interesting and
complete as possible, Pil consider it a personal favor if you'll look
me up at Reunion, speak to me frankly, and I'll apologize per-
sonally and profuscly and thank you for your tolerance in not
resorting to justifiable homicide.

[ 322]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILLIPS FINLAY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1250 Hartwood Point Drive, Pasadena 8, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: James Ralph Finlay, ’91,
Edith Adams.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

marriep: Elizabeth Gilbert, Oct. 11, 1933, Spokane, Wash. CHILDREN: James
Ralph, 2d, June 1, 1935; Fredrica, May 25, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Investment analyst; mining and mechanical engineer.

MEMBER OF: Trojan Club, Los Angeles; former member, some thirty golf
clubs in New York, New England and South Africa.

PUBLICATIONS: Various contributions to mining journals (South Africa),
golf magazines (New York), social magazines (Pasadena), newspapers
(Los Angeles Times).

AFTER graduation, my next four years were characterized by a
struggle to find either any employment or any work that appealed
to me. I went to school at Exeter and then to Harvard from a
home in California, but joined my family for summers at our old
place at Quogue, Long Island. These summers, while conducive
to the working up of a pretty good golf game, helped to confine
my associations and contacts to the East Coast. With a father
from Colorado and a mother from the state of Washington, the
West Coast was in our blood, despite our many New York and
New England connections. We were sold on life in California
(from 1919), and it was a good base from which my father could
pursue his business as a consulting mining engineer. I was a rela-
tive stranger in California in 1931 with home located in the orange
growing town of Redlands — some sixty miles east of Los Angeles.
Our family business contacts were among mining people scattered
throughout the various western mining camps with a few in Los
Angeles and San Francisco.

I had taken a course in “Enginering Sciences” which seemed to
be good background for starting with an industrial or mining
firm, but the increasing depression was such as to make it impos-
sible for a stranger and a beginner to get any such job. After
working for my father for a year, involving the appraisal of all
the major copper properties for the Arizona State Tax Commis-
sion, circumstances forced me into the investment business in Los
Angeles. Starting from scratch, I worked for and with two firms

[ 323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

clear atmosphere of Idaho that we have given some thought to
moving out — probably to the San Francisco area. I forgot to
mention above that we are rabid football and baseball fans. We
watch USC and the Rams and follow the Yankees and Dodgers,

ROBERT GORDON FISHER

HOME appress: g Bertrand Rd. Auburndale, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: Kilham, Hopkins, Greeley & Brodie, Architects, 9 Arlington
St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1908, Newton, Mass. parents: Irving Jewell Fisher, M.p., ’oo,
Gertrude Davis Hall.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

marRiED: Alice E. Middlebrook, April 21, 1946, York, Nebr. CHILDREN:
Anne Clark, Jan. 19, 1949; Deborah Middlebrook, July 1, 1951.

occuPATION: Architect.

IN 1932 I entered the Graduate School of Architecture at Har-
vard, along with a few classmates, and, after three years, started
off with pencil in hand. After a few years of practice in 1940,
the pencil turned into a rifle, when I enlisted in the Army. After
training in what appeared to be every climate known to the US.,
I headed into the Pacific as a major in Anti-Aircraft Artillery.
There I served on the Artillery staff of the C. G. Pacific Ocean
area. When the war ended, I was executive officer of an Anti-
Aircraft group on Iwo Jima. |

During various periods of so-called rest and recreation, I met
Alice in Honolulu. She was organizing Red Cross clubs in Navy
areas. Later, on Guam, we became engaged. As soon as the
whistle blew, we took our various ways home and my last ap-
pearance in uniform was as a lieutenant colonel at our wedding.

My professional work has since carried me into the field of
the design of semi-public buildings — libraries, schools, banks and
churches, all of which affords an exciting chance to savor com-
munity problems and community living. We are delighted in
having two girls, five and seven, who, we keep telling ourselves,
will keep us young for years.

[ 330 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL FISHMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1961 Rosemary Hills Drive, Silver Spring, Md.

orric# Appress: Office of Counsel, Navy Dept, Bureau of Aeronautics,
Constitution Ave. & 18th St, N.W., Washington 25, D. C.

Boan: Oct. 14, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Frank Fishman, Rose Fish-
man.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREFS: A.B, 1931} LL.B. 1934.

marairp: Betty Pomeranz, Dee. 16, 1943, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. CHitpren:
Deborah Lee, Sept. 10, 1946; Rebecca Joan, June 14, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Fishman, '35.

occupation: Lawyer; assistant counsel, Bureau of Aeronautics, Department
of the Navy.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

UPON graduating from Harvard Law School I launched forth
during the dark depression year of 1934 into the practice of law
in Boston. I worked on a lot of civil and criminal cases, including
a celebrated murder case, but usually as assistant to the attorneys
with whom I was associated. The extent of my own practice was
such that I had ample time for lots of tennis, squash and sculling.

I have practised law in Boston and New York and have been a
lawyer for various federal agencies, including the Office of Price
Administration, Salary Stabilization Board, Department of Justice,
Antitrust Division and the Bureau of Aeronautics in the Depart-
ment of the Navy where I am presently engaged in interesting and
(I hope) useful work.

In 1943 I married a charming and attractive girl. Although in
my work I cannot lay claim to any great distinction, in the
domestic field I have achieved great success, having produced
with some assistance from my wife, two bright and pretty daugh-
ters, who fortunately resemble their mother. I trust that by the
time they are ready for college, Harvard will have become com-
pletely co-educational (do I hear groans from my brethren who
have spawned sons? ) so that when filling out the questionnaire for
our soth I may list two Harvard daughters.

[331]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

HOWARD AUGUSTUS FITCH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3943 VW. 57th St., Mission, Kans.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kansas City Structural Steel Co., Kansas City, Kans.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1909, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Howard Augustus Fitch,
Rachel McMaster.

PREPARED AT: Kansas City Country Day School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

MARRIED: Cara Lee Goodwin, Feb. 10, 1932, Kansas City, Mo. (divorced
1942); Marjorie Harrow, Dec. 27, 1942, Kansas City, Mo. cum:
Thomas Merrill, March 20, 1934.

occupaTion: President, Kansas City Structural Steel Company, steel fabri-
cation.

LET’S not talk!

CHARLES LOUIS FLACCUS, JR.

HOME AppREsS: Husted Lane, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 17 E. 45th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: March 11, 1909, Pittsburgh, Pa. parENts: Charles Louis Flaccus,
Margaret Bliss.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE! A.B. 1931.

marriep: Alison Reynolds, Jan. 14, 1938, New York, N. Y.  cHILpren:
Charles L., 3d, May 17, 1939; Margaret, March 15, 1942.

occuPATION: Personnel consultant.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club, New York; Harvard Club of New
York; The Chemistry Club, New York; Indian Harbor Yacht Club,
Greenwich, Conn.

THOMAS FRANCIS FLAHERTY

MAILING ADDRESS: 6802 Exfair Rd., Bethesda 14, Md.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1906, Boston, Mass. parents: Patrick Francis Flaherty, Ann
Joyce.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928,

[332]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE FRANCIS FLAVIN

HOME apprEss: 50 Lexington Rd., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE aDprEss: New Preparatory School, 113 Brattle St. Cambridge, Mass.

Born: April 17, 1902, Concord, Mass. parents: Philip James Flavin, Esther
Anne White.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

UN MARRIED,

occupation; Instructor in French and mathematics.

AFTER graduation, I went to the New Preparatory School as
an instructor in the Department of Modern Languages. In 1937
I decided to take the summer off, and traveled through Europe,
England and Ireland on a six-week trip.

In 1943 I was commissioned a first lieutenant in the Air Force
and was assigned to Turner Field, Georgia, as an instructor in the
Ground School at that air base. In September of 1944 there was a
shortage of instructors overseas and a group of us was sent to
London to teach in the Staff School of the Information and Edu-
cation Branch of the Air Force. After assignments in London,
Paris and Oberammergau, Bavaria, where I was promoted to the
rank of captain, I returned from overseas in January, 1946, and
was discharged from the service the following month.

Since that time I have been on the job in Cambridge teaching
French in the Department of Modern Languages at the New
Preparatory School, which is a private secondary school for boys,

DAVID CABOT FORBES

HOME aporEss: Main Street, Sherborn, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. M. Forbes & Co. 199 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: October 29, 1908, Milton, Mass. parents: Ralph Emerson Forbes, ’89,
Elise Mason Cabot.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930, 1931-1932. DEGREES: $B. 1931(32); LLB.
(Boston Univ.), 1936.

MarrieD: Irene Garrett (formerly Mrs. John H. Emerson), 1937. CHILDREN:
Dorothy G., May 15, 1938; Ralph M., Dec. 5, 1939; Perry, March 15,
1943.

HARVARD BroTHER: William Hathaway Forbes, ’23.

[ 333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

occuPaTION: Partner, J. M. Forbes & Company; trustee.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Community Recreation Service of Boston, Dana §,
Courtney Company, Merchants National Bank of Boston, Neponset
Investment Trust, Ty-Car Manufacturing Co.

MEMBER OF: Cruising Club of America; Schussverein; City Club.

I BEGAN the practice of law in the office of Sherburne, Powers
& Needham in Boston in 1936 and continued with that firm until
1940. Early in 1941 came orders to training duty in the Navy
and that led to sea duty beginning that summer. As it turned out,
most of my war service was in the Navy Operations Office in
Boston, although I did get to Adak in the Aleutians briefly.

My business activities consist of serving as trustee of sundr
private trusts and managing property of various kinds. I have also
served in various capacities in the local United World Federalist
organization.

In 1937 I married Irene Garrett Emerson and, after living brief-
ly on Beacon Hill in Boston, we bought a somewhat abandoned
farm in Sherborn, Massachusetts, where the view of the upper
Charles River Valley is admirable.

In addition to the activities recorded above, there has been
time for occasional travel. The first, following graduation, was
a cruise from Cape Cod to Naples, Italy, with Dr. Alexander
Forbes on his schooner, the Ramah, in 1933 with various classmates
and non-classmates. The following year I obtained passage on
the square-rigged barque L’ Avenir from Glasgow to Copenhagen.
Two years later, with J. D. Allen, ’31, I went to Norway and
walked through the Jotunheim mountain country. In 1947 my
wife and I went to France, Switzerland and England for a brief
trip. I still manage a bit of sailing in summer and skiing in winter
and I may usually be found near the lunch rocks in Tuckerman’s
Ravine on the third Saturday in March.

EUGENE EDWARD FORD

HOME AbDpRESS: 3158 Falmouth Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 23555 Euclid Ave., Cleveland 17, Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 19, 1911, Jamaica, N. Y, PARENTS: Eugene Edward Ford, Kather-
ine Carpenter Murray.

PREPARED AT: Kelvin School, New York, N. Y.

[ 334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1931; LL.B. 1934.

margiep: Vera E. McNamara, July 24, 1943, New York, N. Y. ciivpren:
Rosemary Lawless, June 11, 1944; Eugene Edward, 3d, Aug. 9, 1947;
Anthony Murray, June 13, 1950; Ann K. July 12, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Murray Ford, M.B.A., '40.

occuPaTion: Counsel, Thompson Products, Inc, manufacturers of aircraft
and automotive parts.

orrices HELD: Secretary, Industrial Rayon Corporation, Cleveland, 1949-50.

Memner OF: Cleveland Skating Club; Harvard Club of Cleveland; Ameri-
can Bar Association.

I SPENT the three years following graduation studying law at
the Law School. I returned to my home town, New York, to
practise law and remained there for fifteen years. For most of
the time I was in New York, I was associated with the firm of
Cravath, DeGersdoff, Swaine & Wood and its successor firms.
I served briefly as a legal assistant to the District Attorney of
New York County and with Standard Vacuum Oil Company.
For some of the time I was also associated in a legal and quasi-
executive capacity with a group of related enterprises engaged
in the production, distribution and exhibition of motion pictures.
During the latter part of this association I also acted as labor
relations representative for a group of small motion picture pro-
ducers.

My wife and I were married in New York and two of our
four children were born there. About seven years ago we moved
to Cleveland and have lived here ever since. Our two youngest
children are natives of Cleveland. After arriving in Cleveland
I served briefly as secretary and counsel for Industrial Rayon
Corporation, joining Thompson Products in 1950.

I continue to be a member of the Roman Catholic Church. I
have discontinued my membership in the Democratic party. My
hobbies in the order of preference are my growing family, par-
taking (in the words of a recent alumni publication) of the
native wines of Scotland and Kentucky, and the Republican
party. The latter activity may come as a surprise to some of
our classmates. When the twenty years of tr . . . (my apologies
to HST) began in the early 1930's, I took my walk from the
Democratic party, and by 1936 even Alf Landon looked good
to me. For several years I have acted as a representative in the
25th Ward in Cleveland of the Headquarters of the Cuyahoga

[335]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

County Republican Committee, and have recently filed a petition
for election as precinct committeeman in my home precinct, |
belong to that wing of the party which believes the party should
advocate sound measures which have broad public support and
should nominate not only well qualified candidates, but well
qualified candidates who will command the support of large
numbers outside of the party. My hero in public life is George
W. Humphrey and my favorite villain is Dean Acheson.

WILLIAM WARD FOSHAY

HOME Appress: 8 E. 81st St. New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sullivan & Cromwell, 48 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1910, Port Chester, N. Y. parents: William Briggs Foshay,
Lydia Marie Ward.

PREPARED AT: Port Chester High School, Port Chester, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B. 1935.

MaRRIED: Ella Dunlevy Milbank, Feb. 24, 1938, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Wiliam Ward, Jr. Feb. 1, 1939; Katharine Fowler, Oct. 23, 1940;
Barbara Briggs, June 15, 1942; Ella Milbank, Jan. 17, 1948.

occuPaTION: Lawyer; member of firm, Sullivan & Cromwell.

OFFICES HELD: Member corporation law committee, New York State Bar
Association; member professional ethics committee, Bar Association of
the City of New York; director, Old Town Corporation, Southern
Nitrogen Company, Inc.; trustee, Children’s Aid Society; governor,
Round Hill Club,

MEMBER OF: American, New York State, New York City and New York
County Bar Associations; several scientific and cultural societies; various
city, country and out-of-town clubs.

THIS particular Class Life is set against the background of the
times since graduation. First there was the depression which I
sat out in academic seclusion. A Henry Fellowship permitted
me to spend at Merton College, Oxford, a year whose even course
was interrupted only by vacation trips across the Channel in
search, inter alia, of Old World culture. The headlines this en-
gendered passed abruptly with my entrance into the Harvard Law
School. There I remained the appointed three years, submerged
in pursuit of the law and with time for little alia.

The emergence from the depression possibly dates from the year
of my LL.B. Contrary to the advice of a number of law profes-
sors and unlike the classmates who flocked to Washington to

[ 336]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

participate in the further building and running of a state economy,
I indulged my reactionary tendencies by taking up the practice
of law with one of the largest of the downtown New York law
firms, Sullivan & Cromwell. The work to which I was assigned
confirmed the emergence. Whereas my immediate predecessors
had their days filled with bankruptcies and other salvaging oper-
ations, my involvement over the following years was principally
in corporate financing and other more constructive business
transactions.

Then came World War II, and as of January 1, 1942, I became
a government lawyer in the Bureau of Ships of the Navy De-
partment. First as a civilian, then as a Reserve officer — licuten-
ant (j.g.) to lieutenant commander — and later as counsel for
the Bureau of Ships (civilian), I spent four years fighting the
phases of the Battle of the Potomac which had to do with ship
and shipyard construction. The Legion of Merit was received.

The post-war boom has found me back at the old stand as a
partner of Sullivan & Cromwell. The field of practice has con-
tinued to be corporation law, only more of it and of great fasci-
nation throughout. So far as professional career is concerned,
there is little I would change even if I could.

Family matters I would not change one iota. Filla and I were
married in February, 1938. Bill came along about a year later,
is now at St. Mark’s and is headed for Elarvard, I hope. He was
followed by three wonderful girls. Kathy is at Farmington, and
Bobbie and Ellie at Chapin. My only regret has been the restric-
tions on time with them imposed by a busy life. But this has been
compensated to some extent by occasional vacations together.
Other traveling has been infrequent, and usually to places where
golf or fishing may be found. There has also been some amateur
photography and very amateur hi-fidelity. Bridge I leave pretty
much to Ella, who is an expert.

Another regret is occasioned by the near void in my political
life. Apart from going to the polls and a little fund raising, it
has been non-existent. The fact that it was 1952 before my vote
for president was in the winning column will indicate my con-
victions. I am an Eisenhower Republican and intend to continue

as such.
The fact that religion is left to the last does not signify dis-

[ 337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

regard. I have continued an Episcopalian, but confess to some ir-
regularity in church attendance. This has flowed generally from
a belief that some good can come from a beautiful Sunday on
the golf course.

Not enough has been seen of Harvard classmates. Down here
they are rather widely dispersed and hear from me only as I

apply the pump for Class fund contributions. The Reunion
should remedy that.

BORIS FOSTIAK

HOME apprEss: 49 Brookdale Rd., Natick, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: New England Mutual Life Insurance Co., 501 Boylston St,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1909, Fall River, Mass. parENTS: Basil Fostiak, Julia Balan-
duik.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MaRRIED: Doris A. Doney, June 6, 1942, Malden, Mass. cuiLp: Jane, Dec.
30, 1949.

occupaTion: Manager, Loan Department, New England Mutual Life Insur-
ance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, director, 1936-43, 1946-48, Middlesex Sportsman’s
Association; member executive committee, Westfield Homeowners
Association, 1953-55; corporate member, Blackstone Savings Bank,
Boston, 1940-42; notary public, 1950-57.

MEMBER oF: Research Institute of America; Life Office Mangement Institute.

ON leaving college I started in the insurance business and, with
time out for the Army between 1943 and 1945, have been with
it all the time. Starting during the depression years with mathe-
matical aspirations to be an actuary, I have joined our Quarter
Century Club as the pilot of our Loan Department.

Most of my Army life was spent with the Air Force at Wright
Field. Our job was to process a report of all procurement for
the Air Force. This was more or less a continuous operation
which resulted in a ten-foot pile of reports (eight copies)
monthly, Our most baffling project was to attempt to classify
material employed in the Manhattan Project where description
of material was purposely omitted in reporting to us. Some last-
ing friendships were made there, and then back to civilian life.

[ 338 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We are now more suburban than we were a few years ago,
with room for a barbecue, gardens and a great deal of lawn to
cut, Between such cuttings and other do-it-yourself projects, I
find time to take color shors with my camera (especially of our
daughter), play a little golf, hoard postage stamps and spend
some time at the beach in Maine. In addition, I have been able
to be of some help in community projects and [ am now inter-
ested in the formation of a Taxpayers Association in our town,

JOHN FOX

HOME appress: Mayfair Lane, Greenwich, Conn.

orfice appress: Leslie Roush Productions, Inc. 35 W. 53d St. New York
19, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 26, 1909, Bangor, Maine. parents: Frederick Fox, i.8. '06, Myra
Hinckley.

PREPARED At: Afiddlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B-A.. 1933.

MarRiep: Mary R. Blake, Sept. 2, 1949, Winchester, Va. cuitp: Karen
Blake, July 14, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Business broker and consultant; salesman of commercial motion
pictures; presentation writer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, American Television Society, 1950-52; lieutenant
commander, U.S.N.R.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Greenwich Country Club; Indian
Harbor Yacht Club; Valhalla Skeet Club; Phoenicia Fish and Game
Association.

THE human body or being has many times been likened to a
fine piece of machinery, his (or her) life on earth to a road on
which to move that fine machine forward, presumably at a com-
fortable and safe rate of speed and in a direction that he, himself,
decides is best. Through the years, it has become apparent to
me that such allegorizing is far too pat. Yet, basically it is sound.
For example, our path through life is certainly conducted on
more than one road — in fact, if it were possible to lay out life
before us, it would more nearly resemble an enormous map,
with many thruways, many secondary and side roads, and many
dead ends. To an unfortunately large portion of our contempo-
raries, the map is more like a maze where by hook or by crook,

by guess and by God, by many combinations of the good and

[ 339]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

the bad, the driver battles toward the center of the maze — or
home. But, does he know where he has been or why? Has he
really enjoyed the trip? And does he really ever find what he
is seeking? If he is fortunate to reach the center of the maze —
what then? Or is the center the final dead-end, achieved at death
but never really reached in life. .

I have come to that stage or plateau in life where the maze is
gradually being replaced by a fairly well-defined map, a map
like that of Africa or Europe or America, a map with states and
their boundaries, with cities and towns, with lakes and woods
and mountains. The roads and rivers, oceans and airlanes are the
means to reach these various areas; and, although I shall never
reach them all, I shall do the best I can to cover most of the key
spots on the map with, of course, many interesting stopovers on
the way. At the present writing, I am finding the going some-
what rough on one of the principal thruways — a good deal of
mud, I never was much of a mudder, but who expects mud ona
thruway.

As to the machine itself, it has held up fairly well. Only three
trips to the shop for major repairs (a double hernia, a deviated
septum, a disc and fusion job). The everlasting chronic prob-
lems were always to be located in the timing mechanisms and the
carburetor, causing misfires and backfires, to say nothing of all-
too-frequent occasions when navigation occurred on something
less than the optimum number of cylinders. But to save on
garage bills, I am currently filing the distributor points, cleaning
the plugs and adjusting the carburetor myself. This is taking a
good deal of time as mechanical ability is not one of my strong
points. I have found that a change of fuel has been very helpful
in my carburetor work, and that new oil ’m using makes for
much smoother operation and less wear and tear. But then a
man must always grow, and there is no growth without change.

In this year of our Lord, 1956, I honestly feel that the “old
machine” is really beginning to run “like new” and I am really
looking forward to further exploration. You see, I’ve covered
far less than half of that map I told you about.

[ 340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN WILLIAM FOX, II

HOME apprEss: 1609 Lucerne Way, New Bern, N. C.

OFFICE apogess: Special Purpose Films, 44 W. s6th St, New York 19, N. Y.

porn: Aug. 7. 1907, Mount Kisco, N. Y. parents: Rector Kee Fox, '96, Hilda
Caroline Secomb.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

EDWARD LOWNES FRANCIS

HOME apDoagss: Centcr Screet, Dover, Mass.

oFFice aporess: Efunneman & Co., Inc. 19 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

Born: Dec. 26, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: George Tappan Francis,
Frances Coren Brown.

PREPARED aT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MaraieD; Margaret Tyler Ford, June 18, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. crtLpren:
Marian Willard, Sept. 14, 1933; Edward Lownes, Jr. Dec. 23, 1936;
Charles Tappan, Oct. 9, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Edward Lownes Francis, Jr., ’s9.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Sayles Francis, ':4; George Tappan Francis, Jr.,
28,

OccUPATION: Managing vice-president, Hunneman & Company, Inc., real
estate and property management.

OFFICES HELD: Assessor, since 1946, chairman of the board, since 1955, Town
of Dover, Mass.; member board of directors, Boston Real Estate Board,
1951-54, Rental Housing Association, since 1955, Family Service Associ-
ation, 1956; trustee, several small real estate trusts,

MEMBER OF: City Club Corporation; Cruising Club of America; No. 6 Club,
M.LT.

AFTER leaving Harvard at the end of our freshman year, I spent
a year and a half at MILT. studying architectural engineering.
In the fall of 1930 I took a job with Carleton Hunneman in the
real estate business in Boston and have been associated with him
ever since. I am now managing vice-president of Hunneman &
Company, Inc. During these years our firm has grown from a
three-man office dealing in residential sales and rentals to one of
the larger Boston firms with forty employees and five offices,
conducting a general real estate business in the Metropolitan
Boston area.

In May of 1944, on leave of absence from Hunneman & Com-
pany, I went to the European Theatre of Operations as business

[ 348 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

manager in a civilian capacity for the American-British Labora-
tory. This was the European branch of the Radio Research Lab-
oratory at Harvard, under contract with the Office of Scientific
Research and Development. We worked with the allied forces
on radio and radar counter measures in England and on the Con-
tinent. .

Upon my return to the real estate business in the fall of 1945,
I found myself again associated with Harvard. Hunneman &
Company was employed as advisers to Harvard under the office
of the Counselor for Veterans and I was assigned to carry out
the program of establishing a central office to assist in housing
married veterans returning to the College to complete their
studies. During the next year, at a time when inexpensive hous-
ing was hard to locate, we managed to house over goo veterans
and their families.

I am still closely associated with the Harvard real estate picture
as we manage all its non-academic property in Cambridge, as
well as advising the faculty and students on real estate matters.
For the past ten years I have served on the Board of Assessors
in the Town of Dover.

Since our Twentieth, life has rolled on for me at an ever-
increasing pace with a growing family and a growing business.
I have managed, however, to get in some off-shore yacht racing
—having been in various races, including the Halifax races of
1953 and 1955. An occasional cruise and one trip to Colorado
also gave us a chance to have a vacation with all three children —
a feat increasingly hard to achieve now that two of them are
engrossed in college and related activities.

WINTHROP NELSON FRANCIS

HOME ApprEss: 213 N. West End Ave., Lancaster, Pa.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 23, 1910, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Joseph Sidney Francis, ’97,
Kate Winthrop Nelson.

PREPARED aT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; AM. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1935; PH.D. (ibid.), 1937.

MarRieD: Anne Poage Funkhouser, Nov. 25, 1939, Roanoke, Va. CHILDREN:
John Winthrop Nelson, April 6, 1941; Samuel Hopkins, Jan. 27, 1943.

[ 342 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Bicheno Francis, "29; Duncan Forbes Francis, ’34.

OCCUPATION: Professor of English.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Lancaster Country Day School, 1948-55; member
editorial board, 1952-55, member executive committee, since 1955, Con-
ference on College Composition and Communication.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association of America; Linguistic Society
of America; Mediaeval Academy of America; American Association of
University Professors; Shakespeare Association of America; National
Council of Teachers of English; College English Association; Phi Beta
Kappa; Lancaster Torch Club.

puBLicaTions: The Book of Vices end Virtues, Early English Text Society,
1942; Various articles on Chaucer and on English linguistics, in profes-
sional journals.

LIKE so many of us, I emerged from college into the depression-
ridden world of 1931 with a liberal education and no prospects.
Even my ideas as to the kind of career I should like were un-
formed. “Something to do with books” is as definitely as they
could be expressed. Publishing houses were not encouraging and,
after a summer of private tutoring on the North Shore, | enrolled
as a graduate student in English at Pennsylvania. What began as
a stopgap occupation developed into a genuine interest, so that
by the end of my first year of graduate study I was resolved to
go on to the doctorate. Even so did [ drift into a career. When
I watch the students who pass through my classes today, with
clear-cut vocational goals, thoroughly guided and counseled from
their high school days on, I am somewhat appalled by the casual-
ness of my own approach to the subject. But I would not change
my wide-ranging choice of college courses, selected with an eye
to broad and liberal education, for any such intensely purposeful
program of training. Nor have I regretted the career into which
I drifted, though I have more than once cast a wistful eye at the
greater material prosperity of almost every occupation for which
Harvard can prepare one, from bus driver to ambassador,

A chance to live with a pleasant family as tutor to an invalid
son in the beneficent climate of southern California interrupted
my graduate work for two years. I returned to Pennsylvania,
refreshed in mind and pocketbook, in 1934. Three more years of
study, aided by fellowships and some tutoring, carried me through
to the cherished (and deprecated) Ph.D. My field was Middle
English; my dissertation, an edition of a dry-as-dust moral treatise

[ 343 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I931

of the 14th century. Through the kind offices of an eminent

scholar, it was accepted by the Early English Text Society for

publication, which saved me the expense of publication and
granted me the prestige of appearing in an eminent series. Such
terms, of course, are relative. I don’t suppose more than a hun-
dred people have ever read this ponderous work, and the onl

other member of Harvard, ’31, who I can be sure has heard of it
in Marshall Stearns, a fellow medievalist who has since turned his
attention to a more marketable commodity, the history of jazz.

I came to Franklin and Marshall directly from the University,
and have been here ever since, except for a three-year hitch in
the Navy during World War II. I have progressed through the
usual academic ranks, attaining the venerable dignity of full pro-
fessor in 1951. My teaching has been in many fields of English,
including Chaucer, Elizabethan literature, and the Eighteenth
Century. At present I am particularly interested in the field of
linguistics — the scientific study of language, and am writing
a text in this field for the training of English teachers who often
know all there is to know about their native language except the
facts.

My hobbies and avocations have changed with the years. Dur-
ing graduate school years I played bridge and golf, and rigged
model ships. For three or four years I owned an Alden yawl and
cruised the Down East waters, where classmate Butler holds forth.
But a growing family and professional responsibilities made this
unrealistic. In more recent years I have made a virtue of neces-
sity by making hobbies of necessary non-academic duties, such
as helping remodel and later trying to keep in top running order
a rather large house, grooming a suburban lot, playing baseball
and bicycling with my two sons. Asa result of the mild exercise
incidental to such activities, I weigh five pounds less than I did
when in training for crew freshman year, and am still wearing a
suit I got in 1939.

The other traditional topics may be covered briefly. As for
rcligion or church activity, the answer is none. I gave up formal
rcligion twenty years ago, and Peale, Sheen, and Graham to the
contrary notwithstanding, my life is no less full, useful, and re-
warding than that of the most inveterate church-goers. Since
every man has some religion, I should define mine as humanism. It

[ 344]

memrememeepnnnsseninebemesnmnsniaracmnanataitaainithble Al | .,..| PT ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is perhaps best summed up in a sentence by that intensely reli-
gious hater of established churches, William Blake: “The worship
of God is: honoring his gifts in other men, each according to his
genius, and loving the greatest men best: those who envy or
calumniate great men hate God; for there is no other God”.
As for politics, I was born into hard-shelled Republicanism, and
took my political color from my surroundings. Harvard, for all
its McCarthy-alleged radicalism, did nothing to change me, and I
did not examine my political premises until the late thirties. The
result was a rather rapid conversion to liberal Democracy, and
to this day I remain a liberal Democrat. This means that I believe
that F. D. R. did not ruin the country but saved it in the early
thirties, that Truman, Marshall, and Acheson did not sell out to
the Reds but saved us from international disaster in the late forties
and early fifties, and insofar as Eisenhower and Dulles have con-
tinued the Truman-Marshall-Acheson policy, they have preserved
us from further disaster, as blueprinted by the Knowland-Jenner-
McCarthy junto. The only political action I ever took part in
was as a “Volunteer for Stevenson” in 1952, and I look forward to
repeating it in the fall of this year.

These religious and political views undoubtedly mark me as
a minority member of the Class of 1931, but I hasten to assure
my classmates that some of my best friends are Episcopalians
and Republicans, and in spite of my eccentric opinions, I am
considered a pillar of society in a notably churchy and conserva-
tive Republican community, This constantly amazes me, and I
don’t know whether to attribute it to patent respectability, pleas-
ing personality, or arrant hypocrisy. .

ABBOTT FRANK

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: % Plymold Corp., Lawrence, Mass.
BORN: Dec, 29, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Davis Frank, Threesa Rosen-

blact,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.
‘

[ 345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

BENJAMIN WEST FRAZIER

HOME ADDRESS: Garrison-on-Hudson, N. Y.

BORN: June 20, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Herbert Frazier, ’95, Juliet
Rawle.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.—

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

occuPaTION: Builder.

OFFICES HELD: President, Purnam County Historical Society, since 1939, Bos-
cobel Restoration, Inc., since 1955; vestryman, St. Philips Church in the
Highlands, Garrison-on-Hudson, N. Y.

AFTER graduation I went to the Business School in the hope
that it might make me businesslike. The hope was quite vain.
Nothing will ever make me businesslike. To this day I am quite
unable to balance a check book. I have ceased to worry about
that. I simply go on writing checks until the bank tells me |
have overdrawn and then I stop.

After the Business School I went to sea with the idea of going
into the shipping business. I always liked ships, possibly being
a throwback to sea-going and ship-owning ancestors. I must say
this job did have the advantage of getting me around — almost
but not quite around the world — eastward to Calcutta and west-
ward to Hong Kong and also to Australia. “Then I became a
purser on the Grace Line and went many times to South America.
Being a purser, I would say, combined the worst features of be-
ing in an office and being at sea. I never saw the sea or daylight
for that matter.

Somewhere along the line, it dawned on me that I was more
interested in building (more particularly, restoring) houses. In
1938 I left the sea and started in on old houses. I was happily
in the middle of restoring the third when the war broke out in
September, 1939.

The complacent attitude of the United States, as if the war
were going on on another planet, appalled me so that in 1940 I
started working for the William Allen White Committee, tech-
nically the Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies.
I started first as a volunteer and eventually became an assistant
to the head of the New York chapter. This — until Pear] Harbor.

The Navy was no longer interested in my nearsighted eyes, so
I was drafted into the Army. Shortly after basic training, I had

[ 346 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the extraordinary good luck to get onto the staff of the newly
formed Yank magazine and went to London in August, 1942. I
can’t say I was a very good reporter, but I did get around — land,
sea, and air. When in London I shared a house with no less than
Joseph T. Mooney, ’31, who was in something hush-hush.
After the war I returned quickly to the old houses. And now
I have a real brute on my hands— one of the country’s great
architectural treasures. I find myself the president of a company
to raise money for its restoration (only one hundred and fifty
thousand or so) and open it to the public. A full-time job with
no pay. The annoying thing is that it was built by a Dyckman,
and has Stewart R. Dyckman, 31, given me any money? No.

NALBRO FRAZIER
SEE Appendix.

THOMAS OSBORN FRAZIER

MAILING ADDRESS: 1387 Kehaulani Drive, Lanikai, Hawaii.

BorN: Aug. 29, 1908, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Charles Russell Frazier,
Fannie Osborn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

ALBERT MAURICE FREIBERG

HOME ADpRESS: 767 Clinton Springs Ave., Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

OFFICE AppREsS: 211 E. Fourth Sc, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BorN: Jan, 10, 1910, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Albert Henry Freiberg,
Jeannette Freiberg.

PREPARED aT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B. 1934(35); MB.A.,
1939; DCS, 1941.

MarrieD: Roslyn Goldman, July 11, 1937, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHitpRen: David
Albert, Aug. 24, 1938; Daniel A. June 6, 1942; Susan Duffie, March 10,
1944; Jonathan A., May 3, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Albert Freiberg, ’20.

occupation: Attorney-at-law.

[ 347 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1950, secretary, 1953-54, Rockdale Avenue
Temple; trustee, Bureau of Jewish Education, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Cincinnati, Ohio State, and American Bar Associations; Uni-
versity Club of Cincinnati; Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Avon Lodge,
No. 542, A.F. & A.M.; Scottish Rite Masons, Valley of Cincinnati.

HOW does one do this sort of thing without being (1) abrupt,
(2) a bore, or (3) an H. M. Pulham? I don’t think that anyone
else is as interested in me as I am.

After graduation I went to Harvard Law School, and then
practised Jaw in Cincinnati for three years. Getting the Harvard
virus again, I returned — primarily, to study under the late Pro-
fessor Nathan Isaacs at the Business School. After getting my
M.B.A., I was appointed research assistant at the Harvard Grad-
uate School of Public Administration under Professors Isaacs and
Howard L. Bevis. I received my D.C.S, from the Business School
in 1941. Since that was a poor year to get a teaching job, I took
the position of general counsel and economist for New England
Dairies, Inc., which was (and still is, I think) the largest dairy
farmers’ codperative in New England.

In 1942 I entered active duty as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy
Supply Corps. After some pleasant service at ComOne in the
North Station Office Building, I was sent to the Aleutian Islands
(Adak and Attu), where I fought the Bore War. It was, of
course, quite logical to send me to Alaska, since I have always
hated the cold and the snow. Apparently, the Bureau of Naval
Personnel decided that I was an island expert: I was then assigned
to duty as supply and commissary officer at the Naval Air Sta-
tion, Manteo, North Carolina — on Roanoke Island.

There is an historic event at, or near, Manteo about every three
hundred years. In 1585, Sir Walter Raleigh established the “lost
colony” at Manteo; in 1903, the Wright brothers took off at
Kitty Hawk, some fifteen miles away. I figure that all hell ought
to break loose at Manteo around the year 2210— but nothing
much happened while I was there.

The Navy got rid of me as a lieutenant commander in January,
1946. Three years of service had given me a profound desire to
be my own boss. Therefore, I hung up my shingle as a lawyer
in my home town of Cincinnati. Here I am in the general prac-
tice of the law, and here I shall remain, God willing.

[ 348 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

You ask for my “social, political, or religious convictions”.
I pass over the implication that one can’t have convictions in all
three areas at the same time. My social conviction is that people
should behave themselves. Politically, I am a conservative Dem-
ocrat and supporter of our Cincinnati City Charter Committee.
As for religion, I am a Reform Jew; this I believe to be a sound
inheritance. The longer I live, the more faith means to me. I
am sure that many of us who at seventeen were much too wise
to bother with such antique concepts as religion have in our
middle years rediscovered our ignorance and learned once more
the meaning of worship.

Life has thus far been very good to me. I am most happily
married and have four children of whom I am very proud. I
think, also, that I have in some measure kept my side of the bar-
gain: I have helped some people somewhat.

SUMNER HERMAN FRIEDMAN

MAILING ADDRESS: 350 N. 27th St., Camp Hill, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1910, Allston, Mass. parents: Eleazer Freedman, Kathrine
Eyges.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935.

MARRIED: Ruth Marion Faitsch, Nov. 7, 1936, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. cuttp: Dana
Michael, June 22, 1938.

OccUPATION: Medicine.

HENRY CHARLES FRIEND

HOME ADDRESS: 2651 N. Summit Ave. Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFICE appREss: 759 N. Milwaukee St., Milwaukee 2, Wis.

BORN: March 30, 1909, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Charles Friend, ’88,
Caroline Alberta Blumberg.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1391; LL.B. 1934(36).

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Charles Friend, ’27.

OccupaTION: Lawyer.

[ 349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

HARVARD is with me in curious ways. After practising law
for over twenty years, I still think differently from the local
judges. Like me, most of them were born and brought up in
Milwaukee, but, while I went to Harvard, with one exception
they went to law schools nearer home. My consolation is that
our only Harvard judge is often out of step, too!

When we were in college I liked the way European history
was taught as compared to American history. Under the direction
of Frederick I. Olson, ’38, professor of American history at the
State Teachers College in Milwaukee, I now write bits and scraps
of American history as I think that it should be written. When-
ever Fred meets me, he prods and questions me until I come up
with something. When he gets through with me, I do not have,
or at least so far have not had, any difficulty in having my articles
published.

As an undergraduate I went out for crew, not that I aspired to
be an athlete, but because I like to be on inland water. In the
spring of our sophomore year, the late Ed Brown, the rowing
coach, offered individual instruction in the boat-house tank.
After watching me for about a minute, he forbade me to row in
an eight and told me to try sculling. At the time my friends and
I thought that his decision was harsh and that he should have
worked with me to a point where I could continue. However,
I did turn to sculling under a congenial coach, with the result
that every season I spend many happy hours on the upper Mil-
waukee River.

My interest in the River has carried me into civic work, for
our rowing course is threatened by ever increasing pollution. I
am learning about sewerage disposal and do what I can to induce
the responsible arms of government to run only clear water into
our streams.

CHANNING FROTHINGHAM, JR.

HOME aApprEss: 86 Foster St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Trust Co., 135 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 18, 1907, Boston, Mass, PaReNTs: Channing Frothingham, ’o2,
Clara Morgan Rotch.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass,

[ 350 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.B-Ay 1033.

marrieD: Rose Farwell Whitman, July 24, 1937, Beverly Farms, Mass,
(divorced 1944); Elisabeth Hepburn Oberly, May 21, 1949, Philadelphia,
Pa. cuitpren: Channing, 3d, April 5, 1939; Robert Barry, May 19, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Rotch Frothingham, ’33; William Rotch Froth-
ingham, ’4z; Thomas Eliot Frothingham, °47.

OccUPATION: Trust officer, New England Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Arlington Street Church, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Thursday Evening Club.

AFTER Business School and a short trip to Europe with Jim
Howe, I joined the staff of a large commercial bank in Boston.
This association lasted until February, 1942, when I was indoc-
trinated into Navy ways at Quonset ‘Point, Rhode Island. There
the presence of a number of classmates and friends made the
transition from civilian to military life more bearable. My war-
time activities ranged from training ground aviation personnel
in Florida, renegotiating war contracts in Washington, adminis-
trative work with aviation service units in California, to com-
manding a similar type unit on Peleliu. After my dutics as a Nav
commander terminated in 1945, I returned to Boston and the
banking business. Since March, 1948, I have been with the New
England Trust Company, primarily concerned with the develop-
ment of new trust business. This interesting and varied work
gives one an insight into numerous confidential family relation-
ships,

Outside business activities, I have participated in fund drives
for local political groups, the Red Cross and the Community
Fund. Also, for some years I have served as treasurer of the
Arlington Street Church. When not involved with the problems
of raising and educating two sons, my wife and I enjoy tennis
and seashore activities. Fortunately, we have been able to spend
recent summers at Nonquitt on the shores of Buzzards Bay with
Cambridge as our headquarters.

JOHN GERRISH FROTHINGHAM

HOME appress: 8 Seminary St., New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE appress: Elm Street, New Canaan, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Lawrence Potter Frothing-
ham, ’oz, Alice Williams Larrabee.

[351]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D., 1935+

marriED: Bertha Saunders Perkins, Aug. 12, 1933, New Canaan, Conn.
CHILDREN: Edward Perkins, Sept. 8, 1934 (died Sept. 1, 1955); Jane
Larrabee, July 29, 1937.

HARVARD son: Edward Perkins Frothingham, ’56 (deceased).

occuPATION: Physician—specialty in pediatrics.

OFFICES HELD: President, New Canaan Physicians Association, 1947-49; mem-
ber House of Delegates, Connecticut Medical Society, 1941-42, 1946-55.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City, Connecticut and New
Canaan; American Medical Association, Connecticut State Medical
Society; Fairfield County Medical Society; Norwalk Medical Society;
New Canaan Physicians Association; Alumni Bellevue Hospital Society;
New England Pediatric Society; Aesculapian Club of Boston, Country
Club of New Canaan.

OUR son Ned was killed instantly in an automobile accident on
September 1, 1955. He was hitch-hiking his way back from
Mexico to Harvard. And, as his standing in the College was sat-
isfactory, we would have seen him graduate in June. I feel that
I could write a far more interesting and amusing history of him
than of myself, for my life has been nothing but the dull evolution
of a country pediatrician.

Harvard Medical School was rather loath to take me on at first
—for which I can’t blame them, as I squeaked out of college
third from the bottom of those who passed their divisionals in
history, government and economics. (1 won’t mention the two
below me, though I discovered their names through a little il-
legal snooping in my tutor’s office.) The Medical School must
have been pressured in some way, for they finally took me—
with crossed fingers. They stood by me manfully, however, and
finally let me go, four years later, with my two-year bride and
almost Class baby. I have always prized my M.D. from Harvard
as a super asset and found it highly instrumental in earning a
very fine internship in clinical medicine and pediatrics at Bellevue
Hospital, New York City. After three years there I felt I was
ready to inflict myself upon the world. I did it the easy way —
running back home to New Canaan, a sort of fair-haired boy
whose history of women and drink had been lost in Boston and
New York. It is said that a doctor’s career is divided into three
parts. The first ten years is spent trying to build up a practice.
the second is occupied by trying to keep it, and the last just

[ 352 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

simply trying to get rid of it. So, at present, I'm in the middle
with my sights longingly focused on that glorious last decade.

Part One of my career was interrupted by almost four years
as an army medic. Being interested in pediatrics, I was naturally
tagged with an MOS of “medical officer — communicable dis-
ease”, and spent my time as a sort of health officer for Bradle
Field and an expert in V.D. What a rugged war I fought. 1
never left Connecticut! The experience, however, taught me
the weaknesses of socialized or government controlled medicine,
so I have been an opponent of the New Deal and subsequent
trends in that direction. Those who are for it may think they
will be getting something for nothing, but they should stop and
compare their present, bad enough taxes with what they would
be if Uncle Sam took over the profession lock, stock and barrel.
With an eight-to-five day and weck-ends off, I found army medi-
cine most unstimulating, but I must admit it afforded me far
more time to play golf than I have now.

Golf is still my favorite avocation but, as each season arrives,
I find myself faced by that frustrating fact that I’m not quite as
good as last year. Occasionally I surprise myself with a score in
the low 70’s, but the distance between these becomes greater and
greater. I like to think, though, that it’s lack of time to practise.
Next to golf comes chess and I find I can still hold my own with
the local amateurs. I taught Ned the game when he was seven.
This was probably a great mistake, because he was knocking me
off quite regularly before his death. He ranked about second in
the College his junior year and played on the University team
from time to time. After chess, the Red Sox whom I still love
passionately despite their record. When Boston visits the stadium,
that voice you hear from a fan in the background above Mel
Allen’s is probably mine.

Ned's death, so recent, has naturally been a great shock to us.
My heart goes out to all of those who have suffered such a loss.
The good God and our hopes for the future will ease us as time
goes by. We have our Janie and our hope of many grandchildren,
or as many as she can give us. The males will go to Harvard, or
else!) The females will have to bear us great-grandchildren, but
perhaps at this point I’m getting a little ahead of the game. I'll
report to you all on this later at our soth.

[ 353]

HARVARD CLASS OF I931

+ PAUL ADRIAN FULLAM

pors: April 18, 1907, Portsmouth, N. H. parents: John Fullam, Ellen Clark

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931 (34)5 AM. 1941.
Marriep: Agatha Rooney. cuitpren: Mary Ellen; David; Paul.
pIED: June 22, 1955, Waterville, Maine.

wroow: Mrs. Paul A. Fullam, Waterville, Maine.

FULLAM was noted as an athlete while at Harvard and was a
fullback on the 1930 football team. In addition to his years of
study at Harvard, he also attended the Universities of Washing-
ton and Pennsylvania. From 1949 to 1954 he was head of the
Department of History and Government at Colby College, and
a week before his death had received an honorary degree at the
Colby College commencement.

He was a former president of the Association of Historians of
Northern New England, and a member of the Board of College
Examiners in Social Studies. In 1954 he was the Democratic
Senatorial candidate against U. S. Senator Margaret Chase Smith
of Maine.

GEORGE MORTON FULLER

MAILING aDprEss: 814 S. Hobart Blvd., Los Angeles 7, Calif.

Bors: May 16, 1904, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: George Stevens Fuller, Effie
Ruth Pettigrew.

PrepareD aT: Manter Hall School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

MaggigeD: Margaret Thurston Cutler, June 17, 1932, Andover, Mass. CHILD:
Rebecca Frances, Dec. 28, 1933.

cocupation: Manufacturing.

PAUL ALDEN FULLER

HOME ADURESS: 56 E. 89th St. New York, N. Y.

oFFice. appkess: S. D. Fuller & Co., 39 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

Borax: Oct. 10, 1910, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Ernest Michael Fuller, 'o,
Miriam Dow.

Prepared AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YPARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B, 1931.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BaoTieas: Stephen Dow Fuller, ’30; Ernest Michacl Fuller, '39-

[354]

re FF FIREMEN RENNER MIME apy dtear mt raneraet mie Nn au

He papers

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Investment banker; partner in S. D. Fuller & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Standard Electrical Products, Inc., Dayton, Ohio,
Federal Oil Company, Newark, N. J.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Society of Mayflower
Descendants; Society of Colonial Wars.

THE month of June, 1931, was an eventful time for me in Cam-
bridge when looking back in retrospect over the twenty-five
years that have passed with such lightning speed. Not only was
it the month and year that I was graduated from Harvard Col-
lege, but it also was the T'wenty-fifth Reunion for my late father,
Ernest M. Fuller, of the Class of 1906. It was indeed a time of
much festivity and celebration and the two events which I ex-
perienced concurrently have always remained in my memory
with almost equal significance. This fact is mentioned since we
of the Class of 1931 are about to give heed to an important
milestone in our lives, namely our quarter of a century as grad-
uates of Harvard College. But, of course, we certainly could not
be the “old men” of the Class of 1906 who guzzled bootleg scotch
back in 1931.

Upon graduation I gave up the idea of pursuing a career in
law to embark upon a business career at a time when business
was gradually shutting its doors to all newcomers as a prelude
to the imminent nadir of the worst depression this country has
ever known. Be that as it may, I was able to secure in the follow-
ing year or so jobs of various variety and calibre in an endeavor
to acquire some practical experience in a world that heretofore
had been carefree and friendly. Finally, I settled down in Wall
Street with the firm of F. Eberstadt & Company.

However, since Wall Street seemed unable to recoup its profit-
able status of the ’20’s, I left the investment business in 1939 to
become associated with Sinclair Oil Corporation, where I re-
mained until May of 1955. In early 1940 my brother Stephen,
"30, formed the firm of S. D. Fuller & Company, of which organ-
ization I became a limited partner. The firm grew rapidly and
was so strongly entrenched in the business that I decided to leave
the oil business in May, 1955, to devote all of my time to the
firm’s activities.

This switch, after so many years in the oil business, has worked
out exceedingly well. We are actively engaged in all phases of

[355]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193!

the investment banking business. Our work is very interesting
and it gives me satisfaction to have a part in helping young com-
panies increase their size through injection of publicly raised
capital funds. It is my ambition to see the firm take its position
among nationally known banking houses; this objective, at the
present time, appears to be attainable by us within the next few
vears. Brewster Righter, our classmate, is a partner, as is P. James
Roosevelt of the Class of ’ 50.

Because of a heart disorder incurred when a child (and never
considered serious), I was peremptorily rejected by the various
branches of the service and was ultimately obliged to be con-
soled by the fact that my work with the Sinclair organization
was essential to the war effort and that I was, in a way, doing
my part in helping the country to win its victory. In a certain
sense this proved to be a fact, as I had a good deal to do with
the sales and shipments of bulk cargoes and drummed products
to the Navy and Lend-Lease.

Much to the dismay of my relatives and friends, I have not
married. However, such a desired status is still within the realm
of accomplishment so that I may yet surprise and, in some cases,
astound them all.

I have been fortunate in that I have been able to travel ex-
tensively in North and South America, as well as in Europe where
I visit annually. Over the years I have developed no particular
hobbies, although I do enjoy the theatre, keep up pretty well
with my reading, and from time to time take courses in con-
versational French.

SUMNER HAYES FULLER

HOME ADDRESS; 32 Westview Drive, East Hartford 8, Conn.

orvice avpgess; Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford 8, Conn.

BRN: Jan. 8, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Charles Sumner Fuller, ’96,
Anna Lillian Hayes.

Purpartp at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge Mass.; Phillips
Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

VEAKS IN COLLELE: 1927-1931. DELREES! A.B, 1931; MBA, 1934(35).

Masai: Doruthy M. Mortumer, June 27, 1942, Moosup, Conn, CHILDREN:
Joyce Ann, May 5, 1946; Susan Mortimer, July 19, 1949.

[ 356]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Statistician, Personnel Department, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft,
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut; Harvard Business School Club of
Hartford; S.L.O.P.R.

THE S.L.O.P.R. under “member of” above refers to the Society
for Listening to Other Peoples’ Records. The Hi-Fi bug bit
before I'd heard of the term, so I had an amplifier built in the
late °30’s. Although maybe not up to today’s standards, it is still
doing service, but with a three-speed record player and an F.M.
tuner added. I am in the classification which gets satisfactory
equipment and then concentrates on the records instead of con-
tinually changing the equipment. The records range from Clyde
McCoy’s “Sugar Blues” to the three B’s and their cohorts.

The O.P. have about disappeared from the S.L.O.P.R. Since
getting a family and a house to keep them in, the do-it-yourself
movement has become more predominant, with grounds-keeping
pressing in season and house painting coming up periodically.
Then there’s the basement recreation room for which materials
are occasionally purchased; but some other project always seems
more pressing —like going to the beach in summer or taking
the girls to a children’s concert in winter, or taking off screens
and awnings and putting on storm windows.

The draft board caught up with me in 1942 notwithstanding
the remarks of the examining physician about my eyesight. After
basic training and a year at Rutgers where I found it was not a
mistake for me to have avoided engineering, I was stationed at
Oak Ridge where I did statistics on atoms. Upon receipt of my
discharge on October 12, 1945 (now a legal holiday in some
states), I rejoined Pratt & Whitney Aircraft in Connecticut, thus
reclaiming my “damn Yankee” status in locale, while maintaining
it in temperament. Although this is rather deep in collegiate
enemy territory, there are occasional beacons of Crimson shining
through the bluish haze, and I do prefer the sales tax to the state
income tax. Once in a while, I wonder if my representation is
commensurate with my taxation.

[357]

Sanit ih ks nda laid th Mb de ni,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ROBERT EDISON FULTON, JR.

MAING aporess: Plates Hill Road, Newtown, Conn.

mes: Apnl 1g, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Robert Edison Fulton,
Nanna Lena Travis.

perparrp at: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: $.B., 1931.

occtpaTion: Manufacturing.

~ LAMBERT THEODORE FURTH

Boas: Jan. 17, 1918, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Henry H. Furth, Helen
Scheider.

pxeparrp aT: Washington University, Topeka, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

pirD: Feb. 4. 1933, Cambridge, Mass.

FURTH transferred to Harvard from Washington University
in our junior year. He spent two years in the College and follow-
ing graduation enrolled at the Law School. He died during his
second year there.

FREDERICK HERMAN GADE

noseE apoREss: 1476 Grove Terr., Winter Park, Fla.

OFFICE ADORESS: 137-39 E. New England Ave., Winter Park, Fla.

Boas: Aug. 28, 1908, Rochester, N. Y. parents: John Allyne Gade, ’96,
Ruth Sibley.

parransp at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

VESRS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: AB. 1931.

Manuro: Allison Rurter, June 25, 1932, Irvington, N. Y. cHitpren: Ruth,
Aug. 2, 1934; Patricia, Aug. 19, 1936, Sibley, June 29, 1938; John
Herman, March 6, 1949.

occupanos: Investment banker.

ovens HELD: President, Security Associates, Inc.; treasurer, Mechanical
Contractors Company, Harvard Club of Central Florida, investment
consultant, General Guaranty Insurance Company; vice-president,
Hlursun-Rhodes, Inc, Winter Park Memorial Hospital (all Florida
corporations),

mowunea or: University Club; Racquet Club; Harvard Club of New York.

pi aticATIOsS: Economic bulletins and analyses in various newspapers.

SHORTLY after graduation Allison Rutter consented to take
a chance, and this was about the smartest thing I've done. We've

[ 358]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

had a grand life pioneering together down here in Florida, wh
we came in 1939, and raising four children, the eldest of whe

is through college and presently working for Best & Compar

The youngest, John, is now six, and potential Harvard materi
Class of 1970!

Florida has grown so fast that it has been most stimulating
share in this development. The central part of the state has nee
ed many things including additional brokerage, banking, insu.
ance, and electrical facilities. These I’ve fitted into. Likewis:
starting a hospital — and just yesterday I had the thrill of re
ceiving our last check for a total of $900,000 paying for ou
building in full. Actually, Florida is not half as southern as yot
might think. A large proportion of our young (forty and fifty,

business leaders are from the New York and Chicago areas, and
our community is made up almost entirely of these “damyankees.”
If you lifted us up bodily and put us on the Cape or Long Island,
except for a slight southern drawl we have picked up over the
years, we would fit in well and seem pretty much like everybody
else. So, it has been lots of fun, and we are looking forward to
the years ahead, with increasing time for daily golf and swimming.
with anticipation. A perfect climate, grand people, the constant
stimulus of a growing local economy — what more can you want!

JOHN MARSHALL GAFFNEY

HOME ApprEss: 20 Hyde Park Sq., London, England.
OFFICE appress: United States Lines, 50 Pall Mall, London, England.

BorN: Aug. 18, 1907, Boston, Mass, parents: Peter Joseph Gaffney, Sarah
A. Marshall.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRiED: Marion M. Russell, Sept. 21, 1936, Winthrop, Mass. cHtLpREN
Sally, July 6, 1937; John Marshall, Jr., Dec. 21, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Transportation; European freight manager, United States
Lines,

MEMBER OF: American Club of London; Royal Thames Yacht Club, Lon-

don; Royal Corinthian Yacht Club, Burnham-on-Crouch; Cottage Park
Yacht Club, Winthrop, Mass.

AFTER leaving college, I spent one and a half years at the Busi-
ness School, then started work with the International Mercantile

[359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Marine Company, later transferring to the United States Lines,
when we decided to run steamers flying only the American flag,
While abroad on our honeymoon in September, 1936, the Liv-
crpool manager of the company Tesigned, and I was temporarily
assigned to ‘the European organization to take his place until
they could find an older and more experienced man. Apparently
they never found him, and I continued in that position until 1942
when I joined the U, S. Army in London and was assigned to
the Transportation Corps. After sw eating out the preliminaries,
I ended up as a colonel in charge of the Marine Operations section
of Headquarters ETO.

On getting out of the Army in Paris in September, 1945, I
joined the War Shipping Administration as regional director for
Belgium and Holland, stationed in Antwerp, later on becoming
European general operating manager in London. When the
United States Lines were given back their ships in 1946, I went
back to the company in charge of European vessel and port oper-
ations, located at London and, in 1954, was appointed European
freight manager. This job demands traveling all over Europe
all through the year. From my observations, American tourists
never tire of it —I'm afraid I do.

Apparently I like the steamship business and believe that after
twenty years in Europe 1 am probably more American, if pos-
sible, than I was in "31.

The children, Sally and Marshall, Jr., both have attended Eng-
lish schools during practically all their school lives, and it will be
interesting to see what happens in the next several years when
they both will be returning to school in the States.

Hubby — sailing. I can definitely state that the usual English
Channel sailing weather demands a bit more of one than Marble-
head and Long Island Sound.

OLIVER MARBLE GALE

NOME Avouess: 6125 E. Rockwood Drive, Cincinntai 8, Ohio.

orice apoasss: Procter & Gamble Co. P. O. Box s9y, Cincinnati 1, Ohio.

meas: July 27, 199, Ventura, Calif. pasents: Oliver Marble Gale, Permelia
Newby Gale Pettigrew.

rarpauep at: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

[ 360 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1937.

marriep: Miriam Grosvenor, Aug. 29, 1931, Brookline, Mass. cutLpREN:
John Grosvenor, July 9, 1934 (died March 17, 1946); Deborah Graydon,
March 5, 1939; William Marble, June 18, 1940.

occupation: Manager, Public Relations Department, Procter & Gamble
Company.

OFFFICES HELD: Director and treasurer, Volunteer Bureau, Cincinnati and
Hamilton County, since 1954; trustee, Community Chest & Council,
Cincinnati area, since 1953, Children’s International Summer Villages,
Inc., since 1949; director, Choate School Alumni Association, Council
of Social Agencies, Cincinnati, since 1953, Home Federal Savings &
Loan Company, since 1949, Planned Parenthood Association, 1950-55,
Cincinnati Charter Committee, 1947-53; past president, Harvard Club
of Cincinnati.

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America; Public Relations Seminar
Committee; The Literary Club, Cincinnati; Cincinnati Country Club;
Queen City Club.

BENVENUTO CELLINI says that all men should write their
autobiographies if they “have done anything of merit, or which
verily has a semblance of merit” and if “they have passed their
fortieth year”. Fortunately the requirements of the 25th Anni-
versary Report spares Harvard men this agonizing appraisal. (It’s
easy to tell when you have passed forty, but not whether the im-
partial reader would feel that what you have done has merit.)
Whether my prinicpal activities have merit or not they have
intense and unflagging interest to me. A company like Procter &
Gamble has continuing relations with a great many publics —
its shareholders, employers, dealers and customers of course, but
also governments, national and local, makers of washing machines
and other related products, public health people, doctors, teach-
ers, college administrators, home economists, and everyone else
who washes or eats—-and the “public relations” man is in the
thick of all of them. Discussion held with sanitation officials
on the possible effects of synthetic detergents on sewage is fol-
lowed by discussion of a company scholarship program with
college presidents; “trouble” can arise with a superintendent of
an apartment house in Hoboken who breaks into print with an
attack on sudsing products or with the Federal Trade Commission
in Washington on a problem involving a new shortening; the
writing of a speech to be made on a national TV network is set
aside to permit the writing of a pattern letter to go to the half-

[ 364 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

seeing your youngsters developing to be charming and attractive
people is something hard to talk about but equally hard to omit.
I managed to get Bill to go to Choate without using any influence
whatever; he may even end up making Harvard and surprise us
all — mostly himself.

GORDON GAMMACK

HOME ADDRESS: 2800 Forest Drive, Des Moines, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Register and Tribune, Des Moines, Iowa.

BORN: May 31, 1909, Lenox, Mass. Parents: Arthur J. Gammack, Mary
Bridgman.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Kathryn Hagensick, May 20, 1940, Des Moines, Iowa. CHILDREN:
Kathryn Elesa, March 15, 1941; Thomas Gordon, Aug. 9, 1943; Julie
Ellen, Aug. 21, 19§0.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Hubbard Gammack, ’20 (deceased).

occuPATION: Newspaper columnist and radio newscaster.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, 1947-50.

MEMBER OF: Des Moines Press and Radio Club; 34th Division Association.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I worked successively as an apprentice
for McClellan Chain Stores in Roanoke, Virginia, and Winston-
Salem, North Carolina; for two years I was a reporter on the
Courant in Hartford, Connecticut, and then, for several months,
I was in the publicity department of the Homestead Hotel, Hot
Springs, Virginia. On May 23, 1933, I joined the staff of the Des
Moines Register and Tribune, published by two Harvard grad-
uates, John and Gardner (Mike) Cowles. I have been with this
company ever since. In the fall of 1943 I went to Italy as a war
correspondent for the Register and Tribune and at first concen-
trated my reporting on the 3qth Division, an Iowa-Minnesota
National Guard outfit. Shortly before the Normandy invasion,
I went to England and followed our forces across Europe until
the German surrender. Returning to Des Moines, I started writ-
ing a column — usually light, human interest, anecdotal stuff
(seldom serious) for our afternoon paper, The Tribune, and The
Sunday Register (circulation about 535,000). In 1946 I started a
daily 6 p.m. newscast on KRNT, owned by the Register and
Tribune, and it remains a part of my daily schedule.

[ 364 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In September, 1950, my regular work was suspended for four
months while I covered the war in Korea, again pursuing the
“Iowa angle”; and, in returning to Des Moines I circled the world
via Okinawa, Formosa, Hong Kong, Bangkok, Rome, Anzio,
Paris, Frankfurt and Berlin. In April, 1953, 1 returned to Korea
for seven weeks to cover the exchange of sick and wounded
prisoners plus the activities of the Infantry, Air Force and Navy.
I had not been home long when I was assigned to return to Korea
for the main exchange of prisoners — Big Switch — and reported
extensively on the liberated Iowans. On each of my Korean as-
signments I used a battery-operated tape recorder and sent tape
recordings to KRNT. Because my work was primarily for our
papers, I was astounded when informed I had won a Sigma Delta
Chi award for radio reporting from Korea in 1953. This, I am
convinced, was the result of several extremely lucky breaks.

Working for the Register and Tribune has been a rewarding
and satisfying experience. I believe sincerely they rank high
among the nation’s finest and most progressive papers. And [|
have found Des Moines an excellent place to live.

EDWARD BABSON GAMMONS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

BORN: July 2, 1908, Cohasset, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Warren Gammons,
Edith Josephine Tower.

PREPARED AT: Derby Academy, Hingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: 8.B4 1031.

MARRIED: Betty Barton Allen, Sept. 14, 1932, Cohasset, Mass, CHILDREN:
Edward Babson, Jr. June 30, 1934; Jane Tower, Aug. 4, 1935; Anne
Warren, Feb. 17, 1937; Peter Warren, April 9, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Edward Babson Gammons, Jr., ’56.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Donald Tower Gammons, 718; Charles Clifford Gam-
mons, LL.B., °20,

OCCUPATION: Organist and carillonneur; consultant in church music; head
of Music Department, Groton School.

OFFICES HELD: Sub-dean, New England Chapter, American Guild of Or-
ganists, 1933-37; president, Guild of Carillonneurs in North America,
1937-38; chairman, Commission of Church Music, Diocese of Massa-
chusetts, since 1952; member editorial board, The Organ Institute,
Andover, Mass. since 1953; member, Joint Commission on Church
Music, Episcopal Church in the U.S.A. since 1949; member, Com-

[ 365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

mission on the Arts in Worship, Federal Council of Churches, since
1984.

MEMBER OF: American Guild of Organists.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on organ design, church music, in music journals,
diocesan and national church publications.

DURING my years at college it was my fortune or misfortune,
depending on your outlook, to hold the post of carillonneur and
music director at St. Stephen’s Church in Cohasset. On my grad-
uation [ kept that position and also taught bell playing and lec-
tured on organ design and church music at various schools and
conferences.

In December, 1931, I became music master at Derby Academy
in Hingham, Massachusetts, with the good luck to find the young
woman there who became my wife in the fall of 1932. While
teaching at Derby and playing at Cohasset, we had five most
happy years and acquired three grand children. .Then, in 1937,
I was called to be director of music at Christ Church (now the
Cathedral) in Houston, Texas. In the three years we spent there
I also was head of the Organ Department of the Conservatory
and conducted the Pius X Schola at St. Agnes Academy.

My deep interest in organ building had been with me for a
long time, as I had designed organs for churches back in 1927,
and on many occasions I was active as consultant in this special
field—as for Wellesley College in 1928, Harvard University,
1930-32, as well as for a number of churches. A healthy fire (not
set by me, but much appreciated) brought me the chance to have
two organs to my specifications for Christ Church in Houston,
and during my stay in Texas it was my opportunity to scheme
several others,

In 1941 we returned to our native New England where I be-
came titular head of the Groton School Music Department, which
literally means being the general “jack of all musical and semi-
musical trades”. Actually, working with boys is the finest pos-
sible way to live and if one would seek the secret of an ever inter-
esting and constantly challenging happy life, one can find it here
at Groton. While here, we have found many blessings of all kinds,
and our young son, Peter, was born into the Groton family.

[ 366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ THOMAS BRATTLE GANNETT

sgorN: March 13, 1910, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: Herbert Ingalls Gannett,
Mabel Catherine Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

DIED: May 30, 1952, New York, N. Y.

IN 1932, Gannett reported that he was associated with the New
York Life Insurance Company in New York City. He remained
in the insurance business and was residing in Douglaston, Long
Island, at the time of his death.

CHARLES GARDNER

HOME ApDpDREss: 28 Rose Ave., Great Neck, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Witco Chemical Co., 122 E. 42d St. New York, N. Y. »

BORN: July 20, 1907, Montreal, P, Q., Canada. parents: Nathan Goldenberg,
Bertha Rosenberg.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Corinne Baer, March 4, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan Bar-
bara, July 31, 1937; Wendy Ann, Nov, 31, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, Witco Chemical Company.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemistry
Fellow; New York and New England Paint, Varnish & Lacquer Associ-
ations; American Arbitration Association; Salesmen’s Association
American Chemical Industries; Harvard Club of Long Island; Chemists’
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in American Paint Journal, Official Digest of Federa-
tion of Paint © Varnish Production Clubs, Paint Manufacturers’ Organic
Finishing Magazine; translations in various foreign publications.

NEVER underestimate the power of a woman. The numerous
“goads” sent by-the Class Committee finally attracted my wife's
attention, so that she literally spurred me into this report.
Frankly I would have settled for filling in the blank spaces of
the leading questions. But my wife thought differently.

When we received our diplomas in ’31, a job was my prime
interest. Fortunately, I was able to delay the task of searching
for work by receiving a research fellowship in biological chem-
istry at the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. Not only did I get
lunches, but I received a monetary stipend. One year of this and

[ 367 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

I looked to other fields. The Massachusetts Department of Public
Health offered me an appointment as chief chemist on a shell-
fish purification plant (someday Til explain my duties there).
Coddling shell-fish left me cold —as a matter of fact, it soured
me on chemistry and I looked again elsewhere.

The next five years I eked out a living by free-lance writing
for magazines and newspapers, but then I acquired a wife and,
subsequently, a daughter. What was sufficient money for one
needed augmentation to keep three. Moreover, the income had
to be steady. So, back to chemistry — but this time in New York.

Up to now, all I knew about paint was that linseed oil was
good for paints because it had a double bond that easily oxidized
the oil to a hard film. Naturally, it was the paint industry that
offered me work which eventually was to be my career.

In the last sixteen years, my knowledge of paint has increased
somewhat. I've worked as a plant manager, production man and
formulator in making all sorts of protective coatings. My present
duties as a paint engineer embrace acting as a consultant to the
paint industry, writing technical monographs for the various
scientific journals serving the industry, and lecturing to different
scientific societies and schools. My work has taken me to all
parts of the United States and some foreign countries — my last
trip abroad being to South America.

Right now my principal dilemmas are the choice of a suitable
college for my daughter, Joan, and a tactful denial of Wendy’s
request for a “convertible” (portable) typewriter.

JOHN BRIGHT GARRISON

HOME AND oFFice Appress: Old Concord Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

Bors: Feb, 13, 1909, West Newton, Mass.. parents: William Lloyd Gar-
nson, Jr. '97, Edith Alice Stephenson.

prepaRiLD at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MAukity: Barbara Foss, Aug. 28, 1941, Brookline, Mass. cHitpren: David
Foss, April 22, 1943; John Chapman, Sept. 25, 1944; Frank Wright,
Sept. 5, 1947.

Hanvagp BroTHERs: William Lloyd Garrison, ’24; David Lloyd Garrison, 28.

occuPATION: Representative of Norwich Mills, Inc, in New England and
upstate New York,

[ 368 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IT has been a soul struggle to compose anything for this
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report, I believe, because of the real-
ization that in twenty-five years this individual has accomplished
so little. I am reminded now of a lecture Professor Kirsopp Lake
gave in one of the freshman halls during our first year. His clos-
ing message stressed the belief that no one in a single lifetime
should expect to accomplish what goals he set for himself as a
young man. Therefore, one must eventually pass the torch along
hopefully to a new and younger generation. I remember still
how impressed I was by Lake’s sincerity, since he delivered his
closing remarks with the tears streaming down his cheeks. Now,
after all these years, I can begin to comprehend the meaning of
his message. I presume that is why so many of us find such sat-
isfaction in our children’s development since they are so logically
the ones upon whom we pin our hopes for accomplishing some
of those things we ourselves failed to achieve.

I am happy to say that such stark self-appraisal i is not my daily
habit and that my regular rounds as a salesman have kept me
too occupied to meditate moodily upon my treadmill existence.
I oftentimes regret that the field in which I operate is unusually
devoid of classmates, although there are a few I encounter who
brighten the day for me when we do meet. Here and there, as
I travel, I have tried to waylay other classmates and have found
these visits pleasantly rewarding.

My off-hours I find completely taken up with family and com-
munity activities. Then, too, I have to put in a lick around the
house and grounds in the contemporary do-it-yourself spirit.
Naturally, I still sneak off for sessions of tennis and skating when
the opportunity is presented. In vacation time, as a family we
have been fortunate in having an idyllic spot to retreat to on the
Cape and there swimming crowds all other activity out of the
picture.

The large problem confronting us now is the education of
our three boys. To provide the kind of preparation we had now
seems prohibitively expensive. Looking slightly ahead to college
expenses is positively depressing. And, with no assurance that
any of our boys can count on getting in to Harvard, it gives one
pause when the long suffering class agent reminds one of the
constant needs of the good old fund.

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

I assume, of course, that none of the problems that confront
us as a family are unique and that the Twenty-fifth Reunion will
prov ide an exceptional opportunity to commiserate with similar-
ly afflicted classmates. For this and many other cheerful reasons
I look forward to our getting together in June.

LOUIS ISADORE GARSTON

HOME ADDRESS: 132 Griggs Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Consolidated By-Products, Inc. East Taunton, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 24, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel Garlitz, Rose Saks.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marrieD: Hilda Levine, Oct. 18, 1930, East Jaffrey, N. H. (divorced 1948).
cuiLp: Matthew Joel, Sept. 30, 1940.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Consolidated By-Products, Inc., manu-
facturers of ingredients for animal food, chemical products.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Pioneer Mutual Insurance Company, Boston, 1935-
4o; president, New Bedford Acceptance Corporation, New Bedford,
1940-45, Superior Fillets, Inc., 1942-46; president and treasurer, Meland
Realty Corporation Consolidated By-Products, Inc. 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Bedford; Zionist Order.

I AM sure the fellow-members of our Class remember the ques-
tion, “What is your ambition?”, in the Class Book of 1931. With
more than the usual amount of the whimsy of immature youth,
I wrote, “Author”. Little did I realize at that time that I was
to embark upon a career which can truly be called hectic, to
say the least.

I was married during my senior year to a girl from Smith
College. After graduation I became active in Boston in the finance
and insurance fields. In 1935 1 co-founded and became first treas-
urer of Pioneer Mutual Insurance Company. Living in New
Bedford and working in Boston was too tiring, so I liquidated
my business in Boston and became active in the real estate field,
with considerable good fortune. In 1940 I acquired control of
the New Bedford Acceptance Corporation, but soon realized |
had none of the hard-boiled nature to be a money-lender.

The fishing industry was arousing considerable interest in New
Bedford at this time and I became interested in it. Rejected for
the Army when World War Il broke out, I tried to do my share

[ 370]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

by producing fish for the Army and Navy. My activities in-
cluded operating a fleet of sixteen trawlers, three processing

lants and a freezer. At the end of the war the ups and downs
of the fish business, together with the expansion demanded by
the government agencies, resulted in financial chaos and over a
million dollars went down the drain.

My son, Matthew Joel Garston, was born in 1940, and he sure
was welcome. However, all was not serene in my marriage and
in 1948 it culminated in divorce. Meanwhile I had started a new
business venture, the freezing of fish for the mink ranches all
over the country. This plant was completely ruined by the hur-
ricane of August, 1954. In May, 1955, I took over a plant in
East Taunton, formerly owned by Schenley Distilleries, and we
are now trying to get into operation for the manufacture of
protein ingredients for the animal feed industry.

Throughout all this business trouble, I was very fortunate. My
hobby has been the study of religion, probably starting with the
courses I took in my field (history) while at Harvard. When
you are concentrating on the teaching of all the great leaders of
all faiths, it is impossible to take the loss of material wealth too
seriously. My pride and joy is my son, Matthew, and I am hop-
ing to see him at Harvard one of these days.

WILLIAM HENRY GASSETT

HOME ADDRESS: 201 Fenno St., Wollaston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eaton & Howard, Inc., 24 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: May 30, 1908, Vernon, N. Y. parents: William George Gassett, Annie
Pope Hall.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Lorraine MacPherson, Dec. 15, 1934, Boston, Mass.

OccupaTion: Assistant vice-president, Research Department, Eaton & How-
ard, investment managers.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass., 1936-50;
director and treasurer, Quincy Civic Association, 1949-56; president,
Thayer Academy Alumni Association, 1935-50.

MEMBER oF: Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Investment
Club; Harvard Club of Quincy; Boston Security Analysts Society.

FROM the time I began to concentrate in economics in the fall

[371 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

president, am chairman of the Scholarship Committee. The pri-
mary purpose of the club is to raise money each year for a fresh-
man scholarship for some worthy local boy. Our committee works
closely with the college officers in interviewing and screening
applicants, and in recent years we have done more and more to
help the college office in giving them a line on the type of candi-
dates who apply to Harvard from our area. I don’t know whether
my classmates who live some distance from Cambridge quite
appreciate it, but in large measure it’s not too easy to keep up
enthusiasm in a local Harvard Club situated only ten miles from
the college. The urge to band together seems to increase with
the distance from Cambridge. It is a real problem. I might add
that much has been accomplished at Cambridge to organize the
efforts of all the Harvard Clubs throughout the country to bring
the right kind of boy to the college including an “occasional
bright athlete”, but we still have a long way to go. If the Harvard
man over the years has been indifferent, it’s time he changed. If
you have been at all close to Harvard scholarship work and the
admissions problems, you too will wonder what the solution 1S
when you have a condition of getting applications from almost
4,000 boys and admit only 1,000. In the next ten years the appli-
cants will be double this number.

I have always taken a fairly active part in local community
affairs and the two activities which stand out in my mind are my
duties prior to entrance into the Navy as chief of the Auxiliary
Fire Department, a job which necessitated recruiting over 500
men in Quincy who could climb ladders, hitch up hoses, and help
in some way or another in case of an air raid. My second activity
was an interest in the Quincy Civic Association, which fought
hard and long to get Plan FE and the city management form of
government for our city. We finally won out and were fortunate
to have a city manager for six years but, unfortunately, at a re-
cent election we were defeated, and back we go again to the “old
game of politics”, but we haven’t given up and maybe someday
people will see the light.

From my long dissertation, I guess you would say that my
hobbies are meddling in civic affairs and working to interest boys
in Harvard College. To those of you who think this is work, I
might add that I also collect phonograph records and have one

[ 374]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the best collections of Guy Lombardo’s music in the country.
This is real relaxation and the biggest kick I get out of it is when
I can play a tune for guests which brings to mind certain fond
moments in their lives. My most pressing problem at the moment
is whether to get a three-speed player, for all my records are 78’s
and they’re getting harder to buy.

WILLIAM OXLEY GAYTHWAITE

HOME AppREss; 710 Washington St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADRESS: Employers Liabiliry Assurance Corp., 110 Milk St., Boston,
Mass.

BorN: Dec. 15, 1908, Lynn, Mass. parents: William Gaythwaite, Annis
Oxley.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Julia Leavitt, 1945, Lynn, Mass. cuitpreN: Susan Janet, July rs,
1949; Martha Catherine, Sept. 24, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Superintendent, Expense Control, Employers Group Insurance
Companies.

ROBERT LIONEL GENENSKY

HOME appress: 86 Clark St., New Bedford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 222 Union St., New Bedford, Mass.

BORN: Jan, 21, 1909, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Samuel Genensky, 2d,
Annie D. Rothschild.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B., 1934(35).

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Attorney-at-law,

OFFICES HELD: Director, New Bedford Men’s Mission, New Bedford Jewish
Community Center; past president, New Bedford District, Zionist Or-
ganization of America; leader and organizer, Great Books Foundation
in New Bedford area, since 1947; president, New Bedford Society for
Prevention of Cruelty to Children; member United Fund of Greater
New Bedford.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association; New Bedford Bar Association;
Harvard Club of New Bedford; B’nai B’rith; Friends of Music.

[ 375 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

MINOS DEMOSTHENES GENERALES

HOME ADDRESS: 9527 Poole St., La Jolla, Calif.

OFFICE apprEss: San Diego State College, San Diego, Calif.

BorN: April 10, 1910, Piraeus, Greece. PARENTS: Demosthenes John Generales,
Urania Constantine Tselepis.

PrepareD At: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: LL.B, (Univ. of Athens, Greece);
License es Sciences Politiques (ibid.).

MARRIED: Ana Maria Alvarez de Sotomayor, June 15, 1939, Davos, Switzer-
land (divorced 1945); Doris Mae Blenkhorn, July 1, 1949, Boston, Mass.
CHILDREN: Minos Demosthenes, 2d, Sept. 3, 1950; Stefan John, April 6,
1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Constantine Demosthenes Generales, ’29.

occupation: Associate professor, Department of Political Science, San Diego
State College. |

MEMBER OF: American Political Science Association; Western Political
Science Association; American Society of International Law.

AFTER leaving Harvard I continued my studies in Europe at
the Universities of Heidelberg, Athens and Paris, at the Carnegie
Institute of International Relations, the Institute of International
Studies at Geneva and the Hague Academy of International Law.
My field of specialization is international law and politics. All
in all I remained about fourteen years on the Continent, travel-
ing and living in most of the countries west of Russia. During
this pre-World War II decade I had an unusual opportunity to
study the forces which cumulatively led to the holocaust of
World War IL. I was “on the spot” to observe the evolution of
the League of Nations, its steady deterioration and final obso-
lescence; it was also possible to follow closely the cumulative
effect of one crisis after another in France, Germany, Austria,
Italy, England and the Balkans; likewise I was given the oppor-
tunity of seeing in action and occasionally meeting the leading
political figures of the time from Benes to Haile Selassie. When
the war broke out, I was in Switzerland; in the mass exodus which
took place after the breakthrough of the Maginot line I traveled
the length of Italy and across the Adriatic to Athens. After a
year under enemy occupation in Greece, I was able to escape
to Madrid, following a route via Berlin which took me through
the heart of occupied Europe. Subsequently I worked for a
couple of years at the U.S, Embassy in Madrid and returned

[ 376 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to the States shortly before D-Day. Even the routine of the re-
turn trip was broken when we were stopped by a German sub-
marine in the mid-Atlantic and forced to an all-night session in
lifeboats.

Back in the States I had a problem of readjustment to the Amer-
ican scene. I began it by satisfying a long-standing yen for a
good American hot dog the moment I stepped off the boat in
Philadelphia. In Boston I worked in the international traffic divi-
sion of American Airlines for a year before taking up my duties
as instructor of political science at Boston University’s College
of Liberal Arts. After three years with this institution, during
which I also served as acting director of the Division of Regional
Studies for Latin America, I was offered a position in California
at San Diego State College. I married shortly before going west,
and settled in La Jolla where I have lived since. The year
1953-54 was spent abroad under a Ford Foundation Faculty
Grant for the study of European Integration and the European
Defense Community. I beat the old stamping ground again from
Stockholm to Athens in a Hillman Minx, interviewing political
leaders, ministers, foreign office specialists and editors in all the
western European capitals and Berlin. I was accompanied part
of this time by my wife and son — my wife returned after a few
months for the birth of my second son in Boston. I resumed my
duties as associate professor of political science at San Diego in
1954. I am also director of the Institute of World Affairs spon-
sored by the college here. My experience so far has given me a
rather Hobbesian outlook on international politics with the fol-
lowing optimistic variant: that the survival of the species will,
ironically enough, be the direct product of the perfection of the
means of mass annihilation.

As regards hobbies, I have maintained my interest in music —
occasionally a nostalgia for Harvard days is sparked by listening
to Leroy Anderson’s compositions on the air. I played violin
with him in the Pierian Sodality Orchestra. I have also been
active in sports, in which area I can lay claim to a couple of
minor accomplishments: in 1931 I took first place in an interna-
tional mountain-climbing auto race; in 1934 I organized and took
part in the first recorded winter climb of Mount Olympus, Greece.

[377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

However, with old age creeping up on me, I now confine my
sporting activities to tennis, swimming and sailing.

My family is, of course, my main preoccupation in life. My
wife has, among other things, an unusual talent for interior decor-
ating and gardening. Consequently, our home in La Jolla over-
looking the Pacific is our pride and joy — we spend many pleas-
urable hours basking in the restful shade of our beautiful patio,
far from the conflicts of international politics. Our two wonder-
ful boys, Minos, zd, and Stefan, provide all the necessary anti-
dote to any suspicion of monotony which might arise. We also

vary our diet with frequent trips to the mountains or the desert,
both within easy reach of our home.

WILLIAM SAMUEL GEORGES

HOME ADDRESS: 1624 Vassar Ave. N.W., Canton, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 924 First National Bank Bldg., Canton, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1909, Rochester, Pa. PARENTS: Samuel Georges, Hosan David
Shaheen.

PREPARED AT: McKinley High School, Canton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: S.B, 1931.

marriep: Mary Gardner, Sept. 11, 1937, New York, N. Y. cuitpren: William
H.,, Jan. 30, 1939; Joan Marie, May 24, 1941; Samuel James, Feb. 3, 1946;
Christine, May 12, 1947.

occupation: Attorney-at-law; industrial engineering.

OFFICES HELD: Special counsel to Attorney General of Ohio, 1949-51; mem-
ber board of trustees, St. George’s Church; member public relations
committee, Stark County Bar of Ohio; general counsel, Fraternal Order
of Police of Ohio, 1934-43; secretary, Harvard Club of Canton.

MEMBER OF: Ohio State Bar Association, American Society for Metals;
Canton Chamber of Commerce; Brookside Country Club; Turkeyfoot
Island Club; Massillon Club; Masons; Harvard Business School Club of
Cleveland; Harvard Club of Cleveland.

ONE day in the fall of 1942, while looking out of my law office
window, I saw smoke belching from the many chimneys of
steel companies in and around our building. Everybody seemed
to be helping the war effort. I soon found that I was unprepared
to do more than the usual functions. I gained admission to the
first course given at the Harvard Business School in retraining
for war production supervision, a course sponsored by the En-
gineering, Science and Management war training program of the

[ 378 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

U. S. Office of Education. I was one out of only three lawyers
taking the course. The other 200 were business executives sent
to Harvard Business School for upgrading. ‘This was the turning
point in my professional career. From then on, I was special
counsel to the comptroller of Goodyear Aircraft Corporation
from 1943 through the middle of 1955, working with manage-
ment and controlling over 30,000 employees, all of whom were
producing airplanes and aircraft. I left Goodyear and for two
years specialized in termination of government contracts, and
then entered a field which was born out of necessity, namely,
conversion of raw steel into finished products. The knowledge
I had gained from Harvard Business School and the experience
with government business, together with my legal background,
combined to qualify me for the unusual function of obtaining
oil country tubular goods for oil well companies, and steel prod-
ucts for the automobile and appliance industries. This required
a working knowledge of metallurgy, engineering and the red tape
of government controls.

At present, I have set up a separate organization to handle con-
version under the name of William S. Georges and Associates,
and represent Industrial Forge & Steel of Canton, Ohio, one of
the subsidiaries of Barium Steel, together with many other steel
and fabricating companies.

I consider myself fortunate in having married a versatile
girl. Asa result, our two boys and two girls are all-around Amer-
ican kids. Our elder son, Bill, is knee deep in forensic work, a
minor authority on jazz and a Harvard prospect. Joan, who is
fourteen, wants to be a concert violinist. Taking after her mother,
she has become a leader in Girl Scout work and sports. She has
charm and lady-like beauty and adds joy to our living in every-

thing she does. Sam, who is nine, is always busy with his two
scooters and devising ways and means of getting a pony or a
pony ride. Christine, who is eight, is usually the hostess to the
neighborhood in a miniature children’s house which we have
built in our yard. We enclosed our entire yard with a stockade
fence and within the confines have created a little world of our
own in a quiet neighborhood. Both sunrises and sunsets find us
involved in every day living without losing sight of the outside
horizons. After my first year in the Law School, seven of us

[ 379 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

from Harvard College who played with the Gold Coast Band at
Harvard got together, formed a band and took a viking cruise
on the S.S. France, which took us from France to England, Scot-
land, Iceland and the Faroes, up to the ice barrier, Spitzbergen,
through the Fjords of Norway and back to Paris. Since then,
travel and music have been my hobbies, with special emphasis
on golf.

We attend church every Sunday and Christian religion is our
daily guide. To Harvard I owe guidance in thinking which has
alerted me in my daily living along paths which have led to
better living in a strange world. Sometimes it’s very lonely liv-
ing up to the standards which have become truths; but it’s most
satisfying, as I progress into the uncertain future, to know at
least I'm following the paths which have been proved best and
where I pioneer, I am no longer afraid. Harvard has given me
faith in thinking man.

ELBRIDGE THOMAS GERRY

HOME Appress: Delhi, Delaware County, N. Y.

OFFIce appREss: Gerry Brothers & Co., 41 E. 62d St.. New York 21, N. Y.

BorN: Nov. 22, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Robert Livingston Gerry,
oo, Cornelia Harriman.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE! A.B., 1931.

marrigD: Marjorie Y. Kane, May 21, 1932, Locust Valley, Long Island, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Elbridge Thomas, Jr., April 5, 1933, Peter G., 2d, Sept. 23,
1945; Marjorie K., Feb, 15, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Elbridge Thomas Gerry, Jr., ’55.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Harriman Gerry, ’36,; Henry Averell Gerry, ’36.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Gerry Brothers & Company, private investments.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary, Hanover Bank, New York, N. Y., 1931-36;
account executive and assistant manager, Brown Brothers Harriman &
Company, New York, N. Y., since 1936; director, since 1932, treasurer,
1937-46, president, since 1946, New York Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children; chairman, New York State Harness Racing Com-
Mission, 1940-45; treasurer, United States Trotting Association, since
1953.

MEMBER oF: Meadow Brook Club, Westbury, Long Island, N. Y.; Piping
Rock Club, Locust Valley, Long Island, N. Y.; Racquet & Tennis Club
of New York City; Harvard Club of New York City; Links Club of
New York City; Fort Orange Club, Albany, N. Y.

[ 380 ]

eee CTIA TEI RASS PEI GH FER ROR ER PRE EPH SP TRIS BRAGA AS IN SE ia Oa Mit ANOS RIN oh ~~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOOKING back over the last twenty-five years, it is hard to
believe that anyone would be interested in what I have been do-
ing. Certainly the story would never get printed anywhere but
in a Class Year Book. Nothing any more exciting than has hap-
pened to most members of the Class, yet to me very few dull
moments other than those awaiting assignment at Overseas Re-

placement Depots.

Headed for the banking business after coming out of Harvard,
my career started in the European offices of the Hanover Bank.
Six months between Paris, Berlin and London, then back to New
York and the main office for a further period of training and
final assignment. The European part, I am afraid, was not as fully
appreciated then as it is now, as I was in Berlin during the height
of the depression and also when Hitler was just beginning to rise.
Certainly, no one was taking him too seriously as far as I can
remember. I stayed with the Hanover until 1936, then moved
to Brown Brothers Harriman and Company where I have been
associated ever since, although on leave of absence since 1953
in order to assist in the formation of our family partnership. So
much for business life. It has been an interesting one and in a
period when important changes in the viewpoint and methods
of bankers have taken place.

Now as to outside interests, I was brought up in a family much
interested in the horse and I acquired and have continued that
interest. Until the war years it was polo and some racing of
standard bred horses; since the war, it has been all the latter.
Both are sports in which one can participate. While at times
they have not been as relaxing as they should be, nevertheless,
they have always been diversionary. In addition, they have af-
forded opportunities to do things with one’s family. My older
son now drives a good race and I have yet to handle him in compe-
tition. Golf is a family affair. All of us play, though my daughter,
eight, is hardly able to swing a stick (if she continues to take
lessons from her ten-year-old brother who is a bug, she never

will).

The only gap not filled is the war years. From 1942 to 1946
I was an officer in the Air Corps, having arrived in that class
through direct commission and thus belonging to that group
known as the “go-day wonders”. My first two and a half years

[ 381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

were spent in the occupation of the State of Texas and my last
vear and a half in Europe, chiefly in the Occupation Air Force.

So much for my story. If anyone reads it, he cannot say I did
not warn him in the first paragraph that it was a waste of time.

HOWARD SAMUEL GIBERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 204 Ridgewood Drive, Falls Church, Va.

BorN: Nov. 19, 1909, Chatham, N. J. parents: Samuel Eugene Giberson,
Ethel Margurite Tobey.

PREPARED AT; Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MarRIED: Margaret Newton Allen, May 29, 1944, Cohasset, Mass. cHILD:
Anne Hope, April 23, 1946.

occupation: Editor, Army engineering publications.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.

STRANGELY enough (or is it?), I find the 25th year out one
of the more interesting periods of my life. I find I have, still,
possibly too much 1 interest in too many things.

To regress for the moment, after college we had the depression
years and relatively little “progress”. During these years, various
pursuits were followed, i.e.: farming, business, teaching. Then
came the war years, which placed me in the Army, chairborne,
stateside, from lieutenant to major. Following the war, I was
with the Veterans Administration and am now with the Depart-
ment of the Army. During this period, I lived approximately six
years in the Deep South, and gained some appreciation of south-
ern problems.

Now in Washington, D. C., a rather stimulating crossroad, I
am an editor of Army engineering publications and find the work
interesting, My avocations are gardening, patio building, land-
scaping, etc. (for physical recreation, Army Reserve affairs, pur-
suing graduate work in education at the George Washington
University (for mental recreation) and cultivating a wife and
daughter. In closing, let me say that this old world needs less Tass
and more Veritas.

[ 382 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE WARNER GIBSON

HOME AppRESS: 120 E. 75th St. New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: William Skinner & Sons, 12 W. goth St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 19, 1909, Brookline, Mass, parents: Kirkland Hopkins Gibson,
04, Florence Warner.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

’ YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Diana Vaughan Marvin, Nov. 15, 1947, New York, N. Y. cHicpren;:
George Langdon, July 22, 1950; Ellen Vaughan, Feb. 13, 1953, David
Hallowell, Sept. 14, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kirkland Hopkins Gibson, Jr., ’35

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, William Skinner & Sons, textiles.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City.

AFTER graduation and a two-year session at the Harvard Busi-
ness School, I started in the textile business as a mill hand in a
blanket mill in Nashua, New Hampshire. From there I went to
office and cost control work in a small yarn mill in Limerick,
Maine. Then, five years after graduation, I joined my present
firm as a salesman in our Boston office. During this time I en-
joyed the comparatively free and luxurious life of a bachelor in
and around Boston. I also received my first smattering of the
military by being a member of the Massachusetts State Guard’s
First Motor Squadron.

World War II ended this pleasant existence when in March,
1942, | was commissioned a lieutenant (j.g.) in the U. S. Naval
Reserve, and was immediately assigned duty as communication
watch officer at the local defense force station in East Boston.
Soon astronomical numbers of small craft ranging from tugs to
D. E.’s began pouring through the station and I became communi-
cation officer of a pre-commissioning unit. By dint of keeping
one page ahead of them in the navy manuals, we helped to teach
the officers and enlisted personnel on these new ships the intri-
cacies of U. S. naval communications. Two years later I was
reassigned to Pearl Harbor and after five months of training in
re a grand assault upon Japan itself, we set sail on V-J Day to
become the communication facilities of the occupational forces.
Now a lieutenant commander, I was executive officer of U. S.
Navy Radio Tokyo, headquartered at Yokosuka, Japan. [ re-
mained there until April, 1946, when I returned to the U. S. A.

[ 383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and was released to inactive duty after a four-year hitch of no
shots, no hits and plenty of errors.

I then returned to the textile business, rejoining William Skin-
ner & Sons in their New York office where I am currently and
happily occupied as vice-president in charge of sales of women’s
wear fabrics. I was married and now have three children, aged
five and under. We live in New York City in the winter and |
commute week-ends to and vacation in Maine in the summer.

HERBERT LYLE GILBERT

HOME ADDRESS: 5 Greenwood Ave., Greenwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hayden, Stone & Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 7, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frederic Samuel Gilbert, Ruth
Durant.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MarRriED: Doris M. Hutchinson, Oct. 12, 1940, Melrose, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Investments; assistant head of Margin Department, Hayden,
Stone & Company.

MY college career, sorry to say, was very brief. I entered Har-
vard in September, 1927, on a scholarship. But, after one year, I
found it necessary to seek employment. So, in September, 1928,
I became associated with Hayden, Stone & Company, where I
have been employed ever since — except for twenty-six months
of Army service.

Here let me say that up until this time I had had a hobby of
music, having been one of the Rhythm Twins on the radio—
but, due to the pressure of business during the Big Crash, had to
give this up. Then, during the depression, I decided that meteor-
ology was a good open field, so took that up as a hobby and a
possible future, Then came the war and, said I to myself, here
is my chance to get in the Air Corps with my knowledge of
meteorology. After three tries to sign up, I found I was too old.
So, I just waited until July, 1943, when Uncle Sam tapped me on
the shoulder and said, “Come”. I went! I landed in England in
April, 1944, with the 87th Chemical Mortar Battalion, landed in
France on June 8, 1944, and went through France into Germany

[ 384 |

 

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the Third Corps of the First Army, winding up at Leipzig
at the war’s close. In September, 1945, after twenty-six months
and five campaigns, I resumed civilian status and went back to the
uncertainties of the stock market.

JOSEPH HENRY GILDEA

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Prince St., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

Born: March 26, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Thomas Gildea, Catherine
Scanlon,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

occuPATION: District manager, a wholesale food company, New York.

CHARLES FREDERICK GILES

HOME ADDREss: 70 Lawrence Lane, Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Harry A. Gilbert, Inc., 1810 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1909, Cambridge, Mass, parents: John R, Giles, Mary Lydia
Cooper.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N, H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: $.B.. 1931.

MARRIED; Edna M. Nordgren, Dec. 5, 1936, Belmont, Mass. crmpren: Linda
Marnie, Jan. 2, 1938; John R. 2d, Feb. 15, 1941; Richard H., March 11,
1952.

occupation: Real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting member, Belmont, since 1942; trustee, Somer-
ville Hospital, since 1947, Somerset Savings Bank, since 1947; president,
1947, treasurer, since 1952, Kiwanis Club of Somerville; clerk, Payson
Park Congregational Church, since 1951; president, 1943-44, director,
since 1938, Middlesex Apartment Owners Association; assistant Cub
Scoutmaster, 1950-51; Master, Beaver Lodge, A.F. & A.M., 1941; High
Priest, Belmont Royal Arch Chapter, 1949; District Deputy Grand
Master, Waltham 5th Masonic District, 1954-55, treasurer, Belmont
Masonic Association, 1950.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club of Somerville; Harvard Club of Belmont; Boston
Real Estate Board; Middlesex Apartment Owners Association; Boothbay
Harbor Yacht Club; Beaver Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Belmont Royal Arch
Chapter; Boston Commandery No. 2, Aleppo Temple.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Apartment Management in New England, 1936-50.

IT hardly seems that twenty-five years have passed since gradu-
ation. In the midst of the greatest depression of all times I was

[ 385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

fortunate to start work in a local savings bank immediately upon
graduation. After about a year asa teller, I became associated with
a real estate office and for the past twenty-four years it has been
an extremely happy association.

Our offices were in Somerville until 1952, when we moved to
our present location on Massachusetts Avenue in North Cam-
bridge. Presently engaged in a general real estate business, we
manage several large apartment properties throughout Greater
Boston, sell both residential and investment properties, and con-
duct a general insurance business.

In December of 1936 I married Edna Nordgren of Belmont,
and we have lived in this town ever since. The passing years have
been good to us, and our family now consists of three children.
It is hard to believe that Linda is eighteen and a freshman at the
University of Maine. John, now fourteen, will be a sophomore
in high school next year. Three years ago Richard made his ap-
pearance and has changed an adult home to one of carts and
tricycles again.

It has not been our lot to do much traveling, but we have been
fortunate in spending our summers on an island in Boothbay
Harbor, Maine. Here we enjoy a modest boat with outboard
and the children do considerable sailing.

I have been active in politics only on the local level, having
served my town as a Town Meeting member for the past ten
years. Have joined the usual business, service and fraternal or-
ganizations, serving as president of the Somerville Kiwanis Club
and the Middlesex Apartment Owners Association. It was my
privilege to serve as Master of my Blue Lodge in 1941 and for
the last two years as District Deputy for the Waltham sth Mason-
ic District. :

Always interested in sports, I have long since given up any
active participation, but do enjoy expressing the spectator’s point
of view.

Twenty-five years have passed and we confidently look for-
ward to the next twenty-five with the sincere hope that they will
be as kind and happy as those just passed.

[ 386 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PERRY McMASTERS GILFILLAN

HOME AppRESS: 5424 Richmond Curve, Minneapolis 10, Minn.

OFFICE appREss: St. Barnabas Hospital, Minneapolis 4, Minn.

BORN: Aug. 31, 1909, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Perry K. Gilfillan, Louise
Warren Hoyt.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; B.D. (Seabury-Western
Theol. Seminary), 1935.

MARRIED: Barbara Pendleton, Nov. 23, 1940, Lawrence, Kans. CHILDREN:
David Pendleton, Oct. 29, 1942; Bruce Perry, March 26, 1945.

occuPATION: Clergyman; chaplain, St. Barnabas Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: President, Ministerial Association, Family Service Association,
Waterloo, Iowa; treasurer, Minnesota Mental Hygiene Association;
member Standing Committee, Diocese of Iowa, 1951-54; member
Diocesan Council, Iowa.

MEMBER OF: Fellowship of Reconciliation; Association of Protestant Hospital
Chaplains,

WITHOUT waiting for Commencement, I left Harvard to go
to work for the summer. It was a good job and I needed the
money, as I wanted to go on to theological school. As this wasn’t
possible in the fall, I started in on some evening courses at the
University of Minnesota and did some part-time work in my own
church. Early in 1932 I entered Seabury-Western Theological
Seminary where I stayed until June of 1934. One of the high-
lights of this period was a summer spent in the steambath known
as Cincinnati, where I joined a group of theologs in a special
summer school run by Dr. Bill Keller. Besides attending lectures
and discussions, we all spent our days in various social service
agencies, mine being the Cincinnati General Hospital. The fol-
lowing summer I had an equally, if not more, valuable experience
working and studying at the Elgin (Ill.) State Hospital under
the founder of the clinical pastoral training movement, Anton
Boisen.

Graduating in 1934 (actually not until 1935, although I did
leave in ’34), I went directly to Minneapolis where I began my
work as a part-time assistant at Gethsemane Episcopal Church and
as city missionary for the Episcopal Church. This latter involved
work in various public hospitals and homes of St. Paul and Minne-
apolis and also a certain amount of case work with some of the
victims of the depression, who needed help. It brought me into

[ 387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

recent acquisition, the St. Andrew’s Division. It is an interesting
life [ lead, and it has both advantages and disadvantages over that
in a parish.

This past summer found my family and me engaged in a real
camping expedition at long last. We spent three weeks in Glacier
and Teton Parks, camping among the bears and trees. We came
home greatly enthusiastic about this kind of life.

As one might suspect, again I am interested in social welfare
work. Just at present, my great concern is in promoting the re-
settlement of refugees in this state, While Episcopalians here
have done fairly well, better than I was able to promote in Iowa,
one is always “faced with the inertia and fears that beset so
many comfortable people, and this is frustrating. My service in
the line of community work was on a committee dealing with
possible racial discrimination in the field of nursing. I have also
joined the Association of Protestant Hospital Chaplains, a nation-
wide organization of ministers specializing in this work.

In Minneapolis we have bought a home. This has taken a good
deal of my time and energy because it has needed considerable
work done on it. Living in the city of lakes, however, I have
had to take some time off for swimming, a pleasant sport.

MONROE WOODS GILL

HOME ADDRESS: 102 Stewart St., Amsterdam, N. Y.

orrice aporess: % Mohawk Carpet Mills, Inc. Amsterdam, N. Y.

porn: Aug. 18, 1908, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: William Everett Gill, ’06,
Caroline Laura Wood.

Preparen aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

Maggie: Elizabeth Jane Stewart, June 16, 1945, Kansas City, Mo. CHIILDREN:
Geoffrey Woods, July 20, 1946, Christopher Monroe, July 15, 1949.

occupation: Manufacturing.

THOMAS WILLIAM GILLIGAN

HOME AND orvicz aporess: Hillbourne Hlouse, Chatham Road, South Orleans,
Mass.

boan: Jan. 6, 1907, Newton, Mass, parents: John Burke Gilligan, Ellen
Dillon.

[ 390 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1931 (32).

MARRIED: Martha Jane McDonald. cuipren: Donna Jane, Sept. 16, 1943;
Robert Stephen, July 19, 1946; Mathew John, Nov. 5, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Owner and operator, Hillbourne House, a summer inn, and of
Orleans Window Company.

MY life is my family. Nothing happened before. Donna attends
the Madams of the Sacred Heart in Newton. Robert is in the
fourth grade at St. Joan of Arc parochial school in Orleans.
Mathew is at home with his lovely mother. After years of lone-
liness Martha McDonald came into my life, and now life is worth
living.

LAWRENCE BICKLEY GILMAN

HOME appreEss; Corn Hill Lane, North Marshfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston 17, Mass.

BORN: March 22, 1909, Malden, Mass, parents: John Lewis Gilman, Sue
Evelyn Wiliams.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.,; Browne & Nichols School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B. (Mercer-Beasley Law
School), 1936.

MaRRIED: Charmian H. Woodruff, July 14, 1934, New London, N. H.
(divorced 1946); Ruth Louise Rider, July ro, 1948, Mansfield, Mass.
CHILDREN: Valerie Wilder, Oct. 27, 1935; Nicholas Pike, June 8, 1938;
Charmian Bickley, March 9, 1943; John Lawrence, Oct. 17, 1949; Louise
Crane, Dec. 9, 1953; Roger Johnstone, April 12, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lewis Eugene Gilman, ’22.

Occupation: Second vice-president, claim department, John Hancock Mutual
Life Insurance Company.

MEMBER oF: Association of Life Insurance Counsel; Eastern Claim Confer-
ence; Boston Club of the Harvard Business School Association; North
River Community Club.

I SUPPOSE one’s legal career starts when one has a law degree in
one hand and one has passed a state Bar examination (New
Jersey, 1937). Anyway, it isn’t advisable to start sooner. In those
days of the over-par dollar, from 1937 until the war, I found the
general practice of law in a large law office in the not too large
city of Elizabeth, New Jersey, exciting, absorbing and finan-"

[391 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

cially quite unrewarding. The lessons of active practice should
never be and are never quite forgotten.

Comes then an experience common and yet uncommon to most
of us — volunteering for military service. Maybe a year in old
Military Science helped to start me with a commission in the
Army Air Corps. There followed thirty-two months of over-
seas duty in the central Pacific, commanding small detachments
furnishing radio aids to navigation on numerous little coral atolls,
since made toothsome by many a fair tale and song. If I had only
recognized them for what they were worth then and made a
few notes!

Upon returning, the world seemed and was different, it called
for a change of locale and job. I joined the law department of
the John Hancock in 1946 and thought I had found a niche for
the remaining days of my years, when opportunity presented
itself to transfer from the rdéle of associate counsel to the general
administration of a large and necessary claim department in Sep-
tember, 1945, with the title of Claim Director. And of matters
other than business pursued on the banks of a tidal river in a
small town thirty miles southeast of Boston, it seemed basic to
combine a hobby with the practical, and gardening was it. It 1s
rather a special kind of way to irritate the soil, known as organic
gardening. Produce picked, transported and quickly placed in
the deep freezer to turn up on the table in the non-growing sea-
sons rounds out the cycle. Coupled with a small orchard, tree
farming, logging and splitting wood for the fireplace, and the
seasons merge quietly into one another, as well as the years.

I have no real political tubs to thump, except to say that I have
waited with ever-diminishing patience for the last Harvard facul-
ty member to sign the last petition in favor of some Communist
cause and with ever-dimming hope for the first Harvard faculty
member to sign the first petition for a really all-out effort to
perfect an intercontinental ballistic missile—the sine qua non
for survival.

[ 392 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT AUGUSTUS GILMAN

HOME aporEss: 160 Longwood Ave. Apt. 2, Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1908, Boston, Mass, parENTS: Harry Augustus Gilman, Mabel
Celeste Langille.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
1936.

MARRIED: Janet Russell Barnes, Feb. 3, 1934, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1950);
Marion F. Wilband Denison, June 30, 1952. CHILDREN: John Howland
Denison, 1942; David Old-Mixon Denison, 1944 (stepchildren). Heather,
Dec. 16, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Lawrence Gilman, '25, M.D. °29.

OCCUPATION: Banker.

REFERENCE is hereby made to all previous Class Reports and
I shall continue from the 1951 Report. Since that Report, there
have been two major events in my life. On June 30, 1952, I mar-
ried Mrs. Marion Denison and acquired two stepsons, John How-
land Denison, now fourteen and David Old-Mixon Denison, now
twelve years of age. On August 1, 1955, after a month and half
more than twenty-two years with the Pilgrim Trust Company in
Boston, Massachusetts, I resigned. As of today I am unemployed
but looking for a position in the financial world.

ARON SEYMOUR GILMARTIN

HOME ADDRESS: 6223 28th Ave., N.E., Seattle 15, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University Unitarian Church, 4555 16th Ave. N.E., Scattle 5,
Wash.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1910, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: Edward Patrick Gilmartin,
Lillian M. Cohn.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B., 1931; B.D. (Meadville Theological
School), 1933.

MarRieD: Helen Olivia Lasker, April 24, 1934, Chicago, Ill. cuitpren: David,
Feb. 1, 1941; Alice Naomi, Dec. 9, 1942; Peter Ward, June 28, 1949.

occupation: Minister, University Unitarian Church, Seattle.

OFFicrs HELD: President, Urban League of Fort Wayne; board member,
Seattle Urban League, Pacific Coast Unitarian Council; co-chairman,
Crusade for Children (UNICEF), Fort Wayne; chairman, Seattle CARE
Committee; vice-president, Unitarian Fellowship for Social Justice;
board member, former chairman, Workers Defense League.

MEMBER OF: AF, & A.M.

[ 393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

HELL-BENT on becoming a minister — but fast — Commence-
ment Day saw this new graduate well on the way to Chicago
to begin at once preparation for this chosen career. The same
drive saw three years’ study crammed into two, but when com-
pleted, there were no immediate openings for budding preachers
and would-be saviors of the world. So, my career began as a
case worker for the Cook County Public Welfare in Chicago.
In the spring of 1934 I began to serve the Unitarian Church at
Des Moines and was soon called to become its minister. By the
summer of 1935 I had left that church and the ministry. This
separation from my chosen life’s work was to extend for about
six years, years filled with many new and invaluable experiences
and opportunities.

Today it is almost popular to be interested in “civil liberties”.
But in the ’30’s it was hardly respectable, especially if the civil
liberties in question were those of working men and women
struggling to better their condition through the organization of
the unions, etc. I had learned my first “lesson” in this subject
while yet in theological school, when I had made a visit to
“bloody” Harlan and Bell counties in Kentucky. In Iowa I had
helped form the state chapter of the American Civil Liberties
Union, and served as its first secretary. Now I spent four years
working on behalf of the sharecroppers of the South and other
groups whose rights under the first ten amendments were being
violated. In 1936 I made the investigation in Arkansas which
brought about a prosecution of a local deputy sheriff for “prac-
tising slavery”. It was the first such conviction in more than
fifty years — and exposed a condition of involuntary servitude
which had grown up in various parts of the country. In the course
of this period, I joined in the formation of the Workers Defense
League and became its executive secretary. This interest in our
basic democratic rights still remains strong, and I now find myself
the chairman of the Washington State Chapter of the American
Civil Liberties Union.

For reasons of health I left this work and became director of
the Historical Records Survey in Massachusetts. This was a
very pleasant interlude, made more so by reason of being back
in the Hub. But my first interest reasserted itself, and soon I
was again a minister at Newburgh, New York, later at Fort

[ 394 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Wayne, Indiana, and now for four years at Seattle. This is my
life; that I know now with new depths of meaning and under-
standing. It has been my fortune to have married a woman who
shared my basic beliefs, but had the common sense to balance
my enthusiasms without dampening my spirits. Our children
overtake us, not only in size but in smartness and ability. Camping
is now our chief family vacation “hobby”, with much of the
Northwest yet to be seen.

In earlicr years I spent some summers as head counsellor at a
boys’ camp in Bear Mountain Park, New York. Then for several
summers I was on the staff of the remarkable educational project
called the Encampment for Citizenship. On two occasions, my
wife and I have served as directors of a service camp for high
school young people under the auspices of the Unitarian Service
Committee. The latest of these experiences was this past summer
in the Navajo country, where we came to love the red rocks
and the wondrous canyons. And there I became a camera fan
for the first time. We had always looked forward to a place of
our own on Cape Cod — finally we purchased a lovely cottage
at Dennis. But that was the year we decided to move to Seattle,
and so we never occupied it and now it is sold, The Northwest
Claims our loyalties now, and I doubt if we would want to go
back — even if we could afford it. Come and see why for your-
self,

ROBERT GILMOR

HOME AappREss: Woodbury, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis, 25 Broad St., New York 4,
N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Robert Gilmor, Olina Max-
well.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-193}!. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Elizabeth S. Robert, April 7, 1934, Washington, D. C, (died Feb. 4,
1954); Elizabeth Kavanagh Meyer, Aug. 6, 1955, Woodbury, Long
Island, N. Y. cuitpren: Robert, Jr., Aug. 21, 1935; Elizabeth Stark,
Nov. 16, 1937; William Gavin, July 18, 1941; Elizabeth A. Meyer (step-
daughter), July 18, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Robert Gilmor, Jr., ’57.

[ 395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

OCCUPATION: Partner, Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis, securities.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. John’s Episcopal Church, Cold Spring Harbor,
N. Y.; member Public School Board, Woodbury.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club.

BROUGHT up in an atmosphere of securities and the buying and
selling of same, it wasn’t too unusual that at an early age I aimed
for the same career. Harvard and its many facets nearly changed
that several times, but in the end and upon graduation, I found
myself starting on the ladder of the securities business in New
York. It was not an auspicious or very bright time to “butt” into
the field and times didn’t change much for some years.

Early in 1934 I became a member of the New York Stock Ex-
change and very soon thereafter was married, There ensued
eight happy years of marriage, the arrival of two boys and a girl,
and business. The last was somewhat marred by the hostile New
Deal for which anything capitalistic was evil.

December, 1941, was the last straw and any hope of the United
States miraculously averting war vanished. From June, 1942, to
November, 1945, the Navy was boss. I was fortunate and man-
aged to spend most of that time doing work that I enjoyed and
had aptitude for— Fighter Direction. Eventually I wound up
on a night aircraft carrier in the Pacific and had the satisfaction
of anchoring in Tokyo Bay in September, 1945 — sound of wind
and limb.

By November, 1945, I was back in the securities business which,
after the passage of four years, had a brighter and more pros-
perous look. But the family was older, the dollar cheaper —so it
took more of the latter to satisfy the former and what I made on
the bananas, I lost on the peanuts.

Along in 1949 I exchanged my lone wolf type of business exist-
ence for a partnership, thus acquiring some forty partners, (Note:
we all know each other’s first and last names.) _

In 1954 the roughest blow of life, thus far, fell. My devoted
and capable wife, on whose affection and wise counsel I had
relied so heavily for nearly twenty years, died. Only deep per-
sonal convictions, faith in the Almighty, and the needs of three
youngsters carried me through.

Remarriage in 1955, bringing with it an enthusiastic stepdaugh-
ter, inaugurates a new phase with much promise.

[ 396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Athletics and games of all sorts continue to be my relaxation
and interest. Although the baseball spikes have now been hung
up irrevocably (but only since 1949), golf and occasional tennis
games, in which the young show much skill and aptitude, occupy
the summer months.

But I guess the best interest of all is the youngsters. With one
a junior at Harvard, we have an even keener interest in June,

1956.

HENRY SIMON GLAZIER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 112 E. 61st St., New York, N. Y.

oFFice appress: + William St., New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: June 21, 1910, Hartsdale, N. Y. parents: Henry Simon Glazicr, '89,
Rena Jacobi.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1930, 1931-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1931(32).

OCCUPATION: Personal investments: securitics and real estate.

OFFIcEs HELD: Member board of directors, Jewish Board of Guardians, Big
Brothers of America; member board of directors and various commit-
tees, Girls Service League, Irvington House; chairman Parole Committee,
member various committees, Hawthorne-Cedar Knolls School; active
big brother, chairman and member various committees, Big Brothers of
the Jewish Board of Guardians; member various committees, Stuyvesant
Residence Club, Country Sanatorium of the Montefiore Hospital.

MEMBER oF: Century Country Club, White Plains, N. Y., 1936-48.

IN business I have been associated with Pynson Printers, 1933,
Asiel & Company and Stern, Kempner & Company, members of
the New York Stock Exchange, and with the real estate firm of
Brown, Wheelock, Harris, Stevens. Since 1940 I have devoted
full time to my own office.

From April, 1942, unul October, 1945, I served in the Air Corps,
first in anti-submarine work, then in heavy bombardment, and
had overseas duty with the 498th Bombardment Group, v.h., in
the Pacific area. I was discharged with the rank of technical
sergeant, Travels for vacation and pleasure have included trips
to various parts of the United States, western Europe, India, and
central and southern Africa.

[ 397 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

NATHANIEL FRANK GLIDDEN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 18 King Se., Englewood, N. J.
OFFICE Appress: Glidden & McCormick, 33 W. 42d St. New York 36, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1909, Clinton, N. Y. Parents: Nathaniel Frank Glidden, ’o3,
Florence Tower Cheney.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

smarrieD: Olive Paxton Drew, March 11, 1933, Sparkill, N. Y. cHILpren:
Carvel, May 14, 1936; Nathaniel Frank, 3d, June 11, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Germain Green Glidden, ’36; John Cheney Glidden, 41.

occuPATION: Public accountant; partner, Glidden & McCormick.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, several private clubs and corporations; director,
several corporations.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Englewood Field Club;
Englewood Men’s Club; The 300 Club; Heart’s Club of New York;
S.P.E.B.S.Q.S.A.

PUBLICATIONS: Several short pieces on squash racquets.

FOR guidance in a perplexing task, I read my father’s words for
his reunion. He wrote, “There is very little chance any of us
will say anything of value, but our Class Secretary insists; so
here goes”.

It didn’t take long to accept the fact I was not going to “become
a Morgan partner before thirty” or write the first great American
play. Since then I have been re-discovering and confirming the
homely truths and principles that we all heard but ignored: To
do something for other people is the best enjoyment in the
world. The simple things are the most important — one’s fam-
ily, the respect and liking of a few friends, and so on — citing
others would be to compound dullness.

To only a few of us is it given to contribute to our fellow men.
Writing a book or advancing science is a rare privilege. I have
two children who may contribute significantly (I mean merely
that they have an arithmetical chance — not that they have shown
signs of genius). So, if I am reconciled to not making a contribu-
tion to the arts or sciences, at least, through parenthood I provide
a potential contribution by a member of my family.

One alleviation of life’s infinite woes is the custom of being
friendly. I insist that I always am—at first, anyway. Many
Harvard men are afraid to smile; they are too wary of self-
seckers or too fearful of a rebuff, too conscious of their relative

[ 398 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

station in the economic or social peck-right scale. They add to
the peine dure of life.

Here are some random “firsts” or “mosts”: favorite authors —
Shakespeare, Bertrand Russell; most enjoyable athletic spectacle
— (amateur) watching Ben play football and my brother, Ger-
main, play squash (professional), The Babe at bat and Tilden
hitting a tennis ball; most unbelievable facts — that anyone can
high-jump six feet eleven inches, that one-sixth of all the men
who ever lived are alive today; most memorable quotations —
by Enobarbus in Antony and Cleopatra —

Age cannot wither her nor custom stale

Her infinite variety. Other women cloy

The appetites they feed, but she makes hungry

Where most she satisfies...
and several by Churchill which you all know, and by Shaw, the
world’s most disillusioning sentence — “Young men vastly exag-
gerate the difference in young women”.

If any young man should seek my advice, I would recommend
Harvard unless he lived near Boston (part of education is to be
exposed to different environments). I would say, “Iry to want
to do something — archaeology, sports writing, the study of
socialism, anything. Don’t let anyone influence you in your
choice of fields. You will be so fortunate if you know what you'd
like to do”.

+ CURTIS HENDERSON GLOVER

BORN: Oct. 2, 1908, Indianapolis, Ind. parents: George Curtis Glover, Mary
Henderson. °

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

pieD: Nov. rg, 1933, Melrose Highlands, Mass.

BEFORE coming to Harvard, Glover had attended Dartmouth
College. He received an S.B. from Harvard and was preparing
himself for library work at the time of his death.

[ 399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

HENRI GOETZ

HOME ADORESS: 72 Rue Notre-Dame des Champs, Paris VI, France.

BORN; Sept. 29, 1909. New York, N. Y. parents: Armand Edgar Goetz,
Florence Goldsmith.

PREPARED AT: Far Rockaway High School, Far Rockaway, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MaargieD: Christine Boumeester, 1935, Paris, France.

OCCUPATION: Artst.

orrices HELD: Professor of painting, Académie Ranson, Paris, 1951-55,
American Schools of Fontainebleau, 1953-55, Académie de la Grande
Chaumitre, Paris, 1955.

PUBLICATIONS: Illustrations in La Fenrne Facile, by Hugnet, 1942, Explora-
tions, by Picabia, 1947, A la Gloire de la Main, by Graphies, 1949,
Inductives, by Clarac-Serou, 1950; Henri Goetz, by Jean Roger Lorsky,
1952.

IN my painting career [ have held twenty one-man shows, held
exhibitions in most of the countries in Europe and America, had
pictures in some museums, gave a series of lectures on painting on
the French radio in 1945, and have done film decors. I have been
teaching since 1950.

In 1949 I became a naturalized French citizen. I can report
few travels, no hobbies, no family, and no political or religious
convictions,

EDWARD FRANCIS GOGGIN, JR.

HOME aDoRESS: 54 Homesdale Ave. Southington, Conn.

orrice apogess: Chandler Evans Div., Pratt and Whitney, West Hartford,
Conn.

Born: Feb, 13, 1910, Pawtucket, R. I. parents: Edward Francis Goggin,
Mary Ellen McEnelly.

perparep at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930, 1931-1932.

Makwp: Elizabeth Taylor, Nov, 21, 1935, Springfield, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan
Flizabeth, June 3, 1937; Virginia Lois, July 31, 1939; Anne Geraldine,
Nov, 21, 1942; Edward Francis, Feb. 23, 1945 (deceased); James
Levergne, Oct. 20, 1947; Dorothy Claire, March 15, 1949; Elinore Marie,
Sept. 25, 195}.

Hanvagp pacrien: Richard Xavier Goggin, °36.

uoLvation: Production engineer, aircraft accessory manufacturing.

[ 400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, Southington Lions Club, 1953.
MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus; Lions International; Harvard Club of
Connecticut.

THE years 1956-1931 — no matter how you subtract it, they do
add up to twenty-five. Now wiser, I hope, with a large stock
of intangible assets, with a perpetually precarious working cash
position, I am trying to write an annual report covering twenty-
five years.

My wife and I, five daughters and one son have been living
for the past ten years in a small town half way between Hartford
and New Haven, Connecticut, definitely in Yale territory. I
commute to West Hartford by car. We are now interested in
P.T.A., Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, town zoning proposals, church
activities, Lions Club doings and the other functions that go to
make up small town living. Joan, our eldest daughter, is a
freshman at Notre Dame College in Baltimore, Maryland, the
next four are in Southington schools, so our P.T.A. demands are
many.

Summers we spend at Indian Neck, Branford, Connecticut,
and in June see the antics of various Yale class reunions at the
Montowese Hotel. Here all the kids have learned to swim,
handle boats and look across the ocean. Even Ellie, who is only
two, can stay afloat for a few strokes. I play golf, the low
eighties occasionally, tennis, but only with the kids, and par-
ticipate with them in their other sports and athletics. We both
enjoy bridge and I occasionally play duplicate at the Meriden
Bridge Club.

Starting in 1932, I spent a year and a half in a training program
with a Hartford department store. Resigned to work on one
of the Dollar Line World Cruise ships. After one quick look at
the other side of the world, I joined the diesel engineering de-
partment of the American Bosch Corporation. After four years
there, and two years as salesman for the Silex Company, I joined
Chandler-Evans.

During the early war years I was a field engineer and fol-
lowed early experimental flight tests on the B-29 and B-24 Bomb-
ers in San Diego and Seattle. Chandler Evans made the carburetor
and other engine accessories for these planes. In 1943 my family
moved to Wichita, Kansas. For two years I supervised CECO

[ 401 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

service activities between the Mississippi and the Rockies. We
spent one memorable summer vacation in Colorado. Since then
I have been engaged in sales, service and production engineering
work with this company, which has recently been acquired by
the Penn Texas Corporation.

The way has been varied and some of the mountains high and
rough, but the companions have been the best, and the view, at
times, awe-inspiring.

GEORGE GOLD

HOME ADDRESS: 2001 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston School Dept., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 26, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Gold, Mildred Kessler.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; ED.M., 1933.

MARRIED: Stella Katz, Sept. 15, 1934, Bethlehem, N. H. cuitp: Richard Hugh,

Nov. 22, 1940.

occupation: High school teacher of social studies.

THERE is little for me to write about. Although I traveled abroad
and in the West Indies as a musician during my school years, |
have remained in Boston ever since. I began teaching in the
Boston public schools upon graduating and have remained there
at the teacher level. My summers are spent in the White Moun-
tains of New Hampshire among the Presidential peaks. Besides
my teaching, I also spend part of my winter as a “jazz musician”
—this supplies some of the money needed by an under-paid
school teacher.

DAVID ELIOT GOLDMAN

HOME AppRESS: 7020 Wilson Lane, Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Naval Medical Research Institute, Bethesda, Md.

BorN: Aug. 11, 1910, Boston, Mass. paRENTs: Hiram Reuben Goldman,
Sophie Loman.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 PH.D. (Columbia Univ.),
1943.

MarRieD: Jeanne Loewenstam, Jan, 2, 1938, Salem, N. H. cuHitp: James
Eliot, Oct. 26, 1946.

OCCUPATION; Research.

[ 402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL GOLDRING

HOME aAppreEss: 27 Abbott St., Dorchester 24, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tracerlab, Inc., 130 High St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb, 18, 1910, Paterson, N, J. parents: Jacob Goldring, Minnie Ar-
beitman,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: S.B, IN ED. (Mass. Normal Art School),

1935.
mMarrigD: Dorothy Rosenberg, Jan. 19, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHioreN; Sharon

Lee, Feb. 5, 1946, Helen Gail, July 27, 1948, Ina Faye, April 9, 1953
(died June 22, 1954).
occupation: Assistant chief draftsman and checker, Tracerlab, Inc., nucleonic
and electronic instruments.
MEMBER OF: Knights of Pythias, Commonwealth No, 19.
NOTHING of particular significance has happened to me except
my marriage (life began at thirty for me!) and my children.
However, the following may be of some interest. After Harvard
I went to the Massachusetts (Normal) School of Art, where I
graduated in June, 1935, with an S.B. degree in Education, after
having led the teacher training department scholastically for
four years. During the next five years I did substitute teaching
of art and mechanical drawing, a rather unremunerative and
thankless proposition at that time. I also took evening courses,
earning most of the credits for an Ed.M. degree...

After rejection by the Armed Forces for severe vasomotor
rhinitis (allergies), I spent the four years that we were at war
working on defense projects as a detail and layout mechanical
draftsman at the Watertown Arsenal and the A. S, Campbell
Company, Inc., and taking many evening courses in order
better to fit myself for my newly-chosen career of mechanical
design and engineering. For three years I worked at the Auto-
matic Radio Manufacturing Company, where I was head of a
small drafting department. About this time I enrolled in the
Lowell Institute School at M.I-T., going three to four nights a
week for two years, and earned my Certificate in Mechanical
Engineering and Machine Design in 1948. I worked at the In-
strumentation Laboratory of M.LT. for four years where I did
design, layout and checking of electromechanical units. Then
I accepted a position at Tracerlab, Inc. I was to be chief checker
and assistant to the chief draftsman. During the past four years

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

some of my time has been spent in supervising, a goodly part in
designing and layout, and the greater part in checking of mechan-
ical, electronic-mechanical and nucleonic instruments. By work-
ing at these different companies, I have been able to get an in-
teresting and broad variety of different types of experience. I
have also been taking some electrical and electronic courses.
During 1953-54 I received a Lowell Certificate in Advanced
Machine Design and during 1954-55 I went back to Lowell
three nights a week, receiving the Certificate in Electrical
Engineering. It just seems as though I never have stopped being
a student and, perhaps, I never will!

Sportswise, I like to keep active — swimming, hiking and ten-
nis, etc. With all my studies I still have found time for some
hobbies, which include artwork and cartooning; occasionally |
design greeting cards and do free lance drawing and design.
For a few years I conducted an art club. Two years ago |
began collecting stamps. Over the years I have drawn many
doodles, thumbnail sketches and abstractions. I have also writ-
ten many things, verse, free verse, jingles (light, serious and
semi-serious). Some time ago I had published (for private dis-
tribution only) a short collection of my writings. At present
I am in the process of writing a book to be entitled Doodles,
Artistic and Poetic, subtitle, An Unusual and Novel Approach
to Art Appreciation of the Layman, Student and Artist. This
book purports to be a semi-serious approach to a pseudo-gran-
diose subject, in which I plan to include hundreds of thumbnail
sketches and doodles (not droodles!), both mine and others,
and many of my poetic writings, attempting to correlate them,
illustrating doodles with verse, and vice versa. I also plan to
touch on the psychological implications and therapeutic possi-
bilities of doodling. Incidentally, I should be happy to receive
any doodles, thumbnail sketches, telephonies (telephone doodles)
and doodle-verse of Class members with a brief note as to the
circumstances of the doing of the doodles, with a view to
possible inclusion in my proposed book... if I live long
enough and if I ever stop going to school, I hope eventually to
find time to finish my book!

[ 404 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ HARRY WRIGHT GOODHUE

BoRN: July 7, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Harry Eldredge Goodhue,
Mary Louise Wright.
PREPARED at: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.
piep: Aug. 12, 1931, Providence, R. I.
AT an early age Goodhue became a draftsman with the Boston
architectural firm of Allen & Collens and also attended the Nor-
mal School of Art. When he was nineteen he had constructed the
stained glass windows of the Second Universalist Church in
Boston, and the windows of the chapel at Mercersburg Academy,
Pennsylvania. He spent freshman and sophomore years with
our Class and then returned to stained glass design, in which,
like his father, he became one of the country’s foremost artisans.
Among his outstanding accomplishments are the six thirteen-foot
lancet windows for the ambulatory of the Riverside Church in
New York. He also designed windows for the Mt, Auburn
crematory chapel, a memorial chapel in Maine, the Church of
the Sacred Heart in Jersey City, Se. Paul’s Friary in Garrison,
New York, and for a church in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

WILLIAM SHREWSBURY GOODHUE

HOME ADDRESS: 416 Pleasant St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fessenden School, West Newton, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 17, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Harry Eldredge Goodhue,
Mary Louise Wright.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; ED.M., 1936.

MARRIED: Clyde Elaine Wood, Dec. 31, 1933, Cambridge, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harry Wright Goodhue, °31.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

MY first two years out were spent with a weekly newspaper,
where I handled the news and did a little writing of advertising
copy. I liked the work but — like so many occupations in those
years — it seemed a dead end; so, I was glad to switch to a very
minor teaching job in the fall of 1933. After a year of that I
Spent two years in the graduate school from which I emerged
with an Ed.M. into a world in which good teaching jobs seemed

[ 405 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Unquestionably, the cleverest thing I ever did was to marry a
wonderful wife. The union was contemplated before graduation
and undertaken soon after; and even were it to end at this moment,
I would still consider myself the luckiest boy in this class or any
other.

PAUL PYZER GOODMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 4965 N. Larkin St., Milwaukee, Wis.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 945 N. 12th St., Room 101, Milwaukee 3, Wis.

BORN: June 22, 1910, Milwaukee, Wis. ParENTs: Joseph Goodman, Sarah
Goldstein.

PREPARED AT: West Division High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: S.B. (Univ. of Wisconsin), 1931; M.D.
(Ibid.), 1934.

MARRIED: Margaret Helen Lewis, Jan. 13, 1940, Milwaukee, Wis. CHILDREN:
Patricia Ann, April 19, 1942; John Lewis, Dec. 26, 1946, Lawrence
Albert, Aug. 8, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jay Stephan Goodman, ’30.

occupation: Physician and surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Wisconsin and Milwaukee
County Medical Societies.

AFTER finishing my junior year at Harvard, I entered medical
school at the University of Wisconsin and graduated in 1934. The
following year was spent in serving my internship at Touro
Infirmary at New Orleans, Louisiana, and then I went on active
duty as a reserve officer in the U. S. Medical Corps until 1937.
The first three months of 1937 were spent in postgraduate train-
ing at Bellevue Hospital in New York, and then I continued my
training in obstetrics and gynecology at the Presbyterian Hospital
in Chicago, from March, 1937, to March, 1938. Thereupon, I
entered private practice in obstetrics and gynecology in Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin, In January, 1940, I married Margaret Helen
Lewis. The five-year period between January, 1940, and Decem-
ber, 1945, was spent at “the convenience of the government” on
active duty with the Medical Corps, three years of which were
spent on overseas duty in northern Ireland and England. During
that interval my daughter, Patricia Ann, was born. After return
ing to civilian life, I resumed practice and have been busy since

[ 408 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

then with medical problems, hospital problems and family prob-
lems. There are now five of us in the family, the other two addi-
tions being Johnny and Larry, My chief extra-curricular activity,
at present, is trying to keep up with my children.

FRANCIS MARION GOODWIN, JR.

HOME AboRESS: 5 Sunnybrook Rd. Bronxville, N. Y.

orrice aporess; Ford International, 445 Park Ave.. New York, N. Y.

porn: Nov. 2, 1910, Spokane, Wash. parents: Francis Marion Goodwin,
Margaret Carnan.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D. C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 19313 M.B.A. 1933,

MaRRrieD: Ann Sproule, July 13, 1946, New York, N. Y. cup: Nancy,
Sept. 9, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Carnan Goodwin, °24.

occuPATION: Manager, banking and credit department, International Divi-
sion, Ford Motor Company.

OFFICES HELD; National bank examiner, U. S. Treasury Department, 1940-50;
lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R, World War IL

MEMBER OF: University Club, New York, University Club, Washington,
D. C.; St. Andrews Golf Club, Hastings-on-Hudson, New York,

AFTER graduating from the Business School I spent a year study-
ing economics at Cambridge University and playing a good bit
of golf on the side as a member of the golf team there. It then
being high time to get to work, I took a job with the Treasury
Department as an assistant national bank examiner. This led me
over most of the east coast and before long into examination of
foreign branches of American banks all over the world. I was
commissioned after several years as a national bank examiner and,
when we started freezing funds belonging to non-residents in
1941, I was drafted for this job and spent the six months prior to
Pearl Harbor as Treasury Supervisor of Mitsui & Company of
Japan, having quite a time in licensing their far-flung operations
run from their New York Office.

I joined the Navy shortly after Pearl Harbor and went to the
first Quonset class for AUS officers. After a year in aviation cadet
training at Corpus Christi I went back to Quonset for the Air
Combat Intelligence course and spent the rest of the war as ACI

[ 409 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

officer for several squadrons and air groups and spent some time
on the Yorktown in the Fast Carrier Task Force.

Resumed globe trotting in the form of bank examining after
the war, but having at last managed to get married, this was no
longer quite satisfactory and I joined the finance department in
the International Division of Ford in 1950. This, of course, also
requires considerable travel abroad but at least of shorter dura-
tion and it’s easier to take my wife along on occasion (child prob-
lems permitting). It has been a very interesting and testing ex-
perience assisting in the Ford comeback and certainly not restful,
which may account in part for my failure to show up for more
reunions, dinners, etc.

In fact, with an impending move of our offices to Detroit and
the probability that I shall be in Europe in June, the odds don’t
seem to favor my making the 25th; but, here’s hoping! Golf con-
tinues to be my favorite recreation and I hope to cross clubs with
some of my classmates if I can make it in June.

VOJISLAV PETROV GOPCEVIC

HOME ADDRESS: Carter Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stewart N. Clarkson Associates, 420 Lexington Ave., New
York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 13, 1904, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Peter Mitrov Gopcevic,
Lucille Louise Barlow.

PREPARED AT: Institut Minerva, Ziirich, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

MarrieD; Nina Archer Baugh, 2d, July 13, 1935, Jamestown, R. I. cHILpREN:
Nina Petrova, May 20, 1936; Tania Petrova, June 14, 1937; Milos Petrov,
Aug. 14, 1941; Andria Petrov, May 17, 1944.

OCCUPATION: President, Stewart N. Clarkson Associates — trade association
management.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New Canaan and New York.

PUBLICATIONS: “Treasures of the World”.

ARTHUR JOSEPH GORNEY

HOME aAppress: 140 Pond Brook Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 14 Charlesgate, W., Boston, Mass,

BoRN: April 29, 1911, Malden, Mass, parents: Ellis Gorney, Hattie Zonn.
PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Boston, Mass.

[ 410 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935.

marrieD: Ruth Seligman, Aug. 16, 1935, Derry, N. H. campren: Martin
Howard, May 27, 1938; Barbara Louise, May 20, 1942.

occuPaTION: Physician, specializing in diseases of the ear, nose and throat,
with special emphasis on related plastic surgery and on hearing disorders.

orrices HELD: Surgeon-in-chief for otolaryngology, Boston City Hospital,
since 1954; chairman, Board of Otologic Consultants, Boston Guild for
the Hard of Hearing, since 1950, assistant clinical professor of otolar-
yngology, Tufts University School of Medicine, since 1954; commander
of Newton Post, 1949, surgeon, Department of Massachusetts, 1946-50,
deputy national surgeon, 1948-50, Jewish War Veterans of the United
States.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, American Academy of Ophthal-
mology and Otolaryngology; New England Orolaryngological Socicty,
American Otorhinologic Society for Plastic Surgery; Massachusetts
Medical Society; Charles River District Medical Society; Greater Boston
Medical Society; Boston City Hospital Aural and Ophthalmic Society;
Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Fraternity; Jewish War Veterans of the
United States; Tufts Medical Alumni Association; Pan American Asso-
ciation of Ororhinolaryngology and Broncho-esophagology.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers in different medical journals,

IT is interesting to look through the several Class Reports that
have been published up to now. Most of us, and certainly it
would be true of me, would have been greatly astonished if we
could have read twenty-five years ago the life narratives which
we find in this book.

During college days and long before, I knew approximately
what I wanted: that was to study medicine. Accordingly, I
spent four very busy and wonderful years at Tufts College
Medical School (now Tufts University School of Medicine).
While taking part of my fourth-year clinical work at the Beth
Isracl Hospital at Boston, I seemed to find a student nurse named
Ruth Seligman in attendance very often with the patients whom
I was to examine. We both lived in the same Boston suburb,
and so rides home together finally led to marriage a short time
after my completing medical school. Of course, the fact that
my first internship was at the Beth Israel Hospital made it so
much easier to maintain the pace of the courtship until marriage.

A year at the Beth Israel] in the study of ear, nose, and throat
was followed by a general internship at St. John’s Hospital in
Lowell, and then back to school at the Graduate School of
Medicine of the University of Pennsylvania for a year’s advanced

[411]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Finally, I wish to present some well-deserved plaudits to my
wonderful wife, who went through the first eleven years of our
marriage (now almost twenty-one) without complaint, even
though they were extremely difficult because of so many disloca-
tions ” of time and place, both during the postgraduate training
period and during the war. It was not until after those eleven
years had passed that we were able to settle down in one place
and live a normal life. Without her codperation and encourage-
ment, it would have been impossible to go on.

WILLIAM JOSEPH GOVAN

HOME ADDRESS: 447 Beverwil Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE AppREss: Standard Steel Corp., 5001 Boyle Ave., Los Angeles 58, Calif.

BORN: July 28, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: William Joseph Govan, Marie
Emma Bourque.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

MARRIED: Katherine Theresa Flynn, July 18, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Gregory, Nov. 9, 1937; Richard William, Sept. 18, 1940; Gabrielle
Marie, Oct. 26, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gerard William Govan, ’27.

occupation: Chemical engineer.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Chemical Engineers; American Oil
Chemists’ Society, Newman Club of Los Angeles; Wilshire Center
Toastmasters Club; Registered Professional Engineer, California and
Illinois.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical articles in Journal of the American Oil Chemists
Society and Journal of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, con-
tributor to “Cottonseed and Cottonseed Products”, Interscience Pub-
lishers, Inc., 1948.

IN 1938 I moved my family from Concord, Massachusetts, to
San Diego, California, to take on a new position in that city, It
was a drastic change of environment and my wife and I felt like
displaced persons for a time until I met and became fast friends
with the chemist of the local brewery. Life then took on a rosy
hue. During this period, my second boy and girl were born.
Stull on the move, we went on to Chicago in 1943 and I took
a position with a small engineering firm in that city. Life and
work were fairly pleasant and we made many convivial friends.
However, the rigors of the northern climate finally undermined

[ 414 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

our health and in 1946 we trekked across the country by auto to
our old home in San Diego. After three rewarding years in San
Diego, in which I rehabilitated and redesigned a chemical proc-
essing plant, I took a position as project engineer with a large
construction engineering company in Los Angeles, During this
period my work took me to Boston for three months. While
there, my wife flew on to join me and we had a pleasant few
weeks revisiting old scenes and friends. Later I took on some
consulting work and more recently have been working as a process
designer on rotary dryers and kilns.

Life has been good to our family. We have finally put down
roots here in Beverly Hills. We are active in our Catholic par ish
of the Church of the Good Shepherd. My wife and I are growing
into middle age gracefully, enjoying our friends, our children and
their young friends. Our elder boy, Greg, is studying for the
priesthood at the Junior Seminary of the Los Angeles Catholic
Diocese. We have high hopes that he will complete his training
and fulfill his desire, God willing. Our boy, Dick, is in his second
year at Loyola High School and is a budding baseball star. Our
little daughter, Gay, is in the eighth grade of the Beverly Hills
Catholic School. She is a sweet and lovely child, taking after my
wife in those respects.

Politically, my wife and I are in harmony (as in many things).
We are Taft Republicans; strong and vocal supporters of Senator
McCarthy and the other investigators of anti-American activities,
strong admirers of Douglas MacArthur and Herbert Eloover. As
for our religious convictions, we are firmly and happily in the fold
of the Roman Catholic Church.

As for the future, if the next twenty-five years are as kind to
me as the past twenty-five, then my life will be complete. Deo
Gratias.

HOWARD JAQUETTE GRACE

HOME aAppRESS: 34 West Lane, Bay Shore, N. Y.
OFFicE appress: Robbins, Wells & Walser, 91 E. Main St., Bay Shore, N. Y.
BoRN: Oct. 2, 1909, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Charles Jaquette Grace, Grace

Emma Manger.
PREPARED AT: Babylon High School, Babylon, N. Y.

C45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

marRiep: Margaret L. Laver, Dec. 16, 1944, Hattiesburg, Miss.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: President, board of trustees, Bay Shore Public Library, since
1951, Bay Shore Rotary Club, 1949-50, Bay Shore Chamber of Com-
merce, 1947-48; director, First National Bank & Trust Company, Bay
Shore, since 1940.

MEMBER OF: Suffolk County, New York State and American Bar Associa-
tions; Rotary Club; Harvard Law School Association, Harvard Club of
Long Island; Mr. & Mrs. Club of St. Peter’s Church.

AFTER graduation I went to Harvard Law School and re-
ceived an LL.B. degree in 1934. Was admitted to the Bar in
New York in 1935; practised in Bay Shore, New York, until
April, 1941, when the draft swept me into the Field Artillery
and it did not release me until May, 1946; served in the European
Theatre; discharged with the rank of captain, A.U.S.; and re-
turned to law practice in Bay Shore. Have been a partner in the
law firm of Robbins, Wells & Walser since 1939. I have no
hobbies and no physical activities, due to poor health from in-
juries in the service overseas.

MILTON LEONARD GRAHM

HOME appREss: 487 Ward St., Newton Centre, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 489 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1910, New York, N. Y. parents: William Grahm, Jennie
Schwartz.

PREPARED AT: Northern High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929~-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (52).

MarriED: Edith Leavitt, July 5, 1932, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: Nancy, March
24, 1935 (7. Lawrence N. Miller, ’49, March 14, 1955); John Leavitt,
June 23, 1942; Wendy, April 8, 1947. GRANDcHILD: William Grahm Mil-
ler, Feb. 7, 1956.

OccuPATION: President, Cambridge School of Business.

OFFICES HELD: President, Cambridge School of Business, since 1951, Alvin-
Murray Corporation, 1947-48, Acceptance Factors Inc., 1935-41; direc-
tor, Boston Credit Bureau, 1938-40, Massachusetts Council of Private
Schools, since 1955.

MEMBER oF: Radio and Television Executives Club; Advertising Club of
Boston; Back Bay Development Association; Businessmen’s Council;
Temple Israel Brotherhood; Blue Hills Golf Club.

IT is summer, 1955, and we are in the midst of a heat wave, and

[ 416 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for the first time in twenty years we are alone, my wife and I.
No boisterous laughter, no squeals of delight, no sounds of splint-
ering wood or shattering glass or clobbering feet rend the humid
air, and Smedley sniffs his melancholy way from room to room
like a dog, John and Wendy are away at camp and Nancy, Mrs.
Lawrence N. Miller, if you please, has just informed us that
there will be three for dinner on Friday nights come spring.
There has been a lot of kidding about the father of the bride, but
he does have his moment. And that moment, at the end of the
long aisle when I gave her hand to Larry, was a moment I will
not soon forget. Certainly it was the emotional high point of
1955. Then, after a short period of calm, when I thought nothing
else of an earth-shattering nature could happen, came the news
that I was going to be a grandfather. Me, a grandfather! You see
Nancy believes in young parents. She has often said to us, “I’m so
glad I had you while you were young”. I try not to brood on
how old she thinks we must appear to Wendy.

Johnny is all boy, a boy’s boy and a natural athlcte. I get a
big boot out of him when he eases up and Iets me score a few
points at ping pong. Of course he would never admit that he
wasn’t bearing down. He’s beginning to think about girls — at
least he doesn’t speak of them with as much scorn as he did a few
months ago and, before he left for camp, he was beginning to
fuss with his hair and to dress more carefully.

Wendy, with her wide blue eyes and blonde pigtails, is also an
athlete. Cuddly as a teddy bear, she is, nevertheless, the most
independent, self-sufficient child you ever met — and the most
considerate too. If Nancy makes us contemporaries of the “old
folks”, Wendy enables us to mingle with the young marrieds on
their own terms: car pools, baby sitters, piano lessons and all.

In a lifetime certain moments stand out. It is such moments
that give meaning and character to one’s life and when one
reminisces, these are the moments one remembers. I have had
my share of such moments, but I have also experienced two other
moments, sustained moments, emotional oases really -—I shall
never forget or quite get over them, There was 1949 — the year
I took off to write. And there was the second half of 1953 — the
six months I “lay at death’s door” as they so dramatically put it
in the Victorian novel. I learned a great deal about myself,

[ 417 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

people and especially my wife. I honestly feel that thanks to her
these were two of the most deeply happy and meaningful periods
of my life. Twenty-five years ago, if I thought about it at all,
twenty-five years must have seemed like forever. Having lived
through them, somehow it seems impossible that twenty-five
years could have gone by so swiftly. For the first twenty of these
years I engaged in a series of business ventures. I called them
“deals”, and I thought of them as deals, temporary in nature and
of varying success. In 1951 I entered into the deal I expect will be
my last, the Cambridge School of Business, It is the only Cam-
bridge School in Boston. All the others are in Cambridge except
for the one in Weston.

Never before (1949 excepted) have I put so much of myself
into a project or derived so much pleasure and creative satisfac-
tion from my work. There is something about school work,
something creative and fundamental that no other work offers —
at least not to the same depth. And each day as I face each new
challenge, Pm glad I’m in it. If I had to list my hobbies in order
I think ['d put the School first, then writing, reading, golf,
photography and gardening. After years of thinking of myself
as a Republican who frequently voted Democratic, I began to
consider myself an Independent who frequently voted Demo-
cratic, and now I have come to realize that I am really a Demo-
crat who frequently votes Republican. My membership in busi-
ness, charitable and social organizations is of the inactive variety.
I try to be equally inactive in all of them but I get inveigled now
and then and I suppose it will be more and more as the years go
by rather than less and less. In my little circle I am considered
“deep”, I don’t know who started this myth but if they enjoy
believing it, who am I to disillusion them? I am still Socratically
argumentative and enjoy nothing more than taking the other side
of any question. My religion is Reform Judaism. In 1952 — only
twenty-one years late—I decided to remove the obstacle that
held up my degree all those years. All I had to do was demon-
strate a reading knowledge of French and I did! I do not think I
have accomplished terribly much the first twenty-five years. I
hope to do better the next twenty-five.

[418 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GILBERT LINCOLN GRAVES

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Old Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Browne and Nichols School, Gerry’s Landing Road, Cam-
bridge, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1907, Weston, Mass. parents: Harold Symmes Graves, Edith
Winsor.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Ida Warr, June 14, 1933, Wareham, Mass. cHitp: William Winsor,
April 21, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Winsor Huffmaster Graves, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Teacher; camp director, Spruce Ledge, Temple, Maine.

THE patterns of my life have been much the same since my last
Anniversary Report. During nine months of the year I am still to
be found in the classroom as a member of the English Department
at Browne and Nichols. Likewise my pleasant duties in athletics
continue in both football and wrestling. Apart from these activi-
ties, however, a relatively new trend in education has caught my
fancy. For the past five years we at Browne and Nichols have
moved the seventh grade out of the classroom into the field one
day each week. We are still exploring the many possibilities of
such a program,

With the coming of summer, my wife, son and I all move back
to Spruce Ledge for the camping season. Here we attempt to
run our boys’ camp on the “large family” basis stressing relaxed,
simple living close to nature. With the closing of camp we begin
preparations for what has become known as The Browne and
Nichols Bivouac. Upon the opening of school the entire eighth
grade moves out of the classroom into the mountains of Maine.
Here the boys maintain themselves in small squads for a two-week
period. In addition to maintaining themselves they are given
instruction by Maine guides in survival techniques, weather, wild-
life and conservation. And so in the words of the famous rail-
roader “Off again, on again, home again, Finnegan”.

[419 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

MADISON BAYLES GRAVES

HOME ADDRESS: 826 S. Third St., Las Vegas, Nev.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Morse, Graves & Compton, 25 Fremont St., Las Vegas, Nev.
(P. O. Box 791).

BoRN: Nov. 5, 1910, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Horace Cutler Graves, Elsa
Lehmaier.

PREPARED AT: Leonia High School, Leonia, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934(35).

MarrigD: Chrystle Oxley, June 7, 1941, Kingman, Ariz. (deceased); Jane
Douglass Willcox, May 21, 1950, Ely, Nev. cHitpren: Madison Bayles,
2d, July 17, 1946; Horace Cutler, 2d, Feb. 7, 1951; Lyndon Busbey,
July 5, 1952; Jane Douglass, 2d, April 3, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: U. S. Attorney, Nevada, 1954-55; deputy city attorney, Las
Vegas, Nev., 1942-45; assistant to Clark County District Attorney, Clark
County, Nevada, 1940, member board of governors, 1953-56, vice-presi-
dent, 1955, State Bar of Nevada; vice-president, 1942, 1946, president,
1947, Clark County Bar Association; deputy sheriff, Clark County Aero
Squadron; member National Public Relations Commission, since 1948,
department commander, Nevada, 1953, department Judge Advocate,
1948, district vice-commander, 1947, post commander, 1946, 40-8 grand
avocat, 1953, ammonier, 1955; avocat, 1953, American Legion; heutenant
commander, U.S.N.R.; Republican nominee state senator, 1942; director,
since 1946, vice-chairman, 1953, Veterans Coordinating Committee;
president, Las Vegas Community Chest, 1947, Las Vegas Little Theatre,
1953; member, AAU Boxing Committee, southern Nevada, 1954; post
vice-commander, VF W, 1946; member, Clark County Republican Ex-
ecutive Central Committee, 1946-54.

MEMBER OF: International Association of Insurance Counsellors; American
Bar Association; American Judicature Society; Massachusetts and Nevada
Bars; Supreme Court United States Bar, First and Ninth United States
Circuit Bars, Federal District Court Bars, Boston and Nevada; Pros-
pector’s Club, Reno, Nevada; Las Vegas Press Club; Eagle, Elk, Masonic
Orders (Scottish Rite); Boulder-Vegas Shrine Club; Harvard Club of
Boston; Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce; Better Business Bureau;
Footprinter; Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association (private pilot),
Las Vegas Chess Club; American Contract Bridge League, Las Vegas
Branding Iron Show.

SINCE the Twentieth Anniversary Report, Jane and I have had
two additional boys and, ten months ago, a daughter. We are
rather proud of the fact that our son, Buzz (Lyndon Busbey),
is responsible for the saving of many hundreds of lives. It so
happens that all of our children, except Madison, were prema-

[ 420]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ture babies. When Buzz was born in Reno, Nevada, the birth-
place of my wife, Jane, it was necessary to place him in an air-
lock which is a miniature iron lung. After two days of this, the
young man was placed in an incubator and two months later he
left the hospital. Today he is one of our huskiest children. The
incident caused us to investigate the situation in Las Vegas,
Nevada, and we ascertained that no airlock equipment was
available and, further, that seven of our close friends had lost
their children for want of an airlock. About that time an article
appeared in the Reader's Digest to the effect that in the previous
year, 37,000 babies had died because no airlocks were available.
Being department commander of the American Legion for Ne-
vada, I decided under our Child Welfare Program to spur the
acquisition of airlocks. We were successful in obtaining airlocks
for Las Vegas, Henderson, Hawthorne, Fallon, Elko and Ely.
The first six weeks the airlock was in operation in Las Vegas,
more than sixty babies were processed through it and my junior
partner’s youngest son was saved because of this equipment!

Apart from increasing the family, I entered public life for a
year and a half as U.S. Attorney for the District of Nevada,
which includes the entire state of Nevada, being the first United
States Attorney of either party to come from southern Nevada.
Last July I returned to my law firm to resume private practice.

Despite the Wall Street Journal, Time and other periodicals,
southern Nevada is growing at a tremendous rate, and the future
here seems unlimited. We are somewhat proud of the fact that
a Las Vegas boy went from Las Vegas High School to Harvard
on a scholarship and then on to Harvard Law School, where he
finished number one in his class, to wit, one Wayne Barnett.
At the present time, in our law firm, we have taken on a
Harvard College and Harvard Law School man, to wit, one
Jack Perry.

It seems a far cry from the depression days in 1934 when I
graduated from Law School, but I can always recall Godfrey
Cabot’s advice which he gave me many times during chess
games at the Harvard Club and at his home, to wit, “Go west,
as I did when I went to Pennsylvania”! As I reflect upon the
entire past twenty-five years, I am happy that I decided to come
west in 1940 to find out precisely what I could do in a new

[ 421 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I931

country where I knew absolutely no one. I was lucky enough
to get started prior to the war when I took three years and
twenty days out to serve on active duty as a line officer in the
Navy, sixteen months of which were spent in the South Pacific,
and about two months of that time in combat.

My artist wife (Jane has done murals in oil, ceramics, copper
and stardust for some of our leading hotels and clubs) and |
enjoy the freedom of living here and the endless succession of
our eastern friends who inevitably have to come to Las Vegas
for social, gambling and matrimonial reasons.

During my service as United States Attorney, I enjoyed two
trips to Washington on Department of Justice business, had a
judicial conference with the Ninth District in San Francisco
during which I was invited by Dave Snodgrass of Harvard and
Harvard Law School, who is now Dean of Hastings College of
Law at the University of California, to address the largest “first-
year law school class west of the Mississippi. Another highlight
last year was riding with the Rancheros Visitadores from Santa
Barbara.

To top off all of my good luck in the West, including Who's
Who, was my winning of a 1956 Cadillac convertible at a recent
Variety Club dinner on a 100-to-1 shot (100 tickets were out
at $100.00 per) and my winning ticket had the same number as
my license plate, to wit, 29!

If all goes well, insofar as our trial calendar is concerned, I
hope to be at our Harvard Reunion either enroute to or from
Europe. Nevada is a thrilling state and, in addition to the
glamour of Las Vegas, we have excellent fishing at Lake Mead,
Colorado River, as well as beautiful Lake Tahoe in the northern
part of the state. I do wish that some day we could have a re-
union here! In the meantime, why not include Las Vegas on
your journey to the west coast.

One last highlight: I arranged last year for the first and only
appearance of the Harvard Glee Club in Nevada — Las Vegas!
Those who were twenty-one enjoyed the all-night action of
our strip!

[ 422 ]

TT ae
¥

fe RAL Mar ing

Leyte Op es fe

Sage a Tt ANNA LLIN OTT AD LS ROTEL TINT LE PIT TRIN TILT NNO TEE IN TM oF TEE I I aR MELE EE I ES ARES SN NE

ak TOTNES GSN ta APR RPO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES PRATT GRAY

HOME ADDRESS: 276 Massachusetts Ave, Arlington, Mass.

oFFIcE appress: Merckens Chocolate Co. Inc. 2277 Massachusetts Ave.,
Cambridge, Mass.

porN: March 23, 1907, College Point, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Hugh
Barr Gray, M.p., ‘oz, Gertrude Merriam Pratt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

marritp: Margaret Grace Jones, Feb. 13, 1931, Rhinebeck, N.Y. cuinp:
Thorne Barr, Aug. 30, 1937.

occupation: New England manager, Merckens Chocolate Company, Inc,

MOST of my time since leaving college has been spent in the
chocolate business, both manufacturing and sales. For fifteen
years I was Pacific Coast manager for the Walter Baker Chocolate
Division of General Foods Corporation, with headquarters in
Los Angeles. Recently, I returned to the East Coast to become
New England branch manager for the Merckens Chocolate Com-
pany of Buffalo.

My son, Thorne, was graduated last June from Black-Foxe
Military Institute in Hollywood, and this year he is a senior at
Phillips Exeter Academy.

DANA McLEAN GREELEY

HOME apprEss: 1 Charles River Sq., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Arlington Street Church, 355 Boylston St. Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 5, 1908, Lexingron, Mass. parents: William Roger Greeley,
Marjory Ellen Houghton.

PREPARED AT; Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.; Stearns School,
Mr. Vernon, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: 8.B. 1931; 8.1.B., 1933; D.p. (hon.)
(Meadville Theol. School), 1950.

MarRiED: Deborah A. Webster, Dec. 27, 1931, Lexington, Mass, CHILDREN:
Faith, Dec. 14, 1933; Rosamond, Jan. 24, 1936; Cynthia, Aug. 3, 1939;
Penelope, Jan. 21, 1941-

HARVARD BROTHER: Roland Bradford Greeley, °31, School of City Planning,
1931-35.

OccUPATION: Minister.

OFFICES HELD: President, Young People’s Religious Union of United States
and Canada, 1931-33, North End Union (Boston settlement house),
1936-45, Benevolent Fraternity of Unitarian Churches, 1945-50, Anna

[ 423 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Weld Perkins Unitarian Memorial, 1946-51, Citizen’s Crime Committee
of Massachusetts, 1939, 1952, Boston Area Council of Churches, 1945~
47, Massachusetts Council of Churches, 1949-51, New England Watch
and Ward Society, since 1949, Unitarian Service Committee, since
1953, Harvard Divinity School Alumni Association, since 1954, mem-
ber board of directors, 1933-34, 1943-53, Secretary, 1945-53, chairman,
Department of World Churches, since 1953, American Unitarian As-
sociation; member board of directors, United Community Services
(Greater Boston), 1951-54, Planned Parenthood Federation (Mass.),
1942-48, Home for Aged Women (Boston), since 1935, Boston Rotary
Club, 1952-53, Boston Travelers Aid Society, since 1951, Meadville
Theological School in Chicago, 1946-52, since 1954; member board of
directors and clerk, Children’s Mission to Children (Boston), 1941-46,
member boys’ work board, Boston Y.M.C.A.; member Plan E for Bos-
ton Committee; member board of trustees, Garland Junior College,
since 1945; vice-president, Massachusetts Bible Society; director, Massa-
chusetts Council of Churches, since 1955; nominee, board of directors,
Harvard Alumni Council, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Boston Rotary Club, Appalachian Mountain Club; Boston
Authors’ Club; Harvard Medical Association; Harvard Varsity Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Toward Larger Living, A Message to Atheists, various
pamphlets and magazine articles.

BEFORE entering college, I had already decided to go into the
ministry. I received my theological training at the Harvard Divin-
ity School, graduating there with the Class of ’33. My profession-
al interest in the church has Jed me into interdenominational and
inter-faith organization and activities as well as into denomina-
tional service, and has been supplemented by interests in athletics,
politics and community service, the last of the three named hav-
ing been culminated far more than the first two.

I was married six months after graduation, and have four daugh-
ters who are as beautiful as their mother and a source of great
Joy, as well as concern, to their father. They have shared with
me many happy hours mountain-climbing and playing football,
baseball and tennis—to mention only the more rugged forms
of entertainment. They have all been to Winsor School, where
their mother is a trustee; one was graduated from Colby; another
is a student at Barnard. They are all active in church work.

My first pastorate was a brief one in Lincoln, Massachusetts,
and my second one was in Concord, New Hampshire. I was
called at probably altogether too young an age to Arlington
Street Church in Boston — that was in 1935 — but twenty years

[ 424 ]

wee PE CI BA -

IO ARE. eNO URIS TBR RR aes yO Satan oye VEE gee amin i ering em

“EP FP WNT SR SEE ELLE TS EY Pits ICIP eg I Nc ONAN ies

DA PBR eR

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

later I am still holding on and have had a very gratifying associa-
tion with church and community. I really enjoy my work —

reaching, administration, education, counselling, and so forth,
and also the varied contacts and opportunities which come to me
in connection with my work.

My hobbies have not taken, probably, enough of my time, as
I confine myself too closely to my professional duties, but since
touch-football became too strenuous, tennis has been my major
indulgence. My friends have always been my chicf outside in-
terest and I am grateful to have been able to keep contact with
many classmates, a number of whom it has been my privilege to
marry. Most of my vacation days I have passed at our summer
place in Fitzwilliam, New Hampshire, although [ have spent
countless weeks also at summer conferences at the Isles of Shoals,
of Portsmouth, New Hampshire. My professional work has
taken me to most parts of the United States, and twice to Europe,
and one of my happiest summers was when all six of us drove to
a summer conference in Portland, Oregon.

I have called myself over the years an independent Repub-
lican, although I think that with the passing of time I have be-
come politically, as in most other respects, more liberal rather
than more conservative, and it is quite conceivable that my Dem-
ocratic votes in the future — at least in the national elections —
will outnumber my Republican ones,

My children have gone to private schools, but [I have crusaded
at times for public education and believe thoroughly in the im-
portance of our great public school system. Put this down as an
incongruity in my life. Another apparent incongruity is that
while I have always been vigorously opposed to censorship in
all its expressions, I have been for years closely identified with
the famed New England Watch and Ward Society; but, its repu-
tation is a misconception, for it has no dealings today with censor-
ship either, but does attack gambling, narcotics, prostitution, and
organized crime in various forms. Perhaps a third inconsistency
is that I am a life-long and enthusiastic Unitarian, and yet have
found many of my greatest satisfactions working with colleagues
and lay men of other denominations and with rabbis and priests
in various enterprises. I believe in Church Unity, and that there

[425 ]

= = = Ae allt

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

is no place for isolationism of any kind any more. World Fed-
eralism, in addition to the United Nations, has interested me, as
have a number of inter-racial projects. Very recently I have
put more time into the Unitarian Service Committee, of which I
am president, than into any other so-called “outside activity”.
It is a non-sectarian humanitarian agency, doing educational, so-
cial, medical and community work on a world-wide scale.

My own church, under whose roof the American Unitarian
Association was founded, and of whose people and staff I am
justly proud, has emphasized breadth of fellowship and respon-
sibility and—I must add —specializes currently in adult edu-
cation, week-day activities, youth work and community service,
with an excellent music department, not to mention the feeble
trumpeting that sounds forth regularly from the pulpit. My
principal gospel has been and is the dignity of man, or the divine
heritage and limitless possibilities of human nature. A recent hur-
ricane took the top of our steeple off, but we’re fixed now, with
the points of the compass truer than ever and, however the weath-
ervane of the times turns, we have faith in the future.

ROLAND BRADFORD GREELEY

HOME ADDRESS: 1359 Massachusetts Ave., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Mass. Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1g10, Lexington, Mass. parents: William Roger Greeley,
Marjory Ellen Houghton.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRieD: Marian M. Kimball, July 27, 1935, Lexington, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Bradford, Jan. 7, 1939; Warren Kimball, Dec. 14, 1940; Edward
Houghton, May 4, 1943, David McLean, Aug. 21, 1945; Sally Anne,
Oct. 16, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Dana McLean Greeley, 31.

occupation: Associate professor of regional planning, Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology; partner, Adams, Howard & Greeley, City Plan-
ning Consultants.

OFFicEs HELD: Member board of governors, American Institute of Planners,
1950-53; managing editor, Journal of the American Institute of Planners,
1945-53; president, Unitarian Service Pension Society, since 1947,
Lexington Visiting Nurse Association, 1949-50; clerk, United Uni-

[ 426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tarian Appeal, since 1953; member Research Division, United Com-
munity Services of Metropolitan Boston, since 1949; various positions,
Lexington Community Fund Campaign, since 1942, cubmaster, Pack
76, Cub Scouts, since 1948.

MempBer oF: American Institute of Planners; American Society of Planning
Officials; American Planning and Civie Association; Unitarian Lay-
men’s League.

MY life seems to be wrapped up in family, work, church and
civic affairs. After ten pleasant and challenging years with the
National Resources Planning Board, on regional planning, I de-
clined without regrets the dubious honor of being transferred
out of my beloved New England and soon thereafter found my-
self on the faculty of M.LT., an institution of higher Icarning
which acknowledges no superior — even in Cambridge. Though
I had never previously given the teaching profession serious con-
sideration I have found the work highly gratifying and the en-
vironment and associations close to idcal.

M.LT. expects its faculty members to devote part-time to re-
search or consulting work (for remuneration), so three of us
operate a consulting firm, which has had a variety of assignments
in various parts of the U. S. and abroad. This gives me a chance
to come down out of the ivory tower once in a while and mess
around with real problems — mostly in suburban towns, but oc-
casionally in large cities or regions. In 1951 a consulting job
under the Point Four program took me to India, where I spent
an extremely hot and somewhat lonely summer working with
charming, intelligent, eager refugees and government officials
on the planning of a new port city.

My only other traveling, except on the Owl or the Federal,
was a trip west with my entire family this past summer — seven
people and 450 pounds of luggage crammed into a station wagon.
Eleven thousand miles, most of the sights between here and Los
Angeles, and one lost wheel, proved to be both exciting and
edifying; and believe it or not, it seemed to improve intra-family
relations. However, we saw no place we’d rather live than New
England.

With my professional life half over, I find life pretty well
worth living. The teaching is stimulating, the consulting work
challenging, the committee meetings usually boring but satisfying,

[ 427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and the change of pace certainly eliminates any possibilities of
monotony. Nevertheless, I get even greater rewards from my
wonderful, but often perplexing, family and from my many
friends in the neighborhood, church, and the town I call home.

HARRY STEWART GREEN

LAST KNOWN AppRESS: Halford Manor, Shipston-on-Stour, Warwickshire,
England.

BORN: June 20, 1908, Yokohama, Japan. Parents: Harry Thomas Sinclair
Green, Winifred Rindge.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

GREEN has been carried as a “lost man” on our records since
1953-

JOSHUA GREEN, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: 1105 Boylston St., N., Seattle, Wash.

BoRN: Dec. 9, 1908, Seattle, Wash. PARENTS: Joshua Green, Laura Moore
Turner.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1920.

OCCUPATION: Finance,

GEORGE SEARS GREENE

HOME apprEss: Van Hornesville, N. Y.

BORN: May 15, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: George de Bokten Greene,
Harriet Mumford Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRiED: Anne Ramus, June 24, 1938, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1951)3
Virginia Brown, Jan. 6, 1953, St. Augustine, Fla. crmpren: Michael
Dana, Oct. 26, 1941; Jeffrey Campbell, Jan. 22, 1943; Anne, April, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Artist.

OFFICES HELD: Headmaster of Cromwell House, 1935-36, representative to
investigate Harkness Plan at Exeter, 1935-37, director of exhibits, 1937-
51, Lawrenceville School; president, 1939, member executive committee,
1940-55, Cooperstown Art Association.

MEMBER oF: Group Arts, Princeton, N. J.; Cooperstown Art Association;
Audubon Society.

[428

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY life since college appears to divide itself into three periods.
The first was a search for what to do. I tried teaching, the writ-
ing of poetry and short stories, painting and newspaper work.
The second was a period of deliberate choice and compromise:
I chose to teach, since I believed this would give me a living and
enough leisure to explore further my several interests, one in
particular which was painting. The idea worked better than I
expected. I accepted an offer from Lawrenceville School as
teacher of English (later, of painting) and came to feel so much
at hore there — with a wife and two sons —that I stayed on
for eighteen years.

Then two things happened which ended this comfortable,
worthy existence: I was divorced; and, a deceased uncle left me
sufficient inheritance to do more or less as I pleased. For several
years I had fele a mounting interest in painting and increasing
boredom with teaching. So, I decided that now was the time
to quit Lawrenceville and bend all my energies to painting.

This I've been doing for the last four years (the third period
of my life), perhaps the most exciting, certainly the most ad-
venturous. I have a second wife, who is not only beautiful but
a painter of ability. At present, we divide our time between
a small isolated house near Van Elornesville, New York, and a
small isolated house near St. Augustine, Florida. My two chil-
dren vacation with us.

So much for this dull report. Most of what is important has
probably been omitted and the superfluous set down.

However, a word about my painting. For about fifteen years
it has been entirely abstract. It shocks some, bewilders most, and
is sympathetic to a few —not because it is eccentric (it isn’t)
but because most people, although they insist on the latest model
in cars, are back in the horse-and-buggy days in their taste for
painting. I have had one-man shows at Norlyst Gallery in New
York City, 1945, at the Present Day Club in Princeton, New
Jersey, 1945, at St. Augustine and Orlando, Florida, in 1955, and
I have participated in many shows, including ones at the Newark
Museum, Addison Gallery, Yale University, America House,
and Four Arts at Palm Beach.

In the arts— perhaps not only in the arts, either — it is un-

[ 429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

fortunate that people carry such a heavy burden of tradition on
their backs that they can’t see what their children will see later

without difficulty; the past has so much more weight than the
present.

WILLIAM STEPHEN GREENLEES

HOME appress: go Columbus Ave. Ortawa, Ont., Canada.

OFFICE aporess: National Film Board of Canada, Ottawa, Ont., Canada.

porn: November 11, 1908, Mfontreal, P.Q., Canada. PARENTs: Herbert
Stephen Greenlees, Carrie Maud Whittet.

prepareD aT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: AB., 1931; M.A. (McGill Univ.), 1933.

MARRIED: Naomi Lewis, Nov. 26, 1934, Montreal, Canada (divorced); Mary
Alfreda Ward, July 5, 1950, Ottawa, Canada.

occupation: Motion pictures; liaison officer for Canadian government.

MEMBER OF: Various press clubs in Canada.

pustications: How To Tie Trout Flies; other short stories and articles.

STARTED off as a professional economist, then taught school
when the depression brought economists to the verge of public
tarring and feathering. Became a freelance writer. By the end
of the war I was a liaison officer for the Canadian government,
concerned with production of films to promote war effort; then
directed and produced government documentary films. For five
years I had my own motion picture production company, re-
turning to government service at the National Film Board of
Canada in 1955. Twenty-five years after graduation I can posi-
tively say that I have no philosophy of life to offer which would
do anybody else any good, even if he listened to it. Would sug-
gest, however, that we get those inter-planetary space ships
whanging off into space as soon as possible, so humanity will
have somewhere else to go if we succeed in thoroughly radio-
activating the place we're in now.

JAMES BARTLETT GREGG

HOME ADoRESS: 1794 Oak St. Columbus 5, Ohio.
OFFICE aporess: City Planning Commission, City Hall, Columbus 15, Ohio.

Born: Sept. 1, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: James Edgar Gregg, ’97, Pauline
Pumpelly.

[ 430 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.C.P., 1937.

marRieD: Virginia Dell Hoffman, Sept. 1, 1937 (divorced 1947). CHILDREN:
Mary Ethel, July 2, 1938; Theodora Lee, Sept. 9, 1940; Elsie Bartlett,
Jan. 9, 1944; James Richard, July 6, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gerald Hinsdale Gregg, °38 (deceased).

OccUPATION: City planner.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1954-55, chairman, Committee for Pike County
(atomic plant area) and Proposed State Planning Commission, Commit-
tee for Professional Education, Ohio Valley Chapter, American Insti-
tute of Planners; senior planner, Columbus (Ohio) City Planning Com-
mission (in charge of preparation of reports of commission and
preparing board amendments to the zoning ordinance).

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Planners, American Society of Planning
Officials, American Planning and Civic Association; Ohio Planning
Conference.

PUBLICATIONS: Prepared city plans and zoning ordinances adopted by several
cities in Mississippi, Ohio, and Alabama; prepared estimates for capital
improvements programs for cities in Mississippi and Ohio; preliminary
reports for high-level bridge west of Portsmouth, Ohio, and for reloca-
tion and a 4-lane highway west of Ironton; “Facts about Annexation”
(to Columbus), September, 1954.

MY graduate training was at the Harvard Graduate School of
City Planning. My thesis was on a “Proposed System of Parks
and Recreational Areas for Cambridge, Massachusetts”. The
thesis was completed at long last in December, 1936, and the
M.C.P. degree was awarded in February, 1937. After graduation
I lived in eight cities in four states and worked in many other
towns, with different jobs, some on city staffs, some on state
staffs, some for private firms and some self-employed — in Ten-
nessee, Nashville and Columbia; in Mississippi living in Jackson
and working for Pascagoula, Gulfport, McComb, Centerville,
Port Gibson, Cleveland, Hattiesburg, Oxford, Grenada, Green-
wood, Greenville, Starkeville, Louisville, Meridian, Laurel and
Biloxi; in Alabama working for the State Planning Commission,
Montgomery and Alabama Dry Dock and Shipbuilding Corpo-
ration, Mobile; and in Ohio, Dayton, in 1944-1945, Portsmouth
from 1945 to 1953 With one and a half years’ work in Ironton, and
Columbus since 1953.

It has been a happy experience to work not only in Dayton and
Columbus, which already have city plans, but also in various
other towns where it was necessary to start at the very beginning

[431 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and prepare comprehensive city plans. I enjoy living with my
son Jimmy and Mary, my eldest daughter, who runs our home
with remarkable ease when she is home from St. Catherine’s
School in Richmond. It is interesting to watch them expand
their interests and horizons so rapidly. Several times I have taken
my children on long trips away from Ohio—to the White
Mountains in New Hampshire in 1948, 1952 and 1955, and to
Santa Fe, New Mexico, in 1953. The trip to New Mexico —
with cowboys, rodeos, Indian corn dances and the fiestas — was
a big event in our lives.

Present hobbies are swimming, boating on lakes, and working
on a stamp collection, photography and many other things with
my son and daughter. In matters of religion I am a Presbyterian.
Politically, I have been a Republican. In 1932 I was not sold on
F.D.R.’s program but had more hope for it when there was more
serious attention given by Washington in 1938-1941 to promote
more city planning locally at the “grass roots level”. H.S.T. was
more than I could stand at any time. Since the swing back to
Republicanism under Eisenhower, I have seen much greater hope
for constitutional government, decentralization and more local
initiative. The return to Republicanism with its emphasis against
national planning has caused a great resurgence of local effort
and an activity in city planning unequalled in the history of this

country.

JOHN GREW

HOME Appress: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Meredith & Grew, Inc., 19 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 23, 1907, Dover, Mass. parents: Edward Wigglesworth Grew,
"$9, Ruth Dexter.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.; Institution Sillig-
vevey, Switzerland, Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MawnitD: Mary Parkinson, Jan. 20, 1935, Dover, Mass, CHILDREN: John, Jr.
Feb. 6, 1936; Nathaniel, Sept. 20, 1937.

HARVARD son: John Grew, Jr., ’59.

OCCUPATION: President and director, Meredith & Grew, Inc., real estate.

orricss HELD: Assessor, Town of Dover, two terms; trustee, corporate mem-

[ 432 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

e

ber, The Provident Institute for Savings, director, Animal Rescue
League of Boston, J. W. Higgins Realty Company; trustee, Adams
Nervine Asylum.

MEMBER OF: Boston Real Estate Exchange.

IN the spring of 1929, with another session at Summer School
casting its ugly shadow across the steep and narrow road to my
cum laude, 1 resigned. I had ideas of marriage. My intended
bride had a mind of her own even at that tender age and held me
at bay for five years. My father put me to work in a bank so
quickly that I was part of the boom of the twenties for several
days. Here, as a stock clerk, it was early revealed that I was born
under a lucky star. With the stock market tumbling, I executed
a “‘buy” order and neglected to record the customer’s name, That
noon, while walking the pavements and brooding upon my omis-
sion, I chanced to view said customer through a plate glass win-
dow, in a white hat, turning chopped onions on a hot grid.

Due to home environment, I managed considerable riding. I
rode races at fairs and local hunt meetings of that era. My mounts
almost never graced the winner’s circle, but I became an expert
on reducing weight. In 1951, after several false starts, I hung
up my tack. It seemed a propitious time — after enjoying the
ride on Killfox, a cup winner for the third successive year at
Myopia on the North Shore. Mr. Malcolm B. Stone, his breeder,
owner and trainer, was most patient and delightful to ride for.
Also in 1951 Mibale broke down. We had enjoyed some success
over timber and a great deal of fun together the year previous
down in Pennsylvania.

Eventually wedding bells rang out in January, 1935. Jock and
Nat showed up in 1936 and 1937. “Sister”, my wife, shared with
me a great liking for horses and hunting. Our wedding trip was
to England for fox hunting. Of late years we have kept a few
beagles which au moment are a recognized pack.

Jock matriculated at Phillips Academy in Andover; to my
pride and joy he is a Harvard freshman as of this fine October
day. Nathaniel is in the throes of a rugged football season — his
third season of varsity football and his sixth happy year at Mc-
Donough School in Maryland. Wish I had an additional son to
send there.

In 1941 the Armed Forces were the rage. I joined up for the

[ 433 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Cavalry at Fort Riley, Kansas, and passed three and a half tran-
quil years which, perhaps, have added ten years to my life span.
The sojourn was divided among California, Kansas, the Arm
Remount in Virginia, Walter Reed Hospital in Washington, D.C,
Fort Devens in Massachusetts, and an abbreviated period in Alaska.

A transition from banker to realtor took place in 1931, with a
wonderful season of bird shooting sandwiched between. I have
been associated with Meredith & Grew, Inc., ever since. We boast
an increased gross and a larger overhead every year. Classmates
of 1931 are numbered among our good customers for bigger
houses, bigger business locations, bigger first and second mort-
gages, and an occasional appraisal. If the next twenty-five years
are as pleasantly eventful as the last, it will be fun.

THOMAS JEROME GRIFFIN

MAILING appress: 161 Beech St., Holyoke, Mass.

Bors: June 27, 1909, Holyoke, Mass. parents: Patrick John Griffin, Ellen
Garvey.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

ARTHUR RUSSELL GRIGGS

HOME ADoRESS: 5 Birch Hill Rd., Melrose, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: New England Telephone & Telegraph Co., 185 Franklin
St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 13, 1909, Holliston, Mass. parents: John Henry Griggs, Florence
Ione Perkins.

pPRePARED AT: Holliston High School, Holliston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

Marriep: Minerva Hersey Caldwell, April 25, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Arthur Edison, March 25, 1936; Donna Mildred, May 2, 1939; Charles
Edward, Aug. 18, 1944 (died Aug. 19, 1944); Susie Rachel, Dec. 13,
1948, Douglas Stephen, July 5, 1955.

ouctratios; Local and toll trafhe supervisor, New England Telephone &
Telegraph Company.

MeMutR ov: Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex; Boston Club of the Har-
vard Business School; Melrose Businessmen’s Bowling League.

IN January, 1934, 1 took a job selling telephone service as
a dyor-to-door salesman for the New England Telephone & Tele-

( 434]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graph Company. They warned me when I took the job that I
never would get rich working for them, and I must regretfully
report that they have lived up to that warning faithfully. I had
a drawing account of $15.00 per week and in April when I was
able to get two days off during office alterations I used the draw-
ing account as bait to persuade Ed Caldwell’s sister to marry me.
This was to be a joint enterprise from the start —I paid for the
license and she paid for the trip!

By September I was a regular employee of the telephone com-
pany and was transferred from Sales to the Traffic Department,
which is that part of the company that is responsible for the com-
pleting of the calls offered. As the department has only 200 men
and over 15,000 women, it is very apparent that working condi-
tions are most congenial. To those of you who may never have
had the opportunity of working with a group of the opposite
sex, I can only say that I can think of no job that can be so sat-
isfying, exhilarating and, at times, exasperating!

In March, 1936, when our first son was born, I started my
career as a family man and soon became quite expert with a
safety pin. Artie was less than ten months old when I was trans-
ferred to Portland, Maine, and in the spring of 1939, we provided
him with a new sister. Donna gave us our first gray hairs when
she contracted polio in September, 1940. It affected her right
arm and she wore an aluminum cast for almost six months, but,
thanks to her mother’s endless massaging, she has regained full
use of her arm. The sole visible reminder of her siege is the fact
that she became left-handed while her right arm was immobilized.

Our years in Maine were wonderful. We went fishing, swim-
ming or picnicking in the Sebago region at every opportunity.
Both Artie and Donna became ardent bass fishing enthusiasts.
Each fall I went deer hunting, so we frequently had venison as
well as salmon, lobster and clams to tickle our appetites. During
the war years I made use of my agricultural background and had
a large garden to augment our provisions. In the winter time I
bowled regularly and became sufficiently proficient so that in-
stead of an expense it became an added source of income. I won
several sweepstakes in which all the better bowlers in the state
competed. .

The company suddenly transferred me back to Boston in the

[ 435 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

fall of 1946. At work, this meant the beginning of a series of
interesting assignments. At play, it meant the substitution of golf
for fishing. While golf is a grand game, for me it lacks the an-
ticipation and uncertainty of factors beyond our control that is
so inherently a part of fishing and hunting.

Black-eyed Susie joined our family in December, 1948, and
occasioned the move to our present address. Of course, Susie
wanted a playmate and Douglas (later called the Demon) arrived
in July, 1951, to fill that requirement. So here we are with a
second family to raise and, once again, I am greeted by shouts
of “Come on, Dad, let’s play cowboys and Indians”!

Having such a young family has prevented us from doing very
much traveling. In fact, a trip to Williamsburg last spring was
the first time we had gone anywhere without the family since an
extended trip to Canada in 1935. And we are planning only one
trip for 1956 and that is to the T'wenty-fifth!

LUTHER NICHOLS GRIMES

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ponte Vedra Club, Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.

BORN: March 18, 1908, Swampscott, Mass. Parents: Loring Grimes, MD,
"04, Eva May Nichols.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1930.

MaRRIED: Eola Willard Niles, July 16, 1930, New York, N, Y. CHILDREN:
Nancy Lou, Feb. 25, 1931 (7. Robert S. MacArthur, Feb. 20, 1955);
Tammy Lee, Jan. 30, 1934; Luther Nichols, Jr., Feb. 10, 1937.

occupation: General manager, The Country Club, Brookline, Mass, treas-
urer, Colonial Inn, Concord, Mass.

OFFicES HELD: Director, New England Hotel Association, 1937-39; presi-
dent, New England Club Managers Association, 1942-43; regional di-
rector, Club Managers Association of America; assistant treasurer,
Beaver Country Day School, 1949-52; member, Brookline Regional Boy
Scout Committee, 1943-44; member, Board of Overseers of Harvard
College, Committee to Visit Kitchens and Dining Rooms, 1952-55;
chairman, Reunion Committee of roth and 15th Reunions, Harvard

1931 Class Committee. .

MEMBER OF: New England Club Managers Association, Club Managers As-
sociation of America, New England Hotel Association; Ye Hosts
Square Club, N. Y¥.; Washington Lodge, AF. & A.M., Roxbury, Mass.;

[ 436 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Aleppo Temple, A-A.O.N.M.S., Boston, Massachusetts Consistory, 32°;
Nashua (N. H.) Country Club.

pustications: “Wine”, Club Management magazine; various articles for
trade papers.

TWENTY-FIVE years of hotel and club management have con-
sumed the better part of my time since leaving college. Three
children, two daughters and a son, and a happy home, have cer-
tainly filled the remaining part of the time. A lively interest in
association affairs; two years in the Supply Corps, U.S.N.R. —
lieutenant (j.g.) to lieutenant commander — during the war; the
restoration of a two-hundred-year-old farmhouse in the foothills
of New Hampshire at Chester; casual trips into the back country
for trout or deer; and with my brother participation in the re-
vitalization of an historical inn, the Colonial in Concord, Massa-
chusetts, fill all the gaps in the pursuit of a normal existence.

The first three years of my career were spent in sort of an
apprenticeship at the Hamilton Efotel in Bermuda. This was fol-
lowed by seven years in Boston at the Parker House, Hotel Belle-
vue and the Somerset, at the latter two as manager. I came to
The Country Club in Brookline as general manager and have
remained here, with the exception of the war years, ever since,
Hotel and club management is an exciting and stimulating voca-
tion. It affords a constant association with people and a diversity
of occupation that never ceases to challenge our ingenuity and
resources.

Between the pleasant home on the grounds of The Country
Club and the old house at Chester, as a family we have enjoyed
the invigorating New England seasons with all their recreation-
al opportunities. Our family is nearly grown up. Nancy Lou
graduated from Wellesley in 1952, worked and traveled in Eu-
rope for the U.S.A.F. (special services personnel) for a year and
now is happily married. Tammy Lee graduated from Stephens
College in Missouri in 1953 and went on for further study in
dramatics at the Neighborhood Theatre School of the Drama in
New York City. She is now involved in a dramatic career. Nick
is a senior at Exeter and intends to go to Harvard next fall.

Woollie (Mrs. G.) and I are adjusting to this disencumbered
family routine with all those things to do which one expects to
do “when”, such as pasting up the scrap books and filling in the

[ 437]

sna ceasoaanstitcnasctsneaaaaiaitaeiitl,
* 8g Le 2ST LE PROT

Wt

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

photographic albums, reupholstering the living room furniture
and replacing the stair carpeting. But there isn’t time, what with
annuals to plant at Chester, a thumback chair to strip in the cel-
lar, an evening course in reading or modern dance technique
(Mrs. G.) in town, and a trip or two to take; but, alas, we shall
never make it—baby sitting soon for the children’s children,
while they go skiing.

P.S. By the time you read this I shall have moved again, to be
general manager of the Ponte Vedra Inn, Surf Club and Golf
Club at Ponte Vedra Beach near Jacksonville, Florida.

LOUIS WILLIAM GRIMM

HOME ADDRESS: 16308 Moorpark St., Encino, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Fox Village Theatre, 961 Broxton Ave., Westwood, West
Los Angeles 24, Calif.

BoRN: Dec. 20, 1906, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Grimm, Harriet
Stuke.

PREPARED AT: New York Military Academy, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930.

MARRIED: Zeora Irene Throop, March 29, 1946, Las Vegas, Nev.

occupation: Manager, Fox West Coast Theatres.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Lodge, Sunset 352, Los Angeles; Variety Club, Tent 25,
Los Angeles; Del Mar Club, Los Angeles.

LAWRENCE GRINNELL, JR.

HOME ApprFss: 620 Costa Rica Ave. San Mateo, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Grinnell Co. of the Pacific, 601 Brannan St., San Francisco,
Calif.

Boas: Scpt. 19, 1909, Lancaster, Mass. parents: Lawrence Grinnell,
I-mily Morgan Severance.

vurpakep at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

VEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

Makgitp: Elizabeth Butler, Feb. 16, 1936 (divorced 1941); Frances Marian
Ryall, Sept. 19, 1942, Las Vegas, Nev. cuitpren: Elizabeth S., Dec. 27,
1936; Lawrence, 3d, Nov. 19, 1939; Richard S., May 28, 1947.

occePATION: Office and Credit Manager, San Francisco office, Grinnell
Company of the Pacific.

ovens Hetp: Director, Credit Manager's Association, North & Central

California, 1950-53; secretary, Coyote Point Yacht Club, San Mateo,

( 438 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1954-55; Vice-president, Men’s Forum, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church,

1954-553; president, Jr. Clipper Class Association, San Francisco Bay,

I .
MEMBER or: Coyote Point Yacht Club.
AFTER graduating from college in 1931, I attended the Business
School for two years, receiving my M.B.A, in 1933. For the next
two years I worked in the bond or investment department of the
Prudential Insurance Company in Newark, New Jersey. I left
there in June, 1935, to go with Eaton & Howard, Inc., investment
managers of Boston, where for approximately five years I did
some investment analysis work and also some solicitation of busi-
ness. In January, 1941, I started to work in the treasurer’s office
of the Grinnell Corporation of Providence, Rhode Island. This
company had been founded by my grandfather and I would
like to have started there in 1933. However, my uncle Russell
Grinnell, who was then president, felt that it would not be good
to employ a member of the family when they had had to lay
off so many other employees on account of the depression. In
1942 I was sent to California to assist the treasurer of the Grin-
nell Company of the Pacific and was appointed assistant treasurer
in 1945. The present management of the company, however,
did not feel that a Pacific treasurer was necessary and this office
was abolished in 1949. At the present time, therefore, I am office
and credit manager of the San Francisco branch office, and also
of a sub-branch in San Jose.

I was married in February, 1936, to Elizabeth Butler, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Morgan Butler of Boston and South Dartmouth,
Massachusetts. Unfortunately, this marriage ended in divorce
in 1941, and I was awarded custody of our two children, Eliza-
beth and Lawrence, 3d. In September, 1942, I was married to
Frances Marian Ryall of Los Angeles, whom I met shortly after
coming to California. In May, 1947, we had a son Richard. My
daughter, now nineteen, is a sophomore at UCLA, and my elder
son attends high school in San Mateo. He has not decided where
he will go to college as yet. We are not very wealthy, but are
very happy. I like California, but miss seeing old friends in the
East, and am hopeful of bringing my family back for my Twenty-
fifth.

My principal hobby, since I was a boy on Buzzards Bay, has

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

been sailing. I was fortunate in having the opportunity of sailing
in the 1931 transatlantic race with Mr. Paul Hammond of New
York, as well as in several Bermuda races. At present I own a San
Francisco Bay Jr. clipper class sloop, which is 26 feet long and
which I have raced with some success.

EDWARD BERTRAM GROSSMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 242 E. roth St. New York 3, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration Hospital, Bronx, N. Y.

Born: April 3, 1911, New York, N. Y. parents: William Grossman, Frances
Schonfeld.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1935.

MARRIED: Patricia Heyman, Oct. 29, 1954, New York, N. Y.

OccuPATION: Physician; assistant chief of medical service, Veterans Admin-
istration Hospital, Bronx, N. Y.

MEMBER OF: American Association for Advancement of Science; New York
Academy of Sciences; American College of Physicians, American Fed-
eration for Clinical Research, New York Academy of Medicine; Phi
Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi.

PusLicaTions: A number of articles on clinical and experimental aspects of
internal medicine in various medical and physiological journals.

AFTER graduation from the School of Medicine of Johns Hop-
kins University, I served as resident house officer at Johns Hop-
kins Hospital, and resident physician at the New England Medical
Center and at Vanderbilt University Hospital. The private prac-
tice of internal medicine in New York City occupied my re-
maining pre-war years. Most of the four years in the Army
Medical Corps were spent in a professionally satisfying, if un-
dramatic, career at McCloskey General Hospital in Texas, ter-
minating in release from active duty as a lieutenant colonel in
1945. For the past eight years, I have been in full-time service
of the Department of Medicine and Surgery of the Veterans
Administration, as chief of medical service of the New York
office and, more recently, as assistant chief of medical service of
the Bronx Veterans Administration Hospital.

[ 440 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Barry Wood and I were there. In 1945 along came Mary Denise,
now boss-girl of the fifth grade. In 1949 we lost a new arrival
named Peter, and in 1952 Stephen Jonathan arrived to write
“Finis”. Now, every time we see Stevie running around, we're
very glad that we have a fifth in the house.

Things have improved since Christmas Eve of 1931. On last
Father's Day I had reached such a state of affluence that my
children were able to buy me a bottle of Drambuie. By man-
aging carefully, by Reunion time I'll be able to afford the ponies
to drink it out of.

* WALTER RUSSELL GRUBNER

BORN: Feb. 8, 1911, New York, N. Y. parents: Maurice Grubner, Helen
Wertheimer.

PREPARED AT: Bulkeley School, New London, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

piep: Dec. 8, 1942, New London, Conn.

WHILE at Harvard Grubner was a member of the freshman
fencing squad. From 1933 until 1939 he taught English and
Latin at a boys’ high school in New London, Connecticut. He
then enrolled at Yale University Law School, where he was
studying at the time of our Decennial Report.

STANLEY GRUEN

HOME aporess: 61A Meadowbrook Pl., Maplewood, N. J.

OFFice appress: Gruen & Goldstein, 1018 Stuyvesant Ave., Union, N. J.

BorN: Dec. 14, 1911, New York, N. Y. parents: Jonas Samuel Greenberg,
Fannie Salomon.

PREPARED aT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; J.0. (New York Univ.),
1936.

Margen: Lucille Robbins, Feb. 2, 1941, New York, N. Y. cumpren: Fred-
erick Robert, Oct. 12, 1942, Richard Andrew, March 1, 1946.

occupaTion: Lawyer; builder; real estate management; counsel and vice-
president, various corporations comprising the Robbins Companies.

MeMusea oy: Union County Bar Association; Chicago and American Bar
Associations (former member); Cedar Hill Country Club.

[ 444 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduation from college I was inactive, due to illness,
for the better part of two years. I entered New York University
Law School in 1933 and was graduated in 1936. I was salutatorian
of the class and managing editor of the New York University
Law Quarterly Review. Upon graduation I became associated
with the law firm of House, Grossman, Vorhaus & Hemley in
New York City. In 1942 I joined the legal staff of the Recon-
struction Finance Corporation in Washington and became a
counsel of the RFC attached to the Business Loans section.

When first married, we lived in Forest Hills, I preceded my
wife to Washington. After Fred was born, my wife and son
joined me in Washington. We lived there for a year and then
moved to Arlington, Virginia, across the river from Washington.

In 1946 I became manager of the law department of a depart-
ment store chain known as Goldblatt Brothers, Inc. My wife
and two sons (Richard having been born in Washington in
1946) joined me in Chicago about six weeks after I had settled
there. We left Chicago in July, 1951, when I became associated
with my brother-in-law in the building business in New Jersey.

We are engaged in the building of one-family homes, stores,
garden apartments, warehouse and factories. The one-family
house construction is development building of communities run-
ning from as few as a dozen homes to as many as 800. All of the
communities are located in Union, Essex, Morris and Middlesex ~
Counties, in New Jersey. Our store construction consists of
individual stores (A&P, McCory) and shopping centers. We
have built office buildings, warehouses and factories in New
York, New Jersey and Illinois for General Cable Corporation,
Crane Company, Underwood Mortgage & Title Company, and
Miro Container Company, among others,

During my association with the Robbins Companies I have
acted as counsel, sales manager and general factotum. After
having practised law for fifteen years at the Bars of New York,
Illinois and the District of Columbia, I was compelled on settling
in New Jersey to serve a nine-month clerkship and take a Bar
Examination before being admitted to practice. Fortunately I
made it. My wife and I sincerely hope that we shall remain in

New Jersey.

[ 445 ]

a anon aeateriecnesscintemeicrors < stiatesonbanentsdaellis *

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

LUTHER HERVEY GULICK

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Park Lane Drive, Orinda, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: Public Utilities Commission, State Bldg., San Francisco,
Calif.

BoRN: Feb. 9, 1910, Tacoma, Wash. parents: Walter Vose Gulick, Frances
Fleanor Brooks.

PRFPARED AT: Punchard High School, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.
marrieD: Helen Lamont Sutton, July 18, 1936, Amherst, Mass. CHILDREN:

Walter Brooks, Aug. 10, 1938; Edward Sutton, June 15, 1941; Stephen
Hervey, May 4, 1946.

occuPaTION: Attorney; senior counsel, Public Utilities Commission, State
of California.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and California Bars; Bar Association of San
Francisco; Harvard Club; Harvard Law School Association.

GREETINGS from the Golden Gate! Ed Amazeen had lunch
with me recently at the San Francisco Bar Association restaurant
atop the Mills Tower, where we could look out over the ever-
changing view of San Francisco Bay. The welcome mat is out
for other visiting classmates. |

Over the years my practice of law has tended toward special-
ization in transportation, public utility, commercial and admin-
istrative law. The New Haven Railroad was my longest client,
both in mileage and in its duration of a dozen years, which in-
cluded two years on leave with the Navy as a communications
and then a legal officer.

Soon after the end of the war, my family and I became twen-
ticth century forty-niners. My oldest boy’s asthma was the cat-
alytic agent; and our only pot of gold, a healthy family. Just
when I became a member of the California Bar, the Korean situa-
tion came along and with it an opening in the Navy Department’s
Office of the General Counsel as counsel for the Navy Purchasing
Office in San Francisco. After two and a half interesting and
challenging years I switched to my present position as senior
counsel with the California Public Utilities Commission.

As time permits my family and I enjoy a bit of bridge, sports
and taking trips such as our last summer’s visit to Orcas Island
on Puget Sound.

[ 446 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT KNOWLTON GUMM

HOME apprEss: 39 S. Linden Drive, Azalea Park, Orlando, Fla. (permanent).

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3918th ABG, APO 194, New York, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 11, 1906, Palatine, N. Y. parents: Norman Crumpton Gumm,
Grace Knowlton Bingham.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass., Cambridge Latin
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; B.D. (Episcopal Theological
School), 1934.

MARRIED: Frances Dorothy Browning, June 25, 1938, Albany, N. Y. cum-
DREN: Paul Anthony, Oct. 24, 1939; Dorothy Elizabeth, Jan. 23, 1941.

occuPATION: Priest, Episcopal Church; chaplain, U. S. Air Force.

OFFICES HELD: Curate, St. Paul’s Church, Brockton, Mass., 1934-35, St. Paul’s
Church, Syracuse, N. Y., 1935-37; rector, St. Paul’s Church, Malden,
Mass., 1937-42; chaplain, U. S. Army Air Corps, 1942-46, since 1952;
canon, St. Luke’s Cathedral, Orlando, Fla., 1946-52; commissioner, Boy
Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: American Legion, Masons, Lions Club; Harvard Clubs, Syra-
cuse and Central Florida; Community Service; American Red Cross,
American Church Union.

THE three ambitions I had as a child are of no interest, I am
sure, to anyone except myself and possibly my family, but the
consequences have formed an interesting synthesis. I felt a voca-
tion to the Episcopal ministry, I hoped to go to Harvard, and as
a boy of twelve in World War I, I wanted to see some service
in the Army. I have enjoyed all three.

I repeat the word, “enjoyed”. No calling is as interesting as
the ministry and I have enjoyed every day of it. In case this
biography is read by anyone — let me say that I believe the few
who may read it will represent various faiths and perhaps no faith
at all. But I am bold to say that since the ministry serves God
and through Him our fellow men, there can be no higher en-
joyment. I hasten to add that I feel very humble, because what-
ever good I may have done has come not through me, but through
God working through me. But — that’s enough of preaching!

The parishes I have served, the men under whom and with
whom I have worked, have all been part and parcel of this state
of life to which it has pleased Almighty God to call me. I have
been around long enough to see human beings as they are —
and as they ought to be. As a priest and a chaplain, I have seen

[ 447 |

HARVARD CLASS OF I931

life and death in all its beauty and in all its ugliness. With al]
our shortcomings and faults, I still think men and women are
pretty swell.

Every parish I have worked in has offered a wonderful expe-
rience, but the work I like best — to which I was recalled as a
“retread” in 1951 — is my present job as chaplain, USAF. And
I hope to stay in this job as long as God grants me the days (and
I hope the Air Force concurs).

My greatest blessing? My family, of course. My mother, who
sacrificed so much to make my education possible, started me
off with sound faith and right ideals. My wife, who should earn
sainthood for putting up with me, has been my dearest critic and
constant companion, not only running our household, but play-
ing an unobtrusive yet important role in the religious community,
and more than that — molding the character of the pupils whom
she teaches (for she was, and is, a school ma’am). Off the record,
I think she still dislikes this constant moving around, separations
from each other, and putting up with all sorts of places we have
to call home; but, she sticks it out.

Every dad is proud of his first son, and so am I. My first and
only — now a boy of fifteen—is in a splendid English public
school (St. Edward’s, Oxford, England). He rows and plays
football (English), says “jolly good” and “smashing” and is a
credit to America. We are pals, and our Jast jaunt was to Ger-
many. Of course I am prejudiced, but I think he is swell, and
I am glad Paul is in this English boarding school. So is his sister,
our fourteen-year-old Dorothy, who has good looks and gets
good marks and is the bane of Paul’s existence.

I have two hobbies, both becoming too expensive for a clergy-
man: stamp collecting and taking colored slides. But they are
both fun, especially the latter.

Religion I have already discussed. I have strong opinions in
politics which I vehemently argue with my family and close
friends, but I won’t put them in print, because I am in the mili-
tary.

[ 448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TOWNSEND MacNICOL GUNN

HOME AbDpREss: 16 Hodges St., Attleboro, Mass.

oFFICE ADDRESS: Metals & Controls Corp., 34 Forest St., Attleboro, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 11, 1907, Calais, Maine. parents: Percy Pickard Gunn, Alice
Sawyer Townsend.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: AB., 1931; LL.B. (Northeastern Law
School), 1946.

marrieD: Helen Doris Sarty, Jan. 9, 1932, Roxbury, Mass. cHitprENn: Janice,
Sept. 25, 1935; David Townsend, April 11, 1938; Geoffrey Sawyer, Aug.
TQ, 1939-

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edwin Percy Gunn, ’30; John Martyn Gunn, 733;
Thomas Guthrie Gunn, °37.

OCCUPATION: Patent attorney; manager patent department, Metals & Con-
trols Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, standing committee, Second Congregational
Church, Attleboro, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association; Boston Patent Law Association;
American Bar Association; American Patent Law Association; District
Court of the United States, Massachusetts; United States Supreme
Court.

WELL, twenty-five years is a long time to review, and the most
striking thing about it is how quickly it has passed. Time seems
to take advantage of those who have plenty to do. So— here
goes. On graduating I inveigled the American Optical Company
into taking me on as a research physicist. I had hoped for
a furtherance of my desire to become a lens designer but they
had other ideas. They handed me as my major assignment the
development of a colorless infra-red absorbing glass and I worked
on this for five years, finally getting what was desired. I think
there are a couple of patents on it somewhere. The astonishing
thing to me, having had only one course in college chemistry
and no courses in ceramics, is that I could do the job at all. How-
ever, the five years at American Optical Company taught me
that I was not the kind of person who would do research work
particularly well or happily so I changed my job in 1936 and
came with my present employers, Metals & Controls Corporation.

My desire was to do development engineering and this I worked
at for six months in the company laboratory. Then an opportu-
‘nity arose to act in a liaison capacity between the company lab-

[449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

life. The children are nice kids even if I do say so myself and
in general have much better brains than their pop has. The girl
wants to be a professional organist, the first boy wants to be an
engineer and the last one wants to be a doctor, so you can see
that there is a good chance of my being supported gracefully in
my old age. From my own personal satisfaction viewpoint I
think the main thing is my being fortunate enough to have a
very nice family and to have succeeded i in a moderate degree in
my profession.

ARTHUR JOSEPH HADLER

HOME ApoRESS: 77 Browne St. Brookline 46, Mass.

orrice appress: Boston V.A. Outpatient Clinic, 17 Court St., Boston 8,
Mass.

BorN: Dec. 28, 1909, Revere, Mass. parents: Charles Hadler, Martha Emma
Hohensten.

PREPARED AT: Weymouth High School, Weymouth, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 M.D., 1935.

MarnieD: Henrietta C. Foster, July 8, 1946, Boston, Mass. cuHiLpREN: Dorothy
Ann, Dec. 25, 1947; Barbara Ann, April 29, 1950.

occupation: Chief, Medical Section, and Acting Assistant Director, Boston
V.A. Ourpatient Clinic.

offices HELD: Instructor in medicine, Tufts Medical School, since 1952;
attending physician, West Roxbury V.A. Hospital, 1951-52, Boston
VA. Hospital, 1953.

MeMBER OF: Norfolk County and Massachusetts Medical Societies, Amer-
ican Medical Association; New England Diabetes Association; Massa-
chusects Heart Association; American Heart Association, New England
Cardiovascular Society; American College of Physicians; American As-
sciation for Advancement of Science; Phi Beta Kappa; Alpha Omega
Alpha; National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate); American
Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate).

PubLications: “Pylephlebitis Due to Ulcer”, Journal of the American Medi-
cal Association, Nov. 1937; “Granulocytopenia Following Barbiturate
Therapy”, New England Medical Journal, 1940.

FOLLOWING college I attended Harvard Medical School, grad-
uating cum laude in 1935. While in medical school I was made a
member of the Boylston Medical Society in my sophomore year,
and of Alpha Omega Alpha in my junior year. After graduating
from medical school, I had a medical internship at the Peter Bent
Grigham Hospital in Boston, followed by a few months of sur-

[ 452 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gery at the Brigham under Dr. Elliott Cutler as a voluntary grad-
uate assistant in surgery; and then thirty-eight months at Long
Island Hospital as assistant resident and resident. The last year
there I was assistant medical director. From that job I was called
into the U. S. Army in August, 1941. I got out of the Army in
January, 1946, after thirty-three months overseas in Africa and
Europe. Shortly after my discharge, I joined the staff of the
Veterans Administration Outpatient Clinic in Boston because I
could not get a car or find an office to start practice. I thought
at first the Veterans Administration position would be only a
temporary affair, but I got to like it and I have stayed with it
ever since, at first as chief of laboratory service, then chief of
internal medicine, then chief of medicine, and finally as acting
assistant director along with the chief of medicine position. I like
the work and the hours, and in all likelihood I shall stay on the
job as a career man. |

For diversion I engage in photography, attend medical meet-
ings and conventions, take various postgraduate courses, and
travel here and there with the family.

Meanwhile, I just watch my little family grow up, and prac-
tise medicine in the downtown office.

CHARLES ALBERT HAGNER, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: 2415 Washington St., Wilmington, Del.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1907, Wilmington, Del. parents: Charles Albert Hagner, Eva
Hoopes.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931 (33); A.M., 1946.

ROBERT CHRISTIAN HAHNEL

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 325 University Ave., San Antonio 1, Texas.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1909, Des Moines, Iowa. Parents: Eugene Max Hahnel,
Margaret Wickafer.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1932-1034. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (34).

HAHNEL has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1950.

[453]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

+ GEORGE HARRY HALABIAN

BoRN: Sept. 4, 1906, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Halabian, Mary
Nakashian.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1937,

MarRiED: Florence Rita Mahoney, Feb. 20, 1937, New York, N. Y.

pep: Aug. 25, 1940, Chelsea, Mass.

FOLLOWING graduation Halabian attended the Law School
for a year. He later received an LL.B. from Boston College Law
School. In 1939 he was a teacher at the Carter Junior High
School in Chelsea, a position he held at the time of his death. He
was also studying at Boston University’s School of Education.
He served as chancellor and keeper of the records and seal for

King Philip Lodge 33 of the Knights of Pythias. His wife sur-
vived him.

RANDOLPH MILLER HALE

HOME ADDRESS: 1360 Montgomery St., San Francisco 11, Calif.

OFFIcE appress: Alcazar Theatre, 260 O'Farrell St., San Francisco 2, Calif.

BORN: July 26, 1909, San Francisco, Calif. PareNTs: Marshal Hale, Mae
Baxter Miller.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

OccUPATION: Theatre.

JOHN WHITE HALLOWELL

HOME ADDRESS: 223 College St., Hudson, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Western Reserve Academy, Hudson, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1909, West Medford, Mass. parents: John White Hallowell,
*o1, Marian Hathaway Ladd.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.By 19313 M.B.A. 1034.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Lapsley, April 27, 1935, Bedford Village, N. Y. cHi-
DREN; John White, Jr., April 1, 1936; Jane Erin, Jan. 18, 1938; Elizabeth,
Feb. 22, 19433 Julie, July 17, 1954.

HARVARD son; John White Hallowell, Jr., °58.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Roger Haydock Hallowell, ’33; Phillips Hallowell, ’40.

OCCUPATION: Headmaster, Western Reserve Academy,

OFFICES HeLo: Director, Harvard Alumni Association,. 1947-50; Overseer,

[ 454 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard University, 1954-59; representative-at-large, College Entrance
Examination Board, since 1950; member executive committee, National
Council of Independent Schools, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club, Union Club, Tavern Club (all of Cleveland);
Rotary; Cruising Club of America; Buzzards Yacht Club; Headmasters
Association, National Association of Secondary School Principals.

pusxicarions: Articles in the College Board Review and other educational
journals.

A TURN at banking in Berlin, the Harvard Business School, and
one year in the brokerage business in Wall Street convinced me
that business as such held no pleasures for me comparable to those
of teaching. So, I’ve been in schools ever since 1935.

Seven years at Groton as English and German teacher and
crew coach ended abruptly in 1942 and were followed by three
and a half years in the Navy. Indoctrination and Air Combat In-
telligence Schools at Quonset, Rhode Island, briefing of pilots,
reports for captains and admirals, and a tour as instructor kept
the teaching hand in; so, a year at Harvard as assistant freshman
dean and instructor in the late unlamented English A was less of
a change than most made after discharge.

Now I am finishing a decade as headmaster at Western Reserve
Academy in Ohio (a boys’ boarding school — 225 boys — col-
lege preparatory), struggling to keep the school from growing
too fast in the face of the war-babies pressure and still wondering
why it is that boys have so much higher aptitude for the mathe-
matical than the verbal. There’s little danger of growing old
and stuffy in this job. My only regret is that administration takes
too much time from teaching.

Thanks to many good Harvard friends, ’'ve been an Alumni
Association director for three years and an Overseer now for
three more. Frequent trips to Cambridge, plus a Harvard son
and a Radcliffe daughter, keep me in close touch with college
affairs, although I find such assignments as chairman of the Com-
mittee to Visit the Psychology Department far more instructive
to me than helpful to the distinguished professors,

Four children and innumerable family pets, ranging from a
parrot to ponies, keep the home full and busy. Yet, my first love,
Sailing, has not been permitted to atrophy since its cultivation
in school and college years. Ten Bermuda races, including one

[455 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

on a winner, two transatlantic sails, and many shorter races and
cruises have filled summer vacations and will continue to do s0,
I hope. For getting away from it all, there is nothing to beat
an ocean race or a cruise with friends.

These twenty-five years have passed so rapidly that it’s some-
thing of a shock to hear the kids address me already as “Mr,
Chips”. Only yesterday it seemed I was being mistaken for an
undergraduate. Outside of family and friends, the greatest sat-
isfaction — and an ever-continuing one — is to watch boys grow
and develop and to feel responsible for a small part of it all.

FREDERICK NATHAN HAMERSTROM, JR.

HOME apprEss: RR 1, Plainfield, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wisconsin Conservation Dept., Plainfield, Wisconsin.

BORN: July 8, 1909, Trenton, N. J. parents: Frederick Nathan Hamerstrom,
Helen Harper Davis.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; s.M. (Iowa State Coll.),
1935; PHD. (Univ. of Wisconsin), 1941.

MARRIED: Frances Carnes Flint, June 10, 1931, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN: Alan,
Nov. 9, 1940; Elva, March 25, 1943.

occupation: Wildlife biologist.

OFFICES HELD: Research fellow, Iowa State College, 1932-35; project game
manager, Central Wisconsin Game Project, Necedah, 1935-37; research
fellow, University of Wisconsin, 1938-41; curator, Edwin S. George
Reserve; with Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan, 1941-493
first lieutenant, Air Corps AUS, 1943-46; associate editor, Wilson Bulle-
tin, 1942-48; chairman, Wildlife Conservation Committee, Wilson Orni-
thological Club, 1941-43, 1946-47, Committee for Relief of European
Ornithologists, American Ornithologists Union, 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: Wildlife Society; Wilson Ornithological Club; American
Ornithological Union; Nature Conservancy, Ecological Society of
America; British Ecological Society; (corresponding member) Hun-
garian Ornithological Society; German Ornithological Society; Wis-
consin Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters; Sigma X.

PUBLICATIONS: Bibliography of 30-odd professional papers, bulletins, and
shorter articles, one of which (joint authorship) was given the Wildlife
Society Award for 1940, dealing with researches on prairie chicken,
sharptailed grouse, pheasant, bobwhite quail, sandhill crane, songbirds,
hawks and owls, white-tailed deer and furbearers.

SINCE 1949 I have been leader of the Prairie Grouse Manage-
ment Research Project, Wisconsin Conservation Department, in

[ 456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

charge of research into the ecology and management of the prairie
chicken and sharptailed grouse. The statistics tell my story, ex-
cept for the most important part. My wife, formerly a proper
Bostonian, is also a research biologist, and we have worked to-
ether since 1931. Most of our professional life has been spent
in the Middle West, but with side trips and expeditions through-
out the United States and to Canada, Mexico, Germany, Switzer-
land, Denmark and Finland. Technically speaking, these expedi-
tions have been on vacation, but we'd be hard pressed to tell
where work stops and play begins. In short, a life of combined
public service and adventure. Who could ask for more?

ROBERT HAMILTON

MAILING ADDRESS: 1381 Commonwealth Ave., Allston 34, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1910, Somerville, Mass. parents: Frank Andrew Hamilton,
Valetta Wallis.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: 8.B. IN ENGIN., 1931.

+ DEVENS HAMLEN

Born: March 15, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Paul Mascrene Hamlen, ’96,
Agnes Dorothy Devens.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1929.

MarkriED: Barbara Young, May 26, 1934 (divorced 1936).

DIED: Jan. 15, 1942, neat North Raynham, Mass.

DURING the two years he spent at Harvard Hamlen was a
member of the freshman football and hockey squads, the Stylus
Club, and the A.D. Club. In 1931 he was associated with the
firm of Kidder, Peabody & Company in Boston, and later he
was with the State Street Insurance Associates. In 1938 he was
engaged in the importing business with S. Hooper Hooper, Inc.,
as treasurer. He enlisted in the Army in 1940. At the time of
his death in an automobile accident he was a master sergeant in
the Field Artillery.

[ 457 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

SAMUEL MORRISON HANKINS

MAILING ADDRESS: 87 California St. Long Beach, Long Island, N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 1, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Morrison Ten Broeck Hankins,
Florence Augusta Crocker.

PREPARED AT: Blair Academy, Blairstown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

JAMES RICHARD HANNON

HOME ADDRESS: 110 Elgin St, Newton Centre, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 566 Washington St., Brighton, Mass.

BORN: May 13, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James William Hannon, Mary
Mulcahy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; D.M.D., 1935.

MarRieD: Margaret M. Murphy, Feb. 18, 1939, Providence, R. I. CHILDREN:
Patricia, April 9, 1940; Helen, April 17, 1942.

occUPATION: Dentist.

MEMBER OF: American Dental Association; Massachusetts Dental Society;
Delta Sigma Delta Fraternity, Megansett Yacht Club.

I HAD the privilege of another four-year association with Har-
vard after my graduation from the College. In 1935 I was once
again at Sever Quadrangle, this time to receive a D.M.D. degree
from the Dental School. During my senior year I had been
editor of the Mirror and enjoyed the companionship of the
members of Gamma Delta Chapter, Delta Sigma Delta.

Colonial homes and their furnishings had long been a hobby
of mine. It is not surprising then that I purchased the Old Cook
Cottage at Oak Square, Brighton, as the nucleus of a medical-
dental center. The house was built about 1790 when Brighton
was a part of Cambridge. (Can’t get away from the place.) Ac-
cording to Winship’s Historical Brighton, Catherine Cook taught
a girls’ school in the house with an umbrella over her head to
keep off the rain from the leaking roof. I had the roof fixed, but
I hope my remodeling retained the charm of the original home.
1 have enjoyed practising dentistry there ever since. In 1939 I
married Margaret M. Murphy in Providence, Rhode Island, and
adopted Newton Centre as our home.

In 1940 Pat (feminine) was born and in 1942 Helen arrived.

[ 458 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The girls are now students at the Country Day Schoo! of the
Sacred Heart.

Came the war and I became part of the Army Dental Corps.
At separation time I was chief of Dental Service at Forrest Gen-
eral Hospital. We summer now on Cape Cod in North Falmouth.
We spend most of our time dashing around Buzzards Bay in
Snorkel, a Lyman Islander, trying to catch a bluefish or a strip-
per. Some day we may get a “strike”, I have but one lament —
how could these twenty-five years go by so fast?

+ PAUL SCOTT HANSEN

BORN: Oct. 16, 1910, Columbus, Ohio. Parents: Paul Hansen, Alison May
Scott.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Military Academy, Delafield, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1931(32); M.D. (North-
western Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Flizabeth Merrill Coit, March 26, 1938, Chicago, Il]. CHILDREN:
Judith Coit, June 7, 1941; Celia Coit, Sept. 22, 1942.

pieD: Sept. 26, 1948, Santa Barbara, Calif.

wipow: Mrs. Francis Hoague, 18339 47th Pl., N.E., Seattle 55, Wash.

AFTER graduating from Harvard, Hansen taught for one year
at Middlesex School and then spent the next four years at North-
western Medical School in Chicago, getting his medical degree
March 16, 1938. He was a diplomate of the National Board and
was certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine. He
went from medical school to Boston, where he interned at the
Massachusetts General Hospital, after which he received a fel-
lowship and was appointed an instructor at the University of
Pennsylvania Medical School for eighteen months in Dr. Pepper’s
Clinic. Settling in Essex, Connecticut, for two years he practised
medicine while serving as an instructor at the Yale Medical
School.

During the war he joined the Yale Unit of the Army Medical
Corps and served with the 15th Evacuation Hospital in Africa,
Sicily and Italy, taking part in the Anzio invasion. He had
thirty-three months of service overseas.

After the war he settled with his family in Santa Barbara,
California, where he lived high on the side of the sunny coastal

[459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I9Q31

range overlooking the harbor and the Pacific Ocean. As a hobby,
he bred English bulldogs, two of whom reached championship.

As a member of the Santa Barbara Clinic, Hansen was con-
sultant on blood diseases, He took the lead in establishing a school
for internes in the County Hospital and in raising hospital stand-
ards in the community. He stood high in the regard of his
medical associates and his many friends.

VICTOR MATHEWS HARDING, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 7730 N. River Rd., Milwaukee 17, Wis.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 735 N. Water St., Milwaukee 2, Wis.

BoRN: July 23, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: Victor Mathews Harding, ’89,
Mary Matilda Boak.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Julia Burley, May 25, 1940, Winnetka, Ill. cxmpren: Julia, Feb. 8,
1941; Mary Elizabeth, Jan. 23, 1943; Katherine DeBlois, April 4, 1945;
Victor Clark, April 18, 1947; Nancy Jane, June 2, 1949; Burley, Sept. 9,
1953-

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Cornelius Harding, ’39.

occupation: Lawyer; parmer in law firm of Whyte, Hirschboeck & Mina-
han.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Elementary and High School Boards, local Board of
Health, Zoning Board of Appeals, Harvard Fund Council, Milwaukee
University School Corporation.

MEMBER OF: American, Wisconsin, Milwaukee and Chicago Bar Associa-
dons; Harvard Club of Wisconsin; Milwaukee Athletic Club; Town
Club.

THERE'S no getting away from it—this résumé of one’s life
is an ugly assignment. The only reason we do it is to get the
Secretary off our necks so we won't have to expect some un-
pleasant reminder in the day’s mail. Well — here goes!

The first four years after graduation I took shelter in various
halls of learning while the economy was undergoing readjust-
ment. By 1935 it looked safe enough to venture out into the cold
world, My choice lay between a plush New Deal job in Wash-
ington or a lowly clerkship in a Chicago law office with hard
work and poor pay. True to my ideals, I chose the latter. God
knows where I'd be on the other tack (ask Lloyd, Cobb or
Rowe),

[ 460 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Barely had I risen to an economic level where I could assume
the support of someone besides myself, to wit, a wife, when the
war struck. Nowadays they get married first and then go to
college. My little helpmeet always told me I was a chump, but
I tried to move heaven and earth to get into some branch of the
service. That may sound funny to some, but my physical con-
dition after a certain H-Y game was such that Uncle Sam’s medi-
cal advisers wanted no part of me.

I thank the war for one thing — it shook me loose from a
job in Chicago where I was decaying and landed me in Milwau-
kee. Resisting a temptation to expound on the virtues, beauties
and advantages of the great state of Wisconsin, of which I fear
my classmates are woefully ignorant, let me say that life and
work in these here parts have been all I would ask for. My writ-
ings have been confined principally to the preparation of briefs on
intricate legal subjects which hold a fascinating interest for me,
but which are of no interest to classmates.

For the last fifteen years my principal hobby has been raising
children, and I am willing to let the results speak for themselves.
Interest in children has naturally enough led into the field of
education on the local level. More and more I find my time oc-
cupied with problems of school construction, financing, teachers’
salaries, etc. As public schools, supported by tax monies, become
vastly improved over what they used to be, I can’t help feeling
that a decline in private school education is inevitable. This will
never apply to Harvard so long as she maintains her position as
leader in practically all fields of learning.

Since Soldiers Field every Saturday in the fall is beyond my
budget, I have adopted the University of Wisconsin. When I
go to see the Badgers take on some other titan in the football
world, I have the comfortable feeling that if my adopted team
doesn’t come out on top, it will at least give the opposition a
run for its money.

The future? Here I yield to an irresistible impulse to philoso-
phize. The future will be better than you think. We have at
last learned the advantages to be gained from cutting the com-
mon man in on the good things of life. Some generations hence,
historians will write of this period as just another stage in the
long struggle of the common man to shake off the physical and

[ 461]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

social handicaps inherited from the past. Communism will be re-
garded as a rather crude method of accomplishing this transition
in some of the more backward areas of the world. McCarthy
to the contrary notwithstanding, Communism is no more of a
threat to this country than Christian Science is to the medica]

rofession or the Pennsylvania Shakers are to the Catholic
Church. Privately, Joe would agree with this, but he can’t afford
to abandon what looks like a swell campaign issue, and he’s not
a good enough politician to think up a better one.

DWIGHT EMARY HARKEN

HOME ADDRESS: 4 Lowell St. Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 67 Bay State Rd., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 5, 1910, Osceola, Jowa. parents: Conreid Rex Harken, Edna
Emary.

PREPARED AT: Osceola Public Schools, Osceola, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D., 1936; L.M.S.S.A, (Lon-
don), 1939.

Marriep: Anne Louise Hood, Aug. 29, 1934, Chicago, Ill. campren: Alden
Hood, July 2, 1941; Anne Louise, July 29, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Alden Harken, ’35 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Surgeon; associate clinical professor of surgery, Harvard Medi-
cal School.

OFFICES HELD: Surgeon, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital; chief, Department of
Thoracic Surgery, Mt. Auburn and Malden Hospitals, consultant in
thoracic surgery, U. S. Veterans Administration, U. S. Navy, Boston
Lying-In Hospital, Waltham Hospital, Melrose Hospital, Lawrence Me-
morial Hospital, and others.

MemaeR of: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Faculty Club; Aesculapian
Club; American Association for Thoracic Surgery; Society for Vascular
Surgery; Boston Surgical Society; New England Surgical Society, Amer-
ican Trudeau Society, Pan-Pacific Surgical Society; International Soci-
ety of Angiology; Society of Sigma Xi, American College of Surgeons;
American College of Chest Physicians, American Heart Association,
American Medical Association.

PusLicaTioss: Various publications on diseases of the heart and chest.

CHEST surgery and devcloping heart surgery have continued
to be my absorbing interests during the past five years. In our
five previous Reports, certain phases have been reviewed.

Stage one consisted of Harvard Medical School, marriage to
Anne, and surgical training at Bellevue Hlospital in New York.

[ 462 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We entered stage two together. For the most part, this was a

gay phase. The New York Academy of Medicine’s Bowen

Traveling Fellowship took us to London. I became resident

surgical officer at the Brompton Hospital. My chief, the late

brilliant A. Tudor Edwards, operated on all chest structures
except the heart. It seemed that the heart, the only organ to
resist surgical intervention, should yield. September, 1939, and

war changed all. Back to the Harvard Surgical Service, Boston

City Hospital, for more general surgery and animal laboratory

work in heart surgery. Alden arrived to start our family.

Stage three: World War II dominated everyone and every-
thing. I was attached to Surgeon General Hawley’s European
Theatre headquarters and became regional consultant in thoracic
surgery. D-Day came with waves of chest injuries, including
shell fragments in hearts; removed shell fragments from hearts
and all patients survived. Elective surgery in the heart was on
its way! War ended and home to Boston, to Anne, Alden and
little Louise whom I had never seen — but found bewitching.

Stage four: early struggle in the practice of chest surgery and
new challenge of operating in acquired heart disease. Many
types of operations combined to promise that heart surgery, the
youngest of the surgical specialties would justify the comment
“if good fortune stays with us another five years, we shall see
this young field develop into a full-scale department of surgery”
(Twentieth Anniversary Report).

Stage five: heart surgery is a full-fledged field of surgery. All
valves, walls and partitions have been attacked surgically by
blind (closed) techniques. We are struggling to reduce the need
for heart function during surgery by lowering body temperatures
(hypothermia) and with mechanical substitutes for the heart
and lungs, so that we can open the heart and operate under
direct vision. The field is widening, gaining momentum — it is
ubiquitous. Once I knew all of the successful operations — now
I know only a sampling of the surgeons and their colleagues.
Heart surgery, the reality, is more fantastic than were the

dreams.

Stage six: Fiftieth Anniversary Report: I reflect on my crude,
open-heart operations of 1954 and 1955 under lowered body
temperature and how machines afforded direct vision. Now as

[ 463 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I93I

a spectator, I record how Alden went on to medical school and
later replaced a diseased heart with a good one or how he sub-
stituted for that diseased heart a simple, dependable little self.
activating plastic machine that became infiltrated with and incor.
porated into the recipient’s tissues. Perhaps Alden didn’t £0 to
medical school and do all this —— never mind, someone else did.

HAROLD IRVING HARMON (formerly Harold
Irving Horwitz)

HOME appress: 63 Montrose St., Newton 58, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Court St., Boston, Mass.

+ ELIZUR KIRKE HART

BORN: July 20, 1908, Albion, N. Y. parents: Elizur Kirke Hart, Elizabeth
Keeney.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

marrieD: Marcia E. B. Hart. cuitp: Marcia Elizabeth.

piep: May 21, 1953, Albion, N. Y.

wipow: Mrs, Elizur K. Hart, R. D. 1, Albion, N. Y.

SINCE Hart had never supplied information for our Class Re-
ports, the Secretary knows little of his life since he left college.

ALFRED LAMAR HARTRIDGE

HOME apprEss: 95 Dorset Rd., Waban 68, Mass,

OFFICE appREss: Stone & Webster Engineering Corp., 49 Federal St., Boston
7, Mass.

BorN: May 20, 1909, Seattle, Wash. parents: Alfred Lamar Hartridge,
Frances Alice Hickox.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931,

marriep: Nell Elizabeth Bryan, Jan. 20, 1934, New York, N. Y. CHILD:
Sharon, Aug 19, 1937.

OccUPATION: Vice-president and treasurer, Stone & Webster Engineering
Corporation, engineering and construction,

[ 464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; National Society
of Professional Engineers; Massachusetts Society of Professional Engi-
neers; Algonquin Club; Down Town Club; Duxbury Yache Club;
Waban Neighborhood Club; Harvard Club of New York City.

TWENTY-FIVE years “coming up” —almost to the day a
quarter of a century ago —I was applying for a leave of absence
at mid-term to embark upon a career in engineering and construc-
tion and thereby be assured of a job before the rush of June
graduates. Little did I realize that the industry of my choice
was soon to fall into substantial stagnation, and much would
need to be done to salvage, conserve and otherwise retain a smat-
tering of engineering ignorance for the days when private capi-
tal would again support the industrial plant expansion character-
istic of our periods of prosperity.

But that was many years ago, when each of us was instilled
with varying degrees of desire “to cut a mark in the world” or
at least to contribute in some small but nonetheless important way
to the welfare of our fellowmen. I wonder how much each of
us has done. I can’t say too much for my own part, and it is
perhaps the stark reality at a time like this, when one is caused
to review the past on paper, that something of self-censor must
be present and there is more than the usual desire to have worked
harder and to have done more. For all that, it has been an inter-
esting and stimulating pursuit, for at least I'm working at the
things I hope some day to attain.

We've never really had a permanent home. I guess the con-
struction industry will not afford such luxury if one is to be
associated with the large or “one of a kind” projects that get
dreamed up, reduced to drawings, executed in steel and concrete,
placed in operation, and then get walked away from by the
people who live only to build them, not to live with them. But
when I say we have never had a permanent home, I should stop
to say that means a little girl from Florida, whom I met in New
York when she worked in the office of a construction company
building a New York skyscraper, and a daughter — now taller
than her mother — who has just started her own four-year stretch
at Bryn Mawr.

We traveled from New York to British Columbia, from Ten-
nessee to New England, seldom except of late for more than a

[ 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

year in any location. In every city or town, whether it be St.
Louis in the summer or an ore smelter town in the winter, or
Oak Ridge with the mud before we had roads, there was always
for each its own individual attachments, pleasurable memories,
and its association with people who might otherwise never have
come into our lives.

I shall not be among those reporting military service in World
War II, not because I was 4F or encumbered with more depend-
ents than the Goverment cared to support, but that during most
of the war period I was retained by assignment to work of the
Manhattan District of the Corps of Engineers, ultimately re-
placed by the Atomic Energy Commission. The first “heavy
water” plant designed and built in the Western Hemisphere was
constructed at Trail, British Columbia. Following that assign-
ment, I went to Oak Ridge to participate in the construction of
the electro magnetic plant which produced uranium 235 in com-
mercial quantities nearly one year ahead of all other processes
and, if I ever had any hobbies, they certainly were impinged upon
by seven-day work schedules and eleven-to-twelve-hour days.

In more recent years I have had the good fortune to be rela-
tively well stabilized with Boston as home base. It was a great
assist in getting my daughter through her high school years with-
out changing schools and friends. But who knows? Tomorrow
it could be Australia or Iran or England. There’s nothing like
a fire horse with Stone & Webster Engineering Corporation, and
even after twenty-five years there is nothing like the challenge
of getting the next big one started, out of a swamp, or in a corn
field, or just far away. Here’s hoping I can be around for our
25th —I forgot to say I missed graduation. I had a job at the
time on a floating rig driving piles in the Hudson River off Edge-
water, New Jersey.

CHARLES NATHANIEL HASKELL

HOME ApprEss: 1730 S. Cincinnati St., Tulsa, Okla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1202 Philtower Bldg., Tulsa 3, Okla.

BORN: March 27, 1908, Muskogee, Okla. parents: Norman Reuel Haskell,
Jessie Ware.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Muskogee, Okla.
[ 466 ]

 

|
i
:
2

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (32).

MarRRIED: Kathryn Gautier, Sept. 10, 1938, Muskogee, Okla. cHitpren: Ed-
ward Sweeney, July 10, 1942; Charles Nathaniel, 3d, Sept. 20, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Muskogee County Bar Association, 1942, 1943;
assistant county attorney, Muskogee County, 1944; judge, Municipal
Court, Muskogee, 1946-50; secretary, Harvard Club of Dallas, 1938-39,
president, Harvard Club of Tulsa, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Tulsa County Bar Association; Oklahoma Bar Association,
American Bar Association; Harvard Club of Tulsa.

COMING up to date from our Twentieth Anniversary Report,
in July of 1951 I finally decided to give the practice of law in
Muskogee back to the Indians before I lost what I had left of my
scalp. 1 became associated with J. F. Darby, a pioneer and very
successful oil man. Until his death in February of 1953, I spent
my weeks driving around the country looking for leases and
royalty or blocking up areas of interest for Darby’s development
program. During that period I became acquainted and friendly
with John E. Curran, a well-established lawyer in Tulsa, and in
the fall of 1953 I resumed the general practice of law under an
office arrangement with him, moving my family from Muskogee
to Tulsa. Curran and I became partners in the summer of 1954,
and the relationship continued until July of 1955, when Curran’s
health forced him to become inactive. I took over the offices and
have been extremely busy ever since (and hope this observation
is still true when this report appears in print).

Tulsa is one of the nation’s most beautiful cities and we are
smugly happy residents, Its Philharmonic Orchestra is one of the
country’s major symphonies and annually presents a bevy of top-
flight guest artists. The Harvard Club has a roster of about 150
and is one of my chief interests. My election to the presidency of
the club this year is a fair sample of Harvard indifference.

In past reports I have commented upon the postgraduate
retreat of my hairline along the temples. I am glad to announce
that the retreat has been stemmed, although what the attack looks
like from the rear I can’t say. As for my figure, since I quit my
futile golf and ludicrous efforts to become a square-dancer, I can
best describe it by saying that without my legs I would be a
replica of Humpty-Dumpty, except perhaps not so erect.

Politically, I am a disillusioned Democrat and I know that if I

[ 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

were a Republican, I should likewise be a disillusioned Republi-
can. The philosophy of “tax and tax, spend and spend, elect and
elect” is here to stay, along with the unholy alliance of labor
leadership and capital management (with government’s conniv-
ance) to boost the spiral of inflation — irresponsibility spawned
by the rearing of a generation taught to believe that it is the duty
of the government to support the people. Move over, Pegler!

Oh well, I still have the memories of those incomparable years
in Harvard. Did I ever tell you about the time in Dallas when
S.M.U.’s Matty Bell and Harvard’s Dick Harlow saved me from
a bum rap for hit-and-run driving? Hope to see you all in Cam-
bridge come June of ’56.

KENDALL GORDON HATHAWAY

MAILING ADDRESS: Hawley Manor, Newtown, Conn.

BorN: Aug. 27, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Lester Gordon Hathaway,
Gertrude Alice Kendall.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

OccUPATION: ‘Transportation.

WILLIAM MADISON HAWKINS, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 4 Meadow Lane, Glen Head, N. Y¥.

oFFice appress: ACF Industries, Inc., 30 Church St., New York, N. Y.

Born: Aug. 7, 1909, Hannibal, Mo. parents: William Madison Hawkins,
Gladys A. Nelson.

PREPARED AT: Hannibal High School, Hannibal, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; S.M. IN MECH.E., 1933;
MME, (Chrysler Inst. of Engineering), 1935.

MarRiED: Carolyn M. Cook, Sept. 24, 1938, Lansing, Mich. cumpren: Nancy
Kimbrough, May 28, 1941; William Madison, 3d, Dec. 14, 1944; John
C., Aug. 11, 1947.

occupaTION: Chief engineer, Special Projects Department, ACF Industries,
Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Society of Auto-
motive Engineers, American Society for Testing Materials; Institute of
Aeronautical Sciences, S.N.D.T.; A-W.S.; E.J.C.; S.E.S.A.; Harvard
Club of New York; Sea Club.

LOOKING back upon nearly twenty-five years since graduation,
[ 468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one falls naturally into a mood of critical self-appraisal. At such

times one remembers some things done and is conscious of many

more not done. “So little done, § so much to do”! All the nagging -
demands of day-to-day existence, the petty distractions, the

thousand and one inconsequential details of the routine with

which one surrounds oneself, all crowd around and scem to leave

little room for the deeper and more lasting satisfactions. And then

one remembers an event here, some worthwhile contribution
there, and one suddenly sees a lifetime as a landscape, where one’s
eye travels over open sunny meadows, deep rocky glades through
which dash turbulent streams, wooded hills exposed to all the
vagaries of the weather and the seasons and, above it all, a few
lofty peaks, serene and eternal.

At the time of my graduation, employment opportunities were
very restricted, to say the least. As one who is constantly involved
in hiring young engineers, the contrast with present conditions
is striking. At any rate, I soon formed an association with a large
automobile company in Detroit and worked there until December,
1944, except for one year in Dayton, Ohio. 1 formed many

leasant associations there and still maintain many friendships

which I value highly. For some years I rowed on Detroit Boat
club crews until advancing age and the demands of a growing
family caught up with me. It was in Detroit that I met the girl
who became my wife. I consider this to be, without exception,
the most fortunate thing that ever happened to me. Our first
two children were born in Detroit and the third in Toledo, Ohio,
where we spent the years between December, 1944, and May,
1948.

The Toledo period was very difficult and confused with all the
war-time and post-war dislocations in housing, etc. In May, 1948,
I formed my present business association with a company having
many plants at widely scattered locations and far-flung interests.
The followi ing two years were spent at the Detroit plant. Since it
Was a temporary assignment, the two summers during this period
were spent commuting to a summer home on Lake Ontario, while
one winter was spent commuting to Windsor, Ontario, and the
remaining winter was spent in a hotel while the rest of the family
was in Lansing, Michigan. This is far from an ideal situation for
children of school age, so it was arranged that we move to New

[ 469 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF [931

York for a more permanent assignment. Scarcely more than a year
later, however, an important project came along that necessitated
spending an extended period in New Mexico. We leased a ranch
near Pojoaque, New Mexico, north of Santa Fe, and the two
oldest children went to school at Los Alamos during the winter
of 1951-1952 while I had offices at Los Alamos and Albuquerque.
We became very much enamoured of this fascinating and pictur-
esque country and availed ourselves of every opportunity to
camp out and to go hiking and fishing.

In 1952 I made two trips to the Marshall Islands in the far
reaches of the Pacific Ocean with brief stops in Hawaii. It was at
this time that I first became acquainted with the fascinating life in
the teeming undersea world surrounding these sub-tropical islands,
Again in 1954, I made two trips to the same general location, this
time for more extended periods. During this time, at least several
hours a day were devoted to skin diving in the warm, crystal
clear waters of the lagoons and coral reefs. I continued to find
this utterly fascinating. Words simply cannot describe the total
effect of all the variegated colors and all the many forms of under-
sea life. Of all the hobbies I have ever had — rowing, flying,
horseback riding —I have enjoyed this the most, and have most
regretted having to give it up because Long Island Sound just
doesn’t provide the same environment.

In August, 1954, having accomplished the phase of the project
I had set out to do, we returned to our home on Long Island. We
moved to our present home in December, 1954. The children are
well adjusted and making good progress in their schools. We
have a circle of congenial friends and I am home a good part of
the time, although I still have to visit our plants at least once a
week. And I even have time to squeeze in a course at Columbia!
So, what ho! For the next twenty-five years (I hope!).

WILLIAM JAY HEARN

HOME appress: 55 Shaw Rd., Brookline 67, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss; William J. Hearn, Inc., 6 Long Wharf, Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 24, 1910, Boston, Mass. Parents: James Mason Hearn, Mary
Elizabeth Welch.

PREPARED AT: Mount Saint Mary’s, Emmitsburg, Md.

[ 470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.
UNMARRIED.

occuPaTiON: President, William J. Hearn, Inc., general wool business.
MEMBER OF: Union Boat Club, Boston.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I entered the employ of the Americar
Woolen Company, Wood Mill, Lawrence, Massachusetts. Servec

an apprenticeship of three years, during which time I attended
Lowell Textile Institute, M.LT. and Boston University, pursuing
textile courses, Entered the employ of the Guerin Mills, Inc., in
Woonsocket, Rhode Island, becoming vice-president in 1938.
Immediately following Pearl Harbor, I applied for a Navy
commission and reported for duty in January, 1942, as a licuten-
ant (j.g.). Arrived in England early in 1942, later going to
Algiers where I remained until April, 1944. Returning to the
States, was assigned as executive officer of Cubiz7 ABATU, Long
Beach, Long Island, New York. Later, I went to the Pacific
Theatre. Was returned to inactive duty early in 1946 and re-
entered the general wool business as William J. Hearn, Inc. Have

maintained my U.S. Naval Reserve activities, holding the rank
of commander, USNR, and have a command of my own.

CHARLES HART HECKSCHER

HOME aporEss: Bair Road, Berwyn, Pa.
OFFICE apprEss: The Budd Co., Red Lion Plant, Philadelphia 15, Pa.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1909, Radnor, Pa. parents: Ledyard Heckscher, ’94, Echel
Hill Hart.

PREPARED aT: St. George's School, Newport, R. I.
YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1927-1932.
MarRieD: Marjorie Maud Newhall, Sept. 12, 1933, Philadelphia, Pa. cHitpren:

John Ledyard, Aug. 23, 1936; Ellen Cushman, Jan. 26, 1939; Charles
Hart, Jr., June 26, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ledyard Hart Heckscher, ’22.
OccuPaTION: Sales engineer.

IT’S hard to realize that twenty-five years have gone by since that
important time when I left Cambridge and headed out into the
“cold, cruel world”, Frankly, an account of my doings since that
time would be dreadfully boring; but, to satisfy the editor and,
perhaps, also to appease the curiosity of some of my old friends
of college days, let me review the high spots briefly.

[471]

HARVARD CLASS OF I9Q31I

I never should have chosen the field of concentration in which
I struggled. Asa matter of interest, almost without exception my
business endeavors have required engineering. My studies at Har-
vard had no connection with such matters. These two facts have
led me to this conclusion: I feel strongly that parents of boys of
college age should guide them in their choice, to be sure, but allow
them to attend the college of their choice and, above all, pursue
the course of studies in which they are interested. I have done
so with my elder boy. He is attending Princeton (of all things!)
and is studying engineering.

My first ‘ob. — of short duration — was with a brokerage firm.
Recalling those depression days, I wonder now why they hired
me. There was no business. After a year of this at five dollars

per week salary, I developed a convenient case of appendicitis,
after which my parents provided me with a wonderful motor trip
through the Loire Valley and the Chateaux district of France.

On our return I went to work as a mill metallurgist with the
Alan Wood Steel Company in Conshohocken, One thing led to
another as they are apt to do, and as time rolled by, I was con-
secutively an assistant foreman in the blast furnace department
and coke plant, and pit foreman in the open hearth. By early
1944, I had been removed from the mills and was at work in billet
sales when military service stared me squarely in the eyes, I spent
two years in Uncle Sam’s Navy — shipbuilding — and was dis-
charged with the rank of lieutenant, USNR.

In 1946 I returned to civilian pursuits and took a job as sales
engineer with a small foundry and machinery building concern in
Wilmington, Delaware. This eventually led to plant manager and
a vice-president position. Again, short-lived! The owner sold out
and the new owners changed top management personnel. This
led to my present connection. I joined The Budd Company as
foreman, foundry, in June of 1950. Presently, I am sales engineer,
Railway Division, with especial emphasis on disc brakes for rail-
way passenger cars.

During this time my little wife has been a faithful and under-
standing companion, friend, counselor and mother to our three

kids. She must be all of this to have put up with me for so long.

desidcs never having been a shining light or famous person, I have
been overhauled surgically once or twice, which I know caused

[ 472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

her some concern. Truthfully, as a result of the first of these
major overhauls, [ can say emphatically that my religious attitude
changed from mild cynicism to an intense belief. People shouldn’t
have to live through such experiences to gain this; however, I did.

My old roommates will remember that, hobby-wise, my great
loves were hunting, cribbage, girls and a few other unimportant
outlets. I can still do a pretty fair job going around the board
once or twice, or knocking a bird out of the air. But more re-
cently I have taken up with the wily trout and his weakness (?)
for the dry fly.

Outside of fishing season, my continual hobby is my family
and home. With John at Princeton, Ellie a senior at school (and
with beaux hovering around like flies around honey), and Charles,
a ten-year-old ball-playing fanatic, this hobby is a full-time job
and, in addition, we have just built a new home in Berwyn, over-
looking Valley Forge.

JOHN GUSTAVE RICHARD HECKSCHER

HOME ADDRESS: Devon, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Budd Co., Philadelphia 32, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1909, Strafford, Pa. parents: Stevens Heckscher, ’96, Henri-

— etta Brown. .

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.; St. George’s School, New-
port, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

MarRiED: Anna Davis Hallowell, June 28, 1932, Wianno, Mass. cHILDREN:
Benjamin H., April 13, 1935; Frederick B., May 2, 1939 (died May 15,
1953); Maurice, 2d, Aug. 16, 1942; John H., Dec. 25, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Benjamin Hallowell Heckscher, ’57.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Maurice Heckscher, ’28; Mark Hopkins (stepbrother),
209.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, The Budd Company.

OFFICES HELD: Welding engineer, sales engineer, assistant secretary, secretary,
commercial products manager, vice-president, The Budd Company;
member board of managers, The Franklin Institute; vice-president,
World Affairs Council of Philadelphia.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Club; Philadelphia Country Club; Racquet Club;
Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

THE first two years out of college found me taking electrical and
general engineering courses in the Engineering School with some

[473 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

few courses in the Business School thrown in. Aside from the fact
that I don’t recall using Ohm's law since, the experience was
worth while even if its only practical application was to be the
exercise of some degree of mental discipline and the acquisition of
an engineering approach. The second year after college my wife
and I sct up housekeeping in Cambridge until my postgraduate
curriculum was complete. In 1933 we set off for Philadelphia, via
the Chicago World's Fair and visits to friends, to find a home and
to start looking for a job (remember 19337). Through sheer
good luck involving a case of mistaken identity I established a
connection at The Budd Company where I have been ever since.
My experience with this fine company has been varied and a
most satisfactory one to me. A little bit of engineering, a lot of
selling, helping to conduct our corporate affairs and the direction
of advertising and public relations, while hardly the logical out-
growth of a technical education, have been my lot at Budd.
Presently I wear two hats: the direction of sales to the govern-
ment and the administration of a board corporate diversification
program.

As most of us have found out, I find my most absorbing interest
has turned out to be my home in the broadest sense of the word.
How anyone can lack challenge or excitement with an attractive
wife and three boys is beyond me. Mix all these up with several
acres of woods and fields in the country, where we do most of our
own work, and you will see what I mean. The hobbies which
I undertook when I left college have failed to stand the test of
time, except where they have established themselves as compatible
with the activities of the family as a whole; in other words, the
surviving ones are tennis, upland bird shooting, music and work-
ing around the place. In several of these the younger generation
has Ieft the older far behind. But somehow this yields a deeper
satisfaction,

After years of planning and anticipation, in 1953 the entire
family undertook “the grand tour” to the Pacific Coast and back
with some mountain touring and ten days’ ranching thrown in —
a prescription 1 can recommend for almost any age alumnus,
alumna, or alumni-to-be. Finally, the cycle has been completed

with our eldest, Ben, entering Harvard in 1953. Ele almost went
to Amherst, but right prevailed! The other two boys have yet

[ 474]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to face the fateful decision, but I haven’t a doubt that a three-
generation tradition of Harvard on both sides of their family will
provide an influence not easily shrugged off.

PAUL HEINS

HOME AppRESS: 9 Albion St., Hyde Park 36, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: English High School, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Heins, Rose Golbert.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; ED.M. (Boston Teachers
Coll.), 1932.

MarRRIED: Ethel L. Yaskin, June 27, 1943, Bayonne, N. J. cuitpren: Peter
Samuel, Jan. 10, 1947; Margery Elizabeth, Sept. 23, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Haskell Heins, ’37.

occupation: Master in English.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of managers, Hyde Park Y.M.C.A.

VERY often, on my way to work in the morning, I can imagine
myself walking down the High Street of Oxford. For, as the
recipient of a fellowship from the Fund for the Advancement of
Education, I had the privilege of spending last year at one of
the traditional English universities. After twenty years of at-
tempting to teach English to high school boys, I was suddenly
whisked away from the often grinding routine of daily life and
permitted to participate, along with my wife and two children,
in the life of a foreign city. Without submitting to the futility
of expatriotism, I experienced the pleasure of seeing life under
another mode of existence; and I shall probably never again
escape the experience. .

I had traveled before, as a tourist to France and England in
the summer of 1936; and had during my two years in the Army
spent a month in San Antonio, Texas, where I had perceived the
fading pattern of colonial Spanish civilization. But, in Oxford,
as a student and resident, I really found myself absorbed by the
context, as it were, of another life. Perhaps the month my family
and I spent on the Continent will leave scattered memories in
my children’s minds. But I am sure they will remember the
boats in the Luxembourg Gardens, the bears in the city of
Berne, the gondola ride in Venice and our “fountain trip” in

(475 ]

i fp i nant NER es RRR ii Not estas

HARVARD CLASS OF IQ3I

Rome — this last, a desperate plan of parents much harassed by a
uavel-wilted daughter of four.

Perhaps it is not insignificant that my son is now extremely
fond of geography, that I had the leisure to study Anglo-Saxon
and find time to read The Faerie Queen and novels by Hen-
ingway, Faulkner, and Henry James; and that my wife fell in
love with London. The labors, disappointments and difficulties
of twenty-five years are canceled in our memories and expe-
riences of last year.

JOHN WILSON HENDERSON, JR.

HOME ADbRESS: 38 Berwick St., Worcester 2, Mass.

OFFICE appress: 36 Pleasant St., Worcester 8, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 20, 1910, Springfield, Mass. parents: John Wilson Henderson,
Patience Ballentine.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D., 1935.

marrieD: Barbara Elizabeth Hobbs, May 25, 1940, Swampscott, Mass. cuiLp:
Elizabeth, March 21, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

oFFicrs HELD: Member staff, Worcester City Hospital, Fairlawn Hospital,
Hahnemann Hospital; consultant, Grafton State Hospital, secretary of
trustees, Worcester Medical Library, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); American College of
Surgeons (fellow); American Medical Association, Worcester District
and Massachusetts Medical Socicties.

AFTER receiving my M.D. degree from Harvard Medical School
in 1935, I spent several years in postgraduate study and train-
ing. I practised in Worcester a short time, and then was called
into military service. I served with the Army for nearly five
years in the North African and European areas, where I re-
ccived eight battle stars and a Silver Star medal. After the war
I returned to Worcester and resumed civilian medical practice.
I limit my practice to surgery and am particularly interested in
the treatment of injurics.

 

[ 476 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN RICHARD HENSCHEN

HOME ApDpREsS: 316 Roger Williams Ave., Highland Park, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 29 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Il.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1910, Chicago, Ill. parents: Henry Samuel Henschen, Edith
Mountain.

PREPARED AT: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MaRRiED: Muriel Pontius, Aug. 20, 1938, Chicago, Ill.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Mountain Henschen, ’27 (deceased).

occuPATION: General insurance broker,

OFFICES HELD: President, Exchange Club of Highland Park, 1954-55; superin-
tendent, Junior High Department in Sunday School, Highland Park
Presbyterian Church, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Chicago.

I HAVE had several positions, all in sales work, since graduation
from college. These have given me a lot of satisfaction because I
enjoy working with people.

I spent my first six years selling life insurance in Chicago; and
was active in Young Republicans and in civic work. Got the itch
to travel and spent two years touring the Middle West represent-
ing the New York Terminal Warehouse Company.

In 1940 I took a job with G. D. Searle & Company in Chicago,
explaining the uses of new drugs to doctors; in less than a year I
was transferred to New England to take charge of sales there.
After three years I was sent to Washington to seek U. S. and
foreign government business. I particularly enjoyed calling on
representatives of foreign governments.

In 1947 Abbott Laboratories sent me to India to manage their
subsidiary company there, with headquarters in Bombay. There
were sixty-five employees, all native, including twenty-five sales-
men. I survived the riots and excitement of India’s getting her

independence, and set up a subsidiary company in Pakistan. My
wife and I liked the people and enjoyed the luxuries of the East,
including servants, exotic foods and people, and a seven-day
wedding between two princely houses, but I became run down in
health and we decided we'd rather live and work in the U.S.A.

We bought a home in Highland Park. We don’t have any
children but we enjoy our dog and cat, gardening and working
around the house. I have a ten-foot sailing canoe but don’t get out

[ 477 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

as often as I should like. Following my wife’s example I have
become active in community and church affairs. Occasionally we
miss the servants we had in India but we are both agreed that this
is the good life.

JOHN HANDY HENSHAW

HOME AppRESS: 9:8 S. Aiken Ave., Pittsburgh 32, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., One Gateway Center, Pittsburgh
22, Pa.

BorN: Aug. 7, 1909, Norwood, N. J. PARENTS: Richard Townsend Henshaw,
‘04, Clara Ambler Venable.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: AB., 1931.

MarrigD: Alice Anita Stevens, July 29, 1933, Greenwich, Conn. CHILDREN:
John Handy, Jr., March 28, 1934; Weld Stevens, Oct. 27, 1937.

HARVARD sons: John Handy Henshaw, Jr., 56; Weld Stevens Henshaw, ’s9.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Carrington Henshaw, °36.

occupation: General export manager; assistant in foreign investments.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and director, Foreign Policy Association of Pitts-
burgh; trustee, Western Pennsylvania School for the Deaf; president,
Men’s Club, Calvary Church, 1954-55; director, Pinturas Tucan, S. A.
Caracas, Venezuela, Pinturas Pittsburgh de Mexico, S. A., Mexico City;
director, Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh, 1952-53; chair-
man, Scholarship Committee, 1954-55, vice-president, 1955, Harvard
Club of Western Pennsylvania; chairman, Professions Division, Alle-
gheny County Community Fund, 1955.

MEMBER OF: Pittsburgh Golf Club; Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club; Export
Managers Club of New York.

IN 1931 I counted myself very fortunate to be offered a job,
which gave some promise of being a steady one, by the Pittsburgh
Plate Glass Company. For twenty-four years it has been both
steady and exceedingly interesting.

After two bachelor years spent in Baltimore, Milwaukee,
Clarksburg (W. Va.), Ford City (Pa.), and Newark (N. J.), I
did the best selling job of my life in persuading Anita to marry
me. We lived in New York for two years and in Radburn, New
Jersey, for two more. Our elder son was born in New York and
our second son in New York when we were living in Radburn.

In 1928 we moved bag and baggage to Birmingham, Alabama,
where we spent a wonderful year, during which I learned to know

[ 478 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Alabama from border to border as I never have known any state

before or since.

In 1939 we moved to Boston, happy to be returning to what
has always seemed — after six years in Southboro and four in
Cambridge — the old stamping ground, even though we left our
friends in Birmingham with great regret. Besides the many other
satisfactions of returning to New England was the great one of
working with Wally Harper, ’30, who led his class as First
Marshal last year. We lived six very happy years in Brookline
within easy commuting distance of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass
branch across the street from what used to be the home of the now
Milwaukee Braves. Our six years in Brookline, spanning World
War IJ, were busy ones at work and on the home front.

Just before we left Brookline, we came to the conclusion that
we had lived a rather footloose life and that we really ought to
put a root or two down somewhere; so, we bought a saltwater
farm in Brunswick, Maine, where we have spent our summers ever
since. Little did we know that a few months after we bought it
we would be moving again, this time to Pittsburgh.

When I started my work in the Merchandising Division of the
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, I never expected that it would
lead to the export business and foreign investment — two fields
which to my mind are among the most fascinating in business,
combining as they do all of the slants of similar domestic work
with the hooks and sliders peculiar to international operations. I
can only say that if I had planned it that way, it could not have
turned out better.

The two boys have been away at school now for several years
and between vacations the house has been very quiet, but our
hours of leisure are well filled. Our elder son will be, I hope,
graduating from Harvard in our reunion year, 1956, and our
younger just completing his freshman year.

Our vacations in Maine have been a joy to me and to our boys,
if a little rough on Anita. Sailing, gardening, woodcutting, swim-
ming, clamming, picknicking, and just loafing have taken up our
days; and for our elder son add a summer job at a nearby boat-
yard while he has been at Harvard.

My work includes a good deal of foreign travel, particularly
in South America, and needless to say, Anita and I love that part

[ 479 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

of it — especially the chance to visit our many good friends in
all parts of the world, My work in foreign trade has led me to the
belicf that we cannot set world economic problems aright by
pursuing a “free trade” policy in the world as it is. You do not
improve the world’s standard of living by taking a job away from
a man getting two dollars an hour and giving it to a man who
will work for tw enty -five cents an hour. A’ strong, integrated,
prosperous economy in the U.S.A. is the world’s best hope. A
sound program of reasonable tariff protection is the fairest and
least discriminating way that I know of to protect American labor
and agricultural standards from “coolie” and “sweat shop” wages.

The years since Harvard have been happy ones and I think that
the fact that Jack and Weld are there now — in spite of powerful
pressures from their grandfather, “Tige” Stevens, Princeton, ’o4
— 1s the best proof of what we think of Harvard.

RALPH MILTON HETTERLY

MAILING aDprEsS: Route 10, Hanover, N. J.

Bors: Oct. 6, 1905, Altoona, Pa. parents: Charles Bushong Hetterly, Mary
Alice Ameigh.

PREPARED aT: Altoona High School, Altoona, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

Maxriep: Elsa Krusa, Oct. 5, 1932, Liberty, N. Y. cHitpren: Robert Malcolm,
Sept. 12, 1933; Mary Ann, Nov. 6, 1934.

occupation: Manufacturing.

 

ALBERT EUGENE HEYMANN

HOME ALUKESS: 102g Prospect Ave., Pelham Manor, N. Y.

orrice appress: Walter & Samuels, Inc., 18 E. 46th St., New York, N. Y.

kas: June 30, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Albert Heymann, Elsa
Rothschild.

runpauwsn aT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. HE.

YEARS IN COLLELE: 1927~1928.

Makin: Catherine Potter Watson, Jan. 26, 1938, New York, N. Y. cnirp:
Louis Thompson Watson, 3d, Jan. 18, 1935 (adopted).

UtCLPATION: Real estate: vice-president, head of appraisal department.

orhidds Hino: Member board of directors, Madison House, North Shore

[ 480 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Tennis & Rackets Club; secretary, Pelham Manor Volunteer Fire De-
partment.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers; New York State
Society of Real Estate Appraisers; American Society of Appraisers,
Real Estate Board of New York; New Rochelle Hospital Association;
Men’s Club of Pelham.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various appraisal publications.

THE choice of an occupation for the largest part of one’s life is a
choice that should require much study, advice and vocational
guidance. However, during the depression, the first available
job looked good and I’ve been in real estate ever since leavin
Harvard. Although my favorite way of life would be that of a
“gentleman of leisure”, I can not think of any ordinary vocation
more satisfactory to me than that of real estate appraiser.

New York City was my home until about ten years after my
marriage, then I moved to Westchester. My son will graduate in
1956 from a small midwestern co-educational college and I look
forward to being a grandfather in the not too far distant future.

My tennis and occasional golf keep me well occupied in the
spring and summer and during the winter I play squash, but each
year the old legs move a little slower. I find that Pelham Manor,
like most other suburbs, takes up a lot of my time with civic,
philanthropic, and church organizations and drives,

For the last few years my vacations have been spent at Fire
Island and I have become a devotee of the surf, sand and sun.
I am an independent Democrat and very much a lone wolf in my
community. About seven years ago I joined the Episcopal Church,
my first church affiliation, and I have found it a very satisfactory
and worth-while experience.

RICHARD RUSSELL HILDRETH

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Beacon St., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Kenway, Jenney, Witter & Hildreth, 24 School St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: March 21, 1909, Winchester, Mass. parents: Alfred Hitchcock Hil-
dreth, ’96, Alice Symmes Russell.

PREPARED at: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

[ 481 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1934,
MarRieD: Mary Isbell Tibbetts, July 6, 1934, Winchester, Mass. cHItpren;
David Tibbetts, July 26, 1937; Alice Russell, Nov. 18, 1939; Richard
Thorndike, March 20, 1943; Thomas Colburn, May 21, 1948.
OccUPATION: Patent attorney.

GEORGE QUINBY HILL, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 Park St., Wollaston 70, Mass.
BoRN: Dec. 26, 1906, Newton, Mass. parents: George Quinby Hill, Clara
Ware.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass., Mount Hermon
School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREES: B.S.E. (Boston Univ.), 1935; ED.M.
(ibid.), 1946.

MarRiED: Virginia Follett, Feb. 14, 1936, Wollaston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hollis Boardman Hill, ’35 (deceased).

occuPATION: Teacher; business man; writer.

MEMBER OF: Boston Mineral Club.

I HAVE been a high school and college teacher, business man,
and advanced student of geology. From nothing but a hobby,
with later an interest in adding the teaching of geology to my
favorite teaching subject, economic geography, which I had also
taught one year in Sever Hall for the State, I have gradually
developed a keen interest in mineralogy and economic geology
and am now doing some writing in both of these fields. I am in
the process of completing a catalogue to be titled The Minerals of
Massachusetts and a brochure on pumice. The book on the min-
erals of Massachusetts, which I hope to publish within a year, 1s
the result of a private attempt, begun in 1951, to compile or obtain
a list of the state’s minerals at the Harvard mineralogy library. I
had been working there off and on for a month when Professor
Charles Palache encountered me trying to produce what I later
learned he had begun twelve or more years before. He got me
a desk and the chance to examine all the state’s minerals in the
collections at the laboratory. The research is all done, and I am
now putting together the book. It’s about time our state, which
has had dozens of competent students and scientists report on its
minerals for longer than any other state except New York, had
its own authoritative reference book on its minerals.

[ 482 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My brother, Hollis Boardman Hill, died of pneumonia at the
age of twenty-three. He graduated from Andover Academy and
from Harvard with the Class of 1935. Before his death at Knox-
ville, Tennessee, he served as an “interne in government” with
T.V.A. from the National Institute of Public Affairs.

My hobbies and interests have been many and various, perhaps
too much of both—world government, pacifism, geopolitics
(United States-Far Eastern relations), tennis, mountain climbing,
genealogy, 17th-century Eastern Massachusetts history, the prob-
lems and data of energy sources, atomic energy, the techniques
of war promotion, religious education (I have taught in our Con-
gregational Sunday School, 7th grade, for the past three years),
geology and mineralogy. In the past year I have been with two
Boston engineering firms, Charles T. Main, Inc., and Thomas
Worcester, Inc., in connection with earth borings for the Massa-
chusetts Turnpike and the Greenwich-killingley Expressway in
Connecticut, where my knowledge of geology and soil has been
used. Does any one know of any Massachusetts school that needs
a first-rate earth science man?

THOMAS DANA HILL

HOME aporess: Hill House, Siesta Key, Sarasota, Fla.

OFFICE ADRESS: Out-of-Door School, Siesta Key, Sarasota, Fla.

BORN: June 12, root, Manchester, Mass. parents: Edward Burlingame Hill,
Mary Bixby.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926—1930.

MarRieD: Margery Watson, Dec. 29, 1927, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Alison Bixby, Nov. 1, 1929; Thomas Dana, Jr., May 6, 1940.

occupation: Director, Out-of-Door School, Sarasota, Fla.

DURING my years at college I took as many English courses as
possible with the conviction that I was destined to become a
writer. I feel very lucky to have memories of Professor Copeland,
Professor Kittredge, Professor Bliss Perry, etc.

The erroneous conviction that I was destined to become a
writer lasted all too long after I left college. During this time I
became tremendously interested in the possibilities of growing
cultivated blueberries in Francestown, New Hampshire, a town

[ 483 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

to which my mother’s family moved a few years before the Revo-
lution. The cultivated blueberries have remained for me some-
thing more than a hobby but rather less than a business since 1936.

In 1940 my children were so plagued with colds that we moved
to Sarasota, Florida, for the winter months. I have been associated
with the Out-of-Door School for the last fifteen years, and have
served as the school’s director for the past seven years.

I believe that I should complete the picture by stating that in
1927 I married Margery Watson, whose family then lived at 71
Appleton Street in Cambridge. I have a daughter, Alison, who
married a resident of Sarasota, and a son Tom who is away at
boarding school.

DANIEL HAROLD HINDMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 210 Riverway, Boston 15, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1093 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: July 11, 1909, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Hyman Hindman, Ada
Chused.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. 1935.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Harold Hindman, °26.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Associate in obstetrics, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston Lying-In Hospital, associate in gynecology,
Free Hospital for Women; associate in obstetrics and gynecology, Beth
Israel Hospital, consultant in obstetrics and gynecology, Tewksbury
State Hospital. |

MEMBER OF: American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (diplomate);
Obstetrical Society of Boston (fellow); Massachusetts Medical Society;
Harvard Chemical Society; New Century Club, Boston; Grecian Lodge,
AF. & A.M., Lawrence, Mass.

PuBLications: “Pelvic Delivery Following Previous Caesarean Section”.

FOLLOWING the most pleasant years of my life, those at the
College in Cambridge, I navigated the Charles to take up resi-
dence for the ensuing four years at the Medical School on
Longwood Avenue. Recollection would have this decision based
on a single throw of the dice. Those ivory bones have come to
rest with “snake-eyes” up on every occasion thereafter.

[ 484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Since the summer of 1935, when the faculty at the Medical
School believed they had stuffed me quite sufficiently, if not to
the point of engorgement, with the principles of Hippocrates,
] have been associated in some measure with the Medical School,
hospitals affiliated with the school and the private practice of
obstetrics and gynecology. Two years of surgical training at
the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston was followed by two and a
half years of midwifery at the Boston Lying-In Hospital. Then
private practice to supplement teaching.

The day following Pearl Harbor found me at the headquarters
of the First Naval District. This move did not frighten the
enemy into immediate submission. There followed four years
in the Pacific Theatre, with the initial crew of U.S. Naval Mobile
Hospital No. 7; as senior medical officer, Motor Torpedo Boats,
Solomon Islands; and with the initial crew of the U.S. Naval
Hospital Ship Haven, As an orchid of appreciation the Haven
accompanied the first task force into Nagasaki Harbor shortly
following the atomic bomb — our mission, to process and evacu-
ate P.O.W.’s from the island of Kyushu. The opportunity to
survey the influences of that early and primitive A-bomb inten-
sified my humility.

I must confess that on returning home to pick up again the
threads that had been severed some four and one-half years pre-
viously, I found myself no less confused and disillusioned than
were the inhabitants of atomized Nagasaki. The past decade
has merely accentuated the tedium of daily medical ministra-
tions and clinical teaching, with the tempo increasing to a pace
nigh impossible for this aging “Doc” to maintain. One grows
fearful that such pressure may completely subjugate the art of
medicine to the present-day scientific attitude.

Though the country is once again being harangued by the
“Pros” in preparation for the party conventions and presidential
elections, I remain an adamant Independent. Am possessed of a
strong conviction that when all the arguments have been spent,
when the slander and praise for the various candidates have
diminished to a whisper, the electorate of these United States
will make a sound decision in placing the best candidate in the
White House. This spirit has been suppressed too long. I suspect

[ 485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

that the Twenty-fifth Reunion will prove the fuse to set it effer-
vescing and give it a pleasing rejuvenation for the ensuing twenty-

five years. Impatiently awaiting grand fun and good folks in
Cambridge next June.

BRUCE WALLACE HISLOP

HOME ADDRESS: 180 Pinewoods Ave., Troy, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Murphy, Aldrich, Guy, Broderick & Simon, 297 River St,
Troy, N. Y.

BoRN: May 29, 1909, Troy, N. Y. PARENTS: James Hislop, Addie M. Emer-
son.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931, DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Margaret M. Comins, Feb. 22, 1939, Concord, Mass. cHitpren:

Bruce Danforth, Dec. 20, 1943; James Marlow, May 22, 1951.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Justice of the Peace, 1948-51; treasurer, Rensselaer County
Bar Association, since 1954; member advisory board, Watervliet
Arsenal; member law firm, Murphy, Aldrich, Guy, Broderick & Simon,
since 1949; president, Uncle Sam Council, Boy Scouts of America; di-
rector, Troy Boys Club; past president, Troy Rotary Club, vice-presi-
dent, Harvard Association of East New York; chairman, Community

Chest, Troy area, 1955; chairman board of trustees, Fifth Avenue Pres-
byterian Church.

EXCEPT for two periods of service with the Army, 1943-46
and 1951-52, I have been engaged pleasantly in the practice of
law in the capital area of New York State, which includes the
cities of Albany, Troy and Schenectady, specializing in the real
estate, contract and estate fields. Looking back on them, the
twenty-five years since graduation have been most enjoyable, due
mainly to a patient wife and two boys in a more or less serene
home with good friends and neighbors. While building up a law
practice, I have had time to take a few trips with the family to
Bermuda and to Europe, to maintain an interest in sculling on the
Hudson River, and to stay out of politics.

[ 486 ]

. SAC HTN CIENT SINR A
sang itt RN ENS LOE LIES PTC RII I ‘

“Reni ye ete

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALFRED GEORGE HITE

HOME ADDRESS: 575 Hammond Sc, Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

orrice aponess: Hite Dress Co, 745 Washington Sc. Boston, Mass.

puas: May 25, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Morris Hyman Hite, Sadie
Irene Altman.

parpareD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

PEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: A.B, 1931 (32).

manaep: Jean Leavitt, Dec. 31. togi, New York, N.Y. cap: Jonathan
Arnold, July 13, 1955

Haavann BroTHER: Armold Bernerd Hite, ‘go (deceased).

oocuparion; Owner, Hite Dress Company.

REFLECTIONS and opinions of the past twenty-five years can
be truly startling. Our year of 1931 was certainly the wrong one
from an economic standpoint. In the midst of the great depression,
the future looked bleak indeed. By some strange quirk of fate 1
found myself, a history and economics major, working for Scars,
Roebuck. There I was drawing up plans and blueprints for heat-
ing systems for private homes. | frequently wonder how these
functioned. Eventually I entered the dress manufacturing busi-
ness in Boston, and still own and operate my own factory.

Hobby-wise, the past quarter-century has seen a gradual de-
crease in my interest in the Boston Red Sox and the discovery of
the game of golf. Playing in the high nineties and keenly sup-
porting Harvard's football fortunes can use up plenty of a fellow’s
leisure time.

Mrs. Hite and I were married in 1941 and at this writing we
have one son five months old. He is my number one hobby now.
It is possible that he is the youngest child of the Class. Our hopes
are to have Jonathan Hite, Harvard, '76.

FRANCIS HOAGUE

HOME ADDRESS: 18339 47th PL, N.E., Seattle 55, Wash.

orice aporess: MacDonald, Hoague & Bayless, 320 New World Life Bldg.,
Seattle 4, Wash.

BorRN: Dec. 28, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: George Hoague, ‘95, Ann
Phelps Card.

PREPARED aT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B. 1934.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Coit Hansen, March 25, 1950, Santa Barbara, Calif.

[ 487 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

CHILDREN: Elizabeth Walden, June 28, 1937; Lucy Bartow, Nov. 16,
1941 (both by previous marriage); Judith Coit Hansen, June 7, 1941;
Celia Coit Hansen, Sept. 22, 1942 (step-daughters); Eleanor C., Aug. 24,
1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Hoague, Jr., ’26.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Washington Chapter, American Civil Liber-
ties Union.

MEMBER OF: Corinthian Yacht Club of Seattle; The Mountaineers; The
Monks Club,

THE business of having to go back over the past twenty-five
years and review our lives since college is not good. Hindsight
may be better than foresight, but it is much more pleasant and
certainly more worth while to look ahead. Be that as it may, Don
Field asked for my story, and here it is. After college and law
school, I practised law in Boston for a few years and then for
several years in Washington, D. C., with the government. Since
1947 I have been in Seattle, again in private practice. During the
war I was in the Navy, at sea in both the South Atlantic and the
Pacific. My years with the government were exciting and satisfy-
ing, particularly during the New Deal. It was a young man’s
paradise then, with great opportunities and a variety of expert-
ences. Later on a demoralization and lethargy set into govern-
ment service that made me glad to get back into private practice.

Navy service I found, on the whole, a pleasant change from
white-collar life. Parts of it were of course boring, but I was on
several types of ships and in different areas most of the time.
Toward the end of the war I saw enough action to be thoroughly
relieved when it ended so abruptly. Until the last five years my
family life was disorganized by a split home. In 1950 I married
again and acquired a family of two girls in addition to a wife.
Our new home with four daughters of all ages is second to none
in warmth, good will and enjoyment of life. Our spare time, and
I take lots of it, is spent skiing, camping, sailing and mountain
climbing. Recently, the six of us toured France and northern
Spain in one of those little French automobiles.

Politically, I have been and still am to the left of center. I am
active in local politics of the Democratic party, although I live in
a solidly Republican district. My consequent frustration is taken
out in work for the American Civil Liberties Union which I find

[ 488 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

most satisfying and surprisingly effective. I like Seattle and the
Northwest over any place I have known. My law practice is a
pleasant one and provides a secure living. In a rapidly growing
economy there are not the professional or competitive tensions
that are common in the East, It is a nice life. For me the present
years are the best, the most enjoyable, the most constructive. I
expect this happy state to continue until arthritis or bad liver puts
a stop to this trend. May this be a long way off.

WAYNE HOBBS

HOME appress: R.F.D. 1, Sharon, Pa.

orice appress: Sharon Medical Clinic, gi2 E. State Se., Sharon, Pa.

porn: Dec. 30, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Charles Wesley Hobbs, ’97,
Elizabeth Young Kauffman.

PREPARED AT: Hamilton High School, Hamilton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREFS: A.B. 1931; M.D. 1935.

MARRIED: Kathryn Lawrence Johnson, Dec. 22, 1935, Valley Forge, Pa.
CHILDREN: Carol Elizabeth, June 31, 1942; Gail Wesley, July 7, 1947;
Jonathan Charles, Sept. 6, 1950; William Battersby, April 3, 1952.

OccuUPATION: Physician — internist and partner in medical group.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting physician, Sharon General Hospital, consulting in-
ternist, Grove City Hospital, lay reader, Episcopal Church, Diocese of
Frie, Pa.; director, County Heart Association.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); Free and
Accepted Masons.

AFTER Medical School and internship, I entered private practice
in Lynn, Massachusetts. Then followed three years in the Navy,
during which I saw a good bit of the uncivilized world, encoun-
tered no action, and won no medals. Upon return to civilian life,
I found that my old ideal of the general practitioner had tarnished
somewhat with the passage of time, and I was faced with the
problem of finding the best way to practise to suit my talents and
temperament. I have finally settled on group medicine as the
means to this end, and so far have found it challenging and re-
warding. I believe that this type of practice will grow, and that
eventually the majority of American physicians will recognize it
as the best way to provide medical care.

My outside interests have been varied. Music and painting
have occupied me in a very amateurish way —I wish I had more
talent in both. Golf has been my main athletic outlet and I have

[ 489 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

enjoyed some modest local success. People are always amazed to
see a doctor score in the seventies, and hint that possibly he has
been misusing his time. I am also an inveterate tinkerer, and now
can find plenty to do with a new house and an acre of woods.
More recently, I have tried to become more active in the Episcopal
Church as a lay reader, and have come to the conclusion that a
clergyman’s job is a lot more difficult than a physician’s.

My political philosophy can be summed up by saying “throw
the rascals out” — whoever they may be —and, of course, like
most dissenters, I don’t do anything about it.

As my family grows older, they are becoming the focal point
of my existence. My kids are blessed with a wonderful mother,
whose devotion to their daily needs and emotional security 1s
boundless. I try to be not a strict disciplinarian alone. Maybe
some day I can be to them what my father was to me. If they can
learn what the good things in life really are, and if I can have some
small part in that awareness, I'll be satisfied.

DAVID DANA HOCHSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 106 Croydon Ct, Silver Spring, Md.

orFice appress: U.S. Dept. of Justice, Washington, D. C.

BorN: Feb. 2, 1910, Rochester, N. Y. parents: Hymen Leon Hochstein, Cora
May Dana.

prepareD aT: West High School, Rochester, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

MarRRiIED: Mary Curtis Lyons, May 31, 1940 (divorced 1943); Anna Onerva
Hatinen, Dec. 9, 1948, Washington, D. C. cuttpren: John Jacob, July 30,
1941; Virginia Eila Haug (stepdaughter), Dec. 21, 1931 (7. Olli Salmi-
nen, April 16, 1955). GRANDCHILD: John David Salminen, Feb. 13, 1956.

oocupaTIoN: Attorney (trial specialist), United States Department of Justice.

orrices HeELp: Admitted as attorney and counselor-at-law, Appellate Division,
Supreme Court, New York, 1935, United States Supreme Court, 1947,
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit,
1948, United States Customs Court, 1948, United States Court of Claims,
1940, United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, 1951, various
Untied States District Courts, including the Territory of Hawaii; hon-
orary citizen, City of Little Rock, Ark., 1953.

MEMBER OP: Phi Beta Kappa, Harvard, 1930; Alpha Zeta Chapter, Phi Epsilon
Pi, Harvard, 1928, Harvard Clubs of Rochester and Washington, D. C.;
Harvard Law School Association, New York State Bar Association,
1935~39; Arkansas Traveler, 1951.

[ 490 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT.

E-12 Gore Hall and F-41 Lowell House (beneath the bells),
History I and English A, the classes, papers, reading, divisionals,
comprehensives, football games, tea dances, bathtub gin and
speakeasies, Ye Old Oyster House, Lock-Ober’s, Durgin-Park’s,
toasted English muffins, Park Street under, and all the rest seem
so far away, the events of the past few years so vivid and near,
that it’s difficult to strike a balance and in proper perspective give
a thumb-nail sketch of my past twenty-five years and emphasize
the “important” things.

After college came the Law School and an LL.B. in 1934, ad-
mission to the New York State Bar and a terrific let-down from
seven glorious and basically irresponsible years at Harvard. No
more checks from Dad —I was on my own at the princely sum
of twenty dollars a week. Then five long, hard, difficult years,
but I learned and matured a little, though I didn’t earn much.
Then an offer of a position as attorney with the Department
of Justice in 1939, where I’ve been ever since, except for a period
of thirty months’ military service with the Navy as lieutenant
(j-g-) under the chief of Naval Operations in Washington, the
staff of the commander of the Fourth Fleet (Recife, Si0 Luis,
Belem and Fortaleza, Brazil), and with Radio Pacific (NPM) at
Hawaii. Finally discharged early in 1946 with the rank of
lieutenant.

Since then much travel throughout the United States handling
all kinds of litigation for “Uncle” — forests, navigable waters,
mines, hotels, Air Force bases, warehouses, tax evaders, railroads,
shipyards, Japanese, German and Philippine war damage claims
of citizens or friendly nationals, factories, bridges, roads, Indians
and many, many more, often involving fantastic sums. Yes, I
enjoy my work and feel I am a master of my profession, but
then I should be after nearly twenty-two years.

Family —a lovely and loving, thoughtful, considerate wife;
a fine, sturdy son of fourteen and a half, who receives good marks
and has athletic potentialities (member of his basketball team this
year) —a son to be proud of, a stepdaughter of twenty-four
who presented us with a grandson on February 13, 1956 — John
David Salminen (the “David” for me, of course!) Happy, de-
voted, comfortable home life.

Observations — by now all of us have what I consider to be

[ 491]

. HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

the five essentials: shelter, food, clothing, privacy and leisure
(we've always had them), but to keep them and secure them for
those who follow us is to me the problem. At least three-fourths
of the world lacks four of the five “essentials” I’ve mentioned,
and I'm afraid we don’t realize how soon and easily we can lose
all we have, and unless all of us contribute what we can in time,
brains, substance and serious, constructive effort, the world as
we have known it and want it to be for our children and grand-
children will be gone and the Communist tide will sweep it all
away.

Religion — dissatisfied. The moral precepts of Judaism and
Christianity are ideal and perfect, but their basic concepts as to
the nature of the Universe, God and Reality do not square with
modern scientific facts. Perhaps the deep truth may be found in
the ancient writers of the East — self is all, the rest illusion. I
don’t know. Alfred North Whitehead taught us that we could
not expect to hope to find a “satisfactory” answer until we reach
fifty-five or sixty. I’m waiting and shall let you know at our
Thirty-fifth, if I find one.

Finally, I’m sure that most, if not all, of you will agree that
our four years together were in many respects the most wonder-
ful and perhaps the best years of our lives. I wouldn’t trade those

years for all the coffee in Brazil (I don’t like tea). God bless
you, my classmates!

GEORGE EDWARD HODGE

HOME ADDRESS: 217 Promenade Ave., Buttonwoods, Warwick, R. I.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Empire Trust Co., 120 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.
soan: Aug. 9, 1910, Norwich, Conn. parents: George Edward Hodge,
Mary Dunham.
PuEPareD aT: Norwich Free Academy, Norwich, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-10931. DEGREE: 8.B., 1031.
MargieD: Maria Eleanor Mayor, June 5, 1934, New York, N. Y. cuit:
Susan, Aug. 22, 1946.
occupation: Public utility and industrial security analyst.
orrices HELD: Director and vice-president, Institutional Utility Service, Inc.
since 1954.
MEMBER OF; New York Society of Security Analysts; Buttonwoods Beach

Association.

[492 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pusLications: Major contributions to “Annual Statistical Report for Edison
Electric Institute, American Gas Association, Insurance Companies and
Security Analysts”, 1950, 1953, compiled and distributed each year by
all the leading electric and gas public utility companies in the United
States and Canada.

GRADUATION from Harvard brought me face to face with the
Great Depression, an antagonist of no mean ability. In my case it
was a rather long and bruising encounter and it left a few perma-
nent scars. It is said that the soul thrives on adversity and hard-
ship strengthens the moral fibres, but such precepts were small
consolation at the time. Perhaps nothing is a source of more
astonishment to me than the outlook for the immediate future of
the average college graduate today as contrasted with what con-
fronted so many of us in the early thirties, And along with it,
the take-it-for-granted attitude that the prevalence of such favor-
able future prospects is only their just due in the current
economy.

After a period of temporary or no employment lasting almost
two years, I became general manager of a roadside inn and gaso-
line station located near Poughkeepsie, New York, and continued
in this capacity until the sale of the business as a going concern in
September, 1936. Immediately thereafter, I became associated
with the New York firm of Institutional Utility Service, Inc., in
the field of public utility investment analysis and statistical re-
search, Since then, with the exception of military service during
World War II and a State Department overseas assignment,
1952-54, the financial world of Wall Street has been my career.
Institutional Utility Service, Inc., continued to be my place of
business during virtually all of this period and eventually I be-
came a director and vice-president of the firm and a stockholder
therein. Then, in the latter part of 1955, a most propitious op-
portunity with the Empire Trust Company presented itself just
at a time when several factors combined to make a change
desirable.

For a period of thirty-one months during 1943-45, I served as
an enlisted man (private to staff sergeant) in the Army Air Force.
My military experiences, although confined solely to air bases in
this country, were both interesting and varied, while a host of
new friends from all sections of the nation and all walks of life

[ 493 J

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

tolerant. We have attained the saving grace of compromise in

small matters, without sacrifice of our basic integrity. And we
have somehow managed to acquire and retain a truer sense of

RICHARD GILBERT HODGES

£ ADDRESS: 1224 Quilliams Rd, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

r appress: St. Luke’s Hospital, 11311 Shaker Blvd., Cleveland 4, Ohio.

Jan. 8, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: George Hodges, Julia
elley.

-p ar: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
‘COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A-B., 1931; M.D., 1936.

Barbara Garland, June 1, 1940, Concord, N. H. cHrtpren: Peter
rt, July 15, 1942; Barbara Elisabeth, Nov. 16, 1943; Richard Gar-
sept. 24, 1949.
oTHER: John Hodges, '23.

- Pediatrician.

: Pediatrician-in-chief, St. Luke's Hospital, Cleveland; associate
srofessor of preventive medicine, assistant clinical professor
ics, School of Medicine, Western Reserve University; associ-
ician, Babies & Childrens Hospital, Cleveland.

merican Epidemiological Society; Society for Pediatric Re-
Harvey Society.

rapters in Brenneman’s Pediatrics, Holt & MacIntosh Text-

werics, Medical History of World War II; various papers
mals.

1e senior year at college, I was confined to the
1 infected foot, Still undecided as to what to do
I was impressed with the cheerfulness and re-
tors making their Sunday morning rounds, and
medicine, This required a year as a “special
ering the Harvard Medical School. In the
id year at Medical School, I worked in the
y of the Boston Children’s Hospital. The

t hospital determined my wish to become 4

vo and one-half years’ internship at thé

ital, I was taken on as assistant resident 4¢

ew York City. I have always suspect®

sclected me because I pla yed squash an

[ 496]

2 5Tu ANNIVERSARY REPORT
tennis. I never was able to beat him at squash, but L did progress
through three years of residency and a year and one-half as
research fellow.
During the War, Il volunteered for the ski troops and soon
thereafter found myself in the Air Corps at Sioux Falls, South
Dakota, fresh from a course in epidemiology at Johns Hopkins.
The surgeon (colonel, U.S. Army) never did comprehend what
an epidemiologist was and I was given a free hand. For better
than two years, 1 worked on the control of respiratory disease,
particularly pneumonia. The last six months of service were spent
in the Air Surgeon’s Office, where 1 was less than happy. The
Legion of Merit was awarded, as was S.OP. for the Pentagon —
but rare for a captain, but, then, 1 was the only captain im che
Pentagon.
After discharge, 1 joined four other doctors, all interested in
respiratory disease, and headed by Dr. John Dingle in forming a
new Department of Preventive Medicine at Western Reserve
University, There followed six years of teaching and research.
In 1952 my future in academic medicine appeared to be somewhat
obscure, and I accepted the position as full-time head of the De-
partment of Pediatrics at St. Luke’s Hospital. Here my tme 1s
devoted to administration, teaching and consulting work. 1 fnd
clinical pediatrics most satisfying and am making some progress.
As a colleague remarked, “Any dope that spends twenty years
hanging around hospitals ought to be a good clinician”. 1 am now

in my nineteenth year.
While still a resident, 1 was married to Barbara Garland of
Concord, New Hampshire, with four of the clergy officiating,
This solidly cemented union has stood up well, and we have
contentedly raised a family. The nativity of the children was
geographically varied, Peter, Betsy and Dickie were born in New
York, Concord, New Hampshire, and Cleveland, respectiv ey. L
believe that they now consider themselves Clevelandets, We
have found Cleveland a pleasant place to live, the only objections
being the number of committees to which one is appointed and

the distance from the hills of New Hampshire. The second of

these defects is largely healed by long summers at Squam Lake.
Our major objectives seem to be the nutrition and educarion of

497 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

the children, and we are happily devoting our energies toward
those ends. Our efforts toward the first goal appears to have suc-
ceeded, since each child has a high “physical I.Q”. Our progress
toward the second goal has yet to be measured by the test of time.

WILLIAM FRANCIS HOGAN

HOME aporEss: 17 Brookby Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE appREss: William F. Hogan Associates, 11 Broadway, New York 4,
N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 24, 1908, Union City, N. J. parents: Phillip Hogan, Katherine
Esther Ward.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

Marriep: Laura Marie Shay, June 15, 1940, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Bar-
bara Virginia, April 14, 1942; Carole Ann, Oct. 4, 1947; Phillip, April
18, 1939; Robert William, Aug. 28, 1951. .

occupation: Owner, William H. Hogan Associates, communications con-
sulting business; president, Commodity News Services, Inc., operating
ticker and broad page direct wire news service.

orFices HELD: Director, Trans-Lux Movie Ticker Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Harvard Business School Club
of New York; Westchester Country Club; Boulder Brook Club; Town
Club of Scarsdale; St. Pius Tenth Mens Club; Heathcote Dads Club.

HAVING supplemented communications engineering undergrad-
uate work with an M.B.A. from the Business School, my first
business association was with Western Union. During the period
1934 to 1943 the course of progress tended toward assignments
involving operating efficiency and engineering of private wire
systems for large national communication users. Beyond the pain-
fully slow promotional aspects coupled with detail-burdened op-
erating conditions, this experience crystallized conviction of the
economic worth of a consulting business specializing in communi-
cations efficiency for large business.

The outstanding event of these and subsequent years was in
June of 1940 when Laura Shay and I were married in Brookline,
Massachusetts, but more about Laurie later. The first of our four
reasons for success, Barbara, was born in 1942 and in January,
1943, my application for the Naval Reserve was accepted.

During the following three years my efforts were devoted to

[ 498 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

improving the Navy’s communications systems. Discharge with
commendation from Secretary Forrestal came in March, 1946, at
which time I was on the staff of the Director of Naval Communi-
cations in Washington. These three years contributed greatly to
communications consulting as a goal.

We moved to Scarsdale, New York, in June of 1946, having
exercised our G.I. loan and used those few E bonds for a down
payment. While assigned to the commercial vice-president’s staff
at Western Union in private wire sales and engineering, continu-
ous efforts to sell some of the large national concerns on the value
of attention to communication usage and services finally brought
us up to the question of making the break when one company
offered to undertake a six-month trial survey of their communi-
cations in August, 1946. This was well timed with the arrival of
Carole Ann Hogan, a new F.H.A. expansion loan, and delivery of
a new car ordered one year previously. I shall never fathom the
understanding and confidence of our wives at a time like this.
They can make decision so simple.

The first contract led into opening a highly specialized con-
sulting business, William F. Hogan Associates, which has proved
its mark with a good share of the largest companies in all fields of
industry and finance. Closely allied interests led to my formation
of Commodity News Services, Inc., in 1952. This organization is
engaged in the operation of cotton, grain and other ticker services
along with a nationwide Broad Page Commodity News Service.
I also serve as supply agent and director for Trans-Lux Movie
Ticker Corporation.

Phil and Bob Hogan took their places in the scheme of things
in 1949 and 1951, respectively. Aside from Dads Club, Fire Com-
pany, P.T.A. and the usual run of civic activities, we all take our
enjoyment at Westchester Country Club where this 1931 repre-
sentative became a hero in his own household with a hole-in-one
in September, 1955.

[ 499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ROBERT LOUIS HOGUET, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1088 Park Ave., New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National City Bank of N. Y., 55 Wall St., New York 15,
N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Robert Louis Hoguet, ’99,
Louise Robbins Lynch.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Constance Middleton Roberts, Aug. 3, 1940, Easthampton, Long
Island, N. Y. cumpren: Robert Louis, 3d, June 22, 1941; Constance M.,
Sept. z, 1943; George Roberts, Dec. 11, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Louis Hoguet, °32; Joseph Lynch Hoguet, ’35;
Peter William Hoguet, ’37; James Dominic Hoguet, ’37 (deceased).

occupaTion: Vice-president, First National City Bank of New York.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Barnard College, St. Vincent de Paul Society; direc-
tor, Consumers Power Company, Michigan, 1954-55, Catholic Youth
Organization, member, Council on Foreign Relations, member board of

managers, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York City, Knight of
Malta.

MEMBER OF: University Club of New York; River Club of New York; The
Links, Piping Rock Club.

AFTER graduating from college I went to the Harvard Business
School, finishing there in June of 1933. During the next seven
months I went around the world in a carefree and leisurely fashion,
spending most of the time in the Far East. I treasure particularly
my memories of a trip up the Yangtze River, through the gorges
to Chungking (a trip now obviously impossible). I also dream
from time to time of several weeks spent aboard a small schooner,
cruising under sail in the Java Sea along the coasts of Java, Bali
and Lombok.

In January of 1934 I went to Washington to work in the office
of the Secretary of the Treasury, who was then Mr. Henry
Morgenthau, Jr. There I spent two fine years, living with a group
of young Princeton lawyers who worked in various agencies of
the government. At the end of 1935 I left Washington with real
regret and only because I felt the necessity of finding an occupa-
tion with more stability than a government career afforded. I came
to work for the National City Bank of New York and after a
year or so of rotating through the various departments, I joined
the group responsible for our business in the middle western

[ 500 J



HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

only real political problem of today is external in origin — what
to do diplomatically, militarily and in the way of economic aid
so as to assure survival vis-a-vis Russia and her allies and, having
determined on a policy, to develop the political support and lead-
ership necessary to back up the agreed-upon policy. I have faith
in the American people and their ability to handle this problem

and all that it encompasses, perhaps with a faltering step here and
there, but with ultimate success,

JOHN HOLBROOK

HOME ADDRESS: 2103 Cameron Drive, Dundalk 22, Md.

OFFicE appress: Branch Office of the Judge Adovate General, D/A, Fort
Holabird, Baltumore 19, Md.

sors: June 10, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Marshall Sumner Holbrook,
‘99, U1-B., 01, Evalina Elaise Marsh.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

marriep: Mary Elizabeth Hatfield, Nov. 7, 1936, Winchester, Mass. CHILD:
Linda Elaine, Dec. 19, 1940.

occuPpaTion;: Lieutenant Colonel, Judge Advocate General’s Corps.
MEMBER OF: American Bar Association.

TWENTY-FIVE years — a time for appraisal! Where have they
gone? What have I done? So little! Even if I were a Marquand,
the facts are too prosaic. No best seller this, but my arm was
twisted,

From 1931 to June, 1934, I was safely immured in the Law
School, working part-time and during the summers to obtain the
wherewithal. It was not easy, but I had the invaluable assistance
of my mother, brother and sister.

Immediately after having been graduated from the Law School,
T entered upon the practice of law as an associate of the firm of
Herrick, Smith, Donald & Farley and was admitted to the Bar of
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in September, 1934. I en-
gaged in general corporate practice including litigation. During
this period, I picked up the threads of my military training and, in

1935, attained the rank of first lieutenant, Field Artillery Reserve.
Leaving Boston for New York, I became associated with Chad-
bourne, Hunt, Jaeckel & Brown on the 1st of June, 1936. Here,

[ 502 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

GRENVILLE ROSS HOLDEN

noME aporess: Carter Street, New Canaan, Conn.

orFice Aporess: F.C. Huyck & Sons, Kenwood Mills, Rensselaer, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 4, 1909, Idaho Falls, Idaho. parents: Edwin MacPherson Holden,
Marv Ethel Thomas.

prepareD At: Idaho Falls High School, Idaho Falls, Idaho.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; B-Litt, (Univ. of Oxford),
1934; aM. (Harvard Univ.), 1938; PH». (ibid.), 1939.

MARRIED: Jean Stewart Martin, Dec. 15, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Anne Scott-Waring, Oct. 25, 1935; Linda MacPherson, Oct. 13, 1941.

occupation: President and director, F. C. Huyck & Sons, Kenwood Mills.

orFicES HELD: Director, member general management council, member
executive committee, American Management Association; trustee, Tex-
tlle Research Institute; director, chairman blanket committee, member
Icgislative committee, National Association of Wool Manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; New Canaan Country Club;
Harvard Club of New York; Fort Orange Club (Albany); Empire
State Club (New York); Pittsfield Riding & Polo Association, Old
Chatham Hunt Club; Noroton Yacht Club; Ox Ridge Hunt Club.

pusLicaTions; “Mr. Keynes’ Consumption Function and the Time-Preference
Postulate”, Quarterly Journal of Economics, 1938, “Rationing & Ex-
change Control in British War Finances”, 1940; “Incidence of Taxation
as an Analytical Concept”, American Economics Review, 1940.

DESPITE the approaching Twenty-fifth, I don’t yet feel old
enough to reminisce. In recent years our recreational life has con-
sisted of riding, skiing, and sailing together with our two teen-age
daughters, one of whom is now third year at Radcliffe. Having
had to groom their own horses, clean their own tack, and do their
share of mucking out the stable for years has not dampened their
enthusiasm for horses. Nor have broken bones, concussed skulls,
nor lacerated leg muscles. I wonder if anything will.
There's a lot to be said for sailing and skiing. Adequate “horse-
sitters” are much harder to find than “baby-sitters”, but you can
leave your boat or skis for a week-end any time you like. Of
course, now and then you can pick up a broken bone skiing (after
thirty-five years of skimania, I collected a multiple leg fracture in
1954), and it is possible to sink a boat, All in all we find that these
things help keep us out of trouble.
In our spare time we have a few hobbics among us. Jean likes
to sit and read. When not off with her friends, Anne plays the
violin, sings and works with hospitalized children. Linnie paints,

[ 506 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sculpts in clay (odd how it’s almost always a horse or a collie
dog), and watches TV westerns. I like cameras and sometimes
do my own developing, enlarging, etc., except in color — maybe
Ektachrome will make that possible too. I have my own shop and
like to build such things as a stable, furniture, a horse-trailer, etc.
Theoretically I’m still interested in piano, but there has been a
six-year hiatus due to excessive traveling — which I hope 1956
will end.

In recent years, travel has been mainly in the United States and
Canada, but there was a period when I was away for months at a
time in the British Isles, Continental Europe and South America.
Jean and the children did some of it, and took one long trip to
South Africa on their own. So much for “family, self, travels,
hobbies and points of view”.

Religion I consider something private, personal, beyond dispu-
tation, and I find I still react as unfavorably to religious as to
racial discrimination. As to other convictions, politically I have
been accused by my Republican friends of being a left-wing New
Dealer and by my Democratic friends of being a Reactionary.
Socially, my conviction is that I’m lazy.

Now getting down to business, including government service,
here is the simple chronology. In 1934 I joined Lybrand, Ross
Bros. and Montgomery as junior accountant. In 1935 I went back
to Harvard College to teach economics and to study for graduate
degrees. In 1939 I went to Eastman Kodak Company as economic
adviser, but left in 1940 to join the War Agencies in Washington,
where I served in several capacities, including successively: eco-
nomic adviser, National Defense Advisory Commission; chief of
Aluminum and Magnesium Section, O.P.M.; special assistant to
administrator, O.P.A.; operations chief, O.S.S.; chairman of area
committee for Scandinavia, U. S. State Department.

After three years of mounting frustration, I left Washington to
join Sylvania Electric Products as executive secretary to the
management committee, later becoming assistant to the president
and vice-president. While with Sylvania, I represented the com-
pany on the boards of directors of two British affiliates, Thorn
Electrical Industries and Electronic Tubes Limited. In 1949 I re-
gretfully left my associates in Sylvania for the presidency of
Vulcan Rubber — a connection which did not work out satisfac-

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

torily. Since January, 1951, I have been working happily as
president of F. C. Huyck & Sons, Kenwood Mills, an old company
with a vigorous young viewpoint, staffed with very able people
for whom I have great respect and affection, and with whom I
am proud to be associated.

EUGENE MICHEL HOLDER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 287 East St., Memphis, Tenn.

OFFICE apprEss: Memphis Light, Gas & Water Div., 179 Madison Ave.,
Memphis, Tenn.

BorRN: Sept. 13, 1906, Memphis, Tenn. parents: Eugene Michel Holder,
Elvin Jordan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Dudley Holder, ’33.

occuPATION: Special auditor, Memphis Light, Gas & Water Division; part-
ner, Terry’s, an apparel shop.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1950-52, president, 1952-54, Harvard Club of
Mfemphis, vice-president, Phillips Exeter Academy Alumni Associa-
tion of Memphis, 1953-55; senior warden of vestry, 1953, vice-president,
Men’s Club, 1954-55, Grace-St. Luke’s Episcopal Church; treasurer,
1953, Vice-commander, 1954, commander, 1955, Memphis Chapter, Mili-
tary Order of the World Wars.

MEMBER OF: Lions Club; Army-Navy Club; Reserve Officers Association;
Navy League of the United States; Menesha Outing Club; Lady Luck
Club.

WITH the depression of 1930-35 upon us, I decided that rather
than seek employment upon graduation in June, 1931, I would
apply for admission to the Harvard Graduate School of Business
Administration. To my surprise, even though my application was
several months late, I was accepted. Spent two happy but difficult
years at HBS and graduated in June, 1933, with a Master of Busi-
ness Administration degree.

But even in June of 1933 the business depression was still about
us —so, neither the Business School nor my own initiative was
able to uncover any satisfactory job. Had some meager paying
temporary jobs and enjoyed some travel until November, 1935,
when, through the Business School, I was able to get a job in the
internal audit department of the National Manufacture & Stores
Corporation with its home offices in Atlanta, Georgia, National

[ 508 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Manufacture & Stores Corporation operated twenty-five stores in
the retail furniture field in the South. Various promotions came
along in time until March, 1942, when Uncle Sam asked for my.
services in the Navy.

I went on active duty as a lieutenant in the Navy and attended
the third class at Quonset Point, Rhode Island. Upon graduation
from the Indoctrination School as an AVS (aviation volunteer
specialist) officer, I received orders to report to the aircraft
carrier, USS Santee (CVE 29), for duty. Various duties and in-
teresting work and travel occupied my time for eighteen months
aboard the USS Santee. The ship engaged in the invasion of
Africa in November, 1942, did blockade runner and raider work
in the South Atlantic, accompanied and protected many convoys
across the Atlantic, went out after German submarine wolf packs,
and later carried a load of P38’s to Scotland. Our ship received a
“Unit Citation” for its various engagements with the enemy.

In February, 1944, my orders for duty at the Naval Air Station,
Millington, Tennessee, were received and I was detached from
the ship. Duties at NAS, Millington, were as follows: officer in
charge of the BOQ, followed by duty as assistant officer in charge
of the Ground School, and then as officer in charge of the Ground
School. Since this duty was near home, after the eighteen months
at sea, it was most welcome.

In March of 1946, I was released from active duty and once
more became a civilian. Went to work for the municipally-
owned Memphis Light, Gas & Water Division, where I have been
employed ever since as special auditor to the board of commis-
sioners of the division and head of the internal audit department.
We have a fine utility serving the people of Memphis and have
been fortunate with our low TVA rates, our fine artesian water,
and our natural gas piped in from nearby fields.

In addition to the utility job, I have a partnership in a down-
town dress shop known as “Terry’s”. This establishment takes
part of my time and affords me part of my income. It has been
interesting and, as time goes on, I may try to acquire other similar
type businesses.

My hobbies have been travel, fishing, photography, etc. Offices
have included serving for several terms on the vestry of Grace-
St. Luke’s Episcopal Church and as the senior warden of the

[ 509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

vestry. Have also served on the board of directors and as vice-
president of the Men’s Club of the church. Have served for two
vears as president of the Harvard Club of Memphis, the most
active alumni club in the City of Memphis. We have about 100
members and have a fine meeting every month throughout the
vear. I am now serving on the executive committee of the club.
Recently I have had the honor of being elected commander of
the Memphis Chapter of the Military Order of the World Wars
with its 195 good members, I have in past years served as treasurer
and as vice-commander of this organization which is composed of
officers of World Wars I and II and the Korean War, who have
been invited to become members.

Have tried to do my share in a civic w ay by being a member of
the Lions Club, by w ‘orking on drives for the Community Chest,
the Red Cross, various drives to raise money for hospital addi-
tions, help with the Boy Scout work in the city, and by serving
on the board of directors of the Mid-South Association for
Mentally Retarded Children.

Life has been interesting — have never worried — have too
much fun enjoying my single-blessedness — have not made a for-
tune, but have been comfortable and look forward to retiring and
settling down some of these days before the Fiftieth Class Re-
union rolls around. Hope my friends in the Class of 1931 will call
me when they come this way in the years to come.

As this goes to press, I am practically on my way to join one
of my Harvard roommates, Pembroke Brown, 731, his wife,
Bobbie, and their two boys to go on a deer and wild turkey hunt
on a ranch out in west Texas near the Mexican border. Come to
Memphis and enjoy a venison steak with me!

AMOR HOLLINGSWORTH, JR.

HOME AppREss: 217 Grove St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Tileston & Hollingsworth Co., 211 Congress St., Boston 10,
Mass.

noes: Aug. #2, 1409, Milton, Mass. parents; Amor Hollingsworth, ’o2,
Evelyn Knapp Parsons.

ous pawn ar: Sc. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

VEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931, M.B.A., 1933.

[510 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Eleanor Gibson, June 6, 1936, Chestnut Hill, Mass. curtpren:
Eleanor Skinner, June 13, 1937; Evelyn, Jan. 10, 1939; Nancy Edwards,
March 11, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Schuyler Hollingsworth, ’40, LL.B., "43.

occuPATION: President, Tileston & Hollingsworth Company, paper manu-
facturers.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Penobscot Chemical Fibre Com-
pany, since 1943; director, Hollingsworth & Vose Company, since 1943,
Hollingsworth & Whitney Company, 1950-54, Old Colony Trust Com-
pany, since 1954, Penobscot Development Company, since 1946, Boys’
Club of Boston, Inc. since 1955, Adams Nervine, since 1940, Sonic
Research, since 1950, Mutual Boiler & Machinery Insurance Company,
since 1949, Arkwright Mutual Fire Insurance Company, since 1955;
member advisory committee, Paper Engineering Department, Lowell
Technological Institute, since 1950; member executive committee, Book
Paper Manufacturers Association, Inc., since 1948; trustee, American
Foundation for Allergic Diseases, 1954-55; member of corporation, Chil-
dren’s Hospital, since 1955; director, since 1936, president, since 1942,
Tileston & Hollingsworth.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club; The Coun-
try Club, Brookline.

AFTER college I spent two instructive and pleasant years at the
Harvard Business School and working in the wood pulp mills of
the Penobscot Chemical Fibre Company in the summer.

On graduating from the Business School, I went to work in the
paper mill of the Tileston & Hollingsworth Company and became
the fifth generation member of the family who had worked for
the same company. I have never regretted it and feel a good deal
of pride in the continued success of this company of which I be-
came president in 1942.

Making book and writing paper in the city of Boston in compe-
tition with large mills located next to their timber resources calls
for a good deal of ingenuity. However, we know from long ex-
perience that it can be done. There are a lot of advantages in the
smaller company, if they are properly pursued, and the business
can be conducted on a much more personal basis. I firmly believe
that smaller businesses are a good thing for this country and I hope
that the present wave of mergers is not carried too far. Already,
however, a good many fine smaller companies have been gobbled
up in the paper industry and in the long run I doubt if this is
desirable.

The pulp and paper industry for some reason seems to be

Corr]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

manned by exceptionally decent, friendly and capable People ang
my job has been most enjoyable as well as interesting, I ca,
whole-heartedly recommend the paper industry as a fine callin
As far as my family is concerned, my wife and three daughters
have kept me busy outside of work, Summers at West Cho
Martha's Vineyard, have become increasingly enjoyable as have
our trips with the girls to some ski center in Vermont or New
Hampshire in the winter. Golf, sailing and reading seem to be ou;
hobbies. Generally speaking, nothing about my life stands out as
especially exciting but everything about it has been most pleasant,
and, I hope, useful.

HARRY BOWLY HOLLINS, II

HOME ADDRESS: 1040 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

orice appress: H. N. Whitney, Goadby & Co., 49 Wall St., New York s,
N. Y.

Born: April 22, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Harry Bowly Hollins, ’oq,
Lilias Livingston.
PREPARED aT: St. Mfark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.
srarriED: Elizabeth Wolcott Elkins, May 16, 1931, Philadelphia, Pa. (di-
vorced 1946); Elizabeth Jay Etnier, July 30, 1948, Cambridge, Mass.
cumpreN: Elizabeth Bayard, April 24, 1932 (sm. Alexander Aldrich);
Lilias Livingston, Nov. 27, 1934; Evelina Ann, May 30, 1935; Harry
Bowly, 4th, Aug. 20, 1937; Angelica Joan, Aug. 20, 1940; Stephanie
Jay Etnier (stepchild); Elizabeth Victoria Etnier (stepchild). GRAND-

CHILDREN: Elizabeth Wolcott Aldrich, Oct. 17, 1952; Winthrop Williams
Aldrich, Feb. 9, 1954.

CUPATION: Finance.

ices HELD: Chairman political committee, United World Federalistss
member World Council, World Movement for World Federal Gover
ment; trustee, Youth and Government Committee of New Jersey:

mBpeR OF: Harvard Club of New York City.

ST recently I discovered that one of the difficulties I caus¢ ™Y
ious children concerns my occupation. When asked what I
_ what I do, the answers apparently range from a stockholder
neditor. If I have failed to make the answer clear to my OW?
dren, the difficulty unquestionably lies with myself and there
ven less hope of my being able to convey a picture of my
ipation to the reader. A brief review of my activities 20

[512]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

interests in the past twenty-five years will have to speak for itself.

The two periods of the past twenty-five years which appear
most “in the groove” are those from 1931 to 1939 and from 1942
to 1945. During the first of these periods 1 was in Wall Street,
starting in the Bankers Trust Company and ending as a partner in
what was then H. N. Whitney & Sons, 1935 to 1939.

The second of the “groove” periods I spent as senior air-combat
intelligence officer in the Air Support Control Command of the
Amphibious Forces in the Pacific, This was a satisfactory ex-
perience, insofar as any war experience is ever satisfactory. 1 saw
a lot of Pacific “real estate” as well as ocean; was— along with
our classmate J. H. Smith — one of the first two officers in the
Command and had the satisfaction of staying with it while it de-
veloped the techniques of control of all aircraft m assigned in-
vasion areas.

Both the above periods were followed by totally opposite ac-
tivities. My Wall Street years, which included the depth of the
depression and a continuing problem of unemployment, led to
two years with a farm cooperative in western North Carolina.
The war years led to, o rrather were followed by, a deep in-

volvement in attempting to solve the problem of how the rule

of law can be substituted for the rule of force in governing af-
fairs between nations.

My activities in this field led me into organizational work,
politics, travel in this country and abroad, and in general has
been a most satisfying experience. At the moment I am work-
ing on what is turning out to be a rather comprehensive anthol-
ogy on the subject. My hope is that it will be published by the
summer of 1956.

When the time spent in the above is added to the time with
my various assortment of children, little time has remained for
business. Our classmate, Arthur Weekes, who is in the afore-
mentioned H. N. Whitney, Goadby & Company, now my
“boss,” is fortunately most lenient and understanding and, as a
result, I have not had too many complaints concerning numerous
prolonged absences!

My extra-curricular activities have only varied from the nor-
mal in that as my enthusiasm for strenuous exercise wanes, I find
preat enjoyment in taking at least one course a year in one of

[513]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

the numerous adult education schools. These have ranged from
my first course in Gandhi and his philosophy to a course in
American history. Along with many others, I concentrated in
history in college and succeeded in getting a degree without
ever having taken American history in either school or college.
While learning at forty-seven in some ways is more difficult
than at twenty-one, in other ways it is more profitable, as the
information can be weighed against experience. I recommend
it enthusiastically.

In retrospect, my first twenty-five years out of college started
in confidence and ended in doubt. I would imagine, however,
that doubt is a firmer foundation to take off on than confidence
and perhaps in another twenty-five years the circle will be com-
pleted. At any rate, I am enjoying the journey.

CHARLES TRIMINGHAM HOLMES

HOME ADDRESS: 417 Hillside St., Milton 86, Mass.
OFFICE ADpRESS: J. A. Garvey Transportation, Inc., 20 Pope’s Hill, Dorches-
ter, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1907, Brooklyn Heights, N. Y. Parents: Clarence Hoyt

Holmes, ’94, Margaret Larrabee.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.
MARRIED: Helen Yerkes Flanders, Jan. 31, 1941, Plainfield, N. J. CHILDREN:

Peter Hoyt, Nov. 7, 1945; Judith Larrabee, Aug. 18, 1947.

occuPaTion: Assistant to treasurer, J. A. Garvey Transportation, Inc.
MEMBER OF: Hoosic Club, Milton.

A COMBINATION of the 1929 crash and a far from shining
scholastic record led me to the mistaken choice of giving up my
college career after only two years, a decision I now wish I could
reverse.

Somehow I found no difficulty in getting a job with the Corn
Exchange Bank Trust Company of New York, where I started at
the bottom of the ladder as messenger-errand boy, later becoming
assistant manager of the Forty-second Street Branch.

I joined Squadron A, 1orst Cavalry, New York National Guard,
which was then more social than military in the early 1930's. This
took up most of my free time and all my summer vacations, but
was rewarding nonetheless. In January, 1941, I left the bank for

L514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a year’s training with Uncle Sam, just in the event there should
be another war, which none of us really believed until Pearl
Harbor and, as it turned out, my year’s training stretched to five.
Late in 1941 I was declared surplus by the Cavalry because I was
over-age in grade and therefore too old for active duty. However,
the Air Corps thought differently and I found myself swapping
the crossed sabres of the Cavalry for the wings of the Air Corps.

Being committed for the duration plus, Helen and I decided to
get married January 31, 1941, and looked forward to a placid
future with the gist Observation Squadron at Pine Camp, Water-
town, New York, but our plans were shattered by my going to
India in March for two and a half years.

Eventually, I was returned to this country and civilian life, and
Helen and I set up housekeeping, this time in New York City.
After our son, Peter, came along, we decided that somchow Cen-
tral Park was a poor substitute for the country we had both been
accustomed to as children, so we moved to Vermont. After one
very costly venture, I joined the Underwood Corporation as an
accounting-machine salesman traveling throughout the state. Our
second child, Judy, was born and, after her arrival, I was trans-
ferred to the Boston office of Underwood.

Another change in business, and I hope the last, found me asso-
ciated with J. A. Garvey Transportation, Inc., a long distance
trucking firm serving New England and New York. My work
there is very interesting and challenging in these times, and only
a fifteen-minute drive from my home.

And so, after many vicissitudes, we came at last to Milton, three
years ago, to a glorious spot in the country, a house over two
hundred years old, a barn and forty acres of reservation nearby,
and many wonderful friends and neighbors. We are also but a
short distance from the family summer home at Salters Point,
South Dartmouth, where two weeks a year and many weekends
I can indulge in my favorite sports — tennis, swimming, sailing
and just sitting.

[515]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

JOSEPH ALEXANDER HOLMES

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Summer St., Weston 93; Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 94 Russell St., Waltham 54, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1909, Kingston, Mass. PARENTS: Arthur Brewster Holmes

96, Edith Louise Mabbett.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; New Preparato
School, Cambridge, Mass. ry
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A-B.y 1931; M.D., 1935.
MARRIED: Marion Burchstead, 1937 (divorced 1943); Jane Krug Bo
15, 1944, Hinsdale, Ill. cuttpREN: Peter Alexander, 193
ster, Dec. 2, 1945; Richard Bale, Nov. 2, 1948.

OccUPATION: Surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society.
American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Board of Surgery
(diplomate); Boston Surgical Society; New England Cancer Society,
American Cancer Society; The Deland Society; Harvard Club of Bos.
ton; Weston Golf Club.

UBLIcATIONS: A few minor surgical articles.

88s, A ril
8; Daniel Brew.

‘OLLOWING graduation from college, I spent a delightful
ummer in Europe, and then entered the Medical School. Four
onderful, hectic years at Harvard Medical and then on to the
assachusetts General Hospital. I had one year’s internship
th Dr. Tracy Mallory in pathology and then two years in-
ning in surgery at the Mass. General. From there I took a
dency in surgery at the State Cancer Hospital at Pondville
then into private practice. I had three years of private prac-
in association with Dr. Halsey B. Loder at 520 Common-
th Avenue, Boston, and then came the war. _
ith the Navy I started at the Boston Navy Yard and soon
to New River, North Carolina, with the Marines. In the
- 1942 we were shipped to American Samoa. There I was
nmand of a field hospital and did a good deal of surgety
far from favorable conditions, All survived and in the
of 1943 I returned to the U.S, Naval Hospital at Oakland,
nia, AS a patient in that institution 1 was able to do 4
eal of surgery while I awaited my orders back to full
t was at Oakland that I met Jane Boggs.

ext duty with the Navy was at the North Dakota State
/f Science where the Navy had a training school for m4
mates. Ecing the only medical officer, I found the duty

[516]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

somewhat confining, but the pheasant hunting was excellent and
it was cooler than in the Tropics. Jane and 1 were married at
my cousin’s home in Hinsdale, Wlinois. A wedding in the
church and a lovely reception of many, many friends of my
cousin, but none whom we had known. After the year at
Whapeton, North Dakota, it was back to the Marines again at
Camp Pendleton, Oceanside, California. There 1 was battalion
surgeon and finished the war as an instructor in tropical medicine
at the Field Medical School. Danny was born at the US, Naval
Hospital, Santa Marguerta Ranch, in Oceanside.

We returned to Boston and practice in May of 1946. Early in
the game I spent much of my time in the tumor clinic at the

_ Massachusetts General, spent much time with the Service Ward

work at the Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge and at the
Waltham Hospital. We had found a house in Waltham and in
1947 I opened an office in Waltham. Between the office in
Boston, three afternoons a week at the Hygiene Department at
Harvard College and the office in Waltham, things got to be a
little too hectic. I dropped the work at the hygiene building,
then gave up the Boston office and settled down to the practice
in Waltham. I had become chief of surgery at the Waltham
Hospital and was concerned primarily with the educational pro-
gram for interns at the hospital. It has paid off and we now have
a smooth intern training program.

In 1951 Irad B, Hardy joined me in partnership in the practice
of surgery. He has since succeeded me as chief of surgery at
the Waltham Hospital as we had a five-year system of rotation.
Both of us are busy and have more than our share of problem
cases to contend with.

In 1950 we bought a delightful piece of land in Weston with
plans for building at a later date. We finally got to it and last
year built the house designed for our living. We find it far
better than we had dared hope for. The boys find all of the
activity in Weston most interesting and they are busy all of the
time. We concur, and we are extremely happy in our situation.

L517]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

STACY HOLMES

nome aporess: 6 Norfolk Rd., Chestnut H ill 67, Mass.
Boston 1, Mass.

orrice appress: Filene’s Sons Co.,
BORN: Sept. 10. 1908, Afelrose, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Blackwe]] Holm
es,

Charlotte Flagg.
zepaRED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931-
eriep: Olivia Stone, Mav 7 1938, Wayland, Mass. cuipren: §; q
Stone, March 20, 1940; Leonard, March 22, 1942; Olivia, Novy, 28 ney
arp BroTHER: Leonard Holmes, "24. > 1944,
ation; Retailing; public relations director, William Filene’s Sons
mpany.

newp: Life trustee, Roxbury Latin School, since 1946; directo

rid Affairs Council, since 1948, Union Boat Club, 1936-37; chain
Disaster Relief Clothing Committee, Red Cross, since road .
F: Tavern Club; Longwood Cricket Club; Duxbury Yacht Club

.s: Contributions to advertising and retailing trade papers,

1elor years after graduation were pleasant ones, even
Jepression was howling around our ears. First job
ar at the Business School was in the advertising re-
ment of Lever Brothers. . . . ringing doorbells and
ives how they liked the Lux package and what they
 Lifebuoy ads, which at that time were inserting
fifteenth letters of the alphabet into the public

a couple of months to go into the investment
attracted by higher salary and more genteel
This lasted for six years... It took that
t to myself that I just couldn’t support much

lor on what I could make selling bonds,
0,

"aS secretary to the president of R. H.
nartment store, which at that time w4s
d to learn shorthand to get the job and
After one year there was able to transfer
the publicity director, At that po™
B

ailing was in a state of upheaval. L
I into extracurricular activity such 3

‘Of these projects were tossed at 1%

s18

ots

2 §TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
as Jow man on the totem pole, to figure out. The results were
noticed by the top executives of the company who could hardly
ignore Hildegarde and a brass band in the middle of their street
foor at noon, so that it was with a feeling of relief that they
ranted me military leave to join the Navy.
Indoctrination at Fort Schuyler, New York, amphibious train-
ing at San Diego, embarkation as a boat group officer on an at-
tack transport, Iwo Jima, Okinawa, the Philippines, Korea,
China .. . and back to Filene’s.
Put in two years as assistant to the general manager, and then
was given the title of public relations director, which 1 still hold.
The work is ill defined and varied, ranging from helping develop
sales promotion plans with our imagimative sales manager
(female) to finding hurricane accommodations for a hon (male)
who was part of a z00 which we inadvertently imstalled on
Filene’s roof during the August hurricane season.
On the domestic side we are a family of five. father, mother,
two boys and a girl. As this is written the eldest boy 1s fiteen,
the middle one an active thirteen and the little girl is approach-
ing eleven. We live m Chestnut Hill in winter and Duxbury in
summer. My wife and 1 share a good many interests including
small boat racing and the production of amateur theatricals of
one kind or another. As respects the boating, she gets all the
credit... if it weren't for her willingness to roll up her sleeves
and apply sandpaper 1 never would have mustered the energy

for racing competition.
She’s been active in getting the Vincent Show on the NAGE
i ora number of years, and together we're always getting roped
into similar, though less elsborate functions, for church school
or club.
We both have reasonable responsibilities of a COMMUNILY nature
SO that life sometimes seems a little crowded, Bur with the te-

Union to look fory ard t
V WE IE conh
. 0, dent of QEUINg, through whe

519 \

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ROBERT CHANNING HOOPER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 102 Kenneth Pl, New Hyde Park, Long Island,
N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 11, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: James Harvey Hooper, Ona
Olcott.

prepareD at: Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Elder, June 17, 1933, Belmont, Mass. cup: Robert, Jr.,
July 7, 1935.

HARVARD BROTHER: Curtis James Hooper, ’28, s.M., ‘29.

OCCUPATION: Painter and decorating contractor,

OFFICES HELD: Sergeant-at-arms, Painting and Decoration Contractors of

America, 1952-54; secretary, Estates Engine Company, New Hyde Park
Fire Department, 1947-52.

AFTER working sixteen years in white-collar work for the H. J.
Heinz Company, I finally took a gamble and went into business
for myself in painting and decorating. Thus did I begin to enjoy
life by working with my hands rather than my head. I like the
work and I like the vacations: Caribbean and South America,
Bermuda and Nassau, eleven European countries. My son Robert,

Jr., is now attending the University of Rochester on a Naval
R.O.T.C. scholarship. '

+ JOHN ADNEY HORNADAY
BORN: Sept. 9, 1909, Lebanon, Ind. parents: John Ward Hornaday, Estella
Adney.
PREPARED AT: Lebanon High School, Lebanon, Ind.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MakRiED: Grace M. Harris, Nov. 11, 1939, Newark, N. J. cuitprREN: Marion
Adney, Jan. 2, 1942, Nancy Harris, Oct. 10, 1944.
DIED: Nov. 28, 1950, Syracuse, N. Y.

WHILE at Harvard Hornaday was active as manager of the fresh-
man lacrosse team and second assistant manager of the varsity
lacrosse team, sub-chairman of the Red Book business board, cir-
culation manager and assistant business manager of the Crimson,
a member of the Phillips Brooks House Library Committee, and

advertising manager of the Harvard A.A. News. He was a mem-
ber of Kappa Sigma Fraternity.

[ 520 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

From 1931 until 1937 he was associated with Standard Brands,
Inc., of Cincinnati. He then joined the Sherwin-Williams Com-
pany, dealers in paint and varnish, in Cleveland. In 1941 he spent
six months with the Defense Contract Service, Office of Produc-
tion Management, in Washington. He held a position with the
Interchemical Corporation of New York City in 1946, and at the
time of his death was a member of the firm of George Fry &
Associates, management engineers in New York. In Cleveland he
had served as a member of the Committee for Economic Develop-
ment and of the Mayor’s Committee, and as a director of the
Foster Company. He was a member of the National Society of
Sales Training Executives and the Harvard Club of New York.
His wife and daughters survived him.

JOHN JACOB HORTON

HOME AppREss: 2085 Cornell Rd., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

OFFICE Appress: Fenn College, Cleveland 15, Ohio.

BorN: April 20, 1908, East Cleveland, Ohio, parents; Clyde Erroll Horton,
Olive Orr.

PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 1933.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Publications editor, Fenn College.

AFTER graduation, I stayed on in Cambridge in the Graduate
School of Arts and Sciences and also as librarian of Leverett
House. This netted an A.M. in history and a lot of pleasant and
useful experience during the first years of Leverett and its library.
In 1936, I came home to Cleveland and went into public relations
with Graves Taylor & Associates, and when the war began I
went with Taylor (as a civilian) into the Cleveland Ordnance
District Office, doing the same sort of work. When the war ended,
I went to World Publishing Company here in Cleveland as an
editor, and when World moved its editorial office to New York,
I continued this work on a free-lance basis until trouble with my
eyesight forced me to give it up in 1949. To aid the cure, I
worked for a few months as a common gardener for William G.
Mather on an estate near Cleveland (a coincidence of sorts, be-

[521]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

cause I had lived in Mather Hall). This was more fun than you
might guess, and as a cure it worked.

I was able to move on to a job as office manager for a small firm
in the plastics housewares field, and I was doing this when I re-
ported last. If my current report is late, it’s partly due to the fact
that I’ve just taken a far more congenial job as publications editor
at Fenn College in Cleveland, a young but large day-and-night
school which has, I hope, more future than past. My principal
job, as it stands now, will be to develop and edit a small quarterly
review. Anyway, it’s good to be back again in acadeniic circles,
even though they’re remote in almost every respect from those in
Cambridge.

HAROLD IRVING HORWITZ

(see Harold Irving Harmon)

ERNEST BERTRAM HOWARD

MAILING ADDRESS: American Medical Association, 535 N. Dearborn St.
Chicago, Ill.

BoRN: Feb. 5, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Max Cohen, Ethel Rebecca
Schwartz.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.P.H., 1941.

OCCUPATION: Public health.

JOHN RAYMOND HOWARD, III

HOME AppREss: 720 Chesterfield St., Birmingham, Mich.

OFFICE ADpREss: Research Laboratories, Ethyl Corp., 1600 W. Eight Mile
Rd., Detroit 20, Mich.

BoRN: July 6, 1908, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: John Raymond Howard, Jr.
’04, Daie Davis.

PREPARED at: Greenwich High School, Greenwich, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932.

marriep: Catherine Ann Currie, June 30, 1934, Detroit, Mich. CHILDREN:
John Raymond, 4th, Dec. 30, 1935; Diane, May 8, 1941.

occupation: Assistant to general manager, Research and Engineering De-
partment, Ethyl Corporation, manufacturers of petroleum additives.

[ 522 ]

 

i
t
i
a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orrices HELD: Director, 1951-53, chairman Membership Committee, 1961-54,
member Schools Committee, 1938-54, Harvard Club of Eastern Michi-
gan; captain, Ordnance Corps, U.S. Army, 1942-46.

MEMBER OF: Society of Automotive Engincers; Delta Upsilon Fraternity.

THE past twenty-five years have surely provided us with all the
challenges we could have wanted. My greatest challenge has been
the development of a sense of valucs that could weather the storm.
Depression, hot war, cold war, personal tragedies and everyday
living remade my scheme of values many times. Now I think I
have something — a degrce of serenity based on faith and achieved
with the help of a wonderful wife and two remarkable chil-
dren. The development of a family team has been a most satisfy-
ing experience and has made possible the construction of a frame-
work of realities amidst the uncertainties of our time.

While growing up with our children, Catherine Ann and I
have rediscovered “the glories of nature”, We have wangled a
shack in the pines on a northern lake. Week-ends and vacations
are spent there fishing, swimming, sailing and loafing.

I have worked for Ethyl Corporation ever since leaving
Cambridge. For the past several years I have becn engaged in the
management of our research activiues, I am assistant to the gen-
eral manager of the research laboratories and am immersed in all
phases of industrial research. It’s a fascinating occupation which
makes a continuous demand for one's best abilities.

LEONARD ARNOLD HOWARD

HOME avoress: Tyler Lane, Riverside, Conn.

OFFICE aDorESs: 3 Strickland Rd., Cos Cob, Conn.

Born: Nov. 4, 1910, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Jacob Arthur Horvitz,
Dora Shill.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: 8.8. 1935(32); M.B, (Louisiana State
Univ.), 1939; Mp. (ibid.), 1940.

Marriep: Abby Beatrice Siegel, June 4, 1939, New York, N. Y. cHioren:
Michael Leo, April 12, 1942; Terri Edra, May 30, 1947.

OccuPATION: Physician.

OFFices HELD: Council member, Connecticut Diabetes Society, 1950-55;
vice-president, Connecticut Diabetes Society, 1953-54.

[ 523]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

MEMBER OF: Connecticut Diabetes Society; American Diabetes Association;
Greenwich, Fairfield County, Connecticut State and American Medi-

cal Societies; B.P.O. Elks; and more damn fishing and boating clubs
than you can count.

WE have settled here on the banks of the Sound. To me and to
my son this spells the next spot to Heaven, in that we can con-
tinue our search for the elusive striped bass. My practice, which
is predominantly endocrine, allows me ample time for this pursuit.
In truth, the time is infinitely more ample than the number of
fish that succumb to our lures!

We are close enough to the big city for my wife to keep up
her association with the theatre and my eight-year-old daughter
— known to our intimates as Sarah Heartburn — seems destined
to follow her mother’s career.

In light of interest to other people I suppose our lives have
been uneventful even to the point of being prosaic. However,
to us it has been happy and exciting, and the best toast that I can

offer to you all is: “May all your homes be as satisfying, full and
fruitful as ours is”.

NELSON HOWARD, II

HOME AppreSS: 10 Kenilworth Rd. Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADpress: New England Mutual Life Insurance Co., 501 Boylston St,
Boston, Mass.

BORN; June 6, 1909, West Roxbury, Mass. parents: Nelson Willard How-
ard, 11... ’95, Helen Margaret Willard.

PrepareD aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MaunieD: Evelyn Louise Boldrick, June 17, 1945, San Diego, Calif. CHILDREN:
Nelson, 3d, April 28, 1949; Kent Eaton, Oct. 20, 1951; Judith Ann, Feb.
28, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Willard Howard, 727.

occupation: Life insurance underwriter.

FRANKLY — to think about this report was cause to procrasti-
nate (which I have done since last June). Actually, this is the
first time I have made a try, so here goes. The first part is easy
to record but unpleasant to remember. I left college because of
an illness in November of my junior year, All I can do is leave a
blank to indicate the passing of time. In the mid-thirties a venture

[ 524]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

into the automobile business (and out in two years) was made.
Then I worked for my brother in a sideline business of his until
the war.

To digress a bit— my father, who was a vice-president and
director of the United Shoe Machinery Corporation, was forced
to retire because of ill health. In 1933 he bought a home in Holly-
wood, Florida, and moved there to live. He died of heart trouble
in 1937. His home prior to and after his death was a second place
of landing for my mother and me until the war. My mother now
spends her time between her home and her sons’ homes (my
brother lives in Wellesley Hills).

I was 4-F in the draft because of the illness but managed to
make myself useful as a volunteer with the anti-aircraft branch of
the Information Center in Boston. I put in over 1800 hours and
ended up as chief civilian supervisor. However, volunteer jobs to
be sure are all right, but there is no future in them. In 19441 went
to work for the New England Mutual Life Insurance Company in
the home office in Boston and I have been there ever since. Under-
writing individual applications for new life insurance is very
interesting and challenging work as we now do our own sub-
standard underwriting, which means quite a comprehensive knowl-
edge of the human body and all its ailments.

In 1945 I made the smartest move of my life. I married Evelyn
Boldrick of San Diego who is a graduate of U.C.L.A. and holds a
Master’s degree from Wellesley in Physical Education. We
bought a house in Wellesley, and I began the life of a commuter
— living in Wellesley, working in Boston. Jim (Nelson Howard,
3d), our elder boy, is in the first grade in elementary school, an
avid student so far, very interested in school and learning new
things, such as the piano. He is a perpetual question boy for both
his parents. Kent is interested in sports of all kinds but follows the
lead of his older brother as well. Judy — well now, this young
lady rules the house and family, including me. My hobby of
photography, I’m afraid, will rebound in ten to fifteen years
when she discovers some of my efforts to picture her progress on
all fours away from the camera with ruffles and panties very much
in evidence.

At the moment, photography and setting up a model train
(Lionel) system for the boys in the basement is taking most of my

[525 ]

rr Lop EE “

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

spare time. We built the house we now live in and it was quite
an education as well as a grand experience. We moved in just
about a year ago and it seems as though we will never be settled.
I have my own dark room where I develop, print and enlarge my
own black and white pictures. I still send my color to Eastman at
Rochester. I have a collection of some 7000 slides (about 500
worth looking at) which I intend to leave at home during the
Reunion.

In the summer, tennis, golf and swimming are the main sports
sandwiched in between picnics and trips to nearby state parks
with the children. In winter, badminton and bowling are the chief
sports. My wife is a former national singles champion in bad-
minton (1940 and 1942). We still play, but just for fun now —
I sure have slowed up the last ten years. We belong to the
Wellesley Congregational Church and the boys attend Sunday
school there. I belong to no clubs at the moment. Used to belong
to the University Club in Boston and Charles River Country Club
in Newton, It seems my interests are more in the “Howard
Club” at home. I have been soliciting in one capacity or another
for the Community Fund and other drives for practically all the
years I have lived in Wellesley. I attended the roth and 2oth
Reunions, but I am looking forward to the 25th with a great deal
more curiosity and interest.

JAMES CARLETON HOWE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Brimmer St., Boston, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 19, 1909, Winnetka, Ill. PaRENts: James Carleton Howe, ’99,
Letitia Todd Lemon.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1033.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Saltonstall Howe, 733; John Strother Howe, ’36.
OocuPATION: Assistant vice-president, First National Bank of Boston.
MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; The Country Club, Brookline.

AFTER spending the two years following graduation at the
Harvard Business School, and enjoying a trip to Europe in the
summer of 1933, I became associated with the First National

[ 526]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Bank of Boston. They have provided the pay check ever :
except for a four-year hitch with the Navy in War II, muc
which was spent with the Bureau of Ordnance in Washing
Favorite diversions, outside of working hours, would include
ing in winter, golf and sailing in the summer, and a bridge g
most any night. Annual vacations have included a ski trip n
every year and both Sun Valley and Aspen in the West h
been visited a number of times since the war. Right around

corer now, in late February and March, a group of us are taki
off for three weeks to test out the slopes of Switzerland a:

Austria for the first time. And then, before we know it, it w
be June and the Twenty-fifth!

CHARLES WALCOTT HUBBARD, JR.

LAST KNOWN ApDorESS: Sabinal, Texas.

Born: Feb. 18, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: Charles Walcott, Louise Horace
Stone,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

HUBBARD has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1945.

LEONARD FIELD HUBBARD

HOME appress: Middleton Road, Wolfeboro, N. H.

OFFICE appaEss: Laconia City Planning Board, City Hall, Laconia, N. H.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1910, Taunton, Mass. parents: Frank Allen Hubbard, '73,
Elizabeth Anna Wheeler.

PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1932.

Marriep: Dorothy Irene Goings, Nov. 21, 1942, Newport, N. H. cepren:
Leonard Field, Jr. May 24, 1945; Ann Johnson, July 19, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Reed Hubbard, ’26 (deceased); Merrill Field
Hubbard, ’oo.

occupation: City planner.

orrices net»: Member, Taunton School Committee, 1936-39; graduate assis-
tant, Deparument of Government, University of New Hampshire,

1940-41; research clerk, planning assistant, New Hampshire Srate Plan-
ning and Development Commission, 1941-44; executive director, Post-
War Planning Commission, 1944-45, City of White Plains (N. Y.); di-
rector, Bureau of Community Development, New York Stare Division

[527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

of Housing, 1945-51; chicf of technical staff, Urban Redevelopment
Division, Boston Housing Authority, 1951-53; planning director, City
of Laconia, N. H., 1953-56.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Planners; American Society of Planning
Officials; New York State Federation of Planning and Zoning Officials;
Snag Club of New York City; International City Managers’ Associa-
tion; Ossipee Club; Rust Pond Association; Pi Gamma Mu.

PUBLICATIONS: Staff publications on housing and planning, publicity re-
leases, brochures; individual reports and studies on broad subjects such
as urban redevelopment; particular aspects of city planning dealing
with problems as traffic, land valuations, building sites, industrial lo-
cation, parking lots, personnel administration, purchasing; numerous
ordinances dealing with subjects such as fire prevention, sidewalk con-
struction, zoning administration and traffic control.

ARTHUR WHITFIELD HUGULEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Fox Lane, Aft. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Industrial Molasses Corp., Leonia, N. J.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1909, Winchester, Mass. parents: Arthur Whitfield Hugu-
ley, ’03, May Estelle Wilder.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Constance Creighton, June 13, 1932, Swampscott, Mass. CHILDREN:
Arthur Whitfield, 3d, Nov. 7, 1933; Margaret, Sept. 4, 1936; Hester,
Dec. 20, 1941.

HARVARD SON: Arthur Whitfield Huguley, 3d, ’55.

occupaTion: Vice-president, Industrial Molasses Corporation — general ad-
ministrative work in distribution of molasses and other commodities.

orFices HELD: Member board of trustees, Northern Westchester Hospital,
member board of governors, Bedford Golf and Tennis Club.

MEMBER OF: Bedford Golf and Tennis Club; Harvard Club of New York;
E] Country Club de Ja Habana,

I'M not sure whether it was Goad No. 5 from Geoff Sawyer,
Goad No. 117 from my family, or-the ignominious thought that
1 was one of the last 380 out of 860 that got me, but pen is now
in hand. Of course, the other 379 are pure procrastinators, but
my problem is different. In the first place I have so little to report
and secondly I have been so busy. Busy doing what? I can't
honestly say, but PI try to remember.

After two years in department stores in Boston, with time
out for our wedding, we moved to New York in 1933. A three-
year term with Commercial Solvents was followed by a three-

[528 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

year sojourn on the New York Stock Exchange as a partner in
Gammack & Company. At this stage, the mouths were being
fed and the rent paid, but there was little other progress to report.
In 1940, Ben Ticknor conceived the idea of a launching out in
the molasses business and I was eager to go along. This venture
turned out to be a lasting one and I’m pleased to say that I
couldn’t imagine a happier or more interesting business life.

That takes care of that except for three years and nine months
under a Navy hat. Being much more fortunate than most, I
spent almost two years of this time with my family on the shore
of Narragansett Bay while stationed at Quonset. The balance was
spent on carriers in both oceans, but with remarkably little strain
and stress. The family, as with all of us, has been the real satis-
faction of the past twenty-five years. To get up to date, Arthur
is now a navigator (second lieutenant) in the Air Force. He has
just returned from Europe, will serve until November, 1957,
then plans to resume his education. Peggy, a sophomore at
Wellesley, has just become engaged to John Law (Harvard ’55)
and will be married two days after the Reunion is over. Hester, at
home now, goes off to school next year.

Only hobbies are golf, bridge and a reading interest in all
sports which, I’m informed, is pursued to a ridiculous degree.
After reading this, I still can’t remember why I’ve been so busy,
but I can’t wait to get back to it again.

JOHN MERRITT HUNTER

HOME ADDRESS: 4711 Second St., N., Arlington 3, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Civil Aeronautics Administration, Washington, D. C.

BORN: March 23, 1908, St. Marys, Pa. parents: John Merritt Hunter, ’oa,
Grace Claire Greenwood.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R. I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; LL.B. (George Washington
Univ.), 1939.

MarRiED: Mary Groome McNinch, March 20, 1935, Washington, D. C.
cup: John Merritt, Jr., July 19, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: DeWayne Greenwood Hunter, ’33.

occupation: Chief, Airport Division, General Counsel’s Office, Civil Aero-
nautics Administration.

MEMBER OF: District of Columbia Bar.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles on aviation law including “The Conflicting

[ 529 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Interests of Airport Owner and Nearby Property Owner”, included
in a symposium on “Aviation Transport”, Law and Contemporary
Problems, Duke University School of Law, 1946 issue.

HAVE spent twenty-two very satisfying years with Uncle Sam,
nineteen of them with the CAA and its predecessor agencies in
airport legal work. Have a wonderful wife and a wonderful son.
Have traveled considerably on business throughout the United
States and have taken occasional trips with the family.

Hobbies include contract bridge and sports (as a spectator).
War record includes work with the CAA — was not permitted
to accept an Air Force commission. Convictions: would be glad
to expound them to any classmate who might be interested!

HENRY FRANCIS HURLBURT, Ill

HOME aApDpREss: Mirror Lake, Tuftonboro, N. H.
OFFICE apprEss: Lakes Launderette, Factory Street, Wolfeboro, N. H.

BoRN: July 31, 1908, Brookline, Mass. parents: Henry Francis Hurlburt,
Jr. ’o1, Blanche B. Geldert.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A. 1933-

MarriED; Blanche Cornelia Brock, July 13, 1940, Tuftonboro, N. H.
occupaTioN: Owner, Lakes Launderette.

OFFICES HELD: Staff secretary, 1943, associate chairman, 1944, North Metro-
politan Division, senior vice-chairman, 1945, Metropolitan Division,
chairman, 1946, Cambridge Division, United War Fund; comptroller,
Greater Boston Red Cross War Fund, 1943, 1944.

MEMBER OF: Mirror Lake Men’s Club.

LITTLE did I realize in June, 1931, when I proudly received my
A.B. degree, that twenty-five years later I would be earning a
living by hauling garbage and taking in people’s dirty laundry, to
say nothing of living in a piggery part of the time. But that is
getting way ahead of my story. I note from our second Class
Report that I barely got through the Business School (Harvard,
of course), and with my M.B.A. degree under my arm went to
work at the fabulous sum of $10.00 per week for the State Street
Trust Company of Boston. With the help of Mr, Franklin D.
Roosevelt and his NRA that fall, I received the largest raise, per-

centage-wise that is, in my career, It was a fifty percent increase
to $15.00 per weck.

[ 530]

genes | 7

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I continued on through the general course of training in the
banking world and by June 13, 1940, I found myself not only
with the financial stability but the emotional desire to get married
to Blanche Cornelia Brock. In January, 1942, the board of direc-
tors of the State Street Trust Company saw fit to make me an
assistant treasurer.

On December 7, 1941, my wife and I were returning to
Cambridge, where we were then living, when the news of Pearl
Harbor came over the car radio. Unable to get into the armed
services because of physical disabilities, I spent as much time as I
could working for the Greater Boston United War Fund, serving
in various capacities in the drives of 1942, 1943, 1944, 1945 and
1946. I also served as comptroller for the Greater Boston Red
Cross War Fund drives of 1943 and 1944. I was treasurer of the .
Boston branch of Bundles for America until its dissolution shortly
after V-J Day. In June, 1946, I left the State Street Trust
Company and became associated with Raymond W. Lapham as
accountant and office manager of the Lapham-Brown Oil Corpo-
ration of Brookline, Massachusetts.

There is often a turning point in the life of any individual and
I think this came for me on June 4, 1949, with the death of my
father, Henry F. Hurlburt, Jr.,’o01. Upon his death I inherited a
seventy-eight acre farm in Tuftonboro, New Hampshire, over-
looking Lake Winnepesaukee and the foothills of the White
Mountains. From that day on I vowed that some day I was
going to live on the property. After a three-year search for a
means of making a living in the country, the Lakes Launderette
in Wolfeboro came up for sale and on August 7, 1951, I burned
my city bridges behind me, bought the Jaunderette and came to
the country to live, That is how I came to take in people’s dirty
laundry for a living. The following year the local S, S. Pierce
grocery store came up for sale and I bought that. I soon found
that I could not serve two masters and serve them both well, so
I sold the store after having owned it for just one year.

And now to finish the story. How come I make part of my
living hauling garbage? Well, I own a venerable 1935 Ford truck
with 106,000 miles on it and I haul my own garbage to the town
dump. Some of our summer visitors, including our classmate,
John Nesbit, asked me if I would haul theirs for a consideration;

[531 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and so I got into the garbage business. And now about living in
a piggery. Going along with the “do-it-yourself” craze and hav-
ing a 17’ by 54° building on the premises that was formerly a
piggery, I decided to make it over into a four-room cottage.
From January to June, 1952, I spent all of my spare time work-
ing with a jack of all trades making this building over. The
result —I am now a little of plumber, electrician, paper hanger,
painter, carpenter or what have you and I live in ‘‘the piggery”
during the summer months.

As for my hobbies, I have my place to maintain and take care
of. It includes three habitable buildings, to say nothing of three
barns, a greenhouse and a chicken house. Do I farm it? No. But
I am outdoors a lot and I love the maintenance chores. Country
living is wonderful and I don’t envy you fellows who live in
the city one bit. As the old saying goes “We don’t make much
money up here but, by gad, we have a hell of a lot of fun”. See
you in June.

LEO HAROLD HURWITCH

HOME ADDRESS: 74 Craftsland Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Hurwitch Bros. zo Newbury St., Boston, Mass.
BorN: Aug. 24, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: William Hurwitch, Ida Rachel
Lakin.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~I1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.
MaRgiED: Barbara Helen Colpak, May 19, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Edward, Feb. 17, 1942; Peter Leo, April 10, 1947; William, Oct.
13, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Albert Hurwitch, ’22. .
occupation: Treasurer and managing director, Hurwitch Brothers, retail-
ing.
orruas HELD: Director and chairman, Retail Stores Committee, Back Bay
Association, member, Boston Retail Trade Board; member of the Cor-
poration, Children’s Hospital, Boston.
MEMBER OF: Back Bay Association; Harvard Club of Berlin, Germany.
PusLications: Articles in Women’s Wear Daily.

FOR two years after graduation, I attended the University of
Berlin, Germany. During vacations I traveled about Europe and
took advantage of the many special privileges granted there to

[ 532]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

students. In Berlin, I watched the rise of Hitler and lived for six
months under a dictatorship, a very enlightening experience
which I have no desire to repeat. On returning home, I worked
for a summer as an assistant at the Marine Biological Laboratory
at Woods Hole, then for a year in the laboratory of a Boston
hospital.

Late in 1934 I set off on a new tack and entered the family retail
business. For several years I took night courses in merchandising
and accounting and have found them most useful. I have re-
mained with the business ever since and do not contemplate any
further changes.

During the war my curiosity got the better of me and I ob-
tained a commission in the Navy. After a period of training, most
of it at Harvard, I became communications officer of the USS
Vega, a venerable bucket based at San Francisco. We carried a de-
tachment of Seabees who, except for brief periods of arduous
activity in the Marshalls, the Carolines, and at Okinawa, stayed
firmly attached to their sacks. My wife and then only son man-
aged to visit with me in California for two months. That was the
most pleasant part of the war, since my curiosity had long since
been satisfied.

Like most of our contemporaries, we seldom find time for
many of the things we should like to do. Barbara is active in our
business which demands too frequent trips to New York for both
of us. There always seems to be a school, scout or other meeting
that must be worked into the schedule. However, we have been
skiing fairly regularly and without serious incident for eighteen
years and this winter, for the first time, hope to take all three
boys north with us. Our summers are spent at Falmouth on
Cape Cod, where we sail whenever the boys allow us in their
boat.

IRWIN ELVIN HURWITT

HOME apprEss: 816 W. 67th Terr., Kansas City 13, Mo.

OFFIcE appress: Inland Distributors, Inc., 1616 Grand Ave., Kansas City, Mo.

BorN: Aug. 4, 1911, Kansas City, Mo. Parents: Frank Hurwitt, Josephine
Kowalsky.

[ 533 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

PREPARED AT: Southwest High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 19313 M.B.A. 1933.

MARRIED: Nancy Helen Lyon, Nov. 16, 1935, Kansas City, Mo. cHmnpren:
David Frank, April 8, 1938; Joann Helen, Jan. 17, 1945.

occupation: President, Inland Distributors, Inc., wholesale television and
apphances distributors.

oFFices HELD: Vice-president, Kansas City Electrical Association, member
board of trustees, Congregation B’Nai Jehudah, Kansas City Blue
Cross, member board of directors, Menorah Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Oakwood Country Club.

THE period 1931 to 1933 was a good time to hide in the Business
School. Textbooks were being thrown out of windows or furi-
ously rewritten. I even had the somewhat unique experience of
having a cashier's draft on a Kansas City bank “bounce” when
sent to me by my father because the bank had closed by the
time I received the check!

1 considered myself lucky to land a job —and I started out
with an envelope company in Kansas City. Selling was my field,
and I was with this company fourteen years.

From the envelope business, I went into the milling business,
and took over the management of a chain of company-owned feed
stores that sold everything from hog feed to coal stokers. Feed
Was more exciting and faster moving than envelopes, but I sud-
denly had an opportunity to go into business for myself and take
over the Philco franchise in Kansas City and surrounding area,
wholesaling all Philco products. So I formed a company in 1949
and am still at it, selling refrigerators, freezers, ranges, air con-
ditioners, radio and TV. Yes, color TV is on the way, and it
will be priced for the masses in a year or so.

Music was my hobby in college, more particularly piano play-
ing, although I never could play jazz like Eliot Daniel. But now
I content myself with listening and trying to ease some of the

rough spots for my eleven-year-old daughter in her struggles
with scales. As I write this, my seventeen-year-old son is in the
middle of his college board exams. He has already made applica-
tion to Harvard, so with luck he will be a member of the Class
of 1960. Those frequent trips to Wellesley in a rented car yielded
dividends —I married the girl, Nancy Lyon, Wellesley ’34. She
was from Kansas City, too, but we got acquainted at school.
Trips to Cambridge aren’t frequent for us; in fact I’ve only been

[534]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

the U.S. Department of Labor in Washington, first in the section
of the Wage and Hour Division which processed minimum wage
orders for various industries, then in the appellate section of the
Solicitor’s Office, writing and supervising briefs and legal
memoranda.

Early in 1942 I went to the Office of Price Administration to
help with the legal problems involved in drafting and adminis-
tering price regulations, particularly for the embattled meat
industry. In 1943 I transferred to another branch which was re-
sponsible for defending the legality of price and rent regulations
before the special, peripatetic Emergency Court of Appeals. It
was a satisfying experience to explain the need and propriety of
administrative regulations, which seemed important to the
country, before an outstandingly able and conscientious court.
In my last year with OPA, I supervised that work as an associate
general counsel of the Office.

Perhaps it was the extraordinary ability, devotion and friend-
liness of the numerous members of the teaching profession with
whom I worked at OPA that turned my thoughts in the direction
of teaching. In any event, I found myself starting to teach law
in the fall of 1946 at the University of Buffalo, which has sent a
small parade of distinguished teachers to Harvard Law School.
One such departure left a vacant deanship into which I drifted
in the spring of 1953. Since the problems of the law itself and
the perplexities of reaching it appear equally insoluble and equally
pressing, this kind of work is likely to occupy the rest of my life.

In order to vary the academic atmosphere, I engage to some
extent in labor arbitration. And an occasional television appear-
ance in the line of professional duty provides a little variety. A
salbatical leave gave me the opportunity in 1952 to renew friend-
ships in New York City for five months while helping Walter
Gellhorn of Columbia Law School with a study for a special
committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New
York which, together with the Committee’s report, was pub-
lished as “Children and Families in the Courts of New York City”.

A job that scems impossible to catch up with and a growing
family make for quite a full life. The passing years bring in-
creasing gratitude for what Harvard once gave me and for what
it continues to give to students and to the country, It was partic-

[ 536]

 

§
i
t
5
‘

enna Pep GRE BEET

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ularly gratifying, when efforts to meet the recent atttacks on
independence of thought were stumbling, to find Harvard, true
to its likeness, offering very effective, courageous leadership.

CARL ALFRED IKELS

MAILING ADDRESS: 32 Chatham St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 1, 1909, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Richard Dietrich Ikels, Anna
Dieckmann,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1929-1930.

occuPaTION: Custodian.

ANDREW CLARK INGRAHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Laurel Rd., New Canaan, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Socony-Vacuum Overseas Supply Co., 158 Linwood Plaza,
Fort Lee, N. J.
BORN: March 21, 1910, Oakland, R. I. parents: Arthur Ingraham, ’96, Eliz-
abeth Williams White.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B. IN ENGIN,, 1931.

MARRIED: Helen E. Nash, Sept. 2, 1933, Cleveland, Ohio (divorced 1944);
Carol J. Narten, May 23, 1944, Cleveland, Ohio. cuitpreN: Robert Nash,
June 13, 1934; Carol Calhoun, Feb. 7, 1945; Andrew Clark, Jr., April

3, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHERS: William White Ingraham, ’25; Arthur Ingraham, Jr., ’30.

occupation: President and director, Socony-Vacuum Overseas Supply Com-

pany.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and New Canaan; International
Lawn Tennis Association; Tokeneke Club; Ox Ridge Hunt Club.

MOST of the years since leaving Cambridge in 1931, I have
spent in the oil business. I have been with the Standard Oil
Company of Ohio and the National Refining Company in Cleve-
land, and since 1944, with the Socony Mobil Oil Company in
New York City. My efforts are concerned mainly with supply
and distribution problems in Socony’s foreign operations.
Though I no longer indulge i in much tournament competition,
I still manage to play tennis occasionally to try to keep in shape.
I am quite content living in the pretty little town of New Canaan,
Connecticut, the home of several of our classmates.

[537]

tee,

 

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

LOUIS puPONT IRVING, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: 40 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: July 7, 1908, Irvington-on-Hudson, N. Y. Parents: Louis duPont
Irving, ’07, Antoinnette Erhardt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1032.

occupation: Government service.

WARBURTON GOUVERNEUR ISELIN

HOME ADDRESS: 104 Otis St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: R. H. Hinkley Co., 131 Clarendon St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 30, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: John Henry Iselin, ’96,
Caroline Lydia Goodridge.

PREPARED AT: Mesa Ranch School, Mesa, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1929-1930.

MarrieD: Ida Elizabeth Newcomb, Jan. 9, 1932, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:

Elizabeth Philipse, July 14, 1937; Charles Newcomb, Jan. 7, 1942.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Henry Iselin, Jr., ’25.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and general sales manager, R. H. Hinkley &
Company, subscription books.

MEMBER OF: Chancellor Wolworth Lodge of Masons, New York City.

SINCE leaving Harvard in 1930, my endeavors have all been in
the sales field. My indoctrination was with R. H. Macy in New
York, where I remained a year and one-half. This was after my
mild attempt to sell automobile tires door-to-door in Boston
without success. After my marriage in 1932, we moved per-
manently to New York. Through my experience with R. H.
Macy, I moved to branch store management with Best & Company,
living during the next few years in Philadelphia and Cleveland.
In 1937 I joined B. Altman & Company in a merchandising ca-
pacity and we moved to Great Neck on Long Island. After three
years of this, I was offered the sales management of a large flower
farm in St. James, Long Island.

My daughter had been born in Great Neck in 1937, and in
1940 we moved to Smithtown, Long Island, for my new sales
management position, Here my son was born in 1942, and in
1944 we moved into the home we owned in St. James (the first
real estate we could call our very own). We lived there until
1955 — August, to be exact. In 1944 I started my own business

[ 538 J

t
i

 

Gh NR A NE RO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

— packing potatoes. This I maintained until 1950 when, wearying
of my partners—the U.S. Government, New York State and
New York City — to say nothing about coping with union over-
tures, I decided to liquidate. In 1950 I joined Westinghouse
Flectric as a salesman and remained there until the summer of
1953 when I finally gained the courage to go into the direct door-
to-door selling field with the Grolier Society, Inc., of New York,

ublishers — among other things — of the Book of Knowledge
for children. I have been fortunate in this work and it is the New
England division of the company for which I am now working.
My hobbies are photography and the selling and raising of
collies.

CHARLES JACKSON, JR.

HOME AppREss: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE aDpDREss: Gaston, Snow, Rice & Boyd, 82 Devonshire St., Boston 9,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Jackson, ‘98, Elizabeth
Bethune Higginson.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 19313; LL.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Mary Eliot Frothingham, June 16, 1939, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN:
Mary Eliot, Oct. 8, 1940; Sarah, Oct. 30, 1943; Deborah and Rebecca
(twins), Aug. 25, 1946; Charles, 3d, Aug. 16, 1950; Laura, May 12, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Higginson Jackson, °38; M.p., "43.

occupaTiON: Lawyer, partmer in firm of Gaston, Snow, Rice & Boyd.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, School Committee, Dover, Mass., 1947-50; clerk,
associate member, Board of Appeals, Dover, Mass.; clerk, Puget Sound
Power & Light Co., since 1948; treasurer, Ellis Memorial & Eldredge
House, Inc., 1946-54; member executive committee, since 1953, treas-
urer, since 1954, Bouve-Boston School of Physical Education, Medford,
director, Boston Social Service Exchange, Inc., 1955; trustee, member
executive committee, Family Service Association of Greater Boston,
since 1953; member, Overseers Visiting Committee, Harvard Law
School, since 1953, Department of Mathematics, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; American, Massa-
chusetts and Boston Bar Associations, American Law Institute; Appa-
lachian Mountain Club.

PuBLicaTions: Co-author, “Federal Regulation of Investment Companies
since 1940”, Harvard Law Review, May, 1950.

I WAS fortunate enough to spend the year after graduation

[ 539 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

traveling westward around the world. I judge it was a good year
to be out roaming and somewhat away from the impact of the
depression, Mr. Kreuger and Mr. Hauptmann. Most of the places
I went to have been a good deal changed in the meantime po-
litically and, of course, in many cases by explosives.

The next three years at the Harvard Law School were stimu-
lating and instructive, In the fall of 1935 I started in on the
practice of law in Boston and have continued with the same
firm ever since, except for three and a half years during the war.
My education in the law has probably been deficient as I have
had practically no experience in litigation. On the other hand,
the wide variety of matters which are presented in the practice
of corporation and business law is gratifying. A good deal of my
work has been with the problems of the investment company
industry which has grown tremendously in the last fifteen years.

During the war I was an officer in the Army Aur Forces,
emerging as a major. I spent two years in the horizontal portions
of central Illinois as an administrative officer at the Chanute Field
Technical Training School, where the ground crews were edu-
cated in great numbers to maintain the airplanes. In May, 1944,
I was transferred to the Pentagon and worked in the top law
office concerned with the procurement of supplies for the Army.
I am sorry that I saw none of the overseas aspects of the war, for
looking backwards my participation in the total struggle seems
rather slight.

By way of diversion from the daily mill, I find that most of my

interest is in trying to keep up with my children, although I
expect in a few years that will be more difficult. I have taken on
several jobs in Dover, which is still a little country town, and
have also become interested in various eleemosynary projects. As
a result, my time is not always idle. Due to good luck, I have been
able most summers to get in a bit of cruising along the Maine
coast which refreshes the soul. This last year my older daughters
were initiated in the sport and I hope their interest will increase.
In 1954, my wife and I had a fine trip motoring through France
and all around Spain and Portugal for some 5500 miles. I hope
that as the children grow up we shall have other chances to see
the rest of the world.

[ 540 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER CHARLES JACOBS

HOME apprEss: 21 Avondale Rd., White Plains, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Michael Saphier Associates, Inc., 18 EF. 48th St., New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 2, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Walter Abraham Jacobs,
Laura Dreyfoos.

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

mMarRiED: Lucille Hirsch, Jan. 19, 1941, New York, N. Y. cumpren: Bruce

I., May 7, 1942; Gary L., July 29, 1946.

occuPATION: President, Michael Saphier Associates, Inc., industrial design.

THE day after graduation I joined Fairchild Publications as an
advertising space salesman. A year later I was trying the same
for the Boston Post. Then a period of trying until I joined In-
ternational Statistical Bureau selling their economic forecasting
services in August, 1933. Really went to work traveling from
border to border and coast to coast. Headed the sales effort of
the company until November, 1945, by which time it had ex-
panded 1o0-fold. Had become a so-called expert in textile eco-
nomics by this time, so I tried my hand for a few months at a
desk with a group of textile mills. This was not for me.

Just at this time, I met an old friend after his return from
Japan. We talked, shook hands and the two of us started an in-
dustrial design firm — Michael Saphier Associates. Several years
of struggle and then a blossoming forth until today we have an
organization of some fifty people. We are specialists in the
planning of new offices. We have developed many new tech-
niques and new approaches to space utilization and are recog-
nized as one of the top firms in the business. Half my time is
spent in New Orleans and California— Chicago, Toronto an
Calgary. |

My family life is one of a typical suburbanite. Rushing for
trains morning and night. The usual socials, bridge evenings and
dinners in or out. Two healthy, happy boys who are active in
sports, music and school activities. No club life — no golf — the
usual vacations. Florida in the winter. The Adirondacks or New
Hampshire in the summer. One of these days a cruise — and
maybe to Europe. Hobbies are a fleeting thing — from garden-
ing to house painting, do-it-yourself, stamps, tropical fish and

[540 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

bridge. All have had their fling and only bridge has survived.
During the war Uncle Sam classified me 3B because of my work
with war plants which kept me on the hop in the States and |
never was measured for khakia or blue.

Am strictly a middle of the roader. Vote for the man and
not the machine. Consider myself an independent with liberal
Icaning. Try to better my self and also my fellow man. Wish
that our leaders in both parties were a little or great deal more
astute in handling the world picture. Constantly an optimist in
business, private “life and all my thinking — really expect the
world to improve. To sum up, I live an exciting, normal, happy
life and wish it to all my classmates.

CLARENCE NORMAN JACOBSON

HOME ADDRESS: 87 Woodlawn Drive, Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADpress: Northeast Shoe Co., Inc. 210 Lincoln St., Boston 11, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 3, 1910, Roxbury, Mass. PareNTs: Joseph Lipe Jacobson, Ada
Canter.

paepareD aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

Mazzizp: Dorothy P. Cortcll, May 31, 1942, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joseph Leon, May 4, 1943; David Cortell, June 30, 1947, Amy Beth,
Dec. 9, 1939.

occuPATION: Vice-president and sales manager, Northeast Shoe Company.

orrices HELD: Member board of directors, Congregation Adath Jeshurun,
Manchester, N. H., 1946-50, Jewish Community Center, Manchester,

N. Hf, 1946-50, member board of trustees, Temple Emanuel, Newton,
Mass. since 1952.

H{AVING been raised as an only son with five sisters and being,
therefore, acutely aware of female requirements, I found it easy
ty adjust to women’s and girls’ shoes, first as a department store
buver (Jordan Marsh, 1935-40) and, since 1940, in the marketing
end of the shoe manufacturing industry. I am vice-president and
general sales manager of Northeast Shoe Company, Pittsfield,
Maine, and the Cumberland Shoe Company, Saco, Maine, with
sales: headquarters in Boston.

Have Leen living in Newton, Massachusetts, the Garden City,
since March, 1950. It’s a great town with wonderful schools and
public services, moderate tax rate but high assessments, especially

[ 542]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

if you buy a new house as we did in 1950. Busy helping my wife
raise the three offspring. Have been especially interested and
involved in our Temple and its various activities, and have evolved
into an ardent participant in the Conservative Movement in
Jewish life. My primary activities have been in the field of Jew-
ish education, both at the youth and adult level.

As a Harvard man, I am proud and pleased with President
Pusey’s program for revitalizing the Divinity School. I would
like to see a general educational program at the adult and youth
level sponsored on the broadest possible scale by each denomina-
tion, aimed at raising the moral level of life in general.

Have been a Roosevelt-Truman Democrat and am especially
interested in seeing Stevenson or some other equally competent
liberal Democrat elected in 1956 along with a Democratic major-
ity in the Congress and Senate.

Have found it very testing to keep the family income ahead
of the family expenses. Still solvent, though, and hope so to
continue. Looking forward eagerly to the Reunion and reviv-
ing acquaintances and friendships of years gone by.

MILTON JACOBSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1500 Astor St., Norristown, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 E. Main St., Norristown, Pa.

BORN: Aug. 5, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Julius Jacobson, Rahley
Green. .

PREPARED AT: Conshohocken High School, Conshohocken, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1937.

MARRIED: Bertha Rothman, Jan. 7, 1940, Norristown, Pa. CHILDREN: James
Alan, June 22, 1945; Malcolm Bruce, March 23, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Montgomery Bar Association, 1956-57, Norristown
Lodge of B’nai B'rith, 1948-50; first vice-president, Southeastern Penn-
sylvania and Delaware Council, B’nai B'rith, 1955-56.

MEMBER oF: Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity; Montgomery Bar Association;
Pennsylvania Bar Association; Fritz Lodge No. 420, F. & A.M.; B'nai

. B’rith Lodge of Norristown; B’rith Sholom Lodge.

I HAVE been absorbed in building up a general practice of law
[ 543 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and raising a family. In the process, I have been active in the
usual: community and charitable organizations. I look to the
furure and hope, to have my sons ready for the Harvard Classes
of 1962 and 1965.

JAMES WENDELL JAMES, JR.

LAST KNOWN apoRESS: 156 WW. Woodland Ave., Youngstown, Ohio.

Bors: June 14, 1907, Youngstown, Ohio. parents: James Wendell James,
Mary Jane Jones.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1931.

JAMES has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1940.

ROBERT LEE JAMES

LAST KNOWN aporess: 32 W’. Cayuga St., Oswego, N. Y.

poxx: May 20, 1907, Dayton, Ohio. parents: Lee Warren James, Edith
Tyrrel.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

Maggiep: Kathryn Dewitt, May 7, 1935, Cincinnati, Ohio.

JAMES has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1955-

WILLIAM WARNER JEANES

Hosp aporess: 21 Meadowood Rd. Box 446, Villanova, Pa.

UFFKe aporess: Juniata Park Housing Corp, M & Bristol Sts., Philadelphia
24, Pa.

poms: Jan. 12, 1909, Wayne, Pa. parents: Joseph Yerkes Jeanes, Lenette
Ellison Ford.

papramiy at: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLPLE: $919-1931. DEGREE: 6.B., 1931.

Mannito: Helen Heckart Frazer, April 27, 1946, Earleville, Cecile County,
Md. amo: William Warner, Jr. Feb. 17, 1948.

Haavany Bacriea: Joseph Yerkes Jcanes, Jr., 24, M.B.A., '29.

oatpatiosn; Treasurer and managing director, Juniata Park Housing Cor-
poranion,

corwas into: Director, past president, Philadelphia Housing Association;

[ 544]

 

|
|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

director, Citizens’ Council on City Planning, Philadelphia, Octavia Hill
Association, Upper Chesapeake Watershed Association.

MEMBER OF: Corinthian Yacht Club of Philadelphia, Americans For De-
mocratic Action; National Housing Conference; Nature Conservancy.

MY major business interests crystallized within a year or two
after graduation. Finding no civil engineering job open in 1931,
I went to Europe where I saw publically financed moderate rent
housing that looked pretty good to me in comparison with the
typical Philadelphia row house on a gridiron street pattern. Re-
turning home I found the American Federation of Hosiery Work-
ers, whose national headquarters are in Philadelphia, interested
in housing improvement. In 1933 we formed a corporation,
obtained a loan from the Public Works Administration and built
one of the first publically aided housing developments in the
United States.

This enterprise, which consists of apartments, stores, laundries,
nursery school and swimming pool, has over the years required
a good deal of day-to-day attention, but it has allowed me time
for many other interests. A farm on the Upper Eastern Shore of
Maryland is the major one. In some early forestry work on this
farm I was helped by Fred Faulkner of our Class, who was later
killed in the Spanish Civil War.

Just prior to World War II, I worked for the United States
Housing Authority in the initial launching of the low rent public
housing program. The “Defense” period and the first years of
the war found me again with the government in the development
of war housing. Later I served for a short time with the Bureau
of Municipal Research, an agency devoted to civic improvement
—a commodity much needed at the time in Philadelphia.

In recent years I find myself more and more concerned with
the future — hence, my absorption in politics, conservation and
metropolitan housing and planning. The Lord has been good to
me. I have a wonderful family, am in good health and in general
remain optimistic; but when pessimistic, a walk in the woods, a
few hours of farm work, or a boat trip on the river is usually
enough to bring me around.

C545 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

CHARLES EDWARD JELLISON

HOME ADpRESS: 15 Glengarry Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stock Exchange Bldg., 53 State Street, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1908, Somerville, Mass, PARENTS: Charles Edward Jellison,
Mary E. Herlihy.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
1940.

marrieD: Anne Sheridan, Nov. 5, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Mary
Sheridan, Aug. 28, 1939; Barbara Anne, Jan. 18, 1943; Anne Sheridan,
Feb. 9, 1948.

occuPaTion: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1952-53, member, 1948-54, Winchester School
Committee; member, Winchester Finance Committee, 1948-52; chair-
man, Winchester Harvard Scholarship Fund, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex: Boston and American
Bar Associations; Winchester Historical Society; Society in Dedham for
Apprehending Horse Thieves.

AFTER graduation and a short period in the investment busi-
ness, I entered the Law School in 1932 with a lean purse and a
Micawberlike optimism, both of which lasted until mid-term,
when I left and went to work at a variety of things until 1937
when I entered Boston University Law School and completed
my law training. Upon admission to the Massachusetts Bar, I
became associated with the office of general counsel of the Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company where I remained until 1953. I have
been in my own practice since that time. A large part of my
work has to do with the trial of cases involving injuries to work-
men, seamen and others under State and Federal statutes.

I married in 1938 and have been blessed with one wife and three
daughters. A sudden change in rules canceled my Navy induc-
tion and allowed me to sit out the war and to take some advantage
of the existing business situation. In the early 1930’s I served a
three-year hitch with Battery A, 1orst Field Artillery, M.N.G.,
which was comprised almost wholly of Harvard men, was rea-
sonably unmilitary and an enjoyable experience. I served in
several non-paying elective and appointive offices of my town
over a span of about nine years and thereafter was soundly de-
feated when I ran for a county office which involved a salary
in five figures and no work, a combination of circumstances

[ 546 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
which continues to whet the avarice of all great patriots. In
1949 I helped to organize the Winchester Harvard Scholarship
Fund and have served as chairman of the fund since that time.
I am a registered but unregimented Republican. My family and
I have divided our summers between Maine, Marblehead and

Martha’s Vineyard, where I am able to get in a hittle sailing and

fishing.

RAYMOND SYLKIRK JENKINS

HOME ADDRESS: 176 Highland Ave. Winchester, Mass.

oFFice apprEss: B. F. Goodrich Co., Akron, Ohio.
BorN: Oct. 18, 1905, Chamblee, Ga. parents: Jesse Sylkirk Jenkins, Mable

Nix.
PREPARED AT: Boys High School, Acianta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.
MARRIED: Theodora Sienkiewicz, Aug. 15, 1931, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:

Raymond Sylkirk, Jr, Jan. 25, 1939; Patricia Ann, Oct. 11, 1939.
occuPATION: Field sales manager, B. F. Goodrich Company,
AFTER a one-year attempt at teaching high school, I joined
my present firm, where I am a field sales manager in the Asso-
ciated Tire and Accessory Division. A quict but busy life has

its compensations,

AGIUS AGERTER MAZE JENKS

HOME appress: % Bank of America, 12 Nicholas Lane, London, E.C.4,

England.
OFFICE ADpRESS: General Motors Ltd., 23 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W.1,

England.
BORN; June 1, 1909, Wolverhampton, Staffordshire, England. parents: Harry

Maze Jenks, Martha Agerter.
PREPARED AT: Harrow School, Middlesex, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.
MarrieD: Frances Rose Probst, Sept. 1, 1934, Cricklewood, Middlesex, Eng-
land (divorced 1955). cHiLD: Jennifer Anne Maze, April 25, 1938.
occupaTIon: Sales manager in charge of the export of refrigeration equip-

ment manufactured by Frigidaire in Great Britain.

[ 547 ]

”-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

JOSEPH JESIUL-AVICUS JESSEL

HOME ADDRESS: 712 W. Broad St., Falls Church, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Power Commission, GAO Bldg. 44: G. St, N.W,
Washington, D. C, ;

BorN: Dec, 20, 1907, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Martin Jesiul-Avicus Jessel,
Amelia Cook.

PREPARED AT: Edward F. Searles High School, Methuen, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B. IN E.E. 1931; S-M. IN E.E., 10325
S-D.. 1934.

marrieD: Helen Theresa Clifford, June 25, 1935, Washington, D. C. cun-
DREN: Joseph Jesiul-Avicus, Jr., Nov. 18, 1937; Mary Amelia Josephine,
March 19, 1939; Helena Anne, July 26, 1944.

occupation: Electrical engineer —chief of transmission and codrdination
section, Bureau of Power.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Electrical Engineers; Washington (D.
C.) Society of Engineers; Harvard Engineering Society; National Geo-
graphic Society; Harvard Foundation for Advanced Study and Re-
search.

UPON graduation in 1931, I continued my studies at Harvard
until 1934 when I joined the staff of the Federal Power Com-
mission in Washington, D.C., on a temporary assignment to
assist in a national power survey. I have been with the Federal
Power Commission continuously to date, being in Washington,
D.C., during 1934 to 1936, then in San Francisco until 1942, and
back in Washington to date. I have technical supervision of
practically all work of the Federal Power Commission dealing
with electric power transmission, interconnection and codrdina-
tion of electric facilities of electric utilities and those phases of
power market surveys dealing with operations of electric net-
works.

I have also appeared as an expert witness in formal hearings
before the Federal Power Commission, and several of these cases
have been before the Supreme Court of the United States, I am
a member of the faculty of the U.S. Department of Agriculture
Graduate School, where I teach one full-year course one year
and two half-courses the following year.

My hobbies are interesting to me and they include gardening,
speculations in the field of mathematics, baseball and football,
and work with the Federal Power Commission Federal Credit
Union as member of its Credit Committee.

[ 548 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY MARCUS JEVNE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Revonah Woods, Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE appREss: Warren Green, A.1.A. Rippowam Village Road, Stamford,
Conn,

BorN: Oct. 19, 1908, New Rochelle, N, Y. parents: Henry Marcus Jevne,
Virginia Henneberger.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRiED: Helen MacArthur Henderson, July 29, 1939, Stamford, Conn.
CHILDREN: John Henderson, Jan. 12, 1941; Lucretia Ann, Aug. 17, 1946.

occuPaTION: Architecture.

MEMBER OF: Woodway Country Club; Mid-Town Club.

RIGHT after college I started in the real estate development
business as a continuation of family business, Ever since, I have
been fighting the losing battle of preserving capital against the
destructive influences of depression, war and “New Deal” give-
away programs. This gradually developed into a small construc-
tion business which was halted by the war. During the war I was
production co-ordinator for the Boots Aircraft Nut Corporation,
and worked with them in that capacity and as purchasing agent
until 1948. Meanwhile, in 1946 we had re-started our construc-
tion business. Early in 1953 1 gave up the construction end of
the business and have been working ever since on the architec-
tural side with Warren Green.

PLINY JEWELL, JR.

HOME apprEss: Lowell Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFIck appress: Robert B. Pitcher, General Agent, John Hancock Mutual
Life Insurance Co., 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 3, 1908, Concord, Mass. PARENTS: Pliny Jewell, ’99, Anne Winston

arris.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

Marriep: Anne Thorp Rea, 1930, Ardmore, Pa. cHitprEeN: Pliny, 3d, May 30,
1931; Diana, May 11, 1935; Samuel Rea, Nov. 19, 1937-

HARVARD sons: Pliny Jewell, 3d, ’54; Samuel Rea Jewell, ’59.

OCCUPATION: Associate general agent, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Board of Commissioners, Concord Municipal Light
Plant, since 1951; trustee, 1936-43, 1944, 1946, 1954, president, 1938-43,

[ 549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

1946-54, Fenn School; chairman, Greater Boston Community Fund,
Concord, Mass., 1939, 1940, Pack Committee, Boy Scouts of America,
1947-49; Chairman, 1931 Class Committee and 25th Reunion; corporator
and trustee, Middlessex Institution for Savings, since 1946; member of
board, Boston Life Underwriters Association, 1951-53; member special
gifts committee, Concord Community Chest, 1955, Concord Chapter,
American Red Cross, 1954; USNR (lieutenant, j.g., to lieutenant com-
mander), 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: Boston Life Underwriters Association; General Agents and
Managers Association; Union Club of Boston; Concord Country Club;
Annisquam Yacht Club.

BECAUSE I have been somewhat immersed in helping with
the Twenty-fifth Reunion and have been exhorting numerous
classmates on every street corner to send in their biographies, it
would seem fitting that I, too, should codperate.

As I look back and commence to write, I wish sorely that I
had paid more attention to English “A” because I realize fully
now why the wise college authorities insisted that I procure a
little more knowledge of the English language. Undoubtedly,
I should have taken English B, C, e¢ al.

To go back, lo, these many years, on graduation I was in the
fortunate (?) position of having to go to work. Father prudently
felt that I had had enough living on him so, as in “Pinafore”, I
apprenticed myself with the John Hancock Mutual Life Insur-
ance Company, as a lowly agent. I was lucky to join:the agency
then headed by the new president of the company.

It seems to me that our Class was fortunate in that we had to
get out and dig in those early Rooseveltian depression days.
Probably this benefited most of us. In retrospect, these early
years seemed far more peaceful even though worldly goods were
less abundant, for the world seems to me geared to a higher speed
and increasingly concerned with “getting and spending...”. I
wonder if many of us are not seeing on the horizon even. now,
as distant as that horizon may be, more peaceful years when
perhaps we may begin to relax.

My business career has continued uninterruptedly with the
Hancock from agent to associate general agent, and many times
1 look back with mixed feelings on the more carefree days as an
independent agent. In 1953, the company made an amoebic
operation and split my former office in two. The powers that

[550 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be felt that we were not doing enough business, although the
company has grown from $450 million in assets to well over
$3 billion at present writing. But they were right, and the two
resulting offices are now producing substantially more. Three
of us started a new agency and quite naturally we take pride
that our office was in second place throughout the country in
production for 1955. So to conclude the business phase, business
is busier.

After college, I lived in Medfield near my family but soon
decided Concord, the scene of my birth, seemed more attractive.
Therefore, in 1934 we moved, bought an old farmhouse in 1938
and are delighted that we did. We felt we were moving to a
rural town where people lived a simple country life, but gradu-
ally I became embroiled in many civic activities which, in retro-
spect, have given me much lasting satisfaction, and it has been
fascinating to watch some of these community projects grow.

My family consists of an elder son, Pliny, 3d, who is a junior
at Harvard (after serving three years in the Army); my favorite
and only daughter, Diana, who graduated from Westover School
in 1954 and is now an eager beaver studying piano at the New
England Conservatory of Music; and my younger son, Sam, a
struggling freshman at Harvard. My ghost writers (including
my wife) advise me that the wives should be subordinated. 1
cannot agree. I fecl, as do most men, we owe much to them, not
only for putting up with our idiosyncrasies and selfish male de-
mands but also for their tireless work in raising our families.
In spite of the dishes she breaks, Anne, fundamentally my com-
plete opposite, with her genuine love for literature and music, as
opposed to my mundane enthusiasm for sports, has been a true
companion through subordinating some of her interests to mine.

While the children were young, we spent many pleasant sum-
mer vacations on Cape Cod, but now that they are more mature,
we have changed our locale to Annisquam on Cape Ann. Though
the swimming can be chilly, it is far easier commuting either from
Concord or from Boston — only one hour, rather than two to
three hours fighting the auto traffic to the Cape. Not for me!
I'm too old. Our family trips have been modest. Their longest
trip was to visit me in Neah Bay, Washington, when I was in
the Navy, and it was quite an hegira for them on the cattle

[551]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

trains of the war years, My daughter has managed a trip to
Europe and my older son spent fourteen months in Germany
(on you and me, the taxpayers). But Ma and Pa will get their
trips sometime (we hope!). Certainly, I have had fun in many
ways with my family and yet to me the most interesting part
is watching the children develop into maturity and even reason-
able human beings.

My hobbies are mildly numerous with gardening, golfing,
some shooting and, of late, charter power cruising with friends
and their kids. It seems my interests lie in activities which have
the common denominator of being relaxing, getting outdoors
and away from people. As I partake in several hobbies, all suffer,
so that now my best golf shot is the “look-up” which I do with
rare perfection.

The war years in the Navy, nearly four, I pass over lightly
because, although I enjoyed much of it and had twenty-three
months afloat on small boats and six months as C.O. on a large
salvage tug, most of us are not interested in the other fellow’s
“dreams of glory”.

Lastly, as I see the Reunion approaching, I have many thanks
to give to the Lord, for my wife who has had to put up with it
already almost every day for over a year; also heartfelt thanks
to the wonderful men and women of 731, particularly the Re-
union Committee chairmen, who are performing miracles to
stage a successful Reunion for you. They have assumed their
responsibilities willingly and cheerfully. You will be glad you
came back. Three others especially deserve your praise and my
heartfelt thanks: Ruth Rintels, our Reunion Executive Secretary,

without whom the show would not be put on; Ruth Mahoney,
without whom this book could not be published; and Peter Pratt,
Alumni Secretary, for his continuous friendly guidance and coun-
sel on the things we should do, and cannot do.

May I close with the observation that the experience of guiding
the Reunion has been most satisfying, rewarding and grand fun.
I sincerely wish that over the years since graduation I had been
able to cultivate a closer friendship with many more classmates,
as I have been privileged to do over the past few months, For,
as you browse through this Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report,
you will quickly understand through the variety of their careers

[552]

 

 

Ta

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and the success of so many, why our Class and the many others
who have gone before us at Harvard have continued to make
and keep Harvard an outstanding university.

ARAM JOHNIAN

HOME aporEss: 19 Hillside Ave. Winchester, Mass.

orFice appress: FE. C. Schirmer Music Co. 221 Columbus Ave., Boston, Mass.

porn: Aug. 25, 1905, Brookline, Mass. parents: John S. Johnian, Mariam
Boghosian.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MarrieD: Gertrud Wendler, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Johnette, Jan.
19, 1936; Annette, Jan. 20, 1940; John, Feb. 17, 1943; Paul, Oct. 22, 1945.

occuPATION: Music publishing.

ARTHUR DELAFIELD JOHNSON

HOME ApprEss: Route 3, Box 1154, Poway, Calif.

OFFICE AppREss: Convair, Dept. 25-9, San Diego 12, Calif.

Born: May 8, 1908, Paris, France. parents: William Templeton Johnson,
Clara Delafield Sturges.

Preparep aT: Francis W, Parker School, San Diego, Calif., Milton Academy,
Multon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1929-1932. DEGRFE: 8.B., 1931 (32).

MARRiIFD: Julia Ethel Porter, Feb. 2, 1933, Milton, Mass. cHILDREN: Julia
Fthel, Aug. 23, 1934; Bonsall Delafield, Jan. 29, 1938; William Shepard,
May 7, 1940; Thomas Porter, Nov. 12, 1946.

occupation; Civil engineer.

orrices HE1D: Member board of trustees, 1948-53, president, 1950-53, Pomer-
ado Union School, chairman camping and activities committee, Palo-
mar District Boy Scouts, 1947-53; Registered Civil and Mechanical
Engineer, California.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers; American Society of
Mechanical Engineers; Harvard Club of San Diego; San Diego Engi-
neers Club; San Diego Dinner Club.

Pustications: Tbe Sol-A-Die Process, Modern Industrial Press, 1946.

MY post-graduate year at Harvard Engineering School was punc-
tuated at mid-years by marriage to Ethel Porter — the best single
thing I have done.

The first few years were characterized by design work on
earthquake-resistant schools for various engineers and architects
in Los Angeles, Long Beach and San Diego, following the Long

[ 553]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Beach earthquake of 1933. Following this came design work on
the 1935 San Diego exposition, civic center and post office, inter-
spersed with estimating and design for various contractors. Not
much time off, but seventeen jobs and thirteen moves in five
years. It seemed as though each time we bought a stick of furni-
ture, the office and job folded.

A temporary assignment in public works at the Eleventh Naval
District led to fifteen months of work on storage and waterfront
facilities here, followed by fifteen months on the development of
the dry docks area at Pearl Harbor. This latter was a most
interesting assignment including roads, railroad, crane tracks,
and distribution lines and tunnels for fuel, water, steam and elec-
tricity. A suggestion that the drydocks pump well slab be studied
from a bomb standpoint led to its thickening from one and a half
to four feet.

Promotion and transfer to San Diego in December of 1940
was both good and bad. The better salary of associate structural
engineer and lower living costs hardly made up for the return
from responsible charge to detail drafting. In those days of
non-relevant activity, considerable solace was taken in the fact
thar the drydocks were little damaged by the bombing and
were in service the following day.

The status quo activity — tennis courts and sundry — seemed
so remote from war effort, I tried to shift to the Seabees, without
success. Finally after two years, I found a replacement for myself
and moved to the Research Department at Solar Aircraft
Company. Here for nine years I was very much my own boss
with responsibility for the company’s patent activity. The work
led to strong coverage on exhaust manifolds, their Sol-A-Die
process of stage forming, and the basic patents on Afterburners.

Apparent disinterest in following up research development and
patent protection with a strong policy of invention management
led me to look for a more effective spot, and I accepted a posi-

tion as project engineer for Floor Corporation on the Spoon
River atomic energy project. This turned out to be short lived,
cancelled by the effectiveness of the H-bomb,

Private practice has included the preliminary design of the
Poway Irrigation District and sundry surveys and sub-divisions.
Starting in August, 1953, I have been in responsible charge for

[554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

surveys and design for various classified facilities for Convair’s
Atlas project.

Our home, an adobe hacienda at Poway, twenty-five miles
north of San Diego, has grown with the family. The largest
single addition was a three-room apartment over the garage with
a Monterey balcony overlooking the patio, and the most recent,
the glazing in of half the front porch. Our home is almost a
museum, furnished for the most part with antiques from both
our families,

Julie, twenty-one, is a senior at San Diego State College, with
primary interests in geology, anthropology and archaeology.
Bonsall, seventeen, a senior at San Miquel School, is interested in
school administration and sports cars. Bill, thirteen, appears
headed toward Scripps Oceanography; and Tom, at nine, has a
multitude of interests. Ethel has her hands full as chairman of
the Program and Activities Committee of the San Diego Museum
of Man. Mine have been involved with Scouts, president of the
Pomenado Union School Board, and in American Societies of
Civil, Mechanical and Automotive Engineers, Harvard Club of
San Diego, and San Diego Engineers Club.

MELVIN MAYNARD JOHNSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 224 St. Ronan St., New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 275 Winchester Ave., New Haven, Conn.; 660 Madison Ave.,
4 W. 58th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 27, 1909, Boston, Mass, parents: Melvin Maynard Johnson,
Ina Delphene Freeman.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; LL.B, 1934(35).

MARRIED: Virginia Bingham Rice, Oct. 10, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Melvin Maynard, 3d, Aug. 16, 1935; Edward Rice, May 16, 1940; Byron
Bingham, July 26, 1943; Gail Virginia, March 27, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Melvin Maynard Johnson, 3d, ’58.

occupaTion: Consultant on research and development, and on armament.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Johnson and North (attorneys), 1934-39; instructor,
Boston University Law School, 1935-39; trustee, Johnson Patent Trust,
1936-49; president and director, Johnson Automatics, Inc. (and sub-
sidiaries), 1938-49; technical director, Winchester Division, 1949-51,
armament manager, 1952-54, Olin Industries, Inc.; consultant, Secre-
tary of Defense, since 1951; chairman, aircraft armament committee,

[555]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

nounced: “First damned constructive thing that’s happened today
in the Pentagon”.

My hobbies are tennis, shooting, the woods (canoe, swim,
shoot), tenor guitar (Mel, 3d, is hot piano), good books and
movies when there is time. For me, Shangri-La is my camp on
Moosehead Lake — but there is so little time. Also, there is my
ninth book if time permits.

In conclusion, the meaning and stature of Harvard appear far
more significant to me at this date than when we old guys trod
our Yard. As a consultant, I was recently asked whether there
might be any real industrial research future in astronautics — the
search into stellar space. My answer is that man is a Most curious
animal, combining congealed conservatism on the one hand with
startlingly rampant radicalism on the other. Isabella of Spain
financed Columbus. Perhaps Harvard may invest and make
capital gains on financing a space adventure! I, at least, hope
further to retain my own rampant curiosity, subject to the bank
and the tax gatherers.

OSCAR DOYLE JOHNSON

HOME ADDRESS: 609 Sussex Rd., Wynnewood, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Barclay-Stewart & Co., Bryn Mawr, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1907, Uniontown, Pa. parents: William Jasper Johnson,
Vivian Dinsmore Doyle.

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MarRiED: Marian Barclay, June 19, 1935, Ardmore, Pa, CHILDREN: Oscar
Doyle, Jr., Sept. 26, 1936, Marian Barclay, Oct. 31, 1937; David Parry,
Aug. 22, 1941; Martha Lovell, May 13, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Owner, Barclay-Stewart & Company, wholesale sporting goods.

MEMBER OF: Various shooting and hunting clubs.

PUBLICATIONS: The Tartar Slave, a historical novel; Ezninent American
Poets, and other poetry anthologies, trade paper stories and articles
(painting, hunting, photography, etc.).

THIS report has been ready since June, 1955, but conflicting
instructions received at that time and continuing into November,
1955, have had me confused. Thought, perhaps, this confusion
was due to my having been “too long gone from Harvard”, but
have decided it is because the Charles River has now become the

[558 ]

PCA RENMEI REE AIR SPE teen NO RR ee

Spi see RA ME Pigg at UNITE SURGE rr AN TE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

eastern boundary of the United States rather than the western
boundary I had been led to believe. Hope, however, to be present
at the Reunion in June, 1956, even if I must obtain a “visiting
alien’s visa”.

REGINALD HATHAWAY JOHNSON, JR.

HOME appress: 36 Terrace Ave., Riverside, Conn.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 71 NV. gist St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Feb. 25, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Reginald Hathaway John-
son, ’95, Frances Barnard Goodwin,

prepareD aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Katharine Pritchard Colt, Sept. 18, 1937, Allentown, Pa. (divorced
1956). CHILDREN: Katharine Colt, March 31, 1940; Nancy Pritchard,
Aug. 14, 1942; Reginald Colt, Dec. 16, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Erik Augustine Johnson, °37.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Chemical Corn Exchange Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Secreary-treasurer, Teleprograms, Inc., the television affiliate
of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York City, Rockefeller Lunch Club,
Greenwich Country Club, New England Society.

IN previous Class Reports, I have stated that I spent one year
and ten months in R. H. Macy & Company of which all but the
first two months were in cost accounting tied in with the con-
troller’s office. I joined the Chemical Bank in June, 1935, as a
credit investigator and over the twenty-year period have found
the profession of credit officer both rewarding and stimulating.
As vice-president I administer the loan portfolio and assist in
handling the bank’s office in Rockefeller Center. Anyone like
me with a Jack-of-all-trades type of interest in business is bound
to agree. This is particularly true during the present period of
tight money and general prosperity.

My hobbies were tennis, squash and reading until I got a
ruptured disc in 1950. They are now golf, and the Saturday
Review which leads me into many fields of literary and eco-
nomic interest. I have three children of whom I am exceedingly
proud and for whom I have great aspirations. My political
affiliations are liberal Republican, so Eisenhower suits my book
perfectly.

[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

War record—joined the Navy in November, 1943, and
achieved the rank of lieutenant senior grade. Was awarded the
Bronze Star for combat service in Okinawa on rocket ships —
severed December, 1945, and resigned permanently in 1949. See
you at the Reunion.

JOHN SILLS JONES

HOME ADDRESS: 381 Sunset Ridge Rd., Northfield, Ill.

OFFICE. ADDRESS: 120 S. LaSalle St. Chicago, Ill.

BorN: Dec. 4, 1909, Evanston, Ill. parents: Carroll Henry Jones, Helen
Weeks.

PREPARED AT: Evanston High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1935.

marrieD: [Ika Van Leight, March 21, 1948, Evanston, Tl.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Carroll Henry Jones, '28,; Franklin Weeks Jones, ’25.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

+ ROBERT McKITTRICK JONES, II

BorN: Feb. 5, 1909, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Hugh McKittrick Jones, ‘o1,
Carroll West.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, Clayton, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hugh McKictrick Jones, Jr., 40, B.ARCH., ’42, M.ARCH., '47.

Marriep: Anne C. FitzGerald, June 9, 1932, Kirkwood, Mo. cHILDREN:
Robert McKittrick, 3d, May 23, 1933; Mary-Elizabeth, Sept. 16, 1935;
Carroll West, March 8, 1938; Thomas West, Feb, 11, 1942.

piep: Oct. 1, 1949, Ladue, Mo.

AFTER leaving college, Jones joined the St. Louis Union Trust
Company, with which he remained for over fifteen years. In
1946 he was associated with his father in Robert McKittrick
Jones & Company, a dry goods firm in St. Louis. He remained

with this firm until his death. His wife and children survived
him.

ROBERT HENRY JOSEPH

HOME appress: 158 Waverly Pl., New York, N. Y.
orrie apvurss: Carl Monk, Inc., 1350 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

Bown: May 2, 1949, Canton, Ohio. PareENTS: Jack Joseph Joseph, Helen
Straus.

[ 560 }

 

i
i
é

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Canton High School, Canton, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927—1928, 1929-1931, DEGREE: A.B., 1931.
marrieD: Dola de Jong, July 19, 1946, New York, N. Y. cup: Ian Jack,

July 6, 1951.
occuPATION: Sales and administration, Carl Monk, Inc., children’s clothing.

JOSEPH prFOREST JUNKIN

HOME AppREss: Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Brinton & Co., 1 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Joseph deForest Junkin,
Jr., ’02, Wilhelmina Carrington Schaus.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1932. DEGREE: A.B, 1931 (32).

MARRIED: Lois Swan, May 22, 1937, Salisbury, Conn. cHiLpREN: Joseph Swan,
June 17, 1939; Peter David, 2d, Oct. 9, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Peter David Junkin, °36.

occupaTion: Partner, Brinton & Company, stock brokers.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club, Bedford Golf & Tennis Club.

WHEN | finally started to look for work after college, jobs were
hard to find in Wall Street. It is remarkable how unwanted col-
lege graduates were then. Now everybody wants them, includ-
ing the military. At any rate, in 1932 I became a clerk and in
1935 purchased a membership on the New York Stock Exchange
somewhat on the installment plan, and I have been there ever
since.

In 1937 I got engaged and, feeling I was well enough established
on a financial career, got married and soon moved to the country
where our two boys were born. In February, 1942, I joined the
Naval Reserve via the first class at Quonset Point for officer train-
ing which was well complemented by members of our Class. I
had a routine first two years in the United States, but ended up
the last part of the war as a lieutenant commander with an in-
teresting command in the Philippines. Since the war we have
lived very happily in Mt. Kisco, New York, where our two boys
have grown up to be good citizens, I have been able to pursue
my favorite interests in the area, namely, gardening, week-end
golf and raising and training pointers,

Each fall I take time out for woodcock and grouse shooting
expeditions upstate and in northern New England. Also, we have

[ 561 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

managed several wonderful sailboat charters in different waters.
The Navy satisfied my traveling ambitions for a while, but lately
they have returned and the places we want to see or see again are
beginning to crop up in our conversations.

Back i in 1927 I went to my father’s 25th Reunion. I remember
thinking how amusing the antics of some of the old gentlemen
were. It’s hard to realize that here we are, the Class of 1931,
having our 25th in June. I must say, however, that I am looking
forward to it with a great deal of pleasure.

ALBERT SIDNEY KAHN

HOME ADDRESS: 59 Reservoir Ave., Chestnut Hill 67, Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Purity Food Stores, Inc., Malden, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 5, 1911, Boston, Mass. PaRENTS: Morris Kahn, Libbie Bravman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

marriep: Esther B. Sussman, Jan. 5, 1936, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Linda
Joan, May 12, 1938; Ellen Rachel, Nov. 2, 1940; Deborah Anne, March
24, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leo Kahn, ’38.

occupaTion: Treasurer, supermarket chain.

AFTER graduation I went to the Law School — perhaps to be-
come a lawyer. In June of 1934 I took the Massachusetts Bar
examinations, was admitted to the Bar, but went into my father’s
wholesale grocery business. In 1936 I organized a company to
operate a grocery concession in a supermarket. My brother, °38,
joined this company shortly after the war. Today it is a suc-
cessful small supermarket chain — Purity Food Stores, Inc. My
association with this company has been a most rewarding ex-
perience. It has afforded many insights and awarenesses into
myself and other people. It has confirmed what was otherwise
on an intellectual level only, the idea that in this ever-expanding
and changing universe, there is no security, no maintenence of
the status quo. But if one is youthful and willing to live ad-
venturously, there can be growth.

My family consists of my wife Esther, Radcliffe ’35, who
among other things, is my best friend, three teen-age daughters
and our dog Lucky who, being neutralized, does nothing to cor-

[ 562 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rect the sexual imbalance of our familial setting. I don’t believe I

was intended for the role of father in a three. teen-age daughter
family, and sometimes the girls agree with me on this point. T hey
seem to be typical teen-agers. As our classmate David Riesman
would say, “they constantly have their antennae out’ and con-
sequently are able to communicate with other members of their
peer group, either in pig Latin, when using the phone while ['m
in the room, or via a megaphone on Saturday afternoons when
two of them fulfill their roles as school cheer-leaders.

During the last eight years 1 have been a leader of a Great
Books group. This experience, plus a few friends, plus perhaps
even a few fires kindled between 1927 and 1931 have stimulated
in me an interest in adult education, particularly my own. Ac-
cording to some current notions, education on an elementary level
is supposed to be fun, a pleasant living experience, etc. Well, I
find my interest in some of the liberal arts lots of fun too.

My other activities and hobbies include the movies and the
theatre, in both of which I have very catholic tastes; tennis, which
I resumed just this year after many years of golf; the piano —I
take lessons; and some of the usual socializing connected with
middle-class urban living.

As for political and social convictions, I guess I don’t have too
many very intense ones except sometimes by way of reaction to
those who have. In the last presidential election I felt that we
needed a Republican victory to keep a healthy two-party system
going; on the other hand, I was a pushover for Stevenson’s
speeches. So I voted for Stevenson and hoped Eisenhower would
win — or was it the other way around?

One thing I do have a strong conviction about is the importance
of the liberal arts college and its role in protecting and encour-
aging free thought. Hfarvard’s leadership in this area is a source
of great pride to me and is one of the chief reasons I am looking
forward to returning to the College for the 25th.

[ 563 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

FRANCIS HENRY KALES, Il

MAILING ADDRESS: 371 Old Orchard Lane, York, Pa.

BoRN: Nov. 5, 1907, Winnetka, Ill. pareNTs: Albert Martin Kales, ’96, Anna
Mark Bradley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1032.

OCCUPATION: Transportation.

ISRAEL MAX KAMENS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 Washington Ave., Chelsea 50, Mass.

BORN: July 18, 1910, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Michael Kamens, Kate Widetz-
key.

PREPARSD At: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1935.

marRIED: Nettie Shapiro, June 23, 1940, Chelsea, Mass. CHILDREN: Sharlene
Robert, Nov. 22, 1942; Michael Ira, Dec. 21, 1945; Carolann Oydis,
April 30, 1950; Toby, Oct. 31, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: President, Chelsea Hebrew Free School, since 1954, Chelsea
P.T.A. Council, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Community Center.

AFTER graduation I did some postgraduate work at the Haynes
Memorial Research Department and then went through four
years of medical work at Boston University. I went to New
York for hospital training for thirty months and then started
practising in Chelsea, Massachusetts. The going was a little
rough, due to the times, but I finally pushed through,

In 1940 I married a young lady who was born about twelve
houses away from my birthplace, and settled down to raising a
family, finally settling for three girls and one boy.

During the war I was the roentgenologist at the Captain Adams
Hospital in Chelsea and was professor of roentgenology at
Middlesex Medical College. After the war I spent time taking
many postgraduate medical courses, finally limiting my work to
internal medicine.

My father, having been a religious teacher, evidently instilled
in me an interest in religion and education, so that I spend time
in the local Hebrew School and on the local P.T.A. Council, be-
coming president of both organizations,

[ 564 ]

sper ahaa REELED TOOTS IN SE we?
saree

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Having seen the ailments produced by immature thinking and
frustrations, I feel that the average man should deeply reintegrate
himself with his religious insticutions and thus have a good,
firm foundation for a happy and satisfied existence. The above-
average should still keep striving to understand life so that the
many imperfections in religion can be removed and a more godly
life follow.

JOSEPH BERNARD KARAS

HOME AppaEss: 238 W. Royal Pkwy. Buffalo 21, N. Y.

Born: Feb. 1, 1909, Choczki, Poland. parents: Joseph Peter Karas, Tofelia
Rotkiewicz.

preparep at: Deerfield High School, Deerficld, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: $.B., 1931.

_ Marriep: Ruth Pattison, Aug. 5, 1939 (died Oct. 9, 1941); Helena Biel, June
9, 1951. CHILDREN: Glenda Glover, Scpt. 1, 1938, and Carl Glover, Sept.
27, 1939 (stepchildren); Donald, July 4, 1941; Joan, Feb. 5, 1954.

occuPATION: Salesman, shoe manufacturing business, New York State.

AFTER drifting for ten years, I got into sales work and have
been at it and happy ever since.

GEOFFREY PATRICK KEANE

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Holden Sc., Danvers, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 220 Bellevue St., West Roxbury, Mass.

BORN: June g, 1910, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Thomas Joseph Keane,
Bridget Agnes Flaherty.

PreParED aT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.D. 1935.

occupation: Medicine.

THOMAS JAMES KEDIAN

MAILING appress: 5 Arrow St., Cambridge, Mass.

BoRN: May 24, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: James Edward Kadian, Helen
Evelyn Thompson.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MARRIED: Janet Baker, June 18, 1938, Fargo, N, Dak. cHILpREN: Penny, July
16, 1939; Jill Linda, March 8, 1941; Tommy Baker, Dec. 2, 1944; Eliza-
beth Ann, Dec. 1, 1948; James Royal, Sept. 27, 1950.

[ 565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

CHARLES GARFIELD KEENE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Follen St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 28, 1909, Freeport, Maine. PARENTS: Charles Garfield Keene,
Annie Katheryn Cuskley.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1934.

MarrieD: Frances Elizabeth Curran, April 18, 1942.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director and officer, Boston Garden-Arena Corporation,
Boston Professional Hockey Association, Lapham-Brown Oil Corpora-
tion, Trusteed Funds, Inc., Benson Wild Animal Farm, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Tennis & Racquet Club; Nashua Coun-

try Club.

EXCEPT for three and a half years in the Navy, I have been
practising Jaw ,in Boston since 1934. My clients’ interests are_
quite diversified. This has made things interesting, but often
causes me to envy the specialists among my colleagues. Leisure
time is now devoted to plans for a new house on Lake Winni-
pesaukee and devising ways and means of spending more time
up there.

CHARLES PATRICK KELLEHER

LAST KNOWN ADpRESS: 72 Peterborough St., Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: April 14, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Patrick Francis Kelleher,
Margaret Lyola Linehan.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~-1928.

KELLEHER has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 19§1.

JAMES WILLIAM KELLEHER

HOME appress: 59 Walnut St., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dever & Proctor, 1 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Nov. 21, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Daniel Kelleher, Catherine
Mary Kelleher.

PREPARED AT: Berea High School, Berea, Ohio; West High School, Cleveland,
Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B., 1934.

[ 566 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marnep: Catherine Josephine Higgins, June 8, 1938, Medford, Mass. cit-
preN: Sarah Catherine, July 25, 1939, Daniel Higgins, Dec. 2, 1940, John
Higgins, June 14, 1943; Peter Higgins, March 19, 1946; James William,
May 21, 1953.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant corporation counsel, 1941-46, first assistant corpora-
tion counsel, 1946-31, City of Boston, trustee, Peter Bent Brigham
Hospital, Boston, since 1951.

NICHOLAS KELLEY, JR.

HOME ApoRESS: 6yo Rivard Se, Grosse Pointe 30, Mich.

orricg appress: Chrysler Corp, 341 Massachusetts Ave, Detroit 31, Mich,

Boan: March 27, 1910, New York, N. Y. parents: Nicholas Kelley, ’06,
Augusta Maverick.

preparrD at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1931; LEB, 1934(55).

maraibp: Margaret Muir, Feb. 4, 1944, Detroit, Mich. ciipren: Nicholas
Muir, Susan Margaret.

occuPaTION: Secretary, Chrysler Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman field relations committee, 1950-55, member high-
way policy committee, Automobile Manufacturers Association; trustee,
National Industrial Conference Board, campaign chairman, 1952, presi-
dent, 1955, Detroit United Foundation, president, Michigan Safety
Conference, 1955, chairman, Traffic Safety Association of Detroit,
1954-55, United Negro College Drive in 19s2; member of the board,
Detroit Chapter, American Red Cross, 1952-53, Metropolitan Detroit
Building Fund, Detrow Legal Aid Society, Rehabilitation Institute of
Metropoliran Detroit, Citizens Research Council of Michigan; trustee,
United Negro College Fund, Metropolitan Detroit Polio Foundation,
Automotive Safety Foundation, Harper Hospital, member, Wayne
County Republican Finance Committee; general chairman, 1954 Boy
Scout Exposition, Detroit Area.

MeMura of: Country Club of Detroit, Detroit Club, University Club.

I HAVE been secretary of the Chrysler Corporation since 1950.
The secretary’s office at Chrysler includes: corporate secretaries’
functions, real estate operations, charitable contributions, insur-
ance operations and the legal aspects of automotive equipment
and regulations,

Prior to that I was resident attorney from February 1, 1946,
and during the war worked on war contract negotiations — in
addition to supervising the resident legal department — for the

Chrysler Corporation.
[ 567 ]

vo nnnanasasaainsna et PEATEs
: hie a 1 eile Actuate.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Also I have served the Chrysler Corporation as chairman of
the Interim Long Range Planning Committee, 1954-55; tem-
porary head of Executive Development for Higher Echelon Ex-
ecutives, 1955; chairman of Distribution Study Group; vice-
president and director of Dodge Brothers Corporation, Plymouth
Motor Corporation and many other subsidiaries of Chrysler;
security officer; and as chairman of the Insurance Committee.

HOWARD KELLOGG, JR.

MAILING aporess: 98 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, N. Y.

sors: Oct. 21, 1908, Buffalo, N. Y. PARENTS: Howard Kellogg, ’03, Cyrena
Allen Case.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

margiep: Mary Frances Larkin, Dec. 29, 1928, Buffalo, N. Y. cump: Howard,
3d, Aug. 12, 1930.

occupation: Manufacturing.

REGINALD GRICE KENNELLY

HOME Aporess: 20 N, Russell St. Milton 87, Mass.

pors: Oct. 8, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Arthur Edwin Kennelly,
Julia Josephine Sanderson Grice.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.; Ecole de L’lle
de France, near Paris; Lycée Jaccard, Lausanne, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1931; 8.M. (Mass. Inst. of Tech-
nology), 1932; aM. (Harvard Univ.), 1933; pH.p. (ibid.), 1935.

MaAmgibp: Ellen Lee Bayard, Oct. 30, 1937, Chesapeake City, Md. cHiLp:
Richard Bayard, Aug. so, 1942.

oucteanos; Industrial chemical research and administration.

orncys weno; Vestryman, Saint Andrew's Church, Longmeadow, Mass.,
1941-44, gas officer, Civil Defense Organization of Longmeadow, 1942;
former chairman, Prize Book Committee, member Scholarship Com-
mittee, Harvard Club of Springfield, member of the corporation,
Springfield (Mass.) Hospital, Springficld Boys’ Club; member New
Engtand Committce to raise money for the Twenry-fifth Anniversary
Fund, Clave of 1931.

mimua ov: American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemists
(fellow), YMICA., Forcign Policy Association; Republican Club of
Mawachusetts, American Guild of Organists (colleaguc), Appalachian

[ 568 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Mountain Club; Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; Dublin
(N. H.) Lake Club; Milton-Hoosic Club, Milton, Mass.

PUBLICATIONS: Several United States patents, co-author of a few chemical
publications.

I BECAME interested in chemistry the year before entering col-
lege and wanted very much to enter that profession. After gradu-
ation the best step seemed to be to get further training. There-
fore, to M.I.T. I went for one year for a fresh viewpoint and a
Master’s degree. I worked harder that winter at Tech than I have
since. Wow! Then back to the Harvard Graduate School of
Arts and Sciences to work for a Ph.D., which was finally ob-
tained in 1935. On Commencement Day of that year I drove
down to Wilmington, Delaware, to go to work for the duPont
Company as a research chemist and to start a period of intensive
activity that was to last for eighteen years, interrupted only by
vacations of two or three weeks. As I look back, I realize what an
excellent field the chemical industry presented to a neophyte.
The industry was growing relatively rapidly and has kept right
on growing ever since.

At duPont I had a chance to get acquainted with the special
field of plastics and moved in 1938 to the newly organized plastics
division of the Monsanto Chemical Company in Springfield,
Massachusetts. There I was successively research chemist, re-
search group leader and administrative assistant to the director
of research. In World War II, I stayed at Monsanto, working
chiefly on the substitution of various plastics for the then scarce
natural rubber in making supplies for the armed forces. In late
1953 I resigned, taking a leave of absence in order to catch m
breath and to get re-acquainted with my family. I am still “on
leave”, We moved in 1954 from Longmeadow, Massachusetts, to
our present address in Milton.

In 1937 came marriage to a Wilmington girl. We have a son,
Dick, who at the age of thirteen keeps me mentally and physically
active.

There was lots of travel pre-1932 with parents who liked to
travel all summer, every summer. The outbreak of World War I
found parents and me in northern Italy near the Austrian frontier
with both our steamship passage home and our letter of credit
abruptly canceled. Since 1932 travel has been in small amounts.

[ 569 J

HARVARD CLASS OF I1Q31

In 1946 my wife and I started spending summer vacations in
Dublin, New Hampshire, and have returned faithfully to this
community ever since. I have been taking golf lessons with my
wife in the past several vacation periods. We hope to concentrate
on this outdoor activity when and if we abandon hikes along the
mountain trails. There is a streak of music in me that comes to
the surface every once in a while in queer shapes. It got me to
sing in the chorus of “Pinafore” with the Brandywiners in Wil-
mington and to take piano and organ lessons for several years in the
1940's. And every once in a while I get a burst of energy and buy
some more records or replace 78 rpm ones with 33’s. I still skate
and still take photographs with a 1928 Leica camera purchased
with the proceeds of my first summer job.

RICHARD DICKINSON KERNAN

HOME AppRESS: Harvard Club, 27 W. 44th St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Equitable Life Assurance Society, 393 Seventh Ave. New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 20, 1909, Utica, N. Y. parents: Francis Kernan Kernan, ’97,
Mary Spratt.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Francis Kernan, ’24; Thomas Spratt Kernan, ’29; Walter
Avery Kernan, °36.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, Equitable Life Assurance Society.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Milton Academy Graduates’ Association,
1954-56; member executive committee, Booth Memorial Hospital Cam-
paign, Salvation Army, 1955-56; past member, Nominating, Admissions
and House Committees, Harvard Club of New York.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Holy Name Society; Sadaquada
Golf Club.

THE facts run approximately as follows: after graduation, I
spent one year at the Business School, then eight years in the New
York investment banking house of Wood, Struthers and Com-
pany. In 1940 I joined the Equitable Life Assurance Society as a
member of the treasurer’s staff. My business career was inter-
rupted early in 1942 when I joined the Navy. I spent about four
years in service, a good part of them in Trinidad in anti-submarine
warfare, and was released in late 1945 with the rank of lieutenant

[ 570 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

commander. I returned to my old job at the Equitable and in 1947 °
was made assistant treasurer. In November, 1955, I was appointed
treasurer of the Equitable, such appointment becoming effective
January 1, 1956. 1 am a bachelor and reside at the Harvard Club
of New York. .

From the start my business life has been closely linked with
securities. At Wood, Struthers and Company, I received a general
training in the securitics business, serving successively as order —
clerk, analyst and salesman. At the Equitable, I have been en-
gaged principally in the purchase and sale of securities for the
Society’s investment account. My recent appointment as treasurer
has brought the added responsibility of custody of all securities
owned and supervision of all bank accounts. When I was a bond
salesman at Wood, Struthers and Company, the Equitable Life was
by far my biggest and best account. In view of this, it is interest-
ing that I subsequently found myself buying bonds for the
Equitable. The switch in roles from “selling to” to “buying for”
was accomplished overnight.

Being a securities buyer for a big life company is a rather fas-
cinating occupation. Not only does it give me a good vantage
point from which to view the daily tug of war between the bulls
and the bears in the world’s markets, but it also affords an oppor-
tunity for contacts with dealers from all parts of the United
States and Canada. On the occasion of a particularly large new
issue, we have bought bonds from as many as 150 different dealers.

Because I'm a bachelor, my life outside of office hours probably
differs quite a bit from that of most of my classmates. I’m the
extra man. I live at a club, go out to dinner a great deal, and see
people of all ages and types. Other interests, besides people, are
bridge, music and bad golf.

In addition to my solitary cell at the club, I have a country
house in central New York State, left to my brother Tom and me
by our father. It’s the old Kernan homestead near Utica, a nice
old Greek revival house, and a somewhat more cozy spot to hang
up the Christmas stocking than the Harvard Club of New York.

Before closing I should like to mention religion, which plays a
big part in my life, as I’m sure it does in the lives of very many in
our Class. I’m a Roman Catholic and am blessed with the gift of
strong faith and a deep belief in the power of prayer. In religion

[571]

ite

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

I find the light and the strength I so greatly need. It is reassurin
that many of the world’s leaders, notably our President, have
called upon people to pray, recognizing the great need for religion
in the world today.

’

PAUL ALLISON KETCHUM

HOME ADDRESS: 195 Vernon Drive, Pittsburgh 28, Pa.
oFFice apporess: Pictsburgh Plate Glass Co., 1 Gateway Center, Pittsburgh, Pa.

BorN: May 3, 1908, Quincy, Mass. parents: Woodford Ketchum, Eleanor
Emma Ross.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marrigp: Elizabeth Charlotte Sargent, Oct. 15, 1932, Kansas City, Mo.
(deceased 1938); Frances Blaser, June 18, 1941, Braintree, Mass. cHiL-
preN: Ezekiel Sargent, April 28, 1935; Elizabeth Charlotte, Dec. 20,
1938; John Alexander, Dec. 14, 1943; Susan R., Nov. 29, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Ezekiel Sargent Ketchum, ’57.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Ross Ketchum, ’29.

occuPATION: Assistant to the president, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company.

orFices HELD: Member board of directors, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Export
Corporation, treasurer, Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania, vestry-
man, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Mt. Lebanon, Pa.

MEMBER OF: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh.

JUST before graduation, as I was walking through the Yard, I
happened to run into Wallie Harper, ’30. Upon inquiring as to
his reasons for being in Cambridge, he replied that he was recruit-
ing employees for Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, and asked me
to stop in that afternoon to see him and Bill Gordon, ’24. I did so,
and a couple of months Jater found myself in Pittsburgh, report-
ing for work at the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company along with
Chick Prouty, ’31. Since then I have been devoted to the follow-
ing — not necessarily in order: my family, my business career,
the Fpiscopal Church, the Republican party, Cape Cod, various
Harvard Clubs and Harvard friends. First — my family. “Zeke”
(né Fzekicl Sargent), twenty years old, is a junior at Harvard
getting constantly improving marks, rowing on the house crew,
playing on the house football team, majoring in applied sciences
(I'm glad I graduated in 1931) and working hard in the steel mills
in the summer. Betty (née Elizabeth Charlotte), sixteen years old,
isa senior at Mt. Lebanon High School, head cheerleader, has good

(572 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marks, secretary of the school, elected most popular girl, good
athlete, and wants to go to the University of Michigan, Penn
State or William and Mary (no girls’ college for her). Jake (né
John Alexander), eleven years old, is in first year at Mellon Junior
High, could be a better student, but is more interested in basket-
ball, football, boats and models. I hope he gets to Harvard, and he
does, too. Sue (née Susan Ross) is a chattering third-grader and
interested in everything. Wife Fran — currently working on the
youngest son or daughter of the Class of 1931 at Reunion time.
We shall just beat John Mason, ’31.

My business— have been with Pittsburgh Plate Glass Com-
pany (heavily sprinkled with Harvards) since August 1, 1931, in
various capacities: first as sales promotion in the New England—
New York area, office training in Kansas City, Missouri, salesman
in Louisville, Kentucky, branch manager in Columbus, Ohio, then
in Toledo, Ohio, and since 1945 in sales and merchandising jobs
at our general offices in Pittsburgh. At present, am assistant to
the president, Harry B. Higgins, ’o4, learning that there is more to
business than sales.

The Episcopal Church —I am currently serving on the vestry
at St. Paul’s in Mount Lebanon and as chairman of our building
fund drive for a $400,000 addition, successfully concluded with
the help of a mortgage banker.

The Republican party — apparently this sphere of my activity
is about over, judging from the latest election returns. Cape Cod
——spend most summers there, commuting from Pittsburgh via
Northeast Airlines (if and when running). Am quite active as
treasurer in the affairs of the Harvard Club of Western Pennsyl-
vania and am working under John Henshaw’s direction on the
Schools’ Committee. Our chief aim is to channel more Western
Pennsylvania boys to Harvard — if they can help on the gridiron
as well as being good students, we are satisfied. I did not serve in
the Armed Forces, as the U. S. Navy turned me down, but tried
to do my part as a member of the Lucas County War Finance
Committee.

Finally, the twenty-five years since graduation have moved
along swiftly and satisfactorily, and I look forward to the next
twenty-five years, or some part thereof, with hope for God,
Country and Harvard.

[573 ]

.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931
ERNEST ROBBINS KIMBALL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1114 Hinman Ave., Evanston, III.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 636 Church St., Evanston, III.

BORN: Nov. 18, 1909, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: Ernest Robbins Kimball,
’04, Blanche Howard Spurr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1936.

MARRIED: Alicia Wilson Barber, May 3, 1941, Evanston, Ill. CHILDREN: Alicia
Wilson, Sept. 1, 1943; Ernest Robbins, 3d, July 1, 1947; David Custis,
April 26, 1949.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary to Pediatric Staff, Evanston Hospital, since 1951;
pediatric adviser, Institute for the Study of Language Disorders, North-
western University, since 1952, United Cerebral Palsy Association of
Chicago, 1955; instructor in pediatrics, Northwestern University Medi-
cal School, 1945; member of the staff, St. Francis Hospital, Evanston
Hospital, Evanston Infant Welfare Society.

MEMBER OF: History of Medicine Society; Chicago, Illinois and New Hamp-
shire Medical Societies; American Medical Association; Chicago Pedi-
atric Society; American Academy of Pediatrics; Harvard Club of
Chicago; University Club of Evanston.

PUBLICATIONS: “Breast Feeding in Private Practice”, Quarterly Bulletin,
Northwestern University Medical School, 1951; “The Breast Milk Bank
as a Community Project”, Pediatrics, July, 1955; “The Pediatrician

Examines the Mother and Child”, Journal of the American Medical
Association, 1956.

BEGINNING with my tutor companion jobs at Harvard, |
found that I “had a way with children”. That is probably why
I chose pediatrics as a specialty. I had known that I wanted to
study medicine since being a Boy Scout. Having jbeen reared
in the country, I decided after medical school that I needed more
city life, so I spent four years in Cleveland at the University
Hospitals training in pediatrics. From there I went to Chicago
where I met my wife, studied, and did some research work.
Just as I was recovering from that starvation period in private
practice, 1 decided that Uncle Sam needed me more.

In the Army I had an interesting tour of duty, doing laboratory
work in the North African, Italian and European campaigns. I
did not see my daughter until she was nearly two and one-half
years old, but I was lucky in that my work was more intellec-
tually stimulating than that of most of my medico-military col-
Icagues; also, I ended up commanding my unit with the rank of
licutenant colonel.

[574]

 

1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Since 1945 I have been engaged in the private practice of
pediatrics in Evanston, Illinois. In addition, I have been doing
research in some of the functional and organic disorders of the
nervous system of the child which I practise as a sub-specialty.
I have written several articles and made many speeches in this
ficld. Also I teach in the Northwestern University Medical
School.

Alicia, a native Evanstonian, still says that I have a Harvard
accent. For the past six years she and our daughter and two
boys have been spending the summers at a place that we own on
Martha’s Vineyard. They all love New England. I fly down
when I can. I love to sail and so do my children — one is a
natural.

Like the head of every family, I have many convictions both
sociological and political. Of the first, I believe the youth of
this country would be stronger and the women would experi-
ence greater fulfillment in family living if breast feeding for
several months again became common practice. As a Republican,
I believe we should balance our budget, work to pay off our
national debt, decrease the number of our ground troops without
decreasing firepower and build up aviation both commercially
and militarily. Abroad we must charm by deed our foes as well
as our friends because sometimes they are indistinguishable. If
we must buy friendship, let it be with surplus, not with dollars.

RICHARD KIMBALL

HOME AppREsS: 795 Lincoln Ave. Winnetka, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cresap, \IcCormick & Paget, 100 W. Monroe St., Chicago 3,
Hl.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. Parents: G. Cook Kimball, ’oo, Eliza-
beth Whitewright Leeds.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; S.M., 1932.

MARRIED: Katherine Kerr Vinson, Jan. 29, 1938, Dallas, Texas. CHILDREN:
G. Cook, 2d, April 18, 1939; John K., June 25, 1940; Elizabeth E., May
17, 1942; Anne S., June 21, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Nelson Kimball, ’35.

OccUPATION: Management engineer.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago; Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club,
Pittsburgh; Harvard Club of New York.

[575]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

TWENTY-FIVE years ago when we all went out into the world
to seek our fortunes, jobs were scarce and pay scales practically
non-existent. My starting salary as a student engineer at West-
inghouse in Pittsburgh was a magnificent $60 a month — net. Net
in those days did not refer to the take-home pay after taxes and
compulsory benefits, but to net take-home pay based on the few
days one could work in a month. Nowadays a college graduate
expects — and gets — $350 or more a month plus bonuses, pen-
sions and “security”. Those of us who kept at it back in the
1930's, however, have a lot to look back upon and, I believe, few
now regret those times, hard as they were.

From Westinghouse I progressed to Carnegie Steel as a time-
study man; then, in 1936 my opportunity came and I moved to
Cleveland to become a management engineer with Robert Heller
and Associates. This was it — a fascinating job, first assisting more
experienced men, and then directing the working out of compli-
cated problems in various areas of business management. The
work got into my blood and is still there.

Except for a four-year stint in industry as assistant to the presi-
dent of the Carborundum Company in Niagara Falls, I have stuck
to management engineering. I joined my present firm — Cresap,
McCormick & Paget — in New York in 1949 and am now located
in Chicago as a partner of this outstanding management engineer-
ing organization.

For those who like variety in their daily life — try this profes-
sion — never a dull moment. Just imagine the possibilities as you
work with top management in such diverse areas as Westinghouse,
American Cyanamid, Greyhound, the Civil Aeronautics Admin-
istration, and manufacturers or distributors of such products as
nuts and bolts, ice, corsets, paper, pianos, printing presses, socks,
bricks and others, ad infinitum.

I just hope the next twenty-five years will be as much fun as
these have been.

BENJAMIN JEANDREVIN KING
SEE Appendix.

[ 576 ]

nee akin ite MEE Aye
TS omnes cate amt Ap PAM ARRIETA: wt

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK GILBERT KING

HOME aporess:; P, O. Box 6, Route 2, Bel Air, Md.

orice avoagss: Ballistic Research Laboratories, Aberdeen Proving Ground,
Md.

porn: July 10, 1910, Denver, Colo. parents: William King, Georgianna
Poole.

preparep at: Fast High School, Denver, Colo,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DECREE: A.B. 1931.

maaniea: Leah Reese, Aug. 15, 1948, FI Paso, Texas. ctitpren: Susan Louise,
Oct. 10, 1949 (died Oct. 11, 1949), Nancy Ellen, March 7, 1951; Alice
Anne, July 20, 1962.

HarvaRD BroTHER: Williams Vincent King, '28.

oocupaTion: Supervisory mathematician, U.S. Army.

ormnces HELD: Member board of Stewards, First Methodist Church, El Paso,
Texas, Bel Air Methodist Church, Bel Air, Mud., co-leader, Great
Books Club.

MEMBER of: American Association for the Advancement of Science; In-
sticute of Afathematical Seauisics; American Sratistical Association;
American Ordnance Associanon, Officer's Club, Aberdcen Proving
Ground, (associate member).

puBLICATIONS: “Heat of the Farth", Physical Review, 1938, about two dozen
classified reports.

TRYING to explain where twenty-five years have gone is like
trying to explain where the paycheck has gone. It's just gone.
For the first seven or eight years I had very tough going. The
longer I was without much of a job, the harder it became to talk
myself into one. I tried to settle in my home town of Denver, but
went to New York in 1932 and stayed there off and on until
1940. I kept on with mathematics as a sort of escape and took a
lot of evening courses in statistics at Columbia. I worked in a
library, a bank, and as assistant supervisor of a WPA project,
making mathematical tables. Finally I got up in the world about
ten notches by coming out as second man on a civil service ex-
amination, and spent two years making statistical estimates of
depreciation for the Public Service Commission in New York
State.

I was a “senior statistician” when I was drafted into the Army
in 1941 at twenty-one dollars a month, I have worked for the
Army ever since as soldier or civilian. I was in Hawaii on Pearl
Harbor Day. Though still a buck private, I was math instructor
at a school for coaching soldiers to take the West Point entrance

[577]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193.1

exams. The only action IT ever saw during my five years in the
Army was that ‘first day. I got back to the States to go to the
nincty-day-wonder school, graduated somehow, and soon gravi-
tated to statistical analysis of antiaircraft fire. Late in 1944 I got
to the Pentagon w here I met a classmate, Harmon Duncombe. |
got to be a captain there and am now a major in the Reserve. One
thing I never expected to be when I graduated was a major.
Since the end of the war I have been a civilian employee of the
Army. While working at Fort Bliss in Texas, I met my wife. My
life before the El Paso days seems now to belong to someone else.
We have so many friends in E] Paso that we think of it as our
home town. I have never been in my wife’s home town, nor she
in mine. I bought my first car while in El Paso. Now I cannot
understand how I lived at all for so long without driving a car.
It has been our main recreation ever since. |
For the past seven years I have been with the Ballistic Research
Laboratories at Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland. My job is
chief of the Antiaircraft Evaluation Branch of the Weapon Sys-
tems Laboratory. We fight wars on paper to help decide what
future weapons should be like. Most of the time since 1942 I
have been learning this occupation. I have written quite a stack
of reports by this ¢ time, but they are all classified. One of these I

could not even see my self for a long time because it was upgraded

after | wrote it. I travel a great deal on my job. In 1950 I went

to London. 1 went by air and my wife went by boat. We made
a side trip to Paris.

I like to read science magazines, science stories, history, philos-
ophy and detective stories. I am still trying to understand books
on Finstein’s theory and the like. I can still get ahead a page or
so, but Tam afraid I am running into the same trouble as the man
who hoped to lift a bull over the fence by lifting a calf every day.

We have two little girls, who will be four and five at the time
of the Reunion. Much of our life revolves around them. My wife
was a professional worker in the Methodist Church when we
marricd and she is sulla worker. I can always get a rise out of

her by running down sociology, psychology and such stuff. For-
tunately, we are both dyed-in-the-wool Democrats, Most of our
fricnds seem to be Republicans, but we have the nerve to say that
Truman was above average as a president. At the last election I

(578 ]

PREP pC IAT RGM ON TORE RRR RN ORE ET

Song BT Ne RN EY

‘SRE A NEE R non, sha UE NTR ARAN HE SY CP te ZS ee a

atid Peta

Ev opm EPA te RN a ip RS ANOS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

voted entirely for Republicans because we Democrats are so
firmly in control of this county that we need to encourage com-
petition. Besides, the Democrats wanted to bring whisky bars into
the county, which we Methodists are against.

Candidates and issues I vote for practically always lose. Candi-
dates and issues I vote against practically always win. My sample
ballot, if reversed, might be a better election forecast than the
Gallup Poll. I can smell an underdog every time and he becomes
my dog. My wife is a member of the League of Women Voters
and that gets me all the facts to work on.

Somehow I feel that I am still just at the beginning of my life
and that most of those twenty-five years were spent by some other
fellow.

RALPH LEONARD KIRKPATRICK

HOME Appress: Old Quarry, Guilford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 806 Lexington Ave., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: June 10, 1911, Leominster, Mass. parents: Edwin Asbury Kirkpat-
rick, Florence May Clifford.

PREPARED AT: Leominster High School, Leominster, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

OccUPATION: Musician —harpsichordist, concert performer, teacher, occa-
sionally writer.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting lecturer, 1940-53, assistant professor, since 1953, Yale
University; concert tours in U. S. and Europe, since 1944.

MEMBER OF: Al Merito della Reppublica (Cavaliere Officiale), since 1955.

PUBLICATIONS: Domenico Scarlatti, Princeton University Press, 1953; numer-
ous phonograph recordings, 1937-1955; editions of Bach and Scarlatti.

I MENTION here nothing of professional or public life, but only
a few interests that I may have in common with some of those
many classmates whom, like most Harvard men, I never met. As
a former concentrator in Fine Arts, I spend a great deal of time
looking at pictures, sculpture and architecture, occasionally in a
very modest way, successfully coveting prints and drawings, both
old and contemporary. I have assembled a great many books, some
of which I still read. I dislike machines, but adore tools, with all
of which I am unskillful. I love hardware stores but seldom buy
anything. I like to cook and constantly enjoy palming off the
results on my indulgent friends. I enjoy speaking other languages

[579 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

than English — it is like changing one’s clothes or one’s skin.
I detest writing, even a postcard. Ilove heavy work outdoors, but
do very little. My aim is better with a machete than with an axe,
I have never been able to follow a moving ball, sell anybody
anything, or win a game of chance.

NATHAN LOUIS KLINE

HOME AppREsS: 27 Briarcliff Terr., Mattapan, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Boston Globe, 244 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

porn: Aug. 4, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Alexander Kline, Sarah Caro.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930, 1931-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (32).

MarRiED: Elizabeth Shopnick, Feb. 23, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Bruce
Philip, Aug 16, 1943; James Stanley, Aug. 23, 1947.

occupation: Newspaper reporter.

THREE years at Sears, Roebuck & Company gave me consider-
able training and conclusive proof that I would never become a
great merchandising man. I entered the employ of the Boston
Globe in the early months of 1934, started as office boy to the
Sunday editor, Laurence L. Winship ’11 (now executive editor),
became a reporter on the night staff and spent considerable time
covering murders, strikes, fires and general violence, with police
headquarters as base of operations. One of the worst disasters
was the tragic Cocoanut Grove fire. I was able to reach the
scene first and gave the paper opportunity to marshal all-out
coverage.

The government nabbed me. I wasn’t much more of a succ
in the Army than I was at Sears. Starting as a private, I did get
as far as staff sergeant, but apparently I definitely was not officer
material, and I was glad to return to the reporting field in 1946.
My wife and son were glad, too.

I worked at about everything in the writing end of the paper
in the next few years, from copy editor to promotion depart-
ment, to making up special automobile and yachting supplements.
Now I have settled into a niche, handling for the most part
military and veterans’ news, writing up training at Fort Knox,
Kentucky, or Pensacola, Florida, or perhaps the commissioning
of a guided missile ship at Philadelphia Naval shipyard.

[ 580 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I now enjoy hobbies with my two sons, such as stamp collect-
ing, Scouting, swimming and hiking. I am getting to the age
where I find covering a tennis court much harder than covering
a story. Latest inventory — one wife, two sons, one house, one
dog and one old auto,

LEWIS ALBERT KLINGLER

HOME ADvress: Runyon Road, R.F.D. 1, Metuchen, N. J.

orrice avoress; Union Pacific Railroad Co. 120 Broadway, New York 5,
N.Y.

noan: Jan 30, 1909, Trumbull, Conn. parents: Arnold Klingler, Louisa
Waldberger.

prepareD AT; Lambertville High School, Lambertville, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREE: B.C.8, (New York Univ.)

MarrieD: Sarah Buckelew Hooven, June, 1933 (died March, 1935); Cath-
erine Lydia Laird, March 9, 1943, Boise, Idaho. cxmoren: Laird, Dec.
12, 1943; Margaret Louise, Feb. 7, 1948.

OCCUPATION; Executive, treasurer's department, Union Pacific Railroad.

RUSSELL KNOWLES

HOME AND OFFICE Appagss: 101 Danforth Sc, Rehoboth, Mass.

Born: April 16, 1908, New Bedford, Mass. parents: John Webster Knowles,
"87, Lydia Grinnell.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.,; Belmont Hill School, Bel-
mont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MaraieD: Eleanor Marsters Read, July 18, 1931, New Bedford, Mass. cuit-
DREN: Joan Marsters, May 18, 1932 (2. Peter Bullard '53); Russell, Jr.,
July 13, 1934; Jonathan Read, Feb. 14, 1938; Christopher Winthrop, May
12, 1950. GRANDCHILD: Deborah Page Bullard, April 17, 1954.

Harvarp BrotHERs: Grinnell Knowles, '24,; Lawrence Grinnell Knowles, '26.

occupation: Farmer; club manager.

ON leaving college by suggestion of the dean, I went on a year’s
trip to Europe and Africa with my parents and sister. Since then,
after a brief span in the Industrial Trust Company in Providence,
I have been engaged in the pursuit of various farming and sport-
ing activities. From 1934 to 1940 I was Master and Joint Master
of Hounds of Jacobs Hill Hunt. Have continued to ride and have
a horse or two at the farm.

[ 581 J

HARVARD CLASS OF I931I

Also have done some sailing, including being a member of the
crew of the Afalay, winner of the 1954 Bermuda race and 1955
Halifax race.

Children’s activities seem at this point to take a large share of
our time. Russ, Jr., playing for Amherst (Class of ’56) varsity
soccer and lacrosse, got honorable mention in All-American selec-
tions in lacrosse in’55. Jonathan is currently playing soccer on the
varsity at Deerfield Academy and has selected Harvard as his
first choice for college. Hope he can make it.

EDWARD ROGERS KNOWLTON

HOME ADDRESS: Box 202, Southbridge, Mass.; Southbridge Road, Charlton,
Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bay State Film Productions, Inc., Box 129, Springfield, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 4, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Davidson Knowlton,
Annie Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Rosamond T. Adams, Sept. 1, 1933, Jamaica Plain, Mass. cHit-
DREN: Patricia Adams, Oct. 14, 1935; Christopher, October, 1942 (died
Dec. 23, 1942); Keith Lyman, April 3, 1944.

occupaTion: Chief script writer, industrial, commercial, promotional 16 mm
films.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Board of Trade, Rockport, Mass., 1932-33; direc-
tor, two-term president, Charlton Taxpayers Association, 1950-54; di-
rector, Massachusetts Federation of Taxpayers Associations, 1952-53.

PUBLICATIONS: Fiction and short stories, 1935-55; three novels (over name
of Kerk Rogers), 1941-43.

CALL it a point of view, if you wish. A depression point of view
with overtones. What was the use of starting a career in 1933?
We didn’t. We decided to retire before we went to work and the
times favored the attitude. Having met my wife on an island
(Isles of Shoals off Portsmouth, N. H.) and become engaged to
her there, it seemed quite logical in June of 1934, while she was
working for Manley O. Hudson of the Law School, to chuck our
Caps over the windmill and hire an island for the summer. We did.
Straitsmouth Island, off Rockport. I wrote a book there. No sale!
Back to Rockport mainland in the fall to odd-jobbery of all kinds
from selling paper bags and twine to editing a trade paper. Sold
first short story in 1935 and also had first child. More odd jobs —

[ 582 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

selling cars, sweeping streets and what have you. Sold more
fiction, Chucked it all again in spring of 1937. Packed wife,
daughter and self to caretaker’s job at Isles of Shoals. Only three
of us on the island for winter and two summers, Intended to
write a book. Too busy living. Back to Rockport on the main-
land in September of 1938. No book. Wife to work at law firm
of Choate, Hall and Stewart in Boston. 1 to work as supervisor
of WPA recreation project in Rockport. Wrote and sold first
novel over name of Kerk Rogers — Too Many Yesterdays.

Quit the WPA to start Irish Moss — seaweed to you — gather-
ing business with advent of war. Tried to enlist in Coast Guard.
Was told my vision made me a liability, “Go home, man, and
stay home”, Took a defense job cutting canvas for DE boats in
sail loft. Wrote and sold second and third novels — Beach Patrol
and With Intent to Destroy, Served as blackout officer for town
of Rockport. Did sand-pounding as a member of the Temporary
Coast Guard Reserve. Sold some short fiction. In 1944 I answered
an ad for an industrial writer. Found myself hired by American
Optical Company in Southbridge, Massachusetts. Special feature
writer they called me, Sales and policy writing for the president.
Sold some more short fiction. Did fourth book. No sale. In 1950
I left the American Optical Company to write films. Have been
writing them ever since. Enjoy trying to perform marriage
between film, sound and words. Wrote prize-winning “Massa-
chusetts Holiday” and sixty-four other films, Find myself living
miles from any salt water. Don’t enjoy it — but have a nice home
and swell kids. So? All in all a wayward and undisciplined sort
of life. Actual count — forty-five different employments. Pre-
carious, this living on the point of a pen. Wouldn’t trade it for
anything, but would never tell anyone to be a writer.

Daughter doing well at Rhode Island School of Design. Son, a
good student. Wife, the kind you can depend on in the kind of
life we’ve led. Quite unusual. Philosophy — learn to take delight
in the inevitable. A tough process, but rewarding. Prescription
for the human race — let everyone at one time or another retire
while he’s young enough to enjoy it. Time enough later to pay
the bills. Summary — consider my life thoroughly successful and
completely reprehensible by all standards of American success
stories.

[ 583 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

SAMUEL KUNEN

HOME ADDRESS: 218 Church St., Marlboro, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 217 Main St., Marlboro, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 21, 1910, Marlboro, Mass. PARENTS: Isadore Kunen, Sophie
Chafetz.

PREPARED AT: Marlborough High School, Marlboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931(32); LL.B. (Boston Univ.),
I .

MARRIED. Eleanor A. Litter, Dec. 1, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Robert
Joel, Dec. 4, 1941; Mark Chester, Jan. 30, 1945; James Simon, Sept. 23,
1948; Peter Daniel, Dec. 29, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Young Men’s Republican Club of Marlboro, 1938;
member, Saltonstall for Governor Young Executive Committee, 1936,
School Committee, Temple Emanuel, Worcester, Mass., 1951; member
executive board, Red Cross, Marlboro, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Law Society; Middlesex County Bar Associa-
tion; Southern Middlesex Bar Association; Massachusetts Trial Lawyers
Association; National Association Compensation Claims Attorneys,
Temple Emanuel, Worcester, Mass.; Brandeis Associates; Harvard
Club of Worcester.

SHORTLY after graduation from law school, I commenced

the practice of law in Marlboro, Massachusetts, the city where

I was born and raised. No sooner had I turned the key to my

office on that memorable day, when two women, well up in

their seventies, entered. Immediately upon noticing their almost
octogenarian appearance, I decided that they must have waited
for this historic moment to engage the services of this “genius”
to draw their respective wills in which there would be bequests
totaling many thousands of dollars and, of course, I would be
asked to be the executor. The fact that, at that moment, I had
just one dollar in my pocket no longer troubled me. The en-
suing disappointment had no bounds, when they announced they
were making their annual collection for a certain religious sect.

Needless to say, since I adhere to the theory, “Give, and it will

be given to you”, when they left, my one dollar was also gone.

However, time takes care of all things, and eventually, although

without storming my door, clients did come.

Since the practice of the law did not immediately exhaust all
of my time, in August, 1936, I organized and became president
of the Marlboro Finance Corporation, an office which I still

[ 584 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hold. The idea was mine, the money required belonged to some-
one else. As time went on, my law practice grew rapidly, and
my duties in the finance company increased, so that today the
problem is not what to do next, but rather when to do it. At the
present time, my law office consists of my brother-in-law as a
partner and my nephew, who has just recently been admitted to
the Bar.

Family — Ellie and I have four wonderful sons ranging from
the ages of fourteen to four. Thanks to the law of majority
rule, the female member of the family is readily outvoted on
almost every occasion. Like all members of a minority, she has
reluctantly accepted her position as such and our family life
leaves nothing to be desired, other than the fact that a very
busy practice leaves very little time to be with and enjoy four
fine boys.

Spare time — there is very little of this. We have been sub-
scribers to the Theatre Guild for several years. In addition, an
occasional movie or a visit with family or friends just about sum-
marizes our social activities. However, we have not missed a
Harvard-Yale football game for many years and always look
forward to a week-end in New York on alternate years after
the game in New Haven. In recent years, our three eldest boys,
Bob, Mark and James, have attended several other Harvard foot-
ball games with us. ‘

Vacations — two of the boys go to camp, and the rest of us
spend August at the Cape. I enjoy being with the family and we
really love the Cape, which spells “leisure time” to me. Ellie
and I also take a week's vacation in the spring each year, without
the children. We have not yet ventured any farther than Wil-
hamsburg, Virginia, which we enjoyed enough to visit twice.
This spring, however, we are contemplating a trip to Guatemala
and Mexico City.

Politics —I have always been a member of the Republican
party, but must confess I crossed the line once or twice when
Franklin D.’s charm was at its zenith. My theory has always
been to be with politics rather than in them. I have enjoyed
practising law and am happy to say I can’t think of anything
else I would have preferred to do. The two best choices I ever
made was that of profession and wife. I have tried cases in just

[ 585]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

about every county in Massachusetts from the Cape to the Berk.
shires and have appeared before administrative boards in Wash-
ington. Each case is a challenge and an incentive to give the best
there is in one.

At the time of this writing, we read constantly of the dangers
that face us in these most uncertain days, and I| therefore can’t
resist quoting Whitehead: “All centuries are dangerous; it is the
business of the future to be dangerous. It must be admitted that
there is a degree of instability which is inconsistent with civili-
zation. But, on the whole, the great ages have been the unstable
ages”.

+ ROBERT CHARLES KUSTER

BORN: Sept. 1, 1910, Rochester, N. Y. PARENTS: Otto Ferdinand Kuster,
Bertha Matilda Pasch.

PREPARED AT: West Side High School, Rochester, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MarrieD: Ruth Mathews, Sept. 15, 1936, Upland, Calif. (divorced). CHILDREN:
Roberta Anne, Nov. 25, 1942; Richard Bruce, Aug. 24, 1946.

DIED: Feb. 16, 1955, Camden, N. J.

KUSTER was a chemist with the General Chemical Company
for some years, but at the time of his death he was employed as
a salesman with the general chemical division of Allied Chemical
& Dye Corporation. He was a member of the Chemists Club of
Philadelphia, the American Chemical Society, and the American
Textile Chemists and Colorists Association. His hobbies were
fresh and salt water fishing, golf, photography, music apprecia-
tion, gardening and advertising.

GEORGE ANGUS LANE

HOME apprEss: 5642 Kingsbury Blvd., St. Louis 12, Mo.

OFFIcz appress: Midwest Piping Co., Inc., 1450 S. Second St., St. Louis 4, Mo.

BORN: Feb. 23, 1907, Chicago, Il. parents: John Beach Lane, ’98, Sarah
Isabel Currie.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1931.

MarRieD: Kathryn Lyman Blair, Dec. 31, 1941, Florissant, Mo. CHILDREN:

[ 586 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

William Carr, April 3, 1943; Vilray Blair, Dec. 15, 1946 (died Jan. 17,
1950); Charles Angus, March 27, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Lane, °27.

occuPATION: Treasurer and controller, Midwest Piping Company, Inc.

orriczs HeLp: Director, Se. Louis Midwest Company.

Memara of: Missouri Society of Certified Public Accountants; Noonday
Club, Sc. Louis; Harvard Club of Se. Louis.

IN retrospect, the last twenty years seem to have passed very
quickly, yet at this moment my memory for happenings and
events has all but deserted me. For several years after leaving
the Engineering School, | worked in the test and sundry other
training departments of General Flectric Company, but soon
the effects of the depression stcered me away from engincering
and into accountancy. Eventually, I joined the staff of Ernst &
Ernst, and in due course obtained my Certificate in Accounting.
My present employment with Midwest is due, in part, to my
critical reviews of their accounting methods — criticism which
has, at times, back-fired.

I] married Kathryn Lyman Blair in 1941 and we have two sons,
Bill, almost a teen-ager, and Charlie, almost three, a tireless in-
vestigator, Bill attends St. Louis Country Day School and has
his sights on Harvard, while Kathryn has her sights on a nursery
school for Charlie. My spare time — what little there is of it —
is taken up with the boys, a little tennis and golf, and occasional
forays into local politics. At present, I plan to take part in the
movement to revise the ancient St. Louis City Charter. As to
generalities, my health has been good and I still retain my hair,
teeth and appendix.

SAMUEL MORSE LANE

HOME ApprEss: 6 H{enderson Pl. New York 28, N. Y.

OFFICE Aporess: Casey, Lane & Mittendorf, 43 Exchange Pl, New York 5,
N. Y.

BorN: July 9, 1909, Quincy, Mass. parents: Carleton Cushing Lane, '96,
Susan Godfrey Morse.

preparrp at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 19313 LL.B. 1934

MaRRiED: Marian \Ware Barnum, Oct. 3, 1936, Canton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joshua Hubbard, July 22, 1938, Peter Cushing, Sept, 7, 1939 (died Jan.

[ 587 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

4, 1940); Pamela Barnum, Oct. 19, 1940; Margaret Currier, Nov. 7, 1941;
Jonathan Cushing, Oct. 23, 1944.

occuPATION; Attorney — member of firm of Casey, Lane & Mittendorf.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Harvard Law School Association of New York
City, Riverdale Children’s Association, executive director and general
counsel, Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, 1954-55; spe-
cial assistant to United States Attorney, 1949-50; member, Municipal
Court Committee, Admissions Committee, Special Committee on Re-
organization of the Courts, Special Committee to Cooperate with the
State Crime Committee, chairman, Committee on Courts of Superior
Jurisdiction, Special Committee on Broadcasting, Association of the
Bar of the City of New York.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York, New York
State, American and Federal Bar Associations; Down Town Associa-
tion; New York Yacht Club.

AS my mind runs back over twenty-five years, the point of begin-
ning to which it returns is a meeting with Professor Copeland on
the brick walk in front of Hollis Hall in the spring of 1931.
“Lane”, said he, “I hear you are going to law school”. “Yes sir”,
I replied. “You'll never succeed as a lawyer”, said he. “You
mumble”, In a way, I suppose I owe a good deal to the “great”
Charles Townsend Copeland for that, even though he intended it
not as advice but as a curse. I hated him for it at the time. It did
not dissuade me from entering Harvard Law School in the fall of
1931 nor did it send me to Wollaston beach to shout like Socrates
at the waves with pebbles in my mouth, but it taught me with one
swift shock the need to speak distinctly, and this has been to me
an asset of untold value. If a man can think clearly, give expres-
sion to his thoughts in language which is simple enough to be
easily understood and yet not so simple as to be dull, and if he
speaks distinctly, he can go far in the practice of the law without
a supercharged 1.Q. These talents I have enjoyed and, although
I would have given my right arm for the kind of intellectual ap-
paratus that, coupled with them, might have made a place for me
on the Harvard Law Review, they have carried me far in my
profession.

For twenty-one years at the bar, I have been a trial lawyer. The
first five years were devoted to the defense of disability and
double indemnity claims for a large life insurance company. I
am not being immodest, I think, to say that at the end of that
period I was the leading specialist, among defense counsel, on fake

[ 588 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

heart disease. A number of my opponents and their expert wit-
nesses went to jail to pay for some of the fun that they had with
the likes of me. After the first five years my practice became
much broader and included all kinds of litigation (except crimi-
nal) in all of the courts in the State of New York and, to some
extent, in other states. I have also argued appeals in most appellate
courts, including the United States Supreme Court, For about a
year and a half I served as special assistant to the Attorney Gencral
of the United States in the pursuit of Russian bank deposits and,
for fourteen months, as the principal executive and Icgal officer
of the Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor with the
title of executive director and general counsel. The trial I enjoyed
the most involved the exposure of an international cardsharp. We
called his victims to the stand to the tune of $500,000, The “trial”
I enjoyed least was not a trial at all but a kind of two-day ques-
tioning marathon that I conducted for the Senate Crime Com-
mittee in Atlantic City. The success that I enjoyed more than
any other was the winning of a Commerce Clause case in the
United States Supreme Court which Professor Powell bet 1 would
lose. It took two arguments to do it,

In January, 1943, I became a member of the firm of Baldwin,
Todd & Lefferts, which I left in January, 1952, to organize the
firm of Casey, Lane & Mittendorf. The law has been my life, but
my family has been my love. No man was ever more blessed than
I in wife and children. We have a boy who will graduate from
Milton Academy to enter Harvard in 1956, and two girls and a
boy living at home with us in a little brick box of a house on
Fast 86th Strect near Fast End Avenue. Nothing could be pleas-
anter or more convenient. My wife drives me down town every
morning on the East River Drive; and our daughters and their
friends from Chapin School, which is just around the corner, are
in and out of the house all day, just as if we lived in the country.
For fall, winter and spring week-ends, we share a couple of old
frame houses with another family on an isolated tract of wilder-
ness in Dover, New York. With no heat, no light, and no running
water, it is a primitive life, but to restore the soul it has no equal.
In the summertime we race small boats at Pocasset on Cape Cod.

So, there you have my personal history and a glimpse of my
family. It has been in many ways a hard twenty-five years — the

[ 589 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

work has been difficult, the hours long and the disappointments
not infrequent, but it also has been a challenging, exciting, re-
warding twenty-five years. If I had the race to run again, I could
do it better, but just to have run such a race at all is a never-ending
source of wonder and satisfaction to me.

ORVILLE EDWIN LANGLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 1011 S. Terrace Blvd., Muskogee, Okla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 217 Commercial National Bldg., Muskogee, Okla.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1908, Prague, Okla. parents: Dallas Langley, Katherine 1.
Hobbs.

PREPARED AT: Prague High School, Prague, Okla.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1931 (32).
MARRIED: Jessie Evans Cosgrove, Nov. 27, 1936, Muskogee, Okla. cHiLpren:

Caroline Williams, June 10, 1939; James Cosgrove, June 13, 1941.
occUPATION: Lawyer.

I TRIED two or three different jobs after graduation (including
one I lost thirty pounds working at), then went back to school
and studied law. Ever since, except for an occasional interruption,
I've been in the private practice of law at Muskogee, a town of
about 40,000 people in eastern Oklahoma. This is the place, inci-
dentally, that furnishes the boys who make Oklahoma University’s
football teams great. For example, last year we had four on the
first team, two of whom made All America. This year we have
two starters, one an All America.

Speaking of football, time was when people in these parts
tipped their hats to Harvard men, and children asked for auto-
graphs, Now we’re not even allowed to use the sidewalks. We're
proud of our scholars, of course, but here in the outer areas some
of us long for the days of Ticknor and Wood and their likes, when
Harvard was best on Saturday afternoon as well as the rest of the
week,

Chief among the interludes in my career as a country lawyer is
the one brought on by the war. I turned in a four-year tour with
the Army and did well at it, too, By knowing the right generals I
got to be a colonel. Did my overseas work in the Pacific. I’ve also
done a stint as United States Attorney for the Eastern District of

[ 590 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Oklahoma and another as chairman of the State Industrial Com-
mission. And I have done some time in our State Legislature.
Hobbies: golf, mainly, My wife thinks I should include golf
among the interruptions to my legal career I have sct out above,
but [think not. I play it solely to keep my good health, she ought
to know that.
Politics: Democrat, strictly!

ALEXANDER DUNCAN LANGMUIR

HOME Apress: 56 Dartmouth Ave., Avondale Estates, Ga.

orFica appress: 50 Seventh St, N-E, Adanta 23, Ga.

poan: Sept. 12, 1910, Santa Monica, Calif. panents: Charles Herbert Lang-
muir, Edith Ruggles.

Preparen at: Englewood High School, Englewood, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-193!. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.D. (Cornell Univ.), 1935;
M.P.H. (Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1940.

mMarrieD: Sarah Ann Harper, June t, 1940, Albany, N.Y. critpren: Ann
Ruggles, April 28, 1941; Paul Harper, Sept. a1, 1942; Susan Davis, June
25, 1945; Lynn Adams, July 23, 1951, Jane Adams, June 1, 1954.

oocuPaTION: Fpidemiologist, Communicable Disease Center, Public Health
Service, Department of Health, Education and Welfare.

orrices HELD: Member, Commission on Acute Respiratory Diseases, Army
Fpidemiological Board, 1942-46, consultant, Department of Defense
(Biological Warfare), since 1947.

Mrunge oF: Many professional organizations; Cosmos Club, Washington,
D.C

puaLications: Scientific papers on pneumonia, poliomyelitis, acute respira-
tory diseases, air-borne infection, malaria, biological warfare, epidemic
theory,

IN February, 1931, a quite self-confident senior made a mildly
curious visit to Mr. Augustus Lowell Putnam, self-appointed ad-
viser on careers, in his office in Wadsworth House. The occa-
sion was personally momentous. An introduction to Dr. George
H. Bigelow, Commissioner of Public Health for the Common-
wealth of Massachusetts, implanted and fixed a life-time career
in public health. After medical school and internship, a varied
practical experience began to take shape in a career as public
health and medical care administrator. World War II abruptly
changed this to participation in a large scale group research pro-

[591 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

gram on respiratory diseases among troops at Fort Bragg, North
Carolina.

After three years of postwar teaching of epidemiology at
Johns Hopkins, the wider opportunities to practise my profession,
and the more direct responsibilities of government service, made
my present position too attractive to decline. As chief epide-
miologist for the United States Public Health Service, there is
never a dull moment and always a constant challenge.

We are charged with promoting the best practices in the
control of communicable diseases throughout the nation, we
must meet any request for epidemic aid made by any state, we
are given unprecedented opportunity to recruit and train draftee
physicians, veterinarians, statisticians as well as nurses and other
professional groups. Since 1951 over one hundred top quality
men and women have been trained, and most choose to remain
in public health or academic careers after their two-year tours
of duty. The job is a rare combination of administration, teach-
ing and research.

In 1952 and 1953 the problem of gamma globulin for control
of poliomyelitis epidemics landed squarely on our shoulders. A
nation-wide practical evaluation led to most disappointing results.
The methods developed, however, were helpful in the larger
fied trial of Salk vaccine in 1954. In 1955, the field aspects of
the Cutter incident and the later evaluation of the vaccine cen-
tered in the poliomyelitis surveillance unit under our general
direction. With the hopes and horrors of 1955 behind us, we
look expectantly to the rapid decline and early disappearance of
polio.

While my professional colleagues argue that I am wasting my
talents on the acute communicable diseases, a now minor and
trivial problem compared with the chronic, metabolic and non-
infectious diseases, I am happy in my job and look confidently to
plenty of work within my lifetime and that of our trainees.

LEO LAPIDUS

HOME appreEss: 622 Cherry Lane, East Lansing, Mich.
OFFICE AppREss; Dept. of Mathematics, Michigan State University, East
Lansing, Mich.

[ 592 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

poan: Feb. 13, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel Lapidus, Celia Bere-
stezky.

papanty at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Somerville High School,
Somerville, Mass.

VEARS IN COLAELE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B. 1931; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1935,

maggirp: Hilda Tavlor, Aug. 18 toyo, Boston, Mass. ciutpren: Don Sam-
uel, Feb. 24, 1444; David Jonathan, July 1, tari Jeremy Aaron, April
8, 1954

occupation; Marthematician: teaching and research,

MeMasa of: Amencan Mathemaucal Society; Mathematical Association of
Amencea, Socety of Sigma XL

pomicarions: “Brouwerian Geometry” (with E. A. Nordhaus), Canadian
Journal of Mathewtatics, 1954.

SINCE graduation my principal activity has been teaching and,
in recent years, research in mathematics. After a substantial ex-
perience in secondary school work, T found that my primary
interest was mathematics itself, rather than secondary ‘education.
Accordingly, T shifted my field of activity to where the former
could occupy more of my time.

During the war I taught i in the Army Air Forces enyinecring
officers training program at Chanute Ficld, Minois, and at Yale
and subsequently taught at Dartmouth and the University of
Maine. During the latter period T did summer work at Columbia,
and since 1948 I have been at Michigan State, My principal
mathematical interest ac the moment is the study of abstract dis-
tance spaces. Bricfly, this is a study of geometrics which can be
superimposed on algebraic structures. What is of interest is the
interplay between the geometric properties of the associated space
and the structural properties of the underlying algebra. Some
earlier results of these investigations were presented in a paper
before the American Mathematical Society in September, 1952,
and appeared subsequently in the Canadian Journal of Mathe-
mratics.

As for my non-professional life, I lived principally in New
England until 1948 and since then have resided in Michigan.
Incidentally, I think it is a good thing for a New Englander to
discover the Mid-West. I'm reminded of the Bostonian who,
when asked what route he'd taken to San Francisco, replied that
he'd come by way of Worcester. Although I’ve yet to see the
U.S.A. west of Denver and Laramie, the summer of 1938 was

[593 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

spent in Western Europe and included a brief look at Austria
shortly after the Anschluss. For a New Englander who at that
time had only been south to Washington, D. C., and west to
Detroit and Ann Arbor (Michigan 14, Harvard 12 — 1929, re-
member? ), it was quite an experience.

Hilda has enjoyed quite a period of creative activity in the
dramatics department of the university as actress and back-stage
manager in several productions. Her most ambitious undertaking
was that of playwright, producer and director of a Children’s
Theatre production. As a result of all this, the theatre has become
one of our principal hobbies although under considerable com-
petition from music and reading. Our instrument collection in-
cludes a piano, clarinet and cello, plus a small collection of record-
ings. So far, we've resisted TV.

During recent years much time has been devoted to raising our
three boys who give us no end of pleasure; and living with them
ona campus, as we do, finds big ten football and basketball coming
in for a considerable share of our time and attention.

DAVID CHAPMAN LASH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 234 Dodge St., Beverly, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Sylvania Electric Products, Inc., 60 Boston St., Salem, Mass.

BORN: May 22, 1909, Swampscott, Mass. PARENTS: David Chapman Lash,
Emma Shrives.

PREPARED AT: Allen-Chambers School, West Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931 (32).

MARRIED: Helena C. Boucher, Nov. 14, 1943, Camp Roberts, Calif. CHILDREN:
David Chapman, 3d, March 14, 1945; Peter Shrives, March 16, 1949.

occuPaTION: Manager of sales management development, Lighting Division,
Sylvania Electric Products, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Swampscott Yacht Club, 1932-37; Salem Ski Busters, 1934-41.

IN my work, which involves interviewing and training, it is quite
common to observe among young men fresh out of college a
state of uncertainty as to what they want to do for a living. This
bothers them no end, for they feel that at Commencement one
should have his career all mapped out. On the other hand, inter-
views with older, successful men usually reveal an early shifting
about from job to job until finally finding the one that suited.
I'm impatiently awaiting the publication of this Class Report for

[594]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

many reasons, one of which is to see how each of us went about
establishing a career.

In my case, I wanted a job with a manufacturer, but in what
capacity I hadn't the slightest idea. 1 started on the night shift.
Later, after a progressive series of factory jobs, I found myself
in the cost department. Somehow, I got the notion IT wanted to
sell, so I left that job and traveled New England for three years
selling craft materials and, later, business forms, When the manu-
facturers with whom I had first located began to expand with a
brand new product, I joined the sales department as a sales corre-
spondent, a job T enjoyed until entering the service,

After basic training and O.CS., I landed in Camp Roberts on
the West Coast as a training officer. There was something about
the training of troops that appealed to me and, during the four
years’ service, | managed to get into most every phase of Field
Artillery and Infantry training.

Directly as a result of this training experience, I was offered the
task — upon returning to civilian life —of organizing from
scratch a sales training program. Within my company and in
industry generally, sales training has come into its own during the
past ten years and it’s the career for me, there’s no doubt about it.

The service did more for me than that, for it was during that
period that I married “the girl back home”. We traveled from
pillar to post (Army, that is), came out of the Army broke —
except for a young son. After a four- or five-year struggle, we
bought a home, got a dog, added another son to the family, and
now feel pretty well settled. We like to work on our century-
and-a-half-old house, which is fortunate, for it demands it and we
enjoy most those things we can do as a family,

ROBERT CLARK LAUGHLIN

Home Aappress: The Highlands, Seattle 77, Wash.

OFFICE apprESs: 1117 Minor, Seattle 1, Wash.

Born: May §, 1909, Belle Center, Ohio. parents: Marion Coe Laughlin,
Elizabeth Wallace.

PREPARED AT: Belle Center High School, Belle Center, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Johns Hopkins
Univ.), 1935-

[595]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

marrieD: Mary Alston Cowan, July 2, 1938, Lexington, Va. CHILDREN; Rob.
ert Clark, Jr., March 6, 1943; Marion Coe, 2d, Aug. 8, 1944; Alston Som.
merville, June 6, 1947; Christopher Kent, Feb. 18, 1951.

occupation: Physician — eye specialist.

OFFICES HELD; Head, Department of Ophthalmology, University of Wash.
ington Medical School; chief of Eye Service, King County Hospital
Children’s Orthopedic Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Seattle Golf Club; Men’s University Club; Seattle Tennis Club,
World Affairs Council.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in professional journals.

AFRAID to face the world in 1931, I decided to stay under the
protective cover of student life. Due to a series of mistakes by
the Deans and Admission Committees, I was admitted to the Johns
Hopkins Medical School from which I received an M.D. degree
in 1935. Still afraid to face the world, I remained at the Johns
Hopkins Hospital for six years as intern, assistant resident and
resident in ophthalmology (eye), instructor and research fellow.
My sixth year out of medical school I was earning $83.33 per
month which, in those days, was more than adequate to supply
me with tobacco and beverages. However, by 1941 I decided
that I was not doing my share towards support of the government
by paying income tax on $83.33 a month, so I decided to enter
private practice and came to Seattle that summer. I had never
been west of Chicago before, and knew no one in Seattle, but was
attracted by reports of mountains, water, beautiful scenery and a
mild climate. |

After a year in practice, I entered the Army in the fall of 1942
and spent four frustrating years, the last three of which were as
chief of eye research for the Chemical Warfare Service. My
success in the Army is exemplified by entering as a captain and
not getting a promotion until the war had ended.

Returning to Seattle in 1946, I again entered private practice
and am now enjoying the fruits of a successful eye specialist.
namely, more taxes, more debts, and less ready cash than I ever
dreamed of. Along the way I have accumulated a beautiful wife
and four lovely children, three Harvard prospects and one for
Radcliffe.

My hobbies are few. Most of my spare time has been devoted
to my family (although they deny this), teaching ophthalmology
at the University of Washington Medical School as head of the

[ 596 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Eye Departinent, and doing charity eve service at the County
Hospital, Children’s Orthopedic Hospital, and on the Advisory
Board to the State Division of the Blind. [have taken time to go
on a few pack trips into the mountains, to fish in the mountain
streams and lakes, and to catch a few salmon from Puget Sound.
Every year I say I am going to play golf, but to date IT haven't.
My muscles are soft and flabby, bur my weight is the same as
when I was in college and my hair is the same color, but just a wee
bit more sparse,

T always find some good reason to vote Republican and believe
in the free enterprise system, except I favor socialized medicine;
for then [ expect to get paid for everything I do,

GEORGE BARTLETT LAUGHTON

HOME apress: 38 Lewis Sc, Needham gz, Mass.

orric® aporess: 99 Chauncy Se, Boston 11, Mass.

porw: Aug. 12, 1907, LaGrange, Il. paagsis: George Bartlett Laubenstecin,
’o3, Sarah Ann Glover.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

Maazigp: Dorothy S. Gurley, Dec. 27, 1945, Greensboro, N. C.

ooct partion: Afercantile business.

& ANDRE FERDINAND JEAN LaVIGNE, III

Bon: Dec. s, 1908, Rouen, France. parents: Ferdinand Jcan LaVigne, 2d,
Bertha Major.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1928.

pirp: Reported dead in 1936.

SOME time after LaVigne left college in February, 1928, he was
living in Oak Park, Hlinois. Mail sent to him in 1936 was returned
marked “deceased” but verification of his death has never been
obtained.

1597]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

DONALD BLANDING LAWRENCE

HOME ADDRESS: 41666 Nine Mile Rd., Northville, Mich.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Evans Product Co., Eckles Road, Plymouth, Mich.

BorRN: Aug. 10, 1909, Lawton, Okla. parents: Arthur Jenks Lawrence,
Josephine Gloria Griffin.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Janet Mary Clink, Nov. 10, 1935, Ann Arbor, Mich. cuttpren:
Gail Patton, July 22, 1938; Donald Blanding, Jr., March 30, 1943; Stephen
Clink, March 4, 1949.

occupaTIoN: Manufacturing.

JOHN ENDICOTT LAWRENCE

HOME appRESS: Willowdale Road, South Hamilton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: James Lawrence & Co., 60 Batterymarch St., Boson 10, Mass,
BoRN: Oct. 18, 1909, Milton, Mass. parents: James Lawrence, ’o1, Marion Lee

Peabody.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313; LL.B., 1936.
marriep: Anne M. Tuckerman, Aug. 6, 1938, Dark Harbor, Maine. cHILDREN:

Susanna, Feb. 4, 1940, John Endicott, Jr., July 22, 1941; David Tucker-
man, Dec. 13, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Lawrence, Jr., ’29.

occuPATION: Cotton merchant.

OFFicEs HELD: Director, Pepperell Manufacturing Company, textiles, Boston,
Old Colony Trust Company, Boston, Massachusetts Fire & Marine In-
surance Company, Boston, Marlie Trading, Inc., New York, American
Middle East Corporation, United Community Services, 1949-52, Har-
vard Alumni Association, 1948-51, Boston Chamber of Commerce, 1949-
52, International Friendship League, since 1949; trustee, Provident In-
stitute for Savings, Boston, Massachusetts General Hospital, since 1947,
Massachusetts Humane Society, since 1947, Groton School, Groton,
Mass., since 1947; general chairman, 1946, director and member execu-
tive committee, 1946-49, Greater Boston Community Fund; member ex-
ecutive committee, Greater Boston Community Fund Survey, 1949,
member finance committee, Town of Hamilton, Mass., 1949-53; member
corporation, Northeastern University, since 1948, Boston Lying-In-Hos-
pital, since 1948; member examining committee, Boston Public Library,
1953-55; member, Armed Forces Advisory Committee, since 1952; chair-
man, Massachusetts Eisenhower for President Committee, 1952; presi-
dent, Cotton Importers Association, Inc.. New York, 1954-55; member,
Massachusetts State Racing Commission (appointed by Governor Her-

[ 598 |

wn

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ter), since 1953; member executive committee, Massachusetts Hospital
Council, since 1956.

memner or: Somerset Club; Tavern Club; Myopia Hunt Club; Links Club;
Harvard Club of New York.

ATTENDED Citizen’s Military Training Camp at Fort Devens
in 1939. I enlisted as a private in the Massachusetts State Guard
in September, 1940, and resigned as a second lieutenant in Jan-
uary, 1942, to join the U.S. Navy. Served in the Pacific with
the First Marine Airwing, Staff Comsopac, Staff Com, Third
Fleet, until discharged in October, 1946, with the rank of com-
mander. Received the following decorations and ribbons: Legion
of Merit wtih combat V; two Bronze Stars with combat V;
Presidential Unit Citation, First Marine Division; Navy Commen-
dation Ribbon; Philippine Liberation with two stars; Pacific
Theatre Ribbon with twelve combat stars.

I was a member of the Massachusetts Bar, engaged in practice
of law with Goodwin, Proctor & Hoar in Boston for three years.
In 1939 I joined the firm of James Lawrence & Company, cotton
merchants, as a general partner. Business consists of import, ex-
port and general merchandising of foreign and domestic cottons.
I find an ever-increasing amount of time being devoted to work
on projects in India and Fgypt connected with their general in-
dustrial development. Operations to date which we have initiated
and in which we now participate, range from the manufacture
of polystyrene in India to the canning of vegetables in Egypt.

As to extracurricular activities, I have added considerably to
my knowledge of human nature by serving a three-year term on
the Massachusetts Racing Commission, have continued to delve
generally into matters political and charitable, mainly hospitals),
and have taken every available opportunity to go skiing, cruising,.
or to engage in any other similar activity that the children may
dictate.

WILBUR LOUGHEED LAWSON

HOME appress: Water Street, Foxboro, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Conover-Mast Publications, 205 E. 42d St. New York 17,
N. Y.

BoRN: May 25, 1909, Oakland, Calif. parents: William Elsworth Lawson,
Florence Ann Shera.

[ 599 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

rerranrn at: Foxboro ELgh School, Fovboro, Mass.

PHAM INS COULEE FQIT-1QU2. DRERFE: AB, 1950(32),

meaneceo: Margaret Walch, May 20, 1932, Forboro, Mass. camoaes: Margaret
Sthera, Now. g 1933) Gm, Wilham Chase Lawrence, Aug. 27, 1955);
Thomas Fleworth, May jo, 1937; Peter Lougheed, March 23, 1940;
Jodith Ann, June 4, 1941, Susan, Nov, 13, 1942, Christopher Lee, Feb.
7a, 19¢0.

naavanp sow: Thomas Elsworth Lawson, "59.

peoavarp mectioas: Edward Shera Lawson, '24; Robert Barrett Lawson, 732,
Mp, 44.

aervpertos, District manager, Conover-Mast Publications, selling advertising
gave m industnal publications.

rrpers oo: Advertiung manager, 1945-44, assistant to vice-president, 1947-
4%, Glenwood Range Company, treasurer, 1940-47, president, 1948-49,
Taunton Boys’ Gub; publicity chairman (periodically), Red Cross and
Community Chess.

wenseaex OF: National Industrial Advertisers Association; Technical Adver-
ting Association,

JOHN PETER LEACACOS

wove armerss: 4 Wia di Porta Pinciana, Rome, Italy; 3702 Walton Ave. S.W.,
Qeveland #3, Ohio.

ovr sn apoarss: Cleveland Plain Dealer, Forest City Publishing Co., Cleve-
land, Ohio.

wen: Dec. 7, tgo8, Kingston, Pa panests: Peter John Leacacos, Mary
Vetventrou.

parvansp at: Wilkes-Barre Eligh School, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.; Lakewood
High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

VRARS EN COHIEEB: 1QI7=19}0.

manaivo: Velia Celeste DeMarco, Aug. 31, 1940, Cleveland, Ohio. curtp:
Peter John, Sept. t, 1943.

onvvarios: European correspondent, Cleveland Plain Dealer.

sursinsa_ or: American Club of Rome, Forcign Press Association of Rome;
Frankfurt Press Club of Frankfurt, Germany, Anglo-American Cor-
respondents Association of Paris; Reserve Officers Association of the
United Seatca.

IN December, t954, on home leave in Cleveland, I heard President
Pusey tell us of the miracles of modern Harvard and felt a keen
pang at my wasted youth, In igj0 PE had left Harvard with an
abvenal record, The fcllow detailed to give me a swift kick
where it would do the most good never caught up with me. I
feasted in the depression for three years, doing odd jobs or no jobs.
In sgyy Dopot a part-time chore, rewriting state correspondence

[ Oo ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for the Cleveland Plain Dealer. My first month's paycheck was
$3. I built this up to $30 a month shortly thereafter. In March,
1934, | was taken on the staff as a reporter for §20 a week. I have
been with the same newspaper ever since.

World War II took four and one-half years out of my life. I
entered the U.S. Army as a captain and was separated as a lieuten-
ant colonel. My son, Peter, was born as I was going overseas, I
never met him until three years later — in a railroad station in
Columbus, Ohio. I never fired a shot in anger during the whole
war, although occasionally subjected to unfriendly enemy atten-
tion. My duties consisted mainly of political intelligence, public
relations and keeping ambitious generals out of my hair.

Since September, 1946, I have been European correspondent
of the Cleveland Plain Dealer with a roving assignment in Europe
and the Middle East. I have covered most of the major events of
the post-war period except the fall of China. I have been in about
thirty countries, including Malaya, Indo-China, Formosa, Japan
and Korea. The little wars, I might say, have been much more
uncomfortable than the last big one. In major wars you can at
least figure the odds. The so-called brush fires are a strain on the
nerves. You don’t know what direction to face.

I have no hobbies. I am an independent politically, although I
have not voted since 1944. Under Ohio laws you can’t vote by
absentee ballot unless you have first personally registered in the
primary; and I have never been home at that time to register. I
try to get home with the family, who live in Rome while I am on
.the road, every eighteen months to keep my grass roots freshened
up and to avoid the hazards of becoming an expatriate.

In my work I have taken note of many powerful personalities
and many more limp fools; of the upsurge of new aspirations by
millions who once were voiceless, of the incredibly dark and dove-
tailed apparatus of world communism; of the deeply sane and
healthy — but too often inarticulate and complacent — instincts
of our own Americans abroad. When, finally, rather befuddled
and besmogged by words and events and w cary from waiting in
the anterooms of the great and would-be great, I try to hasten
home to my family in Rome. It is to me an incre: asing ‘consolation

as I grow older.
My wife, Velia, is a doll who is ebullient and diplomatic as I

[ 601 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

am moody and abrupt. My son, Peter, happily takes after mama.
He is a normal rascal who also has very good manners, if I may
brag a bit. He knows when to bow over the hand of a European
lady or when just to wave “Hiya” at an American one. He is
bilingual in English and Iralian, studics French and has some
German from skiing i in the Austrian Tyrol. Peter plays the piano,
is an expert fencer for his age, draws, swims and can throw a
good forward pass straight to the receiver, Let’s hope he goes to
Harvard — and graduates.

FRANCIS THEODORE LEAHY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3460 39th St. N.W., Washington, D. C.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Dept. of Defense, Washington 25, D. C.
BORN: Aug. 23, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Francis Theodore Leahy, Lu.
"03, Marie Mactilde Loughlin.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; S.B. (Mass. Inst. of Tech-
nology), 1933.

MarrieD: Rita J. Willwerth, Aug. 15, 1942, Medford, Mass. (divorced).
HARVARD BROTHER: Vincent Francis Leahy, ’45.
occupation: Research work, Department of Defense.
STUDIED business administration at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology (also located at Cambridge) for two years after
graduating from Harvard. Worked in Boston until the early part
of 1942 when I applied for a commission in the U. S. Navy.
Started out as a j.g. and finished as a licutenant commander in
1946. Served most of the time in Washington, D. C, Flave re-
mained in Washington ever since at essentially the same job, the
duties of which won’t be described.

For exercise — play a little tennis, and for recreation, a certain
amount of bridge and poker. I spent six months recently in Eng-
land and on the Continent, my first visit to those parts.

PAUL MUNDE LEAKE

Home aporess; 208 E. 78th St, New York 21, N. Y.; Stonington, Conn.
(summers),

orrice appress: United Nations, New York 17, N, Y.

Boax: Oct. 23, 1910, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Sabin Leake, Ber-
tha von Hornemann-Mundeé.

{ 602 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Sima Borisovana, March 9, 1943, New York, N. Y. cuiupren:
Jonathan Leake, Nov. 20, 1946; Paul Andrew, Feb. 16, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Sabin Leake, ’29.

OCCUPATION: Economic adviser, United Nations.

" MEMBER OF: Paroemiological Society of the United Nations.

PUBLICATIONS: “Studies on the United Nations Charter”; articles in various

reviews, mainly on literary subjects.

FROM 1933 to 1938 I was a literary agent, then spent four years
as a research specialist. From 1942 to 1946 I was with the U. S.
Army, serving in the Rome-Arno, Southern France, Northern
France, Rhineland and Central Europe campaigns. I received the
Legion of Merit in 1945 and since 1946 have been a lieutenant
colonel in the U.S. Active Reserve. .

Since 1946 I have been with the United Nations, on loan to the
Paris Peace Conference in 1946, on the United Nations Special
Committee on Palestine, 1947; the Interim Committee of the Gen-
eral Assembly, 1948-49; the Korean relief and rehabilitation,
1950-51; and since 1951 working on the coordination of the
policies and activities of the United Nations and the specialized
agencies.

The Permanent Class Secretary has asked for information as
regards my “social, political or religious convictions”. In an age
of great chatter, one should try to be brief. I would submit the
following:

Social conviction — “A cat born in a baker’s oven will never
become a biscuit”. (“Um gato nascido no forno nao vira bis-
coito”’.

Political conviction — “You must not let your mousetrap smell
of blood” (from the Pushtu).

Religious conviction — “The devil gets up to the belfry by the
vicar’s skirts.”

In general, and applicable to each of us — “The higher the ape
goes, the more he shows his tail” (from the Malay).

[ 603 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

HENRY WALTER LEHMANN

HOME ADDRESS: 139 N, Clark St., Suite 810, Chicago 2, III.

OFFIcE aporess: Henslee, Monck & Murray, 139 N. Clark St., Chicago, Il.

BORN: April 23, rg10, New York, N. Y. Parents: Walter Henry Lehmann,
Johanna Sampt.

PREPARED AT: Cherry Lawn School, Darien, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 19313 LL.B. 1934.

MARRIED: Virginia Payne, June 14, 1944, Nashville, Tenn. cuHitp: Henry
Holmes, Aug. 4, 1945.

oocupaTion: Law.

PAUL BERNARD LEMANN

HOME ADDRESS: 1637 Palmer Ave., New Orleans 18, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nfassachusetts Life Insurance Co., 512 Hibernia Bank Bldg.,
New Orleans, La.

BORN: Aug. 11, 1908, Marblehead, Mass. PARENTS: Isaac Ivan Lemann, ’96,
Stella Hirsch.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

marrieD: Martha Louise Ayers, April 21, 1934, Louisville, Ky. CHILDREN:
Richard Berthelot, 2d, Dec. 11, 1935; William Bullitt, Sept. 3, 1938;
Julie Bullitt, Jan. 8, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Berthelot Lemann, °32 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Special agent, Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Harvard Club of Louisiana, New Orleans
Chapter, Reserve Officers Association, 1940; director, New Orleans Bu-
reau of Governmental Research, since 1946, officer and director, New
Orleans Chapter, National Association of Home Builders, 1946-50;
member development committee, Tulane University.

MEMBER OF: New Orleans Country Club; Harvard Club of Louisiana; Cov-
ington Country Club; Louisiana Lodge No. 102, A.F. & A.M.

WHEN I graduated and returned to New Orleans where, as else-
where, jobs were scarce as hens’ teeth, 1 considered myself lucky
to become foreman of a ready mix concrete plant. Thereafter I
was engaged in the building material business and in building,
remodeling and selling houses which I enjoyed very much.

In March, 1941, I was called to active duty at Fort Knox, Ken-
tucky. This was a homecoming for my wife who said the Army
would never have sent me there had it known that Louisville was
her home town. Pearl Harbor put an end to the pleasant and busy
life we led there with our two little boys. In February, 1942, I

[ 604 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was sent overseas and was actively mixed up with the Axis in
North Africa and Italy. I was awarded the Silver Star and a unit
citation. Home again after two and a half years with the First
Armored Division to become reacquainted with my family at
Fort Sill, Oklahoma. .

In 1946 I returned to New Orleans, turned in my lieutenant
colonel’s cap for a civilian hat and went back to house building
and real estate. Three years ago, realizing that I am primarily a
salesman, I became affiliated with the Massachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Company. I still have my finger in quite a few diver-
sified pies.

The family consists of my two six footers, Ric who is at Tulane
here and Bill who graduates from Darlington School this June,
and our little Julie who arrived belatedly after the war. For re-
laxation I go to St. Tammany Parish where, deep in the piney
woods on a bluff overlooking the white sand beaches of the
Bougefalaya River, I have a log house. Here I spend as many
week-ends as the diversified interests of odd-aged offspring will
allow and commute during the summer. Here is a wonderful
place for boating, fishing, hunting and just loafing. The place is a
twenty-year project now in its fifth year. It’s not all loafing for
me, for I have built much of the house and furniture myself and
am now building a workshop to house the ever-increasing collec-
tion of tools my wife objects to having on the porches and living
room. Some day I hope to live here and entertain my grand-
children.

JOSEPH GERARD LEONARD

HOME ADpRESS: 15 Edgewater Drive, Wellesley Farms, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., 175 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 17, 1909, Boston, Mass. Parents: William James Leonard, Mar-
garet Thresa Bresnahan.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1934.

MarrieD: Sally M. Beck, Oct. 15, 1950, Boston, Mass,

Occupation: Special counsel, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: American, Boston and Massachusetts Bar Associations.

EARLY in my legal career I chose to become a corporate attor-
ney and, in 1936, joined the legal staff of the Liberty Mutual

[ 605 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Insurance Company. There followed eight years of trial work
before the Massachusetts courts. Upon being appointed assistant:
general attorney in 1944, I became less provincial and participated
in major litigation country-wide until 1948.

Since that date, as special counsel, I have been engaged prin-
cipally in counseling on tax problems, labor laws and in handling
legislative matters pending before state legislatures and Congress.

Now, as business and family responsibilities increase, I seem to
have but little time for hunting and sailing. However, I look
back with pleasure to the many hours of cruising on our class-
mate’s, Dr. H. Graham Pope’s, handsome sloop, Sea-Waif, and

later on his magnificent yawls, Shag and Saxon.

RICHARD LEWIS LEONARD

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 Maple St., Greenfield, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 16, 1907, West Newton, Mass. parents: Edwin Palmer Leonard,

Lillian Wealthy Siggins.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

MarRIED: Ruth Marsden, Sept. 2, 1939, Monson, Mass. cuitp: Robert Haigh,
Aug. 20, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Clair Thomas Leonard, ’23; Henry Siggins Leonard, ’27.

OCCUPATION: Representative for Sunray Products Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: President, Williamstown Lions Club, 1946.

MEMBER OF; Massachusetts Society of Optometrists, American Optometric

Association; Star Lodge of Masons, Athol, Mass.

ROBERT JARVIS LEONARD, JR.

HOME aApprEss: Woodlyn, Dorset, Vt.

OFFICE appRESS: Manchester, Vt.

BORN: Dec. 14, 1907, Newtonville, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Jarvis Leonard,
’06, Ruth Sarah Richards.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.
Marriep: Edith Marion Gray, June 13, 1931, Boston, Mass. cuiLpReN: Phyl-
lis Joy, March 28, 1932 (m. Philip S. Collins, 2d, Dec. 21, 1952); Edith
Anne, Nov. 13, 1933 (m. Richard John Riker, Dec. 17, 1955); Evelyn
Ruth, June 30, 1937; Robert Jarvis, 3d, June 13, 1939; Francis Gray,

[ 606 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Oct. 6, 1941; Peter Thatcher, Jan. 1, 1945. GRANDCHILD: Christopher
Leonard Collins, Oct. 15, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Richards Leonard, '33.

occuPATION: Owner of supermarket.

MEMBER OF: Dorset Field Club; Mory’s Association of New Haven.

AFTER leaving college I spent three years in the textile business
commuting between Rye, New York, and New York City. When
the opportunity arose to indulge in a childhood hobby, Le. trains,
I went to work with the New Haven Railroad in their newly
formed research department just before that philanthropic organi-
zation went into bankruptcy. The next eight years were spent
in New Haven and I was there long enough to see the R.R. come
out of that deplorable state.

During the war I was in the Army Transportation Corps and
received my majority in the Philippines. The next two years,
back with the N.H.R.R., found me becoming increasingly restless
with city life, so, when the chance arose to buy a business in the
country, I was fortunate to find a grocery store, a business about
which I knew nothing and about which I still have a great deal to
learn. I found fifteen acres, trout stream included, in nearby
Dorset and a house large enough to house my family. Unlike my
wife, who still occasionally enjoys a bit of city life, it takes a really
major event to lure me from this state.

EDWARD JACOB LEVENSON

HOME apprEss: 17 Garner St., Newton Centre, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1460 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1909, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Morris Levenson, Rose
Goldberg.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Univ. of Rochester),
1935.

MarRigD: Esther Silin, Nov. 30, 1939, Boston, Mass, curupren: Richard Joel,
Jan. 13, 1941; Paul Neil, July 5, 1942; Robert Merrill, Feb. 15, 1948.

occupation: Physician.

Member oF: Alpha Omega Alpha (honorary medical scholastic society);
American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); Massachusetts Medi-
cal Society; Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity (Lambda Chapter at Harvard).

I REALLY feel that I have let the Class of 1931 down. Here my
three sons are hardly old enough to get a good established shoe

[ 607 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193!

shine location in front of the Coop and the Class Report blithely
asks me for the names of my grandchildren yet! Why, I hardly
feel old enough to remember when the New Lecture Hall was
“new” —as though everyone didn’t know the New Lecture
Hall was old when it was built. It seems hardly twenty-five
years ago that I pioneered the precursor of the hydrogen bomb
in the laboratories of Chem. 2. Can I help it if I happened to
invent a stench bomb instead at that time?

Anyway, here’s “wha’ harpen”. Television not having been
invented in 1931, I was forced to go to a medical school in order
to learn medicine. This constituted a most beautiful phase of my
life, spent at the University of Rochester Medical School, pur-
suing medical knowledge, females, pathology and females. How-
ever, in those four wonderful years I managed to finish highest in
my class. I even acquired a coveted Alpha Omega Alpha gold
key, which in medicine is equivalent to the academic Phi Beta
Kappa key, but which is much sturdier for opening beer bottles.

Then, with my key, my M.D. degree, and my memories I hied
me back to Boston to begin my internship at the First Medical
Service of the Boston City Hospital. The work was hard, the
hours were long, but the pay was nominal (in those days nominal
meant zero). The tremendous experience I acquired at that won-
derful institution was invaluable. I saw every type of medical

case from alpha to omega, although I hardly saw a case of alpha
after that. Following colorful ceremonies (a letter on the back
of an old envelope from the dean), I was appointed a teaching
fellow in medicine at Tufts Medical School and resident physician
of the Third Medical Service at the Boston City Hospital.
Finally, having learned that all skin diseases are called derma-
titis and that all eye diseases are treated with boric acid, I plunged
into the cold world of private medical practice. What if my
first private patient was a case of sprained little finger. Everybody
knows the terrible dangers inherent in this dread disease and,
furthermore, for the benefic of you scoffers, I pulled this patient
through. In 1943, after days of written and oral examinations,
I was made a Diplomate of the American Board of Internal
Medicine — that is, a recognized specialist in internal medicine.
No, boys, internal medicine does not mean a liquid you take by

{ 608 J

peer

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mouth, Internal medicine means —hell, after nineteen years, I
still don’t know what it means myself!

In 1939 I met, wooed and wed a most beautiful girl (I'm no
fool, fellows; my wife is going to read this Report too.), named
Esther Silin of Brookline. By the natural laws of evolution and
propinquity we had three sons, all boys. Incidentally, any class-
mates want to buy the formula?

My medical practice continued to grow over the years and,
after seventen years in the Back Bay, I moved to the palatial six-
room suite I now occupy on upper Commonwealth Avenue in
Boston, where I can still pursue my medical knowledge, my two
nurses, pathology, and my two nurses (although I don’t know
what I could do even if I did catch up with them).

Thus, Classmates, have the years flown. Honestly now, doesn’t
it all seem like yesterday???

LEONARD GEORGE LEVENSON

HOME ADDRESS: 10 35th St., S.E., Washington 19, D. C.

OFFICE apprEss: U.S. Air Force, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Sept. 1, 1910, Lowell, Mass. parents: Samuel Thomas Levenson, Annie
Horlink. _

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School for Boys, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.BAs 1933.

OccUPATION: Supervisory systems accountant, Office of the Comptroller,
U.S. Air Force.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of Washington; American Statis-
tical Association,

PUBLICATIONS: Various governmental reports and manuals.

I ENJOYED a two-year reprieve from this sordid business of
earning my own way by virtue of a couple of years spent at the
Business School getting an M.B.A. Since economic conditions had
gone from bad to worse in the interim, the problem of getting
started was really complex. Other members of 1931 undoubtedly
know only too well the trials and tribulations of such baptism
under lack of economic fire. After the usual volume of miscel-
laneous jobs, I finally succeeded in 1935 in landing what appeared
to be a promising proposition as an assistant to the controller of a
New England ready-to-wear chain. The pay (I certainly would
not dignify it with the term salary) was nominal, but the promises

[ 609 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

for the future had no bounds. However, there was never the

slightest indication of present blending into future. Accordingly,

when Uncle Sam came through with an offer, I decided to trade

present cash for that pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. I

thus went to Washington, D. C., in 1938 and have since remained.

Originally, I was on the staff of the U. S. Housing Authority
engaged on the development of standard operating costs for large
scale housing projects. One year later I was loaned to the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission to work on its phase of research
for the Temporary National Economic Committee, the Congres-
sional committee headed by Senator O'Mahoney. My assignment
was on the industrial insurance portion of the committee’s life
insurance investigation.

I accepted the invitation of one of the committee’s consultants
to accompany him to the Department of Labor, when the insur-
ance investigation was completed. For the period 1940-1945, I
was on the Labor Department's payroll, but was actually working
for the Army Air Corps both in Washington and Wright Field,
Dayton, Ohio, engaged on the task of determining labor require-
ments for producing the number of airplanes needed for the war
program. This experience ultimately resulted in a comprehensive
report on the accomplishments of the aircraft industry entitled,
“Wartime Development of the Aircraft Industry,” which was
published by the Labor Department and republished by some of
the industry’s trade publications.

In 1946, I accepted an assignment with the Office of War
Mobilization and Reconversion to study the economics of the
guaranteed annual wage. One year later (1947) I joined the staff
of the Air Force Comptroller, where I have since been devoting
major attention to various aspects of accounting and cost control.

I am afraid that I must consider myself provincial, since my
travels, though extensive, have been confined to the continental
United States. Nonetheless, if the mileage were accumulated over
these twenty-five years, I believe that I might qualify for some
form of world-girdling category. |

Life in Washington is pretty much like life in any other city of
comparable size. We experience our morning and evening traffic
jams regularly and find that the local gendarmery qualify emi-
nently in passing out parking tickets. The municipal problem of

[ 610 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trying to make ends meet always seems to be present. Perhaps we
have more than our share of tourists, but we are so accustomed to
them that they are completely ignored, save around Easter time
when every mother’s son and daughter of high school age seems
to be in town to view the cherry blossoms.

I have had my share of both rough and smooth going, as I think
back over the twenty-five year span. It does not seem as though
a quarter of a century has elapsed. But what is more futile than
fighting the record?

MELVIN DANIEL LEVINE

HOME AND OFFICE Aporess: Mainkai 38, Frankfurt-Am-Main, Germany.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1909, Boston, Mass. parexts: George Levine, Ada Godinsky
Levine.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRIED: Gerda Augusta Krischer, Jan. 4, 1955. CHILDREN: Erika Krischer,
Aug. 19, 1941; Rolfe Krischer, Jan. 8, 1948 (stepchildren).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Harold David Levine, ’29, M.p., '32; Edgar Philip Levine,
*38; Julian A. Levine, ’40.

occupation: Retired.

THE idea of writing a biography shook me up in more ways than
one, But then — even younger men are doing it these days, Look-
ing backward to 1931 (and even before), I find myself still the
on-looker, the reflecting bystander in the tribunes — and still I
have found it an interesting role over the years and a finally
satisfying one.

Practically retired, I am now lately a family man, after years of
bachelorhood. Having been in various phases of the camera busi-
ness in past times, I am now discovering for myself the pleasures
of photography, particularly with my newly-acquired and photo-
genic family, about whom my interest now centers.

An “expatriate” of sorts for several years living abroad, I do
quite a bit of traveling around the Continent, mostly by car,
getting to the States a couple of times a year, usually in time to
enjoy a month or so in Palm Beach. No member of the interna-
tional café society set, I do yet get around fairly regularly to the
accepted spots, as well as to many in-between. So my family

[ 611 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

pictures have a varied picturesque background of Old World
scenes: lands, towns, people, living monuments of the civilization
and cultures of all our ancestors.

Regularly visiting the international camera and photographic
fairs keeps one feeling still in touch with things, business-wise.
Between the Atlantic Monthly, the New York Times and Herald-
Tribune, I am fairly well posted on current events (though I
must say, I really missed the Afonitor in the beginning).

With Dr. Conant, my old chemistry professor, and our illustri-
ous classmate and chief marshal, Ambassador Clarence Dillon, not
far away, I still feel Harvard’s influence and reflect warmly there-
on, though a bit of a distance from the Charles.

Finally I must observe, I miss really greatly not being able to
participate now in those sports, in which I never did, but should
have. Here the spectator role has undone me, alas. My social,
political, religious convictions? Put me down, as one who still

loves his fellow-man,

LEONARD ISAAC LEVINSON

HoME aDprEss: P. O. Box 38, Mount Pleasant, Pa.

OFFIcE ADpRESS: The Fashion Shop, Mount Pleasant, Pa.

BorN: Dec. 8, 1909, Greensburg, Pa. parents: Louis Levinson, Ella Frances
Wiseman.

PREPARED AT: Mount Pleasant High School, Mount Pleasant, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

occupation: Mercantile business.

MAURICE SAUL LEVINSON

Home aporess: 105 Arlington Rd., Utica, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 209 N. Genesee St., Utica, N. Y.

Bors: May 25, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Israel Levinson, Sisel Rofel-
sohn.

PreparrD at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1931 (32).

Masairp: Harriet Stella Copeland, Oct. 10, 1938, Utica, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Ann Copeland, March 23, 1942; Jane Sarah, Oct. 17, 1946.

OccUPATION: President and general manager, Jan-Warren Corporation, food

brokers.
orricts eto; Chairman, United Jewish Appeal Business Drive, 1951-52,

[612 ]

‘ 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Israel Bond Drive, City of Utica, N. ¥. 1952-54; member national
board, Jewish Theological Seminary of America, since 1955; member
National Planning Committee, State of Israel Bonds, 1952.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Utica and Syracuse, N. Y.; Zionist Organi-
zation of America; B’nai Brith; Chamber of Commerce, Utica.
LIKE most depression graduates, I floundered: in Boston first,
through the clothing business (where the cut of my jacket was
most important); then through textile manufacturing (where the
particular shade of brown was important). I probably would still
be wandering through the mazes of New England textile mills
were it not for two important events in my life. Marriage to
Harriet Copeland in 1939 made it imperative that J settle into a
steady pattern of earning — if not a spectacularly good one. The
Army Air Corps claimed me in 1942 (same year daughter Ann
Copeland came along) and made that pattern an accomplished
fact. I entered service as a second lieutenant and was mustered
out in 1945 as a captain. The interim years saw me in several
eastern installations — England (on the staff of General Curtis
LeMay — Eighth Air Force) and finally Chicago where I worked
in contract renegotiations up and down the Mississippi River.
The geography was wonderful, the work interesting, the time
passed.

Back to civilian life and two new babies in 1946 — Jane Sarah
(daughter) and the Jan-Warren Corporation (food brokers ex-
traordinary). After the usual halting steps, either the Lord’s
countenance did shine upon us or the industry let its guard down.
At any rate, we are now operational in New York State and Can-
ada. As president and general manager of a growing company in
an ever-growing industry, I must confess that life is never dull.
As the father of teen-agers — well, you know what I mean. All in
all, twenty-five years later I find myself quite content with the
order of things. What would I have wanted to change? Not
much, except to have accelerated things.

DAVID HARRY LEVISON

HOME AppRESS: 3786 N. Broadlawn Circle, Cincinnati 36, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Lacquer Co., 2700 Highland Ave., Norwood 12,
Ohio.

[ 613 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

poas: Jan. 20, 1910, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: William Allen Levison,
Eiclen Geigerman,

parpaarp at: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

VEARS IN COLLEVE: 1927-1928, 1929-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

married: Thelma Metcalfe, Oct. 14. 1938, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHitp: Lois
Hiclen, Jan. 20, 1948.

occtPATion: Partner, American Lacquer Company, manufacturers of in-
dustrial finishes, secretary-treasurer, Permanent Pigments, Inc., manu-
facturers of artists’ colors, mediums, etc.

Messen oF: Federation of Paint Production Clubs; Art Materials Trade
Association,

HENRY LEWIS

HOME ADoRESS: 50 WW. Ninth Sc, New York 11, N. Y.

OFFICE ADorEss: New York Central Railroad Co., 466 Lexington Ave., New
York 17, N.Y.

Boa: Jan. 26, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Isaac Lewis, Zelda Ginsburg.

PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930, 1932~-1933. DEGREES: S.B., 1931 (34); LL.B. (Colum-
bia Law School), 1936.

Maggiep: Ruth Northrop Wilbur, July 4, 1939, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Lawyer.

orrices HELD: Attorney and counsel, Reconstruction Finance Corporation,
1936-54; attorney, New York Central Railroad Company, since 1954.

I HAVE a strong distaste for this sort of thing. It includes filling
out any form — which explains, if it doesn’t excuse, my delay (for
which my sincere apologies) in returning this questionnaire.

CHARLES JOSEPH LIEBMAN, JR.

HOME ApowFss: 220 E. 73d St. New York 21, N. Y.

Bay: Oct. 30, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Joseph Liebman,
"y8, Aline Meyer.

yurpanip at: Lincoln School of Teachers’ College, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930, pecree: Diplomé (Ecole Pratique des Hautes-
Frudes, Paris), 1939.

OUPATION: Literary research.

orricys trio: Fellow, Pierpont Morgan Library, since 1952; zone com-
mander, Zone 4, 19th Precinct, New York, Air Warden Service; mem-
ber Office of Censorship, New York, 1943-45.

samara ov: Grolicr Club; Mediaeval Academy of America; French Insti-
tute, New York; Modern Language Association of America, Linguis-

[ 614]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tic Circle of New York; Medieval Club, New York; Société de lhis-
toire, Paris; Société J-K Huysmans, Paris.

PUBLICATIONS: Etude sur La Vie en Prose de Saint-Denis, Geneva, N. Y.,
1942; articles and reviews.

SAVE for a brief interval spent in government service, I have
devoted most of my time to research work in the field of mediaeval
French history and literature, subjects in which I first became
interested at Harvard under Professor Charles H. Taylor. My
most recent study — three years in the making — concerns itself
with the authorship of an extensive twelfth-century Biblical com-
mentary in the Pierpont Morgan Library in New York. It will be
published during the course of the winter.

My working library, acquired in the main in Paris before 1939,
includes a number of volumes about the topography and early
history of the city. Some of these books and maps have been on
loan: in 1951 to the French Embassy (Cultural Division), and in
1954 to the Morgan Library.

In addition to book collecting, my hobbies are travel and
photography.

URBAN JOSEPH LINEHAN

HOME ADDRESS: 3605 Greenly St., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Dept. of Geography, Catholic University of America, Wash-
ington 17, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 13, 1911, Bridgewater, Mass. parents: Michael Joseph Linehan,
Mary Catherine Bambrick.

PREPARED AT: Bridgewater High School, Bridgewater, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREES: S.B. (Bridgewater State Teachers Coll.),
1933; A.M. (Clark Univ.), 1946; pH.p. (ibid.), 1955.

MARRIED: Mary Madeline Criste, Sept. 13, 1950, Washington, D. C. cHILDREN:
Mary Agnes, Aug. 19, 1952, Katherine Ann, June 9, 1953.

occupaTION; Assistant professor of geography, Catholic University of
America,

OFFICES HELD: Member Placement Committee, Association of American
Geographers, 1949-52; treasurer, Catholic University of America Chap-
ter, Society of the Sigma Xi, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Association of American Geographers; American Geographical
Society; Sigma Xi; Royal Geographic Society, London; American
Meteorological Society; National Council of Geography Teachers;
Geographers Association, Sheffield, England; National Geographic So-
ciety; Clark University Geographical Society.

[ 615 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

PUBLICATIONS: Geography: Army Training Programs, University of Cincin-
nati (with John L. Rich and O. R. Bergsmark), 1944; “Flour Milling
and Meat Packing”, and “Distribution of Transportation Facilities”, in
Economic Geography, Jones, C. F. and G. G. Darkenwald, Macmillan
Co., 1941; “The Air-Mass Calendar: A Basic Tool for Studies in Air.
Mass Climatology”, American Meteorological Society Bulletin, 1945,
“Type of Air Mass and Certain Features of the Associated Weather at
Each Synoptic Hour at Pittsburgh for Selected Months: A Contribution
to Air-Mass Climatology”, a.m. thesis, 1946; Tornado Deaths in the
United States, Ann Arbor, Michigan, University Microfilms, 1955.

ABRAHAM LOUIS LIPOFSKY

MAILING ADDRESS: Riverside Avenue, Bedford, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 4, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel Lipofsky, Rebecca
Rubinovitz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

occupaTIOn: Mercantile business.

+ PHILIP LIPPER

BoRN: May 1, 1908, Rowne Wolepir, Poland. parents: Morris Lipper, Mary
Greisser.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934(35)-

MarriEpD: Tillie Levine, Nov. 13, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Steven, July
17, 1943; Marcia, April 22, 1947.

piep: Dec. 31, 1952, Mattapan, Mass.

AFTER graduating from the Law School, Lipper entered the
practice of law. In 1938 he was associated with the firm of
Loewenberg & Harden in Boston. Eight years later he was with
the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U. S. Department of Labor
at Boston, and in our last Report he wrote that he was an econ-
omist with this Bureau. In college he held the Mitchell Frieman
Scholarship and was a member of the Pierian Sodality,

JOSEPH HAROLD LIPTON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 Kimball Rd., Lynn, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 10, 1910, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Harry Lifchitz, Lena Kamin-
sky

f 616 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935.
marriep: Adele Rosenberg, June 21, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan,

July 27, 1939; Laurie, July 23, r945.

occupation: Urologic surgeon.

OFFicEs HELD: President, North Shore Medical Society; visiting urologist,
Lynn Hospital; consulting urologist, Union Hospital, Saugus General
Hospital, Danvers State Hospital; chief urologist, Doctors Hospital;
associate urologist, Beth Israel Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Society (medical); Tufts Honor-
ary Society; New England section, American Urologic Association;
Harvard Club, North Shore; Tufts Alumni Club, North Shore; Massa-
chusetts and North Shore Medical Societies; Temple Lodge, AF. &
A.M.; American Legion; Temple Beth El, Lynn; Jewish Community
Center, Lynn,

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers on “Action of Furmethide on Bladder”, 1941-
42.

AFTER graduation I entered Tufts Medical School, receiving

my A{.D. in 1935. Then followed seven years of internship, resi-

dency and postgraduate work in the field of urology. My military

career in the Navy was cut short by a recurrence of arthritis and

in 1944 I entered private practice.

In 1946 I closed my office in Boston and since then have prac-
tised my specialty in Lynn. Professional activities are limited to
this area with periodic visits to Boston. Being a specialist in a
relatively small community has had many advantages as opposed
to general practice. I find that I have a good deal of time to
devote to my family and hobbies. Blessed as I am with a charming
wife and two very attractive daughters, I am gradually getting
accustomed to being referred to as “the father of those popular
Lipton girls”. Fortunately, my home at present seems big enough
to accommodate the large group of teen-agers who continually
take over.

The large house has given me an opportunity to become fairly
handy with paint brush, wrench and hammer, and I take consider-
able pride in being able to keep the place in reasonably good con-
dition without assistance. My chief hobby has been photography,
both medical and general, and my darkroom affords me many
hours of pleasure. I believe that my family is probably the most
photographed in America, for Pll sneak up on them with my
Leica at the least provocation. Trips and cruises are taken only

[617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

as an excuse to add to my collection of interesting photography.

In summation — the satisfaction derived from a comfortable
practice, a fine family, and the opportunity to indulge in hobbies
has made a well-rounded life these past years, A moderate amount
of exercise — golf and sailing —and the participation in com-
munal affairs in this city round out a reasonably happy existence.

JAMES LOVELL LITTLE, JR.

MAILING aDprEss: 854 I St., Coronado, Calif.

porx: May 24, 1908, Brookline, Mass. parents: James Lovell Little, ’97,
Lenora Schlesinger.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

marriep: Louise G. Wall, 1928, Milford, N. H. (divorced 1936); Shirley
Barnes Vackert, Feb. 9, 1946, Seattle, Wash. cuitpren: Mary Lee, May 9,
1932; Carl Henry Vackert (stepson).

occupation: Horticulture.

DAVID DEMAREST LLOYD

HOME ADDRESS: 2501 Ridge Road Dnive, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 1001 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C.

BoRN: June 6, 1911, New York, N. Y. parents: David Lloyd, °98, Eliza
Shore Marhews.

prepared aT: Plainfield High School, Plainfield, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1935.

marniep: Charlotte Tuttle, Oct. 19, 1940, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN: An-
drew Mathews, May 17, 1943; Louisa Tucker, May 19, 1947.

occupation: Executive director, Harry S. Truman Library, Inc.

orFices HELD: Member national board, Americans for Democratic Action,
1953-55; member executive committee, Christian Action, 1953-56; mem-
ber organizing committee, Christianity and Modern Man Lecture Ser-
ics, Washington, D. C,, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City.

PuBLicaTions: Son and Stranger, Houghton Mifflin, 1950; various articles
in periodicals.

FOLLOWING a year as a Henry Fellow at Cambridge, England,
I returned to Harvard in 1932 to attend the Law School, which I
found heavy going until I reached Felix Frankfurter and Red
McLaughlin in my last year. They turned my thoughts to public
service and Classmate James Rowe recruited me for Washington,

(618 j

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

where I got a job in the Resettlement Administration in 1935. In
1936 I moved up to the Hill, to the legal staff of a subcommittee
of the Senate Labor Committee, composed of Senator Robert M.
La Follette, Jr., and Senator Elbert Thomas of Utah. I served
them as assistant general counsel, handling the legal and sometimes
the substantive aspects of their monumental investigation into the
denial of civil liberties in the field of labor relations, for about
four years. These were two remarkable and courageous senators,
now both dead, whose work helped to bring a new spirit of de-
cency and fairness into the relations between organized labor and
organized management.

In 1940 the work of the Committee was over and I joined the
legal staff of the Federal Communications Commission. In the
same year I married Charlotte Tuttle, a fellow government lawyer
in the Department of the Interior. We made our home in the
growing city of Alexandria, Virginia, where we still live.

In 1941 I moved into the war agencies in Washington, being
rejected for military service for physical reasons. For a while I
worked in the legal division of OPA on rationing and then as an
assistant general counsel of the Foreign Economic Administra-
tion, One of the most exciting jobs in this period was a trip to
Italy in December, 1943, as an assistant to Adlai E. Stevenson on
his mission to look into the economic situation of the liberated
areas and recommend measures for their administration. After
the liquidation of FEA, I went to London to act as legal adviser to
our economic minister, Tom Blaisdell, on the settlement of Lend-
Lease and related matters. My wife and baby son were with me
and we had an interesting year there, but the desperate condition
of Europe and the deliberate hostility of the Soviet to Western
recovery made it hard to think of going into private practice after
the year was up, as I had first intended to do. Early in 1947 I was
employed as director of research for the newly-formed Americans
for Democratic Action, where I was able to help in rallying
public opinion to support aid to Greece and Turkey and the
Marshal] Plan, as well as the liberal cause generally. In the cam-
paign of 1948, I worked at first for the Democratic National Com-
mittee and then I was taken on as a member of the White House
speech-writing staff. Following President Truman’s glorious vic-

[ 619 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

tory, Charles S. Murphy asked me to stay on at the White House
to work on legislative matters and messages and speeches, which
I did for the next four years, being appointed an administrative
to President Truman late in 1951. I have never had a boss so con-
siderate, so friendly, so loyal to his staff as the President, who has
already taken his place as one of the truly great American states-
men.

At the end of his term of office, I was asked to serve as the
executive director of the Harry S. Truman Library, Inc., a corpo-
ration engaged — under Basil O’Connor — in raising the funds for
a library and research center to house the ex-president’s papers in
Independence, Missouri. The building, now under construction,
will be finished by the end of 1956 and we have almost reached
our fund-raising goal of $1,750,000. When it is done, it will be
turned over to the federal government as a gift.

In spite of all the traveling I do around the country on behalf
of the Library, I manage to have some fun with my wife and our
two growing children, who are all a constant source of happy
surprises. My wife represents the family in local and state civic
affairs and politics, and also occasionally practises law. I squeeze
out some time for water-color painting and creative writing, and
I have worked with our classmates Rood, Perry, and Scully to
bring the great orthodox theological revival of our times to a
wider adult audience in the Washington area. Our guide in this
enterprise is the great teacher, A. T. Mollegen, a former pupil of
Paul Tillich, whom Harvard has now wisely taken on.

We take our summer vacations at Lake George with my Repub-
lican parents-in-law, where the children — with their numerous
cousins — spend most of the time in or under the water. My
father, ’98, my mother, and my two sisters live in New York City,
which is our port of call on various festal occasions.

HORATIO LOCKE

MAILING ADDRESS: 2106—C, Curundu, Canal Zone.

BorN; April 25, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Horace Edward Locke, Jose-
phine Parker.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

Occupation: Military service.

[ 620 ]

seeape eee cme weateemey pee ee

ee ED

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN WILLARD LOCKE, Il

HOME apprEss: 3 Grove Ave., Auburn, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Sinclair Refining Co., 5 W. 48th St.. New York 20, N, Y.

BorN: March 20, 1910, Medford, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Hubert Locke, Jean
Montgomery Crawford.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: s.B. (Colby Coll.), 1933.

margieD: Ruth Abernathy, Feb. 1, 1941, Canton, Mass. (annulled 1948); Mary
Elizabeth Heffron, March 12, 1949, Rochester, N. Y. cuttpren: Mary
Jean, March 1, 1950; Elizabeth Willard, Sept. 18, 1951; John David,
April 14, 1954.

occupaTion: Metal-working engineer, eastern district, Sinclair Refining Com-
pany, petroleum.

orFices HELD: Deacon, Second Presbyterian Church, Auburn, N. Y,, since
I e

Mempee or: Auburn Lodge, No. 431, AF. & A.M.

I STARTED my career with Stone’s Express of Lynn and re-

mained from 1933 to 1936. Then I joined the Texas Company as

industrial sales representative in New Hampshire, Vermont and

southern Maine, and in 1939 they transferred me to the city of

Rochester. From that city I left on March 12, 1942, to join the

Navy as a lieutenant (j.g.). The Navy finally released me to

inactive duty on September 19, 1946, as a commander, and on

October 1, 1955, discharged me from the inactive Reserve.

After my Navy tour I joined Sinclair Refining as an industrial
representative for Northwest Pennsylvania. In 1948 I was made
cutting oil representative for the State of New York. In 1954 the
added job of heat treating oils was added, and in March, 1955, I
was assigned to the eastern district as metal-working engineer.
Last fall we were given notice to move to a locality near the New
York office, and as a result Mrs, Locke and I have been house-
hunting. Since January we have been sitting on the hot seat wait-
ing for a bank to agree to a G.I. mortgage, and the latest word as
of February ist was that the Veterans Administration was scan-
ning our proposal. More than likely by the time this goes to press
we shall have moved our family.

Other than trying to start raising a family long after my col-
leagues, my activities have been confined to learning all I can
about a very fascinating field of industrial petroleum, and my
family, which I see only on week-ends.

{ 621 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

HERBERT LOMAX

HOME ADDRESS: 7947 Cedarbrook St., Philadelphia 19, Pa.
OFFICE appress: Tradesmens Bank & Trust Co., Broad & Chestnut Sts,
Philadelphia 10, Pa.

BORN: April 12, 1904, Cumberland, Md. parents: William Lomax, Margaret
Crowe.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931; Grad. (School of Banking,
Rutgers Univ.), 1944.

MarRiED: Dorothy Whittle McCoy, Sept. 11, 1937, Philadelphia, Pa. cup:
Carole Ann, June 10, 1940.

occupation: Secretary, Tradesmens Bank & Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and director, Building Operation Holding Com-
pany, Title Holding Company, Philadelphia; director, B. Wiéilmsen,
Inc., Philadalphia; member Official Board, First Methodist Church of
Germantown.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Cedarbrook Country Club,
Cheltenham, Pa.; Financial Public Relations Association; Star in the
Fast Lodge, No. 59, AF. & A.M., Exeter, N. H.

IN August, 1931, two months after my graduation, I finally landed
a job as a messenger in a bank — and here I am, still with the same
institution twenty-five years later. Previously, my thoughts had
centered upon teaching, but personal circumstances and the times
decided my life’s work for me.

Once having made the plunge, however, I was soon caught up
with the excitement of the banking scene (at least to the extent of
wondering how long my job would last) in the hectic days lead-
ing up to the moratorium; but, as I was assured that our bank was
the soundest in Philadelphia, I stayed on, After a few years of
training in practically every department of this fairly large city
bank, I finally settled down as a lending officer. This has been
my work until three years ago when, as a result of a merger, I was
elected secretary of the company.

I continue to be a director of several small businesses stemming
out of my banking work, which cannot possibly be of interest to
my classmates; and, of course, I belong to the usual banking asso-
ciations whose annual conventions have provided me with an
extra weck’s fully-paid vacation from Florida to California. Not
having been in the service (turned down because of age and poor
eyesight when I tried to get a commission, and too old to be

{ 622 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

subject to the draft even as a buck-private), these trips have been
the extent of my traveling.

As my present work allows me to keep regular banking hours, I
am now free to devote more time to my good wife and teen-age
daughter. Helping my youngster with her Latin and French
homework has carried me back some thirty years to my struggles
at Exeter. I am sure that my old teachers would be very much
surprised at my ability now to make a little sense out of Caesar
and Cicero. Books on English history and literature still exert the
same fascination upon me as they did in college; and, for those
few hours of quiet satisfaction that I am able to reserve out of the
week, I am grateful for my classes with Lowes, Kittredge, Bliss
Perry and those other great teachers of English literature. Thus I
subscribe to the Speculum and derive more pleasure from its
scholarly articles on social history of the past than I do from the
nervous writings of some weeklies on the political, economic, and
military history of the present and the dreaded future.. At times
“the world is too much with us”, and I for one enjoy a respite
from it.

I belong to the Harvard Club of Philadelphia and several other
luncheon clubs, spend too many hours at the Cedarbrook Country
Club, and am a member of the executive committee of the Eastern
Pennsylvania Exeter Alumni Association. Seven or eight years
ago I became very much interested in the First Methodist Church
of Germantown, where I am a member of the Official Board, the
Finance Committee and am chairman of the Educational Com-
mittee of the Church School. Now I attend church regularly; and
yet, when I remember that I did not once step inside Appleton
Chapel during my four years at college, I can only assume that I
must have been terribly stupid in those days not to have been at
least a little curious about matters of the spirit. Happily, this has
been corrected and by a Yale, 31 man, the senior minister of the
church.

Politically, I have become with the passage of the years a dyed-
in-the-wool Democrat. Once I was a Republican, but I don’t boast
of having voted, not once but twice, for Herbert Hoover! But
my personal experience has confirmed my reading of American
history, for I am convinced that over the long pull it has been the

[ 623 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Democratic party which has been concerned about, and done
more for, the welfare of the average American citizen. As against
the solitary figure of Lincoln, there comes to my mind the great
Democratic leaders of the past — Jefferson, Jackson, Wilson and,
of course, Franklin D. Roosevelt——who have battled for the
social and economic reforms which Republicans violently op-
posed at the time but which few would deny to the people today.

More important now, however, is the struggle going on to
control the minds of men. One target in this struggle is Harvard
and I am proud beyond words of President Pusey who has stood
so firmly and magnificently against political interference and
other outside pressure which would have ultimately destroyed
our great University. Harvard’s motto, Veritas, has never been
more meaningful to me than during these past few years.

JOHN GERALD LONG, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 18 Thornley St., Dorchester 25, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Div. of Employment Security, 135 Clarendon
St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 1, 1910, Boston, Mass. PaRENTS: John Gerald Long, Agnes Rice
Godding.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Joseph Long, ’35.

OCCUPATION: State government service, Massachusetts Division of Employ-
ment Security.

LOOKING backward over the last twenty-five years, my first
reaction is that not very much has happened to me that is worth
recording, The usual personal and business problems have, of
course, arisen from time to time, but none of these is of any great
interest to anyone.

My pleasures over the years have come from the theatre, from
travel and from the joys of what I fondly hope is intelligent con-
versation. Reading is so much a part of me that I do not consider
it as a hobby or pleasure, but as an integral and necessary part of
life,

It seems only fitting that, in a report of this type, one should say
something of Harvard and what it has meant to him. However,

[ 624 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this is a very broad subject and one about which it is only too
easy to become stuffy or sententious. Therefore, let me say
merely that the liberal arts training which I received has been of
immeasurable value to me. It has given me a perspective and a
sense of proportion which has made it possible for me to avoid the
excesses of the extreme right and the extreme left during the great
political and social changes of the last twenty-five years.

JOHN CALEB GOULD LORING

HOME Aporess: Washington Street, Duxbury, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1908, Newtonville, Mass, parents: Richard Tuttle Loring,
’92, Mary Amory Leland.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRIED: Irene Osborne Barnes, July 29, 1943, Boston, Mass, cuitpren; John
Amory, June 21, 1947; Robert Wyatt, Jan. 6, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Tuttle Loring, Jr., "24 (deceased); Oliver Le-
land Loring, ’26.

occupATION: Psychology, research.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Duxbury Nurse Association, 1947-50; clerk, board
of governors, Council for Clinical Training, Inc. New York, 1944-49;
senior warden, Parish of St. John the Evangelist, Duxbury, since 1950;
member Corporation of Trustees of Donations to the Protestant Epis-
copal Church, Boston, since 1955.

MEMBER oF: American Psychological Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Can I Go to College?”, Azerican Hearing Society, 1934;
“Studies of the Hard of Hearing Child”; Journal of Exceptional Chil-
dren, 1938; “A Psychology of the Hard of Hearing”, Bulletin of the
New England Medical Center, 1940, 1942, 1944-45; “Selected Bibliog-
raphy on the Effects of High-intensity Noise on Man”, Journal of
Speech and Hearing Disorders, 1954; Bibliography on Hearing (S. S.
Stevens, director; J. C. G. Loring, compiler; Dorothy Cohen, techni-
cal editor), Harvard University Press, 1955.

ATTENDED the Harvard Graduate School of Education,
1931-32, and the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences,
1933-34. My career history: statistical research at the Harvard
Psychological Clinic in 1936; research at the Worcester State
Hospital in the summer of 1936; assistant at the private clinic of
M. Moore, M.D., 1937-42; consulting psychologist in the Depart-
ment of Social Service, Diocese of Massachusetts, 1943-47; con-
sulting psychologist, 1947-48; clinical psychologist at the U, S.
Naval Hospital in Chelsea, Massachusetts, 1948-49; bibliographer,

[ 625 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Harvard Psycho-Acoustic Laboratory, 1952-533 research with Dr.
A. Forbes in 1954; and research for the EEG Laboratories at the
Massachusetts General Hospital in 1955.

Travel and hobbies — sailing down in Maine and Nova Scotia.
During the war I was a civilian volunteer at the Boston Anti-
Aircraft Information Center.

SYLVESTER McALLISTER LORING

BORN: Nov. 18, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin Tappan Loring,
Luella Marie McAllister.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Doris E. Drew, Aug. 14, 1937, Athol, Mass. cup: Edgar Benjamin,
Feb. 24, 1940.

pieD: Aug. 1, 1949, Newton, Mass.

FOR a year after graduation Loring studied at the Graduate

School of Education and taught at the Belmont High School. He

then worked at the Chocorua (New Hampshire) Inn and later

as a salesman for range oil burners. In 1934 he was timekeeper for

Haartz-Mason-Grower Company in Watertown, and in 1935-1936

was an instructor in science and mathematics at the West Boylston

High School. Afterwards he was a salesman for General Electric

Company in Boston, a civilian employee of the Watertown Police

Department, and assistant editor of the Watertown Sun. In 1939

he became an insurance underwriter for the Mutual Boiler Insur-

ance Company of Boston, and held this post until his death. He

served as a medical assistant in Watertown during World War II,

and he was a charter member of the Wellesley Falls Community

Church. His wife and son survived him.

CHARLES KONRAD LOUX

LAST KNOWN ApDRESS: 215 Circle Ave., Ridgewood, N. J.

BORN: July 4, 1909, Pocatello, Idaho. parents: Charles Ephraim Milroy Loux,
Martha Dolman.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (33).

MarRRigD: Constance Cooper, Nov. 5, 1932, New York, N. Y. cHILpREN: Peter
Cooper, Feb. 24, 1934; Christopher, Nov. 2, 1938.

occupation: Mercantile business,

LOUX has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1956.

[ 626 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ WILLIAM ALFRED LOVE, JR.

poRN: Dec. 9, 1907, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: William Alfred Love,
Edith Moore.

PREPARED aT: Punahou Academy, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932.

piep: March 11, 1932, Rockville, Conn.

DURING the time Love attended Harvard he was a member of
the freshman dormitory crew and the Crispin Club. In our senior
year he served as vice-president of the undergraduate section of
the Elarvard Engineering Society. He was in his final year at the
Engineering School when he was killed in an automobile accident.

BENJAMIN LOWENBERG

HOME AppREss: 303 E. Fifth St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

orrice appress: T. I. & E. Section, Hdqrs. First Army, Governors Island,
N. Y.

Born: Nov. 17, 1910, Springfield, Mass. parents: William Lowenberg,
Jennie Baer.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

OccUPATION: Senior information adviser, Troop Information and Education,
First Army.

OFFICES HELD: Commissioner, Armed Forces Sports Officials Bureau.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; Elks; Masons,
National Sojourners; International Association of Approved Basketball
Officials; New York State Certified Football Officials; New Jersey
Certified Football Officials; Jowa-Nebraska, Missouri Sports Officials.

PuBLicarions: Writings in Scholastic Coach, Elementary English Review,
Look, and many Army papers.

AFTER graduation from college, I took some education courses
in Albany, New York, for a New York State teaching license and
then taught school and worked as a sports writer for the Albany
Times-Union, At the same time I officiated at high school and
college football and basketball games and also coached football at
St. John’s High in Rensselaer, New York.

In 1942 I entered the Army as a private and was separated in
1946 as a captain. I am now a major in the Signal Corps Reserve.
During the war I worked with incorrigible German PW’s, as
my training had been in military intelligence at Camp Ritchie,

[ 627 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I93I

Maryland. I also wrote a daily column for the Albany Tizmes-
Union called, “I’m in the Army Now”. From 1946 to 1950 I re-
turned to school teaching in Albany and newspaper work. Not
finding this to my liking, I taught one summer session at Butler
University in Indianapolis and then took a job as editor-in-chief
for the Signal Corps Board at Fort Monmouth. In 1952 I trans-
ferred to First Army Headquarters where I am now chief infor-
mation adviser in the Troop Information and Education program.

ROBERT GILCHRIST LUCKEY

HOME ADDRESS: Exeter, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

BORN: Feb. 21, 1910, Vinton, Iowa. ParENTs: John Eddy Luckey, Emma
Gilchrist.

PREPARED AT: Vinton High School, Vinton, Iowa; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 A.M. 1937.

OCCUPATION: Instructor in English.

SCHOOL-TEACHING is always strenuous and absorbing, some-
times exhausting and nerve-racking, and often it is a sheer delight.
My job is no sinecure, of course; few men would seriously urge
their sons to enter an occupation so modestly paid. In our ten-
year Report, I estimated that I had corrected about fifteen thous-
and themes, and by now the total must be well over forty
thousand. Yet this fact is less disheartening than it seems. Work-
ing with youth is really a pleasure, and teaching a class of boys is,
at least in one’s better moments, an art as well as an occupation.
Few ways of earning a living, I think, can be more engaging. Life
in a small academic community is good, too, if you enjoy knowing
fairly well the people in your town and like being surrounded by
friends of similar interests.

In the summer of 1931, I went with Jack McGinley, Ben Frazier,
Al Baldwin, and other classmates on a North Cape cruise, and
then on a long automobile tour of western Europe. The most
memorable part of our trip was the rather appalling glimpses we
had of Leningrad and Moscow. Returning to Harvard in the fall,
I spent a year taking history courses in an attempt to learn a bit
more about what I had seen, meanwhile earning a part of my

[ 628 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

living by working in the freshman library and proctoring in the
Yard. Then, in 1932, I got my first full-time job, as teacher of
English at Lafayette College in Easton, Pennsylvania. 1 was there
for three years and had a pleasant and profitable apprenticeship.
I then came back to Harvard and began graduate work in English
— my field in college. In the winter of 1936-37, I left Harvard to
fill a teaching vacancy at Exeter, where I had been a student for
one year, [ have been at Exeter ever since.

My activities here have been varied and to some extent experi-
mental. For a number of years I worked at devising a program of
objective tests — this in addition to my regular classroom duties,
One of my chief interests in the school has been our annual testing
program, which I initiated. I also had a good deal to do with
starting the remedial training in language now available here.
Partly as an outgrowth of these innovations, the school has devel-
oped further interest in student counseling, and has appointed
visiting consultants in psychiatry and educational psychology. In
addition to teaching English, I am currently giving a two-hour
course in geography. I have assisted in minor ways with the ath-
letic program, served on various faculty committees, and managed
a dormitory. For several years I helped edit the alumni bulletin,
and for a time worked on school publicity — in the days when
our primary aim was to avoid it, I have done a little commuting
to Cambridge in order to take courses at the Harvard Graduate
School of Education.

Music I have always enjoyed, and I still play the piano on
occasion. I read a bit, though less than I should like. In my early
years here I did a good deal of skiing, riding, swimming and
mountain climbing. Since an illness in 1950, however, I have had
to cut down on strenuous sports, and now lead a rather sedentary
life. At the time, I took up water-coloring and learned to play the
guitar; but the results were not very inspiring —I was clearly no
Sargent or Segovia. Last summer I rented a country place and
devoted myself, when not in the classroom, to the brutish (in New
Hampshire!) but mouth-watering hobby of growing common
garden vegetables, and in this, at least, I met with overwhelming
returns,

One of my recreations for a number of years was membership

[ 629 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

in a Community drama group of some two hundred amateurs
called “The Exeter Players”. We experimented with all kinds of
shows. I like to recall taking parts in Anderson’s “Joan of Lor-
raine”, Wilde’s “Importance of Being Earnest”, Shakespeare’s
“Twelfth Night”, and in a slapstick modern piece as a victim of
“Petticoat Fever”. It was hard for us to find manageable plays,
and we took ourselves very seriously, straining — too hopefully,
I suppose — toward professional standards.

Since coming to Exeter, I have taught eight or nine times in our
Summer Session, traveled one summer in Europe (1937), and
spent a couple of summers in Nantucket, a favorite spot. I have
also traveled in many parts of the United States and Canada.

WILLIAM GAST LUSSKY

HOME ADDRESS: 936 Dove Lane, Louisville, Ky.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Progress Paint Mfg. Co., Louisville, Ky.

BoRN: Dec. 31, 1908, Louisville, Ky. Parents: Clifford Lussky, Mary Edith
Gast.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1938. DEGREE: s.B. (Univ. of Kentucky), 1931.

MARRIED: June Fairleigh, Nov. 7, 1933, Hopkinsville, Ky. cuitpren: Wil-
liam Gast, Jr., Nov. 17, 1936; Edith Lawrence, Dec. 4, 1938; Robert
Fairleigh, Feb. 3, 1940.

occuPATION: Secretary, Progress Paint Manufacturing Company, paint and
varnish makers.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Chi Fraternity; Philatelic Club of Louisville; Kiwanis
Club; Audubon Country Club; Filson Club.

AFTER college I entered my present employ. Worked at the
New York office, Oklahoma and Tennessee areas. Returned to
home town of Louisville in 1945 to take charge of production.
Two years later I was put in charge of sales as production co-
ordinator. Still at it. Was made secretary in 1953. Have enjoyed
collecting Kentucky historical data from originals, helping micro-
film early court house records beginning in 1784. Have same
hobby collecting Kentucky postal history. Played golf in college
and later. Also tennis until recently. Won the University of
Kentucky college meet in golf and tennis. Another hobby I have
is collecting antique Kentucky furniture. Now my principal
hobby is my children, along with swimming in summer and

[ 630 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bowling int Winter. My political convictions are as ever mixed
but mostly Republican nationally. Religious conviction — Cath-
olic.

WARREN FREDERICK LUTZ

HOME AporESS: Tucker's Town, Bermuda.

Born: Nov. 24, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Frederick Louis Lutz, ’o2,
Lillian M. Gillett.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: 5.B., 1931.

MarRiED: Gwendolyn Roome, Dec, 13, 1931, Westbury, N. Y. (divorced
1938); Josette G. Daly, Sept. 25, 1942, New York, N. Y. (divorced
1949); Audrey Brown, May 7, 1952, Bermuda. cuitp: Maria T., Feb.
19, 1948.

MEMBER OF: Royal Bermuda Yacht Club; Mid Ocean Club; Coral Beach
Club; Angler's Club.

I MOVED to Bermuda in 1951 after working in the First National
Bank of the City of New York, Stehli Silks, Standard Brands,
Inc., and then the Long Island Department of Douglas L. Elliman
& Company, Inc.

Using Bermuda as a base, I have done quite a bit of traveling
recently. My hobby is fishing. I am an Episcopalian and a Re-
publican, though I can’t vote from here.

FRANK LYMAN, JR.

HOME Appress: 12 Reservoir St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cambridge Thermionic Corp. 445 Concord Ave., Cam-
bridge, Mass.

BORN: June 22, 1908, Southampton, N. Y. parents: Frank Lyman, '74, Flor-
ence Moodv.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Jeanne Sargent, June 15, 1936, Sudbury, Mass. cHmpren: Chris-
tine Sargent, Aug. 18, 1937; Anne Jean, April 11, 1939; Sandra, Oct. 1,
1940; Sarah Elizabeth, Dec. 18, 1942; Florence Chapin, March 8, 1945;
Edward H. Robbins, Aug. 28, 1946, Cornelia Chapin, Jan. 17, 1948;
Frank, 3d, March 22, 1951; Diana, May 18, 1954.

OccuPATION: President, Cambridge Thermionic Corporation, Harvey Radio
Laboratory, Inc. Middlesex Broadcasting Corporation and the Rush
Creek Land Company.

[ 631 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvey Radio Laboratories, Inc., mobile radio
units, Middlesex Broadcasting Corporaion—WTAO, WXHR &
WTAO-TV — broadcasting and televising, Rush Creek Land Com-
pany, coal mining; director, Cambridge Chamber of Commerce; vice-
president, Armed Forces Communications Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Advertising Club
of Boston; Radio & Television Executives Club; Executives Club of
Boston Chamber of Commerce; National Security Industrial Associa-
tion; National Metal Trades Association; American Ordnance Asso-
ciation; Harvard Faculty Club (graduate member).

IN the last ten years I have shifted from making micro-wave
equipment to making parts for micro-wave equipment. Cam-
bridge Thermionic Corporation, of which I am president, has now
taken over Harvey Radio Laboratories, making mobile radio
units. I also operate Boston’s concert Radio Station WXHR, and
a popular radio Station, WIAO-TYV, and am president of the coal
mining concern, Rush Creek Land Company. Our summers are
now spent on Squam Lake in Holderness, New Hampshire, where
we indulge in a variety of water sports, particularly skiing. My
eldest daughter is now a freshman at Vassar, but the remaining
eight children keep our household fairly active.

+ GARRETT EDWARD McADAMS

BorN: April 20, 1906, Lowell, Mass. Parents: James Philip McAdams, ’91,
Mary Rinn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Philip McAdams, ’21 (deceased); Gregory Jerome
McAdams, ’26.

piep; March 14, 1938, Midland, Texas.

THE Secretary has no information concerning McAdams’ activi-
ties after he left college.

CHARLES WYNN McCANDLESS

HOME appress: Las Vegas, Nev.
OFFICE ApprEss: Civilian Personnel Office, Nellis Air Force Base, Las Vegas,

Nev,
BorN: Nov. 20, 1909, Minot, N. Dak. parents: Roy Alexander McCandless,
Mary Alice Wynn.

[ 632 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Minot High School, Minot, N. Dak .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931 (35).

MARRIED: Aileen Fisher, Sept. 3, 1946, Wilmington, Del.

OCCUPATION: Position classifier, Department of the Air Force.

MEMBER OF: Society for Personnel Administration; National Federation of
Federal Employees; American Legion; Harvard Club of Tucson; Prot-
estant Episcopal Church.

AFTER the Fifteenth Reunion, the only one of these very pleas-
ant events that I’ve been able to attend, I returned to New York
City and continued my trading activities in stocks and commodi-
ties. I fared rather well for a time but, after a year or two, became
convinced that speculation was not my forte. In 1948 my wife
and I decided to go west and become residents of the Golden
State — Oakland, to be specific. A short time later, I entered
civil service and have been an employee of the federal government
ever since, except for one or two brief intervals.

In 1951 I received an appointment as an occupational analyst
with the Adjutant General’s Office, Department of the Army, and
we moved to that very beautiful and interesting city on the banks
of the Potomac. There was a rather large reduction in force early
in 1953, however, and I was forced to transfer to a new Signal
Corps depot in the Pocono Mountains of Pennsylvania, a place
with the improbable name of Tobyhanna. My job there was
organization and methods examiner. The next year I received an
appointment with the Bureau of Indian Affairs in Gallup, New
Mexico, as a position classifier in their area office. I was very glad
to get back into personnel work, and we both enjoyed our stay in
this interesting and colorful part of the country. We were lucky
enough to be in Santa Fe for the annual fiesta, at the Grand
Canyon for Christmas, and to see the rather unusual ceremony
known as the Hopi Snake Dance.

I received a promotion last year and transferred to Davis-
Monthan Air Force Base in Tucson, Arizona, also as a position
classifier. This is the headquarters of the 36th Air Division of the
Strategic Air Command, a rather large B-47 bomber base. This
also is a very interesting part of the country, and we have en-
joyed trips to Hermosille and Guaymas in Sonora, Mexico, to old
Tombstone, “the town too tough to die”, and to the Saguaro and
Organ Pipe Cactus National Monuments.

[ 633 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Just a few days before these lines were written, I was offered a
position at a higher grade in the same line of work at Nellis Air
Force Base, Las Vegas, Nevada, which I accepted, So, long before
this appears in print, we shall probably become residents of the
lively city of Las Vegas, also the home town of Madison Graves.
Since the gambling tables hold no inordinate fascination for either
of us, we may stay “in the black” even in Las Vegas. I hope to
continue in classification work with the federal government for
the foreseeable future and am somewhat encouraged by the fact
that I have advanced four grades since I left Pennsylvania late in
1954.

As for avocations, I enjoy traveling in out-of-the-way places,
classical music, especially Bach, Haydn and Mozart on my “Hi Fi”
set. I also play a little golf and poker, enjoy small game and wild-
fowl hunting and target shooting. I also try to keep up with de-
velopments in the expanding field of public administration, espe-
cially personnel administration, and hope some day to complete
my work for the Ph.D. degree, i.e., the orals and dissertation.

WILLIAM DOAN McCURDY

LAST KNOWN ADpRESS: 1454 Belle Plaine Ave., Chicago 13, Ill.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: William Harvey McCurdy,
Lillian Sandberg.

PREPARED AT: Nicholas Senn High School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

McCURDY has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1047.

DONALD PETER MacDONALD

HOME ADDRESS: 499 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Esso Standard Oil Co., Rockefeller Center, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 31, 1907, Great Falls, Mont. PARENTS: John Donald MacDonald,
Anna Dolliver.

PREPARED AT: Great Falls High School, Great Falls, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929~1932.

Marriep; Alice K. Doherty, Feb. 25, 1936, Scituate, Mass. cutLp: P. Douglass,
May 13, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Purser.

MEMBER oF: Old South Church, Boston, Mass.

[ 634 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN MacDonald’s absence at sea, his wife has supplied us with the
following information:

“In 1940 he went to Newfoundland as chief inventory man for
the Naval Base at Argentia. Upon returning, he became chief
auditor and paymaster for the Mystic Steamship Company owned
by Eastern Gas and Electric of Boston. He has been a purser since
1943 and has traveled all over the world many times during and
after the war. During the war he had many hazardous experi-
ences.”

WENDELL DANIEL MACDONALD

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Fairmount St., Brookline 46, Mass.

orrice aporess: U.S. Dept. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, 18 Oliver
St., Boston 10, Mass.

porn: Dec. 22, 1908, Bridgewater, Mass. parents: Charles Augustus Mac-
donald, Minnie Augusta Hutchinson.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 19313 M.B.A., 1933,

marriep: Grace Ann Fair, Oct. 16, 1937 (died Jan. 9, 1951); Palmina Mary
Bonavirt, June 5, 1952, Boston, Mass. caupren: Wendell David, March
4, 1953; Janet Mary, Nov. 15, 1954; Christine Ellen, Dec. 15, 1955.

occuPaTION: Economist, regional director, U. S. Department of Labor's
Bureau of Labor Statistics.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Advisory Board, Northeastern University Labor-
Management Institute; member Research Committee, Greater Boston
United Community Services; member Speakers’ Bureau, Holy Name
Societies, Archdiocese of Boston, councillor, Boston Chapter, American
Statistical Association; National Arrangements Chairman, American
Statistical Association Convention, 1951; former chairman, New Eng-
land Governmental Labor-Relations Conference.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Statistical Associa-
tion; Industrial Relations Research Association; Catholic Economic As-
sociation; University Club, Washington, D. C.; Boston Club of Harvard
Business School Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Reconversion in New England”, “Rhode Island Recent De-
velopments in Cash Sickness Benefits”, Monthly Labor Review, July,
1946; article on Federal-State labor statistics, Connecticut Monthly Labor
Review, March, 1953; “Carroll D. Wright and his Influence on the
BLS”, Monthly Labor Reveiw, January, 1955; “The Economic Outlook”,
Greater Boston Business, January, 1956; numerous reviews of books on
labor problems and related subjects.

MY attainments since the last Report are not remarkable save in

[ 635 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

JOSEPH LINCOLN McDOWELL

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 16 W. Notre Dame St., Glens Falls, N. Y.

BoRN: Aug. 21, 1909, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: William Henry McDowell,
Kathleen Amelda Dockery.

PREPARED AT: Washington Irving High School, Tarrytown, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES: D.M.D., 1933.

marrieD: Dorothy A. Yocum, Oct. 7, 1934, Pocantico Hills, N. Y. cuipren;
Linda A., April 6, 1939; John P., Nov. 15, 1946; Michael J., Oct. 3, 1948.

occupation: Orthodontist.

MEMBER OF: Omicron Kappa Upsilon (dental honor society).

AFTER completing an internship, post-graduate work was con-
tinued at Columbia University and a private practice of orthodon-
tics started.

Limiting ourselves to this specialty for the past twenty years has
well occupied our professional lives. One major interruption of
nearly four years occurred—a tour of the Pacific Islands at
Uncle Sam’s expense while serving in various types of Army
hospitals, being fortunate in receiving a majority on Iwo Jima
and, in due time, returning to the U. S. quite hale and hearty.

The practice in Ossining, New York (outside the Wall), inter-
rupted in 1942, was revived in 1946, but in the foothills of the
Adirondacks where we still bend wires, professionally, but closer
to our wild-life attractions, chiefly grouse and woodchucks. To
the latter the entire family often adds its combined efforts most
pleasurably, even handloading in preparation for hunting. And
the grouse, especially, offer a continued reminder in humility, a
valuable lesson so prevalent in our years of service. Our religion,
Roman Catholic.

REGINALD POWERS McELHINEY

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 92 Revere St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Aug. 25, 1908, Searsport, Maine. parents: Charles Harvy McElhiney,

Clara Ellen Whitman.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

McELHINEY has been ill for many years.

[ 638 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM KIRK McEWEN

HOME apprEss: 155 Poplar St, Berkeley 8, Calif.

orFic® aporess: University of California Medical Center, San Francisco 22,
Calif.

porN: May 29, 1910, Chicago, Il. parents: John McEwen, Emma Druin
Kirk.

paepareD aT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; A.M. 1933; PH.D, 1934.

marriep: Gertrude Johnson, July 1, 1947, Piedmont, Calif. cinupren: San-
dra, April 22, 1948; Janet, Oct. 30, 1949; Ellen, Oct. 29, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Assistant professor of experimental ophthalmology.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; American Association for the
Advancement of Science; New York Academy of Sciences; Associa-
tion for Research in Ophthalmology; University Club of Chicago; Art
Institute of Chicago,

PuBLICATIONS: “Steric Deformation, The Synthesis of N-Methyl Etiopor-
phyrin I”, 1946, “A Further Study of Extremely Weak Acids”, 1936,
Journal of American Chemical Society; “The Effect of Pentobarbital
on Aerobic Phosphorylation in Brain Homogenates”, Archives of Bio-
chemistry, 1949, and “Enzymatic Anodie Phosphorylation in Rat Brain
Homogenates”, Federal Proceedings, 1950 (with John J. Ejiler), “Filter-
Paper Electrophoresis of Tears: 1 Lysozyme and its Correlation with
Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca”, American Journal of Ophthalmology, 1955
(with Samuel J. Kimura).

AFTER graduation, the years until the war were spent in getting
a Doctor's degree in chemistry, doing research in physiology
under the late Rollin T. Woodyatt of Rush Medical School in
Chicago, and generally growing older.

Farly in 1940 I went to Washington to try to get into jet
propulsion research and fortunately met Professor Kistiakowsky
who was gathering scientists for solid propellant research. This
research covered the war years.

Following this, I journeyed to the San Francisco Bay area.
There I met my future wife, Trudie Johnson, and the third phase,
the happiest and busiest, of my life started. Work and play; Sandra
was born, work and play; Janet came, more work less play; Ellen
came, more work. Trudie is busy with home, family and building
a new house. I am busy with biochemical research in ophthal-
mology at the University of California Medical Center in San
Francisco. We are able to catch our breath a little more fre-
quently now and sandwich in more social life.

[ 639 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

JOHN RAINEY McGINLEY

HoME ADoress: Carter Street, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE aporess: Marine Midland Trust Co., 1:0 Broadway, New York, N. Y.

porn: Oct. 28, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Thomas Atterbury McGinley,
Gertrude Holden.

PREPARED AT: Fay School, Southboro, Mass.; St. Paul’s School, Concord,
N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

maxrizp: Claudia Levering Matthews, Nov. 11, 1933, New York, N. Y.
cumpreN: John Rainey, Jr, Feb. 14, 1936; Thomas Atterbury, Aug. 6,
1939; Alexander Rives, Oct. 25, 1940.

HarvarD SON: John Rainey McGinley, Jr., ’58.

occupation: Vice-president in charge of personal and corporate trust de-
partments, Marine Midland Trust Company of New York.

orrices HELD: Director, Forest City Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio,
Dragon Cement Company, Inc. New York City, Lion Match Company,
Inc, New York City, Duff-Norton Company, Pittsburgh, Pa., Federa-
tion of Protestant Welfare Agencies, New York City, Travelers Aid
Society, New York City; vice-president, 1947-49, president, 1949-51,
chairman, Schools and Scholarship Committee, 1951-54, member Board
of Governors, since 1947, Harvard Club of New Canaan, Conn.; east-
ern regional vice-president and member executive committee, since
1953, Associated Harvard Clubs; member admissions committee, Har-
vard Club of New York City, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New Canaan and New York City; Country
Club of New Canaan; Railroad-Machinery Club, New York; Railroad
Club of New York; Downtown Association; St. Nicholas Society, New
England Society, New York; Society of Colonial Wars.

ALEXANDER CAMPBELL MacGOWAN

HOME appress: 4772 VW. 220th Sc. Fairview Park, Ohio.

oFrice aporess: Fuller & Smith & Ross, Inc., 1501 Euclid Ave., Cleveland,
Ohio.

Boan: July 8, 1909, Syracuse, N. Y. parents: George MacGowan, Julia
Noxon Green.

prrparrp aT: Central High School, Syracuse, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1930-1933. DEGREE: 8.B., 1931 (33).

MaAgnirp: Carolyn Mildred Jones, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. cuiep: Bruce
Campbell, Aug. 17, 1938.

OccuPATION: Associate research director, Fuller & Smith & Ross, Inc., ad-
Vertising agency.

orvicrs HHiv; National director, 1955~57, chairman, chapter activitics com-
mittee, 1953-55, chairman, speakers’ committee, 1952-53, member na-

[ 640 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tional conference committee, 1955, member nominating committee,
1955, member national review board of Chapter Operation Manual,
1953-55, American Marketing Association; president, 1952-53, director,
1951-§2, 1953-54, co-chairman, operating committee, 1950-51, Central
New York Chapter of American Marketing Association; member na-
tional industrial conference board advisory council, Marketing Re-
search Directors, 1950-53; director Sedgwick Farms Tennis Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Syracuse (former member).

PUBLICATIONS: “An Economist Looks Ahead”, Credit and Financial Man-
agement, 1948; “Techniques in Forecasting Consumer Durable Goods
Sales”, Journal of Marketing, 1952.

SINCE departing from Cambridge in 1938, I have been entirely
occupied, job-wise, in marketing and marketing research with five
companies plus a brief but illuminating period as an independent
consultant. With characteristic MacGowan consistency, I have
switched from advertising agency to manufacturer to agency to
manufacturer to agency. At least, I can always appreciate the
viewpoint of the fellow sitting on the other side of the desk.

Always, it seems, I must pick a new connection in a different
locale from where I have begun to feel at home. The trail has
led from New York to Akron to Chicago to Syracuse to
Clevland. Family roots have been rather tenuous, a point that
has been brought up fairly often by my wife Carolyn, who is
all for settling down in some sunny clime. Whenever we get to
thinking that we are permanently located, a greener field looms
elsewhere; at least, it appears greener at the time. Ere long, old
age should put some crimp in my peregrinations.

I still endeavor to hold up a tennis racket with one hand, and
I haven’t got sense enough to know that singles is no longer for
me. Golf I am avoiding until my dotage. In my Cambridge days,
I used to sport around in one of the more decrepit Model T road-
sters. The wheel has now turned full tilt and I again find myself
with an open air contraption which I manage to touch occasion-
ally when my son Bruce wheels in to the home pit for a quick
internal refueling job. Bruce — now there’s a son who really takes
after his father. Tennis for me; golf is his game. Skiing is my
dish (on imperceptible slopes); he would rather skate than eat.
College? Time will tell.

Carolyn and I lead a rigorous social life — an occasional game
of bridge or Canasta and — when we feel particularly devilish —

[ 641 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF IQ3!

a good sound game of chess. Then, too, she is a wonderful

guinea pig for my various forays in the dusky realms of motiva-

tion research, the latest craze to raise a furor in research and ad-

vertising circles. For the benefit of anyone who would like an
expert opinion on the value of such research for unearthing deep-
down motives that will not be revealed on direct questioning, |
suggest: don’t try it on your wife. Vacations: We have had fine
ones in the Adirondacks, in Nova Scotia and in Wisconsin. We
believe in planned vacations. For instance, one year we had a
four-week vacation, planned a trip to the West Coast, made
definite reservations at Banff, Lake Louise, and other interesting
points, and what happened? We got as far west as Chicago and
wound up in Nova Scotia. It was a fine vacation, but we have
never planned extensively for one since.

EDWARD HENRY McGRATH

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Hawes St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Airport Management Board, Logan International Air-
port, vast Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 1911, Brookline, Mass. parents: Edward John McGrath,
Elizabeth Owens

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; New Preparatory
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.A., 1933; LL.B. 1936.
MARRIED: Joan M. McLaughlin, March 28, 1946, Phoenix, Ariz. CHILDREN:
Marlyn Elizabeth, March 15, 1948; James Edward, March 31, 1955.

occupation: Commussioner, State Airports, Commonwealth of Massachu-
setts; Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Brookline School Committee, 1938-42; member
board of governors, Harvard Club of Boston; colonel, U. S. Army.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

FOLLOWING graduation in 1931 I continued my studies at the
Harvard Business School and then at Harvard Law School. Soon
thereafter, I was admitted to the Massachusetts and Federal Bars,
and I engaged in the private practice of law in Brookline and
Boston until June of 1942, when I joined the U.S. Army as a
second lieutenant, being discharged as a colonel in 1946.
Following my discharge from the Army in 1946 I did con-
siderable accounting work, involving some interesting concerns.

[ 642 ]

jeemerteee cee toes eee eT
gag engnipe ta oeegeot ere Me

son sath co ei A TOO aes Me IS

  

|
|
|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During this period I developed an acute interest in airport
construction work and the Northwest, and spent some time in
that area. Still interested in airport development, I became chief
counsel to the State Airport Management Board in Massachusetts,
which body is responsible for the development of Logan
International Airport and Hanscom Field. Later, 1 became Com-
missioner of Airport Management, which position I still hold,
The time involved in airport work crowds me considerably in my
private legal work, but I manage to keep my hand in, in this
field also.

East meets West: during the latter part of World War II, my
charming wife made the long journey from Great Falls, Montana,
her native state, to enroll at Wellesley College. We met there,
and were subsequently married in Phoenix, Arizona, where her
family was wintering. This merger with the West has shaped
many of our family activities, primarily because of extended
vacations to both Arizona in the winter and the Montana moun-
tains in the summer.

Our elder child, Marlyn, eight years old, is following in her
mother’s footsteps as a lover of horses, and I am sure that the
western influence is so great on my son James that he will be
called “Cowboy” instead of “Slugger” as he bats over .500 versus
Yale in 1974-75 and °76,

Maybe our Harvard athletic teams can stand a little injection
of far-western blood. Even though I am on a committee to in-
terest and recommend all-around boys for Harvard, I feel that
Dartmouth has scooped us by enrolling four (220 Ibs. by 6’ 2”)
young men from the Great Falls High School football team in
this year’s freshman class, Next fall will give us the results; if
successful, our next hobby will be to direct this type of person
to Harvard.

Our family interests are varied. Probably buying old houses
and refinishing and redecorating is our outstanding hobby. We
feel we have become rather adept in choosing house paints, inside
and outside, plumbing, roofing and such matters,

Various local activities, such as fund raising and elementary
school affairs, consume much of our time.

[ 643 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

PAUL KENNETH McGRATH

MAILING ADDRESS: 102 Sheryl Pl., N.W., Atlanta, Ga.

BORN: June 15, 1909, Boston, Mass. ParENTs: Lawrence McGrath, Mary
Elizabeth Hammond.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

+ DONALD HAMILTON McGREEVY

BORN: Sept. 28, rgro, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Milton Cornelius McGreevy,
Dora Matilda Achenbach.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927—1929.

MARRIED: Emmy Lou Neubert, April 16, 1934, Kansas City, Mo. CHILpREN;
Sharron, Nov. 10, 1935; Donald Hamilton, Jr., Jan. 16, 1938; Mary Kath-
leen, Dec. 7, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Milton William McGreevy, '24, M.B.A., '26.

DIED: Jan. 15, 1956, Kansas City, Mo.

wipow: Mrs. Donald H. McGreevy, 6701 Cherokee Lane, Kansas City 13, Mo.

SHORTLY before his death, McGreevy had sent in his Class
Report questionnaire in which he had summed up his life as
follows: “I left Harvard at the end of the sophomore year. The
following year I entered the University of Missouri where I be-
came a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. The next year
I went to work in my father’s firm which did a brokerage business
in stocks and bonds. I did menial routine office work for several
years and then became a customers’ man, or a salesman of securi-
ties. In the early 1930’s our firm was merged with another firm
and became known as Harris, Upham & Company, and I have
since been employed by this company in the capacity of a cus-
tomers’ man.

“IT was married in 1934 to Emmy Lou. We have three children:
our elder daughter, Sharron, is in her junior year at Vassar; our
son, Donald, Jr., is a senior at Pembroke Country Day School in
Kansas City; Kathleen attends the third grade of the Sunset Hill
School in Kansas City.

“Our travels in the last few years have consisted of summer
vacations in Colorado and Minnesota and several winter trips to
the west coast of Florida. Our entire family have become sports

[ 644 ]

Dee Sale eine eee om

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

car enthusiasts. We do not engage in racing, but derive great
leasure from driving and testing the cars. We own a Jaguar
XK MC coupe and an MG TD.

“Although I have never taken an active part in politics, I ama
staunch admirer of our President and his policies. I hope his way
of thinking and political formulae will prevail for a great number
of years”.

CASWELL EUSTACE MacGREGOR, JR.

HOME ADoRESS: 304 Gibbons Rd. Springfield, Pa.

orFice appress: Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1907, Ipswich, Mass. PARENTS: Caswell Eustace MacGregor,
Emma Todd Chadbourne.

prepareD AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (32).

MarrieD: Mabel A. Thomas, July 12, 1938, Philadelphia, Pa. crip: David
Caswell, Jan. 18, 1941.

occupaTiION; Teacher, manager, Three Mile Island, A.M.C. Camp (sum-
mers).

MY years since leaving college have been almost entirely
spent in work with boys—teaching, coaching and directing
summer camps — at the Berkshire School, Ellis College, Nichols
Junior College, Girard College, etc. My former students are
now assuming positions far beyond me. It is one of the good
things about teaching to watch and try to understand why the
boys grow as they do, how close the man is to the boy. We
watch to see whether his ideals are destroyed by petty pressures
and ambitions.

Last year my wife, son and I bought our first home. It has
been, and is, fun making loam from gravel and praying for green
grass. Right now I can use any old tulip bulbs, bits of shrubbery,
etc. My wife has fortunately had the patience and will to tolerate
my bad habits — heavy smoking, general independence, well, my
Ipswich Yankee nature. Dave, our boy, at fourteen is beginning
to realize that his father knows a bit more than nothing — he
won't admit it though. It’s been a good life and I’ve enjoyed it.
The best of luck to everyone in ’31.

[ 645 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

THOMAS FRANCIS McGUANE, JR.
SEE Appendix.

"+k HENRY JOSEPH McGUINESS

BORN: Nov. 29, 1907, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Jeremiah McGuiness,
Mary Agnes Wholley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

piED: Sept. 15, 1939, Newton, Mass.

McGUINESS left college after freshman year and the Secretary
had received no information concerning him until news of his
death in an automobile accident reached him.

WILLIAM HENRY MacHALE

HOME AppRESS: Charcoal Avenue, Middlebury, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Naugatuck Chemical Div. U. S. Rubber Co., Naugatuck,
Conn.

BORN: May 23, 1908, Swarthmore, Pa. PARENTS: William MacHale, Mary
McLaughlin.

PREPARED AT: Swarthmore High School, Swarthmore, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931, M.B.A., 1933.

MaRRIED: Sarah Lee Jenkins, July, 1934, Mill Valley, Calif. cuitpren: James,
Aug. 4, 1937; Martha, June 21, 1940; Eleanor, Feb. 10, 1945.

OccUPATION: Advertising and sales promotion manager.

BEING of a modest and/or lazy disposition, I tried to have my
family write this brief biography. The results were none too
flattering and have been “edited out”.

The facts are these: Upon leaving Graduate Business School
in 1933, I joined the Plastics Division of the American Cyanamid
Company for reasons unknown to them and me. Their excuse
in that depression year was that a redhead on the payroll might
change their luck. At a cool $125 a month, what could either
of us lose?

Sally Jenkins, Radcliffe ’32, was teaching at Kent Place School
in Summit, New Jersey, at that time and as a result of my force-

[ 646 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ful and persuasive tactics decided not only to stay on the job of
teaching, but also to become my wife.

Our life settled down to the normal suburban routine of work-
ing, saving, playing a little and preparing for a family. Jim was
born in 1937 and turned out to be so welcome that Martha was
added in 1940 and Eleanor in 1945. All were born in Summit.

By that time my activities had led me to the job of handling
Cyanamid’s plastics advertising and sales promotion. In 1953 the
United States Rubber Company saw fit to hire me as advertising
and sales promotion manager of its Naugatuck Chemical Division,
Now asa resident of Middlebury, Connecticut, about ten minutes
from the office, 1 am—after eighteen years of commuting to
and from New York —a new man.

As for hobbies, I like to sit and not think —or fool with the
piano or cello, Sally claims loud music is one, but that depends
on where you sit.

PAUL EDWARD McHUGH

HOME appreEss; 18 Ernest Sc., Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFicE appress: Afassachusetts Bonding & Insurance Co., 10 Post Office Sq.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1911, Holyoke, Mass, parents: Edward Bertram McHugh,
Mary Shea.

PREPARED AT: Holyoke High School, Holyoke, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

marriep: Anne B. Martin, Oct. 12, 1940, Cambridge, Mass,

occuPATION: Lawyer.

JAMES CHAMBERS McKAY

HOME apprEss: 3 Von Lent Pl., Pittsburgh 32, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: 1005 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

BORN: June 11, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Thomas Jefferson McKay,
’o2, Martha Jane Chambers.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: 8.B. 1930.

MaRRiED: Frances Preble Reed, June 27, 1932, Pittsburgh, Pa. cHitp: Nancy,
June 7, 1934 (m. Henry Hilliard Armstrong, Feb. 6, 1954). GRranp-
cuitp: James McKay Armstrong, Dec. 16, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Jefferson McKay, Jr., ’32.

[ 647 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

OCCUPATION: President, McKay Company, manufacturers of chain, are
welding electrodes, stainless wire; president, Surface Chemicals, Inc,
MEMBER OF: Pittsburgh Golf Club; Fox Chapel Club; Duquesne Club; Roll.
ing Rock Club; Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh; American
Welding Society; Young Presidents Organization; Newcomen Society,

AFTER graduation I attended the Business School for one year
—then, instead of returning to finish, I got married and started
to work. [’ve been with the same company ever since I started
(it’s a family company, so that could have something to do with
it!), spending several years at our York, Pennsylvania, plant —
otherwise, and since, ]’ve lived in Pittsburgh.

One child, a daughter, who married an Eli, and so far I have
one grandson. My wife came from a Princeton family, so our
grandson can go to Harvard or Princeton and still have some
member of the family in his “corner”.

WILLIAM McKENNAN

HOME apbrEss: S. Great Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hunneman & Company, Inc., 19 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: July 8, 1908, Pueblo, Colo, parents: Jacob Bowman McKennan, Eda
Mae Miiller.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1931 (32).

marriepD: Alice G. Wood, July 30, 1949, Cataumet, Mass. CHILDREN: James
Thomson, June 1, 1953; Marian, June 27, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arnett McKennan, ’37.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, New England Division, Society of Indus-
trial Realtors.

MEMBER OF: Boston Real Estate Board; National Association of Real Estate
Boards; Society of Industrial Realtors, Schussverein, U.S. Naval Compo-
site Company 1-1.

FROM graduation through 1941, I was engaged in the real estate
business dealing chiefly in residential property. From 1942 to
1946, I was a deck officer in the U. S. Naval Reserve, operating in
the Caribbean and the Pacific. Since 1946, I have been with
Hunneman & Company specializing in the sale, leasing and devel-
opment of industrial and commercial real estate. My chief diver-
sions continue to be tennis, sailing and skiing, and my principal
interest is my family.

[ 648 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT IRVING McKESSSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1285 N. 21st St., Salem, Oregon.

OFFICE ADpREss: Purchasing Div. Oregon Dept. of Finance & Administra-
tion, 1225 Ferry St., Salem, Oregon.

BorN: April 6, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Irving McKesson, Mary
Henderson.

PrepareD at: Sc, Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931-

MarrigD: Jacqueline Winthrop Haley, June 28, 1940, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Ann Winthrop, March 15, 1943; John Henderson, 2d, March

5, 1947.

HARVARD BRoTHERS: John Henderson McKesson, '29 (deceased); Malcolm
Forbes McKesson, °33.

occuPATION: Buyer of laboratory and medical equipment and supplies.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Lodge No. 336, B.P.O.E.,
Salem, Oregon; Purchasing Agents Association of Oregon.

A CHECKERED career, that’s what I'd call it. It began in the
fall of 1931 at the foot of the ladder with a concern making bottle
caps and closures. Nine months later the ladder was taken away
and I found myself one of that great class, the unemployed. Those
were the “good old days” of the depression — remember? Three
months later I was lured to that den of iniquity, Wall Street, by
a character (a Harvard man, incidentally, who wound up in a
mental institution). He asked me how long I planned to remain
with the firm, Tactfully I replied that I hoped the association
would prove mutually beneficial and permanent; whereupon he
harangued on the evils of continuing more than any five years
in any field of endeavor, saying that he would have no respect
for me if I stayed longer, A bit over three years later, I earned
his respect by resigning.

Meanwhile I had evaded all enticements to enter the family
business because I did not feel that family and business mix very
well generally or that a rather unsuccessful half-year of Chem-
istry A exactly fitted me for the chemical manufacturing business.
However, in 1935 I gave in and again encountered the bottom of
the ladder. This time I had the ladder well in hand and my rise
was meteoric. In less than five years I had become a director and
secretary of the corporation. Then Uncle Sain stepped in.

After four years of R.O.T.C. at Harvard and having been duly
attested a gentleman and a second lieutenant, United States Field

[ 649 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

+ BURLIN GEORGE McKILLIP, JR.

aoas: Sept. 30, 1907, Albany, N. Y. parents: Burlin George MecKillip, Anna
Louise Siemer.

paeparrD AT: Gloversville High School, Gloversville, N. Y.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931(38); LL.B. (Georgetown
Univ.), 1937.

pirp: Mav 5, 1955, Gloversville, N. Y.

McKILLIP practised law in his home town of Gloversville, where
his work was principally in the field of real estate transactions.
During the war he served as a member of the Advisory Committee
of the local Draft Board and the Re-employment Committee for
returning veterans. He was much interested in the affairs of the
Lions Club, Knights of Pythias, and the Eccentric Club, and was
particularly concerned with the work of the local county chapter
of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. McKillip was
unmarried, and was survived by a brother, John C. S. McKillip,

of Arlington, Virginia.

ALAN CRAWFORD McKITTRICK

MAILING ADoREsS: Hq. U.S. Army, Europe, % Comptroller, APO 403, New
York, N. Y.

Born: Dec. 7, 1909, Lowell, Mass. parents: Percy Allan McKittrick, Mar-
garet Crawford Farrell.

PREPARED AT: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: $.B., 1931.

maxgigpD: Flora McDaniel. cuipren: Alan Crawford, Jr. July 7, 1935;
Judith Anne, April 22, 1937; Patricia Ann, June 14, 1945.

occuPaTION: Military service.

WILLIAM ARTHUR McMANUS

MAILING appress: 120 Regent St., Roxbury 19, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1909, Roxbury, Mass. parents: John James McManus,
Katherine Agnes Paley.

prevaren at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1931 (32),

[ 652 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PIERCE MATTHEW McMORRAN

HOME ADDRESS: 5 Paine St., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Telephone & Telegraph Co., 185 Franklin St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Fred McMorran, Jeanette
Pierce.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933 (34).

MARRIED: Josephine M. Brown, Aug. 15, 1936, Quincy, Mass. (died June 4,
1938); Alba V. Venanzi, June 22, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Roberta
Gwyn, April 24, 1941; David Flavio, June 9, 1943; Diana Mason, Sept.
2, 1944.

occuPATION: Supervisor, general operations staff, New England Telephone
& Telegraph Company.

OFFICES HELD: Original charter member and committeeman, Cub Pack No.
39, Springfield, 1952-53, committeeman Troop 34, Wellesley Hills,
1954, Boy Scouts of America; co-chairman, Building Fund Committee,
1952-53; member standing committee, 1953, Church of the Unity,
Springfield.

MEMBER OF: Wellesley Congregational Men’s Club, 1955-56.

THIS report finds me continuing to estimate commercial expenses

and force requirements in the general operations section of the

Telephone Company.

My hobbies, travel and social convictions are unduly influenced
by two active “teen-agers” and one “not quite” who thinks she
must do everything the older ones do. Hobbies include such un-
related activities as assisting in the building of a home weather
station which won for the junior high daughter a prize in a local
science fair and for me nothing but some busy evenings and a
few bruises; and building a home color slide projector because
we've taken colored pictures and want to see how they look.

Travel consists often of local “taxi service” to and from “record
hops” for daughter number one, door-to-door pick-up and de-
livery service for the Boy Scout group, and an unfortunately
early Saturday morning date at the Babson Swimming Pool with

the youngest.

JOSEPH LEO McNAMARA

HOME appreEss: 89 Farquhar St. Roslindale 31, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 653 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

porN: Nov. 22, 1907, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Albert Joseph McNamara, t
Emily Etta Farrell.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 19323 LITT.D. (Portia ;
Coll.), 1943-

marrieD: Marion Emogene Burhoe, Sept. 11, 1932, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Maureen, Dec. 11, 1934 (m. Rodney Eriksen, 1952); Joanne, May 21,
1943. GRANDCHILD: Lee Eriksen.

occuPATION: Education: master, English teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Head of Department of Psychology, director of public re-
lations, Portia College, 1937-51.

aoa ANON E CRE

SY ie NEE OR

:
F
,
i

DANIEL ELIAS McQUADE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 169 Parkview Ave., Lowell, Mass.

OFFicE ADDRESS: Dept. of Public Works, City Hall, Lowell, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 21, 1908, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Daniel Elias McQuade, Mabel
C. Walsh.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marrieD: Ann L. Mullaney, Nov. 11, 1944, Lowell, Mass.

occupation: Accountant, Department of Public Works, City of Lowell.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1942-52, president, 1952-54, Lowell Harvard Club.

MEMBER OF: Lowell Harvard Club; Longmeadow Golf Club, Lowell; Glover
Club, Lowell.

LIFE since graduation has been a normal and happy one.

JAMES LESTER MADDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 236 Laurel Lane, Haverford, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scott Paper Co., Chester, Pa.

BORN: Dec. 13, 1909, Boston, Mass. pareNts: Michael Lester Madden, Grace
Elizabeth Farrell.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1931(32): M.B.A., 1934.

MARRIED: Pauline Shaw McKean, Oct. 12, 1946, Beverly Farms, Mass. CHIL-
DREN: James Lester, Jr., Aug. 6, 1947; Anne Elizabeth, Aug. 11, 1948;
Paul McKean, April 26, 1950; Michael Lee, Dec. 16, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Farrell Madden, ’34, Lv.B., ’37.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director, Scott Paper Company.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Hollingsworth & Whitney, Ltd.,
Canada, Kennebec Water Power Company; member executive commit-

[ 654 ]

 

pee GREATER BRE OT. ee MARA PRL BAIN NEN AG

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tee, director, British Columbia Forest Products Company; president,
Hollingsworth and Whitney Company, 1945-54; director, Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company, Mutual Boiler & Machinery Insurance
Company, Thayer Hospital, Charles A. Dean Hospital, Maine; form-
erly director, Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Company, General Capital
Corporation, Boston & Maine Railroad; formerly trustee, Museum of
Science, Beverly Hospital; formerly member of the corporation, North-
eastern University, formerly vice-president and overseer, Boys Club of
Boston; vice-president, American Paper and Pulp Association, director
and former president, American Forest Products Industries, member,
Visiting Committee, Harvard Forest; deputy director, Pulp Paper
Division, WPB, 1943-44, in charge United States pulpwood productions
and imports from Canada, paper industry member, Forest Industries
Council.

MEMBER OF: Cruising Club of America; New York Yacht Club; Schussverein
(a skiing organization); Myopia Hunt Club; Skating Club of Boston
(honorary); Philadelphia Skating and Humane Society.

AFTER Commencement in 1931, I spent a year at the Harvard
Engineering School and two years at the Business School. While
still in school, I was fortunate in having two wonderful summer
trips with Dr. Alex Forbes on his ninety-cight-foot schooner,
Ramab. The first, the summer of 1931, was spent on the Labrador
Coast when I served as a seaman and assistant geographer of an
expedition which mapped, from aerial photographs made by two
airplanes which accompanied us, the northernmost 150 miles of
Labrador from Hudson’s Straits south. Dr. Forbes, an outstanding
scientist with a wide-ranging curiosity, combined his enthusiasm
for sailing and flying in organizing and leading an expedition of
twenty people, including N. E. Odell, a geologist of Mt. Everest
fame, a botanist, a geographer who was a leading aerial mapping
expert, two pilots, an aerial photographer, and a group of young-
sters to sail the boat and assist the scientists. My job involved the
ground triangulation grid base into which the aerial photos and
map were tied. The map of this little known area put together
by the American Geographical Society turned out to be of some
import for northern routes when war developed ten years later.
In the summer of 1937, I again had the good fortune to sail with
Alex Forbes — this time from Cape Cod to Spain with a stop-off
at the Azores — with a wonderful crew (the cook being the only
professional), including our classmates, Dave Forbes and John
Hallowell. Before going to work in July of 1934, I managed to

[655]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

one. There are very few people to whom one can talk at such

a time. Our classmate, Amor Hollingsworth, who was one of
our directors, was most helpful to me. Most of our employees
would be as well off after the merger —some would have ex-
panded horizons and greater opportunities, while a few others
through consolidation of activities would have to find other jobs.
Provisions would have to be made to ease the hardships that
might develop for the latter group. For myself, it would mean a
move from the Boston area for my family and a step down from
being the head of the company. On the other hand, Scott’s earn-
ings and growth record, the high calibre of its management
group, and the advantages of consolidating our timber and pulp
strength with the strong consumer market position of Scott were
interesting and attractive possibilities. We finally concluded that
the offer was too advantageous to our stockholders to turn down,
and we merged in October, 1954.

Scott gave me the responsibility of running the Hollingsworth
& Whitney Division, and has added to it the overall supervision
of their timberland management and wood procurement, which
to me is the most fascinating part of the business. Timber 1s a
unique natural resource in that it is renewable. (We also are
exploring our lands for non-renewable mineral resources.) With
intensive tree farming attention, we can and will greatly increase
the wood we grow for our mills. My job entails not only obtain-
ing the necessary wood for this year’s requirements, but involve-
ment in all long-range plans of the company to make sure that
we will have the necessary wood available on a sustained yield
basis to meet our rapidly growing needs in the years ahead. I am
no forester, but have a fine group of competent forestry assistants
which we are expanding. The job involves a great deal of travel,
as we have interests in over two million acres of timberlands
located in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Ontario, British Colum-
bia, Washington, Oregon, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, and
Maine, and we have to procure wood for mills in Wisconsin
and Michigan. Some of this, particularly on the West Coast, lies
in gorgeous country. I seem to travel about half the time, but
usually manage to get back to the family by the week-end.
Pauline McKean and I were married in 1946, and now have

three boys and a girl, We lived in the North Shore area of Boston

[658] _

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

until last September when we moved to Haverford, Pennsylvania,
which we like very much. We still retain a small house in Beverly
Farms, so the family can get back to New England and flee the
hot Pennsylvania summers. Our chief recreation has been skiing
and cruising, and we have spent practically all of our vacation
time on those activities. Next week we shall take our second
winter trip to Switzerland. Cruising has been in Cape Cod, Maine,
and Nova Scotia waters (including three races to Halifax) on our
yawl, Brenda. As the children are getting almost old enough to
sail with us, I expect there will be less ocean racing. We are hav-
ing a lot of fun teaching the children to skate and ski, and are
looking forward to cruising and skiing with them in the years
ahead. One that I am sure will be worked out is a cruise in the
Puget Sound—Vancouver Island area, a region with which I
have fallen very much in love since my new responsibilities have
taken me in that direction. Sometimes I think my life is a little
hectic, but I guess I wouldn't like it any other way.

JOHN JOSEPH MADDEN, JR.

HOME aporess: 82 Davis Ave. White Plains, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Office of Regional Counsel, Internal Revenue Service, 341
Ninth Ave. New York, N. Y.

BorN: March 11, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: John Joseph Madden, Sarah
Agnes Conroy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREES: A.B, 1931(32); LL.B., 1935.

mMarriED: Mary Agnes Reavey, Jan. 27, 1938. CHILDREN: John Joseph, Dec.
23, 1938; Dennis Patrick, July 4, 1930; Mary, April 16, 1942, Kathleen,
Feb. 29, 1944; Thomas, Oct. 30, 1945; Anne Helene, April 23, 1947; Jude
Thaddeus, Oct. 11, 1949; Sarah Therese, July 23, 1953.

AFTER graduation from Law School and admission to the
Massachusetts Bar, Washington, D. C., appeared to be a likely
spot for an attorney to be gainfully employed in 1935. This
appearance, it developed, was not without foundation and I
became an attorney in the Treasury Department in Washington.
For the past eight years I have been assigned to the New York
office of the chief counsel, Internal Revenue Service, where we
are concerned principally with matters pending before the Tax

Court.
[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

As any father knows, most of my time after the office is pretty
much regulated. This does not mean that it is not spent in an
enjoyable fashion. I have been exposed to the Boy Scouts and
similar interests of growing children which I find, on the whole,
worthy of more time and effort if I could expend them. Children
do keep your interests and ideas from getting old too fast. My
religious convictions remain Roman Catholic and I try to find
time to assist in parish activities.

DANIEL JOSEPH MAHONEY

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 35 Chester Ave., Brockton, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1906, Brockton, Mass. PaRENTs: Patrick Henry Mahoney,
Mary Hyland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

MAHONEY has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1954.

ROBERT GIRARD SAULPAUGH MAIER

MAILING ADDRESS: 42 Oak Drive, New Hyde Park, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 19, 1908, Jamaica, Long Island, N. Y. parents: John George
Maier, E. Carolyn Saulpaugh.

PREPARED AT: Jamaica High School, Jamaica, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

OccUPATION: Education. .

MANUEL peJ. MANDULEY

HOME apprEss: Seminary Hill, Alexandria, Va.; (mailing address), N.
Pegram St., Box 566, Alexandria, Va.

OFFicE appress: U. S. Information Agency, 1776 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W.,
Washington, D. C.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1909, Havana, Cuba, parents: Manuel deJesus Manduley
y Tapia, Graziella Yanez del Castillo y Canalejo.

PREPARED AT: Storm King School, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N. Y.; Worcester
Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Lyn Smith, March 2, 1939, Gatun, Panama Canal Zone. cum:
Carlos Manuel, June 14, 1943.

[ 660 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: News writer and editor, American Republics Branch, Inter-
national Press Service, U. S. Information Agency.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D. C.; Shenandoah Retreat
Country Club; Parkfairfax Tennis Club.

I CAME to Washington for two weeks in 1946 after returning
from Peru and have been here for almost ten years. It looks as
though I'll be here for the rest of my life, w hich may or may
not be an inspiring thought. In 1948 T left the U. S. Government
service and joined the Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations (FAQ) as Spanish-language editor. Three years
later I was supposed to move to Rome, Italy, FAO’s new head-
quarters, but had to resign because my wife and I had to remain
near her aged parents in Morristown, New Jersey, and I did not
want to be too far from my mother and sister who still reside
in Havana.

In 1952, therefore, I re-entered the U. S. Government service
as a Spanish-language news writer and editor on the daily wireless
bulletin which our office transmits to our information centers
and embassies in Latin America for distribution in the local press
and radio stations. The “wireless file’, as it’s called, is a fast-
moving operation similar in technique to press association news
services. The contents of stories are mainly official U. S. Govern-
ment news and all matters of world-wide scope which serve our
foreign-policy objectives.

My work, strictly on the shirtsleeve level, is exasperatingly in-
teresting and highly specialized because I write from one language
into another without the need of translators and compose stories
directly in Spanish from English-language sources. Like my
grandfather i in Cuba, who once consented to put up the storm
beams behind the doors of his house at hurricane time and could
never get rid of the chores, I shall probably spend the rest of my
life trying to interpret fractured English and putting it into a
tortured Spanish which Cervantes would hardly recognize. How-
ever, it’s a living and a more honest one, I think, than comes of
the more common pursuits of today.

Apart from my office, | am—jointly with my wife —a
Virginia property owner, a sort of would-be country squire with
a summer and vacation lodge on the Shenandoah River in the Blue
Ridge and a country house i in Alexandria. Needless to say, I’m

{ 661 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

mortgaged body and soul which, I suppose, is further evidence
of my gentility. The house in Alexandria was a rare find. The
previous owner, God bless him, spent fifteen years remodeling it
an we're now enjoying the fruits of his labors (at a price, of
course). My wife has filled it with antiques, some of them old
family pieces, and the effect is very striking if you don’t look too
closely at the worn upholstery or sit to hard on her great-grand-
mother’s sofa. Anyway, it’s all a relief from today’s stereotyped
surroundings and quite suitable for those of us who are not too
far from being antiques ourselves.

As a newspaper man by profession, I can write objectively
and reserve for myself —as for anyone who cares to listen —
some very firm opinions on all manner of things from English
and Spanish syntax to the evils of synthetic fibers in men’s shirts,
socks and winter suits. This, I believe, is in keeping with Harvard
tradition, provided there is still such a tradition of dissent and
argumentation in this age of smug conformity fostered by the
grey-flannel boys.

And so I am a rebel in a small and harmless way. I still believe
in being friendly and courteous toward those who have no in-
fluence or from whom I can expect no favors. I hate bores and
have probably lost some opportunities in life by avoiding them
like the plague, despite their social or economic position (maybe
they avoided me, too). Perhaps I am an egghead. Occasionally
I read a book; I hate television; I like classical music and admire
good speech and manners. Lest it be thought that ’m a paragon
of virtue, I must confess that I own only a “low-fi” record player,
that most modern art and poetry leave me cold, and that I belong
(secretly) to the “Don’t-Do-It-Yourself Club”, when it comes
to fixing things or making useless gadgets. As a further sign of
my rebelliousness, I have written this autobiography, if such it
be, in long-hand because I have done my bit of typewriter pound-
ings during the day and it’s hard for a writer to write for pleasure,
even on such an occasion as this.

To conclude, I shall relate an impression, an episode, of my
daily life, Every morning my wife and I ride to work together.
As I head the car down the driveway, our twelve-year-old son
speeds ahead of us on his bicycle on his way to school. With the
vigor and poetry of youth, he shouts: “Goodbye, Mom; goodbye,

[ 662 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Dad”! There’s a triumphant flourish in his voice. He's proud
to speed so fast through the valley and over the hill as his father
once did, and I say to myself: “For this I live”,

HOWARD BAKER MANN

HOME AppRESS: 45 Scewall Sc, West Newton 65, Mass.

orice appress: Mann-Murphy Construction, Inc. 177 Milk St, Boston 9,
Mass.

Born: July 28, 1906, West Newton, Mass. parents: Albert Mann, ‘95,
Helen Lucy Baker.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

Marrirp: Mary D. Murphy, Aug. 17, 1937, Newton, Mass.

occuPaTION: Treasurer, Mann-Murphy Construction, Inc,

MEMBER OF: Neighborhood Club, West Newton.

I HAVE traveled at various times and by various means, includ-
ing automobile, train, bus, air liner, Piper Cub, horse, camel and
donkey, as far west as California and as far east as Istanbul. Some-
how I've always managed to land back in West Newton, Most
of my work has been in New England selling a variety of things,
including automobiles, hardware, sporting goods and toys. While
still interested in hardware, my newest interest — as listed under
my occupation — is in the home construction and repair business.

+ M. JOSEPH MANN

BoRN: July 3, 1910, Winthrop, Mass. parents: William Mann, Gertrude
Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MarRiED: Norma Kendell, Aug. 26, 1940, Edgartown, Mass,

pieD: July 30, 1941, Brookline, Mass.

IN 1938 Mann reported that he was credit manager of the Pilgrim
Acceptance and Finance Corporation of Boston, a position which
he held until his death. He was a member of the Universiry Club
and the William and Mary Club. His wife survived him.

[ 663 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

GORDON MANSFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: Monmouth Street, Hightstown, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Borough Hall, Hightstown, N. J.

BORN: Aug. 11, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Gordon Wellington Mans-
field, Annabel Murphy.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Sarah Hall, March 31, 1940, Pittsfield, Mass. cHiLpREN: Gordon
Hall, Sept. 15, 1941; Cynthia, July 12, 1943; Paulina, Jan. 6, 1946;
Suzanne, Sept. 8, 1947; Edward Hall, June 12, 1953.

occuPATION: Civil engineer and surveyor, engineer for Borough of Hights-
town.

AFTER moving about in various engineering and construction
jobs, I have settled in a small town as town engineer, and in private
practice. Most of my attention is given to raising five children.

FRANCIS JOSEPH MANTA

MAILING ADDRESS: 182 Commercial St., Provincetown, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1907, Provincetown, Mass, PARENTS: Joseph Augustus Manta,
Emma Silva.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

JOSEPH AARON MARCUS

HOME ADDRESS: 6707 14th St., N.W., Washington 12, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hecht Co., Washington 5, D. C.

BORN: May 6, 1910, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Herman Marcus, Rose
Marayna.

PREPARED AT: Boys High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

marrieD: Miriam Goldring, June 8, 1941, Pensacola, Fla.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Marcus, ’39, M.B.A., ’4I.

occupation: Divisional merchandise manager, Hecht Company, retail de-
partment store,

WOULD merely like to add to the above vital statistics of a busy
life service in the Supply Corps of the U.S. Navy as a lieutenant,
senior grade, from 1943 to 1945.

[ 664 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SUMNER MARCUS

HOME ADDRESS: 9122 15th Ave., N. E., Seattle 15, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1411 Fourth Ave.,, Seattle 1, Wash,

poRN: Sept. 23, 1912, New Brunswick, N, J. parents: Abraham Marcus,
Lena Wolfson.

PREPARED aT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1031; M.B.A.4 1033; LLB, 1936.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Caldwell, 1938, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BRoTHER: Wilbur Howard Marcus, °39.

occupation: Lawyer; lecturer.

MEMBER OF: Washington State and Scattle Bar Associations.

PUBLICATIONS: “Special and Local Legislation”, Kentucky Law Journal, 1936;
“Renegotiation and Profit Limitation”, Navy Contrace Law, 1949; “The
Renegotiation Act of 1951”, Federal Bar Journal, 1951; “Determining
Renegotiable Business, Allowable Costs”, Journal of Accountancy, 1952,

LOOKING back over these twenty-five years, I am particularly
struck by the fact that I have spent about a third of them adding
to the formal education I acquired at the College and that, at this
very moment, I am in the process of acquiring more of the same,
along with another degree. 1 don’t know whether this proves
that the first four years were inadequate or that early habits are
hard to break. At any rate, here are the details,

I spent the first five years after graduation at the Business and
Law Schools. This over-long stay in Cambridge, plus a long-
standing desire to “sce the world”, contributed to my resolve to
have a wanderjabr, before settling down. Most of my sixth year
out was devoted to travel in this country and in Japan and China.
After these travels, I returned to Boston where I was admitted to
the Bar and started to practise law. I did not stay put very long,
however, Shortly after my marriage in 1938 I moved to Washing-
ton, D. C., where I was employed as an attorney by the National
Labor Relations Board. It was interesting to be in Washington,
but I had been bitten by the bug of travel and, what was more,
had become fairly well convinced that life was superior on the
West Coast. Consequently, I was very happy to be transferred in
1939 first to Pittsburgh and then to Los Angeles. It was pleasant
to live in southern California before the war, particularly as my
work took me all over that area as well as Arizona.

In 1942 I was transferred back to Washington. Early in 1943, I
entered the Navy Japanese Language School at the University of

[ 665 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Colorado. An impatient draft board lifted me out of there and
deposited me in the Army. After basic training designed to make
me a military policeman, I was assigned to the University of
Michigan where I spent most of my war years studying Japanese
at the Military Intelligence Japanese Language School. V-J Day
found me still studying Japanese and, to my great surprise and
regret, I never did have a chance to revisit Japan or to use my
new and hard-won skill.

After my discharge from the Army in 1946, I returned to
Washington and the government. I began to work in the field
of renegotiation which was to become my major field of interest
for the next seven years. I spent five of those years with the
Office of the General Counsel of the Navy Department, an organi-
zation of civilian lawyers working with the Navy’s purchasing
officials. After the transfer of the renegotiation function to an
independent agency known as the Renegotiation Board in 1951,
I became the assistant general counsel of the new agency and
played a fairly signficant réle in its organization and preparation
for business. These years were most interesting ones, involving
as they did frequent dealings with the management of many
diverse industries, with Congressional committees and with ad-
ministrators in various agencies of the Executive Branch of the
government.

Ultimately the satisfactions of a government job tend to dimin-
ish, Moreover, the more rarefied the atmosphere of the job, the
less settled one feels about the future. In 1953 I decided to pull
up stakes and to resign from the government, We moved to
Seattle where I opened a law office. We chose Seattle because we
had never been able to shake the conviction that the West offered
most of the things we wanted. We thought that the Northwest
had them in more abundance.

After I came to Seattle, I gave some lectures at Seattle Uni-
versity and found the experience most satisfying. Although I had
never theretofore done any teaching, I had been aware through-
out my years with the government that I had enjoyed most the
educational aspects of my work. In view of this and other con-
siderations, I now decided, if it were possible, to shift my major
emphasis from the legal to the academic field. Accordingly, in
addition to practising law, I am now teaching at the University

[ 666 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Washington College of Business Administration, and studying
for my doctoral degree. I am finding this combination of activi-
ties as stimulating as anything I have ever done.
My favorite summer activities include hiking in the nearby
mountains, camping and gardening. Whenever the opportunity
resents itself, I like to explore new areas, play bridge (both
rubber and duplicate), listen to music and read.

ARTHUR JACOB MARDER

MAILING ADorEss: University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii.

poan: March 8, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Max J, Marder, Ida Guerstein.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B.. 1931; A.M. 1934; PH.D, 1936,
OCCUPATION: Education,

DANIEL FRANKS MARGOLIES

HOME ADDRESS: 1301 Dale Drive, Silver Spring, Md.

OFFIcR aDpREss: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D. C.

porn: April 12, 1910, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Samuel Margolies, ’o2,
Rena Franks.

PREPARED aT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B, 1935.

marriep: Harriet Zetterberg, Aug. 19, 1944, London, England, cHitpren:
Mary Jean McIntyre, Sept. 11, 1946, David Samuel McIntyre, Dec. 18,
1948.

occupation: Government Service; officer in charge of German Economic
Affairs, Department of State.

OFFICES HELD: Attorney, subcommittee of Senate Committee on Education
and Labor, 1936-40; member Office of Price Administration, 1940-42;
member, Board of Economic Warfare, 1942; member, Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, 1942-43; officer, U. S. Army (ending as first
lieutenant), 1943-46; assistant to Assistant Secretary of Interior, 1946;
director, 1951-54, Officer in Charge, since 1954, Office of German
Economic Affairs, Department of Strate.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

SINCE the publication of our last Class Report, I have continued
with the State Department as Officer in Charge of German
Economic Affairs, and I have observed with satisfaction the
healthy development of a booming German economy.

I have had a wide variety of experience, ranging from the

[ 667 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

German debt settlement, the treaty for the validation of German
dollar bonds, and the treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navi-
gation with Germany, to the agreements restoring German
sovereignty.

I am about to be integrated into the Foreign Service under the
Wristonization program, and my wife, my two small children
and I sit around musing about faraway places. Our children take
a dim view on the whole, but concede that their stamp collections
should be vastly improved.

HARRY JULIAN MARKS

HOME ADDRESS: 5 Eastwood Rd., Storrs, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of History, University of Connecticut, Storrs, Conn.

BORN: July 19, 1909, New York, N. Y. Parents: Louis Marks, Sophie Levi-
son.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931} PH.D, 1937; A.M. in
TEACHING, 1946.

MARRIED: Sarah Frager, March 2, 1935, New York, N. Y. cHiipren: Carol
L., May 8, 1937; Wendy E., Feb. 23, 1946.

occuPaTion: Associate professor of history.

JAMES MARSHALL

HOME ADDRESS: 579 Wolcott Hill Rd., Wethersfield 9, Conn.

OFFICE appREss: Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co., 690 Asylum Ave,
Hartford, Conn.

Born: Dec. 18, 1909, Fall River, Mass. parents: William Speedling Mar-
shall, Jessie Imrie McLeod.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marrigD: Martha I. Demms, Sept. 17, 1938, Pittsburgh, Pa. cHipren: Kath-
erine Imrie, July 25, 1940; James Rogers, June 23, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Superintendent, home office automobile and general liability
claim divisions, Hartford Accident & Indemnity Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, International Friendship League, 1933-37, Board
of Religious Education, 1948-51; lecturer in economics, government
and social legislation on faculty of College of Law and Insurance,
University of Connecticut, 1949-56; member pack committee, Cub
Scouts, Boy Scouts of America, 1954-56.

TO be factual or philosophical, that is the question. To sum-

[ 668 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marize or evaluate twenty-five years of anyone's life is difficult.
To hold a mirror up to your own life is nigh on to impossible
without conceit and convenient memory lapses distorting the
reflection.

Spewed as we were upon an unhappy and dislocated world,
my thoughts of a career in the investment banking field were ad-
justed to meet conditions, I started as a life underwriter gradually
specializing in the federal estate tax field, In 1933, due to my
previous experiences abroad, I became chairman of the Interna-
tional Friendship League, organizing and directing the activities
of this non-profit corporation, including Youth-Exchange trips to
and from Europe, syndication of newspaper feature articles and
stimulation of international correspondence friendships.

In the fall of 1935, with the outlook for international friendship
far from bright, with European travel becoming hazardous, and
with an early outbreak of open hostilities anticipated, I turned
back to the more prosaic but also more stable realm of insurance.
This time it was in the casualty field as a claims i investigator and
adjuster. This was a happy choice. It led me into a satisfying
life work, but more important it led me to a chance mecting
with my wife-to-be. As a single man serving my apprenticeship,
subject to transfer and living out of a suitcase, my travels even-
tually brought me to Pittsburgh. One weck after meeting Martha,
I was again transferred to Philadelphia, back to Pittsburgh and
then to Boston. The courtship involved more time on the
Pennsylvania and New Haven Railroads than with each other.
Soon we were married not only for love but also to save on
railroad fares.

Our first home was an apartment back in Cambridge, of all
places. After Kathy was born we switched to surburban com-
muting to and from Needham. Simultaneously I was brought
into the home office claim division of the Liberty Mutual and
have been sitting down ever since. World War II took many of
us away from our sedentary occupations, It did not look as
though I would be an exception. The Navy had tentatively
accepted me. During the ten-day waiting period some medical
officer re-read the X-rays of my chest or someone’s else chest and
I was rejected for alleged scar tissue from an old healed lesion.
I have since learned from subsequent X-rays and readings by

[ 669 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

competent roentgenologists that there never was any such lesion
and never was any such scar tissue. I often wonder what hap-
pened in service to the man whose chest X-ray had been inad-
vertently swapped with mine. Such incidents have a tendency
to undermine one’s complacent belief that in a large measure he
is master of his own destiny.

In 1954 our son Jamie made his hectic entrance. Two years
later, after twelve years with one company, I made the big
switch to the home office of the Hartford Accident & Indemnity
Company in Hartford, Connecticut. We've been here ever since
and, given our choice, here we'll stay. In this comfortable com-
munity of Wethersfield, the earliest settlement in Connecticut,
our children’s roots have gone down. We find great pleasure
and pride in their accomplishments, some achieved only after
surmounting difficult obstacles. ‘They are blessed in that schol-
arship does not present any problems and diligent application
results in a position on the high honor roll. (Definitely, not
chips off the old block.) However, they are well-rounded young-
sters with seemingly limitless outside interests: Kathy — Girl
Scouts, primitive camping, piano, dramatic club, debating (she
wants to be lawyer) and choir; Jamie — Cub Scouts, camping,
clarinet, baseball, football, science and model planes. It’s a
mystery where Kathy gets the primitive camping bug. Neither
her mother nor I would be found dead in a pup-tent or a lean-to.
However, last summer she was selected to represent this area at
the Regional Primitive Encampment in Bristol, Rhode Island, and
for this coming summer she has been selected to represent this
region at the National Round-Up in Michigan.

While Martha has been devoting her energies to the rearing
and loving discipline of the children, I have been painfully ac-
quiring the legal and medical knowledge necessary to advance
in my chosen field. It helps to know human beings, too. My
principal duties these days include the supervision of both the
home office automobile liability claim and the home office general
liability claim divisions and through them the directing of in-

vestigations and trial preparations as well as the authorizing of
settlements by our field claim offices throughout the United
States. A substantial part of my time is also devoted to liaison
work with other departments of the company.

[ 670 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Outside of my family and my work, the experience I find most
exhilarating and rewarding is an avocation I picked up along the
way in a manner too complex to recite here. Since 1949 I have
been lecturing on economics, government and social legislation
as a member of the faculty of the College of Law and Insurance,
University of Connecticut. Two evenings a week I sound off
on these topics to groups of business men preparing to take pro-
fessional examinations given by the American Institute for
Property and Liability Underwriters for the C.P.C.U. designation
and by the American College of Life Underwriters for the
C.L.U. designation. Four out of five professional exams they
eventually take are concentrated in their special fields, but the
fifth is designed to test their knowledge of the economic, political
and social world in which they are practising their profession. It
is for this one that I prepare them. In effect, it’s a cram course
covering in sixty hours the ground we covered in Economics A,
Government I and Government 2B if memory serves me cor-
rectly.

It is a remarkable thing about our educational system that so
many reach and stumble through adulthood with little or no
knowledge of the fundamental principles of our form of govern-
ment, let alone an appreciation of why each of those principles
is immensely important to every one of us. It is a continuing
pleasure to see light dawn in their faces one by one, week after
week,

Looking forward, these twenty-five years crept with the
dignity of a snail, Looking backward, they have sped with the
whoosh of a jet. May the next twenty-five years be as full.

RICHARD BOND MARSHALL

HOME AppREss: 9 Dudley St., Presque Isle, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Radio Station WAGM, Presque Isle, Maine.

BORN: April 8, 1910, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Irving Franklin Marshall,
Helen May Hunt.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MaRRiED: Fern Templeton, Dec. 23, 1932, Wilmette, Ill. (divorced); Mad-
olyn E. Keirstead, July 8, 1944, Presque Isle, Maine. cup: Richard
Bond, Jr., March 27, 1934.

[ 671 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

HARVARD BROTHER: John Hunt Marshall, 29.
occuPaTion: Manager, Radio Station WAGM.
MEMBER OF: American Philatelic Society; British North American Phila-
telic Society.

MY first business venture was trading bonds for various estab-
lishments in Chicago. Did this for about ten years and then took
off to see America First. I finally wound up in northern Maine
working in a fishing camp, seeing to it that so-called sportsmen
would stay sober enough not to fall out of a canoe. While so
engaged, I heard that the local radio station was in need of an
announcer and so, by means of canoe, automobile, railroad and
shank’s mare, I arrived in Presque Isle in October of 1943 and
got the job. Have been in the radio rat-race ever since and have
fooled the owner and the public to the point where I am now
manager of WAGM (probably by the time this is published,
WAGM-TV). |

My spare time is well occupied by several stamp collections
and one parakeet.

JOHN SHANNON MASON

HOME ADDRESS: 62 Hoodridge Drive, Mt. Lebanon, Pittsburgh 28, Pa.

OFFicE ADDRESS: Dravo Corp, Pittsburgh 25, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. PaRENTs: Sherman Foster Mason, Clara
Lenox Shannon.

PREPARED AT: Schenley High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Virginia Lois Swander, Oct. 21, 1939, Pittsburgh, Pa, CHILDREN:
Martha Lenox, Dec. 28, 1944; Charlotte Hay, Nov. 1, 1955.

OccuPATION: General counsel and secretary, Dravo Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1955-56, Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania,
member board of governors, Harvard Business School Club of Pitts-
burgh, 1955-57.

MEMBER OF: Allegheny County, Pennsylvania and American Bar Associa-
tions; Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania State Chambers of Commerce; For-
eign Policy Association of Pittsburgh, Duquesne Club; St. Clair Country
Club; Harvard Club of New York City.

MY ambition as a boy was to be a big league umpire. Subse-
quently I thought of being an actor, a teacher or a preacher. But
when college was over, I went to the Law School. I had some
notion of being a different type of umpire —a judge. For the

[ 672 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

next three years after Law School I was with the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania. The law clerks form somewhat of “a kitchen
court”. I enjoyed this and think it the best way to start.

In 1938 I left the court to join Dravo Corporation. I am a
lawyer surrounded by engineers. During the war our program
was almost all naval construction and I spent much of my time
in the Navy Department in Washington. I have not seen so much
of my contemporaries in college and law school either before
or since. In the spring of 1953 I went to the Harvard Business
School for three months in the Advanced Management Program.
This may have been an attempt to prove that I had lost all identity
as a lawyer. But whether it succeeded or not, it was a break at
midpoint in business life and was an extraordinary experience.

Business man or lawyer, my job today is basically that of an
umpire. College, law school and business school — I am indebted
to the teachers of thought, thoroughness, and above all truth, or
calling them as you see them.

EDMUND JAMES MASSELLO

HOME ADDRESS: 2388 Mystic Valley Pkwy., Medford, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 19 Walnut St., Somerville, Mass.
BorN: April 10, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: William Massello, Asunta

DeSimone.
PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B. (Georgetown Law

School), 1939.

MARRIED: Jewel Payne, Feb. 1, 1936, Washington, D. C. cuitpren: Sandra
Sue, June 6, 1937; Thomas Payne, Jan. 26, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Attorney, assistant clerk of court.

MEMBER OF: Exchange Club.

THE intervening years seem misty and obscure alongside the
fresh recollections of college days. Hunger lines, F.D.R., Hitler,
the gathering storm, war and its aftermath, atoms for war and
peace, space satellites, all recede into relative obscurity under
the pressures of present living. Feeling somewhat like a tiny
jet capsule projected through space and time, I’m not sure where
I have been, and I know less where I am or where I’m going.
Come Commencement Day, I escaped aforesaid breadlines by
some fortuitous “politicking” that landed me a job as secretary

[ 673 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

to the late Congressman Arthur D. Healey at a salary which, for
those deflated days, was rather handsome. For eight years |
studied law at Georgetown Law School and nervously tittered
over “Adolf’s antics”. Nevertheless, I found life so surfeitingly
pleasant that I tarried too long on Capitol Hill, albeit I took my
life’s most successful gamble and married the girl of my dreams
a few months after I first got her in my sights.

One day the Navy’s flattering invitations to get in quickly and
get a soft berth gave way abruptly to a peremptory “Report for
duty forthwith. . . . or else”. The free cruises had come home
to roost and the fare was due. Graduated an ensign in 1931, I
began my war service ten years later — almost to the day — still
an ensign, though superannuated and considerably obsolescent.
“Just watch the next fellow and do likewise”, experience told
me. Plagiarism, a successful rule of civil life, should apply
equally to the arts of war. A comforting thought! Too bad it
didn’t work out that way. “Proceed without delay to assume
command. ...” That’s what the paper said, or something
reasonably equivalent thereto. I really wasn’t quite prepared
for that. “Let there be no moaning at the bar when I put out
to sea”. Luck held my hand for roughly five years, sometimes
flirting quite shamelessly with inglorious disaster but never quite
jilting me. Guadalcanal, Leyte, Aleutians, Okinawa and Mog Mog
(ah, there was a battle! Just ask anyone who was there) all
merge in a confused jumble (was it Guam or Pago Pago? |
forget).

Half a decade later, I emerged to civilization, a commander
and somewhat better qualified. . . . for sea duty, not for civilian
life. On the civil side I was an obsolete ensign all over again, an
unexpended expendable, so to speak. The familiar land was
recognizable, but somehow strange. Or had I changed? I still
don’t know. The rules weren’t the same. I don’t learn as fast
as I did in my college days and a lot of my early steam is missing.
So, I’m not sure I’ve mastered the rules even now. But I've
learned a happiness and contentment my restless life never ex-
perienced before. I no longer scorn the ancient aphorisms for
lack of understanding the depth of their meaning. I count my
blessings and find them many. Among them are my wife, two
children, the country I am privileged to call my own, good

[ 674 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

friends, a modest home, a power lawn mower that leaks oil, an
ailing 1950 chariot, two—] proudly repeat—two television
sets, somewhat archaic but serviceable.

I practise law on a modest scale and resist now the temptation
to epitomize the life, death and just hereafter of the median bar-
rister. I combine this with a somewhat more stable, though less
exciting, income as assistant clerk of the Somerville District Court
and, as such, enjoy a modest community prestige that pleases as
much as it baffles me.

For hobbies I have my children, who manage to siphon off all
unspent energy, and my “inventions” which approximate a
passion and include a key-carrying device which outmodes all
existing keyrings, cases, chains and widgers if only I can find
an imaginative backer who will not scorn to make a million and
share it with me. It leaves your pocket free for use so that you
don’t even know your keys are there, is theft and loss resistant,
breakproof, lends itself to utilitarian and ornamental treatment,
is elemental in simplicity and is truly a “little gem” —no use
wasting this chance for a good, free commercial, Also numbered
in my revolutionary repertoire is an electric-ironer improvement
that permits ironing without prior dampening of clothes, some-
thing the women folks will truly appreciate and, I wistfully hope,
so will a sponsor. I've also invented a few things that had already
been invented. In conclusion, may I answer the query of William
James and Philosophy B: “Is life worth living?” It most certainly
is.

BERTRAM SAMUEL MATZ

HOME AapprEss: 30 Alpha Rd., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE aporess: Keizer & Co. Inc., 19 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 20, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Matz, Lena Rosenthal.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B, (Northeastern Univ.),
1938.

MarrigD: Ida Seligman, June 19, 1943, New Orleans, La. (divorced 1948).
cuiLp: Phyllis Linda, Nov. 18, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Investments — general administrative duties.

MEMBER oF: Provincetown Tennis & Yacht Club; Massachusetts Bar Asso-
ciation.

[ 675 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

CHARLES DAVIDSON MAY

MAILING ADDRESS: Children’s Hospital, Iowa City, Iowa.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1908, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: Stephen Samuel May, Mabel
Tecklenberg.

PREPARED AT: Ferguson High School, Ferguson, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: M.D., 1936.

MARRIED: Doris Hudson, Jan. 11, 1941, Stamford, Conn. cmp: Cynthia,
Nov. 26, 1941.

occuPaTION: Medicine.

VERNON WILLIAM MAYO

HOME ADDRESS: 64-50 C 188th St., Fresh Meadows 65, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Albert Frank-Guenther Law, Inc., 131 Cedar St.. New
York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 30, 1908, Biddeford, Maine. parents: Elwyn Sawyer Mayo,
Ida Gertrude Morrill.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE! A.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Esther Wilson, April 23, 1948, New York, N. Y.

occupation: Advertising — with Albert Frank-Guenther Law, Inc.

A PACIFIST at heart, I served as an Infantry man in the 31st
(“Dixie”) Division in New Guinea, Morotai Island, and Mindanao
in the Philippines — happy to be of some service to my country.
A countryman at heart, I have for nearly ten years since the war

lived and worked in New York City — and liked it,

RUFUS WATSON MEADOWS

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Rumsey Lane, Buffalo 9, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREsS: 250 Delaware Ave., Buffalo 2, N. Y.

BORN: July 25, 1908, Buffalo, N. Y. parents: William Gregory Meadows,
’91, Marion Spaulding.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1931 (32); M.ARCH., 1936.

MarRiEeD: Kathryn Joan Davidson, 1941, Savannah, Ga. (died 1948); Mar-
garet Curtiss, 1952, Buffalo, N. Y. curpren: Rufus Watson, Jr. Aug.
24, 1944; Marion, Aug. 14, 1953.

occupation: Architect.

OFFices HELD: Director, Buffalo Fine Arts Academy, since 1953, Butler
Mitchell Boys Club, since 1937; president, Buffalo-Western N. Y.
Chapter, American Institute of Architects, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Buffalo Tennis and Squash Club.

[ 676 ]

PCE ree nice ert mn ars

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I HAVE been engaged in architecture since leaving the Graduate
School of Design in 1936, except for five years in the Army. I
enlisted for my “one” years’ training in an AA unit in 1936 and
got out as a major in the Engineers in 1945.

I was made a partner in a Buffalo firm of architects after the
war and have been at it ever since. Our present firm name is
James, Meadows & Howard and our business includes all types
of buildings except residential, which has been limited to two
houses I have built for myself.

I have two children, a boy and a girl. Iam a Republican and
an Episcopalian, and a great believer in that “one hour” before
dinner, Fishing in the Caribbean Sea is my favorite sport, I am
only mildly successful, but I can’t wait for my next trip.

JOHN HENRY MEAGHER

HOME appRESS: 95 Commodore Rd., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Superior Court, Boston, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 7, 1908, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: John Henry Meagher, Mar-
garet L. Ronayne.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Preparatory School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

MarRIED: Elizabeth C. McDermott, Jan. 15, 1936, New York, N. Y. cuit-
DREN: Sean, March 23, 1938; Dermott, Oct. 19, 1940; Andrew, Dec. 2,
1943; Patrick, Jan. 5, 1948; Timothy, Oct. 30, 1949; Mary, June 30, 1954,

occupation: Justice, Superior Court, Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: President, member executive committee, Worcester County
Bar Association, member executive committee, scholarship committee,
Harvard Club of Worcester; member, Commission Structure of State
Government; member advisory committee, Holy Cross School of
Industrial Relations; member executive committee, St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital, clerk and trustee, Catholic Charities, Worcester, St. John’s Pre-
paratory School, Worcester; trustee, Bay State Savings Bank; major,
USAF Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and American Bar Associations; American Judic-
ature Society; Harvard Club of Boston.

WILLIAM HOWARD MELISH

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Church of the Holy Trinity, 157 Montague St.,
Brooklyn 2, N. Y.

[ 677 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

BORN: May 11, 1910, Brooklyn, N. Y. PARENTS: John Howard Melish, Mar-
guerite Agar McComas.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N. ¥.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; B.D. (Episcopal Theol,
School), 1935; B.A. IN THEOL. (Univ. of Cambridge), 1934; M.A. (ibid.),
I I.

MARRIED: Mary Jane Dietz, June 14, 1939, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN: John
Stephens, March 21, 1940; William Bromwell, Sept. 12, 1942; Howard
Jefferson, Aug. 13, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Episcopal minister, Church of the Holy Trinity.
I WAS born in the rectory of the Church of the Holy Trinity in
Brooklyn, New York, and today have the unusual distinction for
a Brooklynite of living in the same house where [ saw the light
of day. After early schooling at the Brooklyn Friends’ School
and the Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, I went
to Harvard on a freshman scholarship given by the Long Island
Harvard Club and had a profitable four years, majoring mildly
and without distinction in Latin American and European history,
learning how to use the English language as a means of expression
and finding my chief personal satisfactions extra-curricularly in
the Dramatic Club, the Cambridge School of the Drama, the
Trident Club and the Socialist Club. In the summer vacations
I made the grand tour of Europe with my parents during fresh-
man year, worked as a bell-hop on a Panama Pacific liner via the
Panama Canal to California, sophomore year, and bicycled some
800 miles in England and Scotland my junior year, getting as far
afield as the Orkney and Shetland Islands.

On graduation I was repelled by the business opportunities
that were available and, motivated by a developing social ideal-
ism, I decided to try a year at Union Theological Seminary in
New York City, where my interest in the ministry was excited
by study under men of the calibre of Reinhold Niebuhr, Ernest
Scott, Julius Bewer and Russell Bowie.

Professor F. J. Foakes-Jackson, the church historian, recom-
mended me to his old college, Jesus, at Cambridge and I was
accepted as an undergraduate, with the privilege of living in the
college and taking the theological tripos with courses at the
Cambridge Divinity School. To accept this offer morally involved
for me a definite commitment to the ministry. To resolve my
interior indecision I went off on a Dutch steamer to the Caribbean,

[ 678 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

voyaging along the Venezuelan coast to Trinidad, and returning
via the Windward and Leeward Islands. To test my proposed
vocation further, I spent the remainder of the summer at the
Graduate School of Applied Religion in Cincinnati, where I
worked during the day as a probation officer in the Hamilton
County Juvenile Court, attended lectures at night and helped
out at Christ Church on Sundays, This unusual experience,
which revealed the rich possibilities of the ministry in a down-
town city church, resolved my indecision and I left for England,
becoming engaged to be married.

The sudden death of my fiancée under tragic circumstances
three months later in Paris led to a year of great strain but resulted
ultimately in a clear acceptance of a theistic, in contrast to a
previously rather humanistic, point-of-view. The extraordinary
kindness of the late Mr. Bernard Manning, one of the leading
Congregational laymen of England and historian of note, helped
me to find myself, and the pleasure of rowing for the Jesus Boat
Club, with the excitement of the Head-of-the-River races on the
Cam and the Thames and the Royal Regatta at Henley, revived
my enthusiasm for life and the desire to make a creative personal
commitment.

Bishop Sherrill of Massachusetts urged me to spend a fourth
year at the Episcopal Theological School during which I enjoyed
a course with Alfred North Whitehead at Harvard. Ordained
to the ministry of the Protestant Episcopal Church, I accepted a
call to Christ Church, Cincinnati, and spent four fruitful years
under the late Dr. Frank Nelson in what is one of the most dy-
namic city parishes in the denomination, becoming deeply in-
terested in the development of neighborhood councils. Here I
met and married Mary Jane Dietz, a Wellesley graduate who
was employed in the conduct of contests for Procter and Gamble.

The Washington Cathedral invited me to become canon
almoner and I accepted in the spring of 1939. Just as we were
planning to move to Washington, an invitation came from the
vestry of the Church of the Holy Trinity in Brooklyn to become
the associate minister and eventually to succeed my father, The
Bishop of Washington released me and I came to Brooklyn and
immediately put my Cincinnati experience to work, shortly being
elected a member of the Council of the Diacese of Long Island,

[ 679 ]

mr enema ere eememstaetatnnanebNet tinea

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

DANIEL MERRIMAN

HOME ADDRESS: Davenport House, Yale Station, New Haven, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Roger Bigelow, Dorothea
Foote.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: 8B. (Univ. of Washington), 1933;
s.M. (ibid.), 1934; PH.D. (Yale Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Mary Wieland, Sept. 18, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Commissioner, Connecticut State Board of Fisheries and Game.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Memorial Hospital, North Conway, N. H., 1938-48,
Bermuda Biological Station, since 1944; treasurer, 1940-42, Vice-presi-
dent, 1942-43, president, 1943-44, Yale Chapter of Sigma Xi; member,
Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, since 1943; chairman,
Committee on Food Resources of Coastal Waters, National Research
Council, 1943-46; fellow, New York Zoological Society, since 1944;
member board of editors, Journal of Marine Research, since 1943;
trustee and member of the corporation, Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution, since 1944; member board of directors, Family Society of
New Haven, 1944-50; research associate, Department of Fishes and
Aquatic Biology, American Museum of Natural History, New York,
since 1945; member advisory committee, Marine Laboratory, University
of Miami, since 1946; special consultant, Survey of Marine Fisheries,
University of North Carolina, 1946-48, commissioner, Connecticut
Shellfish Board of Relief, 1949-55; member advisory committee on
biology, American Institute of Biological Sciences, for the Office of
Naval Research, 1949-52; consultant, National Science Foundation,
1951-54.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous writings in the field of ichthyology, oceanography
and the history of science.

OTHER than the above-mentioned offices held, the following is
an account of my life since college: temporary assistant, Mackerel
Investigation, United States Bureau of Fisheries, 1930, net-maker
and subsequently scientist on Banks trawlers for the Portland
Trawling Company, 1930-31, on the maiden voyage of the re-
search vessel Atlantis (Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution)
from Copenhagen to Boston, 1931; temporary assistant, Had-
dock Investigation, United States Bureau of Fisheries, 1931-32;
in charge of the Striped Bass Investigation, Connecticut State
Board of Fisheries and Game, American Wildlife Institute, and
the United States Bureau of Fisheries, 1936-42; instructor in bi-
ology at Yale, 1938-42; assistant professor of biology, director of
Bingham Oceanographic Laboratory and curator of oceanog-

[ 682 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

raphy, Peabody Museum, 1942-46; associate professor of biology,
master, Davenport College; director, Bingham Oceanographic
Laboratory, since 1946; commissioner, Connecticut State Board
of Fisheries and Game, since 1953.

WALTER JOSEPH MIKESH

HOME apprEss: P. O. Box 37, Godfrey, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Laclede Steel Co., 208 S. LaSalle St., Alton, Ill.
BORN: Sept. 16, 1907, Czechoslovakia. PARENTS: Joseph J. Mikesh, Barbara

Etchny.
PREPARED at: Alton High School, Alton, Ill.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.
OCCUPATION: Associated with Laclede Steel Company.
OFFICES HELD: Awarded Bronze Star Medal.

MY hobbies are all interlocked with applied genetics and are tied
by an invisible thread to my love for all of His living creatures.
I breed show type cocker spaniels and at this writing one of the
finest redhead Champion Rocky Point, Judy, lies at her “Daddy’s”
feet. Altogether my “family” consists of eighteen sweet, little
faces who, it seems, live only to please their keeper. Their abid-
ing love, their deep devotion are unquestionable. They all worship
their god with clay feet, who reciprocates their affection to the
utmost.

I, too, must mention flowers. I grow over 1200 varieties of
diploid and tetraploid iris, which I try to hybridize each May
with those extremely rare and somewhat tender, exotic looking
Oncocyclus species that so seldom come to us from Turkey,
Syria, Palestine and perhaps from a few other countries. It is a
thrill to observe a delicate petal laden with sparkling dew, un-
folding, but it is one’s supreme happiness to gaze down upon
God’s little temple perhaps never seen by any other man.

You are already bored, but please stay with me a little longer
and I will confess to you still another sin, I also raise Birmingham
roller pigeons. They are all seamless banded, pedigreed, and they
all trace their ancestry (none of that Mayflower business here —
please) to the very dawn of the British history. They are the
ace acrobats. What makes them mount the skies then spin down
backward in a straight line for twenty-five or fifty feet, or even

[ 683 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

too, began to fill with an incurable loneliness. We strove to forget
— we yearned for an inward peace, we craved for that lasting
solitude more than anything else on this troubled earth.

At last, some of us with the longest service were on our way
home, but it was a sad departure. We thought of our inspiring,
gallant officers and of our brave enlisted men; we also recalled
our staunch-hearted buddies who had proved faithful to the very
end. Lastly, we could not forget our unarmed medics who, often
on their own initiative and in the face of almost certain death,
would crawl and fetch the remains of a man cut in half by a
withering criss-cross machine gun fire—or perhaps it was just
another man who could not make it back. We thought of all
these men — their mission accomplished, their journey at an end,
who now lay in lonely graves all the way from Guadalcanal to
Luzon, We, who were privileged to know many of them and to
serve them all in our humble way would like to say only — they
all fought well.

Upon reaching the shores of the God-blessed America, yours
truly spent the following four months convalescing at the Jeffer-
son Barracks Hospital in Missouri. The next three years I spent
struggling with the insidious attacks of malaria which often left
me feeling so weak I could hardly cross the room. The inevi-
table? Of course, you have guessed it. ] was only too happy to
get back to my old harness, which I am still carrying around my
blistered neck to this very day at the Laclede Steel Company in
Alton, Illinois.

Faith — I was born a Roman Catholic, but have attended many
other churches besides my own church. During my boyhood
Odyssey across Siberia I ventured into a log house church where
I have caused a church riot by using the sign of the cross which
was unlike the one which the old believers used. At Cambridge,
in company of my classmates of Jewish faith, I have also attended
a Synagogue. To sum it up, I have never been in any place of
worship where I did not feel His divine presence,

[ 688 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

++ ALBAN BUTLER MILEY

BORN: June 11, 1908, Alameda, Calif. parents: Emmor Jerome Miley, Bea-
trice Butler.

PREPARED at: Santa Barbara School, Santa Barbara, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1929-1930.

pieD: Feb. 2, 1940, Los Angeles, Calif.

TWO years after Miley left Harvard he reported that he was a
rancher in Santa Barbara. He later entered the oil business in
Los Angeles.

EVERETT LEE MILLARD

HOME AppREss: The Log House, Highland Park, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4030 Irving Park Rd., Chicago 41, Dll.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1909, Highland Park, Il]. parents: Everett Lee Millard, ’98,
Elizabeth Bell Boynton.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill; Phillips
Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B, 1931.

MarrieD: Mary Penniman Hyde, April 26, 1946, Chevy Chase, Md. cum-
DREN: Hyde, June 28, 1949; Mary Cordelia, Aug. 13, 1951; Ann Eliza,
March 23, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Malcolm Stuart Millard, ’36.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices, North Shore Chapter, executive secretary,
1952-54, Chicago Area Council, American Veterans Committee; found-
er, executive director, editor of One World (their publication), Con-
ference Upon Research and Education in World Government
(CURE); founder, 1936, former president, present director, Snow
Chase Club; director, the Flute and Fiddle Club (community orches-
tra), since 1932, the Suburban Singers (community chorus), since
1952. -

PUBLICATIONS: “Just A Cunningham Ago”; Antique Automobile, 1953;
“Federal Hymn” to choral theme of Beethoven's “Ninth Symphony”,
1954; Numerous articles, pamphlets and letters to editors on old cars,
skiing, community music, politics and world government.

I FIND, at an age when many of my classmates are rich or
famous — or both —and some are already playing footie with
retirement, that I am still in search of a career. Every Class
Report has alleged for me a different occupation. In each
instance, I’ve been broke but happy.

[ 689 ]

™_ ee re

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

My immigrant Millard ancestor patented land atop Beacon
Hill, where his successor in possession is the present Massachusetts
State House. My grandfather, born on a farm, was one of the
first graduates of Michigan State, the initial U. S. agricultural
college. And at our house, eating is still closely connected with
real estate. In my case, it includes land and income property in
developing, brokering, designing, building and management
aspects, none carried to the lengths of a large income.

Spiritual nourishment comes from quite a different source.
While still a lieutenant commander in the Navy, I circulated
some twenty versions in English and French of a proposal to
build European political unity around international control of
German heavy industry, a line of thought now well advanced
toward economic, defense and political reality in the European
community. Subsequently, after several years of false starts, I
organized a correspondence forum, the Conference Upon Re-
search and Education in World Government (CURE), whose
modest publication, Oe World, is now perhaps the only channel
in the United States for free discussion and criticism among
various federalist viewpoints.

In 1955, I testified before a Senate subcommittee on United
Nations Charter review, suggesting as a result of CURE’s studies
a revision of UN to give it plenary powers in direct trusteeship
of former colonies and trouble areas, a world development
authority and an initially non-regulatory atom agency or pool;
in structure, the Security Council to include representatives of
all governments, and the General Assembly to be elected by the
peoples of member nations, together with an appropriate execu-
tive arm and other appurtenances of parliamentary government.
This “interim” UN, with growing democratic experience and
increasing material security, would be intended to lead to further
revision and greater powers at a later date. As in my earlier
European proposal, a job needing international management is a
nucleus around which international government can develop.
Here’s praying for its Schuman, anno 1956.

On fair mornings I edit CURE’s discussions at a driftwood
beach table with sunlight sparkling off Lake Michigan’s riffles.
On free afternoons there's sailing, and on one evening a week,
musicking. The growing family caravans in a Chevrolet Carryall

[ 690 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to Aspen for a February skiing week, to my brother’s home in
California or to my wife’s family on Long Island for a summer
visit. It’s a lovely life. I wish I could live three of them.

CHARLES SUMNER MILLET

MAILING ADpREss: % U.S, Consulate General, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

BORN: July 22, 1908, Brockton, Mass. parents: Charles Sumner Millet, Elisa-
beth Collomore Howland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREE: Master’s Degree, Royal Inst. of Flor-
ence, Italy.

MARRIED: Frances Ina Williamson, Aug. 22, 1932, Richmond, N. H. campren:
Charles Sumner, April 14, 1933; Nicholas Byram, June 28, 1934.

OCCUPATION: Foreign service.

** ROWLAND MARINDIN MINNS

BORN: July 4, 1909, Trensham, England. parents: Christopher Minns, Helen
Marindin.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Cambridge University, Cambridge, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930.

pieD: Oct. 30, 1933, in the Sudan.

SOON after leaving college, Minns entered the Sudan Political
Service and was in the Sudan at the time of his death.

THOMAS SEYMOUR MOFFETT

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Route 3, Liberty, Mo.

BORN: March 9, 1910, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Thomas S. Moffett, Louise
McGrew. .

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., [931; M.B.A, 1933.

MARRIED: Frances Lee, Sept. 11, 1937; Minneapolis, Minn. cHiLpREN: James
Lee, March 27, 1941; Lida Louise, Jan. 31, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul McGrew Moffett, °28.

occuPATION: Farming and livestock,

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and vice-president, Clay County Farm Bureau,
1940-47; president, Birmingham (Mo.) Levee District, 1950-55.

MEMBER OF: Kansas City Club; Mission Hills Country Club.

FOLLOWING my graduation from the Harvard Business School
in 1933, | worked three years for the Bank of New York in the

[ 691 ]

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

credit and trust investment departments, In 1936, realizing that
it would be impossible to marry and establish a home in New
York on my bank pay, I decided to try my luck at farming. My
wife, a city girl, took the chance with me and, I believe, has
never regretted it. We bought a run-down farm in the rolling
hills of Clay County, Missouri, and renovated it and its old Civil
War house. We acquired more land in Missouri and western
Kansas, where we raise wheat and run a cow herd. Feed for live-
stock is grown on Missouri River bottom land and cattle and
hogs feed on pasture until ready for market.

My war years were spent on the farms both as manager and
day laborer, I have known depression and high prices, rationing
and surpluses, floods, droughts, dust storms, cyclones (I looked
into its eye once) and blizzards. Life has been interesting, if at
times rugged. However, being my own boss, I have managed to
indulge myself and family in our favorite hobby of traveling,
having had several trips to Latin America and one European
journey. Future trips depend on the price of beef and wheat,

but I have not lost hope yet.

EMANUEL ISRAEL MOHL

HOME ADDRESS: 299 Vose Ave., South Orange, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gibbs & Cox, Inc., 21 West St., New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 6, 1910, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Emanuel Naamen Mohl,
Isabella Lesser.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREES: $.B., 1931 (32); S.M., 1933.

MarrieD: Grace Baker, Sept. 12, 1939, Haifa, Palestine (died Aug. 22, 1945);
Ethel Mish, May 5, 1950, Silver Spring, Md. cuitpren: Isabella Edith,
Oct. 8, 1942; Paul Cecil, June 5, 1944.

occupaTION: Ship design.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Engineering Society; American Society of Civil Engi-
neers, Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, New Jersey
Society of Professional Engineers; U. S. Naval Institute; Boy Scouts of
America; B’nai B'rith.

I REMAINED in Cambridge to get my Master of Science degree

from the Harvard Engineering School in June, 1933. Then began

a life which can be divided into five periods.

The well-drilling, or worm’s eye view of the world, started

[ 692 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with apprenticeship in the “art” as a well-driller’s helper, first in
New Jersey, then in California. During the latter period, I ar-
ranged for the purchase of a well-drilling rig which I took to
Palestine, where I spent the years 1935 to 1940 putting holes into
the ground in the hope of obtaining water for irrigation. We
found some. Among the highlights was the finding of a calcite
geode in one well, and the years 1937-39 when I had to carry a
pistol with me at all times. Fortunately, I never had the occasion
to use it. Another highlight was the concert given by Josef
Huberman at the collective settlement at Ain Harod in the valley
of Jezreel. People came from miles around. Before the concert,
he gave one for the children. I was able to stand at an open
window, and the view of their shining faces drinking in his
glorious violin was awe-inspiring. It was during these years that
- [met my first wife, Grace Baker of London, England. We were
married in September, 1939. The advent of World War II closed
this well-drilling chapter.

Interlude: this period lasted until February, 1942. It started
with a period of inactivity at my father’s home in Natanya, then
an eventful trip back home to the U.S.A. We flew to Karachi,
India, then a train trip via Bombay, Madras, etc., to Colombo,
Ceylon, and an extended sea voyage on a converted Hog-Islander
that at best could make eight knots. We left Colombo on August
10, 1940, and reached Boston on October roth. Having landed
broke, I took the first job I could get. This was with a roofing
and sheet metal firm. I could not rest. I wanted to get into our
war effort and, finally, just on the verge of enlisting, I was offered
the opportunity to go back to school for a course in naval archi-
tecture at M.I.T., and then on to the Bureau of Ships in
Washington in February, 1942.

My job with the U.S. Navy proved to be truly interesting and
satisfying. I was in a group of research engineers and scientists
with the objective to make our ships more resistant to underwater
explosive attack. We ran tests and revised design. A great satis-
faction came to us when one skipper told us that but for our
work and reports his ship would have gone to Davy Jones’s locker,
The Navy saw fit to give me the Civilian Meritorious Award for
my work. During these years our children, Isabella Edith and
Paul Cecil, arrived. My personal life, what little we had, was

[ 693 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

taken up in helping bring up the infants. The end of the war
with Japan marked the end of another chapter for me. My first
wife died in August, 1945, knowing that the war was over.

The period following was one of continued activity. I was
part of the group in on the Operation Crossroads, but because of
my personal situation, remained in this country as rear echelon
for our group. This was followed by a long series of tests on
some of our surplus ships.

In May, 1950, I remarried — Ethel Mish of Philadelphia. Short-
ly thereafter, our work load began to slacken and, following my
desire to get into private endeavor, I left the Bureau of Ships and
went with Devenco, Inc., of New York, which immediately sent
me to Groton, Connecticut, where I again had a truly satisfying
experience. I had the opportunity of putting into the final stage
some of the designs I had had contact with in the preliminary
stage.

In June, 1953, I joined the staff of Gibbs & Cox, Inc., where
I am today. I am active in the Boy Scouts and was cubmaster of
our pack last year. I plan to continue my activity, for I firmly
believe that Scouting is one of the tools to reduce juvenile
delinquency. I am on the building committee of our new
synagogue, Congregation Beth El. I try to spend some time over
my table saw, for I am one of those husbands who, on returning
from work, get into rough clothes and disappear into the basement

or into the garden. My wife does see me, though, when we play
bridge with the neighbors,

I take a great deal of pleasure in watching our two children
grow and develop. They are both musical and I can’t carry a
tune. And they are both much cleverer than their old man.
They do compliment me on my hamburgers cooked over the
outdoor grill in the backyard. I am a salt water fisherman and
am positive I can outdo any classmate in my tales.

FRANCIS XAVIER MOLONEY

HOME apprEss: 100 Dunster Rd., Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Public Library, Copley Square, Boston 17, Mass.

BoRN: July 12, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Francis Moloney, Elizabeth
Frances Curry.

[ 594 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Jamaica Plain High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; ED.M. (Boston Teachers
Coll.), 1932; a.m. (Harvard Univ.), 1946.

mMarrigED: Elizabeth Ann Higgins, June 24, 1939, Waltham, Mass. CHILDREN:
Kevin Francis, July 21, 1940; Ann Elizabeth, Dec. 29, 1942; Ellen, Jan.
5, 1947; Jane, Feb. 14, 1949.

occuPATION: Assistant to the director, Boston Public Library.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Speakers Bureau, Plan E for Boston Committee,
1946-47; member, Board of Government, Catholic Alumni Sodality
of Boston, 1949-50; president, Agassiz District Home and School Asso-
ciation, 1950-52; member, Nominating Committee, Greater Boston
Council of Girl Scouts, 1955-56, member executive board, Holy Name
Society, St. Thomas Aquinas Church, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus, Catholic Association for International
Peace; Massachusetts Civic League; Governmental Research Associa-
tion; American Library Association; Massachusetts Library Association.

PUBLICATIONS: The Fur Trade in New England, 1620-1676, Harvard Uni-
versity Press, 1931 (honor thesis in history); course of study in Ameri-
can history, 1944; bulletins and regular publications of Boston Munici-
pal Research Bureau, 1949-51.

MY case shows that you never can tell what may come of get-
ting involved in extracurricular activities. Twice since the war's
end, I’ve changed occupations. I started out as a high school
teacher and had a dozen years’ experience behind me —ten of
them at Boston’s English High School — before joining the USNR
in 44. I'd enjoyed teaching: E.H.S. was an all-boys school, 3,000
of them, and we had some pretty fine Jads amongst them. It was
a privilege, in a sense, to be a part of their lives. I believed in
the importance of the work and I wanted to get where I could
do more for them. But the postwar prospect was discouraging.
I had taken an A.M. degree at Harvard in ’46, earned largely in
summer vacations before the war, and during the next three years
had plowed through the course work for the Ed.D. degree at
Harvard’s Graduate School of Education. In January, 1947, on
the day after the birth of our third child, I began duty as head of
department at the Brighton High Schol. But inflation and the
failure of school salaries to keep pace made life difficult for men
teachers, Meanwhile, the municipal situation was dark, also; Mr.
Curley, the “old pro”, was back at City Hall and it looked as
though the nation-wide boom had by-passed Boston.

I'd always been interested in political science and had an almost

[ 695 ]

seen penn aE TOLER TIP PETTEO TEENS ATT TT NN eT Ae ENE TE: eh te em

_ L__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

passionate feeling about Boston’s historical and cultural tradition,
so I joined the general movement for municipal reform that
started in ’46 with the old Plan E (city manager) campaign and
reached its culmination with the institution of the Plan A charter
and the election of John B, Hynes as mayor in 1949. 1 became
quite active in speaking and organizational work while handling
teaching chores and plodding to Cambridge for courses. It was
the side interest that led, in 1949, to an abrupt change of occupa-
tion and ultimately to a second change three years later. In
December, 1948, the executive secretary of the Boston Municipal
Research Bureau, a privately financed governmental research
agency, left Boston for fresh pastures and I was invited to take
the position. I decided to take the job. With the support of men
like Henry L. Shattuck, and with an improving municipal situa-
tion in 1950, my able assistant and I were able to make the Bureau
fairly effective, We called it “a private enterprise in the public
service” — it took plenty of enterprise!

Well, after three years of absorption in the fiscal and adminis-
trative problems of Boston, there came an invitation from the
Boston Public Library to take a position as head of the Library’s
division of business operations. The transition from research and
opinion-forming activities to administrative duties promised to
be almost as abrupt as the change I'd made in ’49, but I had al-
ways admired the Library and I knew that under its able director
and its distinguished trustees, it was well run. In January, 1952,
therefore, I moved uptown to Copley Square and have been there
since, ] supervise the operations of a number of units which serve
the reference and research division and the branch library system:
building maintenance, accounting, purchasing, shipping, binding,
etc,; and with budgets, trust fund matters, contracts and liaison
work I am also deeply involved.

I have a handsome and most competent wife and four fine
children. The boy of the family is taller than I and a student at
Boston Latin School, where he plays hockey (not hookey) with
incredible gusto. The gentler sex is represented by three wonder-
ful little girls ranging from thirteen years down to seven,

The business of raising a family and trying to get ahead have
kept both travels and hobbies to a minimum, and the needs and
diversions of young children have much to do with the way we

[ 696 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spend our leisure time. I guess I haven’t a hobby so much as a
persistent interest, and that’s Boston — its government, institu-
tions, history, problems and possibilities.

BENJAMIN LOTHROP MOLTMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Stevens Terr., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Herald-Traveler Corp., 80 Mason St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: May 14, 1907, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: William James Moltman,
Augusta Prince Lothrop.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Elsie Bertha Gaskin, Feb. 6, 1932, Watertown, Mass. cHILDREN:
Benjamin Lothrop, Jr., Nov. 20, 1932; Marcia Washburn, Nov. 17, 1936;
Leah Prince, April 22, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Benjamin Lothrop Moltman, Jr., 54.

occupPaTION: Circulation manager, Boston Herald-Traveler Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Too numerous to list. :

TWENTY-FIVE years of newspaper sales promotion, distribu-
tion and economics of newspaper publishing. Twenty-four years
tempering a devoted mother’s rearing of a bright, interesting trio
bearing father’s initialed approval— Ben, Jr., Leah P. and
Marcia W.

Undergraduate Marcia, with characteristic Radcliffe license,
dismisses the paternal parent’s contribution to the trio’s scholastic
performance with “mutation is a many-splendored thing”!

JOSEPH THOMAS MOONEY, JR.

HOME apprEss: 5125 N. Carlyn Spring Rd., Arlington 3, Va.

OFFICE appREsS: Pan American Union, Washington 6, D. C.

BORN: April 2, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Thomas Mooney,
D.D.s. ’r1, Anna Bernadette Grimes.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Marie Jeanne Fiset, Nov. 18, 1950, Washington, D. C.

OCCUPATION: Editor (English), Pan American Union.

OFFICES HELD: Library Committeeman, National Press Club, circa 1948.

MEMBER oF: National Press Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Know the Americas”, for Pan American Union.

[ 697 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ANY attempt at total recall twenty-five years out of Harvard
strikes me as a singularly footless exercise. As long as we're
riding a deadline, let’s do it this way. From 1931 to 1934: sports-
writer and night sports editor on the Boston American. Words
with the Managing Editor who thought professional wrestling
was on the level. Thought M.E. was kidding. He wasn’t.

From 1934 to 1939: reporter, rewrite man, copyreader, picture
editor, whatnot on the Washington Times and Times Herald.
Wonderful if lean era. Remember most vividly the day the
Friendly Sons of St. Patrick tried to snatch Wrong Way Corrigan
from the Ancient Order of Hibernians at welcome to the city —
and himself a Protestant, avech.

From 1939 to 1941: economic analyst with the Department of
Commerce. Analyzed economics of living on $2,300 a year.
Rest of the time wrote press releases, all beginning, “Secretary of
Commerce (Jesse Jones, Harry Hopkins) said today... .”
Can’t recall them actually saying anything. To me, at least.

December 12, 1941: America at war. Offered services to
Navy. Navy took quick peek at my Harvard NROTC record,
declined hastily with thanks. Reassured, however, that things
were not that bad.

From 1942 to 1945: Office of Censorship character. Survived
a winter in Ottawa and a stretch in London. Personally held the
fort against landlord of No. 2, Prospect Place, Hampstead, while
Sergeant B. W. Frazier, 3d, and others fixed Corporal Adolf
Hitler’s wagon. A-Bomb on Hiroshima blew me out of job, too.

From 1945 to 1950: back on copydesks, Washington Star,
then the Post, then the Times Herald again. Old acquaintances
not forgot. Remember a printer I hadn’t seen for six years re-
marking, “Where you been — on a three-week vacation?”

Since 1950: editor, Pan American Union, secretariat of the
Organization of American States. Not bad. All I do is lift feature
stories from Latin American newspapers, rewrite them for those
who run and read in the U.S, Job requires four languages and a
certain aptitude in literary petit larceny. Tell you all about it
any time you're in town.

[ 698 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BEECHER MOORE

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Temple Gardens, Middle Temple, London, E.C. 4, England.

oFFice ADDRESS: Moore’s Modern Methods, Ltd. 19/21 Farrington St., Lon-
don, E. C. 4, England.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1907, Rochester, N. Y. PARENTS: Harry Chadwick Moore,
Grace Beecher.

PREPARED AT: Clayesmore School, Iwerne Minister, Dorset, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

marriep: Barbara Mary Seale, Feb. 12, 1953, London, England.

occuPATION: Office equipment and systems stationery.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Loose Leaf Filing Devices, Light Engineering Com-
pany; director, Boat Designing and Building, Theatrical Producing,
Theatrical Costumiers; commodore, The International Hornet Associa-
tion,

MEMBER OF: The American Club; Baberton Golf Club, Royal Corinthian
Yacht Club; Royal Forth Y. C.; Island Sailing Club, Cowes Corinthian
Yacht Club; Minima Yacht Club; Ranelagh Sailing Club, Thames Barge
Sailing Club; Arts Theatre Club; British Racing and Sports Car Club;
International Sports Fellowship, Highgate Diving Club (life member),
City of London Air Raid Wardens’ Association (life member); Har-
vard Club of London.

PHILIP EMERY MOORE

HOME ADDRESS: 2633 76th St, N.E., Bellevue, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 530 Henry Bldg., Seattle 1, Wash.

BoRN: April 27, 1906, Auburn, N. Y. parents: Frederick Clouston Moore,
Ellen May Palmer.

PREPARED AT: Chauncy Hall School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Patricia Agnew, July 24, 1940, Seattle, Wash. cumpren: Victoria
Ellen, Aug. 30, 1941; Heather Anne, Nov. 3, 1943; Philip Emery, Jr.
Feb. 16, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

+k PHILIP WYATT MOORE, JR.

BoRN: Feb, 19, 1910, Evanston, Il. parents: Philip Wyatt Moore, Caroline
Seymour Daniels.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A. 1933.

[ 599 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

marRiED: Henrietta Boal, Nov. 26, 1939, Winnetka, Ill. cumpren: Henrietta
Ayres, Jan. 8, 1941; Philip Wyatt, 3d, June 27, 1942; Lucy Seymour,
Jan. 11, 1944; Thomas Johnson, July 20, 1946; Leslie Helen, Nov. 14,
1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Daniels Moore, ’35, M.D. °39.

piED: Aug. 8, 1954, Rockville, Ind.

wwow: Mrs. Philip Wyatt Moore, Jr., 100 Green Bay Rd., Hubbard Woods,
Til.

AFTER receiving his M.B.A. at the Business School in 1933,
Moore was associated with General Houses, Inc., of Chicago until
1937, when he joined Poor & Company, railway supplies. Since
1950 he had been self-employed.

ROLAND CHESLEY MOORE

HOME ADDRESS: 242 Hillside Ave, Needham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Industrial Hygiene, Harvard School of Public
Health, 1 Shattuck St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 26, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frederick Cranford Moore,
Carrie Minty.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M. 1933; PH.D. (Univ. of
Pittsburgh), 1951.

markigD: Elizabeth Anne Proehl, June 24, 1939, Glen Ridge, N. J. cuu-
DREN: Sarah Elizabeth, June 30, 1941, Mary Todd, June 7, 1943; Frederick
Cranford, 2d, April 22, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Psychologist, School of Public Health —research on role of

- human factors in accidents.

OFFICES HELD: Psychologist, Medfield State Hospital, 1935-36, Worcester
State Hospital, 1936-38, Boston Psychopathic Hospital, 1938-42, psy-
chiatric units of various naval establishments, 1942-46; lieutenant (j.g.),
LCDR; instructor, associate professor of psychology, head, Bureau of
Measurement and Guidance, Carnegie Institute of Technology, 1946-
52; member research staff, Harvard School of Public Health, since
1953; member board of directors, Morgan Memorial, 1938-40, Allegheny
Counselling Center, Pittsburgh, 1950-52.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association.

PusLications: A few minor articles in various professional journals — latest
and most important, “Human Variability in Motor Vehicle Accidents”
(with two co-authors), Harvard School of Public Health, 1955.

THE most startling feature of the twenty-five years since gradu-
ation day in 1931 is that they have passed so quickly, and without
a feeling one has changed very drastically one way or the other.

[ 700 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We all, of course, are more in some regards than we were and
fortunately, I hope, less in others. I suspect that most of us have
reached the point where our evenings have to be planned to
accommodate the chauffeuring needs of our progeny and where
we find ourselves serving on various community committees with-
out quite having been aware of all the separate stages. I can see
a steady trend in my own professional interests in retrospect —
immediately after college and graduate school, mental illness
and extremes of human behavior seemed the all important area to
attend to. This interest carried on through the war years where
I was more fortunate than many in that my duties were closely
parallel to what I had been doing in civilian clothes. My younger
daughter does not wholly agree and feels her father was dis-
criminated against, In her view, duties which confined my ac-
tivities to shore and continental bases clearly deprived me of the
opportunity to earn a purple heart such as she has seen among the
service ribbons we see when the family goes out for dinner at
the officers’ mess which still honors my reserve status.

Following the war and with the family, now including three
children, I taught at the Carnegie Institute of Technology and
headed the student counselling and guidance services while at
the same time finishing off the requirements at the University of
Pittsburgh for that union card so necessary in the academic
world, the Ph.D. Pittsburgh has some lovely people, but during
that time was all the “smoky city” was cracked up to be, and we
welcomed the opportunity to return to New England three years
ago. My concentration of effort in this time has been on the
ordinary problems and ordinary adjustments of people as they
come, and the special aspects of those problems which are par-
ticularly important in human efficiency and safety. We find
suburban life near Boston highly satisfactory and between do-it-
yourself projects, family doings, friends and neighbors, PTA and
Cub Scouts, church choir and community committees, that
which yet could be asked for seems not too important.

[zor ]

nn a seeeeeimneninnienaeimunmniun ia ttt aatitentaeene eee PR a ee ok a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

++ TOWNSEND JONES MOORE

BORN: Aug. 26, 1906, Lexington, Mass. parents: McAllaster Moore, ’03,
Mary Jones,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MARRIED: Elizabeth B. Tillotson, Sept. 19, 1929, Tacoma, Wash. cHILp:
Charles, 3d, Oct, 9, 1931.

pieD: Feb. ro, 1948, Seattle, Wash.

IN 1938 Moore reported that he was in the municipal bond busi-
ness with H. P. Pratt & Company in Seattle. He was still with

that company in 1941. In 1946 he reported that he was engaged
in manufacturing in Seattle. His wife and son survived him.

SIBLEY SHERMAN MORRILL

MAILING ADDRESS: 1811 Leavenworth St., San Francisco, Calif.

Born: May 13, 1908, Concord, N. H. parents: Sibley Gage Morrill, Georgia
Valentine Sherman.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

occupation: Manufacturing.

JOHN HERRICK MOSES

HOME ADDRESS: 7016 Rockwood Rd., Little Rock, Ark.

OFFicE ADDRESS: Reynolds Metals Co., Boyle Bldg., Little Rock, Ark.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Alfred Joseph Moses, Mar-
garet Carlton Magrath.

PREPARED AT: Pleasantville High School, Pleasantville, N. ¥., Roxbury Latin
School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B. 19313 A.M., 19323 PH.D. 1936.

MaRRIED; Katharine Baird Dieterich, June 23, 1934, Southport, Maine.
CHILDREN: John Herrick, Jr.. March 15, 1939; Margaret Anne, March 14,
1940; Alfred Conrad, June 14, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Magrath Moses, ’30.

occupaTiON: Chief geologist, Reynolds Metals Company.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining Engineers; Lions International,
Geological Society of America, American Academy of Arts and
Sciences,

WHEN I selected geology for my field of concentration, I was
hopeful that it would lead to an outdoor life and to freedom from
the monotony of commuting between home and office. Little

[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

did I realize how effectively that choice was to conspire to that
end, and occasionally over the intervening years I have looked
with envy on the staid lives of my classmates and wondered what
might have been my lot had I checked off biology or history or

overnment instead; but most of the time I have been very content
with my life as a mining geologist.

Before leaving the academic aura of Cambridge, I spent several
more years there as a graduate student and as an assistant instruc-
tor at Harvard. In June, 1934, I married and took my bride to
northwestern Montana, where she had a taste of the future while
lingering in rather primitive surroundings while I roamed the
hills, By that time my interest had focused on geology as applied
to mining and to the search for ore deposits, so that when I was
offered a position as a junior geologist at the famous old mining
camp of Cerro de Pasco in Peru, I happily contracted for a three-
year hitch.

We sailed from New York in June, 1935, with the avowed
intention of returning to the United States at the end of our
contract, but, except for occasional visits home, we remained in
Peru until 1951. During that period I worked continuously for
the same American firm and gradually advanced to the position
of chief geologist. Eventually, because of limited school facilities
and for other personal reasons, I accepted an invitation to switch
my allegiance from copper, zinc and lead to aluminum and to
make my headquarters in Little Rock, Arkansas.

Getting used to living in the United States again has been almost
as much of an adventure as was our move to Peru, particularly for
our children. It is a very different place from the country we left
in 1935, but we found a familiar atmosphere still lingering around
our ancestral home in Maine, so we make an annual pilgrimage

there each summer.

Our three children are living proof that there is no truth to
the legend that man cannot conceive and bear children at high
altitudes, although in order to be certain that our first-born could
some day be president of our country, my spouse chose New
York for her confinement. Fortunately, our second child is a
girl, because we did not carry out my wife’s ambition for her to
fortuitously present on U.S. soil of our Embassy in Lima at the
critical moment. The third, though a boy, just can’t be president,

[ 703 ]

Ra LET TN VU en NNR OMT NI TE NT aT A ORT EH TORR bya een spice

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

because he was born on top of the Andes; but, by then my wife
was resigned to having only one potential president among the
three. Now that we are again residing in the States, who knows?

Professional duties have required me to travel widely and com-
monly off the beaten path of the average tourist. At times it has
been possible for one or more of my family to accompany me.
Mineral deposits have a way of hiding in outlandish places such
as distant mountain tops or under jungle swamps, and getting to
these localities is often an experience that stay-at-homes would
envy. Asa family, we have toured through much of the United
States and Peru, and have covered parts of Canada, Mexico, the
Caribbean Islands, Panama, Colombia and Ecuador.

I have little time for hobbies other than to enjoy home life when
at home, but I get an occasional chance at golf and I have quite
an assortment of scenic photos. All too seldom I find an oppor-
tunity to assist with scouting activities and in local civic activities.

After years in the passive religious atmosphere of foreign min-
ing camps, we have resumed a somewhat more active interest in
the church and are now all confirmed Episcopalians. However,
no wings have sprouted yet on any of our tribe.

Even in this traditionally Democratic stronghold, our senti-
ments lean toward the Republican party and I hope to see the
two-party system become a reality in Arkansas before many more
decades fade away.

ZEHMAN I. MOSESSON

HOME appress: 70 S. Munn Ave. East Orange, N. J.

OFFICE apprEss: Prudential Insurance Co. of America, Newark, N. J.

BORN: Oct. 11, 1911, Brownsville, Pa. PARENTS: Maurice Mosesson, Fanny
Feldstein.

PREPARED AT: Uniontown High School, Uniontown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. [9313 A.M. 1934; PH.D., 1937-

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Associate actuarial director, Prudential Insurance Company of
America.

OFFICES HELD: Member education and examination committee, since 1948,
chairman operating subcommittee, since 1954, member committee on dis-
ability and double indemnity, Society of Actuaries.

[ 704 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries; New York Actuaries’ Club, Harvard
Club of New Jersey, Mathematical Association of America.

puBLICATIONS: “Professional Opportunities in Mathematics”, Mathematical
Association of America; occasional contributions to Transactions of
Society of Actuaries.

AT graduation I was awarded the Henry Russell Shaw Traveling
Fellowship which enabled me to spend almost eleven months in
Europe making “the grand tour”. The outstanding feature of the
fellowship was that I was not permitted to enroll formally in any
university. As a result, I spent most of my time sightseeing and
attending symphony concerts and opera. When I returned, I
was not nearly as much interested in research in mathematics as
I had been during my senior year, although it took me several
years to realize this.

From 1932 until 1937 I did graduate work in mathematics at
Harvard, getting my A.M. in 1934 and my Ph.D. in 1937. During
the first four of these years, I was a part-time instructor in mathe-
matics at Harvard; it would not be too great an exaggeration to
say that I learned as much calculus as I taught the first year. I
discovered while teaching one two o’clock class that the instructor
gets just as sleepy as the students at that hour of the day.

As my graduate work continued, it became increasingly ap-
parent to me that I did not want to spend the rest of my life
doing research in mathematics. My decision to look for some
other kind of work was also influenced by the fact that teaching
jobs for new Ph.D.’s were difficult to find in 1937. After consid-
erable mental turmoil, I decided to accept a job as an actuarial
student with the Prudential Insurance Company of America in
Newark, New Jersey. I began work with the Prudential Insur-
ance Company of America in Newark, New Jersey, in August,
1937, and I have been here ever since. After the difficulties of
writing a Ph.D. thesis and passing an oral general examination,
the early actuarial examinations held few terrors for me, and I was
able to pass them fairly rapidly. The later examinations were
more difficult, however, and by June of 1941 I had come to a
complete halt.

Just when I was beginning to get rather discouraged about the
whole thing, I was drafted into the Army. I spent most of the
next five years at Fort Monroe, Virginia, where I was assigned to

[ 705 ]

———____. L_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

the Coast Artillery Board. My mathematical and actuarial train-
ing proved to be quite useful in my work, which consisted prima-
rily of the development and testing of fire control materiel for sea
coast artillery. This can hardly be said to have played a vital part
in our winning of the war, but for at least a few months there was
a time when plans for coastal defense were not altogether aca-
demic. Later developments, of course, have made some of this
work seem as obsolete as the phalanx of the battering ram. Dur-
ing this period I passed successively through most of the non-
commissioned grades and eventually ended up as a warrant offi-
cer, junior grade.

In April of 1946 I returned to the Prudential and applied myself
again to the task of passing actuarial examinations. The enforced
absence from actuarial work was apparently beneficial; I became
a fellow of the Society of Actuaries in 1948. Since then, I have
had gradually increasing responsibilities with the Prudential and
now have the title of associate actuarial director. My present
duties are concerned mostly with the drafting of policy forms.

I have been a member of the Education and Examination Com-
mittee of the Society of Actuaries for the last seven years and
since 1954 I have been chairman of one of the operating subcom-
mittees, so that I am still plagued by the difficulties of examina-
tions. Also I am a member of the Society’s Committee on Disabil-
ity and Double Indemnity and have written a paper on Prudential
disability experience for the Society.

Tam still a member of the Mathematical Association of America.
I served on a committee of that organization which produced a
pamphlet called “Professional Opportunities in Mathematics”.
We hope that this will bring to the attention of students the fact
that teaching is not the only profession available to people major-
ing in mathematics in college.

Iam unmarried. After twenty-five years it is probably not rash
to say that I am likely to remain so. I trust that there will be no
gross errors in the printing of this Report and that the entry
under my name for “Children” will do nothing to disprove the
statement that a bachelor is a man who has no children to speak of.

My main avocation is still music. I visit Carnegie Hall and the
Metropolitan Opera House in New York frequently and my
collection of LP records is beginning to outgrow the storage

[ 706 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

space I have. I still play bridge, although not as frequently Or as
successfully as I did during our Harvard Reading Periods.

As for my social and political convictions, they are more con-
fused than consistent. I like to think of myself as a liberal and I
am, therefore, dismayed when I realize how conservative I have
become. Of course, the actuarial profession does not provide the
most favorable climate for the growth of radical ideas. My politics
can perhaps best be described by the statement that I have always
been a registered Republican, but I have never voted for a Repub-
lican candidate for president. The year 1956 may be different,
however, if Mr. Nixon is not on the ticket.

Looking back on twenty-five years as an alumnus, my main
regret is that I did not appreciate enough the many opportunities
at Harvard while I was there. I wish there were some way in
which more Harvard students could be encouraged to take the
broad view during their college years, Harvard offers so much in
addition to the opportunity of passing courses. It would be nice
to be able to do it all over again. I suppose this statement will be
even stronger if I am alive to make it on our Fiftieth Anniversary.

MILTON MOSS

HOME apprEss: 4 Drew Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass,

OFFIcE apprEess: Moss Products, Inc., 459 Blue Hill Ave., Roxbury, Mass.

BORN: June 2, 1910, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob Moskowitz, Matilda
Shapiro.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1935.

MarriED: Edythe Rosalyn Rosencranz, June 26, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Judith Ina, July 8, 1943; Stewart Peter, May 23, 1947.

OccuPATION: General Manager, retail grocery.

OFFICES HELD: President, treasurer, Moss Products, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Temple Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Boston; Temple Mishkan Tefila,
Boy Scouts of America; Kappa Nu Fraternity; Sunday Night Forum.

AS I try to recall those great events of the past twenty-five years
in my life, everything pales into insignificance, and the only fact
that fills my mind in this day-to-day existence is that my daughter
is out tonight, on her first date, and another milestone has been

reached.
For twenty-one years I have been watching the changes in the

[ 707 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

marketing and distribution of food, at the retail level, and am still
trying to catch up with them at the Puritan Food Stores. Outside
of working hours — are there any other hours? I find a little time
for community and P.T.A. expression, not enough for puttering
around the house, and am always looking forward to my chief
hobby — fishing. This is shared with equal enthusiasm by Edythe,
Stewie and Judy.

VERNON MUNROE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 159 E. 78th St. New York 21, N. Y.

oFFice appREss: White & Case, 14 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y¥.

BorN: Dec. 15, 1908, Englewood, N. J. parents: Vernon Munroe, » 9 Sally
Sprague Cook.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B. 1936.

marieD: Gretel Zinsser, July 7, 1934, Dover, Mass, CHILDREN: Gretel
Sprague, Dec. 16, 1936; Antonia Louisa, Nov. 27, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Hoadley Munroe, ’25.

occuPaTION: Lawyer; member of firm, White & Case.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Kips Bay Boys’ Club.

MEMBER OF: Council on Foreign Relations; Century Association; Down
Town Association; Harvard Club of New York City; American and
New York State Bar Associations; Association of the Bar of the City
of New York, Friends of Columbia Libraries,

FOLLOWING graduation, I spent a year at Cambridge, England,
where a losing bout with Keynes’ two-volume treatise on the
theory of money convinced me that, whatever the future might
hold for me in the law, it could hardly be less promising than in
economics. Accordingly, I went to the Law School, At the end
of a year I dropped out to act as private secretary to President
Conant during the first year of his presidency. After Law School,
I practised with White & Case in New York for five years and
then in the summer of 1941 joined OPA, where I worked for a
while as chief counsel for the Chemical and Drug Section and,
later, as special assistant to Leon Henderson,

In the spring of 1942 I was stationed for two months in Havana,
Cuba, as one of two representatives of OPA and the State Depart-
ment, advising the Cuban Government on the setting up of its
wartime economic controls and working closely with several
very able Cuban officials. Happily, my job involved the giving

[ 708 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of advice without responsibility for the consequences, but I am
told the controls worked, at least for a while.

When Henderson resigned from OPA in 1943, I joined Lend-
Lease and spent several months in Algiers, North Africa, in charge
of a section of the Lend-Lease mission with the function of assist-
ing the French authorities on the pricing and distribution of
Anglo-American goods imported to the area. Some of the
French showed a certain lack of enthusiasm for our activities
which they believed related to matters within their sole domestic
concern. In moments of frustration I used to try to imagine what
the Germans must be up against, dealing in occupied France with
officials who were their enemies, not their allies. Now, of course,
I realize that the feelings of the French were entirely natural and,
to a considerable extent, justified. This experience convinced
me that the tying of strings to grants of economic aid to foreign
nations raises most delicate problems and should only be under-
taken, if at all, with the utmost care and understanding. In Jan-
uary, 1944, I joined the Navy and spent the next year and a half
in London, Normandy and Paris, working principally on eco-
nomic and supply matters for the Army and then for OSS.

After the war I returned to White & Case, becoming a member
of that firm in 1952. Before the war I was in litigation. Now my
special field is corporation law with some work in oil and gas
and occasional excursions into other fields. There has also been
some participation in the work of committees of the City Bar
Association.

Aside from the law, I am deeply interested — like many of us
—in foreign affairs. Also, I do a good deal of reading on the
non-legal aspects of the corporation, which is to me an extraor-
dinarily interesting development in private or semi-public gov-
ernment and which will certainly undergo further changes in the
coming years. There is danger that these changes are most likely
to occur in times of economic stress when extremists are in con-
trol. Here I believe that we lawyers who spend much of our time
on this subject and are well placed to see all sides of the problem
should be able to make some contribution.

My family and I spend our summers in Long Island with an
occasional trip to Europe. I engage in the usual summer sports
and prefer fishing to anything else I can think of.

[ 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193!

JOHN ROBB MURDOCH, V

LAST KNOWN aporess: P, O. Box 2303, 25 South St., New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 14 1909, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: William Howard Murdoch,
Katherine Diskin.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MURDOCH has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1954.

MALCOLM ROSS MURLLESS

HOME AppRESS: Valley View Drive, Baldwin Acres, Staunton, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Safety Razor Corp., Staunton, Va.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1909, Hartford, Conn. parents: Herbert Childs Murlless,
Winifred Ross Teel.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: 8.B. (Ohio State Univ.), 1934.

MarRIED: Dorothy H. Sprague, June 5, 1936, Upper Montclair, N. J. cu-
DREN: Marion Sprague, Dec. 13, 1938; Richard Sprague, March 3, 1943.

occupation: Director of research and development, American Safety Razor
Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of deacons, Upper Montclair Presbyterian
Church; chairman, Cub Scout Committee; deputy policeman, Montclair,
N. J.; secretary-treasurer, Montclair Parkside Association.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Metals, Washington, D. C.; A.S.T.M.,
Philadelphia, Pa., Highland Lakes Country Club; Ingleside Country
Club; Glenmore Hunt Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical articles and lecture notes.

HOW can this time come around so quickly. Twenty-five years
seems like nothing. After 1931 and two years with the Socony-
Vacuum Company, I went to Ohio State University for an S.B. in
Metallurgical Engineering in 1934. Jobs were scarce in those days,
but through the help of Professor V. Homerberg at M.LT. I
found one in Harrison, New Jersey. To him I am ever grateful,
for that little bit of help has directed my whole life. The Crucible
Steel Company of America really put me through the mill from
laboratory to production to plant metallurgist at the Cold Rolled
Steel Division with a liberal sprinkling of travel over the U. S.
on engineering service. How gray that day was when I started
to work! The fog and smoke hung heavy over Harrison. It
brightened a few days later in Montclair when I met my future

[710]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wife, and it has been that way ever since. After marriage we
bought a house in Montclair and settled there — sixteen years of
happy living, two fine children, Marion and Dick, and a host of
grand friends.

Greener fields and a better opportunity in 1942 took me to the
Monroe Calculating Machine Company as chief metallurgist.
Spent the war years on producing for the armed services — a small
contribution in the light of others’ gifts. As the children grew,
the vacation problem became more acute; so our next big project
was a summer place at Highland Lakes in Sussex County, New
Jersey. Wonderful for the family with a whole summer vacation
of fun and frolic! Being a bachelor between week-ends, I was
obliged to learn to cook and use a washing machine and dryer.
Even made currant jelly once, following my wife’s instructions,
but it failed; so, thereafter, I brought her the berries. I often
marvel at how we could start out in June with two carloads full
of stuff and still move another full load every week-end. But we
did it and then reversed the process to cart it all back. I'd like to
figure it in ton miles of materials moved across North Jersey.
However, we all enjoyed every minute of it and miss it now.

Opportunity knocked again in 1954 to move ahead in New
York City at the American Safety Razor Corporation. So I
became a commuter to the big city by car, rail, ferry and subway
along with millions of other people. After six months the com-
pany announced its plans to move to Staunton, Virginia. One of
the finest plans ever offered to a group of employees was pre-
sented by the company. Nothing ventured, nothing gained; so
we accepted and off we went to Virginia. It’s a wonderful place
to live. In the eight months’ time since January we have sold both
houses in New Jersey, rented two houses here and are building
our dream house overlooking the Blue Ridge Mountains. It will
be ready to live in by Labor Day. All this in addition to helping
set up a new modern plant, train new people and get into full
production. We have a lot of fun doing things.

CHARLES THEOPHILUS MURPHY

HOME AppREsS: 64 Spring St,, Oberlin, Ohio.
OFFICE appRESS: Dept. of Classics, Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio.

[zi]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

BoRN: June 14, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Charlton Lewis Murphy,
Florence Cornelia Shields.

PREPARED AT: West Philadelphia High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 1933; PH.D. 1935.

MARRIED: Fannie T. Bixler, June 18, 1936, Easton, Pa, cHILDREN: Charles
Thornton, May 20, 1938; Arthur Bixler, Jan. 25, 1942.

occUPATION: Professor of Classics.

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association; Archaeological Institute of
America; Classical Association of Middle West and South; Vergilian
Society of America; American Association of University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Greek Literature in Translation, with W. J. Oates, 1944,
Greek and Roman Classics in Translation, with K. Guinah and W. J.
Oates, 1947, Longmans, Green & Co.; numerous articles and reviews in
classical periodicals.

HAVING just completed twenty years of full-time college teach-
ing, I find it rather appropriate to be forced by this Class Report
to summarize and evaluate my activities and achievements to date.
It is a sobering experience: what has become of the past twenty-
five years and what do I have to show for them?

Five years as an instructor at Harvard, seven years at Princeton
(part of them filled with teaching physics, of all things, to Navy
V-12 units), eight years at Oberlin College, where I have attained
the exalting status of professor and chairman of a department —
whatever that is worth. College teaching, whether at Harvard,
Princeton or Oberlin, is much the same: lectures to prepare or
revise, constant reading, students to encourage or warn, faculty |
committees to attend, an article or a book review to prepare for
some journal. The time slips by and one year is much like an-
other. The rewards in the teaching profession are meager these
days, but the most satisfying compensation comes when one of my
former students comes back to see me and I learn (often to my
surprise) how much I managed to contribute to his development.
Such experiences rescue me, momentarily at least, from the feel-
ing that most human endeavor is completely futile.
_ The routine of steady teaching was pleasantly interrupted dur-

ing the academic year of 1953-54, when I received a sabbatical
leave and went to live in Rome for a year. I pursued various re-
search projects at the American Academy in Rome, where I held
a fellowship; the results of this activity will appear shortly (I
hope) in the shape of another book. Another result has already

[712]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been attained: a deep enthusiasm for Italy and a feeling of sincere
sympathy and friendship for most of the Italian people.

The growth and development of my two sons also provide me
with a sense of satisfaction and real achievement. The elder has
entered Princeton — somewhat to my sorrow, but I felt that the
choice of a college is something that a boy must make for himself.

I have many interests but no full-fledged hobby — unless one
is kind and uncritical enough to consider my modest garden (both
vegetable and flowers) as the result of a hobby. My interests
have included church work for the little Episcopal Church here in
Oberlin; Boy Scouts, when my sons were engaged in scouting;
music; and various tasks for the professional societies to which I
belong. At present, I find myself devoting a great deal of time to
the Vergilian Society, which runs a small summer school for
American teachers of the Classics at Cuma, near Naples, Italy.
This is still another result of my year in Italy.

Although the past twenty-five years have offered me a fair
share of frustrations and irritations, on reviewing them I find that
they have done well by me. And I am content with my réle as a
teacher.

DANIEL JAMES MURPHY, JR.

HOME ApDpREsS: 170 Great Pond Rd., North Andover, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Arlington Trust Co., 305 Essex St., Lawrence, Mass.

BORN: March 29, 1910, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Daniel James Murphy, ’or,
Mary Theresa Curran.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Evelyn Marie Eastman, June 30, 1937, Lawrence, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mary Alice, Feb. 23, 1939; Daniel James, 3d, Dec. 17, 1941; Gale Ann,
Sept. 27, 1944; Kathleen Eastman, Oct. 29, 1945; Evelyn Marie, June
21, 1949; David Joseph, Sept. 18, 1951.

OCCUPATION: President and director, Arlington Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Community Savings Bank; executive committee
member, assistant treasurer, Greater Lawrence Industrial Associates;
director, United Fund of Greater Lawrence,

MEMBER OF: Bon Secours Men’s Guild; Men of Merrimack.

I HAVE spent practically all of my time since graduation work-

[713]

ant cntmeeenetneneenaeeensameenmeneneeaemadieniannemmmmanlniii naa
SO ROG ng ot

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ing for the Arlington Trust Company, a commercial bank with
approximately twenty-eight million in gross assets. I have worked
hard but have enjoyed it.

EDWARD BERNARD MURPHY

HOME ADpRESS: 157 Langley Rd., Newton Centre, Mass.

OFFICE aDDREsS: Palm Beach Co., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: May 4, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George Jerome Murphy, Gertrude
Daily.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.; Phillips An-
dover Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M. (Johns Hopkins Univ.)
1934-

marrieD: Charlotte Elise Bourneuf, May 5, 1934, Chestnut Hill, Mass.
CHILDREN: Sheila, Jan 22, 1935; Edward Bernard, Jr.. March 25, 1936;
Judith, Feb. 9, 1944; Jeremy, Dec. 1, 1948.

OCCUPATION: New England sales representative, Palm Beach Company.

AM still enjoying golf at the Charles River Country Club in
Newton Centre, Massachusetts.

JAMES JOSEPH MURPHY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2147 Stanmore Drive, Houston 19, Texas.

OFFice appREss: St. John’s School, 2401 Claremont Lane, Houston 19, Texas.

BoRN: Aug. 30 1907, Newton, Mass. PARENTS: James Joseph Murphy, Mary
Ann McKenna.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1931; A.M. (Johns Hopkins
Univ.), 1934.

MarRieD: Henrietta Towson, Aug. 27, 1938. Smithsburg, Md. CHILDREN:
Christopher, Dec. 16, 1940; James Joseph, 3d, Nov. 30, 1942; Peter, Aug.
2, 1944.

occupaTion: Teacher of Latin and Spanish, senior adviser to upper school,
St. John’s School.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Houston.

AFTER a brief sojurn in Italy, I entered Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity to study for my Ph.D. degree. (Received an A.M. degree in
1934.) After three years of study with all the course requirements
completed but without my thesis being completed, I left to enter
the public school system in Baltimore, Then followed, during
the war years, a period of employment in Fairchild Aircraft

[714]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Company. Leaving industry, I re-entered the teaching profes-
sion, joining the faculty of the St. James School, St. James, Mary-
land. Then followed three years at the Northwood School, Lake
Placid, New York, where in addition to teaching French and
Spanish, I helped Jim Fullerton coach hockey, including an East-
ern Prep School championship team, From Northwood, I came
to St. John’s School in Houston as a teacher in the Modern
Language Department and as assistant dean of student affairs. On
February 1, 1956, I was appointed senior adviser to the upper
school, a position which promises to be not only interesting but
also demanding in its performance, since it covers a wide scope
of activities including supervision of the academic, social and
disciplinary areas of the high school.

+ ROBERT SMILEY MURPHY

BorN: April 25, 1907, Brookline, Mass. Parents: James Smiley Murphy,
Rosanna Rock.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Barbara Morse, Sept. 2, 1936, Cambridge, Mass.

pIED: Nov. 28, 1942, Boston, Mass.

IN 1932 Murphy was associated with Stickney & Poor Spice
Company, engaged in sales promotion. Five years later he re-
ported that he was vice-president of the company. His wife
survived him.

PEYTON MURRAY
SEE Appendix.

MARTIN MYERSON

HOME AppREssS: 30 Village Circle, Newton Centre, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Myerson Tooth Corp., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: March 4, 1910, Boston, Mass, PareNTs: Simon Myerson, Lucy Frisch-
man.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931, DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MarrieD: Merle Lichtenstein, July 14, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Joel,
Sept. 29, 1941; William Alan, April 19, 1944.

[715]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

occuPATION: Vice-president, Myerson Tooth Corporation, manufacturers of
dental supplies.

OFFICES HELD: President, Product Research Laboratories, since 1948, Dental
Manufacturers of America, 1948-50.

MEMBER OF: American Ceramic Society; Massachusetts Audubon Society.

I STARTED with Myerson Tooth Corporation, manufacturers
of artificial teeth, in 1931 and have been vice-president and mem-
ber of its board of directors since 1937. 1 was elected to the
board of directors of Product Research Laboratories, Inc., in
1944 and became its president in 1948. More recently, I was
elected to the board of Myerson Tooth Company, Ltd., of Trini-
dad, B.W.I. Both the latter firms are subsidiaries of Myerson
Tooth Corporation.

From 1948 to 1950 I served as president of the Dental Manufac-
turers of America, a trade association. In 1951 I acquired an
interest in birds and since then bird-watching has been my prin-
cipal hobby. Those who have played golf with me will under-
stand my omitting it here.

NATHANIEL NASON

HOME ADDRESS: 73 Deering Rd., Mattapan 26, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Development Corporation for Israel, 79 Milk St., Boston 9,
Mass.

BoRN: March 15, 1908, Minsk, Russia. PARENTS: Benjamin Nason, Mollie
Dorkenage.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931 (35).

MaRRiED: Sadye Belsky, Nov. 29, 1934, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN: Sharon,
Aug. 7, 1937; Naomi, May 24, 1941.

occupation: Field representative — State of Israel Bonds, Community Organ-
ization.

JOSEPH MORTON NATHAN

HOME ADDRESS: 4031 Lake Forest Drive, Atlanta, Ga.

OFFicE appress: Weinstock’s, P. O. Box 327, Northside Station, Atlanta, Ga.

BORN: July 16, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph David Nathan, Bertha
Helen Junisky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1930.

MaRRiED: Betty Weinstock, April 24, 1941, Atlanta, Ga. crip: Lee Amelia,
Dec. 1, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Weinstock’s Florist.

[716]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR PHILLIPS NAZRO

HOME ADDRESS: 4420 W. Lovers Lane, Dallas, Texas.

OFFICE apprEss: Parker Corp., Mercantile Securities Bldg. Dallas, Texas.

porn: March 13, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Arthur Francis Nazro, ’o3,
Evelyn Blount Penhallow.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1929.

MARRIED: Frances Anna Hosea, June 21, 1935, New York, N. Y. critpren:
Arthur Phillips, Jr., Aug. 20, 1937; Virginia Hosea, May 10, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Wibird Nazro, ’34.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Parker Corporation, management and distribut-
ing investment trusts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Dallas; Dallas Sailing Club; Preston Hills
Tennis Club; R.O.NS. Club of Dallas; Dallas Security Dealers Associa-
tion; Mustang Club.

AFTER four years in the real estate business, a lot of bridge, and
a year trading government bonds on Wall Street, I got married
in 1935 and went to work for Martindale Hubbell’s Legal Direc-
tory. In 1939, soon after the arrival of our second child, we
moved to Big D, where we have lived, with two interruptions,
ever since. The war years saw me in the Navy at San Francisco,
Pearl, and two years at the Bath Club in Miami, winding up as a
lieutenant commander, After spending 1946 back in Texas, we
lived in New Orleans the next year and a half while I engaged in
the manufacturing of canvas goods with a cousin—the moral:
never work for a relative! In 1948 — back to Dallas, and it will
take a lot ever to move us again.

In 1950 I joined North American Securities Company as a
wholesale distributor of investment trusts, covering eight states in
the Southwest and South. In 1955 I became associated with the
Parker Corporation of Boston, national distributors of Incorpo-
rated Investors and Incorporated Income Fund, as a vice-president
and wholesale distributor for the same territory I have covered for
the past five years. The change, among other things, will bring
me to Boston fairly often.

My hobby is still sailing. We make the North Texas circuit:
Fort Worth, Shreveport, etc., hauling a Lightning with occasional
week-ends at Houston and New Orleans, As our competition
often includes Gene Walet — the two-time Mallory Club winner

(717 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

— we do not often win but we sure have a lot of fun. Fran and
Phil are my regular crew, In the fall, my pastime is following the
Mustangs of Southern Methodist University (South Bend, At-
lanta, etc.), even though Phil is now a sophomore at Rice.

VAN DYKE NELSON

HOME ADDRESS: 21869 Seabury Ave., Fairview Park, Cleveland 26, Ohio.

oFFice appress: Industrial Rayon Corp., 9801 Walford Ave., Cleveland 2,
Ohio.

BORN: June 17, 1906, Cleveland, Ohio, parents: Alfred Christian Nelson,
Emma Gertrude Dyke.

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Statistics and accounting. .

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Professional Chapter of Alpha Chi Sigma; Cleveland
Advertising Club; Harvard Business School Club of Cleveland; Harvard
Club of Cleveland.

MY first employment was some temporary work with Ferdinand
Pecora’s Senate Bank Investigation Committee, while it was in-
vestigating Cleveland banks. Those were the depression days
after the bank holiday when they offered you a salary and then
in the next breath informed you that everyone was taking a fixed
percentage cut. The hours worked were unlimited.

Statistical sales work with the Apex Electrical Manufacturing
Company comprised my first permanent position. It was thor-
oughly enjoyed for the next three and a half years, even though
daily travel to the office was a grueling forty-eight-mile round-
trip drive mostly through city traffic. My business associates were
very congenial and I made some enduring friendships during this
period.

An offer in 1937 to work as a statistician with Industrial Rayon
Corporation induced me to leave Apex and take a position with
greater opportunities ahead. Since my field of concentration in
college was chemistry, and Industrial Rayon manufactures its
products by chemical means, I felt more at home here and found
my work very interesting, A few years later, however, I became
aware of a condition that made it necessary for me to reset my
sights, so to speak. This requires a short flashback to explain.

[718 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When eighteen years old, I suffered a broken back and a very
serious injury to my spinal cord with all the attendant paraly-
sis. After a three-year recovery period, I was back on my
paralyzed feet again with the aid of a’cane. Four delightful and
never-to-be-forgotten college years followed, and it seemed my
recovery had reached a static condition. However, many years
later, I discovered that an extremely slow and erratic paralysis of
my left arm and legs was developing from my spinal injury. Two
canes finally became necessary and now I walk on crutches with
considerable difficulty.

With my mobility about an office cut to zero and being able
to work only half-days, I had to do that work which would
conform to my condition. It consists mostly of reports and cleri-
cal accounting work that can be done without moving from a
desk. And how thankful I am to be still up and around and able
to work!

My divine, incomparable mother passed on while I was in
college. Iwo dear, wonderful aunts— one of whom I lost in
1944 — have made it possible for me to have a home these twenty-
five years. Without them I would never have been able to keep
going.

Hobbies and pastimes have varied with the years. The great
outdoors and nature lore enthrall me. I have enjoyed these on
auto trips and while canoeing and squirrel hunting. Playing
banjo, collecting American Indian relics, and swimming have had
their places. Puzzles and tricks have always interested me. In
1945 I met a gentleman from Mexico City who was employed
temporarily in the Cleveland area. We struck up a lasting friend-
ship, studied Spanish and English together, and spent many de-
lightful hours playing chess. Our friendship has continued to
grow through correspondence and through a few return visits he
has made to the United States. If only I were able, I should very
much like to pay him a visit in Mexico City. Excluding a trip to
Bermuda, my travels since leaving college have been confined
mostly to the eastern part of the United States, ie., New England
to Florida. I have visited the Cambridge area five times.

My philosophy of life might seem rather unusual to many who
chance to read this. The injury I received in 1924 was extremely
severe and it was only by the grace of the Divine Power above

[719]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

that I ever survived. It gives me great comfort to know I might
have passed on then, so that every day which I have lived and am
living since that time is comparable to an extra dividend of life.
Looking at it in this manner, I am far out ahead of the game (of
life), no matter when my mortal existence ends. Anyway, I hope
I'll be around a long time yet. Life is wonderful!

WALTER BENGT NELSON

HOME AND OFFICE aDprEss: St. John’s School, 2401 Claremont Lane, Houston,
Texas. .

BORN: Feb. 21, 1906, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Ben Nelson, Agnes Nilsson.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 19313 ED.M., 1939.

marrieD: Marie Antoinette Pied, 1934, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Peter Bengt,
1938 (died 1939).

occuPATION: Chairman Science Department, Dean of Studies, and Senior
Master, St. John’s School.

orFices HELD: Athletic instructor, H.A.A., 1929-33; director of athletics,
teacher, Groton School, 1933-42; lieutenant commander, U. S. Navy,
1942-46; chairman Science Departement, dean of studies, senior master,
St. John’s School, since 1946.

MEMBERSHIPS: Houston Harvard Club; American Chemical Society (asso-
ciate); National Science Teachers Association; American Association
for the Advancement of Science; Harvard Teachers Association.

JOHN STONECIPHER NESBIT
SEE Appendix.

BERNARD MOSES NEWBURG

HOME appress: 3725 Lyons Lane, Alexandria, Va.

orFice aporess: U, S. Dept. of the Interior, Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: May 15, 1910, Louisville, Ky. parents: Leon Newburg, Belle Stern-
berg.

PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B,, 1931; LL.B. (Univ. of Louisville),
1934.

Marrigp: Cecile Jaffe, April 18, 1943, New York, N. Y. cuivp: Steven David,
Jan. 6, 1944.

occupation; Artorney-adviser, Office of the Solicitor, United States Depart-
ment of the Interior.

[720 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Senior deacon, Masonic Lodge; vice-chairman, B’Nai B'Rith
Lodge; secretary, Leo Baeck Temple, Los Angeles: co-chairman, B'nai
B'rith School of Adult Education, Louisville, Ky.

MEMBER OF: Kentucky and California Bar Associations; American Jewish
Committee; B’nai B'rith; Masons.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to texts and case books on torts, conflicts of
laws agency and contracts; collaborated in articles on methods of com-
batting subversive propaganda and federal legal bibliography; analyses
of explosives laws of the various states; analyses of patent management
by various government agencies.

THE year 1931 being what it was, my fond expectations of enter-
ing upon an immediate and spectacular career on the New York
Times did not materialize. Instead, I spent the summer convinc-
ing occasionally receptive housewives and always unconvinced
husbands that their households needed new electric sewing ma-
chines. In the fall, I started my career in law at the University of
Louisville Law School.

In 1934, equipped only with free copies of various texts on
agency, contracts, conflicts and torts I had helped write or edit
while at law school, I opened my office, sharing space with other
attorneys. To while away the boredom of those first few years,
and to help attract clients, I devoted my spare time to work on
the Americanization of aliens, adult education, amateur theatri-
cals and duplicate bridge.

January, 1937, provided a diversion which, while expensive,
was also exciting. That was the month of the Ohio River floods,
when three-fourths of Louisville was under water and some of
the streets could be crossed only with a motor launch. I headed
the graveyard shift of a rescue station moored to the marble
steps of an apartment house a block from my residence, doing
everything from giving typhoid shots by boat through second-
story windows, to doling out rations and making arrangements
for one more refugee to sleep on the floor of an overcrowded
house. In the aftermath of the flood, my office, on the sixth floor
of a downtown building, was badly damaged by water percola-
ting through the walls and condensing on my furniture and
books.

The year 1939 saw business increasing, but also the threat of
war to the United States. Having for years been a cryptanalyst
and a member of societies dealing with the subject, I decided that

[721]

1 _—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

I could best help Uncle Sam in the event of an emergency through
my abilities in that direction, and took a restricted correspondence
course from the Army to develop my talents further. In fact, I
continued with these studies, but more intensively, when in 1941
I came to Washington as an attorney in the Department of the
Interior. Pearl Harbor found me, deciphering apparatus in hand,
rapping at the doors of the armed services, but they felt that a
tricky ankle and insufficient stature were insuperable obstacles to
unraveling enemy secrets. So I spent the war in Washington,
trying to prevent saboteurs from obtaining explosives. Much of
my spare time was occupied in writing articles on combating
subversive propaganda, both the communist and the fascist vari-
ety. But more important to me than both of these activities was
my meeting with my wife, Cecile.

We are still in the Washington area, after a three-year sojourn
in Los Angeles, California, between 1947 and 1950. I shall not
report on our experiences there, other than to say that the Los
Angeles Chamber of Commerce would not be pleased by our
comments. I am still with the Department of the Interior, special-
izing in legal problems connected with the nation’s natural re-
sources, water, oil, coal, other minerals, electric power and land,
with occasional excursions into other fields, such as patents and
patent management, and national defense. I am on one of my
excursions now, spending most of my time with an interdepart-
mental committee studying jurisdiction over federally owned
lands in the forty-eight states.

Steven, our son, is twelve and happily seems addicted to science,
since his abilities tend that way. He has set his sights on Harvard
since the summer of 1951 when, at the age of seven, he saw the
Yard for the first time. Naturally, Cecile and I approve his am-
bition and are trying to see that it is achieved. My hobbies these
days include photography, record and stamp collecting, as well
as bridge, my old perennial. Since my other hobbies are all shared
by my family, ’m trying to convince them to learn bridge, with
no success to date. Our most enjoyable vacations are spent
traveling, a mode of vacationing that comports well with photog-
raphy. At any rate, don’t be surprised to find yourselves staring

[ 722 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

into my lens this summer. Although our mode of life has not led
to wealth, we are a close-knit family with many interests and
catholic tastes and we enjoy it that way.

CHARLES DORSEY NEWHART
SEE Appendix.

EDWARD SIMON NEWMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 3597 Farland Rd., University Heights 18, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American and Canadian Sportsmen’s Vacation and Boat
Show, 314 Lincoln Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio.

BoRN: Aug. 9, 1909, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Aaron Wolf Newman, Rita
Stein.

PREPARED AT: Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931,

Markiep; Anna Sugar, Dec. 3, 1933, Cleveland, Ohio. cHILpREN: Louise,
Jan. 10, 1940; Charles, April 7, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Exposition promotion.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Cleveland Civil Liberties Union; member subcom-
mittee, Cleveland Heights Board of Education; president, Cleveland
Heights Committee for Educational Progress.

MEMBER OF: American Civil Liberties Union (including Cleveland affiliate) ;
Americans for Democratic Action; League for Industrial Democracy,
Cleveland Mental Health Association.

I'VE compiled work histories from time to time, but the Class
request for an omnibus autobiography was a first for this member
of the Class of ’31. Probably the last too, judging from the un-
distinguished pattern of my life to date.

Pll try to report faithfully some of the variegated, but out-
wardly unexciting, activities in which I’ve been engaged since
college. I'll beg to be excused from being equally conscientious
about my often turbulent and—to me — more significant inner
life, whose raw material is more appropriate to the psychiatric
sanctum than a college Classbook.

I’ve done a fair amount of job-hopping. I had a yen, but not a
consuming passion, to get into newspaper work after Harvard.
But my senior year counsellor prudently suggested I investigate
social work, one of the few expanding fields in the depression

[ 723 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

enlightened stand Harvard has taken in the field of academic
freedom during the era of McCarthyism. I like to think that stand
has had something to do with the more temperate civil liberties
climate of recent months,

HARRY INGERSOLL NICHOLAS, JR.

HOME ApbrEss: Jericho Road, Syosset, Long Island, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Benton & Co., 11 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: May 6, 1908, New York, N. Y. Parents: Harry Ingersoll Nicholas,
Dorothy Snow.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Katherine Elkins, 1943, Monterey, Calif. (divorced 1946).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederick Snow Nicholas, 33; Peter Hollins Nicholas, '39.

occupation: Member of New York Stock Exchange, partner, Benton &
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, City Mortgage Company, 1932-42, Realty
Operating Company, since 1932; member, New York Stock Exchange,
since 1934; partner, Dreyfus & Nicholas, 1934-36, Dreyfus, Benton &
Nicholas, 1936-41, Benton & Nicholas, 1941-52, Benton & Company,
since 1952; senior hunter and jumper judge, American Horse Show
Association; member fund raising committee, New York University.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York; Piping Rock Club; Stock
Exchange Luncheon Club; Harvard Club; Coaching Club, New York;
Boys Club of New York; Planned Parenthood Association.

IN September, 1931, I started on a $15.00 a week job with the
City Mortgage Company, 230 Park Avenue, New York. Al-
though eventually I became a director and officer of the com-
pany, it folded its doors in 1935, due to the depression. Also I
worked in the real estate management and brokerage departments
of Payson McL. Merrill Company at 1 E. 57th Street. In 1934, be-
cause of the illness of my father, I took over his seat on the New
York Stock Exchange and attempted to run his rather meager
specialist business. Until after the war, a Wall Street brokerage
business was never much; however, I — and an increasing number
of very fine partners — have gradually built up a sound and fairly
large specialist business on the New York Stock Exchange. We
handle the shares of some twenty-one companies, including U. S.
Steel, Royal Dutch, Raytheon, Joy Manufacturing Company, and
Spencer Chemical, Luckily for us, the booming brokerage busi-

[ 726 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ness of the past few years has greatly increased our activity and
scope.

In 1939 I joined Squadron A in New York City. As the rorst
Horse-Mechanized Cavalry, we were inducted into the federal
service in January, 1941. Then followed over five years of wear-
ing the uniform, mostly in the United States. I ran the gamut
from private to major on active duty. As I have kept up Reserve
training, I now wear the silver leaf of an L.C. Our horse outfit
soon became extinct and I became an officer in the Armored Force.
The high spots were a year at Fort Devens and three years on the
West Coast. In 1945 I was transferred to Manila by air and then
with the Occupation Forces into Southern Korea. I am the only
person I know of who left that strange land having enjoyed its
climate, beautiful scenery and quizzical oriental peoples. I had an
excellent position in the headquarters at Pusan which warranted
my traveling all over the country.

In 1948 I was asked to do a “quickie” job in Paris for the State
Department — attend as economic adviser a series of conferences
on proposals for a new western boundary for Western Germany.
After six weeks, the members of the conference from Great
Britain, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and the
United States submitted recommendations to their foreign min-
isters. Most of these were accepted.

All my life I have been an enthusiastic skier, golfer and tennis
player; however, my principal interest has always been with
horses — riding, schooling, fox hunting and steeple chasing. ‘This
is now a beloved avocation in my life. I maintain a week-end
home with stable in Unionville, Pennsylvania, where I run an inn
of sorts, and I hope to retire eventually to that lovely, sporting
countryside.

HOLLIS POOLE NICHOLS

HOME ADpDREsSS: 762 South St., Needham, Mass. :

OFFIcE appress: H, P. Nichols, Inc., 50 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: June 11, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Charles James Nichols, Marion
Edna Poole.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

[727]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931
marriED: Ellen R. Baker, July 31, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHupREN: Frances
Fletcher, Oct. 31, 1941; Lucy Wills, April 28, 1948. .
occupaTion: President, H. P. Nichols, Inc., investments.

OFFICES HELD: President, Alsace Corporation; treasurer, Roxbury Charitable
Society.
MEMBER OF: Duxbury Yacht Club.

LONG before the Class of 1931 graduated, I decided that it was
useless to force myself to continue such an impractical procedure
as I then considered college to be, I selected the investment busi-
ness. From the time that I began working until my marriage in
1938, I devoted myself largely to business, golf and resting. The
business continued after marriage, but the golf — and some of the
resting — was swallowed up by the constant evolution of family
involvements.

Business life has been satisfying to me. I have never enjoyed
social activities just for the sake of socializing, and the continual
intermingling which our work requires has been salutary. We
have chosen to conduct a small business of our own rather than
serve some giant corporation. Whether or not this has proved
to be a wise procedure I shall report at the Fiftieth Reunion.

MELVILLE TERRY NICHOLS, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: 353 Lawrence Rd., Medford 55, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1908, Medford, Mass. parents: Melville Terry Nichols, ’or,
Marjorie Lawrence.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.Ay 1933+

occuPATION: Management engineering.

JOHN LESTER NOLAN

HOME appress: 4007 Dresden St, Kensington, Md.
oFrice appress: Library of Congress, Washington 25, D. C.

Born: April 14, 1909, Concord, N. H. parents: Edmund Nolan, Grace
Heilbron.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1933. DEGREES: 8.B. 1931(33); $.B.L.8. (Columbia
Univ.), 1938.

[728]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Marjorie Dallas Fraser, June 20, 1935, Brooklyn, N. Y. cHmpaen:
David Fraser, Nov. 23, 1943; Barbara Dallas, Jan. 25, 1949.

occupATION: Assistant director, Reference Department, Library of Congress.

MEMBER OF: American Library Association; (British) Library Association.

pusLications: Contributions to periodicals and editorial work.

FIFTEEN years of government service have made me most
antipathetic toward questionnaires. If anyone is so misguided as
to be interested in my “career history”, he’s welcome to consult
earlier Class Reports. Since the Twentieth Report appeared, I
have had several different assignments, the most interesting being
that of Director of Library Services in The United Kingdom for
the United States Information Service. With headquarters in
London, my family and I enjoyed over two years of British life:
the children in English schools, my wife in the role of an (unpaid)
interpreter of American life, and I in a demanding but satisfying
job.

We returned last year when the Library of Congress offered me
a new job in which I am now grappling with acquisitions and
processing problems on a grand scale. Evenings and week-ends are
devoted to an all-too-extensive garden.

MANSON EARLE NORTH

HOME ADDRESS: 328 Alles Ave., Des Plaines, Ill.

OFFIcE apprEss: U.S. Army Hq., Quartermaster Market Center System, 226
W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, III.

BORN: Aug. 24, 1909, Ellendale, N. Dak. Parents: Earle Manson North,
Marguerite Elizabeth Hume.

PREPARED AT: Maine Township High School, Des Plaines, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MaRRiED: Lorraine Genevieve Courtney, May 30, 1942, Des Plaines, Il.
CHILDREN: Linda Louise, Sept. 5, 1950; Robert Manson, June 30, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Hume North, ’28.

OccuPATION: Business analyst, Pricing Section, Army Air Force.

MEMBER OF: Officer Reserve Corps of U.S. Army.

SINCE leaving Harvard in ’31, it has been my lot to spend my
business activity with Sears, Roebuck & Company, United Air
Lines briefly, Booth Fisheries Corporation, and in the headquar-
ters of the Quartermaster Market Center System (pricing section
— subsistence — food).

[729]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

My stint with the Army lasted from early 1941 to early 1946,
almost five years. In the later stages, I enjoyed a brief tour in the
Philippines, Okinawa and Korea.

Life has been pleasant, although currently a bit rugged with
two healthy children to keep me occupied, The days in the Army
threw me into unexpected contact with college classmates, some
of whom I encountered in such remote places — at least, it seemed
so when we were there in 1945 — as Okinawa and Pusan, Korea.

Getting back to Cambridge in 1936 (300th Anniversary), in
the hurricane of 1938, and lastly in the spring of 1946, was a de-
cided pleasure. Perhaps 1938 enabled me to see New England at
its worst because I had to beat my way from Portsmouth, New
Hampshire, to New York City after the “introductory” hurricane
of that year. Any levity in these remarks about hurricanes isn’t

really genuine because the writer is appalled by the damage that
these storms leave in their wake.

Hope to see many classmates at the Reunion.

JAMES TAYLOR NORTHCUTT

HOME ADDRESS: 805 First St, Coronado, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Western Metal Supply Co., 215 Seventh St., San Diego,
Calif.

BorN: April 29, 1910, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Joseph Emmett Northcutt,
Martha Belle Brown.

PREPARED AT: Northeast High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932.

MarRieb: T ookie Spreckels, Aug. 1, 1942, Kansas City, Mo. cHitpren: Jonde,
July 31, 1950; Barbara Brown, April 29, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Emmett Northcutt, 31.

occupation: Director of publications and publicity, Western Metal Supply
Company.

MY business career has been as follows: 1933, mining engineer
in Montana; 1934, foreign correspondent, North American News-
paper Alliance in England, France, Austria, Germany, Finland
and Russia, 1938, advertising agency owner, Kansas City; 1942,
chief research engineer for North American Aviation in Kansas
City; 1945, Contract Termination Board, North American Avia-
tion in Inglewood, California; 1950, set design and decoration,

[ 730 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Walter Wanger Productions, “Joan of Arc”, in Culver City,
California; and since 1954, director of publications and publicity
for the Western Metal Supply Company in San Diego. Western
Metal is a wholesale distributor of approximately 80,000 items of
steel, sporting goods, housewares, plumbing and hardware.

My political convictions are Republican; religious, Episcopalian.
Hobbies include audio reproduction, oil painting and golf. Other
than that sterling tombstone researcher and social contact man
(using the latter designation loosely), B. A. Whittemore, I have
seen nothing of other members of the Class except for the now
deceased Brayton and a sprinkling of unrecognized faces but
vaguely familiar names following a Harvard-Stanford game at
Palo Alto several years ago. The game was an humiliating ex-
perience and a financial loss. But with fifty points, I would have
bet on Radcliffe. With Radcliffe, I might have won.

ROBERT EMMETT NORTHCUTT

HOME ADDRESS: 8730 Virginia Lane, Kansas City, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Northcutt Motors, Inc. 1000 Burlington St., North Kansas
City, Mo.

BoRN: April 29, 1910, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Joseph Emmett Northcutt,
Martha Belle Brown.

PREPARED AT: Northeast High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932.

MARRIED: Betty Mary Smith, Jan. 6, 1939, Kansas City, Mo. CHILDREN:
Robert S., Sept. 1, 1942; Douglas B., Aug. 15, 1944.

occupation: Mercantile business.

WILLIAM EZRA NORTHEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Chestnut St., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE appress: USAREUR Liaison Group, Munich, Germany.

MAILING apprEss: Box 15, APO 108, New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 14, 1909, Salem, Mass. parents: William Ezra Northey, Mary
Daland Shreve.

PREPARED aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1931(32); M.BA, 1935.

MARRIED: Irene Gabrielle Droste, Oct. 6, 1934, Exeter, N. H. cHILDREN:

[73]

NS a TT TOT TNE NM ARISE MRE eo ote,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Anthony Droste, Oct. 29, 1942; Isabella Solbrig, Oct. 16, 1945; Charles

Wuliam, Aug. 30, 1952 (died Nov. 10, 1953).
OCCUPATION: Economist.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Musical Association.
VITAM regit fortuna, non sapientia”. If I remember correctl
it was the circumstance of having passed a Latin college board
examination — I think it was the CPK exam — with a creditable
grade that satisfied a language requirement which permitted me
to escape German A. Yet twenty-five years later I find myself
living and working in Germany, married for over twenty-one
years to a Munich girl, and earning my bread and cheese in large
part through a fluent knowledge of that language which I so
carefully avoided as an undergraduate.
_ The story of how this all came about goes back to the summer
of 1932 when, ‘after graduating that June as an OCC student, I
embarked upon the grand tour of Europe, provided, among other
things, with a recommendation to a Munich family by classmate
Frederick E. Bissell, Jr. I had not been enthusiastic about making
the trip in the first place, and it was by pure coincidence that I
found the people in Munich when I tried to look them up, due
to a misunderstanding concerning names. In fact, if fortune in
the form of the eldest daughter of this family had not happened
along at the precise moment when she did, the chances are very
good that the young Harvard graduate who had come to Munich
for six days would not have stayed for six months, would have
gone to the Harvard Law School that fall as he had planned,
instead of entering the University of Munich, would not have
married the young Muenchnerin he met by chance at the door
of her house, would never have progressed beyond the wo ist der
Bahnhof stage of German, and might never have returned to this
(the European) side of the ocean. There are a number of other
more complicated probabilities involving cultural, social and
psychological development, but I think that those enumerated
will suffice.

Shortly after the war I returned to Germany to work for the
United States Military Government and, apart from a year’s inter-
lude in the States and another last year in Austria, ] have worked
here in one capacity or another up to the present time. We like
it here. We have the feeling of being in the center of decisive

[732]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

events. We know many people here from many walks of life,
not a few of them good friends. We believe that our children’s
education has greatly benefited from living here. Tony has lived
about one-half of his life, and Elly almost three-quarters of hers,
in Germany, Our youngest child was born here, spent almost
all of his brief life here, and we have found it fitting to return
him to the soil of this country for his final resting place.

However much this may sound like expatriation, I still have
in my mind’s eye the picture of an eventual haven from the per-
petual motion of life during the past twenty-five years somewhere
in the United States. I have just totted up the number of major
changes of dwellings my wife and I have experienced since we
moved into Drayton Hall while I was still attending the Business
School, and arrive at the grand and amazing total of twenty.
Changes of job have been almost as frequent, although since 1941,
with brief interludes, I have worked for the same employer — the
Federal Government. We have lived in Cambridge, Salem, Bos-
ton, Washington, Cambridge, Frankfurt, Stuttgart, Bremen, Mu-
nich, Salem, Vienna, Salzburg and Landshut, in that order.

In many of these places I have had the good fortune, often
unexpectedly, to find classmates I knew living nearby or even
working in the same organization with me: Dick Shuman, my
mentor in the first job I held after graduating from the Harvard
Business School in 1935; Fred Bissell, before he gave up the
academic for the lumber business and went back to Dubuque; Joe
Barber in Boston during the later ’30’s and again in 1941 and 1942
in Washington, along with Dave Lloyd; Ben Fairbank (to whom
I was sorcerer’s apprentice, top man in remarkable feats of equi-
librium, and partner in a waltz clog routine for three college
years), as neighbor and fast friend in Cambridge from 1942 to
1948, and again when we came back from Germany in 1953;
Wendell Macdonald, my commander in innumerable wage battles
in which the Bureau of Labor Statistics participated during the
last war; Ed Murphy, also during this period; and from 1949 to
1952 in Bremen, the long-lost Alex Saron (at least, still lost as of the
Twentieth Anniversary Report), with whom I worked in the
Office of the Land Commissioner.

My hobbies are commensurate with my years: conservative
skiing and figure skating, unimproved golf, domestic photog-

[ 733]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

raphy, vicarious music and down hill yachting (i.e., collapsible
boating on not-too-swift rivers, with my wife to meet me down-
stream with the car). Through circumstances beyond my con-
trol, I have had the misfortune to miss every Class Reunion so
far. But this one I am going to make — even if I have to paddle
the Atlantic in the Faltboot.

GEORGE EDWARD NORTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 83 Barnard Ave., Watertown, 72, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Office of the Adjutant General, Comptroller Division, The
Pentagon, Washington, 25, D.C.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: George Edward Norton,
Amanda Melvina O’Connor.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marrieD: Barbara Elizabeth Johnstone, Oct. 4, 1941, Cambridge, Mass.
cuitp: George Edward, 3d, Nov. 29, 1943.

occupation: Colonel, U.S. Army.

SHORTLY after graduation I entered the insurance business as
a broker with an office in the Boston Office of the Travelers In-
surance Company of Hartford. Having retained my commission
as a Reserve Officer and being actively in Reserve Officer Asso-
ciation activities, 1 was afforded an opportunity to enter on ex-
tended active duty for one year in October, 1940. I accepted this
opportunity. This year was extended another year, and with the
outbreak of hostilities in 1941 it became “the duration plus six
months”.

During World War II, I served as Adjutant General of the
76th Infantry Division throughout the Ardennes, Rhineland, and
Central Europe Campaigns, With the cessation of hostilities in
1945, I served successively at Oise Intermediate Section, Rheims,
France; Western Base Section, Paris, France; Continental Base
Section, Bad Neuheim, Germany; and Office of Military Govern-
ment, United States, Berlin, Germany. In 1946 I was integrated
in the Regular Army. When I returned to the U.S.A. in Novem-
ber, 1947, after thirty-five months in Europe, I served at Head-
quarters Third Army, Fort McPherson, Georgia, and then in the
Office of the Adjutant General, Washington.

[ 734]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In August, 1952, I started my second tour of foreign service —
this time in the Far East where I served with Headquarters Japan
Logistical Command, in Yokohama, and Headquarters United
States Army Forces Far East, Zama, Japan, in support of the
Korean activity. In recognition of my work, especially in the
preparation of the Administrative Annex to the Plans for the Ex-
change of Prisoners of War, I was awarded the Legion of Merit.
In December, 1954, I completed this second tour of foreign serv-
ice, and upon returning to the U.S.A., I was again assigned for
duty in the Office of the Adjutant General. Currently, I am
chief, Adjutant General Corps Branch, supervising the career
management of all Adjutant General Corps officers. Barring the
declaration of a “National Emergency”, I shall retire in August,
1963, with thirty years of Army service to my credit. At that
time if any of my classmates need the services of a retired colonel,
I shall be in a position to consider offers.

Perhaps some might ask how my family reacted to my con-
stantly “being on the move” to which I must answer that my
good wife married into the Army and accepted the moves like a
good trouper. Although military service has caused frequent
moves and many separations from my family, I was fortunate that
they could join me both in Europe and Japan and were able to
visit many interesting places on opposite sides of the world. The
Army does have its advantages as well as disadvantages. In the
long run, however, the former outweigh the latter.

HENRY EDWARD NYHOFF

HOME ApprEss: 24 W. Woods Rd., Lake Success, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDREsS: Stone & Webster, Inc., 90 Broad St., New York 4, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1908, Gary, Ind. parents: John Joseph Nyhoff, Clara A. Gill-
murray.

PREPARED AT: Hun School, Princeton, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B, 1934,

MarRiED: Irene E. Smitka, Nov. 4, 1939, Albany, N. Y. cmp: Carol Louise,
June 2, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

C735]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

+ EMIL NYITRAY

BorN: April 4, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Emil Nyitray, Mame
Woods.

PREPARED AT: Milford Preparatory School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930, DEGREE: 8.B. (Mass. Inst. of Technology).

MARRIED: Thetis Perkins, Sept. 19, 1931, Foxboro, Mass. CHILDREN: Emily
Ann, April 30, 1935; Deborah Daken, July 14, 1944.

piep: May 11, 1955, El Paso, Texas.

wwow: Mrs. Emil Nyitray, 91 Gould St. Wakefield, Mass.

FOR the first few years after graduation Nyitray held jobs at the
General Electric Company, Westinghouse, and as a teacher of
mathematics in night school courses at Yale and New Haven
_ Junior College. Finally, he worked as chief computer at the
Geodetic Survey in New Haven. From there he went to Sound
Scriber as an engineer and during the war years worked at J. B. T.
Instruments, Inc., as design engineer and trouble-shooter between
Wright Field and the plant.

At the end of the war he went with Bradley Laboratories, in
New Haven, and was with them until seven years ago, when the
Glenn L. Martin Company of Baltimore offered him work with
guided missiles. His part was instrumentation, in a field of ex-
perimentation. Martin’s guided missiles speak well for all those
who took part in the development work.

The work “in the field” kept the family well on the move,
which both Nyitray and his wife loved, and gave them the op-
portunity of seeing a good bit of the country. He was in Ala-
mogordo, New Mexico, where he had gone as a consultant for
Martin’s at Holloman Air Base, when he became critically ill, an
illness which resulted in his death.

ROBERT SCHUYLER OGDEN

HOME appress: Brushy Ridge Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Yorker Magazine, 25 W. 43d St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Nov. 27, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: Hugh Walker Ogden,
Lisbeth Davis.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

Makriep: Edith Mitton, Dec. 3, 1932, Boston, Mass. cHttpren: Robert

[736 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Schuyler, Jr. Aug. 24, 1934; Richard M. June 11, 1939; Constance
Linda, July 16, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Robert Schuyler Ogden, Jr., ’56.

OccuPATION: Eastern advertising manager, the New Yorker.

OFFICES HELD: Permanent trustee, New Canaan Country School; president,
Harvard Club of New Canaan, 1948-50.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, New Canaan Country Club.

PVE been lucky. The past twenty-five years have been good
ones. Shortly after graduation I got a job in the advertising
business and in 1935 I joined the New Yorker. I’m still with them
and looking forward to my pension. For some silly reason I
thought I could help the Army and thus entered the service in
1942. By 1945 they decided they could get along without me
and the feeling was mutual. In the meantime, I had seen enough
of Africa and Europe to have gained a tremendous appreciation
of the United States. In 1936 we moved to New Canaan and dis-
covered there the place we wanted to live. At the moment I am
primarily engaged in playing the heavy father to three and, I
hope, an adequate husband to one.

Secondarily — local politics (am an Eisenhower Republican),
charities, church (St. Mark’s Episcopal), local school and local
Harvard activities take up as much time as I can give them. A
narrow life to some, without a great deal of consequence, but to
me highly satisfying and worth while.

ELLIS GEORGE OLIM

HOME ADDRESS: 5036 S. Drexel Blvd., 3d Floor, Chicago, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Housing and Home Finance Agency, Washington, D. C.

BORN: May 25, 1911, South Boston, Mass. Parents: Morris Olim, Annie
Saperstein.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931 (32).

MarRigD: Lua Banks, Sept. 29, 1940, Baltimore, Ald. critpren: Andrew Pres-
ton, Aug. 13, 1945; Daniel Forbes, Nov. 14, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

[737]

OO ERRRENE 7 OS RONER ENTERED aE DE TNT eT Pe ETE Be BL rE TT NT TE TIS THM oA

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

FREDRIC RUSSELL OLSEN

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Pine Hill Rd., Bedford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harvard School of Public Health, 1 Shattuck St., Boston,
Mass.

BorN: April 2, 1909, Reading, England. parents: Albert Fredric Olsen,
Bertha Emma Budden.

PREPARED AT: South Portland High School, South Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRiED: Geneva Sanborn Thompson, Jan. 9, 1936, Lexington, Mass. cui.p:
Sondra Lois, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Research associate in nutrition.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Surgeon General’s Task Force on Intravenous Fat
Emulsions; chairman, parish committee, First Church (Unitarian), Bed-
ford, Mass.

pusLications: “Machine for Serial Sectioning of Fossils”, 1944, and “Size
Relations in the Limb Bones of Buettneria Perfecta”, 1951, Journal of
Palaeontology; “The Fluorine Content of some Miocene Horse Bones,”
Science, 1950; “Clinical Experience with Intravenous Infusion of Emul-
sified Fat”, Journal of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine, 1955; “Prepara-
tion of Fat Emulsions for Intravenous Alimentation”, Journal of the
American Oil Chemists’ Society, 1955.

IT is hardly expected, of course, that a few paragraphs written
as directed in a narrative style will communicate a quarter-century
of experience with anything like satisfaction. But since the occa-
sion requires no higher criticism, let me proceed light-heartedly
to the encyclopedic facts. On looking back, I appear to have
missed altogether the point of that Commencement in 1931 be-
cause I’ve never really left the Yard, having been employed about
the University in one capacity or another ever since. For variety
of classroom and laboratory experience, I believe few lives will
compare.

From the remarkably uninspired presentation of classical studies
then afforded at Harvard, it was a relatively short step into the
field of palaeontology or, more particularly, the osteology of ex-
tinct reptiles and amphibians. I recall, too, with pleasure a more
or less extended excursus into cryptogamic botany which, when
more profitable employment was hard to come by, excused many
a day spent in the woods or along the rocky coasts of Maine and
New Hampshire, leaving me with a lasting interest in the classifi-
cation of seaweeds and mosses. In due course I received a corpo-

[738 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ration appointment without limit of term as preparator in the
Agassiz Museum. But it would be idle to recount all the steps by
which, in a phylogenetic sense, I progressed to the study of
mammals and to that significant moment when, sorting thousands
of beautifully preserved bones, I first sensed the exquisite articu-
lation of the Miocene horse foot.

Then came the war. Rejected by the Navy and the Merchant
Marines, I at length succeeded in donning a private’s uniform at
Fort Devens. Wisely or not, the Army promptly undertook my
re-education. Texas, it seemed, offered sufficient room for this
extensive project; and, with the dubious pleasures of basic train-
ing behind me, I was soon alternating between barracks and
desert in the shadow of the Franklin Mountains. I emerged a
buck sergeant with an eye for close order drill, a yen for calling
cadence and a (USAFI) copy of Getman and Daniels — that
bible of the physical chemist.

Back in Cambridge, I resumed my former work but with a
different viewpoint. More and more I found myself engrossed
with the geometrical and statistical approach to growth and mor-
phology, but especially with the relationship thus illumined be-
tween genetics and phylogeny. Dissatisified with the scope al-
lowed such studies at Harvard, I resigned my post, but not before
some peripheral involvement in the renewed heats of the Pilt-
down controversy as induced by K. P. Oakley and his fluorine
test.

I was able to make practical use of this test in detecting the
mixed topographical origin of Miocene bones from Florida. A
fluorine analysis of vetebrate remains from every known collect-
ing ground in the West Indies confirmed the antiquity of the
Corozal site and indirectly led to the baffling discovery of a pig’s
pre-molar from a pre-Columbian dig. It was also during this
period that I had the satisfaction of working on the remains of
Mt. Carmel Man and of demonstrating the relative modernity of
the newly discovered Hotu Man. It was thus I progressed to
the proper study of mankind, that is, man himself.

Following a brief vacation largely spent removing boulders
from the garden plots of our rocky acre in Bedford, I resumed
laboratory work — this time at the Harvard School of Public
Health, where in 1953 I received an appointment as research as-

[ 739 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

sociate in nutrition. Specifically I am engaged in the formulation
and preparation of fat emulsions used intravenously in cases of
impaired nutrition, for the most part of terminal cancer. During
the past two years I have had the satisfaction of seeing the in-
cidence of adverse clinical response to such infusion on the wards
of the Massachusetts General Hospital reduced by nearly ten
per cent. Aside from its clinical application, but too technical
for discussion here, such an investigation proposes many ques-
tions of intense interest to the theoretical chemist and experi-
mental biologist.

No account of this sort would be complete without a word or
two on the domestic side. It is twenty years since my wife and
I plighted troth in nearby Lexington. And there are times when
she is pleased to recall that the ceremony was performed within
easy reach of the Battle Green. Our happiest moments, I should
say, are spent in the garden which we cultivate with more en-
thusiasm than success or skill. Our pride rests chiefly with our
daughter Sondra, whom at the moment we are trying with some
difficulty to propel through Smith.

HAROLD GUNNAR OLSON

HOME ADDRESS: 198 Pleasant St., South Weymouth go, Mass.

OFFIce apprEss: Office of Supt. of Schools, 89 Middle St., East Weymouth
89, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1909, Brockton, Mass. PareNTs: Karl Oscar Olson, Ida
Victoria Strom.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; ED.M., 1946; S.M. IN ED.
(Bridgewater State Teachers Coll.), 1935.

marRieD: Louise Theodora Shukis, July 3, 1943, Brockton, Mass. CHILDREN;
Edmund Harold, July 21, 1946; John Karl, Aug. 14, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Assistant superintendent of schools, Weymouth, Mass.

OFFIcEs HELD: Trustee, First Lutheran Church, Brockton, Mass., 1936-39;
chairman, Fund Drive, 1954, director, since 1954, Weymouth Red Cross;
second vice-president, 1955, first vice-president, 1956, Kiwanis Club
of Weymouth.

MEMBER OF: Weymouth Teachers Association; Massachusetts Teachers
Association, National Education Association; South Shore Superin-
tendents Association, Massachusetts Association of School Superinten-
dents; New England Association of School Superintendents; Kiwanis
Club of Weymouth; St. George Lodge, AF. & A.M., Brockton, Mass.

[ 740 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY life during the past twenty-five years has been similar in
many respects to that of a large percentage of the Class: the
struggle of the depression years, wartime service in the forties, a
succession of jobs involving more and more responsibility, a
happy marriage and a growing family, participation in service
club and community activities, and a few trips to see the beauties
of the United States and Canada, to mention some of the high-
lights.

There were some ups and downs, including a year of manual
labor in a shoe factory, before I reached my goal of teaching
school in the thirties. In a junior high school I taught several
years, found myself and met my wife-to-be. My three years in
the service were spent in various offices for the Army Air Forces.
My best position was that of sergeant major in the hospital at
Patterson Field, Ohio. The work was not difficult and the food
was so good that I reached my greatest weight — 183 lbs. —
there. On the completion of this period, it seemed wise to take
advantage of the opportunity offered by Uncle Sam for further
education, so I attended the Graduate School of Education for
a year. This led to my becoming principal of the junior high
school in West Springfield, Massachusetts, for five years, a most
enjoyable and rewarding experience. Then I was given the op-
portunity of organizing a new junior high school in Weymouth,
Massachusetts, where I now live. The two years in that position
were a wonderful time for me and made me realize more than
ever that I had made no mistake in choosing the field of education
as a life work.

Since August, 1953, I have been assistant superintendent of
schools. This involves a great variety of duties and responsibili-
ties, all of which I try to handle in a calm and methodical man-
ner. Keeping a school system running smoothly when the num-
ber of pupils increases 600 or 700 annually, however, gets pretty
hectic at times, even in our conservative, middle-class town. I
love my work, despite all this, and would not exchange it for
anything else. It is constantly challenging, stimulating and satis-
fying.

Louise and I are very fortunate in having two healthy and ap-
parently intelligent boys who are already a challenge to us —
they will undoubtedly do their best as the years go on to keep

[741]

crimes anata hina IG Hee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

us young. We hope that they will both want to go to Harvard
and to that end we are taking them to Cambridge for various
events. Ed and John have made us, as school people, realize how
much children mean to their parents, and we believe that teachers
who are also parents are far better teachers for it.

Kiwanis and Red Cross are the two principal activities for me
outside of my work. Both take time and effort and both bring
satisfactions that cannot be measured or described. In both, I
have come to know well some of the most unselfish and admirable
people in our town. I get a lot of pleasure out of working around
my home to keep it looking presentable as well as livable. For
me, it is fun to do carpenter work, paint both inside and outside,
climb an extension ladder, repair the roof (but let’s have no more
hurricanes! ), trim shrubs, cut grass, etc. As I see it, these are all
life-saving activities for anyone whose occupation does not in-
volve the rise of large muscles. However, like most husbands,
I never get anywhere near the end of my good wife’s list of
projects.

KARL HJALMAR JAMES OLSSON

HOME AppREss; 1830 W, Telegraph Ave. Stockton 4, Calif.

OFFIcE appress: California State Dept. of Employment, 135 W. Freemont
St., Stockton, Calif.

BORN: June 3, 1907, Storefors, Ostergotland, Sweden. Parents: Hyalmar
Jacob Olsson, Margaret Marianne Pratt.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips Acade-
my, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (32).

MARRIED: Flora Helen Fischer, July 12, 1943, Stockton, Calif.

occupation: Employment security officer, State of California.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Educational Committee, Stockton Chapter, Nation-
al Office Management Association, 1953-56.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco.

AFTER leaving school it was my lot to engage in a number of
jobs during the depression years. My major experiences included
social service investigation and public opinion research interview-
ing. There was a two-year period of tutoring students and serv-
ing as a wrestling coach. Then there were interspersed tasks such
as census enumerator, salesman, agricultural worker and news-

[ 742 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

paper solicitor. However, diverse experiences with travel have
their compensations. They have aided me in preparation for my
present position with the State of California. Recently I com-
pleted ten years with the Employment Service.

My specialty has been vocational counseling and job placement.
It has been a challenging task because there are so many indi-
viduals who need vocational guidance. Actually this has been a
neglected field. A very large percentage of people have never
been properly oriented towards a vocational goal. As this has
been a satisfying task, it has induced me to take extra training in
the field of vocational guidance. I have truly found that counsel-
ing individuals can be a really worth-while objective.

Subsequent to my discharge from the Service my wife and I
have resided in California. She has been a teacher for a number
of years and plans to retire this spring.. With no children and no
special responsibilities we have considered a real vacation. We
are presently contemplating a trip to Europe this summer. Our
itinerary includes France, Belgium, Holland, Germany, Den-
mark, England and my native country Sweden. We look for-
ward to a six weeks’ sojourn there. Travel and the cultural pur-
suits of life interest us both and we hope to satisfy this urge on a
tour such as this.

EMMETT FRANCIS O’NEIL

HOME AppREss: 79 Argyle St, Rochester, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hq., Ninth Naval District, Great Lakes, Ill.

BORN: Oct, 12, 1908, Rochester, N. Y. parents: James O'Neil, Annette Mc-
Kenna.

PREPARED AT: Aquinas Institute.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., (Univ. of Michigan),
1932; PH.D. (ibid.) 1941.

OCCUPATION: Naval service.

NOEL SEVER O’REILLY

HOME ADDRESS: 1241 Heather Lane, Glenview, II.

OFFIcE ADprEss: Lien Chemical Co., 9229 W. Grand Ave., Franklin Park, II].

BORN: Dec. 25, 1909, University City, Mo. parents: James Archer O'Reilly,
’o2, Jane Elliott Sever.

[ 743 ]

.
ene 7

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Nancy Steele Cockrell, Nov. 2, 1940, Golf, Ill. cumpren: Nicholas
Sever, July 1, 1946, Alexander Cockrell, Oct. 13, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Archer O'Reilly, Jr., ’29; Daniel Elliott O'Reilly,

°38, M.D, "42.

occupation: Purchasing agent — janitor supplies, Lien Chemical Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Club of Toledo, 1952-53, Golf Acres
Community Corporation; president, Toledo Chapter, American Mate-
rial Handling Society, 1952-53; commanding officer, Naval Reserve
Supply Co. 9-2, 1947-50, Naval Reserve Cargo Handling Co. 4-7,
1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Harvard Business School Club of
Chicago; American Material Handling Society; Purchasing Agents
Association; Mayflower Society.

puBLications: Class Reports— under duress.

IF the next twenty-five years provide me with as many enjoyable
experiences as the past twenty-five years, I shall have much to
which to look forward. Perhaps the outstanding highlights in
any man’s life are his marriage and the arrival of his children. I
was married to Nancy Cockrell who was a lovely bride and who,
after fifteen years, still looks good. At that time my friends at-
tributed my departure from bachelorhood to the fact that my
wedding took place on Sadie Hawkins Day during leap year
and just after I had registered for the draft. My intentions must
have been honorable, for a photograph taken at the reception
showed me adorned with a halo— which on closer examination
turned out to be a circular chandelier in the background.

My two sons, classified as in the post-war baby boom, may
make the classes of 1968 and 1971, respectively. The elder is
named after the tutor at Harvard who caused such a furor in the
twenties — seventeen hundred and twenties. The boys are a
lively pair and I have a hard time keeping up with them. I hail
from Missouri, was married in Illinois, and have children born
in Pennsylvania and Ohio — which gives a clue to the transitory
life I have led since my departure from Cambridge. My Navy
service during World War II can hardly be blamed, for that
involved three months in the Brooklyn Navy Yard and four years
in the Philadelphia Navy Yard. I advanced from lieutenant (j.g.)
to commander in the Supply Corps and emerged with a com-
mendation from the commandant of the Fourth Naval District

[744]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and the chief of the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts. A good
part of our Class must have been in the Navy for I kept running
into them at various locations around the East — Bill Foshay, Don
Prince, Virgil Rule, Ed Amazeen and Pie Trainer, to name a few.

I have lived in St. Louis, New York, Baltimore, Buffalo, Brook-
lyn, Philadelphia, Saginaw, Toledo and Chicago. Each commun-
ity had added something to my knowledge and contributed new
friendships — helped by membership in the Harvard Clubs of
many of these communities. I used to be an avid squash player,
even to playing in the summertime in St. Louis, until a leg injury
put me on the sidelines. I played on the teams of the University
Club of St. Louis, the Buffalo University Club and the Merion
Cricket Club. I also belonged to the Harvard Club of New York
and the Baltimore Athletic Club to keep up with the game. Along
the way I was Class B Buffalo City Champion. Now I stick to
golf and gentler pastimes.

Besides my Navy service my travels have taken me to positions
as traveling auditor with the American Automobile Insurance
Company, sales engineer with Remington Rand, traffic manager
with Lee & Cady (wholesale grocer) and now purchasing agent
of the Lien Chemical Company. It has been a good start on a
varied and interesting career.

I have collected for the Community Fund, Red Cross, Salvation
Army and Scouts in several communities. So has my wife, al-
though most of her time has been absorbed by projects of the
Junior League — and now the P.T.A. My main extra-curricular
activities of late have been directed towards the Naval Reserve.
Since World War II, I have been attached to five different Re- .
serve units in Saginaw, Toledo and Chicago, of which I helped
organize three and commanded two.

Politically I might be classified as a conservative Republican
although I have an open mind and at one time in my career even
worked for the Democratic party. Currently, I am not involved
beyond being on the board of our community corporation. So,
as we reach our Twenty-fifth Reunion, we might repeat “Of a
good beginning cometh a good end”. .

(745 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

DAVID JOY ORGAIN

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: Island Pond, Vt.

BoRN: Oct. 13, 1909, Fort Worth, Texas. parents: Eugene Moltke Orgain,
Alice Lucille Cartwright.

PREPARED AT: Browning School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 19313 LL.B. 1934.

MARRIED: Jessie M. McPherson, July 24, 1937, New York, N. Y.

OCCUPATION: Attomey,

MEMBER OF: Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity; International Order of Odd
Fellows; Masons; Vermont Bar Association; American Bar Association,
Tri-County Law Enforcement Officers’ Association,

AFTER receiving my A.B. in 1931, I continued on for three more
years at Harvard where I obtained an LL.B. in 1934. I then re-
turned to New York City where I practised law until the spring
of 1942. ‘That year was a turning point in my life as it witnessed
the decision of my wife and myself to take up permanent resi-
dence in Vermont. We purchased and rehabilitated an aban-
doned mountaintop farm three miles from a small community
in northeastern Vermont (population 1,500). The rewards have
been rich. Possessed of over four hundred acres of fields and
forests, including our own trout pond, we have found a peace
and contentment which was denied us by the frenzied tempo of
a big city. My experiences as a civil practitioner and as an in-
quisitive county district attorney for over thirteen years have
greatly enriched our lives. People are said to be basically the
same the world over, but I find that a better opportunity to
know, study, appreciate and enjoy them is to be found in a rural
community where human characteristics seem to appear in sharp-
er focus. And, after all, as a district attorney I can ask people
with official impunity some of the damnedest questions!

ROBERT CLIFFORD ORR

HOME apprEss: P. O. Box 142, Cochituate Road, Wayland, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1907, Waltham, Mass. PARENTS: John Robb Orr, Mary Ellen
MacGregor.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.; Public Latin School,
Boston, Mass.

[746 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 1932.
occupation: Associated with United States Post Office Department.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Horticultural Society.

FOLLOWING graduation from college in 1931, I returned to
Graduate School in the same fall to study for a Master’s degree
in the field of music. Now out in the cruel world, I did some
tutoring and teaching for a few years, finally settling at teaching
music and languages in secondary school. But the war and the
draft came along to change all this, and 1 found myself in the
Army Air Corps. My ability to distinguish a “dit” from a “dah”
must have impressed —so too, must an awful lot of other guys
shown this special aptitude, for a goodly number surely arrived
in communications. I fought most of the war in our own South,
where I learned to like hog jowls, sow belly, mustard greens and
all the rest. After three years plus, I was separated from the
service. Now I did a half-year’s study in the Graduate School of
Education in the spring of ’46. But I reckon I was missing that
good old southern cooking too much, and I returned South to
travel as a manufacturer’s representative for two or three years in
Alabama, Louisiana, Tennessee, and other states down that-a-
way. But at present I’m back East again and in the service of
Uncle Sam in the U. S. Post Office Department.

Whilst my toil on the “six days” of the week during all these
years has been anything but regular, as you may see, on the
“seventh day” I have trod a steadier path: Sunday has usually
found me entering some church, To be wholly truthful, I should
add that I enter by the “stage door” and go directly to the organ
loft, where along with the choir I try to tickle the congregation’s
fancy rather than incite their condemnation. But on occasion it
has been useful to state that — yes, I’m a regular churchgoer, I
wouldn’t miss a Sunday!

JOSEPH BENJAMIN ORTIZ

MAILING appRESS: 157 Luna St., San Juan, Puerto Rico.

BORN: May 20,-.1908, Maunabo, Puerto Rico. Parents: Vicente Ortiz, Paula
Ortiz. .

PREPARED AT: Cushing Academy, Ashburnham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931, DEGREES: 8.B., 1931; LL.B. 1934.

[ 747]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

WARREN PREBLE OSBORNE

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Baltimore St., Lynn, Mass,

BORN: Dec. 13, 1908, Lynn, Mass. parents: Archer Preble Osborne, Jessie
Keyes,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1929-1931.

MarRIED: Dorothy Treadwell, Feb. 23, 1942, Lynn, Mass. cup: Diana,
Dec. 5, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Retail seed merchant.

JOSEPH VINCENT OWENS

HOME AppREsS: 188 Marlboro St., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Sebastian’s Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parRENTS: James Thomas Owens,
Mary Ellen Conroy.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Preparatory School, Danvers, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Mary Elizabeth Morris, Dec. 31, 1939. CHILDREN: Joseph Vincent.
Jr., Dec. 21, 1940; Marion Elizabeth, July 22, 1942.

occupation: Teacher and private tutor.

OUTSIDE of my teaching activities (as tutor, principally inter-
ested in special classes preparing for the College Entrance Exam-
ination Board), the only other eventful side of my life to date
was my Army service from December, 1940, to February, 1945.
In that capacity, I was an Artillery officer serving as a gunnery
instructor and overseas as an Artillery Intelligence and Oper-
ations officer on the staffs of General George Patton and Gen-
eral Dwight D. Eisenhower.

WARREN KEMPTON PAGE

HOME ADpRESS: 60 Camp Fire Rd., Chappaqua, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Field & Stream Div., Henry Holt & Co., Inc., 383 Madison
Ave., New York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1910, New Bedford, Mass. Parents: Charles Gifford Page,
Alberta Frances Kempton.

PREPARED AT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: 8.B., 1931. .

[ 748 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Martha Jane Lutz, June 21, 1939, Princeton, N. J. crpren: Kemp-
ton Holmes, Oct. 27, 1943; Kathleen Young, Feb. 22, 1947.
occuPATION: Shooting editor, Field & Stream, a sportsman’s magazine.

THE cold world of the depression 30’s didn’t exactly welcome
graduates into business, so in the fall of 1931 I started a career
in pedagogy — first, for a year at the Fessenden School, fortu-
nately not too far from Wellesley, then until 1936 at Los Alamos
Ranch School. That was a high-tuition operation in the high-
mountain country of New Mexico, on the very mesa which is
now a-sprawl with the atomic bomb laboratories and the town
of super-brains built around them. Los Alamos mesa was, twenty
years ago, wild range where the turkey and mule deer played,
where we had Jemez mountain trout streams to fish in, that they
now have only fission may by some be considered a questionable
advantage.

In 1936 came a move to the Lawrenceville School in New Jer-
sey and involvements in the teaching of English, the coaching of
baseball and a lively trap and skeet shooting group. The tang of
New Mexico juniper smoke there became quite thoroughly
“sickled o’er” with a strong Princeton atmosphere, needless to
say, and it took a strong will to survive whenever the Princetons
trimmed the boys from Cambridge at anything from football to
chess. But as this tiger-ish propaganda was being overcome by
the hullabaloo of the war, three major events followed in quick
succession: first, marriage to Martha Jane Lutz, daughter of a
renowned Princeton economist; second, appointment to a house-
mastership at Lawrenceville; and the arrival of a document sig-
nifying I was an officer and a gentleman as far as the Navy was
concerned.

That state lasted until January of 1946, when as a lieutenant,
U.S.N.R., I returned to civilian life, having in the meantime ac-
quired a son, Kempton Holmes Page, and a considerable knowl-
edge of the inner workings and outer effects of the ordnance
used in Naval aircraft. That year was also blessed by the arrival
of a daughter, Kathleen Young Page. In 1947 I moved into the
publishing field as the shooting editor of Field & Stream maga-
zine. Certainly no greater contrast exists than that between teach-
ing school and writing for hunters and gun nuts.

The prosperous brokers, the medics and the media men look

[ 749 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

on the job with envy, are wistful about the idea of making hunt-
ing trips for a living. The grass on this side may be a mite greener,
true, in that while with Field & Stream I have hunted tigers in
India as well as elk in Wyoming and other critters all over the
States and Canada, was the first sportsman since 1905 to have
taken a specimen of the ultra-rare blue or glacier bear of the
Yakutat, and have bagged assorted trophies from the Yukon
to the flood plains of Iraq — but it isn’t all that simple. There’s
a mass of writing, bushels of technical reader mail, constant
small arms experting, and experiments with sporting weapons
and cartridge development. The penalty for turning an avoca-
tional interest into a highly individual vocation — there aren’t
more than three or four of us in the country — is that you have
to look around for a new hobby, learn to take a rest from shoot-
ing by going fishing, for example.

We live in the commuting town of Chappaqua, Westchester
County, on Camp Fire Road, only five furlongs from the lands
of the Campfire Club —and if nobody answers the bell, we'll
probably be over on the rifle range.

ALONZO KINGMAN PAINE, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 10 Free St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFIcE ADpREss: John P. Heffernan, Architect, 131 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: March 4, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Alonzo Kingman Paine, Mar-
jorie Carter.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MarRieD: Eleanor Pomeroy Collier, May 4, 1940, Brookline, Mass. cup:
Thomas Kingman, Oct. 7, 1946.

occupation: Architect.

LIKE so many of my classmates of twenty-five years ago, I
suppose the idea of a Twenty-fifth Reunion brought a far-away
picture of nostalgia to come. It was a scene of middle-aged
antics, mingled with two generations of sprawling children, free
beer, and knowing smiles from perfect strangers. From the pres-
ent-day perspective, it all seems rather less odd. In fact, it is
at last almost commonplace to celebrate this shining hour — now
that it’s here —in the conventional way. But my life history,

[759]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fascinating as it is to me, is not quite ready for publication. Per-
haps if we wait another twenty-five years — until the Fiftieth
— something may turn up to write about.

In the meanwhile, a struggling architect, a fond wife peering
through old Hingham window panes, and a nine-year-old boy
— with a quarter of a century of chores and cheers behind us —
presently complete our story.

ADAM PALAZA

HOME ADDRESS: 103 Columbia Rd. Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Patterson, Teele & Dennis, 201 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 4, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Panfilo Pallozzi, Potenza
Pallozzi.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-31. DEGREE: LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1937.

MARRIED: Mildred C. Sacco, Jan. 10, 1942, Boston, Mass. (died Aug. 2, 1952).
cuitp: Adam James, Feb. 10, 1943.

occupaTION: Public accountant; attorney; staff accountant, Patterson, Teele
& Dennis.

OFFICES HELD: Special clerk in charge of public relations, Suffolk Superior
Court for Civil Business, 1937-39; venerable Sons of Italy, 1937-38;
judge advocate, Veterans of Foreign Wars, 1946-47.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Law Society; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Knights
of Columbus, Catholic Accountants’ Guild; Bentley Alumni Association;
Sons of Italy.

LOOKING back to the year 1931, my first vivid recollection is
the disconcerting experiences I inherited as I stepped from the
campus life into a world bogged in the miseries of a terrible de-
pression with all its hardships and privations. I recall the frantic
and desperate search for work which was unavailable, the loss of
a part-time job as a druggist at which I had worked during my
years in college, and finally joining that grateful army of WPA
and other lettered groups of workers of the time.

At different times during this period, I worked as a draftsman,
foreign language proofreader, enumerator and blood chemist.
The experience was priceless and I again was able to afford the
luxury of commuting by trolley. In 1933, to return to the regimen
of formal study, I enrolled at Boston College Law School —
never intending to complete the course, for my ambition was to
study medicine. But, when the results of the first exams were

[751 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

made known, and I learned that I had made the Dean’s list — in
spite of the fact that all my studying had been -done from bor-
rowed case books —I was encouraged to continue. Thus, after
attending evening classes for four years, I received my LL.B. in
1937 and was admitted to the Massachusetts Bar in November of
the same year.

For the following two years, I made use of my legal training in
connection with an appointment I received at the Suffolk County
Court and then started my own private practice. Just at the time
that my practice had reached a comfortable level, I was invited
to join Uncle Sam’s Army in 1943. In the meantime I had mar-
ried and, a few months before said invitation, I had become the
father of a fine son. Most of my stay in the Army was in Oahu
as a criminal investigator, at times working in conjunction with
the F.B.I. and the Federal Bureau of Narcotics.

Following this interlude, I returned to the practice of law re-
luctantly; I had lost my enthusiasm for it without knowing why.
The answer came when I was appointed by the court to defend
a young man indicted for murder. I realized then that a lawyer’s
livelihood, to a large extent, depends on the weaknesses and mis-
fortunes of others; the thought did not set too well with me. Ac-
cordingly, having tried the case with a fair degree of success, I
withdrew from the active practice of law.

During the next two years, I was employed as a production
engineer while studying accounting at Bentley’s, where I was
graduated in 1953. Upon completion of the course I entered the
field of public accounting with the firm of Patterson, Teele &
Dennis, with which I am still associated.

LOUIS NICHOLAS PANCHY

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Josephine Ave., Somerville, Mass.

BORN: July 26, 1901, Dardha, Albania, parents: Nicholas Sotir Panchy,
Eugenia Tsika.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1924-1925, 1927-1928.

MarrieD: Kaliroe Jamo, Sept. 9, 1933, Millinocket, Maine. cxitpreNn: Shirley
Arlene, June 17, 1935; Louis Nicholas, Jr, May 8, 1939; Peter S., July
20, 1945,

occuPaTION: Clerk.

[752 ]

naan sisaOATECURNOIN Na. .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES CHENEY PARKER

MAILING ADDRESS: 55 Shalimar Drive, Shalimar, Fla.

porN: April 6, 1909, Boston, Mass. parENtS: Charles Stevens Parker, Frances
Ida Burnett.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: D.M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1936.

MaRRIED: Mildred Simpson, May 25, 1943, Perry, Ga. CHILDREN: James
Stevens, 1946; Donald L., 1947 (both adopted).

OCCUPATION: Dental medicine.

+ JAMES PARKER, II

BORN: Jan. 6, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: John Harleston Parker, ’93, Edith
Stackpole.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Isabel Lawrence, Oct. 24, 1936, Topsfield, Mass. cutLpren: Jane
Atherton, May 17, 1938; Isabel Stackpole, Aug. 2, 1941.

DIED: Feb. 9, 1953, Beverly, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. James Parker, 2d, 13 Cedar St., Wenham, Mass.

PARKER served as Freshman Dormitory Football manager and
as a member of the Freshman Baseball Squad, was a member of
the Stylus and A.D. Clubs and the Hasty Pudding-Institute of
1770, After graduation he spent ten years in the investment
banking business in Boston, first with Lee, Higginson & Company,
and later with F. L. Dabney & Company. In 1942 he entered the
Navy and served as an air sea rescue operations officer and as
commander of an Air Sea Rescue Unit on Iwo Jima. He was
awarded the Bronze Star, and was discharged in 1945 as a com-
mander. On his return, he joined the Old Colony Trust Company
in Boston, where he was a vice-president at the time of his death.
His memberships included the Tavern Club, Somerset Club, and
Myopia Hunt Club.

JOHN HARLESTON PARKER

HOME AppreEss: 8 Dunstable Rd. Cambridge, Mass.

OFFIcE AppREss: Mystic Storage Warehouse, Medford, Mass.

BORN: July 12, 1907, Nahant, Mass. Parents: John Harleston Parker, ’93,
Edith Value Stackpole.

[753]

lah DNA Aahe eta NNtnat aceite AANA ANNA ANION ANNE saliliiteidanrabnasite th ata,

uy
ERROR Me Meier C19 ——

HARVARD CLASS OF 193!

PREPARED aT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.; Santa Barbara School,
Carpinteria, Calif. :

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; ORGAN DIPLOMA (N, E.
Conservatory of Music), 1951.

MARRIED: Suzannah Cazeneau Ayer, March 14, 1942, Milton, Mass. cHILpRen:
John Harleston, Jr., Jan. 4, 1943; Penelope Ayer, Aug. 29, 1944; Suzan-
nah C., June 30, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Parker, ’31 (deceased).

occupation: Organ builder.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club of Boston; American Guild of Organists.

MY first ten years out of college provide a perfect example of
how not to get ahead in the world. I tried to conform to the
solid pattern set for a great many Harvard Bostonians in an era
that was ending. This meant taking a secure and conventional
desk job in a steady and respectable investment house on State
Street. My lack of interest was rivaled only by my lack of abil-
ity. Three years of this was enough for both my employers and
me.

Nevertheless, I continued furiously butting my head against
a stone wall. I joined a real estate firm of equal solidity, respect-
ability and background. There again I could not grasp the first
fundamentals of business salesmanship. Then followed five years
in the Navy, mostly on sea duty, with an entire week-end off in
which to get married. The war gave me plenty of time to think
about the future. In fact, by an ironic stroke of mercy it allowed
me to break with the past. The $64,000 question — whether to be
maladjusted with the faint hope of material success or egotisti-
cally content without it. I chose the latter.

Thanks to the sympathy and generosity of my wife, I decided
in an inspired moment to become a musician, After four years
of study alongside students half my age, I graduated as an organ-
ist from the New England Conservatory of Music in 1951. Un-
happily, I had started too late to earn a living as a virtuoso
performer. I have, therefore, turned to organ building as a pro-
fesssion. Besides learning the business from the bottom by work-
ing for two years in an organ factory, I gained more knowledge
of the trade by my travels with my wife through Italy and
Switzerland in 1954.

I still wallow in music on the side and don’t think Pll go back
to State Street for quite a while.

[754]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NATHANIEL EMMONS PARKINSON

HOME ADDRESS: Powissett Road, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hutchins & Parkinson, 27 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: John Parkinson, ’06, Mary Ann
Wales Emmons.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

mMarRigD: Ellen Lovering Child, July, 1941, Beverly Farms, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Parkinson, Jr., ’29.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Hutchins & Parkinson, stock brokers.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Cruising Club of America; Ocean Cruising
Club.

FOR the first ten years after June, 1931, I spent most of my time

enjoying life as a bachelor and trying in a half-hearted manner

to get ahead in a very sluggish business world. This began with

a transatlantic yacht race to England in the summer of 1931,

which was followed by some cruising, foxhunting and other

sporting activities. On my return to the U.S.A. I was somehow

able to land a very unlucrative position with General Foods

Corporation which lasted for a little more than a year. However,

as the company was losing money and I was not doing much bet-

ter, we separated and I did some more yacht racing, foxhunting

and bird shooting until it seemed expedient for me to try to earn

some money.

This time, as jobs were practically non-existent, my father ne-
gotiated a sort of horse trade in which I got a position in the stock
brokerage firm of Proctor, Cook & Company and he gave George
Proctor (Dartmouth ’31) a position in the family brokerage firm of
Hutchins & Parkinson. For some reason this business seemed to
really interest me and I was able to inch myself ahead in it, even
though it was practically in the doldrums. However, this did not
bother me too much as the dullness of the business enabled me to
devote more time to sporting activities which involved running
a small pack of foxhounds, bird shooting, going on the biannual
Bermuda ocean race and various other cruises and races, includ-
ing a summer’s cruising and racing in Scandinavia in 1937 with
my father who, until his death in 1953, was the greatest sporting
companion and friend I ever hope to have.

That autumn I left Proctor, Cook & Company and went to
work for Hutchins & Parkinson, a firm which was started by my

[755]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

grandfather after he got out of the Union Army in 1861. I was
made a partner in 1940, and Bunny and I got married the follow-
ing year. Our life was shortly thereafter disrupted by Pearl
Harbor. Due to an eye damaged in a youthful scrimmage I was
unacceptable to the military, naval or merchant marine services,
so in May, 1942, I went to work for George Lawley Shipbuilding
Corporation where I became the head of the expediting depart-
ment. All that I can say of the war years is that there was hard
work and no fun seven days a week from eight in the morning
to ten or eleven at night, with only a few good companions to
work with —the rest of the crowd were either trying to keep
out of the fighting or make a fast buck. The day after peace was
declared I resigned my job and spent the autumn bird shooting
and investigating various positions in the industrial field. I finally
came to the conclusion that my training had best fitted me for
the financial business, so I rejoined the firm of Hutchins & Park-
inson.

Since then life has flowed on, we have had periods of serious
sickness, we have had financial setbacks, but we have had a pretty
good time and have been able to make a living. We don’t get
very rich but we have a small place in the country and a small
yacht on the coast of Maine. We have been on a couple of yacht-
ing trips abroad. I have a couple of good bird dogs and go on
innumerable shooting trips with congenial friends. I have a busi-
ness which is a headache but which I really love. All I can say
is that if the next twenty-five years are as good as the past, barring
the war years, there is no complaint.

CHARLES ROBERT PAUL

HOME ADDRESS: 227 W. Channel Rd., Santa Monica, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6040 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.

BorN: April 17, 1909, Los Angeles, Calif. parents: Charles Robert Paul,
Mary Josephine Magoon.

PREPARED AT: University of Chicago High School, Chicago, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931(50); DEGREE (American
Academy of Dramatic Art), 1937; a.m. (Univ. of California at Los
Angeles), 1952.

occupation: Teacher; play director.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Phi Delta Kappa.

[756]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I GUESS my activities will sound a bit desultory. I have a
Master’s degree in Theatre Arts from U.C.L.A. and a degree
from the American Academy of Dramatic Art, and I had an
additional year of exposure to Stanislavsky at De Paul Univer-
sity. I began professional acting in stock companies at Nuan-
gola and Deer Lake, Pennsylvania, and at Northampton. I was
juvenile lead in two Broadway turkeys, in one of which I served
as assistant director, and two seasons on the road as a juvenile
lead led to M.G.M.’s signing me and never using me. Next came
radio, in which I was first an actor at WNYC; then followed
a considerable period as staff announcer for KSFO, the leading
record station in San Francisco; and, later, for KFRC, the Mu-
tual Don Lee Network station in San Francisco. At the two
stations I announced, directed, produced or acted in thousands
of radio programs of nearly all types.

Most recently, I have been teaching theatre arts, radio, and
occasional other subjects in private schools — at U.C.L.A. where
I had a fellowship, and for a couple of years in a public high
school. This latter was a singularly melancholy experience. As
additional training for this last phase of my work, I spent a year
taking the moronic courses required to obtain what is called a
“teaching credential” in the State of California.

In politics I have traveled from left toward the center, but I
remain an agnostic and a rather contented bachelor. My prin-
cipal hobbies include European travel and languages, weight
lifting, swimming, certain events in theatres and concert halls,
and trying to support a Cadillac on a Volkswagen income. Oc-
casionally, I have my little moment and actually have time to sit
down and read a book for an hour. I am immoderately fond of
several of the operas of the late Richard Strauss. My idea of a
hot time is to travel to Edinburgh to hear Sena Jurinac sing the
role of the composer in “Ariadne auf Naxos”; many of my
friends are innocent types, however, who are quite content with
a trip to Las Vegas. I have a rather nice house and garden which
take up a formidable amount of time and I own a venerable
spaniel with whom I play a stately game of ball on occasion.

At present, I am teaching at the branch of Columbia College
located in Los Angeles, directing a play for a private school,
doing a bit of work for a local little theatre, and trying to get

[757]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

a plush motel started with a couple of other guys. Anyone
knowing of a good job or a juicy investment that will bring me
in about twenty per cent, please wire me collect.

RICHARD PAVONE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 472 Walnut St., Newtonville 60, Mass.

BorN: Noy. 22, 1909, Scilla, Reggio, Calabria, Italy. parents: Anthony Pa-
vone, Mary Theresa Balsamo.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1937.

OccuPATION: Diagnostic consultant.

oFFices HELD: Charter member, Burroughs Scholarship Club, 1929; visiting
physician and diagnostic consultant, Newton-Wellesley Hospital; medi-
cal director, United-Carr Corporation; director, professor and lecturer,
Mt. Ida Junior College; chief, Blood Section, during World War II.

MEMBER OF: Association of Harvard Chemists; Massachusetts Medical So-
ciety; American Medical Association (fellow); Charles River Medical
District Society; Brae Burn Country Club.

UNEASY lies the head that wears a crown. Looking down from
the lonely pinnacle, as I turn back the pages of time, behold —
the “cocky” medic embryo — eager —I am Dr. Pavone, “medic”
— guardian of birth, healer of the sick, comforter of the aged.
“Time marches on” — maturity arrives with its sequelae, namely,
wisdom, experience, new understanding, philosophy of life —
now real, ebullient, pulsating, mellow, vivid, exotic, tender, its
true meaning evident.

Allow me to present but a few highlights and milestones in
my career: the successful delivery of the youngest mother in this
country, twelve years of age; the first successful whole graft of
an amputated finger; the highest average grade in the city of
Newton in competitive Civil Service medical examinations —
92.20 percent; the first radical successful treatment of a diabetic
coma patient who was virtually dead; the restoration of life to
individuals virtually dead from gas asphyxiation, cardiac stand-
still and from deep shock; the simultaneous delivery of two
mothers successfully during an emergency; the delivery of a six-
month premature baby — alive.

Presently I am a diagnostic consultant in medicine; and my
future role in life can be no better expressed than the good Samar-

[758]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

itan who aided and gave comfort to his fellow man. As for hob-
bies, during the summer, I enjoy yachting and cruising on the
cool sunny ocean. I also dabble in electronics, metallurgy, acous-
tics, stereo-phonics, chemistry and construction (also hydro-
thermo- and electro-dynamics).

My spacious living is bountiful, for I cannot say that I am
crowded in a lofty fourteen-room chateau, perched on a rising
two-acre estate. Here I live, I dream, I create. Here I pray for
enlightenment in times of critical decision. Here I hope to grow
old, to die, to be buried amidst my youthful surroundings. It
is evident that my whole life has been cloaked in medicine and its
pursuits, and that a change is in order.

My future realizations to be achieved before I pass on are:
to create a full college scholarship, to be called the Mary Theresa
Scholarship, in perpetuity for deserving students, in everlasting
memory of my beloved mother, Mary Theresa Pavone; to be a
zoth-century Marco Polo, seek high adventures and travel to the
four corners of the earth, unraveling its infinite mysteries and
grasping its raptures. Would like to hear from anyone entertain-
ing such dreams! These are but a few episodes on the pages of
time, of Pavone — school boy, scholar, physician, teacher, scien-
tist, philosopher, humanitarian, dreamer.

“Sic transit gloria mundi — ad nihilum”.

~ ROBERT WINSOR PEARSON

HOME appress: Old Pine Island Road, Newbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 104 State St., Newburyport, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 18, 1910, Newton Centre, Mass. parents: Henry Greenleaf
Pearson, ’93, Elizabeth Ware Winsor.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.D., 1936.

MaRRiED: Florence Chapman, June 22, 1941, Garrettsville, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Grace, June 1, 1942; Elizabeth Winsor, July 30, 1946; Florence Chap-
man, May 4, 1949; Eleanor May, Oct. 1, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Theodore Pearson, '25; Henry Greenleaf Pearson, Jr. °34.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Member surgical statf, Anna Jaques Hospital, consultant in
surgery, Amesbury Hospital, Danvers State Hospical; instructor in
surgery, Tufts Medical School; chairman blood program, Newburyport

[759]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931
Chapter of Red Cross; director, North Shore Adult Education Asso-

ciation, Community Health Centre.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; American Yacht Club; Monday Night Club (a
local essay club for amateurs); Massachusetts Medical Society; Essex
North District, U.S. Power Squadron.

PUBLICATIONS: Abdominal Surgery in the Evacuation Hospital, 1947.

AFTER graduation I spent a year doing premedical studies at
Columbia University and then spent the next four years at the
Harvard Medical School. A year of rotating internship was
spent at Newton Hospital followed by a year at the Albany
Hospital and two years at the Boston City Hospital in surgery.
Six months in surgical pathology under Dr. Shields Warren were
followed by a year as surgical resident at Truesdale Hospital
in Fall River, and during this time I married.

Before completing half of a surgical residency at the Boston
City Hospital, I was called into the Army when the 33rd Gen-
eral Hospital was activated. After two months at Fort Eustis,
Virginia, eight of us were transferred over to the newly-formed
gist Evacuation Hospital at Fort Knox, and we sailed from New
York City in December of 1942 for Casablanca. This unit func-
tioned in Morocco and Algiers, then in the Sicilian Campaign
and by November of 1943 we were shipped to England where
we awaited developments. D plus 4 saw us landing at Utah
Beach and following the campaign through France, Holland and
Germany till the end of the war, we treated our last casualty
near the Elbe. The usual months of returning to station work
(in Stuttgart) were rewarded by a free air trip home in Septem-
ber of 1945, when I shortly joined the Beverly, Massachusetts,
clinic for a year.

The next step was a natural one, just a half-hour north to
Newburyport, where I entered into the practice of general sur-
gery and where I now find that eight short years have rolled
by happily and busily. Our first child was born during the war
and it was quite an experience to come home and see for the
first time, one’s daughter, over two years old. Our next was
born while we were living at Beverly and our last two since
moving to Newburyport.

Of course, sailing still remains my chief hobby and a good
many (but not enough) hours have been spent sailing the local

[ 760 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

waters and cruising up and down the New England coast in
vacation time. You can see it was by no means purely chance
that we settled in a seaport town.

Music is the other hobby which is chiefly cello playing with
my violinist wife and chamber music friends. All the children
seem to have inherited a few musical genes and are taking to piano,
violin and cello avidly. Our latest hobby is a new house of mod-
ern design perched atop a ledge overlooking the Atlantic Ocean
from Maine to Cape Ann. As I glance up from my desk, the
lighthouses of Portsmouth, Isles of Shoals, Newburyport and
Anisquam Harbor blink and flash their friendly greetings. How
about a visit from any passing classmate to see for himself? Just

off Route 1-A in Newbury.

WILLIAM FRANCIS PEDERSEN

HOME ADDRESS: Sunset Hill Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pedersen & Tilney, Architects, 119 Whitney Ave, New
Haven, Conn.; 400 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

BorN: April 18, 1908, Stamford, Conn. parents: Anthon Pedersen, Helen
Blondin.

PREPARED AT: Stamford High School, Stamford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~193I. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M. (Grad. School of
Design), 1936.

MARRIED: Priscilla Dixon Auchincloss, April 16, 1942, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: William Francis, Jr. April 4, 1943; Priscilla Stanton, Feb. 21,
1946; Ann Blondin, Aug. 15, 1949.

occupation: Architect; parmer in firm of Pedersen & Tilney.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Kingsland Beagles.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects, American Society of Planning
Officials; Graduates’ Club of New Haven; Harvard Clubs of New York,
New Canaan and Connecticut.

PUBLICATIONS: The Design of Office Buildings, im preparation.

JACK McGinley, my neighbor in New Canaan who was on
the Class Marshal Nominating Committee, tells me that com-
pared to many other classes we are an undistinguished Class,
which is apparently true. We, most of us, have had reasonably
honorable careers but apparently have done surprisingly little
to enrich our generation or that of our children. I am willing
to accept the explanation of a slow start during the depression
of the thirties and the hiatus of war service as an adequate ex-

[ 761 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

planation of our shortcomings, but still find the deficiency un-
fortunate and hope that the next fifteen years will produce a bet-
ter showing.

World War II claimed my services from June 21, 1941, to
January 1, 1946, and I am pleased to be able to say that I have
been retired as a lieutenant commander with all my records in
inactive storage in Omaha, Nebraska.

My life otherwise has been devoted to my profession and my
family, both of which have been sources of great satisfaction to
me. Architecture is a most fascinating job, and I can say with
modesty that I have been successful in a notoriously difficult
field of endeavor and have had a considerable hand in altering
the skyline of several of our eastern cities, in the housing of four
thousand or more families, and in the design of a variety of
special structures. I am currently writing a book on the design
of office buildings.

I spend as much time as I can during the summer months on
Mr. Desert Island and have developed a lasting affection for the
eastern Maine sea coast. Tennis, fishing, a little golf, skating and
sailing all have liens on my free time. I collect first editions by
Aldous Huxley, T. S. Eliot and others, and modern prints in a
modest way. Given more time and free funds, I would enlarge
this activity.

I attend St. Mark’s Episcopal Church in New Canaan regularly
and have stronger religious and ethical convictions now than I
had when I attended college.

After twenty-two years’ absence, Harvard still has a strong
grip on my affections and, God willing, I hope my son will be
a member of the Class of 1965.

ROBERT PEEL

HOME apprEss: 22 Berkeley St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: The First Church of Christ, Scientist, Boston, Mass.

Born: May 6, 1909, London, England. parents: Arthur James Peel, Anne
S. Monk.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., [9313 A.M., 1940.

UNMARRIED,

[ 762 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Chief, Editorial Section, Christian Science Committee on Pub-
lication.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor and tutor in English, Harvard University, 1931-36;
assistant professor in English and philosophy, Principia College, 1936-42;
editorial writer, Christian Science Monitor, 1946-54.

puBLICATIONS: The Creed of a Victorian Pagan, 1931; articles, book reviews,
and poems in The Criterion (London), Meanjin Papers (Australia),
New England Quarterly, American Literature, etc.; extensive writings
of all sorts in The Christian Science Monitor.

MY adventures since 1931 have been largely those of the mind,
but they have been sufficiently varied and absorbing to keep me
from swapping bachelorhood for domesticity. After 1931 I
spent several years in graduate work in English and philosophy
at Harvard, combined with a job as instructor and tutor. Feeling
a little restive at the end of nine consecutive years at Harvard
(interspersed with a few summers abroad), I accepted an invita-
tion in 1936 to substitute as assistant professor in English at
Principia College in Illinois for a year. The challenge of the
new atmosphere proved so exhilarating that I stayed on there
for several years. In 1939-40, I received a twelve-month leave of
absence from Principia to come back to Harvard to continue my
own graduate work, chiefly in philosophy.

The war brought what turned out to be a permanent deflec-
tion in my course. Drafted, I soon found my way into counter-
intelligence and became a special agent, operating most of the
time as an ostensible civilian. Since my languages were French
and German and my whole cultural orientation Europewards,
I was (inevitably) sent to the Southwest Pacific. In the Philip-
pines I received a field commission, and in the first hours after
the signing of the Japanese surrender, I stepped into Japan. The
next year brought a unique assignment and an intensive political
education, with no duties other than to cultivate connections
which I had with certain Japanese elite circles and get “inside”
the political situation. Though very much more pessimistic
than most American personnel in regard to the magical trans-
formation the occupation was supposed to be working in Japanese
life, I thoroughly enjoyed the close friendships I was able to
form with many leaders of Japanese life and thought and, strange-
ly enough, with the imperial family itself.

Back home a year later and feeling strongly the need for popu-

[ 763 ]

einai ite eee RRs en bee niinnemiieniananniieieieiaa eer re

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

lar American support of an enlightened foreign policy, I ac-
cepted a position as editorial writer on The Christian Science
Monitor, writing chiefly on Far Eastern affairs. The Monitor
years have been outstandingly vivid and happy ones for me, with
their opportunity to put one’s idealism to the test of the practical
compromises imposed on anyone concerned with the realistic
possibilities of political action — especially during the doleful
time when a new ice age of reaction appeared to be in the mak-
ing.

During a year’s leave of absence from the Monitor, I began a
book dealing with an important but neglected phase of American
intellectual history, and I hope to have it finished this year (1955)
and published in 1956. In the meantime, after much spiritual
wrestling over the decision, I recently accepted an offer to
switch from the Monitor to the Christian Science Committee on
Publication, where my special function is to help explain Chris-
tian Science more effectively to the intellectual and academic
world. The work calls on all my deepest convictions and hopes,
and I find it as challenging as it is satisfying.

Thus by a sort of Hegelian dialectical procession — thesis
(academic), antithesis (journalistic), and synthesis (present job)
—TI have arrived at a point where I feel that none of the experi-
ence of the past twenty-five years has been wasted, but that the
best things are just about to begin.

TEMPLE HAROLD PEIRCE

HOME appress: 116 Midhurst Rd., Baltimore 12, Md.

OFFicE appress: Temple H. Peirce & Co., 30 W. 25th St., Baltsmore 18, Md.

BORN: May 24, 1910, Tarrytown, N. Y. parents: Herbert Russell Peirce,
Edith Neilson Fay.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: 8.B., 1931,

MarrigD: Alice G. Page, Nov. 18, 1938, Baltimore, Md. cxttpren: Edith
Neilson Fay, Dec. 30, 1939, Maryalice Hoxie, Dec. 20, 1940; Temple
Harold, Jr. Aug. 19, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Shelley Dexter Peirce, 30; Herbert Russell Peirce, Jr., °34.

occupation: Owner, Temple H. Peirce & Company, real estate and insurance
brokers.

OFFICES HeLp: President, Brokers Round Table of Baltimore, 1951-52; chair-

[ 754 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

man, Multiple Listing Bureau, 1952-54; member board of governors,
Harvard Club of Maryland, 1948-53; member board of directors,
1952-57, president, 1954-55, Real Estate Board; director, Legal Aid
Bureau of Baltimore, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club; Association of Commerce; University Club;
Paint & Powder Club, Baltimore Country Club; Gibson Island Club,
Harvard Club of Maryland.

IT scarcely seems possible that the time has come to write this
account for the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report; in fact, with
the passage of each year everything is accelerated faster than
the preceding year.

Back in 1934 I was transferred to Baltimore with one of the
large insurance companies. At first, this was quite an uprooting
but each year my love for Baltimore has grown as a transplanted
Yankee. In 1939 I opened an insurance agency, then in 1942,
added the field of real estate. Both of these have kept me busy
continuously ever since, with the exception of two years spent
with Uncle Sam in the Army, including a trip to the Philippines.
Since the war I have spent a considerable amount of time work-
ing with many of the various committees within our trade organ-
ization, the Real Estate Board of Baltimore, ending up as presi-
dent of the Board for the year 1954-55. This was the busiest
time of all and I can only say that it is nice to have it in the past
and to get back to a normal life. My family, consisting of Alice
and three children, has been a great joy. The spread in our chil-
dren’s ages has certainly led to “never a dull moment” living.
With two girls almost ready for college and one boy in the first
grade of school, there is always plenty of independent thought
expressed in our household; however, this helps to keep the par-
ents young.

The only lasting hobby has been golf, with some occasional
bridge, both getting less serious as the years progress.

LAWRENCE FRENCH PERCIVAL, JR.

HOME AppREsS: 176 Warren St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFicE appress: D. C, Percival Co., 373 Washington St. Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 6, 1908, Brookline, Mass, parents: Lawrence French Percival,
’03, Evelyn Harrison Joyce.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

[765 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Betty Carpenter, Oct. 15, 1938, Swampscott, Mass. cHILpRen: Law-
rence French, 3d, Dec. 14, 1939; J. Nicholas, Sept. 30, 1942.

OccUPATION: Treasurer, D, C, Percival Company, wholesale jewelers,

OFFICES HELD: Member executive committee, National Wholesale Jewelers
Association, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.,; Down Town Club, Boston,

I DISTINCTLY recall, at the time of my father’s T'wenty-fifth
Harvard Reunion, how he and his classmates seemed in my eyes
to be at least middle aged. I am happy to say that I certainly
don’t consider myself middle aged nor my classmates either — as
I see them on the golf course or striding briskly along Boston
Streets.

I notice at the top of this form that the Class wants to know
about our “careers”. Since I have not had a “career”, I shall give
a brief résumé of my business life.

After college, I spent two very interesting and enjoyable years
at Scudder, Stevens and Clark, Investment Counsel here in Boston.
I then joined the family wholesale jewelry business and have
been there ever since. While this is what is known as a “small
business”, its management includes, shall we say in miniature,
most of the problems of bigger businesses. However, too often
we are caught in the middle between our manufacturer suppliers
and retail jewelry and department store customers.

I am happy to say that I have been able to get in quite a bit of
boating. In the summers of 1949 and 1950, I had the somewhat
chastening experience of racing at Marblehead a boat in the
210 Class. These boats are twenty-nine feet overall and only five
feet ten inches beam and definitely not to be recommended to the
members of the Class of 1931 — after they are old enough to have
passed their Twenty-fifth Reunion.

In the spring and fall, I have been doing quite a bit of horseback
riding in Dedham. My sons have inveigled me into skating at
Luther Grimes’ excellently managed Brookline Country Club to
an extent that I now actually skate there for my own pleasure.

I am pleased to see that our alma mater apparently is giving
more attention to the development of all around character and
ability in its students and not just pure scholarship as seemed to
be the case previously. This trend makes me happy that my older
son, now a junior at prep school, seems to be headed for Harvard.

[ 766 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘THOMAS NELSON PERKINS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 258 Grove St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Electric Controls Co., 85 School St., Watertown
72, Mass.

BorN: April 30, 1907, Westwood, Mass. Parents: Thomas Nelson Perkins,
’91, Louisa Catherine Adams.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B.. 1931 (32).

MarrieD: Anne Bissell Houghton, June 2, 1939, Milton, Mass. cHILDREN:
Mary Laughlin, May 21, 1940; Anne, June 15, 1941; Thomas Nelson, 3d.
Aug. 2, 1944. .

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, United Electric Controls Company.

ALBERT DEAN PERRY

HOME ADDRESS: 14607 Shaker Blvd., Shaker Heights 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harshaw Chemical Co., 1945 E. 97th St., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1909, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Drake Thorndyke Perry,
’97, Katharine Lee Holtenhouse.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Helen Wade Greene, Jan. 14, 1939, Gates Mills, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Allen Wade, Oct. 10, 1940; Edward Lee, Jan. 2, 1947.

occupation: Treasurer and director, Harshaw Chemical Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Medusa Portland Cement Company (Cleveland),
since 1950, Union Bank of Commerce (Cleveland), since 1950, Cleve-
land Cliffs Iron Company, since 1955; trustee, Children’s Fresh Air
Camp, John Huntington Fund, Lake View Cemetery; national council
member, Phillips Exeter Academy.

MEMBER oF: Union Club; Tavern Club; Pepper Pike Club; Chagrin Valley
Hunt Club; Kirtland Club; Cleveland Skating Club; Winons Point
Shooting Club (Port Clinton, Ohio); Harvard Club of Cleveland.

AFTER that day when those of the graduating Class of 1931
moved their tassels from left to right (or right to left), I joined
other fortunate grads for an extended tour — along with several
“Yales”, “Vassarites”, and southern belles—for the summer
months before obtaining my final polish at the Business School
south of the Charles. Two years in Morgan Hall, etc., partially
prepared me for my debut into the “cold world” in June, 1933.

I joined Allied Products Company, a road contracting con-
struction firm, on July 5, 1933, to try to assist in reviving this

[ 767 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

formerly healthy company into a going concern. I progressed
to treasurer, enjoying earnings from 1935 to 1939; then, too much
politics, and I transferred to “summer job” company, Harshaw
Chemical Company, in 1940. Temporarily I worked in agricul-
tural chemical sales, then back to financial work as assistant credit
manager. Then came Pearl Harbor. I signed with the Air Corps
in January, 1942, was attached to the R.A.F. in England (Bomber
Command) as a second lieutenant in April; six months with the
“Limeys” until the 8th Air Force took over my services in the
fall of 1942; plans and operations for the 8th, transferred to the
oth Air Force in 1943, over to Normandy in early June, 1944;
visited France, Belgium, Holland, Luxemburg, Germany (briefly
in Pilsen); then back to the U.S.A. in December, 1945; released
as a lieutenant colonel in March, 1946.

I returned to Harshaw Chemical Company, training for finan-
cial future: assistant treasurer in 1947, treasurer in 1950, director
IN 1955.

For pleasure I enjoy an uphill golf match, hot tennis game, and
best of all, hunting — either for ducks and geese in the late fall
or quail, dove, or wild turkey in the South in the winter.

Having been to our Twentieth, I am looking forward to seeing
the old tribe for the Twenty-fifth — and good luck to the Class
Agents in their endeavors to raise that huge sum of money (and
top the performance of earlier classes) for our Alma Mater!

I am enjoying my home life with a lovely wife and two ornery
sons, one of whom may be headed towards Cambridge, via Ex-
eter; the other — being a grandson of a Yale Corporation mem-
ber — may be headed for New Haven. Time will tell.

CARROLL PERRY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3517 Ordway St., N.W., Washington 16, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of Commerce Bldg., Washington, D. C.

BoRN: Oct. 12, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: Carroll Perry, Grace Hawley
Underwood,

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MarRIED: Bertha Smith, Oct. 3, 1942, Sheperdstown, W. Va. CHILDREN:
Carroll Perry, 3d, Jan. 4, 1944; David, Nov. 29, 1947.

[ 768 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Underwood Perry, ’21 (deceased).
occuPaTION: Government Service; deputy director, Transportation Division,
Department of Commerce.

I HAVE searched my memory in vain in an effort to be able to
report for this Reunion book some earth-shaking change from
the status I recorded for the previous one. But drama does not
seem to enter into the picture and I, for one, am happy about it.

My two boys are growing up and concurrently getting more
expensive. My wife and I spend an increasing amount of time
pondering the question of their education, the ultimate goal be-
ing, deo volente, Harvard. Whether they will make it or ma-
triculate at West Arkansas Barbers’ College seems to involve
more factors (most of them unknown) than nuclear fission.

Professionally I’m still in the same line of trade, though oper-
ating from a different stand. After some seventeen years in the
Maritime Administration, I’m now deputy director of the Trans-
portation Division of the Bureau of Foreign Commerce, and
according to the Civil Service Commission, the shipping expert
of the Bureau. |

Government service has been rewarding. | have had interesting
jobs in my field, have learned a lot about the rest of the world and
about what makes the machine tick. While I have done little
traveling, I have good friends in most of the ports — Bergen and
Bombay, Vera Cruz and Valparaiso, Portland and Piraeus, Ham-
burg and Houston. I wouldn’t advocate joining the federal ser-
vice solely because of an early retirement accompanied by finan-
cial ease. But, on balance, it’s a good deal.

For recreation I do the standard things: putter around, enjoy
my family, fight the Civil War (“purely objectively, from the
Northern standpoint”), and can point with pride to having suc-
cessfully hoodwinked a series of choirmasters and choral direc-
tors into thinking that I can read and sing music. The rich
rewards of this latter activity make me wonder whether the Har-
vard Glee Club isn’t the most important thing in Cambridge.

[ 769 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

PETER D. PETERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 107 Pearl St., Somerville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Somerville School Committee, Somerville, Mass,

BORN: Sept. 7, 1908, Katundi, Albania. parents: Demetri Peterson, Anastasia
Lazar John.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1928-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; ED.M. (Tufts
Coll.), 1940.

MarRRiED: Ruth Gilchrist, Aug. 21, 1940, Boston, Mass. cuirp: Margaret
Grace, March 16, 1943.

occuPaTION: Teacher of industrial arts (mechanical drawing). ;

OFFICES HELD: President, Somerville Historical Society, 1947-1956, Drita
Students Society, Katundi Society; vice-president, Somerville School-
men’s Club, 1941; director, Bay State Historical League, 1949-56, Somer-
ville Red Cross, Albanian Relief.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; National Industrial Education
Society; National Congress of Parents and Teachers; Somerville Tax-
payers Association; East Somerville Neighborhood Association; Apollo
Club of Boston; Viking Male Chorus, Somerville Philomatheia Society,
Proprietor Boston Athenaeum.

PUBLICATIONS: Short articles on local history, folklore, etc.; “The Raising of
the Continental Union, the First American Flag, on Prospect Hill in
Somerville, Mass.”; articles on U.S. Constitution and on education.

UPON graduation I enjoyed the experience of a variety of jobs
in a railroad office, a museum, an art gallery, and in public recre-
ation. After three or four years of this I was elected a teacher
in the Somerville schools. I feel that I have contributed in a
small way toward the trend to take public education more seri-
ously in our country. Teaching has compensations found in few
vocations. But teaching salaries have been ridiculously low and
many teachers have had to resort to extra work outside. In my
own case this extra work has been in industrial designing and in
handling my real estate. Thanks to unconstitutional “controls”
my “ships” did not come in.

I married my boyhood sweetheart and we were blessed with
a daughter, Margaret, now enrolled in my school. I should, there-
fore, take a double interest in the Parent-Teacher Association!

My longest journey was made in 1916 when my family was
brought to America by my father who came here in 1897, one
of the first five Albanians in this country. On one of his visits

[770 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to the old country he was attacked by bandits and his life was
saved by an old friend whom he had helped in the United States.
My father decided than that the principles of life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness could best be attained in America. And he
never regretted his decision.

I have lived in the same house all these years and my traveling
consists of short trips to American historical spots. But my an-
cestors had a longer record of living in one spot. They lived
in the same town for 500 years! This of course is contrary to
the present American philosophy of speed and change, but it
has many compensations.

One of the advantages of teaching is having some leisure time.
As a result I have enjoyed many hobbies, none of which I have
taken seriously. They have served merely as outlets for nervous
energy. Having majored 1 in fine arts, I have been interested in
drawing and painting; I have sung in Swedish with the Viking
Male Chorus and am a member of the Apollo Club of Boston.
When my wife goes shopping, I play the cornet. When I can
get a partner, I play golf and tennis. I read a lot, write a litrle
and occasionally speak. I file clippings on my interests and hob-
bies, hoping that they may be of some value historically. As
director of our local historical society I enjoy preserving local
history, folklore, mementos and monuments, especially when
related to American history. Here I am in the position of a for-
eign-born citizen impressing on the native-born the value of his
historical and cultural background.

During and after the war I taught industrial arts and worked
after school in shops designing machinery, etc., to increase pro-
duction. As a student of the U. S. Constitution, I try to be tol-
erant of all social, political and religious groups. I have tried to
relate tolerance in a philosophical way in my thesis on adult edu-
cation by analyzing dichotomies, briefly, that there is not just
black and white but many “gray’dations in between. Perhaps
this was suggested by a course in fine arts. This theory of tol-
erance, however, implies constant change and a healthy swing
of the pendulum in social and economic theory. But age and con-
servatism seem to go hand in hand. And so my experience to date
tends to classify me as a believer in free enterprise, a free thinker

[771]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

in religious thought, and one who takes life seriously but never
neglecting humor, and one who considers money as only one
means in the pursuit of happiness.

RICHARD EVERETT PETERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1205 Rahway Ave. Westfield, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Aniline & Film Corp., 230 Park Ave., New York,
N. Y.

Born: Aug. 9, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: John Richard Peterson,
Elizabeth Powers.

PREPARED AT: Regis High School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marRiED: Mary Rita Curtin, July 6, 1935, New York, N. Y. cHILpREn:
Richard, May 3, 1936; Jean, Feb. 20, 1944.

occuPATION: Salary and wage administrator.

MEMBER OF: Wage and Salary Study Group of New York, American
Management Association.

LET'S see — 1931 — well, first of all the legal career bug had
to be killed. No miracle drugs in those days. Harvard Law and
the Depression did the trick in about four months.

New York wasn’t all bad in the early thirties — provided you
had some kind of paying job. In my case, there was a succession
of them —selling space, real estate agent and coal salesman —
none of which was exactly noteworthy for commissions. But
the next five years proved more productive.

Didn’t everyone want to get into advertising in the thirties?
Me too! My idea of the surest way to Madison Avenue was by
way of Canal Street — printing. That turned out to mean start-
ing in the shop of a lithography house and then getting into the
sales end of it.

It was about that time that Rita and I got married. We had
known each other a couple of years. A New York girl, she had
passed up a teaching career after Teacher’s College for secre-
tarial work. Our first-born, Richard, came along a year later in
1936.

The magnet of advertising remained constant even if the firms
I represented didn’t. There were three altogether. The next ste
was R. H. Macy’s advertising department in 1939. Still no Madi-
son Avenue. The major changes seem to have happened at ten-

[772 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

year intervals, The year 1940 brought a chance to forsake New
York and the subway circuit. The offer of a managerial job
with a soft drink bottling company was accepted avidly. Too
bad it didn’t succeed because we soon got used to suburban life
in Merchantville, New Jersey (near Philadelphia). The business
was sold four days before Pearl Harbor and with it went my
job. That was how I came to go with National Dairy in Phila-
delphia.

The Navy turned me down for officer training — physical
reasons —in the spring of 1942. My draft board never could
seem to make up its mind whether to take me or not. Finally,
they didn’t. Our daughter Jean was born in 1944.

Meanwhile, things kept moving along at National Dairy and
I got a chance at personnel relations. My field became (and still
is) wage and salary administration. Before I left Philadelphia, I
had the good fortune to be chairman of the joint ice cream in-
dustry committee which created and installed a complete job
evaluation program covering employees.

General Aniline & Film Corporation offered me the wage and
salary job at its Linden, New Jersey, plant in 1950; I accepted
and moved my family to Metuchen. A year later we found the
town we liked — Westfield — and purchased our present home.
GAF moved me up to its corporate offices in New York in 1952
with wage and salary responsibility for the whole works — about
gooo employees — and here I am. After almost twelve years in
this work, I am still sure it’s right for me. It’s nice to believe, as
I do, that its significance keeps growing.

We enjoy Westfield, the house, lots of gardening, friends and
a little golf now and then; typical, I suppose, but pleasant. In
religion we’re Catholic. Politically, ’ve been something of a
switch hitter, but in recent years it has been steadily Republican.

Richard is now a sophomore at Franklin and Marshall. Maybe
he’ll pick up that law idea — maybe not. Have I forgotten any-

thing?

[773]

' ° ar RNP RAI Sane 2 Fe RCE ns RUN I

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

SAMUEL STRONG PHARR

HOME ADDRESS: 1483 Harbert Ave., Memphis, Tenn.

OFFICE apprEss: Columbian Tower, Memphis, Tenn.

BORN: Feb. 11, 1911, Memphis, Tenn. parents: Harry Nelson Pharr, Creola
Strong.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931,

MARRIED: Cosette Visconti, Dec. 25, 1938, Memphis, Tenn. cHitpren: John
Davidson, Jan. 8, 1940; Ross Visconti, Feb. 16, 1942; Harry Nelson, 2d,
Feb. 29, 1944.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Phillips Exeter Academy Alumni Council; president,
Phillips Exeter Academy Alumni of Memphis; member executive board,
Chickasaw Council, Boy Scouts of America; vestryman, Grace-St,
Luke’s Episcopal Church; assistant district attorney general, Memphis
and Shelby County, 1937-43; representative, 1941, senator, 1943, Tennes-
see State Legislature; director, Memphis and Shelby County Public
Utilities Research Department, 1943-45; chairman, Tennessee Railroad
and Public Utilities Commission, 1945-47; vice-president and member of
the board, Light, Gas and Water Commissioners of the City of Memphis,
1947-55.

MEMBER OF: Harvard and University Clubs of Memphis; Memphis, Shelby

County and Tennessee Bar Associations.

THIS has been a real gay year for me. It has rushed along with
many a loud bang — but it has been relaxing after vice-prexying
for the past eight. I am relieved and happy to escape from con-
siderable routine, and am looking forward to some infinite vari-
ety in the future.

Our town has seethed, as usual, with politics. I have enjoyed
my small part in this. I am still a political apprentice after eight-
een years of public service and right proud of having managed
over that long period to maintain my amateur standing. Things
were pretty lively this summer. Our mayor and city commission-
ers were sailing along without a cloud in the sky, when I called
attention to new nepotism and favoritism in city contracts. The
heavens fell (on me), but a new city commission majority was
elected in November over the old incumbents, and I like to
think that my outspokenness carried some influence in this fine
victory. At any rate, at the moment of victory the results seem

very happy.
In the utility field it has been interesting to be in the midst of

[774 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Tennessee Valley Authority public versus private power
controversy and the proposed Memphis municipal 600,000 kilo-
watt $100 million steam plant. If built, it may be the largest
municipally owned steam plant anywhere. That story is still
developing.

My family has continued to be the most wonderful and excit-
ing I know. John is at Exeter. Ross is at Memphis University
School, country day. Harry is at the Presbyterian Day School.
Their scholastic and athletic problems, prowesses and social en-
gagements are more world-shattering than anything else we find.
We are immensely proud of each of them. We stay pretty much
on a twenty-four-hour alert to keep up with their multiple activ-
ities — a happy, hectic, busy time for all. We have a wonderful
time together. I feel fortunate to be related to such nice people.
We had a grand time at the Twentieth Reunion and are looking
forward to the Twenty-fifth.

GOUVERNEUR MORRIS PHELPS, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: Orchard Farm, South Ashfield, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 20, 1908, New York, N. Y. Parents: Gouverneur Morris Phelps,
’o2, Helena Pelham Curtis.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Hester Gouverneur Bartol, Jan. 20, 1940, New York, N. Y. cHIL-
DREN: Hester Hone, Dec. 18, 1940; Gouverneur Morris, 3d, March 18,
1942; Nicholas Gouverneur, Aug. 6, 1945; Henry Delafield, Oct. 19,
1948.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Rumford Chemical Company, Hay Beach Point
Corporation. .

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club, New York City; Holland Lodge; St.
Nicholas Society; Tobique Salmon Club.

AFTER graduating, I took a trip to Africa, hunting and photo-
graphing, and around the world for one year. For two years I
worked for J. & P. Coats Spool Cotton Company and then took
another trip to Africa and around the world. I served for four
years during the war in the Navy as a lieutenant commander on

a baby flattop in the Pacific. I then worked for Greenfield Tap
| [775 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

& Die in Greenfield, Massachusetts. I am a Republican and an
Episcopalian. My hobbies include raising orchids, tropical fish,
hunting and fishing, photography and travel.

MAURICE JACK PHILLIPS

MAILING ADDRESS: 39 W. 67th St., New York 23, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1910, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Philip Katz, Rose Shargenson.
PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

OCCUPATION: Publishing.

OGDEN PHIPPS

MAILING ADDRESS: Roslyn, Long Island, N. Y.

BORN: Novy. 26, 1908, New York, N. Y. Parents: Henry Carnegie Phipps,
Gladys Mills. ;

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

MarRiED: Lillian Bostwick, New York, N. Y.  cHitpren: Henry Ogden,
June 25, 1931; Robert L., April 6, 1933; Ogden Mills, Aug. 18, 1940;
Cynthia, March 24, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

KARL PICKARD

HOME aporEss: 71 Willow St., Brooklyn, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Central Medical Group of Brooklyn, 345 Schermerhorn
St. Brooklyn, N. Y.

BORN: June 3, 1910, New York, N. Y. parents: Nathan Pickard, Anna Luria.

PrepareD AT; Glens Falls High School, Glens Falls, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Long Island Coll. of
Medicine), 1935.

MARRIED: Rose Kanter, Dec. 21, 1934, Brooklyn, N. Y. cuitp: Jacqueline
Renée, March 26, 1937.

OccuPATION: Physician, internist and medical administrator, Central Medical
Group of Brooklyn.

OFFICES HELD: Internist, Central Medical Group, 1947-55, Brooklyn Jewish
Hospital, 1936-55, medical consultant, Health Insurance Plan of Greater
New York, 1954-55; lecturer, Medical Department, Columbia School
of Medicine, State University College of Medicine, Albert Einstein
Medical School-Fund Campaign; chairman, Special Gifts Fund, Brook-
lyn Week for the Blind, 1953-54.

[776 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Kings County and New York
State Medical Societies.

PUBLICATIONS: “Industry and War Medicines”, New England Journal of
Medicine, 1943; Group Medicine and Health Insurance in Action, Crown
Publishers, 1949; “Adenoma of the Pancreas with Surgical Cure”, Annals
of Internal Medicine, 1950, “Utilization of Services in Prepaid Medical
Care Program”, New England Journal, 1951; “Aplastic Anemia Due to
Chloromycetin Toxicity”, New York State Journal of Medicine, 1952.

LAST notices have come from “The Secretary” — must write
this thing. How do I begin? I can’t figure out who in the Class
of 1931 would be interested in the fact that I got out of Harvard
in 1931, that I married Rose Kanter of Newark in 1934, that in
1937 there came a baby girl named Jacqueline Renée. I just can’t
understand who would be interested in that, except Rose Kanter,
now Rose Kanter Pickard, Jackie Renée and me. Oh yes, in the
meantime I had gone to medical school and had opened an office,
just about the time that Jacqueline was born, at 35 Clark Street
in Brooklyn Heights. Brooklyn Heights is sort of a small town
right in the middle of a big city, a small town right on the preci-
pice of the harbor of New York City, overlooking the nineteenth
wonder of the world, or the first wonder of the world, whichever
way you look at it. But whichever way you do look at it, it’s
beautiful — I mean the skyline of the City of New York. Now,
some twenty years later, there’s a beautiful promenade practically
at the foot of our house, where thousands and thousands of people
walk, not only to walk, but to look at this nineteenth wonder
of the world, particularly at night, when inside that skyline hun-
dreds and hundreds of cleaners are doing what they are supposed
to be doing — cleaning. But the spotted lights from the millions
of windows make the city in the near distance look like a jew-
eled crown. But all of you know about that. I’m supposed to be
writing about me and twenty-five years.

Twenty-five years — that’s a long time. I went through medi-
cal school. Oh yes, I became the country doctor of this Brooklyn
Heights. Really, in this big city I became the country doctor of
this small town — Brooklyn Heights. And then some six years
later I entered the Army. Before long I was in the ET.O. For
those of you who don’t know, that was the European Theatre of
Operations. This way another four years passed and then I came
back to this Brooklyn Heights. There was no office available.

[777]

EEE IE SOR sacl san aeeor

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Funny — how four years makes such a difference. Everybody
had taken the apartments, particularly the one which was my of-
fice. I found that other fellows, too —I mean other fellows who
were young doctors in the same position as I — couldn’t find any
place to start working again. I even tried to talk to the man who
had my original office and suggested that I could help him pay his
rent. It didn’t do any good. He was doing too well there on the
corner of Clark and Hicks Street, across from the nineteenth
wonder of the world. He wouldn’t think of letting me use his
office. No! I mean my office—he was doing too well there.
So I had to look around — funny how things turn out.

We, that is Rose Kanter Pickard and Jacqueline, now nine
years old, found a house right around the corner, an old brown-
stone, and we bought it. We found it was a very famous house.
Not quite the nineteenth wonder of the world at which we could
look, but a house which previously had belonged to Henry Ward
Beecher of Civil War days, and I started to be the country doctor
of Brooklyn Heights again. But by this time I had specialized,
in fact, I had specialized about the time I entered the Army back
in 1942, and things were happening in the medical world. There
was a thing called the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New
York. It existed on paper. I had been interested in some form
of medical care which would allow people who could not afford
to pay for doctors to have doctors. It seemed to me that that
was a good thing — the American way of life! Everybody was
shouting: “let’s have socialized medicine”. That didn’s seem like
the American way of life, but some form of voluntary health
insurance, on a prepaid basis did seem to be the thing. And so,
I got interested in it. Well, the next eight or nine years were
spent in building that up.

At present, 1 am the medical administrator and internist for
the Central Medical Group of Brooklyn and we’ve come a long
way in the last nine years. We started with some sixty-nine pa-
tients and seventeen doctors. We now have 32,000 patients and
forty-three doctors, and strangely enough it works. It works,
even though organized medicine on a local level, that is in Brook-
lyn, is very much opposed to the fact that these 32,000 and §00-
ooo others in that City of New York can obtain medical care at
low cost. Everyone knows we have advanced very, very far in

[ 778 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

medicine. We have come a long way from the horse and buggy
doctor. We have come a long way from the use of antiquated
drugs up to the miracle drugs of today, the modern methods of
today, but unfortunately, everybody can’t get these newer things
because they can’t pay for them. Under a prepaid program like
the Health Insurance Plan, one can afford this medical care. Well,
that’s it. I didn’t know I could finish, but if I keep on talking
about this pet subject of voluntary health insurance, I won’t
finish at all. Anyway, it might bore most of you. However, those
of you who are interested —I’ve written a book called Group
Medicine and Health Insurance in Action —an awful title. It
was published by Crown in 1949. You can read all about it.
There are several other articles written on the subject, but those
are too hard for you to find.

All I can say is that these twenty-five years have been fun. Oh
yes, Jackie —if you subtract 1937 from 1955 — turns out to be
eighteen years old. She spent the summer with us in Europe,
this past summer I mean, and cut quite a swath through the Con-
tinent. It was indeed a pleasure to revisit places we (Rose and I)
had seen before, through the eyes of our eighteen-year-old daugh-
ter. It was also pleasant to visit her up at Cornell where even the
boys at Harvard come to see her, just her. We are proud of her.
. Twenty-five years —they’ve been fun!!!

CARL E. PICKHARDT, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Forest Street, Sherborn, Mass.

BORN: May 28, 1908, Dedham, Mass. parents: Carl Emile Pickhardt, ’o4,
Louise Fowler.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.; Public Latin School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

Marriep: Marjorie Sachs, June 15, 1935, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced 1952);
Rosamond Forbes, 1953, Sherborn, Mass. cHILDREN: Nancy Louise,

April 20, 1936; Carl, 3d, May 4, 19393 Sally Anne, July 20, 1945.
OCCUPATION: Artist.

I HAVE been a practising artist ever since graduation and have
done a good deal of teaching, as well, at various times over this
period. My work for several years now has been abstract paint-

[779 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ing of the type generally characterized as non-objective, with
particular emphasis in the direction of paintings which are of
irregular external shapes as opposed to the usual rectangular pic-
ture. My work has been shown in the customary one-man or
representative group shows in this country or abroad, and is rep-
resented in various museums and private collections.

ABRAM STANDISH PIGEON

HOME ADDRESS: 139 Green St., Melrose, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Pigeon Hollow Spar Co., 131 Coleridge St., East Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Aug. 20, 1908, Winthrop, Mass. PARENTS: Fred Leslie Pigeon, Elizabeth
West.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.,; Browne and Nichols School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931. DEGREE: A-B., 1931.

marriep: Mary W. Bowley, Feb. 20, 1937, Provincetown, Mass. cuitp: Don-
ald West, April 13, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald West Pigeon, ’30 (deceased).

occuPaTION: Partner, Pigeon Hollow Spar Company, derrick and flagpole
manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Corporator, East Boston Savings Bank.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon; King Hiram’s Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Prov-
incetown, Mass.; First Baptist Church, Melrose, Mass.

AFTER twenty-five years away from college—along comes
an assignment! “An account of your life”! Time has passed; so,
as in college days, I’m at a deadline, thus a brief return. It took
me quite a few years, in fact, from graduation until 1946 to real-
ize that I was to follow in the family tradition as to the Pigeon
Hollow Spar Company. Tutor companioning, coaching, work-
ing in Filene’s, politics, insurance agent, purchasing agent in Beth-
lehem Steel Company —all were tried in the interim. For four
years I was under the guidance of my dad, and then in 1950 I
became a partner in the firm.

Our firm started in 1830 when wooden ships and iron men
sailed the seven seas and Boston was a renowned seaport. Pigeon
Hollow Spar Company supplied masts for ships all over the world.
After World War I, their trade decreased, and sailing vessels gave
Way to steam. Nevertheless, today more than ever sailing holds

[ 780 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

first place in the interests of many men. A change has taken
place perhaps because of so many cars crowding the highways,
but families are more interested in boating for week-end relaxing.
Spar-making is still booming, and I find it most satisfying to be
associated with this business. We are unique in being the only
spar makers devoted solely to making spars and flagpoles.

For eighteen of these twenty-five years I have been married,
so my reflections center around my home life also. In 1937 I
married a girl from Provincetown, the birthplace of my mother
and grandmother. In 1940 we had a son, Donald, now a junior in
Melrose High School, who makes my life complete with his many
interests. We have a cottage in North Truro on Cape Cod to
which we go every summer and enjoy all the advantages of boat-
ing, fishing and the out-of-doors.

As our T'wenty-fifth Reunion approaches, I realize how good
this world of ours has been to me —a home, family, a business,
good friends, The next twenty-five years may be more difficult
in a physical sense, but certainly I look forward to reporting more
interests, activities and progress for our next issue.

TAYLOR PILLSBURY

HOME apprEss: P.O, Box 44, Pebble Beach, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pepper-Tree Ranch, Hollister, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1906, Bourne, Mass. parents: Horace Davis Pillsbury, ’95,
Elizabeth Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Fessenden School, West Newton, Mass.; St. Marks School,
Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MARRIED: Jeanne Casenave, 1936, Los Angeles, Calif.; Genevieve Hart, March
21, 1946, San Francisco, Calif. camp: Davis Taylor, Sept. 26, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Cattle rancher.

OFFICES HELD: Director, California Rodeo, Salinas, Calif., announcer, San
Benito Saddle Horse Show, Hollister, Calif.

MEMBER OF: Pacific Union Club, San Francisco; University Club, San Fran-
cisco; Burlingame Country Club; Cypress Point Club, Pebble Beach;
Society of California Pioneers, San Francisco (ife member); Elks Club
of Hollister; Sonoma Country Trail-Blazers; Horseless Carriage Club.

SPENT five years in the Air Force — came out a captain, never
flew ina plane. Model trains, old cars and horses are among my
hobbies. I am a Republican and an Episcopalian.

[ 781 ]

rn Ta Faeyr RRR EEE ENO: HOTELS Or NERO eR EMER OHC oer at

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ROBERT HENRY PLUMMER

MAILING ADDRESS: Brevard, N. C.

BoRN: June 29, 1909, Knoxville, Tenn. parents: Henry Austin Plummer,
Willie Frances McFaul.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929,

occupation: Mercantile business.

MARSHALL SPRING PERRY POLLARD

MAILING ADDRESS: 4134 Douglas Rd., Coconut Grove 33, Fla.

BORN: June 3, 1909, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Frederick Henshaw Pollard,
Anne Durling.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932.

MARRIED: Eula Mae Springfield, July 3, 1945, Coral Gables, Fla. ceria: Ann,
Aug. 24, 1946.

occupation: Mercantile business.

HARRISON GRAHAM POPE

HOME aApprEss: Red Gables, Little’s Point, Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: go Humphrey St., Swampscott, Mass.

BORN: May 29, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Harrison Pope, Lillian Tyndall
Graham.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927—1931. DEGREES: A.B, 19313 M.D. 1935.

MarriED: Alice Whitcomb Rider, Aug. 28, 1937, Boston, Mass. cnitp: Harri-
son Graham, Jr., Dec. 26, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Board of
Surgery (diplomate),; American Medical Association (fellow); Massa-
chusetts Medical Society, Eastern Yacht Club.

EDWIN LEO POPPER

HOME appress: 6 E. 76th St., New York 21, N. Y.
OFFICE ADpress: 143-7 Franklin St, New York 13, N. Y.
BORN: Sept. 6, 1910, New York, N. Y. parents: Emil Louis Popper, Miriam

Opper.
[ 782 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; A.M., 1932.
MARRIED: Eleanor F. Daughaday, March 24, 1944, Cambridge, Mass.
occupaTion: Merchant; importer of wholesale coloured glass.
MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

AFTER graduation I spent some years as a graduate student in
history at Harvard. I was abroad on a traveling fellowship in
1934-35. From 1935 to 1939 I taught at Radcliffe and was an
instructor and resident tutor at Harvard from 1939 to 1941, liv-
ing at Winthrop House. I was active in Harvard Defense after
the fall of France. In the summer of 1941 I left Harvard to join
a family business in New York, Leo Popper & Sons. In April,
1942, I began active duty as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy, sta-
tioned in Portland, Maine. I married Eleanor F. Daughaday,
Vassar "43, in March, 1944. I was ordered to Pearl Harbor where
I remained until October, 1945. I went into inactive duty as a
lieutenant commander on December 30, 1945.

After 1945 we came to New York and bought a tiny coopera-
tive apartment at 6 E. 76th Street, and I again appeared at Leo
Popper & Sons. There was a long buying trip in Europe in 1948,
and the purchase of a country place in Townsend, Massachusetts,
in 1950. Outside of that my wife and I have been busy with the
usual sort of things — business and small financial affairs; seeing
many friends, including former students and teachers from Har-
vard; engaging in small community affairs. Eleanor is exception-
ally gifted at weaving, hooked rugs, gardening, etc., and I’m
interested in collecting books, prints and the like. It’s been a
happy life. We enjoy the country and spend about four months
of the year there and hope that one day we may be able to be
there permanently.

CHARLES DAYTON POST

HOME appress: 15 Clark Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE apprEess: Goodwin, Procter & Hoar, 84 State St., Boston, Afass.

BORN: March 9, 1910, Syracuse, N. Y. PARENTS: Charles Dayton Post, Marv
Ellen McMahon.

PREPARED AT: Nottingham High School, Syracuse, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES! A.By 1931; LL.By 1934.

MARRIED: Cynthia Dudley, Aug. 12, 1935, Syracuse, N. Y. cHicpren; Penel-

[ 783 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ope, Oct. 27, 1939; Dudley Leland, June 9, 1942; Allan Durand, Oct.
22, 1949; Alison Woodhull and Carolyn Oakley (twins), Aug. 9, 1952.
occuPATION: Lawyer; partner in Goodwin, Procter & Hoar.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Federal Income Tax Committee, 1952-55, Com-
mittee on Hoover Commission Recommendations Affecting Taxation,
since 1955, Committee on Extraterritorial Application of Taxes, 1950-
52, American Bar Association; member, Advisory Committee to Com-
missioner of Internal Revenue, 1953-55; chairman, Wellesley Advisory
Committee, 1953-543; representative of Massachusetts Bar Association on
Federal Tax Liaison Committee, since 1952; director, Wellesley
Friendly Aid Society, 1952-53, Wellesley Club, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Union Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York City;
Wellesley Country Club, Wellesley Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in American Bar Journal, Massachusetts Law Quarter-
ly, and publications of law schools of various universities.

SOME choose a life work at the age of ten; for some the choice
is made before birth. My final decision, however, was not made
until November, 1931, when I decided to be a lawyer. This
choice was fortunate since I had already been at the Law School
two months. In 1934, the firm of Goodwin, Procter & Hoar in
Boston seemed the most appropriate place to continue my educa-
tion. There was a meeting of minds, and I have been there ever
since, becoming a partner shortly before the war.

After four most satisfactory, uncluttered years, Cynthia and
I had assumed in 1939 that our forthcoming first-born would be
a boy. She wasn’t, but was so entrancing that we wanted our
second to be a girl. He wasn’t, but was so interesting that we
wanted the next to be a boy, and he was. We gave the entire
subject no further thought. In 1952, “we” had twin girls, images
of their older sister.

Our contemplation of such matters was interrupted by the
war. I was in Naval Air Combat Intelligence and, after training,
started in the Southwest Pacific with a squadron of patrol bomb-
ers. Our major operation was Blackcatting — hunt-and-hit attacks
by separate planes at night on Japanese ships and harbors in the
South China Sea. Other activities were pretty varied — various
patrols, and special staff missions. This included anything from
scouting the beaches for the Borneo invasion to guerilla contacts
— then some liaison work, and staff intelligence in the Philippines.

After the war, I found that legal problems had not diminished
in the area of taxation in which I was spending about half my

[ 784]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time; the balance being mostly general corporation and trust
work. I became interested in the American Bar Association and
in its constructive work in technical aspects of tax administration
and legislation. In 1950, I was appointed chairman of a new
American Bar Association committee on what is usually described,
somewhat inaccurately, as international taxation.

In 1952 I became chairman of the Federal Income Tax Com-
mittee of the ABA within its section of taxation, and continued
for three years. With the Eisenhower administration, Congress
decided to overhaul the entire federal tax structure. The result
is the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, which has been described
as gargantuan, among other things. The work of our committee
and similar groups with Congressional committees and treasu
officials was under considerable pressure of time and doubtless
the present legislation would be more polished if there had been
more time — say another forty years.

Meanwhile, T, Coleman Andrews, appointed Commissioner of
Internal Revenue by President Eisenhower upon his inauguration,
established early in 1953 a new advisory committee of ten business
executives, lawyers and accountants to consult on administrative
matters, on which I served two years. I am now chairman of the
ABA Committee on the Hoover Commission Recommendations as
affecting tax matters. Several bills are pending in Congress on
legal services and procedure in the executive branch of the
government,

Sometimes I am apprehensive of a trend to speak of the govern-
ment not as “we”, or even “you”, but as “they” or — much
worse — “it”. Fortunately, in New England the Town Meeting
combines with the country-wide tradition of active participation
in local affairs to help combat this at the level where it may mean
the most. In Wellesley, very few matches go by default in the
arena of community affairs. I have done some work in veterans’
housing and public health, and in 1953-54, was chairman of the
Town Advisory Committee. Off and on, of course, have come
the usual Community Fund, Republican Finance Committee, and
Episcopal church drives, and all the others in which most people
everywhere take turns in soliciting each other.

In the field of education, my most direct participation has been
at the graduate level — moderating a seminar at the Law School

[785 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

each year of late and various lectures and panels for professional
groups. Cynthia has been much more closely involved with a
variety of educational matters than I, particularly in connection
with Wellesley College of which she is currently a trustee, having
been for seven years on the board of the Alumnae Association.
At the level below college, I considered the public schools the
first priority, and when I was president of the Central Council of
PTA’s six years ago, took steps to appraise the system and the
curriculum with a good look at such intangibles as pace and
thoroughness. Since then I have done my best to help reach a
better balance between overly expensive physical plant and too
low compensation for teachers. I have had a chance to observe
two private schools more than casually and strongly approve their
standards.

In the summer we go to Christmas Cove in Maine, which has
the double advantage of a thoughtfully created shoreline and
the worst telephone system in the country. We spend most of
the time there sailing, with some time to read. I would spend
more time on golf and tennis if I could see some chance, after
thirty-five years or so, of improving to a fourth-rate level. We
like to see plays as they pause in Boston en route to New York,
and I have had some association with several summer theatres in
Massachusetts, where the flow is reversed.

Perhaps the best combination of education and recreation is
work on the Twenty-fifth Reunion. I have enjoyed seeing some-
thing of Harvard and 1931 in connection with this, and the more
I see the more I like.

* WALDRON POST

BorN: Aug. 28, 1908, Bayport, Long Island, N. Y. parents: Waldron Kent-
zing Post, ’90, Mary Lawrence Perkins.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

Marriep: Matild Jellinghaus, Jan. 16, 1932, New York, N. Y. cHILpREN:
Frederica, May 31, 1933; Mary Lawrence, Nov. 22, 1934; Waldron K,,
2d, Nov. §, 1937:

pep: Jan, 22, 1946, New York, N. Y.

AFTER leaving college, Post became associated with the Colo-
[ 786 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nial Division of American Airways, Inc. Later he entered the
credit and sales division of the Bigelow Sanford Carpet Company
in New York City. He left this company in 1942 to enter the
Navy. He served in this country and in Trinidad, and until
shortly before his death, was stationed with the Eastern Sea Fron-
tier Operations in New York. He was a holder of the American
Theatre and World War II Victory Ribbons, and was a lieuten-
ant (j.g.). His wife survived him.

WILLIAM BRADFORD PRATT

HOME Appress: 840 Laurel Ave., Bridgeport 4, Conn.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Dictaphone Corp., Howard Avenue, Bridgeport, Conn,

BORN: Jan. 10, 1910, King George, Va. parents: Howard Pratt, Sallie Belle
Coghill.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1931; AM. (Boston Coll.), 1932.

MaRRIED: Vivian Dempsey, August, 1936, New Bern, N. C. cuitpren: Wil-
liam Bradford, Jr., Sept. 1, 1939; Alan S., May 28, 1941; Victoria L.,
April 22, 1943; Hubert L., May 1, 1951; James D., July 18, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Chemist, Dictaphone Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of Romance languages, West Virginia State College,
1932-45, Howard University, 1952-53; professor of Modern languages,
University of Bridgeport, 1945-52; member board of music, United
Congregational Church; radio talks on Latin American topics.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association, Connecticut State Teachers
Association; St. John’s Episcopal Choir; Alpha Phi Alpha (not a very
active member); United Church,

PUBLICATIONS: Contributor to introduction, new revised edition, Bible; “Im-
plications of the Tercentenary in 1936” (was official delegate from West
Virginia).

AFTER graduation from Harvard in 1931 as a Romance lan-

guage major, I worked at Lever Brothers as a chemist and finally

in 1932 turned up with an A.M. in education and modern lan-
guages from the Graduate School of Boston College. I was fol-
lowing the pattern of Bernie Devlin who had used this method of
getting into the Boston system. Although I was placed on the
eligible lists in Boston, in French and Spanish, soon I was ten-
dered an offer to come to West Virginia State College to take the
place of one Professor Daly who had elected to remain in Europe

to study in 1932. Here I taught Romance languages from 1932

to 1945 with 1941-42 and 1944-45 off for purposes of work on

(787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

a Ph.D. at Boston University where also I taught Spanish. How-
ever, before I could finish the dissertation, a call came from the
Junior College of Connecticut (now the University of Bridge-
port) to replace one Professor Zampiere who had been retired.
Upon the arrival of my sabbatical in 1952, I went for study at
the Congressional Library and also taught classes at Howard Uni-
versity during 1952-53 in French, Spanish and Italian, sponsor-
ing an oratorical contest of the poems of José Marti, Cuban poet,
whose centenary we were celebrating. Needing more money
for my large family of four boys and one girl (at present expect-
ing another), I resigned from teaching and accepted a post in
chemistry with the Dictaphone Corporation. For this company
I have trained Albert Nahas (in Spanish), who is their chief
South American representative. Now I am working with tanks
and test tubes until I open up the type of language school that
best suits our community here in Southern Connecticut. Although
I was an ardent supporter of Eisenhower, I am usually an inde-
pendent in politics, voting for the man.

I still play tennis quite vigorously, which I began to play at
Harvard in our intramural sports program. But the thing I re-
member most at Harvard is the Glee Club under Doc’s able
guidance. For five years I sang and traveled with this group and
have in recent years sung with the Club under “Woody” in New
York and Washington, D.C. |

During the last war, I was not called up for active duty but in
education and industry wrote inspiring articles on buying war
bonds and doing one’s part on the home front; I was placed on
the special roster of specialized personnel. In 1936 I married Miss
Vivian Dempsey in New Bern, North Carolina, and went on a
honeymoon at the farm in Virginia, to New England and Canada.
In later years we went to Mexico,

In Bridgeport we are active in the United Congregational
Church where my talented wife guides the kindergarten group.
Having undergone the influence of Doc Davison, I have kept
alive my intrest in singing and work with St. John’s Episcopal
Choir here.

In conclusion, being of Negro ancestry, I take pleasure in not-
ing the more favorable and ameliorated conditions for our big-
gest minority group, the Negro in America. As I have traveled

[ 788 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

over this country for some thirty years, I have observed the
constant march, however slow in certain states at times, towards
integration in education, in industry, in the military services, in
religious organizations and in society in general. If perchance |
should be so blessed as to attend the Fiftieth Anniversary of our
Class of 1931 when the atomic age is in full swing, more and bet-
ter education will have solved most of our racial prejudices and
fundamental misunderstandings on a national scale as well as on
the international scene.

As I survey the last twenty-five years, I am not satisfied with
my progress, and hope during the next twenty-five to give a
greater account of my stewardship.

DONOUGH PRINCE

HOME ADDREsS: Tavern Farm, Francestown, N. H.

BORN: June 16, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Axtell Prince, Mil-
dred Constance O’Brien.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Jeanne Lawson, May 9, 1942, Concord, Mass. cHILpREN: Lawson
and Kimball (twins), Feb. 4, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Kimball Prince, ’24.

occupaTIon: Agriculture.

MEMBER OF: Colonial Order of the Acorn, New York, N. Y.; Dublin (N. H.)
Lake Club; Harvard Club of New York City.

AFTER leaving college I took a big jump to Texas and have spent
the twenty-five years gradually working my way back to New
England. A couple of years in the rice business in Houston were
followed by advertising research and agency work in Detroit
and Chicago.

In 1942, as they do and/or did to most men, matrimony and
the U. S. Navy caught up with me practically simultaneously.
My marriage in Concord, Massachusetts, in May, 1942 (with a
very able assist from the Jewells), was followed almost instantly
by nearly four years of sea duty from which I emerged with a
whole skin and a healthy regard for electronic gadgets.

In 1946 I returned to my pre-war agency connection as manager
of the New York office of Leo Burnett Company, Inc., with resi-
dence in New Canaan, Connecticut. By 1953, however, some
minute irritations with a lot of things connected with both sub-

[ 789 ]

RRO O°" [TTR eT NT ST LE RENE SY ts ctieencmsineaneneinaeie

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

urbia and the agency business, impelled us to look for another
locale.

After considerable week-end soul and house searching, we fell
upon a goo-acre dairy farm in Francestown, New Hampshire,
which is the current project. The sign on the road says “Reg-
istered Guernseys”, but there are shortly to be Holsteins in the
herd. The immediate goal is to break even. After that we shall
see. I’m hoping to back into some sort of a business connection
on a three- or four-day-a-week basis, with the balance of the time
laid against the farm.

Spare time, of which there is either much or little depending
upon the season, is taken up with some local political activity
which of course in this area is predominantly Republican; some
work (and fun) with the Francestown Little League baseball
team (and the World’s Series isn’t even in it for excitement), and
very pleasant wining and dining with friends here in Connecticut
and in Greater Boston. The whole thing has been and promises
to be darned interesting.

CHARLES NEWTON PROUTY, III

HOME aporess: P.O. Box 2915, New Haven 15, Conn.

OFFICE appRESS: Pioneer Folding Box Co., 165 Front St., Chicopee, Mass.

BORN: June 28, 1907, Spencer, Mass. parents: Charles Newton Prouty, ’oo,
Ethel Wight.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MakriepD: Elizabeth Sanford, July 8, 1939, New Haven, Conn. cHILDREN:
Charles Sanford, April 1, 1945; Elizabeth Sanford, Oct. 5, 1948.

occuPATION: Salesman, Pioneer Folding Box Company.

MEMBER OF: Woodbridge Club; Harvard Club of Connecticut.

I JOINED the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company in August, 1931,
and worked for them in varying capacities at several glass and
paint factories and warehouses in Milwaukee, Detroit, Rochester,
New Haven and Pittsburgh. Just prior to entering the Navy I
was working on industrial glass sales, particularly glass and plastic
assemblies for aircraft manufacturers, I spent about eighteen
months at the Navy Yard, Pearl Harbor, mostly in charge of labor
and transportation in the Supply Department. Upon returning to

[ 790 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this country, I had temporary duty in Washington in Aviation
Supply and later did work in conjunction with the Reserve Fleet
at the Submarine Base, New London, Connecticut.

Early in 1946 I became a civilian again and spent some time
with the McCabe Lighting Corporation of Boston as sales man-
ager, and was eastern district manager of Solventol Chemical
Products of Detroit. Later I got into the paper folding box busi-
ness as sales manager for Hercules Paper Box Company in Bridge-
port, Connecticut. Since March of 1954 I have been selling for
the Pioneer Folding Box Company of Chicopee, Massachusetts.
_ My territory covers Connecticut, Rhode Island and New York
City, which means that I see something of a lot of classmates I had
not seen since 1931.

At present, we are renting a house while going through the
throes of building a new one. The latch string should be out
around March, so we hope to see some of you. Hope you can
swing by and meet Betsy, Sandy and Robin.

FELLOWES MORGAN PRUYN

HOME aAppRESS: Millwood Road, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mt. Kisco Medical Group, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1909, Short Hills, N. J. Parents: Frederic Pruyn, ’o4, Beatrice
Morgan.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1935.

MARRIED: Agnes Keane, Feb. 5, 1943, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Milton Lee Pruyn, ’35.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in medicine, Columbia University; chief of medi-
cine, Northern Westchester Hospital, Mt. Kisco, N. ¥.; Attending phy-
sician, Grasslands Hospital, Valhalla, N. Y.; assistant physician, Pres-
byterian Hospital, New York, N. Y.

MEMBER OF: American Board ,f Internal Medicine; American College of
Physicians (associate) ; American Medical Association.

SINCE graduating from medical school and an internship at
Presbyterian Hospital in New York for two years, I have been
practising internal medicine in northern Westchester County,
New York. At first I bucked the general practitioner as a solo
physician, then in a loose association with other specialists under

[791 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

the same roof, and during the war, in which I was ineligible for
service, back to going it solo again. After the war, country
practice attracted some old friends seeking new roots and the
makings of a group crystalized when a law was passed in 1947
making it legal to form a medical partnership in New York State.
From a nucleus of five, the group has grown to eighteen physi-
cians and dentists, constituting about one-fourth of the medical
population of the area. Organization of a group has been engross-
ing and, at times, frustrating, but the rewards of team effort, both
personal and professional, make it obvious that medical groups
will become more numerous in the East.

Out of hours I struggle with a seventeen-acre landscape which,
after nine years, has almost exhausted me and a good many for-
midable mechanical aids.

DONALD MARSHALL PUFFER

HOME AppRESS: 114 Abbott Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Coffin & Burr, Inc., 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 12, 1909, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Winslow Puffer,
Blanche Elizabeth Smith.

prepareD AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Winslow Puffer, Jr., °26.

OccUPATION: Investments.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Ballou Adams & Company, Inc.,

1948-1956.

MEMBER OF: Wellesley Country Club.
SOON after leaving college I entered the security business and
have been in it ever since, with the exception of three years in the
1ooth Infantry Division of the Army, In 1933 I joined the firm
of Ballou, Adams & Company, Inc., and became vice-president
and director in 1948, spending most of my time selling. Last year
the company discontinued its retail security business, and the en-
tire personnel, including myself, joined Coffin & Burr, Inc., where
I am continuing to travel in Vermont and New Hampshire in
pursuit of the dollar.

As for hobbies, I still enjoy golf and gardening, perhaps be-
cause they both have in common a certain amount of digging.

[792 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

However, because of my traveling during the week and the in-
creasing demands on my time, the golf seems to be playing second
fiddle to the up-keep of a half-acre of land. When it comes to
politics, I have always been and probably shall continue to be a
Republican. If there is one thing that burns me up, it’s the
Democrat cry of “special interests”.

CHARLES CALVIN PUTNAM, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: % C. C, Putnam, Old Stamford Road, New Canaan, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1907, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Charles Calvin Putnam, Kate
Davies Ketcham.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Country Day School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

+ SEBASTIAN VISSCHER TALCOTT PUTNAM

BORN: Feb. 5, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Russell Lowell
Putnam, ’91, Angelina Talcott Rathbone.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

HARVARD BROTHER: Patrick Tracy Lowell Putnam, ’25 (deceased).

pieD: Oct. 10, 1931, Bedford, N. Y.

THE Secretary has no information concerning Putnam’s life
since he left college during freshman year.

SUMNER PUTNAM

HOME appress: Guard Hill Road, Mount Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Ives Washburn, Inc., 55 Fifth Ave., New York 3, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1909, Hingham, Mass. parents: Eliot Thwing Putnam, ’o1,
Marguerita Sumner.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931 (32).

MARRIED; Frances Catlin, May 21, 1941, St. Louis, Mo. cumpren: Frances,
Feb. 16, 1944; Sumner Catlin, March 8, 1937; Anne Eliot, Feb. 14, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry’ Ware Putnam, '27 (deceased); Eliot Thwing
Putnam, ’29.

[793 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931
OCCUPATION: President and editor, Ives Washburn, Inc., book publishing.
OFFICES HELD: President and director, Ives Washburn, Inc., since 1947; direc-
tor, David McKay Company, since 1954.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Links Club; Bedford Golf and
Tennis Club; Dublin Lake Club; Publishers Lunch Club.

RETURNING to the book business after the war years I ac-
quired control in 1947 of a small publishing firm whose princi-
pal assets were the good name of its late proprietor, the memory
of occasional past successes, and the plates of three books about
the lost continent of Mu which, I was led to believe, would
keep the company in petty cash until eternity. (The prediction
may yet prove true: the sturdy three, now celebrating their
twenty-fifth anniversary, go merrily on.)

Publishers have a way of bursting into print from time to time
with agonizing reappraisals of their business — “reading is dead,
no profit in books” — perhaps to forestall higher royalty de-
mands from their authors. Still, several hundred firms manage
to exist and, after watching the modest progress of my own
company in recent years, I am still able to say to the latest recruit
to the business that if his winters are unlikely to be spent in
Florida for a while (he wouldn’t find the promising writers there,
either), other rewards and satisfactions will be open to him.

Among the rolling hills of northern Westchester, only forty-
two miles from my office, we enjoy a few acres and independence
and an occasional workout on the golf course in view across the
valley.

HAROLD FAIRCHILD PYKE

HOME ADDRESS: 802 W. Illinois St., Urbana, Ill.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Atkins, Barrow & Associates, 102 E. Main St., Urbana, II.

Born; Dec. 5, 1901, Bridgeport, Conn. parents: David Louis Pyke, Susan
Clara Mayhew.

PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: S.B., 1931 (30).

MarRiED: Eleanor Hall, Oct. 6, 1930, Haverhill, Mass. (died 1939); Dorothy
E. Willis, 1943 (divorced 1954). cnttp: Harold Fairchild, Jr., Nov. 16,

1931,
occupation: Architect (registered), State of Illinois,

[794]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR BERNARD QUINN

HOME ADDRESS: 91 Lardner Rd., Bristol, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Landers, Frary & Clark, New Britain, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1905, Woburn, Mass, parents: Bernard Quinn, Anna J. Feeney.

PREPARED AT: Woburn High School, Woburn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Florence E. Wright, Nov. 28, 1936, Leominster, Mass. CHILDREN:
Anne Marie, Nov. 12, 1937; Mary Lou, Jan. 9, 1939; Arthur Bernard,
Jr., Jan. 4, 1944.

OccUPATION: Superintendent in charge of plastic molding and finishing,
Landers, Frary & Clark.

MEMBER OF: Society of Plastic Engineers; Knights of Columbus.

AFTER graduation I worked for duPont at Leominster, Massa-
chusetts, for several years as superintendent of the nitration
division. In 1934 I went to Fiberloid Corporation in a similar
capacity. In 1940 I returned to duPont and trained at Carneys
Point, New Jersey, and later in the same year I went to Milling-
ton, Tennessee, as a senior supervisor of powder manufacture.
In 1941 I was assistant superintendent of smokeless powder manu-
facture at Childersburg, Alabama. In 1942 returned to Millington,
Tennessee, as superintendent, and stayed until 1946. Since that
time I have been at Landers, Frary & Clark in Connecticut.

We have one girl in college, another in high school, and a boy
in grammar school. [ like to garden, and also enjoy trips into the

woods with a pet dog.

EVAN RANDOLPH, JR.

HOME apprEss: 11 Radnor Rd., Radnor, Pa.

OFFICE appress: First Pennsylvania Banking & Trust Co., 7 E. Lancaster Ave.,
Ardmore, Pa.

BORN: July 13, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Evan Randolph, ’03, Hope
Carson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 193

Marrigp: Frances Lewis Beale, Sept. 24, 1932, Philadelphia, Pa. cHILpREN:
Evan, 4th, Jan. 2, 1935; Leonard Beale, April 29, 1937; John, April 23,
1947; Francis L., June 17, 1951.

HARVARD SON: Evan Randolph, qth, ’57.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Story Randolph, 43.

occupaTION: Banking.

[795 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Delaware County Mental Health Association, 1955;
treasurer, 1951-54, vice-president, 1955, Radnor-Ithan-St. David’s Civic
Association.

SINCE the Twentieth Report there isn’t too much unusual to
relate in a pleasurable married life. I have two sons now in college,
one a junior at Harvard, another a freshman at M.1.T. The two
younger boys constitute a completely different generation. How-
ever, the excitement of their four divergent problems adds im-
measurably to the joys of living and I wouldn’t miss a moment of
the excitement.

HAROLD RAPOPORT

HOME apprEss: 202 Mohawk Drive, West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 36 Woodland St., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Feb. 17, 1911, Hartford, Conn. parents: Asar Rapoport, Gussie
Mary Beizer.

PREPARED AT: Enfield High School, Thompsonville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; D.M.D., 1936.

MARRIED: Rose Mona Robbins, April 19, 1939, West Hartford, Conn. cHILb:
Glen Michael, July 12, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Bernard Rapoport, M.p., 40; Lorence Rapoport, ’41.

occuPaTIoN: Dentist.

STARTED private dental practice in Hartford in June, 1936.
Called to active duty with the Army in January, 1943, and served
with the rank of first lieutenant until January, 1944, at which time
I was given the rank of captain. Was released from active duty
in December, 1945.

I re-entered dental practice in Hartford and have been continu-
ously engaged in same up to the present time.

FREDERICK BICKNELL RAWSON

HOME appreEss: 750 Laau Pl., Honolulu 14, Hawaii,

oFFice aporess: Iolani School, Honolulu 14, Hawaii.

BORN: Noy. 25, 1908, West Upton, Mass. parents: Edward Grindle Rawson,
Olga Olivia Swanson.

PREPARED at: Worcestcr Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031, DEGREP: A.B. 1931.

[ 796 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Margaret Cherrill Coley, Dec. 27, 1933, Worcester, Mass. cHiLpREN:
Frederick Cherrill, Nov. 1, 1938, Margaret Waring, June 1, 1943.
OCCUPATION: Teacher.

I TAUGHT at Kimball Union Academy in Meriden, New
Hampshire, for twenty-two years as master in Latin and German.
Mrs. Rawson served as assistant and head librarian there at dif-
ferent times. In the fall of 1954 we came here to Iolani School in
Honolulu. The school has about nine hundred students, most
of whom are headed for college. We are enjoying the much-
talked-of climate, our work and the people whom we have come
to know. We have two children, Frederick C., seventeen, and
a junior at Punahou, and Margaret Waring, twelve, in the seventh
grade at Punahou. We are grateful to all our Harvard friends
and hope by our performance to deserve their continued favor.

THOMAS HENRY RAYWOOD, Il

HOME ADDRESS: Westchester Country Club, Rye, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 65 University Pl, New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 19, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Thomas Henry Raywood,
Agnes McDonald.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

OCCUPATION: Publishing.

WESTLEY PARKER REDMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 57 New Estate Rd., Littleton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Vinegar Works, Inc., Harvard Road, Little-
ton, Mass.

BORN: May 13, 1908, Peabody, Mass. PARENTs: Edward Mayberry Redman,
Percie Lydia Parker.

PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Peabody, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: AB., 1931.

MaRRIED: Marion E. Rowse, May 20, 1933, Derry, N. H. cuitp: Janet Hart-
ley, Jan. 22, 1935.

OccUPATION: Assistant general manager and assistant treasurer, New England
Vinegar Works, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Executive secretary, Peabody Chamber of Commerce, 1933-
39; Secretary, Peabody NRA Recovery Committee, Local NRA Com-
pliance Board, 1933-35; manager, member board of directors, Peabody
Credit Bureau, Inc, 1934-39; secretary, member of executive committee,
Essex County Associated Boards of Trade, 1935-39; member board of

[797]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

in a few country auctions with her. That did it, and now we
are both confirmed auction addicts. We are particularly interest-
ed in Old Americana as exemplified in its artifacts: pine furniture,
stenciled tinware and the like. I have taken a keen interest in re-
finishing old furniture, while Marion likes especially to stencil
and decorate furniture, old trays and other tinware. On our
frequent trips to Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, to see Janet at
college, we usually find time to stop for a couple of hours at
Doylestown, Pennsylvania, to revisit the Bucks County Historical
Society Museum and examine its unsurpassed collection of the
tools, utensils and furniture of early America. The culmination
of our interest in these things is our present conversion of our
garage into a studio in which we can work and exhibit our
originals and restorations of early American handicraft.

BURGESS PARKER REED *

HOME appREss: Woodland Road, East Walpole, Mass.

oFFice apprEss: L. F. Fales Machine Co., Walpole, Mass.

BORN: July 12, 1908, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Nathan Parker Reed, Ella
May Burgess.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN., 1931; S.M. IN
EE., 1935.

marRIED: Priscilla Katharine Dresser, 1931, Swampscott, Mass. CHILDREN:
Burgess Parker, Jr., Feb. 23, 1933; Nathan Parker, Aug. 11, 1936; Susan,
Feb. 24, 1943.

HARVARD SON: Nathan Parker Reed, ’59.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Oliver Reed, ’36, s.M., 37.

OccuPATION: President, L. F. Fales Machine Company, special machinery
and iron foundry.

OFFICES HELD: Master, Azure Lodge, A.F. & A.M., 1943-45; member, Wal-
pole Town Appropriation Committee, Union Congregational Church
Prudential Committee, Walpole Housing Auhority; president, Walpole
Country Club, 1950-52.

AFTER graduating in 1931, I stayed on at the Harvard Engineer-
ing School as an assistant instructor in electrical engineering and
received a Master of Science degree in Electrical Engineering in
1935. In July, 1935, we moved to East Walpole, Massachusetts,
where I entered the employ of the L. F, Fales Machine Company.
I have been with this company continuously since then.

[ 800 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My life has been typical of small town life, raising a nice
family and entering into social, religious and political community
affairs.

RICHARD JACQMEIN RELYFA, II

HOME appREss: 46 Hudson Ave., Ridgefield Park, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 41 E. 42d St., New York 17, N. Y-

BoRN: April 3, 1909, Monroe, N. Y. parents: Frank Warren Relyea, Emma
Louise Jacqmein.

PREPARED AT: Monroe High School, Monroe, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Marjorie E. Green, June 29, 1935, Goshen, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Richard James, 3d, May 23, 1940; Peter Sands, June 10, 1942; Suzanne
LaDue, Aug. 6, 1945.

occupaTion: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: New York State chairman, 1942, Second Circuit national
councilman, 1943, Junior Bar Conference of the American Bar Associa-
tion; member board of governors, 1941, vice-president, 1942, chairman
board of governors, 1943, New York Young Republican Club, appeals
agent for Selective Service System, 1942-43; member Board of Educa-
tion, 1950-53, president, 1953, Ridgefield Park, N. J.; committeeman,
since 1949, institutional representative, Ridgefield Park, since 1954, Boy
Scouts of America; trustee, since 1954, vice-president, 1955-56, Com-
munity Chest of Ridgefield Park; steward, since 1953, trustee, chairman
of the Finance Commission, president of the Official Board, since
1955, First Methodist Church, Ridgefield Park.

MEMBER OF: Masons; New York County Lawyers Association, American
Bar Association; New York State Bar Association; Federal Bar Associ-
ations of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut; National Republi-
can Club of New York; White Oaks Rod and Gun Club; Harvard
Club of New York; Harvard Law School Associations of New York
and New Jersey.

SITTING down to write this biography for our 25th Anniver-
sary Report as the deadline expires, it should properly start with
an apology to Don Field and his staff for their valiant efforts to
get it in months earlier. I can only say its their own darn fault.
Their highly ingenious, original and amusing postcards, complete
with cartoons and witty sayings, were so entertaining that I de-
termined to wait for the very last one. I wouldn’t have missed
any of them!

So now twenty-five years have glided by and we are “that
bunch of fellows and their families” who come back every June

[ 8or ]

ET non 0 statin ited naman geannianeneniamenemnmniememamnuaenale

HARVARD CLASS OF I931

FRANK EDWIN REMICK

HOME ADDRESS: 183 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Remick Co., Inc., 1517 Hancock St., Quincy 69, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1909, Quincy, Mass. parents: Alfred Hughes Remick, Alice
Cooper.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRieD: Margaret Waldo, June 24, 1932. CHILDREN: Bruce Waldo, May 6,
1933; Lee Ann, Dec. 14, 1935.

occupation: Treasurer and general manager, Remick Company, Inc., retail
business.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Quincy Chamber of Commerce, Quincy
Merchants Association; past general campaign chairman, 1949, past presi-
dent, 1950, Quincy Community Chest and Council; director, Quincy
Trust Company, Fore River RR Corporation, Quincy Chamber of
Commerce, Quincy chapter, American Red Cross; trustee, Thayer
Academy.

MEMBER OF: Neighborhood Club of Quincy; Quincy Harvard Club, Quincy
Kiwanis; Quincy Y.M.C.A. Businessmen’s Club.

A QUARTER-CENTURY’S worth of backward glance is like
trying to make out the subject matter with an out-of-focus tele-
scope. But, despite the running-together of the years, there is no
fuzziness about the bounties I’ve received . . . to wit, a talented
wife, and two children who would warm the cockles of any
parental heart: my actress-daughter Lee, and cattle-punching son
Bruce, currently doing his khaki bit. (Wonderful counterfoils,
these two careers, to the particular niche I’ve occupied in the
world of trade and commerce since the threadbare thirties: de-
veloping a family retail business in Quincy, Massachusetts. )

Add to such good fortune as these, the necessary self-expression
provided by a growing business (and one that continues to fas-
cinate), a fairly broad involvement in community service, and an
abundant interest in and enjoyment of the arts.

The rest of the twenty-five year pattern is typical enough to
by-pass much description. A suburban pattern of living, plus
wonderful summers on Cape Cod when the children were young
— seventy-four cents’ worth of Washington sojourn as a one
dollar-a-year man on the War Production Board —a two-year
Navy stint — complete immersion in local Red Feather affairs,
including campaign chairmanship -—and the later pleasures of

[ 804 ]

. _— icthnncpateani dO nana thse eA ania artnideleai hans itiitbiitbibeh Spi”

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

watching Lee’s beginnings as an actress, and Bruce’s graduation
from the Agricultural School at Cornell.

Rather, two and a half decades later, I'd like to get down to
the wonderful business of acknowledging the accumulated debt
I bear to my four liberal arts years in Cambridge. It can never
be “amortized” because, simply, the debt compounds itself each
passing year.

For my Harvard liberal arts experience has been for me a
wondrous and continuing affair. It has protected what I hope
will always be an open mind from a world full of absolutes — it
has defended against the decline and fall of an active curiosity —
and, most gratefully acknowledged of all, it has brought a cultural
antidote to the material and acquisitive standards of the times.
Hm-m-m, better stop . . . this is turning into a rhapsody. Better,
simply to say, “Harvard .. . I love you”!

JUSTIN LAYRE REX

HOME ADDRESS: 170 Washington Ave., Winthrop 52, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: House of Hansen, Inc., 470 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 14, 1910, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: John B. Rex, Hannah Binns.
PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: S.B. IN IND.CHEM., 1931 (32).

MARRIED: Kathleen Cronin, June 25, 1938, Winthrop, Mass, cuiLp: Suzanne,

May 21, 1944.

OccUPATION: Salesman — printing machinery, parts and supplies.

MEMBER OF: Cottage Park Yacht Club; American Legion, Post 146, Win-
throp, Mass.; Winthrop Council No. 162, Knights of Columbus.

AFTER graduation I worked first for Forbes Lithograph Com-
pany in Chelsea, Massachusetts, starting as a chemist, then getting
into the production end as head of the platemaking department.
Stayed at Forbes for about two years, leaving there to take a
similar position at the Courier-Citizen Company in Lowell, Massa-
chusetts, where I toiled until entering the Navy in 1943. Served
in the Navy chiefly as a CIC officer until 1946. Returned to the
Courier-Citizen, but stayed only a short time before entering the
sales field, and worked with several different companies before
landing about three years ago in my present employment, where
I expect to remain indefinitely.

[ 805 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

My hobbies are bowling and boating, keeping busy in the latter
Jast summer as a member of the Regatta Committee at the Cottage
Park Yacht Club, having a special interest in that as my daughter
Suzanne, now eleven, races in the Snowbird Class.

LEVERING REYNOLDS, JR.

HOME appress: 14 High St., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Andover K, Francis Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BoRN: May 27, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Levering Reynolds, Caroline
May Andruss.

PREPARED AT: Howe High School, Billerica, Mass., Cambridge High and
Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; B.D. (Andover Newton
Theol. School), 1934; s.1.m. (Harvard Univ.), 1948; rH.p. (ibid.), 1952.

marrieD: May Louise Mosher, June 24, 1937, Brookline, Mass. cu1_p: Lever-
ing, 3d, Feb. 17, 1940.

occupaTION: Minister, Free Christian Church (Congregational), Andover,
Mass.; lecturer, director of undergraduate studies, Harvard Divinity
School.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive committee, Harvard Divinity School Alum-
ni Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Faculty Club, American Society of Church History,
Andover Service Club; Harvard Club of Andover.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Later Years”, Chap. LV, The Harvard Divinity School,
Its Place in Harvard University and in American Culture, 1954.

IT was in my last days at college that I was finally led to the
decision that my life should be spent in the Christian ministry.
Consequently the next three years were devoted to study at the
Andover Newton Theological School in Newton, Massachusetts.
On August 31, 1934, I was ordained as a minister in the Congre-
gational Christian Churches in Franconia, New Hampshire, which
was my first pastorate. There followed pastorates in Colebrook,
New Hampshire, and East Jaffrey, New Hampshire, until 1945
when I came to Andover, Massachusetts. Since then I have been
the installed pastor of the Free Christian Church (Congregational)
in Andover.

The life of a Protestant minister is complex and varied. The
young people, the choirs, the men’s and women’s groups all de-
mand a certain amount of attention. There is personal work with
all sorts of individuals who are in difficulties of one sort of another.

[ 806 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

There is the constant need to keep in touch with people, sick and
well, rich and poor, happy and unhappy. If this ministry is going
to be really helpful there is need for constant study, reflection
and prayer. Each Sunday there is a sermon to deliver. There
must also be regular contacts with the Church outside the local
parish, and with community organizations. None of this work can
be done in a routine or half-hearted fashion, for all of it is im-
portant. And, if it can be upon occasion very tiring and discour-
aging, it is in the long run deeply satisfying.

As if there were not enough to keep me busy in my parish, I
began graduate study at the Harvard Divinity School in 1946. At
first it was with the vague idea that I needed more education, but
it soon sharpened into a desire to go deeper and deeper into
scholarly studies. After six years I received the Doctor of
Theology degree, and a year later was asked to do part-time teach-
ing in the School. During the past three years, I have been a
lecturer in theology as well as a pastor. As a teacher I have had
the rare opportunity of being on the inside in the revival of this
important part of the University. It has been a thrilling experi-
ence, and I have been grateful for the opportunity of doing my
bit along the way.

No account of the past quarter-century would begin to be ade-
quate without some word about my wife. Together we have had
the finest companionship that could be imagined. Ever willing to
work with me and to encourage me in my finer fancies, she “has
provided the spark to do things which I never would have done
otherwise. I know, for like other couples of the depression period
we put off marriage until 1937, and I remember only too well
how it was without her. We have one son, now a lower middler
in Phillips Andover Academy, who is just about everything that
we could wish for. Never are we three happier than when we are
off together on some little expedition for a few days. These ex-
peditions never go as far as we might wish, for it still holds that
the ministry vies with teaching for the lowest place on the eco-
nomic scale of professions, yet happy days are where you find
them.

As for hobbies and avocations, my combination of interests
does not leave much time for “outside” activities. My singing in
the Glee Club and College Choir left me with an abiding interest

[ 807 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

in music, but we do not seem to do very much about it. We
have a summer home, an old manse, in Antrim, New Hampshire,
which we have put back into some kind of shape by our own
efforts, painting, papering it, and doing a bit of electrical and car-
pentry work here and there. But by and large our work is our
life.
I know not what the future hath
of marvel or surprise

I only know the past has been good to us, and the future looks

inviting.

LAURENS HAMILTON RHINELANDER

HOME apprEss: Appletree Lane, Farmington, Charlottesville, Va.

orFice appress: University of Virginia Law School, Charlottesville, Va.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Philip Mercer Rhinelander,
’91, Helen Maria Hamilton.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B. 1936, B.A. (Univ. of
Cambridge), 1933.

MaRRiED: Louise Merriman Reed, Feb. 8, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Louise duPuy, June 3, 1938, Laurens Hamilton, Jr, Aug. 16, 1940;
Charles Meredith, May 3, 1942; Eleanor Pierson, Sept. 1, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederic William Rhinelander, ’29, M.D., 34; Philip Hamil-
ton Rhinelander, ’29, LL.B. '32, PH.D., ’49.

occupaTION: Professor of law.

OFFICES HELD: Associated with law firm, Choate, Hall & Stewart, 1937-41;
attorney, Office of Production Management — War Production Board,
1941-45; assistant general counsel, Civilian Production Administration,
1946-47; associate professor of law, George Washington (D. C.) Uni-
versity, 1947-48; associate professor of law, 1948-52, professor of law,
1952-55, University of Virginia; vestryman, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church,
Ivy, Va. 1955.

MEMBER OF: American Law Institute; Farmington Country Club, Charlottes-
ville, Va.; Eastern Point Yacht Club, Gloucester, Mass.; Virginia State
Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Several book reviews in legal periodicals.

AFTER sampling the practice of law and government service I
have finally settled down in the satisfying occupation of teaching
would-be lawyers at the University of Virginia Law School.
This has kept me busy for most of the last nine of the twenty-five
years since the Class of 1931 graduated from Harvard, In the

[ 808 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

summers we still consider the New England seashore the pleasant-
est place to go. Gloucester, Massachusetts, usually finds all six of
us there for a substantial part of our summer vacations. The com-
bination of living in this lovely part of the Virginia Piedmont for
nine or ten months, while teaching a splendid group of students
from all over the country, and then spending the rest of the year
either in summer teaching somewhere else or basking in the New
England sunshine and cool water has proved almost ideal. Three
summers ago we all trekked to California for a whole summer’s
teaching job at Stanford and saw a substantial part of the country-
side in the process. Then a year ago we were at the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill for a shorter stint. Both visits
turned out to be delightful and the opportunity to visit such
places and meet such nice people in them is one of the many
interesting facets of a law teacher’s life.

Looking back it is interesting to note that neither in Harvard
College nor during the following delightful two years at Trinity
College, Cambridge, England, nor even in my next three years at
the Harvard Law School did I ever seriously contemplate a teach-
ing career. It was not until after I had served a year as law clerk
to a great and kindly federal judge, the late Augustus N. Hand, in
New York City, practised law in Boston for about three years,
and then served in a governmental war agency for more than five
years, that I decided to try my hand at teaching law on about one
month’s notice. I started with a year at the George Washington
University Law School in Washington, D. C., before coming here
to “The University,” as it is familiarly and proudly known in
these parts, and I have never regretted my decision to enter the
teaching branch of the law.

Our four children are rapidly growing up with Leecie, our
eldest, now a freshman at Bryn Mawr. Tony our eldest boy is in
his second year at Phillips Academy, Andover, where his brother
Charles hopes to follow next year from his present status in the
eighth grade at the local high school here. That will leave us to
rattle around next year at home with only Eleanor, our energetic
and charming fifth grader, and Gus, our large and much-loved
yellow Labrador retriever.

[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ANTON HENRY RICE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Riverview Road, Irvington-on-Hudson, N. Y.
OFFICE appress: Spencer Trask & Co., 25 Broad St., New York, N. Y.
BorN: April 27, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Anton Henry Rice, Hannah

Appel.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: AB., 1931; M.B.A. 1933.

MARRIED: Lydia Phipps Sands, June 27, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Anton Henry, 3d, April 14, 1938; Donald Sands, March 25, 1940;
William P., March 27, 1944; John R., June 26, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Investment Banker; partner, Spencer Trask & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, American Surety Company; director, Superior Steel
Corporation, Broadway Realry Company, Airkem, Inc., Buell Engineer-
ing Corporation, Colonial Life Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Ardsley Country Club of Westchester; Duquesne Club of Pitts-
burgh; City Midday Luncheon Club; Newcomen Society.

LYDIA and I lead a full and active life that is taken up with our
four sons, various community activities and the pleasures and
tribulations of the investment banking business. After graduation,
I spent two highly productive years at the Business School which
I have never regretted. My subsequent business progress had to
be upward as one couldn’t go to a lower level than I started at
right after the Bank Holiday. Nurtured in the Great Depression,
weaned under the New Deal, matured by the Second World War
and now living through the greatest American Boom, we have all
certainly led a kaleidoscopic existence.

In 1933 I joined the Dennison Manufacturing Company in
Framingham, Massachusetts. Inasmuch as the medical exam proved
me to be red and green color blind, I was accepted for financial
work where everyone was “in the red” anyway. Leaving there
in 1934, I joined Western Union in a semi-administrative sales
promotional job. Three years of varied jobs and tasks in this
institution proved firmly and finally to me that it wasn’t for me.
By 1936 the financial world had straightened out, and I went with
Spencer Trask & Company, an old line investment banking firm.
It had been my original intention to go into finance on graduation
from the Business School in 1933, but I had deferred because of
the times. The intervening three years of industrial experience
have since proved invaluable.

From 1936 to 1943 I labored building up a security research

[ 810 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

department, based fundamentally on extensive interviewing of
corporate managements, examination of plant and equipment, and
checks with competitors, et al. This involved a decade of pretty
rugged and regular traveling of which I still do a considerable
amount in order “to keep a hand in”. In 1943 I became a general
partner of the firm, continuing my past basic activity (administra-
tion of the research program, consulting work and correlation of
our investment thinking with our institutional customers), but
spending an increasing amount of time in investment and industrial
consulting activities. This brought me in contact with most of
the major investment trusts, insurance companies, and subsequent-
ly the growing field of pension funds. The friendships and asso-
ciations so formed could not have been more pleasant. The afore-
mentioned activities. have led in turn to a variety of industrial and
insurance company directorships which have added much to the
variety and pleasure of business life.

Our marriage has been endowed with great happiness and four
sons. The boys keep us busy and happy, and I am now able to
borrow shoes, shirts and ties from the two elder ones. They also
provide an ever present source of golf, tennis, squash or back-
gammon partners. Dinner in the evening is the high point of the
day with the boys reporting on their varied activities, their read-
ing, their tribulations and their fun, Lydia runs the home opera-
tion smoothly and serenely while participating in a multitude of
community activities. The household is further enlivened by
three white ducks, hamsters, a parakeet, various biological experi-
ments that the older boys are conducting as school projects, and
by the multitude of friends of all ages and sizes that the boys
bring home.

FREDERICK BENJAMIN RICE

HOME ADDRESS: 194 Felton Drive, Menlo Park, Calif.

OFFicE apprEss: Loomis Armored Car Service, Inc., 821 Sansome St., San
Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1910, Waterbury, Conn. Parents: Archibald E. Rice, Grace
Felton.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B. 1931,

[ 811 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931
MARRIED: Leah Rowan, June 21, 1947, Butte, Mont. CHILDREN: Frederick
Benjamin, Jr., Aug. 27, 1948; Ronda Rowan, May 7, 1950; Douglas Earl,
April 27, 1953.
occuPATION: General sales manager, Loomis Armored Car Service, Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Felton & Sons, distillers, Boston, Mass., San Fran-
cisco Sales Executives Association; past president, zoth Century Club,
San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.
MEMBER OF: Commonwealth Club of California.

SINCE the 2oth Anniversary Report the most important news in
the Rice family is Douglas Earl, who is the third native of Cali-
fornia born to my wife Leah (from Montana) and me (from
Boston). He wasn’t exactly planned, but he’s a great little guy
and we're very glad he happened. He has a brother Ben who is
now seven and a sister Ronda now five.

We continue to love our home and life in California. Two trips
east for business and pleasure within the past couple of years have
given me a highly valued opportunity to see at least a few of my
old friends on the East Coast but have not stirred any desire to
return there permanently. My company has grown three-fold
since I joined it in 1946 and my job interest and job scope have
grown with it. I am responsible for new business developments
company-wide and cover three Pacific Coast states, British Colum-
bia and Alberta, Canada.

My principal interest outside of family, home and job is the
Sales Executives Association of which I am in my third year as
director. Also, having some feeling of civic responsibility, I have
been active in recent years in committee work of the San Fran-
cisco Chamber of Commerce.

CHARLES FRED RICHARDS

HOME ADDRESS: 105 Garden St., Great Neck, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Henry Herrman & Co., 1 Wall St. New York, N. Y.

BORN: May rg, 1909, Larchmont, N. Y. PARENTS: Charles Redner Richards,
Marie O'Keefe.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1031,

MarRieD: Ruth Alexander Browning, March 23, 1940, Accomac, Va, CHILD:
Laura Browning, April 16, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Redner Richards, ’qo.

[812] ©

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Stock broker, New York Stock Exchange; parmer, Henry
Herrman & Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Manhasset Bay Yacht Club; Loyal
Legion.

THE brokerage business takes care of nine to three-thirty, After
that, the theatre and racing sail boats keep me busy. The Army
had me in the southwest Pacific for three years; the rest of the
time has been spent in New York City and Great Neck, New
York. The School Committee of the Harvard Club of Long
Island keeps me on the lookout for promising students and athletes.

ROBERT LORING RICHARDS

MAILING apprEss: % A. L. Richards, Remsen, Oneida Co., N. Y.

Born: March 1, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Augustus Loring Richards,
Lillian Brown.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1929-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (32).

occuPATION: Motion pictures.

FREDERICK LEOPOLD WILLIAM RICHARDSON, JR.

HOME appress: Concord Street, West Gloucester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harvard School of Public Health, 695; Huntington Ave.,
Boston, Mass.

Born: March 23, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: Frederick Leopold William
Richardson, ’99, Anne Blake.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.; Ecole Nouvelle, Lausanne,
Switzerland; Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREES: 8.B., 1931; PH.D., 1941.

marrigp: Helen Warren, May 25, 1934, Boston, Mass, cHILDREN: Frederick
Leopold William, 3d, Feb. 10, 1936; Thomas Warren, April 14, 1937;
Daniel Putnam, Sept. 17, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Welland Richardson, ’28 (deceased); Francis
Booth Richardson, ’34; Joseph Priestley Richardson, ’35; David Richard-
son, ’40; Julian Richardson, 43.

OCCUPATION: Research and consulting work in human relations.

OFFICES HELD: Consultant, Raytheon Manufacturing Company, since 1950,
American Friends Service Committee on Coal Region Development
and Rehabilitation, 1939-41, Tileston & Hollingsworth, 1948-49; lectures
in human relations, Harvard School of Public Health, since 1949; mem
ber Iraq Expedition, University Museum, University of Pennsylvanig

[ 813 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

1931-32, Oriental Institute, University of Chicago, 1932-33; field Beog-
rapher, Peabody Museum, Harvard, 19345 research assistant, associate,
Harvard Business School, 1937-42; various government jobs handling
Middle East problems ending in Lend-Lease administration for entire
Middle East in Egypt, 1942-45; research associate, Labor and Manage-
ment Center, Yale University, 1946-49.

MEMBER OF: Society for Applied Anthropology; Industrial Relations Re-
search Association; Association of American Biographers; Tavern
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Human Relations in an Expanding Company (co-author
Charles R. Walker), Labor and Management Center, Yale, 1948, “An-
thropology and Human Relations in Business and Industry”, Yearbook
of Anthropology, Wennerbren Foundation, 1955.

WITH a zest for living and exploring the unknown, with a
Harvard degree in geology and geography, and driven by the
romance of mystery, I set out in 1931 from Cambridge for
Beirut, Baghdad, Bahrein and Isphaham passing by way of Bar
Harbor where I shacked up with classmate J. Byrne, now residing
in Addis Ababa.

Here for two years as a member of British and American ex-
peditions, I dug into the past, reconstructed the ancient Persian
Gulf shore line, shot wild game, and moved among Arabs, Devil
Worshippers, Eastern Christians and Jews. The adventures ac-
customed me to an intriguing existence I was unprepared to fi-
nance and the low living standards which few non-native women
were prepared to share.

The routine of this intriguing existence was relieved annually
by a leave, taking me to Paris, London, Long Island and such
places where higher living standards prevailed. All this necessi-
tated contemplation and study, so my third year out, I returned
to Cambridge, but this time as a graduate student in anthropology
to pursue the study of man or, as we were informed, of man
embracing women —no matter of what living standard. In the
pursuit of this academic and “real” knowledge, anthropology in
contrast to its sister disciplines, psychology and sociology, has
always stressed learning through first-hand experience and
through this technique to attain greater understanding — far
more profound than mere book learning.

Being loath to question the wisdom of this tradition and not
prone to vicarious experience, I set about with some enthusiasm

[814]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to meet those requirements in full. For three years, I alternated
book learning with “real” experience going on expeditions to
Yugoslavia and Ireland, the latter providing an invaluable back-
ground for the practical problems of living high and low in and
around Boston. At the end of this period, a surprising oppor-
tunity to apply this experience to the problems of business ad-
ministration came my way. -

The long-established business practice of common-sense dealing
with people was beginning to receive formal attention and the
Business School was the place pioneering in this development.
Impressed with the lack of conscious recognition of the impor-
tance of human problems in business, Harvard again added an-
other “first” to its credit. In implementing this new development,
it decided to give anthropology a try. So in the sixth year after
graduation, I joined the group in the Business School devoted
to this end.

Unrecognized at the time, the experiences as an observing
client in innumerable entertainment organizations during college
prepared me for more professional observations in the non-enter-
tainment field. The next five years till the start of the war were
Spent trying to fathom the mysteries of human relations in
business, For over a year of this time, I lived among the miners
in a depressed coal area in Western Pennsylvania to help in a
program of regional development.

During the war, to capitalize on my experience in the Arab
world, I worked for various government agencies concerned
with intelligence and various programs designed to have the
Middle East peoples and countries help us actively in our Allied
cause. The last two years were spent centered in Egypt working
for the Lend-Lease Administration concerned among other mat-
ters with equipping the Iranians to move our shipments into
Russia.

In 1946, the fourteenth year after leaving college, with the
war ending, I returned to a family waiting for me but to no job.
I had up to this time never owned a house and land and moreover
had long wished to have the children grow up on a farm, some-
how to cost me little time or money. Unemployment provided
the opportunity. I spent many hours between job hunting, ex-
ploring the countryside in and around Essex and Cape "Ann,

[ 815]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Massachusetts, conversing with farmers, old timers, and in the
local Registry of Deeds trying to find the ideal spot. As good
farm land with appropriate buildings was scarce and more ex-
pensive than I was prepared to pay, I settled on forestry and
pieced together a sizeable acreage of woodlots for very little.
The precise location, however, of some was not clear, but this
uncertainty only added an intriguing challenge to an otherwise
frustrating year job-hunting.

Finally a job came through—lI feel almost disloyal to admit
—from Yale, to work for their newly-created labor and man-
agement center. The family all moved to a pleasant house handy
to the Bowl and here, for over three years, I continued looking
into the human problems of business organizations concentrating
on such companies as Ford, IBM, and the Southern New England
Telephone Company.

Harvard, having dropped the ball for these three years, picked
it up again in true Crimson fashion and brought me back nine-
teen years after graduation, and here I still remain. But for the
last several years or more, I have become increasingly convinced
that more rapid progress, even basic theoretical advances in the
field of human relations in industry would result by actively co-
operating with companies in helping them solve their own par-
ticular problems.

Our good classmate, Amor Hollingsworth, introduced me to
the satisfactions and possibilities of accomplishments resulting
from such collaboration. Since then I have increasingly pursued
this course with other companies especially with the Raytheon
Manufacturing Company. The rewards to a company and the
advances in professional understanding that result from such
collaboration point to further areas of partnership between
business and universities and business and professionals.

And so my zest for exploring the unknown and mysterious in
far-off lands has since taken the turn of the unknown and mys-
terious among those with whom I live and work. Funnily enough,
not the least mysterious of these is the very person here discussed
who sometimes falls short himself in doing what he knows is
best for others to do — but being weak and giving in can some-
times be a lot more fun.

[816]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM ALAN RICHARDSON

HOME ADDRESS: Noroton, Conn.

OFFICE ADpREss: Medical Economics, Inc., Oradell, N. J.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1907, Johannesburg, South Africa. parents: Elliott Verne
Richardson, Adelaide Palmer.

PREPARED AT: Quernmore School, Bromley, Kent, England; various U. S.
Schools.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

MARRIED: Mary Kincade, Aug. 15, 1931, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy,
Feb. 11, 1938, Craig, March 1, 1947.

OCCUPATION: President and editor, Medical Economics, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Associate member, Connecticut State Medical Society; former
vice-president, Society of Business Magazine Editors; lecturer, national
and state medical societies and various medical schools.

MEMBER OF: National Press Club; New York Yacht Club; Noroton Yacht
Club; Harvard Club of New York; National Business Publications, Inc.;
American Institute of Graphic Arts; The Corinthians.

RAYMOND RICHMOND, JR.

MAILING ADDRESS: 59 Edwards St., Roslyn Heights, Long Island, N. Y.
BORN: Feb. 22, 1908, Kieff, Russia. PARENTS: Raymond Richmond, Kiara
Appiebaum.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Friedrich-Wilhelm University, Berlin, Germany.

RICHARD LUNT RIDEOUT

HOME ApprREss: 6014 N, California Ave., Chicago 4s, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jewish Children’s Bureau, 231 S. Wells St., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Feb. 11, 1907, Boston, Mass. parENTS: Charles Augustus Rideout, Helen
Lunt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Virginia Stull, Jan. 27, 1931, Buchanan, Va. (divorced 1948); Vir-
ginia Tompkins Walker, 1948, Winchester, Mass. cHitpren: Nancy
Clay, Nov. 8, 1932; Virginia Stull, May 12, 1937.

occupation: Child care counselor, working with delinquent and emotionally
disturbed children.

OFFICES HELD: President, Grace Horne Galleries, Boston, 1936-42, Richard
Lunt, Inc., advertising, Boston, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: 1020 Art Club, Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Ill.

SOME of us were fortunate in finding our life work immediatelv

[817]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

upon leaving college; others of us have taken considerable more
time in finding the type of work in which we were to be happy
and best qualified. In my case, it was not until 1951 that I finally
discovered my own niche, Previous to this, I had worked in the
fine arts field as president of the Grace Horne Galleries in Boston,
and spent three and one-half years out of the country with Lock-
heed during the war. On my return, I entered the advertising
business, which I left in 1951 to go into child welfare work. My
wife was instrumental in my making this decision and has been
working with me in it ever since. After a brief indoctrination at
the Children’s Village, Dobbs Ferry, New York, we transferred
to the Hawthorne Cedar Knolls School, Hawthorne, New York,
where we had charge of eighteen delinquent and emotionally dis-
turbed girls ranging in age from thirteen to eighteen. After
spending two years there, we were invited to come to Chicago to
help train eight emotionally disturbed boys at the Jewish Chil-
dren’s Bureau’s experimental unit where we are at the present
time.

Children: My elder daughter, Nancy, is living in Washington,
D. C., and working for Pan American Airlines, while my younger
daughter, Virginia, is a freshman at Radford College, Radford,
Virginia.

Spare time: Inasmuch as our work means living with the
children twenty-four hours a day, five days a week, and the mental
and emotional strain of keeping ahead of the children is so great,
our time off is spent in recharging our emotional batteries. In the
summer, we can be found on the shores of Lake Michigan or
other nearby lakes. In the winter time, we frequent the 1020 Art
Center and adjoining 1020 Club and go gallery-hopping. Being
dyed-in-the-wool New Englanders, we immediately head east on
our vacation, and heave a sigh of relief when we hit the Appa-
lachian Mountains, but are not truly happy until we can see the
ocean.

[ 818 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RUSSELL SAGE RIDGELY

HOME ADDRESS: 3940 Briggs Ave., Erie, Pa.

OFFICE AppRESS: National Carbon Co., 610 Oliver Bldg., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

BoRN: March 10, 1907, Baltimore, Md. parents: George Washington Krebb
Ridgely, Florence Jane Oliver.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

marrigep: Nancee Kime Hay, Dec. 22, 1934, New York, N. Y. cuitpren:
Randolph Hay, Jan. 15, 1940; Stephen Russell, Jan. 29, 1943.

OccuPATION: District representative, National Carbon Company, chemical
contracting wholesale distributors.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Birmingham, Ala.

AFTER leaving the Yard, sans degree, I entered the business
world via the International Harvester Company in the Baltimore
branch, After a short term there, I joined the Western Electric
Company. The Depression got me. Then there were multitudi-
nous jobs in New York City with such companies as Van Raalte
Company, Scott Paper Company, and Marshall Field & Company.

On February 1, 1937, I joined the National Carbon Company,
a division of Union Carbide & Carbon Corporation. After a train-
ing period, I was sent to Baltimore to call on the retail trade.
After a year in Baltimore, the company transferred me to Greens-
boro, North Carolina, in the same capacity. I remained in Greens-
boro until the war, when the company appointed me as a purchas-
ing agent for new plants. New production facilities were con-
structed in Clarksburg, West Virginia, Morganton and Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, Binghamton and Buffalo, New York, St.
Albans, Vermont, and Cleveland. On November 22, 1945, I was
released by the production department and was sent to Birming-
ham, Alabama, to call on the wholesale trade. In January of this
year, I was transferred to Erie, Pennsylvania.

I am a conservative, a registered Democrat, but vote independ-
ently. I am an elder in the Presbyterian Church. My hobbies are
fishing and hunting. My wife is a graduate of the University of
North Carolina. My two sons are now twelve and fifteen; one is
an introvert, and the other is an extrovert. I enjoy my family,
and together we are enjoying life. I have a terrific sales record
with my corporation, but titles I have none. Such is twenty-five
years for Ridgely.

[ 819 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

DAVID RIESMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 5621 University Ave., Chicago 37, Ill.
OFFICE ADpRESS: University of Chicago, Chicago 37, Ill.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: David Riesman, Eleanor
Fleisher.

PREPARED AT: Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.; Evans School, Tucson,
Ariz. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 19313 LL.B. 1934.

MARRIED: Evelyn Hastings Thompson, July 15, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Paul, March 7, 1938; Jennie, Nov. 16, 1939; Lucy, Jan. 14, 1941; Michael,
Sept. 7, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Penrose Riesman, °34.

occuPaATION: Professor of social sciences.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of editors, The American Quarterly, since
1951, Phe American Scholar, since 1952, American Journal of Sociology,
since 1954; member board of academic advisers, Marlboro College, since
1954; executive secretary, American Committee for Guidance of Pro-
fessional Personnel, 1938-41; member of council, American Sociological
Society, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: American Anthropological Society; American Sociological So-
ciety; Society for Applied Anthropology; American Association of
Public Research; American Studies Association; Arts Club (Chicago),
American Acaderhy of Arts and Sciences.

PuBLicaTions: The Lonely Crowd (with Reuel Denney and Nathan Glazer),
1950, Faces in the Crowd (with Nathan Glazer), 1952, Yale University
Press; Thorstein Veblen, Scribner’s & Sons, 1953; ladividualism Re-
considered and Other Essays, Free Press, Glencoe, IIl., 1954.

FOR the last few years, I have eagerly studied Class Reports like
this one (especially The Life and Opinions of a College Class, put
out by that same Class of 1926 that produced the blueprint of the
House Plan) for the light they might shed on changing value
patterns. I believe | have detected a trend, as time goes on, to
play down the occupational side as well as to emphasize its satis-
faction-giving rather than prestige-bestowing aspects and to play
up the non-work side: the wife and (the growing number of)
kids, the suburban hobbies, the hopes and plans for trips and
trout. I am struck, too, although this is less novel, with the large
number of changes in career — especially perhaps among Harvard
men who began by following guide-lines set up by their families
and who shifted to activities closer to heart’s desire — which
might mean only shifting the base of operations away from the

[ 820 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Atlantic Seaboard to Indianapolis, Colorado Springs, or Seattle.
Our Class’s Depression and our Class’s War might seem to many
to explain these shifts — and, of course, they do explain a lot of
them — but others, I think, are the result of a growing complexity
of life, goals and a moderation of traditional ambitions coupled
with an increased appreciation for a stable, “child-centered”
family life.

Many of us in the Class of 1931 already had misgivings about
the conventional paths of glory when we were forcibly graduated
and, rather than strike out on new paths, we found excuses for
staying in Cambridge —a number by going to the Law School.
However, the Law School was only geographically in Cambridge;
its social climate was more bracingly lower-middle class and
upper-middle western than that of the College, and many of us
from the College found it disagreeably competitive, crude and
narrow — much as Henry Adams had found Washington a gener-
ation earlier. With other students, I sought to stir the Law School
out of what seemed to us (I still think not extravagantly) as a
complacent rut of intelligent anti-intellectualism; we ran a meet-
ing featuring Karl Llewellyn on “What’s Wrong With the Har-
vard Law School”, and infuriated Dean Roscoe Pound. In our last
year, when we had hoped for more scope and freedom, many of
our more glamorous teachers went off to serve the New Deal,
leaving us more bored than ever (and inducting me into the ex-
perience of giving a few lectures vice the departing staff.

Meanwhile — to turn now from shared to individual experi-
ence —I had begun a close association with Professor Carl J.
Friedrich which has proved decisive for my life. A cosmopolitan
person, he helped emancipate me from parents who had over-
powered me by their own erudition, Puritanism and scope; he
widened greatly my slowly developing interests in history, gov-
ernment and economics, and introduced me to the work of Max
Weber and other Europeans; he first gave me the sense (never a
permanent acquisition) that I might have something to say as a
teacher and writer. No less lasting was his induction of me into
rural life; in 1933 we bought a run-down farm together near
Brattleboro, Vermont, blundered in and out of sheep, and started
a dairy — one which, at a nearby location, my wife and I still run.
(A diligent farmer, aided during haying and harvesting by our

[ 821 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

paintings (mostly contemporary) and architecture, and above all
to talk (and dine) with friends. I have no great yen to go abroad
(I haven’t been since I went with Bob Chasteney in 1931 and
ended up with a bum knee in a Moscow hospital), but my fond-
ness for the New England countryside is immensely strong and
each fall, as the leaves turn on the Green Mountains, it is a
wrench to leave.

HORACE ABRAM RIGG, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 16390 S. Park Blvd., Cleveland 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Western Reserve University, Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BorN: April 22, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Horace Abram Rigg, Caro-
line Maud Wynkoop.

PREPARED AT: Radnor High School, Wayne, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: $.B., 1931; A-M., 1932; PH.D., 1937.

MARRIED: Ruth Bowman Lyman, Nov. 24, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Alexandra Lowell, March 26, 1936; Diana Inglis, Aug. 29, 1937; Jona-
than Lyman, April 12, 1939; Margaret Wynkoop, March 30, 1943; Peter
Whitney, March 10, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Wynkoop Rigg, ’33; Edward Harrison Rigg,
"34.

occuPATION: Severance Professor of the History of Religion, chairman,
Department of Biblical Literature and the History of Religion, Western
Reserve University.

OFFICES HELD: Past secretary-treasurer, president, Cleveland Society of the
Archaeological Institute of America; fellow, Cleveland Chamber Music
Society.

MEMBER OF: American Oriental Society; Society for Biblical Literature and
Exegesis, American Geographical Society, American Society for
Church History.

PUBLICATIONS: Learned articles and reviews.

I HAVE come a long way since I first arrived at Harvard, know-
ing nobody at all and with a top Harvard Club of Philadelphia
scholarship and the promise of a job as a waiter in one of the
freshman halls, and with seventy dollars (in five- and ten-dollar
bills) pinned to my underwear.

I had spent the previous summer hiking and camping in Great
Britain and France with a group of sixteen Eagle Scouts, about
which fabulous pioneering adventure, by the way, a book called
Hobnails and Heather, was shortly thereafter published by our

[ 826 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

leader, Clifton Lisle. I found that one of my assigned roommates
was the man who had humiliated me the preceding fall by con-
sistently and conspicuously running through or around my end
position on my high school football team in one of our big
games. I soon found that I had been wrong in deeming him a
monster.

My undergraduate career was, often upsettingly, enlightening
and wholly established in obscurity. This obscurity was broken
by only two events that I can still remember. My former track
prowess caught up with me two days before the Harvard-Yale
freshman track meet, in which I was allowed to defend Harvard
in the hundred-yard dash, after having had time the preceding day
to practise putting on my track suit. After jumping the gun twice
and digging four new holes, I was finally so timid about getting
off that there was some dispute about which heat I ultimately
ran in. In our senior year some friends, discovering their good
will rather than their good judgment, nominated me for class
poet and I was beaten, luckily for the Class, by a better poet who
was, I think, the captain of the basketball team.

Otherwise I had little time—I even taught school every
afternoon of one of my undergraduate years— and less money
for the traditional social amenities, which cut me off or forced
me to feel that I should cut myself off from indulgence in them.
Quite by accident I came upon a roommate at the start of our
sophomore year who was throughout the rest of my under-
graduate career, and has since remained, one of my dearest
friends and one of the finest men J have ever known. I graduated
obscurely at about the bottom of the class listings. I spent Com-
mencement Day walking around Walden Pond. In the interim
since my arrival at Harvard I had come to know a few members
of the Class and rather more outside the Class. To a large extent
I sang my way through college and this meant that I was often
away on tour, sometimes for several weeks or more at a time.
I graduated somewhat in debt financially and terribly in debt
on all other charges to those several friends whom I had acquired
inside and outside the Class.

I was awarded a University Fellowship in philosophy for the
next year in the Graduate School and I ended that year with an
A.M. in the history of religion and a non-resident University

[ 827 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

time picking up bobby pins and turning off lights; being plumber,
electrician, and carpenter; dubbing — if I am to believe my
three daughters — their male acquaintances as punks; acting as
chauffeur or waiting up for other parents acting as chauffeurs
to bring my children safely home; artfully dodging and thereby
putting off on my wife the tedious job of helping the children
with their homework, and so forth; scolding my children for
not sitting up straight at the dinner table (my children consist-
ently flunked posture throughout their school years), and trying
to get them to leave the newspapers in a condition in which I
can read them; and finally, most of all, trying to make ends
meet, yet never being wholly successful at it. We are all look-
ing forward to a summer in Europe this year, after my wife
and the children return, I hope to get into some prehistoric caves
in France and Spain before I return home to devote the rest of
the year to my book.

For the sake of the record, I suppose I should point out that
I have lately been laid up with gout. It was a painfully interest-
ing experience. Whether this manifestation that I am something
of a living fossil is worth adding to my Who’s Who account is
something of a puzzle.

BREWSTER RIGHTER

HOME apprEss: Moores Hill Road, Oyster Bay, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: S. D. Fuller & Co., 39 Broadway, New York 6, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1908, Plainfield, N. J. parents: Walter Leisenring Righter,
Eva Foster.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarrieD: Grace M. H. Wilson, Nov. 24, 1935, Wheeling, W. Va. CHILDREN:
Brewster Alexander McNair, Aug. 6, 1935; John Foster, April 7, 1938:
Natica, Dec. 3, 1939; Blanche Eva, April 18, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Brewster Alexander McNair Righter, ’57.

HARVARD BROTHER: Volney Righter, ’26, M.B.A., ’28.

occupation: Investment banking; partner, S. D. Fuller & Company.

oFFices HELD: Director, Pawnee Oil & Gas Company, Orradio Industries,
Inc., Jewell Ridge Coal Corporation; secretary, Pocahontas Mining
Corporation.

MEMBER OF; Norwich Terrier Club; The Lunch Club; Piping Rock Club,

[ 830]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Meadow Brook Club; Harvard Club of New York City, Beaver Dam
Winter Sports Club, Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club; Revere Bath &
Tennis Club.

SINCE graduation, a few truths have been brought home to me.
First, I find myself constantly amazed at the immensity of this
country. I am full of admiration for its efforts and drive towards
making the world a better place for all people. I am proud to
be a citizen of the United States. During the past years, I have
become increasingly aware of the part that Harvard takes in
the affairs and progress of this country. Here again I am proud
to be identified with the College and to hold a degree from it.
Last, but not least, I am extremely proud of my family. My
elder son is an undergraduate now and my second son will enter
college next fall, I hope. It is even possible that under the
present and revised regime that my two girls will attend Harvard.

In 1952, I joined my good friend and neighbor in Oyster Bay,
Stephen D. Fuller, ’30, in his investment banking firm, S. D.
Fuller & Company. Two years later I became a partner. My
business career with S. D. Fuller & Company has been a stimu-
lating and a happy one. Associated with me as partners in the
firm are Stephen D. Fuller, ’30, my classmate, Paul A. Fuller, ’31,
and P. James Roosevelt, ’s5o.

In 1942 I was commissioned a lieutenant in the U. S. Navy
where I served in the Naval Air Arm until 1945. I was extremely
fortunate during my service career in having interesting assign-
ments — staff duty at the Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Florida,
on board the fast carrier, USS San Jacinto, which participated
in all major engagements in the Pacific Naval War from the
time it joined the Pacific Fleet in 1944. After returning from
sea duty, I was stationed at the Naval Air Station, Jacksonville,
on the staff of the Chief of Naval Air Operational Training. I
was released from the service in 1945 with the rank of com-
mander, USNR.

Living on Long Island Sound, I take great pleasure in yachting
and shooting and play some tennis and golf. With my partner,
Stephen D. Fuller, I own a boat, Pilgrim, on which I do a certain
amount of cruising during the summer with my family.

[ 831]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

GEORGE JACOB MATTHEW RISEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 145 Pond Brook Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lasker-Riseman, Inc., 120 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joel Bernard Riseman, Rose
Ellen Berger.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B. 1931; A.M. 1933-

marrieD: Dorothy Edythe Williams, Aug. 11, 1940, Brookline, Mass. cui-
DREN: Robert Joel, April 18, 1943, Bonnie Ellen, May 14, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Ephraim Frank Riseman, ’24, M.D., "29.

OCCUPATION: President, Lasker-Riseman, advertising agency.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Nu; Blue Hill Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Housing and Crime” (with Professor Sheldon Glueck).

AS the twig is bent, so grows the tree . . . ”. I won’t go ante-
diluvian — just back to the age of fourteen.

Quite simultaneously with post-puberty awareness of another
sex, I was initiated, by the interest of a schoolmate and a few
dog-eared copies of Printers Ink, into the vagaries and mysteries
of advertising. One sunny afternoon in June, while lolling on
the hammock of our back porch, with Printers Ink in hand, I
realized that this was the field for me.

At twenty-one, in June, July, and August of 31, after being
summarily dismissed from all front-desks of almost all advertising
agencies assaulted — after hearing, in the bitterest cynicism of
the day, that “you can’t even buy a job in advertising” — and
finally, after one potential boss’s remark to the effect that he
had just let another seventeen of his people go the day previous,
I decided that advertising was not the field for me (or anybody!).

During my last two years at Harvard, I had become increas-
ingly intrigued with sociology and human behavior, and, with
human misery on the increase everywhere depression-wise, I
returned to the halls of Emerson and Sever to soak up more data
on why we behave and misbehave, to acquire an A.M. and to
prepare myself for a useful life in social service or criminology.

Alas, after a short (but eye-opening) experience as probation
officer pro-tem at the Roxbury Municipal Court, city funds al-
located for the uplifting of the renegade were slashed and my
career as a criminologist, except for participation in a few casual
research projects, was at an early end. What brought me back

[ 832 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to advertising? The repeal of prohibition, no Jess! Perhaps you
hadn’t noticed, but the re-advent of free and legal drinking
brought into the arena of commerce a new huge source of ad-
vertising revenue. Advertising agencies were once again on the
lookout for young men of promise. I answered an ad and, after
a term of apprentice experience at Chambers & Wiswell in
Boston, I was dream-deep in my first love.

I moved on to become advertising manager of Community
Opticians. One office expanded fast to twelve. I became general
manager and was rolling along high before resigning to become
advertising manager of a cosmetic house. This change led only
to a blind ally, and from there I returned to the agency business
as account executive at Bresnick & Solomont.

Then, the war, and thirty-seven months as lieutenant, USNR
(245405), with a young wife and my young son at home, many
miles away. Following the war, in partnership, Lasker-Riseman,
Inc., was born. Nourished by little other than scraps at the start,
we have managed to grow (knock on wood) each month of
each year we have been in business.

(Incidentally, I have only one rich uncle. He retired at thirty-
eight and has been blissfully clipping dividend coupons ever
since. At Lasker-Riseman, on the other hand, we're still looking
for that one big juicy account. And so, [ assure you, I would
take it only as a precious personal favor if anyone of you would
kindly take the initiative and recommend the proved advertising
proficiencies of this fellow-classmate. I’d like to clip some
dividend coupons, too! )

In marriage: one wife and two children. My wife holds top
family honors in craftsmanship and fine arts. She eminently ful-
fills the family’s community and charity organization responsi-
bilities and is irrevocably blessed with an optimism that says
“all things happen for the best”.

My son Robbie is wonderfully intuitive and creative in work-
ing with his hands—can whistle a ball home from centerfield
with the class of a budding pro. He won the Boys’ Golf Cham-
pionship at Blue Hill last summer against all older competition,
and after playing the game for only six weeks. My daughter
Bonnie has impish eyes of grey that can steal a yes out of anyone.

[ 833 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

She has already shown a notable flair for writing singing com-
mercials; like Robbie, she rates high in her school curriculum.

As civilian and lieutenant, USNR, I’ve had the bleak and chill
of Newfoundland, the warm gaiety of the West Indies and Cuba,
and the charm and simplicity of Hawaii.

In philosophy [ve carried dear to my heart the practical and
impractical counsel of James, Emerson, Goethe, Royce, and
Carlyle. In One God, I believe . . . In the order and purpose
of Hocking’s Eternal Mind, I believe . . . In the Fatherhood of
God, and the Brotherhood of Man, I believe.

+ EDWARD FRANCIS RITTER, JR.

BoRN: July 12, 1909, Mattoon, Ill. parents: Edward Francis Ritter, Mabel
Louisa Simpson.

PREPARED AT: Mattoon High School, Mattoon, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, 1932-1933. DEGREES: A.B., 1931 (33); AB. (Univ,
of Illinois), 1932; M.o. (Northwestern Univ.), 1938.

piep: Oct. 24, 1944, In the China Sea.

RITTER attended medical schoo] at Northwestern University.
In 1937 he held a rotating internship at Jersey City Medical
Center, and the following year held a surgical residency at St.
Joseph’s Hospital in Chicago. He then held a post at the Pas-
savant Hospital, Chicago, and was both a resident in ophthal-
mology and clinical assistant in the Department of Ophthal-
mology at Northwestern University College of Medicine. In
1939 he obtained a commission in the Medical Corps of the U.S.
Navy, and served at the Brooklyn Naval Hospital and later at
the naval hospital in Canacao, Cavite, Philippine Islands. He was
with the Asiatic Fleet and was killed in action in the China Sea.
While at Harvard, he was a member of the freshman lacrosse
team and the Crimson staff.

FRANK JOHN RIZZO

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Travis Rd., Natick, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Quartermaster Res, & Dev, Laboratories, Natick, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 23, 1910, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Salvatore Rizzo, Mary Patti.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

[ 834 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.
marrieD: Mary H. Widdop, Nov. 2, 1946, Lawrence, Mass. CHILDREN: Wen-
‘ dell Galen, Dec. 22, 1947; Lisa Diane, March 12, 1953.

occupaTion: Research director, Quartermaster Research and Development
Laboratories, dyeing and finishing of military textiles.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Northern New England Section, 1945-46,
member, Technical Committee on Research, 1954, sectional councillor,
Northern New England Section, national councillor, 1955, American
Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association of Textile
Chemists and Colorists; Intersociety Color Council.

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers and patents in the field of application of dyes
and chemicals to textiles.

FATE and the Depression tossed me immediately after gradua-
tion into a field of endeavor which was hardly in my dreams
but has become my life’s work since. I was probably one of the
fortunates to have a job to go to at a salary which in those days
looked real fine. But the luck was short lived and, like many
others, ended in a search for new employment. I tried desperately
to get into my second choice of endeavor, synthetic organic re-
search (my first had been medicine), but I was again snared by
textiles. [ spent the next fifteen years in the now defunct New
England Textile Industry doing research in wool and related
products. I missed getting into the service by the skin of my
teeth because I had an employer who insisted I was more valuable
at home than overseas. I had a few days of indecision in those
times and evidently so did my employer and the local draft
board. Nevertheless, I had my share of hard work and long
hours doing my small share for the war effort. In 1946, this
effort led to an invitation to join the newly formed Quarter-
master Research and Development Laboratories and I moved to
Philadelphia to take over the direction of one of the laboratory
units.

Simultaneously, I made another break with the past and mar-
ried the girl of my dreams. The following seven years were a
round of monotonous daily routine, riding from North to South
Philadelphia and a series of trips around the country, some of
these of a rather extended nature. During this time our family
grew with the coming of our two children. Philadelphia was not
as attractive as New England, but this was remedied for us when

[ 835 ]

_—_—_——_—_—— —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

in 1953 the Quartermaster Labs were moved to Natick, Massa-
chusetts, and we found ourselves back in New England, not too
far from our previous surroundings and friends.

Twenty-five years of scars and bruises and many pleasant ex-
periences cannot help but mold certain impressions. Always
there is an intense appreciation for the beauty of the country in
which we live, and the sad thought that all too many of us do
not have the opportunity to enjoy it or to recognize its essential
worth; the utter disregard by many of our public officials for the
fact that they are chosen to serve rather than to command; the
supreme optimism of our youth, engendered unfortunately by
the schools and a highly competitive industrial demand, that
they will have the boss’s job within six months or less without
having to do anything more than present themselves daily or
occasionally or when the spirit moves; the replacement of sound
judgment in matters political by strict adherence to party phi-
losophies (they said it couldn’t happen here!). We could go on,
but a few to suffice.

Yet, we would relive much of our life as we have. Some of it
we would change. We would alter the emphasis of our schooling
days somewhat, in some instances for the better enjoyment of
life’s values, in others to direct our course more firmly from the
start. Only another twenty-five years will tell whether these im-
pressions remain or follow the course of the changing times.

CALVIN NUNAN ROBERTS

HOME apprEss: P. O. Box 113, Strong, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Foster Manufacturing Co., Inc., Strong, Maine.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1910, Medford, Mass. parents: Edwin Arthur Roberts, Lydia
Julia Lion.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: $.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Phyllis Sample, Aug. 8, 1947, Strong, Maine. cuitp: Jane Lydia,
Sept. 6, 1948.

occupation: Manufacturing.

[ 836 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JACK DAVID ROBERTS

HOME ADDRESS: 192 Parkway Drive, Roslyn Heights, Long Island, N. Y,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 125 Monitor St., Jersey City, N. J-

BORN: Nov. 21, 1908, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Jacob Rapoport, Claire
Dorothy Benjamin.

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MarRizD: Elvire A. Riera, Sept. 10, 1936, Miami, Fla. cmp: Maryclare, Dec.

23, 19§0.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Irving Laurence Roberts, ’22; Maxwell Benjamin Roberts,

4
27-6

occupaTION: Vice-president and treasurer, Harcord Manufacturing Com-
pany, manufacturers of fibre canisters.

MEMBER OF: American Club, Havana.

WHEN I marched into the stadium back there at Harvard on
that June day in 1931, I remember that I was impressed with the
“gray beards” who were then celebrating their Twenty-fifth
Reunion. At that time they looked very old indeed. Now that
my own Twenty-fifth is upon me, my feelings are somewhat
changed. Despite the fact that I am several years older, I frankl
do not feel like an old fossil. Perhaps this is due to the fact that I
have had a gosh darn complete twenty-five years which went
only too quickly, or maybe it is due to the fact that I am looking
forward to the many more years to come; I admit that the start
of the twenty-five year period was “rugged”, to say the least.
Jobs were very hard to find and I wondered at the time whether
I had not made a terrible mistake to have gone to Harvard College
and “lost” four years of my life listening to men like Professors
Perry, Williams, Ripley, etc, I felt ill prepared for anything in
the world of business and I had thoughts running through my
mind that I might best return to the University to pursue some
profession.

I changed my thinking, however, after I began to work in the
foreign department of Paramount Pictures. I enjoyed the work
from the start and began to look forward to the day I would go
overseas to represent them. In fact, in hardly a year I was on my
way to Panama as an assistant manager. Things then began to
move quickly. I went on to visit or stay in many Latin American
countries and finally became manager of the company’s opera-

[ 837 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

tions in Cuba. That was way back in 1934! The following years
were filled with extensive travel, business experiences and real
fun. I was kept very busy but not too busy, for I found time to
fall in love with an American girl who lived in Cuba. We were
married in 1936.

By 1942 things were beginning to change. Our country was up
to its neck in war so I returned to the United States, obtained a
leave of absence from Paramount to join the Office of War Infor-
mation. After I had completed what I considered to be my
“mission”, I entered the Army, went to the South Pacific and
later finished out my military career as an officer in California.
By this time I had decided not to continue the hectic life I had
lived in foreign countries but instead to live and work at home in
my own business. I entered an entirely different industry and have
been very happy running my own show at Harcord Manufactur-
ing Company, making fibre canisters.

Once my wife and I had settled back in our own country and
replaced a somewhat unusual existence with something more
normal, the Good Lord decided that all this had to be changed
again. In 1950 we became parents of a two-pounder we named
Maryclare, and so now we have a new and different life to lead.
There you have an idea of my twenty-five years of happiness.
I am quite sure that it would not have been the same had [ not
gone to Harvard but that is entirely too long a story for now.
Just take my word for it, It is true,

RAYMOND BRADLEY ROBERTS

HOME ADDRESS: 572 Quinobequin Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Hale & Dorr, 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 19, 1911, Cambridge, Mass, parents: William Lewis Roberts,
s.J.p., 730, Annie Eliza Bailey.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Lexington, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Hazel M. Swanson, Nov. §, 1938, Woodbury, Conn. cHILpREN:
Raymond Lewis, Dec. 14, 1941; William Bailey, May 2, 1950.

occupation; Lawyer — senior partner, Hale & Dorr, corporations, taxation,
wills and trusts, estate planning.

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer in taxation, Northeastern University Law School,

[ 838 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1947-48; member section on taxation, since 1948, sub-chairman, Com-
mittee on Estate and Gift Taxes, since 1953, American Bar Association;
clerk, Edgerton, Germeshausen & Grier, Inc., 1947-51; director and
secretary, Spica, Inc., since 1955; committeeman, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Nu Fraternity; Phi Mu Alpha Frater-
nity; Boston, American and Massachusetts Bar Associations; American
Judicature Society; Waban Neighborhood Club.

HAVING become a Kentuckian by “transplantation” after living
during my first eight years in a variety of school and college
towns in Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire, and
Pennsylvania again, before presumably “taking root” in Lexing-
ton, Kentucky, it was somewhat of a throwback to find myself
living in my just barely native Cambridge after five years at
Harvard — two with the ’31ers and three at the Law School.
Even now I am often surprised to realize that I have been domi-
ciled in one Massachusetts city, Newton, during all the fast-pass-
ing and accumulating years from 1940 to 1955 —the first ten
in Upper Falls, the last five in Waban.

In truth, the rolling stone must have gathered moss from Har-
vard Ivy, for I have been with one firm only since graduation,
Hale & Dorr — as an associate from 1934 to 1944; a junior part-
ner from 1944 to 1952; a senior partner, since 1952. I have valued
my experience and associations there and not the least that of
living next door to Joe Welch, rightly famed, in my opinion, for
his “‘pixie-esque” choice of words and current pioneering in un-
charted fields of legal public service.

Married most happily since 1938 to a “Svenska” from Con-
necticut (whom I met, most fortunately for me, on a bus while
taking refuge from Law School finals), Hazel and I with our
two sons, Raymond L., fourteen, and Bill Bailey, six (we think
they are engaging, albeit sometimes strenuous), are now living on
an unpronounceable street alongside a wooded bend of the
Charles, which we often used to detour to travel and wished we
might sometime live on. We are most fortunate in having true
friends and delightful neighbors; and, come to think of it, there
is a mite of moss out front, at that.

Politics? Me and Kaltenborn! I would have bet on his now
famous premature and mistaken election-eve prediction, and
loved it, too! I thought I never would vote for a winner. Re-

[ 839 ]

—— Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ligiously — Hazel upholds the family by active service at the
local Union Church.

As for hobbies — we all hie ourselves to Vermont whenever
and as often as we can. And less often, but with equal nostalgia,
we visit my family in Lexington, where Dad is still connected
with the U.K. School of Law. Music— well, Hazel is the
real pro, but I have just undertaken to renew my Harvard Band
youth with a new clarinet. Sic transit gloria!

CLIFFORD JAMES ROBERTSON

HOME ADDRESS: 1002 Mary Lane, Wyoming, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Procter & Gamble Co., M. A. & R. Bldg., Ivorydale, Ohio.

BoRN: Feb. 28, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James Robert Robertson, Ruth
Iverson.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Vallija Kronberg, Sept. 29, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Judith,
July 27, 1936; Bonnie, June 5, 1941; Lauren, Sept. 18, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Warren Robertson, ’27.

occupation: Chemist and food technologist, Bulk Edible Products Research
Department, Procter & Gamble Company; eastern regional manager,
Food Processing Technical Service Group.

OFFICES HELD: Superintendent, Wyoming (Ohio) Presbyterian Church
School, 1950-52, Red Cross chairman, Wyoming, Ohio, 1952; member
school board, Dumont, N. J., 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cincinnati; American Chemical Society; In-
stitute of Food Technologists; American Institute of Chemists, Ameri-
can Oil Chemists Society; American Association of Cereal Chemists;
Cincinnati Dairy Technological Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Several short scientific articles, Journal of the American Oil
Chemists Society and Frosted Food Field.

DAUGHTER Laurie’s maiden voyage from hospital to home
took place just two days after daughter Judy left for college
(Bryn Mawr ’58). This abrupt inversion of family relationships
naturally ushered in a period of readjustments which only now
(with the onset of resignation) begins to show signs of terminat-
ing.

Laurie is queen and tyrant, no question about it, but the task of
once more “rocking the cradle”, though unrelenting and much

[ 840 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

more difficult than a decade ago, has become beautifully reward-
ing as the little one has completely captivated our hearts.

My business career has developed with a number of companies
— Lever Brothers, Socony-Vacuum (now Mobile), FE. F. Drew
and Procter and Gamble — in that order, always dealing with
some phase of the chemistry of fats and oils. My present job
finds me concerned with the use of fats and oils in processed
foods and with the development of new fat and oil products as
need for them in the food processing industry arises. A great deal
of my time is spent visiting the large food processing houses in the
eastern part of the country for the purpose of helping them with
some problems connected with either one of their existing food
products or one they are currently developing.

I am called upon occasionally to speak before some group ona
topic connected with the use of fats and oils in foods, or to con-
tribute a timely article to some trade publication. I have been
appointed a research and development associate of the Quarter-
master Food and Container Institute for the Armed Forces and
have also been appointed by the Q.F.C.L. to serve as one of their
advisory committees from industry, this one dealing with the
accelerated testing of food products. Before my business required
me to be away from home so much, I was very active in church
and community affairs, but now when I’m home I am a first class
nurse-maid and stay-at-home.

WILLIAM A. ROBERTSON

HOME AppRESS: Richmond Hill Road, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 1818, 120 Broadway, New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1908, New York, N. Y. Parents: Kenneth Douglas Robert-
son, May Hadden.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.By 1931.

MARRIED: Joan Stanwood, Dec. 22, 1950, New Haven, Conn, cHILDREN:
Leslie Hemingway, Dec. 10, 1951; William A., Jr., Feb. 8, 1954; Joan
Hadden, Sept. 2, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Kenneth Douglas Robertson, Jr. °29; Alastair Douglas
Robertson, ’33 (deceased); Gordon Farquhar Robertson, ’36.

Occupation: Sole proprietor, William A. Robertson; investment counsel.

[ 841 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

OFFICES HELD: Partner, 1945-52, A. Vere Shaw & Company, 1938-52; vice-
president, Economic Research, Inc, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; Rockaway Hunting Club,
Lawrence Beach Club,

THE past five years brought much change and happiness to me.
In December, 1950, I acquired a lovely wife and subsequently
three adorable children. When Leslie was born, we found our
New York apartment too small and looked to the country, We
could not find a suitable house, so bought four and a quarter acres
of woodland in North Greenwich and built in 1952. Our house-
hold now includes a dog, two puppies and a cat. In addition to
taking care of this household, I am busy cutting down trees,
coping with poison ivy, and planting or transplanting evergreens,
laurel, bulbs, berries, etc. This never-ending job has interfered
with other activities, especially golf. I played only a few times in
1955, but with a hole-in-one the year before at the Rockaway
Hunting Club I reached one of golfing objectives. I still have
time for a visit once or twice a week to the Harvard Club, where
I enjoy the competition in bridge, backgammon and chess.

In business, I have taken some steps forward in the field of
investment counsel. After fourteen years with A. Vere Shaw &
Company, I left at the end of 1952 to join Economic Research,
Inc., as vice-president. In September, 1955, I started my own firm.
I am still a director of Economic Research, and work closely with
the president, Luke L. Benz (Harvard Business School, ’25), who
is a cO-trustee with me of some trust funds. I have had consider-
able interest in the legal battle of our classmate, Ted Berner,
with the United Fruit Company on behalf of minority stock-
holders of International Railways of Central America. After five
years, it looks as though a decision may be reached early in 1956.

In 1944 a small fund of under $15,000 came under my super-
vision, The owner, a widow, was just able to support herself from
earned income. For ten years dividend income was accumulated
and re-invested. With the favorable period and some fortunate
selections, this fund grew in eleven years to over $90,000. A year
ago this widow retired, and with income from her investments,
she is now financially independent. It is from such a performance
of a fund, so important to its owner, that I get the greatest satis-
faction in my work.

[ 842 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In politics, I tend to vote Republican, though I did vote FDR in
1932. I have taken a stand against the Social Security Tax which
I think is a Ponzi scheme and unconstitutional. At best it should
be optional. Instead it is really a forced insurance premium rather
than a tax, and in my opinion, runs counter to our free way of life.
I also protest against the law that forces an employer to the ex-

ense of collecting taxes for the government from his employees,
which I also think is unconstitutional. I think both these laws
should be and eventually will be changed. Nevertheless, I am
very pleased with the progress that has been made by the Eisen-
hower administration along other lines.

For the future, I have confidence that this country is going
ahead economically and spiritually. I think we may be starting a
period of great prosperity, I hope to spend more of my time in
the country with my family, working around my home. I never
cease to wonder at the beauty of spring. My wife and I enjoy
going to the Round Hill church, and we look forward to the time
when our children are older and we can all go together as a family.

EDWARD HAMILTON ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 7748 Eads Ave., La Jolla, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1327A Wellington St., Ottawa, Ont., Canada.

BORN: June 1, 1909, Wakefield, Mass. Parents: Fred Rolun Robinson,
Pauline Frances Maxfield.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREES: A.B, 1931(32); A.M. (Stanford Univ.),
1955.

MARRIED: Marjorie Vahey, 1932, Belmont, Mass. (divorced 1947); Marie
Sidowey, November, 1947, San Francisco, Calif. (divorced 1952).
CHILDREN: Linda Martin, Jan. 29, 1936; Susan Hamilton, Nov. 4, 1937;
Paula Lane, July 19, 1939; Lane Hamilton, Oct. 28, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Lieutenant colonel, U.S. Air Force; executive, USAF Central
Coordinating Staff, Canada.

OFFICES HELD: Legal officer; instructor, AFROTC.

MEMBER OF: State Bar of Georgia; Federal Bar; American Association of
University Professors; American Academy of Political and Social
Science; Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity; Harvard Clubs of San Fran-
cisco and of the Santa Clara Valley.

THE account of my life since graduation is one of several mar-
Tiages and various careers, none of which has been very success-

[ 843 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I93I

ful. This is no doubt accounted for by the lack of a father’s advice
and a disdain for that of anyone else’s. But [ think the greatest
mistake of all was that, although I barely got the “gentlemen’s C”,
I made lasting associations with very few of my college mates,
This, if I had any, would be my message of warning to posterity.

After graduation I went to sea as an ordinary seaman (on a dare,
as I recall it) and had access, I am sure, to the material for a very
interesting book. I produced no book but instead entered the
claims office of an insurance company in Boston. Meanwhile, I
enrolled in law school and the National Guard — and marriage.
Shortly afterward I was transferred to Hartford, and transferred
all the above enrollments with me.

The call to military service came to me in Hartford about a
year before Pearl Harbor, and a few weeks after the attack I was
in Australia. After some five years overseas, a decoration, many
battle stars, and all that, I returned to a military posting at the
Presidio of San Francisco. Ah, San Francisco! Here I entered
into my second and briefer (though happier) marriage.

Now I wished to resume my interrupted law studies and it
seemed convenient (strangely enough, when I look back on it) to
remain in the military service while I did so. The moving about
which is incident to military life has enabled me to claim associa-
tion with five law schools, but has made it impossible to tie to-
gether enough residence in any one of them so that I could be
awarded a degree. Nevertheless, I became during a military as-
signment in that state, a member of the Bar of Georgia. During
another assignment I picked up (more or less accidentally) a
graduate degree in education. In still another tour of duty I
taught for four years, in the AFROTC, at Stanford University.
Currently, 1 am helping to represent the USAF in Canada, a
tremendously useful and rewarding job.

Perhaps it may yet be possible to tie together my various careers —
(after retirement from the Air Force) as a teacher of sorts, in a
law school of some sort. Meanwhile, this life has led me about the
globe considerably and I should like to say (with Ben Hogan) that
“anyone who does not live in Southern California must be 4
victim of circumstances”, Here, obviously, is a loudly knocking
Opportunity for someone operating a law school in S. C, to acquire
a “professor” cheap.

[ 844 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The account cannot end unless I say something of my three
daughters and my little boy, But what to stay? Just, perhaps,
that their mere lovely existence makes unimportant the vicissitudes
and turmoil and the disappointments of living.

FREDERICK BRUCE ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 135 Forest Glen Rd., Longmeadow, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Museum of Fine Arts, 49 Chestnut St., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frederick Dakin Robinson,
Mabel Sanborn.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Ethel Hooper Grew, June 5, 1935, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN: Anne
Elizabeth, 1937; Frederick Bruce, Jr., 1939; Peter Alexander, 1944;
Sturgis Grew, 1952.

occuPATION: Director, Springfield Museum of Fine Arts.

OFFICES HELD: President, Springfield Orchestra Association, 1943-48, Western
Massachusetts Education T.V. Council, 1955; program chairman, Spring-
field Adult Education Council, since 1940; director, Rotary Club of
Springfield, 1945-46; corporator, Springfield Hospital, Springfield Girls
Club.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Springfield; Century Club; The Club of
Springfield; Rotary Club of Springfield (former member); Reality
Club of Springfield (former member); American Association of Mu-
seums; New England Association of Museums; Museum Directors As-
sociation; American Federation of Arts; College Art Association.

IN the Twentieth Class Report I started out my little biography
by saying that I was still running my “art factory” with the
necessary evils which attend such procedure. Since there is no
change, I just have to repeat that I am in the same pew in the
same church and, despite the fact that sticking to the same job so
long may seem boring to some, it nevertheless has been good fun
for me. In the museum racket no day is ever like the day before,
particularly now, as high salaries in other activities mean increas-
ing difficulties with janitorial staff and the like. Having spent
years lecturing on art, history and architecture, I now find I can
do a pretty brilliant performance in the field of plumbing, floor
polishing, skylight repairing and other building maintenance prob-
Jems. Should any of you classmates like a good building main-

[ 845 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

tenance man, I might be in the market, but the salary will have to
be high.

In between such daily problems as lectures, committee meet-
ings and general wear and tear, I have been able to travel quite
widely for conferences and lectures in my field. This, plus the
many visits to dealers for the acquisition of paintings for our
collection, as well as other objects of art, have kept me on the go
so that rarely have I had an opportunity to join in the preliminary
Twenty-fifth Reunion meetings in either Boston or New York.

Although outdistanced by other classmates I know, we figure
that four children, as noted above, are sufficient. As they are now
entering college and boarding school age, in two cases at the
moment, we think our decision is a correct one. The best thing
about it, despite their absences from home as they grow older, is
that we always manage to have a month together in our hide-away
in the middle of the South Shore of Martha’s Vineyard, where
with running water only when it rains, no telephone or electricity,
we plan the ideal form of existence when I can retire in my
decrepitude.

GARDINER STUART ROBINSON

HOME appress: Melwood Lane, Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bankers Trust Co., 529 Fifth Ave. New York 17, N. Y.

BoRN: May 8, 1909, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Ernest Milton Robinson, Saidee
Ethel Norton.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MarrigD: Dorothy Alberta Voltz, Jan. 25, 1940, Forest Hills, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Gardiner Stuart, Jr. Sept. 17, 1942; Bruce Albert, April 9, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, Bankers Trust Company.

MEMBER OF: Pequot Yacht Club, Southport, Conn.; Harvard Club of New
Caanan, Conn.

MY entire business life has been spent in the field of commercial
banking. In the dark days of July, 1933, 1 joined the Manufac-
turers Trust Company, traveling in the eastern area for them.
After a brief period doing my stint in the Army, I became asso-
ciated with the Commercial National Bank & Trust Company
of New York which, in 1951, was merged with the Bankers

[ 846 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Trust Company, where I am now an assistant vice-president at
44th Street and Fifth Avenue, handling commercial credits. As
I look back over the last twenty-five years, it has been a very
interesting and stimulating experience.

Beyond my business career, my life has been devoted to my
wife and children. I enjoy gardening and have an interest in
yachting. I have been actively engaged in Scouting, Y.M.C.A.
work and am currently building a small sailboat.

HENRY ROCKWOOD

HOME appREss: 215 Alden Rd., Rosslyn Farms Borough, Carnegie, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1049 New Federal Bldg., Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1909, South Weymouth, Mass. Parents: Henry Augustus
Rockwood, Kathryn Elizabeth Sheehan.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B. IN IND.CHEM., 1931.

MARRIED: Ann Genevieve Smey, June 26, 1938, Washington, D. C. CHILDREN:
Henry, 3d, Dec. 9, 1941; David Lawrence, March 3, 1945.

occupation: Meteorologist.

OFFICES HELD: President, P.T.A., Rolling Hills School, Baldwind Township,
Pa. 1949-50, M.I.T, Alumni Association of Western Pennsylvania,
1950-51; director, Pittsburgh Section, American Society of Civil En-
gineers, 1951-54, Pittsburgh Chapter, Sons of the American Revolu-
tion, since 1949; treasurer, since 1951, director, since 1949, Allegheny
County, U.S. Government Employees Federal Credit Union.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers; American Meteorological
Society; American Geophysical Union; M.I.T. Alumni Association of
Western Pennsylvania; Harvard Alumni Association of Western Penn-
sylvania, Sons of the American Revolution; Alpha Chi Sigma.

GRADUATED in that depression year when jobs were scarce, so
went to M.L.T. for a year of graduate study. Neither school nor
work for the next year but did find odd jobs to do, ranging from
waiter in night clubs to substitute school teacher. Began work
with the U. S. government in the fall of 1933 in the U. S. Geologi-
cal Survey and continued with them in various capacities at
different places across the country until the winter of 1935. I
shifted to the U. S. Soil Conservation Service, and was stationed
in Washington but also assigned to Ohio and Texas. I transferred
to the U, S. Weather Bureau in the fall of 1937 and was assigned
to Pittsburgh. I moved to Texas in 1939 and back to Pittsburgh

[ 847 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

in my present assignment in 1946. In the meantime I added
miscellaneous items to my education through the graduate school
of the Department of Agriculture and at Texas Christian Uni-
versity. In 1938 1 married Ann Smey whom I had met in Wash-
ington, D. C,, but who hailed from Connecticut. I find myself
interested in the activities of the various organizations of which
I am a member to the extent of serving in some official capacity
at times. I am most interested in the Credit Union movement —
small savings and loan organizations operated by employee and
other such groups.

My elder son has entered high school and for the next twelve
years the two boys will be progressing through high school and
college, causing me financial anguish and keeping my nose to the
grindstone for that reason. I have owned three different homes
since arriving in Pittsburgh but expect to settle where we are now.

BAMFORD EUGENE ROGERS

HOME aApprEss: 204 Garfield St, Haworth, N. J.

oFFick appress: Mathias Klein & Sons, 7200 McCormick Rd., Chicago qs, Ill.

BORN: May 30, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Albert Edward Rogers, M.D.,
’90, Martha Bolomey.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1933. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933(34).

MARRIED: Sylvia Chadwick, March, 1931, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1933);
Virginia Alice Boone, June 19, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Marshall Chadwick, Sept. 8, 1931 (#2. Bonnie Ruth Wooten, Dec. 4,
1952); Carol Ann, Feb. 3, 1942; Susan Joan, May 25, 1949.

occupation: Eastern field sales representative, Mathias Klein & Sons, tool
manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Past-president, Co-Weds Club.

MEMBER OF: Communications section, Association of American Railroads;
New England Railroad Club; Harvard Club of New Jersey; Haworth
(N. J.) Republican Club; Haworth Men’s Club, Co-Weds Club, First
Congregational Church, Haworth.

WHEN I look back over the past twenty-three years since leav-
ing college and the Business School, my first thought is that I
have not accomplished very much. But when I really give it
some thought, I feel that perhaps I have accomplished more than
I realize. I managed to survive a depression, a world war, and to
raise a fine family. .

[ 848 ]

 

commenememomene ttt COON TTT DOT, Iaggrenerrerenee
te atari Rerc GE EN f

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My business career started when I took my first job in 1933
with W. R. Grace and Company of New York City, as a clerk
in the cocoa import department. After shipping several hundred
bags of cocoa beans to San Francisco instead of to Boston, Grace
and Company decided that I was not for the cocoa business.
From 1934 to 1936, I had a succession of jobs which did not make
me wealthy, but which gave me very valuable experience, such as
selling tires and auto accessories on the instalment plan, acting as
a collector for a finance company, and clerking in a pig bristle
importing house. In 1936 1 joined the Western Union Telegraph
Company and soon became a branch office manager in the finan-
cial district of New York City. In 1942 I joined the Navy as a
lieutenant (j.g.) and was immediately ordered overseas to the
Naval Air Station at Dutch Harbor, Alaska, where I served as
assistant communications officer of the station for a year, when
I was transferred to the Naval Air Facility at Cold Bay, Alaska,
as communications officer. I also served for a few months at the
Naval Air Station, Kodiak, Alaska, as a communications watch
officer and was transferred in April, 1944, to the office of Chief
of Naval Operations, Washington, D. C., where I served as a
communications watch officer in the Navy code room until I
was released to inactive duty in February, 1946. I am now a
lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R. (retired).

After the war, the old job at Western Union did not seem to
have the same appeal as in prior years, and in 1947 I went to
work for a firm of management consultants. Unfortunately, this
job ended in a few months, and I then joined the Federal Tele-
phone and Radio Corporation, Clifton, New Jersey, as a sales
engineer. This was a highly interesting and stimulating job, which
found me traveling almost continuously over the greater part of
the United States, contacting railroads and public utilities in ref-
erence to carrier telephone and telegraph equipment. However,
in 1950 the company found it necessary to reduce its personnel
considerably due to the mild recession which had set in, and I
had to sever my connections with Federal. I then made my
connection with my present employer, Mathias Klein & Sons,
since 1857 one of the leading manufacturers of linemen’s, elec-
tricians’, and mechanics’ tools. This has turned out to be a mutu-

[ 849 J

HARVARD CLASS OF I931

ally enjoyable and profitable relationship, which I believe will

continue more or less indefinitely.

My family is, of course, the most important thing in my life,
although I don’t see as much of them as I would like. My son,
Marshall, is now a first lieutenant in the U.S, Marine Corps
stationed at the Naval Air Station, Miami, Florida, and is married
to a lovely girl named Bonnie. No, I am not a grandfather as
yet, although one always has hopes. Marshall, much to our
relief, managed to survive some of the bloodiest battles of the
Korean War without any visible scars. Carol, my elder daughter,
is already quite a young lady at thirteen. It seems only yesterday
that I found her toddling around our apartment when I came
back from Alaska and now she is almost grown up. Susan is the
baby of the family, but at the rate she is growing, she won’t be
much longer. As for my wife, I can’t find the words to tell how
much she means to me and to all of us. All I can say is that any
girl who can put up with me for eighteen years must have a lot
on the ball. Since I am away from home so much, a great deal of
the responsibility for raising the family and running the home
devolves on her, and I must admit that she does it a lot better
than I could. In short, she is the greatest.

Politically, I started out as a Democrat, but : since the election
of 1940 have been staunchly in the Republican ranks and I do
mean ranks, I have never had much inclination to be active in
politics other than to carry out my voting duties and, more
recently, to take part in the activities of our local Republican club.

A little over a year ago, we purchased a new home in the
residential community of Haworth, New Jersey, which is about
ten miles from New York City in Bergen County. Being a home
owner has its advantages and disadvantages, I find. Somehow I
don’t seem to have as much spare time as I used to, but that’s
probably just as well.

In matters of religion, | am a Congregationalist, and we are
active in the affairs of the local Congregational Church.

We are looking forward very much to the Reunion next June,
and I hope we shall have as close to a hundred per cent turnout
as possible.

See you all in Cambridge.

[ 850 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘K ISRAEL SELMAN ROISEN

PARENTS: Selman Moses Roisen, Alexandra Rosenblum.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.
piep: Reported dead in 1931.

ROISEN spent only freshman year with our Class as a student
in the Engineering School. In April, 1931, the Post Office notified
the Harvard Alumni Directory of his death. The Secretary has
been unable to verify the report or to ascertain the date and place
of death.

RICHARD HOOD ROLAND

HOME Appress: 287 Nahant Rd., Nahant, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ocean Ranch Hotel, Miami, Fla.

BoRN: Aug. 18, 1908, Nahant, Mass. parents: Thomas Roland, Abbie May
Hood.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

MarRiED: Barbara Bryant, Marshfield, Mass. cHtLpren: Richard W., Edith;
Allen; Robert; Martha; Susan.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, Ocean Ranch Hotel.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Thomas Roland, Inc., florist; vice-president, Ocean
Ranch Hotel, Miami, Fla.

MEMBER OF: Thomson Club; Oxford Club,

UNTIL recently, I have done nothing but grow and sell plants
and flowers. For the past two years, most of my time has been
spent in this hotel work.

ARMISTEAD BUCKNER ROOD

HOME ADDRESS: 3520 35th St., N.W., Washington 16, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 15, 1909, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Robert Browning Rood,
Thomasia Buckner Armistead.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Kent School,
Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1938,

MarRIED: Margaret Suter, May 9, 1943, New York, N. Y. cHtpren: Armi-
stead Pelton, March 6, 1944; Margaret Sturgis, Sept. 2, 1945; Deborah
Suter, May 17, 1948.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

[ 851 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

OFFICES HELD: Assistant counsel, United States Senate Committee on Inter.
state Commerce, 1935-37; organizer and counsel, Old Colony Com-
muters & Shippers League, 1939-41; attorney, Office of Price Adminis.
tration, 1941-42, Civil Division, Department of Justice, 1944-54; in-
dustrial specialist, Chemicals Division, War Production Board, 1942-
44; legal advisor, Bureau of Public Roads, Department of Commerce,
1954-55; counsel, Boston & Providence Railroad Development Group,
since 1955; vestryman, St. Patrick’s Parish; co-founder, Christianity &
Modern Man Lecture Forum on Cathedral Hill, organizer, trustee and
former secretary, Woodlawn Public Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Boston, District of Columbia and American Bar Associations;
Interstate Commerce Commission; Harvard Clubs of Boston, New

York and Washington; University Club; National Trust for Historic
Preservation.

PUBLICATIONS: “Protecting the User Interest in Railroad Reorganization”,
Law and Contemrporary Problems, 1940.

MY father began his 25th report (Yale ’82z) by saying, “I have
gained neither wealth nor fame”, and as a boy I resolved never
to say that in mine. I have gained neither wealth nor fame. With
my trophy from bright college years (Bennington College, that
is, 5’ 234”) and our three sprightly children I have managed to
keep afloat.

During the depression I went to the Law School in two stages
and was proctor in Matthews Hall. For two intervening years |
worked in Wall Street as assistant counsel to a Senate Committee
investigating railroad bankruptcies. When I got through law
school in 1938 the New Haven railroad enterprise had again
become in its way the greatest show on earth. It had finally gone
broke and was merrily shaking down the creditors and lessor
companies, particularly the Old Colony and Boston & Provi-
dence companies, which owned the lines east of Providence.
While the great lawyers made their incantations in the court-
room the practical job was being pulled in the back rooms at
New Haven. There the humorists set up a division of revenues
so as to allocate perpetual deficits to the lines east of Providence,
which they were operating for the owners. When Old Colony
tried a wholesale abandonment I formed the Old Colony Com-
muters & Shippers League with Arthur Whittemore at the old
Brandeis firm. We got into the middle, but when Adolf Hitler
came along the situation went into cold storage.

In 1941 I came down to Washington to join the Price Adminis-

[ 852 ]

12 Pe PEE AO

rn scm Aer INT ISLE TCT TT ET TE TT TE OTH dle . - " pene a eh
pan menet sgt LIAM OE °

EE ES nS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tration along with Cobb, Lloyd (who supervised young Richard
Nixon) and other worthies. My favorite OPA recollection is
recruiting the New England legal staff. With Dick Field, Tally
Ho MacLachlan, Livingston Hall, Charles Dunbar, and Maxwell
Foster, that was the best government law office ever assembled.
Later I became a chemical tank car manipulator in the War
Production Board, where, by assigning each delivery to the near-
est manufacturer, regardless of whom the buyer thought he was
buying from, we achieved monopoly without disturbing the
competition.

In 1944 I went over to the Department of Justice and became
a courtroom lawyer handling lawsuits over all kinds of govern-
ment contracts. The Civil Division is expert, shorthanded, and
unsung; its tremendous volume of work appears in large part
over the signatures of district attorneys. After ten years I trans-
ferred to work on federal highway legislation and contracts at
Commerce.

I have taken some extended vacations for personal projects.
One was a seven month’s venture in helping our successors to
meet their founding fathers. In 1799 General Washington had
given his adopted daughter, Nelly Custis, in marriage to his
nephew, Lawrence Lewis. He gave them the west 2,000 acres at
Mount Vernon, sketched his idea of a great house on the hilltop,
and called in Dr. Thornton to build it at a cost of $100,000. Wood-
lawn expresses the Tidewater society at its peak when it was
completing its historic mission in the early federal period. In
the summer of 1948 I asked permission to bid $170,000 for it at
a court sale. When the judge (who two weeks earlier had or-
dered it sold to a Belgian religious order) asked if we had the
money, we suggested a formal hearing when the weather got
cooler. That began interlude in grass roots diplomacy, public
relations, fund raising, antiquarians, patrioteers and the foundation
game.

We took possession amicably on the 1soth anniversary of
Nelly’s wedding and we have placed Woodlawn on long lease
to the National Trust for Historic Preservation. It is a fine mu-
seum, but the site is not as precious as Mount Vernon, and I want
to have the land used imaginatively, One suggestion is for a
center where teachers and preachers may receive endowed vaca-

[ 853]

re

a Kf HAE MI OT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

second grade. Next door my eighteenth century mother presides
over the television for good grandchildren. Carroll and Betty
Perry keep up steam around the corner. A major bond of our
community is the Harvard 1931 cell (including the Perrys,
Lloyds and C. D. Scullys) who organized the pan-sectarian Chris-
tianity and Modern Man Forum on Cathedral Hill, where classical
Christianity and modern secularism meet in respectful, critical in-
teraction, with the best lecturers in the business. Perhaps we can
develop a TV program in the future.

The Harvard Fellows seem to like that kind of interaction
nowadays. Imagine them replacing a scientist with a church-
man as their president in 1931. About ten years ago one of them,
speaking at a Harvard Club dinner here, told how as an under-
graduate at Virginia he had been impressed by a building in-
scription and often wondered where it came from. The inscrip-
tion was “the truth shall make you free”, and it somehow remind-
ed him of “Veritas”. Well, wondering is the first step. Too bad
he had not gone to Harvard College and developed the gumption
to find out. But our next Harvard Club dinner is to honor Mr.
John Lord O'Brian for restoring to preeminence the Harvard
Divinity School, of all places, where that promise and its condi-
tion are well known.

May the Lonely Crowd never take over at Harvard; may
grace be unto us all; may we pay our bills to the end.

WILLET CROSBY ROPER, JR.

HOME abpREss: 3405 O St., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE appress: Covington & Burling, 701 Union Trust Bldg., Washington
5, D.C.

BorN: Aug. 4, 1910, West Orange, N. J. parents: Willet Crosby Roper, ’99;
Florence Emmeline Eveleth.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Laura Newbold Wood, July 20, 1940, Cotuit, Mass. cuttp: Laura
Eveleth, Jan. 26, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lanning Roper, ’33.

occuPaTion: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1954-55, president, 1955-56, Washington Welfare
Association.

MEMBER OF: American, New York, and Washington Bar Associations,
Metropolitan Club.

[ 856 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

UPON graduation I tried law school for a year before deciding
whether to make a career of economics, and the only economic
roblems I have had any direct contact with since have been
either strictly personal or related to prospective earnings of
insolvent corporations, anti-trust cases, wage and price adjust-
ments or representations in prospectuses. I went from law school
to one of the large New York firms to my great profit in terms
of thorough training in careful legal workmanship. A quite deep-
seated urge in the direction of government service sent me to the
Securities and Exchange Commission in 1939, where I spent three
ears working on corporate reorganization cases under Chapter X
of the Bankruptcy Act and a fourth year in a split status resulting
from a reorganization of the commission’s staff, which inten-
tionally made me initially responsible for interpretations and
regulations under the Securities Act of 1933 and unintentionally
dropped most of the still active Chapter X cases on my desk.

Selective Service decided I was 4F, my wife, that having me
either at work or sick in bed did not make for a satisfactory mar-
ried life and I, that a job with somewhat less pressure might put
me back on my feet. I returned to private practice as an associate
of Covington & Burling in Washington, D. C., in September,
1943, and became a member of the firm in January, 1949. Pressure
has not been absent there, but private law firms do not have the
staff problems which arise out of the budgetary limitations on
government agencies, manpower is more readily shifted to take
care of urgent demands, and I have perhaps learned to pace myself
better when the pressure is on. My health seems good. I enjoy
my practice and I still have a sympathetic appreciation of the
problems of the government service.

I have worked for the Community Chest and a reasonable
number of Bar Association committees. At the moment I am
president of the Washington Welfare Association which operates
Southeast House, a settlement house serving primarily the Negro
residents in one of the poorest sections of Washington. In really
leisure hours I do a little cabinet work in the garage of our four-
story Georgetown row house. The house was selected in 1950
when, after ten years of married life, it seemed apparent that we
need not consider whether it was convenient for children. We
turned out to be quite wrong, and most of my recent woodwork-

[ 857]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931
'

ing has involved repairing well-worn cribs, high chairs and other
objects, no longer needed by the children of our generous con-
temporaries, but urgently required by Laura Eveleth, born Janu-
ary 26, 1955.

LEWIS SAMUEL ROSE

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Bonad Rd., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Young Years Manufacturing Corp., East Boston, Mass.

porn: May 24, 1910, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Morris Rose, Sarah Green.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MARRIED: Rosalind Sylvia Snyder, July 29, 1939, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Gerald Alan, Jan. 5, 1942; Deborah Anne, March 15, 1946.

occupation: Treasurer and general manager, Young Years Manufacturing
Corporation, manufacturers of baby nursery products.

MEMBER OF: Jewish Big Brother Association, Order of B’nai B’rith; Temple
Emanuel Brotherhood.

ACTUALLY, for this Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report I could
refer you to my 2oth, for little change has occurred since then,
except that I am five years older. However, in order to make it
easier for anyone who may be interested, I'll retell it here. Upon
graduation with our famous depression class, I managed to keep
the wolf from my door with three simultaneous jobs as a sales-
man, constable’s assistant and tutor in Latin and math. The sum
total remuneration of all three came to a grand salary of $20.00
a week which, if you recall, was a fantastic sum for that night-
marish period.

_ In 1932 I managed to obtain a single position and entered the
manufacturing field of baby nursery products as an assistant in
the production end. Having spent much of my four years at
Harvard avoiding an education, and having seen a majority of
the economic theories of my sacred field of concentration go up
in smoke during the depression, I found it necessary to supple-
ment what little I had earned by taking some practical evening
courses in industrial engineering. As a result, I became a real
nuisance to my wife who strenuously objected to my work sim-
plification and efficiency methods which I tried to apply to her
private world of housekeeping. Evidently I was more successful
with my employer than with my wife, for in 1937 I became

[ 858 ]

samme

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

factory superintendent and remained in that capacity until my
resignation in 1946.

Fortunately (I am a realist) I had no glamourous war history,
running the entire gamut of 1B, 2A, 3A, 3B and 4A. I somehow
escaped the all-fatal classification of 1A and its unhealthy counter-
part 4F. This was due to the fact that our factory was com-
pletely converted to the manufacturé of war materiel, such as
Mae West jackets, parachute kits, airplane safety belts, etc.

In 1945, with an opportunity to better my financial status, I
deserted the baby field for a fling in manufacturing women’s
shoes. As general manager in charge of production, I decided
after a year that the transition from innocent baby’s products
to the glamour of mature women’s shoes was too rapid a maturity
for me, so I returned to my first love —the baby nursery field.
Having an intense desire to be my own boss with the accom-
panying advantage of coming in later than 9 o’clock and depart-
ing at 3 o’clock, I formed in 1947 my own company, the Young
Years Manufacturing Corporation, of which I am treasurer and
general manager. The anticipated soft hours were long in coming,
but despite the hard work in the beginning, it was a very satis-
fying feeling to be working for my own company. If all my
classmates, including myself, would have increased their quota
from the present one of 2.4 children, my business might have
grown larger than it is. However, I have no complaints, for I am
not over-ambitious money-wise. It has never been my desire to
be a twelve-hour-a-day executive in order to pile up enough to
retire at the age of sixty. I much prefer to enjoy life while still
a “kid”.

Politically, I have always leaned toward the Democratic party
and have voted as such in every presidential election. I have not,
however, been a blind Democrat and have been critical of many
of its policies and actions. However, at those times I still voted
for the Democratic candidate as the lesser of two evils. While I
still hate the machinations of politics, I have been active in local
elections, where friends of mine have been candidates. As far as
hobbies are concerned I have enjoyed many over the course of
these past years and have varied them according to my age and
resulting ailments — from Sunday morning touch football and a
torn ligament to week-end softball and a broken finger to tennis

[ 859]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and squash and an ailing back to the milder ones of fishing, stamp
collecting, reading two to three books a week, gardening and,
now, that ever enjoyable and exasperating game of golf. Most
important of all, I have enjoyed taking vacation trips with my
family and going away for the summer with them. It’s quite a
feat keeping up with my active daughter, Debbie, aged ten, who
is just loaded with excess energy and my fourteen-year-old typical
teen-age son, Gerald, with all the resulting interests in jive rec-
ords, skin diving, sailing, and who now threatens me with hot rod
interests. Most of all he has forced me to renew my studying in
Latin and algebra. Both my children have haunted me about my
ever-failing hair and, as a result, I have by dint of much effort
managed to keep my scalp barely covered so that those of you
who remember me will at least be able to recognize me at the
Twenty-fifth Reunion.

Not having led as interesting a life as most of my classmates,
I am afraid I have utilized much more space than I should have.
However, you will have to forgive me for it is equally important
that I impress my children with quantity of words, if not quality.
Since I shall never qualify to appear on the program, “This Is
Your Life”, I am satisfied to have had my moment here.

A. VICTOR ROSEN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 405 W. 23d St., New York 11, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Leon Rosen, Zara Brockman.

PREPARED AT: Lownsend Harris Hall, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B, 1931 (32).

UNMARRIED,

occuPATION: Writer.

MEMBER OF; The Players.

pusLications: Analyze Yourself; Dark Plunder, Wanderlust, Victory in My
Hands, From the Ashes of Disgrace.

WHEN the Abbe Sieyés was asked what he had done during the
Reign of Terror, he replied, “I lived through it”.

[ 860 ]

eer ee oe a Ne fer. e

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STANLEY ROSENBAUM

HOME ADDRESS: 117 Riverview Drive, Florence, Ala.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Muscle Shoals Theatres, Florence, Ala.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1910, Denver, Colo. parents: Louis Rosenbaum, Anna Block.

PREPARED AT: Coffee High School, Florence, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M. (Univ. of Denver),
1932,

MarRiED: Mildred Ruth Bookholtz, Nov. 27, 1938, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN:
David Hillel, May 11, 1941; Jonathan Daniel, Feb. 27, 1943; Alvin Robert,
Jan. 14, 1945; Michael Joseph, Dec. 12, 1947.

occuPATION: Partner and associate manager, motion picture theatre chain.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Alabama Theatre Owners Association, 1952-55; lodge
president, 1941, state secretary, 1947, state vice-president, 1952-53, state
president, 1953-54, lodge treasurer, 1954-55, district treasurer-comp-
troller, 1954-55, member District Executive Committee, 1953-55, B'nai
B’rith; member Southern Regional Board, 1950-54, Southeastern Regional
Board, 1954-55, National Program Committee, 1954-55, Anti-Defamation
League; chairman State Anti-Defamation League, 1954-55, past presi-
dent, Congregation B'nai Israel; treasurer, Florence-Lauderdale County
Library Board, 1945-55, Muscle Shoals Regional Library Board, 1947-
553 president (twice), Florence Exchange Club; co-chairman, Florence
Community Chest Drive, 1952, Florence Armed Services Committee,
1953-55; chairman Florence Great Books Group (three years).

MEMBER OF: Florence Golf & Country Club; Florence Exchange Club;
Southern Regional Council; B’nai B'rith, Theatre Owners of America;
Variety Club.

MY life, like most, is a tissue of paradoxes. I had wanted to be a
professor or writer; I find myself happy as the partner and
associate manager of a small motion picture theatre chain. I think
of myself as cosmopolitan, although I have lived in Florence,
Alabama, since childhood and have never been abroad. I dislike
being conspicuous, and yet I have spent the last fifteen years in
the only Frank Lloyd Wright house in Alabama. I am a religious
skeptic, and take great pleasure in teaching Sunday School. I call
myself a political independent, and then always find myself voting
the straight Democratic ticket. I am highly selective in my
reading matter, but get a great kick out of reading Ray Bradbury’s
science fiction aloud to my kids. I despise lion- hunters, and
treasure the acquaintance of the few writers and musicians I
know. Finally, I am a thorough introvert who enjoys doing
things with his family, but who finds himself increasingly in-
volved in organizational activities.

{ 86r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

PAUL ROSENFELS

MAILING ADDRESS: 5752 Harper Ave., Chicago 37, Ill.
BoRN: March 21, 1909, Chicago, Ill. ParRENTs: Irwin S. Rosenfels, Helen

Zuckerman.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREE: M.D. (Rush Medical Coll.), 1938.
oocupaTiON: Medicine.

DAVID ELI ROSENGARD

HOME ADDRESS: 7 Kilsyth Terr., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Technical High School, Boston, Mass.

BorRN: July 16, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Max Abraham Rosengard,
Rose Bloom.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A-M., 1932.

marRiED: Bruna Hazan, Aug. 29, 1937, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Robert
Simon, Nov. 21, 1939; Rose, Dec. 3, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of mathematics.

HAVING acquired my Harvard A.M. in 1932, I tackled the
only work then available, education. Unexpected success in
passing the first three exams of the Actuarial Society of America
failed to bring fruit, and by 1938 I had already succeeded in
carving out a substantial rut in the teaching field. Discouraged
by Harvard from resuming my studies with a doctorate as an
objective, and with the added responsibilities of wife and prospec-
tive family, I remained faithful to teaching and brushed aside all
personal preferences.

Excluded from military service by reason of a physical defi-
ciency contracted during my college days, I was obliged to sit
out the war as a civilian, making whatever contribution I could
from the sidelines.

In 1949 1 managed to break up the monotony briefly by way
of a sabbatical leave, but found myself — ironically — studying
and teaching at Boston University. The change was nevertheless
welcome and the lift provided by the return to the role of student
was invigorating enough to carry me along for several years.

In 1953 came a real break and the highlight of recent years,
when a fellowship grant from the Fund for the Advancement of
Education (a Ford Foundation affiliate) provided the opportunity

[ 862 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to see something of this country. For seven months I was able
to travel through the United States, visiting industry and getting
first-hand view of what it seeks from education and what it offers
in return, My family was able to join me in this trip, and the
20,000-mile journey through some thirty-odd states was a mem-
orable one for us all.

Mental relaxation is provided, peculiarly enough, by two
evenings of instruction in college math at Lincoln Institute, a
division of Northeastern University. The rewards of teachin
people who want to learn are great. It does leave little room for
straying from the straight and narrow, and my family has reason
to complain of neglect.

To round out the year, since 1929, my summers have been
given over to private camp work. During most of that period
I have labored directly with children, gradually assuming admin-
istrative duties which, in time, crowded out my earlier activities.
More recently, I have gravitated into the purchasing department,
buying everything required td operate a community of some
22§—300 souls, and arranging as well for all the services demanded
by them. It has been challenging enough to keep me hustling,
different enough from my school work to keep me out of that
educational rut which is every teacher’s occupational hazard, and
rewarding enough to keep me coming back for more.

If working with children has kept me young, as so many claim
it will, I suspect it has not kept at bay that mellowing which
comes with the years. I find relaxation in reading, with an
occasional trip to the theatre. Having a nephew who captained
a recent Harvard basketball team and played shortstop for the
baseball team, I renewed my interest in Harvard athletics for
several years until his graduation; the renewed interest has con-
tinued, I am pleased to say. Spiritually I have kept alive through
membership in Temple Ohabei Shalom, Brookline. Politically I
have undergone little change over the years, remaining a voter
who sees little difference in the parties, and who confines his
voting to the personalities involved. My batting average in this
connection has been eminently satisfactory to me and I derive
pleasure from my share in admitting a bit of fresh air to the
political scene every so often.

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

RALPH ADOLPH ROSS

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Meadow Way, Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 51 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 25, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Ross, Meta Miriam
Davidson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.D. 1935.

marrieD: Alice Frances Rosenbaum, Dec. 21, 1939, New York, N. Y. cu-
DREN: David Stanley, Feb. 22, 1943; Frederic Davidson, March 22, 1946;
Alice Frances, May 10, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Pediatrician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of pediatrics, Harvard Medical
School; physician, Children’s Medical Service, Massachusetts General
Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; various medical organizations par-
ticularly associated with pediatrics.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional medical papers.

.

THE life of a practising physician who tries to keep information
in his field progressive by frequent contact with younger men
in the field, leaves me very little time for other activities than
attempts to remain known to my family, to enjoy regular visits
to the Boston Symphony Orchestra and occasional trips to a small
cabin in southern New Hampshire.

Like most of my colleagues in the healing profession who have
constantly to make known their opinions to people in their daily
work, I prefer not to write for publication my social, political
or religious convictions. However, I think it fair to state that
both my wife and I are registered Republicans who usually vote
the Democratic ticket and remain firm in the adherence to the
Judaism of our families.

ARTHUR HENRY ROURKE

HOME appress: 374 Atlantic Ave., Cohasset, Mass.

oFFice appress: Norris-Thermador Corp., Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 13, 1909, Natick, Mass. parents: Michael Henry Rourke, Julia
Frances Driscoll.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

Marriep: Anne C. Devine, Sept. 24, 1938, Quincy, Mass. cutLpren; Kevin,
Aug. 27, 1939; Arthur, Oct. 8, 1942; Andrea, Aug. 20, 1947.

[ 864 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupPaTION: Sales engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Cohasset Little League, Knights of Colum-
bus; member Community Chest.

MEMBER OF: A.S.Q.C., National Housewares Association.

THE first five years after Harvard | spent as a civil engineer
on road and bridge construction with the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, supplanting my work with courses at Worcester
Tech. From 1937 to 1941, I operated my own wholesale and re-
tail hardware business in Newton, Massachusetts. From 1942 to
1953, I held the position of quality control manager for Raytheon
Manufacturing Company, working on many secret and radar
communications during the war years. From 1953 to 1954, I
worked as a consulting engineer for various organizations. Since
that time I have been affiliated with Norris-Thermador Corpora-
tion of California as sales engineer in the east. Living in Cohasset,
I enjoy boating, fishing and golf and community activities, With
the boys heading towards college age, one’s nose must stick to
the grindstone after noting the major capital involved.

CARL SHERMAN ROWE

HOME ADDRESS: 175 Brewster Rd., Scarsdale, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chadbourne, Parke, Whiteside, Wolff & Brophy, 25 Broad-
way, New York 4, N. Y.

BorN: May 7, 1910, Grand Rapids, Mich. Parents: William Sherman Rowe,
Helen May Baker.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; J.D. (Univ. of Michigan
Law School), 1934.

MarrieD: Fynette Fiske, June 29, 1935, Canandaigua, N. Y. cuipren: Judith
Fynette, Aug. 23, 1939; Catherine Selina, Nov. 5, 1941; John Gerry,

Nov. 2, 1948.

occupation: Lawyer; parmer in firm of Chadbourne, Parke, Whiteside,
Wolff & Brophy.

MEMBER OF: Westchester Hills Golf Club, Scarsdale, N. Y.; Town Club;
American Bar Association.

AFTER graduation I spent three very pleasant years in Ann
Arbor attending Michigan Law School. I not only got my law
degree there but met the girl I later married, a loyal alumna of
Mount Holyoke. In 1934 I came to New York as an associate

[ 865 ]

5 lilllndeadillgdat lana cite tiim teal ays ia nimmaiatail ial ees rae sec ne neti tite tilt aid iiaianitatsnens

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

in my present law firm and have been with them as associate or
partner since that time. My legal work has been primarily in
the field of transportation, both air and steamship. This has
naturally meant that I have used a considerable amount of trans-
portation myself. Business has taken me abroad a number of
times and to various parts of the United States, but, unfortunately,
most of my traveling has been commuting back and forth to
Washington. At times my trips to Washington have been so
frequent and so protracted that one of my daughters is convinced
I am a secret agent for the F.B.I. While a considerable part of
my work has been with government agencies and commissions,
I have not had the pleasure of working for any government
bureau, except as we all do when we file our Forms 1040.

For the last thirteen years I have lived a commuter’s life in
various suburban villages around New York, something that |
and ninety-nine out of a hundred other commuters swore twenty
years ago we would never do. I am now living in a community
that is the acme of suburban life. There are almost as many
organizations, associations and committees as there are inhabitants.
Fortunately, there are so many earnest and civic-minded subur-
banites that this over-organization need not appreciably interfere
either with one’s own life or the life of the community.

Our children are two very teen-age girls and one very cow-
boy-age boy. They serve as antidotes for one another, but some-
times, for instance after a recent party for fourteen seven-year-
old boys, we feel the need for a sedative rather than an antidote.
And I guess that is a sign that my Twenty-fifth is just around
the corner.

JAMES HENRY ROWE, JR.

HOME AppREss: 3207 Highland Pl. N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Corcoran, Youngman & Rowe, 1511 K St., N.W., Washing-
ton, D. C.

BORN: June 1, 1909, Butte, Mont. parents: James Henry Rowe, Josephine
Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Bellarmine School, Santa Clara, Calif,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.By 1934.

MmarrigpD: Elizabeth Holmes Ulman, Sept. 6, 1937, Washington, D. C, cut-

[ 866 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DREN: Elizabeth, Aug. 9, 1941; Clarissa, April 23, 1948; James Henry,
3d, June 6, 1951.

occuPaTION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Administrative assistant to President Roosevelt, 1939-41;
Assistant Attorney General, 1941-43; lieutenant, US.N.R., 1943-45;
technical adviser to the Nirnberg Tribunal, 1945-46; member, First
Hoover Commission on Reorganization of the Federal Government,
1947-49; chairman, Commission on Organization of the Government
of Puerto Rico, 1949-50; member, Roosevelt Memorial Commission,
1956; trustee, Twentieth Century Fund; director, Franklin D. Roose-
velt Association.

IT is not an altogether agreeable task to explain, as much to my-
self as to my classmates, how I have used a quarter-century. In
spite of what the calendar says, it seems perfectly clear to me that
not twenty-five years but only three or four have gone by since
I left Harvard. I admit that I do notice that the public personages
we daily encounter such as policemen, street car conductors,
ministers, priests and taxicab drivers are not the same mature and
middle-aged individuals they were during my college years. They
seem to have been replaced overnight by callow high school boys.

My life so far appears to have been divided into three phases
after Law School: first, a number of exciting years as a govern-
ment servant during the New Deal; then an interlude during the
war when I was on aircraft carriers in the Pacific, plus a post-
war year in Germany; and last,.a comparatively sedate and con-
ventional period as a Washington lawyer representing corporate
clients with occasional and temporary government assignments
thrown in. This enables me to pay my bills and allows me to
make a small contribution to Secretary Humphrey so that he can
balance the budget, but it is hardly the Good Life and I rarely,
if ever, meet a contemporary lawyer who really thinks so.

I made what was clearly even then a fruitless attempt to rectify
all this by campaigning for Adlai Stevenson in 1952. I served as
his “advance man” in the west and spent considerable time at
Springfield headquarters. It was indeed a novel experience for
a partisan Democrat, nurtured on twenty years of victories, to
see the ship go down without a trace. I know and understand
that it was a good thing for my soul. I hope only that I am not
due for some more shock therapy in 1956.

I have no hobbies other than politics. My wife and I live in a

[ 867 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

large, weather-beaten, ramshackle white frame house with three
entirely too young children, who alternately delight us and drive
us to the outer edges of irritation and despair. 1 have learned —
and accepted—the final truth that after forty the American
male’s only real function is to be a good provider.

WARREN CARLEY ROWE

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Wellesley Rd., Belmont, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Rowe Contracting Co., 1500 Salem St., Malden, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1907, Melrose, Mass. PARENTS: Ransom Rowe, Eliza Agnes
Lonergan.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

marRieD: Abigail Jane McGowan, Nov. 10, 1934, Watertown, Mass, cHIL-
DREN: Jane E., Aug. 12, 1935; Warren Carley, Jr. May 4, 1938; Peter T.,
Aug. 17, 1941; David A., Nov. 2, 1942; Susan G., July 6, 1950.

occuPATION: Treasurer, Rowe Contracting Company, quarry operators and
road contractors.

OFFICES HELD: President, Malden Rotary Club, 1951-52, Massachusetts
Crushed Stone Association, 1950-55; regional vice-president, National
Crushed Stone Association, 1950-55; director, Catholic Alumni Sodality
of Boston, 1951-52; treasurer, Massachusetts Labor Relations Division
of New England Road Builders Association, 1953-55; director, Scully
Signal Company, 1936-55.

MEMBER OF: Malden Rotary Club; Catholic Alumni Sodality of Boston,
Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Vibration Can Produce Insurance Subrogation Problems for
Quarry Owners”, Pit & Quarry, 1954.

TWO busy years, 1931-33, at the Harvard Graduate School of
Business Administration followed college and provided many
new fast friends while furnishing, as time bore out, tools of
thinking which have stood by in good stead “lo, these many
years’. And yet it was a sluggish business world to be cast into
in that year of 1933. A job with long hours and little pay was
the best to be had, F.D.R.’s pump-priming soon reached into
the field of highway construction, my chosen occupation, so
that until the close of 1940 I was gainfully occupied in the rock
quarry business and related highway construction field. During
these years I made many new friends, married, began the raising
of a family, traveled a bit to Europe, Mexico and California, and
commenced to take an earnest interest in community affairs.

[ 868 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1941 I became affiliated with a joint construction firm which
built many military airports and other defense installations.
With this background, however, it was but a short step in early
1944 to the U.S. Navy where, until 1946, I lent such aid as I
could as a lieutenant working for the Bureau of Ships. A most
interesting sidelight on this occupation, as well as in other new
ventures, was the need of living down one’s Harvard background
at first and then living up to it as the project developed.

The postwar years, 1946-50, saw time once again devoted to
my own family business of drilling and blasting rock out of the
ground as nature left it and milling it for use in the nation’s
rapidly expanding system of highways and airports. As always,
it is most amazing and gratifying how often in one’s daily duties
a classmate will appear on the horizon. With so many such
classmates living in the vicinity of Boston, it is a happy event
being in touch with them so often. Since 1950 — to wrap up the
business side of the twenty-five-year picture — my company has
widely expanded its field of operations to include the most mod-
ern methods of drilling and blasting rock (of which New Eng-
land has plenty) in quarries and in the path of new highways in
all parts of New England. A keen and active part in my national
trade association, known as the National Crushed Stone Associa-
tion, completes the working-man outline.

As for sports, I still play a bit of golf and follow a modified
program of winter squash, the latter with that old reliable sprinter
and classmate, Arthur Watkins. I continue to support the Har-
vard Varsity Club and to watch a few football games, though
at times I grit my teeth. In general, I am a supporter of Harvard’s
present attitude toward athletics.

Meanwhile, the Rowe family continues to grow with the
number of children at five — all the way from Wheaton College
to kindergarten and all looking forward to Dad’s Twenty-fifth
Reunion in June of ’56. In concluding, I can say, in all truthful-
ness, that God has been very good to me.

[ 869 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

JONATHAN HARVEY ROWELL

MAILING ADDRESS: 234 Marshall St., Redwood City, Calif.

BoRN: Oct. 29, rg09, Fresno, Calif. parents: Chester Harvey Rowell, Myrtle
Lingle.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of California,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B. 1934.

marrieD: Diana Mandell, Sept. 22, 1943, Faribault, Minn. cuiLp: Chester
David, Oct. 23, 1945.

occupation: Lawyer.

JAMES ALFRED ROWSE

HOME ADDRESS: 164 Harwood Ave., Littleton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Apple Products Co., Littleton, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1907, Arlington, Mass. parents: Arthur Edward Rowse, Edith
May Hartley.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

marriep: Anna B. Barnes, June 25, 1932, Bedford, Mass. CHILDREN: James
Alfred, Jr., May 8, 1933; David Fletcher, June 23, 1936; John R., June
2, 1943; Edith H., April 17, 1946; Samuel B., April 2, 1947,

HARVARD BROTHERS: Ralph Hartley Rowse, ’11; Arthur Edward Rowse, ’18.

occupation: Owner, New England Apple Products Company and New
England Vinegar Works, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1942-45, chairman, 1945, Littleton School Commit-
tee; deacon, Littleton Congregational Church, 1953, 1955; treasurer, Boy
Scout Troop Committee, Troop 1, Littleton, 1953-55; trustee, Ayer
Community Memorial Hospital, 1945-56.

BEING a “tea-totaler” is a bit difficult in the vinegar business
where, after twenty-five years of continuous service, I should be
well “pickled” by now. To overcome this difficulty we now
produce fruit juices such as “Veryfine” apple juice and apricot
nectar as well as “Veryfine-Golden Harvest” prune juice, and
we use the trade name New England Apple Products Company,
to eliminate the “pucker” that results from reading our corporate
name, New England Vinegar Works, Inc., on a label.

From 1931 on, some trying and many happy situations have
arisen in connection with the growth of our family, our com-
munity and our business. Our family is made up of two sets —
not twins — just an older set of two boys and a younger set of
one girl and two boys. Jim, Jr., will be twenty-three by the

[ 870 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time you read this. He graduated from Hebron Academy, at-
tended Middlebury College and served his two years with Uncle
Sam. Back home last May, he entered the Apple Products Busi-
ness and is currently plant superintendent and doing a bang-up
job of it. Dave is nineteen, a sophomore at Bowdoin, plans to be
an engineer, combining three years at Bowdoin, with two years
at M.I.-T. and, we hope, end up with degrees in both science and
art. There is a great deal to be said for these combination setups
that give a man a touch of small college life before he gets in-
volved in the intricacies of the scientific age. The younger
members of the family are fast growing up in the third, fourth
and seventh grades; they can’t exactly be called babies any
more.

Just one little humorous family incident might be welcome
at this point. I guess you all know how kids hate fish. Sammy,
our youngest, really abhors this sticky, scaly substance. Tuna
fish was the subject at hand. When told that this was “Chicken
of the Sea” and he should therefore eat it with relish, he re-
marked, ““Aw, who ever saw a chicken floating on a wave”. Need-
less to say, he was excused from further contact with tuna fish.

The better half of the family has been busy since long before
I ever met her. Born and raised on a farm in Bedford, Massachu-
setts, she has certainly done her share of work raising this quin-
tet of ours while she continued until recently to play the organ
and direct the choir in our local church. Between us I'll wager
a guess that we’ve held every job the Congregational Church
has had to offer-—some of them more than once.

Now comes the payoff. We’re going into semi-retirement on
a beautiful old farm in Mason, New Hampshire, only twenty-
four miles from our business in Littleton. We have forty acres
of land, a big barn and coach house, plus a fine old brick-end
colonial home that simply teems with historical significance.
The house was built in 1799 by the first minister in Mason, one
Ebenezer Hill. He had three wives and raised ten kids up there.
Such is not my intent or desire. It is rather to get some more
of the real satisfaction that only back-country living can give
so abundantly.

[ 871]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

BERNARD JOSEPH RUBENSTEIN

HOME ADDRESS: 790 FE. Third St. Brooklyn 18, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Brooklyn Law School, 375 Pearl St, Brooklyn 1, N. Y.

porN: March 6, 1910, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Jacob Rubenstein, Sophie
Snyder.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B. 19313 LL.B. 1934(35).

MarRRiED: Regina Muriel Stern, Feb. 22, 1945, Brooklyn, N. Y.

occupation: Professor, Brooklyn Law School.

MEMBER OF: A few honorary memberships.

PUBLICATIONS: Law books and articles.

I AM a law school professor. My family is the finest. I traveled
over most of the world through the courtesy of the U. S. Navy,
when they allowed me to be a gunnery officer during World
War Il. For a very short while I was a numismatist, but gave
that up when I realized that I was tying up all my money in
money. I have been a government attorney, a civil defense volun-
teer and a juvenile delinquency helper. In the Navy I learned
never to discuss politics or religion — that is, if one wanted to
avoid arguments and ill feelings. I have no social convictions.

IRA MATTHEW RUBIN

HOME apprEss: 108 Westbourne Terr., Brookline, Mass.

OFFicE appress: Blum Jewelry Co., 468 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: March 27, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Rubin, Fannie
Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1928.

MARRIED: Freda Suskin, Oct. 26, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHmpren: Herbert
Joseph, June 12, 1944; Eugene Harold, June 13, 1949.

occupation: Jeweler — half-owner of discount jewelry house and collateral
loan business.

HAVE been in the jewelry business since I left college except
for one year when I attempted to sell life insurance. For several
years I had my own business buying, selling job lots, etc., and
managed to keep my head above water. However, in 1942 with
the scarcity of merchandise, I gave up and went to work in
Filene’s diamond and watch department, after a short while

[ 872 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

becoming assistant manager of the department. In 1948 I was
“borrowed” by the May Company of Los Angeles to organize
and open a similar department. I found this a very interesting
but exhausting experience —also a profitable one. After three
months of California I returned to Boston and back to work in
Filene’s. Perhaps I should have mentioned that these jewelry
departments are leased to specialists in that field and that I was
working for the largest operator of such departments in the
country. Finally, in 1951, 1 was offered the opportunity of
managing the diamond department in Mandel Brothers, one of
Chicago’s large stores. I stayed in the Chicago area for three
years but, except financially, can’t say that I enjoyed living and
working there. Perhaps I love Boston too much!

In November of 1954 I was given the opportunity of pur-
chasing a jewelry and loan business in Central Square, Cambridge.
It took me only a short time to come to a decision and only three
weeks to quit my Chicago job and move bag and baggage back
to Boston. I have been very happy in this new work and hope
that I have finally “settled down” so far as my business life is
concerned.

My family life has been a very happy one. I am blessed with
a wonderful wife and two fine sons; I am proud to say that, after
fourteen years, Freda and I are still sweethearts. I fully believe
it will remain that way “until death do us part”. Due to circum-
stances beyond my control, and to my everlasting regret, I was
unable to get a Harvard degree. I hope to live to see my sons
achieve a goal their “old man” never could reach. I regret that
I haven’t been a very faithful son of our wonderful University,
but I do hope to be able to do a great deal more some time in the
near future.

MORTON ALBERT RUBIN

HOME apprEss: 29 Schuyler St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: G-2, GHQ, FEC, APO s00, % Postmaster, San Francisco,
Calif.

BORN: Jan, 8, 1910, Stoughton, Mass. Parents: Philip Rubin, Esther Bessie
Medncov.

[ 873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930, 1931-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1931 (32); a.m. (Clark
Univ.), 1934; PH.D. (ibid.), 1936.

MARRIED: Marion Rose Winston, May 28, 1931, Rye, N. H. cuinp: Carol
Joan, July 31, 1935.

occuPATION: Military service.

CECIL NEWTON RUDNICK

HOME appress: 2 Cove Lane, Kings Point, Long Island, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Joseph Berg Manufacturing Stationer, Inc., 100 Sixth Ave.,
New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 26, 1910, Boston, Mass, parents: Abraham Irving Rudnick, Flora
Dunn.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~193I. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRIED: Bernice L. Levy, June 24, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
David Lawrence, May 2, 1940; Andrew John, May 18, 1947.

occuPaTioN: President, Joseph Berg Manufacturing Stationer, Inc., manu-
facturers of bank stationery, lichographing and printing financial forms,
bank checks and checkbooks.

MEMBER OF: Fresh Meadow Country Club, Great Neck, N. Y.,; Lawyers
Club, New York City; United Lodge, A.F. & A.M.,; American Rhodo-
dendron Society.

SPENT the years up to the war in the moving picture business
in New England. Became a communications officer in the Navy
and saw parts of Africa, Europe and England, until separation
in October, 1945.

Since then I have been living in New York and printing bank
forms and checkbooks, with enough material gain and annual
satisfactory plant improvement to enable me to lead a most
pleasant suburban existence with Bernice and our two sons.

David, fifteen, is already taller than I and handles the adolescent
problem with more reserve and restraint than I do. We were
runners-up in the annual Parent-Child Golf Tournament this
year, and this has considerably improved my standing with him.
Andrew, nine, is a happy, exuberant, extrovert who, at this stage,
is a constant source of joy and pleasure. Bernice (Wellesley ’38)
has always been the best thing that ever happened to me, and has
been just wonderful wherever we have lived and whatever we
have done. Our life centers around our family, our Country
Club, and our Temple (Rabbi J. P. Rudin ’24), where Bernice

[ 874 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is a trustee and president of the board of education, providing
guidance for its more than 1300 boys and girls as well as the adult
population of the Temple.

The past twenty-five years (and commuting on the Lon
Island Railroad) have not left me entirely unscathed. They’ve
been constantly changing and constantly improving years, but
I’m still an optimist and still firm in my belief that the next
twenty-five will be even better.

GEORGE KING RUGG

HOME ADpDRESS: 16 Spring St., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Herald-Traveler Corp., 80 Mason St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 7, 1908, Arlington, Mass. parents: George Bigelow Cheever Rugg,
94, Winnifred Belle King.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREE: A.B., 1931,

MarRniED: Lillian Cushman, June 18, 1939, Newton Centre, Mass, CHILDREN:
Pamela, Jan. 3, 1944; Cynthia, Aug. 3, 1946, George King, Jr., June 1,
1952.

OCCUPATION: Newspaper business; business office of Boston Herald-Traveler
Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Scoutmaster, Troop 8, Arlington, Mass., 1932-36, board mem-
ber, Arlington Friends of the Drama, 1950-52; chairman parish com-
mittee, First Parish Unitarian Church, Arlington, Mass., 1955; president,
Laymen’s League, Arlington Chapter, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Arlington Friends of the Drama; Laymen’s League, Arlington
Chapter,

MY business career has been twenty-four years with The Boston
Herald-Traveler. I have worked in the national advertising
department, promotion department, display desk, and business
office. I served four years as an officer in the U.S.N.R. during
World War II. I was attached to the Office of Naval Intelli-
gence as, of all things, an expert on Russian affairs. I was an
armed guard officer on three liberty ships and the President Taft.
I survived these trips without untoward incidents, and in four
voyages totaling some twenty-two months, I never visited a major
port except Marseilles, I am probably the greatest living author-
ity on the dismal ports of North Africa, the Adriatic Sea, Red
Sea, Persian Gulf, and assorted soon forgotten Pacific Islands.
There are none I want to revisit.

[ 875]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Since the war, I have been busy in three unrelated fields of
endeavor aside from my work at The Herald-Traveler. First, ]
have maintained an active interest in the Naval Reserve, and for
the last four years have been executive officer of NR (L) MSTS
Co., 1-1 Boston. Second, in time sequence, I joined the Unitarian
Church in Arlington. I have served in various capacities on its
boards and committees. To me, its approach to and search for
a way of life makes sense. Third, and most important, I am
engaged in raising a family — two girls and a boy — and trying
to raise them with an awareness of the great land of which the
are a part. This is not my job alone. I have been blessed with a
wife who has the patience of Job, and the ability to adjust herself
to any situation, economic, social, or psychological that may
arise — and do they arise!

Admittedly, sometimes Harvard fades into the background,
but if one phrase could sum up what my four years taught me,
I would say that more and more I am convinced of the truth of
the golden mean of the ancient Greeks, “Nothing to excess”. |
believe I practise that in every regard except in debating the
merits of the Boston newspapers and their value as an advertising
medium. Twenty-four years with a single business does not
allow one to be complacent about its merits. The Herald-
Traveler, the Unitarian Church, the Naval Reserve, and Rugg —
we get along happily and, in a mild way, profitably.

RUDY LAMONT RUGGLES

HOME ADDRESS: 2743 Illinois Rd., Wilmette, ILL.

OFFICE AppRESS: Snyder, Chadwell & Fagerburg, 135 S, LaSalle St., Chicago
3, Ill.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Daniel Emery Ruggles, Ankah
Leona Rudy.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1934.

marrieD: Ruth Cain, Dec. 14, 1935, Evanston, Ill. caitpren: Rudy Lamont,
Jr., Nov. 11, 1938; Jean Cain, Oct. 7, 1942.

OccuPATION: Attorney and counsellor-at-law; partner, Snyder, Chadwell &
Fagerburg.

OFFICES HELD: Associate in law firm of Isham, Lincoln & Beale, Chicago,

1935-42; principal attorney (rationing), Office of Price Administration,
1942-44, member executive committee, Legal Club of Chicago, 1950-

[ 876 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

51; member board of directors, Economic Club of Chicago, since 1953;
member executive committee, North Shore Country Day School, Win-
netka, 1952-54; member Legal Aid Bureau, United Charities of Chicago,
since 1954; member Scholarship and Schools Committee, Harvard Club
of Chicago, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Chicago Bar Association; Illinois State Bar Association; Ameri-
can Bar Association; Legal Club of Chicago; Law Club of Chicago;
Executives Club of Chicago; Economic Club of Chicago; Mid-Day Club,
Chicago Club; Glen View Club; Caxton Club; Chicago Literary Club;
Grolier Club, New York.

THE years 1931-1934 were spent in acquiring a law degree. I
traveled to Chicago, where I knew not a single Chicagoan,
knocked on law office doors and became associated with Robert
Todd Lincoln’s old law firm, Isham, Lincoln & Beale.

When Pearl Harbor was attacked, I was happily engaged in
the practice of public utility and securities law with that con-
servative firm of rock-ribbed Republicans. Several days later,
I was weeks behind in my work in a typically Democratic admin-
istrative agency, working on drafts of rationing regulations, hir-
ing lawyers, establishing legal staffs around the country, making
speeches on the legal aspects of rationing, and matching wits
with inquiring newspaper reporters. The pressure was tre-
mendous but, ultimately, the offices were established, all neces-
sary regulations were written and the critical interpretations
made. I then resigned and, for two years as a lieutenant (j.g.)
and lieutenant, acted as special counsel for Navy purchasing and
contract termination activities.

In early 1946, I returned to the private practice of law in
Chicago. For the past ten years I have engaged in legal activities,
ranging all the way from trying to determine whether a person -
blowing a whistle on a television program had to be an actor or
a sound effects man to participating in the defense of one of the
principal defendants in the intensely interesting antitrust suit
of U.S. v. du Pont, General Motors, U.S. Rubber, et al.

The girl who was the reason for my numerous visits to North-
ampton in the early 1930’s became my wife shortly after she
graduated from Smith College in 1935. We now have a candi-
date for admission to Harvard this year. One candidate is ex-
tremely interested in mathematics and the natural sciences, likes
the outdoor life and western trail riding, and is always a threat

[ 877 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

to wind up with high gun in our Club skeet shoots. We also
have a candidate for admission to Smith in 1960. She captains her
North Shore Country Day School hockey and basketball teams
and plays classical music or boogie woogie with equal enthusiasm
on the piano.

Vacations, because of my profession, have been on a “when,
as and if” basis. They have followed no pattern and have varied
from rusticating in a log cabin in the North Woods to luxuriat-
ing in lush comfort in the far South, from trail riding and fishing
in Wyoming to re-visiting favorite spots in Europe.

Spare time? Well, it is a matter of definition. Active partici-
pation in such things as Harvard Club committees, Community
Fund drives, Boy Scout Fund drives, etc., fill in pretty well
what would normally be considered “spare time”. Nevertheless,
my interest in books has been enduring through the years and
not only do the few I manage to acquire for myself give me
satisfaction, but I also get great pleasure from the associations
derived from my interest in the Caxton Club, the Literary Club
of Chicago, and the Grolier Club of New York. No matter
where in the world they are, men of bookish interests bring
back fond memories of Cambridge.

VIRGIL RULE

HOME appress: 1049 Alvarado Terr., Walla Walla, Wash.

OFFICE ADpREss: West Coast Chemical Enterprises, 1265 W. Rose St., Walla
Walla, Wash.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1908, St. Louis, Mo, PARENTS: Virgil Rule, Estelle Johnson.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1932.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Bruce, June 9, 1934, Kansas City, Mo, cuitpren: Mary
Loomis, Aug. 6, 1939; Robert Bruce, Feb. 2, 1944.

occuPATION: Regional manager for Northwest United States, Chemical
Enterprises, Inc., distributers of fertilizers and farm chemicals.

OFFICES HELD: Founder, 1950, member board of directors, since 1950, secre-
tary, 1951, president, 1952, member executive committee, 1951-54,
Agricultural Ammonia Institute.

MEMBER OF: Agricultural Ammonia Institute; Rotary; Walla Wall Country
Club; Walla Walla Little Theater; Kappa Sigma Fraternity; American
Agronomy Society.

[ 878 J

 

'
i
i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY activities since graduation have been quite varied. I started
off in the actuarial field and worked first for the General Ameri-
can Life Insurance Company in St. Louis, Missouri. After that
I served as an insurance examiner for the State of Missouri for
two years and then as assistant actuary of the Missouri Insurance
Department until 1940. From there I went with I.B.M. in St.
Louis, where I stayed until I was called to active duty in the
Navy in May of 1941. I was in the Bureau of Naval Personnel
in Washington until early in 1944 when I went through the
D.E. school in Miami and served on D.E.’s for a short while be-
fore going to Pearl Harbor where I was on Admiral W. W.
Smith’s staff in the Planning Division until the end of the war.

After the war I went to Orlando, Florida, and bought a half-
interest in a coffee roasting and packaging business. The coffee
business might have developed into a very good thing, but the
partnership was a bad deal; so in 1947 I sold out my interest and
pulled up stakes and moved to Greenville, Mississippi, where I
went into the fertilizer business as one of the first anhydrous
ammonia dealers east of the Rockies. Anhydrous ammonia as a
fertilizer was a completely new product at that time except on
the West Coast where Shell Chemical Corporation had been
working with it for several years. We pioneered a new business
and a new industry. All went well until a Co-operative built a
large ammonia producing plant in Mississippi and started selling
to the consumer at the same price at which we purchased our
product on the open market. By the fall of 1954 I had seen the
handwriting on the wall and sold my interest and took my present
position as regional manager in the Northwest for Chemical
Enterprises, Inc. .

On June 9, 1934, I was married to Dorothy Bruce, Wellesley,
°33, in Kansas City, Missouri. We have two children: Mary
Loomis, born in Jefferson City, Missouri, on August 6, 1939; and
Robert Bruce who was born in Washington, D.C, on F ebruary
2, 1944. Both are long and tall like their parents. Bruce should
make the Class of 66.

[ 879 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

DAVID RUSSELL

HOME ADDRESS: 327 Sterling Pl., Brooklyn 38, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hoffman Beverage Co., goo Grove St., Newark, N. J.

Born: Dec. 5, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: John Winter Russell, 'o6,
Emma Sargent Russell.

PREPARED AT: Horace Afann School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

marriep: Marjorie Louise Stone, Sept. 10, 1938, New York, N. Y. cHivpren:
Marjorie Ann, Oct. 26, 1939, David, Jr., Oct. 19, 1941; Sargent, Jan. 27,
1944; Sara Elizabeth, Jan. 20, 1946.

occupation: Product service representative, Hoffman Beverage Company,

RICHARD SPOFFORD RUSSELL, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 8 Larch Row, Wenham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREsS: Fish Associates, Davensport, Mass.

Born: April 2, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Richard Spofford Russell, Mary
Gertrude Sutton.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

marRieD: Mary Childs, June 10, 1936, Sewickley, Pa. cHtLpREN: Alice W.,
July 26, 1937; Mary Gertrude, Feb. 7, 1940; Richard Spofford, 3d, Feb.
7s 1943.

occupation: Mercantile business.

RALPH KIRKHAM SAFFORD

HOME apprEsS: 36 Kent Drive, North Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Henry Co., 2317 Whitney Ave., Hamden, Conn.

BORN: July 18, 1908, Springfield, Mass. parents: Ralph Kirkham Safford,
’o3, Lillian Allyn Upson.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Nancy French, Nov. 1, 1941, West Hartford, Conn. (divorced
1954): Sally Spragg, Aug. 30, 1955. CHILDREN: Ralph Kirkham, 3d, Oct.
26, 1942; Leila Hayden, Nov. 15, 1943; Nancy Langdon, March 2, 1946;
Susan Allyn, June 10, 1947.

occupaTION: President, Henry Company, hardware manufacturing business.

MEMBER OF: New Haven Lawn Club; Madison Beach Club.

FOR the first ten years after graduating I worked as a sales
manager for a company in New Haven. My Icisure time was
spent skiing in the winter and sailing in the summer. In June
of 1941 I resigned my position and accepted a commission in

[ 880 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the U.S. Coast Guard. The next five years were spent at sea,
mostly in European waters, This period is memorable for two
things: I found that I enjoyed sea duty very much and secondly,
it gave me a wonderful opportunity to catch up on a tremendous
amount of reading I hadn’t got around to since college.

In January of 1946 I took over an old and badly run-down
hardware manufacturing business and spent the next six years
working very hard restoring it to some semblance of solvency.
We now seem to be going along on a more or less even keel, but
I have become involved in two other business ventures on the
side which are going to take some doing.

My four children are the joy of my life, and we spend most
of our spare time in family activities. Although we had always
felt we could not be happy away from salt water, last summer
we spent two months on a working ranch in Wyoming and
everyone wants to go back. Community activities are limited
to lending a hand when it seems to be needed. Recently it has
been helping with town school work. Still manage to play
squash regularly in the winter and tennis in spring and fall.

My chief complaint about life in general is that there is never
enough time. There are so many things to do and never enough
time to get around to them all. Perhaps that is good.

EDMUND BOLESLAW SAMBORSKI

MAILING appress: 21 E.. Bartlett St., Westfield, Mass.

BORN: March 4, 1907, Westfield, Mass. Parents: John Felix Samborski,
Sophia Madej.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

OccUPATION: Manufacturing.

STERLING SYLVESTER SANDOW

HOME apprEss: Fruit Street, Hopkinton, Mass,

MAILING AppRESS: R.F.D., Westboro, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1906, Marlboro, Mass. parents: Henry Sandow, Bertha Bea-
trice Brown. .

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE! A.B. 1931.

[ 881 ]

eee

smart parrceneer ant cnet MOT TC

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

pagent aN NE ww

marriep: Minnie Shrader, May 10, 1935, Hopkinton, Mass, cnx; Joan
Rena, June 8, 1938.

occuPATION: Inspector, Duplicon, Inc. Westboro, Mass., specialists in short.
run sheet metal and sheet plastic parts.

oFFices HELD: Master, Whitehall Grange No. 423; commander, Choate Pog
No. 3276, Veterans of Foreign Wars; clerk, Hopkinton appropriations
committee, chairman Finance Committee, Woodville Baptist Church.

MEMBER OF: St. Bernards Lodge of Masons.

FRANCIS PAUL SAPONARO

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Columbine Rd., Milton, Mass.

oFFice apprEss: Algonquin Gas Transmission Co., 25 Faneuil Hall Sq., Boston,
Mass.

BorN: March 29, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Dominick Anthony Saponaro,
Rosemarie Provenzano.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marriep: Portia A. Donadio, Nov. 11, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Francis Paul, Jr., Aug. 15, 1937; Portia, March 21, 1943.

occuPaTION: Vice-president, Algonquin Gas Transmission Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member rate committee, chairman sub-committees, American
Gas Association; former member Pipeline Company Committee, Inde-
pendent Natural Gas Association. _

MEMBER OF: Wollaston Golf Club; Shreveport Petroleum Club; Guild of Gas
Managers; New England Gas Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles on public utility rates in various trade journals.

DURING the past twenty-four years, my work has covered
various aspects of the utility field — with the time divided almost
evenly between privately owned gas and electric companies, and
the federal government regulatory and rural electric power pro-
grams. In the order indicated, I have lived successively in New
York, Boston, Washington, D.C., St. Louis, Washington (again),
Shreveport, Louisiana, and since the end of 1953, in Milton,
Massachusetts. I have had to travel in practically every section
of the country from Maine to California, from the deep South
to the Pacific Northwest —literally, from the over-crowded
slums in the big city to the flat, wide-open plains.

Fortunately, the several moves half-way across the country, the
finding of a new home, getting furniture into and out of storage,
etc., were taken by my family without missing a step. Both
children changed schools several times, but they quickly became

[ 882 ]

 

ar ee NE sem

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupied in many school and athletic activities. Invariably, my
wife promptly took on many community, church and school
duties. As a consequence, our family enjoyed living, working
and playing in the several sections of the country in which we
lived. Now that we are back in Massachusetts, my daughter has
found a new interest in winter sports, although I have yet to try
to skate again,

For the past few years golf has been my chief “spare time”
activity, but the day has long passed that I can play my son —
without trying “to get” more strokes than I care to mention.
And this brings me to the point where, as I look out on the
grounds in back of my house, I realize that I should develop a
greater interest in gardening.

Back home now, my work in the relatively new field in New
England of natural gas transmission is extremely interesting and
we hope it will develop as in other parts of the country.

ARTHUR SARD

HOME AppRESS: 146-19 Beech Ave., Flushing 55, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Queens College, Flushing, N. Y.

BORN: July 28, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Frederick N. Sard, Maria
Belloch.

PREPARED AT: Friends Seminary, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; A.M., 19323 PH.D. 1936.

MarrigD: Marguerite Cochran, Oct. 9, 1933, New York, N. Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Daniel Sard, ’35, A.M., *40, PH.D., '42.

OCCUPATION: Mathematician.

OFFICES HELD: Member, faculty of Queens College, since 1937 (associate pro-
fessor); member Applied Mathematics Group, Division of War Re-
search, Columbia University (research mathematician and, at the end,
director), 1943-46.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America.

PUBLICATIONS: Research articles, particularly on the theory of approximation;
“Remainders: Functions of Several Variables”, Acta Mathematica, 1951.

MATHEMATICS has been the central theme. I teach and so
earn my keep, and I find myself fortified by the hopefulness of
each year’s freshman. For intellectual satisfaction I contemplate
the intricacies of spaces of infinitely many dimensions, and I
have been fortunate enough to strike a few mathematical bits

[ 883 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

that seem important and elegant. During the war I was one of a
group of mathematicians serving as technical advisers to the
military.

Last year Peggy and I, on sabbatical leave, traveled over west-
ern Europe and parts of the Mediterranean world — Athens,
Morocco, Israel, Istanbul, Switzerland, Holland, Spain, Italy,
France, Austria, England — a feast much to be savoured. Between
moves I worked on a book on approximation.

Music of all sorts has been a solace and source of strength; so
too, books, art and many facets of the immense structure of man’s
achievements.

JAMES MILTON SARGENT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dental Div., Texas State Dept. of Health, Austin, Texas.

BorN: Sept. 18, 1908, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: Levi Dunham Sargent,
Katherine Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Glendale High School, Glendale, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: M.F.A. (Univ. of Texas), 1950.

MARRIED: Beatrice Nina Bryan, 1937, Las Vegas, Nev.

occuPATION: Health educator.

MEMBER OF: Phi Kappa Phi (honorary scholastic).

PuBLicaTIONS: “Puppets Can Teach”, Dramatics Magazine, 1955; “Teaching
Dental Health with Puppets”, Journal of the Texas Dental Society, 1955.

SHOW business interrupted the college career which wasn’t
completed until after the war. Spent the years up to the war in
theatre and allied arts, with a three-year hitch on a Hollywood
newspaper thrown in for good measure. Uncle Sam’s tap on the
shoulder in 1943 cut short a promising career. Through no fault
of my own I was thrown on the mercy of the Army Air Corps.
Special diligence and hard work won me a promotion after only
ten weeks’ service — and that one stripe lasted me the rest of the
three years. Had a brief tour of the Philippines while in the
service. After discharge, decided to resume the college career
and I finished at the University of Arizona. Tucson had become
a second home as a result of a year and a half of being stationed
there. Went from Arizona to Austin, Texas, on a fellowship
at the University of Texas and took a Master’s degree. Went to
the Texas State Department of Health as a health educator in

[ 884 ]

pepe ep

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1950 and have been doing the same thing ever since, except for
one academic year spent at the University of Michigan getting
off the residence requirements for a doctorate. My work now
consists of a combination of teaching and show business. With
my wife I operate a Puppet Show which tours the schools of the
State of Texas and has for its purpose basic instruction in dental
hygiene. It is hard work, but rewarding, for we have attained a
bit of fame beyond the borders of the state due to several articles
and two motion pictures we made.

ALEX SARON

HOME apprEss: 101 W. 80th St., New York 24, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Council for Judaism, 201 E. 57th St., New York,
N. Y.

BorN: Aug. 30, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Joseph Louis Saron, Lena
Mayer.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927—1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marriED: Gabriele Hacker, Oct. 30, 1951, Bremen, Germany.

occupation: Assistant executive director, American Council for Judaism.

MEMBER OF: Local 802, American Federation of Musicians; American Civil
Liberties Union.

DURING the first ten years after graduation, I was a musician in
New York City, conducting and arranging in concert, theatre
and radio. I was inducted into the Army early in 1942, served on
the operational intelligence staff of SHAEF in England, France
and Germany, and stayed on in Germany after the war as a
civilian with the American Military Government. Here I helped
reorganize German theatres, opera companies and symphony
orchestras, and later directed a German-language radio station.
When the Military Government organization was dissolved in
1949, after the establishment of the West German Federal Re-
public, I was transferred to the State Department staff in Germany
as a radio adviser and information specialist. I resigned in late
1951 to marry a lovely German girl, and we traveled about Europe
during the months it took for her immigration visa for the States
to come through.

New York seemed about as unfamiliar to me as it was to my
wife when we arrived there in June, 1952. For a while I did some

[ 885 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

writing and translating for recording companies and foreign
language reading (I had acquired seven languages, including the
Scandinavian) for publishers. Then I moved to Richmond, Vir-
ginia, as southeast regional director of the American Council for
Judaism, an anti-Zionist organization, After two very interesting
years down south, I was recalled early in 1956 to the Council’s
national office in New York City as assistant executive director.

GORDON ARMSTRONG SAUNDERS

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Pleasant St., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 94 Pleasant St., Arlington, Mass.

BORN: June 19, 1910, Dorchester, Mass. parents: William Frederick Saun-
ders, Elizabeth Armstrong White.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931} M.D. 1935.

MarRIED: Frances Gay, November, 1954, Baltimore, Md.

occupation: Physician; instructor, Harvard Medical School.

I AM an instructor in medicine, Harvard Medical School; member
of Visiting Staff, Boston City Hospital; consultant in medicine
and cardiology at hospitals in Arlington, Concord, Cambridge,
and the Veterans’ Administration Hospital. I have been in prac-
tice in Arlington since 1938 — except from 1942 to 1946 when
I was in the U.S. Army in the European Theatre of Operations
for thirty-nine months. |

GEOFFREY AUGUSTUS SAWYER

HOME appREss: 37 Webster Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Sullivan & Worcester, 75 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: July 29, 1909, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Dean Sawyer, Lucie
Adelia Learned.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B. 1934.

MarRiED; Elizabeth Pennock, July 3, 1943, Orlando, Fla. cHmpreNn: Francis
E. Knowles, Jr. (stepchild), May 1, 1937; Ann P. Knowles (stepchild),
March 9, 1939; Geoffrey Augustus, Jr. Oct. 2, 1944, Carolyn P., Jan.

12, 1950.

[ 886 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OccUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, St. Peter’s Episcopal Church, Weston, Mass.; com-
modore, Prouts Neck Yacht Club, Maine.

MEMBER OF: Weston Golf Club; Prouts Neck Country Club; Prouts Neck
Yacht Club.

AFTER graduating from Harvard Law School in 1934, I led
the prosaic, mundane life of a bachelor for nine years. With the
coming of World War II, I attempted to reinstate a commission
as second lieutenant in the Field Artillery, earned as a result of
hard Jabors in college in R.O.T.C. Having let the commission
expire in 1936, 1 was too old to be commissioned as a second
lieutenant, and did not have enough experience to be commis-
sioned in a rank befitting my years. By good fortune, I was able
to obtain a commission as a first lieutenant in the Marine Corps
in A.V.S., and proceeded after some vicissitudes to Quantico,
Virginia. The proximity of Quantico and Washington, D. C., to
Philadelphia was such that it enabled me to woo and win my wife,
an unforeseen result for which I shall ever be thankful.

The time in the Corps was not too bad, since some of it was
spent in Sea Island, Georgia, La Jolla, and Santa Barbara, Califor-
nia, with an eventual trip as assistant fighter director on the
U.S.S. Cape Gloucester (CVE-109) to the East China Sea prior
to V-J Day. Never did see a shot fired in anger, except on the
radar screen. |

After the war we returned to Boston, and I again took up the
practice of law. Since then life has consisted of the many varied
interests which a generally non-specialized law practice brings,
plus the usual family interests arising in a relatively small sub-
urban (or what used to be country) town.

Lately we have been going to Prouts Neck, Maine, in the
summer, which is a spot highly recommended, if for no other
reason than that it is not necessary to taxi children anywhere.
By virtue of having a reasonably strong back and not due to any
knowledge of sailing, I was elected commodore of the Yacht
Club last year. The anchorage may leave something to be desired,
but the hospitality is excellent.

As appears from above, we are members of the Episcopal
Church, and I have taken a fairly active interest in it for a
number of years. At present, our church is in the throes of

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

raising money for a new church building and deciding what
kind of an edifice it should be. Many and complicated are the
roblems arising therefrom.

My political affiliations can be described only as rock-ribbed
Republican. Although going to the polls religiously every elec-
tion, including primaries, town, state, and federal, only once have
I voted successfully for the President of the United States, and
that was in 1952. I hope to repeat in 1956.

Upon reading over the above, it sounds like a combination of
The Late George Apley and The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit.
Perhaps that is the way many of us feel, particularly in an
uneventful life. However, it has been enjoyable, interesting, and
stimulating (to me), and I hope I shall be here to agonize over
the Report for the Fiftieth Reunion.

IRVING HENRY SAKE

HOME ADDRESS: 143 Lincoln Ave., Elberon, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 65 Central Park W., New York, N. Y.

Born: Nov. 24, 1909, Passaic, N. J. parents: Solomon M. Saxe, Sophie Jaffe.

PREPARED AT: Passaic High School, Passaic, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D., 1935.

MarrieD: Patricia Leavitt, April 16, 1936, Portsmouth, N. H. CHILDREN:
Nancy Isbel, Nov. 9, 1938; Kathryn Leavitt, May 11, 1944; Richard
Henry, Feb. 11, 1946; Virginia, May 15, 1949.

OccuPATION: Physician — gynecologist and obstetrician.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology, New York
Medical College; obstetrician and gynecologist, Flower and Fifth Avenue
Hospitals, Metropolitan Hospital, New York City, gynecologist, Byrd
Coler Memorial Hospital, New York City.

MEMBER OF: New York County, New York State and American Medical
Associations, American and International Societies for Study of Sterility;
American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (diplomate); Inter-
national College of Surgeons (diplomate),; American Academy of Ob-
stetrics-Gynecology (founding fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles for medical journals.

MY first two years at another college — Cornell — made me
appreciate my third and fourth years at Harvard to the fullest.
Good fortune permitted me to complete my formal education
at Harvard Medical School, where a research fellowship whetted
my appetite for pure science. Unfortunately, or fortunately, the

[ 888 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

facts of depression-year life made the eventual practice of medi-
cine necessary — and another great pure scientist was lost to the
world. After hospital training in Boston, Montreal and New
York, I eventually did what was considered ill advised at the
time — I opened in New York.

A lucky encounter with Billy Rose resulted in my heading
the medical department of his enterprise, and becoming the only
private physician with an office within the World’s Fair in 1939
and 1940. A back injury occurring (of all places) at the Boston
Lying-In Hospital kept me from war service. This gave me
what I wanted most at the time—a chance to teach. At one
large charity hospital, two colleagues and I did the teaching and
operating that is now being done by over a dozen surgeons.

To spare the coronaries from New York wear and tear, after
I reached my forties I acquired a country home at Elberon, New
Jersey. Every week-end throughout the year, there is a Saxe
exodus to the “sticks”. I live there during the summer and then
commute to New York.

My hobbies consist of bringing up the kids, approving the
wife’s impressionist painting, and occasional research in the field
of infertility; also, fishing and photography, more and more
infrequently.

EZRA SCHLOSSBERG

HOME ApprEss: 156 Amsterdam Ave., Passaic, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 663 Main Ave., Passaic, N. J.

BoRN: Oct. 4, 1911, New York, N. Y. parents: Max Schlossberg, Fannie
Friedland.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.D. (Long Island Coll.
of Medicine), 1935.

MarrieD: Miriam Serbin, 1935, New York, N. Y. cum: Daniel Israel, May
6, 1948.

occupPaATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Attending radiologist, Beth Israel Hospital, Passaic, N. J,
1943-55, Barmert Hospital, Paterson, N. J., 1948-55.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Passaic County Medical Society;
Passaic Y.M.H.A.

[ 889 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

HENRY ERNEST SCHNIEWIND

HOME ADDRESS: Locust Valley, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 Church St., New York, N. Y.

BorN: Dec. 22, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Schniewind, Helen
Greeff.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930,

marrigD: Helen Ball, Sept. 15, 1933, Locust Valley, N. Y. cHILpREN: Henry,
Feb. 28, 1938; Peter B., April 5, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Springs Mills, Inc., textiles.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of New York City, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: Merchants Club; Piping Rock Club; Harvard Club of New
York City; Ex-Members Association Squadron A.

TEXTILES have been my only business occupation — first in
the family firm, Susquehanna Silk Mills, for ten years, then
Cannon Mills, Inc., for another ten years and Springs Mills, Inc.,
since 1949. Other interests — an active family, destructive land-
scape gardening, piano, golf, tennis, fishing, bridge and back-

gammon.

DOUGLAS FRANKLIN SCHOFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: 2994 Courtland Blvd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1400 Schofield Bldg., Cleveland 15, Ohio.

BorN: Aug. 3, 1910, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Douglas Franklin Schofield,
Josephine Adaline Skelley.

PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio;
Shaker Heights High School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRieD: Mary Bell Duncan, Feb. 27, 1943, Pittsburgh, Pa. cHILDREN: Ann
Duncan, Jan. 22, 1944; Douglas Franklin, 3d, Aug. 9, 1945; John Bell,
Feb, 11, 1949.

occupation: Attorney; real estate broker; building management.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Schofield Building, since 1935; director, since 1937,
vice-president, since 1949, Heights Masonic Temple Company, mem-
ber executive committee, since 1946, president, since 1952, Heights
Masonic Benefit Fund; Master, Heights Lodge No. 633, A.F. & A.M,
1947; High Priest, Heights Chapter No. 206, Royal Arch Masons, 1949;
president, Cleveland Chapter No. 23, National Sojourners, 1953; com-
mander, Moses Cleveland Camp, 1954; State of Ohio Regional Repre-
sentative, 1955; chairman Cub Scout Pack No. 62, Boy Scouts of
America, 1955.

[ 890 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Christ Episcopal Church, since 1946; Young Republican Club
(political), since 1939; Cleveland Athletic Club (eating), since 1937;
City Club (listening), since 1935; Cleveland, Ohio, and American Bar
Associations, since 1934, Cleveland Law Library Association, since
1934; the Bars of State of Ohio, since 1934, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Ohio, Eastern Division, since 1935, U.S. Court of Appeals,
Sixth Circuit, since 1937, Tax Court of the U.S.,, since 1951; Woodward
Council, R. & S.M. No. 118, since 1947; Heights Commandery, Knights
Templar, No. 76, since 1936.

DATA on cards carried in my wallet supply my life and activi-
ties as above set forth, subject to amplification by accompanying
snapshot taken by one child and a favorite of all three. The pose
has to be repeated quite frequently.

Since being admitted to law practice in 1934, I have been
associated with the law firms of Arthur & Schofield from 1944 to
1954, and Gorman, Arthur & Schofield since 1954.

My military service included Aviation Mechanic School, Kees-
ler Field, Mississippi, 1942; Officer Candidate School, Miami
Beach, Florida, 1942-43; Air Intelligence School, Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, 1943; Antilles Air Command, Atkinson Field, Brit-
ish Guiana, 1943, NOB, Port of Spain, Trinidad, 1943, Vernon
Field, Jamaica, 1943-44; 2d Air Force, AAB, Caspar, Wyoming,
1944; 6th Air Force, AAB, Rio Hato, Canal Zone, 1944-45, AAB,
Galapagos Islands, 1945.

MACK WALTER SCHWAB

HOME ADDRESS: 101 Tower Court, Yellow Springs, Ohio,

OFFICE apprEss: Frigidaire Corp., Plant 3, Dayton, Ohio.

BORN: Aug. 6, 1909, Charlevoix, Mich. parents: Sidney Isaac Schwab, ’o4,
Helen Dorothy Stix.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRiED: Constance Bell Howard Fry, Feb. 3, 1945, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Martha Howard, April 30, 1946; Frances Bartlett, Nov. 29, 1947; Robert
Draper, May 27, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Sidney Schwab, ’26; mp, ’31,

occupation: Group leader, stove bank, Frigidaire Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Yellow Springs Federal Coopera-
tive Credit Union.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on motion pictures,

[ 891 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

like bed-time stories and repairing walking dolls and the feelings
that go with them. While Connie is making cookies or helping
the girls with their piano practice, Bobby and I are likely to be
investigating his new electrical construction set. Evenings are
busy, and will be busier. Antioch has initiated an Adult Center.
Connie is enrolling in “Home Landscaping” with Harvard man
Samuel Gehrung, and I am signing up for “Creative Thinking in
Business and Industry”.

HAROLD SCHWARTZ

HOME ADDRESS: goo Central Ave., Plainfield, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Queen City Finance Co., 339 Park Ave., Plainfield, N. J.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1908, New York, N. Y. PARENTS: Samuel Schwartz, Hattie
Lipkin.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREE: 8.B. (Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1932.

MARRIED: Jean Epstein, Aug. 4, 1936, Asbury Park, N. J. campren: Martin
W., May 21, 1937; Roger A., May 6, 1940.

occuPATION: President of small independent chain of consumer finance
offices.

OFFICES HELD: President, Temple Sholom, 1945-49, Jewish Community Center,
1980-53; treasurer, Plainfield Community Chest, 1949-52; director, Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania Club of Raritan Valley.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club, Plainfield; Shackamaxon Country Club; Con-
sumer Finance Association.

THE post-graduate social, economic, and philosophical life of a
Harvard man is a complex biographical phenomenon, a statistic
and, like all statistics, subject to the painful leveling influences of
“the average”. My personal statistics fit rather neatly into this
pattern: J am a resident of metropolitan suburbia, married, father
of two sons, of sedentary habits except when playing golf. Pho-
tography is my hobby — the results seldom bespeak the years of
practice (same is true of golf),

A Twenty-fifth Class Anniversary brings a sort of shock and,
as the shock subsides, serious thoughts come to mind. We left
college in the throes of a depression, our minds preoccupied with
the thoughts of economic existence. We wanted security, a
steady job, the opportunity to settle down and find our place
in the circle of our community. Gradually we found our niche,

[ 894 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

security slowly appeared in answer to our prayers and efforts,
Then came the Great War. We enlisted in the Army, the Navy,
the Air Force; we joined the throngs of men and women who
manned the vast factories that turned out supplies for our armed
forces. Most of our hard-won security disappeared in the threat
of bombs and cannon. And then, as we celebrated our Fifteenth
Anniversary, hostilities ceased and we limped back to our jobs
and professions; we had won the war, but paid most heavily.

And now, as we survey the years that have passed, we find
ourselves hoping and waiting for that elusive abstract — security
— security of our homes, security for our children, the security
of a peaceful world. No other class at Harvard or any other
college or university has had the challenge of ’31. As we grow
older, and possibly wiser, may we meet this challenge and
conquer it.

This, as briefly as I know how to state it, is my autobiography
— all the thoughts and actions of my past twenty-five years in
a paragraph. Maybe it’s the I.B.M, hole-punching influence!

HENRY ELIOT SCOTT

HOME ADpREsS: 709 Orchard Rd., Smoke Rise, Butler, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bigelow-Sanford Carpet Co., 140 Madison Ave. New York
16, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1909, Grants Pass, Oregon. pareNTS: Richard Gordon Scott,
’oz, Grace Cranch Eliot.

PREPARED AT: Washington High School, Portland, Oregon.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 1932; DR.PHIL. (Univ.
of Munich), 1934.

MarRRiED: Florentia Elizabeth Metzger, Jan. 25, 1947, New York, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Florentia Louise, April 3, 1948; Elizabeth Ann, Oct. 14, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Cranch Scott, °32.

OccupPaTION: Art director, advertising department, Bigelow-Sanford Carpet
Company.

I LEFT Harvard a year after graduation to study art history

at the University of Munich, on an exchange fellowship, and

remained long enough to earn a Dr.Phil. which I haven’t valued

highly since. The advent of Hitler in Germany had something

to do with this, but it disquieted me in other ways and I returned

[ 895 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

to America doubting whether I wanted to teach or greatly
valued any more — for myself —the life of scholarship and
research, which I thought I wanted in 1931.

I taught for three years, however: one year at Middlesex
School in Concord, and two at Reed College in my home state
of Oregon, where I had a hankering to live. I enjoyed the human
aspects of this, but not the “politics”, even of its well-meaning
faculty. I knew by then, too, that I wanted to be an artist, not an
historian of art. So, I spent a memorable year in San Francisco,
living with my mother and painting in my own manner. My
work was shown in a one-man exhibit there; I still think it was
my best work. But it was not the kind of work you could make
a steady living at, so I went back to school and I sought out the
best one possible for my purpose. I spent four intensive years of
unremitting application and hard work at the Art Center School
in Los Angeles (the school has since come to be recognized as
the country’s best) and was about to embark on a commercial
art career, when the culmination of Hitler’s efforts was at hand
in World War II.

I was commissioned a lieutenant in the Naval Reserve in May,
1942, and was assigned to duties as an aviation ground officer in
the Eastern Sea Frontier. In 1944 I was transferred at my own
request to the more congenial work of the Visual Design Section
in the Special Devices Division in Washington from which, in
turn, | was sent to Guam on a tour of duty with Photo Interpre-
tation. Here I built quite a few operational relief maps of enemy
terrain.

While still in uniform — but back in the States on a temporary
assignment that took me to California—I met the wonderful
person who is now my wife. She had been studying at Art
Center, and we agreed to go to New York to try our luck. At
first, she got a better job than J had; but after our first daughter
came, she had to give all her time to the family. Meanwhile,
after two short turns, I seem to have become a fixture in the
advertising and sales promotions department of Bigelow-Sanford
Carpet Company, where I was first a designer of displays, then
an assistant to the art director, and now I am artist-in-charge.

[ 896 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My work there is certainly not great, but it seems to be useful
in the life of our economy — in its own way —and it supports
our family and home, which are now my greatest love and
dedication.

We have lived for the last five years at Smoke Rise and partake
modestly of the social amenities which the club membershi
affords. We have redecorated the house we bought and have
done a heroic job of landscaping, principally in the construction
of dry rock retaining walls and terraces. At this writing, this
still goes on, with a new terrace for vegetables as my next
year’s project.

Except for voting, I keep my nose out of politics, and so keep
my friends in both parties. However, I am not ashamed to say
that I voted for Roosevelt all four times, and for Stevenson in
the last presidential election, even though I registered as a
Republican in 1952 in order to vote against Taft in the primaries.

About two years after my marriage, I left the Protestant
affiliation of my forebears and became a Catholic. To this I was
predisposed by a number of influences that had been at work for
a long time, beginning, I dare say, with the Catholic content in
the courses in fine arts I studied so intensively at Harvard.

ROBERT LIVINGSTON SCOTT

HOME apprEss: Homewood, Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 172 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 11, 1908, Needham, Mass. parents: Hugh Davids Scott, ’98,
Helen Livingston Sanders.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRieD: Barbara Chisholm, June 19, 1937, Rye, N. Y. (divorced 1944).
CHILDREN: Hugh Chisholm, Feb. 20, 1939; Robert Livingston, Jr, Aug.
24, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Wilkins Scott, ’25; Richard Sanders Scott, ’27
(deceased).

occupation: Self-employed photographer,

OFFICES HELD: Junior administrator, Honolulu office, Agricultural Adjust-
ment Administration, 1934-35; assistant secretary, Hawaiian Trust
Company, 1938-41; director, Family Service of Honolulu, 1937-41,
Honolulu Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1941, Roxbury Neighborhood

[ 897 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

House, since 1954; U. S. Navy, 1942-45; executive officer, 1948-52,
commanding officer, 1952-53, Naval Reserve Volunteer Unit.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York City; Somerset Club;
Bar Harbor Yacht Club; Northeast Harbor Tennis Club; Harvard
Varsity Club.

FOLLOWING graduation I spent two years in Munich, Ger-
many, studying the language, people, customs, skiing, Rhine
wines and beer, with considerable travel to fascinating corners of
Europe by bicycle and car, and watching with growing concern
the rise of national socialism at close quarters. When I returned
to Boston in 1933, I joined the investment counsel firm of Stan-
dish & Company; but in 1935 I was offered a job in Honolulu
with the Department of Agriculture. This I accepted only to
have the agency for which I worked declared unconstitutional
by the Supreme Court a year later. As I found Honolulu a
delightful place in which to live and work, I joined the staff of
the Hawaiian Trust Company and remained with them until the
war broke out on our front door step. While Japanese bombs
were still raining down on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941,
the Police Reserve, of which I was a member, swung into action
to supplement the regular Honolulu Police Force during the
critical emergency, and afterwards I continued with routine
police work on a once- or twice-a-week basis until I joined the
Navy in 1942. Stationed first in the Office of Naval Intelligence
in Honolulu and at the Kaneohe Naval Air Station, I was able
to transfer to more active and interesting work which placed me
aboard two aircraft carriers, the USS Cowpens (CVL 25) and
the USS Randolph (CV 15) for tours of eighteen months and
twelve months, respectively, as fighter director and CIC officer.
During this period my two ships took part in nine major engage-
ments in the Pacific from the First Task Force raid on Wake
Island until the surrender of Japan, at which time we were
cruising off the coast of Honshu. After the war I returned to
Boston where I have been engaged in the photographic business
with an associate, concentrating on architectural and industrial
photography. We are also set up to produce short motion
pictures for public relations or advertising purposes. Many
summers have been spent at Northeast Harbor, Maine, where my
two sons have taken enthusiastic interest in sailing, swimming,

[ 898 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tennis and all the other attendant activities of the area interrupted
only by a motor trip across the country in 1952 and a six-week
trip to Europe in 1954. With the approach of the Twenty-fifth
Reunion, I am looking forward keenly to renewing old friend-
ships and associations.

CORNELIUS DECATUR SCULLY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS; 215 76th St., Virginia Beach, Va.

OFFICE appress: Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co., 320 Royster Bldg.,
Norfolk, Va.

BORN: May 19, 1910, PARENTS: Cornelius Decatur Scully, Rosalie Pendleton.

PREPARED AT: Arnold Preparatory School, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Elinor Hilliard Tucker, May 27, 1933, Chicago, Ill. crmpren:
Cornelius Decatur, 3d, Dec. 31, 1935; Francis Bland, Sept. 19, 1939 (died
November, 1939); Richard T., Sept. 12, 1940; Malcolm G., Nov. 25,
1941.

OccUPATION: Life insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Superintendent, Church School, 1950-52, member of Vestry,
1950-53, Immanuel Church-on-the-Hill, Alexandria, Va.; superintendent,
Sunday School, Eastern Shore Chapel, Princess Anne County, Va.

MEMBER OF: Sports Club, Norfolk; Civitan Club, Virginia Beach; Izaac
Walton League, Norfolk; National Association of Life Underwriters,
Norfolk.

THIS picks up from our Twentieth Class Report. After spending
four years with the National Security Resources Board in Wash-
ington, a new administration caused a second look at the idea of
making government a career. In March, 1953, I left Government
Service to seek my fortune in private industry. In the fall of
1953, I went into the life insurance business in Norfolk and moved
myself and family to Virginia Beach — permanently. Since No-
vember, 1953, I have been getting settled in my new profession
and in the community. I have acquired a home, a boat and a trail-
er rig, One of my sons has become a ham radio operator. Another
is working on his license, as am I.

Life in this resort area is pleasant — sometimes too much so. It
is not dull. Politics are a fine art with a well corrupted and in-
trenched political machine dominating the community. In the
past two and a half years we have had two chances to beat the

[ 899 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

machine. Once we were partially successful. The second time
we were trimmed. We also took a bad beating when we tried to
oppose a referendum authorizing a change in Virginia’s constitu.
tion, which will permit continuance of segregation in our public
schools.

My oldest son is a junior at the University of Virginia, where
he is preparing to be a teacher of history. After his graduation,
he will spend three years in the Navy. My other sons are in
private school in Norfolk and will, I hope, end up at Harvard in
the Classes of ’62 and ’63. [am working on the job of overcoming
southern propaganda.

My political convictions have not changed in the past ten years,
I am worried about the apparent overwhelming materialism of our
society and what seems to me to be a loss of moral standards. I
keep remembering discussions my father and Roger Babson used
to have some thirty years ago, and these memories do not reassure
me. But when these thoughts pile up, I can get in the boat and
go fishing.

As for the future, I have no great plans. I expect to be here
for the rest of my life, engaging in my present occupation until
I retire. Then I shall relax somewhat and do some writing.

FREDERICK LEE SCULLY

HOME ADpRESS: 309 Huron Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1905, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Benjamin Charles Scully,
Margaret Theresa Devine.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928,

MarRieD: Margaret H. Greene, Nov. 11, 1936, Medford, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Charles Scully, Jr., ’19.

occuPaTION: Government service.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, M.B.A.

MEMBER oF: St. Peter’s Holy Name Society; St. Joseph’s Retreat League;
Somerville Historical Society.

HAVING lived within the shadow of the College all my life, I
am reluctant to leave its salutary influence and feel that its close-
ness will always be cherished by me. My one regret has been that
my health precluded the completion of my courses and attain-

[ 900 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ment of a degree. There is nothing colorful about my career,
just the routine of every-day living, Suffice it to say that I have
enjoyed a life of happiness and serenity even though contentment
is sometimes mistaken for mediocrity.

MILTON SEEGAL

HOME ADDRESS: 127 S. Glenroy Ave., Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lerner Shops, 3800 N. Mission Rd., Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1909, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Morris Seegal, Rose Beerman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marRiED: Miriam Emden, June 16, 1946, Beverly, Mass. cyto: Frederic
Milton, Jan. 3, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Melbourne Seegal, A.M., ’23; David Seegal, M.p., ’28.

occuPaTion: General manager, Pacific Coast Division, Lerner Shops.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Lerner Stores Corporation.

MEMBER OF: City Athletic Club, New York City; Standard Club, Atlanta,
Ga.; California Country Club, Los Angeles; Ojai Valley Inn Country
Club, Calif.

AMONG my college associates I was considered very fortunate
since I had the opportunity to begin my business career as a
stock boy in William Filene’s Sons Company, specialty store in
Boston, at a welcome salary of fourteen dollars a week. Fourteen
dollars a week at that time was a luxury, even though it meant
working six days a week and usually more than eight hours a
day. This job Jed to an entrée into the training program and
thence to an assistant buyer’s job, coincidental with the “bank
holidays”. At that time I was rewarded financially by taking
only half the pay cut that others took. However, time went on
— N.R.A. — Roosevelt — the ups and downs in the retail busi-
ness, and by 1940 I had a merchandising position with one of
Filene’s subsidiaries in Boston, the R. H. White Company.

I was still a bachelor and found that living in Boston, with its
relatively confined family life, was not conducive to a full bach-
elor’s life. So, in 1941, I took off for the hinterlands of New
York City and joined Lerner Stores Corporation, a nation-wide
chain of women’s and children’s apparel shops. I have been with
the firm since that time and in September, 1955, was elected a vice-
president of the company. .

[901 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931 |

For someone who had been born and brought up and spent
most of his life in Boston, my new position offered the oppor.
tunity for beginning a saga throughout the United States. |
might never have had the opportunity, unless I had changed
positions. Subsequently, I lived in New York City, Syracuse,
Seattle, Atlanta, and now in Los Angeles. Somewhere along the
line in my vicarious travels, a wife and subsequently a son joined
the caravan. To give you an idea of the wanderings, my son was
born in Atlanta and is now flourishing back in California.

I now have some kind of permanency in Los Angeles and |
experienced no difficulty in being converted to the status of a
“Californian”. Perhaps my problem was not as acute as other
native born “Down-Easters”, since business brings me back to
the East Coast three or four times a year and I can still get the
momentary “feel” of New York, Boston, etc.

Being in charge of twenty-nine stores, I would imagine, is like
being a father to possibly half a dozen children. The technique
is the same with all of them, but it is very time-consuming. How-
ever, California does offer the opportunity for quick relaxation
all year round and I achieve this with occasional golf, swimming,
tennis and the other outdoor activities for which California is
famous. Whatever free time I do have my wife tries to make
good use of —helping her raise a robust and active boy, and
joining her interests in the Democratic Club, the United Nations,
and participating in some of her hobbies such as music and art.

My wife seems to feel that I have some time to spare (but |
do not agree with her), and is attempting to have me re-learn the
French language. She is pointing to a trip to Europe where
neither of us has been. At this point, I have told her that she has
a trip to look forward to that should make her the envy of all

her friends — even those who have become habitual travelers to

Furope —and that is to the 25th Reunion in June! See you
there!

RICHARD EARLE SEEGER

HOME apprEss: 46 Whittier Rd., Needham, Mass.
OFFICE ApprEss: Field & Cowles, 40 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

[ 902 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Feb. 19, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Lucius Earle Dixon Seeger,
Lillian Harrow.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRIED: Brenda Wesselhoeft, June 19, 1938, Weston, Mass. citp: Richard
Earle, Jr., Dec. 27, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

MY primary interests are boys; not only my own son, but the
development of younger boys in character building. Trying to
raise a boy in today’s social life is certainly an interesting experi-
ment. I have found in several years of Boy Scout activity a most
rewarding sense of achievement, even if at the expense of aching
and cold muscles.

After twenty-five years I must admit no great financial success,
but I believe other parental and social rewards have more than
offset this. I have become, I believe, just an ordinary middle-of-
the-way individual (backbone of the country?) — Republican
by birth and Unitarian by conviction.

JOHN HARRY SELVIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: 2114 49th Ave., S.W., Seattle 16, Wash.

OFFICE appREss: Boeing Airplane Co., Seattle, Wash.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1906, Rome, Ga. Parents: John Conway Selvidge, Carolyn
Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Rome High School, Rome, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Frances Marion, March 24, 1936, Rome, Ga. CHILDREN: Judith
Marion, June 9, 1943; Julia Frances, June 13, 1945.

OccupaTioN: Industrial engineer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Seattle; Boeing Supervisors Club; American
Radio Relay League.

THE years 1931 to 1940 J spent learning the rudiments of indus-
trial engineering in a textile manufacturing plant at Rome,
Georgia. During 1940 Frances and I emigrated to Seattle where
we have made our home since. My work is still in the field of
industrial engineering at Boeing Airplane Company where I
have been since 1940.

[ 903 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ARTHUR BERNARD SERINO

HOME AppRESS: 13 Avon St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 125 Magazine St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. paRENTS: John George Serino, Mary
A. Russo.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1935,

marrigeD: Jean Uva, Sept. 9, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Jean Susan,
Dec. 19, 1940; Arthur Bernard, Jr., March 30, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gustave Ralph Serino, °39.

occupation: Physician.

oFFices HELD: Member Standing Committee, First Parish Church, Cambridge,

MEMBER OF: New England Medical Society, Cambridge Improvement So-
ciety.

MY work, that of a doctor in general practice, and my family
have together occupied most of my time and interest. Lately,
since becoming an active member of the First Parish Church of
Cambridge, my interests have been augmented. I imagine that
to others my life is quite unremarkable and certainly not exciting;
however, I cannot possibly convey to those others the excitement,
the satisfaction and the happy feeling of having lived with and
possibly helped some of the people who have come to me! It is
just as well that it is this way, as I am not naturally gifted as a
mixer and carefully avoid notoriety.
Besides, my family of wife and two children are so much
pleasure for me that my family life is my greatest joy and pastime.
In that respect, we have traveled considerably and always all
together. Fortunately, our travels included a trip to Europe,
particularly Italy. I’m sure I could write volumes about that
Paradise on earth, but so many have written so beautifully of
Italy that I shall forego that pleasure. |
Whenever my work would permit it, we have escaped to our
little farm in New Hampshire and there found serenity and
pleasures of nature. My wife, who is quite an artist, has taught
me to appreciate better the beauties of the country. There I
could meditate and get closer to God. I could understand what
Horace meant and felt when he talked of his country home years
ago in Rome. Also, there I enjoyed the pleasures of physical
labor, such as constructing a swimming pool, etc. We spent many

[ 904 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

happy days there with my father who has just recently died,
There I learned to appreciate how wise and good he was, more
than a father, the best of friends.

In all, I feel that I have worked hard, but I have been more
than amply repaid by God with wonderful parents, a devoted
and loving wife, and — of course — the very, very best children
that ever lived.

CHARLES MEREDITH SHANE

MAILING ADDRESS: 13700 Shaker Blvd., Shaker Heights 20, Ohio.
BORN: July 13, 1909, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Charles Shane, Rose Cooper.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

JAMES RANDALL SHARKEY

HOME apprEss: g Adams St., Medford 55, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: U. S. Smelting, Refining & Mining Co., 75 Federal St.,
Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 1, 1909, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Thomas Henry Sharkey, Harriet
Gertrude Randall.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MARRIED: Norma E. Woodward, June 18, 1939, West Point, N. Y. CHILDREN:
James Randall, Jr., Sept. 23, 1940; Richard Lester, Feb. 1, 1945.

OccuPATION: Assistant comptroller, United States Smelting, Refining &

Mining Company.
THE year 1931 being a bad one to force oneself onto the labor
market, I begged, borrowed and almost stole to finance two more
years of education at the Business School. With that added
background and the attendant debts, it was a severe jolt to rudely
awaken to the facts of 1933 life, that employment was even
tighter than two years earlier. Fortunately, with but little wait-
ing, I did manage with the help of the Business School to promote
a job in my chosen field of industrial accounting. However, in
the light of my salary, the box-car figures with which we played
at Business School soon dimmed into oblivion. But, by com-
parison, my lot was good since I was spared the agonizing despair
of unemployment which so many suffered during those post-
graduation years, I have changed my scene of employment four

[ 905 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

times, all, with one exception, in industrial accounting; and Prog.
ress, While slow, has been made.

Despite the fact of being married at the Military Academy
at West Point (my brother was a cadet at the time), Uncle San
did not see fit to call me into service, and my war record was
confined to the unromantic chore of staffing a hand pump and
bucket of sand, as an air raid warden and related home front
endeavors.

Among my choicest blessings is a wonderful family of an un-
derstanding wife and two active, red-headed boys. The old man
finds it increasingly difficult to keep pace with the younger ele-
ment, but I tell myself it is because of such phenomena as the
constant lengthening of distance between bases on the ball field,
never that the night-shirted guy with the scythe is creeping up.
To recuperate from the hurly-burly of city-dwelling, we have
acquired an old place in southern New Hampshire, where we

week-end and vacation, enjoying no end the beauty, repose and
occasional rigors of country living. As a family, we all recom-
mend highly that mode of life.

It is difficult to realize that it is twenty-five years since you-
know-what, but the passing time has only increased my admiration
and respect for Harvard as a foundation rock of our country’s
cultural development, unswerved by the flooding and ebbing
tides of hysteria. My homage to her has been humble, but always
sincere. If my sons should elect to matriculate at Harvard (the
older is currently M.1.T. inclined), it would stir most pleasant
memories to relive undergraduate days through them.

FRANCIS GEORGE SHAW

HOME ADDRESS: 272 Woodland Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shaw & Stebbins, 11 University Rd., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1909, Boston, Mass. parENTS: Francis George Shaw, ’97, Mar-
guerite Augusta Hofer.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 1931; M.B.A. 1933.

MarRiED: Ruth B, Wellington, June 17, 1933, Chestnut Hill, Mass. CHILDREN:

Robert Gould, Dec. 24, 1939; William Russell, May 11, 1944; Marguerite
Gray, June 8, 1949.

occupation: Certified public accountant.

[ 906 ]

er EH Tel EEN
ate EAL OT ATE LET
“ £1 a OE ART
feng oe RE RAY
rpc ORIN SASS I
naga ener ee REM OMS rH
ns aT CHEE eT

- ro bet ETM

cf EE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, New England Conservatory of Music; vice-president,
Robert Gould Shaw Settlement House; treasurer, Shaw Fund for
Mariners’ Children, Bowen Corporation.

MEMBER OF: St. Botolph Club; The Country Club; The Buzzards; American
Institute of Accountants; Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Ac-
countants; Society of the Cincinnati.

AFTER twelve years of public accounting, I thought I had
found what I was looking for when I became assistant treasurer
of Baird Associates, Inc. But the interesting part of life is that
one can never be sure that a position, or a job, or a condition will
be a permanent one. So, after seven years within which one
could say “mission accomplished”, the lure of being independent
led me back to public accounting. In 1940 I received my C.P.A.
in Massachusetts. It was not long before I found that our class-
mate, Rowley Stebbins, had succumbed to the same siren call.
About two years ago we joined forces and spread out our double
shingle — Shaw & Stebbins. Success is a rather gradual thing,
but the telephone company at least has recognized our worth
because they returned our deposit last month. We are on the way.

Although President Lowell used to tell us that whatever sub-
jects we chose to major in at college would bear no resemblance
to the type of career we would carve for ourselves in later life,
I find that my chemistry and physics learned in the dim, distant
past are coming in pretty handy now. I am treasurer of the
Bowen Corporation, a company interested in furthering the use
of vapor compression evaporation in the recovery of industrial
wastes. Those of our classmates who went to sea during the last
war will undoubtedly remember the salt water stills used on
shipboard to make fresh water out of sea water. A great many
of these stills were of the vapor compression type which are
many times more efficient than conventional stills. We are making
use of this system, for example, to remove water from spent
liquors from pulp mills so that it now becomes economical to
recover the solids in these “wastes” either as fuel or as chemicals.
Wherever evaporation is required in an industrial process, vapor
compression, under the proper circumstances, can show startling
economies.

In addition to these activities, I have long been interested in the
development of a lead-zinc property in Nevada which had a

[ 907 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

remarkable record of production during the last war. The
mining history and records of production of the district, geclog.
ical information and present exploration indicate that this property
lies ina heavily mineralized area which has scarcely been touched
and which could rank with one of the biggest mining develop
ments in this country.
We seem to take most of our diversions in the summer when
we make our annual exodus to Cataumet on the Cape to enjoy
(after a two weeks’ recovery from this same exodus) tennis, swim-
ming, sailing, fishing and, more recently, cruising. I recommend
the last form of diversion highly, provided the family has faith in
the skipper, because it restores in the young that long-buried feel-
ing of respect for pater familias — and what it doesn’t do for the
old man’s ego! The fact that Dad could complete a week’s cruise
without running aground, getting lost, ramming another boat,
getting fouled up with a hurricane, or starving his family seems to
be a source of amazement to all concerned. One can aspire to be
the skipper of a family, but there is only one skipper in a boat

MAURICE PATRICK SHAW, JR.

MAILING apprEss: 4 Wilbur St., South Weymouth go, Mass

BORN: Dec, 18, 1908, Dorchester, Mass, parents: Maurice Patrick Shaw,
Bridget Carmody.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1027-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931

OCCUPATION: Government service.

JOHN EDWARD SHEA, JR.
HOME appREsS: 519 Rose Ave., Des Plaines, Ill

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bankers Life & Casualty Co. 4444 W. Lawrence Ave.,
Chicago, Tl.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1909, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: John Edward Shea, Mary
Elizabeth Saxton.

PREPARED AT: St. Francis High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1936

Marriep: Geraldine McLaren, June 18, 1938, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN
Richard Barry, April 19, 1949, Mary Nell, Jan. 9, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.
MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus; Lions

[ 908 ]

 

sacaicemece ae aims eM ENE

sented
regegprpc <coinenrvan pateasetont

ee WS
saan pauice yn anger Cee EM

ated 1 at ARNT MAMET SEE
AME COTES DINE A

pein Prorat ati

AEN TEL PIT

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HE’S a normal human being — and you know what b--t—s they
are,” to quote from “Harvey”. So here’s an “NHB” twenty-five
years later, with a twinkle in his eye, a fascinating wife, two won-
derful youngsters, no hair, and plenty of pep. All of this because
of one of my most precious possessions — excellent health — and
in spite of Uncle Sam’s Army, a bride’s cooking and miscellan-
eous worries which ordinarily develop ulcers, so they tell me.

You know the general pattern — a modest share of this world’s
goods, a greater share of its experiences; never outstanding in
achievement, more often than not associated with the mundane.
For some strange reason, I have always managed to fall just
short of the material goals I set for myself.

I never actively practised law, although it has been a distinct
asset in my chosen field of insurance. For a time it was the editing
of insurance publications, later, estate analysis, now it is in the
role of an attorney in a large life, accident and health insurance
company. Naturally, there was an interruption of plans as I served
in the Counter-Intelligence Corps in the U.S. Army in the Euro-
pean Theatre from 1943 to 1945.

My family, you say? Married in 1938 and still childless in
1949, we adopted a boy, first, then two weeks old. At first
blush he’s no “NHB”. Even at this age and without prompting, |
he speaks of going to Harvard, and he shall, too, if that is still his
wish eleven years from now. We adopted a baby girl in 1954,
then aged three weeks. Both of the youngsters have responded
beautifully and developed well.

There’s been little choice on my part so far as travels are con-
cerned. Either Uncle Sam or business had told me when and
where and paid the freight. Most of our vacations in recent years
have meant a summer home in Wisconsin on the shores of Lake
Michigan with the emphasis on swimming, fishing and loafing
(if the last is possible with young, young youngsters forever
on the go).

Time was when my favorite hobby was golfing. That was
before the younger Sheas. Now I’m content with a few moments
relaxing over a few martinis before dinner, an evening out at-
tending a church or social organization meeting.

I am by choice a Republican, still convinced that the Demo-
crats have yet to produce a man capable of running the federal

[ 909 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

government well. You know what Harry thinks about Repubj.

cans. Guess that just about puts the checker on yours truly
being an “NHB”.

ALFRED PULLEN SHEPHERD |

HOME ADDRESS: 6809 Hammerstone Way, Cincinnati 27, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 400 Broadway, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.
Emalyn Gould Pullen.
PREPARED AT: Stuyvesant School, Warrenton, Va.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Jackson, Sept. 9, 1935, Erie, Pa. CHILDREN: Nancy, Sept.
16, 1936; Sally, May 29, 1943.

occuPATION: Manager, Bond and Stock Department, Western and Southern
Life Insurance Company.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1910, Cincinnati, Ohio, parents: Alfred Crane Shepherd,

OFFicEs HELD: Member board of directors, 1953-55, Cincinnati and Hamilton
County Chapter, area and district chairman and vice-chairman, various

fund drives, American Red Cross; trustee, Cincinnati Museum of Nat-
ural History, 1948-51; member, Taft for Senator Committee, 1950.

MEMBER OF: Lake Cowan Sailing Association; Mariemont Tennis Club;
Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Veteran Motor Car Club of America.
PUBLICATIONS: Warious short publications on economic and investment sub-

jects.

TWENTY-FIVE years sounds like a long time. I guess it is a long

time; certainly it has covered quite a kaleidoscope of places,

people, events, depressions, boom, war, peace — what hasn’t hap-
pened during the past twenty-five? Had a hint been given at
graduation of the full scope of a quarter of a century of living, I
would have scoffed with great disbelief. But what continually
surprises me is that, despite the variety of experiences and the
disappearing years, I should feel the same, act pretty much the
same, and have about the same points of view as in 1931. Perhaps
this is an unwitting admission of non-development, but I prefer
to believe it is the maintenance of a youthful outlook!

The year 1931 was pretty full right at the start. In addition to
the important events that go with one’s senior year at college, I
saw a good (and a bit of the bad!) part of Europe, got my first
job at the munificent emolument of $17.50 per week, and met
the most wonderful girl in the world (I still think so!).

The next two years, aside from including quite a bit of courting,

[910 ]

sop EM

ce gaat GRTOR TEA OPEL
mneagege vngcwepei tte
sn ern On PEG

ony

ws sean pete RANT HEMP
ame eae AREA TLERAE LAS en
aOR IA ISIE NE

Lees

ppt A EEF

1 PMT ANN IS AH

nyse
recone me 77

cempyrtsspie accngmse seen

cap eee OO TT TI a mAaTeRmemnnuanecerse tet . a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

building a racing hydroplane, some private flying, and a modicum
of work, brought me to the realization that I wasn’t in the right
vocation. So, back to Boston and into the field of investments in
1934 — 4 field that I have pursued (I think that is about the right
verb) ever since and would be most unhappy out of.

My career (it says here) continued apace and led me back to
Cincinnati in the spring of 1942 — said career then about to be
interrupted by the late international unpleasantness. The interrup-
tion took the form of a commission in the U.S.N.R., Supply Corps,
with duty along the placid shores of the Potomac. Procurement
and distribution of perishable foods is a long, long way from the
field of investment; I hope (although many times doubted) that I
rendered some service to the military.

After the war, investment counseling comprised my vocational
activity for the next seven years — seven years of pretty-hard-to-
analyze economic and investment forces. (Was it ever easy?) In
1952 a Client asked me to join him on a full-time basis, and the
switch was made into the investment end of the life insurance
business — a switch that has turned out to be much easier than
anticipated and productive of considerable satisfaction.

So much for the “career”. During this period, the raising of a
couple of swell little gals (who, by the way, are not so little now!)
has been fascinating, discouraging, pleasing, displeasing, satisfy-
ing, and just plain worrisome by turns. But mustn’t life be dull
without ’em?

And just to round out the picture, sailing, tennis, squash, swim-
ming, sports cars, antique cars, photography, music, and vacation
travel to many places — oh, yes, and being yardman and general
home mechanic — have filled in the few chinks of spare time that
were left over.

Yes, the past twenty-five have indeed been active, full and
varied. Once again I wonder: Is it possible that the next twenty-
five can match their scope?

[or]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

SIDNEY SHERMAN

HOME apprEss: 9408 Russell Rd. Silver Spring, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: National Labor Relations Board, Washington, D. C.

BORN: May 30, 1911, Boston, Mass, parents: Abram M, Shershevsky, Shifra
Lubovsky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934; J.D. (Georgetown
Univ.).

MARRIED: Fay Price, Nov. 20, 1940, Washington, D. C. CHILDREN; Arlene,
Aug. 17, 1942; Carol Lee, Jan. 28, 1946.

occuPATION: Attorney.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on labor law.

I HAVE held various legal jobs in government service (federal)
since 1935. I have been with the National Labor Relations Board
since 1948. I have also engaged in the private practice of law and
lectured at the National University Law School from 1946 to
1954. I have taken up golf lately and break 100 now and then.
Any respect my family may have had for my Harvard degree has
long been destroyed by my thirteen-year-old daughter who beats
me consistently at Scrabble. Ill back her against any classmate’s
offspring, or for that matter, against any classmate. I consider my
law-teaching experience as the most enjoyable work I have done.
I recommend it to all LL.B.’s in the Class.

FREDERICK EUGENE SHIPP

HOME apprEess: W. Groton Road, Groton, Mass.
OFFIcE apprEss: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

BORN: June 19, 1909, Malden, Mass. parents: George Garfield Shipp, Rose
Winifred Moore.

PREPARED AT: Natick High School, Natick, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 1932.
Marriep: Genevieve D. Hjelm, July 24, 1937, Barre, Mass. cHiLpren: Ann

Dorothy, July 6, 1938; George Frederick, Jan. 14, 1941; Russell Eliot,
Feb. 22, 1943.

occupation: Head of English Department, Belmont High School.

I HAVE led the errant life of most public school teachers. From
Billerica’s now defunct Mitchell Military School for Boys I went
to the high school in Barre, Massachusetts; from there to Lincoln

[912 ]

Leaeprie ceamneienicte a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(Mass.) Junior High School; thence to the senior high schools in
Wethersfield and New London, Connecticut; and finally to
Belmont.

After twenty-two years of teaching, I still find it difficult to
support a family of five. I have supplemented my career in edu-
cation with employment as a book salesman, playground attend-
ant, beach patrolman, dairy-bar counterman, nursery salesman
(plants, not the baby market), retail store clerk and security
salesman. Here’s hoping for an improved status — and soon, too
— for the impoverished American public school teacher!

BENJAMIN SHREVE

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Chestnut St., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass.

Born: March 7, 1908, Salem, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin Daland Shreve, ’95,
Katharine Sanders.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1928.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Huntington Shreve, ’33.

occupation: Research Assistant, Department of Herpetology.

MEMBER OF: Essex County Ornithological Club; American Ornithologists’
Union (not elective member); American Society of Ichthyologists and
Herpetologists; American Society of Systematic Zoology, Salem
Y.M.C.A. Chess Club; Northeastern Bird Banding Association; Salem
Fraternity; Essex Institute (Salem); Salem Marine Society; House of
Seven Gables Settlement Association, Harvard Faculty Club (associate).

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous herpetological articles; a few ornithological papers.

FOLLOWING my one year at Harvard and two years at Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology, I entered the Mammal Depart-
ment of the Museum of Comparative Zoology in the fall of 1930.
After a few months here, I went into the Herpetological Depart-
ment of the same museum in April, 1931. I have been here ever
since. I am a research assistant, specifically working on the
taxonomy of reptiles and amphibians.

During parts of the months of June and August and all of July
in 1938, I was at Great Inagua Island in the Bahamas, which in-
cluded visits to Little Inagua Island and Sheep Cay, collecting

[913 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

natural history specimens for the museum, In March and April
of 1933 I made a trip to Bermuda, not collecting.

From April 30, 1942, to October 6, 1944, I was in the Army,
never leaving the United States. An attack of phlebitis in both legs
following a hernia operation done in the service was the reason
for my discharge.

I returned to the museum after that. It might be pertinent at
this point to mention that I leave the museum about the last part
of June until about the last part of September nearly every year
to spend the summer at Cotuit on Cape Cod, My hobbies include
bird banding, which I started while a student at Middlesex, and
which — although done on a small scale — has yielded interesting
returns and recoveries. I like to play golf, but distinctly belong
in the duffer class. I also like to play chess; although not showing
much talent, I have taken part in tournaments and matches. Watch-
ing baseball and football is another source of enjoyment.

RICHARD SAMUEL SHUMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Castleton St., Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Edison Co., 39 Boylston St., Boston 12, Mass.

gorn: April 16, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Benjamin Shuman,
D.M.D. ’o2z, Minnie Samuel.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1931; LL.B. 1934.
UNMARRIED,

occupation: Director of training and research, Boston Edison Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director and treasurer, Boston Center for Adult Education;
instructor, Northeastern University School of Business; adjutant gen-
eral, 94th Infantry Division, U. S. Army Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Industrial Relations Research Associa-
tion; Adult Education Association of the U.S.A.;, Institute of General

Semantics, International Society for General Semantics; Photographic
Society of America.

MY first three years after admission to the Massachusetts Bar
were spent in legal aid and legislative counsel work. Shortly after
the Wagner Act was declared constitutional by the U. S. Supreme
Court, Boston Edison Company offered me a job and I have been
with them ever since (with four years out for war service). The
emphasis shifted from labor law to labor statistics and personnel

[914]

:
te
t
.
1,
i
x
3
q
E
%
i
i
L
i
&
;
}
i
2
Q
§
&
z
t
5
x
:
i

 

a peemeciniiges opepanetéten
Fela ete te CNG ALESIS

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

administration and later to employee training and personnel re-
search with some labor relations thrown in for good measure. I
was drafted into the Army in 1942. They trained me and put me
to work as a personnel officer. The experience thus gained with
the old Air Transport Command has proved invaluable. I was
released in 1946 with the rank of captain and have since become a
lieutenant colonel in the Reserves as a result of long affiliation and
much hard work with the Bay State 94th Infantry Division Head-
quarters in Boston.

My teaching activities at Northeastern University’s School of
Business in the field of labor relations and human relations are of
course related to my profession. I have also done considerable
teaching on the subject of photography which could be called my
principal hobby. As an old but not necessarily confirmed bache-
lor, I have been able to associate this hobby with extensive travel.
Scotland, the Hawaiian Islands and the principal scenic areas of
the United States and Canada have all been subjected to my
black-and-white and color cameras and I have given a variety of
lecture-showings based on my thousands of color slides, These
go together well with my strong minor hobby of painting and
drawing, mostly with crayon or pastel, which provides the essen-
tial recreation of doing things with your own hands, I have
never been one to talk much about religious, political or social
convictions, Too often talk becomes a comfortable substitute for
assuming responsibility or taking effective action. Our communi-
cation skills, like our social and industrial relation techniques, lag
so far behind our technological advances that talk only infre-
quently results in effective communication. We can observe what
people do but we can only listen to what they say and we are
only beginning to learn how to listen.

HIRAM WATSON SIBLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 242 Bradley St., New Haven, Conn.

OFFIcE apprEss: Yale-New Haven Medical Center, 789 Howard Ave, New
Haven, Conn.

BorN: March 26, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Harper Sibley, ’o7,
Georgiana Harding Farr.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

[ors]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M. (Univ. of Rochester),
1948; S.M. IN P.H. (Yale Univ.), 1948.

marrieD: Anne Mellen Robbins, Sept. 26, 1931, Boston, Mass. cHILpReEn:
Hiram Watson, Jr., July 14, 1932; Anne Sibley, July 27, 1935; Marie
Louise, Feb. 2, 1938; Thomas, Jan. 10, 1941.

occuPATION: Director of program development, Yale-New Haven Medical
Center; assistant professor of public health administration.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Anatolia College, Thessaloniki, Greece, Near East
College Association; board member, Connecticut Association for Mental
Health, New Haven Visiting Nurse Association, Family Service of New
Haven; vice-president, Layman’s Program, Episcopal Diocese of Con-
necticut; president, Harvard Club of Rochester, 1935-37-

MEMBER OF: American Public Health Association (fellow); Connecticut
State Medical Society (associate); American and Connecticut Hospital
Associations; Cathedral Chapter, Hartford; Harvard Clubs of Connecti-
cut and New Haven.

pusLications: Articles in hospital journals.

THE man is fortunate whose job, interests and loyalties run hand-
in-hand, First on my list comes my family, not only a much-
loved wife and four peppy children, but also twenty-eight
nephews and nieces, their parents and grandparents — all of whom
I assiduously cultivate. Second comes an exciting job pioneering
in medical economics from the vantage point of a medical center
which joins a top medical school and a leading nursing school with
an outstanding hospital. The frosting on this cake is an oppor-
tunity to teach graduate students in public health, hospital ad-
ministration and nursing. The preparation for my job ‘began,
shortly after graduation from Harvard, at the Security Trust
Company of Rochester, New York. There I climbed the ladder
in eleven years from bank messenger to assistant trust officer.

My interest in community organization began during this
period when I became treasurer of a public health nursing asso-
ciation, a hospital, a settlement house, a public library, and a
regional hospital council. I had a hand in organizing the Roch-
ester Junior Chamber of Commerce and what turned out to be a
vigorous sports program at the Genesee Valley Club in Roch-
ester. Evenings, whenever my wife permitted, I took banking
courses and, when these ran out, courses in history leading even-
tually to an A.M. degree.

World War II developed my third interest which is public
health: planning, teaching, promotion and administration. I chose

[916 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rehabilitation as my field of war service and was fortunate in
joining Herbert Lehman early in 1943 in what eventually turned
out to be the first UN agency — the United Nations Relief and
Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA). After eighteen months
in Washington, participating in UNRRA’s organization, I was as-
signed to the mission to Greece. I arrived in the Greek islands as
the Germans were withdrawing from Athens and spent two
fascinating and productive years stationed first at Syros, second at
Mytilene, and finally at Salonika. My wife joined me for the last
three months of my tour of duty and together we toured north-
ern Greece and even Turkey before coming home in July, 1946.

My method of getting re-established was to go to Yale — the
first banker to take a degree in public health. Upon receiving
my degree, I was fortunate in being asked to put my special
knowledge to work as executive director of the Connecticut Hos-
pital Association. In addition to developing a program of uniform
accounting, I participated in the negotiation of a hospital reim-
bursement formula with the State Welfare Department and with
the Connecticut Blue Cross. In April, 1954, I was invited to take
the leadership in the future development of the Yale-New Haven
Medical Center.

In closing, may I point to my interest in my church as a Sunday
School teacher and vestryman, in the Republican party which I
serve as a member of the Ward Committee, in Harvard which
I have served as president of the Harvard Club of Rochester, and
in the Greek people whom I now serve as a trustee of Anatolia
College and the Near East College Association.

PAUL MALCOLM SIDEL

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Cedar St., Newton Centre, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 161 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS; Frank Louis Sidel, Ida Sherman.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Bernice R. Cohen, Dec. 23, 1934, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Barrett Newman, April 21, 1940; Peter Sherman, April 1, 1945.

OccupaTION: Owner, Melarn General Insurance Agency.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman executive committee, Jewish Big Brother Associa-
tion of Boston; director, Temple Israe] Brotherhood, Boston; member,

[917]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Committee for 1955 Service to Youth in New England; member organ.
ization committee, Jewish Community Center of Boston.

MEMBER OF: Ground Observer Corporation (Civil Defense); Harvard Club
of Boston; Newton Squash & Tennis Club.

AFTER I graduated I entered the millinery business, but after a
few years, decided to make a change. I went into the insurance
business and now operate my own agency, the Melarn General
Insurance Agency. I worked hard to establish myself, but also
made time for vacations, tennis, squash and ski trips.
Like most of us, I have been drawn into community work and
am especially interested in the Jewish Big Brother organization.
Those of us who are active, devote our time and energy to some
youngster who has a need for our experience and counsel. We
remain with him until he is able to make his own way. This
consequently takes some years of development. Usually the boys
come from broken homes and poor environment. So far I have
had three cases, two of which are complete. At the present time
Iam working with my third assignment, but it is too early to see
any positive results. My first “little brother” was graduated
from Bentley School of Accounting and Finance, has an excellent
position and is well on his way as a successful accountant. The
second young man is in the Navy, and he writes he is getting
along fine. When I was given his case, he was on the verge of
running away from home and had refused to finish high school,
but he stayed and received his diploma. He is learning electronics
in the Navy and will have a vocation when he is discharged. |
am really very pleased with the result of my efforts.

Despite the inroads on my spare time, I am fortunate to be
able to be with my family. I have two boys, sixteen and eleven,
who participate with me in many of the sports I enjoy. Skiing
and tennis are our favorites. My elder son won the tennis title at
his junior high school last year but I am still able to beat him.
However, I am afraid that this winter will see his mastery over
me in skiing, especially as he is getting Head Skis, a special type
of ski which increases one’s proficiency. Nevertheless, I still
have one! can lord it over. Well, we have fun together and that
is the main thing. My hopes are that I shall see my sons grow up

in an age of peace and that some day in the near future, my wife
and I can realize some of our objectives.

[918 ]

r

ea ee
ope ATR PE AE

4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SIDNEY SILBERBERG

HOME ApDpRESS: 28 Sheffield Rd., Newtonville 60, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 468 Canal St., Lawrence, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1910, Brooklyn, N. Y. Parents: Samuel Silberberg, Sarah
Grossman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marrieD: Mildred Rappaport, Feb. 7, 1936, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Susan
Ruth, Jan. 2, 1941; Alan Ira, July 19, 1945.

occupation: Vice-president in charge of sales, Ace Sportswear Company.

OFFICES HELD: President New England Division, director, National Outer-
wear and Sportswear Association; member, Kirstein Scholarship Com-
mittee, member budget and social planning committee, Combined
Jewish Appeal, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Knights of Pythias; Brotherhood Lodge, A.F. & A.M.,; Garden
City Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Shrine-Aleppo Temple; Men’s Apparel Clubs
of New York State and New England.

MY first contact with the cold business world shortly after grad-
uation was as a traveling salesman for the Ace Sportswear Com-
pany, of which firm I am a member. I soon found out how deep
the depression went and how few buyers and storekeepers appre-
ciated a Harvard graduate. I] covered New York state for several
years and handled various details at the factory. Now, as vice-
president, I am in charge of sales, advertising, purchasing and
whatever else is necessary in running a small business. Our firm
manufactures men’s and boys’ jackets and outerwear. The con-
stantly changing styles, colors and fabrics keep me on the go.

In 1936 I married the girl I “rushed” during my undergraduate
days. I now travel less and spend more time at home with my
wife and two children. My daughter, who is now a sophomore in
high school, puts me to shame in solving her math problems.
Alan, who is ten, changes his interests enthusiastically with the
seasons. Trying to keep up with him on sports, tropical fish,
stamp collecting, etc., is a never-ending task. Our German shep-
herd dog “Hope” is the junior member and pet of the family.

I have forsaken golf for gardening. The results of my efforts
are far more satisfying and relaxing. That is except when my
dog and her friends go on a spree through the flower beds.

[919]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

MORTON MAX SILTON

HOME ADDRESS: 925 Summit Ave., Greensburg, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: A. E, Troutman Co. 200 Main St., Greensburg, Pa.

BoRN: Sept. 16, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Myer Wolf Silton, Fanny
Lorraine Lurinsky.

PREPARED AT: Dover High School, Dover, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: S.B., 19313 M.B.A., 1933 (34).

MaRRIED: Reva Abramson, Dec. 2, 1940, Reading, Pa. cHILDREN: Maxine
Carol, April 25, 1943; Marilyn Frances, Nov. 7, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Zalmon Silton, ’28.

occupaTion: Vice-president and director, A. E, Troutman Company, depart-
ment stores.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant controller, Abraham & Straus, Inc., 1933-35; general
merchandise manager, Pomeroy’s, Inc., Reading, Pa. 1935-47; assistant
group manager, Allied Stores, Lebanon, Pa., 1947-49; vice-president, A.
E. Troutman Company, since 1949; vice-president and director, New
Castle Dry Goods Company, New Castle, Pa.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Mu; Puritan Lodge, No. 740, F. & A.M.; Reading
Consistory 32°; Rajah Temple, A.-A.O.N'S.; Elks, No. 511, Temple
Emanuel, B’nai B'rith; Harvard Business School Club of Pittsburgh.

AFTER receiving my M.B.A. at the Harvard Business School, I
joined Abraham & Straus in Brooklyn where I worked in the
merchandising and control divisions. In the fall of 1935, I moved
to Reading, Pennsylvania, to join Pomeroy’s, one of Allied’s de-
partment stores, as assistant to the general merchandising man-
ager. My merchandising experience developed over the next
dozen years until I became general merchandise manager. Mean-
while, I married a Reading girl, and we have two lovely daughters,
now eleven and thirteen years of age, who keep us well posted
on the teen-age point of view.

In 1947 I became assistant group manager, working with Albert
Coons, one of the truly great merchant vice-presidents of Allied
Stores, in charge of all their thirteen department stores in Pennsyl-
vania. A good portion of my time was spent traveling and work-
ing with a great group of merchants. Two years later, in 1949,
I was made merchandising and promotional vice-president and
director of the A. E. Troutman Company which operates eight
department stores (Allied Stores) located in western Pennsyl-
vania,

At our semi-annual company-wide managing directors’ meet-
ings, I have enjoyed renewing acquaintances with quite a few

[920 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Business School alumni associated with our firm, including Pro-
fessor McNair who is a member of Allied Stores board of direc-
tors.

In 1954 I took an interesting trip through our stores located
in Minnesota, Montana, Idaho, Oregon and Washington as the
guest of Mr. B. Earl Puckett, the executive head of Allied. We
flew around the circuit in the company’s DC3. What a pleasure
not having to watch time tables and plane schedules!

When I submitted my last report at HBS, it was quite a relief
to think that I wouldn’t have to worry about weekly reports
for a long time. Little did I realize what was in store for me.
I am thankful for the training in analyzing situations and prepar-
ing recommendations — which is a never-ending function! After
twenty years with the company, I find there never seems to be
a dull moment working on merchandising and promotional tech-
niques in the never-ending quest to do better than last year.

My work brings me in contact with a great many people, and
I try to maintain a healthy curiosity in many things. I derive a
great deal of pleasure trying to understand people, and to know
more and more about the underlying factors that make one pro-
motion fail and another succeed. “To learn from what you under-
stand is something, but to act on what you learn is all that really
matters, isn’t it”?

AARON SILVER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 310 E. rath St., New York 3, N. Y.

BORN: June 28, 1910, Radul, Russia. PARENTS: Eli Silver, Rebecca Holsberg.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931, M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1935.

MARRIED: Esther Kerner, June 19, 1931, New York, N. Y. cuHitpren: Robert
Jay, Aug. 11, 1938; Nancy Mae, June 3, 1943; Susan Hillary, Jan. 23,
1951.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Associate physician, physician, School of Nursing, Beth Israel
Hospital, New York, N. Y.

MEMBER OF: National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate); American
Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); Medical Society of County
and State of New York; American Medical Association; American
College of Physicians (fellow); New York Academy of Medicine
(fellow); American Geriatrics Society (fellow).

[921]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

pusuicaTIons: “The Occurrence of False Positive Trichina Precipitin Tests
_ in Infectious Mononucleosis”, Journal of Laboratory and Clinical Medi-
cine, April, 1949; “Blood Volume and Electrolytes in Induced Acute
Hypoglycemia in Diabetes”, Bulletin of New York Academy of Medi-
cine, April, 1950; “Evaluation of Clinical Methods in Gastrointestinal
Disease”, III, “Liver Function Tests in Peptic Ulcer Cases”, Journal of
the American Medical Association, August, 1951; “Evaluation of Clinical
Methods in Gastrointestinal Disease”, IV, “Autopsy Findings of Liver
Disease Observed in Peptic Ulcer Cases”, American Journal of Digestive
Diseases, November, 1951; “The Coexistence of Rheumatic and Arterio-
sclerotic Heart Disease in Patients over the Age of Forty”, American
Heart Journal, December, 1951; “A Personnel Health Program in Ac-

tion”, Hospitals, February, 1952.

IS it twenty-five years already? My children remind me that
1956 is my 25th wedding anniversary year as well, and now my
son Bob is a Harvard freshman, living for himself those four
wonderful years he has patiently listened to me talk about,

usually prefaced with, “Now, when I was your age”.
Let’s see, 1 was married directly after graduation and then
spent the next ten years becoming a doctor — medical school,
internship, residencies, specialty preparations and exams, and
starting a practice. Came the war and I suddenly discovered that
I was not physically fit for military service (the examining physi-
cian suggested that I return to the oxygen tent from which I
had obviously just escaped) — this, in spite of the fact that I was
then engaged in running up and down five flights of stairs in the
tenements of New York’s Lower East Side in the course of my
practice. No waivers were acceptable and it was suggested that
I try to make myself useful in civilian pursuits. I accordingly
took on extra duties in our doctor-short hospital and looked after
the practice of a colleague. Somewhere along the line, Bob was
born, and then Nancy, and much later Susan. Suddenly, my wife
and I were overwhelmed with schooling — progressive or tradi-
tional, public or private, and parent-teacher associations. At one
point, we had a child in high school, elementary school, and
nursery school with three separate P.T.A.’s. Who had time for
hobbies? However, the spacing of our children was not without
its advantages. It provided built-in baby sitters, so that Mrs.

Silver and I could get out for an evening, that is, when it did not
interfere with THEIR parties, socials, proms, etc.

[922 ]

- eee
ace an EOS RO OE

csi neem AMC A FD

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Professionally, I am on the medical staff of the Beth Israel
Hospital in New York where I am engaged in the development
of a geriatrics clinic, the first, we believe, of its kind in the
country. With the continuing numerical increase of elderly

eople and the appreciation of the scope and complexity of their
needs in health care, we felt that a fresh approach in service to
ambulatory patients was in order. We have instituted an inte-
grated program in out-patient care in which physical, emotional
and social resources of the patient and his family, the skills and
facilities of a general hospital, and the general and special services
of community agencies are utilized. The design of this approach
is to furnish medical, psychiatric and social services codrdinated
to provide comprehensive diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation.
The field of geriatrics with its concern for the problems of aging
and the aged will become of ever-increasing interest to most of
us long before our Fiftieth Anniversary.

HOWARD NELLSON SIMPSON

HOME AppDRESS: 1159 River Rd., Agawam, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 281 State St., Springfield, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 12, 1910, Hazardville, Conn. parents: George Simpson, Nellie
Ann King.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D., 1935.

MARRIED: Caroline Root Lyman, Jan. 1, 1938, Woburn, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Lyman, Aug. 22, 1939; Barry K., June 27, 1941; Donald H.,
Nov. 3, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

oFrFices HELD: Member, Agawam School Committee, 1949-55; lecturer in
Health Education, Springfield College, 1948-52; associate medical direc-
tor, Monarch Life Insurance Company, since 1952; councilor, Massa-
chusetts Medical Society, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
American College of Physicians (fellow); American Board of Internal
Medicine (diplomate); American Heart Association, American Diabetes
Association; Association of Life Insurance Medical Directors; John
Leonard Medical Club; Springfield Medical Club.

PuBLicaTions: A little poetry, a little prose.

SOMEONE who should know — I think it was Lytton Strachey,
[923 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

but I’m not going to look it up — has said that it is as hard to
write a good life as it is to live one. Be that as it may, looking
back over a quarter of a century, it is not easy to pick out the
high spots. Episodes involving academic kudos, or professional
advancement, or public acclaim may slip out of focus compared
with quiet memories of a sudden hand-clasp, or tears of gratitude,
or a look of understanding.

In 1935 I graduated from the Harvard Medical School and,
after several years of postgraduate training in internal medicine,
opened an office in Springfield. A little over a year later, one
raw, gray December Sunday afternoon we went for a ride in the
family car to discover on our return that the world had come
tumbling down around our ears. As a medical novice my civilian
days were obviously numbered, and I soon found myself being
interviewed by a young ensign who felt that he was doing me a
great favor, if not coming close to breaking his oath, to consider
such questionable material for his Navy. My attitude was less
humble and appreciative than it should have been. It had been
a trying day. My physique and my psyche had been plumbed
without stint. Now I must reveal ALL, including facts I had
nearly forgotten — educational background from thumb-sucking

to mortarboard, religious affiliations, political beliefs, professional
attainments and, now near the end of the inquisition, “To what
non-medical organizations do you belong?” The little one-
striper could not believe that I had not joined a fraternity or a
_ lodge or something. The blank must be filled. Finally, wearily I

said, “Yes, I belong to the Book-of-the-Month Club”. That is
how I happened to join the Air Force.

My first station was in Florida, then to Randolph Field, and
then to Africa as a flight surgeon. Africa indeed, but for me it
was everywhere except the battlegrounds. During the next two
years with the Air Transport Command, I was to see Dakar,
Liberia, the Gold Coast, the Sahara, Nigeria, Lake Chad, Khar-
toum, the Red Sea, Cairo, Alexandria, the Congo, Victoria Falls,
Johannesburg, Nairobi, Lake Tanganyika and Mount Kenya.

Back home and out, I again started practice in internal medi-
cine. I do private practice and am also associate medical director
of the Monarch Life Insurance Company. I am visiting physician
at the Springfield Hospital and at the Westfield State Sanatorium

[924]

i
|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(cancer division). For five years I was a Republican mer
the Agawam School Committee. I am active in organizec

cine and am gathering material for a book about the ef
disease on this country’ S history.

My family, in which I take great pride, consists of my °
graduate of Mount Holyoke, and three sons in high and
high schools. In this realm I envy no man. We are reasc
faithful attendants at the Congregational Church. As a -
we have found opportunities to travel around most of

England, to New York, Washington and Quebec. In my
time I fill out forms — like this one.

EARLE LEWIS SIMS

HOME appress: Parallel Street, Harwich, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cape Cod Trust Co, Harwich Port, Mass.

BORN: July 1, 1908, Northboro, Mass. parents: William Fisher Sims, A
Maude Earle.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Charlotte Patch, Sept. 17, 1938, Stoneham, Mass. CHILDREN: Suzz
Brewster, Aug. 30, 1939; Earle Lewis, Jr., April 21, 1942.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, treasurer, clerk, trust officer, director, C
Cod Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, E. L. Patch Company, Stoneham, Mass.; deacon, F
Congregational Church of Harwich; (formerly) president, secreta
Central Cape Cod Kiwanis Club; secretary, Town of Harwich Finar
Committee, 1939-45.

MEMBER OF: Central Cape Kiwanis Club; Harwich Historical Society.

FRANCIS JOSEPH SINGLETON

HOME apprEss: 483 Cedar Grove St, New Bedford, Mass.
OFFICE appress: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass

BORN: Sept. 26, 1908, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Joseph Singleton Lillian
Parkinson.

preparep aT: Holy Family High School, New Bedford, Mass

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1935
occupation: Teacher of biology.

[925 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

BERNHARD SLIMMER

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: P. OQ. Box 48, Breckenridge, Minn.

BORN: July 4, 1909, St. Paul, Minn. Parents: Abraham Slimmer, Jeannette
Goldman.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933 (34).
UN MARRIED.

occupaTion: Agriculture; investments in securities and commodities.
MEMBER OF: University Club of St. Paul; Athletic Club of St. Paul; Masonic

Order; Toastmasters.
AFTER graduation from the Business School I worked at the
May Company in St. Louis for about three years. Not caring
for it, I entered the field of agriculture, making my headquarters
at Breckenridge in the Red River Valley area of western Minne-
sota. Through the years I have expanded considerably, engaging

in cattle-feeding during the winters in Southern California. ©

While engaged in this work I tried to develop a technique for
speculation in the security and commodity markets and I have
been busy in recent years in the markets; the technique is better
than [ at first had thought possible.

Aside from business, | have been active in other fields. For
example, ] have done much work for the Republicans. I have
also interviewed applicants for national scholarships for Harvard.
Although far-removed from my other activities, I have become
interested in some diseases of the central nervous system, my
curiosity having been aroused by my studies of animal-nutrition
in connection with cattle-feeding. Anyway, I have established
the Slimmer Multiple Sclerosis Fund with the Huntington Foun-
dation of Pasadena, the fund to be used for the study of that
disease. My work has really been my favorite hobby, although

sports, politics and theatrical entertainment have always inter-
ested me.

WILLIAM ALEXANDER SLOAN

HOME apprEss: 3606 Calle del Sol, N.E., Albuquerque, N. Mex.
OFFIcE appress: Rodey, Dickason, Sloan, Mims & Akin, P.O, Box 558, Al-
buquerque, N. Mex.

Born: Aug. 15, 1910, Boston, Mass, parents: William Sloan, Margaret
Wallace.

[926]

eugene

ae eee tay A ESTEE LOE
are ee CHIT
ene r

ston

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B, 1934.

marriED: Olive C. Greathead, 1937, Winthrop, Mass. cwirpren: D:
Margaret, Dec. 24, 1937; Geoffrey William, Aug. 4, 1944; Rol
Greathead, Dec. 9, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. Mark’s-on-the-Mesa Episcopal Church, 19s0-
since 1954; director, Cerebral Palsy Day School, since 1948; Albuquere
Bar Association, since 1953; president, Harvard Club of New Mex1
1955-56, commissioner, State Bar of New Mexico, since 1953; preside
Albuquerque Lawyers Club, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Ballut Abyad Shrine; Elks Club, Albuquerque; Albuquerc
Country Club; State Bar of New Mexico.

I HAVE followed the developments of my own career sin
1931 with an absorbed interest I cannot expect my classmates

share. In summary, I spent three years at the Law School as
student; the next three years as a law clerk in the Massachuset
Supreme Judicial Court; and the remaining nineteen years as

country lawyer in Albuquerque, except for three and a ha
years in the Navy during the war. The setting of my profession:
life may seem to my eastern brothers exotic and has, in fact, bee.

exciting. It is pleasant to report that I would, if free to selec
again, choose the same path.

JOHN COCHRAN SLUDER

HOME apprEss: Half Mile Road, Armonk, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Nestlé Co., Inc., 2 William St., White Plains, N. Y.

BORN: May 23, 1909, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Greenfield Sluder, Ella Cochran.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREES; A.B, (Washington Univ.), 1932; PH.D.
(Massachusetts Inst. of Technology), 1941.

MarriED: Elizabeth Cabot Bradley, Aug. 20, 1943, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Greenfield, May 19, 1945; Godfrey Cabot, June 12, 1947; Eleanor
Bradley, Oct. 4, 1949.

occuPation: Vice-president, Nestlé Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Visiting Committee, Department of Food Tech-
nology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1950-54; treasurer, mem-
ber executive committee, North Castle Citizens’ Council, Inc.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; MILT. Club of New York;
Whippoorwill Club, Armonk, N. Y.; Sigma Xi.

I ATTENDED Harvard for two years and then transferred to
[927]

HARVARD CLASS OF [931

Washington University in St. Louis, where I was graduated in
1932. After one year at Harvard Medical School, I entered the
Graduate School at M.I.T. where, along with some teaching, |
received a Ph.D, degree in 1941, I remained at M.I.T. as an as-
sistant professor and during the war was in charge of several
research projects for the Army, while at the same time acting
as an expert consultant to the Office of the Quartermaster General
in Washington.

After the war, I entered industry as general manager of a
frozen food company in California, and in 1947, took a position
with the Nestlé Company with offices in New York City. We
lived in New York City for three years, then moved to Colorado
when the company established its headquarters in Colorado
Springs. After two years in Colorado Springs, the company
moved its headquarters back to White Plains, New York, where
they are presently located. I am vice-president in charge of
manufacture.

In 1943 I married Elizabeth Cabot Bradley of Boston. We
have three children aged ten, eight, and six, the eldest two being
boys, the youngest a girl. We live in Armonk, New York, which
allows me to drive to the Nestlé Company offices in White Plains
in approximately fifteen minutes. We have a few acres of land,
where I spend the majority of my summer week-ends gardening
or doing other work around the place. Winter week-ends are
often divided between the outdoors and the basement shop which
is equipped for both wood and metal work. Between the various
projects of my two sons and my own projects, the shop is a busy
place on week-nights as well as week-ends during the winter.

I have not entered into politics, but have spent a very consid-
erable amount of time as treasurer and member of the executive
committee of the North Castle Citizens’ Council, Inc., which is
a citizens’ group interested in preserving and improving the
township of North Castle as a residential area.

Due to the nature of my job and the fact that the Nestlé Com-
pany is an international company with headquarters in Vevey,
Switzerland, I have had occasion to travel rather extensively. In
the past few years I have got to know almost all of the countries
in Europe, and some more distant places such as Australia and
New Zealand. Traveling under the auspices of the Nestlé Com-

[928 ]

§
}

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pany is particularly enjoyable, since I have acquired m:
within the company from foreign countries, and have t]
of being entertained in their homes when abroad.
Our winter vacations have been spent largely in Jame
spring and summer vacations have alternated betwee
trips to Canada, a few weks on the Riviera and Italy,
to Beverly Farms on the north shore of Boston.

CHARLES VICTOR LOVETT SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 2632 N. Roosevelt St., Arlington 7, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: O.N.R.L., Box 39, Navy 100, F.P.0., New York, I

BORN: July 30, 1909, Everett, Mass, parents: Charles Frederick Smit
Livingston Ackhurst.
PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 1932; PH.D. I
MARRIED: Virginia Hunkins, May 8, 1934, Beverly, Mass,
HARVARD BROTHER: George Henry Lovett Smith, ’34, a.m. ’35.
occupation: Scientific liaison officer, Office of Naval Research.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Program committee, Association for Com.
Machinery, 1952-54, Washington Chapter, Professional Group on
puters, Insticuce of Radio Engineers, 1953-54; senior member, In
of Radio Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Mathematical Association of America; American Mather
Society; Association for Computing Machinery.

PuBLIcATIONS: “The Fractional Derivative of a Laplace Integral”, .
Mathematical Journal, 1941; “Digital Computers and their Applicati.
Journal of the American Society of Naval Engineers, 1949; “Electr
Digital Computers”, Advances in Electronics, 1952; “Physical Rea
tion of an Electronic Computing Instrument”, Sixth Iuterim Prog
Report, The Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N. J, 1
“Physical Realization of an Electronic Computing Instrument” (w
H. H. Goldstine and J. H. Pomerene), Final Progress Report, T
Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N. J. 1954.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation, I returned to Harvard ar
took my Master’s degree in mathematics in 1932. I was marrie
in 1934, and taught in a preparatory school in Boston, resuming
graduate work at Harvard on a part-time basis in 1936. I receivec
a Ph.D. degree in mathematics in 1939 and went to teach mathe-
matics at Lafayette College, where I stayed until 1942, having
been promoted from instructor to assistant professor in i941.
In 1942 1 was commissioned in the Naval Reserve, and received

[929 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

radar training, thus being initiated into the field of electronics,

with which I have been connected ever since. After several brief

assignments, I finally was ordered to the Navy Postgraduate

School, then in Annapolis, where I taught in the Electronics

Engineering Department until being released from active duty

in 1946. In 1946 I went to work for the Raytheon Manufacturing

Company in Waltham, Massachusetts, where I spent two inter-

esting and rewarding years as a senior engineer, leaving in 1948

to accept a position with the Office of Naval Reserve.

I have been with the Office of Naval Reserve ever since, most

of the time as head of the computer branch, and at present as a

scientific liaison officer in London, from which I expect to return
in the spring of 1956. It has been a very interesting experience to
watch the development of the electronic digital computer field
from the days when most of the equipment existed only in the
somewhat fevered imagination of the enthusiasts and promoters
to the present flourishing state of a new industry, with every
prospect of vast expansion before it. Apart from my work for
the Navy, I have actively participated in the promotion of this
new field through publication, serving on a number of committees
to arrange meetings, and my activities as a member of the Coun-
cil of the Association for Computing Machinery, and as first
chairman of the Washington Chapter of the I.R.E.’s Professional
Group on Computers. I also had the very good fortune to spend
seven months in 1950-51 at the Electronic Computer Project at
the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey,
where I consider that some of the best work on digital computers
has been done. My present activities as scientific liaison officer
in London have given me the opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the European work. In general, the European developments
are quite far behind ours, the only exception being in England,
where original contributions to the field have been made, and
where a computer manufacturing industry (as distinct from the
production of accounting machinery) now exists.

I often think that I have devoted too much time to the elec-
tronic computer field and would like to have more to devote to
my other interests in electronics, particularly to circuit problems
and automatic control. I would also like to do some more teach-
ing. For several years in Washington, I taught graduate courses

[930 ]

su Sant SD EMA Tare OE
seespen Ante pu. 1 Sate
sgenig nanet igtt t MOEEN F
se AMR BTRTS ecg aE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in circuit theory and electromagnetism in the off-campus pro-
gram of the University of Maryland and enjoyed it very much,
although it tended to produce exhaustion. I would also like to
be able to spend more time at the small place I acquired in Virginia
a few years ago, not far from Harper’s Ferry; but I am afraid
that so many interesting and important things are going on that
all these must wait for the future.

I have no hobbies and do not play games, but get a good deal
of exercise and relaxation working around our house in the coun-
try where we spend our week-ends. My wife and I are fixing it
up little by little; she has most of the good ideas, and we work
together in executing them. In religion, I am an Episcopalian.
I was brought up in the Church, but was not confirmed while
young. I am glad to say that I finally rectified this omission

IN 1953.

+ FRANCIS EDWARD SMITH, JR.

BORN: Dec. 14, 1909, Winchester, Mass. parents: Francis Edward Smith,
Elsie Cora Davis.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

DIED: June 26, 1942, Winchester, Mass.

SMITH reported in 1941 that he was engaged in financial publish-
ing, with an office in Boston. The Secretary has no further in-
formation of his activities since he left college after freshman
year.

GERALD ROY SMITH

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Shore Road, Ogunquit, Maine. .

BORN: Jan. 1, 1909, Somerville, Mass. parents: Roy Albert Beverley Smith,
Hattie Newell Allen.

PREPARED: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1935.

MarRIED: Ida Willena White, June 7, 1931, Portsmouth, N. H. cHILpREN:
Joan Camille, Jan. 31, 1935; Gerald Cameron, Feb. 8, 1936; David Roy,
April 5, 1946.

[931 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931
occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member staff, York Hospital, York, Maine.
MEMBER OF: Maine Medical Association; York (Maine) County Medical

Society; Masons,

THE life of Smith which seemed rather exciting to me at the

time, now appears rather dull as a narrative in retrospect. It

consists mostly of the eternal struggle to stay ahead of taxes and
insurance, but has two outstanding high spots. The first was the
biggest stroke of good fortune a man could get — meeting and
marrying a wonderful girl who has been my companion and
crutch and who has raised for me three wonderful children —
and the successful grind to get through medical school on m
own resources, in spite of the dire predictions of all advisers who
said it couldn’t be done.

Since then, my little family unit has settled in this small ocean-
side community and codperated with the old man in getting him
through the exciting stages of delayed youth — mud-buggy rac-
ing, hockey, boating, horses, golf — back again to boating where
old age has finally cornered me for the duration I think — all this
while developing a busy if not too remunerative country practice
as a general practitioner.

Meanwhile, my beautiful and charming daughter (who gets
both these attributes from her mother, needless to say) has been
through college and stenotype institute and is about to get mar-

ried — and my talented and handsome older son, who derives his
personality from the same source and who, thinking Harvard
must be too easy since his old man got through there, went to
Bowdoin in fond hopes of finding some way to get rich quickly.
Now we are concentrating on the nine-year-old, who combines
all the afore-mentioned virtues, and we are having a fine time
doing it, since we have the benefit of our previous experience
and take it easier.
If we can just get a little more time for it, my wife Ida, who
has managed somehow to become more lovable than ever, and I
plan to get away together more and see a little of our own

continent. If we do, we hope to live long enough to greet you
all at the Thirty-fif th.

[ 932 ]

ge pret gape AE POTN ERT UTE
capgmenieyt ghPreeahie
b cpapmerigp HAMAR OREM DOTS
meant ret ECE
re eect EM

st RO OE

oe PLOT NET TI

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES HOPKINS SMITH, JR.

HOME apprEss: North Star Ranch, Aspen, Colo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Navy Dept., Washington, D. C.

BorN: Dec. 15, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: James Hopkins Smi
Pauline Morton.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LL.B, (Columbia [
1935.

MarRIED: Nancy Morgan, October, 1937, New York, N. Y. cnn
Charles Morgan, Jan. 30, 1939; Sandra, Sept. 18, 1940; Dinah, M-:
1946,

occuPATION: Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Air.

OFFiceS HELD: Vice-president, Pan American Airways, Inc, New ~
director, Wytex Oil Company, Denver, Slick Airways, Inc., San
tonio, The Aspen Company, Aspen, Colo.; trustee, Fountain V
School, since 1952, Groton School, 1947-50, Buckley School, 1
Island, N. Y., 1947-50, Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Chilc
1940-50; member of the Overseers Committee to Visit the Deparm
of Astronomy, Harvard, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Aeronautical Sciences; Royal Aero Club (Londe
Denver Club; Links Club (New York).

PUBLICATIONS: “Mobile Sea Base Systems in Nuclear Warfare”, Naval I7
tute Proceedings, 1955.

AT the moment, being in government service, I could fill t
space solely on the subject of the difference in results achieved i
systems stressing individual responsibility in lieu of committ
or corporate responsibility. Possibly that underlies my ow
philosophy, ie., great stress on the individual. Certainly tt
things I have enjoyed most have come in connection with dec.
sions independently developed. In business this has been true i.
association with small companies as compared with large ones
in which actions were always subject to codrdination, review, etc.
equally so in sports where the pleasure of, say, skiing at a self-
determined speed, certainly far exceeds that of rowing at a stroke
determined by others.

So far as hobbies are concerned, I have devoted most of my
time to aviation, commencing in 1927, and have divided this
between civil and military operations, depending on the degree
of peacefulness at the moment. I spent a great deal of the time
from graduation until the beginning of World War II in the
development of airways across the Atlantic as far to the east as

[ 933 J

bo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Calcutta and to the southeast as Johannesburg. The war, in
typical fashion, took me to the other side of the world and my
time was spent almost entirely in the Pacific as a pilot in various
aircraft squadrons and finally on Admiral Radford’s staff. Shortly
after the war, almost the entire four years of which were spent
overseas, there was a basic Smith family change of policy, and
we moved from Manhasset, New York, to Aspen, Colorado; from
the suburbs to a ranch; from a “corporate” existence to a highly
individualized one. To the extent that any family can be content
with one place, this approximates perfection, as the area provides
tremendous cultural and physical challenges on one hand, with
great opportunities in the natural resources business on the other,

JOSEPH ARTHUR SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Bentham Rd., Dorchester, Mass. :

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 27, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Harten Smith, Mary.
Elizabeth Bolger. t
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. :

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRIED: Katherine Elizabeth Walsh, June 10, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Laurence Joseph, April 8, 1938, Janice Marie, Nov. 9, 1940; Mary
Patricia, May 1, 1945; Joseph, May 3, 1952 (died May 3, 1952).

OCCUPATION: Life insurance; sales promotion.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant, U.S.N.R., 1944-46; Chartered Life Underwriter. i

MEMBER OF: Catholic Alumni Sodality. :

PUBLICATIONS: Trade publications.

THE prodding of a conscience sensitive to the pleas of our
harassed editor, rather than any compelling urge to disclose my
own inadequacy, frustrations or petty triumphs, has finally over-
come my native inertia and goaded me into submitting these
lines. The autobiographical essay is definitely not my forte. To
be interesting, it calls for a subject whose life has been extraor- :
dinary, or one who is willing to remove the armor with which
he protects his ego and reveal something of his true self. “Un- ‘
known to fortune and to fame” and reticent by nature, I fail to
qualify on either count.

Life, however, though prosaic, has not been dull, Anyone with

[934 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an active teen-age family will agree that it couldn’t possibly be.
Despite my own inclinations, I have been inveigled into being
a Boy Scout committeeman, a PTA member, sometime chauffeur
for the Campfire Girls, and for services above and beyond the
call of duty — honorary member of the Mothers’ Club.

To be considered an authority on international affairs, short
story writing, Caesar’s Gallic Wars, the backstroke, elementary
algebra, the Japanese Navy, and “all those funny old songs”, like
Barney Google and Bridget O’Flynn, can make a man old before
his time trying to live up to his reputation.

The proud gleam in my softball playing daughter’s eye when
she sees Dad can still go and get them makes the next week’s
aches and pains worth while. Pride is truly the supreme sin.

No, life is sometimes frenzied but never dull.

Apart from home and family, what I may euphemistically call
my career can be loosely divided into pre- and post-war activities.
Until I joined the Navy to help MacArthur save the world from
the Yellow Peril, I had spent several of my still idealistic years
helping in a small way to develop and administer some of the
welfare programs of the New Deal. I still have many fond mem-
ories of the now socially acceptable school lunch program and
those who worked so hard to get it established.

Two years a la “Mr. Roberts” provided me with a sufficiently
large supply of “sea stories” to impress my son, sundry Army
friends, and other landlubbers that I was an old sea dog whose
salinity was exceeded only by Bull Halsey’s. As the years slip
by, the loneliness and boredom of those seemingly endless days
away from my family are fortunately only a dim memory, and
even the names and faces of old shipmates become hazy.

But some impressions are still vivid: the havoc of Buckner
Bay after a typhoon, the chaste beauty of the Chapel in Manus,
the ineffable glory of a Pacific sunset, the overwhelming stench of
a Chinese walled village, sampans off Inchon, the breathtaking
view from the Pali, the Kamakura Dai-Butsu, a religious proces-
sion on Guam, and the beggars’ interminable clamor for cumshaw
are a montage against the monotony of war.

Since the war, I have been helping others build security of
another sort through life insurance. Following some years of
direct selling, I am now engaged in sales promotion and sales

[935]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193!

management where, although the personal satisfaction of dire
selling is missing, there are compensations in helping others ty
show “the magic that is life insurance”.

I'm sure these words will not disprove my thesis, but the
will enable our hapless editor to say, “Check one more off, |
thought that jerk would never answer”.

JULIAN JOHN SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 54 Fresh Pond Lane, Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: A. L. Smith Iron Co., Chelsea 50, Mass.

BORN: July 2, 1909, Chelsea, Mass. PaRENTS: Arthur Louis Smith, Minnie
Ruben.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

marriep: Anita Regina Goldman, Dec. 17, 1939, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Robert Martin, Feb. 21, 1941; David Julian, April 24, 1944; Alison
Louisa, July 22, 1946; Nancy Joan, April 21, 1950.

OccUPATION: President and treasurer, A. L. Smith Iron Company, manufac-
turers of metal specialties.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Douglas A. Thom Clinic, Electric
Institute, Boston; treasurer, Shady Hill School, Cambridge; member

executive committee, industrial-commercial light section, National Flec-
trical Manufacturers Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Skating Club; Kernwood
Country Club, Belmont Country Club, Rotary.

IT seems hard to start an account of the last twenty-five years.
They’ve gone by —no disputing it— but it doesn’t seem very
long. I can only hope that the next twenty-five will be as pro-
ductive and as fruitful.

Immediately after graduation, I entered the company into
which my father had put thirty-five years of work. The addi-
tion of my specialized talents, techniques, and personality were
sadly insufficient to keep it from going into receivership in May
of that fateful year of 1932. A considerable shock to my system
followed, and shortly thereafter I became certain that life was
not a “bowl of cherries”. I took several jobs in the balance of
1932, mostly rather unappetizing selling jobs, but I managed to
keep busy. In January of 1953 after the receivership was com-
pleted, I tried, with my father, to reorganize and rebuild the
original company. The new one was started with a slightly

[936 J

 

sanageae te Gt NSM
APE OT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

different name and without a very important commodity —
CASH.

As I look back at it, we had plenty of net quick liabilities
and almost nothing else. Our original business here at A. L.
Smith had been the fabrication of structural steel and light iron.
Our business went entirely into the building trades, and had the
attendant building business cycles with which to contend. In
1933 the building trades were almost at a complete standstill. It
was imperative that we try to find something that we could
manufacture at minimum outlay and something that we could
get paid for quickly, so that we could achieve a high rate of
turnover of our minute amount of cash. During 1933, accord-
ingly, we started the manufacture of items like pin-up lamps,
wrought iron bridge lamps, ornamental glass top tables, etc. The
items were many, varied, and mostly at the lowest possible end
of the dollar scale. Using these as commodities, we were able to
keep alive during 1933, 1934, and 1935; and by 1936, had grown
up to the point where our assets were slowly climbing up to
meet the staggering figures of the liabilities that we inherited
from the old company. In 1938 I was blessed personally in being
fortunate enough to meet Anita. I became twice blessed by visit-
ing (with Anita) the World’s Fair in New York, and was very
impressed with fluorescent lighting as a device. We, accordingly,
started to manufacture very simple fluorescent fixtures in 1939,
and by the time roq41 and the war came along, we had become
comparatively solid and had a reasonable base from which we
were working. By 1941 my oldest child, Robert, had been born,
and I felt that in view of the fact that I had responsibilities to
try to keep the little company running (my father had become
inactive due to a heart attack), I could not go into the service.
Accordingly, I moved some of our manufacturing areas in to
encompass various needs of the government. I was able to keep
the company busy, but not making more than an existence during
the war. By the time the war was over, we were ready to start
rolling on fluorescent lighting.

Since 1946 we have had a number of extremely busy years,
and the company has made considerable progress and has now
reached some small eminence in the lighting field. We have four
children — Robert, David, Sally, and Nancy —and Anita and

[937]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

I spend a good deal of our time during the winter skiing with
the “kids”. I myself act as what my eldest son refers to as a
“sun-decker”, since I have a left leg that will not bend beyond
45°— thanks to a single engine plane crash that I was in during
1944 while on a C.A.P. flight. My summer activities revolve
around a little golf, a still smaller amount of sailing, and mostly
admiring the view of the ocean from the house that we use in
Marblehead. Politically, I ride the fence most of the time, being
I believe in an almost exclusive class in making a contribution
to get Eisenhower nominated, and then a later contribution to
get Stevenson elected. Anita and I hope to start a little travel for
ourselves this spring, with an opening trip to England for a
couple of weeks.
If I had it to do all over again —I would!

RALPH ARCHIBALD SMITH

HOME AppREss: 4501 W. 7oth Terr., Prairie Village 15, Kans.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Trans World Airlines, Inc., 10 Richards Rd., Kansas City 5,
Mo.

BORN: June 21, 1910, McAlester, Okla. parENTs: Ralph Archibald Smith,
Catherine Day Powell.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934-

MARRIED: Nancy Millett, Sept. 6, 1938, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN: Theodore
Millett, May 1, 1942; Keyo Harrington, May 2, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Smith, ’36.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFicEs HELD: Member, Registrants’ Advisory Board, Selective Service Sys-
tem, Kansas City, Initial Committee for Revision, Missouri Corporation
Code; president, Harvard Club of Kansas City.

MEMBER OF: Lawyers Association of Kansas City; Missouri and American

Bar Associations, Harvard Club of Kansas City; Homestead Country
Club.

AFTER college came Harvard Law School and my start in the
general practice of law with a large law firm in Kansas City, Mis-
souri. Those were the days of WPA, 10c-a-gallon gasoline,
roc-a-pack cigarettes and long hours of work in return for “rich
experience”. I’m glad they are behind us! Over, too, is the
tempering process of plodding on collections, ejecting deserted

[938 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

damsels from rent-in-arrears love nests, and coping with justice as
meted out by justices of the peace. One story bears relating —
my maiden effort in a jury trial in Federal Court involved my
making, unexpectedly, part of the closing argument to the jury.
The jury hung, eleven to one against our client. The next morn-
ing the U.S. Marshal’s office uproariously told me why the lone
juror had held out in our favor — “Arch, that old farmer was
deaf, and you were the only lawyer he could hear!”

In 1938 Nancy and I were married in Concord, Massachusetts.
Our boy Ted arrived in 1942 and our girl Keyo in 1946. I was
commissioned a lieutenant (j.g.) in the U.S. Naval Reserve earl
in 1943 and went through Indoctrination School, the Naval Air
Combat Intelligence Officers School and Anti-Submarine Warfare
Training at Quonset Point, Rhode Island. In September, 1943, I
was attached to Fleet Air Wing Seven as an air combat intelligence
officer and sailed for England. My duty there terminated in 1944
when a fractured leg resulted in dreary months overseas and
stateside in service hospitals.

Upon separation from the Navy in 1946, I moved from the
general practice of law to Trans World Airlines, Inc. My efforts
are now devoted to “preventive law”. We joined the land rush
and purchased a home in Prairie Village, Kansas, a post-war
development suburb of Kansas City. The children increase faster
than the schools. Teen-age baseball leagues are popular. My boy
plays, I have managed a team, and we are a baseball-conscious
family. We have enjoyed the local Harvard Club. Nancy and I
have found it tremendous and stimulating to chaperon visiting
professors. We shall never forget how President Conant folded
his angular length into our Model A Ford roadster! My perennial
activity of interviewing applicants for admission to Harvard is
at once a fascinating and a grave chore. On the local political
level my sympathies have consistently been aligned against
machine organizations. On the national political level, since under-
graduate days, I have distrusted the concentration of power in
Washington. I finally succeeded in voting for a winner in 1952!

The post-war years have been good. Picking up family life
after the war-time interruption has brought to Nancy and me
the joy of watching our boy and girl grow into a companionable
age. My work with TWA is fun, even though airline junkets

[ 939 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

to both coasts have ruined all sense of geography and of the

vastness of this country for my children. They are, I suppose,
simply getting a head start on the coming jet age!

SIBLEY COSSLETT SMITH
HOME AND OFFICE appress: Wakefield, R. I.

BORN: June 26, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Sibley Cosslett Smith, ’o3,
Ethel Cranch Homans.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

marriepD: Ruth Denison, August, 1931, Grand Rapids, Mich. (divorced
1934); Katherine Sisk, November, 1934, New Canaan, Conn. CHILDREN;

Sibley, Jr., Nov. 25, 1935; Gordon Patrick, March 8, 1940.
OCCUPATION: Artist.

MEMBER OF: Arusts Equity; Unity Club.

CAME down with polio in the fall of what would have been my
junior year at Harvard and figured after recovery that too much
time had been lost to return, so I went to the Yale Architectural
School and was utterly undistinguished until the end of my
fourth year when I was suspended for my part in a particularly
imaginative prank. Was reinstated and then quit; during this
time I had been married without issue to Ruth Denison from

whom I was divorced in 1934. Married Kay Sisk of New Haven
and went to work as a draftsman for the United States in Wash-
ington. A small inheritance came along and, as I always wanted
to paint, I left the government and painted. Have had modest
successes professionally, another son in 1940, live in a beautiful
house in South County, Rhode Island, where I do more hunting
and fishing than painting.
War record — see above. Social convictions? What can that
possibly mean? Political liberal independent. Religious —
humanist agnostic (which of course is no conviction).

SOLOMON SMITH

HOME AppRESS: 102 Princeton Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 585 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.

BorN; Nov. 25, 1909, Ruston, La. parents: Benjamin Smith, Gizella Kohn.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 940 ]

sagen yersanw eet ne tBE Bm he

ec HNRNP nT

armen ee

ae EE EP

anes ener gia
re cieanreren mace mapa

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRiED: Sybil Wolman, Nov. 25, 1937, Brookline, Mass. crmpren: Michael
David, July 10, 1942; Franklin Emanuel, July 18, 1946.

OccUPATION: Life insurance sales.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Boston Life Underwriters Association Board of
Directors; executive member of Board of Directors, Special Agents
Association of Northwestern Mutual Insurance Company; president,
Eastern Massachusetts Amateur Radio Society, 1947-49.

MEMBER OF: Million Dollar Round Table (life member); National Associa-
tion of Life Underwriters; Eastern Massachusetts Amateur Radio Soci-
ety; Brookline Chamber of Commerce.

AS I review the events that have transpired since graduating
from Dear Old Harvard in 1931, I realize that the last twenty-five
years have truly produced a great many changes, not only in the
lives of those who have been close to me but in my own personal
situation. In retrospect the changes have been many. It is only
by a careful analysis of what has taken place that the twenty-five
years have seemed so short since those glorious days of no-head-
aches-no-worries-no-cares of 1931, at least not for us who were
in school at that time.

Upon graduation in 1931, I spent my first summer out of school
managing a summer hotel, then, being cognizant of the necessity
for obtaining spending money, and being offered the opportunity
of going into the leather business, I accepted the position of sales-
man for a Boston leather firm. I can well remember batting
around the countryside attempting to sell leather to shoe factories
which were on the verge of bankruptcy, and never knowing
whether any sale that was consummated would result in a profit
or a substantial loss to my organization. However, the business
intrigued me, and after having spent five years with this organiza-
tion, I became so interested in the business that I decided to go
into the leather business for myself, and consequently established
with my brother the firm of Smith Brothers, not to be confused
with the famous Trade and Mark. We manufactured leather
cut soles for the women’s shoe industry, and proceeded to bat
our brains out attempting to make both ends meet. The first
year was fairly successful, but the ensuing two years were nothing
that we would in any manner or form like to write autobiogra-
phies about. Consequently, in 1939, we dissolved our leather firm
and I ventured into the life insurance business, about which I

[941 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

had thought many times, and cast my lot as an insurance salesman,

primarily connected with the Northwestern Mutual Life Insur-

ance Company, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

In 1937 I married the “girl of my dreams”, a young lass from
Waterville, Maine, and we settled down in November of 1937 to
what were to be the “‘best years of our lives”. Having embarked
upon the insurance business in 1939, a year which was still cogni-
zant of the depression days, I believe that the experience of
attempting to sell life insurance to people who had very little
money stood me in good stead for the years that were to come.

In 1942 my first son, Michael David, was born, and in 1946, my
second son, Franklin Emanuel, was born. Having had a son pre-
Pearl Harbor, I managed to remain a civilian, although in the
closing days of the war the draft board was just about to catch
up with me.

Post-war, we settled down to the well-remembered period of
inflation. Life insurance sales began to pick up, and business
progressed in a rather steady manner. I found the life insurance
business exceedingly fascinating and interesting, with opportun-
ities for serving and for obtaining for my family and myself a
more or less satisfactory manner of life, the business enabling me
to achieve many objectives that we had long had in mind. It
became my pleasure to become actively associated in the life
insurance industry with many of the active organizations that are
inherent to the industry itself, and I found my clientele gradually
broadening to the point where I established an organization for
servicing my clientele on a very broad basis.

In 1951 we purchased a lovely home in Chestnut Hill, Massa-
chusetts, where we are still living, and which has been a source
of great joy to the kids and all of us. During the years my hobby
and interest, outside of business, has been one that I had grown
up with, namely — amateur radio, maintaining a transmitting and
receiving station, and making many contacts throughout the
world. This has been a source of satisfaction and relaxation, as it
is the type of hobby that can be enjoyed under any circum-
stances. In the last few years I have embarked upon a more

inactive type of athletics — golf, which is a wonderful game but
one which can be very aggravating, as most of the golfing frater-
nity will agree. However, I am convinced that if my twelve-

[ 942 ]

senate eee pee et AN

emu, ee MATE Ry EE RY IC
Ean ae TRE HRS PORE TEE EE

pg aan rE BI

ee a ae
Ue ATE AE OE LOONIE FE camel

A Be

re sgn RR IE OT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

year-old son can shoot golf in the low nineties, it can come to
me, too. The whole family has taken up the game, and at this
point we are definitely in favor of continuing. A time may come
when we shall probably feel that our labors have been lost, but
we are still in the learning stage and believe that it has been
beneficial to all of us.

My two sons attend the Baker School in Brookline, my wife
is an active member of both our Temple associations and the
school associations, and we find that time never hangs heavy in
the Smith household. The boys go to camp in the summertime,
and we spend a good deal of time in Maine, enjoying the relaxing
setting of the Maine lakes.

It has been grand meeting over the years a great many of the
boys who went through school wich us, and it truly is a wonderful
opportunity to put down in writing all the things that have
transpired since that time. Again I say it seems but a very short
time, but in closer retrospect many things have happened that
have molded my own life and brought us up to the present time,
with a great deal to look forward to for the future, and we hope,
of course, that the years have been kind to all the members of
the Class of 1931.

** HUGH FREDERICK SMYSER

BorN: March 11, 1910, Yakima, Wash. parents: Seldon Frazer Smyser,
Katherine Peet.

PREPARED aT: Ellensberg High School, Ellensberg, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

prep: April 3, 1938, near Tuxedo Park, N. Y.

FOLLOWING graduation Smyser spent two years at the Har-
vard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. He then became
a chemist with the Boston Station of the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration. In 1934 he was transferred to the New York
Station, and the next year he left laboratory work to become
an inspector for the Administration. From 1936 until his death
he served as resident inspector at the Newark Station. He was
killed in a fall while hiking with two companions.

[ 943]

3
SEI eR aR eer erent rremnrcemrererenrpTSt<rryrieeaiesne ta geensierenrepnemeser—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

CHARLES AMYAS SNELLING

HOME ADDRESS: P,Q. Box 102, South Lincoln, Mass.

BORN: June 15, 1908, Lincoln, Mass, PARENTS: Samuel Rodman Snelling,
Marian Louise Bamforth.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.
occupation: Departmental manager, chain of department stores, Boston
vicinity. /

IT is with some hesitation that I attempt to write a biography
as I do not feel that I have done anything outstanding up to
now. Having no family to hamper me, I have been free to roam
about the world as much as I pleased and, being more desirous
of doing that than achieving fame or fortune, I have explored
most of this and the European Continent rather thoroughly.
Otherwise I have lived the life of most of us who dwell in a
small suburban community, joining in local activities and gen-
erally doing my best to aid my community and my fellow-men.

On leaving college I was beset with the peculiar problem of
that time for those who did not have jobs waiting for them. It
took a little time to become located permanently, but I finally
secured a position with the Curtis Publishing Company with
whom I was associated for a number of years. With the coming
of the war, I tried to enlist in a number of branches of the service
but, because of poor eyesight, was not accepted. Finally I joined
the civilian branch of the Army Engineers where I did my part
for the duration. Since then I have been in the retail store field
and am at present departmental manager in a chain of stores in
the vicinity of Boston. I have taken this occupation because
I am not tied down to a desk for any length of time and am not
hurting rather weak eyes and, above all, because I have been

able up to now to take long vacations to satisfy my liking for
travel.

[944 ]

 

|
t
f
f
;

alee RG

a ES ROR ETE + BIE

enema open rnin ee rete mene

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ FREDERIC ELMER SNOW, JR.

BoRN: Feb. 23, 1909, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Frederic Elmer Snow, Lillian
H. Townsend.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Edna E. Pettinati, 1937, New York, N. Y.

pep: Sept. 4, 1951, West Medford, Mass.

wivow: Mrs. Frederic E. Snow, Jr.. 7 Chardon Rd., Medford 55, Mass.

IN 1932 Snow reported that he was associated with the legal
firm of Gaston, Snow, Saltonstall & Hunt of Boston. Later it
was reported that he held a position with the Boston Consoli-
dated Gas Company. Since he did not supply information for
our Class Reports, the Secretary knows little of his subsequent

Career.

GEORGE WALTER KING SNYDER

HOME appreEss: 515 Arbor Ave., Wheaton, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 208 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, IIl.

BORN: Dec. 1, 1907, Wheaton, Ill, parents: John Frazier Snyder, Fannie
Lavonia King.

PREPARED aT: Wheaton High School, Wheaton, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; J.D. (Northwestern Univ.
Law School), 1934.

MarrieD: Phyllis Graver, Oct. 27, 1934, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: George
Walter King, Jr., July 8, 1940; Dale Frazier, April 18, 1943 (girl).

occupaTIon: Attorney and counsellor-at-law; partner, Hastings, Snyder &
Rockwell.

OFFICES HELD: President, Board of Education, Wheaton, Ill, 1948-51; vice-
chairman, Legislative Committee, Chicago Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago; Legal Club of Chicago; Chicago,
Illinois and American Bar Associations; A.F, & A.M.

pusBLications: Your Rights As A Veteran Upon Discharge Or Relief From

Active Service, Navy Yard, Washington, D., C,
AN outline of personal history after graduation set forth by way
of so-called vital statistics, would read as follows: Jaw school and
a degree in 1934; marriage in 1934; admission to the Bar in 1934;
the very earnest business of procuring food, clothing and shelter,
commencing in the fall of 1934 by way of the practice of law
with the firm of Pam & Hurd of Chicago; propagation of the
race by a son in 1940 and a daughter in 1943; serious preoccupa-
tion with the war by way of a tour of duty in the Navy as a

[945 ]

j
HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

reserve Officer from 1944 to 1946; a continuing legal career as
a partner in Hastings, Snyder & Rockwell, a law firm founded
in Chicago in 1946; acting as an officer and director of several
industrial and commercial firms; serving on the Legislative Com-
mittee (as vice-chairman since 1953) of the Chicago Bar Asso-
ciation since 1950, and giving attention to the problems of
education generally as president of the Board of Education of
Wheaton, Illinois, from 1948 to 1951.

To Harvard, my continuing gratitude for the intellectual
curiosity which it instilled in me and for the mental discipline
which it taught me. The latter has, among other things, enabled
me to maintain a fair balance between the objective and sub-
jective points of view during these past twenty-five years when
the emphasis has been on change rather than tradition.

ares tt
i ep IRE EE

tego!” pig re ee AE I EI ER mes
(be Pial INCA TTS

:
‘
z
i
e

HAROLD SNYDER

HOME ADDRESS: 2914 N. Franklin St., Wilmington, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Keil Motor Co, 11th & Tatnall Sts., Wilmington, Del.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Snyder, Alice Carmel

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.Ay 1933.

MarRieD: C, Beatrice Rubin, Aug. 21, 1937, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Peter Joseph, May 2, 1940; Robert Gerald, Feb. 25, 1946.

occupaTION: Controller, Keil Motor Company, distributors and retailers of
wide line of consumer goods.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Temple Beth Emeth; vice-presi-

dent, Wilmington Chapter, NOMA; member Committee of °39, Dela-
ware Civic Reform group.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Delaware.

 

CLASS psychologists will, I am sure, have a ready answer for
my procrastination in sending in my “life”. It smacks so much
of writing my own obituary. After this, I will have more re-
spect for anyone who can write a nice pithy epitaph for himself
and can tuck it away for an emergency.

My twenty-five years since graduation (twenty-three since
the Business School) can be condensed into three periods —
nine years pre-World War II, five years during the war, and
nine postwar years. During the first nine years, I moved from
Boston to New York City, to Watertown, New York, Albany,

[ 946 ]

gett cE ENA LOOT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New York, Wilmington, Delaware, and Camden, New Jersey,
with salary (and expenses) paid by C.I.T. Corporation (Com-
mercial Investment Trust). From 1942 to 1946, I spent an inter-
esting and hectic time living in Arlington, Virginia, and working
in Washington, D.C., as an economist and business specialist for
the Program Bureau of the War Production Board with such
luminaries as Linc Gordon and Bert Fox, both of whom became
associated with the Business School faculty. Since 1947 I have
been living in Wilmington, Delaware, and walking two miles
to work each morning to the Keil Motor Company. This is a
local firm handling a wide line of consumer hard goods and
employing about 235 people. As controller, I am in charge of
accounting, finance, personnel, procedures, and what-have-you.

Up to this point, 1 have used the perpendicular personal pro-
noun, which is not only bad taste, but also inadequate and mis-
leading. Since 1937 I have been married, and fortunately for me,
most compatibly. In terms of class statistics, I guess Bea and I
haven’t compiled anything unusual, However, in qualitative
terms, we think we have done much better. Peter Joseph is
fifteen, a junior in high school, and about ready to take his first
college board exam. As an Eagle Scout and State boys’ tennis
champion (fifteen years under), he is doing better than I could
do at the same age. Robert G., the younger, is ten, and accord-
ing to Mom is the most nearly normal member of the family,
except with respect to appetite. On this score, I think he is about
ready for intercollegiate competition. Having done so well
with the family, Bea is now seeking new worlds to conquer,
and is working for her Master’s degree at the University of Dela-
ware. As for me, I could hold my own with Pete in tennis until
last summer, but now I will have to devote myself more seriously
to the leisurely pursuit of golf.

At this point, I know I am supposed to drop some pearls of
wisdom. But, frankly, in spite of the deluge of postcard re-
minders, the deadline for the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report
crept up on me unawares. Between now and the Fiftieth, I ex-
pect to have more time for contemplation, at least near the ap-
proach of the Fiftieth. For that Report, I hope to be able to
brighten the pages with a new theory on the meaning of exist-
ence and the worthwhileness of a Harvard education.

[947]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

st CHARLES LEISSRING SOMMERS, JR.

porN: Feb. 20, 1910, St. Paul, Minn. Parents: Charles Leissring Sommers,
Rosa Davidson.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.).
piep: April 8, 1936, Baltimore, Md.

AS an undergraduate, Sommers was a member of our Class foot-
ball squad and of the Dramatic Club and Alpha Sigma Phi. He
did social service work for Phillips House during 1929-30. At

the time of his death he was an intern in the Baltimore City
Hospital.

t AUSTIN SOUTHARD

BORN: March 19, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Elmer Ernest Southard,
Mabel Fletcher Austin.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.
pIED: Dec. 13, 1929, St. Paul, Minn.

SOUTHARD left college during freshman year on a leave of
absence but never returned. He died suddenly two years later.

WYNDHAM MASON SOUTHGATE

HOME apprEss: 5 Shepard Pl., Granville, Ohio.
OFFICE AppREsS: Denison University, Granville, Ohio.

BORN: May 26, 1910, Birmingham, Ala. parents: James Taylor Southgate,
Lizzie Morris Mason.

PREPARED AT; Phillips High School, Birmingham, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313; A.M., 1932; PH.D., 1948.
MARRIED: Joan Rudisill, 1941, Claremont, Calif,

occuPATION: Professor of history, Denison University,
OFFICES HELD: Commander, USNR (retired).

THE years since the Twentieth Anniversary Report have gone
by with incredible speed. In 1931 five years was a long time —
certainly a lot happened in those years which appeared worthy
of recording, at least at the time. Nowadays, the years go by
faster and less eventfully — or perhaps that’s just the case with
college professors. The temptation at this point is to fill this
Report with a review of four years in the Navy and earlier

[ 948 ]

 

\

ete the POTTS
se geen ORIENT HOE RE en

ENN ADI TET ETE ET

;
b
?
‘
i
&

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

teaching experiences. But that’s all in the earlier Reports. Since
the zoth Anniversary Report I would record two extended Euro-
pean trips, one of half a year which combined exploration of
out-of-the-way places on the Continent with research in out-
of-the-way documents in English collections. Such trips are not
the least of the compensations for the economic bracket in which
the college teacher finds himself. A full professorship in history
(English and European) has come in the course of things and
with it the startling realization that some of my younger col-
leagues were born in 1931 or later! These shavelings clearly
look upon me not as one who is just moving (gracefully) into
the mature middle-aged group, but rather as one who belongs
already in the ranks of the faculty seniors. I suppose this discov-
ery has been made in one way or another by each of us in the
Class of 1931. May it sit lightly upon us.

ALBERT FREDERICK SOUTHWORTH

HOME appress: Kinney Gulf Road, R.D. 4, Cortland, N. Y.

OFFICE appREsS: Morse Chain Co., Ithaca, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 8, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Frederick Albert South-
worth, Grace Fitch Strickland.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1933. DEGREE: S.B, IN MECH. ENGIN., 1933.

MarRiED: Jane Trimble Kelley, June 26, 1937, Mount Vernon, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Sally Jane, Jan. 20, 1947; Albert Frederick, Jr. Dec. 14, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Chauncy Robert Southworth, ’37.

OccUPATION: Process engineer, Morse Chain Company.

MEMBER OF: Cortland Country Club; University Club of Cortland.

IN the summer of 1933 when engineers were a dime a dozen, I
took a job, thanks to the N.R.A., with the Corn Exchange Bank
Trust Company in New York. After two and a half years with
them, having decided not to become a banker, I went with
General Foods Corporation in their New York office. During
my six years at General Foods, I divided my time about equally
between their budget and insurance departments. Wanting to
make some extra money, I went to N.Y.U. for six months to
take a number of insurance courses. Having met the New York
State qualifications, I became an insurance broker, selling insur-
ance evenings and week-ends. A year after going with General

[ 949 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Foods I was married, and Jane and I became apartment dwellers,
first in Pelham Manor where I had grown up and then in Bronx-
ville.

Just before the war, engineers now being a little more in de-
mand, I decided that, after all the years I had spent at Harvard
trying to be one, I would see what I could do about it. I became
a draftsman with a small machine tool company in New Rochelle
for two years and then to Wright Aeronautical Corporation
in Paterson, New Jersey. At Wright I was a test engineer,
running tests on their experimental airplane engines. Having
been a commuter all of my business life, we stayed in Bronxville
and I drove back and forth to Paterson. | |

Nine months after the birth of my daughter, Sally Jane, in
January of 1947, I joined a friend of mine in starting a plastic
novelty business. Starting from scratch, we became salesmen,
office personnel laborers, etc. Business was good for two years,
our customers being the ten-cent stores, but we found the large
plastic companies pretty strong competition. Therefore, it was
obvious that our business could not support both of us ade-
quately, especially since Albert Frederick, Jr., had arrived in
December of 1949.

Jane and I had been talking for some time of leaving Metro-
politan New York, so in the summer of 1951 we came to Cortland.
The house we bought is one mile out of the city with three or
four acres of land, so that the children have plenty of room to
roam. I am a process engineer with Morse Chain Company in
Ithaca, a subsidiary of Borg-Warner Corporation, manufacturing
timer, roller and power chains. I still commute, driving forty-six
miles round trip to work. Asa side line, we have a 2 50-acre dairy
farm, which I have a man run for me on shares..

I am still trying to make a golfer of myself. Have a lot of fun
playing, but don’t see a great deal of improvement from year to
year. :

John Locke comes into the plant every once in a while, so
we get a chance to talk over old times. Dan Corey of the Class
of 1932 is a lawyer in Cortland.

I haven’t been in Cambridge since 1937, so am looking forward
to getting back this year. I have seen the Harvard football teams
play when they come to Cornell.

[950]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LAMAR SOUTTER

HOME ADDRESS: 577 Bridge St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston University School of Medicine, 80 E. Concord St.
Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 9g, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Soutter, ’94, Helen
Elizabeth Whiteside.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B., 19313 M.D., 1935.

MarRRIED: Norah Goldsmith, Oct. 9, 1939, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1946);
Mary Cleveland Bigelow, Nov. 18, 1946, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Nich-
olas Benedict, May 31, 1941; Elizabeth Perkins, March 31, 19513; Sarah
Bigelow, Aug. 15, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Soutter, '27; James Soutter, ‘41.

OCCUPATION: General and thoracic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Boston Surgical Society; associate professor of
surgery and associate dean, Boston University School of Medicine; New
England area consultant in thoracic surgery, Veterans Administration;
member staff, Massachusetts Memorial, Massachusetts General, New
England Deaconess, Lemuel Shattuck, Massachusetts Hospital School
in Canton, Boston City, Boston and Providence Veterans Administration
and other hospitals.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, American College of Surgeons
(fellow); Massachusetts Medical Society; New England Surgical Soci-
ety; American Trudeau Society; Halsted Club; Eastern Surgical Soci-
ety; American Association for Thoracic Surgery; American Associa-
tion of Blood Banks; Bostonian Society; Somerset Club; Cohasset Yacht
Club; Harvard Club of New York; Boston Charitable Irish Society;
Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers and editorials on blood banking, surgery, chest surgery.

AS graduation approached in 1931, the thought of going to Med-
ical School became increasingly abhorrent, so I withdrew my
application. Instead, I obtained a job as a sailor on the oceano-
graphic research ketch, Azlantis, then under construction in
Copenhagen where I joined it. After forty days at sea, with
plenty of time for contemplation between hauling sails and hauling
nets, I decided to yield to my father’s entreaties and go to Med-
ical School. The first two years were dull and rather dreadful,
but with the beginning of clinical courses in the third year, the
work became fascinating. The summers offered a last opportunity
for freedom to travel. In 1933 Dan Merriman and I collected fish
in the waters of a high plateau in southeastern Oregon. As its
streams lack access to the sea, this area contains a somewhat

[ost ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

+ NATHAN PUTNAM SPALDING

BoRN: July 1, 1909, Lebanon, Ky. PareNTs: Leonard Augustus Spalding,
Belle Putnam.

PREPARED AT: Gilman Country School, Roland Park, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932.

MarRiED:, Cladie Shelton, April 2, 1933, Baltimore, Md.

piep: July 1, 1942, Baltimore, Md.

IN 1932 Spalding became a salesman with Mutual Benefit Life

Insurance Company of Baltimore, and remained with that com-

pany up to the time of his death. His wife survived him.

ROBERT LAWRENCE SPEAR

HOME apprEss: 5854 Aylesboro Ave., Pittsburgh 17, Pa.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Spear Home Furnishing Co., Canonsburg, Pa.

BoRN: March 22, 1910, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Joel Spear, Rachel B.
Spitz.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (32).

MARRIED: Martha Strassburger, July 25, 1942, New York, N. Y. cHILDREN:
Patricia Anne, March 23, 1946, William Robert, Aug. 8, 1949.

OccUPATION: President, Spear Home Furnishing Company.

MEMBER OF: Concordia Club.

AUTOBIOGRAPHIES are not difficult to write if the author

is of mild interest to anyone or egocentric. In my case, there

is nothing more than the usual urbane existence which is repeated

many times by alumni using a standard form.

After graduation, I associated myself with Spear & Company,
a furniture chain founded by my father. I remained with the
company in varying capacities until 1952, when I left to form
my own company. Took time out in 1941 to enlist in the Signal
Corps, eventually being assigned to Washington, D.C., where I
remained until the war’s end furthering a favorite hobby, that
of cryptanalysis.

Married in 1942 while still in the service, now have two
children, and have just moved to a new and larger home. Enjoy
bridge and my stamps in the winter and as many fishing trips in
the summer as my business conscience will permit. Am trying
to age gracefully and, at the same time, enjoy my wife and
children.

[954]

semaptagatt m GEONE

AStHRE Seg

be ce ENE ESP E B Tg rete

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ WILLIAM BRADSTREET SPEARE

BoRN: Aug. 31, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Louis M. Spear, Marion White.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

piep: March 25, 1929, Boston, Mass.

SPEARE was treasurer of the Pierian Sodality of 1808, which
later became the Harvard University Orchestra. In addition, he
was a member of the fencing team and the University Rifle Club.
He died during sophomore year,

LEONARD HENRY SPIVEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 178-42 Murdock Ave., St. Albans 34, N. Y.

OFFICE appRrEss: Harlem River Records, 54 Macombs Pl., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1908, Houston, Texas. PARENTS: Leonard Henry Spivey, Imo
Brown.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. pEGREES: s.B. (New York Univ.); tis. (St.
Johns Univ.).

MARRIED: Ella K. Harrell, Dec. 30, 1935, White Plains, N. Y. cHi_pren:
Carol Frances, March 15, 1937; Leonard Henry, 3d, Dec. 21, 1939.

occupation: Owner of Harlem River Records, wholesalers and jobbers of
phonograph records.

MEMBER OF: Omega Psi Phi; A.F. & A.M.

THE past twenty years have been devoted to my family, trying
to provide for them as adequately as my income would permit.
I might be called a “Hi Fi Bug” —I like music, all music, espe-
cially semi-classical and classical.

My son, Leonard, is attending the Tilton School for Boys in
Tilton, New Hampshire, preparing for Harvard, I hope.

RICHARD WILLIAM SPONAUGLE

HOME apprEss: 310 Woodland Ave., New Cumberland, Pa.

OFFIcE AppREss: U, S. Naval Supply Depot, Mechanicsburg, Pa.

BoRN: April 19, 1908, Franklin, W. Va. parents: William Okey Sponaugle,
Emma Warner.

PREPARED AT: Derry Township High School, Hershey, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

[955]

renee ean aritmmnana eae naian denna tn et eemtesie me: -

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

MaRRIED: Ann A. Hanak, Dec. 16, 1941, Hagerstown, Md. CHILDREN: Judith
Ann, Sept. 19, 1942; Richard, Jr., Oct. 19, 1946.
occupation: Methods examiner.

MEMBER OF: American Legion; Lions International; U. S. Naval Supply
Depot Supervisors Association.

CHARLES HARRY STANBON

HOME ADDRESS: 281 Edwards St., New Haven 11, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Quinnipiac College, 1450 Whimey Ave., Hamden, Conn.

BoRN: April 13, 1909, Lynn, Mass. parents: Harry Rines Stanbon, Myra
Blanche Cauldwell.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.
occuPATION: Assistant professor of marketing. |

LESTER NELSON STANLEY

HOME AppRESS: 40 Roweland Ave., Delmar, N. Y.

OFFIcE appress: General Aniline & Film Corp., Riverside Avenue, Rensselaer,
N.Y.

BorN: March 15, 1910, Worcester, Mass. parents: Charles Brigham Fay,
Bertha Lena Snow.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREES: s.B. (Tufts Coll.), 1931; s.m. (Mass.
Inst. of Technology), 1932; pH. (ibid.), 1935.

marriep: Ruth Fedor, Aug. 22, 1935, New York, N. Y. cpcpren: Peter F,
Feb. 5, 1937; Bonnie Ruth, March 23, 1941.

occupation: Chemist—group leader, process development and research
department, General Aniline & Film Corporation.

MARRIED Ruth Fedor, Jackson ’31, on August 22, 1935. Have
one son Peter, eighteen, who is a sophomore at Tufts Engineering
School, one daughter Bonnie Ruth, fourteen, and one cocker
spaniel Teddie, aged ten. Have been employed by the General
Aniline & Film Corporation in Rensselaer, New York, since 1943;
and am now group leader in the process development and

research department. Hobbies include sports and music (am a
trombonist in the Delmar Men’s Orchestra).

[956]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARSHAL STEARNS

HOME AppREss: 91 Glen Edyth Drive, Toronto, Ont., Canada.

OFFICE appress: 11 King St., W., Toronto, Ont., Canada.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1909, New Canaan, Conn. PARENTS: Marshal Stearns, ’9o,
Charlotte Shepherd.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1931(32); LL.B., 1935.

marrieD: Helen Richardson, Oct. 17, 1936, Toronto, Ont., Canada. CHILDREN:
Frances Linda, Oct. 22, 1937; Nora Richardson, Dec. 7, 1940; Marshal,
Jr., June 8, 1948.

occupation: Partner, T. A. Richardson & Company, general investment and
stock brokerage business.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of governors, Toronto Stock Exchange, since
1955, Broker Dealers Association of Ontario, 1950-53; member central
council, Canadian National Red Cross Society, since 1954; director,
Canadian Fina, Ltd. since 1950, Bruce Holdings, Ltd. 1947-55,
Branksome Hall School, Toronto, since 1954, National Ballet Guild of
Canada, since 1955, Paymaster Consolidated Mines, Ltd. since 1955;
president Toronto branch, Canadian Red Cross Society, 1954-56.

MEMBER OF: Spee Club; Harvard Clubs of New York and Toronto, Rose-
dale Golf Club; Toronto Club; Badminton and Racquet Club of
Toronto; Seigniory Club; 48th Highlanders Association; Loraine Hunt-
ing and Fishing Club; Board of Trade of the City of Toronto.

UP to now I think I have had a most interesting life. However,
Professor Sam Morison, when he nominated me to the Society
for Prevention of Cruelty to English, will be amply exonerated
by my poor powers of narration as shown below.

Upon graduation from Harvard Law School, which culminated
eight years of fierce academic struggles in Cambridge, I took up
active practice of the law in New York City. Two years later
I found myself a partner in a brokerage firm in Toronto, Canada.
This sequence of events can hardly be called a normal one, but
for years I had been intensely interested in the future for Canada
~—-my wife was a Canadian, my sisters married Canadians, my
father’s friends devoutly believed Roosevelt was ruining the coun-
try, and Canada obviously was, and still is, a land of tremendous
opportunity. I have never regretted the knowledge I acquired
at law school and in my short practice. Not a day goes by but
that this background proves itself of value.

Two short years after my arrival in Toronto, my peaceful
existence was rudely interrupted by one Schicklegriiber, who

[957]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

had rather nasty plans afoot. After satisfying myself that the
U.S. Army had no need for my services, I enlisted in the 48th
Highlanders of Canada as a subaltern — kilt, balmoral, pipes and
all! Five years away from home was the result. However, it had
its experiences. After service in England, the Mediterranean,
Sicily and Italy as a subaltern, I was quite unexpectedly appointed
aide-de-camp to Canada’s most brilliant soldier, Lieutenant Gen-
eral Guy G. Simonds — from the cheap seats to the diamond
horseshoe where I viewed and participated in the Normandy
invasion and break-out, the battles for the channel ports, the
Scheldt estuary. Nijmegen and finally into Germany. During this
period I had the wonderful experience of meeting kings, princes,
prime ministers, the greatest military figures, and commoners, and
I came to the happy realization that all, regardless of rank or
position, are human, kind and friendly.

Upon my return to Canada in late 1945, I rejoined T’. A. Rich-
ardson & Company, members of the Toronto Stock Exchange,
Canadian Exchange, Winnipeg Grain Exchange and Calgary
Stock Exchange, a firm in which I am still a partner. Participating
in the development of Canada’s natural resources, principally
mineral, has been a rewarding experience. I often meet, here in
Toronto, people I formerly knew in the United States and hardly
a day goes by that a familiar face does not appear in my office.

Life in Canada is surprisingly similar to life below the border
(the Mason-Dixon line should hold more terrors to a New Eng-
land emigrant than the qgth parallel). Neighbors and friends
even sympathize with me in my most constant frustrations — the
Harvard football team and the Boston Red Sox! Every year I
have at least one fishing trip and a shoot on the plains of Saskatch-
ewan. Golf and amateur farming are my other recreations —
both most unprofitable.

I have taken an active interest over the past ten years in the
Red Cross. I get much satisfaction in my service for this worthy
welfare agency — to me, the greatest non-religious humanitarian
movement in the world and the greatest non-political organization
on the side of world peace that exists.

I] have been tremendously lucky in my family. My wife still
lives with me. We have three interesting, lively kids. Linda and
Nora have shown a keen interest in ballet dancing and have had

[958 ]

-25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

some success at it — through no fault or influence of mine.
Young junior is a hopeful athlete and, if I may be pardoned
visions of glory, I have dreamed of him scoring the winning goal
in hockey for the Crimson against the Blue in another twelve

years or So.
Summing up my life over the past twenty-five years, I can
truthfully say that my memories are happy ones!

MARSHALL WINSLOW STEARNS

HOME ApprEss: 108 Waverly Pl., New York 11, N. Y-

OFFIcE ADDRESS: Hunter College, 695 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Harry Ney Stearns, ’99,
Edith Baker Winslow.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: 9.B., 1931; PH.D. (Yale Univ.), 1942.

MaRRiED: Betty Dixon, Oct. 17, 1932, Yonkers, N. Y. cuizp: Elizabeth
Dixon, Jan. 7, 1938.

occupation: Associate professor of English, Hunter College.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, New York Folklore Society; president and
executive director, Institute of Jazz Studies, member board of directors,
Newport Jazz Festival; director, Post-Tanglewood Roundtable in Jazz.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; Medieval Academy of America;
American Association of University Professors, American Folklore
Society; Harvard Club of New York; Association of College Teachers
of English.

pusLications: Robert Henryson, Columbia University Press, 1949; “Chaucer’s
Attitude toward Love”, Speculeem, 1942; The Story of Jazz, Oxford
Press, 1956; “Jim Crow on the Campus”, Tomorrow, 1947; “Unsex the
Skeleton: Notes on the Poetry of Dylan Thomas”, Sewanee Review,
1944; “Syntax Sense Sound and Dr. Williams”, Poetry, 1945; “Rebop
Bebop and Bop”, Harper's Magazine, 1950; “The Conquest of Jazz”,
Saturday Review, 1956: “Hamlet and Freud”, College English, 1948.

I DON’T know whether or not I’m a success but my daughter
Elizabeth certainly is. She entered Radcliffe last fall, as did her
mother before her, and left a nice house on Washington Square
for a room in Briggs Hall. Meanwhile, I’ve been teaching English
literature during the day at Hunter College, and (God save the
mark!) a course entitled “The role of Jazz in American Culture”
in the evenings at the New School and New York University.
(Why call it Afro-American folk music?) I even see resemblances

[959 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

education from coast to coast; and when visiting lectureships and
endowed chairs in American music are established at our leading
universities. O, Pioneers!

All of these activities, of course, would deal intelligently and
at length — among other things — with jazz. A decade or so ago
musicologist Charles Seeger said, as nearly as I can remember,
that when the history of American music is written, it will be
found to consist largely of our folk and/or popular music. |
might add that when the history of our folk and/or popular music
is written, it will be found to be animated and propelled by jazz.

For jazz needs to be studied not only from the point of view
of the musician and historian but also from the point of view of
the folklorist, the psychologist, the anthropologist, the sociologist
and others. Here is an untouched and fertile field in American
civilization which has a crucial influence on the American char-
acter, especially the adolescent, and an enormous impact upon
our culture in general. What’s worse — it’s fun.

RICHARD ROWLAND STEBBINS

HOME ApprESS: 121 Village Ave., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 University Rd., Cambridge, Mass.; Judson L. Thomson
Mfg. Co., Waltham, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 3, 1909, Dallas, Texas. parents: Theodore Stebbins, Gertrude
Laurie Ellis.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarrieD: Edith Harleston Parker, July 18, 1936, Beverly Farms, Mass.
CHILDREN: Richard Rowland, Aug. 26, 1937; Daniel Harleston, Jan. 19,

1939; Edith Value, Jan. 15, 1943, Gertrude Ellis, April 15, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHER: Theodore Ellis Stebbins, 717.

occupation: Certified public accountant, partner, Shaw and Stebbins; con-
troller, Judson L. Thomson Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Hillcrest Remedial Reading School.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Somerset Club; Dedham Polo and

Country Club; American Institute of Accountants, Massachusetts Soci-
ety of Certified Public Accountants.

AFTER college I remained in New York until 1939, first being
employed by an accounting firm, Arthur Young & Company,
and then by the Manufacturers Trust Company. During this

[ 962 ]

J
\

“ sagen sore msec A AE I ET
rene AER NE Se

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

period Edith and I were married. We soon found our New York
apartment crowded by two sons. With these responsibilities my
future in the Trust Company seemed rather bleak, judging by the
value it then placed on my services.

In 1939 we moved to Boston, living in Medfield until about a
year ago when we transferred to Dedham which is in the same
area but more populated and nearer Boston. Since -coming to
Boston, my career has been concentrated in accounting. I was
associated with Lybrand, Ross Brothers & Montgomery for twelve
years and in 1951 fulfilled a longterm ambition of engaging in
practice under my own name. Two years later our classmate
Frank Shaw and I combined our practices under the name of
Shaw and Stebbins. This association has been pleasant and our
work is interesting and varied. At the present time I am on partial
leave of absence from the firm while serving as controller for
one of our clients.

My war record consisted of nine months as a private in basic
training as an officer candidate at Camp Wallace, Texas, toward
the later part of the war. This was quite an experience. At the
completion of the training, I and my fellow candidates were
informed that there were no openings available for officers in
anti-aircraft, which was our branch, According to the arrange-
ment, we were given the opportunity of receiving an honorable
discharge, which I accepted.

As to family, my elder boy is in the class of 1959 at Trinity
College and his brother is a senior at Milton Academy. My elder
daughter is also at Milton and her sister is clamoring to go to
private school next year. While these children are all any man
could want and are a great joy to me, I am looking forward to the
time when they become self-supporting or, at least, self-educating.

As to hobbies, I was quite involved in Medfield town affairs,
including two five-year terms on the Park and Planning Board,
and a period as treasurer and vestryman of the Episcopal Church;
but since moving to Dedham, these activities have been given up.
Tennis, skiing, bridge and small boats are my recreational activ-
ities. We have recently acquired a small plot of short front Jand
at Wing’s Neck on Buzzards Bay where I hope to relax in the
future.

[ 963 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

RAY WINSLOW STENBERG

HOME ADDRESS: Box 1qo, RF.D., East Greenbush, N. Y. -
OFFICE ADDRESS: John Vogel, Inc. 11 Pruyn St. Albany, N. Y.

BoRN: May 18, 1909, Providence, R. I. PARENTS: Ray Fritiof Stenberg, Grace
Esther Winslow.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRIED: Phyllis June Fernald, Dec. 23, 1934, Jackson, N. H. CHILDREN:
Dianne Elizabeth, May 8, 1936 (m. Rodney Williams, 1952); Karen

Grace, Feb. 5, 1940. GRANDCHILDREN: Keith Winslow Williams, 1953;
Jeffrey Kenneth Williams, 1954.

occuPaTION: Office manager, public warehousing.
MEMBER OF: Masonic Order.

MY first impulse is to leave this space blank as there is nothing
in my career, etc., that could be made the subject of narration.
However, certain statistics may be contemplated by the commit-
tee and it is certainly not my intention to make their work any
more difficult than it inevitably will prove to be. So here goes.

Since graduation I have raised a family of two daughters, one
of whom has to date presented me with two delightful grandsons.
They will do as my current hobby. My work has been in Boston
from 1932 to 1945 and in Albany, New York, which I do not
believe I shall ever regard as home. It has enabled me to do no
more than support my family. I have no time for serious hobbies
other than opposing the increase in bureaucratic government in

our country. My efforts, persistent and articulate, have been
futile — witness your and my annual tax bill.

MARK 5S. STERNBERG

HOME appreEss: Country Club Apts., Columbus, Ga.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Wilmark Steel Co., Columbus, Ga.

BORN: July 22, 1910, Columbus, Ga. parents: Mark Sternberg, Laura Mae
Picard,

PREPARED AT: Columbus High School, Columbus, Ga.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931. DEGREE: $.B., 1931.

MarRieD: Irma Ottenheimer, Dec. 27, 1939, Memphis, Tenn, (divorced
1947). cHiLp: Laura, Oct. 17, 1941.

[ 964 ]

ceeeempentenge alt
sateen RR ERENT LAE ETE

i
t
5
E
:
z
£
5
b
&
2
<
*

\

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OccuPATION: Sales executive, Wilmark Steel Company, structural steel fab-
ricating and manufacturing.
OFFICES HELD: Former treasurer, Young Republican Club of Muscogee

County, Ga.
MEMBER OF: American Legion.

FREDERICK WINSLOW STETSON, JR.

HOME appress: Oak Knoll Rd., Barrington, Ill.
OFFICE AppRESS: Needham, Louis & Brorby, Inc., Prudential Plaza, Chicago,

Hl.

BORN: July 4, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frederick Winslow Stetson,
"94, Josephine Mary West.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1932; LL.B.
(Northeastern Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Currie Eggena, Aug. 27, 1943, New York, N. Y. cHILtpREN: Win-
slow Anthony, June 19, 1944; Helen Currie, July 13, 1946; Peter Folger,
Aug. 17, 1947; Deborah, April 4, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Warren Bachellor Stetson, ’35; Brewster Stetson, "go.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, account supervisor, Needham, Louis & Borby,
Inc., advertising.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Fairfield Hunt Club; Barrington
Country Club.

IT’S early in January, and I have finally goaded myself into
putting down on paper a brief resumé of twenty-five years, What
a moment in history to back off and take a reading on an indi-
vidual life-harnessing of the atom, breaking the sound barrier,
electronic revolutions, a slow but deep-seated world-wide re-
turn to religion, chemical miracles becoming commonplace, med-
ical victories, advances in communications, discouraging yet per-
sistent attempts to better international understanding — important
developments in practically every field of human interest. And
yet, with all these wondrous and somewhat awesome things hap-
pening around me, I can’t see that I personally have contributed
one iota.

However, it’s too nice a morning for gloomy introspection.
The advertising agency business has transplanted us for the
second time to the Chicago area. Currently we are living in
Barrington and enjoying the usual family activities. Skating,
bowling, helping to maintain our home with four children, a

[ 965 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

poodle and a kitten, on a do-it-yourself basis leaves few idle
moments. We still own a home in Connecticut, by way of
retaining a foothold in the East. I am supervising several Camp-
bell Soup Company brands, which involves almost weekly com-
muting between Chicago and Camden.
A year ago my wife and I were able to join some friends sail-
ing in the West Indies. We are convinced that the Windsong
is the trimmest, sauciest little ketch in those waters. We would go
again in a minute, were it not for the June safari to Cambridge
coming up and the ever present problem of keeping a budget
somewhat in balance. I can still remember with pleasure at-
tending my father’s Twenty-fifth Reunion. My family has no
choice in the matter — it’s a command appearance.

*« JOHN BATTERSON STETSON, III
BorN: May 6, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: John Batterson Stetson, 06,
Ruby Florence Carlisle.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

MaRRIED: Winifred Walton, March 21, 1936, Wayne, Pa. CHILDREN: John

Batterson, 4th, Dec. 21, 1936; Georgia, Jan. 31, 1938; two others.
pieD: July 18, 1944, Washington, D. C.

IN 1931 Stetson joined the hat manufacturing company of John
B. Stetson Company in Philadelphia, a firm his grandfather had
founded. He was an apprentice for four years, and later a mem-
ber of the Standards Department. Before entering the Army in
1941, he had served with the Pennsylvania National Guard for
five years. Inducted as a first lieutenant in the Field Artillery, he
was stationed in Pennsylvania, Louisiana, Arizona, and Alabama,
and in 1942 became a captain, and a year later, a major. He died

at the Walter Reed Hospital in Washington and was survived
by his wife and four children.

[ 966 ]

APNE SEE ROR NS

sent Yh
PAE A MOE EE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES WOODRUFF STEVENS

MAILING ADDRESS: 52 Wall St., New York 5, N. Y.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1908, Bridgewater, Vt. PARENTS: Harold Miller Stevens,
Carrie Amsden Woodruff.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

marrieD: Ethel Henry. cyitpren: Julia Amsden, March 16, 1935; Jay
Anthony, Jan. 11, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

JOHN EDWARD STEVENS

HOME ADDRESS: 27 W. qqth St., New York, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 515 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BoRN: March 27, 1909, Ludlow, Mass. parents: Sidney Stevens, ’oo, Edith
Hawkins.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass. /

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933-

MaRRIED: Maymie Douglas, Oct. 24, 1939, New York, N. Y¥. (divorced 1955).

OCCUPATION: Industrial engineer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Manhasset Bay Yacht Club.

AFTER leaving the Business School in 1933, I worked for a
management engineering firm. Headquarters were in New York
City, but most of the time was spent throughout the United
States and Canada on a wide variety of consulting projects.

In 1941 I continued the same kind of work in the private
employ of an integrated textile company with a chain of cotton
and rayon mills and finishing plants. In 1952 I established myself
as an independent industrial engineer. This left me considerable
freedom to pursue such hobbies as operating a power boat on
Long Island Sound and adjacent waters, travel, hunting and
fishing.

LUDLOW WHITAKER STEVENS

HOME appress: 3 E. 6gth St., New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Francis I. duPont, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1908, New York, N. Y. Parents: Joseph Earle Stevens, ’92,
Marion Ludlow Whitaker.

[ 967 ]

A Ta EIT" MN Sonat rent pmtey em

ponent a | ——-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.
MARRIED: Eleanor Gould, Jan. 19, 1934, New York, N. Y. (died 1943); Kim
Kendall, Feb. 4, 1952, New York, N. Y.
HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Earle Stevens, Jr., ’29.
occuPATION: Stock broker; registered representative or customers’ man, |
Francis I, duPont & Company.
OFFICES HELD: President and director, Fiesta Food Products, Inc., 1949-52; :
assistant advertising manager, Conde Nast Publications, 1934-37; invest-
ment department, A. Iselin & Company, bankers, 1931-34.
MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club of New York, Harvard Club of New
York; Tuxedo Club.

SINCE college I have been living principally in New York City, |
following a financial career in Wall Street. I have been associated
with such firms as A. Iselin & Company, Hartshorne Fales &
Company, Laidlaw & Company, and finally Francis I. duPont,
stock brokers. Three years ago I married Kim Kendall of London,
England. Her sister, Kay Kendall, is now the coming English
movie actress, who starred last year in “Genevieve” at the Sutton
Theatre here in New York. | t

Twice I gave up the big city and moved to California, but :
only to return to New York because my friends and my roots are
here. While I was in California, I dipped into the oil business
and with a group of friends drilled three successful oil well. |
Had one close escape when a cable in the derrick snapped during
a swabbing test. As if plunging into water, I dove off the derrick
platform over some hot steam pipes, but escaped the ordeals of '
a slashing cable. t

During the war, I enlisted in the Army Air Force. I specialized
in Army administration, and graduated from the AAF Technical
School of Administration at Fort Logan, and the University of
Washington and Lee, Virginia. Later, I was permanently sta-
tioned at Mitchel Field, Long Island.

Since the war I have been traveling as much as possible. I have
been six times to Europe, and once to Cuba and Jamaica, B.W.I.
Europe I found most enlightening. For example, is there any
better way of learning the art of living than watching a French
family’s week-end in the country? Bicycle, not automobile; a
tent, not a country club; a picnic with wine, not the conventional
sit-down Sunday meal; a swim in the river instead of in a glorified

[ 968 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ool. Why are so many of us frustrated and inhibited today? —
all because many of us have not discovered the old world’s art
of living.

In conclusion, I would like to congratulate for their splendid
work all those who were connected with organizing and making
possible the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

BALDWIN STEWARD

HOME AppREss: 92 Monument St., West Medford, Mass.
OFFICE aDpREss: Huntington School for Boys, Boston, Mass.
BORN: Oct. 11, 1909, Concord, Mass. PARENTS: Ernest Ainsworth Steward,

Edith Farrington Baldwin.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1929-1931, 1932-1933. DEGREE: A.B. 1931 (33).

marriep: Grace Fredrikke Shattuck, Feb, 26, 1939, Belchertown, Mass.
CHILDREN: Charles Baldwin, Aug. 29, 1940; Robert Duncan, Feb. 1, 1942;
Grace Elisabeth, Oct. 14, 1946.

OccuPATION: Teacher of French and Spanish.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association, Sagamore Lodge AF. & A.M.,
West Medford, Mass.; West Medford Civic Association.

AFTER I received my diploma in 1933, my first job was wash-
ing dishes at Middlesex County Sanatorium in Waltham. I figured
the depression was over. I had a job, such as it was.

In 1934, while chopping cord wood for a living with former
roommate Charlie Millet, and with Sidney F. Ball, I received my
appointment to teach English at the Collége de Garcons in Sidi
Bel Abbés, Algeria. I worked my way over to Rotterdam,
Holland, on a Black Diamond freighter and then had to pay my
way to Sidi Bel Abbés. There I improved my French and Spanish
and had an interesting life, although I froze all winter and cooked
in the summer heat. I worked my way back to the U.S. on an
American Export freighter. It was too late that year for anything
but substitute teaching.

In 1936 I was appointed to teach in Wilmington, Massachusetts.
There we began our happy married life. In 1941 I went to Holden,
Massachusetts, and taught for two years. By June, 1943, I was
able to double my salary, and more, by joining Ranger Aircraft
Engines, on Long Island, New York, as assistant director of pub-
lications. The title was bigger than the job but I translated their

[ 969 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

manuals and other literature into Spanish some forty-eight hours
a week for most of a year. I also went to Mexico for six weeks
to interpret for some men who knew engines but did not know
Spanish.

In September, 1944, I went to the Manlius School in Manlius,
New York, where I taught Spanish for two years. I now havea
strong belief that academic and military subjects cannot be
taught together. In September, 1946, I was appointed to the
Huntington School for Boys as teacher of French and Spanish.
I was influenced by the average years of service of the faculty,
which at the time was twelve and now is more. It is truly an
excellent school and one which is attractive to faculty and pupils
alike. We still have standards!

During the years we have moved often enough so that my
wife accepted the offer to become Welcome Wagon Hostess in
Medford and now welcomes newcomers to the city. She is a
Massachusetts General Hospital graduate and occasionally breaks
down to take a case for a friend or in an emergency. This is our
sixth summer of camp work —she, the nurse, and I, the chief
maintenance man. These last four we have been at Sandy Island
Camp in Lake Winnepesaukee, New Hampshire. It’s a pleasant
life—in the school season I work mostly with people, in the
summer mostly with materials.

CHESTER W. STILSON
SEE Appendix.

+k EARL NEWTON STILSON

BORN: May 1, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: William Earl Stilson, Amy
Belle Shortt.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Cornell College, Mt. Vernon, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1925-1926, 1927-1928, 1931-1933. DEGREES: A.B., 1931(33)3
A.M., 1936; PH.D. 1940.

MarRIED: Ruth Ernestine Cook, Aug. 31, 1934, Swarthmore, Pa.

pieD: Aug. 25, 1940, near Dunkirk, N. Y.

STILSON came to Harvard from Cornell College. After re-
ceiving an A.B., he attended the Graduate School of Arts and

[970 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Sciences for four years. From 1935 to 1939 he was a tutor in
the Division of History, Government, and Economics, and dur-
ing 1939-40 he was a tutor in the Department of Government at
Harvard. In addition, he served as an assistant in government
during his second year at the Graduate School, and then was
for five years an instructor in the same field. He had been re-
appointed as both tutor and instructor at the University for five
more years when his death occured.

WILLIAM ROSWELL STOCKWELL, JR.

MAILING appress; Squam Boat Livery, Route 3, Holderness, N. H.

Bors: Nov, 23, 1908, Irvington, N. Y, parents: William Roswell Stockwell,
Mary Emma Cooke.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928,

ROBERT WILLIAM STOKES

HOME appagss; 36 Gorham Ave, Brookline 46, Mass.

orrica appagss: New England Telephone and Telegraph Co., 185 Franklin
St.. Boston 7, Mass.

poan: April 25, 1909, Jersey City, N. J. parents: Robert John Stokes, Lula
Hopkins Boss.

PREPARED at: Mfiddletown Township High School, Leonardo, N, J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: 8.B., 1931.

marniep: Marion J. Higgs, June 6, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. crip: Robert A.,
Oct. 6, 1942.

Harvarp BroTHFRR: Charles Warbrook Stokes, '33.

occupation: General information manager, New England Telephone and
Telegraph Company.

orrices HeLp: President, Industrial Editors Association of Massachusetts,
1939-41; director, National Association Industrial Editors, 1940, Brook-
line Taxpavers’ Association, 1953-55; chairman, Public Information,
Boston Red Cross Campaign, 1953; member, Brookline Advisory Com-
mittee.

MeMBER of: Advertising Club of Boston; Greater Boston Chamber of Com-
merce; Brookline Town Meeting; Beth Horon Lodge, A.F.&A.M.

THIS 25th-Reunion year also marks the completion of twenty-
five years’ service in the telephone business — a stimulating,
rewarding and thoroughly enjoyable quarter-century. Starting
as a “nickel collector” and door-to-door salesman, I filled various

[971]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931 i

positions in the commercial department until 1935, when I was
assigned to the public relations department. In this field I have -
been responsible, at various times, for employee information,
news and publicity activities and I currently hold the title of
general information manager, responsible for the company’s ad-
vertising, including newspaper, radio, TV, motion pictures,
displays, exhibits and demonstrations. .

Working for the world’s largest private business has involved
a lot of travel, infinite variety, fascinating problems and no limit
on hours of labor. Time for hobbies, family and personal interests
has been limited. However, I find time and enjoy participating
in local community affairs, with no attempt to hold elective office.
As a member of the Town Advisory Committee and a director
of the Taxpayers’ Association, I have attempted to fulfill a
citizen’s duty to help promote good, economical and effective
local government. Sometimes it seems like a useless endeavor,
but it is always challenging and I think important.

My contribution to the war effort was hardly notable. I
served as special consultant to the Under Secretary of War re-
sponsible for the Army’s part of the Army-Navy E program,
acting as first secretary of the board which granted these awards
for outstanding production. :

Any spare time is taken by “do-it-yourself” projects around
the house, most of which get postponed until a professional
is needed. |

GREGORY EUGENE STONE

HOME apprEss: 405 Serrano Drive, San Francisco, Calif.

OFFIcE AppREsS: First Western Bank & Trust Co., 40s Montgomery St., San
Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 15, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Gregory Eugene Stone, Helen
Jean Skillen.

PREPARED AT: Stone School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 19313 LL.B 1950.

marRiep: Lucy Morgan Goodwin, April 29, 1939, Hartford, Conn. (di-
vorced); Katherine Louise Stiegemeyer, April 27, 1946, Washington,
D.C. cuitpren: Lucy Morgan, Sept. 17, 1940; Rosamund Hopkins, July
22, 1942; Elizabeth Bucknam, July 2, 1948.

[972]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Assistant trust officer, trust administration and new business
development, First Western Bank & Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Department of Modern Languages, Pomfret School,
1934-39; member, Committee on Current Literature Relating to Real
Property Law, since 1943, Lawyer Referral Service and Constitutional

Law, 1943-44.
MEMBER OF: Dade County, American and Florida Bar Associations; Phi Beta

Kappa.

IN a spurt of ambition, which I have found very difficult to
sustain, I completed my course requirements at the College in
the summer of 1930, and spent our senior year learning the invest-
ment counsel business in Boston. After graduation, however, the
lure of a better-paid job teaching languages in the wilds of
Connecticut attracted me.

Here I ran afoul of both town and gown, because of my
political opinions. The town’s officials looked at me with positive
ill will when I asked to be enrolled as a Socialist. I was informed
that they had only Republicans (and a few Democrats) in that
district. I chose the Democratic label as the lesser of the two
evils. But members of the gown group were horrified to learn
that I was a registered Democrat, and pleaded with me not to
vote for Mr. Roosevelt. Did I want to see grass growing in the
streets of New York? I was amazed when Mr. Roosevelt won
the election of 1932 (and 1936 and 1940 and 1944), because it
looked to me as though I might be the only one voting for him.
Time moves on, however, and I can now publicly report, without
undue fear of criticism, that I helped put Florida in the Republican
column in 1954.

Came the war and an attempt in 1942 to get a direct commission
in the Navy. The word had not reached the Connecticut Navy
apparently, because the local office informed me that “you had
to be a graduate of Annapolis” to qualify for a commission. The
New York Navy, however, was more tolerant of my shortcomings
and took me in. The Washington Navy even flattered me in my
original choice of school by ordering me to Cambridge to learn
something. Like all newcomers, I found many others just a
little ahead of me who were only too ready to make things
difficult, Eventually, however, I worked or wormed my way

[973]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

past the Reservists, and came under the jurisdiction of Regulars
who were quite a way ahead of me. I then found an interest in
my job, and made lasting friendships with some of my colleagues,

To be the oldest living graduate of a Harvard school has always
been a definite honor, but to be the oldest living undergraduate
of the Law School has its drawbacks. Entering in 1947, I survived
“the first difficult year”, and went on to even more difficult sub-
sequent years. Most of the students apparently thought I was a
visiting professor, at least, because they made way for me in the
halls and doorways with a deadly effect on my vanity. I felt
particularly lonely toward the end of the course, after the second
and third oldest members of the class had decided to leave,
because they were the only other ones who were not in their
early twenties. The younger ones, however, took some pains to
point out to me that my gray hair would be an asset in starting
my own practice.

This Law School period would have been extremely difficult
had it not been for my wife Katherine’s support (both moril
and material), and the happy arrival of our daughter, Elizabeth,
in the first year. Katherine proceeded to take care of the baby
and get a law degree herself at night school, putting me in my
proper place by winning prizes for high grades. We are both
now members of the Florida Bar, although we have been trying
our hand at trust work for banks in Florida and in California.
While trust departments offer a great many services, we were
frankly unable to help the fellow who came in looking for a
“truss”, except by referring him to the nearest outlet for surgical
appliances,

WYMAN RICHARDSON STONE

HOME appREss: 5507 Greentree Rd., Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE ADpREss: International Cooperation Administration, 806 Connecticut
Ave. Washington 25, D, C.

BORN: March 17, 1909, Athol, Mass. parents: Harry Sylvester Stone.
Bernice May Piedalue.

PREPARED AT: Athol High School, Athol, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: S.B. IN CE., "31; S.M., 1933.

MARRIED: Gayle Adams, Feb. 14, 1943, Quito, Ecuador. cHipren: Julia
Elizabeth, Sept. 9, 1945; Wyman Richardson, Jr., July 1, 1947.

[974]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Chief, Central Division, Office of Latin American Affairs,
International Cooperation Administration.

orrices HELD: Director, Gorgas Memorial Institute of Tropical Medicine,
since 1952, United States-Mexico Border Health Association; vice-
president, Inter-Amencan Association of Sanitary Enginecring.

AN extra year at the Engineering School studying sanitary en-

gineering led me right from Cambridge to Latin America where,
in Colombia at least, the depression was already on the way out.

Since 1935 I've been almost exclusively associated with work
south of the border. It has included dam and water-works con-
struction in Colombia, in-service training of water plant design
engineers in Venezuela, directing the joint U.S.-Ecuadorean and
Mexican health and sanitation programs in these countrics, di-
recting the Health and Sanitation Division of the U.S.-Latin
American program from Washington, and now directing the
total technical and development assistance programs for the
Central American countries, plus Panama and Colombia, [ have
lived for a total of fifteen years in four countries and traveled
at least a little in all of the twenty-one American Republics.
At present, I spend about two months of each year in travel
status. I've found much pleasure and satisfaction in all this.
Twenty years ago there were few safe water supplies and almost
no sanitary engineers trained in water supply in all Latin America.
Today many supplies still need to be buile, but each country has
a well-trained group of engineers who know how to do the
job and who are moving ahead as fast as the financing can be
worked out. Our U.S.-other country joint technical assistance
programs are working wonders in Latin America in agriculture,
education, transportation and public administration, Latin Amer-
ica is in an expansion period similar to the one that preceded our
generation in the U.S. It's interesting to watch and participate in
its development and growth.

Gayle and I met and were married in Quito, Ecuador, and
Julie was born there at 9,500 fect above sea level. Chico first drew
breath at the modcrate 7,500 feet elevation of Mexico City.
We've been home so long now that not only have they forgotten
their Spanish, but they’ve even forgotten that they started
bilingual.

[975]

— oo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

The Army took me in and tossed me out in Ecuador and |
served the whole time on detail to the Institute of Inter-Ameri-
can Affairs. At least, I was busy at what I knew best and that’s
luckier than many were.

HARRY LEITCH STRACHAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 102 Atwater Rd., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 130 Maple St., Room 211, Springfield, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 10, 1909, Hyde Park, Mass. parents: Harry Leitch Strachan,
Sr. Christina Alexander Fleming.

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Hyde Park, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.D. 1935.

MarRieD: Jasmine Griffin, April 2, 1938, Newport, R. I, cHmpren: Harry
Leitch, 3d, March 29, 1941; William C. May 10, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Morgan Strachan, ’36.

occuPaATION: Physician; anesthesiologist-in-chief, Springfield Hospital and
Wesson Maternity Hospital, Springfield, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Anesthesiologists (diplomate), 1952, Massa-
chusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association; American
Society of Anesthesiologists; International Society of Anesthesiologists;
Longmeadow Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Spinal Anesthesia in Obstetrics”.

FRANK STRASSER

HOME aporess: 40 E. 88th St.. New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The New Gallery, 601 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

BoRN: May 25, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Jack Monroe Strasser,
Laura Kraus.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Art dealer.

EDWARD KUHN STRAUS

HOME apprEss: Cedar Swamp Road, Brookville, N. Y.

OFFICE aDpREss; Garden State Plaza Corp., 151 W. 34th St., New York 1, N.Y.

BorN: Nov. 12, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Herbert Nathan Straus, ’03,
Therese Kuhn.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

[976 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 193}-

marrieD: Catherine Monroe, Jan. 24, 1942, Phoenix, Ariz. CHILDREN: Susan
Monroe, July 6, 1944; Stephen Edward, May 30, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Oliver Herbert Straus, °36; John Wendell Straus, "42.

occuPATION: President, Garden State Plaza Corporation (developers of re-
gional shopping center in Paramus, Bergen County, N. J.).

OFFICES HELD: Executive, Macy’s of New York, 1933-52; vice-president,
Macy’s of San Francisco, 1952-54; president, Garden State Plaza Cor-
poration, since 1954; treasurer, 1947-52, director, 1935-52, since 1954,
Jewish Family Service, Inc. New York City; director, Marine Midland
Trust Company of New York, since 1950, Boys Clubs of America, since
1950; treasurer and director, Family Service Association of America,

1950~§2, SINCE 1954.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City.

THERE was a time when I could turn out a “Gentleman’s C”
grade paper on the assigned topic at the eleventh hour with rea-
sonable facility. With the passage of a quarter of a century, it
is apparent that this knack has been lost, and that the urgings of
the Class Secretary do not seem to be as compelling now as those
of even the humblest section hand were then. But the third notice
to submit my “life” is at hand, and the task can no longer be
postponed or ignored.

With the exception of the war years, I have spent my entire
career since graduation from the Business School (in 1933) with
R. H. Macy & Company, Inc., in almost every field of endeavor
that the firm can offer — legal and financial excepted. And save
for two years in San Francisco — also with Macy’s — New
York City has always been my headquarters, As a result of this
extensive merchandising experience, in 1954 I was called back
from the West Coast to enter a new field — real estate. I am now
assigned to the development of a regional shopping center in
Bergen County, New Jersey, which is due to open in the fall of
1956. (If it fails to be on schedule next spring, I shall neither
be with Macy’s nor at the Reunion, but shall be starting life
afresh in some far Pacific Isle.)

The period from August, 1941, to November, 1945, was spent
in a blue suit, but as far away from salt water as the Navy could
arrange. In fact, the only time I was aboard ship during World
War II, the vessel was in dry-dock. After two and a half years
in Pontiac, Michigan, and one and a half years in Elmira, New

[977]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

York, as a Naval inspector for the Bureau of Ordnance, I emerged
as a lieutenant commander. Recently, at the instance of Jimmy
Smith, I have become commander, U.S.N.R. (Retired).

The terrestrial quality of my war service, however, was not
without its compensations, for it permitted me to pass those years
with the girl I married just after Pearl Harbor. In 1944 we adopt-
ed a girl, and five years later a boy, who figures to be in the Class
of ’7o or ’71.

This is being written in Brookville, Long Island, in the eighth
abode which we have occupied and, I hope, the last one. Here |
can prune a tree, dig in the garden, ride, swim, and otherwise
lead the life of the commuting suburbanite. As I look back —as
who isn’t at this time — Harvard seems to have been pretty good

to me. It provided an education and friendships, of which at
least the latter have endured.

ROBERT WARE STRAUS

HOME ADDRESS: Accokeek, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Robert Ware Straus Co., 1822 Jefferson Pl., N.W., Wash-
ington, D. C.

BORN: July 22, 1909, Hinsdale, Ill. PARENTS: Michael Straus, Mary Ware
Howe.

PREPARED AT: Hinsdale Township High School, Hinsdale, Til.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRieD: Lenore Thomas, July 11, 1942, Washington, D. C. cuitpren: Eric
Thomas, Jan. 1, 1947; Lenore Ware, Nov. 10, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Howe Straus, '16, M.D., ’109.

occupation: Management consultant; president, Robert Ware Straus Com-
pany.

OFFICES HELD: Director, American Continental Development Company;
president, Southern Maryland Industries; president and director, Moya-

one Company; lecturer, American University, University of Maryland.
MEMBER OF: National Press Club; Ferguson Foundation.

PUBLICATIONS: America Builds, 1938; Housing Comes of Age, 1939; Building

for Defense, 1940; The Case of the Acme Company, 1951; numerous
articles in the field of human relations to government.

THE accounting of the twenty-five years is one of continual
change. Like thousands of others, I left Harvard to make my
mark upon the world. A few years in New York convinced me
that was not the answer. The summer of ’39 in Europe I occupied

[ 978 ]

satetens jeakit OPEN RTE
ge eye ERE MRNA RE eae?

. connate RORY
wh eee REA det OnE A EAT OIE woes

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an all too front row seat watching the world go to hell and came
back convinced that war was going to be serious. A year later
I closed up my New York shop and went to work for the exec-
utive office of the president, working on the war agencies. The
war was thrust upon us. | got married and put on a blue suit
in the Navy.

When I came out the other end, I wanted to know something
about how people actually get along with each other either in
small groups or on a general scale, how they communicate with
each other and what the barriers are to such communication, so
I went back to school at the Washington School of Psychiatry.
As a result of that exposure I hung out a shingle as a management
consultant specializing in human relations and communication,
and hoped that the work that I and others are doing in these
fields may help in some of the problems that surround us. Po-
litically I am, of course, a Democrat, and a liberal one at that. I
have fought to the best of my ability for the underprivileged,
which in the South is not always a popular occupation.

My roots are in Southern Maryland where a home, two chil-
dren, one wife, lots of neighbors, and a schooner on the Chesapeake
provide steady occupation for the old man. I now feel that it’s
not the mark you make upon this world, but rather the vacuum
you fill in others’ lives that counts.

WALTER KNIGHT STURGES

HOME aporess: Hancock Place, Ardsley-on-Hudson, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: J. Sanford Shanley, Architect, 152 E. 36th St., New York,
N. Y.

BORN: June 30, 1909, Bar Harbor, Maine. parents: Walter Knight Sturges,
Marie Alexis Hayes.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; B.F.A. (Yale Univ.), 1935.

marrieED: Alice V. Morris, May 13, 1939, New York, N. Y. cut_tpreN: Marie
Hayes, March 10, 1940; Lawrence Morris, Oct. 25, 1941; Thomas Rush,
July 19, 1944; Peter, June 4, 1948; David Morris, Oct. 9, 1950.

occupation: Architect; associate in firm of J. Sanford Shanley.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Liturgical Arts Society, 1950-54; member Zoning
Board, Village of Irvington, N. Y., 1953-54; trustee, Public Reservations
of Hancock County, Maine; member board of managers, Columbus
Art Museum, Ohio, 1939-42.

[979 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Ardsley Club; New Bedfora

Yacht Club; Liturgical Arts Society; Society of Architectural Histo-
rians; American Institute of Architects.

pusuications: “The Long Shadow of Norman Shaw”, Journal of the Society
of Architectural Historians; “A Bishop and his Architect: the Story of
the Building of Baltimore Cathedral”, Liturgical Arts, “Cast Iron in
New York,” The Architectural Review, London; “The Black House
Ellsworth — an Asher Benjamin house in Maine”, Antiques.

UPON graduation from architectural school, I worked for a
brief period in New York and, later, in Columbus, Ohio. It was
here that we lived for the first three years of our married life and
our first two children were born. High hopes, low salaries and
few jobs —all well-known marks of the depression era — char-
acterized this period. Three years of sea duty in the Navy,
interrupted sleep, wardroom coffee, morning star sights and,
ultimately, command of the L.S.T. 988 followed.

Postwar readjustment included moving to Ardsley-on-Hudson
and the enjoyment of the kind of domestic tranquility a family
of five between five and fifteen affords.

My architectural practice has fallen mainly in the fields of
domestic, church and school buildings. I have done some teaching
at Yale, Columbia and Notre Dame Universities, and I enjoyed a
scholarly interlude as a reference librarian on the staff of the
Avery Architectural Library at Columbia between 1949 and 1952.

As in 1931, my favorite sport is sailing. Since ’52 we have
sailed in the Buzzards Bay region and have cruised with our
children at various times from Mamaroneck to Mount Desert.
Another hobby which my wife and I enjoy has been the forma-
tion of a small collection of paintings by American landscape
painters of the nineteenth century. It is a great surprise to me
how absorbing this pursuit has become.

Since 1931 my basic attitudes have changed, as far as I can
see, in only one respect. Then, it seemed to me the world could
hardly go on at all without accepting my point of view. Now,
I find it quite bearable that others should think, act and believe
quite differently from the way I do. In short, I have concluded
that my buildings may have either flat and/or pitched roofs
instead of flat ones only. This revelation has produced a revolu-
tion in my thinking which, it is hoped, is gradually extending
beyond architecture into the other departments of my life.

[ 980 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STANLEY WYMAN SWAIM

HOME AppREsS: Foundry Street, Medfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Stanley B. Swaim & Co. 79 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 20, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Stanley Budd Swaim, ’o7, Marie
Wyman.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MargieD: Eleanor Hathaway Clark, May 29, 1933, Framingham Center, Mass.
(divorced 1947); Jean Tuckerman Bancroft, July 30, 1949, Cohasset,
Mass. cHiLprEN: Stanley Clark, Feb. 17, 1936; Eleanor Hathaway, June
3, 1938; William Nickerson Bancroft (stepson), Aug. 19, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker.

MEMBER OF: Cohasset Golf Club,

IN previous Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reports, the life accounts
seem to fall, for the most part, into definite categories, some that
are amusing and others that try to be, those that are long and
often say little, and those that are brief but indicate success in
various ways. An account of my last twenty-five years offers
nothing original, I’m afraid, in these respects. After graduation,
I obtained a job in the Paris office of the Bankers Trust Company
at a starting salary of an amount sufficient to keep me amply sup-
plied with cigarettes. A year later I was transferred to the New
York office, where I remained until 1935 at which time I returned
to Boston and, according to plan, joined my father’s office as an
insurance broker. In 1946 we formed a partnership under the
name of Stanley B. Swaim & Company and, upon my father’s
retirement in 1953, I took over the business and have continued
to operate it under the same name. The work has been enjoyable
(particularly because of its independence), except for the fact that
I haven’t thus far found much time for extra curricular affairs,
extended vacations, and the like.

As for the next twenty-five years, I fully intend to spend
more time traveling, fend off super highways and ranch house
developments from my place in Medfield, try to improve my
short game of golf, and finally to finish that model railroad I have
mentally constructed for so many years,

[ 981 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

PAUL MARLOR SWEEZY
HOME ApDpREsS: Wilton, N. H. |

OFFICE ADpREss: Monthly Review, 66 Barrow St. New York 14, N. Y.

BorN: April ro, rg10, New York, N. ¥. parents: Everett Benjamin Sweezy,
Caroline Perkins Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1931 (32); PH.D. 1937.

MarRIED: Maxine Yaple, March 21, 1936, New York, N. Y. (divorced 1943);
Nancy M. Adams, Nov. 10, 1945, Franklin, N. H. cxmpren: Samuel

Everett, Sept. 5, 1946; Elizabeth MacDougall, June 30, 1948; Martha
Adams, Dec. 28, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Everett Wilson Sweezy, ’22; Alan Richardson Sweezy, ’29.
OCCUPATION: Writer; co-editor of Monthly Review.

PuBLICATIONS: Monopoly and Competition in the English Coal Trade, 1550-
1850, 1938; The Theory of Capitalist Development, 1942; Socialism, 1949;
The Present As History, 1953.

AFTER graduation I studied a year abroad, mainly at the London

School of Economics, but also at Vienna; and for the next few

years I traveled rather extensively in Europe while doing grad-

uate work at Harvard during the academic year. I started as a

part-time tutor in the Economics Department in 1934 and re-

mained in the department until entering the Army in 1942. My
last academic rank was assistant professor.

The experience of these years, especially the depression at
home and the rise of Fascism abroad, made a radical of me and

(apparently unlike most radicals of the thirties) I have remained

one ever since. In those days it was still possible to be a radical
and work for the government and I spent several summers work-
ing in various New Deal agencies in Washington.

In 1942 I went into the Army as a volunteer officer candidate,
but I was soon shifted to the OSS where I served in the Research
and Analysis Branch until the end of the war. I was in London
for about a year and a half, and in 1945 moved first to Paris, then
to Wiesbaden, and finally to Berlin.

After getting out of the Army, I decided to devote myself to
my own research and writing. In 1949 — thanks to the financial
assistance of the late Professor F. O. Matthiessen of Harvard —I
was able to found, along with Leo Huberman, a new magazine,

Monthly Review, which bears (and I hope has lived up to) the
subtitle, “An Independent Socialist Magazine”. If any of my

[ 982 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

classmates are interested in what that means (to me, at any rate),
I warmly invite them to subscribe.

The life of a radical in post-World War II America has, of
course, not been free of vicissitudes, and mine has been no
exception. I could have had a wide choice of academic and
government jobs in the thirties, and offers continued to come in
for several years after the war. But the cold war and the witch
hunt have changed all that. I haven’t tried to get a passport lately,
but the experience of like-minded friends gives me no reason to
assume that I would be granted one. And most recently I have
had the misfortune to run afoul of the Attorney General of New
Hampshire, who is busily engaged, at the behest of the legisla-
ture, in ferreting out “threats” to the security of this beautiful
state which, incidentally, guaranteed the Right of Revolution in
its original constitution and boasts of the motto, “Live Free or
Die”. I answered a lot more of the Attorney General’s questions
than I thought he had any right to ask, but when he finally got
around to asking me about my activities in supporting Henry
Wallace in 1948 and about a lecture on socialism which I gave by
invitation at the University of New Hampshire, I told him, in
effect, that these things were none of his business.

A lower court found me in contempt and ordered me put in
jail until I should purge myself, 1¢., answer the questions, At the
moment of writing, I am appealing the case to the New
Hampshire Supreme Court and am free on $1000 bail. The case,
I am persuaded, has considerable importance in the struggle to
maintain political and academic freedom in this country; and
the recent spectacular decline of McCarthy — even though the
ism continues to flourish in other hands and under other Jabels —
encourages me to greater optimism than I would have considered
at all reasonable last year at this time. I hope this doesn’t sound
foolish by the time of our Twenty-fifth Reunion.

+ GEORGE NEWELL TALBOT

BoRN: July 22, 1909, Brookline, Mass. Parents: George Stanley Talbot, ’o8,
Elsa Lorbacher.

PREPARED aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: AB., 1931(37),

[ 983 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

marriED: Dorothy Nelson, June 22, 1932, Swampscott, Mass. crvorey;
George Stanley, Dec. 4, 1934; David Newell, April 5, 19373 Linda,
May 14, 1941; Sara, March 10, 1943; Michael Nelson, March 3, 1945

pieD: June 8, 1954, Hanover, N. H.

WHILE at Harvard, Talbot was a football star. In 1941 and
again in 1946 he reported that he was a teacher at Derby Acad-
emy in Hingham, Massachusetts. At the time of our last Report

he was teaching at the Woodstock Country School in Vermont
and was also engaged in agriculture.

EDDISON COLLINS TATHAM

HOME ADDRESS: Old Albany Post Road, Garrison-on-Hudson, N. Y

BoRN: Feb. 25, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Charles Tatham, Sarah Roe
PREPARED AT: Institution Sillig, Vevey, Switzerland.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

marrieD: Ann Fenner, Oct. 2, 1935, Pasadena, Calif. cumpren: Mary Michael
Sept. 21, 1939; Edwin Elling, May 19, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Tatham, Jr., ’28.

OCCUPATION: Grade-school teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Scout Master, Troop 85, Rehoboth Beach Del

1952-54, Scout Master, Troop 4, Garrison, N. Y., since 1954, Boy Scouts
of America.

THE arrival of the request for an accounting of our lives for the
25th Anniversary Report came as a shock, and I was briefly
tempted to sue the Class editors for calling the passage of time
so brutally to my attention. Weathering the blow, however, ]
made the home life miserable trying to locate the previous
Anniversary Reports in order to find out where I had left off in
my Narrative.

Referring back to our Decennial Report, I am pleased to report
to those who may be interested that the pre-fabricated house
which we erected in 1940 is still standing. Furthermore, contrary
to architectural advice, we pushed up the roof to make room for
children and dogs, and this also has survived not only the ravages
of its occupants, but a few off-course hurricanes as well, proving,
possibly, that experts are as fallible as the rest of us

After the war, when I returned to my former occupation as
security analyst and salesman, I soon found that placating insti-
tutional buyers and worrying about the vagaries of market action

[ 984 ]

ee ERE
EIA

AAS EE REE OE

EAHA, PEAT POP EER

os paisa!
Les er EME PEE

xrugacaumenmmmmsesenment sg 7 REE

nag aE ON

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

had lost its former element of importance in my mind. When a
friend in the Department of State, whom I had met during the
war, suggested that I join our Foreign Service, I followed his
advice and moved the family to Washington. Then, after a period
of training and the usual red tape, I was assigned to Baghdad,
Iraq, as political attaché. Unfortunately, because of reasons of
health, I was unable to take my family with me. However, the
Iraqi climate and people agreed with me beautifully and I
thoroughly enjoyed the experience.

The return to this country and a tour of duty in Washington
was, however, another story. The war years had taught me that
the wonder of just being alive was too evanescent and precious to
waste in combating the malicious conniving of some of our petty
Napoleons in bureaucracy, so I resigned.

After two years spent in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, where I
tried unsuccessfully to become a selling author, we decided to
return to our home in Garrison, in order to be closer to our
children who were starting their boarding school careers — our
daughter at St. Mary’s School in Peekskill, our son at the Storm
King School in Cornwall.

In order to help meet the mounting financial costs of this higher
education, I resorted to tutoring and soon found myself a part-
time teacher in our local public school. At the end of the school
year I was offered the position of seventh- and eighth-grade
teacher for the following year, providing I went to summer
school to obtain the first leg on my teaching certificate, which
isa three-year propositon. I accepted and am at present attending
New York State Teachers’ College in New Paltz, New York. I
am enjoying the experience tremendously and am pleasantly re-
minded of my undergraduate days in Cambridge.

HENRY TAYLOR
SEE Appendix.

[ 985]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

*k PHILLIP ARNOLD TAYLOR
BORN: June 13, 1907, Medford, Mass. PARENTS: Chester Rockland Taylor,
Gertrude Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

prep: Aug. 10, 1929, Melrose, Mass.

TAYLOR died after the completion of his sophomore year at
Harvard.

VAN NESS TAYLOR

HOME ADDRESS: 246A W. St. Louis Ave., Las Vegas, Nev.

BORN: June 3, 1908, Buzzards Bay, Mass. parents: John Irving Taylor,
Cornelia Van Ness.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Jane Hodge, July 1, 1933, Buffalo, N. Y. (divorced 1946); Leah G.
Taylor.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Ingalls Taylor, ’33.
occupaTiONn: Landlord.

+t VICTOR BURRELL TAYLOR
BorN: April 19, 1909, Everett, Mass. parents: William Taylor, Jennie Edith
Oakman.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1929.
piep: April 14, 1929, Boston, Mass.

TAYLOR died during our sophomore year.

WILLIAM DAVIS TAYLOR

HOME ADpREsS: Marion, Mass.
OFFICE ADDREss: Boston Globe, 244 Washington St., Boston, Mass

BORN: April 21, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: William Osgood Taylor, ’93,
Mary Moseley.

PREPARED aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

MARRIED: Mary I. Hammond, June 13, 1931, New London, Conn. (died
1947); Ann Macy, Nov. 29, 1947, Morristown, N. J. cuitpren: William
Osgood, 2d, July 17, 1933; Anna Rumrill, March 17, 1935; Thomas Macy,

[ 986 ]

EERIE FINI

pg esteteyt?
LO dt AD IRS AMP It AE

cette THe
bf RNG ERED PETE RT FE

po JAN 25 RNR TIRE EAT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

May 7, 1951; Margaret Moseley, May 16, 1952.
HARVARD SON: William Osgood Taylor, 2d, ’54.
HARVARD BROTHER: Moseley Taylor, 18.
OCCUPATION: Journalist; president, Boston Globe.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Saint Croix Paper Company.
MEMBER OF: Boys Clubs of Boston; Beverly Yacht Club, Marion, Mass.

MY first job was with The Boston Globe in September, 1931.
Without interruption I have been there ever since.

My family consists of two boys and two girls. The elder son,
Harvard ’54, is now in the Army in Germany, his sister a junior
at Radcliffe, the younger son a Davy Crockett, his sister an Annie
Oakley. One and all, they have been a joy to their father, and
sometimes to their mothers.

My travels have been purely routine. My hobbies are working
on old furniture, collecting more antiques than we have room
for, and sailboat racing. My war record and government service
— whatever my part in management of The Boston Globe in the
war years. My social, political (independent), and religious con-
victions — normal, I hope, for a Harvard man.

It has been my privilege, because of my association with a
newspaper, to share hope, joy and sorrow with so many people
who have been so wonderfully patient. Having had a happy
home life and a job which I have enjoyed always, I consider
myself one of the lucky ones of 1931.

WILLIAM SIMPSON TAYLOR

HOME AND OFFICE ADpRESS: Old Town Farm, Peterborough, N. H.

BORN: Feb. 27, 1908, Ft. Leavenworth, Kans. parents: Theodore Burnett
Taylor, Grace M. Simpson.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931,

MARRIED: Phebe Russell, June 14, 1933, Brookline, Mass. cumpren: Benjamin
R., May 18, 1934; Robert S., June 4, 1936; Joanne, March 9, 1939; Louise,
March 29, 1947.

occupation: Agriculture — retail milk and beef.

OFFIcEs HELD: Director, New Hampshire Guernsey Breeders Association,
since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Peterborough Grange; Peterborough Sportsmen’s Club; Peter-

[ 987 ]

_semsaiecann saamneseesameceaeiiieeannennaaineniateenaastiaeeaetninmeunletmniean init tN

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

borough Board of Trade; Historical Society, Monadnock Region Asso.
' ciation; Dedham Country and Polo Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles in farm periodicals,

I SPENT eleven years in the insurance business in Boston while
continually smothering the desire to get into agriculture. Served
four years with the. Army as transportation | officer at the
Lexington Signal Depot in Kentucky with a few months at Fort
Dix, New Jersey, bringing troops back from Germany at the
end of the war. Then no longer smothering, I went into agricul-
ture in 1946 at Millis, Massachusetts, transferring my operation
in 1950 to Peterborough, New Hampshire, where I am at present
producing, processing and retailing golden Guernsey milk in
five surrounding towns. A side operation is an experiment in
feeding Angus beef cattle and retailing packaged and frozen
beef. The above, interspersed with a modest amount of time for
hunting and fishing, is my twenty-five year microfilm. My
thought for today is that I don’t think the city feller can ever
realize how precious life and time are until he takes to the country.

THOMAS WALTER TEECE

HOME ADDRESS: 630 S. Oxford St., Los Angeles 5, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Premiere Cafeteria, 3716 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1908, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: Thomas Teece, Mary Henrietta
Beatrice Waller.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931!
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Restaurant-cafeteria bus-boy.

SINCE leaving college, my career history has reflected largely
my college history — that is, one of confusion and instability.
My occupations have been mostly the same — waiting on table,
Post Office work, and brokerage (economics). This confusion
was greatly aided by two stabs of fate: (1) the sudden transition
to college life, and (2) the depression of ’29. It is my opinion
that the college term should be extended, or that more guidance
should be offered to the individual. As for the last year in college,

it was nothing but dawdling and cramming for the final examina
tions.

[ 988 ]

sp coe gE AEDES,
emg oe RARE RS AE LIE ent

sewage. (a AMR
ae CRT NOONAN “RBH SS “

|
'

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In criticism of the “great depression”, there are various points
of view as to its cause and the remedies for its future avoidance
or prevention. But wise and considered opinion would put the
blame largely upon the nature of the present capitalistic system
with its huge inequalities in remuneration for labor and services
rendered. These inequalities in remuneration, they say, are re-
flected in the amount of goods which the consumer is able to
absorb and the consequent gluts in the market.

I presume that the Class would be interested in my family, not
for any bits of gossip, but for possible attainments in the eco-
nomic, cultural or social world. I was one of nine children and
the youngest. My father had been a hard working laborer of
Welsh birth and was greatly interested in agriculture and agri-
cultural experiments. My mother was of a more aristocratic line-
age and was more philosophical in nature. Today, my brothers
and sisters are all taking their places as best they can in the
disrupted social world; one of my brothers is an electrical en-
gineer and another is a retired officer of the U.S. Navy. One of
my sisters is the manager of an aviation company.

My only travels have been on the East Coast and West Coast
of the United States. My hobbies include tennis, golf, music,
art, sociology, chess, bridge and writing. I had an honorable
medical discharge from the U.S. Army in 1941.

My social convictions consist of public codperation and private
inviolability. My political convictions vary according to the
best man or best party at the moment. My religious convictions
are notable mostly for their absence; but I believe that what is,
is, and what is not, is not— though sometimes what is becomes
what is not and what is not becomes what is.

ALLAN ARTHUR TEPPER

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Forest Ave., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Snyder & Tepper, 73 Tremont St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: June 5, 1909, Lawrence, Mass, PARENTS: Fred Tepper, Bessie Silver-
man,

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

MaarriED: Leona Harriette Levenson, June 18, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:

[ 989 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Martha Fay, Oct. 12, 1942; Susan Barbara, Jan. 19, 1945; Elizabeth Jane,
Sept. 4, 1946.
OccUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Special lecturer in labor law, Northeastern University, 1947~
50; special lecturer to Harvard Trade Union Fellowship, 1949-54; presi-
dent and director, Hecht Neighborhood House; vice-president, Jewish
Centers Association of Greater Boston; trustee, Associated Jewish
Philanthropies of Boston; director, Northern Industrial Chemical Com-
pany.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Law Association; New
Century Club; Zionist Organization of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Several law review articles in the field of labor relations and
labor law.

FOLLOWING a few years in the general practice of lav, I
enjoyed about five years of government service. In this latter
period, I served as attorney for various agencies such as the
United States Department of Labor, the Social Security Board,
and the National War Labor Board. It was a period of training
for the highly specialized private practice to which I subsequently
returned.

From March, 1944, to September, 1945, I served in the Army,
and upon my discharge, resumed the private practice of law.
Although my law firm (Snyder & Tepper) is engaged in general
practice, I spend almost all of my time in the field of labor rela-
tions and labor law, in which I represent a number of New
England corporations. I have even done some teaching within
the field, having been lecturer on labor legislation at Northeastern
University (1947-50), and special lecturer on labor law to
Harvard’s Trade Union Fellowship Program (1949-54).

My marriage in 1940 resulted, as indicated above, in three
daughters and in a busy and happy life. Obviously, I am ruled
by women.

For about seventeen years, I have been associated with Hecht
House (the largest Jewish Community Center in New England).
It was as a volunteer group worker that I met my wife-to-be at
Hecht House in 1938. I’ve continued as a member of the board
of directors to the present time, and served as president of the
board from 1946 to 1951. Other community work has included
a part in the formation of the Jewish Centers Association of
Greater Boston, of which I was vice-president, and as a member

[ 990 J

cat qunnenen ent
cece etge agg HETHS AE ARNETTE Tt
i, egg MTA ET SE
so CN ype eee

*
b
:
&
t
3
i
5
$

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the board of trustees of the Associated Jewish Philanthropies
of Boston.

Marriage and growing children have drawn me closer to the
synagogue than I had been as an undergraduate. I am a director
of Temple Hadrath Israel (Dorchester, Massachusetts), and a
member of Temple Reyim of Newton, Massachusetts.

I have continued a long-standing membership in the Democratic
party, despite the fact that a number of my important clients are
Republicans.

FREDERICK THON

HOME ADDRESS: 433 Monroe Drive, Palo Alto, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Drama, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

BoRN: April 23, 1906, Aurora, Ill. parents: Eckhardt Thon, Eleanor Koch.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic High School, Long Beach, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.F.A. (Yale Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Harriet Dyer, Aug. 17, 1937, Provincetown, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter,
July 29, 1945; Erika, Sept. 4, 1949; Christina, Oct. 22, 1954.

occupation: Professor of drama; drama writer and director.

OFFICES HELD: Director, experimental drama production, Ohio University,
1940-41, Acting Laboratory, Pasadena Playhouse, 1941-42, Powers
School of Theatre, 1942-43; member Army Special Services, 1943-45;
lecturer, 1945-46, assistant professor, 1946-49, associate professor, 1949-
54, Bryn Mawr College, chairman, Department of Speech and Drama,
Kenyon College, 1954-55; organizer and director, Bryn Mawr Summer
Theatre, 1948-51.

MEMBER OF: American Educational Theatre Association.

PuBLications: “The Island”, a drama of Majorca, Best Short Plays of 1954-55,
Dodd, Mead Co.; articles on directing, acting and playwriting, Players
Magazine and Dramatics Magazine, review of Lope de Vega Company’s
production in Spain of “Death of A Salesman”, New York Herald
Tribune, 1953.-

UNKNOWING that I would some day join the illustrious
company of ’31, I grew up in the Middle West near Chicago,
sold the Saturday Evening Post from door to door, played Indian
in the Winnetka woods, joined the Scouts and organized circus
performances for the neighbors.

Later our family moved to California and I attended Stanford
University for two years until I became interested in the theatre.
I worked my way to New York on the Standard oil tanker, John

[991 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

D. Archbold, as a wiper in the engine-room to attend the Yale
Drama School under Baker. In class the references to a certain
Dumas fils puzzled me to such an extent that I decided to remedy
the situation by securing more background at Harvard. To eam

most of my way, I stoked a furnace in wintertime and life-guard-
ed during the summers.

Who will forget the fiercely volatile Lowes of the booming
voice and hellish exams; the bristling Kittredge, bearded, of dread-
ful mien; the massive Babbitt crouched in his chair, pale bony
fingers leafing through the books before him; the ovation re-
sounding after Bliss Perry’s close of his final lecture? And “GP.”
patient, understanding, a stubby, granite figure, tight-lipped,
humorous of eye, the most Roman of them all, surrounded by a
brilliant faculty.

Toward the end of the Forgotten Depression, Harriet and I
were married in Provincetown, attired in choir robes borrowed
for the ceremony from the vestry of a local church, and advised
by the officiating clergyman, ‘“‘Whenever you get into an argu-
ment, just remember: don’t both try to talk at once”.

The present is now nearly twenty years later and Peter is ten,
with a great fondness for reading and drawing; Erika is nearly
six, enchanted by ballet; and Christina is eight months old, teeth-
ing and drooling. Since 1940 I have been associated with various
theatre groups, the Pasadena Playhouse, Bryn Mawr and Kenyon,

as a director and teacher — work I believe in and have enjoyed
thoroughly. I admire, love and respect the professional theatre,
but its notorious insecurity seems to make it no place in which
to try to raise a family. In addition to the work I’ve done on
original scripts, of all the productions I have directed, undoubt-
edly, the most rewarding have been Shakespeare’s “King Lear”,
Christopher Fry’s “The Lady’s Not For Burning”, and Tennessee
Williams’ “Summer and Smoke”. Recently I’ve become rather
interested in the possibilities of television drama, particularly since
the production by KPIX in San Francisco of a script of mine,
“Torero”, concerning the death of a matador,

A little more than a year ago we lived in Majorca for nine
months and in Malaga for three, while I did some playwriting
and everyone developed a love for the Spanish people, flamenco

[ 992 ]

ete HENLE MEINE OY BEM ERO

AEN SNA RE OE ETRE AOS

ete aD FET SI Ma

eu RUE ORS NCR RE HERR TE TA

pepe fan VANES iE

=
i

©
$
&
x

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

singing and dancing, the art of the bull ring, cognac from the
nearest bodega and life abroad.

At one time or another I’ve crossed the country riding the
freights, worked with the insane in psychiatric wards, acted in
off-Broadway productions, and gambled like a fool on my play-
writing. Id like to ask just one question: Will that tombstone
read, “Rest in Peace"?

JOHN BEVERLY THORNDIKE

HOME ADpRESS: 27 Spring St., East Bridgewater, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Thorndike & MacDonald, 232 Main St. Brockton, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 11, 1908, East Bridgewater, Mass. parents: Herbert Cahoone
Thorndike, 'o2, Bessie Ellsworth Perkins,

PREPARED AT: New Hampton School, New Hampton, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Helen Miriam Roach, Aug. 25, 1937, East Bridgewater, Mass.
CHILDREN: Diane Ellen, April 8, 1939; Joan Beverly, Feb, 12, 1941; Chris-
topher, Dec. 20, 1942; Susan, July 7, 1944.

occupaTion: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, East Bridgewater Cooperative Bank, president,
Plymouth County Bar Association, 1951-52; member School Committee,
since 1934, town counsel, since 1954, chairman, School Planning and
Building Committee, Town of East Bridgewater, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association, Plymouth County Bar Associa-
tion; Bridgewater Rod and Gun Club; East Bridgewater P.T.A.; Massa-
chusetts Association of School Committees.

HAVING been fighting high blood pressure of the nervous type
for some ten years (rather successfully of late), my other activi-
ties suffer by comparison — and also, I fear, my profession. I do
not travel well nor eat or sleep well in strange surroundings; and,
although my drinking in any surroundings is enjoyable, it is of
necessity circumscribed like many another of formerly common
diversions.

The rearing of an ambitious group of youngsters is about all I
can manage, as well as being nearly all I hope for. I enjoy a rustic
existence and the respect of an appreciable number of towns-
people and neighbors. If I have any real accomplishment, it is
that I have helped to build and maintain a good public school

[993 ]

se

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

system in my town, which has produced a very satisfactory type
of graduate in increasing numbers — including, at times, men
successful in such institutions as Harvard, although far too many

at M.LT.

HORACE EDWARD THORNER

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Payson Ave., Easthampton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.
BoRN: Aug. 3, 1909, Boston, Mass. PaRENTS: Maurice Henry Thorner, Lydia
Sarah Dann.
PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 A.M., 1932.
UNMARRIED.
OCCUPATION: Teacher; writer; librarian.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Rod and Gun Club; Appalachian Mountain Club;
National Council of Teachers of English; American Library Association,
PUBLICATIONS: Article, “Hawthorne, Poe, and a Literary Chost”. 1934; books:
verse translation of the Jliad, 1948; verse version of the Rubaiyat, 1955;
three-act play, “The Man Who Shot God”, 1953; One World in the
Novel (work in progress).
ACCORDING to some reports Horace Edward Thorner was
born; but according to others, this remarkable likeness was
produced by a piece of carbon paper. His four major ambitions
—to read books, to write books, to teach books, to buy books
— give credence, in the sense that Bible means book, to the Biblical
theory of his birth. In the search of his pleasures he has, for
most of his forty-five years, fooled a small but undevoted public
into the belief that he was working. If they had known the fun
he has had out of living through books, life after life so much
more satisfying than his own, how, from his easy chair, in the
best Walter Mitty tradition, he has sailed the seas, flown the
skies, and explored the far reaches of the earth and the soul, they
would not have been fooled into thinking that he was at work
when he was reading.

As for Thorner’s writing, the Marquis publication, Who's
Who in the East, states that during the years following his -
Master’s degree at Harvard and his work in psychoanalysis he —
produced a number of monographs on the literary imagination,
such as the one published under the title, “Hawthorne, Poe, and -
a Literary Ghost”. Following this phase he hid himself fot

[ 994 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

some summers in the woods, emerging first with a verse version
of the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam which is scheduled for
publication in London this year. The second product of his
annual summer pretense that he was not a psychologist or a
teacher was a translation into verse of Homer’s Iliad, hereby
proclaimed to be still awaiting (or lying in wait for) a publisher
(publishers among his classmates, please note). The winter of
1953 saw published under a title much more shocking than its
fundamental orthodoxy the play, “The Man Who Shot God”
(producers among his classmates, please note.) Currently Thorner
is playing at another work (five or six hours a day, seven days a
week during the summer) to be offered as a handbook for
secondary schools and colleges, entitled, One World in the
Novel, and analyzing some fifteen hundred titles out of several
thousand examined for that work.

During World War II, Thorner admits that for a while he
did work. The government, showing an uncommon sense in
such matters, refused his desire to translate his reading into living
by playing at Captain Queeg or even Private Hargrove. They
insisted that he stay in an office and investigate an interminable
line of potential security risks in key positions.

In 1943 Thorner came to Williston Academy. He found that
to teach a book was more fun than to read a book. In a class
of ten the book became ten books and then resolved itself into
an eleventh, a consensus of the opinion of the class and teacher
who, together, hoped that they saw the author’s purpose, and
often, perhaps, more of the author than he did of himself, the
last bold hope being the result of Thorner’s psychoanalytic
years. :

Yet Thorner’s greatest pleasure, perhaps, is to buy a book. In
book collecting, too, he has cannily confused work with play
by becoming a librarian. He has never sold a book; so he has
never made a cent in the business. He spends the school’s money
carefully with one eye to the lowest market prices consistent
with not being thought a miser. The other eye still, after thirty
thrilling but otherwise not spectacularly rewarding years as a
collector, is on the book collector’s dream, Tamerlane and Other
Poems, published by Poe in 1827 and now worth several thousand
dollars.

[995 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

BENJAMIN HOLT TICKNOR, II
HOME ADDRESS: Brayton Park, Ossining, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 353 Broad Ave., Leonia, N. J.

BORN: Jan. 8, 1909, Canton, Mass. parents: William Davis Ticknor, Ella
Francis Wattles.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931; DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Barbara Farmer, Oct. 7, 1933, New Haven, Conn. (divorced 1953);
Gloria Kelly, Nov. 24, 1953. CHILDREN: Benjamin Holt, 3d, Aug. 6,
1934; Howard Malcolm, March 25, 1936; Thomas B., Jan. 6, 1939,
Michael C., March 1, 1944, George C., April 13, 1955.

HARVARD SON: Howard Malcolm Ticknor, ’57.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Davis Ticknor, Jr., ’30.

OCCUPATION: President, Industrial Molasses Corporation, importation and
distribution of industrial molasses.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Southward-Ho Country Club,
Bay Shore, N. Y.

ONE of the most vivid experiences I had during college, per-
haps because it was just about the last one, occurred just before
the 1931 Class Day Yale baseball game. The Class of 1906 was
having a luncheon in the baseball cage and I was just leaving the
Dillon Field House in my uniform to walk over to pre-game
practice. My uncle, Mr. James M. Hunnewell, and a few of his
friends were gathered in a group in front of the cage having
one last “one for the road” before their parade to the stands.
They hailed me over and while I listened to much friendly
palaver and exhortation, I was struck by the vivid panorama of
a Twenty-fifth Reunion in action, Then as I walked over to the
baseball field, clearing my head of noise and fumes, I thought with
relief of the long time I had ahead of me. I was sympathetic, of
course, of their desire to have one last blow-out before old age
really set in.

The period between being twenty-one years old and forty-six
years young is the one in which our lives turn abruptly from a
period of taking to a period of giving. During this second period,
we expend talent and energy while we build up experience and
the knowledge of how to pace ourselves. We also learn toward
the end how to get along with other people. We round off and
complete the education that was started in school and college.

Why then is not the Twenty-fifth Reunion another commence-

[ 996 ]

ceenampeien AE EAA EN NH \

tg UW OLIN ETN TEE

Hagan apy ate STAN me Be TN

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ment instead of a sign of the approaching end? I still have the
feeling of gladness that I have so much time ahead. The third
period of living promises to be one where taking and giving can
be combined in a fruitful and useful existence.

Perhaps I have written too much philosophy and too little
biography, but it is hard to look back and find much of real
interest to others. My life during the past twenty-five years has
been too close to the norm to make very good reading. I have
devoted most of my working hours to the industrial molasses
business and have divided my recreational time among golf,
tennis, hunting and loafing.

ROBERT CLERMONT LIVINGSTON TIMPSON

HOME appress: “Grasmere”, Rhinebeck, N. Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Robert Timpson & Co., 63 Wall Se, New York, N. Y.

BORN: May 14, 1908, Preston, Hants., England. parents: Lawrence Timp-
son, Katharine Livingston.

PREPARED AT: Eton College, Windsor, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Johnson Hutton, Nov. 27, 1937, Cincinnati, Ohio; Louise
Clews, May 3, 1954, New York, N. Y. cuipren: Sarah Livingston,
Aug. 17, 1938; Lawrence Livingston, March 24, 1941; Robert Clermont
Livingston, Jr., Dec. 20, 1944.

occupaTion: Managing partmer, Robert Timpson & Company, members,
New York Stock Exchange.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa (Harvard); The Brook; Knickerbocker Club;
Down Town Association; Lunch Club; Lords of Manors Society; The
Pilgrims Society; English Speaking Union (New York).

ALFRED BATES TINKER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Horizons, North Truro, Mass.

BoRN: March 21, 1909, Ithaca, N. Y. Parents: Martin Buell Tinker, Ethel
Bates.

PREPARED AT: Ithaca High School, Ithaca, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-193!. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

marrigp: Elizabeth Bowman, April 6, 1934, New York, N. Y. cHiLpREN:
Elizabeth Law, April 27, 1938; Alfred Bates, Jr., May 18, 1940; Marsha
Westlake, May 4, 1943; Martin P. and William M. (twins), March 25,

1946,
HARVARD BROTHER: Martin Buel Tinker, Jr. ’28.

[997 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

occupaTion: Financial consultant; owner, Horizons, vacation apartments,
OFFICES HELD: Commodore, Provincetown Yacht and Tennis Club, 1954-55,
MEMBER OF: Society of Founders and Patriots, Connecticut Order; Harvard

Club of Cape Cod.

I HATE to destroy any of those illusions that bolstered and ad-
monished our youth, but the fact is that Pve been a sort of rolling
stone which has just happened to accumulate moss. Of course
the definition of moss might be challenged but if a wife, five
children, an Airedale dog, an angora cat and our recent proud
possession, “Horizons”, isn’t moss, it’s still something!

Life to thirty-oners has perhaps had more ups and downs than
most classes. Certainly it was hardly the year for a young eco-
nomic geography major to decide he was going to go into finance,
To decide was one thing —to get an opportunity another; but
with the aid of some family connections I finally found a small
Republican niche on a large Democratic bandwagon in Washing-
ton, D.C., under the aegis of Governor W. I. Myers of the Farm
Credit Administration. It became apparent that outwaiting F.D.R.

might be tedious and certainly the farmers were not proving an

inspiration towards making my first million.

With this goal firmly in mind, I headed for Boston and the
investment counsel field. Again after ten years no first million,
but the atmosphere thereabouts seemed conducive to the arrival of
little ones. Once started, that sort of thing seems difficult to
stop especially when your wife, a biologist from Wellesley, has
a firm conviction that no less than four offspring, genetically
speaking, will guarantee the survival of the species!

From Boston to Minneapolis in 1949 seems quite a jump, but
my family found it less of a hurdle than I. They reveled in eight
feet of snow, below zero temperatures in winter and excessive
heat in summer. All this merely convinced me that Cape Cod
had it better and as a result I was soon heading that way for a
try at an experiment. The experiment became “Horizons”, a
group of vacation apartments designed in the contemporary man-
ner by Nathaniel Saltonstall and located in North Truro. Being
a seasonal operation this is now in the hands of my wife while
I continue in the marts of trade, since the heavy costs of edu-
cating our five are still ahead of us.

The first million seems about as far away as ever but it has

[ 998 ]

= 3 HA EEE
2 oR TOT MRSA TEP TE
Sone yar COREL OPT SAIS SC RE IEE
RS REPRE SPR EEA LIE ETS
| secretin eSATA» Wi OMB

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

also by now assumed much less importance. It really doesn’t
matter when I already have a fine life doing what I enjoy, a
wife I like better with the years, two pretty daughters and three
stalwart sons (or at least I hope the twins will be stalwart (at
the moment, aged nine and one-half, they seem more like grem-
lins), and an International 210 awaiting the days when it and I
are on the waters of Cape Cod Bay.

«

JOHN TODD

HOME ADDRESS: goo Sunset Rd, Winnetka, IIl.

OFFicE apprEss: Cinch Manufacturing Corp., 1026 S. Homan Ave., Chicago
24, IU.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1910, Lincoln, Mass. Parents: Charles Lee Todd, Mary
Pauline Eveleth.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
1937.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Lee Todd, Jr., 26; Eveleth Reed Todd, ’29.

OCCUPATION: Patent attorney and assistant legal counsel, Cinch Manufactur-
ing Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Moderator, 1936-39, selectman, 1939-42, 1947-50, Town of
Lincoln, Mass.; president, Military Intelligence Association of New
England, 1947, Sachem Council, Boy Scouts of America, 1949; vice-
chairman board of directors, Sears Roebuck Y.M.C.A., Chicago, 1955-
56.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Illinois State Bars; United States Patent Bar;
Harvard Club of Boston; Appalachian Mountain Club; Military Intel-
ligence Association of New England; Chicago Patent Law Association;
American Bar Association; Threshold Players, Glencoe, Ul.

REFLECTING on conditions twenty-five years ago and par-
ticularly those relating to the national economy, they were not,
as we know, as favorable for a young graduate commencing a
career as they are today. In that somewhat dimly remembered
spring of 1931, I pondered between cram sessions for divisional
examinations about what I would do after graduation. School
teaching seemed attractive to me in many ways. Even now,
occasionally, I wonder if I would not have been more apt in that
vocation. Instead, I decided I would see what law was like and
I enrolled at the Harvard Law School.

After two years at the Law School, both the school and I

[ 999 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

decided we were not compatible. I drifted about without em.
ployment for nearly two years. Eventually, an employment
agency informed me that the patent department of a Cambridge
manufacturing company wanted a clerk possessing the qualifica-
tions of a man who knew a little law, but not enough to be
objectionable around the office. I applied for the position and
it was given to me on a trial basis. Soon I became engrossed in
the inventive history of zippers, buttons, snap fasteners and
countless other fastening devices manufactured by the United-
Carr Fastener Corporation and its foreign affiliates. A few of my
own ideas were patented and one of them even was sold for a
few months. While I am very happy that as an undergraduate [
acquired more than casual acquaintanceship with the Elizabethan
sonneteers, a knowledge of quatrains and couplets was not too
helpful as preparation for my new bent —the study of springs,
levers and the properties of plastics and metals. After a few
months at work, I decided to try the law again and I enrolled at
the Northeastern Evening School of Law. Study for the legal
profession went much better this time and I was admitted to the
Massachusetts Bar in 1937 and the Patent Office Bar a year later.
After Pearl Harbor, I applied for admission into the Counter
Intelligence Corps of the United States Army and was accepted.
Looking back upon my four years of service in this organization,
it was probably the most interesting period of my life. My work
was varied and many of my associates held distinguished reputa-
tions in diversified fields ranging from European antique silver to
safe cracking. Lest anyone assume that I operated in the manner
of the counter spy familiar to television viewers, I should add
for the record that I never served outside of New England and
never caught a spy. |
After the. war I returned to patent work with my Cambridge
company. In 1949 I was asked to set up a patent department in
a Chicago subsidiary which manufactured electronic parts and
had expanded greatly with the coming of television. I went to
Cinch Manufacturing Corporation in Chicago in 1950 to carry
out this purpose and have been there ever since. In my pleasant
association with Cinch my legal duties have expanded to include
many other matters regulated by federal law. My residence in
the Middle West has been generally enjoyable, but I have missed,

[ 1000 ]

pees rte \

; some yethod
ie a AA PRE EIT SOE A SES
ow seni ng Te "

precip ertset ot nee Ae ETS

i

 

eon rnemnyep Tee Ee a MY

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

naturally, the life-long friends and scenic beauty of New England.
_ My outside interests have been varied. Before going to Chicago,
I took part, as have other classmates, in governing the town of
Lincoln, Massachusetts. My interests in that small New England
community extended to many organizations of an athletic, char-
itable and social nature. In Chicago I have undertaken to help
administer the Sears-Roebuck Y.M.C.A. located in a somewhat
depressed area on the west side. This work in a changing com-
munity of varied races and nationalities has been most interesting
and while, as with all organizations of this type, complete satis-
faction is never attained, it has given me, to a degree at least, a
sense of social accomplishment. At other times, I follow my life-
long hobby of the theatre and I have played many parts with the
Threshold Players, an enterprising Little Theatre organization
on Chicago’s North Shore. My performances have ranged, I
suppose, from adequate to bad, but I find it relaxing to try and
alter by personality to suggest a hillbilly preacher, a New England
hired man or a British detective.

PRESCOTT ARNOLD TOLMAN

HOME appress: 2 Beekman Pl., New York 22, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Belnap & Thompson, Inc., Hotel Roosevelt, New York, N. Y.

BORN: Aug. 22, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Samuel Albert Tolman,
*os, Grace M. Gethin.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MarRiED: Vera Stella Pullum, Jan. 2, 1939, Sanford, Fla. (divorced 1948).
cHILD: Prescott Guyton, Sept. 6, 1941.

occupation: Promotion director, Belnap & Thompson, Inc., sales promo-
tion agency.

oFFices HELD: Representative, Air Traffic Conference, Air Transport Associa-
tion of America; delegate, International Air Transport Association.

MEMBER oF: Skal Club, New York; Sales Executive Club; Harvard Club of
New York; Marine Corps Reserve Officers Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to Sales Management, Printers Ink
and other trade publications.

MAKING “deadlines” appears to characterize the quick if not
frenzied passage of the twenty-five years since graduation for me.
Even as the time-honored leopards’ “spots” periodically come up

[ roo1 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931 '

my out-sized fourteen-year-old prep schooler to Cambridge this
June, I’m damned if I feel as ancient as I thought my “old man”
was when he took me to his 25th in 1930.

JOHN VanPATTEN TORREY

HOME ADDRESS: 2300 Macdonough Rd., Wilmington 5, Del.

OFFICE AbpREsS: E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington, Del. :

BORN: July 24, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Henry Augustus Torrey,
Dorothy Helen van Patten, :

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.; Kent School, Kent, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929. DEGREE: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1935.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Campbell Patterson, July 17, 1943, Wilmington, Del,
cuiLp: Carolyn Patterson, Oct. 2, 1947.

occuPATION: Chemical sales, assistant product manager, E. I. duPont de
Nemours & Company.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Armed Forces Chemical Associa-
tion; Wilmington Country Club; Vicmead Hunt Club, Wilmington,
Del.

RICHARD LOCKWOOD TOWER

HOME ADpREsS: 180 La Vereda Rd., Santa Barbara, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tower, Starbuck & Zozzora, 4 E. Carrillo St., Santa Barbara, i
Calif.

BoRN: Dec. 19, 1908, Lexington, Mass. PARENTS: Richard Gleason Tower,
Henrietta Niles Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Lee Saltonstall, April 9, 1946, Chestnut Hill, Mass.
CHILDREN: Alice Lee Belmont, August Belmont, Jr. John Saltonstall
Belmont; Priscilla Belmont (stepchildren); Richard Lockwood Tower,
Jr., March 20, 1947.

occuPATION: Managing partner, Tower, Starbuck & Zozzora, investment
counsel,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, member executive committee, Cate School, Carpin-
teria, Calif.; trustee, Crane Country Day School, Santa Barbara; treas-
urer and director, Santa Barbara Community Chest; member, Santa
Barbara County Republican Central Committee, 1950-52; secretary and
director, Valley Club, Santa Barbara; president, director, Montecito
Protective & Improvement Association.

MEMBER OF: Santa Barbara Club; The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

AFTER teaching a year at Milton, I went to work early in 1933
[ 1004 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as a runner for the New England Trust Company. There my
first week coincided with F.D.R.’s bank holiday, which eased
the transition considerably and I stayed on for almost eight years,
the latter part as assistant treasurer of the bank, During the next
ten years— with the exception of the war, when I served as
adjutant of the qzs5th Field Artillery Group —I was treasurer
and assistant to the head of Cate School and from 1948 to 1953
was headmaster of the Crane Country Day School. Since 1953 I
have been in the investment counsel business.

In 1946 I married Elizabeth Saltonstall and acquired a sizeable
family, which we have rounded out to a full house with the ad-
dition of a son. I am a moderately reactionary Republican, an
Episcopalian with Unitarian leanings and a do-gooder to the
extent that I try to take a fairly active part in the community
in which I live. Being domestically inclined, we spend most of
our vacations with our children. I used to play a lot of tennis
but now I finance my friends on the golf course and get a big
kick out of occasionally breaking eighty,

Every year I keep thinking we'll get east more often than we
do. Since my wife says we ought to travel more, the next twenty-
five years should result in some improvement, particularly in
view of the fact that we have a daughter at Briarcliff, a son at
Groton, another at St. Mark’s and two prospects as yet unassigned.

JOHN NEWLIN TRAINER, JR.

HOME aporess: Petersville Farm, Mt. Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Trainer, Wortham & Co, Inc. 515 Madison Ave. New
York 22, N. Y.

BORN: July 19, 1909, New York, N. Y. Parents: John Newlin Trainer, ’oo,
Caroline Okie Browning.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marrigp: Alice Tufts Stone, Sept. 12, 1936, Oyster Harbors, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Newlin, 3d, Sept. 23, 1937; Edward Stone, April 2, 1940.

HARVARD SON: John Newlin Trainer, 3d, ’59.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Browning Trainer, ’38, Li.B., ’41.

occupation: Vice-president, Trainer, Wortham & Company, Inc., invest-
ment counselors.

OFFICES HELD; Chairman, program committee, Investment Counsel Associa-

[ r005 ]

. enieiatahahteteiaai nme

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

tion of America; director, Advisers Fund, Inc.; president, board of
directors, Mt. Kisco Boys’ Club, since 1949; treasurer, Golden Rule
Foundation, since 1949; president, Metropolitan Squash Racquets Asso-
ciation, 1948-50; secretary, U.S. Squash Racquets Association, 1949-50,

MEMBER OF: Naval Order of the United States; Harvard Club of New
York; Jesters Club; Wianno Yacht Club; The “300” Club.

IF my good wife had not cleared my desk, put the paper under
my nose and the pen in my hand, this is one little history that
would not have been written. I never could write, but here
goes... .

I have been in investment counseling all my business life and
now have a good and growing firm to show for it, Trainer,
Wortham & Company, Inc.

My principal extra-curricular activity has been the building
up of our Boys’ Club of Mt. Kisco to the point where we now
keep over 100 boys a day off the streets and engaged in useful
activities.

As for recreation, if I keep ahead of the grass and weeds, |
manage to get in some good practice with tennis-minded neigh-
bors, but recently my chief fun has been cruising (and racing) in
Jim Madden’s Brenda. The last few summers I have hauled the
family away from small-boat sailing on Cape Cod for a two- or
three-week cruise down east. There are no words to describe
Brenda’s perfection. She has carried us with grace and speed
through gales and fog and crystal summer days and introduced
us to some of the finest lobster and lobstermen on the Maine
coast. There is no life like it.

Winter nights may find us in our cellar with a good fire going,
puttering around with the latest wooden bowl or chest or stool
we have picked up at the last barn in Vermont or Connecticut,
or even Georgia, for over the years a gradual accumulation of
tools has made fooling around with old wood a relaxing, satisfying
pastime. |

Twenty-five years ago | was pretty bald, but I am even balder
now and my weight is converging around my middle. In fact,
my boys tell me I “have had it’, until they try to pin me to the
mat — but I don’t feel any older and enjoy life as much as I ever
did; probably more so. |

| 1006 |

ange Se RE
ce gre sg EEN

Lee ee EET eS

ea EERE a SE RTE TE

seecaki ih conga atiig MOpRep TIRE me emnsegh te ST
anata gy Goatrminceiny ene oy EES

sen ace tt a tetn DET TT

oe pd eMC SERIE Prva 0s ee Hee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EVERETT CATHCART TREDWAY

HOME ADDRESS: 132 E. Lemon St., Lancaster, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 318 N. Queen St., Lancaster, Pa.

BorN: March 22, 1909, York, Pa, parents: Richard Everett Tredway, Daisie
Kauffman.

PREPARED AT: Lancaster High School, Lancaster, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931, DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.A, (Wharton School,
Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1934.

marrieD: Elizabeth Ladd Moody, Dec. 31, 1941, Boston, Mass.

occuPpaATiIon: Owner, retail electrical appliance store.

ALEXANDER ROBERT TROIANO

HOME apprEss: Treetops, Jackson Road, Moreland Hills, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Case Institute of Technology, Cleveland, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. §, 1908, Boston, Mass, parents: Patsy Anthony Troiano, Erma
Leonardi.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 8.M., 1937} 8-D., 1939.
marriep: Anne Sarah Maclver, July 5, 1938, Belfast, Maine. CHILDREN:
Alexander Robert, Jr.. Dec. 9, 1943; Thomas Edward, Feb. 11, 1946.
occupation: Engineering consultant; professor and chairman of Depart-
ment of Metallurgical Engineering, Case Institute of Technology.

oFFices HELD: President, Indcpendent Civic League, Boston; all offices in re-
gional chapters, American Society for Metals; member or chairman
standing committees, American Socicty for Metals, American Institute
of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; American Society for Metals; American Institute of
Mining and Metallurgical Engineers; British Iron and Steel Institute;
British Institute of Metals, American Society for Testing of Materials,
American Foundry Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Forty technical publications in American and foreign journals
(several recognized by awards or presentation as honorary lectures).

THE 1936 catalogue of the Harvard Graduate School of Engi-
neering listed “Elements of Metallography”, 11:00 a.m. Mon.,
Wed. and Fri.; hence I am a metallurgical engineer. Immediately
following graduation I became involved in Boston politics and
quickly received a liberal education which has been of inestimable
value. Anyone remember the reform candidate, Fred Mansfield,
who was elected Mayor of Boston in the middle thirties?

[ 1007 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931.

While teaching physics part-time at Middlesex College (now
Brandeis University), it was decided that further formal educa-
tion was desirable and air conditioning was selected as an up and
coming field. After considerable persuasion, Professor Haertlein
agreed to my enrollment in an advanced course in air condition-
ing engineering taught every Monday, Wednesday and Friday
at 10:00 a.m. Hence I was in Harvard Square every Monday,
Wednesday and Friday at 11:00 a.m. with nothing to do until |
returned to Middlesex College at 1:00 p.m. The grapevine had it
that “Elements of Metallography” would not impose too heavy
a burden and this was a good opportunity to collect three hours’
credit toward an advanced degree, so I signed up. Surely, trivia
shape the destiny of men.

In rapid succession came an S.M. in Physical Metallurgy, an
appointment as a Gordon McKay Fellow and the S.D. in 1939.
Then off to the University of Notre Dame where the academic
ranks were hurdled one by one to department head. Incidentally,
several all-Americans passed my courses. In 1949, a call to join
the staff at Case Tech was accepted and I now serve as chairman
of the Department of Metallurgical Engineering.

During the war years Uncle Sam decided that I would be more
valuable in civilian clothes than in uniform, in codrdinating
certain aspects of ordnance production with research, or perhaps
it was just the result of an evaluation of my military science
record. In any event it was fun, now that it is over, but is some-
times difficult to explain to two aggressive growing boys.

Among my major concerns today is how to increase both the
quality and quantity of engineers and how to cope with the in-
adequate preparation and lack of mental discipline that the current
average high school graduate displays. Of no less concern is the
problem of finding and keeping dedicated young professors who
often have not-so-dedicated wives. Added to the thrill of teach-
ing and research is the continual challenge offered by a widely
varied engineering consultant practice which entails, at times,
sufficient travel to satisfy all but the most acute cases of wander-
lust. Research is a jealous mistress, and adding to this the de-
mands of academic and administrative responsibilities, service to
professional societies and our small community, a consulting
practice, a devoted wife, two growing boys and a five-acre front

[ 1008 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

yard, there is little time left for joining. What time may be
available is given to infrequent fishing, occasional golf and an
increasing interest in standardbreds,

JAMES RICHARD TRUDEN

MAILING ADDRESS: 1887 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: July 18, 1908, Springfield, Mass. Parents: James Truden, Mary
Roche.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

MarrieD: Rosamond Kemball, September, 1938, Newton, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Transportation.

TERRENCE GRAY TRYON

HOME ApoREss: 16 Ridge Rd. Lawrence, Mass.

oFFicg appress: Curran & Joyce Co, Inc., 435 Common St., Lawrence, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 3, 1909, Lowell, Mass, parents: Edward Richards Tryon, Ann
Gray.

prepared at: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: 8.B,, 1931.

mararieD: Helen King, April 12, 1939, Lowell, Mass, cHmpren; Anne, Jan. 9,
1941; Terrence Gray, Jr. Oct. 29, 1942; David K., Aug. 31, 1945;
Richard B., Oct. 29, 1948.

occupation: Assistant treasurer and clerk, sales manager, Curran & Joyce

Company, Inc.
oFFices HELD: Member board of directors, Lawrence Community Chest,

1945-1951, Lawrence Kiwanis Club, 1941, 1948.
MEMBER OF: Lawrence Kiwanis Club; Lawrence Lodge, B.P.O.E.; Vesper

Country Club.

FOLLOWING my graduation, I spent one rather frustrating
year with R. H. White’s, during which my father died; that
contributed to my decision to seck employment nearer my
Lowell home. In 1933 I went to work as a clerk for the Burrow
& Joyce Company of Lawrence, who did and do manufacture
and distribute carbonated soft drinks and wholesale all alcoholic
beverages. In 1939 I married, and was admitted to membership
in the firm, and have made no change in either status except to
further solidify both positions, Our marriage has produced four
children, one girl and three boys. My work, while encompassing
all phases of the company’s operations, has been concerned more
than any one thing with sales managership of a force of eight.

[ 1009 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

A duodenal ulcer plus family obligations confined my war
service to home guard duties. About the only hobbies I can
claim or find time for are listening to music of all types and
practising my French.

Such traveling as I have done has been connected with my
work, and has been confined to the continental United States and
Canada. My political convictions have been neither constant
nor deep seated, but my religious preference has remained Roman
Catholic. Socially, I guess you'd say we’re middle class plus, while
financially I’ve kept our head above water, but haven't been able

“put much by”. My principal concern, the education of our
four children, is one, I suspect, I share with many others.

50, by and large, my post-Harvard career has been unspectacu-
lar but steady; after all, there has to be some of us too, m’est ce pas?

+ WILLIAM KELLEY TUCK

BoRN: March 22, 1910, New Rochelle, N. Y. parents: Theodore Calvin
Tuck, Lucy Jeannette Kelley.

PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; S.M., 1932.

MaRKiED! Gwendolynn Whitney Morgan, Nov. 18, 1939, Scarsdale, N. Y.
D.ED: Jan. 14, 1943, New Rochelle, N. Y.

DURING Tuck’s undergraduate years he was a member of the
freshman crew squad and the varsity crew squad, and also sang
with the University Glee Club. He spent senior year at the
School of Engineering and received a Master’s degree in 1932.
From 1934 to 1937 he was with Post & McCord of New York
City, in steel construction work. He then became an engineer
with the American Bridge Company. His wife survived him.

EDWARD WORRELL TWADDELL, JR.

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 129 Buchanan St., Phoenixville, Pa.

BoRN: Oct. 2, 1908, Devon, Pa. parents: Edward Worrell Twaddell, Mabel
Alvord Knudson.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.
TWADDELL has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1952.

[ 1010 ]

 

in EE MEI

, ep cigten en
peng N ANE BE AEE ARE EAE NNR LE

sete tte SE RIERA SAIN EEO

 

i
$
fk
|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEONARD STEWART TWOMBLY

HOME appREss: 46 Washburn St. Watertown 72, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Dewey & Almy Chemical Co., 6: Whittemore Ave., Cam-

bridge, Mass.

BoRN: May 24, 1910, Salem, Mass. parents: Charles Leonard Twombly,
Alice Stewart Paul.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

MarRIED: Ruth Richardson, Sept. 14, 1937, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1947);
remarried Ruth Richardson, Jan. 31, 1953. cHiLp: Robert Charles, Nov.
16, 1940.

occupPaTion: Pilot plane operator, Dewey & Almy Chemical Company.

MEMBER OF: Railroad Enthusiasts, Inc.

AFTER leaving Harvard in the fall of 1931 I knocked around,
jobless most of the time, until early in 1936. Then I was hired by
an independent oil dealer in Somerville — starting pay $25.00 a
week. Believe me, I thought that was big money. It was, com-
pared to the $14 and $15 per I had been receiving on the two or
three temporary jobs I had had. That was big enough to get
married on, and I went ahead and took the step.

Four years later in the spring of 1940 I was laid off. My son
was on the way then and things didn’t look too bright. I took a
job driving a cab nights in the city of Boston. In 1940 cab
drivers, with the possible exception of those who knew where to
pick up a pint after midnight, which I didn’t, took home very —
little of what pays the bills. But we got along and as I look back
now on that summer of 1940 I regard the experience gained as
very valuable and, I might add, enlightening.

Meanwhile, Hitler was marching in Europe, and over here
Uncle Sam decided something had to be done to forestall dis-
aster. I learned arc welding and for the next three years helped
him (Uncle Sam) to build fighting ships at Bethlehem’s Fore
River Shipyard. My only observation regarding that interlude,
aside from purely patriotic impulses, is that it was mighty cold
there in the wintertime.

In January, 1944, I left the shipyard and took a job with
General Electric, Plastics Department, in Pittsfield, Massachu-
setts. There I assisted in the manufacture of phenolic varnish for
coating bazookas. Shortly after the government’s orders for that
particular product were cancelled, the company selected nine

{ ror J]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

or ten of us to train to become salesmen. That was the oppor-

tunity I had been looking for. We had progressed favorably for

a couple of months when the plastics department was merged

with the chemical division under a new head from Schenectady.

Our new boss decided that only men with college degrees

should be considered eligible to train for sales. As I remember,

that eliminated all but one of us, a sad day in the lives of eight or
so hopefuls. After that disappointment, we decided to return to
Boston. I contacted Dewey & Almy and, lacking a technical de-
gree in anything, I took the only job open for which I was pre-
pared, the job I still hold after ten years — that of preparing and
mixing Chemicals for reaction and carrying the reactions through
to completion under heat and pressure. I enjoy the work because
every now and then something different comes along to sharpen
our wits and keep us from becoming bored. There is a good deal
of chemical research involved which delights me, especially when
I see something we have developed go into production and eventu-
ally into commercial use.

I am a member of the Railroad Enthusiasts, one of an ever in-
creasing number of groups of railfans scattered over the country.
We meet monthly to hear a speaker, usually a railroad official,
and to see industrial movies with a railroad flavor, if available.
Throughout the year the club arranges excursions over the three
local railroads. The public is invited to view the scenery, travel
over abandoned or “freight only” branch lines, or to come along
just for the ride. Our “Round the Mountain” fall and winter
safaris through the White Mountains are very popular, often at-
tracting as many as a thousand cash customers. My particular in-
terest is taking pictures of steam engines, a bent which nowadays
means traveling farther and farther afield to find them. The
junior railfan, who is now fifteen, is equally avid, and we have
taken many trips together. The diesel, the symbol of progress, is

scorned by us. We prefer the old steamer. My wife, whose
proclivities along these lines are at a low ebb, is what is known
as a railroad widow.

We are members of a Baptist church in Newton, attend regu-
larly, and enjoy the fellowship there. I am interested in what is

going on politically and vote straight Republican; however, |
have no comments.

[ 1012 ]

/

speoagn ANNE
A cag EEE RTT NTN ACRE AE

se cate anet wee penn gy PELE
nathan neat Dn BB ESTE ISTORII RAINE IEE ATO EE

eer oe argos a eA ART Re ES Hy OIE? PRS ERT AR HERE ORT
4 PETS rn a aA a ae Bi eine
3’ “i pete penne eNtegee 3

seoe AM eh EG END

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PETER ARTHUR TYKO

HOME ADDRESS: 2009 I St., N.W., Washington 6, D. C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 330 Independence Ave. S.W., Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1907, Koritza, Albania, parents: Arthur Tyko, Mary Vangel.
PREPARED AT: Northeastern Preparatory School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 1933.
MaRRIED: Karin Wilhelmina Nyman, April 20, 1947, Yonkers, N. Y.
occupaTIon: U.S. Information Agency; editor.

IT seems hardly possible that twenty-five years have passed, per-
haps because so little has happened since 1931. The first eight
years after I left Harvard were spent in Boston. During this time
I tutored some boys in Latin and Greek, read aloud to a blind
graduate student who was working for his Ph.D. in sociology,
and almost decided to work for a doctorate myself. But at that
point, in 1936, I was offered an editorial position with the WPA
Writers’ Project that was preparing the Massachusetts State
Guide which was not thought of much at that time, but which
I understand is regarded as a work of some merit now. This work
lasted for almost a year and a half till almost 1938. It led to an-
other editorial position, so to speak, namely the editorship of the
Albanian-English newspaper Dielli published weekly in Boston.
When the war broke out I was drafted into the Army, but my
nduction papers were cancelled within a few days because I guess
he authorities felt that I would be more useful with the Office of
Var Information in New York where I wrote radio scripts, an-
ounced, produced and finally served as editor till 1946. When
is work came to an end, I went into free-lancing — mostly re-
arch and translation but worked on some articles too; and I
rote a novel, Remember Mathilda. Even though 1 thought

shly of this literary work myself, no publisher seemed disposed
agree with me — nor did my wife whom I married in Yonkers
1947. At the beginning of 1951 another editorial position
terialized, again with the government. In the summer of 1953
- wife and I went to Europe and saw something of France,
rmany, Switzerland and the Scandinavian countries, including
eden where my wife was born and spent the first nine years of
life. In October, 1954, the division of the U.S. Information
‘ncy where I am now employed was transferred to Wash-

[ 1013 ]

J
\

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ington and [| along with it. Washington is a fine city, certainly
very different from Boston and New York, and we hope to be
here for quite a while. Thus time has passed — too fast. Let us
hope the next twenty-five years will be slow. Let time be de-
layed. For, as Father Ennius said, Cunctanda restituit rem.

HOWARD STYRING TYLER
HOME ADDRESS: R.F.D. 1, Groton, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 192 Roberts Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.

BORN: Feb, 24, 1910, Plainville, Conn. parents: Henry St. John Tyler, Helen
Mae Styring.

PREPARED AT: Bristol High School, Bristol, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREES: s.B. (Univ. of Connecticut), 1932;
pup. (Cornell Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Margaret Smith, June 19, 1934, Willimantic, Conn. CHILDREN:

William Smith, March 19, 1938; James Howard, June 30, 1940; Edward
Jerome, Dec. 24, 1944.

occupaTION: Professor in personnel administration, and in charge of guid-

ance and placement, New York State College of Agriculture, Cornell
University.

OFFICES HELD: President, Board of Education, Groton Central School, since

1948, Groton Rotary Club, 1952-53; secretary-treasurer, Owasco Valley
Milk Producers Cooperative, Inc., since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Groton Rotary Club; Alpha Zeta and Theta Xi Fraternities;
Sigma Xi; Phi Kappa Phi.

PUBLICATIONS: Several bulletins and pamphlets in connection with my posi-
tion at Cornell.

BIOGRAPHICAL sketch in the Twentieth Anniversary Report
is essentially correct today. No changes in family except all of
us are five years older. I continue to operate a dairy farm. My

eldest son, Bill, is now a freshman in Arts and Sciences at Cornell
University.

+ CARL WILLIAM UHLIN

BORN: Oct. 30, 1909, Waltham, Mass. parents: Hjalmar Gotthard Uhlin,
Anna Bernardine Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Weston High School, Weston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

pep: April 29, 1934, Stoneham, Mass,

[ 1014]

allel
gcse ie BRE EAR PMR EET

ap ryder ae Ere DAN

mrtg vee Ree eRe eh aH AR EE eR EN

pagencinlgntiee Lod Hace
ee 2“ fe eR EL HEROS MNT ET EI hee Lad Hon

 

e
t
£

cinema
eR ONT CORA

"

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FROM the time he left college in March, 1928, until his death
Uhlin was associated with the F. W. Woolworth Company. He
was first stationed in Lynn, Massachusetts, but later was trans-
ferred to Stoneham.

THOMAS GRAYDON UPTON

HOME ADDRESS: 1215 Montgomery Ave., Rosemont, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Philadelphia National Bank, 421 Chestnut St., Philadelphia,
Pa.

BorN: March 26, 1908, Salem, Mass. parents: George Upton, ’06, Lorna
Graydon.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B, 1931.

marrizp: Ann Cheshire Nash, April 30, 1942, Savannah, Ga. CHILDREN: Ann
Appleby, May 30, 1944; Joseph Cheshire, Jan. 4, 1946; Bryan Graydon,
July 29, 1948; George, zd, Jan. 9, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHERS: King Upton, ’32; George Upton, Jr., "34

occupaTion: Vice-president in charge of the Foreign Department, Philadel-
phia National Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Philadelphia Port Bureau, since 1951, Commercial
Exchange of Philadelphia, since 1952, Foreign Traders Association,
Philadelphia, since 1952, Rosemont Villanova Civic Association, since
1954; vice-president and director, World Affairs Council of Philadel-
phia, since 1953; vice-president, Bankers Association for Foreign Trade,
1955; European representative, Bank of the Manhattan Company, 1936-
40; partner, J. N. Trainer & Associates, 1949.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Rittenhouse Club, Philadelphia,

Merion Cricket Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several magazine articles.

AFTER a winter at the Harvard Business School came the weary
spring of ’32—no work, no job, no offers. So, I became a
“volunteer” in an international banking house in Germany. It
stuck — and I began my career as a foreign banker. It was also
the beginning of Nazi Germany, and as the street brawls between
communists and the brown shirts swirled beneath my window, I
had premonitions of the turbulent years to come. An additional
stretch of foreign banking training in London finally landed me
a job in the Bank of Manhattan, for which, several years later, I
became European representative. Four intense, exciting years of
European travel, international loans, gold arbitrage, arguments

[ 1015 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

with bankers, politicians, and newspapermen about the “when”

of the inevitable war, ended in the late spring of ’4o on the last

boat out of Genoa.

Lower Manhattan was crowded with “American Firsters”, |
joined the “Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies”,
gave speeches, harangued at dinners, wrote articles (one in
Harper’s — “National Socialism and the Business Mind” seemed
to strike home), flew to the White House on a a forty-eight- -State
flying mission to push for quicker aid.

In a Greenwich Village bar I fell in with an old drinking com-
panion, who persuaded me the vital way to defend America was
to join the “Old Seventh”. As a private, A.U.S., flabby from
the fleshpots of a dying Europe, I dug trenches, manipulated
wooden guns, and in the one hundred degree heat of a Georgia
summer, pondered the fallibility of advice from friends in bars.
But it was sound advice indeed — for I fell in love with the belle
of Savannah, and despite her parents’ strenuous objections to an
itinerant private and a Yankee, married her and spent a one-day
honeymoon en route to O.C.S. in Indianapolis. In rapid succes-
sion came a teaching post at the Army Finance School on Duke
University campus, and London with the O.S.S. in time for the
baby blitz, V-1’s and V-2’s. My Army career ended as a lieutenant
colonel in the Budget Division of the Staff, sweating out the
foreign currency problems of the Occupation, “The Chinese
Settlement”, and the black markets of Germany, Italy, and points
. west — ancillary training for a foreign banker.

On discharge in ’46, my former employers declined to hold the
same high opinion that I did about the practical value of Army
service. So, for three years I odd-jobbed it around Wall Street,
variously active as entrepreneur, investment counselor, co-
founder and director of a trading firm, an investment trust (as
Jakko Mikola would say, “That was one for the books.”), and
several small import-export companies. Eating was low on the
hog, and when Pie Trainor invited me to join his family invest-
ment counsel firm, I accepted with alacrity and found myself
once more back in harness with that eminent running guard.
However, early in 1950, Morris R. Brownell, ’30, suggested I
join the Philadelphia National Bank to succeed the retiring head
of its Foreign Department. I did, and since then, 421 Chestnut

[ 1016 ]

“fot eneneprenae neat

 

etn me ye
wee ak, ee teraaett seen en BONA OO IEA I IO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Street, Philadelphia (almost opposite Independence Hall), has
seen me struggling with a demanding, growing Foreign Depart-
ment, active in exchange, letters of credit, international bank
loans, export-import bank participations, predictions on the
future of sterling, and with commodity customers who find diffi-
culty in distinguishing between trading and speculation. For a
Bostonian, I seem to have become reasonably well integrated into
the activities of the Quaker City, serve on various boards of
public and civic enterprises, make frequent speeches on foreign
trade matters, and continue to take a dim view of the fact that the
second part of the country has no open water suitable for sailing
a boat.

On the home front, a wife who paints and politics, four ener-
getic youngsters (a girl and three boys), ranging from Ann,
eleven years, to “Big George”, eleven months, and an ancient
unrepaired mansion on the Main Line, seem to preclude hobbies
other than occasional tennis and fishing. Fortunately, foreign
business is conducted in many places, and when the pressure of
work gets too strong, I can take off to some of those primitive,
underdeveloped areas with which United States policy seems so
concerned — for example, Paris, Vienna, and Rome!

ROBERT LINCOLN VAUGHN

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Gregory St. Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Charles M. Evans & Associates, 73 Tremont St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: June 26, 1908, Arlington, Mass. parents: Walter James Vaughn,
Sarah Ethel Ross.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

marriep: Muriel Elizabeth Miller, March 21, 1941, Salem, Mass. cup:
Elizabeth Ross, Aug. 16, 1946.

occupation: Municipal consultant.

OFFICES HELD; Chairman, Ski Committee, Appalachian Mountain Club, 1939-
41; district air raid warden, Marblehead, 1941-42.

MEMBER OF: Philanthropic Lodge, Masons; Appalachian Mountain Club;
United States Naval Reserve.

FOR two hectic years after graduation I took up a life of com-

[ 1017 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193!

their being produced to engineering specifications. Newport was
followed by nine months of duty in the Office of the Inspector
of Naval Material, Springfield, Massachusetts, where we had to
oversee the production of various equipment for the armed forces
in plants in western Massachusetts and southern Vermont. My
last Navy tour ended in June of 1954. I left the service as lieuten-
ant commander but have since acquired the scrambled eggs of a
commander. I still get a kick out of association with the Navy
and am active in the Reserve.

I am presently associated with Charlie Evans, ’32, and Seymour
Archibald, ’31, in management engineering and municipal con-
sulting. In working on projects for the City of Boston I find
municipal employees both capable and conscientious and recep-
tive to improving methods and reducing the costs of government.

We have continued to call Marblehead our home although

we've been away from it for considerable periods while under
Navy orders. We find the yachting center of America and the
birthplace of the American Navy a nice place to live. The daily
commute to Boston by train takes forty-five minutes but it’s great
to come out of the hot city to be cooled by constant breezes and
to take a dip in the Atlantic, Contrary to public opinion, every-
one here doesn’t have a boat; we are yet to become the owners of
one, although we live near the water and enjoy the sailing ac-
tivity. There’s plenty to do without a boat. My wife is an en-
thusiastic golfer, occasionally shooting in the 80’s and is active in
the Women’s Golf Association. I enjoy golf also but this do-it-
yourself craze has kept me busy around the house — there seems
to be a big painting project to do every year. We find time to
get away to New Hampshire, Nova Scotia or Florida for re-
laxation once in a while and find that the company of a nine-
year-old daughter around the house leaves few dull moments.

PAUL NELSON VONCKX

HOME apprEss: 54 Garrison Rd., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: International Shoe Machine Corp., 292 Main St., Cambridge,
Mass.

gorn: May 28, 1907, Chicago, Ill, parents: John Francis Vonckx, Margaret
Dean Souci.

[ 1020 ]

|

spat nate mS A AREAL NA AE EO MD RT

Leta

ae tae

ya Re ERC ER SCT AREER IT

3
é
&
£
i
i
:
i
&
s
x
i

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: $.B., 1931 (30).

marrieD: Alice Stratton Walker, Oct. 14, 1933, Arlington, Mass. cHitpren:
Anne Stratton, Feb. 13, 1936; Paul Nelson, Jr., Jan. 22, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Lloyd Vonckx, ’31.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, director and operations manager, International
Shoe Machine Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Hingham; treasurer, director,
Patent Equity Association of America; member, Hingham Advisory
Committee, Hingham Boy Scout Council, executive committee, Hing-
ham Yacht Club; vice-chairman, Hingham Republican Town Commit-
tee; (formerly) president, Arlington Community Chest, Hingham Civic
Chorus; trustee, Symmes Arlington Hospital, member Greater Boston
Community Fund, Chest Budget Committee.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Hingham Yacht Club, Hingham
Tennis Club; Masons; New England Shoe & Leather Association.
PUBLICATIONS: “Challenges to Automation in Shoe Machinery”, Leather &

Shoes Magazine, 1954.

FROM graduation until the war, I lived a normal commuter’s life
in Arlington and Boston, working for United Shoe Machinery
Corporation, playing squash and bridge with Ben Wood and
others, vacationing on Cape Cod summers, In late 1942 the Navy
asked me to work in uniform on their Footwear Program as a
lieutenant in the Supply Corps. Accepting that job got me three
years of sitting out the war in Washington and New York, trying
to get good Navy shoes out of little leather, no rubber, and not
much man-power. It was a frustrating assignment, but certainly
nothing to gripe about compared to what some of you boys went
through in the combat zones.

Released in 1946 as a lieutenant-commander, I settled in our
present home town of Hingham and took a job in the Brockton
area working on the manufacture and distribution of shoes. After
seven years of this type of work, I moved back to the shoe
machinery industry where I started, but at a different stand,
where I can be found today.

As to family, our daughter Anne is starting her junior year at
Smith, after a stimulating and really wonderful summer visiting
western friends with four classmates on a camping tour; they
also covered just about everything in the way of national parks
and other points of interest on the circuit between Boston, British
Columbia, Los Angeles, Chicago and Boston. Our son, Paul, Jr.,

[ 1021 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

has started his freshman year at Amherst, where he elected to go
after also being accepted at Harvard and M.LT. He lived a
changeling’s life this summer, switching back and forth from
grease-monkey in our company shop to white tennis gear for play
locally and in various junior and senior tournaments, where he
hopes soon to climb out of the “cannon fodder” category.

My lady is, and has been, a model suburban wife and mother,
in addition to which she cheerfully accepts the regular tasks as
den mother and Girl Scout leader; she also does at least her share
on Red Cross, P.T.A., Community Fund, League of Women
Voters, Smith Club and other informal local efforts.

My work is interesting and challenging, consisting mainly of
trying to keep our small company alive and healthy in the arena
with a large competitor. Spent some time in Europe on business
this fall, but don’t have to travel too much otherwise.

Perhaps every member of our Class has had some long thoughts
while preparing his biography, reviewing personal crises and ac-
complishments of past years, and looking to the future with a
wary confidence born of twenty-five years’ varied experience.
Trying to figure out what we shall be remembered for, aside from
the day-to-day assignments we take around town, my sentiments
and philosophy are pretty well expressed by my interest in our
youngsters. 1 hope and believe that for their respective Twenty-
fifth Reunions, they will be able to report some measure of im-
provement in the breed over the previous generation, even as we
may modestly claim some small steps forward from our starting
positions, In the span of recorded time, as set forth by Professor

Merriman in History I, such accomplishments may seem in-_

significant, but I hold with the old saw that one way to be happy
in this life is to keep the ability to enjoy these small successes.

ROBERT LLOYD VONCKX

HOME AppreEss: Route 2, Box 120, Fort Pierce, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Professional Bldg., Avenue A, Dixie Highway, Fort Pierce,
Fla,

BORN: Aug. 19, 1908, Chicago, Ill. PARENTS: John Francis Vonckx, Margaret
Dean Souci.

PREPARED AT: Elgin High School, Elgin, Il.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

[ 1022 ]

Aer RRS RE

mA

mee rE

ey TIRE es ae am CN the RAE MON STARING Ne OTN

ARREARS

fe et A ern AAS ALO AT NE

REECE UPR IARI MPEP TT AT WF A ISHN OO RRCARE HIRED RE AN Ete

 

é
&
§
4
:
i
z
:
i
5
:

eat amie gre she

0.

Mb POA Mid LAGI

7 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Anne Browning Todd, Feb. 17, 1933, Elgin, Ill. (divorced 1940);
Ruth A. Frantz, Dec. 26, i941, Elgin, Hl. (divorced 1943); Elizabeth
Kamarad Shimonek, July 26, 1946, Miami, Fla. cumpren: Gary Lloyd,
May 24, 1948; Marcia Shimonek, March 16, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Nelson Vonckx, 731.

OCCUPATION: Owner-manager, Professional Building, Fort Pierce, Florida.

OFFICES HELD: Service manager, traffic manager, assistant to the president,
director, Elgin Sweeper Company, 1930-40; organizer, Precision Prod-
ucts Division, government contract negotiator, Elgin National Watch
Company, 1941-42; production and tool expediter, Foote Brothers Gear
& Machine Corporation, 1942-43; senior industrial specialist in manu-
facturing administration (automotive and aircraft), War Manpower
Commission; corporal, U.S.A.A.F., 1943-45; member Industrial Com-
mittee Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: First Presbyterian Church, Rotary International,

WANT to enter a business that is always picking up? I did, and
really enjoyed it from 1930 to 1940. I went as an administrative
trainee to the Elgin Sweeper Company, Elgin, Illinois — the
pioneer manufacturers of motorized street sweepers (and other
municipal sanitation equipment), What a breadth of basic ex-
perience was mine in that tight little company, working on nearly
every shop job for two years and then going “white collar” for
eight more! The small number in personnel brought easy famil-
iarity with workings of each department. In the small company
one certainly gains a perspective unattainable in the large one.
Indeed, it seemed a very short time until my own daily corre-
spondence was flowing out over a varicty of titles. Suddenly I
realized that my desk was a general clearing house for a number of
departmental functions, demanding an ever-increasing system of
work organization and coérdination. It stimulated and fascinated
me, as did my acquaintance circle among city personnel all over
the world. Probably I'd have worked myself to death, if Fate
hadn’t thrown me into the contrasting climate of another concern.

In 1941 the Elgin National Watch Company, Elgin, Ilinois,
asked me to help organize their new Precision Products Division,
handling the production of its aircraft instrument line and special
timing devices for distribution to government agencies in the war
effort. Having established the office, its routines and lines of
function, I was designated their government contract negotiator,
and continued so until in 1942 total production was pledged for
three years in advance.

[ 1023 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Thereupon, I went to Foote Brothers Gear & Machine Corpora-
tion, Chicago, to serve as production expediter and, later, tool
expediter for their Pratt & Whitney aircraft engine gear pro-
grams in 1942 and 1943. During this period, I was offered a direct
commission into the Navy as one of their production expediters,
but failed their physical exam for vision below minimum stand-
ards, just as I had in previous efforts to enlist. My appointment
as factory representative for Foote Brothers at the new Pratt &
Whitney Engine Plant in Kansas City was pending when my
draft call came. The company’s efforts to have me deferred per-
sisted until 1944, although I entered the Army Air Corps in April,
1943. |
My Air Force service record shows basic training on Miami
Beach, clerical school at Fort Collins, Colorado, cadre in
Pocatello, Idaho, Air Force refusal of vision waiver to go over-
seas, reclassification to limited service in base personnel, being
refused for O.C.S. application (vision), and being in base com-
plement successively at Pierre, South Dakota, and Fort Sumner,
New Mexico, as clerk typist, theater projectionist, orientation
lecturer and aircraft dispatcher. I received an over-age discharge
in rank of corporal at Tucson, Arizona, in October, 1945.
Army doctors had recommended I live in the South to ease
a respiratory disorder after leaving the service, so the fall of
1945 found me in Miami, Florida, helping close out Defense
Plant Corporation holdings, and later as a surplus property sales-
man for the War Assets Administration. During this period,
the good Lord caused me to look upon the lovely lady sitting
next to me in the choir of the First Presbyterian Church there,
and lo, in July, 1946, Elizabeth Kamarad Shimonek became my
inspiring partner and my wife. Our happy union has been
blessed with two wonderful children — Gary, aged seven and a
half, and Marcia, aged two and a half — both born here in Fort
Pierce, Florida. Since 1947 we’ve occupied ourselves in rehabili-
tating our professional building here and delineating Fiesta Hill,
a little subdivision on U.S. No. 1 that overlooks our comfy water-
front home on the Indian River near the inlet. We're both getting
“itchy feet” for a bit of travel, after some years of real toil, and
it could be that I may have the pleasure of introducing my jewels
to some of you-all on the banks of the Charles in 1956.

[ 1024 ]

ANP AM MAIR SRSA Gr, RENN LORI TAEE SEMEN DY NSE SME ONE ME EGET AS abt ye eet a at

sastten aan Aw

Si I PARTNER SORIANO RET. ETUDE? A ER a Oar

r.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SETH MORTON VOSE, II

HOME ADDRESS: 107 High St. Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Vose Galleries of Boston, Inc., 559 Boylston St. Boston 16,
Mass.

Born: April 25, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Churchill Vose, Sarah
Helen Williams.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School for Boys of Greater Boston, Newton,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRIED: Ruth Denny (Smith 39), Sept. 7, 1941, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Ruth Storrow, Feb. 28, 1943; Virginia Williams, June 21, 1945; Seth
Morton, 3d, July 9, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Churchill Vose, Jr. °34.

occupation: Art dealer and importer.

OFFICES HELD: Clerk of corporation, Vose Galleries of Boston, Inc., since 1953;
trustee, Park School, Brookline, 1948-54, Brookline Historical Society,
since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, New York Historical Society; Massa-
chusetts Horticultural Society; Peabody Museum, Salem; Brooklyn
Botanical Gardens; Essex Institute, Salem; Art Association of Newport,
R. L.; Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, Society
for Contemporary Art, Boston.

MY first reaction to the request for this report is pure amazement.
That twenty-four years can have ticked past since 1931 seems
totally unbelievable! The feeling comes, I think, from a combi-
nation of circumstances for the most part fortunate, and by no
means universal, among my clasmates. For one thing, all of the
immediate family in which I grew up — parents, brothers and
sisters — are still very much with me, all happily busy and all
settled nearby. For another, I never had the slightest doubt as
to my business vocation, either in my youth or in the years since
graduation. The family firm, Vose Galleries of Boston, Inc.,
established in 1841 and still actively (whew!) headed by my
father (Brown ’96), has claimed most of my waking hours since
1931. There has been no career excitement, just steady absorp-
tion in what is today a difficult but completely fascinating
business.

As a boy and teen-ager, I was always planning the adventure-
some life in far places. After a quarter-century, that has still to
come, Instead, to my surprise, there has been tremendous satis-
faction in working with my father, brother and cousin in the

[ 1025 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Copley Square office, living in the town where I was born, at-
tending the Unitarian church in which I was a Sunday School
pupil — and above all, marrying the pig-tailed friend of my kid
sisters and sister of my boyhood pal who has long been the focus
and mainspring of our household. We were late starters, perhaps,
but are scandalously satisfied with our family of three: Ruth, Jr,
twelve; Ginny, ten; and Seth 3d, six; as varied a set of person-
alities as one could dream of, but each tops in his own way. Age
six is a bit early for predictions, so I'll say nothing about my son
being Harvard °71, or of the fifth generation in the Vose Gal-
leries, but there’s no law against hoping! One prediction is al-
ready safe, though. That guy will make his own decisions!
Somewhere here there should be a war-service report, but it
is very brief. ‘The conventional ulcer induced a frigid attitude
on the part of each branch of the service in succession, so there
is only a period of five years in the Massachusetts State Guard,
private to captain, on the record. This was, at least, an experience
in human relations! There never seems to have been time, other
considerations aside, for political activity. As a voter, the policies
of the Republican party continue to approximate most closely
my peculiar patterns of thinking, both inherited and developed.
Boston is still the Hub of the Universe — witness our medical
friends — but her fame as one of the nation’s art markets is a
bit obsolete. As a result, my business takes me widely over the
land and I count warm friends in such areas as Georgia, North
Carolina, Louisiana, Ohio and Tennessee. My participation in
Class affairs has been limited — Messrs. Jewell, Field, Dillon,
Amazeen & Company might word it better — but it has been
heart-warming to meet, and note the professional success of,
such classmates as Freddy Robinson of Springfield, Leslie Cheek
of Richmond and Hermann Williams of Washington, all noted art
museum directors, and Gardner Cox, one of Boston’s leading por-
traitists. It would be pleasant to hear of one or two “‘lost” class-
mates. My roommate, Harry Scott, must still be in my own
field, though I never hear from him, and who knows of Stan
Warren? —Dr. Henry Stanley Warren these many years, I'm
sure. Doubtless that’s what Reunions are for.
Hobbies? Well, as an undergraduate the Boy Scouts of
America replaced any college activities, but business has long

[ 1026 |

nan, EMCEE AE TEMES ORISA

che GRIME ACR ite By EN AEA ERE EN SED
LRG AP NE RNR TIN TR ORIEN RE 9 BNE * wes

cinnpintog Hiesege acy sie nsatte Neha t

Ad AIA PORE N

nes hee: Cpe Fecmeripanenn io aber

Poe SEN RRS LISA PERL DG BEN Ae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

crowded out any outside interest with fixed time commitments.
Long ago I did much expert skiing, but that, too, is a thing of the
past — at least until our offspring take it up. For the present,
gardening and horticulture continue to hold their fascination,
though sadly neglected for want of time. The quarter-century
has not been exactly as planned, but in many respects better than
imagined. I'd settle for it all over again.

ALEXANDER FAIRFIELD WADSWORTH

HOME apbREsS: 135 Court St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFicE ADpRESs: Babson’s Reports, Wellesley Hills, Mass.

BORN: July 11, 1908, Nahant, Mass. parents: Philip Wadsworth, 'o2, Con-
stance Amory.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

Marariep: Constance Gahm, March 9, 1940, Greenland, N. H. cHILpREN:
Peter Amory, Dec. 22, 1940; Joan, Dec. 19, 1942; Richard Goodwin,

June 18, 1944.
OccUPATION: Investment counsel; account supervisor.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country and Polo Club.

MY first seven years out of the Business School were spent in the
insurance business in Boston. In the fall of 1941, however, we
pulled up roots and moved to Washington, D.C., where I spent
two years as a civilian in the Army Signal Corps. In October,
1943, I enlisted in the Navy and, after nine months’ duty in
Florida, I ended up back in Washington where I was stationed
until separation day. After the war, I spent eight years in the
investment brokerage business, ‘Iwo years ago, however, I joined
Babson’s Reports in the investment counsel side of the business
where I am an account supervisor and am most happy and con-
tented.

As for social life, we enjoy Dedham very much. A little golf,
swimming and skeet shooting and a summer place in the New
Hampshire mountains occupy our non-working hours. My
elder boy is at Noble and Greenough with two more years before
college. My daughter is at Beaver Country Day School, and my
younger son will be in Noble and Greenough, I hope, in the not
too distant future.

[ 1027 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

JOHN EDWIN WAKEFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Glenbrook Rd., Stamford, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Barrington Associates, 230 Park Ave. New York, N. Y.

Born: March 26, 1910, Newton, Mass. parents: Augustus Lyman Wake-
field, Josephine Martin.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 10931.

MARRIED: Kathryn Moore, Jan. 29, 1944, New York, N. Y. cumcp: Ann, Aug.
25, 1945.

occupPaTION: Consultant, sales and marketing division, Barrington Associates,

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on metallizing for some forty trade magazines.

AFTER pondering for some hours, this is my best effort:
Since Harvard, no mansions nor mints.
But the only things I can evince
Are a wife and a daughter
To feed and to water,
And that’s all P’'ve done ever since.

ROBERT WALCOTT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1559 Burbank Rd., Wooster, Ohio.

OFFIcE apprEss: College of Wooster, Wooster, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Walcott, '95, Mary
Tuckerman Richardson.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 1932} PH.D., 1938.

MARRIED: Rosamond Pratt, June 11, 1938, Brookline, Mass. cH1LDREN: Robert,
3d, July 31, 1942; Rebecca Dyer, Oct. 16, 1945; Joseph Pratt, June 7,
1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Cotton Walcott, ’34 (deceased).

OccuPATION: Professor of history.

OFFices HELD: Assistant in history, 1936-38, instructor and tutor, 1938-41,
Harvard College; instructor in history, Westminster College, New
Wilmington, Pa. 1942; instructor in history, Black Mountain College,
N. C., 1945-46; assistant professor of history, 1946-49, professor of
history, since 1949, College of Wooster, American member Anglo-
American Committee of Historians, since 1953; senior research scholar
(Fulbright Grant) in the United Kingdom, 1953-54; recipient of grant-
in-aid, Social Science Research Council, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Colonial Society of Massachusetts; American Historical Asso-
ciation; Midwestern Conference for British Historical Studies; Asso-
ciation of American University Professors,

[ 1028 J

 

}
&
t
i
§
}
k
e
1
i
&

cee es NMOS Pon a

rR

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pusLications: English Politics in the Early Eighteenth Century, Oxford,
Harvard University Press, 1955; “English Party Politics, 1688-1714”, in
Essays in Modern English History, Harvard, 1941; articles in the Eng-
lish Historical Review, Bulletin of the Institute of Historical Research,
and New England Quarterly; book reviews in professional journals.

SINCE graduation my life has been spent almost entirely in
academic circles. Three years in residence at the Harvard Grad-
uate School were followed by two years of study in England
under traveling fellowships from the University. ‘There followed
two more years of graduate study, combined with an assistant-
ship in History J. Nineteen thirty-eight was an important year
for me, since it was marked by my marriage to Rosamond
(Daisy) Pratt, my Ph.D. from Harvard, and my first full-time
teaching position — as instructor and tutor in history at Harvard
for a three-year term. Marriage and teaching both proved won-
derful and have continued so— more and more satisfying every
year.

The Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor during half a year of un-
employment for me, broken by a half-year temporary job teach-
ing history at Westminster College in New Wilmington,
Pennsylvania. The summer of 1942 found the nation at war and
saw the birth of our first child, and myself with three teaching
jobs shot out from under me — one of them an appointment to
teach history at West Point, which fell through because of my
record of duodenal ulcers. The stomach was no bar to work in
a war plant and I spent the remainder of the war years at
Raytheon Manufacturing Company in Waltham, Massachusetts,
where I helped build radar equipment in various capacities —
machinist, laboratory technician, and finally as technical writer
working on radar instruction books.

After the war I went back into teaching, first at Black
Mountain College in North Carolina — an interesting institution
(recently defunct) about which I wrote in our Fifteenth Anni-
versary Report. From Black Mountain I moved to the College
of Wooster in Ohio as assistant professor of history. 1 have been
in Wooster ever since as associate professor and, since 1949, as
professor of history, During the year 1953-54 I had a research
leave (at Wooster we can get one every five years at full salary)
and was in England doing research under a Fulbright grant.

[ 1029 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

At present [am combining teaching with research on the London
merchant class in the late seventeenth century —a project for
which I have a grant-in-aid from the Social Science Council.

All of our family of five like Wooster. We also like our annual
summer sojourn on Cape Cod—at Dennis. I have no real
hobbies. I am a baseball fan in that I listen to all the Cleveland
Indians’ games; enjoy taking color photos when there are plenty
of good subjects, as in Europe two years ago; and shall probably
become a duffer at golf, my wife having just taken up the game
and the college golf course being just around the corner. Mostly
I enjoy people: my own family, other teachers, students. I sup-
pose I am an “egg head” (I’m bald enough to qualify). My wife
and I enjoy the company of academic folk, architects, writers and
the like — “intellectuals” if you will. In politics we are both
Democrats; in religion, Episcopalians. Adlai Stevenson was our

man for ’52, and will be for ’56 too.

HUDSON DEAN WALKER

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Deepdene Rd., Forest Hills, N. Y.
OFFICE appREss: William Elder Marcus, Inc., 18 E. 48th St., New York, N. Y.

BORN: June 17, 1907, Minneapolis, Minn. parents: Archie Dean Walker,
Bertha W. Hudson.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MaRRIED: Ione Avery Gaul, July 13, 1936, Pittsburgh, Pa. cuitpren: Harriet
G., Feb. 4, 1940; Berta B. and Louise L. (twins), Nov. 14, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Hulet Walker, °39, M.p., °43.

occupaTION: President, William Elder Marcus, Inc., jewelers.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee (president, 1945-48), American Federation of Arts;

executive director, Artists Equity Association, 1947-51, Artists Equity
Fund.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Century Club, New York.
PuBLicaTions: “Marsden Hartley”, Kenyon Review, 1947.

RICHARD CORNWELL WALKER

HOME ApprEss: 890 Chestnut St., San Francisco, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 576 Sacramento St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: May 10, 1909, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: John Smith Walker,
Blanche McFarland Cornwell.

[ 1030 ]

\

AAA RRR

ag genni oben NE Te ABP

By CREAT

05 ane SAR Db GT Herm eae me A ° “

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Punahou School, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

marriep: Dorothea Williamson, Dec. 15, 1932, San Francisco, Calif. camp:
Richard Williamson, Oct. 14, 1933.

occupation: General insurance broker.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Otis & Browne, Inc.

MemBeR OF: Pacific Union Club, Burlingame Country Club.

FRITZ HUTCHINSON WALKLING

HOME ADoRESS: 103 WWarren St. West Medford, Mass.
orice appress: Middlesex County National Bank, 25 High St. Medford,

Mass.
Born; Oct. 20, 1909, West Medford, Mass, parents: George Henry Walkling,

Harriet Rita Hutchinson.

preparen at: Medford High School, Medford, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: A.B, 1931.

marrigp: Marjory Stevens Child, Sept. 30, 1933, West Medford, Mass.
cHitpreN: Marla, Nov. 28, 1936, Frederick Hutchinson, Aug. 7, 1942.

oocuPATION: Assistant vice-president, Middlesex County National Bank,

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Medford Housing Authority, 1947-49, Mystic
Glee Club of Winchester, Mass.; president, Hobbs Jr. High P.T.A,
1950, director, Red Cross, Medford, trustee, Lawrence Memorial
Hospital, Medford, Mcdford Home for Aged; member Prudential
Committee, Congregational Church of West Medford.

MEMBER OF: Medford Rotary Club.

I HAVE maintained my residence in Medford all my life, and
have remained in the field of banking since graduation. I have
tried to fulfill my obligation to the community and the world in
general by actively participating in financial drives of the Com-
munity Fund, Red Cross, Boy Scouts, and Salvation Army. I
have assumed responsibilities as an officer in local organizations,
and have been active in affairs of the Congregational Church of
West Medford. During World War II, I accepted a commission
in the Naval Reserve and spent a couple of years cruising between
our east coast and the Mediterranean.

While definitely not a soloist, my interest in group singing,
stimulated by a senior year in the Glee Club under “Doc”, has
continued. I am the only bald-headed bass in the church choir,
and as a member of the Mystic Glee Club of Winchester helped
(7) the club to win first award in the annual competition of the

[ 1031 ]

° I IPNERRIETRONERERN RNs sto oaN BARE Fhe LANES ST TERERE NEE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

New England Federation of Men’s Glee Clubs in two of the last
three years.

I realize now that I have spent altogether too little time with
my family, which has grown up altogether too rapidly. My
daughter has reached an age which has attracted a new Harvard
influence to our home, which influence threatens, or should I
say promises, to become permanent. My son had difficulty un-
derstanding the importance of studying in junior high school,
and it doesn’t seem to help to tell him that his father was voted
by his high school class as the one “most likely to succeed”.

Looking back and trying to write about twenty-five years of
living makes one realize how much time has been spent doing
prosaic tasks. If I were to start again, however, I would probably
take most of the same turns in the road.

GERALD POWERS WALSH

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Fort St., Fairhaven, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Walsh & Bentley, 227 Union St., New Bedford, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1910, Dover, Mass. parents: Nicholas Walsh, Catherine Agnes
Powers.

PREPARED AT: Dover High School, Dover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Marguerite Shepard, Oct. 12, 1939, Medford, Mass. cHIprEN:
Kathleen Mary, July 23, 1941; Gerald Powers, Jr., Dec. 13, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, New Bedford Bar Association; treasurer,
Massachusetts Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: Wamsutta Club, New Bedford, Mass.; New Bedford, Bristol
County, Massachusetts and American Bar Associations; American
Judicature Society; Federation of Insurance Counsel.

FOLLOWING graduation from the Law School, I was on the
trial staff of a Boston casualty insurance company. until January,
1941, when I went into private practice in New Bedford. Later
I formed a law partnership under the name of Walsh & Bentley,
engaging in general practice with considerable trial work until
January 1, 1956. On that date I formed my own firm and I
continue to engage in the general practice of law with emphasis

perhaps on trial work, with my office still in the City of New
Bedford.

[ 1032 ]

|

s

eran I BU TRASH EE ¥

. see Rae ge aan SO
ee ett wee EE Manse cee ELI EP

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During 1943-44 I was in the United States Navy as a Reserve
officer and served in the United States and in the Pacific area,
with the Air Combat Intelligence program.

I live with my family in Fairhaven, which adjoins the City of
New Bedford and, despite several abortive attempts to concentrate
on such hobbies as blue fishing and golf, I find that I devote a
good part of my time to my profession and activities associated
with it. I have had considerable pleasure in participating in Bar
activities ona large scale through the Massachusetts Bar and
American Bar committee activities, and devote such spare time
as I am able to weed out of a busy day to legal meetings and
programs designed, we hope, to improving lawyer relations and
legal education. I am fortunate in having an understanding family
who have made it possible for me to contribute the time I should,
perhaps, spend with them to some of the latter activities.

ROGER SHERMAN WARNER, JR.

HOME appress: 8:1 Mt. Vernon St., Boston, Mass,

OFFicE appress; Cambridge Corp., Industrial Park, Lowell, Mass.

BORN: June 12, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Roger Sherman Warner, ’98,
Mary Hooper.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931 (32).

HARVARD BROTHER: Sturgis Warner, '37, LL.B., '40.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and engineer in charge, Cambridge Corporation.

oFFices HELD: Director of engineering, Atomic Energy Committee, 1947-49.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York City; St. Botolph Club, Boston;
American Chemical Society.

AFTER college and postgraduate studies at M.I-T., I proceeded to
practise as a chemical engineer from one task to another, ending
by a tour in the early beginnings of the synthetic rubber program.

When the United States entered the war, I joined the National
Defense Research Committee of the Office of Scientific Research
and Development. The act of joining was typical of my life
throughout the war for I was asked to a lunch in Detroit and by
the end of that day I was on my way to Anchorage. My duties
involved the development of a series of new techniques for
military operation. In retrospect, these activities involved a
fantastic amount of travel into all theatres. First there was the

[ 1033 ]

ash tn

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

development of better ways to deploy troops in snow which
resulted in a vehicle known as a weasel which saw its greatest
use in tropical marshy operations, but only after extensive trials
on the Athabasca Glacier in Scotland and in Colorado. Next
there was the evolution of the amphibious doctrine including both
natural and man-made obstacles. This effort is probably high-
lighted by the amphibious truck known to many as DUKW as
well as reproducing miles of typical European beachheads on
both the United States and British shorelines.

Eventually Dr. Conant ordered me to disappear and, at the
termination of the war in the Pacific, I turned up in the far
Pacific representing the efforts of Los Alamos Laboratory and
the Manhattan District. The theme followed the postwar activ-
ities of the Manhattan District — including among other incidents
the Bikini tests and eventually taking part in the formation of
the Atomic Energy Commission in Washington.

In 1949 I tried to become a free citizen again by joining
Arthur D. Little, consulting engineers in Cambridge. However,
it was not long before I had to set up a captive company, wholly
disposed toward the execution of our tremendous program for
the Atomic Energy Commission. Now and only now, this free
citizen and the company are just beginning to recover from
government domination, and I am learning how to lead a more

natural existence.

As yet there has been no family or any very serious hobbies,
or, for that matter, any very firm or continuous foothold in any
one community. However unnatural my existence has been, there

have been a number of absorbing and challenging events which
have marked my career.

HENRY STANLEY WARREN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 184 Main St., Wethersfield, Conn.

BoRN; July 4, 1909, Gloucester, Mass. parents: Henry Stanley Warren,
M.D., ’00, Mary A. Robinson.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D., 1936.

MarRriEep: Madeline A. Keating, Jan. 3, 1934, Brookline, Mass. cHILpREN:
Anne, Dec. 29, 1934; Deborah, Nov. 25, 1936, Henry Stanley, Jr, Sept.

[ 1034 ]

cron emer
enews

gehen eS

ate

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

24, 1938; Judith, Oct. 4, 1940; William S., Feb. 7, 1943; Elizabeth, April
16, 1945.

occupaTION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member active staff, Hartford Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Hartford and Hartford County Medical Societies, Harvard
Club of Connecticut.

HOWARD LINDSAY WARREN, JR.

HOME apoRESS: 421 Blalock Drive, Houston 24, Texas.

OFFICE appress: Masquelette, Bruhl & Co., Houston, Texas.

BoRN: Nov. 10, 1910, Greenville, Texas. parents: Howard Lindsay Warren,
‘06, Mary Edith Semans,

PREPARED aT: San Jacinto High School, Houston, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

MaRRiED: Laura Linn Brace, June 8, 1946, Houston, Texas, CHILDREN: Charles
Lindsay, July 12, 1949; Linda Beth, June 23, 1951.

OccUPATION: Partner, Masquelette, Bruhl & Company, certified public ac-
countants,

ULYSSES GRANT WARREN, JR.

HOME AbpRESS: 509 Irving Ct. Moorestown, N. J.

OFFIcE Appress: H. A. Riecke & Co., Inc., 1519 Walnut St., Philadelphia, Pa.

BorN: April 21, 1905, New York, N. Y. parents: Ulysses Grant Warren,
Pearl Hamm.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Virginia S West, Oct. 17, 1931, Bedford Springs, Pa. cxttp:; Vir-
ginia Lee, Nov. 12, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

LOUIS ROBERT WASSERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1200 Fifth Ave., New York 29, N. Y.

OFFICE appress: Mount Sinai Hospital, 11 E. rooth St., New York 29, N. Y.

BORN: July 11, 1910, New York, N. Y. Parents: Jacob Wasserman, Ethel
Ballin.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.D. (Rush Medical Coll.),
1935,

maraieD: Berenice Machlin, Jan. 29, 1939, Cambridge, Mass.

occupation: Physician; consultant in hematology; director, Department of
Hematology, Mount Sinai Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1954-55, vice-president, 1955—56, Society
for the Study of Blood.

[ 1035 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Board of Internal
Medicine; American College of Physicians; Society for the Study of
Blood; International Hematology Society; Harvey Society; New York
Pathological Society; New York Academy of Medicine; American Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science; New York Academy of
Sciences; Alpha Omega Alpha; American Society for Clinical Pathology,
American Federation for Clinical Research; Society for Experimental
Biology and Medicine; Reticulo-Endothelial Society.

pusLications: “Cold Hemagglutination — An Interpretive Review”; “Cobalt
Metabolism”; “Hemolytic Anemia Associated with Malignant Diseases”;
“Some Biological Effects Due to Nuclear Fission”; “Hemolytic Anemia
with Hemoglobinuria”; “Blood Oxygen Studies in Patients with Poly-
cythemia Vera and in Normal Subjects”; “Use of Radioactive Isotopes
in Medicine”; “Polycythemia Vera: Its Course and Treatment — Rela-
tion to Myeloid Metaplasia and Leukemia”; “Pool Systems in Iron
Metabolism, with Special Reference to Polycythemia Vera”; “Sympto-
matic and Hemolytic Anemia”; over thirty articles and monographs
relating to diseases of the blood.

THE following is an account of my life since 1931: attended and
graduated from the University of Chicago School of Medicine,
1931-35; Served an internship at the Michael Reese Hospital,
1935-37; research fellow in hematology at the Mount Sinai
Hospital in New York City, 1937-39; travel in Sumatra, Java,
Bali, Malay Peninsula, India, Ceylon and South Africa, 1939-40;
research assistant in hematology at the Mount Sinai Hospital, 1940-
425 associate attending hematologist at the Sydenham Hospital in
New York City, 1940-47; assistant attending hematologist, 1940-
47, and associate attending hematologist, 1942-47, at the Harlem
Hospital in New York City; major, United States Army, and
chief of laboratory at the General Hospital, 1942-46; research
fellow in medical physics, Donner Laboratory of Medical Physics,
University of California, 1946-48; consultant, Radiation Labora-
tory, University of California, 1947-50; High Altitude Andean
Expedition (Peru), 1950; adjunct physician for physiological
hematology at the Mount Sinai Hospital, 1947-50; instructor in
medicine, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia Univer-
Sity, 1947-50; hematologist to the hospital and associate physician,
Mount Sinai Hospital, 1950; assistant clinical professor of medi-
cine, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University,
1950; and since 1955 I have been the director of the Department
of Hematology at the Mount Sinai Hospital.

[ 1036 ]

ori ry TORTIE BE! Te

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR JOHN WATERMAN, JR.

HOME AppREsS: 1407 Alger Rd., Falls Church, Va.

oFFice appress: Dept. of State, State Annex 3, 23d St.. N.W., Washington
25, D.C.

Born: Jan. 18, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Arthur John Waterman, Amy
Harlow Lane.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; A.M., 19323 PH.D. (New
York Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Roswitha Dettmer, September, 1947, Bremen, Germany. CHILDREN:
Barbara Ann, Nov. 19, 1948; Christopher Mark, Aug. 5, 1952.
occupaTION: Forcign service officer, Office of Personnel, Department of

State; assistant chief, Performance Evaluation Branch, Division of
Personnel Operations.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Political Science Association,
American Society for Public Administration, American Foreign Service
Association,

pusLications: Article on the unification of rapid transit facilities in New
York City, National Municipal Review, 1940; Integration of Rapid
Transit Facilities of the City of New York, New York University,
1942; contributor to A Dictionary of American Politics, edited by E. C.
Smith and A. J. Zurcher of New York University, Barnes & Noble,
Inc., New York, 1944; “Departmental Organization Under the City
Manager”, Chapter I in Problems of Florida Municipal Administration,
Public Administration Clearing Service of the University of Florida
in codperation with the General Extension Division, 1948; “Planning
for Democracy”, address included in Seminar Papers on Community
Planning, reproduced by School of Architecture and Allied Arts, Uni-
versity of Florida; “Florida’s Budget Systems”, 1949, “Aid to the Legis-
lators in Florida”, 1949, in Studies in Florida Administration, Public
Administration Clearing Service of the University of Florida, Studies
in Public Administration.

INCE leaving Harvard, my career has been pretty evenly divided
etween university teaching and government service. Eight
ears of teaching political science at New York University
where I also obtained my doctor's degree in public administra-
on) were followed by more than two years with the War
‘oduction Board in Washington during the early part of the
cond World War. Then came the Army for nearly three
ars, with service mostly in France and Germany — primarily
civil affairs and military government. After discharge from
: Army, I spent a year as a War Department civilian in military

[ 1037 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

government in Bremen, Germany. Late in 1947, my wife (whom
I met and married in Bremen) and I returned to the States. After
a few months, we moved to Gainesville, Florida, where I joined
the University of Florida faculty as associate professor of politi-
cal science and director (shortly thereafter) of the Public Ad-
ministeration Clearing Service. This period lasted for two years,
Our daughter was born in Gainesville, and we shall always have
a warm spot in our hearts for Florida.

At the beginning of 1950, I came to Washington to join the
staff of the Foreign Service Institute of the Department of State
as training officer in management and administration. Eventually,
I became the director of the School of Management and Adminis-
tration of the Foreign Service Institute. This experience provided
the happy combination (for me) of teaching and constant contact
with officials engaged in the actual operations (both administra-
tive and substantive) concerned with our foreign relations. Since
early 1954, I have been in the Office of Personnel as assistant chief
of the Performance Evaluation Branch, concerned with the rating
and promotion system of the Foreign Service, and with the rating
system of departmental (civil service) employees. This is only
a detail in terms of the total organization of the Department of
State, and the development and implementation of American
foreign policy, but has real importance for the careers of indi-
viduals in the Foreign Service. In the spring of this year (1955)
I became a Foreign Service officer under the Wriston (Integra-
tion) Program, and expect to be given my first assignment abroad
as a member of the Foreign Service in the near future.

WARREN MAXWELL WATERMAN

MAILING ADpREss: % Max Waterman, 47 Harrison St.. New York 13, N. Y.

BORN: July 25, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Max Waterman, Minnie
Golding. :

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

MARRIED: Joan Ellen Hyman, June 29, 1939, New York, N. Y.

occuPaTiON: Mercantile business.

[ 1038 ]

meng opareptine ate v- ‘

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOSTER BARTLETT WATERS

MAILING ADDRESS: 53 Holmes St., Braintree, Mass.

porn: April 24, 1908, Braintree, Mass. PARENTS: James William Waters,
Maud Foster.

PREPARED aT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1032. DEGREE: $.B., 1931 (32).

occuPATION: Mercantile business,

ARTHUR LANCASTER WATKINS

HOME ADpreEss: 47 Swan Rd., Winchester, Mass.

orice aporgess: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass.

BoRN: July 18, 1909, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Arthur Elmer Watkins, Lillie
Jane Melendy.

PREPARED aT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 19313 M.D, 1935.

MarriED: Gwendolyn Mason, Oct. 16, 1936, New Haven, Conn, CHILDREN:
John Byam, Nov. 20, 1938; Robert Mason, June 12, 1940, Linda Jane,
Feb. 20, 1942; Nancy Pauline, Jan. 20, 1943; Cynthia Anne, July 27,
1950.

occupaTION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Medical director, Bay State Medical Rehabilitation Clinic,
chief, Physical Medicine Department, Massachusetts General Hospital,
president, American Congress of Physical Medicine, 1950-51, assistant
executive director, Baruch Committee on Physical Medicine, 1949-51;
member editorial board, Archives of Physical Medicine, since 1943;
member board of overseers, Browne and Nichols School, 1949-54;
member board of trustees, since 1955, member board of managers, Com-
munity Workshops; member Council on Physical Medicine and Re-
habilitation, American Medical Association, since 1949; assistant pro-
fessor of medicine, Harvard.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
American Congress of Physical Medicine; American Society of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation, American Rheumatic Society; New Eng-
land Society of Physical Medicine; Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard
Club of Boston; Winchester Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Two textbooks in field of physical medicine and medical
papers in neurology and physical medicine and rehabilitation.

IN reviewing my twenty-five years, I go back to my ambitions
on graduation. First goal— Harvard Medical School; then, of
course, degree and licensing exams. After these hurdles were
passed, a most important step was getting the internship and

[ 1039 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

later residency of choice. The latter involved more decisions
as to specialty. A long interest in neurology and psychiatry
started me in that direction after a period of basic research show-
ed me that my place was in clinical fields rather than the
laboratory. After I started out in neurology, a wise, friendly and
far seeing professor suggested a need and opening for specializa-
tion in a new field of physical medicine and rehabilitation, as it
is called now. Finally the decision was made and I had the task
of being a local pioneer at the Massachusetts General Hospital
and the Harvard Medical School and I have continued there to
this day.

I have had the reward of seeing many advances in the field,
with some losses from attacks of jealous specialties with more
strength, but the rewards of dealing with the problems of helping
the severely disabled far outweigh the disadvantages of workin
in unexplored grounds. Since it was a new and small field and
since I was at Harvard and the Massachusetts General Hospital,
it is not surprising that as time went on I was elected president
of the national medical society of the specialty and was involved
in other time-consuming organizational professional work, in-
cluding assistant executive directorship of the Baruch Committee
on Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. Other professional
work has included clinical research, writing about one hundred
scientific articles and, with assistance, two medical texts and
serving on editorial boards of medical journals. ‘Teaching has
been rewarding with the training of young doctors, some of
whom have gone on to be professors in Class A medical schools.

So much for an absorbing professional life which continues to
grow although at the same location. To make life full, and it
has been, I have been fortunate in having a most happy and in-
spiring family life. The most essential ingredient, a beautiful,
loving and understanding wife, was followed by the reward of
five children from five to seventeen years of age, Starting with
two boys, the latter already surpassing the old man athletically.
Speaking of athletics, the writer’s track interest or rather activity
came to a close with the summer after graduation and a not-to-be
forgotten trip to England, Germany and Scandinavia with a round
of meets surrounded by bountiful hospitality. Now my exercise
is derived from a little squash, bowling and mountain climbing,

[ 1040 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but mostly working on a new house in the White Mountains
with a view, so that I don’t have to climb.

Professional and family responsibilities have not left much
time for community activities but I have enjoyed serving on
the board of my prep school and helping in its growth. The
whole family join me in looking forward to the Twenty-fifth
with tremendous feelings of happy anticipation.

PHILIP HOWELL WATTS

HOME ADDRESS: 1513 28th St. N.W., Washington 7, D. C.

OFFicE appress: Alexander Brown & Sons, American Security Bldg., Wash-
ington, 6, D. C.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1908, Morristown, N, J. parents: Ridley Watts, Gertrude
Hoy.

PREPARED aT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B, 1931 (32).

marrieD: Mildred Lee, Sept. 24, 1932, Southampton, Long Island, N. Y.
CHILDREN: Wendy, Nov. 3, 1937; Evelyn, July 26, 1941; Diana, Jan. 3,
1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Ridley Watts, '23; John Watts, '28,

occupation: Investment banking; resident partner, Alexander Brown & Sons.

OFFICES HELD: Customer’s broker, G. M. P. Murphy & Company, 1931-36;
partner, G. H. Walker & Company, investment banking, 1936-41, New
York City; vice-president, treasurer, Foreign Service Educational Foun-
dation, School of Advanced International Studies, Washington, D. C.,
1946-50; executive secretary and member, Policy Planning Staff, De-
partment of State, 1950-54; executive officer, Select Committee on
Foreign Aid (Herter Committee) of House of Representatives, U. S.
Congress, 1947; State Department representative with and organizer of
World Tour of Vice-President Nixon, 1953; trustee, School of Ad-
vanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University, since 1950;
regional representative, St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H., since 1947;
member of board, treasurer, Georgetown Neighborhood House, since
1950; member, Visiting Committee of Board of Overseers to Department
of Government, 1955; member board of governors, secretary, Metro-
polican Club.

MEMBER OF: Links Club of New York City; Chevy Chase Club; Harvard
Club of Washington.

PERHAPS the most significant and most completely satisfactory
event of the first twenty-five event-packed years was my mar-
riage to Mildred Lee in September, 1932. I would debate heatedly
whether anyone could have been more happily blessed or more

[ 1041 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

fortuitously armed for the vicissitudes of depression, war and
cold war. We have been thrice blessed with Wendy, aged
eighteen, a 1955 Washington debutante and about to graduate,
we hope, from Concord Academy, Concord, Massachusetts,
Evie, aged fourteen, a budding student at Concord; and Diana,
aged ten, a blithe spirit, attending the Sacred Heart Convent
School in nearby Bethesda, Maryland. The devout yet unobtru-
sive Catholicism of my “women” has done much to solidify and
make meaningful my own faith as an Episcopalian.

The first five years after graduation were spent living in New
York and learning the brokerage and investment banking busi-
ness with G, M. P. Murphy & Company. What horrid years they
were from a business standpoint! From July, 1936, to July, 1941,
I was a partner in G. H. Walker & Company, acting as their New
York Stock Exchange “floor” member. It was a frustrating period
as one read of world events and became convinced that the
country was heading into desperate trouble. After attending
Plattsburg in the summer of 1940, three attempts to get into the
Navy were turned down. (When they finally started to scrape
the bottom of the barrel in 1942, lieutenant (j.g.) Watts, U.S.N.R.,
was accepted with the following qualifications on his waiver —
left eye 1-20, right eye 2-20, two inches overheight, 30 pounds
underweight.)

In the summer of 1941, we moved to Washington where I
worked for a year as associate director of the Regional Division
and as liaison with the State Department in Nelson Rockefeller’s
office of the Codrdinator of Inter-American Affairs. Then, two
years (finally in uniform) as secretary of the Plans Division in
Admiral King’s headquarters, followed by a year and a half as
aide and flag lieutenant to Admiral Conolly, commander Amphib-
ious Group Three, Pacific Fleet, with his flag aboard the good
ship Appalachian, AGC-1, known as an amphibious command
ship. This was a fascinating and at times frightening experience
being part of our armed forces in action after acting as Constitu-
tion Avenue Commando in the ivory tower of Cominch. Main
highlights: Leyte, Lingayen, Okinawa and occupation of Japan.

Back to Washington, which is now our permanent home, and
four years working with Representative Christian A. Herter
(now Governor of Massachusetts) building the School of Ad-

[ 1042 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vanced International Studies, which then was an independent
graduate school but is now affiliated with Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, although still operating in D, C. Highlight of this period
was acting as executive officer of the House of Representatives
Select Committee on Foreign Aid (Herter Committee), which
comprised eighteen Congressmen, four consultants and myself
visiting countries of Western Europe in the summer of 1947 to
gather economic information in connection with the Marshall
Plan proposals.

In June, 1950, I started four years as executive secretary and
member of the Policy Planning Staff in the State Department.
The fascination of the work during those years at this particular
time in history will never pall. An added vignette of interest
in 1953 was being asked by Vice-President Nixon to organize
and accompany him on his trip around the world: our own
special plane, meeting the chiefs of state and other officials of
twenty countries of the Far East, South and Southeast Asia and
the Middle East, during seventy days covering 45,000 miles!

At the moment and for what I hope will be the indefinite
future, I am resident general partner in Washington of Alex.
Brown & Sons, the oldest investment banking house in the coun-
try. My original interest in the investment business and my more
recent interest in foreign affairs will never wane. Of this, I am
sure. Neither will my profound love and respect for my family.
Interspersed will be my enjoyment of playing bridge with my
wife, poker without her. Since a heart attack in late 1954, fol-
lowed by ulcers in mid-1955, my golf has definitely improved.
So has my weight and disposition. I am avidly looking forward
to the years ahead and only hope I'll be around to anticipate our
goth Reunion with as much relish as I am our 25th.

ELY LLOYD WEBBER

HOME apprEss: 48 Stedman St. Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Webber Sign Co., 157 Shawmut Ave., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Nov. g, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Thomas Webber, Sophia Shear.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1931.

MarrieD: Sara Band, Aug. 30, 1936, Brookline, Mass. cHtupren: Thomas S.
Dec. 5, 1940; Celia T., July 4, 1944.

occupation: Owner, Webber Sign Company.

[ 1043 ]

9

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

ALBERT NOYES WEBSTER

HOME ADDRESS: 150 Crest Rd., Ridgewood, N. J.

OFFICE appress: Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co., 300 Broadway, Newark 4,
N. J.

BORN: Feb. 28, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Hollis Webster, '84, Helen
Maria Noyes.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Janet Knickerbocker, June 1, 1935, New York, N. Y. cniprey;
Albert Knickerbocker, Oct. 14, 1937; Carolyn, June 9, 1941; Katharine
Knox and Helen Noyes (twins), April 22, 1943.

HARVARD SON: Albert Knickerbocker Webster, ’59. .

occupation: Second vice-president and secretary, Mutual Benefit Life In-
surance Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Ramapo Valley Cooperative, Inc., other co-ops in
former places of residence, Laymen’s League; chairman, Personnel Ad-
ministration Committee, Life Office Management Association, member
executive committee, New York Personnel Management Association;
trustee, Unitarian Society of Ridgewood, N. J.; various positions in Boy
Scouts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; National Office Management
Association; New York Personnel Management Association, American
Management Association; The Life Office Management Association.

ON a quiet shore of a Maine lake the will to write my “Class Life”
finally appeared. I am in personnel work, and love it. I prepared
for it by concentrating in chemistry and rowing on the crew! In
between was a chain of events which | suppose — like a chain —
did have some linkage. A planned career? Hardly. How many
of us, 1 wonder, could say “yes” to that question. And what part
does chance play? Or is it something more than chance? My
career, and perhaps yours, has been a process of finding myself —
my abilities, aptitudes and my own integration of values. And it
may be entirely different by our Fiftieth!

I took chemistry because I liked it. But the math of physical
chemistry did not like me. An uncle in the chemical business
said he did not know a patent lawyer with enough chemistry to
write a good patent. So to Harvard Law School I went. Patent
law became lost in the wider field of personal and social relation-
ships that is the grist on which law and a law student feeds.
Thence into private practice in New York City for nine years.
The first two of these showed I did not like tax law —too

[ 1044 ]

cpwen spent tus 06 88 set ag HE Ae IRE RELA SR cua eI
sceapp penny ye ARSE

FN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

technical. Surrogate’s practice and general law in another firm
had more to do with personal problems.

A chance to become company lawyer for American Viscose
Corporation, now in Philadelphia, promised closer contact with
people — workmen’s compensation problems (claim and pre-
ventive) and labor relations. Working with the personnel and
medical departments gradually uncovered an interest in the field
of human relations. I was made secretary of the Employee
Policy Committee on the excuse that a lawyer should be able to
write and pull ideas together. Committee members sat down in-
dividually with men in management from foremen up to the
president — asked them for their ideas on employee relations
policy. Research led me into other companies and into man-
agement and personnel associations. When a corporate reorgan-
ization eliminated my position—and me! —I looked around
for administrative or personnel work, I found the latter (or was
it chance again?) first with Irving Trust Company, and then with
United States Life Insurance Company, both in New York City.
I am now second vice-president in charge of personnel and
secretary of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company in
Newark, New Jersey.

Happy is the man who is using the abilities, aptitudes and
interests that he has. A personnel man’s job is to help an employee
know these for himself, help him develop them, and help man-
agement provide the environment which will motivate the in-
dividual toward self-fulfillment. A square peg in a square hole has
far more meaning than just a job fit. It means a satisfying, co-
operative, useful adjustment to society. The employer has a
man eight hours a day! More than anyone else, he has the chance
to promote mutual understanding, the codperative identification
of self with group interests.

My wife, Janet, has for twenty years shared our troubles and
joys — including Albert K. (Nick), seventeen, entering Harvard
this year; Carolyn (Lyn), fourteen, now taller than and more —
(whoops! ) — as beautiful as her mother; Katharine K. (Kits) and
Helen N. (Helen), twelve—yes, they’re twins and livelier
than all of us put together. We are into all the usual things in
Ridgewood, New Jersey, and there are too darned many. Some-
time I wonder whether Scouts (Boy, Girl, Cubs, Brownies), the

[ 1045 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Y, Church, Community Chest, PTA, and committees for this and
that exist to serve the community, or whether we do not exist to
serve them! Main interests seem to be: Dad—co-op; Jan—
selling real estate; Nick — studies and a little of everything else,
Lyn swimming, pop music, cooking; twins — into everything,
All of us enjoy “family” affairs —camp in Maine, summer dis-
cussion meetings at Isle of Shoals (Unitarian Church), backyard
cook-outs, etc.

Jan is a Democrat. I’m a Republican (new school), having
voted for Roosevelt four times until it was time to swing away
from too much “statism,” too much leaning on Washington to
solve our problems. Social and economic advances are here to
stay. The battleground now is for freedom — for individual
thinking and expression — and against pressures of the group.

GRAHAM TAYLOR WEBSTER

HOME AppREss: 2248 Woodmere Drive, Cleveland 6, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cuyahoga County Hospital, Harvard Road, Cleveland 22,
Ohio,

BorN: Nov. 17, 1909, Detroit, Mich. parents: John Taylor Webster, Estelle
Amanda Cook.

PREPARED AT: Hawken School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 M.D., 1935.

MaRRIED: Martha Lucy Bole, Oct. 19, 1940, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN:
David Graham, July 30, 1946; Gertrude Miller, Oct. 11, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Cunningham Webster, ’37.

OccuPATION: Medical chemist, director of laboratories, Cuyahoga County

Hospital; assistant professor of pharmacology, Western Reserve Uni-
versity Medical School.

STUDIED in Germany from June, 1935, to February, 1936. |
was a medical intern, 1936-37, an assistant resident, 1937-38, a
research fellow, 1938-40, medica] instructor, 1940-42, at the
Western Reserve University Hospitals in Cleveland, Ohio.
Served in the U.S. Army Medical Corps from January, 1942, to
March, 1946. I spent a little over three of. these years in the
Southwest Pacific Area. Was a research fellow in biochemistry,
1946-48, an instructor in biochemistry, 1949-51, and assistant
professor in biochemistry, 1951-53, at the Washington University
Medical School in St. Louis, Missouri. Since 1953, I have been

[ 1046 ]

LEI NN AINE SR PES an pie FRE RS

cacrapemesppeonnnsprestvigertnaecome nna ites tat

coin eaten Beasteape cM taba cet

1 AMP ATE ro

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

director of laboratories at Cuyahoga County Hospital and assist-
ant professor in pharmacology at Western Reserve University
Medical School in Cleveland.

ARTHUR DELANO WEEKES, JR.

HOME appRESS: Cove Road, Oyster Bay, N. Y.
OFFICE AppREss: H, N. Whitney, Goadby & Co. 49 Wall St, New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1908, New York, N. Y. parents: Arthur Delano Weekes,
Dorothy Lee Higginson.

PrePARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRRIED: Nancy Gordon Milburn, Aug. 3, 1938, Westbury, N. Y. (died
Oct. 24, 1952). CHILDREN: Arthur Delano, 3d, June 25, 1939; John M.,
Jan. 19, 1942; James T., June 14, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Higginson Weckes, ‘34; Townsend Underhill
Weekes, ’37.

oocuPATION: Stock broker; partner, H. N. Whitney, Goadby & Company.

OFFices HELD: Trustee, Green Vale School, Glenhead, N. Y. Village of
Oyster Bay Cove, member advisory board, Nassau County Council,
Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Seawanhaka Yacht Club, Oyster Bay; Links Club; Mcadow
Brook Club, Jericho; Harvard Club of New York.

THE early summer of 1931 was a confusing time to go to work
and especially so in the stock brokerage business, However, with
a family whose various members had done little else for some
time, I had no choice but to dig in. By the time the Navy exer-
cised its option on my services in January, 1941, I had grown to
like my job, been married and produced one child. The follow-
ing five years were spent mostly at sea in P.C.’s and destroyer
escorts with command duty in each and in areas from Casablanca
to Okinawa. Since the war I have been actively engaged in the
securities business as a partner in H. N. Whitney, Goadby &
Company. I live with my children in an old family house on the
water at Oyster Bay, Long Island. My wife and I did it over a
short time before her death in 1952. The two oldest boys are at

Groton School with the youngest to follow in three or four

years. My interests are mostly in yachting, having a joint owner-

ship with an Eli friend in a forty-one-foot Concordia sloop.

[ 1047 ]

iitieeeemnamammimmaneene tae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

WILLIAM CORSANE WEIR

HOME ADDRESS: 2571 N. Park Blvd., Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 10515 Carnegie Ave., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BorN: Oct. 9, 1909, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: William Hawkseley Weir
Marjorie Roslyn Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Hawken School, South Euclid, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 19313; M.D., 1935-

MarrieD: Cynthia Edith Elmslie, Jan. 7, 1939, Washington, D. C. cnitorey:
William Elmslie, Nov. 23, 1939; Gordon Campbell, Dec. 3, 1940; James
Ronald, Oct. 14, 1942; Vivian Constance, June 14, 194§.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Campbell Weir, ’30, LL.B. "333 David Reid Weir,
"32, M.D., "36.

occupaTION: Obstetrician and gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Senior clinical instructor, Western Reserve Medical School.
MEMBER OF: Academy of Medicine of Cleveland; Cleveland Medical
Library Association; Ohio State Medical Association; American Medical
Association; Cleveland Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology; American
Academy of Obstetrics and Gynecology; American Society for the
Study of Infertility and Sterility; International Fertility Association;

Pasteur Club of Cleveland; Cleveland Skating Club; Hanger Recreation
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Medical papers on gynecological and fertility problems.

ON analyzing the years since college graduation, I find that two-
fifths of this time was spent in completing my formal education
and that a little less than another fifth was marking time as a some-
what underworked employee of the United States Navy. The
remaining ten years have been devoted to my chosen field, the
practice of medicine, which has shown a steady increase in work
and interest.
I was exposed to four more years of a Harvard education at
the Medical School, which required more ‘concentrated efforts
on my part than the first four. However, it was rewarding and
enjoyable at the same time. The acquisition of an M.D. degree
does not necessarily make one a good doctor and it took six
more years of internship and residency training before I felt
qualified to accept the responsibilities of private practice, This
long but very interesting period of training was also necessary to
meet the requirements of the American Board of Obstetrics and
Gynecology from which I finally received certification. I was
more fortunate than most young physicians i in that my stint with
Uncle Sam started just after my formal training was completed

[ 1048 ]

 

comes nies tagcat AL ee NY
popes spre taaeeaten ee EE ok

. : soe gue He natty rae @ ARIE IRS En
to + AA EHR alec abit laehisaiaa cep EA AP HO IAT, AMELIE GTS AGRE PEE ES See ahs

" Y eka TY amd PD

tee tl " args” ptm ?

04. EE

ann parse trimcn pe aS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and before I had established a private practice. Neither was in-
terrupted as so frequently happened to others.

In 1947 I was appointed to the staff of a new research clinic
to study and treat infertility problems. This particular field of
medicine had received little attention prior to the war, but in
recent years much has been learned about it. New national and
international societies have been founded and new medical jour-
nals have been started devoted only to this subject. I feel very
fortunate to have participated in this development. Fertility prob-
lems and the delivery of the successfully treated cases make up
the majority of my practice. I know of no more grateful patients
than these and it is a source of great personal satisfaction to me.

Throughout my hospital training, and since the war, I have
been closely associated with academic medicine and am on the
faculty of the School of Medicine of Western Reserve Univer-
sity. Although my contact with the students has not been ex-
tensive, it has been sufficient to make me realize that learning
new things never stops. Many times I have been embarrassed by
student questions, An entirely new approach to medical educa-
tion has been instituted at our school which is being watched
critically by all other medical schools in the country, What in-
terests me most is the open-minded attitude of those behind the
new program. Although it is new and somewhat radical, they
are more than willing to make changes and improvements. The
students to a man are enthusiastic too. Only time will determine
its final form and its success, but in the meantime it has been and
will continue to be an exciting project.

Because the practice of obstetrics is quite confining, my civic
activities and hobbies have been somewhat limited. I learned to
fly under the GI Bill of Rights, but gave it up after a while when
the veterans organizations decided it was more recreational and
avocational than educational and vocational. They were correct.
My main hobby has been woodworking which has been lots of
fun. It has been somewhat hazardous and I have managed to
chew up a couple of fingers in the power tools, but not seriously.
About a year ago we moved to a new home with a tennis court
and I am struggling to maintain tennis superiority over my rapid-
ly improving teen-aged sons. .

Bringing up four children has been an enlightening process for

[ 1049 ]

——~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Cynthia and me. In spite of being accused of running a com-
munist regime and of being very old-fashioned (both of which |
are partly true), we are very proud of them and we suspect the |
feeling is reciprocal. Some years ago, after a particularly haras.
ing day, I was assured by an older friend that they would grow
out of it in time, but then she gently added that they would de-
velop a new set of problems very soon. How true it turned out
to be. However, watching them overcome, and helping them to
solve their various problems is one of the most satisfying aspects
of being a parent. They are a continuous source of wonder,
worry and pleasure to both of us.
All in all it has been a very pleasant and stimulating twenty-five
years since college graduation. My only wish is that there were
eight more hours in every day to do all the things I should like

to do, As long as this wish remains unfulfilled, all will be well
with us,

STANLEY JEROME WEISS

HOME ADpRESS: 1230 N. Berendo St., Hollywood 29, Calif. :
OFFICE appRESS: Dept. of Charities, Los Angeles County, Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: March 12, 1911, Homestead, Pa, parents: Aaron Weiss, Esther Mid-  :
dleman.

PREPARED AT: Uniontown High School, Uniontown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313; LL.B. (Southwestern Univ.
Law School), 1950.

UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Social case worker; motel owner and operator.

OFFICES HELD: Executive secretary, Institute of Industrial Retirement Plans.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Jewish Welfare Board Washington Camp Crier, By-
paths and Sidelights; historical articles, Washington Correspondent.

FOR the period 1932-1936 I was in business with my father.
Since 1936 I have been in government service and written in
various publications. I have been with the federal government
and Los Angeles County. Also, I own and operate a motel.

As for the Institute — this is a fairly recent activity. Pensions
are becoming big news in the financial papers. This is a pre-
liminary to an organization of a Real Property Investment Cor-
poration to specialize solely in investments for Pensions and Re-
tirement Trusts. Sponsorship is by the Real Property Invest-
ments, Inc., 233 S. Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills, California. This

et mpage ONS BE Mate CL TR ML AMM

pe tap ta 0 MIE SDA EN OT RIAL TONE NORE E SOFIE IT AEE 9

[ 1050 ]

peor a ene me hn ta Beet OG AN NEE OLS TOE eam Tne TEEN enn ge igs

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

corporation is organized just like an investment trust but oper-
ates only in Real Property investments, Organized only five
years ago, the company has shown a solid growth.

In collaboration with George Pepperdine College and Real
Property Investment Corporation, the Institute of Retirement
Planning is planning a conference early in December, 1955. It
is expected that the Institute will fill a void on the Pacific Coast.
Today over six billions annually are going into pensions, Thus,
it is obvious that pension funds will very soon wield an important
role in many financial undertakings. The function of the Institute
will be to chart the growth of the field. Anybody interested in
the work of the Institute can write to the office — 233 South
Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills, Calfornia (Institute of Industrial
Retirement Plans).

If I really started to write what I have done in the past twenty-
five years, | am confident that [ could fill a good big fat volume.
There would be two questions that would arise. The first is:
“Who would publish such a book?” The second iss “Who would
read it?” This settles matters nicely. I shall, therefore, close with
the hope of a long life and a happy one for everyone in the Class.

HEBER WELLS

HOME ApDDRESS: 94 King St., Reading, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Waghorne-Brown Co., 48 Franklin St. Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 13, 1908, Malden, Mass. parents: Francis Spinner Wells, Abbie
Oakes Pierce.

PREPARED aT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: 8.B. in C.B., 1931.

MarrieD: Phyllis Burke, Oct. 14, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. cuipren: Sarah
Ellen, Feb. 18, 1944; Edward Pierce, 2d, March 8, 1947.

occupaTion: Parmer, Waghorne-Brown Company, sales and application of
building materials requiring structural engineering knowledge.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, New England Section, Harvard Engineering Society,
1939; member, Quannapowit Council, B.S.A., 1952-53; trustee, Davenport
Memorial Foundation, since 1949; president, Malden University Club,
1950-51.

MemBeER oF: Harvard Engineering Society, American Society of Civil
Engineers; Massachusetts Building Congress; Amateur Chamber Music
Players.

MY first few years out of college were spent working on con-

[ ros1 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

struction projects in the field such as the Christian Science Pub-

lishing House and the oil storage depots in Revere. Then for

the two years, 1935-37, I worked for the Maintenance Depart-
ment at Harvard. I left there in 1937 to enter the employ of

Waghorne-Brown Company as an estimator. In July of 1941]

was admitted to partnership in that firm and have so continued

to the present. Our principal business involves the application
and sale of building materials which require the exercise of struc-
tural engineering knowledge and judgment for their proper use,

We operate principally in the Greater Boston area although

maintaining a sales office in New York City and a warehouse in

Nashua, New Hampshire.

My family and children are my interests outside of business,
but having had a late start the children are only now in the
Little League and camp Fire age groups —and doing very well,
we are proud to sa

My hobbies seem to be legion. The fiddle and music continue
to monopolize a large part of my time, what with playing with
amateur groups and Tuesday evenings at Symphony Hall. Ten
years of amateur tennis after college have now graduated or
degenerated to gardening and fishing —no doubt the latter are
better for us as the coronary age approaches. Our travels have
been not far from New England, barring a few visits to the
Virgin Islands for extended vacations — there the weather suits
us fine and rum is cheap. This may become our haven along

with many other Harvard sons.

Politically and religiously, I still cling to my hide-bound New
England standards of Republicanism and Universalism although
the self-determination of the latter occasionally clashes with a
straight Republican ticket.

JOHN WALTER WELLS, II

MAILING ADDRESS: Sheridan Circle, Menominee, Mich.

BoRN: March 15, 1908, Menominee, Mich. parents: Artemas Carter Wells
Harriet Stephenson.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarrieD: Dorothy Worth, Aug. 9, 1930, Menominee, Mich. cupren; Wil-
liam P.; John Walter, 3d, Sept. 20, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Mercantile business.

[ 1052 ]

tpn ais lite Ra kM Alte jy HET tH

pectic IRTP OTE ce ae

aE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WELLINGTON WELLS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Dover Road, Millis, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Mixter & Co., 35 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1908, Boston, Mass. parReNTS: Wellington Wells, '90, Elizabeth
Brewer.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MakRIED: Virginia Baldwin, July 7, 1930, Makawao, Maui, Hawaiian Islands.
CHILDREN: Elizabeth Baldwin, Sept. 17, 1932; Wellington Wells, 34,
Oct. 22, 1934 (a. Anne Dour). cranpcHiip: Alexander Wells.

HARVARD SON: Wellington Wells, 3d, '56.

occupation: Investment broker; partner, Mixter & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1946-52, Vestryman, 1952-56, junior warden, 1956,
St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Millis, Mass.; member Class Committee,
Harvard Fund Agent, Class of 1931; member, Harvard Fund Council.

MEMBER oF: Lodge of St. Andrew, AF. & A.M.,; Union Club of Boston,
Dublin Lake Club; Sons of the Revolution; Society of Colonial Wars,
Founders and Patriots of America, California Pioncers,

SHADES of H. M. Pulham! And if there are any classmates who
don’t appreciate my literary efforts, please remember that the
following opus is not required reading. Placing first things first
— I was married during college in my junior summer and, though
it is too late to offer advice to you elderly gentlemen, I am an
advocate of early marriages, At least in our case it has worked
out very well as Virginia and I celebrated our own twenty-fifth
last summer. Our family is now grown up; Betsy is working in
Boston and Peter is about to graduate from Harvard; and we
have now started on the second stage, grandchildren, Peter has
a son, Sandy, who delights us and who does not make us feel one
bit older.

Have been with the same firm in the investment business since
1934. After graduating from college I spent two years at the
Harvard Law School, then received my first pay check in 1934
from Chandler Hovey & Company. The name of the firm was
changed in 1943 to Mixter & Company but, otherwise, the firm is
the same.

My wartime activities were “passing the ammunition” in the
Bureau of Ordnance, receiving it from the Army and handing it
over to the Marines, and in a few instances to naval units. There
were some nice junkets at your and my expense to the West Coast

[ 1053 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I93I

and sundry other Naval Ammunition Depots. My only venture
into the field of politics besides voting early and often was to

assist Ed Amazeen with Sumner Whittier’s successful campaign
for lieutenant governor.

Working for the Harvard Fund has been very rewarding.
Besides knowing that the cause was most worthy, I have con-
tacted many classmates whom I otherwise would never have
seen or talked to — that is, not until June, 1956.

Fortunately for our state of mind, we seem to find numerous
excuses to travel and number Devon and Somerset, Nassau,
Tadoussac, Florida and Hawaii among the more delightful places
haunted by us. Other recreation is found in duck-shooting and
in farming. Delete the farming. There is no recreation in farm-

ing, and our reward for nine years of hard labor with Angus
cattle was a pile of headaches, a pile of bills, and a pile of that
stuff that now makes our roses grow and glow. The center of our
family life is Millis, real country when we moved there in 1936;
but now that civilization — possibly a misnomer — is creeping

out from Boston, we have acquired outposts in New Hampshire
and on outer Cape Cod.

HARRY EDWARD WELSH

HOME apprEss: 36 N. Delavan Ave., Margate, N. J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Bureau of Investigation, Raymond Commerce Bldg,

Newark, N. J.

BORN: June 11, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa. PARENTS: Jeptha Coatsworth Welsh,
Jeanette Schuchman.

PREPARED AT: Westminster College, New Wilmington, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B. (Duquesne Univ),
1940.

MaRRiED: Sara Lorraine Jones, Nov. 24, 1932, Pittsburgh, Pa. cHILDREN:

Edward Lorain, Aug. 19, 1934; Samuel Clinton, June 30, 1943.
occupation: Special agent, Federal Bureau of Investigation.

IN Pittsburgh in the mid-30’s, during the depression, I came to feel
that there was no future for me in the banking job I held. J en-
rolled in Duquesne University Evening Law School, and in my
senior year 1 was accepted by the U.S. Department of Justice,
contingent on my graduation, at which time IJ entered on duty

[ 1054 ]

Pati tee PRE

ap penrperteegines eat ator eT

eh LEP REPO, SRNR LET REE: shins telpegtn Ad 2

aM Ggrectneinianae boda PV Be

pment me MEL ORORAA NICMOS

ee IO ph le

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as a special agent of the F.B.I. My life hasn’t been the same since.
My first office was in Dallas, Texas, next in Portland, Oregon,
and so on and so on, one hotel or apartment after another. Here
in New Jersey, where I am presently located, I have my own
home at long last and would leave it tomorrow without a back-
ward look.

During the war I volunteered for a confidential assignment far
from home and country, leaving my wife and boys (one a war
baby) in Washington, D.C, Looking back, it was a satisfactory,
if lonely, piece of work. My older boy, Ted, is enrolled in the
Temple University School of Dentistry —the eleventh school
he has attended in sixteen years due to the fact that, work per-
mitting, the family always moved with me. The younger boy,
Sam, a seventh grader, was just honored by winning first prize
for an essay on safety, an horrendous account of falling in the
bathtub and being electrocuted by toasters, My wife is an artist
and art teacher and is happily able to fit herself into the groove
no matter where we live.

Politics and religion —I am a Republican and a Presbyterian;
my wife and boys are Fpiscopalians. Social life — in the accepted
sense of the word we had more of a social time in the mid-’30’s.
Those of us who had steady jobs were in the minority and we
“carried” those who were out of work. Our friends of those
days, long ago and far away, remain our best friends and when,
as often happens, they visit us, we take up where we left off, as
though no years intervened at all.

Here at the shore our hobbies take up our spare time. Our
home is located between the bay and the open ocean and, as a con-
sequence, sailing, fishing and power boating joys must be looked
after, Winters, being what they are in a resort town, call for
other activity and with due application and concentration and
with the help of a reconditioned pool table in the basement, I
have become somewhat of a pool shark and am formidable at
billiards. We look forward, hopefully, to return to Pittsburgh.
After all, there is something about the hills of home.

[ 1055 ]

= ~ ’ MT ENTREE HEIR ONIYIERETEINRTIONR NINN: " me me Ne NMOS nc NTL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

JAMES WINFIELD WELSH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 113—14 72d Rd., Forest Hills 75, N. Y.
OFFICE apprEss: Chemical Corn Exchange Bank, 30 Broad St., New York 15,

N. Y.
BORN: Oct. 21, 1910, Pittsburgh, Pa. PARENTS: James Winfield Welsh, ‘o1,

Ada Page Clement.

PREPARED AT: Newtown High School, Elmhurst, Long Island, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1933.

MarRIED: Dorothy Jean Bristol, June 22, 1940, Forest Hills, N. Y. crirpren;
Elizabeth Page, Dec. 6, 1942; James Winfield, 3d, May 3, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clement William Welsh, ’34.

OCCUPATION: Assistant trust officer, Chemical Corn Exchange Bank.

MEMBER OF: Forest Hills Gardens Community House; Ocean Club of Forest
Hills.

THIS piece of autobiographical writing has proved uncommonly
difficult and is likely to produce, as side developments of all the
research involved, a visit to one’s attorney to have a new will
drawn, a check-up with the insurance man and perhaps, if worse
comes to worst, a visit with one’s psychiatrist. I suppose a Class
Life means something cooked up for Class consumption with no
necessary Close correlation with historical fact.

After graduation I spent two intellectually interesting years at
the Business School. This not only postponed looking for a job
from 1931 to 1933, but was also intended to have subsequent fi-
nancial advantages. Unfortunately for this Report, the reputa-
tion of the Business School, and the 1931 record in the Harvard
Fund, to name only a few remotely interested parties, these ad-
vantages have never been reduced to hard cash.

I like to think this has been not entirely a personal failure, but
rather due to my conservative choice of business. Not only was
it banking, but banking’s poor relation, the personal trust depart-
ment. This is a rather fascinating service type of business and I
have been in it steadily since 1935 and also with the same bank,
or its successor by merger.

We very rarely travel any more, chiefly because it doesn’t
seem to fit our children’s desires or needs, but we hope to turn
over a new leaf in this respect in the next twenty-five years, In
politics I like to feel I’m an independent voter, although I still
seem to register as a Republican. In religion I have no doubt

[ 1056 ]

Cae a gm I AI aN em RIT PO 0

DEP NR CTE C pe tas Re EA

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that I’m dependent, dependent on the Episcopal church I in-
herited and which, like a certain temporal institution in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, has been a source of inspiration over

the years.

HENRY BARNARD WESSELMAN

HOME ApDpRESS: 965 Fifth Ave. New York 21, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 597 Fifth Ave. New York 17, N. Y.

BorN: April 10, 1909, New York, N. Y. parents: Henry Barnard Wessel-
man, Blanche Montgomery Williams,

PREPARED AT: Trinity School, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREES A.B., 1931; LL.B. 1935.

marrieD: Alice Wade Sholes, May 25, 1940, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Henry Barnard, 3d, August, 1941; J. P. C. Christopher, 2d, June, 1947.

occuPaTION: Lawyer.

OFFices Herp: Associate, Root, Clark, Buckner & Ballantine, 1935-36, Townley,
Updike & Carter, 1936-39; own law firm, 1939-42; secretary, resident
counsel and director, Arthur G. Blair, Inc., 1942-48; director, P. Bal-
lantine & Sons, since 1953; member, Society of New York Hospital,
since 1943; vice-chairman of finance, Manhattan Council, Boy Scouts

of America, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Clove Valley Rod & Gun Club; Metropolitan Club, Fencers
Club; Quogue Field Club; Harvard Club of New York; Association of
the Bar of the City of New York; American Bar Association.

PuBLicaTions: Historical introduction to Aldo Nadi’s On Fencing, Dutton,

1943.
ALTHOUGH this, as a license for unbridled egotism, seems
roughly equivalent to a license to steal, I herewith contain myself
to only two items: first, the admission of the amazing speed
with which the past twenty-five years have gone by without my
having accomplished any of the glorious things I had intended
to do in my undergraduate resolutions; and second, to mention
a few of the high spots which stand out in retrospect, although
at the time they seemed far out-weighed by the vastness of the
Paramount Reorganization or the millions of tons of ships we
turned out during the war. They were: the peculiar judging
and scoring system of the Amateur Fencers’ League of America,
which accorded me a national ranking of fifth and an Olympic
squad rating of the same, although I had been tied for first
slace in the immediately previous National Foils Championship;

[ 1057 ]

eT a UNH EENStEw-enenenmeyr-ociesi parents AER AP
a eel

HARVARD CLASS OF IQ31

the amazingly frank write-ups of the value of the underlying
properties far beyond their actual value by the officers of a
large guaranteed mortgage society which, surprisingly, went out
of business after the bank holiday of 1933; the English ship
which had not let the crew disembark for four and a half years
— they went to the nearest bar and drank boilermakers until
all were prostrate on the floor; the ditto ship with the crew of
Indian untouchables and their peculiar living habits; that ship
also carried Bubonic plague, and when the exterminator’s men
pumped cyanide into the hold, rats the size of airdales grappled
with the men armed with baseball bats, while other men with
army rifles picked off similar rats dropping from the ship’s lines
lest they spread the plague in New York; more recently the thrill
of not knowing what each new case will unfold.

There has not been time for travel or much for hobbies, except
for a little fishing, spring and summer, and hunting birds in the
fall, intermixed with some mediocre week-end golf. Politically
and economically only two things concern me: one, the fact
that organized labor has reached a point where corporations can-
not afford another raise and their purchases are resisting price
increase caused by the very raises they are asking for; also, that
between 1960 and 1962 someone in Russia will mistakenly push
a button and needlessly set off the holocaust.

CHARLES AUGUSTUS WHEELER
SEE Appendix.

MORGAN DIX WHEELOCK

HOME appress: Byram Lake Road, Mount Kisco, N. Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Braislin, Porter & Wheelock, Inc., 545 Fifth Ave, New
York 17, N. Y.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1909, New York, N. Y. Parents: William Hawkhurst
Wheelock, ’98, Catharine Morgan Dix.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarrieD: Sylvia Bender, July 20, 1935, Mount Kisco, N. Y. ciipres:
E. Frederick (stepson), Feb. 19, 1927 (7. Jean Lowery, April 28, 1955);
William Hawkhurst, 2d, Sept. 16, 1936; Morgan Dix, Jr., July 9, 1938.

[ 1058 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OccUPATION: Real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, secretary, director, Braislin, Porter & Wheelock,
Inc. Butler & Baldwin, Inc., since 1949; director, brokerage division,
Real Estate Board of New York, 1953-56; trustee, New York Gencalogi-
cal and Biographical Society, since 1955, Boys’ Clubs of America, since
1946, Children’s Aid Society, since 1940 (president since 1950), Northern
Westchester Hospital, since 1941, Northern Insurance Company, since
1938, Assurance Company of America, since 1945, American Irving Sav-
ings Bank, since 1947; treasurer, Harvard Club, since 1952; vice-president,
Harvard Alumni Association, 1955-56; major, U. S. Army Air Force
Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Bedford Golf & Tennis Club; Church Club of New York;
Provident Loan Society; Corporation of the Presbyterian Hospital; Soci-
ety of the Cincinnati; University Glee Club of New York (associate) ;
St. George's Society of New York; Long Island Country Club; Asso-
ciation of Ex-Members of Squadron A, Inc.

PuBLications: “Prisoner of War Manual”, Army Air Forces, Washington,

D.C, 1945.

A BUSY quarter-century has elapsed since your Tree Orator’s
ignominious handling by his classmates which almost undid him
and the Yard cop who rallied to his side that afternoon in June,
1931. Following rapidly thereafter came the beginning of my
business career as a realtor (almost as horrid a word as lubri-
torium). It has proved varied and profitable, first as an associate
of my father for eighteen years and now for the past seven years
as one-third owner of a smaller firin with two estimable associ-
ates. A romance of twenty-one months, including an exchange of
daily letters throughout the courtship, culminated in a most
happy marriage wherein, in addition to acquiring the right life-
mate, I also fell heir to a thoroughly satisfactory stepson. As
this goes to press, he has not only received his M.D. from
Columbia-Presbyterian, after chalking up a civil engineering
degree from M.LT. and serving his stint in the U.S. Army learn-
ing Japanese, but he has just taken unto his bosom a charming
wife and made us the proud parents of our first and only daughter
(even though an in-law),

Nature taking its course, there are two other men-children:
William who finished at St. Paul’s this June, 1955, with a gift for
journalism, and Morgan, Jr., one year to go at St. Paul’s School
and then medicine (he hopes) or the stage (in which department
he has already eclipsed his father with ease),

[ 1059 }

HARVARD CLASS OF I931-
Our collective home, one in Westchester, the other in New

York City, is a happy one, There are murmurs at times that the

extra-curricular activities in which I engage are too time-consum-

ing. Although I have no immediate plans for retirement, I have

sufficient in the avocation line to preoccupy me. Frankly, a

recent study of the Federal Income Tax laws would almost tempt

me to move up the retirement date, for it is apparent there would

be more for us and less for our Uncle Sam.

My work with charities, especially the Children’s Aid Society,
is one of the most rewarding activities possible and I recommend
it highly to those with time to give to helping the children of
those less fortunate than themselves.

Military service, which extended for forty months, was with
the U.S. Army Air Force. In my case, classification managed
twice to find the square hole into which to fit this square peg.
Although active service overseas did not come my way, the
work was absorbing and the time passed as rapidly and reward-
ingly as one could expect under the circumstances.

We have had our ups and downs. Fortunately, we are all
endowed with the precious modicum, a sense of humor, which
has seen us through serious illnesses, major problems, and the
sad loss of close members of the family. Our faith has stood by
in the rough spots and we try to do our fair share in the Church
in gratitude for the strength we have found there.

When there is time, trout fishing, duck and up-land game
shooting, golf, a winter vacation in Florida, and _ periodic
European excursions go a long way toward recharging the bat-
tery and bringing a fresh prospectus.

Above all, whatever success I have attained can in great part
be attributed to my friends. In sequence, I list my family, mv
school and college associates, and the friends I have made since.
The value of friends can never be fully measured, but without
them the zest to prove oneself would be more difficult to come
by, and the striving for a world at peace impossible. Had we
these twenty-five years to live over, we could think of many ways
of improving on our mistakes and omissions. It can only be
hoped that whatever wisdom we have acquired to date will serve
to make our contribution to the world in the next twenty-five
years even more worth while.

[ 1060 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT TRISTRAM WHITCOMB

HOME ADDRESS: 391 State St, Albany 10, N. Y.

OFFICE ADRESS: N. Y. State Dept. of Education, Div. of Vocational Re-
habilitation, 444 Broadway, Albany, N. Y.

porn: April 18, 1909, Brockton, Mass. parents: Charles Tristram Chase
Whitcomb, Charlotte Chapouil Waterman.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marriED: L, Emilie Ruchti, June 12, 1954, DeWitt, N. ¥.

occupation: Professional work in vocational rehabilitation of physically

and mentally handicapped persons.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club, Boston; Adirondack Mountain

Club, Albany, N. Y.

AFTER graduation from college, I think the majority of us felt

that getting our first real job was the most important thing at

that time. Having tried a couple of temporary jobs during the
depression, I started in the industrial personnel management field

as personnel manager of the New Bedford, Massachusetts, mill

of Revere Copper & Brass, Inc., in January, 1934. This type of

work I found fitted in well with my interests, and the experience

in about every phase of factory personnel activity there was

valuable, and kept me very busy for the next seven years. In

1941 I had an opportunity to transfer to the Rome, New York,
general personnel offices of the company, where I specialized in
company training programs and some personnel research.

During the thirties, I developed an interest in mountain climb-

ing, and while I never did any rock climbing, it has remained
a hobby through the present time, diminishing in intensity with
advancing age. Travel, generally to various scenic areas chiefly
in the United States, frankly appeals to me, and I have spent a
number of vacations in this connection.

At first I looked too scrawny to Uncle Sam, but in April, 1942,
ie finally said he thought he had a place for me, and this eventually
sroved to be in the Army Air Force. This was doing personnel
work, including the classification and assignment of troops to
‘arious Air Force schools and jobs, to many of which I am sure
hey did not want to go. My own stations were in the States
or a long time (North Carolina, California, Texas, Florida) in

re Air Training Command, and like most of us in the service, I

oked forward to an overseas assignment. Finally I was able to

[ 1061 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193!

get shipped out from San Francisco, under the Fifth Air Force
going to Tacloban in Leyte, then to Laog in Luzon, then to |e
Shima in Okinawa, and finally to Chitose Air Base in Hokkaido,
Japan. The last assignment looked uncomfortably like an in-
definite Army of Occupation job, but the old age “convenience
of the government” provision for men over thirty-five caught
up with me, and I was flown to an air base near Tokyo and shortly
thereafter shipped across safely. Being abroad for a while gives
one a chance to think about what we really do have over here,
and the good old U.S.A. looked mighty good to me as we
sailed down Puget Sound and landed at Seattle. After a few
days there, I entrained for home in the East and final discharge
in December, 1943. Not very much of my three years and seven
months in service was near any combat, but I kept busy nearly
every day of that time on the personnel work which the Aw
Force felt was necessary. For many of us in this age group,
what we gave up most was time, but now it seems something of
a privilege to have been in.

Farly in 1946 I was appointed to a position in the Veterans
Administration, New York City, in vocational rehabilitation. |
had always had an interest in this work, and gained some valu-
able experience in a field position in counties in the Metropolitan
area, working on the vocational adjustment of disabled veterans.
Later I did some Federal personnel administration, also in the
Veterans Administration, up to November, 1949, when I ac-
cepted an appointment in the Division of Vocational Rehabili-
tation, New York State, Albany, as vocational rehabilitation
supervisor. I have continued here through the present time,
where my duties are divided between office and field work.
Most of vocational rehabilitation is carried on throughout the
U.S.A. under state direction, and New York State is trying to
keep among the leaders in what has become another professional
field. Recently, expansion has been put underway so that through
vocational guidance, training, restoration, and placement, physi-
cally or mentally handicapped persons may become properly ad-
justed vocationally and in greater numbers. My duties here keep
me pretty busy, and the problems met give quite a challenge,
but I do find that there are many satisfactions in this work and
expect to remain in this field.

[ 1062 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After appearing to some of my friends a confirmed bachelor,
I met here in Albany a girl named Emilie Ruchti, and we were
married on June 12, 1954. Emilie, a former teacher and of Swiss
ancestry, having excellent cooking and homemaking capacities
known to persons from that country, has managed to get some
weight on me at last. We live in our apartment in Albany, and
are planning to build our “dream house” in this area some time
in the near future. We enjoy frequent outings in the mountains
and lakes of upstate New York, and get to New England once
in a while for a few days’ vacation. For a person brought up
around Boston, I shall probably always remain a New Englander,
but have come to like New York State. We look forward with
pleasure to the Twenty-fifth Reunion and renewed Harvard

associations,

OGDEN WHITE

HOME aporess: Far Hills, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White, Weld & Co., 40 Wall St, New York 5, N. Y.

Born: May 21, 1909, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Alexander Moss White, 'g2,
Elsie Ogden.

preparep AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931.

Marnie: Sally Sprague, Aug. 8, 1931, Prouts Neck, Maine, CHILDREN: Sally,
July 3, 1932 (mm. Charles C. Lee, Jr., June 27, 1953); Patricia, May 15,
1934 Gn. C. William Timpson, Jr., Dec. 3, 1955); Ogden, Jr, Sept. 21,
1936; Alexandra, May 26, 1939. GRANDCHILDREN: Sally Sprague Lee,
Aug. 1, 1954; Diana Lincoln Lee, Sept. 6, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Moss White, Jr., ’25.

occupation: Investment banker — general partner, White, Weld & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Stone & Webster, Inc., 1938-41; chief, Board
of Economic Warfare Mission in Buenos Aires, Argentina, U. S. execu-
tive officer, member Combined Production and Resources Board, Wash-
ington, D. C. 1942~45; associated with Laurance S. Rockefeller, 1946-54;
director, New York Heart Association, 1947-48, Templeton Growth
Fund of Canada, Ltd., Howe Sound Company, Heights Company; for-
mer director, Filatures et Tissages Africains; vice-president and member
board of managers, Memorial Center for Cancer and Allied Diseases,
since 1948; trustee, United States Council of the International Chamber of
Commerce, Prison Association of New York; former trustee, Brooklyn
Trust Company; officer, Order of the Crown, Belgium.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Hills Country Club; Essex Fox Hounds; Links Club;
River Club.

[ 1063 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

AFTER getting married in August, 1931, I spent about a year in
training at the Guaranty Trust Company before moving to Stone,
Webster & Blodgett to learn the securities business. The years

1932 and 1933 were a lean time in this trade and, consequently, |

transferred to the new business department of Stone & Webster,

Inc. In 1938 I was made a vice-president and among other activi-

ties did a bit of traveling around in search of both engineering

and construction contracts.

In March, 1940, in Bogota, Colombia, something described as
an unfilterable virus caught up with me with the result that I was
laid up for some months, the condition being uncertainly diag.
nosed as either neuro- or polio-myelitis. About the only result of
this intermission was that I do not have to play tennis anymore,
which I never enjoyed much anyway, and can limit my athletic
activity to the game of golf at which I continue to hack.

Following Pearl Harbor, I took a leave of absence from Stone
& Webster and moved to Washington where I was occupied
initially with various and sundry civilian jobs which led to an
eighteen-month tour in Buenos Aires as head of the Board of
Economic Warfare Mission to Argentina. This was a rewarding
experience in a number of ways. In 1944 I returned to Washing-
ton and became United States executive officer of the Combined
Production and Resources Board, which was responsible princi-

pally for the programming and allocation of items in scarce
supply. Unlike a lot of classmates who had a rough time during
the war, I spent a good amount of time in a desk chair, a bit of
time traveling in South America and abroad, and plenty of time
wrangling in endless meetings with representatives of the various
agencies and departments of government concerned with the war
effort.

Following the war, I became associated with Laurance S. Rock-
efeller in New York for the particular purpose of investigating
the establishment of industry in the under-developed areas, The
investigation led first to the formation of a cotton textile mill in
the Belgian Congo together with a Belgian group. This was one
of a number of so-called venture situations which engaged the
greater part of my time until 1954, when I decided to join the
investment banking firm of White, Weld & Company where I am
now. a

[ 1064 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Charitable interests have included an assignment in 1947 as
chairman of the New York Heart Association Campaign, and
more recently for the last seven years an active association with

Memorial Center for Cancer and Allied Diseases of which Iam a
vice-president.

Politically, I believe I am a good Republican, and from time to
time participate actively in Republican affairs in the state of New
Jersey.

That is about the story except for a dairy farm, which I shall
not claim to be very profitable, but which is at least a relaxation
from the turmoil of the investment business. I have two daughters
now married, one to an Eli, Class of 1950, and the other to a

Harvard man, Class of 1952. My son hopes to enter Harvard in
the fall of 1956, after the present year in Switzerland learning the
ways of the world. A third daughter is trying hard to finish her
scholastic career. Two granddaughters have arrived, but prob-
ably will not make the Reunion.

At this writing, I am endeavoring along with a few dozen
other classmates to raise funds for the Class Gift, to pay for the
Reunion, and the printing of this Twenty-fifth Anniversary
Report.

THOMAS JOHN WHITE

OME ADpRESS: §9 Michaels Way, Atherton, Calif,

FFICE appress: 625 Market St., Room 1003, San Francisco, Calif.

orn: Dec. 17, 1910, New York, N. ¥, parents: Thomas Francis White,

Minnie Alice Spoor.

ZEPARED AT: Long Beach Polytechnic High School, Long Beach, Calif.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: $.B. IN E.E., 1931.

arriep: Helen Imelda Callier, Jan. 29, 1937, San Francisco, Calif. (divorced

1950); Adele Peyton Kane, May, 1951, Reno, Nev. ciitpren: Kathleen
Marie, Oct. 13, 1943; Jennifer, Dec. 10, 1945; Richard Thomas, Dec. 14,
1947; John Devin, Oct. 25, 1953; William Conrad, Jan. 20, 1943 (step-
son); Robert Blair, Jan. 6, 1944 (stepson).

CUPATION: San Francisco branch manager, American Blower Corporation;
engineering and sales in the field of heating, ventilating, air condition-
ing and power plant equipment.

Ices HELD: President, Piedmont Pines Improvement Club, 1946, Golden

[ 1065 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Gate Chapter, American Society of Heating, Ventilating and Air
Conditioning Engineers, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Golden Gate Chapter, A.S.H. & A.E.,; Harvard Club of San

Francisco.

I MUST be a confirmed procrastinator as it took the Swan Song
to shake me out of my lethargy and report on my past twenty-
five years, Just a hint to future class reunion committees, don’t
make the goads so interesting — you might get a quicker re-
sponse.

During the summer following graduation, I learned that a
Bachelor of Science degree in Engineering was certainly no pass-
port to employment. With autumn drawing nearer than pros-
pects, I decided to go to Caltech for a Master’s degree. In the
course of trying to make the necessary financial arrangements, |
was sidetracked by an offer of a position with a Pasadena family
as a companion to a chap about my age who had epilepsy. The
lack of finances for the former resulted in my acceptance of the
latter and I spent the next three and a half years living in very fine
circumstances. There was plenty of golf, bridge, shows and travel,

including two trips to Europe and four across the country. Al-

though, at the time, I was restless to get away from there and
into engineering, I have often looked back and wished I could
relive some of the highlights of that period.

Finally, in February of 1935, I moved to the San Francisco Bay
area where I worked along the waterfront as an assistant cooper,
dock sweeper and finally an ILWU cargo-checking clerk. It was
during that year that I met a local consulting engineer who rec-
ommended me to the American Blower Corporation. I entered
their student training course in February of 1936, almost twenty
years ago to this writing, and have been very happy with them
and the type of work. This company, a division of American
Radiator-Standard Sanitary Corporation, is engaged in the manu-
facture and sale of heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and
power plant equipment and fluid drives. At present, I am manager
of the San Francisco sales office.

We all have our personal tragedies, and mine came in the form
of a divorce in June of 1950. Although I do retain custody of the
children, they live with their mother except for week-ends. In
May of 1951 I married Adele Kane and, figuratively speaking,

[ 1066 ]

pe ngeeent ny garter taeeet te Se I

neat sae ET

aceee pine pe cote
ee ME TIE 8ST -

gone ohhh
Saye oS -

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with her two, became the father of five overnight — that num-
ber now increased to six —hers, mine, and ours.

As for hobbies — have you ever tried to keep up with six kids?
I do enjoy a swim in our pool and still get in an occasional game
of golf. My club activities consist of the Harvard Club of San
Francisco and the American Society of Heating and Air Con-
ditioning Engineers. I was president of the Golden Gate Chapter
of the latter group in 1952-53. I am also former president of the
Piedmont Pines Improvement Club.

It is hard to believe that twenty-five years have passed since
graduation. I certainly don’t seem to feel much older or at
times, I’m told, act much bolder. Time and again I have asked
myself, “Did Harvard do anything for you?” and, “If you had it
to do over again, would you go there?” To both questions there
has always been a hardy “Yes!”

WENDELL JAMES WHITE

HOME AppREsS: 232 North St., Pittsfield, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: 74 North St., Pittsfield, Mass.

BORN: April 7, 1897, Bath, Maine. parents: Robert Grover White, Mary
Marie King.

PREPARED AT: Morse High School, Bath, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: 8.B., 1931.

UN MARRIED,

occupation: Vocational counselor.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club, American Legion; National Rehabilitation Asso-

ciation; Y.M.C.A.

I NEVER married as I could not find a woman who met my re-
quirements in general. I have been engaged in the physical, voca-
tional and social rehabilitation of the handicapped all my life.
The aim has been to guide and prepare physically handicapped
people so that they might become self-supporting through re-
munerative employment. This problem often involves hospitali-
zation, surgery, artificial appliances, school training, etc. My job
has been sponsored by the U. 8S. Government.

I was an officer in World War I. I like hiking and all other
types of sports except boxing. Have always been affiliated with
the Congregational Church, as it has never interfered with my

[ 1067 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

freedom of thought and action; I consider myself neither a Demo-
crat nora Republican, but a liberal with an international point of
view.

FREDERIC ALLEN WHITING, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Ogunquit, Maine.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frederic Allen Whiting, Olive
Elisabeth Cook.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

mMarRieD: Philippa Gerry, August, 1932, Ogunquit, Maine, Eugenia Harman,
May, 1936, Washington, D. C.; Rose Whyte Fisk, October, 1949, New
York, N. Y. cup: Frederic Allen Whiting, 3d, Nov. 5, 1939.

occuPATION: Associate director, Museum of Art of Ogunquit.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, 1936-42, staff member, since 1931, Magazine of Art,
chief, exhibit section, Overseas Branch, Office of War Information, New
York City and Washington, 1942-45, free-lance writer, poet, 1945-50;
special consultant, Department of the Army, 1951.

PUBLICATIONS: Assembled loan exhibition of paintings and water colors by
Winslow Homer, 1954; edited catalogue, 1955, other publications in
Magazine of Art and Art Index.

HARVARD indifference came naturally to me and always fitted
me like my own skin. I think it was the best thing that I learned
to accept in my brief career at Cambridge. I also had the honor
of knowing several fine minds whose hosts have now departed the
Yard and the sphere. My greatest trip was across the Atlantic
under sail in 1931. I have also been to San Francisco by train. |
have driven the length of the eastern seaboard more times than ]
wish to remember. At last it is no longer necessary to leave the
State of Maine without commanding reason.

This is not narrative style but it’s precisely what I have to
convey, being more of an essayist, I suppose, than a man. All
tight. It is doubtful that I shall show up for the great meeting
of June, 1956; the state of my health is fair but I fear the Reunion
would be too much for me. Besides, June is one of our fine
months right here and I must brace for the vacation season or else
go lobstering.

My life has been very full and not without event but it did not
happen in slick narrative style that I arrive where I now am.
James Joyce would be at a loss himself to handle the materials

[ 1068 |

A Btn AT hg LON BE BOT
esas pap mere beim, armors att *

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which I hope to make a slender novel of before ’'m through.
I discovered Joyce some years after leaving the Harvard premises;
to be fair, association with certain undergraduates, a tutor named
Wells and Professor John Livingston Lowes must have stirred me
and spurred me to make my subsequent engrossing and rewarding
acquaintances among books. Also, I dare say, among men and
women. Why is it that it took Princeton to give us Scott Fitz-
gerald, the mature writer of Tender is the Night? When I may
seem here or elsewhere to strike out at Harvard, I am actually
beating my breast and muttering mea culpa. I should have done
more, gained more and perhaps (undoubtedly!) given more to the
institution of mind and dollar bills.

I am a registered Democrat right here in Maine. I have been
known to split my ticket which makes me sound like an Inde-
pendent. It depends on the issues, the men and machines, Damned
if I’ll be pressured here or anywhere. J take my politics seriously
but not beyond the reclaiming relief of a belly-laugh when the
campaign gets hot.

Just as seriously in middle life I begin to take religion, and my
set through the eddies and currents of uncertainty is to Peter’s
external rock, the Roman Church. For this I find historical,
mental and emotional grounds — certainly not those of proximity
or family habitude. Here too one must take the lonely course
sometimes.

Although professionally my chief interests have apparently
been chiefly related to the visual and literary arts, I am a keen
collector of long-play records— Gregorian chant, Palestrina,
Bach, Hindemith, Armstrong, Bessie Smith, Beiderbecke, Jelly-
Roll Morton, Dave Brubeck, to seize a few names and categories
at random. I have more records than I have time to play. My
great cat, Roger, wakens me good and early in the morning for
breakfast, his and ours. It is not a bad life.

EBEN ESMOND WHITMAN

HOME appress: Sharon, Conn.

OFFICE AppRess: Connecticut Yankee, Sharon, Conn.

BORN: Nov. 6, 1907, New York, N. Y. Parents: Eben Esmond Whitman,
‘04, Jane Whitthorne Harvey.

[ 1069 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I931

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B I93I.

MarRiED: Hilda Clifford Stedman, Oct. 31, 1947, New York, N. Y. cumprey:
John Stedman; Hilda Clifford.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Harvey Whitman, ’41.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Connecticut Yankee, a retail and mail order house.

OFFICES HELD: Director, William Whitman Company, Inc., New York, 1936-
45, Monomac Spinning Mills, Lawrence, Mass., 1936-45; vice-president
in charge of sales, Kroy, Inc., Lowell, Mass., 1950-52; partner, Con-
necticut Yankee, Country Store, Sharon, Conn., since 1953.

MEMBER OF: A.D. Club, Cambridge; Sharon (Conn.) Country Club.

RIGHT after graduating from college, I became associated with
Stone & Webster, Inc., in the capacity of a messenger boy and, |
may add, if my present occupation doesn’t become more lucrative,
I may well end up as one.

After about fourteen months, I joined the family business,
namely, William Whitman Company, Inc., selling agents for sev-
eral large cotton and worsted spinning and weaving mills located
in New York City. Initially, I spent considerable time as an ap-
prentice at various mills in New Bedford, and Lawrence, Massa-
chusetts, learning the various spinning and weaving processes, and
most particularly at the Arlington Mills in Lawrence. After a
space of time, I took up various jobs in the selling end which
covered such duties as selling cotton yarn to becoming assistant to
the president. In other words, they were throwing the book at me.

In the summer of 1940 I joined Troop D of Squadron A, toist
Cavalry Regiment, horse-mechanized, New York National Guard,
as a private, and in January of the following year I was inducted
into the Federal Service and shipped out to Fort Devens, Ayer,
Massachusetts. After receiving considerable basic training, I
spent a fair amount of time instructing new recruits who were
arriving daily at the post.

My next assignment was to report for Officer Candidate School
at the Quartermaster School, Camp Lee, Petersburg, Virginia,
and, upon graduating, was assigned to the school to instruct new
classes coming in. During this time J had the opportunity of ad-
ditional training in advanced officer classes and was also sent to the
Infantry School at Fort Benning, Columbus, Georgia. On return-
ing to Camp Lee, I was assigned as school range officer to instruct
combat officers on special leave from overseas in the art of Infan-

[ 1070 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

try tactics. Not having been overseas myself, there were some
pretty nervous days for me in the classroom.

In the summer of 1944, It occurred to someone in Washington
that what textile background I had had might be put to good
use, so I was sent to the Textile Procurement Division of the QM
and then on to Philadelphia Quartermaster Depot for additional
training prior to joining the joint Army-Navy Purchasing Com-
mission in New York City, However, while at Philadelphia I re-
ceived orders to go to Germany as part of the Group Control
Council, Office of Military Government, United States Zone, and
spent about a year over there doing everything from attending
textile quadrapartite meetings with the British, French and Rus-
sians to overseeing mill operations between Berlin, Stuttgart and
Munich. In March of 1946 I was sent home and separated from
the service, but temporarily remained in the Reserve as a major.

I next returned to William Whitman Company which had
been sold in 1945 and, after a year or so, joined Burlington Mills
in the capacity of administrative manager of their men’s wear
fabric division. After a year or so, this was followed by a position
with Kroy, Inc., as vice-president in charge of sales. Kroy, like
Serutan, was actually the York Knitting Mills of Toronto, Canada,
but spelled backwards. My function was to try to sell or license
to American mills a wool shrink-resist process. It was a very in-
teresting experience and involved much travel to New England,
the South, and especially Washington, D.C. since the process
was extensively used in processing clothing for the Armed Forces.

About two years ago, my wife, a working girl in her own right
and on the editorial staff of Town & Country magazine, decided
to go into partnership with me and move to the country, We
thought of setting up a country store handling all types of quality
merchandise and finally settled in Sharon, Connecticut, up in the
northwest corner of the state. I might add that had it not been

for the untiring and unselfish tutelage of our classmate, Sam
Batchelder (Mr. “Johnny Appleseed” himself), our venture would
not have been possible. We call our store The Connecticut
Yankee and after only two years of operations, I can definitely
establish the fact it is the most tiring, most confining, most hazard-
ous and least lucrative venture that has confronted either of
us to date, but all in all, the most satisfying since we are our own

[ 1071 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

bosses — a very important point. We also hope in time to expand
our currently small mail order operation in order to tide over the
winter “starvation months”.

Our present occupation doesn’t leave us much time to play with
the children but they are fortunate in having two wonderful
grandmothers whom they visit in the summer and are therefore
assured of plenty of salt water swimming and sunshine. We have
time for a little tennis in the summer but excess weight and a
cranky back tend to slow up the old man. Well, that’s about all
I can put out at this time, but hope to have something more excit-
ing to report at the soth provided the boys don’t goad me into
an early grave.

WILLIAM THOMAS WHITNEY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Randolph Center, Vt.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1908, Brooklyn, N. Y. parents: Travis Harvard Whitney,
‘oo, Rosalie Loew.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

marrigep: Ann C. Van Bibber, Oct. 21, 1933, Bel Air, Md. cuitpren: William
Thomas, Jr., Aug. 6, 1935; Susanna, Dec. 7, 1937.

HARVARD SON: William Thomas Whitney, Jr., ’57.

HARVARD BROTHERS: ‘Travis Harvard Whitney, Jr., ’25 (deceased); John Loew
Whitney, 28 (deceased).

occuPATION: Owner and operator of a purebred Jersey farm.

OFFICES HELD: Officer, Jersey cattle clubs and societies.

I HAVE been farming since graduation, briefly in New York
State, for many years near Newburyport, Massachusetts, and
since a bad fire there four years ago, in Vermont. My herd now
consists of over one hundred head of purebred Jerseys, all but a
very few representing my own breeding, and I am still expanding
my operations. A few years ago I started selling the other fellows’
cows as well as my own and I now manage almost all of the pure-
bred Jersey sales in the northeastern United States and eastern
Canada, consult on breeding problems of the herd owners and, in
general, interest myself in Jersey cattle affairs. As a result J am
away from home more than I like but enjoy the work tremen-
dously and the association with some of the finest people im-
aginable, the farmers and breeders — a great bunch.

[ 1072 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It’s a good life and a Harvard degree seems to be a good intro-
duction to it— why, I can’t imagine. Aside from my farm and
sales business I don’t engage in any hobbies or sports for I find
my life full enough as it is— but 1 seem to retain my ability to
have fun just the same. If I had to do it over again, I'd do the

same.

BRADFORD ADAMS WHITTEMORE

HOME AND OFFicg appress: Longwood Towers, Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 21, 1908, Newton, Mass. parents: John Quincy Adams Whitte-
more, Charlotte Elizabeth Bradford.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milron, Mass.; Country Day School, Newron,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930.

MarriEp: Dorothy E. Hunter, Oct. 24, 1934, Salem, N. H. (divorced 1936);
Rose Morris, May 21, 1938, Elkcon, Md.

occupaTion: Genealogist; family trustee.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1937-38, director, 1937-50, Whittemore
Brothers Corporation, Cambridge; member membership committce, So-
ciety of the Cincinnati, New Hampshire; member committees on pub-
lications and finance, New England Historic Genealogical Socicty,;
member board of assistants, Massachusetts Society of Mayflower De-
scendants; delegate to the General Assembly, member of council, Soci-
ety of Colonial Wars, Massachusetts; member of council, Society of the
Descendants of the Colonial Clergy.

MEMBER OF: Boston Athenacum; Sons of the Revolution; Harvard Club of
Boston; Bostonian Society; Order of the Founders and Patriots of
America; New Hampshire Historical Society; American Meteorological
Society; Massachusetts Society of the Cincinnati.

pusications: “The Whittemore Family in America”, Register, New Eng-
land Historic Genealogical Society, serially January, 1952-October,

1954.
AS I look back over my life, the part I remember with the most
pride is my “tour of duty” at Lockheed. Given a 4F by the
Navy and the Army, I determined to do something anyway.
Airplanes, obviously, were more essential to the war effort than
shoe polish, so I got a job at Lockheed Aircraft in California in
their purchasing department. The idea, at that point in early 1942,
was not so much to purchase as to get the materials into the plant,
and the frequent frantic maneuverings to bring this about I shall
never forget.

[ 1073 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Up to that time I had paid scant attention to such vague abstrac-
tions as patriotism, but then I saw, in shocked amazement, the
number of physically-perfect specimens avoiding service by work-
ing there (and telling me I was crazy to do it when I had a 4F),
and the profound impression this made on my old Yankee con-
science, as I see it now in retrospect, became the starting point of
my interest in patriotic organizations. A glance above will show
this interest to be considerable.

Inasmuch as genealogy is an important part of these organiza-
tions, I sort of fell into the profession through the back door!
However, my liking for the subject deepened rapidly and the past
five years of working at it have proved the happiest of my life,
far more than those I had spent in the business world. In geneal-
ogy, you see, I’ve done something for others, specifically for the
thousands of Whittemores everywhere who are all descended
from the same original immigrant ancestor (whether they know
it or not).

During the past year, I’ve shelved the Whittemores temporarily
to do a job of genealogical research for the Society of the Cin-
cinnati in New Hampshire, on the descendants of eighty-odd New
Hampshire officers of the Continental Army in the Revolution
who have never been represented in the Society. This is a task
never before undertaken by any member of my state society in
its 170-year history, and I’m proud to be doing it, though it will
take years.

I have no family other than a wonderful wife about whose
many qualities I could write reams. I have traveled extensively all
my life and always loved it, even the years selling shoe polish
during the ’30’s. I’ve lived several years in California before and
during the war. My hobbies are the weather, golf, and, last but
not least, the stock market which I find fascinating and a subject
for endless study. In religion we are Episcopalians, but only
desultory churchgoers.

As one might conclude, I am a conservative Republican in poli-
tics, and for that reason one of my fondest hopes is to see Harvard
a lot less “pink” than it has been the past twenty-five years. I look
forward to that happy day and, until it comes, I shall continue a
bystander where its affairs are concerned.

[ 1074 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MORRIS FAXON WHORF

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Myrtle St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sears, Roebuck & Co., 201 Brookline Ave. Boston, Mass,

BORN: Oct. 15, 1908, Newton, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Webster Whorf, ’o2,
Clarissa Savage Frost.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Katharine Leatherbee, Oct. 23, 1936, Newton, Mass.

occuPATION: With Sears Roebuck & Company.

MEMBER OF: Bear Hill Golf Club.

I GUESS my wandering started in 1931, looking for a job and
then from job to job, A temporary halt occurred in 1938 when I
went to work for Sears Roebuck in Boston. While I am still with
Sears, there was the same hiatus for World War II that was ex-
perienced by many. The war meant starting over again, as my
first month’s take-home pay was somewhat under $10.00 Ulti-
mately I advanced to Officers Training School in Cavalry, of all
branches of service I knew the least about, at Fort Riley, Kansas.
After additional training in Augusta, Georgia, my unit was sent
to England. We landed in France just after D-Day and ran inter-
ference for General Patton’s Third Army. We moved across
France with few interruptions, fought our way into the heart of
Germany and, just as things seemed about over, were given a
new mission which took us south into Austria and the Bavarian
Alps, the most beautiful country anyone ever fought a war in.

Having been on the move so much during the war, a person
with any sense would have wanted to settle down and stay in one
place so I asked Sears to give me a job traveling. They were most
accommodating and J have been on the road since then through-
out New England and New York, though the week-ends are spent
at home — mostly on the golf course.

DAVID WIES

HOME appress: 6007 Yorkwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1101 N. Calvert St., Baltimore 2, Md.

BoRN: March 29, 1910, Malden, Mass. parents: Harris Wies, Celia Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: AB, 1931; MD. (Tufts Medical
School), 1935.

[ 1075 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

MarRRiED: Edith Glick, Jan. 2, 1938, Brockton, Mass.
OCCUPATION: Psychiatrist.
OFFICES HELD: Consultant in child psychiatry, Sinai Hospital, Baltimore,
psychiatric teaching consultant, Rosewood State Training School.
MEMBER OF: Junior Phi Beta Kappa; Phi Lambda Kappa Medical Fraternity,
A.DA.; Maryland Psychiatric Society; Maryland Association of Private
Practising Psychiatrists; American Psychiatric Association; Maryland
Medical—Chirurgical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Reports of Partial Frontal Lobectomy and Frontal Lobo-
tomy”, (with William Mixter and K. J. Tillotson).

I FIND that my field of concentration at Harvard (Semitic lan-
guages and history), with Zionism as an intense side interest, was
absorbed in my fibre somewhere. My minors in premedical sci-
ences resulted in my eventual large absorption in psychiatry. My
own personal psychoanalysis would tell you why I left Boston
and my institutional work at McLean Hospital in Belmont (so
largely a Harvard—Back Bay psychiatric retreat). My childless-
ness to some degree might explain why I came to Johns Hopkins
Hospital, and my study of child psychiatry, followed by five years
of work in the Child Study Center for emotionally disturbed
children in Baltimore. When I left that institution for the private
practice of psychiatry, I also helped build a psychiatric service at
the Baltimore School Department, a consultation service for the
Jewish Big Brother League for delinquent boys and a new
psychiatric service for the Department of Pediatrics at Sinai Hos-
pital in Baltimore.

A very large part of me became involved in political interests
(A.D.A.) and with special interest in the problems of negroes in
Baltimore, civil liberties and desegregation so vital here today.

Gourmet cookery also absorbed considerable interest, leading
to herb gardening which, in turn, led me to perennials (especially
alpines). For a year my hands have been in the soil I had not
touched since the age of twelve. Perhaps contiguous hobbies are
meteorology and geology; and, unfortunately, I haven’t gone
much farther west than Harper’s Ferry, West Virginia, to look
for shales or farther east than Calvert Cliffs, Maryland, to look
for fossils.

My wife has always been at my side at home and office to help
me with work and to help keep me together when I could not

[ 1076 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tolerate many more mothers of disturbed children. Now I look
forward to July 1, when kids go to camps.

I haven’t been to religious services since my Dad died, but I
don’t believe Freud has proved that God is a projection of man’s
infantile beliefs.

FRANS KAREL WIEST

HOME appress: 58 Colorado Ave., Highland Park 3, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Campbell-Ewald Co. General Motors Bldg., Detroit, Mich.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1910, Detroit, Mich. parents: Jacob Merton Howard Wiest,
Martha Hohly.

PREPARED aT: Detroit University School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1929-1930.

MarRRIED: Margaret West Corwin, Jan. 15, 1935, Detroit, Mich. cHILpREN:
Marthe Suzanne, Sept. 15, 1935; Margarethe, Feb. 15, 1937; Pieter Chris-
topher, May 17, 1940; William Paul Ferguson, Feb. 7, 1925 (stepson)
(m2. Elwanda Kuykendahl, June 15, 1946), Jere Corwin Ferguson (step-
son), Feb. 14, 1930. GRANDCHILDREN: Michael Kuykendahl Ferguson,

Nov. 25, 1940; Mark Kuykendahl Ferguson, Oct. 31, 1953.
occuPaTIoN: Assistant manager, Merchandising Department, Campbell-Ewald

Company.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I entered the College of Architecture
at Cornell where I completed a year and a half of architectural
design. In the summer of 1931, I went to Ottawa, Canada (home
of my mother and stepfather), where I found occasional work on
survey parties, on the drawing board and as a metalsmith. Devel-
oping this last pursuit, I set up a crafts shop in Ottawa to make
jewelry and ornamental metalwork while also selling weaving
and ceramics produced by a small group of handcraftsmen then
working near the capital.

In 1933, I returned to the States and was soon located in
Detroit, as instructor in copper-—— and pewter-smithing at the
Ford Artisan Guild —a craft school operated by the Ford Motor
Company to absorb trainees of the trade school for whom no
place could be made in the plant. On the side, I continued free-
lance work in pewter, copper and silver.

Shortly after my marriage in January, 1935, I joined the Michi-
gan State Highway Department as draftsman. I remained with
the department until entering the Army in 1946, as draftsman,

[ 1077 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

engineer, supervisor of printing and special graphics and chief

of the design and reproduction section.

Basic training took me to Georgia, whence I went to Engineer
OCS at Fort Belvoir. My first assignment after commissioning
was as instructor in drafting and blueprinting at the Army School
at Warton in England. When the school was closed in Novem-
ber, 1947, I was transferred to the Southampton area as provost-
marshal. In the next eighteen months, I served as port engineer
for Southampton, the rail transportation office at Frankfort, and
training officer at the Engineer School in Murnau, Bavaria. In
May, 1948, I returned to civilian status and with my family, who
had joined me in Germany in November of 1946, moved to
Munich with the Office of Military Government for Bavaria.
We remained in Munich until we were returned to the States in
November, 1949.

We settled down again (after an absence of fourteen years) in
Detroit. There I joined the advertising agency of Ruse & Urban.
After a year with them as art director and production manager,
I left to join A. J. Henderson Associates, a sales training and sales
promotion house, as production manager and, later, general man-
ager. After three years with Henderson’s and a short interlude
with Shelby Lithographing Company, I formed my present con-
nection with Campbell-Ewald Company as an account executive
with the sales promotion and merchandising department.

My principal hobby is collecting antiques — a pursuit to which
I was introduced by my wife many years ago and which has now
grown to a major interest, particularly in the early American
field. In addition, I enjoy hunting, skiing and water sports in
their seasons.

ALEXANDER WHITESIDE WILLIAMS

HOME ADpDRESS: 920 South St., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Little, Brown & Co., 34 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 17, 1909, Needham, Mass. parents: Moses Williams, ’91, Anne
Whiteside.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B., 19313 A.M., 1932.

UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: Moses Williams, Jr., ’28, M.B.A., ’30.

[ 1078 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
oocuParTion: Edito! Fe and secon un: Lint, Brown & Com mMpary
oaciees HELD: Music and assistant dramatic criti nm Hera 4. 1934 42,
tora 8.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Tennis and R et Club, Chib of oda N ol-
ume: ss Bro occu New Yo rk, Harva rd Club of New Yor kk Gormerly) .
>UBLICATIONS: Newspaper reviews, three articles in The Atlantic

NO one can sit down to write a ca psule autobiography after
wenty-five years without at least silently appraising himself.
ich is apt to be, especially in the case of a bachelor and a laborer

an intellectual field, a somewhat sour appraisal, A family man
n be proud of a definite social achievement. A business man

a creative man can also point to something he has done. But wn
profession in which I spent twelve years of the twenty-five
even to some extent in what 1 have been doing for the last
it, you don’t actually achieve much. You help, perhaps, but
n I think you merely whir like a child’s top. Thoreau wrote
3 Journal: “The youth gets together his materials to build a
re to the moon or, perchance, a palace or temple on the earth,
at length, the middle-aged man concludes to build a wood-
with them”. The following dry facts and few opinions ate
oodshed,

the two years following graduation, 1 continued at Har-
1 the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, taking my
1 1932 (the requirements for this degree in this field were
surdly easy). I really did not know what 1 wanted to do
‘permitted to tread water in this agreeable fashion because
er Was a generous man and a gloomy one, who had pre-
¢ depression years before,

that time | made the acquaintance of Philip Hale, the
hed music and drama critic and columnist of the Boston
de gave me a chance to write music reviews on this
then, through a series of lucky breaks, bvy the fall of
the job of music critic and assistant in the drama de-
For quite a while I enjoyed this work hugely, Tut 1
ince come to believe that most criticism by amateuls

f time and can 1n careless hands be injurious to the
ses f0 serve. Some people may want to tend t, Wut,
ccasional work by a professionel, i is a misc t0

tied day an art in self

1079 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Presently, World War II intervened. I have sufficiently de-
scribed my hitch in the Army in our Twentieth Anniversary
Report —no need for recapitulation here, It was mainly desk
work and boring enough. But I enjoyed the Army for the many
friends one makes in it and for the physical well-being it gave one
until, that is, the flesh-pots of Europe undid all that at the end.
It also helped me to make friends with some fine Belgians and
gave me an abiding affection for that interesting country. And,
finally, the best serious article I have ever written — for The
Atlantic — was a result of these experiences in Belgium.

Also I have related in our Twentieth how I came to leave the
Herald and became in the fall of 1948 an editor in the firm of
Little, Brown & Company, publishers. I was the more ready to
change, in that the Herald, goodness knows, was not growing any
more inspiring a newspaper to work for; and I had said all I had -
to say on such topics as Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony. So when
the late Alfred McIntyre, a great publisher and a good friend,
offered me the job I jumped at it. When you have a good book
and an interesting author to work with, or when you make a
real discovery, it is a most rewarding profession. It is also a
business which in recent years has been in a most turbulent state,
so that it can hardly be called dull. Ask those of our classmates
who are in it and you will buy yourself a lecture.

I still lead a very active social life. In this, I am afraid, I
typify the middle-aged bachelor — Thoreau would hardly ap-
prove. But I can report a curious aspect of bachelorhood: your
friends seek you out and trust you as godfather to their children.
I have eleven, I think (at Christmas, I know!). I have given up
active participation in music — not good enough to satisfy me;
but I still go regularly to the Boston Symphony. In athletics I
continue to play a lot of tennis, both the common or garden
variety and the more recondite classical game; and I still love to
walk in the woods and mountains. Some European travel and
the considerable amount of reading French I have to do for my
firm have kept me fairly fluent in that language. This past year
I have taken up earnestly the study of Spanish. This came about
when in the spring of 1954 I discovered I could not ask the sim-
plest question in Madrid and Barcelona— Spaniards won't of
can’t speak French.

[ 1080 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

This account of my past twenty-five years may sound some-
what flippant, but I have come to the conclusion that I am not
essentially a serious person or, at any rate, that it is folly to take
oneself seriously.

CHARLES ALEXANDER WILLIAMS

HOME AppREss: 2514 Collins Rd., Pittsburgh 35, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 2132, Cathedral of Learning, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
BORN: July 22, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Alexander Kilpatrick Williams,
Evelyn Louise Rand. -
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.B.A. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1947; PH.D. (Univ. of Pittsburgh), 1954.
marrieD: Ruth H. Dimick, Dec. 27, 1947, Boston, Mass. cxHiio: Susan Joslin,

April 23, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Assistant professor of transportation and public utilities.

OFFICES HELD: Past president and director, Pittsburgh chapter, Delta Nu
Alpha Transportation Fraternity, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Order of Artus; American Society of Traffic and Transporta-
tion, Inc. (certified member).

uBLicaTions: “Federal Excise Taxes on Transportation”, Traffic World,

1952.

JP to and including the time of our Class Reunion of 1941, my
areer had the same elements of difficulty and uncertainty that
arked the careers of most people during the depression years.
nce then I answered the “Greetings from a Committee of Your
‘iends and Neighbors”, which most of our Class members also
ceived. Two years of military duty followed, all of it within
2 continental United States. After that came the period of
dy necessary for the earning of a Master of Business Admin-
‘ation degree at the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce,
Iversity of Pennsylvania.

joined the faculty of the University of Pittsburgh in the
of 1947 as an instructor in the Department of Transportation
have continued as full-time member of the faculty since then,
ng been promoted to the rank of assistant professor a few
s.ago. I was one of the first persons to complete the exacting
irements for certified membership in the American Society

‘raffic and Transportation; ] completed the requirements for

[ 1081 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

the doctoral degree in 1954, doing it the hard way — while teach-
ing full time.

I expect to continue in the field of teaching at the collegiate
level and in the specialized area of transportation, traffic manage-
ment and public utilities.

HERMANN WARNER WILLIAMS, JR.
SEE Appendix.

DONALD ALEXANDER WILSON

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Hamilton Pl., Hempstead, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pennsylvania Railroad Co., Pennsylvania Station, New York,
N. Y.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1908, New York, N. Y. Parents: Donald Wilson, Ruth Alex-
ander.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Adele Kane, Dec. 26, 1935, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Adele Leroux, July 22, 1940, Dorothy Alexander, Oct. 30, 1945.

occupation; Chief rate clerk, Freight Traffic Department, Pennsylvania
Railroad Company.

ON September 1, 1931, I was employed by the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company in Boston and have been with them ever since.
After almost two years in Boston, I was transferred to New York,
then again to Boston, then to Philadelphia for ten years, and
finally in December, 1946, to New York where I am still located.
It may seem strange that an English major should enter the field
of transportation, but I come from a long line of Pennsylvania
Railroad men extending back to 1855.

I enjoy my work, but it would be foolish to say that I have no
regrets. Principally, I regret that I did not continue my education
in one of the University’s graduate schools. The importance of
graduate work, especially in the world today, cannot be too
highly emphasized,

My daughters are now aged ten and fifteen, and it is becoming
more and more apparent that a course in strategy and tactics
should be required in college for all prospective fathers. At this

[ 1082 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

point, I am reminded of the hapless husband who wrote recently
to one of the New York newspapers suggesting that since there are
obedience schools for dogs, it might be well to have one for wives.
In any event, my wife is patient, extremely so, as is witnessed by
the fact that by the time this goes to press, we shall have been
married for twenty years. I wish I could truthfully say that her
patience has been rewarded.

Since I have two daughters, it naturally follows that I have
been active in Cub and Boy Scouts for the past nine years. Have
also been active in Civil Defense and P.T.A.

Since it is now 10:15 P.M., and time for all good commuters
to be in bed, I shall sign off a la Ed Murrow, “Goodnight and

good luck”.

HARRY O'NEAL WILSON, JR.

HOME AporeEss: 411 W. Franklin St., Baltimore 1, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 407 W. Franklin St. Baltimore 1, Md.

BoRN: July 31, 1912, Baltimore County, Md. parents: Harry O'Neal Wilson,
Mary Elinor Waller. ,

PREPARED AT: Calvert School, Baltimore, Md.; private tutors.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931, DEGREES: A.B. 19313 A.M., 1932; PH.D. (North-
western Univ.), 1946.

MarrieD: Helen Bierma, June 22, 1940, Evanston, Ill. cHitpren: David, Aug.
6, 1942; Lee, Dec. 15, 1944; Elizabeth and Jean (twins), July 30, 1948;
Judith, Nov. 4, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Insurance executive — vice-president, treasurer and president.

MEMBER OF: American Society for the Advancement of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: A dissertation and one pamphlet.

WHAT does one include in his own “story?” (I have very
thoughtlessly misplaced the specimen vignettes you very thought-
rully sent.) This is a most distasteful chore. Believe it or not,
nany years ago when I received a similar request for my activi-
ies, thoughts, etc., I was naive enough to think they would not
»e printed. Much to my surprise and chagrin I discovered that
he editors included all the gruesome details. This time I have
een forewarned.

Would that I could invoke the Muse and summon literary aid
y some magic incantation to convert the humdrum and tedious
to an interesting account done in sparkling prose. Listing of

[ 1083 ]

CORNERO es orearemncaneriner xiwnticeenmmeenmemyaeaciedsig arene £1 far NMOS:



HARVARD CLASS OF I931

milestones is a wearisome job. How much duller to read. I sup-
pose I once was a bright young man full of promise. By switching
from economics to government I was able to pick up a Master's
degree in ’32 while still a teen-ager. Then, during the depression,
came five years in the family business, followed. by an interlude
of further graduate study. When my father died in 1939, I took
over his business and J have been at it ever since.

Part-time farming plus my regular job and family during the
war made a draft-dodger of me. I was able to polish off a dis-
sertation, however, right after the war in 1945 and so I received
a Ph.D. the next year. The only other honor, I guess — if, indeed,
it is an honor — has been three requests (so far unanswered) for
biographical material from the A. N. Marquis Company.

In the spring of 1954 in the middle of a second year’s stint of
jury duty, that current menace to middle-aged males, coronary
occlusion, caught me unexpectedly; so now I am truly a philos-
opher or, perhaps, in Cantab style circla early ’30’s, a “phee-
lousypher”, with a posterior myocardial infarct. I have been able
to hold up pretty well, though on a somewhat reduced schedule.
At present writing I have just been joined by distinguished com-
pany — Eisenhower. Regular walking has become a must. Try
a no-fat diet sometime!

A word or two about my immediate family. My overworked,
long-suffering spouse has put up with me now for more than
fifteen years. Taken singly, each one of the seven individuals
involved, I suspect, is a distinct and a rather delightful personality;
but taken as a group, I have my doubts. Oddly enough, John
Dewey inadvertently was responsible for the whole thing, but I
fear misinterpretation on my part of some of his principles anent
child rearing leads to too much individualism. It’s sort of a life
with bother.

As to convictions, I have very few. Like Lord Bryce, I have
generally been insufficiently enamoured of my own ideas to
seek to propagate them. I am an independent in politics with
conservative Republican leanings; a Methodist with Baptist ten-
dencies. What I need most, I believe, is to be exposed once again,
however briefly, to the radiant and unforgettable countenance of
Alfred North Whitehead. In the meantime, I shall cling and hope.

[ 1084 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

we spend the summers, helps too and we dream of some day
building an elementary house fronting the sea, somewhere in
the wild stretch near Truro, the rental of which will easily en-
compass months abroad for the whole family. (I’m told others
have had the same idea.) All we want is the best of both worlds!

WILLIAM RAYMOND WILSON

HOME Appress: Main Street, Townsend, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Co., 166 Broad St., Fitchburg, Mass.

BorRN: April 24, 1909, Amsterdam, N. Y. parents: William Wilson, Adella
Kate Whitney.

PREPARED AT: Amsterdam High School, Amsterdam, N. Y. Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927—1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRIED; Sarah Elizabeth Morse, July 19, 1933, Ticonderoga, N. Y. cuit-
DREN: Robert George, May 18, 1941; John William, March 4, 1944;
David Raymond, Jan. 13, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor of personnel accounting, small turbine and super-
charger department, General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Townsend PTA, 1953-55; president, Townsend
Little League Baseball Teams, 1955; chairman Troop Committee, Boy
Scout Troop No. ro, Fitchburg Area Council, 1955.

MEMBER OF: Townsend Parent-Teacher Association, Townsend Boy Scout
Troop Committee, Townsend Little League; Committee to Organize
Townsend Babe Ruth League Baseball; Townsend Community Couples
Club; Amsterdam Little Theatre, 1933-41.

AT graduation I had been away from home for five years. I
decided I should like to have one more year at home before going
away to work. My father was a successful druggist who at that
time had completed thirty-two of the fifty-one years he was to
operate his own store. In the twenties he employed as many as
seventeen people at one time. I went to work there in the fall of
1931, intending to stay one year and then go out to work else-
where, hoping in due time to open my own business with the
soda fountain which was a popular part of the family store. My
father already had two of his brothers and his other son in the
store and I felt that was enough of the family on a permanent
basis. By 1932 I was lucky to have a job and a place to sleep, so
my dreams of moving out were shelved for several years.

In 1938 and 1939 I investigated possible sites in Florida and

[ 1086 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Vermont. The war shortages came along just as 1 was about to
sign the contract and I was lucky that I had not gone farther.
Rationing and travel restrictions would have been ruinous. My
war effort was limited to transferring to General Electric in 1943.
The main plant at Schenectady was within commuting distance
from my home. I landed in the payroll department which at that
time was struggling six or seven days a weck, two shifts a day,
to pay the hordes of people making war supplies. Payroll per-
sonnel were mostly girls and women, with the few men being
leaders or supervisors as soon as they had sufficient experience.
In ten weeks’ time I was put on the night shift as a group leader,
a job which in normal times one would be lucky to reach in five
to ten years. Most of my working knowledge had to be picked
up the hard way. It was tacitly assumed by everyone concerned
that I would return to my former work when the war was over;
but the post-war shortages of consumer goods indicated that
there was no need to hurry. I received a couple of promotions,
and the forty-hour week which came back to G.E. in 1946 looked
pretty good compared to the fifty-eight hours I had worked prior
to the war. I found myself enjoying life and, when in 1948 the
chance came to be paymaster at the Fitchburg plant, 1 decided
to make a career out of it and accepted, This is a small plant,
employing at various times since I have been here from 750 to
1750 people, but I have to know all parts of the job instead of
concentrating on two or three parts.
Our traveling has consisted of six or seven trips to Florida, one
ro the Chicago World’s Fair in 1933 and to Lake Geneva, Wis-

-onsin, and a couple of jaunts to Canada — one being around the
saspé the year after the road was opened and before it became
‘ommercialized up there. One hobby has been dramatics. I took
art in a play the year after graduation, became interested, helped
rganize a Little Theatre and appeared in eight or nine three-act
lays and several one-act plays, tried my hand at directing one or
vo, and helped on the production staff of several others. My
ain interest was farthest from my thoughts in college days:
wurch work with young people. I reluctantly agreed i In 1931 to
come secretary of the church school. That led in a couple of
ars to work with the junior high age group in the morning and

th the senior high age group in the evening of each Sunday.

[ 1087 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

After twelve and six years, respectively, I gave up each group and
thought I had retired; but, since moving to Townsend, I have
picked up each group again and find I am enjoying them as much
as ever.

My latest hobby is baseball. I never played it myself, although
I went to Fenway Park and Braves Field more or less regularly
in college days. Since my boys have reached the age for it, I
have tossed a ball a bit with them and, when the Little League
was started, our family became regular rooters — since we had
two on the team the first year. Last fall they made me an officer
of the group and this year I helped one of the managers with his
team. The two older boys seem to have a talent for it, although
they certainly don’t get it from me! The oldest boy amazed me
this year by earning his letter on the school team (high school)
while only in the eighth grade.

Politically, I am a Republican who, with a single exception,
has never voted a straight ticket. In church connection, I am a
Presbyterian, now perforce, a Congregationalist. I have been
elected to office in both churches, but have never felt the urge
to join a lodge and haven’t had too much time for clubs.

NAHUM JERACHMEAL WINER

HOME ADDRESS: 473 West End Ave., New York 24, N. Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 103 E. 78th St., New York 21, N. Y.

BORN: July 31, 1907, New York, N. Y. parents: Elias Winer, Hannah B.
Winer.

PREPARED AT: Talmudical Academy, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1931 (32); M.D. (Long Island Coll.
of Medicine), 1936.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Pascal Wolf Winer, ’26.

OccUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Adjunct in medicine, Lenox Hill Hospital, since 1948; con-
sultant in cardiology, Public Health Hospital, Long Island, since 1951;
research experimental hypertension, Joseph & Helen Yeamans Levy
Foundation, 1948-51; Alice G. Sachs fellow, voluntary graduate assistant
in medicine, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston, 1940-41, voluntary
graduate assistant in cardiology, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Clinical Pathologists (fellow); American
Heart Association; American Federation of Clinical Research; Royal

[ 1088 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Society of Medicine; American Medical Association; American College
of Physicians.

PUBLICATIONS: “Exfoliative Phenobarbital Dermatitis”, Archives of Dermatol-
ogy and Syphilology, 1941; “Hyperparathyroidism and the Hamilton-
Schwartz Test”, American Journal of Medical Sciences, 1941; “Renal
Function in Diabetes Insipidus”, Archives of Internal Medicine, 1942,
“Hypoparathyroidism of Probable Encephalopathie Origin”, Journal of
Clinical Endocrinology, 1945; “Ballistocardiography in Theory and
Practice”, New York State Journal of Medicine, 1954.

CERTAINLY the Twenty-fifth Anniversary biography does

accomplish a rare pause in a medic’s existence and the need for
“navel contemplation”. I can’t help but feel the mellowness of
attitude to this report compared with the Tenth when | seemed
to be so full of myself and my ambitions. And then the Twenti-
eth when I was so full of post-war uncertainties. I returned —

“mission accomplished” —to the task of salvaging a medical

career. Dreams of “ivory tower” existence were no longer feas-

ible. Gastric pangs have a way of settling many a problem. A

national survey, and I returned to practise in the most competi-

tive city in the world — New York. There’s something to say
for the satisfaction in bucking a tide and reaching shore. To be
sure, the “shake-down” phase is longer but the satisfactions, there-
fore, greater. My pattern is quite conventional: associated with

a reputable voluntary hospital in the heart of New York City

staffed with stimulating medical minds and pleasant company;
privileged to do some investigation not necessarily of earth-
shaking quality but tinged with a creative feeling, and time to
see private patients with the snobbish footnote of “by appoint-
ment only”. The spirits of my mentors in the form of Marine,
Lichtwitz, Weiss, Levine and Wilson prod me along in the hope
that I might do them proud. Medicine is beginning to hit the
groove. One just has to live long enough.

Since the war has played such a rdle in my formative career
years, certain impressions are still striking — the resourcefulness
of the American people in an emergency, the conversion of
adolescents into men overnight, the realization of personal re-
sponsibility and the recognition of a chain of command. These
epresent the greatest testimonial for democracy, My own role,
ninute to be sure, was nonetheless interesting. Having joined
he Medical Reserve as lieutenant with the gathering clouds of

[ 1089 ]

OO FU

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

5

pre-war years, my initiation occurred before the bell rang.
Though trained for clinical medicine, my appointment was lab-
oratory officer, in itself a highly demanding, specialized talent. i
Added to this was the problem of inadequate equipment and
more inadequate enlisted personnel. My serologist was a second-
year high-school farmer-boy from the hills of North Carolina.
Achievement had to be made the hard way but achievement it
was and my farmer-boy was the best serologist in the 4th Serv-
ice Command. He’s now back on his farm. For a laboratory
officer of a mobile evacuation hospital in the ETO, there were
more challenges. Working out of packing boxes was not most
conducive to scientific accuracy but we were still able to ac-
complish a study on “burns”, of which I was proud, in the ante-
room of a convent and which eventually returned me to the
Army Institute of Pathology in Washington, D. C.

A second impression concerned itself with religion. It was
not entirely surprising that I and others of the Jewish faith
should have been shocked into a resurgence of religious feeling
by the horrors of Hitlerism—that two thousand American
soldiers should fill a high school auditorium on the Day of Atone-
ment in Linz, Austria, expressing a religious dedication that this
must never happen again. That this was shared so intensely by
our fellow-men was the greatest tribute that could be paid to
our way of living —an expression of our mutual respect and
our desire for spiritual gain from other than our own sources.
Nothing impressed me more than Mess Officer ‘“‘Olie” —a Prot- —
estant from Minnesota— scouring the Alsatian countryside for
“fresh eggs” for our Passover Eve Seder in the Maginot Line —
nor the joy that I experienced playing the organ for the church
services on Sunday mornings, or the marriage ceremony for a
fellow-doctor and nurse who couldn’t see any reason for wait-
ing. This makes America.

More materially, I must have been a fair soldier because some
recognition was given in the form of a Bronze Star and I bucked
against the suppressing influence of “Tables of Organization” to
be ordained a major by the late General Patton the day before
his death. Without meaning disrespect, the proximity of the
two induced qualms of cause and effect. Finally, the one regret
as to my classmates is life’s force that keeps us from sharing as

[ 1090 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

we grow older. Our first dinner reunion of the New York

contingent was a warming experience, Could it be the growing

insecurity of age? I shall be looking forward to more of these
meetings.

WILSON MUMFORD WING
HOME apbpRESS: 905 Poplar Hill Rd., Baltimore 10, Md.

oFFice Appress: School of Hygiene and Public Health, Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, 615 N. Wolfe St., Baluumore 5, Md.

BORN: Nov. 15, 1908, Washington, D. C. parents: David LaForest Wing,
Mary Blanche Mumford.

preparReD aT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B., 1931; B.A. (Univ. of Cambridge),

1934; M.A. (ibid.), 1938; M.o. (Columbia Univ.), 1936, Mop. (Johns
Hopkins Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: June Elsa Stockfisch, Nov. 2, 1940, Evanston, Ill, citpren:; David

Lohr, July 27, 1943; Deborah Thum, Nov. 7, 1946; Danicl Cushing,
Aug. 6, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of public health administration, School of

Public Health, Johns Hopkins University,

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, City County Democratic Club, Baltimore, two
years; member, Mayor's Committee for the Study of Problems of the
Ageing, since 1952, Mayor's Housing Advisory Council, since 1954;
co-chairman, medical advisory committee, Baltimore Urban League,
since 1953; member medical advisory committee, Baltimore Planned
Parenthood Clinic, since 1949; vice-president, Hopkins Chapter, Ameri-
can Association of University Professors, 1953-54, since 1955; member

medical advisory board, Commuttee for the Nation’s Health, since 1952;
board member, Citizens Planning and Housing Association, since 1950;
member medical advisory board, Marriage Counseling Service, since

1955.

EMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York and Maryland; 14 W. Hamilton
Street Club, Baltimore; Society of the Sigma X1,; Tudor and Stuart
Club, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore City and State Medical
Societies; Lake Avenue Swimming and Shooting Association, Baltimore.

sLicaTions: Technical papers in medical fields — allergy, tsutsugamushi

fever, and teaching of preventive medicine.
JE three years following graduation, I spent at Trinity
lege, Cambridge, England, pre-medical sciences for one yeat
| then pre-clinical medicine. The next two years were spent
Jolumbia’s College of Physicians and Surgeons, I stayed on
New York at the Presbyterian Medical Center as an intern in

[ 1091 ]

vr
7 aE NPT TTT TT TENT a ERIN TE ERNE 7 mee
cm
ite Be
PE Daher eke I AO

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

the Babies’ Hospital, and then returned to the Harvard atmo-

sphere as a house officer and then assistant in pediatrics at the

Children’s Hospital. During this period, I became particularly

interested in the problems presented by allergy during child-
hood.

In 1940 I returned to New York to take a research fellowship

in allergy at the Roosevelt Hospital which terminated with m
entry into the Army of the United States in May of 1942. After
a year as chief of the allergy section at Stark General Hospital,
Charleston, South Carolina, I was detached for training in tropi-
cal and military medicine at the Army Medical School and sent
overseas to the South Pacific as malariologist; working first in
an area of Guadalcanal and then serving as malariologist for the
14th Corps on Bougainville and, later, during the invasion of
Luzon in the Philippines. For the last six months overseas |
labored on directives in the preventive medicine section of the
Chief Surgeon’s Office, Armed Forces, Pacific.

Having picked up a taste for administrative medicine in the
Army, I came to the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health
for a year of formal training in the subject with the aid of a
Rockefeller Foundation fellowship and then joined the staff of
the International Health Division of the Rockefeller Founda-
tion. For a year and one-half I was stationed in London as their
representative, studying and reporting on the development of
the British National Health Service and recommending individ-
uals and projects for Foundation support.

In December of 1948, I returned to the U.S.A. and since then
have been teaching full time at the School of Hygiene and
Public Health at Johns Hopkins University. As for social and
political convictions, I suppose New and Fair Deal Democrat
about sums it up. Religion, Unitarian. As far as hobbies go, I
am still fond of both hunting and fishing, but also find working
in the garden much more pleasant than it used to seem.

PRESCOTT WINKLEY

HOME appress: 12 Scribner Park, Newton 66, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss; James Thomas Chirurg Co., Park Square Bldg., Boston 16,
Mass. :

[ rog2 ]

4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: June 25, 1909, Medford, Mass. parents: William Henry Winkley,

Grace Geneva Decker.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1931.
MARRIED: Janice Elizabeth MacKey, April 6, 1941, Brattleboro, Vt. crip:

Abigail Prescott, Nov. 24, 1943.
HARVARD BROTHER: William Gardiner Winkley, '35.
occupaTION: Marketing and research manager, James Thomas Chirurg

Company, advertising agency.
MEMBER OF: Eastern Massachusetts chapter, National Industrial Advertising

Association; Fraternity Lodge, AF. & A.M.
PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in advertising and marketing publications,

UPON graduation I moved as rapidly as economic conditions
permitted into the business I had chosen — advertising. I have
remained in this field with its many ramifications ever since,
except for a couple of departures over which I had no control.

Beginning as a newspaper space representative with the late
Carroll J. Swan in early ’32, I worked for several advertising
agencies and a radio station until I joined the James Thomas
Chirurg Company in 1934. I am still associated with that organi-
zation. In ’34 this was a trio of ambitious youths who had opened
for business the year before. Since then, the agency has grown,
not spectacularly but soundly, to be one of the foremost New
England general advertising agencies, handling a group of highly
respected accounts from its Boston and New York offices.

My work with the company has included about every phase
of agency operation. Men—high-powered and otherwise —
have come and gone, but a solid core of old timers still remains.
I, personally, am not the type of executive who burns to drive
himself to an early grave or occupational ulcers — so I’ve avoided
both, regardless of long hours. To begin with, my job was pri-
marily mechanical production with some research and more and
more copy writing as the agency began to take hold and expand.
Then for about a year around 1937, I saw the other side of the
fence in the Advertising Department of H. P. Hood & Sons. But
working with a large, conservative organization was atrophying,
so I was pleased to return to the Chirurg Company’s more pro-
gressive atmosphere, this time as space buyer.

In previous reports, I’ve covered my jousts with Uncle Sam
in considerable and frustrated detail, and will not repeat all that

[ 1093 ]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

here. My first episode with the military was in the Harbor De-
fenses of Boston (National Guard), 1940-41. Its one bright spot
was getting married. I rejoined the Chirurg Agency, this time
in the post of account executive with sales and copywriting re-
sponsibilities. From 1942 to 1945 was my second “military” ex-
perience, following which I resumed the above duties with my
previous (and patient) employer.
For the past decade, I have watched various hopefuls come and
go, while the Chirurg Agency solidified itself both financially
and as a creative organization. We were one of the first grow-
ing agencies to offer marketing and market research facilities to
our clients as need for this became apparent. As personnel has
changed, I have lately moved more and more into the research and
marketing part of the picture, working on all accounts with one
of the original men who opened the Chirurg office in 1933. Cur-
rently, I am handling one of the agency’s earliest accounts, along
with this other most interesting and rewarding aspect of the
business.

Other than business, I am a member of the Church of the
Messiah (Episcopal) of West Newton, Massachusetts. Along
with normal social and fraternal activities, I consider myself de-
voted to my family, the youth of which (feminine) is in that
absorbing stage of development — verging upon adolescence.
As to hobbies, I’ve relinquished the more vigorous sports of my
earlier years, tennis in particular. My old enthusiasm for drawing
and painting has increasingly revived till I find it the ideal anti-

dote for the daily engrossment with business matters and
problems.

* FRANCIS LLOYD WINSTON

BORN: Jan. 3, 1909, New York, N. Y. Parents: Owen Winston, ’o4, Mar-
garet Dey Lloyd.

PREPARED AT: St, Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarRigp: Louise Vietor, May 22, 1931, New York, N. Y. cyitpren: Daniel
H., May 16, 1933; Louise, Aug. 26, 1937.
pep; March 19, 1945, in the Inland Sea, Japan.

IN college Winston was a member of the freshman football and

[ 1094 |

. sine aint MEPS E
ep ty CASES Tah, GAR RA A NR, LEP “*

sere

ANGE a eT TI NE Pe i ETE dint St PATER AAR GEES PR tage cto TsAnT ST
ver cigars pig OR BEE
e pee: :

“ geietg oF tient
Li AAA C8 eNO IE TR TILT Ne EMO oe

gam eatin tg hPSO
enters be 0g GARRY SO NRE EES PARE EA AE ME

Ap. OTR AGEN IRR IE BO FEE OA

RET RER REI I np EIRCOM Eo AEE SH
. RETR ERP ITRRR EN CRNCO OI = m
4

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

baseball teams, and later played on the second university football
team. He was a member of the Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770,
Stylus Club, Iroquois Club, and Fly Club. After graduation he
joined the insurance brokerage firm of Freeborn & Company,
Inc., of which he was made a director in 1935. He left that com-
pany in 1941 to enter the U.S. Navy as a lieutenant (j.g.) and was
stationed for more than a year at Floyd Bennett Ficld. He was
then assigned to the Pacific war zone and became fighter director
aboard the USS Essex. Later he was transferred as a heutenant
commander to the aircraft carrier on which he was killed. At
that time he was task group fighter director. He was awarded the
Silver Star and two Bronze Stars. His wife and children survived

him.

CLARK WINTER

HOME AppRESS: 2122 Los Angeles Ave., Berkeley, Calif,

OFFICE ADRESS: Sculpture Dept. College of Architecture, University of
California, Berkeley, Calif.

BorN: April 4, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Irvah Lester Winter, 86,
Rebecca Fenton Clark.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931(32); MuF.A. (Univ. of In-
diana).

Marriep: Josephine Marie Auguste, December, 1930, New York, N. Y.
(divorced); Lois Jameson, Aug. 27, 1946, Dublin, N. H. cHiLpren:
Josephine Clark, 1933 (mm. Sam A. Jaffe); David Jameson, Aug. 30, 1947;
Roland Clark, Dec. 13, 1949. GRANDCHILD; David Jaffe.

OCCUPATION: Sculptor; teacher.

IFFICES HELD: Instructor, Pratt Institute, 1945-47, Indiana University, 1947-49
Ohio State University, summer 1949; head of Sculpture Department,
Kansas City Art Institute, 1949-53; visiting associate professor, Univer-
sity of California, 1953-55; former chapter president, Artists Equity
Association.

1eEMBER OF: Artists Equity Association.

UBLICATIONS: Exhibited at annual exhibitions held at the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, Whitney Museum of American Art, Philadelphia
Museum of Fine Arts, Nelson Gallery of Art, Sculpture Center (N. Y.),
San Francisco Museum of Art, National Academy of Design, etc.

[ 1095 ]

il

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

JOHN HORNOR WISNER, II

MAILING ADDRESS: Page Road, Nashville 5, Tenn.

BoRN: June 7, 1911, Shanghai, China. parents: Percy Francis Wisner, Mary
Sims Wilson.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

marriepD: M., Stanton, April 3, 1942, Columbus, Ga.

WILLIAM CLIFFORD WOLFE

HOME AppRESS: Mockingbird Valley, Louisville, Ky.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1114 Heyburn Bldg., Louisville, Ky.
BORN: March 20, 1909, Corydon, Ind. parents: Claude Thomas Wolfe, Nell

C. Keller.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928. DEGREES: S.B. (Univ. of Louisville); mp. (ibid.),

1936.
MARRIED: Florence Heyburn, 1940, Louisville, Ky.
occuPATION: Medicine: otolaryngologist and head of the Department of
Otolaryngology at the Medical School of the University of Louisville.
MEMBER OF: National medical societies; Louisville Country Club, River :
Valley Club; Wynn Stay Club; Pendennis Club. :
I TRANSFERRED from Davidson College to the Harvard.
Class of 1931 as a sophomore at the age of sixteen. After a very
few months I was expelled because I was not passing in any-
thing. Hence my lack of interest in the Class. Following this, |
went to Northwestern University and the University of Louis-
ville, getting an S.B. and an M.D. degree. After an internship, a
year of post-graduate work at the University of Pennsylvania,
and residency training in New York, I entered the practice of
medicine, specializing in otolaryngology, in Louisville in 1940.
At this time I married Miss Florence Heyburn. We are still
happily married, living in Mockingbird Valley near Louisville.
We have no children.

I served in the Medical Corps of the United States Army from
1942 to 1946, two years in this country, one year in England
and one year in France, and was discharged with the rank of
lieutenant colonel. In 1946 I returned to private practice in
Louisville and have offices in the Heyburn Building. I am also
clinical professor and head of the department of otolaryngology
at the Medical School of the University of Louisville.

[ 1096 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEONARD DUDLEY WOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Woodland St., Arlington, Mass.

orricg Aporess; Arlington Advocate, Arlington, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1909, Hudson, N. Y. parents: Harold Blake Wood, Annabelle
Parker.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREES: A.B., 1931; MUS.B. (New England Con-
servatory), 1933.

mMarrieD: Barbara Rice Johnson, Sept. 1, 1934, Weston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Marianne, July 10, 1935 (m. John Gunnerson, 1954), Frances Parker,
Aug. 8 1938; Barbara Johnson, Jan. 15, 1941. GRANDCHILD: John Leonard
Gunnerson, March 24, 1955.

occupaTION: Manager and managing editor, Arlington Advocate, treasurer
of publishing corporation.

orrices HELD: Assessor, Town of Arlington, 1954-57; organizer and active
conductor, 1934-51, honorary conductor, Philharmonic Society of
Arlington (orchestra and chorus); past president, Arlington Chamber
of Commerce; chairman, Arlington Brotherhood Committee, past local
chairman, Salvation Army; secretary, Arlington Touchdown Club,
Sunday School teacher, former chairman Budget Committee, former
choir director, local church.

MEMBER oF: Arlington Lodge No. 1435, B.P.O.E., Winchester Country Club
(club champ two years); Community Club of Arlington, Massachusetts
Weekly Press Association, New England Weckly Press Association;
Greater Weeklies Association; National Editorial Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Hundreds of editorials of no consequence.

THEY say that when a man begins looking back, it is a sign of
old age. That's a lot of hogwash! Many of us are afraid to for
fear of seeing nothing.

I can claim only two strokes of genius, both of them outright
thefts: stealing my wife from a couple of other guys back in
’34; and my house, homely but homey, back in the mad market
of ’s50 for §12,500— with twenty acres of lovely, public park
and pond for a backyard. (The word “my” is used by special
permission from the Arlington Coéperative Bank; such waiver
may not be required in the F iftieth Anniversary Class Report.)

Just announced in June, 1955, is the fact that we have been
selected from among several applicants to make a home for an
exchange student, a Turkish girl, Miss Gorul Sipahi, for the
school year 1955-56. She will go through the senior year with
ny middle daughter at Arlington High, The whole deal is

[ 1097 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

under the auspices of the American Field Service. Naturally,

the Wood family is all excited. I am particularly happy she

comes from Turkey because I feel that we owe that count
much. It has been little Turkey which has told big Russia to
go to hell, consistently.

Whenever people give you a prize or an honor of some sort,
it is usually for the wrong thing or at the wrong time, I remem-
ber at our Fifteenth at Poland Springs my roommate, that so-
and-so Paul Vonckx, got me out on the first tee after keeping
me up most of the night and then serving me five Orange
Blossoms for breakfast. When I bent over to tee my ball, I kept
right on going. That night, at the banquet, they gave me a cup
for some sort of a score (not for low gross!). They should
have presented it at the 18th green. I finally got there!

When I retired as president of the Chamber of Commerce
and thus had no authority any longer, they gave me a gavel. ]
should have had it two years before to beat the heads of the un-
progressive and unimaginative local merchants.

My latest gift is a grandson! Wonderful! But what do |
know about a “male”, having had in my household a wife, three
daughters, a female cat (fourteen years), a female dog (nine
years)! The only compatriot was once a male canary. He
couldn’t stand it and died in six months.

A memorable event took place about four years ago when the
Navy invited about forty weekly newspapermen on a three-day
junket to Pensacola to witness the NAVCAD program. Watch-
ing these young flyers landing on a converted cruiser for the
first time proved to be tense. I was also very much interested in
the Navy’s methods of developing speed reading.

As is probably true with most of the classmates, the best and
— at the same time — the worst years were those during World
War II. When the Navy took a dim view of my qualifications,
I went to work at G.E., West Lynn plant. The waste, the com-
pany politics, the regimentation — all were very distasteful. On
the other hand, I learned much in methods and personnel prob-

lems. The great thrill was seeing at first hand what the con-
certed effort of thousands can accomplish. However, two days
after V-J Day, I resigned.

As I read of the accomplishments of Harvard men in business

[ 1098 ]

aonanitinn st atemnses, WAT

sR ER PONIES

hee a ted Bh Po
mm RR ET I

oh BRET AIMEE META

mt onecairirs Werrinens Fest te RIM TES

agcetiaam onion
da agen ne Ea OES

cena I DR ERE MCB Been 6 ES
ep we ecu yt ts righ Ramee rea ’
paper arin pm pt

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and finance and, particularly, in the national government, | ex-
perience a warm glow and take pride in the thought that 1 knew
some of them when.

RUSSELL BARSTOW WOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 97 Centre St. Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE AbpREss: New England Telephone & Telegraph Co. 185 Franklin
Sc., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 11, 1907, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Charles William Wood, Blanche
Russell Lothrop.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: §.B, IN C.E., 1931.

marriep: Hannah Miriam Topham, March 9, 1945, England (divorced 1947).
cHitp: Frederick David, July 29, 1937.

occupation: Mechanical and electrical planning engineer, Buildings En-
gineer's Section, Engineering Department, New England Telephone &
Telegraph Company.

OFEICES HELD: President, 1948-50, secretary-treasurer, 1940-44, 1946-48, mem-
ber executive committce, 1938-49, New England section, Harvard En-
gineering Society.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Socicty.

MY life since 1931 has been neither exciting nor complex, but

I believe that it has been slightly different from average in some

respects. Having been informed by President Lowell in Sever

Quadrangle at the award of the Bachelor of Science degrees in
engineering that I was equipped to go forth and serve mankind
(but not welcomed into the society of educated man as the
A.B. degree recipients were —remember?), I proceeded to go
orth. There was, however, a hitch in this procedure. We were
ntering some sort of an economic recession which was finally
‘alled a depression, and under such conditions mankind was not
0 have me and my profession serve, so I remained with the De-
artment of Buildings and Grounds of the University, where I had
‘orked during college vacations. In 1936 I became employed
y the Telephone Company in its Plant Department. To date,
am still with this company, but I am now in its Engineering
Cpartment.

I would like to say at this point that formal education at Har-

rd is unlimited. Here am I with a degree in civil engineering,

t presently being professionally engaged as a mechanical and
ctrical engineer in the planning of building services for tele-

[ 1099 ]

lal a a a we eet -

pananemnmmamaiinaciminisisitbini _ sniteeatesanenannaataiaht. ——

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

phone buildings. That remark, “You can tell a Harvard man,
but you can’t tell him much”, is quite appropriate, facetiously or |
otherwise. I must report that I have not as yet acquired the so-
called Harvard accent. In my secondary school days, I lived in
Cambridge within proximity of the shadow of the Yard. To-
gether with this, my college attendance, my employment with  :
the University, and my association with other Harvard men so-
cially and in business have not produced the slightest effect —]
still sound like any Massachusetts Cantabrigian. i
During the last twenty-five years, I have had the opportunity
to see quite a bit of this world of ours—a great part of these
United States, including Texas, Canada, Newfoundland, Labrador,
Bermuda, Cuba, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Colombia, Pan-
ama Canal Zone, Scotland, England, France, Germany, Luxem-
bourg, the Philippines, and Japan. This travel was done as a civilian
and under other circumstances. A mild form of swimming, sun
bathing, and walking keep me from mischief during my non-
working hours. So far, I have not fallen from a rocking chair, nor
have I been maimed by a power saw. Golf and tennis do not now
have the absorbing interest for me that they previously presented.
In World War II, I entered the Army of the United States
during February, 1943, as a second lieutenant in the Signal Corps,
and terminated by active duty as a captain. I was with the 34th t
Signal Construction Battalion throughout my service career.
This unit served General Patton’s Third Army with distinction ;
from the Normandy landing until V-E Day. Then this organiza-
tion was redeployed direct to the Pacific Theatre of Operations
for assignment with the Sixth Army. Fortunately, the Japs had
decided to surrender on my arrival in the Pacific, and a tour of
the Philippines and Japan was had by me at the taxpayers’ expense.
There was a regular occurrence that I experienced every four
years. From 1932 to 1948, I voted for the loser in the Presidential
elections. In 1952, however, my habitual losing ceased, and I
hope for the remainder of my life. I do not believe that “the
world is going to the dogs”, that we shall be destroyed by our
rapid advances in scientific discoveries, by our social reforms, or
by similar progress in other countries. History repeats itself,
although to most of us the repetition is not always clear. From
my observations, religion is the salvation of us all.

sof MUA IN go cena nypenereeegatemtet ns I ak eines

[ 1100 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK BEECHER WOODING, JR.

HOME ADORESS: Cottage Street, Yalesville, Conn.

OFFICE Appress: R. Wallace & Sons Mfg. Co. Wallingford, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1908, Meriden, Conn. parents: Frank Beecher Wooding,
Margaret Experience Smith.

PREPARED AT: Lyman Hall High School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1932. DEGREE! A.B., 1931 (32).

marrieD: Ella Elizabeth Hall, April 27, 1935, Yalesville, Conn. cHILpREN:
Sara Jane, Nov. 5, 1936; Frank Beecher, 3d, Sept. 3, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer in charge of credits and collections, R.
Wallace & Sons Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, director, New Haven Association of Credit Men,

1950-51.
MEMBER OF: Compass Lodge No. 9, AF. & A.M.; Duck Island Yacht Club,

Middlefield Rifle Club.

WHETHER my fall from the ivory tower back in 1932 estab-
lished a class record or not I do not know. But I landed in one of
F.D.R.’s Civilian Conservation Corps camps in Cobalt, Connecti-
cut. This post-graduate course in bedrock realitics has since pro-
vided a solid basis of comparison,

In 1934 I began carrying a dinner pail to the plant of Wallace
Silversmiths. Some years of general factory work passed before
I reacquired pencil and paper status. The swivel chair, desk and
office followed in due course. At present my duties require a
daily attempt to disprove the popular conception of a credit
man. Dun and Bradstreet reports that I “also assist in financial
matters”. While this is certainly no history of outstanding eco-
1omic prowess, I can record one accomplishment with pride and
sratitude: my marriage to the girl who waited for me, Ella Hall.
Ve have (if I may be granted a parent’s privilege) a beautiful
nd talented daughter, Sara, now in her second year of college,
nd a son, Beecher, a high school freshman with a good mind
nd ideas of becoming a scientist. I believe they are both in the
ray of becoming solid citizens. Butch and I hunt ducks in the
ll, do some rifle shooting in the winter and sail a little “Zip”
sop in Duck Island Roads.

[ 1101 J

apeantyere

HARVARD CLASS OF I9Q3I {

* AUSTIN PERCIVAL WOODS

BORN: June 13, 1910, Floydminster, Sask., Canada. PARENTS: Herbert Brown

Woods, Zoe Margaret Austin.
PREPARED AT: Highland Park High School, Highland Park, Mich. :
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931. :
piep: Feb. 27, 1932, Detroit, Mich.

WHILE in college Woods was active in the Liberal Club and
the Glee Club. He spent his freshman year at the University of
Michigan. At the time of his death he held a position in the
proof department of the Free Press in Detroit. He was a life
member of the Boy Scouts, and a member of the Intercollegiate
Club in Detroit.

HARPER WOODWARD

HOME ADpRESS: Holly Lane, Rye, N. Y. :
OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 5600, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.
BoRN: Nov. 26, 1909, Rochester, N. Y. parents: Roland Beavan Wood- :
ward, Anne Murray Curr.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 19313 LL.B. 1934.
marrieD: Ruth G. Keller, Aug. 1, 1942, Washington, D. C. cuitpren: Bruce
A. (stepson), April 24, 1931; Bonnie Beavan, Feb. 1, 1946. i
HARVARD SON: Bruce Allyn Woodward, ’53. :
’ HARVARD BROTHER: Beavan Woodward, ’27.
OCCUPATION: Counsel and aviation adviser to Laurance S. Rockerfeller.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, committee on aeronautics, Association of the Bar
of the City of New York, 1950-51; member, committee on aeronautics,
American Bar Association, since 1955; trustee, Briarcliff Junior College,
since 1947; governor, member executive committee, vice-president,
Flight Safety Foundation, New York City; member board of managers,
Memorial Center for Cancer and Allied Diseases, New York City.
since 1955; director, Y.M.C.A., Rye, N. Y., since 1951, McDonnell
Aircraft Corporation, St. Louis, Mo., 1946-51, CAT, Inc., Asiatic
Aeronautical Company, Ltd., Aircraft Radio Corporation, Boonton,
N. J., Flight Refueling, Inc., Baltimore, Md., Airborne Instruments Lab-
oratory, Inc., Mineola, N. Y., Marquardt Aircraft Corporation, Van
Nuys, Calif., Piasecki Helicopter Corporation, Morton, Pa., Reaction
Motors, Inc., Rockaway, N. J., Nuclear Development Corporation of
America, White Plains, N. Y., Stavid Engineering Corporation, Plain-
field, N. J.
MEMBER oF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American

cece gattecege MSR gn este ane tre TE
soc cyah date, Sem AARON EPIAR I AEE

[ 1102 ]

eye em CEE
. Page pac Are »
dpe a a et feb REE AOE Se
pee teers meaiboenesmonnemy, gsm ne EE
ee: a as

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Bar Association; Harvard Club of New York City; Harvard Law
School Association; Manursing Island Club, Rye, N. Y¥.; American
Yacht Club, Rye, N. Y., Wings Club, New York, N. Y.; Army-Navy
Club, Washington, D. C.; Air Force Association, American Ordinance
Association, Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences, New York, N. Y.

MY working career, if it can be called that, has been divided
during the past twenty-five years into four different categories.
The first—a brief and interesting year in University adminis-
tration as secretary to Mr. Conant (when he was in his second
year as President of Harvard).

The second — about nine years of combined law school and

active law practice in New York City and in Rochester, New
York, much of it in aviation work.

The third — four years plus of government service, including
active duty in the Army Air Forces from early 1942 to mid-
1945, and a subsequent civilian job heading up the surplus air-
craft disposal program. Most of my active duty time was spent
working for General H. H. Arnold, C. G. of the Army Air Forces,
as a member of his advisory council. This gave me a chance to
attend three of the major Big Three conferences, the second
Quebec meeting, the Yalta conference, and the final one at Pots-

fam in the summer of 1945.

The fourth —ten years of association with Laurance Rocke-
eller and other members of his family in the venture capital
‘usiness. We have undertaken to sponsor small companies in
romising new fields. Our major activities with which 1 have
cen concerned have been in fields of aviation, electronics and
-most recently — nuclear energy. Our interests have included
astern Air Lines, companies working on helicopters, rocket and
mjet power plants for aircraft and missiles, and in-flight re-
eling for aircraft. This work has been stimulating, challenging,
times frustrating, and rewarding in that we have had a sur-
singly good batting average of successful ventures. I miss the

actice of law, but not enough to want to return to it.

‘nan era of world tensions, hydrogen bombs and interconti-
ital ballistic missiles, when we live not so much on the brink
war as on the brink of annihilation, family and community

rests seem almost too insignificant to be worth recording. I
e enjoyed serving as a director of our local Y.M.C.A. and as

[ 1103 ]

PAS aries Mer errr Eo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

erence eH STINET ATMOS TTS

trustee of Briarcliff Junior College for some years, and more

recently as a member of the board of the Memorial Hospital in
New York.
In looking back over twenty-five years, all of us must have ;
things for which we are thankful and things we regret. I am
thankful for a good, intelligent and (except when she disagrees
with me) understanding partner in my wife, for my family and
friends, for good health and many other blessings and good
fortunes. The regret department includes lack of time to enjoy
family, friends and fun—in spite of which, we still managea
good deal of sailing and an annual family cruise of one sort or
another. My objective for the next twenty-five years is to work

less, accomplish more, and have more time for relaxation and the
pursuit of hedonism.

eons Sena tbe at eden 8

GORDON BENNETT WORCESTER

HOME apprEss: 148 Oakley Rd., Belmont 78, Mass. (temporary).
OFFICE ADDRESS: 230 E, sist St., New York, N. Y.

BoRN: Dec. 9, 1906, Belmont, Mass. Parents: Edwin George Worcester,
Josephine Bennett. _

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.; Huntington School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B.
School), 1934.

Marriep: Elizabeth Key Sothoron, Sept. 12, 1942, Baltimore, Md. cHILDREN:
Robert Oliver Colt, June 20, 1943; Josephine Bennett, Dec. 4, 1947.

occupaTIon: Industrial relations training manager.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Training Directors; Executive-Develop-
ment Luncheon Group; Metropolitan (N. Y.) Training Directors So-
ciety.

PUBLICATIONS: Company texts, training manuals; editor, house publications for
employees and stoackholders,

eontgemn negara SAN ELLIE

Senate NM
a eA HIN aS AAR RE TNE 5 NANT

, 1931; B.D. (Episcopal Theol.

AFTER college I attended the Episcopal Theological School in
Cambridge, where I received a B.D, degree, but decided against
ordination. Having already taught while at Cambridge, I con-
tinued in the field of secondary school education except for a
three-year interval in my father’s wool business in Boston.
Later, I entered industry in the industrial relations division,
where I specialized in industrial education and training, particu-

[ 1104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

larly of the management group. After six years at Bethlehem
Steel and fourteen months in the Quartermaster Corps, I joined
a large meat packing concern as director of training, and re-
mained for about five years. Thence to General Foods Corpora-
tion as manager of the training division with travel to various
plants in the United States. Following a company reorganiza-
tion after being there about a year and a half, I am hoping to
join a company that is already reorganized.

EUGENE MARK WORTHEN

HOME AND OFFICE Appress: Western Reserve Academy, Hudson, Ohio.

Born: April 10, 1909, Ashland, N. H. parents: Eugene Mark Worthen,
Harriet Elise Willis.

PREPARED AT: Plymouth High School, Plymouth, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-19}!. DEGREE: A.B., 1931,

marrigD: Eleanor Goddard, 1941, Hudson, Ohio. chitpren: Helena Harlow,
Oct. 22, 1943; Hilary Goddard, Sept. 8, 1947.

occupation: School teacher.

orFicks HELD: Commanding Officer, Surface Division, U.S.N.R,, 1951-52;
commander, Akron Unit, U, S, Power Squadron, 1946-47; instructor
(non-pay), Officers Composite Unit, US.N.R.; member examining
board, Boy Scouts; secretary, Independent School Association of Greater

Cleveland, 1951-52.
Memper oF: Hudson Historical Society, Henry David Thoreau Society.
PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, Billet Analysis and Organization Attack Trans-

ports, U. S. Navy, Washington, 1944.

ON looking back, most of us see a pattern of life formed from
a composite of depression, war, domestic affairs and the eternal
farewell to the generations ahead of us. To our children the
prosperous present is a solidly established social and economic
assumption, To them, and to us in retrospect, life seems to
have a kind of integrity built upon a necessary causation with
ourselves as dynamic factors. Someday they will know as we
do, if we are humble or realistic enough to admit it, that fortui-
tous circumstance loomed large in our experience, with effort
(mostly exploratory) more often a minor factor in creating the
pattern. .

As a young man I flew off in all directions trying to achieve
multiple purposes in the shortest possible time under the most

[ 1105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

difficult circumstances and with the most serious complications.

The son of a deceased country doctor, I was the usual B.M.O.C.

in high school. With nothing else but credit with generous

relatives and a Harvard Club scholarship gratefully accepted, I |

went through college on a shoestring which took me many years
to untie. It was an experience! Years later I marched my family
among the memories of the Yard and told them about “Rine-
hart”. My sympathy for him and his descendants, more numer-
ous as Harvard grew larger, prevented me from using his name
in vain. But, once in the Blue Grotto on the Island of Capri |
let loose with the traditional yell which has been heard in such
more formal places as at the Opera in Paris and the Sports Palast
in Berlin. And the cry that went up around me in that dark
cave was the echo of my own voice from the social void of the
depression years at Harvard.

After college I was lucky enough to get a job — teaching
slow students at “Dotheboys Hall”. Then followed a year of
near starvation in the Law School. Nelson Coburn of the Class
of 1911 took me under his wing and personally taught me how
to enjoy teaching, an idea closely associated with efficiency in
that field. I became his assistant headmaster. Those were won-
derful years. Then followed graduate study in education and
psychology at the University of .California. A membership in
the Sierra Mountain Club with week-end skiing in the Donner
Pass rounded out a year that made up for many.

Fighteen years ago I came to Reserve to teach history and
except for three years in the Navy (two afloat in the southwest
Pacific), my life has centered on this wonderful old campus
(1825). Eleanor and I were married in the beautiful chapel, and
our son and daughter have been baptised there. I coach fresh-
man football (shades of JV and class football at Harvard) and
I share my enthusiasm for sailing with students in our school
sailing club which has a good record against local school and
college sailing teams. For eight years Eleanor, the children and
I had a thirty-eight-foot cruiser which students helped us to
cruise in the Bath to Bar Harbor area on the coast of Maine
each summer. Only last year, against terrific family pressure
verging on mutiny, I sold her. Those were radiant days.

Aside from supporting the children in scouting, school and

[ 1106 |

sen nn te NP EET OI
dame apm spy prep pnt tomh ie MERRITT
pope ent NAIC

'
¥

 

de erate oy etna tan Bete ANA TA
yaaa mee pinnae eee

secu pnaerne
ay Bow He

MOR a ETT!

ah epee
parte hie JE OBIR RE OE ot;

/

aoe

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

church activities, we orient our interests to music, literature and
history, the children expressing themselves audibly and legibly
in the first two media (we have understanding neighbors). Dur-
ing the Korean War I was the commanding officer of a local
division of the Naval Reserve. I now take my turn teaching
naval science in an officer composite unit on a non-pay status.
For fourteen years | have accompanied a group of students on
an American history tour of the South ending up at a beautiful
spot on the shores of Lake Eustis in Florida for the spring vaca-
tion. And the summers are spent at Old Mount Farm, Cumming-
ton, Massachusetts, in the Berkshires (Eleanor’s childhood sum-
mer home) surrounded by lots of music, while I carry on my
studies in history four days a week at nearby Wesleyan.

That is the pattern, An exciting part of it is studying with
my students the modicums of progress and failure in the strug-
gle of a human society ballasted by a social science of varying
adequacy in a world rushing from transition to transition, Some-
how or other, the positive force of the democratic philosophy
must disarm an applied science which has a weapon pointed at
the heart of humanity’s cultural traditions, To examine and
evaluate, with my students, men’s efforts in these directions
(history, government, philosophy, religion, education) is one
of the most absorbingly interesting occupations of my life. I
have been happy to have had a minor part in the education of
five sons of Thirty-oners Winston, Creelman, Weir and Rigg.
And there are several other sons whose arrival here in the future
will be a welcomed event. On returning from the Naval service
ten years ago, I was very happy to find that our new headmaster
was John Hallowell. And so the years fly by. Sce you at the
Fiftieth.

ELIOT WILLIAM WYLIE

HOME AppRESS; 828 Pine Ridge Knoll, Fullerton, Calif.

OFFicE appress: Kwikset Locks, Inc. 516 E. Santa Ana St., Anaheim, Calif.

BORN: June 22, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Fred Smart Wylie, Hattie
Ellen Plummer.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.B.A., 1033.

Marriep: Marlys E. LaPin, Oct. 2, 1937, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Rockwood

[ 1107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Eliot, June 22, 1938; Teryl M., May 11, 1940; William Scott, 1942 (died
1944); Thomas P., February, 1945; Pamela J., 1946; Wendy Sue, 1950,
occupaTION: Credit manager, Kwikset Locks, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of trustees, Fullerton Union High School and
Junior College; president, Anaheim Kiwanis Club; instructor, U.C.L.A,
Business Administration Division, University Extension; member, E]-
ementary P.T.A. Board; member, High School Board, P.T.A.

MEMBER OF: Kwikset Toastmasters’ Club; Credit Managers Association of
Southern California; Builders’ Hardware Club of Southern California.

GO west, young man”! After Harvard— Boston one year;
Chicago twelve years; Los Angeles since 1946. . This is it! Won-
derful living, expanding business, communities, sciences, culture,
horizons. American growth with all its problems, joys, triumphs
and breath-taking grandeur. Living in a suburb not yet engulfed
by tidal wave of surging growth of Southern California, but
building itself strong community and educational program to
rise above the flood. Fascinating study. Wonderful place to
raise a family and be active in community and business life —
Orange County. Teaching at U.C.L.A. evenings has brought
that extreme satisfaction of sharing with others in a practical
way that heritage gained from Harvard. Serving on the school
board has resulted in tremendous appreciation for the excellent
job our American public school administrators are doing for the
youth of our country — our future. Life is very full!

'
'
+
é
i
5
£
i
:

\
4
:
b
k
i
:
i
*
i
t
‘
g

KIYOSHI YAMAGUCHI

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 381 Hirano Baba, Kobe, Japan.-

BORN: Aug. 2, 1900, Kobe, Japan. Parents: Yoshijiro Yamaguchi, Matsue
Nakatani.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928.

YAMAGUCHI has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1948.

 

HYAM GERBER YAMINS

HOME appress: 131 Dane Hill Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Edin Co., Inc., 207 Main St., Worcester, Mass,

BoRN: Sept. 26, 1910, Fall River, Mass, parents: Abraham Isaac Yamins,
Harriett Gerber.

 

[ 1108 ]

‘ gvcarratenycomeete AT?
gene ph ELIAS LOE IHR LES

og Ma WSO DIE SR mg!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; S.M., 1932.
marrieD: Minna Kanef, Nov. 2, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHmpren: David Mat-

thew, Nov. 24, 1945; Susan Barbara, Jan. 11, 1948.
occupation: Electronic engineer, industrial and medical instrumentation.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers.

AFTER leaving Harvard I joined the Raytheon Manufacturing
Company in Newton as an assistant development engineer and
learned the fine art of manufacturing radio tubes. When the de-
pression hit the radio business in 1938, I went back to the Engi-
neering School for a year. In 1939 I returned to electron tube
engineering, this time in Newark, New Jersey. In the summer
of 1940 I entered the Federal Civil Service as electronic engineer
at the Signal Corps Laboratories, Fort Monmouth, New Jersey,
where the new military invention of radar was in its early infancy.
I remained in the radar field through the war developments and
expansion into the post-war applications, becoming chief of the
radar branch.

In 1946 I received an award from the Army for meritorious
civilian service. In 1951, when I was assigned to M.I.T. in Cam-
bridge as technical liaison engineer for the Signal Corps, we
moved back to Boston, and have been here since, In 1954 I left
the government service after fourteen years and returned to pri-
vate industry once more. At present, I am associated with the
Edin Company in Worcester in the electro-medical instrument

field.

HOWARD SCHERMERHORN YOUNG

4OME AppRESS: 40 Melrose Ave. Mount Vernon, N. Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. 1 Madison Ave. New

York, N. Y.
RN: April 6, 1909, Mount Vernon, N. Y. parents; Edward Schermerhorn

Young, Alice Ethel Grady.
REPARED AT: Mount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1934-

rarRieD: Ellen Cox, June 20, 1933, Newton, Mass. cHtprRen: Howard C.,
March 8, 1940; Lois F., March 26, 1944; Suellen, Aug. 28, 1951.

scupation: Lawyer; administrative attorney, Metropolitan Life Insurance

Company.
[ 1109 ]

SAREE RETIREE heed Scirycrm iain esas wee te da na ganenagemamenr —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

OFFICES HELD: Chairman Committee on Farmer-Debtor Relief, American Bar
Association, since 1954; president, Mount Vernon Civil Service Associa-
tion, 1943.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association, Harvard Club of Westchester.

AFTER graduating with the Class of ’31 and the Columbia Law

School, Class of ’34, I was admitted to the New York State Bar

and have been practising law ever since. I spent four years

(1939-1943) in the Corporation Counsel’s Office of the City of

Mount Vernon, New York, and during that period helped found

the Mount Vernon Civil Service Association, becoming its sec-

ond president. In 1943 I joined the legal staff of the Metropoli-
tan Life Insurance Company and for several years assisted in

the establishment of the Metropolitan’s housing projects.
For the past eight years I have been counsel to the farm
mortgages investment division of the company. Having been |
}

cattery were pte gate tes cp AR neta 8
OLA DS EMO DEE MOAB REET Sep ate +

Wa EN EO
saamraneinivaginin its Reade sy ai EN

brought up in a suburb of New York City, I never anticipated
that | would become involved in farmers’ affairs. However, my
company has branch offices throughout the farming section of
the United States and I find now that most of my business asso-
ciates are farmers.

Recently I have become active in the American Bar Associa-
tion and am now the chairman of a committee dealing with the
legal aspects of farmers’ problems.

TILDEN HENDRIX YOUNG

MAILING ADDRESS: Vernon, Ala.

BorRN: March 7, 1911, Vernon, Ala. parents: Tilden Hendricks Young,
Annie Lou McGaugh.

PREPARED AT; Woodlawn High School, Birmingham, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927~1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MARRIED, CHILDREN: Two.

OccupaTION; Government service.

 

JACK ZALL
SEE Appendix.

[ r1ro |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NORMAN ZIEGLER

HOME AporEss: 108 Highland St., Franklin, Mass.

OFFICE ApDpRESS: Builders Equipment & Supply, Canal St. West Medford,
Mass.

BorN: May 4, 1909, Roxbury, Mass, parents: Jacob Oscar Zicgler, Margaret
Anna Paul.

prePareD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929.

maraieD: Adeline R. Guenther, Jan. 2, 1932, Jamaica Plain, Mass. cHipren:
Carol Jean, Jan. 30, 1936; Barbara Jane, March 30, 1934 (9. David St.
John, April 1951), caanociitpren: Barbara Anne St. John, Karen
Lorraine Se. John.

occupation: Welder.

THE influence of Harvard remains with one through the years.
Freedom of discussion and inquiry, so much @ part of education
at Harvard, is essential to our way of life. May Harvard continue
to lead in its contribution to education and in its tremendous in-
fluence in all walks of life in this nation. I am glad to sce that
Dr. Pusey is taking steps to expand the facilities of the Divinity
School. I am convinced that Christianity is the foundation of
our way of life. As a result, I am active in church work and,
particularly, in men’s classes.

Good luck to Harvard and may she continue to be, in the
words of A. N. Whitchead, “The greatest collection of scholars”
of all time.

[rritj

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Appendix

HAROLD J. BINDER

HOME ADDRESS: 6os5 N. W. 39th St., Oklahoma City, Okla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1220 N, Walker St., Oklahoma City, Okla.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1910, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Saul Binder, Rose Dechter.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935.

marrieD: Mildred C. Haggerty, March 1, 1938, Holyoke, Mass. CHILDREN:
Kenneth K., May 5, 1939; Ann, Sept. 21, 1947.

OccuPATION: Physician, specialty of psychiatry — private practice.

OFFICES HELD; Associate professor, University of Oklahoma School of Medi-
cine; president, Oklahoma Society of Neurologists & Psychiatrists, 1949-
50, Oklahoma District Branch of American Psychiatric Association,
1955-56, Osler Society, 1953-54; member board of directors (at various
times), Oklahoma Social Welfare Association, Community Guidance
Center, Travelers Aid Society.

MEMBER OF: Oklahoma State and Medical Societies, American Medical As-
sociation; American Psychiatric Association; American Orthopsychi-
atric Association; Oklahoma Society of Neurologists & Psychiatrists;
Oklahoma District Branch of American Psychiatric Association; Okla-

homa City Clinical Society; Osler Society.
PuBLicaTIONS: “Helping Your Patients Accept Psychiatric Referral”; “Prob-
lems of Behavior in Child Guidance”; “The Parent in Pediatric Practice”.

UPON leaving college, I pursued my medical studies at Tufts,
with several classmates of ’31. It was not long after getting into
an internship that I decided I liked people too well to spend time
dealing with them in the unconscious state on operating-room
tables, or even to be limited in my relationship by a string of
_ physical complaints focused on a part of their structure. In
psychiatry I found an opportunity of dealing with the whole
person, every time, and with their relationship to the social milieu.
However, my naiveté was soon corrected and I discovered that
every physician deals with the whole, not just a part. At any
rate, my work has been interesting and rewarding; it is limited to
emotional problems of children and to the neuroses of adults.
With very few emergencies in this type of practice, I have been

[1113 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

able to set my own schedule and spend more time with my family
than falls to the lot of most doctors.

Hobbies have been focused on family activities for the most

art. I have enjoyed working out with my son in various forms of
athletics; but he is far ahead of me now and I am content to watch
him perform. Golf is coming into its own for me in my advanc-
ing years. My daughter’s interests and hobbies, largely pertaining
to Nature, including ornithology, entomology, and Campfire, so
far, have been sources of stimulation to me. I also have been
accused of collecting old cars, but I say mine is not that old.

As transplanted southwesterners, my family and I find Okla-
homa home; and it really does live up to all it says in the songs
from the show of the same name. Having come here in January,
1941, though, Ann is the native. For thirty-six months, 1943-46,
I was in the Army; assigned to general hospitals, I spent almost
all of it in the Deep South. Like the rest of us who are celebrating
our Twenty-fifth, I feel humble and privileged to have come up
to this milestone. And now, on to the Fiftieth.

FRANCIS HENRY CARR

HOME apprEss: 73 Coolidge Rd., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 306 Main St., Worcester, Mass.

BoRN: April 22, 1910, Malden, Mass. parents: Patrick Henry Carr, Mary F.
Carr.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1935.

MarRiIED: Anne Elizabeth White, Jan. 28, 1938, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Joseph, Jan. 15, 1939; Charles, Aug. 3, 1941, John, Oct. 18, 1944, William,
Dec. 10, 1947; Patricia, Nov. 22, 1949; Mary, Jan. 15, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Edwin Carr, °35, a.M., "38 (deceased).

OccUPATION: Physician, general practice.

OFFICES HELD: President, Wachusett Country Club; associate medical exam-
iner, Worcester County, 1946-53; member board of directors, Catholic
Charities, Worcester Diocese, since 1951, physician, Massachusetts
Boxing Commission, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Worcester County Medical Society, since 1937.

PUBLICATIONS: “Medico-legal Aspects of Worcester Tornado”, New England
Journal of Medicine, 1953.

DURING the years 1935-1937 I served a rotating internship at
the Worcester City Hospital. Have been engaged in the general

[1114]

LSA MBP RTUPEE ERE HPO IIE NOS

paren etc gigin INE ah e

Lp SOME OTR ial 0 FR i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
practice of medicine in Worcester since 1937. During the years
1943-1946 I served with the United States Army in the Medical
Corps with the rank of captain.

ROBERT WESTERVELT CHASTENEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 277 Park Ave. New York 17, N. Y.
OFFICE appress: Time, Inc. 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.
sorN: Dec. 26, 1906, Rutherford, N. J. parents: Robert Westervelt

Chasteney, Eleanor Lake Klemm.
PREPARED AT: Newark Academy, Newark, N, J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.
marriep: Ruth Hewitt Goodhue, Feb. 18, 1937, Poundridge, N. Y.

occupation: Managing editor, House & Home.
orFices HELD: Consultant on housing, Federal Works Administration, 1941;

special consultant, Economic Cooperation Administration, 1948-49, mem-
ber National Committee on the Housing Emergency, 1940-42.

MEMBER OF: Grand Jury Association of New York County; Army & Navy
Club, Washington, D. C.; Harvard Club of New York City.

PusLications: “Plan for Civilian Reserve Corps", sponsored by organiza-
tion, Nine Young Men, 1949.

IN the fall of 1931, 1 started work as a reporter for the Keyport
Weekly, a small town newspaper in Monmouth County, New
Jersey. After a few months, [ had a chance to move to another
small weekly with an option to buy. With the new job went the
privilege of setting the type for my own headlines as well as de-
livering copies to the newsstands. Fortunately, at least it seems so
in retrospect, 1932 was not the best time to finance the purchase
of anything — even a small weekly newspaper. So, by September,
I was delighted to get back on a payroll and started working for
Time, Incorporated, where I have been ever since.

Most newsworthy feature of my experience with Time, In-
corporated, has been the variety of my journalistic and publishing
assignments, I have had a chance to do everything from writing
promotion copy to selling advertising space, from working on
production to managing circulation. During 1937-38, 1 was
promotion manager of Tie and then moved on as assistant to
the publisher of Architectural Forum, 1939-42. After the war, I
spent a couple of years as special assistant to the executive vice-
president and treasurer, and then became assistant publisher, of

[111g ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Fortune, 1948-49. From 1950 through 1951, I was general man-
ager of the Magazine of Building. In 1952, I participated in the
launching of a new magazine, House & Home. General manager
for the first three years, I became managing editor in 1955.

Drafted into the Army early in 1942, I was commissioned in
September of the same year and went overseas as recorder to the
U. S. Joint Purchasing Board, South Pacific area. I was trans-
ferred to the office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Materiel,
Headquarters, Army Service Forces in June, 1943. Early in 1945,
became Chief, Materiel Demobilization Planning Group, Hq,
ASF. I was demobilized as lieutenant colonel on December 31,
1945, and remained in the Active Reserve until the end of 1955
when I transferred to the Retired Reserve. Was awarded Legion
of Merit in 1945.

Shortly after the war, my wife and I built a cottage on a hill on
the moors in Truro, Massachusetts. It is a 300-mile trip each way
from New York, but we manage to spend many week-ends there
the year round. Much to my surprise I have become an en-
thusiastic, though still quite amateur, gardener. Considering the
winds and sands of Cape Cod, I submit that this is something of an

enthusiasm.

gnc ene Gt ge PE RNIN ge TIT
ceo tehgilt APNE LEAD 2 ATER GORE TLS -

JAMES MATTHEW COSGROVE

HOME AppRESS: 119 Main St., St. Johnsbury, Vt.

OFFICE appREss: Caldbeck-Cosgrove Corp., 30 Bay St., St. Johnsbury, Vt.

BORN: May 5, 1908, St. Johnsbury, Vt. PARENTS: James Cosgrove, Maude
Evelyn Caldbeck.

PREPARED AT; St. Johnsbury Academy, St. Johnsbury, Vt.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1031. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

MarRigD: Eleise C. Carroll, Nov. 29, 1934, Boston, Mass. cHILpren: Susan
Eleise, Dec. 27, 1946; Ann Elizabeth, Dec. 31, 1953.

OccUPATION: President and treasurer, Caldbeck-Cosgrove Corporation, deal-
ers in building materials.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Vermont, 1954-55, Vermont Re-
tail Lumber Dealers Association, 1934-36, St. Aloysius Holy Name So-
ciety, 1952-53, St. Johnsbury Rotary Club, 1954-55; director, New
England Retail Lumber Dealers Association, 1935-36, Citizens Savings
Bank & Trust’ Company, since 1955; committeeman, National Retail
Lumber Dealers Association, 1953-56; trustee, St. Johnsbury Athenaeum

[1116 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Art Gallery, since 1952, treasurer and general manager, M. J.
Caldbeck Corporation, realty management, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus; Synapse Literary Club, St. Johnsbury
Rotary Club.

IN the spring of 1931 I hustled down to Post Office Square in
Boston to see if my long promised job at Hornblower & Weeks
(brokers, by the way) was still available. After dodging the few
remaining falling bodies — the slow thinkers, I presume — at the
entrance I discovered what I already knew. So I didn’t become a
Harvard bond salesman after all.

Fortunately, I was able to return to St. Johnsbury and start
earning an honest living in the family lumber yard. My sheepskin
really brought me greater rewards than I could rightfully expect
at the time. I found working with my father (Irish born —
possessed of all the traditional Irish attributes) a rich and educa-
tional experience. By way of enlightenment, 1 can truthfully
claim that I was one of the most fired (and rehired) members of
the Class. Seriously, I shall never regret my choice of career, be-
cause I really learned what a fine and inspired man he was and to
him I owe whatever measure of success, spiritual and material, I
now possess.

In 1934 I accomplished a number of things. I attended our first
Class Reunion (as if, dear readers, you didn’t know) and became
an instant success as a “sit down striker’, Of much greater and
lasting importance, I persuaded Elcise to give up her city ways
and come to the country to live. She says she has learned to like
it and I believe her because she is still here and ever my counsellor
and adviser.

In 1936 I attended the Harvard Tercentenary Celebration, and
when it was discovered that I was the only Harvardian from
Vermont, I was loaded with badges, tickets and other perquisites
of officialdom, and saw the whole show from choice vantage
points. To those of you who may find it painful to think back to
the days of F. D. R. (and I don’t) I can only say that he wore his
Harvard laurels superbly, but was nearly eclipsed by another
master of oratory and showmanship, His Excellency James
Michael Curley, Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachu-

setts. Abominable weather at a critical moment conspired to drive
everyone into Sanders Theatre in Memorial Hall. Imagine 20,000

[1117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

men of Harvard trying to get in when only a handful could stand.

Wich the brilliant aid of Charlie Apted (R.I.P.), however, Charlie

Jellison and I contrived to get in and beheld a strange sight. In

the confines of the stage were assembled as motley a crew as

could ever be imagined, Franklin D. Roosevelt, James M. Curley,

Gaspar Bacon, Madame Perkins, Judge Learned Hand, President

Lowell — in short, “the left and the right” and a little in between.

All day I heard heartfelt curses visited on the President and few

to say them “nay”. Forgive, if you will, this excursion into the

past, but I thought it of sufficient interest to dwell upon it mo-
mentarily. It was a magnificent and inspiring pageant and will
always remain a highlight in my Harvard memories.

Early in 1942 I received a little card from my draft board.
These continued to come in various degrees of emphasis until I
finally got a free trip to an induction center at which point a great
military career was summarily terminated. They called me 4-F,
but for the life of me I never could find out why. So all I have to
show is a fine assortment of draft cards. However, there was
plenty to do on the home front and I shortly found myself in the
State Guard. This duty, plus citizenship responsibilities locally,
constitutes my contribution to the war effort.

Our two girl-children (the first in the family for two genera-
tions), while appearing late on the scene, have more than made up
for the delay. Actually, I had a sneaking hope that Ann might
qualify for last baby, but careful study of the Bulletin convinces
me that there’s a lot of life in the old Class yet. She hasn’t a
chance for this distinction. She does manage to keep the old man
slightly agile, however, and thus she earns her keep. There's
really a lot to be said for raising a family in midstream and Eleise
and I are very happy about it.

I must put in a plug for my home, and favorite, state of Ver-
mont. For years we have camped at one of its most beautiful
spots, Lake Willoughby. If any of you ever travel this way (and
I maintain that all roads lead to Vermont), the welcome mat is
out for you. And that’s not fooling. Another interesting phase of
life up here is that of being considered a Democrat. I'll willingly
admit to this classification with the understanding that one can
really be an Independent voter even in this stronghold of Republi-

[ 1118 |

ape cee Te
, remrcrqerrypet roe
ceereccn panty yes tee ES EEE TE
aon Be NIRA ILEEREE E

RP APIA OIE

ag hn RGR Sameera map a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cans. There are a lot of Democrats who call themselves Republi-
cans in order to get elected to one job or another, but they know
where their convictions lie. But, by the same token, I voted for
Ike in ’52 without any misgivings whatever and have been ver
happy with his administration. | hope he'll back up his splendid
Secretary, Mr. Benson, to the bitter end. If he does, I might find
myself on his side again. They have the right idea about the farm
question if they stand by their convictions.

As I write this essay just before the deadline (my humble
apologies to Geoff and Don), I'm reminded of happy days in
Apthorp Elouse when class work deadlines hung heavy over me.
They always found Cosgrove panting before the closing gates and
just ‘making it by inches. Fortunately, in most of my affairs I
have managed better, but E thought T should point out my weak-
nesses as well. It scarcely seems possible that a quarter of a ccn-
tury has elapsed and that I soon face the certainty of being
regarded by the Class of '56 as one of those of whom they'll say,
“Look at those ancients — they should live so long”! IT can
remember saying it myself, can’t you?

Living in the country has certainly deprived me somewhat of
the opportunity of keeping up with my college acquaintances,
but I do take pride in participating in scholarship activities of the
Harvard Club of Vermont, and helping worthy boys get to Elar-
vard. We have a rather small but active club, which occasionally
is infiltrated with spies from Yale and other secondary institutions.
They only stay long enough to learn our sterling organizational
methods and then make off to form their own clubs.

Obviously, Fl never send my son to Harvard, but perhaps my
girls might try Radcliffe. It scems nowadays a perfectly respect-
able thing to do. And if they do go there, I'll have that much
more opportunity to sneak into the Yard or down Plympton
Street to Apthorp and picture one and all of us as we were in
’31 and as we're likely to be in ’8t. I think that should be worth
while.

[1119]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

AUGUSTUS JAMES DOWNEY

HOME appress: 56 Mather St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE appREsS: Munich Field Office, Quartermaster Market Center, Schaeft-
larnstrasse 2, Munich, Germany.

BORN: Aug. 29, 1905, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: James Augustus Downey,
Catherine Mildred Noonan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; ED.M. (Boston Teacher's
Coll.), 1939.

MarRRIED: Marguerite Moore Hanckel, Dec. 19, 1944, Bradenton, Fla.
CHILDREN: Peter James, Oct. 5, 1945; Mary Stuart, March 27, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Procurement officer, officer-in-charge, Munich Field Office,

Quartermaster Market Center, United States Army, Europe.

I HAVE become one of those professional wet nurses to the
Army, a quartermaster. At present I am head of a field office of
the Market Center System in Europe, my particular area covering
Bavaria, Baden, Wiirttemberg, Switzerland, Austria and Yugo-
slavia with responsibility for purchase and inspection of food,
clothing and various Sears Roebuck items known as general
supplies.

My gray flannel suit is somewhat threadbare. At present when
out of professional clothing I am the picture of Louis Gruden’s
Citizen:

Hairless beast in old clothes

Dry-eyed, whispering as he moved:
Forty years paying the rent

Sending the boy to school

Saying amen, voting for president . . .

except for the hairless part — most of mine remaining (see exhibit)
with only a few of them silver like the fox. A particularly enjoy-
able part of my service has been at Stanford where returning
again to college and to teaching was a dedication renewed (1949-
53).

Our two children are devout Jeffersonians by heritage and con-
viction and over the breakfast grapefruit (Israelian or Californian)
we sit in rapt admiration and proud concurrence. This is Natural
Man, in the Bavarian rain forest. The lusts and needs of Civis
Americanus as reflected in our month-old magazines are some-

[ 1120 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

times appalling, but we shall again be part of that demand curve
in another year, and with the world move on to new heroes and

new desires.
We have lived in New York, Guam, Palo Alto, Sarasota,

Munich, Richmond, and are now looking forward to New Orleans
as the next cosmic stop. After twenty-five years I continue to be
tolerated on most golf courses, can still swing around the central
mass, but am mostly a hero when I come home. Still use an ash
tray from the Sophomore Smoker for putting practice on the
rug rather than for smoking. It is one of the lares that moveth

where the Army listeth.

CHAFFEE EARL

HoMe Appress: Rua Bruxelas, 337, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

OFFIcE appress: Avenida Rio Branco, 18, 8/1109, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Caixa
Postal 9140, Sao Paulo, Brazil, Earl, Representacoes, “ERSA”, S. A.
Born: Dec, 24, 1907, Los Angeles, Calif. parents: Edwin Tobias Earl, Emily

Jarvis.
PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-28.
Marrigp: Maria Helena Ewald, Nov. 27, 1952, Sio Paulo, Brazil. cHiLpRen:
Sheila Edwina, Nov. 30, 1950 (by previous marriage); Carlos Edwin,

Nov. 14, 1954.
OCCUPATION: Finance-importation, representations and investments, Brazil

and the United States.
OFFICES HELD: Officer and director, various firms in Brazil and California.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Society of American
Milicary Engineers, Jockey Club Brasileiro.

AFTER a period of about seven years from 1929 to 1936 in the
oil and aviation business in California, I traveled in Europe for
about two and a half years, returning to California in 1939 just
before Hitler attacked Poland. Reentering the oil business, I
was constantly worried about the part the United States would
eventually play in the war, for I was convinced that we would
be forced to take an active part. This conviction caused me to
volunteer under the draft, in order to get some military experience
while there was still time. While a soldier, I rose to the rank of
sergeant and about five months after Pearl Harbor went to
Engineer Officers School at Fort Belvoir, After graduating in

[ rr21r J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

August, 1942, I had the good fortune to receive an assignment as
company commander in the 857th Engineer Aviation Battalion
which'was just being formed. We were shipped to New Guinea
in January, 1943, and did the campaign in Port Moresby, Lae,
Finschafen and Noemfoor. Later, we took part in the Leyte and
Luzon campaigns. In Leyte, I was made battalion executive
officer and in Manila, battalion commander. About six weeks
after Japan surrendered, I returned to California and was released
from active duty as a major. I retain my position in the inactive
Reserve.

In March of 1946 I came to Brazil on a pleasure trip and liked
it so much that I decided to stay. My business and social life here
have been very pleasant, and I strongly believe in the future of
Brazil. I continue to maintain an office with my brother, Edwin,
at 1102 Rowan Building, 458 S. Spring Street, Los Angeles.

Although raised in the Episcopalian Church, I changed to the
Catholic church in 1952. My principal hobbies are modern art,
literature, gardening and race horses.

RICHARD EDWARDS

HOME ADDRESS: 66 Fox Lane, Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ApprEss: Deere & Co., 230 S. Clark St., Chicago 4, Ill.

BorRN: May 14, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: Richard Elbert Edwards, ’o2,
Marie Stuart.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MaRRIED: Eloise Peek, Jan. 11, 1936, Moline, Ill. cumpren: Richard Stuart,
Nov. 22, 1947; Burton Peek, Aug. 8, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director of purchases, Deere & Company,
farm equipment manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Deere & Company, since 19533
vice-president and trustee, Yakima (Wash.) Memorial Hospital, 1950-
52; president, Gyro Club of Yakima, 1951-52; director, Yakima Com-
munity Hotel, 1950-52.

MEMBER OF: Chicago, University, and Union League Clubs, Chicago; Augusta
National Golf Club, Georgia; Bob O’Link Golf and Glen View Clubs,
Chicago; Rock Island Arsenal Golf Club, Illinois; Harvard Club of
Chicago, Indiana Society of Chicago.

PLANS to attend the Business School became a casualty of the
economics of mid-1931. The alternative proved to be three years

[ 1122 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in a country bank and as a federal and state bank examiner, which

failed to impress anyone. There followed a four-year association

with an investment counsel firm in Chicago and, later, in New

York. Early in 1939, I became financial secretary, with responsi-

bility for the investment portfolio, of a surety and casualty com-

pany in New York. Preoccupied with an interesting job, life in

Westchester County, the vagaries of the 8:04 in the morning and

the 5:17 home at night, and week-end golf, Hitler’s march into

Poland and developments subsequent to September, 1939, in-

terested me primarily as they affected securities markets. A brief

association with a Naval Reserve unit in Chicago had kept my
commission alive, but I had no personal interest in the war until
early 1941, when I received a letter from the Bureau of Navi-
gation containing the ominous words, “You will proceed and
report”.
I was particularly fortunate in my ship, the USS Wichita, a
heavy cruiser, and in my shipmates. My ignorance, though de-
plored, was anticipated and my seniors (and juniors, too) set
about diligently and most helpfully to correct my deficiencies.
December 7 found us in Iceland after a series of patrols and ser-
vice with the Royal Navy. There followed more patrols, in-
cluding escort duty with the ill-fated convoy to Murmansk in the
summer of 1942, and then we were detached to cover the land-
ings at Casablanca. From there we transited the Canal and joined
the South Pacific Fleet near Guadalcanal. Assigned either to fast
carrier task forces or to bombardment groups, we were involved
in most of the proceedings across the Pacific, through Leyte. The
“Witch” bore a charmed life, for, while ships were bombed and
torpedoed alongside us, we suffered only minor damage while I
was aboard.

With newly-acquired “scrambled eggs” on my cap visor, and
visions of an extended period of leave, 1 was detached late in 1944.
Instead of leave, I found myself assigned to the new aircraft
carrier, Lake Champlain, due for early commissioning at Norfolk.
We had just finished our shakedown and were bound for the
Pacific at the time of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Officially, count-
ing accumulated leave, I was credited with just more than five

years’ active duty. The accumulated leave, painful of acquisition,

[1123 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

was a bonanza on release from active duty. Terminal leave pa
gave us a winter vacation in Florida and time to think about our
next move.

In May of 1946, I started with Deere & Company in Waterloo,

Iowa, on what was practically a training course in tractor and
implement production. As in the Navy, I was most fortunate
in my associates and in the help given me in my attempt to learn
a new business. In January, 1947, I was transferred to Yakima,
Washington, to manage a recently acquired small tractor and
implement factory. That assignment lasted about five and one-
half years, until I returned to Chicago in mid-1952 as assistant
and understudy to the vice-president in charge of purchasing,
who was nearing retirement age. Unfortunately, he became
critically ill shortly after I reported and, once again, I was in-
experienced in a new job, and again I was fortunate in having
associates who helped me over the rough spots. Given another
four years, perhaps I can learn what my job is all about. Mean-
while, I like it.

When Eloise Peek and I were married in 1936, it was with

the thought of a permanent, quiet existence in Chicago. Twenty
years later we are back in Chicago, but I tally nine changes of
residence in the interim (not counting brief wartime stands from
Long Beach to Bremerton, and Portland to Norfolk). Through
it all, Eloise has been wonderfully tolerant of our frequent moves
and of my changes of occupation. Both Stuart, now eight, and
Burton, five, were born during the assignment in Yakima. A
brown poodle completes the household, which is a noisy one.
Perhaps we are too aged to have young children and small dogs,
but I wouldn’t trade our house, with its constant uproar and
clutter of toys, bicycles, small cars, and electric trains for any
other I know. Our boys are good company and quite considerate
of their parents’ brittle bones and lack of stamina. In other re-
spects, we lead a quiet existence. A little bridge and intermittent
interest in music (Hi-Fi and stuff), golf in the summer, and the
newly-discovered game of curling in the winter about cover my
diversions. The golf game is beyond redemption, and the bridge
no better. Oh, yes, I still have a tenuous connection with the
Naval Reserve.

[ 1124]

AEA ESCO IEEE RA PO EN
a REL Se CT nee eg IN Ie EY

eee A OE LRAT AG EG TI

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Except for a brief flurry in Yakima, I have been a civie slacker.
There I was interested in the Community Chest, the construction
and operation of a new hospital, and a new community-owned
hotel. Since our return to the Chicago area, I have had a very
minor connection with the Scout movement through my elder
boy’s participation in Cub Scouting. I am a not-very-good Episco-
palian, and a moderately independent Republican.

Oddly enough, it seems to take longer to write about the last
twenty-five years than it did to live them. Perhaps that’s because
I have had a lot of fun, as well as a share of work and disappoint-

ment along the way.

NALBRO FRAZIER

HOME apprEss: 145 Amity St. Brooklyn 2, N. Y.
OFFICE ADpREss: Bogue Electrical Manufacturing Co. 52 Iowa Ave. Pater-

son, N. J.
BoRN; Oct. 27, 1910, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Charles Harrison Frazier,

Mary Spring Gardiner.
PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B. 1931; 8.M., 1933.
MarrieED: Frances Svarti, 1939, Baltimore, Md. (divorced 1953). cuitp: John

Nalbro, May 17, 1943.
occupation: Electrical engineer; supervisor, Quality Control Department,

Bogue Electrical Manufacturing Company.

AFTER graduation from the College, it took me two more years
to get my engineering degree and so I didn’t leave the shelter of the
Yard until 1933. A year with the government in the NRA served
to mark time until I] found an opportunity to practice engineering
with Westinghouse. I spent four years there before leaving to do
free-lance work in the period before World War II. At that time
I married Frances Svarti, an architectural graduate of M.LT., and
our son was born the day I started overseas in the Air Force.

Two and a half years in the ETO gave me direct experience
with effects of such a pre-atomic war. Returning to New York
at the end of 1945, I found my son a victim of cerebral palsy and
rattled around a while before getting back into harness in the
technical field. There I’ve been ever since. I’m now running a
quality control department in an electrical manufacturing plant.

Meanwhile, my wife and I parted company in 1953.

[1125 ]

’ HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Looking back on these years, I find most satisfaction in the
variety of my experience. I’ve been on both sides of the bargain-
ing table, had some direct experience in the politics of our land,
and recall with warmth all those ’'ve worked and played with,
people of many beliefs and origins. Though there is no success
story here, my life has not been confined in the mold of any par-
ticular group, and I haven’t stopped looking for answers to those
momentous questions we used to kick around in college days.
From this point on—and I’m still looking forward to much
more — it is all gravy.

JOSHUA GREEN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1105 Boylston St., N., Seattle 2, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peoples National Bank of Washington, 1414 Fourth Ave,
Seattle 11, Wash.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1908, Seattle, Wash. PARENTS: Joshua Green, Laura Turner.

PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1920.

MARRIED: Elaine Brygger, Dec. 29, 1931, Seattle, Wash. cHILDREN: Frances
S., Dec. 26, 1942; Joshua Green, 3d, June 30, 1936.

HARVARD SON: Joshua Green, 3d, ’58.

occuPaTION: President, Peoples National Bank of Washington.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and trustee, Helen Bush School; trustee, Lakeside
School; chairman, Armed Services Division, Seattle Chamber of Com-
merce; treasurer, Orthopedic Research Foundation of Seattle, Seattle
Chapter, Navy League of the United States; treasurer and past president,
The Country Club; director, Pay’n Save Drugs, Inc., Pacific Waxed
Paper Company; vice-president, Joshua Green Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Rainier Club; Seattle Golf Club; Seattle Tennis Club; Washing-
ton Athletic Club. .

IMMEDIATELY upon leaving college I came home and started
work with the Peoples Bank and Trust Company, as a messenger.
Except for a four-year stint in the Navy I have been with the
bank ever since, holding a long series of jobs, the latest being
president, to which I was elected in 1949. Had a very colorless
naval experience, getting no further from home than Portland,
Oregon, with occasional journeys to Washington, D. C. Spent
the entire war with the Office of Naval Officer Procurement,
serving as director for the Thirteenth Naval District through last

[ 1126 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

year. Started as a lieutenant (j.g.) and became commander on
the last day of my terminal leave. I borrowed a brass hat from a
Harvard classmate who ranked me by six months, had my picture

taken and returned to civilian life the following day. Have been
in the banking business ever since.

As might be guessed from the background, 1 am a devout
Republican and a slightly less devout Episcopalian, 1 believe

enthusiastically in our American economy and political system
which has certainly been kind to me.

BENJAMIN JEANDREVIN KING

HOME apopress; 110 E, 25th Sc. Baltimore 18, Md,

OFFicE aporess: Raymond K. Tongue Co., Inc., 1402 Court Square Bldg.,
Baltimore, Md.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1910, Three Rivers, Mich. parents: Henry Burr King, Marie
Jeandrevin.

PREPARED AT: Three Rivers High School, Three Rivers, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1931.

marriep: Lydia Stevens White, Dec. 26, 1931, Pelham, N. Y¥. (divorced

1949); Dorothy Edelmann, March 31, 1950. cHttpren: Jennifer Eliza-
beth, Feb. 15, 1935; Eloise Jeandrevin, March 6, 1937 (mm. Steven Smith).
OCCUPATION: Sales manager, health and accident insurance.
AS a sophomore I got the impression depressions were no longer
sossible, thanks to the Federal Reserve Act. But obviously I
nissed the boat here since I got a B in Economics A, source of
he misinformation.

Early in 1936, when it came time to write the biography for
he sth Anniversary Report, I recall writing a flip commentary
efending the sitdown strikers. But Harvard man Adlai Stevenson
as come to my rescue —I no longer nced do more than endorse
‘hat he says, and the delightful way he says it. Saw a great deal
- Dick Burton in the thirties, lost track of him when the war
ok over. See Connie Arensberg once every few years, and the
t time we got together we invented a machine for producing
told KVA from a simple device no larger than a TV set.

Made a living for six years working for Jim McKay's family’s
mpany, but learned many years later that 1 was too radical for
ted interests. Occasionally played some bridge with John

[1127 ]

“HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Evans when in Pittsburgh, circa 1932~-33. Got into optics and
filtered light sources indirectly with Corning until the war
threatened when I spent seven or eight years with the Research
Institute doing whatever had to be done — seemed to be a lark,
but must have had some importance since my position (?) dis-
qualified me for a Navy commission despite my game leg.

War over, went to apple knocking in the Hudson Valley where
4,000 trees of twenty-one varieties didn’t pay off, so I sneaked out
even before the Republicans put the farmers where they belong.
Took enough time out one late afternoon in October to make a
date with one of the orchard workers and | Parlay a few beers into
the most successful marriage.

Sold myself to the Hearst interests to run a collection agency
for over-priced and undercontented encyclopedias in Sandusky,
Ohio. Devoted most of my time to amateur theatricals where the
audience mistook hamming for tour de forces. Managed to run
a campaign (most successfully) for the cancer fund, but got
contriving a do-it-yourself plan for making clothing at home
and wound up in the wholesaling of Necchi-Elna Sewing ma-
chines in Ohio and Pennsylvania.

Wandered into Baltimore a year and a half ago to see a friend
who has since moved to Milwaukee. Believe I’ve settled down in
a form of casualty insurance where we write sickness and accident
policies for individuals from groups of lawyers, doctors, dentists,
state and city employees, etc.

Here in my possession is a paper I once wrote for some lettered
course in sociology on sexual practises in savage and civilized
societies. Just reading it again makes me think I should have been
thrown out of Harvard at least by my junior year — frankly it
is terrible — but it’s marked “excellent”. Arrived as a freshman
at least an agnostic, but more likely an atheist, and now after all
these years there’s no doubt — I’m still halfway between and too
busy having fun to decide which way to turn.

Suppose you let me assume that the reason my two daughters
love me is because I started them out on the premise and have
adhered to the basic contention that a child’s biggest handicap is
having parents. I love you too!

[ 1128 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS FRANCIS McGUANE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 19207 Parke Lane, Grosse Ile, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: West Fort at Campbell, Detroit 9, Mich.

BORN: May 5, 1910, Ayer, Mass, parents: Thomas Francis McGuane, Mary
Ellen Attridge.

PREPARED aT: Ayer High School, Ayer, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B, 1931.

marrieD: Alice R. Torphy, June 4, 1938, Fall River, Mass. cuttpren: Thomas
Francis, 3d, Dec. 11, 1939; John T., Sept. 13, 1942; Marion T., Dec. 9,
1945.

occuPaTiON: President, Rubber Products Corporation, manufacturers of

automative parts.

MEMBER oF: Society of Automotive Engineers, Detroit Athletic Club; Har-
vard Club of Southeastern Michigan; Grosse Ie Golf and Country
Club; North Shore Club, Wyandotte, Mich.; U. S. Power Squadron,

I CAME to Detroit shortly after graduation, representing a sup-
plier to the automotive companies, and have been here ever since.
Started my own company after World War II and, if my class-
mates continue to throw away their soiled Cadillacs, I shall be in

good shape.

Managed to sire three kids in the meantime and am busy now
lifting weights and sleeping in the back yard preparatory to at-
tending their “father’s week” at Camp Monomoy on the Cape.
Somehow I regret now mentioning my prowess as a camper . . .
“There is nothing like a cold dip in the ocean at daybreak”, I’ve
always said! Is there a good osteopath near East Brewster?

PEYTON MURRAY

HOME aporEss: 34 Carley Ave. Huntington, Long Island, N. Y.

orFice aporess: G. Everett Lash, Huntington Bay Rd., Huntington, Long
Island, N. Y.-

Bory: Nov. 19, 1907, Yonkers, N. Y. PARENTS: James Boyles Murray, Alma
P. Vander Bogart.

PREPARED AT: Mercersberg Academy, Mercersberg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1931 (33).

MARRIED: June E. Denniston, Oct. 18, 1946, New York, N. Y. cHiLpren:
Pamela D., Oct. 22, 1947; Peyton, Jr. Dec. 16, 1948; Bronson, June 5,

1954-
OCCUPATION: Real Estate.

[ 1129 J

HARVARD CLASS OF I9Q3I

IT IS interesting to stop and renew life, twenty-five years after
leaving Cambridge. At that time a fifth of my life had been
spent at Harvard. Its influence has never ceased to have a bearing
on my activities, At present, married life and family have been
the center of one-fifth of my life and are an important influence
on my activities. Unlike the experience of going to Harvard
where we looked forward to getting out, we look forward to its
going on ad infinitum.

For sure, we are older and know we can’t take the tortuous
punishment of late hours and little sleep. Yet having children
eight, seven, two, and more coming, we hope, keeps one from
feeling old. I envy not the réle of grandparent.

In business I have never set the world on fire. During the
“thin” thirties, free-lance advertising paid well without security.
Changing economic pressures lured me to Akron with the Good-
year Tire & Rubber Company as their advertising manager for
the Industrial Rubber Products Division. While many of our
classmates and friends were “empire building” in Washington
after Pearl Harbor, our activities centered on the conservation
of rubber for defense and, in 1942, we were in charge of the
Rubber Manufacturer’s Association exhibit in Washington that
finally caused F. D. R. to set up the Barney Baruch committee
that straightened out the policy on production of synthetic rub-
ber. Another year found me working with the Signal Corps in
Dayton asa civilian, fighting the war of bureaucracy; our specialty
was the production of radar gun sights that could spot an enemy
plane in the dark, train the gun and fire it before the crew knew
the foe was on their tail. Following this came several years with
the Bell Telephone Laboratories in radar activities in New York,
then back to advertising with the International Nickel Company,
for seven and a half years. During most of this time I was a daily
commuter from Huntington on the Long Island Railroad, well
known to be an hour or two late, winter and summer, on Friday
nights, and several hours late in the morning because there were
leaves on the tracks.

Having bought my own little “barn-red” house in the country
that needed four year of intermittent do-it-yourself renovating
and remodeling, I found my roots had taken substantial hold in

[ 1130 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the fastest growing community in the state. I did not have to look
far to find an opportunity that gave greater promise of personal
satisfaction and financial reward than working in New York.
Real estate called and I answered. Twenty-five years from now I
shall tell you more about that.

Over the years, one of the most pleasant experiences has been
the frequency with which I have bumped into classmates and
other friends from Harvard in near and far-away places. Remi-
niscing and exchanging personal observations over the back-
gammon table or a drink remind one of how much we have in
common because of our having gone to Harvard, even though
our paths of life since then have becn different and only oc-
casionally crossing.

JOHN STONECIPHER NESBIT

HOME Aporess: 14 Sumner Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

orrice aporess: H. C. Wainwright, 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Aug. 26, 1908, Pittsburgh, Pa, PARENTS: William Washington Nesbit,
Mary Ella Stonecipher.

preparen at: Hench University School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931, DEGREE: 8.B., 1931.

MARRIED: Nancy Vincent, Jan. §, 1934. cHiLpReN: Sarah Anne, Dec. 7, 1934;
Judith, May 9, 1938; Catherine Scort, June 22, 1950,

OoccuPATION: Investments.

CHARLES DORSEY NEWHART

HOME aporess: 274 Muskingum Drive, Marietta, Ohio.

orFice aporess: Windsor Schools, Stockport, Ohio.

Born: May 18, 1905, Graysville, Ohio, parents: Henry Talbert Newhart,
Susie V. Seaman.

prepared at: West High School, Akron, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930. DEGREE: 8.8. IN ED. (Ohio Univ.), 1932.

MarrigD: Leona M. Oliver, 1932 (divorced 1937); Evelyn Charlene Brown,
1939. CHILDREN: Barry H., 1932; Byrne M,, 1943.

occupation: Executive head, Windsor local schools, Stockport, Ohio.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rotary Club, 1936, Southeastern Ohio Conservation
League, 1936, American Federation of Teachers, City of Parkersburg,
W. Va. 1947-48; trustee, Central Trades Labor Council, 1943-48.

MemBeR OF: Rotary Club; Laymen’s League; Sportsmen Club.

[1131]

' HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

MY religious convictions are Unitarian. Due to an athletic heart
I have no government service nor war record. My political views
are those of the present administration. I am registered a Republi-
can. My hobby is race horses.

I have been associated with secondary education first in the
capacity as a teacher and then as administrator for the past twenty-
four consecutive years.

My travels have been very limited in scope — of no particular
note.

My wife, Evelyn Charlene, teaches school. She is the daughter
of Dr. and Mrs. C. N. Brown of Marietta, Ohio. We have a boy,
Byrne, in the seventh grade in the Marietta High School. My
elder son, Barry, attended college for two years and then joined
the Army. He served his two years and now works for the
Goodrich Company.

MORTON ALBERT RUBIN

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Schuyler St., Roxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of the Chief Signal Officer, Department of the Army,
Washington 25, D. C.

BORN: Jan. 8, 1910, Stoughton, Mass. PARENTS: Philip Rubin, Esther Bessie
Mednicov.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1930, 1931-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1931(32); a.M. (Clark
Univ.), 1934; PH.D. (tbid.), 1936.

MarRieD: Marion Rose Winston, May 28, 1931, Rye, N. H. cup: Carol

Joan, July 31, 1935.
occuPaTION: Chief, Military Training Branch, Office of the Chief Signal

Officer, Department of the Army.

MEMBER OF: Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association;
Association of the United States Army.

PUBLICATIONS: Thirty-five papers i in medical, biological and psychological
journals,

MY mother didn’t raise her boy to be a soldier, but that is exactly
what happened. Such a career never entered my mind while I
was doing graduate work at Clark University. In fact, research
and life in Worcester, Massachusetts, seemed to be the pattern
for the future, and so it was for the six years or so after I received
my Ph.D. in physiology.

[ 1132 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After a year of research under a grant from the Friesdam
Foundation for Child Neurology, fwas appointed director of the
Neurophysiological Laboratories of the Memorial Foundation
for neuro-endocrine research, Worcester State Hospital. The
years that followed were busy and exciting ones in which I sought
to find an answer or two to the question of what makes the human
brain tick.

The Japanese apparently thought I ought to do something else
for a change and went to great pains by attacking Pearl Harbor
to insure a diversion of my efforts. They succceded. In May,

1942, I entered on active duty as a captain in the Signal Corps.

For the next three and a half years, I was assigned to personnel,

training, and then intelligence duties in Washington, followed by
nineteen months in the European Theatre of Operations,

When I returned to the United States in December of 1945, I

felt that my lieutenant colonelcy, a Bronze Star Medal and five
campaign stars were more than adequate recognition of my mili-
tary endeavors, and that it was time to make up to my wife and
daughter for our forced separation, But who wants to move in
the middle of the winter? So, I decided to remain on active duty
until che next summer. In the months that followed, I was im-
pressed with the importance of the military establishment and the _
dersonal challenge which it presented. The logical step, therefore,
vas to apply for a regular Army cominission, Mine was ap-
sroved in February, 1947. .

Life for the Rubins during the years that followed was nomadic
but highly enjoyable) — Washington, D. C., Fort Leavenworth,
ansas; Japan; Fort Monmouth, New Jersey; and back to Wash-
ton. We were all together in Japan for three and a half years
id we hated to leave when we did in 1952. The high spots for
¢ there during the Korean fracas were my assignments on Gen-
al MacArthur's intelligence staff and as assistant secretary to
2 gencral staff under General Ridgway. I received the Legion
Merit for those services. Equally meritorious accomplishments
re: wild duck hunting with nets on the Emperor's private pre-
ve; Marion learned to make sukiyaki; and Carol made cheer
Jer at the Meguro Tokyo-American High School. So, after

e years back in the States at Fort Monmouth, where I was the

[ 1133 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

assistant chief of staff, G-1 (personnel and administration), we
were eagerly looking forward to an overseas tour in Europe.
Marion wanted to learn how to make genuine sauerbrauten, and
Carol was looking forward to studying in Paris after two years at
Hood College. Instead, we found ourselves back in Washington,
and I back in the business of educating the officers and enlisted
men of the Signal Corps.

Sometimes I feel that I would like my hobbies and outside
interests to consist primarily of relaxing from daily pressures in
the form of quiet evenings at home. Actually, that is not possible
in the Army. Spiritual and moral-building activities are empha-
sized, with the result that Marion and I are deeply engaged i in
them at all times. However, I have managed to find time for a
little tennis (although it’s in the “doubles only” stage now) and
an occasional song-composing spree with Carol as my able assist-
ant.

Looking back over the past twenty-five years — would we do
anything differently if we had the opportunity? The answer iS
no. We've loved every minute of it. Bring on the next twenty:
five!

CHESTER W. STILSON

HOME appress: P.O.B. 7, Minnetonka Beach, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Association of Manufacturers, 212 Foshay Tower,
Minneapolis, Minn.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1905, Waterloo, Iowa. parents: Charles William Stilson, May

_ Dora Loveless.

PREPARED AT: East Waterloo High School, | Waterloo, Towa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931, DEGREE: S.B., 1931.

MarRRIED: Florence Elizabeth Martin, Dec. 18, 1935, Joliet, Il]. cutpren:
Patricia K., September, 1940; Roberta Betsey, July, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Salesman, National Association of Manufacturers.

I AM a salesman, first class, and am “clear up to my neck” in an
earnest and forthright effort to preserve and strengthen the
American enterprise and free competitive capitalistic system.

[1134 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY TAYLOR

HOME aDoRESS: 67A Fremont St. Somerville 45, Mass.; 3005 P St, N.W.,,
Washington 7, D. C.

BORN: July 18, 1909, Malden, Mass. parents: Louis Taylor, Freda Doris
Pearlson.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 19271931, DEGREES: A.B. 1931; LLB. 1936(37).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel Taylor, ‘27, 1.8. '30; Harold Ralph Taylor, "39,
M.P.Aw "47:

occupation: Attomey.

MY impression of these twenty-five years is how fast they have
gone and how little accomplished! But time has run its course.
This is it.

After college I went to the Law School for two years, then to
sea in the Merchant Marine and back two years later for my de-
gree. I practised law fora time. In early 1941 I went to Washing-
ton with a defense agency. After Pearl Harbor I joined the Navy.
Although I had had some experience as a surface sailor I was sent
to Quonset Point to become an Air Combat Intelligence officer.
I spent the war years in the Pacific. In September of 1945 I went
to Japan with the United States Strategic Bombing Survey to
study the effects of the atomic bombs on N agasaki and Hiroshima.
I was mustered out of the Navy in Washington and have remained
there, on and off, with various federal agencies with two years
back in the Navy for the Korean incident. I am still single with
a retreated hairline.

CHARLES AUGUSTUS WHEELER

HOME AND OFFic# Aboress: 69 West St., Leominster, Mass,

Born: December 13, 1910, Leominster, Mass. parents: Alfred Augustus
Wheeler, '92, Abbie Dorothy Cook.

PREPARED AT: Leominster High School, Leominster, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931; M.D., 1935.

marriep: Geraldine F. Ide, July 3, 1937, Quincy, "Mass. CHILDREN: Jane,
May 25, 1938; Judith, Sept. 5, 1939, Joyce, Dec. 29, 1940; Charles
Augustus, Jr, Oct. 23, 1942; James Ide, Dec. 14, 1946,

occupaTion: Surgeon.

I GRADUATED from the Harvard Medical School in 1935.
[1135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

A.O.A. Interned on the Surgical Service at the Massachusetts
General Hospital from June, 1935, to February, 1938, and since
then I have been practising in Leominster, Massachusetts. I am a
member on the surgical staff, Leominster Hospital; chief of sur-
gery, Fitchburg General Hospital; member surgical staff, Groton
Community Hospital; surgical consultant, Ayer Community Hos-
pital; member courtesy surgical staff, Burbank Hospital and Clin-
ton Hospital; fellow, American College of Surgeons; associate,
International College of Surgeons; member, American Medical
Association, Worcester North District Medical Society, New
England Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology, World Medical
Association, Aolean Surgical Society and Aesculapian Club of
Boston.

Served as captain, AUS, overseas in Europe in World War II
with the 214th General Hospital. Am medical director of the
AB & C Motor Transportation, Inc., of Fitchburg. Have been
the squad physician for the Leominster High School football
teams since 1938; vice-president, Leominster Recreation Center,
golfiing member, Oak Hill Country Club; member, Wilder Lodge,
A.F. & A.M.; Royal Arch Chapter, Leominster, Knights Templar
Lodge, Fitchburg; Shriners, Aleppo Temple, Boston; Leominster-
Fitchburg Shriners; member, First Congregational Church (Uni-
tarian) of Leominster.

HERMANN WARNER WILLIAMS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3226 Woodley Rd., N.W., Washington, D. C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington 6, D. C.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Hermann Warner Williams, ’98,
Helen Chilton French.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1931} A.M., 1933; PH.D. (Univ. of
London, Courtauld Inst. of Art), 1935.

MARRIED: Alice Barrett Farley, Aug. 30, 1942, New York, N. Y. CHILDREN:
Susan Cheney, Sept. 9, 1943; Penelope Pelham, April 18, 1949; Richard
Pelham Winslow, Oct. 16, 1952.

occupation: Director and secretary, Corcoran Gallery of Art.

AS a boy I remember my father’s involvement with his Twenty-
fifth Reunion Report — being photographed and later receiving

[ 1136 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an enameled ash tray with the Harvard arms, a bronze desk mem-
orandum pad and other, to me, exciting tokens. I think it was
largely because of these trinkets that I abandoned the intention
of enrolling in one of the smaller New England colleges and going
to Harvard. It does not seem that this momentous decision was
taken a hoary thirty-three years ago. But, as my wavy locks are
presently in much the same sad state of decrepitude as my father’s
in 1923, | am forced reluctantly to accept the fact.

As for myself, what can I say? The years have passed swiftly —
something has been accomplished and more remains. Wife, chil-
dren, hobbies and work fill out the days into weeks, the wecks
into months, the months become years and then decades, and this
was yesterday. But, you know all this. Perhaps you don’t know
that I suffer from an inherited affliction — my friends believe it

stems from an early mesalliance with a pack rat —in that [am a

confirmed and unashamed collector of various and sundry useless

objects. Our house is littered with in inchoate accumulation of
Indian masks, American pewter, Colonial silver-mounted swords
prints and drawings, paintings, pole arms, guns, pistols, cannon
models, powder horns and other by-gones, as the English say
The time is approaching, my long suffering wife tells me, when
we shall have to vacate the house since there will no longer be
‘oom for anything so unimportant as the family.

However, I believe my lot is a fortunate one in that my hobbies
nd my profession are practically indistinguishable. How few of
is get paid for doing what we like! In fact, I sometimes wake up
1a cold sweat from a nightmare in which I lose my post and
ave to get out and work fora living. Of course, I am prejudiced
ut I can’t imagine another source of livelihood which would be
fraction as stimulating and rewarding. It has occupied my life
» far, starting with a brief period on the staff of the Brooklyn
‘useum, continuing with a decade at the Metropolitan Museum

Art, interrupted by a war and a shift from curatorial work to
e administration of the Corcoran Gallery of Art when I resumed
/ profession in 1947. Even my wartime service was, unlike
it of most of my classmates who had more rugged experiences,
re or less involved in art; for I was transferred from Field

rillery to Engineers and was assigned to work on camouflage

[1137]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

and publications on camouflage, and, finally, organized from
scratch what became known as the Historical Properties Section
under the Deputy Chief of Staff. This involved collecting and
processing all the combat art produced by artists in the various
theatres, and the seizure of the combat art of our then enemies.
Guiding the policies of an art museum, despite what I have said,
is no doubt much the same as running any business of comparable
size. It is definitely not the contemplative life that one might
believe it to be. In fact, sometimes I do not get more than a brief
glimpse of an exhibition on which we have labored for months.
The days pass in a maze (or haze) of paper work, committee
meetings, hirings and firings, budgets, radio and television appear-
ances, reports, inspections of plumbing, of leaky roofs and, in
between, a Stuart or an El Greco rears its beautiful painted face.
However, the problems that arise are never the same. And the
only draw-back, if it is one, is that one is practically never off
duty. Yet, it gives one a feeling that one is helping to create some-
thing that has at least a temporary usefulness and, at times, even
a certain lasting value. I may not be rich, but I am having a lot

of fun.

JACK ZALL

HOME AbpREsS: 51 Egmont St., Brookline, Mass.

BorN: April 20, 1910, Jersey City, N. J. parents: Joseph Zall, Sarah Jaffe.
PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1931.

MarrieD: Dorothy Charles, Nov. 28, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Amy

Ruth, April 5, 1943; Roberta Ellen, July 1, 1948; Richard Mark, Sept.
29, 1955. .
OCCUPATION: Federal employee.
WAS advised it’s never too late —so belatedly and poetically
(a la Ogden Nash):

I don’t have much cash,

But diamonds I have plenty;
So laconically —

That’s all from me —

On this: the sth and 20!

[1138 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
The jewels referred to in the above

Are of Human hue

And they enrich my life;

Two girls and a boy,

Who bring me great joy

And last, but not least, my wife!

I am entering my son in the race for the youngest belonging to
the Class of ’31, and if perchance he loses in the stork event, then
I shall enter him as the handsomest baby.

Am a federal employee, a veteran of World War I], have had
sixteen years of marriage, and I still retain my hair and sense of
humor with which to endure “the slings and arrows of outraged
fortune”.

Toast to the Class of °31 (You can readily see why I never won
the Lloyd McKim Garrison poctry prize! ):

It’s never too late to make amends

And join hands again with good old friends!
So here’s to the Class of ’31 —

And to their 25th!

May their memory live on and on —

And never become a myth!

[ 1139]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

In Memoriam

* Deaths reported since 1950

Zabdiel Boylston Adams, Jr., Sept. 14, 1939, Brookline, Mass.
*Thomas Chace Amory, June 23, 1953, Milledgeville, Ga.
John McNeil Angier, Sept. 4, 1950, Framingham, Mass.
Robert Stone Balch, April 20, 1944, Mediterranean Area.
Albert Roust Belliveau, July 6, 1936, Quincy, Mass.
Benson Boring, Dec. 25, 1929, New York, N.Y.
John Thomas Bradley, April 30, 1940, Charleston, S.C.
*Richard Weinrich Branigar, July 20, 1954, Ocean Springs, Miss.
*Corey Catlin Brayton, Sept. 29, 1955, Los Angeles, Calif.
* Joseph Fenwick Carroll, Dec. 13, 1952, Dorchester, Mass.
Richard John Carroll, June 27, 1928, Roslindale, Mass.
Edward Clark Carter, Jr., March 13, 1932, New York, N.Y.
José Maria Castillo y Castillo, Jan. 7, 1941, San José, Costa Rica. —
Saverio Cerullo, March 26, 1942, Waterbury, Conn.
Arthur Minturn Chase, Jr., June 15, 1928, New Rochelle, N.Y.

*Samuel Joseph Cohen, Jan. 7, 1954, Boston, Mass.

Theodore Cohen, Feb. 6, 1935, Belmont, Mass.

Roger Paul Craig, May 26, 1946, New York, N.Y.
Dudley Davis, Jr., April 13, 1930, New York, N.Y.
Daniel Clement Dennett, Jr., March 20, 1947, Ethiopia.

*Emil Joseph DesRoches, Sept. 26, 1955, Andover, Mass.
William Horace Edmonds, Jan. 11, 1948, Washington, D.C.
Frederic Faulkner, April 3, 1938, Aragon, Spain.

‘Paul Adrian Fullam, June 22, 1955, Waterville, Maine.
Lambert Theodore Furth, Feb. 4, 1933, Cambridge, Mass.

‘Thomas Brattle Gannett, May 30, 1952, New York, N.Y.
Curtis Henderson Glover, Nov. 19, 1933, Melrose Highlands, Mass.
Harry Wright Goodhue, Aug. 12, 1931, Providence, RI.
Walter Russell Grubner, Dec. 8, 1942, New London, Conn.
George Harry Halabian, Aug. 25, 1940, Chelsea, Mass.
Devens Hamlen, Jan. 15, 1942, near North Raynham, Mass.
aul Scott Hansen, Sept. 26, 1948, Santa Barbara, Calif.
lizur Kirke Hart, May 21, 1953, Albion, N.Y.
ohn Adney Hornaday, Nov. 28, 1950, Syracuse, N.Y.

[114r ]

enema tnaanceRCN RL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1931

Robert McKittrick Jones, 2d, Oct. 1, 1949, Ladue, Mo,
*Robert Charles Kuster, Feb. 16, 1955, Camden, N.J.
André Ferdinand Jean LaVigne, 3d, reported dead.
*Philip Lipper, Dec. 31, 1952, Mattapan, Mass.
Sylvester McAllister Loring, Aug. 1, 1949, Newton, Mass,
William Alfred Love, Jr., March 11, 1932, Rockville, Conn.
Garrett Edward McAdams, March 14, 1938, Midland,. Texas.
*Donald Hamilton McGreevy, Jan. 15, 1956, Kansas City, Mo.
Henry Joseph McGuiness, Sept. 15, 1939, Newton, Mass.

*Burlin George McKillip, Jr., May 5, 1955, Gloversville, N.Y,
M. Joseph Mann, July 30, 1941, Brookline, Mass.

Alban Butler Miley, Feb. 2, 1940, Los Angeles, Calif.
Rowland Marindin Minns, Oct. 30, 1933, the Sudan.

*Phillip Wyatt Moore, Jr., Aug. 8, 1954, Rockville, Md.
Townsend (Jones) Moore, Feb. 10, 1948, Seattle, Wash.
Robert Smiley Murphy, Nov. 28, 1942, Boston, Mass.

*Henry Edward Nyhoff, April 3, 1956, New York, N.Y.

*Emil Nyitray, May 11, 1955, El Paso, Texas.

* James Parker, 2d, Feb. 9, 1953, Beverly, Mass.

Waldron Post, Jan. 22, 1946, New York, N.Y.

Sebastian Visscher Talcott Putnam, Oct. 10, 1931, Bedford, N.Y.
Edward Francis Ritter, Jr., Oct. 24, 1944, China Sea.

Israel Selman Roisen, reported dead.

Francis Edward Smith, Jr., June 26, 1942, Winchester, Mass.

Hugh Frederick Smyser, April 3, 1938, near Tuxedo Park, N.Y.

*Frederic Elmer Snow, Jr., Sept. 4, 1951, West Medford, Mass,

Charles Leissring Sommers, Jr., April 8, 1936, Baltimore, Md.

Austin Southard, Dec. 13, 1929, St. Paul, Minn.

Nathan Putnam Spalding, July 1, 1942, Baltimore, Md.

William Bradstreet Speare, March 25, 1929, Boston, Mass.

John Batterson Stetson, 3d, July 18, 1944, Washington, D.C.

Earl Newten Stilson, Aug. 25, 1950, near Dunkirk, N.Y,

‘George Newell Talbot, June 8, 1954, Hanover, N.H.

Phillip Arnold Taylor, Aug. 10, 1929, Melrose, Mass.

Victor Burrell Taylor, April 14, 1929, Boston, Mass,

William Kelley Tuck, Jan. 14, 1943, New Rochelle, N.Y,

Carl William Uhlin, April 29, 1934, Stoneham, Mass,

Francis Lloyd Winston, March 19, 1945, Inland Sea, Japan.
Austin Percival Woods, Feb. 27, 1932, Detroit, Mich.

[1142 |

GEOGRAPHICAL INDEX

ALABAMA
Birmingham: R. S. Ridgely
Florence: S. Rosenbaum
Vernon: T. H. Young

ARIZONA
Tucson: C. W. McCandless

ARKANSAS

Fayetteville: J. C. Borden
Little Rock: J. H. Moses

CALIFORNIA

Atherton: T. J. White

Berkeley: M.S. Beeler, W. K. McEwen

Beverly Hills: J. R. Cogan, W. J. Govan

Canby: F. R. Bacon, Jr.

Coronado; J. L. Little, Jr., J. T. Northcutt

Encino: L. W. Grimm

Fullerton: E. W. Wylie

Hollywood: S. J. Weiss

La Canada: O. A. Asmund, J. L. Clarke

La Jolla: H. D. Everett, Jr.

Los Angeles: T. Connell, G. M. Fuller, M. Seeg=
T. W. Teece

Menlo Park: F. B. Rice

Orinda: L. H. Gulick

Palo Alto: F. Thon

Pasadena: P. Finlay

Pebble Beach: F. F. Bates, T. Pillsbury

Placerville: M. C. Baer

Poway: A. D. Johnson

Redwood City: J. H. Rowell

San Diego: M. D. Generales

[1143]

